
        Cecil F. Poole, the first black United States Attorney outside a United States territory and the first black Federal judge in Northern California, has died in Kentfield, Calif. He was 83.
        Judge Poole died on Wednesday of complications from pneumonia, said the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, on which he served from 1979 to 1996. He had continued to serve on the court part time.
        Judge Poole's career included a number of landmark appointments, the first of which was in 1961 when President John F. Kennedy named him United States Attorney for San Francisco. Until then, all other black United States Attorneys had served in the United States Virgin Islands.
        In the 1960's, Mr. Poole's office increasingly had to deal with issues involving the movement against the Vietnam War and the blacks' fight for civil rights. To intense criticism, he refused to prosecute hundreds of draft evaders, helped to dismiss charges against five draft protesters who were accused of sedition, and denounced a plan to prosecute David Hilliard, a leader of the Black Panthers, for an implied threat to kill President Richard M. Nixon.
        In the late 1960's, President Lyndon B. Johnson twice nominated Mr. Poole to the bench of the Federal District Court for Northern California. But those appointments were held up by Senator George Murphy, Republican of California, who accused Mr. Poole of being too liberal.
        Mr. Poole left the United States Attorney's office in 1970 and entered private practice, working mainly in entertainment law. He represented the rock musicians Jefferson Airplane, Janis Joplin and the Doobie Brothers, one of whose platinum albums he later hung on the wall in his judge's chamber next to photographs of him with Presidents Kennedy and Johnson.
        In 1976, Mr. Poole was again nominated to the bench of Federal District Court, this time by President Gerald R. Ford. His appointment was confirmed, making him the first black Federal judge in Northern California.
        President Jimmy Carter elevated Judge Poole to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in 1979, making him the first black to serve on the court and the second black in the country on any Federal Circuit Court of Appeals. He was considered an influential member of the appeals court, ruling, for example, in favor of Native American groups in Alaska seeking sovereignty over their lands and against the city of Oakland for not doing enough to protect an employee against sexual harassment.
        ''His personal sympathies were for civil rights and for individuals who were faced with being prosecuted by the law,'' said Proctor Hug, chief judge of the Ninth Circuit.
        Judge Poole was known for encouraging young black lawyers and hiring minority law clerks. In a few cases, he was the object of racial discrimination, once when a cross was set afire on his lawn in San Francisco and when he was denied an apartment when a landlord saw that he was black, said a onetime colleague in private practice, William Coblentz.
        From 1949 to 1961, Mr. Poole worked in the San Francisco District Attorney's office under Edmund G. Brown, who later became the state's Governor. Mr. Poole followed Mr. Brown to Sacramento after his election and served there as a secretary for clemency and legal affairs until 1969.
        Before becoming a judge, Mr. Poole was active with the National Urban League and served as director of the NAACP Legal Defense and  Educational Fund from 1971 to 1976.  He also taught law at the University of California at Berkeley from 1970 to 1976 and in 1978.
        Mr. Poole received a law degree from the University of Michigan in 1936 and a master's degree from Harvard University in 1939. In World War II, he served in the Army Air Corps as a lieutenant in the Judge Advocate General's office.
        Mr. Poole, a native of Birmingham, Ala., was reared in Pittsburgh.
        He is survived by a daughter, Patricia Mary Poole, of Novato, Calif.
      