
        Jim Kepner, an early gay rights advocate who preserved the movement's history even as he helped to write it, died on Saturday at Midway Hospital in Los Angeles. He was about 74 and lived in Los Angeles.
        Mr. Kepner never knew his exact age. He was told by his adoptive parents that he had been abandoned as an infant in 1923, wrapped in a Houston newspaper and left under an oleander bush in Galveston, Tex., according to ''Making History: The Struggle for Gay and Lesbian Equal Rights,'' by Eric Marcus (HarperCollins, 1992).
        The cause of his death was a perforated intestine, said Ernie Potvin, a board member of the One Institute. The nonprofit organization, which concerns itself with lesbian and gay issues and history, includes an archive begun by Mr. Kepner in 1942.
        The One Institute is affiliated with the University of Southern California and encompasses a collection of two million items, including books, pamphlets, magazines, clippings, letters, photographs, paintings, recordings, films, videos and political banners, buttons and T-shirts.
        Started when the mere whisper of homosexuality was considered scandalous, the archive offers historians and scholars vivid glimpses into the turbulent civil-rights struggle by gay men and lesbians.
        Jonathan Ned Katz, the writer of ''Gay American History'' (1976) and the ''Gay/Lesbian Almanac'' (1983), said on Tuesday that the materials assembled by Mr. Kepner amounted to ''an absolutely major collection.''
        ''That insight -- that there's a history of sexual and affectional relations between people of the same sex -- has certainly been important to a people who felt rootless and homeless, who were told that they were aliens in their own country,'' Mr. Katz said.
        As a teen-ager in 1942, Mr. Kepner acquired his first books on homosexuality: two mail-order tracts. ''Homosexuality in the Lives of the Great'' heartened him, Mr. Kepner told Mr. Marcus, because it ''told me that whatever my problem or condition was, it was shared with Michelangelo, Leonardo, all the old Greeks, Whitman, Wilde, Florence Nightingale and many, many others.''
        Mr. Kepner joined the Communist Party in the 1940's and wrote a column for its newspaper, The Daily Worker. But by his own account, he was expelled from the party because of his homosexuality.
        On moving to Los Angeles, he joined the Mattachine Society, widely regarded as the nation's first homosexual political organization.
        In 1953, Mr. Kepner began writing for a new publication called One, the first consequential magazine for and about homosexuals published in the United States. As it circulated outside California with news of political organizing, One drew together what had been local homosexual enclaves.
        After the Los Angeles postmaster, Otto K. Olesen, refused to deliver the October 1954 issue on the ground that it was obscene, the magazine challenged the decision. Its right to distribute through the mail was upheld in 1958 by the United States Supreme Court in One Inc. v. Olesen.
        ''The ruling sort of opened the floodgates to publications that discussed homosexuality,'' Mr. Kepner told Mr. Marcus 30 years later.
        In 1956, Mr. Kepner co-founded the One Institute, to research homosexuality through the ages and in foreign cultures. ''Our history remained thin, often depending on intimations, suppositions, and telltale signs of cover-up,'' he wrote last year.
        One magazine ceased publishing in 1968. Mr. Kepner went on to report for The Los Angeles Advocate, a newspaper that evolved into The Advocate, a national newsmagazine.
        He collected documents and memorabilia all the while and, in 1971, made the materials available for the first time to outside researchers. This became the International Gay and Lesbian Archives, which was merged with the collection of the One Institute in 1994.
        An anthology of Mr. Kepner's writing, ''Rough News, Daring Views: Pioneer Gay Journalism,'' is to be published next month by Haworth Press.
        Mr. Potvin, the board member,  said another work, with which Mr. Kepner was forever tinkering, remained on his computer disk at his death: ''Becoming a People: A 4,000-Year Chronology of Gay and Lesbian History.''
        There are no immediate survivors.
      