
        Carl G. Hempel, whose rigorously empirical approach to scientific logic was at the center of American scholarly writing on the philosophy of science for several decades, died on Nov. 9 at a nursing home near Princeton, N.J. He was 92.
        Dr. Hempel, called Peter, taught at Princeton University from 1955 to 1973, becoming the Stuart Professor of Philosophy. He was the last surviving member of the Vienna Circle, a group of philosophers who loathed the irrational and mystical thinking of late-19th-century Europe and, in reaction, advocated what they called ''logical positivism,'' which argued that whatever could not be verified by experience was meaningless. They sought to apply the methods of the natural sciences and mathematics to the work of philosophers, stirring heated controversy.
        Dr. Paul Benacerraf, a student of Dr. Hempel's who is now on the Princeton faculty, said Dr. Hempel contended that all the sciences could be understood under a single set of general laws.
        One scholar who often differed with Dr. Hempel, Dr. Willard Van Orman Quine, a professor emeritus of philosophy at Harvard University, called Dr. Hempel ''a moderate logical positivist.''
        Dr. Quine said Dr. Hempel's views had been succeeded by ''relativism, doctrines that would make science a matter of fads,'' adding, ''These are anti-scientific views.''
        Carl G. Hempel was born in Oranienburg, Germany, and studied mathematics, physics and philosophy at the Universities of Gottingen, Heidelberg, Vienna and Berlin, where he received a doctorate in 1934 for work on probability under Hans Reichenbach, a founder of the philosophy of logical empiricism.
        Dr. Hempel's empirical approach surfaced early, said his daughter, Miranda Tobyanne Hempel of Princeton. After he crashed his bicycle into a lamppost as a boy and suffered a concussion, he resolved never to drive a car.
        Dr. Hempel fled Nazism, moving to Belgium and, in 1938, to the United States. His writings were so influential that for decades almost any rival theory of scientific explanation took his work as a point of departure, said a former student, Adolf Grunbaum, the Andrew Mellon Professor of Philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh.
        In 1948, Dr. Hempel produced his deductive-nomological theory, which holds that scientific conclusions are best deduced using logic and a larger law, or nomos in Greek.
        He built a precise mathematical foundation for explaining statistical, or probabilistic, answers. For example, if a patient asks a doctor about the chance of a cure, the doctor's explanation might be given as a probability -- that in a given percentage of cases, there is a cure.
        ''That is an informal statement,'' Dr. Grunbaum said. ''It needed a systematic form. He developed a model that served many philosophers. And at that, he was a pioneer and a master.''
        A second area of Dr. Hempel's work dealt with how scientists gain confidence in a hypothesis in the first place. He developed models of the philosophy of confirmation in which a hypothesis is confirmed not only by findings but also by being in accord with larger principles, like historical or functional explanations. These models shaped all subsequent work on scientific explanation.
        Dr. Hempel published ''Studies in the Logic of Confirmation'' (1945), ''Studies in the Logic of Explanation'' (1948) and ''Aspects of Scientific Explanation and Other Essays in the Philosophy of Science'' (1965).
        In addition to his work at Princeton, Dr. Hempel taught at City College of New York, Queens College in Flushing, Yale University and the University of Pittsburgh.
        In addition to his daughter, he is survived by his wife, Diane Perlow Hempel; a son, Peter Andrew, of Washington, and two granddaughters. His first wife, Eva Ahrends Hempel, died in 1944.
      