
        Maxwell Heiman, a former Connecticut trial lawyer, past president of the state bar and a judge of the Connecticut Appellate Court for the last seven years, died on Wednesday at Hartford Hospital. He was 65 and lived in Newington, Conn.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Judge Heiman had two notable brushes with capital punishment, as an appeals counsel for the accused and later as a judge. One case involved the last man executed in Connecticut 37 years ago, and the second a convicted killer who may become the first to be put to death since the state restored capital punishment.
        He assisted in the unsuccessful appeal of Joseph J. Taborsky, who was found guilty in six killings committed during a spree of armed holdups. He died in the electric chair in 1960.
        Serving on the bench in Superior Court, Judge Heiman presided over the original 1989 trial of Robert J. Breton Sr. of Waterbury, accused in 1987 of stabbing to death his former wife, JoAnn, and his son, Robert Jr. Judge Heiman found the new death-penalty statute too ambiguous to be constitutional.
        The Connecticut Supreme Court, the state's highest, agreed with him, and the Legislature passed a new law, defining heinous circumstances as a reason for the death penalty. The killer remains on death row.
        Judge Heiman was born in Hartford, graduated from the University of Connecticut in 1954 and received a doctor of laws degree from Boston College three years later. He was a law partner in Bristol, Conn., when Gov. William A. O'Neill appointed him a Superior Court judge in 1987. In 1990 the Governor named him to the Appellate Court, which Judge Heiman had helped establish a few years earlier when he headed a task force created to find a way to relieve the strain on the Supreme Court.
        He was president of the state Bar Association in the early 1980's and served in the American Bar Association's house of delegates and on its board of governors. He served on judicial panels on ethics and professional liability, and on compensation and tenure of judges.
        Judge Heiman is survived by his wife of 40 years, Sylvia Dress Heiman; a son, Scott D., of Manchester, Conn.; a daughter, Deborah Tvaronaitis of Windsor, Conn.; a sister, Leona Flaxer of Wayland, Mass., and a grandson.
      