
        Samuel Fuller, a director, screenwriter and producer who was widely viewed as the reigning virtuoso of low-budget films and was ranked by European critics as one of the best directors in the world, died on Thursday at his home in the Hollywood Hills. He was 85 and had homes in France and California.
        Most of Mr. Fuller's movies were made in black and white, and all were made at breakneck speed with little money. They generated either controversy or intense curiosity. Among the best known of his more than two dozen movies is ''The Big Red One'' (1980), which he wrote and directed and which was based on his experiences as a soldier in the First Infantry Division in World War II. Other films that attracted a cult of followers were ''The Steel Helmet'' (1951), ''Pickup on South Street'' (1953), ''House of Bamboo'' (1955), ''Verboten'' (1960), ''The Naked Kiss'' (1964), ''White Dog'' (1982) and finally ''Street of No Return,'' made in 1989 when Mr. Fuller was 78.
        To the French in particular, Mr. Fuller was an auteur, an artist with the vision to create his own material and the power to realize the film as he saw fit. Jean-Luc Godard praised him as a director ''rich in invention and bursting with daring conceptions'' whose approach to filmmaking reminded him ''of the extravagances of Abel Gance and Erich von Stroheim.'' Francois Truffaut called ''The Big Red One'' ''a beautiful picture.'' Some directors were so admiring that they gave him small but pungent parts in their films.
        For the critic David Thomson, Mr. Fuller's ''great originality is in seeing the constant criminal element in life, whether in the American city, on the range or in every theater of war.'' He added: ''The community is interchangeable with the criminal underworld. In 'Pickup on South Street,' 'House of Bamboo' and 'Underworld, U.S.A.,' the police and the crooks are observed as identical instruments without even the saving grace of cynicism. His central characters are invariably psychotics, chronically hostile to organization, thriving on double-cross and resolving doubts through brutality.''
        American directors also respected him the way the Europeans did. Martin Scorsese said that he grew up watching Fuller films and that they influenced his own developing style.
        Although he loved the intellectuals who loved him, Mr. Fuller remained a direct, plain-spoken man who never pretended to plumb the depths of human experience. He was a reporter for a New York tabloid, and he loved to tell stories with comic-strip savagery. Indeed, as much as he enjoyed making movies, he never stopped wanting to be a reporter. ''If only a reporter could get a thousand dollars an hour the way a director does, I'd be in it today,'' he insisted late in life.
        American critics of his early work conceded that Mr. Fuller was adept at making pictures for little money. But some found that bare-bones productions detracted from artistic merit. Bosley Crowther of The New York Times was appalled because in ''The Steel Helmet,'' a tough movie about the Korean War, Mr. Fuller, who could not afford to rent a tank, simply had one painted on a piece of cardboard. The staging and the sets, Mr. Crowther complained, were ''patently artificial.''
        For the most part, Mr. Fuller was usually not much interested in spending what little money he had on sets. In ''Shock Corridor'' (1963), he built a corridor of a mental institution on the cheap, using paint to make the corridor seem much longer than it really was and using midgets in the background so viewers would have the illusion of receding space. In ''Fixed Bayonets'' (1951), the entire Korean War was reduced to the inside of a cave and a mountain road.
        Samuel Fuller was born on Aug. 12, 1912, in Worcester, Mass. His father died when he was 11, and his mother moved the family to New York City, where young Sam hawked newspapers on street corners to help the family. He quickly lost his New England accent and pronounced his words somewhere east of Jimmy Durante and west of Peter Falk's Lieutenant Columbo.
        ''I learned early that it is not the headline that counts, but how hard you shout it,'' he recalled.
        At 13 he became a copy boy at William Randolph Hearst's Journal, then at 17 a reporter for The New York Evening Graphic.
        One day he saw a silent newsreel of Mary Pickford and her husband, Buddy Rogers, playing tennis in Hollywood. Miss Pickford was wearing nifty little white tennis togs and looking tan and glamorous. As Mr. Fuller told the story, he instantly decided to move to the West Coast.
        He left The Graphic and became a crime reporter for The San Diego Sun. On the side he wrote three dime-store novels: ''Burn Baby Burn'' in 1935 and ''Test Tube Baby'' and ''Make Up and Kiss,'' both in 1936. He gave up journalism soon afterward, moved to Hollywood and began trying to market his own scripts while ghostwriting scripts for others.
        He received his first screen credit for writing with the low-budget ''Gangs of New York'' in 1938.
        In World War II, Mr. Fuller was a combat infantryman in North Africa and Italy. He was wounded twice and received Bronze and Silver Stars. He was on Omaha Beach on D-Day, a beach he described as ''lined with the intestines of men.'' He kept diaries and used them for ''The Big Red One.'' Toward the end of the war he published another novel, ''The Dark Page,'' which in 1952 became a movie made by Phil Karlson called ''Scandal Sheet.''
        His first big break came in 1948. Robert L. Lippert, his producer, agreed to a script dealing with assassination if it had a cowboy in it. Mr. Fuller agreed, provided Mr. Lippert would let him direct the film as well as write it.
        The result, released in 1949, was ''I Shot Jesse James,'' starring Preston Foster, Barbara Britton and John Ireland as Bob Ford, the man who shot Jesse James in the back. To Mr. Lippert's delight, it was made in 10 days for only $118,000, which included Mr. Fuller's $5,000 fee.
        Next came ''The Baron of Arizona,'' a 1950 Western about a greedy landowner played by Vincent Price, which was shot in 11 days for $135,000. ''The Steel Helmet,'' one of the first movies about the Korean War, came in 1951. It was done in 10 days for $105,000. The entire movie was shot in Griffith Park in Los Angeles with a cast of 25 extras who were students.
        ''The Steel Helmet'' grossed more than $6 million, and Mr. Fuller, whose contract gave him a one-third interest in the proceeds, earned more than $400,000 in the first year of distribution. Later Mr. Fuller negotiated contracts that gave him as much as 50 percent of the take. Mr. Fuller objected to his films being called B-movies. He said that to him, a B-movie was ''a $20 million film with no content,'' adding ''I always thought that 'A' and 'B' should stand for content, not how much a picture costs.''
        Producing, writing and directing for Allied Artists, he joined with Constance Towers and Gene Evans to make two of his best films. ''Shock Corridor'' (1963) was a disturbing work in which a reporter has himself committed to a mental institution to track down a murder suspect but loses his mind in the process. In ''The Naked Kiss'' (1964), Ms. Towers played a prostitute who tries to rehabilitate herself in a small town, only to find that the philanthropist she falls in love with is a child molester. The film had an enormous following among students of film, but it failed miserably at the box office.
        For years producers berated Mr. Fuller, recut his movies and ruined his work. By 1974, he was in financial trouble, and his wife, Christa, was pregnant with their daughter, Samantha, both of whom survive him.
        Mr. Fuller's friends encouraged him to begin work on ''The Big Red One,'' named for the insignia of the First Infantry Division, which he had wanted to do for years. Major studios had rejected the script, but finally Lorimar, which had begun as a television production company, said it might be interested. Lee Marvin and Mark Hamill were signed on as the principal stars. The movie was budgeted at $6 million, astronomical by Mr. Fuller's standards. When Mr. Fuller completed shooting, he had 177,000 feet of film totaling more than 30 hours, which he cut to four hours. Lorimar executives ordered that at least another two hours be cut. The cuts were made by others, and Mr. Fuller indicated he was happy enough with them. The movie was his comeback vehicle, although some critics still say it was better when it was four hours long.
        In 1982 he made ''White Dog,'' a film based on a Romain Gary novel about a black dog trainer who is asked by an actress to retrain a dog that was reared to attack blacks. The film was considered so controversial by Paramount that it was shelved for 10 years before finally having a limited distribution in 1992.
        Mr. Fuller continued on his individualistic path. But even as his fame spread and his films began showing up at film festivals in Europe and in colleges and revival houses in the United States, he encountered difficulty having his projects produced.
        People who worked for Mr. Fuller had good things to say about him.
        After ''The Big Red One,'' Lee Marvin called Mr. Fuller ''the movie's real star, the last of the breed I came to Hollywood for.''
        Richard Widmark, who had played a waspish pickpocket in ''Pickup on South Street,'' ran into Mr. Fuller years later at a party in Paris.
        ''They love him there,'' Mr. Widmark said. ''They think he's a genius. But Sam hadn't changed any. He was still the same nice tough little guy.''
      