
        Ruth Goode, who wrote about subjects as disparate as the scenic attractions of Maine, advancements in medicine and the life of the impresario Sol Hurok, died on Oct. 27 at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 92 and lived in Manhattan.
        Beginning in 1933, Ms. Goode wrote fiction and nonfiction under her maiden name, Seinfel; her married name, Goode; a pseudonym, Julia Rainer, and anonymously. She was a senior staff writer of MD Medical Newsmagazine for more than 20 years and the ghostwriter of some 20 books on medical, health and child care as well as educational subjects.
        Her husband, Gerald, had worked as Mr. Hurok's publicist in the 1930's and 40's, and when the impresario was ready to commit his life to paper, he turned to Ms. Goode. Together, Mr. Hurok and Ms. Goode produced ''Impresario'' in 1946. In it, Mr. Hurok mused about his work in the ballet and concert hall and reminisced about Isadora Duncan, Artur Rubinstein and others.
        Ms. Goode and Gertrude Mackenzie produced ''My Love Affair With the State of Maine'' (1955), an account of a New Yorker's -- Ms. Mackenzie's -- magical affair with Goose Rocks Bay in Maine. With Dr. Benjamin R. Miller, Ms. Goode wrote ''Man and His Body'' (1960), which included the most recent discoveries  about DNA, hormones and other topics. And she was co-author with Aaron Sussman of ''The Magic of Walking'' (1967), partly a panegyric about  the benefits of walking and partly an anthology of writings on the subject by famous walkers like Whitman, Thoreau, Nabokov and Dickens.
        Ruth Seinfel was born in Brooklyn, graduated from Smith College in 1925 and went to work as a reporter in New York. She was one of the first female reporters to advance beyond the women's pages and interviewed notables like Eleanor Roosevelt and Amelia Earhart for The New York Evening Post. The paper sent her to Europe in the early 1930's, but she turned to freelance writing in 1933.
        She and her husband, writing as Jerome and Julia Rainer, published ''Sexual Pleasure in Marriage'' (1959) and ''Sexual Adventure in Marriage'' (1965), books considered harbingers of sexual liberation. She also wrote ''A Book for Grandmothers'' (1977). Her husband died in 1983. She is survived by a son, Daniel, of Manhattan; a daughter, Judith Goode of Boulder, Colo., and two grandchildren.
      