
        Phil Soto, a one-time television repairman who became an inspiration to a generation of Hispanic politicians in California when he broke through decades of prejudice to become one of the first two Hispanic members of the State legislature since the 19th century, died on Tuesday at his home in Pomona. He was 71 and had served two terms in the State Assembly, from 1962 to 1966.
        His family said the cause was lung cancer.
        The immediate cause of the recent upsurge of Hispanic political power in California was a Federal court case that forced a redistricting along ethnic lines, but as many of the Hispanic candidates who won 10 of 80 Assembly districts and 4 of the 40 Senate seats last year would attest,  the road to political success began a generation ago with Mr. Soto. He used his involvement in a variety of civil rights causes and a campaign to incorporate the city of La Puente to help lay the groundwork for an ethnic political movement.
        A native of Boyle Heights, a one-time Jewish enclave in East Los Angeles, Mr. Soto, whose father was a railroad worker, dropped out of high school to enlist in the Army Air Corps and served as a bombardier in World War II. He then used the G.I. Bill to gain the technical training he needed to establish a television repair business, first in East Los Angeles and later in an unincorporated area of eastern Los Angeles County that he helped transform into the city of La Puenta.
        Together with his wife, Nell, a Pomona native who serves on the Pomona City Council, Mr. Soto was at the forefront of virtually every Hispanic movement. It was he, for example, who organized the California chapter of the American G.I. Forum, whose campaign for fair and equal treatment of Hispanic veterans has been widely regarded as the the wellspring of Hispanic political consciousness.
        He also helped organize the United Farm Workers, marched with Caesar Chavez and was active in the movement against the Vietnam War.
        Although he has been widely recognized for his role in advancing Hispanic interests, Mr. Soto was a liberal Democrat whose passionate commitment to education, public housing, public works projects, labor rights and other causes transcended ethnic considerations.
        Mr. Soto, a La Puenta Councilman from 1958 to 1962, did not stress his Mexican heritage when he ran for the Assembly in 1962. At the time, his district, which extended more than 30 miles from East Los Angeles to Pomona, was a white Republican stronghold, and Mr. Soto was not quick to correct those who thought he was of Greek or Italian descent.
        By the time won election over eight other candidates, Mr. Soto had become a confidant of Jesse Unruh, the legendary Assembly Speaker, who used the Soto living room for bourbon and burrito brainstorming sessions in the years he virtually ran the state.
        For all Mr. Unruh's power, he could not rescue Mr. Soto when a coalition of liberal Democrats pushed through a 1966 reapportionment plan that established a number of safe Democratic Assembly districts by dividing Hispanic voters among them. In the process, Mr. Soto lost many supporters and his bid for re-election in the 1966 Republican landslide that elected Ronald Reagan governor.
        Mr. Soto, who had campaigned for John F. Kennedy and Robert F. Kennedy, was named to head a Los Angeles anti-poverty program by President Lyndon B. Johnson, remaining in the post until he had a heart attack in 1988.
        Although he made another abortive bid for the Assembly in 1970, he concentrated increasingly on his wife's political career, managing her campaigns in the 1980's, as she had managed his in the 1960's.
        Partly because he was a pioneer whose campaigns preceded Hispanic factionalism and partly because he had an uncanny ability to bridge differences, Mr. Soto remained a hero to those across the Hispanic political spectrum.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by five sons, Phil 4th and Robert of Claremont, Michael of San Clemente, Patrick of Pomona and Tom of Santa Monica; a daughter, Anna of Pomona; three sisters, Yolanda Meza of San Diego, Irene Resendez of Chino and Lillian Romenilli of Northridge, 11 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren.
      