
        Saul Chaplin, an Academy Award-winning songwriter, producer, musical director and vocal arranger who worked on more than 60 Hollywood films, died on Saturday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 85.
        The cause was injuries sustained from a fall, said his wife, Betty.
        Mr. Chaplin, whose original surname was Kaplan, was born in Brooklyn and made his name as a songwriter in the 1930's. His collaborators included Sammy Cahn, Walter Samuels, Eddie DeLange, Jack Brooks, Johnny Mercer and Al Jolson. His two most famous songs,  ''Until the Real Thing Comes Along'' (1936) and ''Please Be Kind'' (1938), were both collaborations with Mr. Cahn, whom he met in a nightclub on the Lower East Side of Manhattan in 1933, when they were both in their early 20's.
        With Mr. Cahn, he also wrote the English lyrics for the Andrews Sisters' signature song, ''Bei Mir Bist Du Schon.'' The song, introduced in a 1933 Yiddish musical comedy, became the first million-selling single for the trio in 1937.
        Mr. Chaplin and Mr. Cahn went to Hollywood in 1940 and were signed to Columbia Pictures to write songs for B-movie musicals. While in Hollywood, Mr. Chaplin taught himself to score films by reading sheet music. In 1947, in collaboration with Al Jolson, he adapted ''The Anniversary Song'' from Ion Ivanovici's late-19th-century waltz ''Waves of the Danube.'' Jolson's recording became a million-seller.
        In the 1950's, Mr. Chaplin was the musical arranger (and later a producer) of major Hollywood musicals. He won three Academy Awards (out of five nominations) for the scoring of a musical picture, sharing an Oscar with Johnny Green for ''An American in Paris,'' with Adolph Deutsch for ''Seven Brides for Seven Brothers,'' and with Mr. Green, Sid Ramin and Irwin Kostal for ''West Side Story.''
        Turning to motion picture production, Mr. Chaplin was a co-producer of the films ''Les Girls,'' ''Merry Andrew,'' ''Can-Can'' ''The Sound of Music'' and ''That's Entertainment Part 2'' and was sole producer of  ''Star!''
        He was a recipient of Ascap's Deems Taylor Award for his memoir, ''The Golden Age of the Movie Musical and Me'' (1994).
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Judy Chaplin Prince, two grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      