
        Philip L. Defliese, the former chairman and managing partner of Coopers & Lybrand and a leading figure in the shaping of accounting standards, died on Oct. 27 in New York of respiratory failure. He was 82.
        As chairman of the 18-member Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants in the early 1970's, Mr. Defliese advocated rules that would compel public companies to disclose more accurate information about their finances.
        The 18-member board, comprising professional accountants, academics and business executives, came under criticism for everything from moving too slowly to capitulating to pressure from the Government and big business. Mr. Defliese once called his position as chairman ''the most thankless job in the entire accounting profession.'' But he was an eloquent defender of the board and of accounting in general.
        ''Accountancy has never pretended to be a technology or an exact science,'' he wrote in 1971. ''It is simply a discreet measurement of man's economic activities.''
        In 1973, the Accounting Principles Board was succeeded by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, which had fewer members and was considered more independent of the large accounting firms.
        A decade later, Mr. Defliese was a founding member of the Government Accounting Standards Board, which develops standards to be used in preparing the financial statements of state and local governments.
        Born in Queens, Mr. Defliese attended City College and was a lieutenant in the Navy during World War II. After the war, he was an assistant professor at Adelphi University before joining Lybrand Ross Brothers & Montgomery in 1948. He rose to head the firm, later renamed Coopers & Lybrand, in 1968.
        After retiring in 1977, he was a professor at Columbia University's Graduate School of Business until 1986 and served on a variety of corporate boards.
        Mr. Defliese was married for 50 years to the former Pauline Harnisch, who died in March. He is survived by two sons, Philip Jr. of Mercer Island, Wash., and Robert of Garden City, N.Y.; a daughter, Jeanne Defliese of Manhattan, and seven grandchildren.
      