
        Rod Milburn, one of track and field's greatest high hurdlers and a gold medalist in the 110-meter hurdles at the 1972 Munich Olympics, was found dead on Tuesday night, submerged in a liquid-chemical tank at a Georgia Pacific paper plant in Port Hudson, La. He was 47.
        Milburn, who had worked at the plant for nine years, had been assigned to unload the nontoxic liquid sodium chlorate, a chemical used in the bleaching process of paper manufacturing, said Patty Prats-Swanson, a spokeswoman for Georgia Pacific. She said he was found by a supervisor at about 10:45 P.M. Tuesday after he had failed to answer his pager and the entrance on top of the tank was found open.
        Lieut. Lee Rice of the East Baton Rouge Parish Sheriff's Department said that Milburn had sustained external burns and burn damage to his lungs.
        ''It appears that the inhalation damage and burns were caused by falling in,'' he said. ''No one was with him. There's no indication of foul play.''
        Ms. Prats-Swanson said that one compartment of the tank had already been pumped out, indicating that Milburn was in the process of completing his work when he became submerged in a solution containing a crystallized chemical dissolved in very hot water.
        Rodney Milburn Jr. was born on May 18, 1950, in Opelousas, La. He attracted national attention as a hurdler at J. S. Clark High School in Opelousas and quickly became a star at Southern University in Baton Rouge.
        Willie Davenport, the star hurdler who was a graduate student at Southern when Milburn was a freshman, would remember how when Davenport was invited to the Millrose Games in New York, ''I said I'm sure I'll come if I can bring Rodney Milburn with me.''
        ''Old man Schmertz asked who was Rodney Milburn,'' Davenport said, referring to Fred Schmertz, the meet director, ''and I told him the world was going to find out soon enough.''
        In 1971, Milburn was unbeaten in 28 races, including 15 finals, and he won National Collegiate Athletic Association, Amateur Athletic Union and National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics titles. In the A.A.U. national championships, he ran a 13.0 120-yard high hurdles in the semifinals, breaking the 13-year-old world record by two-tenths of a second, and he was voted athlete of the year by Track and Field News.
        ''His 1971 season ranks among the greatest in track and field history,'' Craig Masback, chief executive of USA Track & Field, the sport's governing body, said yesterday.
        Milburn finished in third place in the 110-meter hurdles at the 1972 Olympic trials, but that was his only blemish of the season. He went on to win the 110 meters at Munich in an Olympic-record 13.24 seconds, equaling the world record. By the time he turned pro in 1974, he had set or equaled a host of world records.
        He won race after race over the next two years on the International Track Association's professional circuit, but that unit collapsed in 1976. Milburn did not run again until 1979, when he was reinstated as an amateur. Within two months he won an indoor national championship and embarked on a rivalry with Renaldo (Skeets) Nehemiah. He retired in 1983 and was later track coach at Southern University.
        Milburn attributed his success to a combination of speed, agility and technique. ''It means everything has to coordinate in one rhythm,'' he once said.
        There was a mental aspect, too.
        ''I go into deep concentration before a race,'' he explained. ''I think about what I expect to get out of a race; possible times that I'm looking at; what I want to do to get out of the blocks; how I want to take the first hurdle. It's just like one of these dragster drivers, thinking about how he's he's going to get his r.p.m.'s up.''
        Milburn is survived by his wife and three children.
      