
        James F. Bender, an eclectic educator who started out training speech therapists in the 1930's and ended up teaching business in the 1970's, but only after he had done star turns as a public pronunciation specialist and pioneering pop psychologist, become a high-paid business consultant and made a fortune on Wall Street, died on Sunday at his home in Southbury, Conn. He was 92 and the founding dean of the Adelphi University School of Business.
        To say that Dr. Bender had a passion for education would hardly do justice to a man who spent a week pedaling a bicycle from his home in Dayton, Ohio, to Clinton, N.Y., so he could attend Hamilton College.
        For Dr. Bender, whose father was a teacher, the bicycle trip was an economy measure, as was his decision to leave Hamilton a year later. Unable to find enough work in Clinton, he moved to New York City, where he worked his way through the Columbia University School of General Studies working at everything from waiter to doorman.
        To suggest that Dr. Bender had an original turn of mind and a sense of possibilities would be something of an understatement. He was, for example, a man whose experience administering routine psychological tests to City College employees led him to specialize in speech therapy, write his Columbia doctoral thesis on the personality structure of stuttering and found a City College speech clinic before becoming a professor of psychology at the Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute and moving on to the new Queens College, where he became the founding director of the college's Speech-Language-Hearing Center in 1942.
        Dr. Bender's tenure at Queens College was short. After he was censured in 1943 for exaggerating his academic credentials (claiming a Columbia master's degree he had earned but not received) he resigned, much to the consternation of college officials.
        Their anguish was understandable. Dr. Bender had become a star attraction, repeatedly making headlines whether by compiling the widely publicized NBC Handbook of Pronunciation, making Queens College the first educational institution in New York City to acquire a ''continuous recording and transcribing machine,'' or by emerging as a latter day Henry Higgins, using the recorder to demonstrate the stunningly improved speech and enunciation of a group of street urchins he tutored in the social graces.
        It did not hurt that Dr. Bender dubbed the group 'the Dead End Boys.''
        The choice reflected a shrewd sense of public appeal that blossomed during the next phase of Dr. Bender's career. As the founder of something he called the National Institute for Human Relations, he was soon a ubiquitous national expert on everything from correct pronunciation, vocabulary and American speech patterns to salesmanship and marriage.
        Although he had turned out his share of learned texts and scholarly articles in the 1930's, it was as a language maven and psychologist to the masses that Dr. Bender hit his stride, churning out some 250 newspaper and magazine articles in three years.
        It was an index of his feel for the public pulse that his 1944 article in The New York Times Magazine, ''Ninety Million Speak General American,'' set a reprint record for the magazine when it was picked up by a dozen other publications.
        Although some of his works were discursive, the typical Bender article was an eye-catching list (of circus terms, for example) or a series of short questions and answers on a common theme (like how women had changed in 50 years).
        Dr. Bender, whose books of that era included ''How to Talk Well'' and ''Do's and Don'ts of the Sales Interview,'' concentrated increasingly on the psychology of the work place, a specialty that created such a demand for his expertise in the world of big business that he folded his institute and reinvented himself anew, this time as a business consultant.
        A man with an instinct for where opportunity would be knocking next, Dr. Bender made millions from a series of shrewd investments in everything from gold to depressed Oregon real estate.
        For all his business success, however, Dr. Bender was so devoted to education that he returned to academia in 1960, teaching business administration at Adelphi and serving as dean when its business department was elevated to school status in 1964, partly as a result of his own donations and money he raised from others.
        He left Adelphi in 1966 and spent seven years at Pace University and at C.W. Post College, where he taught money management so well that a student-managed portfolio of stocks, bonds and real estate donated by Dr. Bender and others tripled in value in three years and helped finance Post's Money Management Institute.
        Returning to Adelphi in 1973, he served first as acting business dean, then as dean of the Center for Banking and Money Management and finally as dean of special programs, a euphemism for persuading Adelphi alumni and others to be as generous as he was.
        By the time he retired in 1985, Dr. Bender had made a new name for himself as a fund-raiser and philanthropist, among other things raising money for endowed chairs at both Adelphi and Post and endowing two chairs, in music and psychology, at the Columbia School of General Studies.
        The school, the university's arm for continuing, or adult, education, had never had an endowed professorship before, but then, as the school recognized when it gave him its highest alumni award, it had never encountered anyone quite like Dr. Bender before.
        Dr. Bender, whose first wife died and whose second marriage ended in divorce, is survived by his wife, Vera Evangeline, his one-time next door neighbor in Roslyn, N.Y.; her son, Ted Sattler of Chappaqua, N.Y.; a sister, Mary Jane Perez of San Antonio, Tex., and two step grandchildren.
      