
        Stefan Lorant, a Hungarian-born editor and author who cut a serendipitous swath through the 20th century while pioneering modern photojournalism, died on Friday at a hospital in Rochester, Minn. He was 96 and lived in Lenox, Mass.
        Mr. Lorant was credited with developing the model for Life magazine and other photo journals as the innovative editor of the Munich Illustrated Press from 1928 to 1933.
        If Mr. Lorant had not existed, Woody Allen would surely have invented him. For while he may not have got around quite as much as Mr. Allen's fictional Zelig, he did, by his own account at least, have a certain affinity for celebrity.
        Enough, anyway, that the ''vanity wall'' at his home in Lenox showed him in photographs with Winston Churchill, John F. Kennedy, Jimmy Carter, Oscar Hammerstein 2d, Leonard Bernstein, Sir Cedric Hardwicke, Pearl Bailey, Marilyn Monroe and Mrs. Theodore Roosevelt.
        A man who made a career of coincidences, he was, by his own recollection, a master of the chance encounter.
        As a teen-ager fleeing the right-wing takeover of his homeland in 1919, for example, he got a job playing violin at a silent-movie theater with the help of a bushy-haired newspaper man he later realized was Franz Kafka.
        Later, after a chance meeting with a Hungarian filmmaker led to a brief career as a cameraman and director in Vienna and Berlin, he gave Marlene Dietrich her first screen test, and advised her to forget the movies.
        As an editor in Munich, he had a nodding, beer-garden acquaintance with a fellow editor named Adolf Hitler.
        Later, Mr. Lorant became one of Hitler's first political prisoners with the Nazi takeover of Bavaria in 1933, when he was jailed without charge simply because he was a prominent editor. While imprisoned for six months, he happened to pick up a copy of Lincoln's speeches and was so impressed that after coming to the United States in 1940 he published a pictorial Lincoln biography.
        He also kept a diary of his prison experiences, smuggled it out when he was deported to Hungary, and then took it with him to England, where it was published to wide acclaim in 1935 as ''I Was Hitler's Prisoner.''
        That was the year, Mr. Lorant recalled, when Henry R. Luce went to London to consult Mr. Lorant about his planned magazine, Life. When it appeared in 1936, Mr. Lorant liked to point out, the magazine closely resembled the Munich Illustrated Press in its use of candid pictures and photo essays.
        During his stay in England, Mr. Lorant copied his own formula as the founding editor of Weekly Illustrated, Picture Post and their humorous cousin, Lilliput.
        A sharp critic of Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain, Mr. Lorant began championing Churchill, and it was at Churchill's suggestion that he published a special Picture Post edition on the United States. After assembling the photographs during a three-week visit to America in 1939, Mr. Lorant returned for a more leisurely look in 1940 and decided to stay.
        After bringing out ''Lincoln, His Life in Photographs,'' in 1941, Mr. Lorant, who revised and enlarged the book three times, produced similar illustrated biographies of the two Roosevelt Presidents and published illustrated histories of the Presidency, including ''The Glorious Burden'' in 1968.
        His other books include ''Sieg Heil!: An Illustrated History of Germany from Bismark to Hitler'' (1974), and four versions of ''Pittsburgh, the Story of an American City,'' a project, typically, that began with a chance meeting with Edgar Kaufmann, the Pittsburgh department store mogul and arts patron.
        A man of considerable charisma and charm, Mr. Lorant was a 59-year-old graduate student at Harvard in 1960 when he met a 20-year-old Radcliffe student now known as Laurie Robertson-Lorant.
        They were married in 1963 and divorced in 1978. After the death of their younger son, Mark, in 1989, Mr. Lorant spent his remaining years in a vain campaign to establish a museum in his son's memory.
        He is survived by Mark's brother, Chris, of Worcester, Mass.; a son from a previous marriage, Andi, of Andover, Mass.; a daughter, Gini Savage of San Francisco; six grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      