
        Dr. William Joseph Sweeney 3d, a Manhattan gynecologist who took part in the early research on in-vitro fertilization, died on Oct. 23. He was 75 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        He died of a heart attack in his Manhattan office, where he was attending patients, his family said.
        At his death, Dr. Sweeney was clinical professor of obstetrics and gynecology at Cornell University Medical Center and an obstetrician and gynecologist at New York Hospital. He also maintained a private practice on the East Side for the last 42 years, currently on East 65th Street.
        He was prominent as an expert on gynecological cancer. He also did original work in reproductive medicine and in-vitro fertilization, which is now a common procedure for infertile couples.
        He patented a disposable diaphragm contraceptive and published more than 50 papers and book chapters. He also wrote a well-received autobiography titled ''A Woman's Doctor: A Year in the Life of an Obstetrician-Gynecologist'' (Morrow, 1973).
        He became involved in one of the first lawsuits on record in this country over in-vitro fertilization. In 1978, a Florida woman sued Columbia University and the director of obstetrics and gynecology at Presbyterian Hospital over the destruction of an egg fertilized in vitro by Dr. Sweeney and a colleague.
        The woman's claim of destroyed property was denied, but a Federal court jury awarded her $50,000 for emotional distress. Dr. Sweeney was called to testify at the trial because he had removed the eggs from the plaintiff.
        He was born in Philadelphia, and graduated from Maryville College in 1942. He spent World War II in the Army Air Corps, flying 20 combat missions as a bomber pilot. He was shot down and imprisoned toward the end of the war and discharged as a decorated captain.
        He graduated from Cornell Medical College in 1949, completed his training at New York Hospital and joined the staff there in 1954.
        He is survived by his wife, Frances Sweeney; four sons, William 4th, of Brooklyn, David, of Belmead, N.J., James, of Sunland, Calif., and Brett, also of Belmead; a daughter, Michele, of Manhattan; and six grandchildren.
      