
        Vladimir Sokoloff, a pianist on the faculty of the Curtis Institute of Music who accompanied many of the world's leading singers and instrumentalists, died on Oct. 27 at Allegheny University Health Systems Hahnemann Hospital in Philadelphia after a long illness. He was 84 and lived in Philadelphia.
        In a career spanning nearly seven decades, Mr. Sokoloff accompanied such artists as the violinists Efrem Zimbalist, Jaime Laredo and Aaron Rosand; the violist William Primrose, the cellists Gregor Piatigorsky and Emanuel Feuermann and the soprano Marcella Sembrich.
        He was also the pianist for the Philadelphia Orchestra from 1938 to 1950, and often played chamber concerts with the Curtis String Quartet.
        Born in New York in 1913, Mr. Sokoloff, who was called Billy by his friends, began studying the piano at age 6. He entered the Curtis Institute in Philadelphia in 1929 and studied with Abram Chasins, Harry Kaufman and Louis Bailly. He graduated in 1936 and immediately joined the faculty. That same year he married the pianist Eleanor Blum, who still teaches at the school. The two occasionally performed as a duo.
        In 1942, with Jascha Brodsky, Max Aronoff and Orlando Cole, he helped found the New School in Philadelphia for musicians preparing for orchestral careers. The school became the Esther Boyer School of Music at Temple University.
        Mr. Sokoloff remained on the Curtis faculty until his retirement in 1994. In 1959 he was awarded an honorary doctorate.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Katharine Sokoloff McLaughlin and Laurie Sokoloff, and a brother, Beryl.
        Correction:  November 10, 1997, Monday
        An obituary of the pianist Vladimir Sokoloff on Tuesday misstated the history of the New School of Music in Philadelphia, which he helped found. It merged with the Esther Boyer College of Music at Temple University in 1986; it was not simply renamed Esther Boyer. It then became the New School Institute in the Esther Boyer College of Music.
      