
        Edwin P. Neilan, a tough-talking former head of the United States Chamber of Commerce who campaigned against what he considered excessive Government spending, died on Saturday in his hometown of Corpus Christi, Tex. He was 92.
        As president and then as chairman of the chamber in the early 1960's, Mr. Neilan carved a broad swath in Washington as he railed against the expansion of the Federal Goverment and the political culture it fostered.
        As the Government broadened social spending programs it encouraged a system of ''seduction by subsidy,'' Mr. Neilan said, in which politicians conspired to buy votes with promises of pork-barrel spending.
        ''The old-fashioned ward heeler who rounded up and delivered derelicts to the polls at $1 a vote was an honest man compared to the widespread public immorality that has infected otherwise reputable and respectable American men and women who are willing, even eager, to turn their elected representatives into bagmen,'' he said in a speech at the National Press Club on Aug. 7, 1963.
        The speech gained national attention and drew the ire of some Congressmen, including Representative Wright Patman, Democrat of Texas, who said the Federal Government had made aid payments of more than $2,000 on a farm owned by Mr. Neilan.
        In 1964 Mr. Neilan attacked President Lyndon B. Johnson's War on Poverty as a ''billion-dollar boondoggle'' designed to win votes rather than help the poor. He supported Senator Barry Goldwater, Republican of Arizona, during that year's Presidential campaign.
        He said then that his campaign to shrink the Federal budget had generated 10,000 letters in his favor and only one against him.
        During his two years at the top of the Chamber of Commerce Mr. Neilan was also chairman of the Bank of Delaware Corporation, which was acquired by the PNC Financial Corporation in 1989. PNC Financial changed its name to the PNC Bank Corporation in 1993.
        Mr. Neilan joined the Bank of Delaware in 1940, became its chairman in 1959 and retired in 1970. Shortly after graduating from Rice University in 1928 he joined the Federal Reserve Bank, where he worked as an examiner in Dallas, New York and Philadelphia.
        Mr. Neilan is survived by two sisters, Bernice Neilan Luhnow of San Antonio and Bonnie Neilan Milton of Seattle.
        After Mr. Neilan made headlines with his anti-Government spending campaign some conservatives urged him to run for political office. He declined.
        ''I'm not noted for finesse,'' he said in September 1963. ''When I want to drive at something, I want to drive pretty hard and pretty direct.''
        ''Very few politicians succeed by being blunt,'' he said. ''I'd be a dead duck before I started.''
      