
        Ernest (Polly) Rosborough, a pioneer of modern fly-fishing in the Western states and a noted fly tyer, died last Tuesday at Hearthstone, a nursing home near Klamath Falls, Ore. He was 95.
        Although he was born in Mammoth Spring, Ark., a region that offers fishing almost exclusively for warm-water species like bass, Rosborough developed his lifelong interest in cold rivers and trout as a visitor to northern California in the 1920's. In 1928, he settled permanently in Chiloquin, Ore., on the banks of the Williamson River.
        Rosborough served as a gunnery instructor in the Army during World War II. Upon returning home after the war, he worked in lumber mills and continued his practical studies of the trout and its environment.
        Much like renowned Eastern anglers and fly tyers like Art Flick and Harry Darbee of New York's Catskill region, Rosborough became an informal student of the aquatic insects that form the bulk of the trout's diet.
        He was the first angler to study the aquatic insects of the West, and he developed a particularly strong interest in the important nymphal stage of those insects.
        In 1965, Rosborough wrote a modern angling classic, ''Tying and Fishing the Fuzzy Nymph,'' which has been reprinted several times.
        The book provided thousands of anglers with a comprehensive introduction to the technique of fishing with imitations of mayfly and caddis fly nymphs, particularly Rosborough's deadly Fuzzy nymphs. These were relatively simple impressionistic flies rather than precise, detailed imitations of the real insects.
        The volume was one of the first contributions to the modern fly-fishing tradition and literature by a Western author, and it helped spark interest in fly-fishing on rivers that have since become renowned for the quality of trout fishing they offer.
        Eventually, Rosborough left the lumber mills to devote himself exclusively to angling and fly-tying. He wrote frequently on flies and fly-tying for magazines such as Trout, Fly Fisherman and Salmon, Trout and Steelhead.
        In 1975, he was awarded the Buz Buszek Memorial Plaque for special service to fly-tying, and he was a special adviser to the Council of United Fly Tyers. Rosborough wrote two other books, ''Reminiscences of 50 Years of Flyfishing'' and ''Martens I Have Known.''
        He is survived by a brother, James M. of Lake Forest, Calif., and a sister, Essie McCarty of Placerville, Calif.
      