
        Janet Annenberg Hooker, whose many philanthropies ranged from the support of musical organizations to the redecoration of The White House and the diplomatic rooms of the State Department in Washington, died Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 93 and had homes in Manhattan, Palm Beach, Fla., and Newport, R.I.
        Mrs. Hooker was one of the principal benefactors of the National Museum of Natural History, the largest of the Smithsonian Institution's family of museum buildings on the Mall in Washington. She contributed $5 million for the Janet Annenberg Hooker Hall of Geology, Gems and Minerals, which opened this fall. The $10 million gallery has a walk-through mine, interactive exhibits and high-resolution videos of earthquakes and volcanic action.
        A spectacular gem collection housed in the new building includes several other gifts from Mrs. Hooker, among them the Hooker Starburst Diamonds, which she donated  in 1994 in honor of her two sons, Gilbert S. Kahn and Donald P. Kahn. The dazzling set of rare yellow diamonds, cut in a starburst pattern, includes a 245-carat necklace with 50 rectangular diamonds, a 61-carat diamond ring and earrings. Each earring is a 25-carat yellow diamond surrounded by four pear-shaped and 16 baguette white diamonds.
        In 1977, Mrs. Hooker also gave the Smithsonian a 75-carat emerald brooch. The half-million-dollar brooch, set with diamonds, was once owned by the Sultan of Turkey, who sported it on his belt buckle. Mrs. Hooker's son, Gilbert S. Kahn, said that his mother's total contribution to the Smithsonian, in cash and jewels, was about $9 million.
        When the diplomatic reception rooms of the State Department building were rebuilt in the mid-1980's, Clement Conger, the curator at the time, described Mrs. Hooker as the project's ''staunchest supporter.'' The almost $8 million renovation, paid for with private funds, included the $3.5 million, 47-by-102-foot Benjamin Franklin Dining Room and the Secretary of State's $1.95 million, 10-room suite.
        ''Mother was always interested in the decorative arts,'' Mr. Kahn said. He noted that during her winters in Palm Beach, she met and became friendly with a number of ambassadors who were guests at the annual Red Cross Ball, and this heightened  her interest in the effort to enhance the State Department building.
        Mrs. Hooker also contributed $250,000 to renovate the Blue Room in the White House and contributed to the fund for the redecoration of the private quarters there. Her interest in the White House Preservation Fund extended through the administrations of six Presidents -- John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson, Richard M. Nixon, Gerald R. Ford, Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan.
        Mrs. Hooker, her brother, Walter Annenberg, the former United States Ambassador to the Court of St. James, and Mr. Annenberg's wife, Lenore, jointly contributed $200,000 in 1987 to the renovation of Blair-Lee House. The gift was for a garden room in a new wing of the government's guest house.
        Mrs. Hooker was also an active presence on the social scene in both New York and Florida. One of her principal activities on the charity circuit was the fashionable April in Paris Ball in New York, a benefit affair for French and American organizations. For many years, she not only underwrote the cost of the decorations but also planned and assisted in their placement.
        A number of musical institutions also were the recipients of Mrs. Hooker's beneficence. She donated a section of the lobby of the Metropolitan Opera House in Lincoln Center in honor of her mother, Mrs. Moses L. Annenberg, and she contributed over the years to the New York Philharmonic, the Musicians Emergency Fund and to various outdoor concert programs.
        Although Mrs. Hooker bought a house in Newport, R.I., in 1992, her health began deteriorating and she never lived in it. ''You finish it and enjoy it,'' she told her son Gilbert. She and her son, however, gave a suite of Louis XV-style furniture to The Elms, one of Newport's famed ''cottages,'' built in 1901 and modeled after the Chateau d' Asineres near Paris. The suite consisted of 12 chairs, a small sofa and a fire screen, covered with 18th-century Beauvais tapestry and framed in gilt carved with trailing garlands and scallop shells. Janet Hooker's name is also on a plaque listing the major donors to the restoration of the house and gardens of the painter Claude Monet in Giverny, France.
        Mrs. Hooker was born in Chicago on Oct. 13, 1904, one of seven daughters of Moses Annenberg, the founder of Triangle Publications, and Sadie Annenberg. Three of the publications -- T.V. Guide, The Daily Racing Form and Seventeen Magazine -- were sold to Rupert Murdoch for $3 billion in 1988.
        According to a 1990 article in Forbes Magazine, Mrs. Hooker and two of her sisters, Esther Simon and Lita Hazen, both now deceased, were major beneficiaries of the sale. The magazine reported that two sisters, Enid Haupt and Evelyn Hall, had previously cashed in most of their stock. The other two sisters, Pearl (Polly) Levee and Harriette Ames, were deceased. The surviving sisters, and families of the deceased, were also reported to have shared in the proceeds of the sale of General Motors stock valued at $825 million.
        Mrs. Hooker was educated at Kemper Hall, an Episcopal school in Kenosha, Wis. An outgoing woman with a determined will and a quiet sense of humor, she tapped into the family tradition of charity as a young bride. Her early grants were primarily in the field of music. Later, her major contributions reflected her interest in the decorative arts.
        In 1924 she was married to L. Stanley Kahn, a publisher in the Annenberg communications empire. The couple divorced in 1937 and in the same year Mrs. Hooker, under the name of Janet Kahn, began a brief stage career. She appeared as a school trustee in ''Honor Bright,'' a play produced by Lee Shubert that was mounted in Detroit and Rhode Island but never came to New York. The following year, she married Joseph A. Neff of Lincoln, Neb., who had been in the clothing business in the West and later was involved in the sale of the Cleveland Plain Dealer to S.I. Newhouse. Mr. Neff died in 1969.
        Her marriage to James Stewart Hooker took place in 1974. Mr. Hooker was head of labor relations for the Philadelphia Inquirer, an Annenberg newspaper at the time. Her son Gilbert said that the two met at business meetings and that the friendship evolved into a love match. Mr. Hooker died in 1976.
        In addition to her two sons, Gilbert Kahn of Newport, R.I., and Miami, and Donald Kahn of Salzburg and London, she is survived by her two sisters, Enid Haupt of New York and Evelyn Hall of Palm Beach; her brother, Walter Annenberg of Philadelphia and Palm Springs, Calif.;  five grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  December 17, 1997, Wednesday  A picture yesterday with an obituary of the philanthropist Janet Annenberg Hooker was published in error. It showed her sister Lita Annenberg Hazen, a patron of medical research and cultural institutions who died in 1995.
        Correction:  December 19, 1997, Friday  An obituary of the philanthropist Janet Annenberg Hooker on Tuesday misstated the ownership of The Philadelphia Inquirer in 1974, when Ms. Hooker married James Stewart Hooker, an executive there. The paper was owned by the Knight chain, which merged that year to form Knight-Ridder Newspapers Inc.; it was not an Annenberg paper at the time.
      