
        Endicott Peabody, the scion of two old American families who served just one term in a major elective office but ran frequently for others and led a quixotic campaign to elevate the importance of the Vice Presidency, died on Tuesday at his home in Hollis, N.H. He was 77.
        The cause was leukemia, his son Robert said.
        Mr. Peabody came of age at a time when most people of his social class in Massachusetts were rock-ribbed Republicans, but he was a liberal Democrat. It was as a Democrat that he won his only major election: in 1962 he was elected to a two-year term as Governor of Massachusetts.
        In 1964 he was defeated in the Democratic primary by his own Lieutenant Governor, Francis X. Bellotti. But Mr. Bellotti lost the election to the Republican candidate, John A. Volpe, who had narrowly lost to Mr. Peabody two years earlier.
        Of his own accomplishments, Mr. Peabody, in an interview in The Globe in October, pointed to ''breaking up the racial and religious holds of the parties and making them truly parties of reform.''
        Mr. Peabody was singularly unsuccessful in reforming the way the political parties choose their candidates for Vice President.
        ''Hi, I'm Chub Peabody. I'm running for Vice President,'' he would say in 1972 as he campaigned for the Democratic nomination for that post, The Washington Post reported. A frequent response was, ''Chub who?''
        Mr. Peabody's contention was that the party, not the Presidential nominee, should choose the Vice-Presidential candidate.
        Mr. Peabody was a direct descendant of John Endicott, a founder of the Massachusetts Bay Colony and the state's first colonial governor. His father was the Right Rev. Malcolm E. Peabody, Episcopal Bishop of Central New York, and a grandfather was the Rev. Endicott Peabody, the founder and headmaster of the Groton School.
        After graduating from Groton, Mr. Peabody entered Harvard College, where he was a lineman on the football team and was named an All-American in 1941. He joined the Navy in World War II and was assigned as torpedo and fire-control officer aboard a submarine, the Tirante, in the Pacific. He was awarded the Silver Star for gallantry.
        After the war, Mr. Peabody entered Harvard Law School and on graduation in 1948 joined a law firm.
        Before President Harry S. Truman ordered the integration of the armed services, Mr. Peabody led a successful campaign to desegregate the Massachusetts National Guard.
        His family had a history of civil rights activism. In 1964, while he was Governor, his 72-year-old mother, Mary, was arrested in St. Augustine, Fla., while seeking service for a party of whites and blacks in a segregated dining room.
        When told of his mother's arrest, Mr. Peabody said that he could only express admiration for her ''courage, sincerity and determination.''
        He was elected to a local office in Cambridge in 1955 but was defeated in races for attorney general in 1956 and 1958, for governor in 1960 and for the United States Senate in 1966, all in Massachusetts. After moving to New Hampshire, he lost a race for the Senate in 1986 and the State Legislature in 1992.
        Mr. Peabody was named to a post in the Office of Emergency Planning by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1967 and practiced law for a brief time in Washington.
        In recent years, Robert Peabody said, Mr. Peabody devoted much of his time to activities on behalf of the United Nations and, despite the effects of the leukemia, organized a New England town meeting to promote the banning of land mines. The meeting was held last month at the John F. Kennedy Library in Boston.  Mr. Peabody served as chairman.
        In addition to his son Robert, of Charlestown, Mass., Mr. Peabody is survived by his wife of 54 years, Barbara; another son, Endicott Jr., of Brookline, Mass.; a daughter, Barbara Peabody of New York City; three brothers, Samuel, of New York City and George and Malcolm Jr., both of Washington, and six grandchildren.
      