
        David N. Schramm, an astrophysicist who was an eminent authority on the Big Bang theory about how the universe was born, died on Friday when the twin-engine plane he was piloting crashed in a field about 40 miles east of Denver. He was 52 and had homes in Chicago and Aspen, Colo.
        Professor Schramm was flying from Chicago to Aspen, said Diana Steele, a spokeswoman for the University of Chicago, where he had taught since 1974 and was also an administrator. She said that he had refueled at a Denver airport before the crash and that the cause of the crash was being investigated.
        Professor Schramm's plane, a Swearingen SW-3, left Chicago's Midway Airport on Friday afternoon. Sheriff Pat Sullivan of Byers, Colo., said that soon after 8 P.M. on Friday, Professor Schramm, who was alone in his plane, radioed a control tower and said that the plane was stalling. The sheriff said the plane then disappeared from radar.
        Professor Schramm had been a Louis Block Distinguished Service Professor in the physical sciences at the university since 1982, and the vice president for research since 1995.
        Much of his most significant research was in cosmology, which is the study of the origin and evolution of the universe. According to the Big Bang model, the universe came into existence billions of years ago, in a very hot and dense condition, and it has been growing, cooling and thinning since then.
        In a 1995 article, Professor Schramm used a humble figure of speech to describe what he called ''the elegant simplicity of the expansion of the universe.''
        Professor Schramm wrote: ''What we know from modern astronomy is this: Other galaxies are moving away from our Milky Way galaxy and, no matter which direction they are moving in, the farther away they are, the faster they move.
        ''Our view when we look out at the galaxies is what a raisin might see in a rising loaf of bread; the more distant raisins have more rising dough between them and thus move faster while nearby raisins have less dough separating them and thus move apart more slowly. In the universe, it is space itself that is expanding and the galaxies, like the raisins, remain the same size.''
        At a scientific conference about the age of the universe in April in California, Professor Schramm said that the world of cosmology was pervaded by increasing optimism that stemmed from a shift in the field.
        ''Our interpretations used to be driven by theory,'' he said. ''Now they are data-driven.''
        At that meeting, scientists compared new information and analyses and seemed startled at the progress in gaining knowledge about the universe's expansion and density. By juggling and polishing statistics in those two areas, and other numbers, scientists have come to hope that before long, they will at last come up with a reasonable estimate of the age of the universe, which has been said to be anywhere from 8 billion to 20 billion years.
        Some scientists come to cosmology by way of astronomy, but Professor Schramm came to it through his specialty, particle physics. That is the study of subatomic matter, or particles even smaller than atoms, which are the constituents of all known matter. He is widely credited with having played a major role in the combining in recent years of the fields of astrophysics, nuclear physics and particle physics in research about the early universe.
        His most basic addition to knowledge in the particle physics field, colleagues said, may have been his reckoning of the number of elementary-particle families in the universe. Formerly, only two particle families had been discovered, but many physicists thought that numerous additional families of particles would be uncovered. Undaunted, Professor Schramm and his co-workers forecast that only one more family would turn up. He wrote later, ''We got a lot of flak from a lot of people, saying, 'Oh it's crazy to say something like that.' ''
        But the forecast by the professor and his colleagues was borne out by studies at Stanford University and in Switzerland.
        Michael Turner, who is chairman of the astronomy and astrophysics department at the University of Chicago, said, ''Dave was one of the giants of modern cosmology and a towering figure in astrophysics.''
        Another cosmologist, Sir Martin Rees, who is Royal Society Professor at Cambridge University in England, said, ''What was remarkable about Schramm was his immense dynamism, both intellectually and physically -- he seemed to live his life at double speed. He had, for the last 25 years, been a real driving force in cosmology and not only made great advances of his own, but was a great stimulus and tireless advocate for the whole field.''
        Professor Schramm was a heavily built, muscular man and, in his student days, a champion Greco-Roman wrestler.
        He was born in St. Louis and received a bachelor's degree in 1967 from Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a doctorate in physics in 1971 from California Institute of Technology.
        His many writings included ''The Shadows of Creation: Dark Matter and the Structure of the Universe'' (1991), which he co-wrote with E. Michael Riordan.
        Professor Schramm was a member of the National Academy of Sciences, a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and on the board of the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory.
        He received the Julius Edgar Lilienfeld Prize from the American Physical Society in 1993 ''for his manifold contributions to nuclear astrophysics'' and the Helen B. Warner Prize from the American Astronomical Society in 1978.
        His first marriage, in 1963, to Melinda Holtzhauer, ended in divorce in 1979.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Judith J. Gibson, whom he married in 1986; two sons, D. Brett of San Francisco and D. Cary of Los Angeles; his mother, Betty, of St. Louis; two brothers, Daniel of St. Louis and Wayne of Jefferson City, Mo.; three stepdaughters, Tegan Ward of Denver, Laura Zielinski of Seattle and Amanda Zielinski of San Francisco, and a stepson, Eric Ward of Poughkeepsie, N.Y.
      