
        Leo August, who developed a boyhood stamp collection and a fascination with airplanes into a prominent philatelic publishing house, died on Dec. 4 at the St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, N.J. He was 83.
        Mr. August and his older brother Sam were the founders of the Washington Press, now based in Florham Park, N.J., which produces Artcraft envelopes and albums for stamp collectors. The envelopes bear engraved illustrations that reflect the themes of new stamps; collectors affix new stamps to the envelopes and have them canceled by the post office on the day the stamps are issued, to create ''first-day covers.''
        Mr. August was born in Newark on March 2, 1914. He became interested in specially canceled stamps as a teen-ager, going to nearby airports to witness special events and make up philatelic souvenirs.
        In 1933, Leo and Sam August opened a stamp shop in Newark, at the corner of Washington and Market Streets.
        They began to refine the idea of mass-producing their specially designed envelopes and broke into the philatelic mainstream in 1936 when they were named official designers for a souvenir cover at Tipex, the Third International Philatelic Exhibition, in New York City.
        Their role endured through every international show held in the United States since then, through the Pacific 97 show in San Francisco in June.
        The early August cachets, as the envelope designs are called, were produced on a letterpress, but in 1939 the brothers began making engraved designs of a much higher quality and copyrighted th as Artcraft envelopes.
        For the 1939 World's Fair in New York, the brothers expanded into stamp albums, publishing a series of White Ace pages designed to display the stamps that had been issued by many countries to celebrate the fair. The Washington Press now publishes albums for the stamps of the United States and many other countries, and albums used by collectors of stamps celebrating a single topic, like space exploration.
        As the business expanded, it moved to Maplewood, N.J., and then to Florham Park in 1980.
        Mr. August was a founder of the American First Day Cover Society and of the Cardinal Spellman Philatelic Museum, in Weston, Mass.
        His wife, Helen, died in 1988. He is survived by a daughter, Robin Devaney of Morristown, N.J., and three grandchildren. Sam August died in 1989.
      