
        After Shira A. Scheindlin was appointed to the Federal District Court in Manhattan a few years ago, she told an interviewer for a legal newspaper that she expected to be more of a ''settling judge than a brilliant opinion writer.''
        But in case after case these days, Judge Scheindlin seems to be making a name for herself through the incisive, often witty opinions she writes as well as the striking decisions they contain.
        On Monday, in a major ruling against the Giuliani administration, she found that city officials had violated New York magazine's free speech rights when they pulled satirical advertisements from buses. The ads tweaked the Mayor for taking credit for most of the city's virtues.
        Her 30-page decision was full of meticulous constitutional analysis, but it was also tinged with sarcasm and humor. ''Who would have dreamed that the Mayor would object to more publicity?'' Judge Scheindlin wrote, going out of her way to cite Mr. Giuliani's daily presence in the local newspapers and his appearance in drag last month on ''Saturday Night Live.''
        Then, on Thursday, she found herself in the middle of another contentious dispute, between the two most powerful prosecutors in New York City: Manhattan District Attorney Robert M. Morgenthau and United States Attorney Mary Jo White.
        Mr. Morgenthau's senior aides had asked Judge Scheindlin to block Ms. White's prosecutors from completing a plea agreement in a stock trading case that Mr. Morgenthau had initiated. ''This is a dispute between your bosses,'' the judge said, ruling against Mr. Morgenthau's prosecutors. ''They should sit down for coffee some day and talk about it.''
        The judge behind these rulings is a 51-year-old with a master's degree in Chinese history from Columbia University and a law degree from Cornell. She acknowledged that she has ''been doing more on the opinion side'' than she thought she would when President Clinton named her to the Federal bench in 1994.
        ''The only answer I can say is that there have been wonderful issues that just begged to be addressed,'' said Judge Scheindlin (pronounced SHEND-lin) during an interview in her 10th-floor chambers in the Federal courthouse in lower Manhattan. ''And I like to write. It's fun.''
        But her rulings have drawn the ire of the Mayor and others. For two straight days this week, Mr. Giuliani attacked her decision in the New York magazine case, saying she had ''tortured her interpretation to get where she is.''
        Last January, after she suppressed evidence in a case and questioned a program in which the police stopped and searched taxicabs, Mr. Giuliani declared that Judge Scheindlin did not care as much for ''the rights of victims and potential victims as accused criminals.''
        And recently, the Federal Court of Appeals overturned another decision, in which she found unconstitutional a law allowing the Government to ban the sale of sexually explicit magazines on military bases.
        Nonetheless, other legal experts defend her work. Floyd Abrams, the noted First Amendment lawyer, said of her New York magazine opinion: ''The idea that this is some sort of torturous reach by her is simply inaccurate. What is unusual here is not the judicial ruling that the First Amendment has been violated, but the Mayor's conduct, which led to the violation.''
        As for the taxicab search ruling, Matthew E. Fishbein, a senior Federal prosecutor at the time, said that although Judge Scheindlin rejected the Government's position in the case, ''the degree of criticism directed at her was in my view excessive and unfair.''
        In the opinion, he said, ''she went out of her way to suggest ways for the department to conform its policy so that it would pass constitutional muster, something that the department ultimately did.''
        Judge Scheindlin will not discuss individual cases, but says she can live with the criticism. ''I realize that some of the decisions are not immediately popular,'' she said. But she believes there is a balance. The long-term benefit, she says, ''is that we keep our constitutional rights.''
        Judge Scheindlin, the daughter of a Russian immigrant and his American wife, was born in Washington.  She grew up in Detroit and graduated from the University of Michigan.
        She had never even met a ''real live lawyer,'' she said, until she entered law school in 1972. After graduating, she was a clerk for Judge Charles L. Brieant in Federal District Court in Manhattan, who remembers her as someone who ''got to the point.''
        ''Her logic and her thinking are just without parallel,'' Judge Brieant said.
        She was in private practice, and served as a United States magistrate and a Federal prosecutor in Brooklyn, before being named to the Federal bench. Now, as then, she says she believes that lawyers and judges can make a difference in society.
        In personal conversations, the judge laces her comments with a puckish humor and a bright laugh. From the bench, though, she does not waste words. She can seem brusque, and will cut off a lawyer who is rambling. Several lawyers say they have been the target of her withering glance and her admonition that they make their case more clearly.
        A week ago, as the oral arguments in the New York magazine case came to a close, one of the city's lawyers rose. ''May I just have half a minute?'' he asked, with apparent trepidation in his voice.
        ''I doubt that it is really going to take half a minute,'' Judge Scheindlin said. ''If you let me cut you off in 30 seconds, go ahead.''
        One half-minute later, she interrupted him: ''That was 30 seconds. Is that the point?'' In six words, she then summarized it, asking, ''Was that the point?''
        ''Yes, Your Honor,'' the lawyer replied.
        Ronald L. Kuby, the criminal defense lawyer known for his passionate advocacy and, at times, his loquaciousness in the courtroom, said he had been chastised by Judge Scheindlin, but rightly so.
        ''In court, she's brilliant,'' he said. ''Incisive. Suffers fools not at all.'' He said she pays attention to what a lawyer says and ''she gets very upset when you repeat it. Because she actually heard it the first time.''
        The judge, in an interview, acknowledged that her style can be quite direct.
        You like to get to the point, she was told.
        ''Yes,'' she replied.
        Do you realize that about yourself?
        ''Yes.''
        It is part of your style?
        ''Yes.''
        You do it with everybody?
        ''Yes.''
        ''People could talk endlessly around and around an issue,'' she went on. ''Let's get to the heart of the matter. I try to be very direct.'' She added: ''I often say to lawyers, what do you want? Focus yourself. Then I get a much better answer.''
        The demands she makes of lawyers, she imposes on herself. As arguments ended in the New York magazine case, on a Friday afternoon, she said she would rule ''as soon as humanly possible.''
        She worked through the weekend in her chambers, a court staff member said, and when she had not finished by Sunday evening, worked throughout the night. The opinion was ready for release on Monday morning.
        ''I felt the urgency of the parties' needs -- both sides,'' she said.
      