
        Jorge Castaneda de la Rosa, who as Mexico's Foreign Minister from 1979 to 1982 led his country into an assertively independent posture toward the United States and sought to strengthen ties with Central America and Cuba, died here on Thursday of complications from diabetes. He was 76.
        A career diplomat, Mr. Castaneda was appointed Foreign Minister in May 1979 by President Jose Lopez Portillo at a time when Mexico was flexing new geopolitical power as a result of its extensive new petroleum discoveries. To the south in Nicaragua, the Sandinista insurrection was about to triumph, upsetting longstanding power relationships.
        Three days after Mr. Castaneda's appointment, Mexico broke diplomatic relations with the right-wing Nicaraguan Government of Anastasio Somoza. It was a step not entirely of Mr. Castaneda's making, but it set a tone for his three years in office.
        ''In this new historical-political context, Mexico can act with confidence,'' Mr. Castaneda said not long after his appointment. ''It should identify its interests coldly and act with responsibility, soberly measuring its responsibilities and strengths.''
        Mr. Castaneda forged an often prickly relationship with the Carter and Reagan Administrations. Mr. Castaneda called Mexico's ties to the United States ''the cornerstone of its foreign policy'' in a 1980 speech, but added, ''That does not entail a passive or submissive acceptance of political, economic and cultural dependence.''
        Perhaps Mr. Castaneda's most important diplomatic effort came in 1982, when he led a peace initiative aimed at relieving tensions between Nicaragua's new Government and the United States. But the Reagan Administration refused to cooperate with the plan, and it fizzled.
        Robert Pastor, who met Mr. Castaneda while serving as the Latin America chief of the Carter Administration's National Security Council, recalled him in an interview on Thursday as ''a very distinguished diplomat, almost in the old European sense.''
        ''And at the same time, he was a Mexican nationalist of the old school,'' Mr. Pastor said. ''He was determined to keep Mexican foreign policy independent of the United States.''
        Born the son of an affluent lawyer in Mexico City on Oct. 21, 1921, Mr. Castaneda earned a law degree from the Autonomous National University. Early in his career, he served as Ambassador to Egypt.
        In 1950 he married Neoma Gutman, by whom he had two children, Jorge and Marina.
        After Ms. Gutman died in 1984, Mr. Castaneda married Alicia Cabrera.
        He is survived by Ms. Cabrera; Andres Rozental, 52, a career diplomat who was Ms. Gutman's son by a previous marriage; a son, Jorge, 44, who is an author and professor, and a daughter, Marina, 41, who is a translator.
        ''The thing I'm proudest of is that my father worked for 40 years in government in Mexico and he didn't steal a cent,'' Jorge Castaneda said on Thursday in an interview.
      