
        John Fitting Jr., a Dreyfus Corporation executive and pioneer in the creation of no-load mutual funds in the early 1970's, died Wednesday at his retirement home on Marco Island, Fla. He was 81.
        The cause of death was prostate cancer, said his wife, Judith Kingsley Fitting.
        In 1973, Mr. Fitting became the first head of Dreyfus Asset Management Inc., the company's first mutual fund. It was known as a no-load fund because there was no load, or sales commission, charged up front. The fund was sold directly to customers instead of through brokers.
        When Dreyfus Asset Management and other funds like it were buffeted by the high inflation and economic dislocation of the mid-70's oil embargo crisis, Mr. Fitting was active with other fund managers in trying to reassure clients that the funds were not at risk of collapse from withdrawals by nervous investors.
        The new mutual fund Mr. Fitting led required a minimum investment of $50,000 and charged a minimum management fee of $1,000 a year, high by today's standards. At the time, Mr. Fitting said he expected his fund to produce an average 9 percent annual return, compounded over five years.
        Following his retirement from Dreyfus in the early 1980's, Mr. Fitting worked as a consultant to the American Can Company in its transition to the Primerica Corporation, the financial services company. In 1986, he joined the National Securities and Research Corporation, a mutual fund management company, as chairman and chief executive. He retired from that position in 1988.
        Mr. Fitting was born in New York City, grew up in Westchester County and attended Dartmouth College but left before graduating to join the Marine Corps in 1939. He was a fighter pilot and a decorated squadron commander in the Pacific during World War II, his family said, and he earned his college degree from the University of Miami.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Fitting is survived by a daughter, the Rev. Wendy Fitting of Gloucester, Mass.; a son, Keith Fitting of Basking Ridge, N.J.; a brother, Paul Fitting of Pittsburgh; a sister, Virginia Demetrius of New York; four grandchildren, and two stepdaughters, Melinda Kingsley Nester of New York and Ellen Kingsley Hirschfeld of Houston.
      