
        Keith Piper, who as the coach at Denison University in Ohio perpetuated the single-wing football formation three decades after it had been discarded by just about everyone else, died Monday aboard a cruise ship off Florida. He was 76.
        Piper, who had been on the cruise with his wife, Philomena, and a longtime assistant coach, Bob Shannon, and his wife, died of congestive heart failure, family members said.
        Although his Denison teams won 200 games from 1954 to 1992, which made Piper only one of 18 coaches to win that many at one college, his name and fame were linked to the single wing, the offensive formation introduced to football by Glenn S. (Pop) Warner in 1906 while he was coaching at Cornell.
        The single wing was the standard attacking device until replaced in the 1940's and 1950's by the T formation, which better utilized speed and passing.
        The single wing takes its name from the unbalanced placement on one side of the formation of the four backs -- wingback, quarterback, fullback and tailback. The pass from the center starting the play could go to either quarterback, fullback or tailback. But it most often went to the tailback, who could be a triple threat, meaning a runner, passer or punter.
        Piper's unusual contribution was that in 1962 he reintroduced the single wing at Denison, abandoning the T formation in his ninth season as head coach when the ideal tailback, Tony Hall, transferred from Ohio State to the Granville, Ohio, school. Princeton was then the only major college still with a single-wing offense. The Tigers gave it up in 1969.
        Hall, now a Congressman from Ohio, and two tailbacks who later starred at Denison, Clay Sampson and Chris Spriggs, gained thousands of yards as Denison came to be known as the quirky team that still ran the single wing.
        Piper grew up in Niles, Ohio, where he played for Niles-McKinley High School. The nearby rival was Massillon High where the coach was Paul Brown, later a Hall of Fame coach in the National Football League. The precision single-wing attack of the Massillon Tigers left an imprint upon Piper.
        When Piper brought back the single wing in 1962, he was singled out as someone bucking the tides and trends of an evolutionary sport, but he had good reason to continue with what he knew best.
        After his retirement in June 1993, he said: ''It was not the formation itself that was so important, but that it was different from what anyone else was using.''
        This meant that in preparing to play Denison, the opponent had to start fresh in concocting defenses for an unfamiliar attack featuring reverses, counters, traps and fakes on almost every play. There was never enough time to prepare, and Piper exploited that advantage for Denison, a Division III team playing first in the Ohio Athletic Conference and then the North Coast Conference.
        The Denison Big Red won North Coast championships in 1985 and 1986, and Piper was named conference coach of the year.
        His overall record was 200 victories, 142 defeats and 9 ties. The stadium at Denison, a liberal arts college with 1,875 students, was named for him last fall.
        A graduate of Baldwin-Wallace College in Berea, Ohio, Piper came to Denison in 1951 as an assistant coach.
        In addition to his wife, Piper, who lived in Heath, Ohio, is survived by five children and six grandchildren.
      