
        James M. Nabrit Jr., an important figure in the legal struggle of American blacks against segregation who went on to be the president of Howard University in Washington in the 1960's, was declared dead on arrival on Saturday in Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. He was 97 and lived in Washington.
        As a lawyer in Houston from 1930 to 1936, Dr. Nabrit (pronounced NAY-brit) was involved in more than two dozen civil rights cases, a number concerning the right to vote in primary elections.
        While a teacher and administrator at Howard from 1936 to 1960, Dr. Nabrit was involved in numerous important civil rights cases, participating in the preparation of briefs and arguing in court.
        All told, he argued civil rights cases in a dozen states and the District of Columbia in that period, and is credited with playing a part in the desegregation of the Universities of Oklahoma and Texas.
        His most significant court victory was Bolling v. Sharpe, in which he and George E. C. Hayes challenged the segregation of public schools in the District of Columbia. Dr. Nabrit argued the case before the Federal District Court for the District of Columbia, lost there and then argued it before the Supreme Court in 1952 and again in 1953, at a time when four other school segregation cases were being heard by the Supreme Court.
        The court deliberated about the five cases and delivered two rulings on May 17, 1954. Both found segregation to be unconstitutional. One ruling, Brown v. Board of Education, concerned the four other cases, from Kansas, South Carolina, Virginia and Delaware. The fifth concerned Bolling v. Sharpe.
        The Court based its ruling in Bolling v. Sharpe on the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment.
        Two other important civil rights cases that Dr. Nabrit argued successfully before the Supreme Court were Lane v. Wilson, which was about registering for elections in Oklahoma and was decided in 1939, and Terry v. Adams, which was about the right of blacks to vote in primary elections in Texas and was decided in 1955.
        Dr. Nabrit was credited with setting up, in 1938 at Howard, the first formal civil rights course in any law school in the United States.
        From 1958 to 1960, he was dean of the Howard law school. He became the president of the predominantly black university in 1960. He held that post until he retired in 1969 after a period of campus turbulence, taking a leave of absence from 1965 until 1967 to serve on the United States delegation at the United Nations.
        Dr. Nabrit spent his first months at the United Nations largely in consultations with other delegations, mainly with the newer African states. He was particularly active in explaining the views of the United States on the Rhodesian question in informal talks.
        In 1966 Dr. Nabrit was appointed by President Lyndon B. Johnson to the second-highest post in the United States mission, deputy to the chief delegate, Arthur J. Goldberg.
        In 1967, after returning to Howard from the United Nations, Dr. Nabrit said he wanted to retire as soon as the university could choose a successor. He denied that growing black power unrest in the student body and faculty had influenced his decision to retire.
        At the time he made known his desire to step down, the American Association of University Professors was protesting Dr. Nabrit's recent dismissal of 18 students and five faculty members on charges of staging ''disruptive'' campus demonstrations.
        The university had insisted that it regularly terminated the credentials of 18 to 25 students a year for disciplinary reasons and that it annually did not renew the contracts of between 30 and 40 teachers.
        James Nabrit Jr. was born in Atlanta, the son and namesake of a Baptist minister who helped support his sizable family with extra work as a baker.
        The younger James Nabrit went on to receive a bachelor's degree in 1923 from Morehouse College in Atlanta and a doctorate in law in 1927 from Northwestern University. In the late 1920's he also was a teacher and administrator at colleges in Louisiana and Arkansas.
        He married Norma Walton in 1924; she died in 1988.
        In addition to his son, James M. Nabrit 3d of Manhattan, an attorney who is a former associate director-counsel of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund Inc., Dr. Nabrit is survived by two brothers, Dr. Samuel of Atlanta, who is a former president of Texas Southern University in Houston, and the Rev. Henry of Nashville; and three sisters, Gertrude Thomas, Lois Clark and Cecelia Adkins, all of Nashville.
      