
        Jeannette Edris Rockefeller, a lifelong volunteer and philanthropist, a former First Lady of Arkansas and stepmother of its current Lieutenant Governor, died of heart failure on Sunday at her home in Palm Springs, Calif., where she had lived for nearly 10 years. She was 79.
        Mrs. Rockefeller took part in a wide variety of public causes while her husband, Winthrop Rockefeller, was in office, transforming the role of First Lady in Arkansas into a public partnership.
        She was the second wife of Mr. Rockefeller, the first Republican Governor of Arkansas since Reconstruction, who served two terms, from 1967 to 1970. They divorced a year later. Mr. Rockefeller died in 1973.
        President Clinton, one of his successors in Little Rock, said Mrs. Rockefeller had helped to take the ''New South'' to Arkansas and to lead women into the mainstream of political and public life.
        ''She spearheaded education and cultural outreach across the state through the Arkansas Arts Center,'' Mr. Clinton said in a statement issued by the White House. He called her ''a strong voice against discrimination.''
        Mrs. Rockefeller was an important backer of a Martin Luther King Memorial Service on the State Capitol steps after Dr. King was assassinated in 1968. The rally, attended by thousands of people, helped defuse what might have been a tense situation in the state.
        A native of Seattle, Mrs. Rockefeller studied at the University of Washington and Finch College in New York, majoring in psychology. She met Winthrop Rockefeller while working with teen-age drug addicts and mentally ill children in New York, and they married in 1956.
        Mrs. Rockefeller was president of the National Mental Health Association and the Arkansas Association for Mental Health. She served on the national board of the Urban League and the White House Commission on Mental Health under Presidents Lyndon B. Johnson and Richard M. Nixon. More recently she headed the AIDS Assistance Project in Palm Springs.
        In addition to her stepson, Lieut. Gov. Winthrop Paul Rockefeller, her survivors include a son and daughter from another marriage, Bruce Bartley of Little Rock, and Anne Bartley McNeil of San Francisco.
      