
        Steve Hamilton, who pitched for the Yankees in the 1963 and 1964 World Series and is best remembered for a lobbed pitch known as the Folly Floater, died Tuesday at his home in Morehead, Ky. He was 62.
        The cause was colon cancer, according to a spokesman for Morehead State University, who said that Hamilton underwent surgery two years ago and suffered a recurrence 10 months ago.
        Hamilton starred in baseball, basketball and track and field at Morehead State. He was baseball coach there from 1976 to 1989 and athletic director from 1987 until his death.
        He played in the National Basketball Association for the Minneapolis Lakers from 1958 to 1960. He pitched, mostly in relief, for the Cleveland Indians, Washington Senators, Yankees, Chicago White Sox, San Francisco Giants and Chicago Cubs from 1961 to 1972.
        Hamilton spent most of his career with the Yankees. In 1969, he developed the Folly Floater, in which he stepped toward the plate, made his body hesitate and then released the ball in a high arc. The pitch delighted spectators and infuriated batters.
        The first time he threw the Folly Floater, he struck out Tony Horton on three pitches, and the Cleveland first baseman crawled back to the dugout in surrender. In 1971, when Hamilton threw the pitch for the first time in the National League, the umpire ruled it illegal, saying, ''This is no halfway league.''
        Yogi Berra, Hamilton's Yankee teammate in 1963 and manager in 1964, remembered him yesterday as ''a real nice guy, very funny like a comedian.''
        Hamilton was also sensitive. When the Yankees waived him late in 1970 and he joined the White Sox, many Yankee fans wrote thank-you letters to him. As Robert Lipsyte wrote in 1971 in The New York Times:
        ''One letter was from an abnormally short boy who had once written him for advice because he thought Hamilton, who is 6 feet 7 inches, also might have felt alone as a youngster. Hamilton had written back that a man's size wasn't as important as his determination and courage and inner dimension. Now, the boy wrote to cheer him in a lonely place. Hamilton cried.''
        Hamilton is survived by his wife, the former Shirley Potter; two daughters, Stephanie Fightmaster of Lexington, Ky., and Elizabeth Monnett of Aberdeen, Md.; two sons, Robert of Morehead, Ky., and Daniel of Cincinnati; nine grandchildren; his mother, Ruby Hamilton of Charlestown, Ind., and a brother, Tom of Shelbyville, Ky.
      