
        Juzo Itami, a film director whose satirical portraits of Japanese society brought him worldwide acclaim, leaped to his death from a rooftop late Saturday, police officials said today. He was 64 and lived in Tokyo.
        His apparent suicide came two days before Flash, a weekly magazine, was to publish an article suggesting that Mr. Itami, who directed the hit movie ''Tampopo,'' had a romantic relationship with a 26-year-old woman.
        In notes left on his office desk, Mr. Itami angrily denied that he had had an affair with the woman. The notes said that he would ''prove his innocence'' with his own death. He added, ''I cannot find any other means to prove that there was nothing.''
        Kobunsha Publishing Company issued a statement from Kenji Kaneto, the editor of Flash, the weekly pictorial magazine whose issue is due on stands Monday, saying: ''It is quite regrettable that the movie world has lost a great talent. But I firmly believe that the content of the article is correct.''
        Mr. Itami, whose real name was Yoshihiro Ikeuchi, was discovered Saturday evening in the parking lot of the eight-story condominium where he had his home and office.
        His body was identified early today by his wife, Nobuko Miyamoto, an actress who has starred in all his films. Mr. Itami is survived by Ms. Miyamoto and two sons. His brother-in-law is Kenzaburo Oe, a Nobel Prize laureate in literature.
        The family said it did not plan a funeral, but instead would watch all his films as a memorial service.
        The circumstances surrounding his death stood in contrast to his films, which were often droll, witty, subtle, surprising and incisive. Mr. Itami, whose most celebrated movie is a lyrically funny look at Japanese noodle-eating habits, was both don and darling of the film industry here.
        In a society known for its gravity, Mr. Itami's films brought smiles and laughter to his audiences. He was in some ways fighting a losing war, though, trying to explore penetrating themes about Japanese society when  Japanese audiences were flocking to Western or animated films instead.
        The son of a film director, Mr. Itami made his screen debut in 1960 and acted in many films before directing one in 1984 with the hit ''Funeral.''
        His farce and verve won hearts around the world. When ''Tampopo,'' the story of a young Japanese woman who sets out to create the perfect noodle, appeared in New York, it sent Americans to Japanese restaurants in a noodle frenzy.
        His ''Taxing Woman,'' about a tax inspector, reveals the Japanese habit of tax evasion.
        But a more recent film, ''Minbo -- or the Gentle Art of Japanese Extortion,'' became more famous for the vicious reaction it produced. Days after its first screening in Japan in 1992, the satire about Japanese gangsters, led to a violent assault on Mr. Itami by five underworld mobsters.
        Mr. Itami's film portrayed the mobsters known as Yakuza as paper tigers who swagger around Japan in the safety of large numbers and make demands with grunts. What seemed to have offended these men was Mr. Itami's suggestion that they did not make good on their threats.
        So the gangsters slashed and seriously injured Mr. Itami, who ended up with a deep scar on his cheek.
        ''They cut very slowly; they took their time,'' he told The New York Times in August 1992, three months after the attack. ''They could have killed me if they wanted.''
        One of the themes Mr. Itami was pursuing in his filmmaking in recent years was that of death. He seemed to embrace the traditional Japanese culture of death, where the dying person stayed at home, surrounded by those close to him, and everyone confronted the death head-on.
        Mr. Itami seemed to reject the modern attitude in which the Japanese brought their dying to hospitals, instead of keeping them at home.
        He disparaged that modern view, which he described as ''death is worthless, scary, like something you flush from your house.''
      