
        Don E. Fehrenbacher, a Pulitzer Prize-winning authority on Abraham Lincoln and the Civil War, died on Saturday, in Stanford, Calif. He was 77 and lived on campus at Stanford University, where he had taught history.
        Professor Fehrenbacher won the Pulitzer Prize for history in 1979 for his book ''The Dred Scott Case: Its Significance in American Law and Politics,'' which was praised by the historian C. Vann Woodward as ''probably the most thorough study of any Supreme Court decision ever undertaken.'' Dred Scott was an American slave who claimed to be free because he had lived in free territory. The Supreme Court denied his claim in 1857.
        The Pulitzer Prize for history was won posthumously in 1977 by another Stanford historian, David M. Potter, for his book ''The Impending Crisis: 1848-1861'' (1976), about the period preceding the Civil War. Professor Fehrenbacher edited and finished the book after Potter died in 1971.
        Professor Fehrenbacher retired in 1984 from Stanford, where he had been William Robertson Coe Professor of History and American Studies since 1966. He also edited ''Abraham Lincoln'' (1989), a two-volume selection of Lincoln's speeches and writings that was also praised.
        In July, Professor Fehrenbacher was awarded the $50,000 Lincoln Prize, which is awarded annually by Gettysburg College for Civil War scholarship. He was cited for ''his lifetime achievement'' in Civil War studies and especially for his books ''The Dred Scott Case'' and ''Prelude to Greatness: Lincoln in the 1850's'' (1962).
        The head of Gettysburg College's Civil War Institute, Prof. Gabor Boritt, said yesterday that in the latter book, Professor Fehrenbacher ''showed the pre-Presidential Lincoln to have been much more than the oft-touted politician, a man 'leavened by moral convictions and a deep faith in the principles upon which the republic had been built.' ''
        Professor Fehrenbacher was born in Sterling, Ill., and graduated in 1946 from Cornell College in Iowa. He received a master's degree and a doctorate from the University of Chicago and another master's from Oxford. He joined the Stanford faculty in 1953.
        He is survived by his wife, Virginia; a son, David, of Cary, N.C.; two daughters, Ruth Gleason of Ridgecrest, Calif., and Susan Koprince of Grand Forks, N.D.; a sister, Shirley Drew of Mesa, Ariz.; two brothers, Robert Fehrenbach of Lake Forest, Calif., and Marvin Fehrenbach of Mesa, and eight grandchildren.
      