
        Brendan Gill, a pillar of New York's civic, social and literary life for nearly half a century, died on Saturday at New York Hospital. Mr. Gill, who was also a prominent advocate for architectural preservation and other visual arts, was 83 and lived in Bronxville, N.Y.
        The cause of death was undetermined, said Susan Woldenburg, a close friend of Mr. Gill's and an assistant on many of his projects.
        Mr. Gill was a celebrated member of that nearly extinct cultural species, the man of letters. Starting in 1936, when he was hired by Harold Ross as a staff writer for The New Yorker, Mr. Gill's literary range came to encompass poetry, fiction, reporting, biography, social history and criticism in the fields of books, film, theater and architecture. But he was also a man of action, a tireless and articulate campaigner for historic preservation, architectural excellence and the quality of city life.
        In his ''Skyline'' columns for The New Yorker, which ran for a decade beginning in 1987, Mr. Gill combined both his literary and his activist roles. ''Looking Backward,'' a column about New York's newly acquired appreciation for its architectural heritage, appears in this week's issue of the magazine. Mr. Gill did much to stimulate that appreciation.
        One of the few writers to have worked for The New Yorker under all four of its editors, Mr. Gill helped to polish and maintain the magazine's glossy tone of informed sophistication. Over time, he became as inseparable a part of the magazine as Eustace Tilley, the Regency fop who gazes quizzically through his monocle at a butterfly.
        Mr. Gill's writing could, at times, sound dandyish. In one ''Skyline'' column, he lambasted the developers of the many high-rise condominiums built in Manhattan in the 1980's on the piquish grounds that neither he nor his friends knew anyone who actually lived in these buildings.
        More than occasionally, Mr. Gill trained his eye on butterflies. In several books, such as his biographies of Cole Porter and Tallulah Bankhead, and his book on the summer houses of the rich, he peered into the lives and homes of glamorous people.
        But the stylishness of Mr. Gill's literary persona was deceptive. He was a man about town in more than the usual sense. The variety of subjects he wrote about represented the wide range of topics in which a cosmopolite might reasonably take an interest. His distinctive prose, similarly, represented the voice of the archetypal urban sophisticate: worldly, ironic, informed by knowledge but not visibly burdened by it.
        Mr. Gill was born in 1914 in Hartford, and graduated from Yale College in 1936. He joined The New Yorker later that year. In addition to his work for the magazine, he wrote 15 books, including a biography of Charles Lindbergh; ''A New York Life,'' a collection of profiles; ''Late Bloomers,'' a study of men and women who fulfilled their creative potential relatively late in life, and ''Here at The New Yorker,'' his best-selling 1975 book about the magazine.
        He was chairman of the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts, a vice president of the American Academy of Arts and Letters and a founder of the P.S. 1 Center for Contemporary Art in Long Island City, Queens.
        Mr. Gill's interest in architecture, planning and preservation was the natural extension of his urbane outlook. A former chairman of the Municipal Art Society, he was best known for his successful campaign to preserve Grand Central Terminal.
        In the late 1960's and early 70's, the station's owners, Penn Central, challenged the constitutionality of the New York City landmark-preservation law that protected historic structures. Together with Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, whose support he had enlisted, Mr. Gill held a televised news conference to announce the Municipal Art Society's determination to fight the challenge. The group's campaign brought wide public attention to the threatened status of Grand Central and other landmarks.
        Mr. Gill was neither conservative nor prim. In one of his ''Skyline'' columns, he wrote admiringly of Raimund Abraham's bold design for the Austrian Cultural Institute, a building planned for midtown Manhattan. A passionate civil libertarian, Mr. Gill was less offended by the porn theaters and sex shops of Times Square than by the prudishness of those determined to stamp them out.
        In 1988, the Municipal Art Society established an annual Brendan Gill Prize, awarded to an architect, artist, writer or musician whose work celebrated urban life. In 1985, Mr. Gill expanded his interest in architecture internationally when he became the secretary of the jury for the Pritzker Architecture Prize, the highest honor in its field.
        Mr. Gill was one of New York's most beloved public speakers. His presence enlivened countless events held in lecture halls, gala hotel ballrooms, classrooms and university auditoriums. His voice was a wonder: a tone of awed appreciation, pushed almost to the point of sarcasm. And the appreciation was as genuine as the slightly mocking edge was sharp. It was a comic balancing act, the voice of a man who responded enthusiastically to merit but was not willing to be fooled. Almost breathlessly, Mr. Gill would tout a subject to his listeners as if it were the second coming, while the exaggerated pitch of his voice assured them that it was not. His humor carried moral force.
        Mr. Gill did not restrict his appearances to formal events. He also spoke on street corners. On behalf of the Municipal Art Society, he conducted free architectural walking tours around New York. Even in the mid-1970's, when ''Here at The New Yorker'' was on the best-seller list, Mr. Gill could be seen shepherding small groups of students and the elderly through the Lower East Side.
        Mr. Gill's speaking style is captured and sustained at length in ''Many Masks,'' his 1987 biography of Frank Lloyd Wright. There are fuller and more academically rigorous books about Wright, but none is more engaging.
        Mr. Gill knew Wright personally. The two first met when Mr. Gill was a reporter for The New Yorker's ''Talk of the Town.'' The book punctures Wright's pomposity without detracting from his artistic stature. It is less a biography than a lively encounter between two ostensibility opposed sensibilities: the thunderously Emersonian architect, an ardent worshiper of nature, and the young lover of the city life that Wright professed to despise.
        Mr. Gill married Anne Barnard in 1936. In addition to his wife, Mr. Gill is survived by five daughters, Brenda Nelson of Amherst, Mass.; Holly and Madelaine, both of New York City; Rosemary, of Norfolk, Conn., and Kate, of Cambridge, Mass.; two sons, Michael, of Norfolk, Conn., and Charles, of Los Angeles; a brother, Thomas, of West Hartford, Conn., and two grandchildren.
        Though invariably courteous, Mr. Gill did not shrink from controversy. He raised hackles in 1988 with a strong attack on the ''follow your bliss'' philosophy of Joseph Campbell, the historian of mythology who had become one of public television's most popular figures.
        First published in The New York Review of Books, Mr. Gill's essay treated Campbell as an example of the ''savant as reactionary.'' It accused him of peddling a metaphysical gloss for the self-serving values of the Reagan-Bush era, ''years in which so many of my notions of social justice, incorporated into law over the past half century, have come under attack and in many cases have been reduced to impotence.'' The critique also accused Mr. Campbell of being anti-Semitic.
        Not everyone took delight in Mr. Gill's style. His book about The New Yorker drew harsh criticism as well as high praise. In the book ''About the New Yorker and Me,'' Mr. Gill's colleague E. J. Kahn grumbled darkly about ''the Gill book,'' as if it were a crude invasion of the magazine's legendary privacy. Nora Ephron, writing in Esquire, declared that Mr. Gill's memoir ''seems to me one of the most offensive books I have read in a long time,'' and took him to task for overlooking the work of his younger colleagues on the magazine.
        Mr. Gill anticipated criticism in his book's opening pages. ''I am always so ready to take a favorable view of my powers,'' he wrote, ''that even when I am caught out and made a fool of, I manage to twist this circumstance about until it becomes a proof of how exceptional I am. The ingenuities we practice in order to appear admirable to ourselves would suffice to invent the telephone twice over on a rainy summer morning.''
      