
        Eddie Chapman, a notorious British safecracker who hoodwinked German intelligence in World War II -- winning the Nazis' Iron Cross for bravery while serving as a double agent for Britain -- died on Dec. 11 at a nursing home in Brickett Wood, near London. He was 83.
        Displaying a talent for deception that rivaled his considerable skills at blowing open safes in pre-war Britain, Mr. Chapman connived with British agents to convince the Germans that he had blown up an aircraft factory in England. He also fed false information to the Germans that kept buzz-bombs away from central London in the late stages of the war.
        Patriotism, it seemed, had little to do with all this.
        Mr. Chapman was rewarded by the Germans with cash and by the British with a promise that they would forget about the prison time awaiting him.
        ''The deal was that any money I made with the Germans I kept,'' he recalled.
        He was known to his German spy-handlers as Fritz and to Britain's MI5 security service as Zig-Zag, but his real name was Arnold Edward Chapman. A native of a mining village near Newcastle, he served briefly in the Coldstream Guards as a teen-ager. Then he found high adventure and a more lucrative calling by carrying out safecracking jobs from Edinburgh to London's West End with explosives he and his accomplices stole from mines and quarries in Wales.
        Mr. Chapman was in jail on Jersey, in the Channel Islands, when it was occupied by the Germans, the only part of Britain they seized during the war. He offered his services to the Nazis, who sent him to France in 1940 and trained him in sabotage, radio work and the handling of explosives, an endeavor that was not entirely foreign to him.
        He parachuted into England in 1942 with instructions to blow up the De Havilland aircraft factory near Hatfield, where Mosquito bombers were being built. Sir John Masterman, then a British intelligence agent, later gave this account:
        After landing in a field near Ely, in Cambridgeshire, Mr. Chapman went to a farmhouse and called Scotland Yard, offering his services as a double agent. The British, having broken German codes, knew he was coming, and they arranged for him to set off a noisy pseudo-explosive at the aircraft factory's power plant. The British then scattered debris around the area while a camouflage expert painted the roof to simulate blast damage.
        When German reconaissance photos seemed to confirm that Mr. Chapman had done his work, his handlers had no problems in believing false reports of troop movements and shipbuilding that Mr. Chapman later sent to them, courtesy of British intelligence.
        Mr. Chapman foiled a German sabotage plot in Portugal a few months later, tipping off a British ship captain to a bomb resembling a lump of coal that he had planted aboard the vessel for his German handlers. Then he disappeared into occupied Europe.
        ''In 1944, news trickled through of a mysterious figure in Oslo, speaking bad German in a loud voice, wearing a pepper-and-salt checked suit and given full run of a private yacht,'' Mr. Masterman said in an interview with The Daily Mail. ''From those details alone, we thought it must be Zig-Zag.''
        It was.
        Late in June 1944 he was dropped once more into England, this time landing not on a farm but on concrete, knocking his teeth out. He was assigned to report to Germany on its rocket attacks on London to help insure accuracy, but he misrepresented where the devices were landing, causing the Germans to redirect bombs toward the outskirts.
        The British Government tried to keep details of Mr. Chapman's work as a double agent secret after the war. But in 1948, when he was before a British court on a charge relating to currency transactions, a senior officer from the War Office gave him a character reference, calling him ''one of the bravest men who served in the last war.''
        When his biography, ''The Eddie Chapman Story,'' appeared in 1953 and began to be serialized in British newspapers, the authorities cut out references to his work on behalf of Britain. But a month later the War Office confirmed that Mr. Chapman's accounts of working as a double agent were true.
        His adventures were chronicled in a 1967 film ''Triple Cross,'' in which he was portrayed by Christopher Plummer.
        The British agreed to drop charges against Mr. Chapman arising from more than 40 safecracking jobs that could have brought him 20 years in prison.
        Mr. Chapman, who is survived by his wife, Betty, a daughter and four grandchildren, found a more sedate calling in his later years: In the 1980's he ran a health farm north of London.
        Just as the British authorities forgave Mr. Chapman, so too did the Germans. When Mr. Chapman's daughter was married, his former German spy controller, Baron Stefan von Grunen, was pleased to be a guest at the wedding.
      