
        Julius Barnathan, a longtime ABC executive who was responsible for many technical developments in the television industry, including the use of hand-held and miniature cameras at sports events and closed-captioned programs for the deaf, died on Monday at his home in Roslyn Harbor, N.Y. He was 70.
        The cause was lung cancer, family members said.
        Mr. Barnathan worked for ABC for almost 40 years, in a range of positions including general manager of the network and vice president for research. But it was in his 16 years as president of broadcast operations and engineering that Mr. Barnathan left a lasting mark on television.
        Co-workers gave Mr. Barnathan credit for helping to adapt slow-motion technology to color cameras, develop the use of long-lens cameras to capture sports events that take place over great distances and introduce the use of small square inset pictures behind news anchors.
        ''Julie was a real pioneer,'' said Roone Arledge, who worked closely with Mr. Barnathan as president of ABC News and previously as president of ABC Sports, where he used the breakthroughs developed by Mr. Barnathan's engineering division. Many of those innovations helped Mr. Arledge fashion ABC's coverage of the Olympic Games, making the Olympics one of the world's most-watched television events.
        Dick Ebersol, president of NBC Sports and previously an executive with ABC Sports, said of Mr. Barnathan, ''He was a brute force for change in the way Americans saw sports.''
        Roger Goodman, the executive director of special projects for ABC, recalled occasions when Mr. Arledge  needed a technical advance to enhance his coverage of news or sports and turned to Mr. Barnathan to develop it. ''He'd find some engineer in a garage or basement somewhere and get him to produce what we wanted,'' Mr. Goodman said.
        He cited, among other things, the development of a long-lens camera for the 1976 Olympics in Innsbruck, Austria, which enabled ABC to show an entire mountain during a down-hill ski race; a computer-generated ''paint box'' that opened the way for sophisticated animated graphics on television, and the ''box block'' used on news broadcasts.
        But it was the development of closed-caption programs that Mr. Barnathan took most pride in, his daughter Joyce said.
        Mr. Arledge said, ''He just forced ABC into working on closed-captioning and then he shamed the rest of the industry into adopting it.''
        In 1982, Mr. Barnathan received an honorary doctor of science degree from Gallaudet College for his work on closed captioning.
        A native of Brooklyn, he served in the Navy in World War II and graduated from Brooklyn College in 1951 with degrees in mathematics and statistics. He later received an M.A. in statistics from Columbia University. He started working for ABC in 1954 as supervisor of ratings.
        In addition to his daughter Joyce, of Hong Kong, he is survived by his wife, the former Lorraine Glogower; another daughter, Jacqueline, of Manhattan; a son, Daniel, also of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      