
        William Francis Knight, who established one of the nation's first orange juice processing plants, died on Nov. 24 at his home in Port Charlotte, Fla. He was 93.
        Mr. Knight received his first big break into business while attending Miami High School in the early 1920's. He took an afternoon job at a local grocery but was dismissed at the end of the first day as not showing enough interest. Later, Mr. Knight would tell his friends that he was merely imitating the other boys who worked at the store and thought that was the way to get ahead. Mr. Knight asked the owner for a second chance and did so well over the years that he was eventually offered an ownership interest in the operation.
        The store owner soon asked Mr. Knight to buy shares in a bank, and he did. Even though the bank failed, Mr. Knight was spared responsibility since he was still a minor.
        With those troubles behind him, Mr. Knight and a partner, Turner Dorris, opened a grocery in Miami and quickly used it to delve into more profitable businesses. In the 1950's, they helped found the Florida Juice Company, one of the earliest concerns to process fresh orange juice from fresh fruit. They also organized a fleet of delivery trucks in the Miami area.
        Mr. Knight went on to establish a citrus concentrate plant in Mexico that he later sold to the Minute Maid Company, now a division of the Coca-Cola Company.
        Like some other entrepreneurs, Mr. Knight had a rather unusual education. His mother tutored him  and his three siblings at home in Port Charlotte through the sixth-grade level. Then, despite differences in their ages, all four children entered the seventh-grade class taught by their mother at a public school in Punta Gorda, Fla. Mr. Knight liked to go to class by swimming two miles across the Peace River.
        Mr. Knight is survived by his second wife, Alice, of Port Charlotte; his first wife, Blanche Knight Cleveland of Bal Harbour, Fla., and their two children, Dr. June Laval of Atlanta and William Knight of Burlington, N.J.; two stepsons, Joe Wills of Charlotte, N.C., and Don Wills of Tucson, Ariz.; two grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      