
        Dr. Irving S. Wright, the first doctor to use an anticoagulant to treat the blood clots that can cause heart attacks and strokes, died on Dec. 8 at his home in Manhattan. He was 96.
        Dr. Wright, a cardiologist and former president of the American Heart Association, retired in 1968 from the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center.
        In 1938, Dr. Wright, then a professor of clinical medicine at the New York Post-Graduate Medical School of Columbia University, was gravely ill for months because of thrombophlebitis, which involves the formation of a blood clot. After he recovered, he looked for a way to treat a patient whose life was also threatened by thrombophlebitis. Such patients were likely to die because the blood clots could move to the lungs and cause pulmonary embolisms.
        Dr. Wright treated the patient with an experimental natural anticoagulant called heparin, isolated from animal organs. At the time, heparin had recently been purified at the University of Toronto but had not yet been used to treat a patient, a colleague, Dr. Richard L. Mueller, said in 1995 in the journal Clinical Cardiology. The condition of Dr. Wright's patient improved in two weeks.
        Therapy with heparin and other coagulants is now standard throughout the world in cases of thrombophlebitis, pulmonary embolism and heart surgery.
        In 1960, Dr. Wright received the prestigious Albert Lasker Award from the American Heart Association for his study of the use of anticoagulants in 800 heart attack victims.
        Dr. Wright was born in Manhattan and received his B.A. in 1923 from Cornell and his M.D. in 1926 from the Cornell University Medical College in Manhattan. He joined New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in 1946.
        He was an author of ''You and Your Heart'' (Random House, 1950) and was a co-author of 11 other books, mainly on circulatory problems.
        Dr. Wright was president of the American Heart Association in the 1950's, the American College of Physicians and the American Geriatric Society. In 1979, he founded the American Federation for Aging Research.
        In his last years, he worked to establish the Irving Sherwood Wright Center on Aging, located at East 72d Street and Second Avenue. The center is scheduled to open in April with the support of New York Hospital.
        His marriage to the former Grace Demarest ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his wife of 40 years, Lois Elliman Wright; two daughters from his first marriage, Barbara Wright Gatje of Manhattan and Alison Wright Cameron of Bronxville, N.Y.; five grandchildren, and a great-grandson.
        Correction:  December 25, 1997, Thursday  An obituary on Dec. 21 about Dr. Irving S. Wright, who pioneered the use of an anticoagulant to treat blood clots that can cause heart attacks and strokes, included a survivor incorrectly and misstated the address of the proposed Irving Sherwood Wright Center on Aging, a project of his at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. Dr. Wright's wife, Lois Elliman Wright, died in 1993. The center is to be on First Avenue near East 77th Street, not Second Avenue and 72d.
      