
        Stubby Kaye, the cherubic comedian and singer who was Nicely-Nicely Johnson in the original ''Guys and Dolls'' and who joined Nat King Cole as an on-screen banjo chorus crooning the ballad of Cat Ballou, died Sunday in Rancho Mirage, Calif., where he lived. He was 79.
        Though Mr. Kaye had a long career that spanned vaudeville, television, Broadway and films, he was best known as the first man to belt out ''Sit Down, You're Rockin' the Boat,'' a show-stopper from ''Guys and Dolls'' that was always associated with him.
        Born in the Bronx, Mr. Kaye graduated from DeWitt Clinton High School and then won a radio talent contest that included a job with Major Bowes's traveling vaudeville shows. The 280-pound performer was sometimes billed as ''Stubby Kaye: Extra Padded Attraction.'' Stubby was not his birth name, which he always declined to reveal.
        During World War II, he toured European battle fronts with the U.S.O. and performed with Bob Hope in London. After the war, he was an emcee and comic front-man for several swing orchestras.
        Mr. Kaye made his legitimate stage debut in Frank Loesser's 1950 musical fable ''Guys and Dolls,'' based on Damon Runyon's tales of gamblers and chorus girls.
        In his review for The New York Times, Brooks Atkinson praised ''the most flamboyant population of any show in town,'' and singled out Mr. Kaye ''as a rotund sidewalk emissary.''
        Mr. Kaye later played the role in Las Vegas and in London, where he also sang his signature song in a command performance before the Queen at the London Coliseum. He also played Nicely-Nicely in the 1955 film version, with Frank Sinatra and Marlon Brando.
        In 1956, Mr. Kaye played the role of Marryin' Sam in the Broadway musical ''L'il Abner,'' for which he received an Outer Circle award. He also played Marryin' Sam in the 1959 film.
        In his review in The Times, Atkinson wrote that Mr. Kaye was ''in top form again'' in his second Broadway outing. ''Give him a musical fanfare like 'Jubilation T. Cornpone' and he can sing it with that vaudeville rhythm and those vaudeville blandishments that turn song numbers into triumphant occasions,'' he wrote. ''Mr. Kaye is a tower of strength whenever he is at the center of a scene.''
        Mr. Kaye was also a regular performer in early television, appearing with Dinah Shore, Perry Como, Art Carney, Marge and Gower Champion and others, and on such series as ''Pantomime Quiz'' (1958), ''Love and Marriage'' (1959) and ''My Sister Eileen'' (1960).
        In ''Cat Ballou,'' the 1965 western spoof that starred Lee Marvin and Jane Fonda, Mr. Kaye and Nat King Cole, as banjo-playing music hall performers in striped jackets, acted as a kind of frontier Greek chorus. They would appear now and then during the film to sing the title character's ballad, a device that was copied in several other films of the period.
        His other films include ''40 Pounds of Trouble'' (1962) and ''Sweet Charity'' (1969).
        A list of survivors was not immediately available.
      