
        William W. Winpisinger, a fiery, left-leaning labor leader who battled management, politicians and sometimes his fellow unionists as president of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, died on Thursday at a hospital in Howard County, Md. He turned 73 on Wednesday and lived in Ellicott City, Md.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife of 51 years, Pearl.
        Mr. Winpisinger sometimes called himself ''a seat-of-the-pants socialist,'' and he spoke and acted accordingly. Although his union of skilled workers was sometimes considered relatively conservative within the labor movement, Mr. Winpisinger advocated mass labor organizing.
        In an era when some top-level labor leaders were hard to distinguish from the management negotiators they faced across the table, Mr. Winpisinger was almost a throwback to the days of labor titans like John L. Lewis and Walter P. Reuther.
        He once described the United States as a ''corporate state'' in which entrenched financial and business interests were fleecing the honest workers. He called for a national takeover of railroads, airlines, banks, utilities and the oil industry.
        In 1978, he formed a coalition of environmentalists, academics and others to work for lower energy costs. In one energy crisis, his union filed a futile but attention-getting lawsuit against the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, asserting that price fixing by the cartel was hurting American industry and its workers.
        He tried to push the A.F.L.-C.I.O. toward more a active political role. Impatient with what he saw as an overly passive stance, he urged that George Meany, the longtime head of the labor federation, be pushed into retirement. (Mr. Meany did retire in 1979, two years after Mr. Winpisinger became the head of the machinists' union.)
        In 1979, he helped organize a movement against President Jimmy Carter (''The best Republican President since Herbert Hoover,'' Mr. Winpisinger said) and worked for the nomination of Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts to head the Democratic Presidential ticket and, later, for the Rev. Jesse Jackson.
        Mr. Winpisinger was active in the Democratic Party, serving on its finance committee. But at heart, he remained a leftist.
        ''The labor movement is drifting to the right along with everybody else,'' he said in a 1977 interview. ''We have an obligation to stand fast against that.''
        In 1981, he condemned the Federal Government's bailout of the Chrysler Corporation, calling it ''Government intervention, on the side of the employer, to an extreme degree.''
        He viewed the ascendancy of Ronald Reagan with special distress.
        ''Never before has an Administration stacked a Labor Department so heavily against labor and so mightily in favor of management,'' he complained in 1982.
        Mr. Winpisinger retired as head of the machinists' union in 1989, after 12 years as its leader. At his retirement, the union was the largest of the aircraft-industry unions and, despite cutbacks in military spending, it still has more than 700,000 members.
        William Winpisinger, Wimpy to his friends, was born in Cleveland. He dropped out of high school and learned how to repair diesel engines in the Navy in World War II. He worked as an automobile mechanic in Cleveland after the war and became head of the machinists' local.
        In 1958, he moved to Washington to organize truck and car mechanics nationwide and became machinists' union vice president nine years later.
        As president, he tried to live up to his self-affixed ''socialist'' label, pushing successfully for the expansion of job safety, human rights and organizing programs.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Winpisinger is survived by three sons, Kenneth, William Jr. and Michael, all of Maryland; two daughters, Vickie and Linda, both of Maryland; a brother, Joseph, of Charlottesville, Va., eight grandchildren and a great-grandson.
        George Meany forgave Mr. Winpisinger's attacks, Mrs. Winpisinger recalled in an interview on Thursday night. With strikes and labor battles long forgotten and both men in their retirement years, Mr. Meany approached Mr. Winpisinger at a union dinner.
        ''He insisted on sitting next to Wimpy,'' she said.
      