
        Mort Pye, who in his 31 years as editor of The Star-Ledger of Newark won praise for using the paper to promote the good in New Jersey and criticism for sometimes ignoring the bad, died yesterday at his home in Tewksbury, N.J.
        Mr. Pye was 79 and the cause of death was not immediately known, although several friends said yesterday that he had been ill.
        Mr. Pye built The Star-Ledger from a struggling city daily into the state's biggest paper, which now has a daily circulation of 406,000 and a Sunday circulation of 606,000. In doing so, he often acted if he were publisher as well as editor, using both his paper's news columns and editorial pages to promote projects he deemed good for New Jersey. The Meadowlands sports complex, for example, began as an idea in a 1967 editorial in The Star-Ledger, and the paper's driving support for the project forced Gov. Brendan Byrne to stop joking about how much the stadium would cost for each touchdown and put the weight of his office behind the venture.
        And the paper's promotion of the completion of Interstate 80 across New Jersey in the late 1960's was so strong that reporters at the time referred to it as the ''Interstate Pyeway.''
        And the recently opened New Jersey Performing Arts Center in Newark, where a memorial service will be held for Mr. Pye on Friday, similarly benefited from The Star-Ledger's support in the 1980's, when few others could see spending millions on a fancy arts center in Newark's gritty streets, said former Gov. Thomas H. Kean, now the president of Drew University.
        Indeed, Mr. Kean said yesterday, it may be hard for people who live outside New Jersey to understand the power of the state's biggest paper.
        ''New Jersey is a little bit of a throwback because we are one of the few states in the nation without a major television station, so newspapers carry a lot of weight,'' the former Governor said. ''So people pay attention to what is in the news columns and the editorial pages.''
        But even Mr. Pye's friends and admirers acknowledged that his attention to detail did not always extend to bad news about the state.
        ''There is no question that there was a lot of criticism directed at The Ledger for overlooking and ignoring all of the problems in the city of Newark,'' said Carl Golden, a former director of communications for both Gov. Christine Todd Whitman and Governor Kean. ''There was corruption in City Hall and corruption in the public schools, and you didn't read much about that in The Ledger.''
        Mr. Pye was born in Rochester on May 28, 1918 and earned a B.A. at the City College of New York in 1940. He joined The Long Island Press as a reporter that year and, on Halloween 1941, married Florence Newhouse, the niece of S. I. Newhouse, founder of the chain that owned The Press and still owns The Star-Ledger.
        After serving as an Army sergeant in Europe during World War II, Mr. Pye returned to The Press and rose to associate editor before leaving for The Star-Ledger in 1957. He became editor in 1963.
        Mr. Pye kept the paper's price low: The Star-Ledger remained 25 cents on weekdays and 50 cents on Sundays years after its competitors had sharply raised prices. And Mr. Pye assiduously sent reporters to cover even the smallest events in the North Jersey counties where The Star-Ledger circulated. Steadily, The Star-Ledger grew from a daily circulation of 200,000 when he joined the paper to a peak of 483,000 on weekdays and 717,000 on Sundays when he retired in 1994.
        Mr. Pye was replaced by James Willse, a former editor of The Daily News of New York.
        By then, New Jersey's sense of itself as a separate place and polity from its neighbors in New York and Pennsylvania had taken form, said Neil Upmeyer, editor of New Jersey Reporter, a public affairs publication that has sometimes lamented The Star-Ledger's activism.
        ''We often give credit to people like Tom Kean for making us think of ourselves as one state,'' Mr. Upmeyer said, ''but I would say that to a greater degree Mort Pye was as responsible as anyone for giving New Jerseyans a separate identity.''
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Pye is survived by a son, Richard, of Tewksbury.
      