
        Jack Bruen, the men's basketball coach at Colgate University who inspired fans and alumni with his determination to coach this season despite suffering from pancreatic cancer, died yesterday at his home in Hamilton, N.Y. He was 48.
        Bruen coached his final game last Saturday, an 80-69 victory in Hamilton over Marist College. Understanding the grave nature of Bruen's illness, many of those who had played for Bruen attended the game, traveling from as far away as Texas. ''A lot of people came a long way to thank him,'' said Tucker Neale, a 1995 graduate of Colgate and the school's career scoring leader, ''and that says a lot about him.''
        Bruen was well liked for his humor and generosity, but his players considered him demanding, with a bellowing voice sure to remind them of mistakes. They came to understand, Neale said, that Bruen pushed because he cared about them and that he respected them as players and as people.
        John Francis Bruen was born on March 25, 1949, in New York, playing for Power Memorial High School alongside Lew Alcindor. He played at Catholic University in Washington, graduating in 1972, and after coaching high school basketball at DeMatha in suburban Washington, he became head coach at Catholic in 1982. In seven seasons, his teams never finished under .500.
        Colgate hired Bruen in 1989; four years later Colgate won 18 games, a school record. Colgate won two Patriot League titles and appeared in the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament in 1995 and 1996. He had a 109-127 record at Colgate and an overall record of 219-199 in 16 years as a college coach.
        Bruen learned in October that the nagging pain that bothered him last summer was caused by cancer, and he immediately told his players. Bruen insisted, however, that the team not be distracted by his illness, and except for two interviews with reporters he knew well, he declined to discuss the cancer at length, turning down numerous opportunities with major news organizations.
        Yet even as he underwent chemotherapy treatments, Bruen was determined to continue coaching. He missed only one game this season, on Dec. 10 at St. John's.
        When Neale and Jack Ehretsman, another former player, returned to Colgate on Dec. 12 to see Bruen, the coach greeted them warmly and immediately launched a discussion on basketball, reporting about his recruiting for next season's team.
        It was well known among Colgate officials that Bruen would probably step aside after last week's Marist game, and they wondered if he would make an announcement to that effect. Instead, Bruen joked about the returning alumni, saying only that he wished he would have more ''zip, vim and vigor'' for them. He attended his last practice on Tuesday.
        ''Jack was an extraordinary man,'' said Mark Murphy, Colgate's athletic director. ''His will to win and love of the game and his players were unequaled in college basketball.''
        Colgate's game at Harvard, scheduled for today, has been canceled. Services for Bruen will be held in Hamilton on Monday morning, and the team, now being run by Paul Aiello, an assistant coach, will play in the Seton Hall tournament that night.
        Bruen is survived by his wife, Joan; a daughter, Kristen, a senior at Virginia Tech; and a son, Danny.
      