
        Dr. Joseph Wolpe, a South African-born psychiatrist who was a pioneer in behavior therapy, died on Thursday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 82.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Eva.
        Behavior therapy is an approach to psychotherapy based on the idea that people's neurotic disorders are to a large degree learned -- the result of experience -- and that other learning experiences can be used to correct those disorders.
        Dr. Wolpe was a professor of Pyschiatry at Temple University's Medical School in Philadelphia from 1965 to 1988, when he retired from that post. Concurrently he was the director of the behavior therapy unit at the Eastern Pennsylvania Psychiatric Institute, also in Philadelphia.
        He was also the second president of the Association for Advancement of Behavior Therapy, and when he won the association's lifetime achievement award in 1995, the citation said that following World War II, his ''experimental and clinical research laid the intellectual foundations for the field.'' It said his writings, which were influential, included two textbooks that had become classics, ''Psychotherapy by Reciprocal Inhibition'' (Stanford, 1958) and ''The Practice of Behavior Therapy'' (Allyn, 1969).
        Dr. Roger Poppen, a psychologist at Southern Illinois University at Carbondale and the author of ''Joseph Wolpe'' (Sage, 1995), a biography of the doctor, said: ''He was a major force in steering psychotherapy in the direction of empirical science. He inspired and encouraged the direct comparison of carefully specified psychotherapy procedures by means of clear measurements of the therapy's outcome.''
        Dr. Wolpe wrote in ''The Practice of Behavior Therapy'' that ''behavior therapy is an applied science, in every way parallel to other modern technologies, and in particular those that constitute modern medical therapeutics.''
        He also devised the psychotherapy techniques of systematic desensitization and assertiveness training, and, as Dr. Poppen put it, ''they stimulated a generation of researchers and provided the benchmarks for the development of additional methods.''
        Two measuring systems that Dr. Wolpe developed have become very popular in the field. They are the Subjective Anxiety Scale and the Fear Survey Schedule, which are used in research and in the practice of behavior therapy.
        In addition, Dr. Wolpe was an energetic champion of behavior therapy. He marshaled numerous studies to demonstrate that behavior therapy's effectiveness had been scientifically demonstrated. Its roots lie in the work of the Russian physiologist and experimental psychologist Ivan Petrovich Pavlov (1849- 1936). But Dr. Wolpe also lamented that numerous therapists did not give enough attention to behavior therapy.
        Dr. Wolpe was born in Johannesburg, the son of Michael Salmon Wolpe and the former Sarah Millner, and received his M.D. degree from the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg. During World War II he was a medical officer in the South African army and was assigned to a military psychiatric hospital in South Africa. Some patients there suffered from what was then called ''war neurosis'' and is now known as post-traumatic stress syndrome.
        He and his colleagues used drug therapy to help patients overcome painful memories of combat, but the results were generally unsatisfactory. And so Dr. Wolpe began to cast about for other means of analyzing and treating anxiety disorders.
        Carrying out research at Witwatersrand after the war, he devised ways of getting cats to unlearn the feline equivalent of neuroses after he had induced the neuroses in them by electric shocks accompanied by certain sights and sounds. He accomplished the unlearning by gradually and systematically exposing the cats to those fear-inducing stimuli, while at the same time giving the cats their food rations.
        He taught at Witwatersrand and at the University of Virginia before going to Temple. After retiring from Temple he lectured regularly at Pepperdine University in Los Angeles until November. He also continued his professional writing and traveled widely, lecturing and addressing professional gatherings.
        The other honors he received included, in 1979, the American Psychological Association's Distinguished Scientific Award for the Applications of Psychology.
        He married Stella Ettman in 1948,  and she died in 1990.
        In addition to his wife, the former Eva Gyarmati, whom he married in 1996, he is survived by two sons, Allan of Redlands, Calif., and David of Potomac, Md.; a sister, Miriam Rosin of Toronto; four grandchildren, three stepchildren and five step-grandchildren.
      