
        Henry Eugene Manning, a health care administrator who oversaw the groundwork for the creation of New York City's autonomous Health and Hospitals Corporation, died on Dec. 4  at University Hospitals in Cleveland. He was 62 and a Cleveland resident.
        The cause was complications from lung cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Manning left city service as Deputy Commissioner of Hospitals in 1970, the year that the 18 municipal hospitals became a separate public benefit corporation. He spent the next 23 years as president and chief operating officer of Metrohealth Medical Center, Cleveland's public hospital. The hospital is operated by Cuyahoga County.
        At his death, he was associated with Telesis Medical Management, an innovative concern based in Manhattan that works directly with physicians in the managed health care field. He was a founding board member of Telesis Ohio and was involved with its operations in that state.
        Mr. Manning, who was born in Tennessee, graduated with a degree in business administration from Long Island University in 1960 and received an M.S. degree in hospital administration from Columbia University two years later. He was administrator of Cumberland Hospital in Brooklyn before joining the Lindsay administration in the late 1960's as an assistant commissioner in the Department of Hospitals.
        Advancing to Deputy Commissioner, he directed the task force that formulated the guidelines for the hospitals corporation. The new agency was formed on July 1, 1970.
        In Ohio, Mr. Manning turned Metrohealth into the trauma center for greater Cleveland and made the hospital, originally intended for the poor, competitive with private hospitals. During his tenure, the hospital began to attract privately insured patients by offering them quality care.
        He was able to link Metrohealth with other hospitals, a move toward institutional networks copied later throughout greater Cleveland and in step with such accommodations among competing hospitals throughout the country.
        His determination to keep Metrohealth competitive ultimately led to his resignation in 1993. Political arguments arose over whether his policies had subverted the hospital's mission of serving the poor. But he insisted that public care cannot be inferior, and Cleveland's public hospital, ranked among the country's finest, continued to apply his standards after his departure.
        He is survived by his wife, Dr. Hope H. Snider; his son, Henry Jr., of Boston; his mother, Edna, of Bronxville, N.Y.; his three brothers, J. D. and Keith, of Lakeland, Fla., and Kenneth, of Sacramento, Calif., and two sisters, Wanda Bumgardner and Virginia Johns, both of Powell, Tenn.
      