
        Dr. Norman P. Salzman, a biochemist who discovered some of the secrets of viruses that became important underpinnings of the fledgling fields of molecular virology and molecular biology, died on Dec. 11 at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 71.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Lenore.
        Dr. Salzman began his career at the National Institutes of Health in 1953, in a decade when growing viruses in laboratories had just become possible.
        Dr. Salzman brought his expertise in rigorous chemical analysis to a team effort to analyze the life cycle of a virus, said Dr. Bernard Moss, a colleague at the institutes.
        ''The only thing a virus wants to do is replicate and spread,'' Dr. Moss said. ''Dr. Salzman was among the pioneers in understanding how to interrupt that cycle. That work was so basic that almost every area of knowledge related to the attack on viruses has branched off from this root.''
        Dr. James E. Darnell Jr., a molecular biologist and Vincent Astor Professor at Rockefeller University in Manhattan, said of Dr. Salzman, ''He was interested in the genes that viruses contain and used the virus as a powerful probe to understand the life of cells.''
        Dr. Salzman began his career working on the polio virus and smallpox vaccine. He moved on to tumor viruses, becoming one of the first scientists to study how viruses cause cancer. He started working on the AIDS virus in 1986.
        Born in Manhattan, he received his bachelor's degree from City College of New York in 1948, his master's at the University of Michigan in 1949 and his Ph.D. in biochemistry from the University of Illinois in 1953.
        He became chief of the institutes' laboratory on virus biology in 1966. In 1986, he retired from the institutes. He worked for Georgetown University for several years, then, in 1994, became head of the laboratory of molecular retrovirology at the Frederick Cancer Research and Development Center in Frederick, Md., where he worked at the time of his death.
        Dr. Salzman is survived by his wife of 43 years, Lenore; two daughters, Ann, of Tampa, Fla., and Nancy Auslander of Germantown, Md.; a son, David, of Arlington, Tex., and four grandchildren.
      