
        Anthony T. Ulasewicz, the onetime New York City police detective who injected merriment into the Senate Watergate hearings a quarter-century ago by telling of his adventures and misadventures as a ''bagman,'' died on Wednesday in Glens Falls, N.Y. He was 79.
        Mr. Ulasewicz had spent his retirement years in Saratoga County, near Glens Falls. He died in Glens Falls Hospital, said the Singleton-Healy Funeral Home of nearby Queensbury, which described the cause of death as cardiac arrest.
        Mr. Ulasewicz (pronounced you-LASS-uh-wits) provided comic relief to the otherwise grim Watergate hearings, in 1973. His testimony about delivering ''hush money'' to  Watergate defendants might have been deadly serious, since it told of shabby and perhaps criminal behavior by people in the White House of President Richard M. Nixon.
        But Mr. Ulasewicz's deadpan account was delivered with a comedian's sense of timing. His saggy jowls, slicked-back hair and hound-droopy eyes added to the senators' amusement, and before long his questioners were in guffaws.
        His function, Mr. Ulasewicz told the senators, was to act as a conduit between the White House and the early Watergate defendants and their lawyers. He was, quite literally, a ''bagman,'' toting bundles of cash in brown paper sacks as if they were sandwiches.
        Mr. Ulasewicz had gone to work for the Nixon White House as a private investigator in 1969, shortly after retiring from the New York City Police Department. His duties included trying to dig up damaging information about prominent Democrats, like further details concerning  Senator Edward M. Kennedy's automobile accident on Chappaquiddick Island, Mass., in 1969, which killed a young woman.
        After five burglars were caught inside the headquarters of the Democratic National Committee in Washington's Watergate complex on June 17, 1972, Mr. Nixon and his aides tried to conceal any links between the break-in and the White House, as testimony at numerous trials and hearings and Mr. Nixon's own tape recordings would eventually make clear.
        In his Senate testimony, Mr. Ulasewicz said he had been recruited by Herbert W. Kalmbach, the President's personal lawyer, to act as a go-between. So, with an anonymous telephone call, he relayed hints of Presidential clemency to James W. McCord Jr., a Watergate burglar and  Nixon campaign aide. And he saw to it that more than $200,000 was delivered to two Watergate conspirators, E. Howard Hunt and G. Gordon Liddy.
        The old detective told his questioners that he had at first thought the money was for lawyers' fees and family expenses, rather than ''hush money,'' but that he had eventually concluded that something about the arrangements was not ''kosher.''
        He told of having had to make numerous calls to Mr. Kalmbach from a pay phone.
        ''Were you loaded down with change?'' a Senate counsel asked.
        ''Oh, yes indeed,'' Mr. Ulasewicz deadpanned, recalling that he had carried a coin dispenser like those used by bus drivers.
        With little prodding, he asserted that he and some of his old colleagues on the police force could have done a better job than the Watergate burglars.
        ''Who thought you up?'' Senator Howard Baker, Republican of Tennessee, asked through his own laughter.
        ''My parents, maybe,'' Mr. Ulasewicz replied.
        But the humor that defined Mr. Ulasewicz's moment in the limelight was dimmed by Senator Lowell P. Weicker Jr., Republican of Connecticut, who read a list of people, powerful and humble, who were in deep trouble because of Watergate.
        ''What we see here is not a joke, but a very great tragedy,'' the Senator told a suddenly somber hearing room.
        Watergate produced personal anguish for Mr. Ulasewicz as well. In late 1976, he was convicted of filing false income tax returns for 1971 and 1972 by failure to report about $45,000 that he had been paid for White House undercover work. He was sentenced to a year's probation.
        Mr. Ulasewicz is survived by his wife of 57 years, Mary; two sons, Thomas, of Lake Placid, N.Y., and Peter, of Chicago; three daughters, Antonette Nealon of Chestnut Ridge, N.Y.; Alice Lochmann of Smithtown, N.Y., and Mary Ulasewicz of Rancho Palos Verdes, Calif.; two brothers, Leonard, of Olean, N.Y., and Joseph, of Glendale, Calif., and 11 grandchildren.
      