
        Morton Bard, who was widely known for his research on the psychology of crime victims, died on Thursday at his home in Atlanta. He was 73.
        The cause was cancer, said David H. Manning, a spokesman for the City University of New York, where Dr. Bard was a psychology professor before his retirement in 1986.
        Dr. Bard, in partnership with the police, conducted studies of crime victims, especially hostages, rape victims and the families of murder victims. ''The impact of a crime is far more devastating than a natural disaster like a tornado because it is a person doing this to you,'' he said in a 1990 interview. ''In an instant, the crime creates a social world for you in which people are threatening, and you are no longer safe.''
        Dr. Bard was the co-author, with Dawn Sangrey, of ''The Crime Victim's Book'' (1979). The critic Anatole Broyard, reviewing it in The New York Times, called it ''a book on how to behave when you are the victim of a crime. Not a book addressed to specialists, but to you and me. A much-needed book.''
        The co-authors wrote that what  victims need is sympathy and a chance to vent their feelings. They also said victims require reassurance that they are not failures and are not inferior to the criminal who committed the crime. And they wrote that the police could be helpful or harmful in their response to victims but lacked training in the new field of ''victimology.''
        Dr. Bard joined CUNY's Graduate School and University Center in 1971. He was a professor in the graduate school's doctoral programs in social psychology and criminal justice. From 1965 to 1970, he taught at City College and was the director of its Psychological Center.
        At the CUNY graduate school, Dr. Bard studied hostage situations, third-party interventions in disputes and the effects of personal crimes.
        In 1982, he was named chairman of the American Psychological Association's task force on victims of crime and violence. In the same year, he was awarded the New York State Psychological Association's Kurt Lewin Award. In 1985, he was appointed to a committee to advise Mayor Edward I. Koch about the Police Department. The panel went on to make recommendations that included comprehensive changes in the training of police officers.
        Dr. Bard began working in health psychology early in his career. From 1951 to 1961, he was a member of a clinical and research group at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center that analyzed the psychological effects of cancer and cancer surgery.
        In the 1980's, he was a consultant in psychology to the departments of medicine and neurology at Memorial Sloan-Kettering, which in 1987 awarded him the Arthur M. Sutherland Award for ''pioneering research in psycho-oncology.'' He was also the American Cancer Society's national vice president for service and rehabilitation from 1986 to 1991.
        Another professor of psychology at the graduate school, Suzanne C. Ouellette, said: ''When Dr. Bard entered the field of cancer medicine, psychologists' preoccupation was narrowly with the role of personality in predisposing one to illnesses such as cancer. He shifted the focus to the psychological consequences of living with illnesses like cancer, thereby breaking open new ground for both research and treatment.''
        Dr. Bard was born in Brooklyn. He  received a bachelor's degree in 1947 from St. John's University and a master's degree in 1948 and a doctorate in 1953, both in psychology, from New York University.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Arlene Cohen, whom he married in 1948; two daughters, Erica Riley of Louisville, Ky., and Pamela Richlin of Boston; five grandchildren; his mother, Fannie Bard of Media, Pa.; a brother, Leonard, of Poughkeepsie, N.Y.; and two sisters, Ruth Petkofsky of Malvern, Pa., and Sharon Rulf of Springfield, N.J.
        Correction:  December 17, 1997, Wednesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Sunday about Morton Bard, a psychology professor known for his study of crime victims, misstated the day of his death. It was Dec. 4, not Dec. 11.
      