
        Dr. Henry Dolger, a diabetes expert who was one of the first to document that insulin injections were not in fact a miracle cure for diabetes because of the long-term complications of the disease, died on Wednesday at the Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 88 and lived in Manhattan.
        Dr. Dolger was the chief of Mount Sinai's diabetes clinic from 1956 to 1978 and was director of its diabetes prenatal clinic from 1952 to 1972.
        Insulin emerged in the 1930's as what was thought to be a remarkable cure for diabetes, then thought to be largely a children's disease. But in the 1940's, Dr. Dolger took a careful look at the later lives of patients and found they still had serious complications from their diabetes, for which there is no cure.
        ''Before that, the kids had died so young that everyone thought insulin was indeed a miraculous cure,'' said Dr. Terry Davies, the head of endocrinology and metabolism at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine.
        But Dr. Dolger, working in the diabetes clinic at Mount Sinai, found that many of the diabetic patients' long-term complications -- including blindness, kidney failure and heart ailments -- were related to vascular disorders.
        ''The insulin kept them alive, yes,''  Dr. Davies said. ''But in some cases, the complications that they developed were even worse than the diabetes they originally suffered from.''
        Toward the end of his career, Dr. Dolger was at the forefront in testing other drugs for treating the high blood sugar of diabetes.
        About 16 million to 18 million people suffer from diabetes in the United States.
        Type 1 diabetics, who usually get the disease as children, need insulin injections to compensate for their lack of the hormone. Most diabetics, however, have Type 2 diabetes, in which tissues seem less sensitive to insulin levels; many are treated with drugs other than insulin.
        Born in Manhattan, Dr. Dolger received a bachelor's degree in 1930 and received his medical degree in 1933, both from New York University. He joined Mount Sinai in 1933 and retired in 1978.
        He was an author of the standard medical textbook ''Diseases of the Endocrine Glands.''
        Survivors include his wife of 62 years, Laura; a sister, Vera Rosen of Chicago; a brother, William, of New Hope, Pa.; a son, Jonathan, of Manhattan; a daughter, Judith Widmann of Larchmont, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
      