
        The Rev. Albert J. Nevins, the author of many books and documentaries for young people and adults, a past president of the Catholic Press Association and a founder of the Catholic Institute of the Press, died on Dec. 15 at St. Teresa's Residence in Maryknoll, N.Y. A Maryknoll priest for 55 years, he was 82 and lived in Tampa, Fla.
        The cause was cancer, said a spokeswoman for the Catholic Foreign Mission Society of America, as the Maryknoll society is formally known.
        Since moving to Florida 16 years ago, Father Nevins wrote a weekly column, Father Sheedy, for a national Catholic newspaper, Our Sunday Visitor, of which he had been editor in chief in the 1970's. In retirement, he also edited The Pope Speaks, a publication of papal documents and speeches; Diaconate, a magazine for permanent deacons in this country, and Nova, a monthly homily service for parishes.
        Owen McGovern, executive director of the Catholic Press Association, said that during the 1950's and 60's, Father Nevins ''was the Catholic press.''
        To spread the message of Catholicism and Maryknoll, he journeyed to every country south of the United States and nearly every country in Africa and throughout the Orient as well.
        Albert Francis Jerome Nevins was born in Yonkers. Wishing to become a missionary, he entered Maryknoll, training at the novitiate in Bedford, Mass., and Major Seminary at Maryknoll, near Ossining, where he was ordained in 1942.
        For the next 37 years, he worked in all phases of communications. He was appointed editor of Maryknoll -- The Field Afar magazine, and the next year received the Maria Moors Cabot Gold Medal at Columbia University for his contributions to a better understanding of Latin America and the Caribbean.
        He came to writing children's books almost by accident during the Korean War when an editor at Dodd, Mead was looking for a book that would explain the people and customs of Korea to young readers. The result was ''The Adventures of Wu Han of Korea'' (1951).
        He then wrote similar volumes about Japan, Peru and other countries. He also wrote books about Maryknoll, missionary work and the priesthood: 45 books altogether, some of them inspirational and many still in print and translated into foreign languages.
        As writer, producer, photographer or director, he left his imprint on a score of films. Among those were ''The Story of San Mateo'' (1957), ''A Problem of People'' (1961), and ''The Gods of Todos Santos'' (1966).
        Father Nevins is survived by a brother, Bernard, of White Plains, and a sister, Joan Antoine of Tampa.
      