
        Stephane Grappelli, the elfin, witty and urbane jazz violinist best known for his role in founding the Quintet of the Hot Club of France, died yesterday in a Paris clinic. He was 89 and lived in Paris.
        The cause was complications after hernia surgery, said his manager, Michel Chouanard.
        Mr. Grappelli was one of jazz's marvels for over 60 years. When his improvisations picked up velocity, there seemed no break between him and his instrument, and melody after melody poured forth in an unstoppable flow. He played lightly and melodically, and when he performed a ballad he used all the rhetoric of emotion, driving to the heart of a song's romance.
        Athleticism was there as well, and when Mr. Grappelli was soloing on uptempo material, he understood what a good improviser must deliver: the repetitions, the permutations of ideas, the quotes and tricks that show a musician is alive and thinking.
        Mr. Grappelli was born in Paris to parents of French and Italian descent. His father was an academic; his mother died when Mr. Grappelli was 3, and his father placed him in an orphanage.
        After World War I, the elder Mr. Grappelli took his son out of the orphanage, and the two began attending concerts together. When he was 12, Mr. Grappelli received his first violin and, with his father, began to study classical music informally. He attended the Paris Conservatory but soon encountered jazz and left school behind to begin his lifelong fascination with jazz improvisation.
        ''I know of no other violinist with that extraordinary command of improvising in the jazz medium,'' said Yehudi Menuhin, who recorded with Mr. Grappelli. ''It is like the juggler who throws his pots and plates to the wind and yet retrieves them every time.''
        Finding Inspiration In Parisian Streets
        In Mr. Grappelli's playing, one could hear the many strains of the culture in which he grew up, from the perfumed music of Parisian cafe society to classical influences to Gypsy  music to American jazz. In an interview with Lee Jeske in Downbeat magazine in the early 1980's, Mr. Grappelli said that the street musicians of Paris were his main inspiration.
        By the time he was 15, Mr. Grappelli was playing professionally. He worked at a local movie house for two years, six hours a day, playing classical music to accompany silent films. After work he would go to a nearby music shop to hear jazz and popular standards. He absorbed the artistry of Louis Armstrong, along with that of Bix Beiderbecke and the violinist Joe Venuti. He performed in  clubs and restaurants, usually playing piano because violinists were not  in great demand. At 19, he joined the band at the famous Parisian club, Ambassadeurs, and soaked up the music of Paul Whiteman, the Gershwins and others.
        Again as a pianist, he joined Gregor and Gregorians, a Parisian dance band that toured France, and in 1931 began working with the band  leader Alain Romans as a violinist and alto saxophonist in the Montparnasse district of Paris.
        An Engagement That Altered Jazz
        The Gypsy guitarist Django Reinhardt walked in one night and played a bit; two years later, still ''looking for a violinist to play hot,'' he ran into Mr. Grappelli again when they were playing in bands booked opposite each other at a hotel on the Champs-Elysees.
        Between sets, while Mr. Grappelli was trying out a new string, Reinhardt began to accompany him. They liked the results and continued playing together during their breaks.  Reinhardt soon brought in his brother, Joseph, also a guitarist, to join them.
        ''That was the first time I heard Django take a solo,'' Mr. Grappelli would recount later.
        In November 1933, the bassist Louis Vola, who was also a leader of one of the bands, set up a concert for the  new group. It was so well received that the quartet decided to continue playing together, supplemented by a guitarist friend of Reinhardt's, Roger Chaput. Hugues Panassie, a jazz critic and producer, had been supportive, and the group called itself  the Quintet of the Hot Club of France after Panassie's recently established organization of French jazz fans.
        The next January, the group went into the studio to record ''Dinah,'' ''I Saw Stars,'' ''Tiger Rag'' and ''Sweet Sue,'' with instrumentation of several guitars including Mr. Reinhardt, a bass and Mr. Grappelli on violin. Nothing like that had been heard before, and the mixture was one of the first successful meldings of black American jazz with European idioms. The recordings showed up the subtle interplay and dramatic stylistic differences between Reinhardt and Mr. Grappelli's styles; the bulk of their recordings on through 1939 are ranked among jazz's greatest.
        The band was an immediate success and a number of American jazz musicians came to Paris to record with the ensemble, among them Coleman Hawkins, Benny Carter, Dicky Wells and the violinist Eddie South.
        A War Dissolves The Jazz Quartet
        The outbreak of World War II found Mr. Grappelli in London, where he joined the pianist George Shearing. The other band members returned to France, and the war essentially destroyed the ensemble for good; there were periodic attempts to bring it together again, but in 1953 Reinhardt died.
        That didn't stop Mr. Grappelli, who once said that he was like a shark; he had to keep moving. During the 1950's and 60's he regularly toured Europe and Australia and  spent five years at the Paris Hilton. In 1969 he made his first appearance in the United States at the Newport Jazz Festival in Rhode Island, where his performance was drowned out by the first of several riots by drunken college students that eventually shut down the festival. Five years later he played Carnegie Hall.
        In 1972, Mr. Grappelli embarked on a series of recording and concerts that brought him a much larger audience. He agreed to appear with Mr. Menuhin on British television, an event that resulted in a series of recordings. He went on to record with young jazz musicians including Gary Burton and Jean-Luc Ponty. And at various times he brought together groups based on the instrumentation of the Quintet of the Hot Club of France.
        Among his albums are ''Live at Carnegie Hall,'' ''Jazz 'Round Midnight,'' ''Plays Jerome Kern,'' ''Tivoli Gardens,'' ''Satin Doll,'' ''Stardust,'' ''For Django'' and ''Plays Gershwin.''
        In 1988 at Carnegie Hall, he joined with the cellist Yo-Yo Ma, the Juilliard String Quartet and other jazz musicians to celebrate himself. A slight stroke in 1993 forced him to cancel one month of performances, and in 1994 he had surgery to replace an artery in his neck, which kept him off the stage for two months.
        He is survived by a daughter, Evelyne, and a grandson, Gilles.
        For the most part, Mr. Grappelli spent time on the road with his trio. He played quiet, happy music and, even when his health and memory were failing him, he seemed to have access to a reservoir of joy and intelligence. His solos, to the end, had life.
      