
        Violet Carlson, who amused vaudeville with a comic kid act in the 1910's, then helped keep Broadway musical-comedy audiences laughing through the Roaring Twenties and into the Depression and created the role of Gretchen in the original production of ''The Student Prince,'' died on Wednesday at a hospital near her home in Los Angeles. She was 97.
        If hers is not an enduring household name, it is only because, unlike Helen Morgan or other luminaries of the era, Miss Carlson was not a leading lady, or even a demure ingenue. She was a soubrette, that deliciously wicked and flirtatious featured player who never gets the leading man but who can steal a scene with a song and snare an audience's heart with a saucy shake of her curly head.
        In a Broadway career that included nine musicals from 1922 to 1934, Miss Carlson, who also played the Palace four times and was twice named Miss Broadway, stole her share of scenes and enough hearts to make her a gossip-column staple, and only partly because she had appeared in vaudeville with Walter Winchell.
        A tiny, energetic blonde, she threw herself, all 5 feet of her, into roles with such gusto that she broke a toe in 1929 and had to withdraw from ''The Red Robe.''
        Not that she wasn't a trooper. Later that year, when she broke her wrist onstage during a matinee of ''Sweet Adeline,'' Miss Carlson was replaced by an understudy while the fracture was set, then reclaimed her role, to great applause, before the show ended.
        A native of Oak Park, Ill., who grew up in Omaha, Miss Carlson got her start in vaudeville after winning a singing contest when she was 8, or maybe 12. In a profession where make-believe sometimes seeps out into real life, ages are notoriously slippery. (By one account, in 1927, the contest ''at the age of 12'' occurred ''some 10 years ago'' when the real Miss Carlson was about 17.)
        Whatever her age when, she toured the fringes of vaudeville with what was known as a kid novelty act with Nina Olivette (who eventually played opposite Bert Lahr in the 1928 musical ''Hold Everything!''). Then, still in her teens, Miss Carlson bought a solo skit and secured a four-day booking at the Myrtle Theater in Brooklyn, playing five shows a day.
        The pay, she later recalled, was $19, which worked out to 95 cents a performance, but the exposure led to a seven-week run in Boston and a two-year contract on the prestigious Pantages vaudeville circuit.
        Arriving on Broadway for ''Spice of 1922,'' she played a small comic part that attracted enough attention to win her a role in ''Caroline,'' in 1923. The next year she broke off a vaudeville engagement to begin a two-year run in ''The Student Prince'' on Broadway, and then played in the London production of the show in 1926.
        For all her audience appeal, as a soubrette surrounded by leading singers, Miss Carlson was rarely the focus of critical notice. She wasn't mentioned in the unsigned New York Times review of ''The Student Prince,'' for example, but as an anonymous Times reviewer put it when she opened in ''The Nightingale'' in 1927: ''a clown named Violet Carlson also has her moments.''
        Indeed. When she opened in ''The Love Call'' later that year, a Times reviewer who then styled himself J. Brooks Atkinson called her ''the miniature Charlotte Greenwood,'' and said she ''managed to be amusing in pantomime.''
        In 1929, he cited her ''impish gaucheries'' in ''Sweet Adeline,'' and in 1934, having jettisoned the ''J.'' in 1932, the same critic noted that the cast of ''Caviar'' included ''that amusing mechanical doll, Violet Carlson, whose broad comedy is like a cool breeze in the drought districts.''
        But for all such critical notice, as a bona fide Broadway heartthrob, Miss Carlson tended to get more ink for her off-stage activities, like her rumored romance during her ''Red Robe'' run with a stage-door Johnny identified as Archduke Leopold of Austria. (She broke a press agent's heart when she denied that she and the adoring Archduke were engaged.)
        She was apparently acting as her own press agent (and admittedly looking for a job) in 1936, when she simultaneously announced her marriage and her intention to seek an annulment. It seems the fellow, who had wooed her assiduously and then abandoned her after a four-day honeymoon in Atlantic City, had grossly inflated his wealth, an account he obligingly did not dispute when the annulment was granted in 1938.
        She married for good in 1941, toured Africa and the Pacific with the U.S.O. during World War II, then settled in Milwaukee, where her husband, a former vaudevillian named Henri Margo (ne Henry Sanderson), operated a nursing home while Miss Carlson made occasional forays back to the stage before moving to California in the 1950's.
        After her husband died in 1967, Miss Carlson, who is survived by a step-son, Tom Sand, of Los Angeles, continued to amaze friends well into her 90's with the agile ease with which she scampered up and down the stairs of her multilevel hillside home.
        She had to be prompted to talk about the old days, but when the scrapbooks came out, she might startle a visitor by leaping to her feet and bursting into song, running through the long, intricate lyrics of some obscure, unpublished specialty number that she would admit she had not heard in 75 years.
      