
        John E. Moss, the dogged California Congressman whose long, lonely fight against Government secrecy led to the landmark Freedom of Information Act in 1966, died early yesterday at a hospital in San Francisco. He was 84 and had represented Sacramento in the House of Representatives from 1953 to 1978.
        His family said the cause was complications of pneumonia and asthma.
        For a man who was variously described as dull, grave, quiet, humorless, hard-working and plodding, Mr. Moss, a Democrat, left a surprisingly eye-catching legislative legacy.
        In addition to his singular work on the Freedom of Information Act, which gave individual American citizens access to millions of Government documents on demand, he played a major role in the enactment of the Toy Safety Act of 1970, the Poison Package Control Act of 1970, the Consumer Product Safety Act of 1972 and the Federal Privacy Act of 1974.
        He was also co-author of the nation's first automobile lemon law, in 1974. The Securities Act amendments he helped push through Congress in 1975 blunted the New York Stock Exchange domination of stock trading, opening the way for competitive pricing by abolishing fixed commissions and laying the groundwork for the development of electronic markets.
        Toward the end of his Congressional career, Mr. Moss became chairman of the Commerce Committee's long somnolent Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee and made aggressive forays against the oil and gas industry, the accounting profession, the medical profession and a host of Federal regulatory agencies.
        Whatever the issue, Mr. Moss, who took a broad view of his office and regarded himself as a representative of all Americans, could be counted on to stand up for what he saw as the interests of the individual against the power of Government or the sway of big business.
        At a time when some Congressional staff members secretly scorned their bosses, Mr. Moss inspired an almost fanatical loyalty among his own staff. That was partly because those he recruited shared his passions and partly because they recognized that he was as incorruptible as he insisted they be.
        As he told his staff, he had only one ethical rule: Don't take anything from anybody for any reason at any time.
        Throughout a 26-year Congressional career that often focused on the minutiae of Federal laws, Mr. Moss seemed proud that he was not a lawyer but a man who told lawyers what to do.
        Indeed, Mr. Moss, who was born in the little coal-mining town of Hiawatha in Carbon County, Utah, and moved to Sacramento as a child, did not even have a four-year college education. After graduating from Sacramento Junior College, he worked at various jobs, operated an appliance store, and, after Navy service in World War II, sold real estate and insurance while immersing himself in local Democratic politics.
        It was a reflection of his early prominence that during the second of his two terms in the California Assembly he was named Democratic floor manager and worked closely with the Republican Governor, Earl Warren.
        One of three contenders for the Democratic Congressional nomination in 1952, he eked out victory with the help of the Central Valley farm vote and then won the general election against the Eisenhower tide of 1952, arriving in Washington in the waning days of the Truman Administration.
        A brash freshman, he promptly called on Truman at the White House and asked the outgoing President to make the Interior Department release a long-bottled-up engineering study that was an indispensable element in an old Central Valley dream of creating an inland port at Sacramento. Truman obliged, and after construction of a 26-mile-long  ship channel to the Sacramento River, the Port of Sacramento opened in 1963.
        It was an affront to his sense of justice at the height of the McCarthy era hysteria during his first term that put him on the road to what became the Freedom of Information Act. When the new Eisenhower Administration claimed that it had dismissed a large number of Communists it had found on the Federal payroll, Mr. Moss, suspecting that many had been let go for other reasons, demanded that the Civil Service Commission provide a breakdown of the dismissals by cause. The commission airily refused, and Mr. Moss was on the move.
        At the beginning of his second term, in 1955, he was put in charge of a three-member subcommittee investigating Federal information policies and used the committee's hearings as a platform to champion open government.
        As he put it in 1956: ''The present trend toward Government secrecy could end in a dictatorship. The more information there is made available, the greater will be the nation's security.''
        When five years of hearings had produced no legislative remedy, cynics assumed Mr. Moss would drop the issue after Democrats gained control of the White House in 1961. They were wrong. He kept up his campaign and by 1966 had gained enough support to pass the initial Freedom of Information Act, which was strengthened by later amendments.
        What made his legislative achievements especially remarkable was that Mr. Moss was never chairman of a standing House committee. That was partly because of the accident of seniority and partly because in his zeal he stepped on a lot of toes, both Democratic and Republican.
        An early favorite of the legendary Speaker Sam Rayburn, he was made a deputy majority whip in his second term, but his leadership role ended in the 1960's when he told President Lyndon B. Johnson he could not support his Vietnam War policies, a position that gave Mr. Moss added credibility years later when he became the first member of the House to suggest consideration of impeachment proceedings against President Richard M. Nixon.
        Mr. Moss, who never faced a serious re-election challenge after his first race, decided not to run for another term in 1978 and retired to Sacramento, where he became the chairman of a local bank.
        On the advice of doctors after a flare-up of asthma, he later moved to San Francisco.
        He is survived by his wife, Jean; two daughters, Jennifer of San Francisco and Allison of Sacramento; a brother, Henry, of Sacramento, and four grandchildren.
      