
        Anthony J. DiGiovanna, a retired Justice of the State Supreme Court in Brooklyn, died Tuesday at his home in the Park Slope section of Brooklyn. He was 92.
        Justice DiGiovanna joined the State Supreme Court in 1949 and served on that bench for 27 years, until he retired as a justice in 1976. He was a member of the City Council from Brooklyn from 1938 to 1947 and ran as the Democratic candidate for State Attorney General in 1946, losing to the Republican incumbent, Nathaniel L. Goldstein.
        In a widely noted 1950 ruling, the Justice upheld the constitutionality of a Board of Education program that allowed time off for religious instruction. In dismissing a lawsuit by two parents, the court held that ''to permit restraint upon state and local educational agencies which are lawfully authorized to grant released time to our young citizens who wish to take religious instruction would constitute a suppression'' of the ''right of religious freedom.'' The ruling was upheld on appeal.
        Justice DiGiovanna was elected to a 14-year term on the State Supreme Court in 1948 and re-elected, with the endorsement of the Democratic, Republican and Liberal parties, for a second 14-year term. While he was a Supreme Court justice, he also served for periods as an Associate Justice of the appellate term of the Second Judicial Department and as chairman of the Board of Justices of the Second Judicial District.
        After retiring from the bench, he practiced law with his son.
        Justice DiGiovanna was born in Brooklyn. He received a bachelor's degree in 1925 and a law degree in 1927, both from Columbia University. From 1929 to 1938 he was a Deputy District Attorney, then an assistant District Attorney in Kings County.
        He also practiced law for a time in New York with the firm of DiFalco, Field & DiGiovanna. From 1947 until he joined the Supreme Court, he was a New York City Magistrate and a justice of the Court of Special Sessions.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Tigelia Cisco, whom he married in 1936; two daughters, Nina LaBruna of Manhattan and Maria DiGiovanna, formerly a law judge presiding at the Worker's Compensation Board, of Allenhurst, N.J.; a son, John C. of Muttontown, N.Y.; six grandchildren; seven great-grandchildren, and a sister, Rose Liotta of Shenandoah, Pa.
      