
        Rudolf Bahro, who wrote a book that instantly made him one of East Germany's most prominent dissidents and later became an equally iconoclastic figure in West German politics, died on Friday in Berlin after a long battle with cancer. He was 62.
        A dedicated Marxist who believed socialist practices should be reformed but not discarded, Mr. Bahro was imprisoned by the East German Government and later released after an international outcry on his behalf. He was exiled to the West in 1980, became an early leader in West Germany's Green Party and then quit in 1985 after he concluded that the Greens were too entangled in the status quo to push through fundamental changes.
        Born in 1935 in the resort town of Bad Flinsberg, in eastern Germany, Mr. Bahro became a member of the East German Communist Party at 16, then went on to become a journalist.
        His ideological shift began in 1968, when Russia invaded Czechoslovakia to reverse the ''Prague Spring'' liberalizations. When the East German Government refused to condemn the Russian invasion, Mr. Bahro quietly began an intellectual odyssey that eventually led him toward heretical questions about the legitimacy of his Government.
        He kept those views largely to himself, pretending to occupy himself through much of the 1970's with a dissertation. In reality, he began writing a systematic and scathing book about the East German system and allowed the book to be smuggled to the West in 1977. The book was titled ''The Alternative: A Criticism of the Real Socialism'' and soon became a best seller in West Germany.
        Mr. Bahro was arrested and sentenced to eight years in prison. After being released in October 1979 he was allowed to resettle in West Germany in 1980.
        Mr. Bahro arrived on the other side of the Berlin wall full of hope, still driven by Marxist philosophy and his goal of promoting a new way in West Germany. He quickly became active in the fledgling Green Party, which was at that time devoted almost exclusively to environmental causes, and was a member of the party's executive board from 1982 to 1984.
        But even though the Greens were decidedly to the left of Germany's two main parties, the Social Demcrats and the Christian Democrats, Mr. Bahro quit in 1985 on the ground that they had already sold out.
        ''The Greens are almost worse than useless,'' he said. ''They have become so much a part of the system that capitalism would have had to invent them if they weren't here already.''
        Mr. Bahro spent most of the years after that as a professor at Humbolt University in Berlin, drawing less and less attention with each passing year.
        He is survived by his wife, Marina Lehnert, and four children.
      