
        Tristan E. Beplat, an international banking executive who played an important role in the economic reconstruction of postwar Japan, died on Friday at the Columbia Medical Center in Ormond Beach, Fla. He was 85 and lived in Princeton, N.J., and Daytona Beach, Fla.
        He died of complications after a fall, his nephew, Raymond E. Beplat, said.
        A Manhattan native, Mr. Beplat began his banking career in 1937,  joining what was then the Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company.
        It was during World War II that his involvement with Japan and Asia began. As a first lieutenant in 1944, he was selected to participate on a team to help rebuild the economy of postwar Japan. The team was led by Gen. Douglas MacArthur.
        Because of his experience with foreign currency trading, Mr. Benplat was named chief of the foreign exchange operation in the early phase of the United States occupation of Japan after its surrender in 1945.
        Mustered out of the Army a year later, Mr. Beplat remained in Japan as a civilian but continued to serve the military in Tokyo as the chief of its money and banking branch and as chairman of the foreign exchange committee.
        It was in this capacity that Mr. Baplat helped to forge a policy that set the value of the yen at 360 to the dollar, a sharp devaluation from its prewar value of 2.50 to the dollar.
        ''We wanted the Japanese to be able to export,'' Mr. Beplat said in a 1986 interview with Forbes magazine. ''We wanted them on our side politically, and figured that 90 percent of Japanese exports could sell at a 300 exchange rate, even though some were profitable at 200. But we didn't want to be wrong on such an important matter.''
        The program worked so well that Japanese exports rose from $1 billion in 1950 to $24 billion by 1971, when President Richard M. Nixon ended the postwar system of fixed exchange rates.
        After being appointed a consultant to the State Department in October 1948, Mr. Beplat opened a representative office in Japan for Manufacturers Hanover, the first such postwar office for an American bank.
        He remained in that capacity in Tokyo until he returned to the United States in 1954. The next year, he took charge of the bank's banking relations in Asia, Australia and New Zealand. In 1963 he was named senior vice president. At retirement in 1974, he was senior vice president and deputy general manager of the international division. Manufacturers Hanover later merged with Chemical Banking, which subsequently merged with Chase Manhattan.
        Shortly after he left the bank, Mr. Beplat was decorated by the Japanese Government, receiving the Second Order of the Sacred Treasure for his services during the occupation.
        From his home in Princeton, N.J., Mr. Beplat used his Asian acquaintances and expertise to consult on international finance and investment after he left Manufacturers Hanover. One of those acquaintances was Ferdinand E. Marcos, the leader of the Philippine Government.
        In the mid-1980's, Mr. Beplat's name came up during an investigation by New Jersey officials seeking to untangle the financial web spun in that state by Mr. Marcos.
        Mr. Beplat told investigators that Mr. Marcos had asked him to acquire homes in New Jersey for use by the Marcos children while they attended Princeton University. In a deposition, Mr. Beplat said he had been wired almost $500,000 from the Philippine Mission in the final days of the Marcos regime.
        Mr. Beplat, who received the Philippine Government's highest civilian award from President Marcos in 1971 for his efforts at financing Philippine infrastructure projects, later served as a consultant to the Philippine Government of President Corazon Aquino.
        Mr. Beplat was active in a number of societies promoting business and understanding between Asia and the United States, including the Japan Society, the Ceylon Association and the American-Indonesian Chamber of Commerce.
        He is survived by three brothers, James of Cummington, Mass., Raymond of East Northport, N.Y., and Howard of South Jamesport, N.Y., and two sisters, Grace B. King of Slingerlands, N.Y., and Muriel B. Collier of Weems, Va. His wife of 49 years, the former Margaret Mosher, died in 1990.
      