
        Chauncey J. Medberry 3d, a former chairman of Bank of America and its parent, the BankAmerica Corporation, died on Tuesday at his home in Los Angeles after a brief illness, Mike Zampa, a Bank of America spokesman, said. He was 80.
        A native of Los Angeles, Mr. Medberry spent his entire career -- except for military service in World War II -- with Bank of America, which for many years was the nation's biggest commercial bank.
        Mr. Medberry was named chairman of the bank and its parent company in 1971, and held that position until 1981. During that period, he and A. W. Clausen, Bank of America's president and chief executive, oversaw a significant expansion in the bank's activities, particularly abroad.
        While chairman, Mr. Medberry was responsible for a number of  areas. Initially, he ran the bank's business in Southern California. In 1974, as part of a reorganization, Bank of America merged its national and international corporate operations and put Mr. Medberry in charge. After another shuffling of top management in 1979, Mr. Medberry was asked to head the bank's strategic planning effort on issues that would preoccupy the industry for much of the 1980's and 1990's, like interstate banking and the blurring distinction between the roles of banks and other financial institutions, including brokerage houses and insurance companies.
        A graduate of the University of California at Los Angeles, Mr. Medberry began his career as a clerk in Bank of America's Beverly Hills branch.
        As a Navy lieutenant in the war, Mr. Medberry was part of the Normandy invasion force and later served in the western Pacific.
        He returned to Bank of America after the war, and in 1960 was placed in charge of corporate finance for the bank's southern division. In 1968 and 1969, he ran the bank's trust department and was the top loan officer when he was named chairman.
        An Eagle Scout, Mr. Medberry later served on the advisory council of the Boy Scouts of America.
        He served on a number of corporate boards, including the Getty Oil Company and the Georgia-Pacific Corporation. He was also a director of the Independent Colleges of Southern California and the Los Angeles Philharmonic Association.
        In retirement, Mr. Medberry was a trustee of the Good Samaritan Hospital in Los Angeles, the John Randolph Haynes and Dora Haynes Foundation and the Fletcher Jones Foundation.
        Survivors include his wife, the former Thirza Cole, of Los Angeles; two sons, Chauncey J. Medberry 4th of Los Angeles, and Ralph Young of Santa Monica, Calif.; two daughters, Julie Pendergast of Sacramento, Calif., and Deborah Knight of Los Angeles, and five grandchildren.
      