
        W. Gray Mattern Jr., a retired executive secretary of the European Council of International Schools and former headmaster of Wilbraham Academy, died on Nov. 26 at Greenwich Hospital. He was 70 and lived in Stamford, Conn.
        The cause was a pneumococcal infection, his family said.
        Mr. Mattern led the council, which serves a wide variety of international schools, colleges and universities, for 17 years, until his retirement in 1989. He had previously presided over the modernization of Wilbraham Academy, the college preparatory school in Massachusetts, now Wilbraham & Monson Academy, whose antecedents date to 1804.
        He left the village of Wilbraham in 1971 with its 350-acre campus completely renovated, including a science building that was named in his honor. In 1971, Wilbraham merged with Monson Academy, which was in a nearby town, to form a single institution that has become known for encouraging civic involvement, athletics and an international study program.
        Moving to Europe to become executive director of the international schools' council, a liaison and coordinating body in Petersfield, England, Mr. Mattern raised the membership from 70 European schools to more than 400 on every continent. It now has 1,000 members.
        ''Gray was responsible for most of the services that E.C.I.S. is known for today, such as accreditation, professional development conferences, head searches and staffing programs,'' said T. Michael Maybury, Mr. Mattern's successor as executive secretary.
        Walter Gray Mattern Jr. was born in Tarrytown, N.Y., and attended the Irving School, which was owned at the time by his grandfather, also its headmaster. He graduated from Yale College in 1946 with a major in English.
        He entered a doctoral program in teaching at Yale in 1948 but cut it short when he was called to take over the Irving School. At the age of 22 he became headmaster of the school, leading a faculty most of whose members had been his teachers five years earlier.
        Mr. Mattern is survived by his wife of 38 years, Virginia Kingswood Vogel Mattern; three daughters, Heather Siderman of Sherborn, Mass., Candice Webster of West Tisbury, Mass., and Jennifer Mattern of Boulder, Colo.; a son, W. Gray 3d, of St. Petersburg, Fla., and six grandchildren.
      