
        John Adair, an anthropologist who studied the Navajo for decades, was involved in films about and by them and underwent a Navajo healing ceremony in his frail old age, died on Dec. 14 at his home in San Francisco. He was 84.
        Dr. Adair, a native of Memphis, worked with the Navajo and also with the Zuni for more than four decades. He wrote about and photographed many aspects of their culture.
        Among other films, ''Southwestern Indian Silversmiths'' (1939) includes photography by Dr. Adair and he was a co-producer of ''A Weave of Time,'' the history of a Navajo family, with Susan Fanshel, its director. The film combined text and pictures by Dr. Adair, whose first contact with the family was in the 1930's, with more recent film of the family. ''A Weave of Time'' had its first major screening at the Margaret Mead Film Festival at the American Museum of Natural History in 1986.
        Dr. Adair was also the co-author, with Sol Worth, of the book ''Through Navajo Eyes: An Exploration of Film Communication and Anthropology'' (1972). It was applauded in a review by the anthropologist Margaret Mead, who called it a ''delightful and epoch-making book'' in which the authors set out to test the potential of teaching members of another culture to make films. A revised edition was published this year by the University of New Mexico.
        In the 1930's Dr. Adair was a founder of the Navajo Arts and Crafts Guild, which gave economic autonomy to Navajo artists. From 1953 to 1960 he was the chief anthropologist on the staff of the Cornell Navajo Field Health Project. The project had headquarters in the Navajo community of Many Farms in Arizona.
        Dr. Adair's daughter Margo said that three years ago, when he was becoming increasingly frail, Navajos he knew arranged a lengthy healing ceremony -- in Navajo, ''a blessing way'' -- in his presence at the request of his other daughter, Nancy.
        Clifford R. Barnett, a professor of anthropology at Stanford University who worked with Dr. Adair on the health project, said that holding a healing ceremony for a non-Navajo was ''a rare thing.''
        Dr. Adair received a bachelor's degree from the University of Wisconsin in 1937 and a doctorate from the University of New Mexico, where he studied from 1946 to 1948. He taught anthropology at Cornell early in his career and at San Francisco State University from 1964 to 1978.
        He is survived by two daughters, Nancy, of Albion, Calif., and Margo, of San Francisco.
      