
        Malcolm Shepherd Knowles, widely acknowledged as a founder of adult education as a separate discipline, died on Nov. 27 at the Washington Regional Medical Center in Fayetteville, Ark. He was 84 and lived in Fayetteville.
        The cause was a stroke, his family said.
        Dr. Knowles contended that the education of adults should address the specific needs and approaches to learning of more mature and experienced students. He called this concept andragogy, introducing it in the late 1960's and inspiring a new line of research and literature in the field.
        In essence, Dr. Knowles worked from the notion that adult students -- whether they seek a degree they had missed, wish to enhance their professional skills and standing or merely want to satisfy their curiosities -- are a wholly different breed. Typically they are members of the work force, spouses or parents and must be taught in their own social context.
        His own exposure to the special needs of young adults past freshman age and older people seeking to broaden their horizons began in the 1940's. He first built a comprehensive education program for adults at the central Y.M.C.A. in Chicago, where he worked from 1946 to 1951.
        He then became the founding executive secretary of the Adult Education Association of the United States and led it until 1959. In 1982, it merged with a parallel group to form the present American Association for Adult and Continuing Education, based in Washington.
        ''He pioneered the idea in this country, and put it into coherent form, that adults learn differently from children or 18-year-olds who enter college,'' said Dr. John A. Henschke, the association's president and a professor of adult education at the University of Missouri at St. Louis.
        Dr. Knowles, who was born in Livingston, Mont., graduated from Harvard College with a degree in history in 1934 and, at the University of Chicago, received a master's degree  in 1949 and a doctorate in adult education in 1960. He was a professor of adult education at Boston University from 1960 to 1974 and then at North Carolina State University until 1979.
        After retiring, he remained active in the field into the 1990's. He taught at the Fielding Institute, a graduate school in Santa Barbara, Calif., offering degrees in clinical psychology and related subjects and at the University of Arkansas.
        He took his theories before scholarly assemblies and explained them to practitioners in workshops, conferences and consultations worldwide. He wrote about 200 articles on the theory and practice of adult education, and his books are used as texts in adult education programs around the world.
        The books include ''The Modern Theory of Adult Education: From Pedagogy to Andragogy'' (Cambridge, 1988), ''The Adult Learner, A Neglected Species'' (Gulf, 1990), ''A History of the Adult Education Movement in the United States'' (Krieger, 1994), and ''The Making of an Adult Educator: An Autobiographical Journey'' (Jossey-Bass, 1989).
        Dr. Knowles is survived by his wife of 62 years, Hulda Fornell Knowles; their son, Eric S., of Fayetteville; a daughter, Barbara E. Hartl of Orange, Calif.; a sister, Margaret K. Sterling, of Black Mountain, N.C., and five grandchildren.
      