
        Woodrow Wyatt, a high-living onetime Socialist politician and journalist who later turned abrasively against the left as a television presenter and conservative tabloid newspaper columnist, died on Sunday in London. Created Baron Wyatt of Weeford in 1987, he was 79.
        His passage from middle-class origins and postwar leftist convictions to adoring follower of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and star of Britain's toney racing set was marked by a trail of beautiful and often wealthy and titled women, cases of fine claret and a cloud of Havana cigar smoke. For the past 21 years, the former Labor Member of Parliament with the trademark boldly patterned floppy bow tie was the highly visible chairman of the Horseracing Totalizator Board, known as The Tote.
        Though his devotion to the Thatcher revolution was boundless, he never joined the Conservative Party. ''If you are going to ask why,'' he once said, ''just look at them. They are a pretty craven crew.''
        Of Mrs. Thatcher herself, the four-times married columnist wrote, ''Perhaps I am a little in love with her, platonically, of course.'' His many real loves were revealed in what The Independent called ''relentless and colorful detail'' in his 1985 autobiography, ''Confessions of an Optimist.''
        Born on July 4, 1918, he was named after Woodrow Wilson. The son of a stern and remote prep school headmaster, he studied law at Worcester College, Oxford, where he first took up dandified dress, wearing black silk pajamas by day. He became an army major in World War II, serving in the Normandy campaign, and was then posted to India, where he became such an enthusiast for independence that British intelligence suspected him of being a Communist.
        He returned to England to run for Parliament from a Birmingham district considered unwinnable for Labor in 1945 and was unexpectedly swept into office in the landslide victory of Clement Attlee. He was a founder of the Keep Left group in the House of Commons and in 1949 began writing a column for a left-wing publication called Reynolds News.
        His parliamentary career continued, with one four-year interruption, until 1970, but in his 21 years in the Commons he managed to spend only six months as a front-bench minister in a government, the yardstick by which parliamentary achievement is measured.
        By 1970 he had become estranged from the working-class ambiance of his party and his views moved markedly to the right. He opposed nationalization of industry and joined Conservative efforts to curb union power. And his columns similarly moved from paper to paper until they ended up in 1983 in Rupert Murdoch's Labor-baiting News of the World.
        His television career came about through a chance encounter with Edward R. Murrow of CBS, who interviewed him in 1955. A BBC executive thought Mr. Wyatt handled himself well and invited him to become a presenter on the network's new ''Panorama'' documentary program. He became one of the best-known faces on British television and was credited with a series of exposes that unmasked Communist manipulation of union elections, something he often said he regarded as ''the best thing I ever did.''
        He also bought a local newspaper and created a chain of papers that were the first in Britain to use color. His enthusiasm was broader than his resources, however, and the papers eventually failed.
        As chairman of the Tote, he brought the sport into profitability but drew more attention for his socializing, staging grand banquets and escorting the Queen Mother to the races.
        His longevity in the racing job was attributed to his keen sense of the power of praising his patrons.
        Mrs. Thatcher rewarded him with a knighthood in 1983 and a life peerage in 1987. One of her last acts in the days before she was forced from office in 1990 was to renew Lord Wyatt's term in office for a third time.
        His first marriage was to a fellow university student, Susan Jacqueline Cox, in 1939. The second was to his secretary, Nora Robbins, in 1948; the third to Lady Moorea Hastings in 1957 and his last, in 1966, to Verushka Banazky, the glamorous Hungarian widow of a London doctor. The third marriage produced a son, Pericles, who now lives in California, and the fourth a daughter, Petronella, who is deputy editor of The Spectator in London.
      