
        William A. Smalley, who as a young American linguist, anthropologist and missionary sat with the ancient Hmong peoples in the mountains of Laos, listened to the patterns of their speech and helped them develop their first permanent written language, died on Dec. 16 in New Haven. He was 74 and lived in Hamden, Conn.
        Mr. Smalley, a retired professor of linguistics at Bethel College in St. Paul, died at the Hospital of St. Raphael after a heart attack, his wife, Jane, said.
        It was during the early 1950's, when Laos was a French colony and torn by war with the Communist Pathet Lao, that Mr. Smalley, who was working toward his doctorate at Columbia University, did his work with the reclusive Hmong.
        The Hmong had developed their own dialect and tradition of oral speech but had no lasting system of written language except for a few signs and symbols sewn into quilts or dresses. Hundreds of thousands of them were driven out of China in the 19th century and trekked south to the mountains of Laos, Thailand, Cambodia and Vietnam.
        Mr. Smalley, who had been sent with his wife to the Laotian capital, Luang Prabang, by the Christian and Missionary Alliance, was asked by a French priest and another American missionary if he would use his linguistics training to help devise a writing system for the Hmong.
        Together with the priest, the Rev. Yves Bertrais, and the missionary, the Rev. G. Linwood Barney, of Rumney, N.H., Mr. Smalley used the 26 letters of the English alphabet to give phonetic translation to the vowel, consonant and diphthong sounds of the Hmong language, which is of Chinese derivation.
        In 1953, while Mr. and Mrs. Smalley were attending a missionary conference in South Vietnam, Communist forces laid siege to Luang Prabang. He persuaded the French military to fly him back to the city to recover his research papers. Soon afterward Mr. Smalley was evacuated from the country by the American military.
        The writing system that Mr. Smalley helped develop survives.
        ''I cannot value his work,'' said Yang Dao, assistant director of the English Language Learner Project of the St. Paul Public Schools. ''It is invaluable. This writing system helped us to preserve our culture and tradition and history. Now it is used by Hmong all over the world.''
        It is used, among other places, on Hmong Web sites on the Internet by some of the 200,000 Hmong who settled in the United States after the war in Vietnam, 50,000 of them in the St. Paul region. Some were recruited during the war by the Central Intelligence Agency to help rescue downed American pilots and to fight Communist troops along the Ho Chi Minh trail.
        William Allen Smalley was born in Jerusalem on April 4, 1923, the son of American missionaries. He graduated from Houghton College in Houghton, N.Y., in 1945 and received his doctorate in anthropological linguistics from Columbia University in 1955.
        After that, he worked for the American Bible Society in many parts of the world. He joined the faculty of Bethel College in 1978, retiring 10 years later. Mr. Smalley was the author of 15 books, among them ''Mother of Writing: The Origin and Development of a Hmong Messianic Script'' (1990) and ''Linguistic Diversity and National Unity: Language Ecology in Thailand.''
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, William Jr., of Hamden, and Stephen, of Wallingford, Conn.; a daughter, Carol Jane, of Sicklerville, N.J.; a sister, Beulah S. Johnston, of Fort Myers, Fla., and five grandchildren.
      