
        Karen Hubert Allison, who with her husband, Len Allison, lived out every cook's fantasy of turning a home into a restaurant and later earned three stars for the establishment, Huberts, in Manhattan, died on Tuesday in Maui, Hawaii. She was 49 and had lived in Maui since 1995.
        The cause of death was breast cancer, said Dr. Wayne Lavender, a family friend.
        When the couple opened their restaurant on East 22d Street in Manhattan in 1981, American restaurants were still in the grip of French traditions. The best restaurants were those whose chefs were trained in other countries and were most comfortable with ingredients and techniques developed thousands of miles away. The Allisons were among the pioneers who advocated exploring America's own ingredients and traditions.
        ''They keyed into this very new idea of new American cuisine, which was about finding good producers and good ingredients,'' said Peter Hoffman, who cooked at Huberts from 1981 to 1985 and now owns Savoy in SoHo.
        Neither Mr. Allison nor Ms. Hubert Allison was a trained chef. In 1977, when the couple began serving meals in their Brooklyn home, their ambition was not to open a restaurant but to make a documentary about a neighborhood clothing store. Ms. Hubert and Mr. Allison, who married in 1984, needed to raise $10,000 for a new camera, and they hit on the idea of inviting their friends to buy weekend meals in their three-story house in Cobble Hill. Both Mr. Allison, an English teacher, and Ms. Hubert, a writer, did the cooking. Their plan worked so well that they not only raised the money but also decided to go into the restaurant business.
        Their first restaurant, also called Huberts, opened in 1979 in a romantically ornate Victorian corner bar in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn, where they quickly won critical acclaim. By 1981, demand for seats had overflowed the 12-table bar and they moved to 102 East 22d Street in Manhattan. There, with Ms. Hubert Allison in the dining room and Mr. Allison in the kitchen, Huberts became one of the signature New York restaurants of the 1980's, a time when New Yorkers were enthusiastically discovering the joys and social possibilities of fine wining and dining. It earned three stars in 1985 from Bryan Miller, the restaurant critic for The New York Times.
        ''There were people coming from all over the globe who were either cooking there or sharing food thoughts, and you saw this riot of tastes and flavors settle down into this kind of signature cuisines,'' said Joshua Wesson, the wine writer and merchant who was the sommelier at Huberts from 1983 to 1986. ''Before there was a Greenmarket, there was Karen Hubert and Len Allison seeking out little growers and artisanal makers of cheese and bringing them down to this restaurant.''
        Karen Hubert was born in New York City in 1948. She received a bachelor's degree from City College of New York, where she met Mr. Allison, and a master's degree in fine arts from Columbia University.
        In 1987, the couple's daughter, Halley Cyd Marie Allison, was born, and in 1989 they had a son, Luke Edward Allison. In addition to her husband and children, Ms. Hubert Allison is survived by a stepson, Matthew Allison, 32, a record industry executive in Hong Kong.
        After Halley's birth, Ms. Hubert Allison began to withdraw from the restaurant business. At the same time, the couple closed the 22d Street restaurant and opened a more expensive Huberts at Park Avenue and 63d Street. With four times the seating and three times the staff, it had less of the warmth and intimacy that characterized their earlier efforts. It, too, received three stars, but lasted only two years.
        They tried to regain their touch in 1991 with Onda, a more modest restaurant serving a hybrid of Thai and Italian cuisines. It did not last long.
        After that, the couple taught at the Culinary Institute of America in Hyde Park, N.Y., and then moved to Hawaii after Ms. Hubert Allison became ill in 1995. In Hawaii, she concentrated on writing. Her first novel, ''How I Gave My Heart to the Restaurant Business'' (Ecco Press), a roman a clef, was published earlier this year, and she completed a cookbook, ''The Vegetarian Compass,'' which is to be published by Little, Brown next spring.
        Despite the couple's many achievements, one nagging detail always remained. Their documentary was never completed.
      