
        Harry S. Ashmore, who was executive editor of The Arkansas Gazette when he won a Pulitzer Prize for antisegregation editorials he wrote during the crisis and confrontation over admission of black students to a Little Rock high school in 1957, died on Tuesday night in the infirmary of the Valle Verde retirement home in Santa Barbara, Calif., where he and his wife moved several years ago. He was 81.
        He evidently died as the result of a stroke he suffered early this month, his wife, Barbara, said.
        Mr. Ashmore, a native of South Carolina, was a prominent figure in Southern journalism while he was executive editor of The Gazette -- published in Little Rock -- from 1948 to 1959. He went on to be the editor in chief of the Encyclopedia Britannica from 1960 to 1963 and president of the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions, a liberal think tank headquartered in Santa Barbara, from 1969 to 1974.
        On The Gazette's editorial pages in the eventful days of 1957, he argued with controlled but eloquent passion that the law of the land -- following the Supreme Court's 1954 ruling that all segregation in public schools was ''inherently unequal'' -- should be honored and that Arkansans should permit the admission of nine black students who wanted to enter the school under an integration plan drawn up by the Little Rock school board. He contended that resistance was useless.
        Confrontation loomed when Arkansas' populist Governor, Orval E. Faubus -- formerly a boon companion of Mr. Ashmore's -- ordered the National Guard to bar the nine from the school. But President Dwight D. Eisenhower gained control of the Guard and ordered Federal troops to be sent to Little Rock to restore order and accompany the nine. And the school became integrated.
        Well before the crisis, a plan was adopted by the Little Rock school board that restricted integration of the city's schools initially to only one of them, Central High School, and scheduled that for 1957.
        Tension rose as the integration date approached. Resistance to the plan, called the Phase Program, swelled among white people. Robert Ewing Brown, leader of a segregationist group in Little Rock, said, ''The Negroes have ample and fine schools here, and there is no need for this problem except to satisfy the aims of a few white and Negro revolutionaries.'' And early in 1956, Mr. Faubus declared he could not cooperate in ''any attempt to force acceptance of change to which the people are so overwhelmingly opposed.''
        In August 1957, someone hurled a stone through the window of an Arkansas N.A.A.C.P. leader, Daisy Bates. An attached note said: ''Stone this time, dynamite next.''
        In September 1957, the night before Little Rock's schools were to open, Governor Faubus proclaimed that he was going to deploy National Guard troops around Central High School because of ''evidence of disorder and threats of disorder.''
        And when Central High opened, more than 200 National Guard troops were on guard. As Mr. Ashmore put it in an editorial, there was ''the incredible spectacle of an empty high school surrounded by the National Guard, troops called out by Governor Faubus to protect life and property against a mob that never materialized.''
        But a 15-year-old black girl, Elizabeth Eckford, who tried to enter the school, recounted later that ''somebody started yelling, 'Lynch her! Lynch her!' '' A white woman accompanied her away from the scene.
        After the nine black teen-agers were eventually permitted to begin attending the school and, as Mr. Ashmore wrote in one editorial, ''peacefully attending Central High School under Federal court order and Federal military protection,'' Governor Faubus contended that resolving the crisis required that the nine withdraw from the school. He said that all he wanted was delay in integrating the high school until some unspecified future time.
        But Mr. Ashmore said in that editorial: ''There is no valid reason to assume that delay will resolve the impasse which Mr. Faubus has made. We doubt that Mr. Faubus can simply wear the Federals out -- although he is doing a pretty good job of wearing out his own people.''
        Yet Mr. Ashmore's approval of integration was limited then, though it became complete later. One of his editorials during the crisis advocated acceptance of the phased desegregation plan worked out by the school board as the handiwork of individuals who felt ''(as we do) they were working to preserve the existing pattern of social segregation'' by coming up with a program which would lead to ''the admission of only a few, carefully screened Negro students to a single white high school.''
        Recalling those days, Henry Woods, a Federal district judge in Little Rock who was a leading Little Rock lawyer in 1957, said: ''Harry was the central figure in the crisis. He was the leader of the opposition to mob rule, and all of us who opposed Faubus rallied around him. The thing I admire most was the great courage Harry displayed. He received daily threats against his life and his family, but he stood in the breech and held the walls against the barbarians.''
        During the crisis, Mr. Ashmore's editorials caused declines in advertising revenue and circulation. An unsigned letter was sent to some business people in Little Rock saying that The Gazette, in taking its antisegregation stand, was ''playing a leading role in destroying time-honored traditions that have made up our Southern way of life.''
        In 1990, Mr. Ashmore, speaking of himself and two other Southern editors of that era, Ralph McGill of The Atlanta Constitution and Hodding Carter of The Delta Democrat-Times of Greenville, Miss., said, ''As refugees of the Old South, we were never comfortable being called liberals or integrationists. Philosophically, we all knew segregation was wrong, but we weren't doctrinaire liberals. I had a temperamental difference with the two of them, though. They were more glandular, more angry about the segregationist abuses, whereas I tended to laugh more at the absurdity of it all.''
        He also did not take himself too seriously. A former colleague at The Gazette recalled not long ago that after attending a daily afternoon meeting about the paper's news coverage, Mr. Ashmore would go off to write editorials and, as he departed, he would often observe wryly, ''I'm off to think great thoughts.''
        When Mr. Ashmore won his Pulitzer Prize, The Gazette was given another Pulitzer award, for public service, for its news reporting about the events of 1957. Mr. Ashmore was cited for ''the forcefulness, dispassionate analysis and clarity'' of his editorials during the crisis, and The Gazette was cited for ''demonstrating the highest qualities of civic leadership, journalistic responsibility and moral courage in the face of mounting public tension.''
        In 1991 the newspaper ceased publication, and its competitor, The Arkansas Democrat, acquired its assets and became The Arkansas Democrat-Gazette. That paper's editorial page editor, Paul Greenberg, said yesterday that Mr. Ashmore ''was a part of the great epic of The Gazette's courageous stand in coverage of the Central High crisis of 1957.'' Mr. Greenberg, who won a 1969 Pulitzer Prize for editorials on race that he wrote for The Pine Bluff Commercial of Arkansas, said: ''He will always be a much admired figure in Arkansas journalism. No account of Arkansas history will ever be complete without mentioning Harry Ashmore.''
        Mr. Ashmore wrote, was co-author or editor of a dozen books. Over the years, he was also in the active leadership of the American Society of Newspaper Editors, the Fund for the Republic, the Committee for an Effective Congress, the American Civil Liberties Union and other national organizations.
        He received the Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Lifetime Achievement Award in 1996.
        Harry Scott Ashmore was born in Greenville, S.C. He became aware of black people's problems partly when he became a summer laborer on a cotton farm. He went on to graduate in 1937 from Clemson Agricultural College in Clemson, S.C., worked for some southern newspapers and studied as a Nieman Fellow in Journalism at Harvard.
        During World War II he served with the Army in France and elsewhere and rose to the rank of lieutenant colonel. After the war he rose to become editor of The Charlotte News in North Carolina. He went to The Arkansas Gazette as editor of its editorial page in 1947 and was promoted to executive editor.
        In addition to his wife, the former Barbara Edith Laier, whom he married in 1940, Mr. Ashmore is survived by a daughter, Anne Ashmore of Washington.
      