
        Henry A. Loeb, financier and philanthropist, died yesterday at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 90.
        Mr. Loeb had been since its founding two decades ago the vice chairman of the Loeb Partners Corporation, a Manhattan-based investment firm whose president is Thomas L. Kempner .
        At his death he was also a life trustee of the New School, an honorary trustee of the Mount Sinai Medical Center and board member at the Jacob and Valeria Langeloth Foundation.
        The chief beneficiaries of his philanthropic largess were Mount Sinai, where he had been vice chairman, and the New School, where he had been chairman.
        Mr. Loeb's firm, Loeb Partners, was founded after Loeb Rhoades,  Hornblower & Company, another investment firm where he had been a senior partner, merged in 1979 with Shearson Hayden Stone to form Shearson Loeb Rhoades.
        At the time of the merger, Mr. Loeb, his brother John Langeloth Loeb, his nephew Mr. Kempner and other relatives, left Loeb Rhoades, Hornblower to form Loeb Partners.
        The original Loeb family firm was  Carl M. Loeb & Company, which became Loeb, Rhoades & Company, which merged in 1978 with Hornblower, Weeks, Noyes & Trask to form Loeb Rhoades, Hornblower. Henry Loeb was a senior partner of both firms.
        Henry Alfred Loeb was born in Manhattan, the youngest of the four children of of Carl M. Loeb, who was born in Frankfurt, Germany and lived for many years in Manhattan, and of the former Adeline Moses, who came from a distinguished Montgomery, Ala., family.
        Carl M. Loeb, former president of the American Metal Company, was a co-founder with his son John Langeloth Loeb -- who died in 1996 -- and two others of Carl M. Loeb & Company.
        Henry Loeb graduated from Horace Mann School, received a bachelor's degree in 1929 from Princeton University and a law degree in 1932 from Harvard and became a member of the New York and California Bars.
        From 1932 to 1934 he was with the Manhattan-based law firm of Cook, Nathan & Lehman.
        Then, after his marriage in 1934 to Louise Steinhart of San Francisco, he spent four years with her father's San Francisco-based law firm, Steinhart, Feigenbaum & Goldberg. In 1938 he returned to New York to become a senior partner in his own family's investment firm, which was then named Carl M. Loeb, Rhoades & Company.
        After the United States entered World War II, Henry Loeb volunteered for the Army, although he had two children and was in his 30's. He began as a private and became a first lieutenant and a tank officer. He won the Bronze Star medal for his participation in the Omaha Beach landing on D-Day. He saw combat in France, Belgium and Germany, and his hearing became slightly impaired because of the noise during tank engagements in which he took part.
        Mr. Loeb went on to direct the 1964-65 fund-raising campaign of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of New York, of which he was a trustee. He oversaw 15,000 volunteer workers seeking funds for the federation's affiliated hospitals, child care and family agencies, homes for the aged, camps and community centers. Over the years, he was also chairman of the American Council for Emigres in the Professions, an organization aiding people who left their native lands for political reasons, a director of the Narragansett Capital Corporation, the Deafness Research Foundation and Ramapo Anchorage Camp in Rhinebeck, N.Y.
        The other honors he received included an honrary doctorate in law from the New School in 1980.
        In addition to his wife of 63 years, the former Louise Steinhart, he is survived by two daughters, Jean Troubh and Betty Levin, both of Manhattan; seven grandchildren; 11 great-grandchildren; and a sister, Margaret Kempner of Purchase, N.Y.
      