
        Dr. David D. Clark, a nuclear physicist who developed a nuclear research tool that promises to provide more precise analyses of materials, died on Dec. 22 at his office at Cornell University. He was 73 and lived in Ithaca, N.Y.
        The cause of death was cardiac arrhythmia, university officials said.
        Recently, Dr. Clark led a team that  completed the design of a device that uses cold neutrons to help researchers learn the chemical composition of materials. The device will be fully operational at Cornell later this year, university officials said.
        The analysis tool that Dr. Clark and his team designed will guide the neutrons, which will travel very slowly because they are so cold,  away from the background radiation at a reactor and transport them about 42 feet to bombard a sample of material to be analyzed. That will avoid the background noise caused by thermal and fast neutrons and gamma rays.
        Dr. Clark once wrote that the cleaner cold-neutron approach would be ''like listening to a CD instead of a scratchy 78 r.p.m. record.''
        The cold-neutron technology will open up new paths for research and teaching with low-power nuclear research reactors, said Dr. Vaclav Kostroun, a colleague at Cornell.
        Dr. Clark joined Cornell in 1955. In 1961, he became the first director of Cornell's Ward Laboratory of Nuclear Engineering, where he designed and built one of the first university reactors in its class, a 100-kilowatt unit, said Howard C. Aderhold, the current laboratory director. The reactor is still in operation, 35 years after it was first loaded with fuel.
        In 1978, Dr. Clark became the head of nuclear science and engineering, and he filled both positions until he retired in 1996. By then, the laboratory was called the Ward Center for Nuclear Sciences. Dr. Clark remained at Cornell as an emeritus professor.
        Dr. Clark worked at the Brookhaven National Laboratory in Upton before he joined Cornell.
        In his other research, Dr. Kostroun said, Dr. Clark studied the properties of heavy nuclei, but his interests branched out into geology, engineering, art and archeology. Dr. Clark's students used gamma-ray spectroscopy to trace the composition of clay in shards from ancient pots and to learn how and where ancient coins were minted. In gamma-ray spectroscopy, neutrons bombard a material, like an old painting suspected of being a forgery. The gamma rays emitted from the sample's elements provide a kind of fingerprint.
        Dr. Clark's research and his role in training many nuclear-power professionals earned him recognition in 1996 as a fellow of the American Nuclear Society, its highest honor.
        David Delano Clark was born in Austin, Tex. He studied at the University of Texas and received his B.A. in 1948 at the University of California at Berkeley and his Ph.D. in physics there in 1953.
        Dr. Clark is survived by his wife of 48 years, Gladys Clark; two daughters, Marcia Arem of Merion, Pa., and Janet, of Swarthmore, Pa.; a son, Gordon, of San Mateo, Calif., and seven grandchildren.
      