
        George Shaw, a quarterback who played eight professional seasons, mostly as a backup to Johnny Unitas, Charlie Conerly and Fran Tarkenton, died on Jan. 3 at his home in Portland, Ore. He was 64.
        The cause was multiple myeloma, a cancer of the bone marrow, his son Patrick said.
        At 6 feet and 185 pounds, Shaw was a smart, precise player. At the University of Oregon, he played quarterback, safety and sometimes halfback and receiver. He kicked off, kicked field goals and extra points, punted and returned punts.
        He also gained a reputation for sportsmanship. Once, against Southern California, George Timberlake tackled Shaw, stuck an elbow in his face and pushed his nose into the ground. When an official raced over and seemed about to penalize Timberlake, Shaw intervened.
        ''Let it go,'' he told the official. Then Shaw stared at his tormenter.
        ''Timberlake,'' he said, ''you're too good a ballplayer to be pulling that kind of stuff. Let's just play the game, shall we?''
        They did, and Oregon won, 13-7, in a big upset.
        As a senior, Shaw led the nation with 1,536 yards in total offense. He was also a center fielder on the Oregon baseball team. When the Baltimore Colts made him the first choice over all in the 1955 National Football League draft, he turned down a $10,000 signing bonus from the New York Yankees and signed with the Colts for a $17,500 salary.
        He started immediately for the Colts, but in 1956, when his kneecap was broken by a hard tackle, Coach Weeb Ewbank replaced him with Unitas, an unheralded rookie fresh off the sandlots. Unitas never gave up the job and became perhaps the best quarterback in professional football history.
        Shaw became frustrated.
        ''No one knows how good Johnny is better than I do,'' he said. ''I developed second-stringitis. I began to doubt myself. When you sit on the bench game after game, you start to lose interest. Johnny's the same age I am, and I knew if I stayed with the Colts, I'd spend my life on the bench.''
        Shaw asked to be traded, and after the 1958 season the Colts sent him to the New York Giants. As Wellington Mara, the Giants' president and co-owner, recalled last week: ''In Shaw's first year, Frank Gifford decided he wanted to play quarterback. By the time the regular season started, Gifford was back at halfback and Charlie Conerly was the quarterback again. Shaw was the backup.''
        Jim Lee Howell, who coached those Giants, once said of Shaw: ''If there's any trouble with him, it's that he doesn't push the team hard enough. Moving in with a smart group of veterans like this, he seems to feel a little bashful.''
        Shaw spent two seasons with the Giants. He finished his pro career with the Minnesota Vikings in 1961 behind Tarkenton and with the Denver Broncos of the American Football League in 1962 behind Frank Tripucka. In 71 pro games, Shaw completed 405 of 802 passes for 5,829 yards and 41 touchdowns.
        He became a broker and investment counselor in Portland. His major association with football, his son Patrick said, was coaching Pop Warner teams.
        Shaw is survived by his wife, Patricia; three sons, John of Aberdeen, Wash., and Patrick and Matthew of Portland; two daughters, Mary Taylor and Anne Quinn of Portland; 12 grandchildren, and a brother, Thomas, of San Rafael, Calif.
      