
        Harold Bromley, an early aviator who repeatedly tried to make the first nonstop flight between the Pacific Coast and Japan but was foiled in his bids to become the Lindbergh of the Pacific by a series of misadventures, died on Dec. 20 at a nursing home near his home in Palm Desert, Calif. He was 99.
        ''I find it difficult to convince many persons that this proposed flight is not sheer suicide,'' Mr. Bromley said in July 1929 as he prepared to fly alone from Tacoma, Wash., to Tokyo in a Lockheed Vega low-wing monoplane. But what happened over the next 14 months seemed suicidal enough.
        After Charles Lindbergh conquered the Atlantic in 1927, a flight across the Pacific beckoned as the next great prize for adventurous young pilots like Mr. Bromley.
        Born Albert Harold Bromley (he discarded his first name) on Nov. 10, 1898, in Victoria, British Columbia, he enlisted in the Canadian army as a teen-ager and served three years as a machine-gunner in World War I. He then joined a Canadian unit of Britain's Royal Air Force. By the time he made his first solo flight, the war had ended, but he knew he wanted to make aviation his career.
        Mr. Bromley settled in Olympia, Wash., and operated a flying school near Tacoma in the 1920's. He was also a test pilot for Lockheed in Burbank, Calif., helping to familiarize Amelia Earhart, Jimmy Doolittle and Wiley Post with the Vega monoplane, said his wife, Mary.
        Mr. Bromley persuaded businessmen in Tacoma, led by a Canadian-born lumberman, John Buffelen, to raise $25,000 to buy a single-engine low-winged monoplane in which he hoped to fly nonstop to Tokyo. But Tacoma had no airport. Its residents, however, eager to make their city famous, approved a $300,000 bond issue to build an airstrip. They also bought a gold watch that Mr. Bromley was to present to the Emperor of Japan on behalf of the city. There was no prize money for the flight -- only glory for the flier.
        Some 70,000 spectators visited the airfield to see Mr. Bromley's orange Lockheed Vega, named The City of Tacoma, as final preparations were made. Just after 6 A.M. on July 28, 1929, Mr. Bromley headed down the runway, the gold watch in his pocket. But he got no farther. The tanks, filled too high, began spewing gasoline on the windshield. When Mr. Bromley leaned out of the cockpit to check the problem, gasoline splattered onto his goggles. When he took the goggles off, gasoline got into his eyes. While all this was going on, the plane careened off the runway, the right wing shattered and the fuselage cracked. Mr. Bromley walked away, dejected but unhurt.
        In September 1929, a second Lockheed Vega being tested for Mr. Bromley crashed into a Burbank street when a specially designed tail assembly loosened, seriously injuring the test pilot. Mr. Bromley then took a job flying passengers and mail between El Paso and Mexico City while he waited for a third plane to be readied for the flight across the Pacific. In May 1930, the third plane, a Lockheed Sirius, crashed into Muroc Dry Lake in the Mojave Desert, killing the test pilot.
        Mr. Bromley decided to try spanning the Pacific from Japan to take advantage of tail winds. This time he also abandoned his dream of a solo flight and hired a skilled navigator and radio operator, Harold Gatty, to fly with him. He also gave up on Lockheeds. He obtained a fourth plane -- a red single-engine, high-wing monoplane built by Emsco Aircraft of Downey, Calif. The plane was also called The City of Tacoma, and Mr. Bromley accompanied it to Tokyo aboard a steamship.
        On Aug. 30, 1930, Mr. Bromley and Mr. Gatty took that plane down Japan's longest runway, at a naval airfield near Tokyo, on a second attempt to fly the Pacific. But their  plane was too heavy to lift off, and Mr. Bromley saw a clump of trees ahead. He dumped fuel to shed weight and was able to climb over the trees, but he had to return to the airfield because he lacked enough fuel to make it to Tacoma.
        Mr. Bromley and Mr. Gatty later flew to Sabishiro Beach, 350 miles north of Tokyo, and on Sept. 14 took off from a 6,800-foot stretch of hard-packed sand, a makeshift runway lighted by paper lanterns.
        They were to fly south of Japan's Kurile Islands, north of the Aleutian Islands, then over the water into Tacoma. But when they were 12 hours and 1,200 miles out over the Pacific, their exhaust system failed and the plane became filled with fumes. Opening the windows to get ventilation, their eyes burning, Mr. Bromley and Mr. Gatty made it back to Japan, landing 35 miles north of their starting point. Fishermen found them semiconscious from the fumes, but otherwise unharmed.
        After other aviators also failed to cross the Pacific, the feat was accomplished in October 1931 by Clyde Pangborn, a veteran barnstormer, and Hugh Herndon, a wealthy New Yorker who financed the flight, flying a Bellanca. Their flight, beginning at Sabishiro Beach and ending in Wenatchee, Wash., was part of their round-the-world trip in an unsuccessful effort to break the record time set in June 1931 by Wiley Post and Harold Gatty. Mr. Pangborn and Mr. Herndon received a $25,000 prize from the Japanese newspaper Asahi Shimbun.
        There was one more prize still available -- $30,000 offered by Seattle for a nonstop flight between that city and Tokyo. The deadline was June 1, 1932. The hard-luck Mr. Bromley tested another Lockheed Vega in the New York area, then flew it to San Francisco, but did not arrive  until May 31, too late to try for the prize. He finally gave up on his dream to fly the Pacific.
        Mr. Bromley's first wife and their son died before him. In addition to his wife, Mary, he is survived by two grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
        He became an American citizen the year after his last attempt to fly across the Pacific, flew for Mexican mining enterprises, spent two decades as a Federal aviation inspector, then grew grapes and dates and sold real estate in California.
      