
        T. Wayne Robertson, who became one of the most influential leaders in American motor sports as an executive with R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., died on Wednesday during a hunting trip in Louisiana. He was 47.
        Mr. Robertson was one of six duck hunters killed in a boating collision with an oil-rig crew boat near the Intracoastal Waterway in Vermilion Parish on Wednesday morning. There was one survivor on the hunters' boat.
        The accident occurred during a rainstorm just before dawn, when the visibility was down to one mile.
        Mr. Robertson, who lived in Winston-Salem, N. C., joined R. J. Reynolds as an administrative trainee in 1971. Twenty years later, The Sporting News named him one of the 50 most powerful people in sports, and he helped transform Nascar from a racing circuit of regional interest into an international success. He also contributed to the growth of the National Hot Rod Association's drag racing series.
        As president of Sports Marketing Enterprises, a division of Reynolds, and senior vice president of Reynolds, Mr. Robertson oversaw the multimillion-dollar sponsorship of Nascar Winston Cup racing, N.H.R.A. Winston Drag Racing, the Vantage Championship Senior P.G.A. tournament and other events.
        Stock-car and marketing executives credit Mr. Robertson with helping Nascar attract fans nationwide and overseas. All 33 Winston Cup races will be televised live this season, and events are now being staged at Indianapolis, Phoenix and Southern California.
        ''T. Wayne Robertson has had such an impact on this sport,'' said O. Bruton Smith, chairman of Speedway Motorsports, which owns tracks in Atlanta, Charlotte, N.C., and elsewhere. ''It's going to be tough to replace him.''
        Just as important as his company's financial largess was Mr. Robertson's role in leading lobbying efforts to spare motor sports from recent Federal efforts to ban tobacco sponsorships of sports events. One barometer of Reynolds's effectiveness is the fact that two bills now before the Senate, one sponsored by Sen. Edward Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, and the other by Sen. John McCain, Republican of Arizona, would set aside money from any Federal settlement with the tobacco industry to compensate sports events that lose funding under the tobacco-sponsorship ban.
        Mr. Robertson is survived by his wife, Dana, and two children, Toby and Kim.
      