
        Sir Michael Tippett, whose distinctive and sometimes perplexing music made him the best-known British  composer since Benjamin Britten, died on Thursday at his home in London. He was 93.
        He became ill on a trip to Stockholm for a 12-day festival of his music, said Meirion Bowen, his manager and biographer.
        In an era when most living composers put a premium on innovation and refrained from making grand statements, he wrote large-scale works -- operas, symphonies and  oratorios -- that grappled with music's past, and expressed his philosophical ideals about human conflict, the nature of existence and the moral failure that war represents.
        He drew from many musical schools but belonged to none. Early on, he was a Neo-Classicist, primarily influenced by Stravinsky and Hindemith. Yet his music also reflected his interest in Beethoven (especially the sprawling structures and mysticism of late Beethoven string quartets), the English Renaissance, English folk songs, American jazz, and the ruminative symphonies of Sibelius. He often boldly mixed genres in the same work.
        Michael Kemp Tippett was born on Jan. 2, 1905, in London, the second son of Henry William Tippett, a retired Cornish lawyer and proprietor of a hotel at Cannes, France, and Isabel Kemp, a woman of Kentish descent who promoted women's suffrage. For a composer of such significance, he came to music late. He attended his first concert, a piano recital by Benno Moiseiwitsch, at 12, and did not hear a symphony orchestra until he was 17.
        The next year, with scant preparation other than childhood piano lessons, he decided to become a composer. His dismayed parents consulted the conductor Malcolm Sargent, who strongly advised them to dissuade their son from a musical career. But he was determined.
        In 1923 he entered the Royal College of Music, where he studied composition with Charles Wood and C. H. Kitson and conducting with Adrian Boult and Sargent. It was there that  he finally acquired a thorough knowledge of the classical repertory. During the summers he was a regular at the Promenade Concerts, where he was an unmistakable presence: tall, trim, serene, dressed immaculately in white flannels and usually carrying the appropriate pocket scores.
        In 1928, having graduated with a degree in music, he moved to Oxted in Surrey. There he became the conductor of a local concert and operatic society; he also accepted a part-time post teaching French and music at a nearby preparatory school, where he met the poet and dramatist Christopher Fry, who became an early collaborator. In 1930, a concert of his own works at the Barn Theater in Oxted received favorable attention in the local press. But he was so discouraged with his music that he began an intense tutorial with R. O. Morris, the expert in 16th-century counterpoint. This rigorous work boosted his confidence. Over the next few years he wrote the first works that manifested his mature compositional voice, with its highly rhythmic counterpoint and lucid textures: the String Quartet No. 1, the Piano Sonata No. 1, and the Concerto for Double String Orchestra.
        The Depression profoundly affected Mr. Tippett's life and politics. He gave up teaching in 1932 and took two jobs that more closely reflected his growing socialist tendencies: as conductor of the South London Orchestra for unemployed musicians, and as the director of two choirs run by the Education Department of the Royal Arsenal Co-operative Society.
        During this time he met Wilfred Franks, a talented but impecunious young painter with whom Mr. Tippett had an intense and transforming involvement. After the relationship broke up, Mr. Tippett maintained, for the most part, a solitary personal life, although he was never without devoted friends.
        Mr. Tippett's leftist ideals (he briefly joined the Communist Party in 1935), his pacifist philosophy and his musical voice found a synthesis in ''A Child of Our Time,'' a concert-length oratorio he began in September 1939, two days after the outbreak of World War II, and worked on for two years. Its inspiration was a 1938 incident in Paris in which a young  Polish Jew shot a German diplomat, Ernst vom Rath, who, as it turned out, was being shadowed by the Gestapo for his anti-Nazi attitudes. The young man became the symbolic hero of the work. At the encouragement of his friend T. S. Eliot, Mr. Tippett wrote his own text, which is filled with folkloric sentiments (''I have no money for my bread; I have no gift for my love'') and philosophical questions (''Shall those cast out be unavenged?''). He modeled the structure of this work on the oratorios of Bach and Handel.
        Looking for a contemporary equivalent to the populist German chorales, which provide periodic moments of reflection in the Bach Passions, he seized on black spirituals. Though some have found the work pontifical, ''A Child of Our Time'' made Mr. Tippett famous when it was finally performed in 1944 by the London Philharmonic Orchestra, with Mr. Tippett's friend Peter Pears as the tenor soloist.
        In the interim, however, Mr. Tippett had a run-in with the courts over his political beliefs. In 1943, at the height of the war, he was summoned to appear before a tribunal to justify his conscientious objector status. Instead of receiving absolute exemption, he was assigned to full-time farm work. He refused to comply. The composer Ralph Vaughan Williams appeared at the trial as a defense witness. ''I think Mr. Tippett's pacifist views entirely wrong,'' Mr. Vaughan Williams said, ''but I respect him very much for holding them so firmly.'' He described the composer's music as a ''national asset'' and his work at Morley College, where Mr. Tippett was then teaching, as having ''national importance.''  But Mr. Tippett was sentenced to three months in prison. He accepted his imprisonment, at Wormwood Scrubs, as a test of his philosophical mettle and spent his time there directing the prison orchestra.
        In the years after the war, from his post at Morley College, Mr. Tippett became a leading figure in London's musical life. He produced a steady stream of major works, including four symphonies and his late oratorio, ''The Mask of Time'' (1984), but his five operas brought him the most international renown.
        He labored seven years over his first opera, ''The Midsummer Marriage,'' first performed in 1955 at Covent Garden. The opera tells the intertwining stories of two young couples. But its philosophical context deals with the interrelation of natural and supernatural worlds, much like Shakespeare's ''Midsummer Night's Dream.'' ''King Priam'' (1962), with a libretto based on Homer, was almost the exact opposite of the earlier opera. Here, the seeming impossibility of marriage is dealt with in music as acidic and unsettling as the earlier opera's was euphonious and affirming.
        ''The Knot Garden,'' about group therapy, was heavily influenced by  his readings of Jung and was first produced in 1970; it included what was at that time a daring love scene between two men. ''The Ice Break'' (1977), a parable of racism and conflict between the generations, includes some of his most violent and astringent music. ''New Year,'' first produced by the Houston Opera in 1989, about a child psychologist who cannot face reality, is overwhelmingly lyrical, yet spiked with jazzy saxophones and electric guitars. At 90, he wrote ''The Rose Lake,'' a ''song without words for orchestra,'' which he announced would be his last composition. Though frail, he attended its first performances in London, Toronto, Boston and New York, the last two presented by Seiji Ozawa and the Boston Symphony Orchestra.
        In the 1960's and 70's, he lectured on and conducted music for British radio and television. As director of the Bath Festival from 1969 to 1974, he reinvigorated its programming and restored its financial stability.  He was made a Commander of the British Empire in 1966 and was knighted in 1979.
        No immediate family members survive.
      