
        Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto picked a former prosecutor today to be the nation's new Finance Minister, a surprise choice suggesting there may be further assaults on corruption and clubbiness in Japanese financial circles.
        Hikaru Matsunaga, 69, who is chairman of the budget committee in the lower house of Parliament, assumed the top job at the Ministry of Finance in the world's second-largest economy as an outsider. He has little experience in finance or banking, but for many Japanese these days that is an advantage because the system is regarded as so tainted.
        Mr. Matsunaga gave little indication of how he would help shape Japan's economic policy. But he said one of his priorities would be eliminating unethical behavior at the ministry, where corruption scandals claimed his predecessor and other officials.
        ''I think it most important to regain public trust by taking this chance to enforce discipline, and to take strict action if anything is wrong and anyone who has done wrong is found,'' he told a news conference.
        Mr. Matsunaga was a prosecutor early in his career, and these days it is the Tokyo prosecutors who are leading the challenge to the cozy world of reciprocal back-scratching in high finance. Japanese have been riveted by the sight of prosecutors  arresting officials in the Ministry of Finance, the apex of Japan's bureaucracy.
        In the carefully layered hierarchy of the Japanese Government, where Ministry of Finance, or M.O.F., officials have incomparably more prestige than prosecutors, it is akin to  elementary school pupils investigating and detaining the board of education.
        The most shocking moment came this week when 100 prosecutors invaded the ministry to arrest two officials on charges of bribery and raided four banks to collect information that could aid the deepening investigation of the cozy relationships between business and government. The officials are accused of accepting lavish meals and entertainment.
        By midweek, the arrests by the prosecutors had resulted in the resignations of the previous Finance Minister, Hiroshi Mitsuzuka, and the Vice Finance Minister, Takeshi Komura.
        ''The M.O.F. has been considered a sacred place where no one could advance, and M.O.F. bureaucrats thought that way, too,'' said Michio Sato, a legislator who is a former prosecutor. ''But the scalpel has been inserted into this place, and that's very significant.''
        The prosecutors have so far not arrested any bureaucrats on the fast track, the ones recruited in a special program and who really run the ministry.
        But the criminal investigation of the ministry could eventually touch its most elite bureaucrats, as suggested by some newspaper headlines this week.
        ''Symbolic collapse of the bureaucratic system,'' read one. ''The sunset of the M.O.F.'' and ''Strong wind pressures for M.O.F. reform,'' read others.
        The bribery scandal at the ministry came to light just as the ministry was trying to win passage of legislation to stabilize the financial system, defuse a banking crisis and invigorate the economy, which has languished for much of the decade.
        Prime Minister Hashimoto was reportedly furious over what he regarded as mismanagement at the ministry. After Mr. Mitsuzuka resigned on Tuesday, Mr. Hashimoto assumed the post temporarily and met with Mr. Komura, who indicated he would like to stay on as Vice Finance Minister.
        ''You should submit your resignation letter while I am Finance Minister,'' Mr. Hashimoto said in a raised voice, according to Japanese newspaper accounts of the meeting.
        The new leaders at the ministry face a formidable challenge. Koji Omi, chief of the Economic Planning Agency, said today that the ''nation's economy is worsening.'' For the last couple of months, the agency has said the economy was at a ''standstill.'' A survey by the agency also showed business executives expected the economy to suffer a sharp setback, partly from concerns about the financial system's health.
        In another swipe at the ministry, Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Japan's leading economic daily, reported today that at the Yamaichi Securities Company, illegal ''tobashi'' deals, in which a company hides losses, were done based on advice from the Finance Ministry. Yamaichi shut down in November after 100 years of business.
        Mr. Matsunaga acknowledged his challenges today, particularly the serious state of the economy. While his financial background may not be strong, he has a reputation for speaking out on occasion.
        Indeed, when he was Minister of International Trade and Industry in 1990, he suggested that the Government lift its longstanding ban on rice imports. The Prime Minister at the time, Toshiki Kaifu, reprimanded him for the remarks. Then, three years later, Japan opened its borders to foreign rice.
        INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS
      