
        James Lees-Milne, a British architectural historian and author who played a key role in the preservation of that ornament of British life, the historic country house, died on Dec. 28 in Tetbury in the county of Gloucestershire in western England. He was 89.
        He had cancer, The Daily Telegraph reported.
        Mr. Lees-Milne once observed that his country's old houses meant to him ''far more than human lives.'' He was, as The Independent put it, ''shy, droll, diligent, well-connected'' and ''a heroic savior of historic houses.''
        The Economist said, ''He did as much as anyone to save the country house.''
        His savior's role was made possible mainly by Britain's National Trust, an association that was founded a century ago by Britons worried about the sprouting of factories across their landscape. For four decades the trust mostly acquired land that was deemed imperiled.
        But in 1936, the National Trust set up its Country Houses Scheme to protect historic country houses. In the 1930's, many owners of those houses had become too poor to operate their estates properly, and it has been said that many of the houses were falling like war casualties.
        In 1935, Mr. Lees-Milne, whose roots were in the gentry -- not quite the nobility -- of west central England, and who had blossomed at Eton and Oxford, left his job as private secretary to the first Baron Lloyd. In 1936 Mr. Lees-Milne began 30 years on the staff of the National Trust, a non-Governmental, member-supported organization.
        He became an influential figure in the trust's Country Houses Scheme, which was given legal buttresses by Parliament. His role was to convince dubious, fearful, crusty owners to transfer their property into the trust's care. An important benefit to the owner's family was that when the owner died, the heirs would be spared the British Government's onerous ''death duties.''
        By the mid-1990's, the National Trust's empire included almost 300 houses and other formerly private properties, including castles, that had become open to the public.
        Mr. Lees-Milne also won praise for his writings, which included architectural history and other kinds of nonfiction, as well as fiction. Alan Pryce-Jones wrote in The New York Times Book Review that Mr. Lees-Milne's 1967 book ''St. Peter's,'' a history of the great basilica in Rome, was ''a work of literature.''
        Mr. Lees-Milne married Alvilde, former wife of the third Viscount Chaplin and daughter of a British general, in 1951. She died in 1994.
      