
        Alan Gary Millstein, the affable, ever-quotable consultant to the retail and fashion industry, died Friday at New York Hospital. Mr. Millstein, who was 54, died of myelodysplasia, a bone marrow disease, said Robert Wolf, a family spokesman.
        Mr. Millstein, who got his start in his uncle's apparel business, was one of the most well-known consultants along Seventh Avenue, respected by industry experts both for his scrappy commentary on the retail and fashion businesses as well as his roots in the garment trade.
        Born and raised in Brooklyn, Mr. Millstein graduated from Syracuse University in 1963, and the following year joined Dan Millstein Coat and Suits, a family business that set up Calvin Klein in his first fashion venture. After a short stint with his own coat business, Mr. Millstein became an advertising executive with Fairchild Publications from 1974 to 1978.
        In 1978, he started his own firm, the Fashion Network, and did consulting work for a variety of retail and apparel companies until his death. He also served as an expert witness in legal cases concerning those industries.
        But Mr. Millstein was best known for his willingness to criticize the industry that raised him, one in which feathers ruffle easily and enemies are soon made over the smallest slight.
        For example, concerning the fortunes of the department store I. Magnin, which is no longer in business, he once said, ''It is like trying to turn an ocean liner in a bathtub.'' He called home shopping ''a flea market and vehicle for broken-down movie stars.'' And on the initial public offering of Polo Ralph Lauren last summer: ''This is the biggest payday in the history of Seventh Avenue.''
        ''He was an advocate from another era when product was king,'' said Bud Konheim, the owner of the fashion house Nicole Miller. ''His complaints were with the modern era, where names and hype and advertising rule.''
        He is survived by his brother, Lewis, of Brooklyn.
      