
        Wilbert C. Morey, an amusement park entrepreneur who built a gaudy empire of candy-colored motels and kitschy pier-side entertainments on the Jersey Shore, died Jan. 22 in Los Angeles while awaiting a lung transplant. He was 70 and lived in Wildwood, N.J., an island south of Atlantic City that he helped transform from a quaint 50's-era Boardwalk community into a boisterous honky-tonk Miami Beach.
        The cause of death was pulmonary fibrosis, his family members said.
        Mr. Morey was not so much in the construction business as in the more ineffable trade of fashioning memories for thousands of shore-bound vacationers who flocked to Wildwood each summer to enjoy the sun, surf and doo-wop atmosphere he helped create. He adorned his motels with kidney-bean-shaped pools and plastic palms and lined his Boardwalk piers with the latest rides, including a 150-foot-tall Ferris wheel and a gargantuan wooden roller coaster called ''The Great White.''
        Born and reared in West Wildwood, Mr. Morey learned the art of building from his father, Lewis Morey, a carpenter for the Coast Guard. In 1953, he built his first motel, the Fantasy. Its enormous sign, which spelled out F-A-N-T-A-S-Y in neon lights, became an symbol of the city's emerging tourist industry.
        Throughout the 1950's and 1960's, Mr. Morey's motel holdings grew to include nearly 30 outlandish structures with names like the Flagship, the Satellite, the Sea Chest, the Carousel and the Pan American.
        He turned his efforts in 1969 to Wildwood's underdeveloped Boardwalk, a collection of inexpensive kiddy rides and gritty dance halls. With his brother William, Mr. Morey purchased a failing seaside bar and opened Morey's Pier, a Boardwalk amusement that in its earliest stages could only boast a giant fiberglass slide and a towering replica of King Kong.
        From such beginnings, Mr. Morey's domain grew to include two more amusement piers and two water parks by the early 1980's. With the introduction in 1984 of the Sea Serpent, a six-looped roller coaster that cost more than $1 million, Mr. Morey moved his family venture into competition with larger, corporate amusement parks like Six Flags and Great Adventure.
        At the same time, he expanded his empire westward by opening water parks in Salt Lake City and San Jose, Calif. He ventured into the luxury apartment business in 1986 when he built Seapointe Village, a 500-unit resort complex in Wildwood's Diamond Beach section.
        In addition to his brother William, Mr. Morey is survived by his wife, Jacqueline Morey, of Wildwood; two sons, Will and Jack Morey, both of Wildwood Crest; two sisters, Yvonne C. Wood, of North Cape May, and Esther Wheaton, of West Wildwood; two other brothers, Raymond and Charles, both of Wildwood Crest, and four grandchildren.
      