
        Charles E. Claggett, the former president and chairman of the Gardner Advertising Company, died on Jan. 8 at his home in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 89.
        Mr. Claggett joined Gardner, a St. Louis advertising agency, as a copywriter in 1931. He stayed with Gardner for 37 years, helping to build it into an international agency with offices in St. Louis, New York, Hollywood and six European cities, and with annual billings of more than $65 million. Mr. Claggett was president of Gardner from 1955 to 1959, and chairman and chief executive from from 1959 until 1968.
        Early on, Mr. Claggett, a promoter of marketing research, started a grocery store in St. Louis with his brother, William, where he tested his ideas about advertisements, promotions, packaging displays and shelf positioning for products. His efforts at Gardner included a promotion for Ralston Purina cereal and a campaign for Jack Daniel's whisky.
        For the Ralston promotion, Gardner ran a newspaper ad for a children's fan club for the Tom Mix radio show. The ad -- which ran on a Sunday during the Depression in 1933 -- brought in a record-setting response from children, who sent in more than 250,000 cereal box tops in exchange for a cowboy manual and a Tom Mix ring. Mr. Claggett also ran the radio program for 17 years.
        Gardner helped introduce Purina Dog Chow, with the tag line ''So complete, all you add is love,'' and also, Chuck Wagon brand dog food, with the animated chuck wagon. The agency also handled campaigns for Procter & Gamble, General Electric, Bristol-Myers, American Brands, John Deere, A.& P. and Busch Beer.
        After he left Gardner in 1968, Mr. Claggett worked for two brokerage firms in St. Louis, until he retired in 1981. Gardner was acquired by Wells Rich Greene in December 1972.
        Mr. Claggett is survived by three sons, Charles Jr. and Daniel E., both of St. Louis, and Thomas F. of Chicago; a daughter, Blanche Wagner of St. Louis, and 12 grandchildren. Mr. Claggett's first wife, Mary, died in 1943, and his second wife, Blanche, died in 1978.
      