
        Willis Green Jr., a nationally known advocate for people with AIDS, a professional social worker and, most recently, the executive director of the Harlem United Community AIDS Center, died on Dec. 19 at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 50 and lived in Rego Park, Queens.
        The cause was respiratory distress due to sepsis, Harlem United said.
        Mr. Green took charge of the community center on West 124th Street in 1994 when it was a small neighborhood-based organization. He was credited with its growth into a comprehensive human-services agency and the city's largest AIDS-care provider above 96th Street.
        He succeeded in marshaling money to serve black and Latino people in the area. In doing so, he bolstered the outreach, education and prevention programs of the center and worked to diversify its services.
        Under his guidance, the center gave Harlem its first adult daytime treatment center financed by New York State. It provides preventive and diagnostic services.
        A native of Dadeville, Ala., Mr. Green attended Alabama A&M University and, after moving to Long Island, he graduated from Hofstra University in 1971. He received a master's degree in social work from Adelphi University and started a career as a psychiatric social worker at a guidance center in Queens.
        He held supervisory and executive positions at Catholic Charities, the city's Department of Mental Health, Retardation and Alcoholism Services and the AIDS Resource Center in Manhattan before joining the staff of Harlem United in 1994.
        He worked with support groups and service organizations nationwide as well as in Canada.
        Mr. Green, who was divorced from his wife, Diane Green, is survived by his mother, Era Doss of Dadeville; six sons, Walter, of Washington,  James, of Freeport, N.Y., Demetrious and Michael, both of Atlanta, Omar, of Hempstead, N.Y., and Paul, of Manhattan; four brothers, Clarence, of Atlanta, Curtis, of Albertville, Ala., Donald, of Oxon Hill, Md., and Tony, of Rego Park, and seven grandchildren.
      