
        Walter E. Diemer, who invented bubble gum and taught salesmen how to market it by blowing gooey pink bubbles, died on Thursday at a hospital near his home in Lancaster, Pa. He was 93.
        Mr. Diemer was a fledgling accountant for the Fleer Chewing Gum Company in Philadelphia when he began testing recipes for a gum base -- the part that makes gum chewy -- in his spare time in 1928, when he was 23. He unwittingly created the first batch of bubble gum, making it pink because that was the only shade of food coloring on hand.
        ''It was an accident,'' Mr. Diemer said in an interview with The Lancaster Intelligencer Journal in 1996. ''I was doing something else and ended up with something with bubbles.''
        Americans had been chewing gum since 1870, when a New Yorker named Charles Adams began manufacturing ''Adams New York Gum No. 1'' in a Manhattan warehouse. By the 1920's, a handful of companies around the nation were making gum from chicle, a form of sapodilla tree sap that had been chewed in Belize, Guatemala and Mexico for centuries.
        But Mr. Diemer's pink concoction was stretchier and less sticky than earlier gum formulas. Its promise became evident when he took a five-pound batch to a Philadelphia grocery and it sold out in one afternoon. The Fleer Company took over the recipe and called it Dubble Bubble, selling the gum in yellow wrappers for a penny apiece. Mr. Diemer helped market Dubble Bubble by teaching salesmen to blow bubbles so they could demonstrate the product.
        Dubble Bubble had no competition until after World War II, when the Topps Company of Brooklyn began wrapping bubble gum in comics and calling it Bazooka. Both brands became known internationally, and other companies later made bubble gum in sticks, flakes, nuggets, powders and even pastes.
        Mr. Diemer, who went to work for the Fleer Company after high school, never received royalties for his invention, said his wife, Florence Freeman Kohler Diemer. But he received hundreds of letters from children thanking him for bubble gum, she said. Although he rarely chewed gum, he would invite groups of children to his home and tell them about his invention, then preside over bubble-blowing contests, his wife said.
        ''He was terrifically proud of it,'' Mrs. Diemer said. ''He would say to me: 'I've done something with my life. I've made kids happy around the world.' ''
        Mr. Diemer eventually became senior vice president of Fleer, retiring in 1970, his wife said. He oversaw construction of bubble gum plants in Philadelphia and Barcelona and traveled around the world marketing the gum, she said. He moved to Ocean City, N.J., after retiring, but served on Fleer's Board of Directors until 1980.
        After Mr. Diemer's first wife died in 1991, he moved to Lancaster, Pa., where he was known as a free spirit who rode around town on a big tricycle. He remarried in 1996. His two children from his first marriage died in 1986.
        Mr. Diemer is survived by his wife, five grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
      