
        Gustav S. Eyssell, a former treasurer of a Kansas City, Mo., vaudeville and movie house who rose to be president of Radio City Music Hall and later of Rockefeller Center, died on Wednesday at his home in Loudoun County, Va. He was 96.
        Mr. Eyssell, known as Gus, became an executive of Radio City Music Hall in 1933 and was president and general manager of Radio City Music Hall Corporation from 1942 to 1948. He participated in the music hall's transition from vaudeville to stage shows and movies, and became renowned for pleasing the public.
        He ran the music hall with such flair that he became an offstage star in the film world. In 1948, Thomas M. Pryor, a New York Times film critic, wrote: ''Under his direction the music hall has known its most prosperous years and today Eyssell is regarded by people inside and outside the movie industry as the country's No. 1 showman.''
        Later that year he was named an executive of Rockefeller Center Inc., and went on to succeed Nelson A. Rockefeller as its president. Mr. Eyssell -- pronounced EYE-sul -- held that post from 1951 to 1971. When he left that position, the company's chairman, J. Richardson Dilworth, said Mr. Eyssell was ''a rare showman, an outstanding administrator, a brilliant real estate man, a master builder and a great community leader.''
        Mr. Eyssell was born in Kansas City, Mo., attended public schools there and then, as he later recalled, ''I wanted to go to college and I couldn't afford it.'' So he took a job working seven days a week as treasurer of the Newmar Theater in Kansas City, where the customers learned about coming attractions by promotional slides drawn by a promising local newspaper cartoonist named Walt Disney.
        Mr. Eyssell went on to manage Paramount theaters successively in Los Angeles, Texas and, beginning in 1931, New York City. The Depression was in full swing when he moved to Radio City Music Hall in 1933. He recalled in 1970 that, ''It was damn good to get a better job than I had.'' The music hall had opened in 1932 as a vaudeville house, with two shows a day, charging $2.75 a customer. But business was skimpy.
        Early the next year, with Mr. Eyssell as assistant general manager, the hall switched to stage shows and movies. Its first screen offering was ''The Bitter Tea of General Yen,''  directed by Frank Capra and starring Barbara Stanwyck. The film was an inspired choice, and a durable one. The present-day film critic Leonard Maltin has written that Mr. Capra's sensuous tale of an ''American woman's strange fascination with a Chinese warlord is still dazzling.''
        The 1933 ticket price, as Mr. Eyssell remembered it in 1970, was 35 cents until 1 p.m., 50 cents in the afternoon and 75 cents in the evening. Even so, business was slow at first. He recalled, ''We had a lot of expenses and not many customers, but we had quality.''
        Among the music hall's employees in Mr. Eyssell's era was a little known actor who worked as a guide. His name was Gregory Peck. Once he led a gaggle of non-ticket-holding visitors to the mezzanine to take a quick look at the stage show. But as they looked, Mr. Peck went to sleep. Eventually he woke up, but by then the sightseers had watched most of the show.
        Later Mr. Eyssell said: ''We are glad Greg made good in Hollywood. If he'd stayed around here, he might have busted us.''
        At the music hall, Mr. Eyssell had displayed what Coronet magazine called, in the late 1940's, ''Gus's established ability'' to pick movies that proved to be '' 'boffolas,' or supersmash hits,'' with the result that ''in show business, a music hall premiere is considered the best success insurance a motion picture can have.'' Mr. Eyssell was also skilled at deciding what sort of stage show would go well with a given film.
        But things did not always go smoothly for him. In 1937, when he accompanied the music hall's famed dancers, the Rockettes, to France, they arrived at Le Havre, where officials said the Rockettes could not enter France without the approval of a high immigration official in Paris. Mr. Eyssell tried to reach the official by telephone, but to no avail. Disconsolately, Mr. Eyssell returned to the ship, only to find the official buying Champagne for all the Rockettes in the cocktail lounge.
        Mr. Eyssell said that when he became a Rockefeller Center executive in 1948, ''I guess they took an awful chance on me. I had to learn the real estate business and the building business. I had to burn a little midnight oil.''
        His years at Rockefeller Center coincided with its expansion. As Carol Herselle Krinsky, a New York University art historian, wrote in ''The Encyclopedia of New York City'': ''Its increasing profitability during the Second World War inspired the owners to add buildings on the northern and western sides after 1947, including four office towers on Sixth Avenue between 48th and 52nd Streets, the first erected in 1960, the three south of it in 1973.''
        Mr. Eyssell was named a trustee of the Colonial Williamsburg Foundation in 1945 and served for more than two decades. The honors he was awarded included a Horatio Alger award, for a businessman who rose to the top from humble beginnings, in 1956.
        He also served as president of the New York Convention and Visitors Bureau and on the boards of Channel 13, a public-television station; the Fifth Avenue Association; the Avenue of the Americas Association, and what was then Roosevelt Hospital.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Mercedes Marie Bergmann.
      