
        Sir Anthony Glyn, the free-spirited British author of a dozen books of biography, fiction and travel memoirs, died on Jan. 20 at his home in the south of France. He was 75.
        The cause of death was congestive heart failure, said his wife, Lady Glyn. He had been ill for several years.
        Sir Anthony was known for an ebullient sense of humor, a willingness to take risks and an ability to write with fluency and confidence in different genres. Born Geoffrey Leo Simon Davson in London in 1922 (he legally changed his name later), he was the first son of a baronet who had business interests in cattle, sugar and timber in the West Indies. He succeeded to the baronetcy in 1937, at age 15, when his father died.
        After attending Eton and serving in the British Army in World War II, he joined the family business in the West Indies. He returned to London and appeared set for a life in business when his creative side began to emerge. Using a pseudonym, Anthony Glyn, he published two novels, ''Romanza'' and ''Jungle of Eden,'' then set about writing the book that would change his life: a biography of his wild, beautiful maternal grandmother, Elinor Glyn.
        Elinor Glyn, known for writing shockingly racy novels that titillated Edwardian society and for lazing around in provocative clothing on tiger skin throw-rugs, was credited with being the first person to use the term ''It'' for sex appeal. She was also such a joyous libertine that she became the subject of a short poem:
        Would you like to sin
        With Elinor Glyn
        On a tiger skin?
        Or would you prefer
        To err with her
        On some other fur?
        After he finished his book, ''Elinor Glyn'' (1955), Sir Geoffrey decided to throw away his old life and begin a new one. He appeared at breakfast one morning, his wife recalled in an interview, and announced, ''We're changing everything.''
        In addition to his name, which he legally altered because, he said, he felt closer to his grandmother than to anyone else in his family, ''changing everything'' meant quitting his job, giving away all his suits, filling the house with abstract art and moving to a tiny thatched cottage in the country that had no bathroom, no hot water and just one electrical outlet.
        He decided to live as a bohemian artist and to learn to dance to rock and roll music. ''He became a typical author, starving in a garrett,'' Lady Glyn said. ''We lived in absolute poverty, but we were very happy.''
        After ''Elinor Glyn'' was published to great acclaim, becoming a best seller in the United States, the days of poverty were over. Lady Glyn immediately installed a bathroom.
        Among Sir Anthony's other novels was ''The Dragon Variation,'' a novel about chess that was widely acknowledged as his most accomplished fiction. It was better than Nabokov's acclaimed chess novel, ''The Defense,'' said the Times of London at the time, and made chess ''sound like the most exciting thing since bullfighting.''
        For many years, Sir Anthony and his wife, the former Susan Rhys-Williams, divided their time between London and Paris. Sir Anthony wrote ''The Seine'' (1966) and ''The Companion Guide to Paris'' (1986) about his adopted city. In 1970 he published ''The Blood of a Britishman,'' an amusing guide to the British character that was published with great success in the United States under the title ''The British.''
        After 25 years in Paris, Sir Anthony and his family moved to the south of France. In addition to his wife, Sir Anthony is survived by a daughter, Victoria. A second daughter, Caroline, died in 1981.
        Illness did not quench Sir Anthony's spirit. Riding in his wheelchair, shaded by a golf umbrella, he liked to say that he was taking part in a ''procession of chariots.''
      