
        Owen Bradley, a producer, musician and songwriter who helped establish Nashville as the creative center of country music, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Nashville. He was 82.
        Born on a farm near Westmoreland, Tenn., Mr. Bradley played piano as a teen-ager in local roadhouses and lodge halls. In 1935 he got a part-time job with WSM Radio in Nashville and by 1940 was a regular house musician on many of the station's broadcasts -- playing piano, organ and trombone as well as arranging. He worked not only with country artists but also with Dinah Shore, Bing Crosby and other pop performers. In 1947 he became the station's music director, a job he held for more than a decade.
        While at WSM, Mr. Bradley also worked with Decca Records, learning his way around a recording studio. Some of the most important records in country music were made under his supervision. Among them were Kitty Wells's 1952 ''It Wasn't God Who Made Honky-Tonk Angels,'' a hit that was banned by the NBC radio network for being suggestive. Another was Webb Pierce's 1954  ''Slowly,'' which popularized the piercing, sobbing sound of the pedal steel guitar as a major element in the makeup of commercial honky-tonk music.
        Mr. Bradley opened his own barnlike recording studio, The Quonset Hut, on 16th Avenue South in 1955. It was the first recording studio in the area now called Music Row and dotted with more than 300 studios.
        In 1958 Mr. Bradley left his position at WSM and opened the Nashville division of Decca, where he became vice president. At Decca Mr. Bradley popularized Patsy Cline in 1961, pushing against her wishes to put strings and vocal harmonies behind her singing. He produced her hits ''Crazy,'' ''I Fall to Pieces'' and ''Sweet Dreams,'' signaling the start of what would be known as the Nashville Sound -- a lusher, cleaner, more commercial version of country music, principally made by a handful of musicians and producers.
        Ms. Cline's songs and the new sound would redefine country music, greatly increase its profit potential and become the standard esthetic against which country-music mavericks would retaliate. (Several of those mavericks, including Willie Nelson and Waylon Jennings, came together on the 1975 album ''Wanted! The Outlaws,'' produced by Mr. Bradley's son, Jerry.)
        Among Mr. Bradley's many other production credits are Loretta Lynn's ''Coal Miner's Daughter'' and records by Brenda Lee, Bill Monroe, Conway Twitty and Red Foley.
        Decca merged with MCA in the mid-1960's, and the Decca name was dropped. Mr. Bradley worked for MCA until 1976. Then he became a part-time producer, working with Eddy Arnold, Jimmie Davis and others; he produced K. D. Lang's 1988 album ''Shadowland,'' and last year went into the studio with Brenda Lee to re-record 26 of her old hits.
        In addition to his son, he is survived by his wife, Katherine, of Mount Juliet, Tenn; a daughter, Patsy; three brothers, Harold, Charles and Bobby; two grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      