
        Ellis Rabb, one of the most versatile actors and directors in the American theater who, as the founder and artistic director of the A.P.A. theater company, brought diverse seasons of repertory theater to Broadway in the 1960's, died on Sunday at a hospital in Memphis. He was 67 and lived in Memphis.
        The cause was heart failure, said Carrie Nye, a friend and an actress who starred in Mr. Rabb's final production, ''The Glass Menagerie,'' in 1994 at the State University of New York in Purchase.
        A flamboyant actor and imaginative director, Mr. Rabb devoted himself passionately to his profession. Though born in Tennessee and trained in the United States, he was very much in the mode of the celebrated English actor-managers. In common with Laurence Olivier and others, he was a working man of the theater as well as a visionary.
        At the A.P.A. (formally the Association of Producing Artists), Mr. Rabb applied the English principle of repertory acting to an ensemble of American actors. Under Mr. Rabb's leadership, the company became the American version of a national theater, appearing on Broadway and also touring its plays to other parts of the country. It was the first American repertory company on Broadway since Eva Le Gallienne's Civic Repertory Theater in the 1930's.
        In his prolific career, he uncovered new life and new depth in Broadway playwrights like George S. Kaufman, Moss Hart, Edna Ferber and George Kelly, while also presenting -- and often acting in -- the widest spectrum of plays, from Shakespeare to Moliere to de Ghelderode. He made popular comedies seem like classics and made difficult classics accessible to a general public.
        ''I firmly believe,'' he said, ''that the only true strength and purpose of theater is its function as a mass-audience medium.'' He proved, in his words, ''that Pirandello can be as widely appealing as George S. Kaufman.''
        As an actor, he played every role from Hamlet to Lady Bracknell in ''The Importance of Being Earnest,'' achieving his greatest fame as theatrically based characters in ''The Royal Family'' (by Kaufman and Ferber) and David Mamet's ''A Life in the Theater,'' roles that he enriched with his histrionic elegance. A tall, thin, expressive actor, offstage he communicated his own highly theatricalized personality.
        As a director he was best known for ''You Can't Take It With You'' (by Kaufman and Hart) and ''The Royal Family.'' He first presented ''You Can't Take It With You'' on Broadway in 1965. He revived the play (with Jason Robards and Colleen Dewhurst) in 1983, and it ran on Broadway for 312 performances.
        His production of ''The Royal Family'' opened at the Brooklyn Academy of Music in 1975 with a cast headed by Eva Le Gallienne, Rosemary Harris (who was Mr. Rabb's wife from 1960 to 1967), George Grizzard and Sam Levene. When the play moved to Broadway the next year, Mr. Rabb took over the role of Tony Cavendish from Mr. Grizzard, filling the John Barrymore-like character with his own panache. He won a Tony award as the play's director.
        The A.P.A., founded in 1960, was a collective ensemble of actors and directors who came together under Mr. Rabb's leadership to present classics in repertory. The company opened off Broadway at the Folksbiene Playhouse with ''The School for Scandal,'' starring Ms. Harris, Mr. Grizzard, Nancy Marchand and Clayton Corzatte. Sheridan's 18th-century classic was matched with a revival of ''The Tavern'' by George M. Cohan; the two vastly different comedies demonstrated the breadth of the actors in his company. As a producer and director, Mr. Rabb proved that American actors were as qualified and as capable as their English peers in the classics.
        In 1964, after several successful seasons, the A.P.A. merged with the Phoenix Theater to form the A.P.A.-Phoenix. On Broadway the company presented an ensemble company in ''Man and Superman,'' ''Right You Are,'' ''The Show-Off,'' de Ghelderode's ''Pantagleize'' (starring Mr. Rabb as an innocent caught up in political turmoil) and Ionesco's ''Exit the King,'' among other plays. Mr. Rabb also staged an epic production of Erwin Piscator's adaptation of ''War and Peace.''
        During the years of the A.P.A. and the A.P.A.-Phoenix, Mr. Rabb managed to keep the company alive even when faced with imminent financial collapse. He was convinced that to survive, a repertory company had to be subsidized.
        His last A.P.A. production, in 1969,  was ''Hamlet,'' which he called ''the nadir'' of his life. ''If you want to destroy your career as actor, director and producer, all in the same night,'' he explained, ''direct yourself in 'Hamlet' for your own company.''
        After the A.P.A. completed its final season, Mr. Rabb continued as an actor and director. He staged an acclaimed production of ''A Streetcar Named Desire'' (starring Ms. Harris) at Lincoln Center in 1973. Wearing his other hat, he played opposite Peter Evans in the New York premiere of ''A Life in the Theater'' in 1977, giving a grand performance as an actor of the old school, wearing his role as a tailor-made theatrical cape of many colors. The Mamet play, he said at the time, was ''like coming back to my roots as an actor.''
        In 1978 he was one of the five people named to Richmond Crinkley's theatrical directorate at Lincoln Center, the only one of the team who had previously directed plays at the Lincoln Center theater. He opened the company's first season with his production of ''The Philadelphia Story'' . In 1980 he was back working as an actor, returning to Kaufman and Hart in the title role of ''The Man Who Came to Dinner'' at Circle in the Square. Five years later, he staged his version of Schnitzler's ''Anatol'' at that theater, in an adaptation written by him and Nicholas Martin.
        During the 1980's he returned to Memphis, where he was born in 1930. He is survived by his mother, who lives in Memphis. In 1977 he said that at the age of 4 he fell into a marionette stage and thought for a moment that he was a marionette. Then he realized he was an actor.
        Mr. Rabb studied in the drama division of Carnegie Tech in Pittsburgh. After graduating in 1953 he acted and directed with the Antioch Area Theater in Yellow Springs, Ohio, and with the American Shakespeare Festival in Stratford, Conn., touring with Katharine Hepburn in ''Much Ado About Nothing.'' He began acting in New York in 1955 and in 1958 won the Clarence Derwent Award for his performance in Moliere's ''Misanthrope'' off Broadway.
        Several years ago, once again flying the Phoenix theater banner, Mr. Rabb directed ''The Glass Menagerie'' and ''Morning's at Seven'' at SUNY Purchase. In recent years he was also writing his autobiography, ''Spilt Milk.''
        As an actor and director, Mr. Rabb was broadly eclectic and knew no boundaries, while insisting that there was a personal element in all that he did. In a 1977 interview in The New York Times, he said: ''As an actor, you use your life to create your work. You're not using stone, clay or paint, only yourself and your experience to shape a new creation.''
      