
        Alan E. Cober, an innovative magazine, newspaper and book illustrator and a graphic commentator known for his visual essays on the death chamber at Sing Sing prison and on mental patients at the Willowbrook State School on Staten Island, died on Saturday while swimming in Sarasota, Fla. He was 62 and lived in Pleasantville, N.Y.
        He died of a heart attack, his daughter, Leslie Cober-Gentry, said.
        Mr. Cober was one of a small group of American illustrators who injected the precepts of modern art into commercial art. His magazine illustrations rejected realistic painting for expressive and symbolic drawing and water-color rendering. They did not mimic a passage of a text, as was the convention, but complemented it with interpretation.
        Such work is common now, but Mr. Cober was among those who fought for its acceptance. His editorial art appeared in numerous publications, among them Time, Newsweek, Rolling Stone, Life, Look, The Atlantic Monthly and The New York Times. He created art for advertising, and wrote and illustrated books for children, including ''Cober's Animals.''
        Mr. Cober's loose, expressive, linear style owed a debt to the economical line of Ben Shahn and the conceptual acuity of George Grosz. He often included scrawled texts on his pictures.He filled hundreds of sketchbooks with everything from simple notations to fully realized paintings. From these sketches he would complete drawings, watercolors and prints. His work on the mentally retarded, prisons and the aged was  compiled in a book of drawings, ''The Forgotten Society'' (Dover Books, 1972).
        Mr. Cober, who was born in New York City and attended the University of Vermont and the School of Visual Arts in Manhattan, was also an influential teacher. He was a professor of art and distinguished visiting artist at the University of Buffalo, held a chair at the University of Georgia and was teaching at the Ringling School of Art and Design in Sarasota, Fla., at the time of his death. Circus life is a theme of his  paintings and drawings.
        His work is held in the collections of the Library of Congress, the Smithsonian Institution and the New Britain Museum of American Art, in Connecticut.
        In addition to his daughter, he is survived by his wife, Ellen; a son, Peter; his sister, Diane Teplitzky, and two grandchildren.
      