
        David (Junior) Kimbrough, a Mississippi bluesman who ran his own juke joints for more than 30 years, died on Saturday in Holly Springs, Miss., where he lived. He was 67.
        The cause was a heart attack, according to a report in The Memphis Commercial Appeal.
        Mr. Kimbrough played raw-boned blues, with a voice that harked back to field hollers and stark, repeating guitar lines that bordered on the hypnotic. For most of his career, he was heard only at house parties or at rural blues bars known as juke joints, and his music preserved the open-ended sound of blues created on the spot for dancing audiences.
        Mr. Kimbrough was born in Hudsonville, Miss., near the Tennessee border, and grew up listening to bluesmen like Mississippi Fred McDowell. He built a local reputation and, while working as a diesel mechanic, began running his own juke joints, first in a wooden shack among the cotton fields and more recently in a former church. He first recorded in 1968, with a single for the local Philwood label, and also released a single for High Water Records and appeared on a blues compilation, ''National Downhome Blues Festival Vol. 2'' on the Southland label.
        In 1992, he was featured in the documentary ''Deep Blues,'' produced by the blues historian Robert Palmer, and had his music released nationally for the first time as part of the soundtrack on Atlantic Records. He went on to make three albums for the Fat Possum label: ''All Night Long,'' ''Sad Days, Lonely Nights'' and ''Most Things Haven't Worked Out.'' Mr. Kimbrough began to tour beyond Mississippi, appearing in New York and Europe.
        He is survived by his companion, Mildred Washington; four daughters, Addie Boga and Patricia Hawthorne, both of Memphis, Effie Gray of Aurora, Ill., and Shirley Richmond of Byhalia, Miss.; five sons, David Malone of Memphis, Kent Malone of Chulahoma, Miss., Robert Malone and Larry Washington, both of Holly Springs, and the Rev. Larry Kimbrough of Abilene, Tex., and by 42 grandchildren and 16 great-grandchildren.
      