
        Shinichi Suzuki, whose revolutionary methods for teaching music led millions of youngsters around the world to study the violin using the ''Suzuki Method,'' died this morning at his home in Matsumoto, Japan. He was 99.
        Mr. Suzuki's approach to teaching music was considered groundbreaking when he introduced it 48 years ago. It began with the belief that any toddler could learn music in a suitably supportive environment, making sounds by imitation rather than by studying notes.
        Every year, Mr. Suzuki's school, the Talent Education Institute, organizes a concert in Tokyo in which several thousand children, some as young as 2 or 3, spin out beautiful music on their violins, in unison.  Youngsters play variations on ''Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star,'' but they also play Mendelssohn, Bach and Handel, and they do so without turning a single page of music: they  all play from memory.
        Some people said Mr. Suzuki was able to work magic on children. But  as he said many times, his method required a nurturing environment, one in which parents played a crucial role, attending lessons and practice sessions with their young children and supporting them in many ways.
        ''Talent is not something given naturally,'' Mr. Suzuki said repeatedly. ''It is something you foster.  Every child can foster his talent.''
        Mr. Suzuki came up with his concept after he realized that children branded by traditional teachers as stupid had mastered Japanese, their complicated mother tongue, through their own ability and parental nurturing. He decided that this concept could be applied to teaching music to children.
        Ideally, the Suzuki Method starts at birth, with recordings of classical music playing next to the cradle. Young children first learning the violin are not asked for perhaps several years even to look at a sheet of music.
        Instead, they learn everything by ear -- listening, imitating and memorizing -- until they can master a piece like Vivaldi's A minor Concerto.
        His method, however, requires enormous dedication from parents. In Suzuki classes in Tokyo, mothers come with their sons and daughters and sit and take notes as the teachers make comments to the students.  Children are almost never discouraged, and they are usually praised first before being corrected.
        The Suzuki Method is now a world-wide phenomenon, with 400,000 students at any one time in 34 countries, including 25,000 in Japan.
        The United States has been particularly receptive to the Suzuki Method, and by some estimates has nearly 10 times as many children using it as Japan does.
        With nearly half a century of experience, the system has had enough time to produce some leading musicians. One of Mr. Suzuki's first pupils was a 4-year-old boy named Toshiya Eto, now an internationally acclaimed soloist.
        Mr. Suzuki also has his critics, who say that musicians trained by ear often cannot read musical scores as easily as colleagues who learn by more traditional methods. Mr. Suzuki dismissed such comments, saying that his students read music as effortlessly as traditionally trained pupils.
        Music was always an essential part of Mr. Suzuki's life. Born in 1898, in the Meiji era soon after Japan opened up to the outside world and embraced Western music, he was the son of a violin maker in the city of Nagoya.
        Classical music has become enormously popular in Japan, and Tokyo now has more symphony orchestras than any city in the world. Kindergarten-age children are far more likely to learn the piano or an instrument in Japan than in other countries, and many companies and communities have their own orchestras.
        After graduating from a vocational school in commerce, Mr. Suzuki went to Germany in 1921 to learn  how to play the violin better. When he returned to Japan, he formed a group, the Suzuki Quartet, with his three younger brothers.
        Mr. Suzuki taught at the Imperial Music School in Tokyo and elsewhere before founding his own institute in the old castle town of Matsumoto in central Japan.
        Recently, his wife, Waltraud Suzuki, has been attending the annual mass concerts in Tokyo on behalf of Mr. Suzuki, who was too weak to travel.
        In addition to Mrs. Suzuki, Mr. Suzuki is survived by his sister, Namiko Fujie. The couple had no children of their own, though millions of children all over the world have been their proteges.
      