
        Alexander M. Selinger, an Italian-born, Czech-reared businessman who brought the sweet taste of Austria and Hungary to a generation of Middle European refugees on the Upper West Side, died on Jan. 12 at a nursing home near his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 91 and had operated the Eclair Bakery at 141 West 72d Street for more than 50 years.
        They are mostly ghosts now: the Eclair itself, and the throngs of displaced singers, musicians, writers, artists, undifferentiated intellectuals and other culture-shocked refugees who made their way to New York from Nazi Europe in the 1940's and found instant nostalgia, animated conversation and sometimes even love over a schlag-slugged cup of coffee and perhaps a nice piece of Eclair strudel.
        The Eclair and much of its original clientele may be mere memories today, but from the moment Mr. Selinger opened it in 1939 to the day he sold the business in 1993, memory was very much what the Eclair experience was about.
        At the Eclair it was not necessary to bite into a madeleine, or even a seven-layered Schwarzwalder Kirschtorte, to evoke a rush of memories about happier times.
        The customers themselves, whiling away an afternoon ababble in Yiddish or half a dozen other tongues, were enough to transport a visitor back to the coffeehouses of Europe. And if some of those who gathered at the Eclair live on beyond memory, it may have been because the watchful man with the cocked ear eating his usual open-face tuna salad sandwich at his favorite booth beneath the faded print of van Gogh's ''Sunflowers'' was the most regular of the Eclair regulars, Isaac Bashevis Singer.
        Most of the customers, of course, were anonymous sorts, but there were enough famous names in his guest book to give Mr. Selinger an enviable autograph collection: Arturo Toscanini, Bruno Walter, Eugene Ormandy, Rabbi Stephen Wise and in time, Barbra Streisand.
        From the beginning the Eclair was more than a bakery. For one thing, it was a full-blown restaurant with a menu that included Wiener schnitzel, pot roast, soups and even steak, plus an assortment of vegetarian offerings. Whatever they ordered (from overeducated waiters who called one another Herr Doktor) and however long they lingered, the customers found a ready welcome from the proprietor, a small, natty man of legendary conviviality, a wide circle of friends and vast array of pluperfect pastries.
        Never mind that the man who ran the bakery was not a baker. The son of an Italian mother and a Czechoslovakian father, Mr. Selinger, who was born in Italy and grew up in Austerlitz, had started his business life as a sugar broker in Vienna. And by the time he came to the United States as a Jewish refugee in 1939, he had spent enough time in the city's coffeehouses to recognize quality when he tasted it.
        So when he was unable to find other work in New York, Mr. Selinger, ever a dreamer, decided to recreate Vienna on West 72d Street.
        Buying Le Petite Rotunde, an artists' hangout named after a Parisian cafe, Mr. Selinger decided to retain the restaurant's small sideline bakery and its artistic clientele, but when a German friend told him that ''Rotunde'' meant ''outhouse'' in Berlin slang he dropped the name, selecting Eclair only after learning that his first choice, Napoleon, had been taken.
        Mr. Selinger took such pains with his baked goods that customers traveling to Vienna were known to take along Eclair pastries to impress their hosts, but it was its reputation as a social center that made the Eclair an institution, one that eventually built a booming anniversary business on married couples who had met each other there. It was a tradition started by Mr. Selinger. When his initial 18-hour workdays left him no time to look for a wife anywhere else, he married one of his employees.
        As the business thrived, Mr. Selinger moved the baking operations to Brooklyn and opened a series of satellite stores, including one on East 57th Street that still exists under new management.
        For all the Eclair's Old World grounding and clientele, Mr. Selinger was a visionary. Anticipating yuppie tastes, he imported what his wife described as the nation's first croissant machine and was soon turning out 100,000 a day.
        A dying clientele, changing tastes and a concern for calories doomed the Eclair. After the business was sold in 1993, the new owner kept the Eclair open for a while, but it finally limped into oblivion. Still, those with a taste for nostalgia, a sweet tooth and a bit of imagination may still evoke sugar-sparked memories at 141 West 72d Street.
        The shop is now a Krispy Kreme doughnut shop.
        Mr. Selinger, whose first wife died in 1988, is survived by his wife, Marianne, and a sister, Annetta Mandler of Manhattan.
      