
        Dr. Thomas F. Frist Sr., who was widely regarded as the father of the modern for-profit hospital system, died at his home in Nashville on Sunday. He was 87.
        His venture into for-profit medicine began in the late 60's, when Dr. Frist and his son, Thomas Jr., founded the Hospital Corporation of America. That company, one of the first for-profit hospital chains, merged in 1994 into the Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corporation -- now the world's largest hospital company.
        A cardiologist and internist who practiced medicine in the Nashville area for 50 years and attended to seven Tennessee governors, Dr. Frist switched to hospital administration and management.
        Unable to have his patients admitted to the not-for-profit and church-affiliated hospitals that dominated the Nashville area in the 1950's, he founded Park View Hospital in 1960 with a number of other doctors. He served as Park View's chief executive until 1968, when Park View became the first hospital to join the Hospital Corporation of America.
        ''We were not interested in the financial rewards as much as we were in quality care and having a place to put our patients,'' he once said in an interview.
        Indeed, it was Dr. Frist's son, Dr. Thomas F. Frist Jr., who stressed economics in arguing for the creation of HCA.
        In an oral history on file at the American Hospital Association, the elder Dr. Frist quoted his son as having said: ''Banks are together, filling stations are together, grocery stores are together, why can't we put hospitals together? Economy of scale means so much.''
        Along with Jack C. Massey, a Nashville businessman who was a founder of Kentucky Fried Chicken, the father-and-son team created HCA. The company, which went public in 1969, rapidly built a group of hospitals and became the first on the New York Stock Exchange to reach $1 billion in revenue in its first decade as a public company.
        Four years ago, HCA merged with Columbia to form Columbia/HCA Healthcare, the world's largest hospital chain. From its creation, the elder Dr. Frist was chief medical officer and chairman of the board of governors.
        Last July, after a management shake-up brought on by an inquiry into whether the company overcharged Federal health care programs, Thomas Frist Jr. took over as chief executive of Columbia/HCA, operator of 340 hospitals nationwide.
        Speaking of the elder Dr. Frist, R. Clayton McWhorter, a Columbia/ HCA board member, said he certainly ''was saddened by what happened recently,'' and adding: ''He was the corporate conscience at HCA. He made sure we stayed on course and delivered quality care.''
        Dr. Frist was born in Meridian, Miss. His father died when he was 8, and his mother took in boarders, including two doctors and their families, to make ends meet. When he was 12, one of the doctors hired the youth as an orderly at Meridian's 55-bed hospital.
        Winfield Dunn, a former Tennessee Governor who served as a member of HCA's board, remarked: ''He was a man of such character and ability that he would have been a healer even if he had never gone to medical school. He was truly devoted to other people.''
        Though dedicated to relieving pain in others, Dr. Frist was no stranger to physical discomfort and illness. He survived a heart attack, two coronary-bypass operations, a broken neck, colon cancer and a stroke.
        ''Everything that possibly could happen to him did,'' Mr. McWhorter said. ''But he always had a sense of humor about his ailments and could talk about them in a funny way.''
        A graduate of the University of Mississippi, he earned his M.D. in 1933 from Vanderbilt University Medical School.
        From 1942 until 1946 he served as a major in the Medical Corps.
        The recipient of numerous civic awards, Dr. Frist was a board member of the Nashville City Bank and vice chairman of the board of the American Retirement Corporation. He also served on the Health, Education and Welfare Advisory Committee on Older Americans.
        Dr. Frist's widow, the former Dorothy Harrison Cate, died of complications of pneumonia on Tuesday. She was 87.
        Dr. Frist is survived by three sons -- the younger Thomas Frist, Dr. Robert A. Frist and Senator Bill Frist -- all of Nashville. He also leaves two daughters, Dorothy F. Boensch and Mary F. Barfield, both of Nashville; 14 grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      