
        Vladimir Prelog, a Swiss chemist whose pioneering insights into the shape of complex biological molecules were honored with the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1975, died on Jan. 7 in Zurich. He was 91.
        His death was reported on Tuesday by the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, where he was a professor of organic chemistry from 1942 until his retirement in 1976.
        Dr. Prelog and John Warcup Cornforth of the University of Sussex, England, shared the award for their work on the architecture of molecules like cholesterol and antibiotics. Their research in what is known as stereochemistry bore rich fruit in the development of pharmaceuticals.
        Stereochemistry examines how the properties of chemical compounds are affected by the three-dimensional arrangement of their atoms. Dr. Prelog was recognized for his application of X-ray analysis techniques to work out the structures of many types of antibiotics, like rifamycin, which is widely used to treat tuberculosis.
        Dr. Prelog also tackled a class of chemicals called nonactins, which are related to the kinds of antibiotics added to cattle feed to reduce intestinal bacteria and make the animal grow faster.
        He was credited with formulating systemic rules to determine whether the atoms of a lopsided, or asymmetric, carbon-based molecule form what chemistry now defines as right-handed or left-handed arrangements in space. Right-handed and left-handed versions of such molecules, described as chiral, contain the same atoms but are mirror images of each other.
        Dr. Prelog created the nomenclature system for chiral molecules. ''Chiral'' is based on the Greek word for ''hand'' because right and left hands are mirror images.
        In awarding Dr. Prelog the Nobel Prize, the Swedish Royal Academy of Sciences called his research ''of fundamental importance to an understanding of biological processes.''
        Vladimir Prelog was born in Sarajevo on July 23, 1906, when the city was part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. He earned his doctorate in 1929 at the Institute of Technology and School of Chemistry in Prague and worked there for six years in a industrial laboratory.
        In 1935, he became a lecturer at the University of Zagreb, Croatia, but in 1942 he accepted an invitation from a former teacher to join him on the faculty of the Eidgenossische Technische Hochschule Zurich, where Einstein formerly taught. The invitation came from Leopold Ruzicka, a native of Croatia and co-winner of the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1939.
        Dr. Prelog was promoted to full professor in 1950; seven years later, he succeeded Dr. Ruzicka as director of the Zurich institute's laboratory of organic chemistry, which he led until 1966.
        A frequent visitor to the United States, he was elected a foreign member of the National Academy of Sciences in 1961. The Royal Academy of Britain followed suit a year later, and Dr. Prelog won many other prestigious awards.
        Dr. Prelog's survivors include his wife of 64 years, Kamila Vitek Prelog, and a son, Jan.
      