
        Dr. Geoffrey S. Watson, a statistician who helped write a classic formula that has given economists and other researchers more confidence in their predictions, died on Jan. 3 at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia. Dr. Watson, who lived in Princeton, N.J., was 76.
        The cause was complications from heart surgery, family members said.
        Dr. Watson, who was head of the statistics department at Princeton from 1970 to 1985 and who retired from the department in 1992, was also known for using statistical methods to address environmental and geological issues like plate tectonics.
        In the late 1940's, Dr. Watson worked with James Durbin, a professor at the London School of Economics, to develop what came to be known as the Durbin-Watson statistical method. Fifty years later, the method remains a staple in software packages and textbooks.
        ''In the postwar world, economists were trying to forecast all kinds of things about the economy,'' said Dr. Charles H. Franklin, a statistician in the political science department at the University of Wisconsin at Madison. ''Before Durbin-Watson, they didn't really have a test to tell them whether they could have confidence in these models. Durbin-Watson gave them a simple diagnostic test. Now there are technically better tests, but lots of people still use Durbin-Watson.''
        Dr. Harold Kuhn, a professor emeritus of mathematical economics at Princeton, said: ''Only a few statisticians ever are honored with their name on a statistic. When it happens, suddenly your name is attached to a test for eternity.''
        Dr. Watson was widely respected for his applications of statistics, in particular his decades of work to validate the theory of continental drift, which describes the movements of continents.
        In 1956, he discovered that magnetized rocks contained information that he said was like a tape recording of Earth's more recent history, in the last few million years. That trove of information could not be fully analyzed, he asserted, because existing statistical techniques were useful only for flat surfaces.
        Dr. Watson summed up his approach in his 1983 book, ''Statistics on Spheres'' (John Wiley & Sons). In a talk in Australia last year, he said he believed that his work had provided ''modest help in a major scientific revolution.'' Dr. Kuhn said that Dr. Watson's data helped break down what was left of the scholarly opposition to the continental drift theory. ''It was the nail in the coffin,'' Dr. Kuhn said.
        Today, Dr. Watson's techniques for dealing with three-dimensional problems are used to address questions like global warming and ozone depletion, Dr. Kuhn said.
        As a consultant for the Environmental Protection Agency and other agencies, Dr. Watson found new ways to make estimates of oil and gas reserves. He was an author of ''Health Effects of Fossil Fuel Combustion Products'' (National Academy of Sciences, 1980) and three other books on statistical theory.
        Dr. Watson was born into a family that regularly bet on horses, but he never gambled, said his wife, Shirley Elwyn Jennings Watson. He liked to say he was the sole member of his family who had ever made any money from probability.
        Geoffrey Stuart Watson was born in Bendigo, Australia. He received his B.A. in mathematics from Melbourne University in 1942 and his Ph.D. from North Carolina State University in 1951. He taught at the University of Melbourne, the Australian National University and the University of Toronto and was chairman of the statistics department at  Johns Hopkins University before joining Princeton in 1970.
        Besides his wife of 45 years, Dr. Watson is survived by three daughters, Catharine Helena Watson Pike of Kampala, Uganda, and Rebecca Caine and Madeleine Watson Plaut, both of London, and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  January 20, 1998, Tuesday  An obituary on Sunday about Dr. Geoffrey S. Watson, who helped develop a classic statistical method, omitted one of his survivors. They include a son, Michael, of Yokohama, Japan.
      