
        Joseph L. Alioto, the two-term Mayor of San Francisco during the city's most dynamic growth in the late 1960's and early 1970's and a lawyer who earned millions of dollars with the nation's largest civil antitrust practice, died yesterday at his home in San Francisco. He was 81 and had prostate cancer, but family members said he died of pneumonia.
        Even in a city that prides itself on its colorful citizenry, Joseph Lawrence Alioto stood out, from his childhood as the son of a Sicilian immigrant working on his father's boats at Fisherman's Wharf to his law school days as a scholarship student  and on through his rough-and-tumble political and legal careers.
        Those careers brought him great rewards but they also eventually contributed to his estrangement from some of his children, the bitter breakup of his family law firm and a divorce from his first wife, who disappeared for a time in 1974 and returned to complain that she had been taken for granted as a political wife.  It was the dark side of what in many ways is a classic story of immigrant success in America. Mr. Alioto's father, Giuseppe, had sailed from Palermo at the age of 9 and later found work on fishing boats in San Francisco Bay. As a young man, he married Domenica Lazio, the daughter of Sicilian immigrants. In fact, he was one of three Alioto brothers who married three Lazio sisters, and they and their many children lived in the same three-story apartment building, making it almost impossible for neighbors to sort out which child went with which couple.
        Giuseppe Alioto next started his own wholesale fish business and his brothers opened restaurants. Joseph Alioto went on to graduate magna cum laude from St. Mary's College in Moraga, Calif., in 1937 and was awarded a scholarship to law school at Catholic University in Washington.
        After graduating in 1940, he became an antitrust lawyer for the Government and then, when the United States entered World War II, he went to the Board of Economic Warfare, where he studied German, Italian and Japanese cartels to help determine which factories to bomb.
        After the war, Mr. Alioto used his antitrust experience to represent movie producers Samuel Goldwyn, Walt Disney and Walter Wanger in suits against the studios and theaters that charged them with monopolistic practices.
        From 1964 to 1966, he won more than $61 million in damages, mostly for clients challenging big companies in price-fixing cases. The fees made him wealthy and he invested in businesses through his company, Alioto Enterprises. Until Mr. Alioto came along, antitrust cases generally were brought by Government agencies. ''We established the nation's laws that protect private entrepreneurs from monopolistic practices,'' Mr. Alioto told The San Francisco Examiner.
        Mr. Alioto married the former Angelina Genaro of Dallas in 1941 and they had six children. He was little known as a candidate when he entered the 1967 race for mayor of San Francisco but he staged a whirlwind 56-day campaign to become only the third Democratic mayor of the city in 60 years.
        He was elected largely with the support of labor unions and minorities, though he managed to draw the votes of many Republican middle-class homeowners.
        Angela Alioto, who remained devoted to her father in the face of family turmoil and who followed him into politics as a member of the Board of Supervisors, remembered Mr. Alioto's entrance into politics in a recent interview. Her family would spend eight weeks every summer in Italy; her five brothers studied on their own in Perugia and, as the only daughter, she attended school in Florence under her father's watchful eye.
        ''I came home from the Dante Alighieri School one day in 1967,'' Ms. Alioto said, ''and Dad called me over and said we are going back to San Francisco so he can run for Mayor.''
        The candidate Mr. Alioto was backing had died and his fallback candidate dropped out just before the deadline because of ill health. ''I was the sucker of last resort,'' Mr. Alioto said.
        Mr. Alioto won in a large field, getting 43 percent of the vote. In his first term he was a dynamo, working to improve race relations and embarking on an ambitious and controversial downtown building program that was to result in the construction of more than 100 high-rises in the city. Among the projects started during his administration were the Transamerica Pyramid and the Embarcadero Center.
        In 1968, Mr. Alioto was regarded as a bright newcomer to the Democratic Party and he was chosen to nominate Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey that year at the Democratic Party Convention in Chicago; there was even talk of a Vice Presidential nomination. Though that never happened, Mr. Alioto was sufficiently encouraged to plan a 1970 race against the incumbent Ronald Reagan for Governor of California. But his hopes were dashed when he became the target of accusations.
        In 1969, Mr. Alioto was described by Look magazine as ''enmeshed in a web of alliances with at least six leaders of La Cosa Nostra.'' He denied the charges, dropped his plans to run for Governor and brought a $12.5 million libel suit against Look.  After four trials he was awarded $350,000, which Ms. Alioto said contributed to Look's demise.
        In 1971, Attorney General John Mitchell announced Mayor Alioto's  indictment by a Federal grand jury in Seattle on nine counts of bribery, conspiracy and mail fraud. The charges dated to 1962 when Mr. Alioto was retained by the Attorney General of the State of Washington.  Mr. Alioto denied any wrongdoing and in 1972 a Federal judge in Tacoma announced a directed order of acquittal for Mayor Alioto and the Washington officials.
        Mr. Alioto was re-elected Mayor with a reduced vote in 1971.
        His daughter said he would be remembered as a coalition builder. ''He appointed the most minorities to all positions -- the first Asian, the first Latino, the first Filipino and the second African-American to the Board of Supervisors,'' she said.  On Jan. 18, 1974, when Mayor Alioto was campaigning again for  Governor, his wife, Angelina, became angered when he forgot to introduce her at a function in Palm Springs. She drove away and  dropped from sight for three weeks. It turned out that she was touring the California missions while the police were searching for her.
        At a news conference later at their 15-room mansion, Mrs. Alioto said, ''I was frustrated over being used.'' She added, ''I have to be here alone in this place with my housekeeper 27 nights a month and I feel neglected.''
        Mr. Alioto lost the Democratic nomination for Governor to Jerry Brown. He also lost his wife. The couple were divorced in 1977. Two years earlier, barred by law from seeking a third term as Mayor, Mr. Alioto returned to his family law practice at Alioto & Alioto. In 1978 he married the former Kathleen Sullivan, an unsuccessful Senate candidate in Massachusetts and a daughter of William H. Sullivan Jr., the then owner of the New England Patriots football team and one of Mr. Alioto's clients.
        His sons John and Joseph left the family law firm in the early 1990's in but the children reconciled with their father as he neared death. In addition to his wife, Kathleen, his daughter, Angela, his sons John and Joseph, Mr. Alioto is survived by three other sons from his first marriage, Lawrence, Thomas and Michael; two children from his second marriage, Patrick and Domenica, and 11 grandchildren.
      