
        Donald Davis, the distinguished Canadian actor who played the title role in the New York premiere of Samuel Beckett's ''Krapp's Last Tape,'' died on Friday at Wellesley Hospital in Toronto, where he lived. He was 69.
        He died of a lung disease, said his sister Barbara Chilcott.
        In his diverse career, Mr. Davis played many of the most challenging roles in classical theater. Equally adept in tragedy and comedy, he appeared in plays by Shakespeare, Sophocles and others opposite actresses like Katharine Hepburn and Judith Anderson. He was also honored for his work in modern experimental drama by Beckett and Edward Albee. Even as a young man, he had an ability to play older characters, with a richly timbred voice that was compared to that of Orson Welles.
        He won an Obie award in 1960 for his performance as the lonely, solitary Krapp, playing the tapes of his life and re-experiencing decades of regret. ''Krapp's Last Tape,'' directed by Alan Schneider, opened on a double bill with Mr. Albee's ''Zoo Story'' at the Provincetown Playhouse. Together, the plays were a long-running Off Broadway success.
        On the basis of Krapp and other roles, Mr. Davis became known as one of Beckett's foremost interpreters. In 1976 he acted in the American premiere of Beckett's ''That Time'' at the Arena Stage in Washington, and repeated his role the following year at the Manhattan Theater Club. In 1983, he was an overbearing bureaucrat in Beckett's ''Catastrophe,'' issuing commands as a martyr (played by David Warrilow) is prepared for public exhibition.
        Mr. Davis also had the leading role of George opposite Elaine Stritch in the matinee company of ''Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?'' and later acted that role in the evening company with Mercedes McCambridge. In Off Broadway revivals, he portrayed Daddy in Mr. Albee's ''American Dream'' (opposite Sada Thompson) and Peter in ''The Zoo Story.''
        Mr. Davis was born in Toronto and made his professional debut with the Straw Hat Players in Ontario. He then spent three years acting in England with the Bristol Old Vic and other companies. Returning to Toronto, he founded the Crest Theater with his brother, Murray. He had  leading roles with the Stratford  Shakespearean Festival in Ontario, including Tiresias in Tyrone Guthrie's celebrated masked version of ''Oedipus Rex,'' starring James Mason. He made his New York debut in 1956, under Mr. Guthrie's direction, in ''Tamburlaine the Great.''
        On a visit to Toronto, J. B. Priestley met Mr. Davis and his brother and sister Barbara Chilcott, and then wrote a play for them, ''The Glass Cage,'' which they performed at the Crest and also in London in 1957. After ''Krapp's Last Tape,'' Mr. Davis spent two seasons at the American Shakespeare Festival in Stratford, Conn., playing opposite Ms. Hepburn in ''Antony and Cleopatra'' and ''Twelfth Night.''
        In 1966 he did an artful double play at the Ypsilanti Greek Theater in Michigan, as Agamemnon and Apollo in ''The Oresteia'' with Judith Anderson and as the Hoopoe in ''The Birds'' with Bert Lahr. He and Miss Anderson also starred in a revival of Maxwell Anderson's ''Elizabeth the Queen'' at City Center in Manhattan.
        Later he returned to the Canadian Shakespeare festival to play Shylock. On Broadway, he also acted in Peter Ustinov's ''Photo Finish'' and Eugene O'Neill's ''Mourning Becomes Electra'' (with Colleen Dewhurst at Circle in the Square).
        In addition to Ms. Chilcott, of Toronto, he is survived by another sister, Virginia Hamerski of Timmins, Ont.
        In 1996, Mr. Davis and Billie Whitelaw participated in a posthumous celebration of Beckett's 90th birthday in Toronto. With dignity and confidence, Mr. Davis performed ''Krapp's Last Tape,'' returning to his signature role 36 years after he had created it.
      