
        John E. Fisher, who served as chief executive of the Nationwide group of insurance companies in the 1980's and directed its national expansion, died on Tuesday at the Indian River Hospital in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 68 years old and had lived in Vero Beach and Worthington, Ohio, a suburb of Columbus, where Nationwide has its headquarters.
        The cause was cancer, said his eldest son, Jeffrey C. Fisher.
        Mr. Fisher expanded the company, now known as the Nationwide Insurance Enterprise, far beyond its traditional territory in the Eastern United States. He also greatly increased life and commerical insurance sales while maintaining the company's strong base in auto and homeowners' policies.
        In addition, he took the company into the fast-growing business of variable annuities, which combine insurance and mutual funds, selling them not only through Nationwide agents but through banks and brokerage houses as well.
        When Mr. Fisher took charge of Nationwide in late 1981 and began planning a series of acquisitions, the company had $6 billion in assets and revenue of $2.8 billion. When he stepped down as chief executive in late 1992, the company's assets had grown sixfold to $37.5 billion, and revenue had risen to $13.7 billion.
        Now one of the nation's leaders in auto and homeowners' coverage and in the sale of variable annuities, Nationwide has assets of more than $83 billion. Revenue in 1997 reached nearly $23 billion.
        Eager to improve highway safety, at least partly because fewer, less serious crashes would mean fewer, less expensive claims against his company, Mr. Fisher campaigned for the introduction of highway guard rails, signs and lighting that have decreased damage and injuries, mandatory seat belt laws and the installation of air bags.
        Though Mr. Fisher never graduated from college, he encouraged employees to study for professional certification and university degrees at company expense. One of the colleges he attended, Franklin University in Columbus, named him its outstanding alumnus in 1979.
        Mr. Fisher joined Nationwide in 1951 as a trainee reviewing insurance applications after working as an apprentice boilermaker and door-to-door furniture salesman. He retired 43 years later in late 1994, as chairman.
        In his 40's, Mr. Fisher's family gave him scuba diving lessons for a Christmas present and started him on a series of adventures -- from the Great Barrier Reef of Australia to the waters off Tahiti and throughout the Caribbean. Later, he and his wife, Eloise, whom he had met in high school, fell in love with jet skis and often spent hours together skimming the waves on matching machines.  She died in November 1992, also of cancer.
        Mr. Fisher headed the boards of several civic organizations including the Chamber of Commerce in Columbus and Children's Hospital.
        Besides his son Jeffrey, who lives in Kent, Ohio, Mr. Fisher is survived by another son, Roger W. Fisher of Springfield, Ill.; two daughters, Cynthia L. Stanger and Patricia A. Canzoneri, both of Worthington, Ohio; a brother, Charles H. Fisher of St. Louis, and nine grandchildren.
      