
        Carl Perkins, the pioneering rockabilly singer, songwriter and guitarist who wrote ''Blue Suede Shoes,'' died yesterday in Jackson, Tenn., where he lived. He was 65.
        He died of complications related to a recent series of strokes, said a family spokesman, Albert Hall.
        Mr. Perkins was part of the Sun Records roster that fused blues, country, rhythm-and-blues, gospel and teen-age attitudes into rockabilly, one of the cornerstones of rock-and-roll. ''That whole sound stood for freedom,'' said Bob Dylan in ''Go, Cat, Go!,'' Mr. Perkins's autobiography, written with David McGee (Hyperion, 1996). ''It was coming from somewhere that we wanted to go.''
        Working in Memphis alongside Elvis Presley, Jerry Lee Lewis and Johnny Cash, Mr. Perkins made music that swaggered with a casual authority, never far removed from his roots in the rural South. His guitar playing was enormously influential, particularly on George Harrison and the Beatles, and through the years Mr. Perkins collaborated with fans including Mr. Harrison, Paul McCartney, Mr. Dylan, Eric Clapton, Paul Simon and Tom Petty.
        Mr. Perkins was a quiet, genial, devout man, rarely comfortable with the bad-boy rockabilly image, and bad luck and personal problems hampered his career. But well into his 60's he was on the road, revitalizing even his most familiar oldies with an unmistakable twang.
        Carl Lee Perkins was born on April 9, 1932, in Tiptonville, Tenn., the son of a sharecropper. At age 6, he began working in the fields, where he heard gospel songs; at night, his father tuned in country music on the radio. John Westbrook, an older field hand, taught him blues guitar, and he began playing and singing country songs with the syncopated attack of the blues.
        Mr. Perkins taught his older brother, James Buck Perkins, nicknamed Jay, to accompany him on rhythm guitar. Both brothers dropped out of school after eighth grade to help support the family.
        At 14, Carl started writing songs, and while he worked a day job at a dairy, the Perkins Brothers began performing at honky-tonks around Jackson. As Mr. Perkins honed his music for rowdy crowds, he also took up drinking.
        Carl's younger brother, Lloyd Clayton Perkins, joined the group on bass, adding more drive to the music. ''I heard this clickin' over here, and I heard this ringin' over here, and there was my two brothers,'' Mr. Perkins recalled in ''Go, Cat, Go!'' ''I knew we had a different sound.''
        Mr. Perkins began performing on  radio, including a daily 15-minute segment on the ''Early Morning Farm and Home Hour'' on WTJS, in Jackson. In January 1953, he married Valda Crider and decided to work full time as a musician.
        The demonstration tapes he sent to national recording companies were rejected. But in 1954, Presley released a rockabilly version of Bill Monroe's ''Blue Moon of Kentucky,'' a song the Perkins Brothers had been playing. Mr. Perkins headed for  Memphis and Sun Records, Presley's label, and wangled an audition with its owner, Sam Phillips.
        Mr. Perkins's first single, the up-tempo ''Movie Magg'' and the country ballad ''Turn Around'' on the flip side, was released in 1955, and ''Turn Around'' became a regional country hit.
        Mr. Perkins toured as Presley's opening act and had a second regional hit with ''Gone Gone Gone.'' Mr. Cash, who also recorded for Sun, suggested one day that Mr. Perkins write a song about a new item in the  teen-age wardrobe: blue suede shoes. Shortly afterward, playing for a dance, Mr. Perkins heard a couple arguing. ''Don't step on my suedes,'' the boy growled at his girlfriend over  a scuffed shoe.
        Overnight after the show, Mr. Perkins wrote the lyrics on a paper bag for a song with a boogie-woogie beat, and on Dec. 19, 1955, he recorded ''Blue Suede Shoes'' in two takes. Recalling his guitar solo on the song, Mr. Perkins said, ''I never had played what I played in the studio that day. I know God said: 'I've held it back, but this is it. Now you get down and get it.' ''
        ''Blue Suede Shoes'' played on  country, rhythm-and-blues and pop radio stations, reaching No. 2 on the Billboard Hot 100 singles chart, just under Presley's ''Heartbreak Hotel.'' Presley released his version of the song on an EP in March 1956, but held back releasing the single while Mr. Perkins's version was on the charts.
        On March 22, Mr. Perkins and his band were driving to New York City to perform the song on ''The Perry Como Show,'' which would have provided national exposure, but their Chrysler rear-ended a truck. Mr. Perkins suffered a broken collarbone. His brother Jay had a broken neck and two year later died of a brain tumor.
        By April, ''Blue Suede Shoes'' had sold a million copies, and Mr. Perkins was back on tour. He was also writing and recording more rockabilly standards: ''Boppin' the Blues,'' ''Everybody's Trying to Be My Baby,'' ''Dixie Fried'' and ''Matchbox,'' which had Mr. Lewis on piano.
        The day ''Matchbox'' was recorded, Presley visited the studio. Along with Mr. Cash (who left early), Mr. Perkins, Mr. Lewis and Presley spent more than an hour singing gospel, country and rhythm-and-blues songs while a tape rolled. The casual session was called ''The Million Dollar Quartet'' by a local newspaper the next day, and was eventually released on a disk in 1990.
        Sun Records failed to follow up the  success of ''Blue Suede Shoes,'' and Mr. Perkins was also receiving a low royalty rate. In 1958, he signed with  Columbia Records, beginning decades of false career starts and rediscoveries.
        During the early 60's, Mr. Perkins became a regular performer at the Golden Nugget casino in Las Vegas, Nev. Clayton Perkins left his brother's band in 1963; he committed suicide in 1973.
        Touring England with Chuck Berry for the first time in 1964, Mr. Perkins found an eager new audience. His fans included the Beatles,  who invited him to Abbey Road Studios for a recording session. There they sang his songs. They later released ''Matchbox'' and, from other sessions, ''Honey Don't'' and ''Everybody's Trying to Be My Baby.''
        Back in the United States, Mr. Perkins toured the country circuit. Onstage in Dyersburg, Tenn., he caught his left hand in the blades of a fan, losing the use of his pinky. Nearly a year later, during a hunting trip, his shotgun accidently discharged, hitting his left ankle and leaving him with a slight limp.
        When he recovered, he began almost a decade of touring as Mr. Cash's opening act. On tour in 1968, after one of his worst drinking binges, he decided to sober up.
        He joined Mr. Cash's band, providing music for Mr. Cash's hit ''A Boy Named Sue'' and writing ''Daddy Sang Bass,'' which was a No. 1 country hit for Mr. Cash.
        During one of Mr. Cash's television specials, Mr. Perkins met Mr. Dylan  and they collaborated on a song called ''Champaign, Illinois,'' which Mr. Perkins recorded in 1969. He shared an album, ''Boppin' the Blues,'' with NRBQ, a younger band with a streak of rockabilly. He left Mr. Cash's revue in 1975.
        He started a new band with his sons Carl Stanley on guitar and Gregory Jay on bass. He sued Mr. Phillips over his Sun Records hits, receiving some back royalties and regaining control of his publishing rights, including those for ''Blue Suede Shoes.''
        In 1981, Mr. Perkins founded the Exchange Club Carl Perkins Center for the Prevention of Child Abuse. He performed on Mr. McCartney's ''Tug of War'' album in 1981, and he and Mr. Lewis joined Mr. Cash onstage in Stuttgart, Germany, for a live recording that was released in 1982 as ''The Survivors.''
        His rediscovery continued through the 1980's and 90's. With Mr. Lewis, Mr. Cash and Roy Orbison, he recorded ''Class of '55'' for Polygram. The album brought Mr. Perkins a Grammy Award in the spoken-word category for reminiscences about his Memphis years.
        A Cinemax television special called ''A Rockabilly Session: Carl Perkins and Friends'' presented Mr. Perkins alongside Mr. Harrison, Ringo Starr and Mr. Clapton.
        In 1986, the Academy of Country Music gave Mr. Perkins its Career Achievement Award, and in 1987 he was inducted into the Rock-and-Roll Hall of Fame. His birthplace opened the Carl Perkins Museum in his restored childhood home. One of Mr. Perkins's songs, ''Let Me Tell You About Love,'' was recorded by the Judds in 1989 with Mr. Perkins on lead guitar; it became a No. 1 country hit. His own 1989 album, ''Born to Rock,'' was on a label that dissolved just after the album was released.
        His songs continued to become  country hits, among them ''Silver and Gold'' for Dolly Parton and  ''When You're a Man on His Own'' for George Strait. He joined the Judds for their last concert. And into the 1990's he continued to work the club circuit, singing in a mature baritone and playing guitar lines that coiled and jumped.
        Coinciding with the publication of ''Go, Cat, Go!,'' he released an album also called ''Go, Cat, Go!,''including collaborations with Mr. McCartney, Mr. Harrison, Mr. Petty, John Fogerty, Mr. Cash and Mr. Simon.
        Mr. Perkins is survived by his wife; his daughter, Debbie Swift; his sons Carl Stanley, Gregory Jay and Stephen Allen, and 10 grandchildren.
        In the end, he was satisfied with a career that never yielded a hit album. ''All these boys -- Elvis, Jerry Lee, Roy Orbison -- they all lost their wives, their families,'' Mr. Perkins said in a 1996 interview. ''People say: 'What happened to you, Carl? All of them went on to superstardom. Where'd you go?' I say, 'I went home.' And that's a good place to be.''
      