
        Edmund Anton Stephan, a prominent Chicago lawyer who three decades ago shepherded a precedent-setting conversion in the governing of the University of Notre Dame, died on Jan. 16 at Evanston Hospital in Evanston, Ill. He was 86 and lived in the nearby town of Wilmette.
        It was as a Notre Dame trustee that Mr. Stephan framed the legal structure under which a mostly lay board took over the governing of his alma mater from the Congregation of the Holy Cross, the religious order that founded the university in 1842. The change made Notre Dame the first major Roman Catholic university in the world to move from clerical to lay control, and the new charter became a blueprint for similar changes at religious institutions around the country.
        Under the new structure, Mr. Stephan was elected chairman of the board of trustees in 1967. He served until 1982, when the bylaws he had written mandated his retirement, at the age of 70. But he remained chairman emeritus at his death.
        ''The important thing to remember when we moved to lay control,'' said the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, who was president of Notre Dame at the time, ''is that Ed was not only the first chairman, but he also did all of the legal work involved in transfer of control from the Congregation of the Holy Cross to a lay board.''
        That move to secular governing ''affected not just Notre Dame,'' Father Hesburgh added, ''but ultimately almost every Catholic university and Catholic hospital in the country.''
        Father Hesburgh said the change-over embodied the spirit of Vatican Council II and the council statement on the laity. It called for people outside the clergy to be given positions ''commensurate with their talents, their experience, their specialized knowledge and their dedication,'' he said.
        The move, undertaken with a cooperative religious community, was ''enormously effective,'' he said.
        Mr. Stephan's career as a corporate lawyer lasted nearly 60 years, most of them with the Chicago firm of Mayer, Brown & Platt and its forerunners. He became a partner in 1947, was chairman and senior partner from 1977 to 1984 and became a senior counsel to the firm in 1991.
        His experience in both the legal and business worlds made him a sought-after adviser to executives, Chicago mayors, university presidents and religious leaders. His corporate practice set standards, including a landmark case in the 1950's, Wolfson v. Montgomery Ward, that is a textbook study on the election of corporate directors.
        Mr. Stephan, a native of Chicago, graduated from Notre Dame in 1933 and received his law degree at Harvard University in 1939. He went into private practice in New York, worked for the Justice Department during World War II and returned to his hometown in 1945 to join what was then the firm of Mayer, Meyer, Austrian & Platt.
        He had a lifelong love of Notre Dame football, and until his health began failing last season he had not missed a home game since the 1940's.
        Mr. Stephan is survived by his wife of 60 years, Evelyn Way Stephan; four daughters, Mariam Stephan of Palm Beach, Fla., Martha McNeill of Winnetka, Ill., Evelyn Stephan of Chicago and Joan Nelson of Wilmette; four sons, Edmund Jr. of Bluff, Ill., Donald E. of Wilmette, Christopher Q. of Northfield, Ill., and Gregory R. of Wilmette; a sister, Mariam Russell; a brother, Robert; 20 grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      