
        Wallace Justin Campbell, a founding director of CARE, the international relief and development organization, who originated the concept of the CARE package, died last Wednesday at the Solheim Lutheran Home in Los Angeles, where he had moved in November from Chevy Chase, Md. He was 87.
        CARE was founded in 1945 by 22 organizations. Mr. Campbell joined its first board of directors representing the Cooperative League of the USA, now the National Cooperative Business Association. He retired as president of CARE U.S.A. and CARE International in 1986 and became president emeritus.
        He headed the cooperative league's New York office toward the end of World War II when it was suggested to him that the league set up a package delivery system to feed the hungry in Europe. Instead, he proposed an effort that would enlist all other groups ready to combine forces for such an emergency.
        His concept became the Cooperative for American Relief Everywhere, CARE, and he was credited with guiding its expansion into one of the largest independent development organizations. Today it provides the wherewithal for survival and self-help operations, serving about 25 million people a year in 62 countries.
        In addition to eight years as CARE's president, Mr. Campbell was a member of its board for 40 years. He documented his role in ''The History of CARE: A Personal Account,'' published in 1990.
        Mr. Campbell was born in Three Forks, Mont., and graduated in 1932 from the University of Oregon, where he also earned a master's degree. A trained economist, he joined the Cooperative League in New York City in 1934 and transferred to the group's Washington office in 1948, as assistant to the general secretary and office director.
        He went to work for the Nationwide Insurance Company in Columbus, Ohio, in the early 1960's and then was president of the Foundation for Cooperative Housing until 1975.
        Mr. Campbell's survivors include his wife, Helen Gordon Campbell, of Los Angeles; a son, Bruce, of Encinitas, Calif.; and a daughter, Gale Martin, of Chatsworth, Calif.
      