
        Yuji Yoshimura, a master bonsai grower who taught and nurtured the classical Japanese art in the United States, died on Dec. 24 at Medway Country Manor in Medway, Mass. A resident of Norfolk, Mass., he was 76 and formerly lived in Tarrytown and Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.
        The cause was cancer, said William N. Valavanis, a friend and fellow bonsai fancier in Rochester.
        Mr. Yoshimura was among the best-known bonsai artists in this country for more than three decades, exhibiting his work, lecturing at botanical gardens and designing Japanese gardens that incorporated suiseki -- the art of stone appreciation. He was the author of books, articles and an audio-visual course on bonsai.
        The term bonsai, derived from the Japanese word for pot or tray and the verb ''to plant,'' describes the art of dwarfing and shaping plants or shrubs in shallow pots. Artists design the plants by pruning, grafting and training branches, fertilizing and providing carefully measured doses of water -- all with great patience. Some of the gnarled, bent and overhanging dwarfs need years of cultivation.
        The Japanese adapted the art from India and China well over a thousand years ago.
        ''To create bonsai, you must have two things: horticultural knowledge and artistic ability,'' Mr. Yoshimura told an interviewer in 1990. ''Maybe I should say talent: that is the word. How to grow something, I can teach that. But I cannot teach how to create beauty; that is inside.''
        He shaped his Japanese gardens in a variety of themes: mountain scenery, something with water or flat like a plain.
        At times he achieved a blend of all three with his combinations of meticulously pruned and trained specimens of great value.
        He was born in Tokyo, the son of Toshiji Yoshimura, a virtuoso of bonsai who taught his son the art and appreciation of stone. He completed his formal training at the Tokyo Horticultural School and established his own Kofu-en Bonsai Garden.
        In 1952 he became the first bonsai creator to teach the art to the public. This led to a fellowship from the Brooklyn Botanic Garden. He came to the United States in 1958 to conduct classical bonsai courses in Brooklyn.
        He also formed the Yoshimura Bonsai Company in Tarrytown and, in 1972, the Yoshimura School of Bonsai in Briarcliff Manor, where he taught until 1995. He also taught at the New York Botanical Garden and traveled widely to teach.
        Mr. Yoshimura's first book, ''The Japanese Art of Miniature Trees and Landscapes: Their Creation, Care and Enjoyment'' (Tuttle), written with Giovanna M. Halford, was published in 1958. It remains in print, as does a 1996 version, ''The Art of Bonsai,'' and ''The Japanese Art of Stone Appreciation: Suiseki and Its Use With Bonsai'' (Tuttle, 1984), written with Vincent T. Covello.
        A Yuji Yoshimura Educational Center opened in 1990 at the National Bonsai and Penjing Museum of the National Arboretum in Washington, built with donations from his students and friends.
        He is survived by his wife, Kazuko Nagano Yoshimuro of Tokyo; two daughters, Yoko Said of Norfolk and Emi Suzuki of Tokyo; four brothers, Shiro, Saburo, Kanekazu and Kazumasa, all of Japan; two sisters, Kazue Sato and Tami Sato, also of Japan, and four grandchildren.
      