
        Tom Gentry, a wealthy real estate developer whose fascination with powerboat racing brought him several world records, died at home in Honolulu Thursday, nearly four years after a severe crash at a world championship left him hospitalized and in a coma. He was 67.
        Mr. Gentry died of respiratory failure, said Joyce Timpson, a family spokeswoman.
        Ms. Timpson told The Associated Press that she did not know if the death was directly related to the Nov. 13, 1994, crash that occurred during the Key West World Offshore Championship in Florida.
        In that race, Mr. Gentry's 40-foot Skater Catamaran, Team Gentry, flipped over, trapping him underwater. He lost oxygen to the brain before he was pulled to the surface a few minutes later.
        ''I consider him an icon in the world of offshore racing,'' John Carbonell, president of Super Boat International, a national offshore racing organization, said yesterday. ''His innovations in engines and outdrives are what helped to make the sport what it is right now.''
        Mr. Gentry was also an accomplished racer; he was the Union of International Motorboating's world champion in 1976 and 1987. And he received the organization's highest award, the gold medal of honor, in 1993.
        But as keen a competitor as he was, Mr. Gentry was also generous with his adversaries. If a fellow competitor's engine broke down, Mr. Gentry would find him another one.
        Just a month before the 1994 crash, Mr. Gentry set a world speed record for his class by driving Team Gentry at an average of 157.4 miles an hour in San Diego Bay. In 1989, Mr. Gentry set the trans-Atlantic speed record of 62 hours 7 minutes.
        ''My dad was the original 'self-made man,' '' Mr. Gentry's son, Norman, told The Associated Press. ''He took and overcame risks, both in business and in sports. He loved the pulse of business and the intensity of competition.''
        Mr. Gentry is survived by his wife, Kiana, five children from previous marriages, a stepdaughter and two grandchildren.
      