
        Richard Graff, an owner of Chalone Vineyards, one of California's most prestigious small wineries, and co-founder and chairman emeritus of the Chalone Wine Group, was killed on Friday when a single-engine Cessna he was flying crashed near Salinas, Calif. He was 60.
        Mr. Graff's plane experienced engine problems and he turned to make a landing at a Salinas airport, according to the Monterey County Sheriff's Office. The aircraft hit a power line, then crashed into a commercial greenhouse. Mr. Graff, an experienced pilot, died instantly, an autopsy showed.
        Mr. Graff lived in San Francisco and at Chalone Vineyards, high in the Gavilan Mountains in Monterey County, some three hours' drive south of the Bay Area. He frequently flew between the two, as well as to several other Chalone Wine Group properties: Acacia Winery in the Carneros region of the Napa Valley, Carmenet Winery in Sonoma Valley and Edna Valley Vineyard in San Luis Obispo County, which is a 50 percent joint venture with Paragon Vineyard Company. The Chalone Group also owns a 51 percent interest in Canoe Ridge Vineyard in Washington State and 24 percent of Chateau Duhart-Milon in the Bordeaux region of France.
        Mr. Graff was born in Connecticut and graduated from Harvard University in 1958 with a degree in music. He served three years as an officer in the Navy before developing a fascination with the wine business in California. His family had invested in a winery in Sonoma County called Windsor Vineyards, and it was with Windsor's owner, Rodney Strong, that Mr. Graff got some of his  early winemaking experience.
        In 1965, with a loan from his mother, he took over Chalone, a vineyard planted by a Frenchman in 1919 that had had several owners before Mr. Graff arrived. (In the early years, the vineyard made more money from mistletoe than from grapes.)
        Mr. Graff nursed the remaining vines back to life, planted others, and irrigated them by driving in tank trucks of water, often eight times a day. His first vintage at Chalone, 1966, was several small lots of chardonnay and pinot noir, the wines that would make the vineyard's reputation in later years.
        In 1969, Mr. Graff was joined by Philip Woodward, an accountant from Touche-Ross, who had also fallen in love with the wine business. Mr. Graff served as president of the company they founded until 1974, when he turned the office over to Mr. Woodward. They took the company public in 1984. Mr. Graff continued as chairman until last June, when he became chairman emeritus. In 1996, he began producing limited quantities of wine, made from grapes from the Chalone Vineyard, under the Richard Graff label.
        In 1981, with Julia Child and Robert Mondavi, Mr. Graff founded the American Institute of Wine and Food, an organization dedicated to raising the level of the study of food and wine in this country.
        He is survived by two brothers, David Graff of Oakley, Calif., and John H. Graff of Santa Barbara, Calif., a half-brother, Peter Watson-Graff of Monterey, and a sister, Maggie Graff of Lake Tahoe.
      