
        Dean X Johnson, a composer, conductor, arranger and pianist whose choral works have been performed and recorded by more than 70 choirs around the world, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 42.
        His sister Cathy Johnson said the cause was AIDS.
        Mr. Johnson was born in Atlanta in 1955. He studied at the University of North Carolina, where he received bachelor's and masters degrees in music.
        From 1984 to 1996, he was the assistant conductor and principal accompanist of the New York City Gay Men's Chorus, and the music director of its chamber choir.
        He also conducted the Oto Yurikago Kai Children's Choir in Tokyo and the American Dance Machine's European and African tour of ''West Side Story.''
        Mr. Johnson was a prolific composer whose works included two operas, ''Song of Martina'' about Martina Navratilova and ''East River Bridge,'' which was commissioned to celebrate the centennial of the Brooklyn Bridge, as well as dozens of shorter works.
        His ''Commemoration Anthem'' was performed at the Kennedy Center, and a disco song, ''Clappin' My Way to Disco Heaven,'' was made into a music video.
        Besides providing arrangements and original works for the New York City Gay Men's Chorus, he wrote pieces that were performed and recorded by the Twin Cities Gay Men's Chorus, the Boston Gay Men's Chorus, the South Coast Chorale, the Windy City Gay Men's Chorus and the Seattle Men's Chorus.
        As an accompanist, he worked with many cabaret and pop singers, including Eartha Kitt, Chita Rivera, Fred Ebb, Elaine Stritch, Nancy Dussault, Debbie Shapiro, Stockard Channing, Marni Nixon and Holly Near.
        As an operatic accompanist, he worked with Frederica von Stade, Roberta Peters, Kurt Ollman and Joyce Castle.
        In addition to his sister, he is survived by his companion, Leonard Johnson; his mother, Ruth Creech, and another sister, Jane Houston, both of Charlotte, N.C., and his father, Samuel D. Johnson of Sebring, Fla.
      