
        Lionel Aldridge, a defensive star on the great Green Bay Packers teams of the 1960's whose post-playing years were marked by mental illness, was found dead by a daughter in his suburban Milwaukee apartment Thursday night. He was 56.
        The Milwaukee County Medical Examiner's office, which conducted an autopsy, said he weighed 408 1/2 pounds and had an enlarged heart, ''consistent with congestive heart failure and obesity.''
        An investigator for the coroner's office, however, added that until toxicology tests were completed, probably on Monday, there would be no official cause of death listed.
        Mr. Aldridge seemed on a path to become a figure in the television booth following his retirement from the National Football League in 1973 after 11 seasons. He became an analyst for the Packers and then for NBC.
        He worked Super Bowl VII for the network following the 1973 season. But on the cusp of broadcasting stardom, he suffered the first of many bouts of depression that were to lead him to homelessness and then partial recovery as a speaker on mental health issues. He never completely overcame his difficulties.
        As a 21-year-old rookie out of Utah State in 1963, he created a stir by starting for the Packers, who were coached by Vince Lombardi.
        The gruff Lombardi would not normally install a rookie as a starter. But the 250-pound Aldridge, who was 6 feet 5 inches, found his niche at right defensive end and anchored the position for nine seasons -- including championship campaigns in 1965, 1966 and 1967, when the Packers won three world titles, including the first two Super Bowls.
        ''Lionel was a terrific success story that had some holes in it,'' said his longtime friend Jim Irwin, who has broadcast Packers games on radio for 29 years. ''He was a big, friendly teddy bear.''
        But Mr. Irwin noted that Mr. Aldridge had mood swings as a player: ''he'd be 'up' one day and then the next day he'd snap at everybody.''
        Mr. Irwin recounted an instance after Mr. Aldridge retired and was doing the color commentary on a Packers broadcast. ''I asked him the first question of the day and he stared straight ahead,'' Mr. Irwin said. ''He never took his eyes off the 50-yard line for the next three and a half hours and never said another word.''
        At the height of the Packers' success in the mid-1960's, Mr. Aldridge, then in his early 20's, began making appearances on WTMJ radio and television. When his playing career ended in 1973 following his two last seasons, with the San Diego Chargers, he made a seamless move into broadcasting. But there were moments when all was not smooth. He once froze at a typewriter, unable to write or move until solicitous colleagues led him away.
        In the late 1970's, he began to hallucinate. He had himself hospitalized and variously described his problems as schizophrenia or depression.
        After he was divorced from his wife, Mr. Aldridge disappeared from Milwaukee and became a drifter. He once fell asleep in his car near the Great Salt Lake, not knowing how he got there. Yet there were days and months of lucidity when he was helped immensely by his medications.
        He became a spokesman for a mental health organization in Milwaukee and traveled widely, discussing problems of the homeless with mental health professionals.
        He is survived by his two daughters, Michelle and Angela, and one granddaughter.
        Last October, he spoke at a symposium in Huntington, N.Y., for Suffolk County's Mental Illness Awareness Day. He described his ability to hold a job at the post office in Milwaukee, and said his $550-a-month pension did not cover his heavy medical debts.
        ''I like myself,'' he said last October. ''I don't have bad days. I deny there is such a thing as paranoia.''
      