
        Henny Youngman, the King of the One-Liners, who implored his audiences for more than six decades to ''take my wife -- please,'' died yesterday at the Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 91 years old and lived on West 55th Street in Manhattan.
        Mr. Youngman had been hospitalized since Jan. 2. Michael Camerman, Mr. Youngman's assistant, said that he had come down with a cold while on a two-show-a-night trip to San Francisco the week after Christmas. Back in New York, it developed into pneumonia, he said.
        Mr. Youngman's monologues were once the talk of the Carnegie Deli, Delancey Street, the Friars Club and, in the summer, the Catskills. And his one-liners almost begged to be followed by rim shots. The most rapid-fire of rapid-fire comics, he could tell six, seven, sometimes even eight or more jokes a minute, 50 or more jokes in an eight-minute routine. Rarely if ever did a joke last more than 24 seconds.
        For Mr. Youngman, every good joke was ''really a simple cartoon -- you can see it,'' he wrote in his 1991 autobiography, ''Take My Life, Please!''
        ''A man says to another man, 'Can you tell me how to get to Central Park?' The guy says no. 'All right,' says the first, 'I'll mug you here.' Two guys are in a gym, and one is putting on a girdle. 'Since when have you been wearing a girdle?' says his friend. 'Since my wife found it in the glove compartment of our car.' If a joke is too hard to visualize, I tell the young comics, then what the hell good is it? Personally, I forgot about the sophisticates years ago.''
        In 1977, a profile of Mr. Youngman in The New Yorker by Tony Hiss called him ''the world's hardest-working comedian.'' For much of his career, Mr. Hiss reported, he would travel a half million miles or more a year in the United States and Canada, appearing in more than 100 engagements at nightclubs in Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Montreal, Chicago and New York, at sales meetings, colleges, synagogues, banquets and hotels, on cruises to Mexico and the West Indies, on television variety shows and in guest stints with Johnny Carson, Ed Sullivan, Merv Griffin or whoever else would have him.
        ''I can go anywhere, play any date, for any kind of people,'' Mr. Youngman said.
        Mr. Youngman was always eager for employment. His phone number was listed in the Manhattan directory; when the phone rang, he was likely to say, ''Answer it! It could be a job!'' When the William Morris theatrical agency moved into an office building across from his apartment, he put a sign in his living room window: ''Book thy neighbor.''
        He was not happy unless he got at least 10 bookings a month, 10 opportunities to place his stocky 6-foot-2 frame on a podium, brandish the 19th-century violin that he had taken to calling a ''Stradivaricose,'' and make people laugh. He was his own agent, spending more than $10,000 a year on long-distance telephone calls booking his act. His business card held photographs of Pride furniture wax and Joy dishwashing detergent -- so he could display on request a picture of his Pride and Joy. As recently as last November, he was still still carrying a pocketful of safety pins, each with a shiny 10-cent piece glued on tight.
        ''Here,'' he would say, handing one to someone he had just met. ''A diamond pin for your wife.''
        Getting Jobs and Laughs Anywhere He Could
        Once, after playing to 6,500 people at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, he took the elevator to the lobby but got off by mistake on the second floor, where he saw a sign for ''Levy Bar Mitzvah, Room 240.'' He found the father of the bar mitzvah boy, introduced himself, and inquired about doing 10 or 15 minutes at the party. ''I made an extra $150,'' he recalled. ''Ah, what a night!''
        In 1974, when the New York Telephone Company created a Dial-a-Joke line, it chose Mr. Youngman as its first comedian. In the service's first month, 3,331,638 people called to hear 30 seconds of his jokes -- the most calls received for any comic.
        Henny Youngman was born on March 16, 1906, in London, where he was named Henry Youngman. (''I was so ugly when I was born,'' he later said, ''the doctor slapped my mother.'') His father, Yonkel Yungman, a hatmaker, had immigrated from Friedrichstadt, Russia, to Paris, then to London and then to the Lower East Side of New York, where, his name changed to Jacob Youngman, he met another immigrant, Olga Chetkin. The two married and went for their honeymoon to London, where Jacob's parents lived. They stayed for a year and a half -- during which time Henry was born -- until they finally earned enough money to return to America.
        Back in New York, the Youngmans lived in the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn, in a tenement owned by Henry's uncle. Two blocks away, another boy destined for comedy fame, and lifelong friendship with Henry, was growing up: Jackie Gleason.
        Henry attended P.S. 2, but, a constant troublemaker, he was often forcibly removed from the classroom. His father, then a sign painter, loved music, especially opera. Henry's aunt bought him a violin, and his father decided he should become a violinist in the Metropolitan Opera orchestra. The price for a weekly lesson was $1.
        Henry went to Manual Training High School for two years, but spent most of his time at vaudeville houses in the neighborhood -- the Orpheum, the Fox, the Flatbush, the Prospect. He tried out the jokes he had heard in the theaters on friends in a neighborhood candy store. He also played his violin in the orchestra pit of a local moviehouse -- the orchestra consisted only of Henny and a woman playing the piano.
        Thrown Off Stage By His Own Father
        His first stage appearance was at an amateur night at the 16th Street Theater; it was Yom Kippur, and when his father found out -- the squealer was a neighborhood teenager named Andre Baruch, who would later become a well-known radio announcer -- Dad showed up with a police officer and had Henry thrown off the stage.
        Henry was also thrown out of Manual Training. (''You're 16 years old,'' his father told him upon hearing of the expulsion. ''Soon you'll be 17 -- if I let you.'') His father sent him to Brooklyn Vocational Trade School to become a printer.
        While at Brooklyn Vocational, he started a band. He was known as Hen until age 18, when a headline in Billboard read, ''Hen Youngman and Syncopators Play Coney Island Boardwalk.'' Seeing his first mention in the newspaper, he decided that ''hens lay eggs'' and became Henny.
        He got jobs serving summonses, at 50 cents apiece, and printing business cards at Kresge's department store in downtown Brooklyn. Across the aisle at Kresge's was a red-haired young woman selling sheet music named Sadie Cohen; she would become his wife of 58 years.
        A quiet, almost anonymous woman, she allowed him to tell jokes about her, jokes that became his trademark: ''I miss my wife's cooking -- as often as I can''; ''How's your wife?'' ''Compared to what?''; ''I take my wife everywhere, but she always finds her way home.''
        ''She took it with a grain of salt,'' Mr. Youngman said after his wife's death in 1987 at age 82. ''She knew I was just joking. She always stuck by me, and that's what counts.''
        The young Henny's band eventually went to the Catskills, the Borscht Belt -- the proving ground for so many Jewish comedians and singers. Their first gig was at the Swan Lake Inn. He also worked as a tummler, a kind of social director. ''My charge was to keep people busy and happy,'' he wrote. ''If the guests are laughing, went the owner's philosophy, then they're not complaining or checking out.''
        Back in Brooklyn, he got a portable printing press and began selling business cards to musicians and actors. He took his press to Manhattan and set up shop at a penny arcade at Sixth Avenue and 45th Street, near the theater district.
        While on Sixth Avenue, Henny met a comedian who was headlining down the block at the Loew's State -- Milton Berle. They became friends, and in the early years Berle would give him any jobs he didn't have time for. The change from musician to comedian came one night at the Nut Club in Mountainside, N.J., when the comedy team of Grace and Paul Hartman didn't show up for a performance. Desperate, the manager asked Henny to go on. He was a hit -- and, as a colleague later said, ''Music's loss was comedy's loss.''
        He played clubs and speakeasies all over the East Coast. His performances, at least according to his jokes, were not always successes: ''I won't say business was bad at the last place I played, but the band was playing 'Tea for One' ''; ''Fellow called up and said, 'What time is the next show?' I said, 'What time can you make it?' ''
        But he managed to ingratiate himself to Walter Winchell, the most influential gossip columnist of his day, and soon Mr. Youngman's humor found its way into Winchell's daily column. It was Winchell who gave him the nickname ''King of the One-Liners.''
        An Overnight Star On a Radio Show
        Mr. Youngman's first big break came in 1937 when he was signed for a six-minute spot on the Kate Smith radio show. He got so many laughs, he was kept on for 10 minutes. After the show, he was made a regular.
        ''I was a greenhorn,'' he recalled in his autobiography, written with Neal Karlen. ''I came out of left field. I didn't even know enough to copy anybody. I wasn't trained. I wasn't taught. But overnight I became a star, so I had to learn the business. I got $250 for that first show. When I got home, my mother said, 'Since when have you been funny?' I showed her the check -- and that's what convinced her I was funny.''
        And even though Jack Benny got there first, it was on the Kate Smith show that he first made his violin an important part of his act, alternating his rapid-fire jokes with terrible playing, often a phrase of ''Smoke Gets in Your Eyes.''
        His most famous line, ''Take my wife -- please,'' was born by accident, when he used the phrase to ask a stagehand to show his wife and her friends to their seats before a radio program. ''They were all talking and giggling while I was trying to read my script,'' he recalled. ''Finally, I couldn't take it anymore. I took Sadie by the elbow and brought her over to a stagehand. 'Take my wife,' I said to the guy. 'Please.' ''
        The line became so popular it was included, in 1988, in ''Bartlett's Familiar Quotations.''
        Mr. Youngman appeared in several movies, the first of them ''A Wave and a WAC and a Marine'' in 1941 with Abbott and Costello.
        His other films included Mel Brooks's ''Silent Movie'' (1976) and ''History of the World, Part I'' (1981) and Martin Scorsese's ''Goodfellas'' (1990), in which he portrayed a stand-up comic entertaining a roomful of gangsters at the Copacabana. It was something he had done in real life. ''I played in front of everybody,'' he once recalled. ''I played in places where the check-out girl's name was Rocco, and the owner would stab me good night.''
        In his later years, he would walk almost every day from his home to the Friars Club, where he would lunch, laugh and tummel with many of his fellow comics, young and old.
        The secret of his lasting success in show business, he said, could be summed up in one Yiddish phrase: ''Nem di gelt.''
        ''Get the money,'' he explained in his autobiography. ''Don't believe all the baloney people tell you when they're describing what they're going to do for you someday soon. Nem di gelt.''
        His brother, Lester, his manager for 35 years, died in 1979. He is survived by two children -- a daughter, Marilyn, of Manhattan, and a son, Gary, of Beverly Hills, Calif. -- and two grandchildren.
        In 1987 Mr. Youngman received the Torch of Liberty Award from the Orange County chapter of the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith in California. At the award dinner Whoopi Goldberg said that his ability to make people laugh ''gives us greater understanding of who we are, what we want and how we stand with the world.''
        Even in his difficult final years, Mr. Youngman retained his sense of humor. At age 89, he broke his hip. Several months after leaving the hospital, he attended a celebration honoring his 90th birthday. His first quip? ''Take my wheelchair -- please.''
        Correction:  February 26, 1998, Thursday  An obituary of the comedian Henny Youngman yesterday misstated the title and release date of a film in which he appeared and referred incorrectly to its cast. The film was ''A Wave, a Wac and a Marine.'' It was released in 1944, not 1941, and its ensemble cast did not include Bud Abbott and Lou Costello.
      