
        Norman J. Block, a bespoke businessman who helped define the epitome of masculine elegance as the very well-met and decidedly well-dressed founding proprietor of Dunhill Tailors in Manhattan, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 93.
        For a man who boasted that he never sewed a stitch in his life, Mr. Block had a surprising impact on men's fashion. That was partly because he let his younger brother, Leon, come up with the distinctive, slim-profile design that Dunhill's custom-tailored suits became famous for and left the cutting and the stitching to Italian-trained specialists.
        But it was mainly because Mr. Block was a master salesmen whose specialty was creating an ambiance of understated elegance and old-school conviviality that proved all but irresistible to those able to afford the Dunhill version of it.
        It was hardly an accident that over the years Dunhill attracted a well-heeled and distinguished clientele. It included visiting royalty, prime ministers, diplomats and people like the Rockefellers, Cary Grant, Paul Newman, Truman Capote, Dustin Hoffman, the Duke of Windsor, George Hamilton, Porfirio Rubirosa and Greta Garbo, who bought Dunhill ties for friends and once picked up a man's overcoat for herself.
        To Mr. Block, a small, slender man frequently likened to Fred Astaire who had the wardrobe and the debonair manner to match, customers were old friends.
        With its dimly lighted carriage lamps, dark paneled walls and deeply cushioned leather chairs, the Dunhill store at 65 East 57th Street was so understated that aside from the prominently displayed bolts of cloth suggestive of fine and expensive suits to come, much of the other merchandise was discreetly hidden away in drawers or closed cabinets.
        Until a renovation in the mid-70's opened things up a bit, the store, which also sold slightly less expensive ready-made suits, seemed so forbidding to the casual customer that at a party one night an out-of-town visitor asked Mr. Block if it was a private club.
        Mr. Block, who had gone to considerable trouble to make the store look exactly like a private club, assured him that Dunhill was open to everyone -- and proved it the next day by selling the man $4,000 worth of merchandise.
        By Dunhill standards, that was a small order. Customers who could afford Dunhill suits frequently ordered them by the dozen.
        If Dunhill sometimes seemed like a throwback to a bygone era, so did its proprietor.
        A native of Philadelphia whose German-born father made a fortune in real estate, Mr. Dunhill grew up in Allentown, Pa., and moved to New York as a teen-ager, soon succumbing to the siren song of the 1920's.
        He was enrolled briefly in Columbia College, but the Jazz Age beckoned, and he was soon a fixture on the society nightclub circuit, a young dandy in white tie and tails.
        Then his father put his foot down and ordered him to go to work, suggesting he could make a good living selling expensive clothes to his legions of wealthy friends.
        With his father's backing, Mr. Block obliged, opening an upstairs shop on lower Fifth Avenue at the age of 19 in 1923 and giving the business what he regarded as a classy name, one he blithely appropriated from the famous Manhattan tobacco emporium, Alfred Dunhill of London.
        For all the confusion the similarity of names caused both businesses over the years, it was not until Dunhill Tailors established its street-level store on East 57th Street in 1955 -- after a long stop on the fifth floor of 1 West 52d Street -- that the tobacconist got around to filing a legal objection.
        By then it was too late. The courts ruled that by waiting more than 30 years the tobacco store chain had waived its exclusive rights to the trade name, a ruling that was bolstered by the fact that the head of the tobacco store had been shopping at Dunhill Tailors for years. The confusion ended in 1985 when Mr. Block and his brother retired and sold the business to Alfred Dunhill of London.
        The new owners closed the 57th Street store and stopped using the Dunhill Tailors name but did not quite stamp out all memory of it. The store's custom-made suits were built to last, after all, and for years after he retired, Mr. Block would be walking down the street in Palm Beach or New York when a well-dressed man would spot him, whip open his jacket to flash the familiar label and say, ''See, I'm still wearing it.''
        Mr. Block, whose brother died in 1993, is survived by his wife, Kathleen; two children, William, of Los Angeles and Patricia Ameridad of Seattle, and two grandchildren.
      