
        Billy Sullivan, a former newspaperman, printing salesman, college publicist and oil-company executive who founded the Boston (now New England) Patriots professional football team and ran it for almost 30 often-rocky years, died yesterday at his retirement home in Atlantis, Fla. He was 82 years old and, according to his son Chuck, had suffered from prostate cancer for eight years.
        To some, the elder Sullivan will be remembered not for his role in the founding of the American Football League in 1959 and its subsequent merger with the National Football League, but for his acrimonious lawsuit against the N.F.L. in the 90's.
        In 1988, after the N.F.L. had refused to allow Mr. Sullivan to avoid bankruptcy by selling 50 percent of the Patriots in a public offering, he sold the team to Victor Kiam for $83 million. In 1991, he filed an antitrust suit against the league, and the case did not end until 1996, when he accepted an $11.5 million settlement. It turned out to be a nice profit for someone who in 1960, with nine partners, had bought a charter franchise in the A.F.L. -- the league's eighth and final one -- for $25,000.
        Actually, Mr. Sullivan wanted a franchise in the established N.F.L., and Bert Bell, the N.F.L. commissioner, said he would bring up the request at an N.F.L. meeting. When Bell died before the meeting, Mr. Sullivan scheduled a meeting with Tim Mara, the Giants' owner. On the day of that meeting, Mr. Mara died.
        The N.F.L. later decided it did not want a team in Boston, whose five previous pro football franchises had moved or folded. So Mr. Sullivan settled for the new A.F.L., with one son, Patrick, as the general manager and another, Chuck, as executive vice president.
        In 1964, Mr. Sullivan was an A.F.L. negotiator when the league reached a five-year, $30 million television agreement with NBC that assured the A.F.L.'s survival. After that contract expired, the A.F.L. merged with the N.F.L., and he represented both leagues in getting an antitrust exemption from Congress that allowed the merger.
        The Patriots were not always so successful on the field under Mr. Sullivan. They made the A.F.L. title game once, losing to San Diego in 1963, and reached the Super Bowl once, losing to Chicago in 1986.
        ''He was filled with hope and optimism,'' said Gino Cappelletti, one of his early star players. ''He did it without the capability to rub a couple of nickels together, which makes it even more amazing.''
        William Hallissey Sullivan Jr. was born on Sept. 13, 1915, in Lowell, Mass. His father was a Boston Globe correspondent and city manager of Lowell at a time when a friend of the father's, John F. (Honey Fitz) Fitzgerald, the grandfather of John F. Kennedy, was Mayor of Boston.
        After graduation from Boston College in 1937, young Sullivan became an $18-a-week sportswriter and then publicity director of Boston College, Notre Dame and the Boston Braves baseball team, with time out for Navy service. As a publicity man, he put out so many news releases that the columnist Red Smith called him the Maitre de Mimeograph.
        In 1947, he founded the Jimmy Fund, a Boston-based charity devoted to research and treatment of children's cancer. Last year, the fund raised more than $15 million.
        He organized the financing for Foxboro Stadium, where the Patriots play. The stadium was built in 1970 for $6.7 million and was once named for him.
        When he drove to home games, he would often pick fans up in distant parking lots and drive them to the front gate. By the time they got there, his son Chuck recalled, his old Buick looked like a clown's Volkswagen.
        He was a gregarious man who spun stories like an old-line Boston politician. His family seemed everywhere, including the classroom, where his wife and six children earned 19 degrees among them. One branch of the family did most of the printing for the Archdiocese of Boston and also ran race tracks. A daughter, Kathleen, ran for the United States Senate and married Joseph  Alioto, a former Mayor of San Francisco.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary Malone Sullivan of Cotuit, Mass.; three sons, Charles (Chuck) of New York, William H. 3d of Cotuit and Patrick of Newton, Mass.; three daughters, Kathleen Alioto of San Francisco, Jean McKeigue of Jamaica Plain, Mass., and Nancy Chamberlain of Brookline, Mass.; 15 grandchildren and two sisters.
        In 1972, when Lamar Hunt, the owner of the Kansas City Chiefs and an A.F.L. founder, was inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame, he was presented by Mr. Sullivan. At the funeral service for Mr. Sullivan on Thursday in Boston, one of the eulogies will be given by Mr. Hunt.
      