
        Victor Pasmore, painter, printmaker, educator and for more than 50 years a volatile but invaluable figure in the British art world, died on Jan. 22 at his home on the island of Malta. He was 87.
        Mr. Pasmore lived the successive adventures of contemporary art and added something of his own to almost all of them. A pioneer of informal abstraction in 1934, he shifted his ground in 1936 and began to paint from nature and from the living model. In 1937, with William Coldstream and Claude Rogers, he founded the Euston Road School in London.
        In this school, which lasted until the summer of 1939, individual stylistic freedom was allied to ''an objective and unprejudiced investigation into visual appearances,'' Mr. Pasmore said. As he summed up his position in conversation, ''It's time we got all this straight.''
        His supporters included Sir Kenneth Clark, then director of the National Gallery in London, and a senior British art critic, Clive Bell, who said that Mr. Pasmore was the best painter then working in England. As a painter of townscape, landscape, domestic interiors and the nude, Mr. Pasmore was known for a blissful sensitivity of touch.
        After World War II, he was moved by the dream of a new Britain in which new towns would cohabit with new art. To play his part in this, he turned to abstract forms (the spiral swirl, for instance) that could be enlarged at will and carried out in materials that would last outdoors.
        The new towns did not turn out too well, but Mr. Pasmore to the end of his life was irrepressible in his search for works of art that had a new idiom and potentially a new use. He never thought small. Nor did he ever falter in his belief that abstract art in combination with architecture could ''embrace the polarities of the human spirit.''
        Mr. Pasmore was born in Chelmsham, England, the son of Edwin A. Pasmore, a distinguished doctor who became head of a mental hospital. Educated at Harrow School, he took a low-level job with the London County Council that left him time to study art. (No great timekeeper, he once came in hours late on a fine sunny morning and excused himself with the four words, ''Sorry -- fog stopped train.'')
        Active in British art education in one place or another until 1961, he was a continual source of new ideas, some of them more fruitful than others, but none of them feeble. In 1961, a contract with Marlborough Fine Art in London allowed him to return full time to painting, printmaking and reliefs. In the 1960's, he had retrospective exhibitions in London, Paris, Amsterdam, Brussels, Oslo and Bern.
        In 1964, he and the French painter Pierre Soulages shared the Carnegie Prize at the Pittsburgh International Exhibition. In 1966, he acquired the house and studio on Malta that was to become his principal residence. In 1982, he was appointed a Companion of Honor in his native Britain.
        Mr. Pasmore is survived by his wife and longtime favorite model, the former Wendy Blood, and by a son and a daughter.
      