
        Ibrahim Farrah, a performer of Middle Eastern dance and publisher of Arabesque, a magazine about ethnic dance, died on Feb. 7 at his home in Manhattan. He was 58.
        The apparent cause was a heart attack, according to Phyllis Saretta, Mr. Farrah's longtime companion.
        Mr. Farrah was born in western Pennsylvania of Lebanese immigrant parents.He learned to perform Middle Eastern dances at family parties. After graduating from Pennsylvania State University, where he received a bachelor's degree in American history, Mr. Farrah moved to Washington, where he performed at the Syriana club.
        Mr. Farrah came to New York in 1967 and began teaching Middle Eastern dance forms at the International Dance School at Carnegie Hall. He also taught at Fazil's and other studios, and at his own Ibrahim Farrah School of Near East Dance in Manhattan. Mr. Farrah also conducted master classes and seminars throughout the country and internationally.
        Mr. Farrah founded the Ibrahim Farrah Near East Dance Group with a grant from Doris Duke, the tobacco heiress, in the early 1970's. The troupe, which performed in New York City and toured nationally, performed choreography by Mr. Farrah that was inspired by traditional dances of Lebanon, Syria, Egypt and other countries. In New York City, the company made its national debut at Town Hall, and also performed at Carnegie Hall, Alice Tully Hall and the Theater of the Riverside Church. The company also danced at the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington.
        Mr. Farrah began publishing Arabesque in 1977, concentrating at first on Middle Eastern dances and on ballets that featured such dances, and later widening the magazine's scope to include ethnic dances of all countries. He received the Ruth St. Denis Award for Choreography, a major ethnic dance honor. He produced two videos of Middle Eastern dancing.
        In addition to his companion, Dr. Saretta, Mr. Farrah is survived by his mother, Abla, and two sisters, Jane Salem and Peggy Farrah, all of Johnstown, Pa., and a brother, Jacob, of Alexandria, Va.
      