
        Dr. Gertrude Scharff Goldhaber, a physicist who contributed to scientists' understanding of nuclear fission and the structure of atomic nuclei, died on Monday at Brookhaven Memorial Hospital in Patchogue, N.Y. She was 86 and lived at Bayport on Long Island.
        Dr. Goldhaber was a member of the National Academy of Sciences and retired as a senior scientist at Brookhaven National Laboratory.
        She was credited with the discovery that spontaneous fission is associated with the emission of neutrons. She made that observation in 1942 when she was a research physicist at the University of Illinois, but it was classified top secret and not announced until after World War II.
        Dr. Goldhaber added to the knowledge of the structure of the nucleus when she found regularities in nuclear excited states. She also worked in areas that included long-lived isomers (different versions of elements) and heavy ions (positively and negatively charged atoms or molecules).
        In 1948, she and her husband, Dr. Maurice Goldhaber, determined that  beta rays were identical with electrons, which settled an argument among their peers.
        She was elected a fellow of the American Physics Society in 1947 and the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 1980, and to membership in the National Academy of Sciences in 1972.
        Born in Mannheim, Germany, she earned a doctoral degree at the University of Munich in 1935 and moved to England to do research at Imperial College in London.
        She did research and taught at the University of Illinois from 1939 to 1950, when she became the first woman with a Ph.D. in physics on the Brookhaven faculty.
        Dr. Goldhaber founded the Brookhaven Lecture Series in 1960. She was a co-founder of Brookhaven Women in Science, which furthers the advancement of women scientists and began in 1979. She retired from Brookhaven in 1977 but returned in 1985 as a research collaborator, an association she continued until 1990.
        Over the years, she was an adjunct professor at Cornell University and the Johns Hopkins University. She also was an adviser and consultant  at the National Research Council, the National Science Foundation and many other scientific bodies.
        Besides her husband of 59 years, she is survived by two sons, both theoretical physicists, Dr. Alfred Goldhaber of Setauket, N.Y., and Dr. Michael Goldhaber of Oakland, Calif.; a sister, Liselotte Leoni of Nice, France, and two grandchildren.
        In 1984, the Phi Beta Kappa society selected her as a Visiting Scholar, an honor that sent her to eight campuses for the year. In an interview at the time with The New York Times, she said that her path into science had been clear because she fell in love with numbers at the age of 4 and decided to study physics and mathematics as a teen-ager in Munich.
        She declined to settle for the future of a high school teacher, as other  girls with similar interests might have, or a lawyer, as her father wanted, she said.
        ''I said, 'I'm not interested in the law,' '' she recalled. ''I wanted to understand what the world is made of. That actually turned out to be a good thing because when the Nazis came -- I'm Jewish -- I had to leave the country, and physics was something that could be done anywhere.''
      