
        Milton W. Brown, a scholar and teacher who was a pioneer in 20th-century American art history, died at Mount Sinai Hospital in Miami Beach on Feb. 6. He was 86.
        Mr. Brown's best-known book, ''American Painting From the Armory Show to the Depression'' (1955), was also his doctoral dissertation at New York University's Institute of Fine Arts. The book, a groundbreaking study of American art and culture between the world wars, was produced in the 1940's, when American art history was still in its infancy as a field of study and the material he was dealing with had been little examined by scholars.
        The book, which took a decade to complete, was interrupted by Mr. Brown's military service in Italy in World War II; he was awarded a bronze star and edited ''Stars and Stripes.'' He continued work on the book after he began teaching in the art department of Brooklyn College in 1946. He taught at Brooklyn for 25 years and was the department chairman from 1964 to 1971.
        With the art historians Leo Steinberg and John Rewald, he established the CUNY doctoral program in art history at the Graduate School and University Center in Manhattan in 1971 and was the art program's first executive officer until 1979. The program focused on American and European 19th- and 20th-century art. Its emphasis on photography and popular culture made it distinctive.
        After his retirement in 1979, he was named resident professor, and in 1993 professor emeritus, a title he held at his death. He was appointed Kress Professor at the Center for Advanced Studies in the Visual Arts at the National Gallery of Art in 1989-90. From 1983-87, he was senior fellow at the Williams College Art Museum, where he helped prepared the catalogue raisonne of the American artists Maurice and Charles Prendergast. He wrote several other books, including a catalogue for a show of Jacob Lawrence that he also organized for the Whitney Museum of American Art (1973-74), and he contributed essays to other catalogues, encyclopedias and journals.
        Mr. Brown, who was born in Newark in 1911, was also an artist. He studied painting in the late 1920's with Louis Lozowick, a family friend, and later with Leon Kroll at the National Academy of Design (now the National Academy Museum and School of Fine Arts). But he was able to devote full attention to his art only after retiring.
        He had his first one-man show in 1996 at Gallery Schlesinger in Manhattan, consisting of 20 small landscapes dating from 1932 to 1995 showing Long Island, Cape Cod and Europe, along with cloud studies inspired by Constable and Boudin. The critic Lawrence Campbell, writing in Art in America, noted that the work was painted directly from nature but detected in it a mood that he associated with the 1930's, ''a certain sadness that comes through to the observer like a social commentary.''
        He is survived by his wife, Blanche Brown of Manhattan, whom he met when they both were students at the Institute of Fine Arts, and by a brother, Julius Brown of O'Fallon, Ill.
      