
        Russell Carrell, a manager of charity antiques shows across the country for three decades, most notably the Winter Antiques Show at the Seventh Regiment Armory on Manhattan's East Side, died on Feb. 19 at the J.F.K. Medical Center in Lake Worth, Fla., after an emergency airlift from his Caribbean winter home on St. Kitts. He was 81 and also had a home in Salisbury, Conn.
        The Winter Antiques Show, benefiting the East Side Settlement House, is the crown jewel of secondhand-goods bazaars, with offerings from New England barns, Chinese palaces and just about any other place in between. Mr. Carrell started out as an exhibitor at its debut at the Armory in 1955, was named manager in 1960 and served as its impresario until he retired in 1987.
        At the height of his career he produced or managed 28 shows, indoors and out, from New Hampshire to California. He was considered for many years one of the country's most powerful and knowledgeable figures in the antiques business.
        Mr. Carrell also established what was billed as the very first flea market in the United States. It happened on the Saturday after Labor Day of 1958 in a field behind his Salisbury home, an antique by itself, built in 1740. The idea grew from his fascination with the famous Marche aux Puces in Paris and from watching furniture being sold off the back of a truck.
        He called his own, annual version Antiques in a Cow Pasture, and it caught on quickly. At its peak, the Salisbury flea market drew some 200 dealers and thousands of prospective customers, weather permitting.
        Russell Carrell was born in Morristown, N.J. He dropped out of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and did odd jobs at a resort on Cape Cod before enlisting in the Navy.
        He settled in Salisbury in 1946 and opened an antiques business in a rented storefront on Main Street. At times Mr. Carrell exhibited at his own shows. Shows managed by him in the Northeast included the Westchester Antiques Show; Antiquarius, a Christmas event in Old Greenwich, Conn., and the Outdoor Antique Show in Tarrytown, N.Y.
        He is survived by his companion, Edwin Palko of Salisbury.
      