
        Hans Wallach, an experimental psychologist at Swarthmore College who helped explain human vision and hearing, died on Feb. 5 at the Manchester House nursing home in Media, Pa. A longtime Swarthmore resident, he was 93.
        Dr. Wallach, a member of the National Academy of Sciences, did basic research on perceptual adaptation that led to a better understanding of the role learning plays in perception.
        He was credited with discovering the basic psychological principle -- based on the different perception of sound by each ear -- that makes stereophonic reproduction possible.
        In awarding him its Distinguished Scientific Contribution Award in 1983, the American Psychological Society cited Dr. Wallach's ''innovative and sustained experimental research.'' His studies explained fundamental areas like the perception of form through motion and the organization of movement, the society's citation said. He also studied the way different primary and secondary perceptions are sorted out and integrated.
        ''He touched and changed most perceptual problems,'' the citation said.
        He was born in Berlin and received a doctorate from the University of Berlin in 1934, after Hitler came to power. He recalled that he had had to defend his dissertation in a hurry so he could leave Germany and walked into the oral examinations ''not well prepared.''
        Two of the professors, ''aware of my precarious situation, allowed me to pass,'' he wrote in a memoir.
        He arrived at Swarthmore in 1936 as a research associate, joined the faculty in 1942 and rose to full professor in 1953. A Gestalt psychologist, he headed the psychology department  from 1957 to 1966, became the Centennial Professor of Psychology in 1971 and, after retiring from teaching, continued as a research associate until 1987. He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1986.
        Dr. Wallach is survived by a son, Karl, of Swarthmore. His wife, Phoebe Kasper Wallach, died in 1968.
      