
        Robert Mackintosh, who designed costumes for several dozen Broadway and Off Broadway shows and evening dresses for some of the world's most glamorous women, including Marilyn Monroe and Lena Horne, died yesterday morning in his Manhattan apartment.
        He had been suffering from emphysema, said his cousin, Gladys Bourdain. He was 72.
        Although he became ill in later years, Mr. Mackintosh continued to design for the stage and screen. The gown that Ruby Dee wears in her one-woman show, ''My One Good Nerve,'' was his creation. The show opened last night at the Sylvia and Danny Kaye Playhouse at Hunter College just hours after his death.
        Mr. Mackintosh's designs made their Broadway debut on June 25, 1952, in the musical ''Wish You Were Here,'' at the Imperial Theater in New York, when he was only 27. The hit show was produced by Leland Hayward and directed by Joshua Logan.
        Perhaps the zenith of his career came in 1966. ''Mame'' was at the Winter Garden theater, a Hollywood character actress named Angela Lansbury was the lead, and the costumes belonged to Mr. Mackintosh.
        ''He made Angela Lansbury glamorous,'' said Betty Lee Hunt, a Broadway publicity agent and a longtime friend of Mr. Mackintosh. That year Ms. Lansbury won a Tony Award and Mr. Mackintosh won first place in the Variety New York Drama Critics Poll for best costumes.
        Also among his credits were the 1974 revival of ''Gypsy,'' also starring Angela Lansbury, and the 1992 Tommy Tune touring production of ''Bye Bye Birdie.''
        ''Robert Mackintosh's costumes splash the sets with bright and broad colors, and Tune's bright array of suits are a special joy here,'' wrote The Los Angeles Times.
        Mr. Mackintosh, described by friends as a bon vivant and a raconteur, also designed for television and nightclubs. Among his clients: Bette Davis, Susan Hayward, Celeste Holm, Ginger Rogers and Estelle Parsons. He also called them friends, Ms. Hunt said.
        His career spanned four decades, beginning with study at the Parsons School of Design in Manhattan and a stint as a designer with the Ice Capades. In his later years, Mr. Mackintosh created more steadily for Off Broadway productions. Among his most recent work were the costumes for ''Green Heart,'' by the drag performer Charles Busch.
        ''He designed a 40's white-crepe off-the-shoulder gown with black beading for me based on a dress he made for Lena Horne,'' Mr. Busch said. ''Of course Lena and I are built quite differently, but we both ended up looking terribly glamorous by Bob's magic.''
        Mr. Mackintosh was the author of two novels, ''Silk,'' and ''A Heritage of Lies,'' and was the co-author of the Bobby Short memoir ''The Life and Times of a Saloon Singer.''
        Ms. Bourdain of New York City is his only immediate survivor.
      