
        Rose Sheppard Milbank, a longtime volunteer with the Red Cross and the United Nations, and a philanthropist who supported projects in underdeveloped countries, died on Monday at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn. She was 81 and had suffered a stroke, a family spokesman said.
        For many years, Mrs. Milbank, who was known as Posy, divided her time between the United Nations in New York and Red Cross meetings around the world. As chairwoman of five United Nations committees from 1962 to 1973, all of which dealt with cooperation between the United Nations and nongovernmental organizations, she focused on the coordination of disaster relief.
        Mrs. Milbank was born in New Haven on Aug. 23, 1916, one of eight children of Rose Marie and John Day Jackson, owner of the New Haven Register and the New Haven Journal-Courier.
        After graduating from the Shipley School in Bryn Mawr, Pa., she attended Vassar College and the University of Lausanne in Switzerland before marrying John Wade Sheppard. Mr. Sheppard ran a printing and office supply concern in Long Island City, Queens, and other family businesses in Charlotte, N.C. He later became an estate planner in Greenwich.
        She began her volunteer career in 1951 with the Greenwich chapter of the American Red Cross and in 1957 was chosen as the representative of the League of Red Cross Societies to the United Nations.
        Mr. Sheppard accompanied his wife on most of her trips. In 1979, observing that foreign aid generally alleviated major needs but left smaller ones untouched, the couple set up their own charitable trust fund, called NEEDS (Neighbors Everywhere for Education and Development). The fund made grants to small grass-roots projects in underdeveloped countries.
        Her husband died in 1990, and the following year she married Jeremiah Milbank, a philanthropist whose family was involved in investment banking and founded the International Center for the Disabled. The couple worked together for the center, the Red Cross and the Boys and Girls Club of America.
        Mrs. Milbank is survived by her husband; her children, Sandra Rodgers of Winchester, Mass., Gail Moloney of Greenwich, Conn., Lynn Manger of Manhattan and John W. Sheppard Jr. of Darien, Conn.; a brother, Lionel Jackson of Montecito, Calif.; a sister, Katharine Reese of Havre de Grace, Md., and 11 grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      