
        Robert Jorgen, who led New York City's efforts to offer emergency shelter for homeless families from the time their files began to trickle to his desk until his retirement from the Human Resources Administration in 1986, died on Jan. 22 at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 72.
        The cause was cancer, said Diane Sonde, a friend and former co-worker.
        Mr. Jorgen started as a caseworker in the Department of Welfare and, as his responsibilities grew, he helped develop programs to cope with homelessness, hunger and AIDS.
        As head of the department's Crisis Intervention Services, he dealt not only with families who lost their homes, but also with welfare hotel owners who exploited them at the public's expense and with the inevitable public outrage.
        The 1980's were a period of wide gentrification in the city. In 1985, Mr. Jorgen reported that the population of homeless families had grown to about 4,000 year-round from 1,000 just a few years earlier, forcing the city to use substandard hotels, he said. But, he added, ''The policy of the city is to allow no family to sleep in the streets.''
        ''You can't have it both ways,'' he said the year he retired. ''You can't have all the social services we provide, and three good meals a day, and Pampers for kids and recreational programs without paying for it.''
        But throughout, Mr. Jorgen worked to root out waste and fraud. He grew up in Oregon, earned a master's degree at Columbia University's School of Social Work and was hired by the Welfare Department in 1962.
        He was promoted in 1973 to director of Special Housing Services, the first city agency to place staff in hotels housing individuals and families in its care.
        He put in place the first social service inspections to keep an eye on welfare hotels collecting city money, along with stricter record keeping and monthly reports to monitor the operators and the city's treatment of the poor.
        His office was expanded into Crisis Intervention Services with triple the staff in 1977 in response to growing homelessness. He and the Red Cross set up the first municipal shelter system exclusively for displaced families in 1983, with added support from nonprofit agencies.
        Before he retired, Mr. Jorgen responded to the outbreak of AIDS by creating an AIDS unit in his office. It was an early step toward coordinated efforts to cope with the disease at all levels of government and the creation of the present city Division of AIDS Services.
        After his retirement Mr. Jorgen served as interim director of Family Dynamics, an agency aimed at child abuse, and as a volunteer consultant for other nonprofit agencies.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      