
        Robert Gordon Main, a former appeals judge and Republican Assemblyman from New York's North Country, died on Monday at Alice Hyde Hospital in upstate Malone, N.Y. A native and resident of Malone, he was 80.
        He was practicing with the firm of Main & Pond when he was elected to represent Franklin County in the State Assembly in 1950. He served five terms until the Republican Party nominated him for justice of State Supreme Court in the Fourth Judicial District in 1959.
        He carried all 11 counties in the district, served 13 years as a trial and administrative judge and was re-elected with Republican, Democratic, Conservative and Liberal Party support in 1973. That year Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller appointed him a temporary justice of the Appellate Division, the state's second-highest court, for the Third Department.
        Gov. Hugh L. Carey made the appointment permanent, and Gov. Mario M. Cuomo reaffirmed it in 1982. He also was designated an acting judge of the Court of Appeals, the state's highest court, when sitting judges recused themselves from cases.
        In addition, Chief Judge Charles D. Breitel of the Court of Appeals chose Judge Main to sit on the Court on the Judiciary. In 1977, he served on a disciplinary panel of appellate judges who looked into charges that part-time town and village judges throughout the state had been fixing traffic tickets.
        A 1940 graduate of Colgate University, he entered Albany Law School that year but enlisted in the Marine Corps in 1942 and took part in the First Marine Division campaigns in the Pacific. He was discharged in 1946 as a major, returned to law school, received his degree and entered private practice.
        While in the Assembly, he served on the Rules and Judiciary Committees and helped shape legislation that created the Whiteface Mountain Authority. He was considered a leading contender for the position of Speaker of the Assembly in 1959, but chose to seek judicial office instead.
        Since his retirement as a judge, he had been of counsel to the law firm of Donald J. Holland in Malone.
        Judge Main is survived by his wife of 47 years, Ann Manson Main; a son, Robert G. Jr., of Malone, a Franklin County judge, and a daughter, Lucy Ann Tweet of Hingham, Mass.
      