
        William G. Lambert, an investigative reporter whose work led to the resignation of Abe Fortas from the United States Supreme Court in 1969 and who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1957 for exposing corruption in the teamsters' union, died Feb. 8. He was 78 years old and lived in Villanova, Pa.
        Heather Oxberry, a daughter, said Mr. Lambert died of respiratory problems after a long illness at Bryn Mawr Hospital.
        Mr. Lambert was an investigative reporter for Life magazine in October 1968, when a low-level Government official suggested he look into a relationship between Abe Fortas, the Supreme Court Justice, and Louis E. Wolfson, a wealthy industrialist who was imprisoned for stock manipulation.
        Through persistent reading of court records and questioning, Mr. Lambert pieced together that Mr. Fortas had accepted a $20,000 fee from the family foundation of Mr. Wolfson.
        According to a Life article published May 5, 1969, Justice Fortas had kept the money for 11 months but returned it after Mr. Wolfson was indicted on Federal charges of stock fraud.
        Mr. Fortas resigned from the Supreme Court nine days after the article appeared.
        Mr. Lambert won several awards for the article, including the George Polk award for magazine reporting.
        Mr. Lambert began his career with a small Oregon newspaper, The Oregon City Banner-Courier. He quit in 1950, and soon landed a job with The Portland Oregonian as a police reporter.
        At The Oregonian, he teamed up with Wallace Turner on a five-part series that described the involvement of Dave Beck, president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, in racketeering. The series helped prompt a Senate investigation of corruption in the union.
        Mr. Lambert and Mr. Turner, who later became a reporter for The New York Times, shared the Pulitzer Prize for local reporting in 1957. Mr. Beck was convicted in 1959 of Federal income-tax evasion and state embezzlement charges and served 30 months in prison before being paroled in 1964.
        After a short stint as a television reporter and press agent in Washington, Mr. Lambert took a job with Life. After retiring in 1985, he was a consulant to lawyers defending newspapers that were being sued for libel.
        Mr. Lambert is survived by his wife, Jean, and two daughters, Ms. Oxberry of Miami and Cathryn of Oregon City; four granchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      