
        Fernando Abril Martorell, a former Deputy Prime Minister and a key figure in Spain's transition to democracy after the Franco dictatorship, died on Monday at Puerta de Hierro Hospital in Madrid. He was 61.
        The cause was lung cancer, the hospital said.
        Born in Valencia on Aug. 31, 1936,  he earned a degree in agricultural engineering and entered politics in 1969 as the appointed president of the provincial council in Segovia. His patron was Adolfo Suarez, the provincial Governor who, after Franco's death in 1975, became Prime Minister and brought Mr. Abril Martorell into his inner circle.
        Mr. Abril Martorell's first assignment in Mr. Suarez's center-right Government was as Agriculture Minister in 1976. But he was promoted a year later to Third Deputy Prime Minister for political affairs.
        From that post, he helped organize the Moncloa Pacts, approved in 1977 after the first democratic elections. In the pacts, named for the Prime Minister's official headquarters, political leaders agreed on economic austerity measures and social reforms to maintain a degree of stability during the transition to democracy. At the time, Spain was racked by double-digit inflation.
        When preparation of the democratic Constitution of 1978 snagged over disagreements about education, divorce and other issues, Mr. Abril Martorell helped build a consensus among the political left and right, sometimes in late-night negotiations with a leader of the main opposition Socialist Party.
        Mr. Abril Martorell became Second Deputy Prime Minister in 1978, in charge of economic affairs. But when the economy soured, he was the highest-ranking official to lose his post in a Cabinet shuffle in 1980.
        He lost a bid for Parliament in 1982, and the next year assumed leadership of an ailing shipbuilding company in Valencia, Union Naval de Levante, and restored it to financial health. He also served as a board member at Banco Central Hispano, a major Spanish bank.
        He returned to politics in 1990, when the Socialist Government tapped him to head a commission studying reform of the heavily indebted public health care system. The commission's report in 1991 stirred controversy by recommending that retirees start paying for part of their prescriptions.
        Mr. Abril Martorell is survived by his wife, Maria Luisa Hernandez, and their six children.
      