
        Mancur Olson, 66, an economist at the University of Maryland widely admired for his research on how groups that represent specialized interests affect economic growth, died last Thursday. He lived in University Park, Md.
        The cause of death was a sudden heart attack, the university said.
        Mr. Olson graduated from North Dakota State University and was a Rhodes Scholar at University College, Oxford, before he earned a Ph.D. in economics from Harvard in 1963. His first academic job, as an assistant professor at Princeton University, was followed by a two-year period in Washington as Deputy Assistant Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare. But most of his career was spent at the University of Maryland, where he joined the economics department in 1969 after leaving the Government.
        His first book, ''The Logic of Collective Action,'' published in 1971, was a seminal work in the then-new field of ''public choice,'' the study of how economic decisions are made within organizations -- governments, unions and the like -- that are not subject to the direct discipline of the marketplace. But his most widely debated book was ''The Rise and Decline of Nations,'' published in 1982, an ambitious effort to explain why economies eventually stagnate.
        ''There have been whole conferences devoted to Olson's work,'' said  a Maryland colleague, Thomas Schelling. ''But he was one of those strange economists who was always better known among political scientists and sociologists.''
        Mr. Olson put his insights to practical use, creating the University of Maryland's Center for Institutional Reform and the Informal Sector in 1990. Working with grants from the Agency for International Development, the center has advised 30 countries ranging from Russia to Egypt.
        Surviving are his wife, Alison; a daughter, Ellika, of Blacksberg Va.; two sons, Severin and Sander, both of College Park, Md., and a brother, Gaylord, of Grand Falls, N.D.
        Correction:  March 5, 1998, Thursday  An obituary on Feb. 24 about Mancur Olson, an economist, misidentified the North Dakota hometown of a surviving brother, Gaylord. It is Buxton.
      