
        Dr. Virgil E. Barnes, a geologist who contended that the black glassy beads called tektites, which had been regarded as extraterrestrial objects, were created from soil and rock by catastrophic cosmic collisions, some as many as 35 million years ago, died on Wednesday at Seton Medical Center in Austin, Tex. He was 94 and lived in Austin.
        At his death, he was a senior research scientist at the Bureau of Economic Geology, a division of the University of Texas. He also had been an associate director of the bureau and a professor of geological sciences at the university, where he worked for 63 years.
        Dr. Barnes argued that sand was fused into droplets by a tremendous burst of heat, probably from a meteoric impact, and thrown skyward. The hot molten bits were shaped by their flight into teardrops, dumbbells and spheres, hardened as they cooled and then returned to earth in cosmic showers. They range from bead-sized to fist-sized.
        Some geologists have argued that tektites resemble moon rocks or the stuff of other celestial bodies, but Dr. William Fisher, a university colleague of Dr. Barnes, said that mainstream geologists now embrace Dr. Barnes's argument that they originated on earth.
        Dr. Barnes circled the world twice visiting tektite fields, in North America, Europe, Africa, Southeast Asia and Australia, Dr. Fisher said.
        By analyzing the rock layers in which they were found, Dr. Barnes was the first to fix the age of North American tektites at 35 million years and perhaps older, Dr. Fisher said.
        Dr. Barnes also produced the Geologic Atlas of Texas and was updating it at his death.
        In 1978, the International Mineral Association recognized Dr. Barnes by giving the name ''virgilite'' to a newly discovered volcanic glass he had collected in Peru, and two fossils have ''barnesi'' in their scientific names, honoring Dr. Barnes's work with Cambrian rocks in central Texas.
        Dr. Barnes was born in Chehalis, Wash., received B.S. and M.S. degrees from Washington State College and his Ph.D. from the University of Wisconsin in 1930.
        His wife of 62 years, Mildred Louise Barnes, died in 1994.
        Survivors include two daughters, Dr. Louise Barnes, of Nashville, and Dr. Elizabeth Barnes Thompson, of Manhattan; a son, Dr. Virgil E. Barnes 2d, of West Lafayette, Ind., and six grandchildren.
      