
        Halldor Laxness, Iceland's foremost literary figure and winner of the 1955 Nobel Prize in Literature for his bardic epics and sharp social commentary, died on Sunday in a nursing home northwest of Reykjavik, The Associated Press reported. He was 95.
        In his more than 60 novels, plays and other works, Mr. Laxness reinterpreted the skaldic sagas and folklore of Iceland, winning a devoted following in his homeland. Iceland has long boasted a higher percentage of readers among its now 272,500 citizens than any other country and hails writers as national heroes. He was also a popular writer in the former Soviet Union and Communist bloc and in 1952 was awarded the Stalin Prize.
        He joked about his leftist leanings, saying in 1946: ''I must be getting old. It isn't as much fun shocking the bourgeoisie any more.''
        Although he wrote drafts of one of his most acclaimed novels, ''Independent People,'' in Los Angeles in the late 1920's, he later complained of neglect by American readers. But the book was reissued in the United States last year by Vintage International.
        Published in 1946, and sold through the Book-of-the Month Club, ''Independent People'' follows the fortunes of a homesteading peasant named Bjartur as he struggles to tame a moorland farm in the mountains of eastern Iceland. Rather than celebrating the rewards of living close to the earth, a New York Times reviewer wrote, the novel makes readers work as hard as the author's characters as they plow the relentless soil.
        Mr. Laxness's first big success, written in the 1920's, was ''The Great Weaver of Cashmere.'' He also wrote ''Salka Valka,'' published in 1936, the story of a young woman's grim struggle to survive in the complex social world of a small fishing village; ''The Atom Station'' (1961, reissued in the United States in 1981); ''Paradise Reclaimed'' (1962), about the Mormons, and ''World Light,'' the tale of an alienated Icelandic folk poet, written between 1937 and 1940. He also translated Hemingway and Upton Sinclair into Icelandic.
        He was born Halldor Gudjonsson in 1902 on April 23 -- Shakespeare's birthday, biographers have noted -- but after spending his boyhood on his father's prosperous sheep farm, he took the pen name of Laxness, which means ''salmon peninsula.'' He studied the violin and piano, and as a youth began mimicking Icelandic verse sagas and composing romantic tales.
        He traveled widely in North America, trying and failing to break into the movie industry in Hollywood and in Europe, returning to Iceland in 1930 to celebrate the 1,000th anniversary of the Althing, his country's  Parliament. After Hitler's rise to power, the Nazi regime banned his books.
        In recent years he spent time at  his country home outside the capital, with a sweeping view of the volcanic, treeless landscape. He is survived by his second wife and four children.
        He remained entranced by the power of the Icelandic epics. ''Some things in literature are inexplicable,'' he said in 1982, when he was 80. ''Who would have thought that this barren hell would have produced one of the great literatures of the world?''
      