
        Samuel D. Wright, a former City Councilman from Brooklyn and a former New York State Assemblyman who was chairman of the Black and Puerto Rican Caucus in both legislative bodies, died on Jan. 20 at his home in Hilton Head, S.C., where he lived in retirement. He was 73.
        The cause was Parkinson's disease, said a niece, Jeannette Gadson.
        As chairman of Ocean Hill-Brownsville school district, Mr. Wright was credited with returning stability to schools in an area that was a focus of citywide strife over community control in the late 1960's.
        But his career was marred in 1978 when he was convicted of soliciting a $5,000 payment from a California producer of educational materials in return for using his influence as chairman of the school board to obtain a contract for the company. He was sentenced to serve three months of a one-year term in jail and fined $5,000. The conviction cost him his seat on the City Council, where he had represented the 45th District since 1973.
        A native of Ocean Hill, Mr. Wright was a 1960 graduate of Brooklyn Law School. In 1965, he was elected to the State Assembly, representing the 39th District in Brooklyn, and was named the first chairman of the Black and Puerto Rican Caucus.
        Mr. Wright unsuccessfully challenged Shirley Chisholm in 1976 for her Congressional seat in the 12th District, covering central Brooklyn. He characterized Mrs. Chisholm as a politician who had ''neglected'' her district in pursuit of national attention. Mrs. Chisholm called Mr. Wright ''a modern-day black Tammany politician.''
        Many black leaders in the 12th District and in other areas of Brooklyn complained that the rift between Mr. Wright and Mrs. Chisholm had eroded the power that black voters had worked to achieve in Brooklyn.
        After his conviction, Mr. Wright served as the national labor director for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and established a private law practice.  He is survived by his wife, Josephine; five sons, Samuel Jr., of Hilton Head, S.C., Howard, of Linden, N.J., Robert, of Philadelphia, Wayne, of Brooklyn, and Richard, of the Bronx; two daughters, Carol, of Richmond, Va., and Jean, of Chesterfield, Va., and four brothers, Joe and Rudy, of Brooklyn, George, of Georgetown, S.C., and Elliot, of Key West, Fla.
      