
        Charles Cogen, the first president of the New York City teachers' union and the leader of a one-day strike in 1960 that won bargaining rights for the city's public-school teachers, died Wednesday. He was 94.
        Mr. Cogen died of Parkinson's disease in a retirement home in Washington, family members said.
        After heading the city's teachers' union, the United Federation of Teachers, he was elected president of its parent, the American Federation of Teachers. As head of those two organizations, Mr. Cogen played a pivotal role in forming a vigorous union and a strong voice for the nation's teachers, who before 1960 rarely had the right to negotiate contracts through collective bargaining.
        In 1960, Mr. Cogen spearheaded the first citywide teachers' strike, and two years later, he led a short strike that pressured Mayor Robert F. Wagner Jr. to agree to salaries and other contract terms that made teachers elsewhere envious.
        Mr. Cogen inspired teachers with his fiery speeches and forceful arguments, and under him, the city's teachers won contracts and demonstrated militancy that served as models for teachers around the nation. He did this in an era when many teachers thought it unprofessional to strike and when the leaders of most other unions looked askance at teachers' forsaking their pupils and taking to the streets. In addition, state law then, as it does now, barred walkouts by public employees
        Indeed, Mr. Cogen was often attacked for urging teachers to strike, facing accusations that he, and the teachers, were greedy lawbreakers who set a woeful example for American schoolchildren. Defending himself and teacher militancy, he said in a 1959 interview, ''Students will have more respect for teachers who stand up and fight for their rights.''
        Mr. Cogen often related that he developed his love for labor early in  this century when he went to union rallies with his father, a garment worker and ardent unionist.
        Mr. Cogen called for national education standards to prod all American schools to improve their performance. Three decades ago, he proposed merging the American Federation of Teachers and its larger rival, the National Education Association, which the two unions finally -- and tentatively -- agreed to last month.
        ''Charlie was an extraordinary leader, truly ahead of his time,'' said Sandra Feldman, president of the American Federation of Teachers. ''He helped win bargaining rights for teachers in New York City, and under his leadership, many other teacher unions secured that right.''
        Charles Cohen -- he changed his name to Cogen around 1930, family members said -- was born on Manhattan's Lower East Side on Oct. 31, 1903, the son of Joseph and Bessie Cohen.
        Mr. Cogen, who said he was shy as a child, went to Boys High School in Brooklyn and won a scholarship to Cornell University, where he majored in economics, graduating in 1924. He became an elementary-school teacher by day in Brooklyn, and at night attended Fordham University Law School, from which he obtained a degree in 1927.
        Dissatisfied with teaching conditions, he started practicing law in 1930, intent on being a lawyer for the working man, but after three years of struggling during the Depression, he abandoned the law. During those three years, he obtained a master's degree in economics from Columbia University. In 1930, he married Tess Schnittkramer, a lawyer and educator who became a professor at Pace University.
        After leaving the law, Mr. Cogen returned to teaching, taking a ''teacher in training'' position for $4.50 a day in Queens, with no vacation or tenure. He became a substitute and then a regular teacher, spending 5 years at Grover Cleveland High School in Queens and 13 years at the Bronx High School of Science.
        In 1959, he was elected president of the New York City Teachers Guild, a 2,000-member division of the American Federation of Teachers. It was one of the 100 different, competing groupings representing the city's 44,000 teachers.
        In March 1960, the Guild merged with the High School Teachers Association to form the United Federation of Teachers, which elected him as its president.
        Later that year, the new union asked the New York City Board of Education for recognition as the bargaining agent for the city's teachers. But the board balked, and Mr. Cogen led a one-day strike by 5,500 teachers.
        Mayor Wagner appointed a committee to investigate the dispute, and the committee recommended a representation election, in which Mr. Cogen's union bested two rivals to represent all the city's teachers.
        When contract talks deadlocked in 1962, the union went on strike and 22,000 teachers walked out. The next day, the strike ended, and the city soon agreed to the the first comprehensive teachers' contract in the nation.
        It provided a $1,000 salary increase, establishing a salary scale of $5,300 to $9,970, and it also provided a grievance procedure with binding arbitration. The next year, Mr. Cogen signed another agreement that provided a new wage increase and placed the first limits ever on class size.
        Mr. Cogen was elected president of the American Federation of Teachers in 1964. In his four years as president -- he retired in 1968 -- the teachers' federation grew rapidly, as it poured money and energy into organizing drives to attract teachers who were warming up to unionism.
        After his retirement, he continued to advise union leaders and served on numerous boards, including the Jewish Labor Committee, Americans for Democratic Action and the United States National Commission for Unesco. He and his wife moved to Washington in 1991. His wife died in 1993 at 89.
        Mr. Cogen is survived by 2 sons, Joel, of New Haven, and Edward, of Washington; 4 grandchildren, and 10 great-grandchildren. Funeral services will be held Sunday at 12:30 P.M. at Riverside Memorial Chapel in Manhattan.
      