
        W. Bradford Wiley, a sixth-generation publisher who was a watchful guardian of the independence of the family-controlled John Wiley & Sons Inc., died Tuesday at his home in Summit, N.J. He was 87.
        Mr. Wiley started in the company in 1932 as a college book salesman, eventually rising to chairman in 1956. He retired in 1993.
        The son of an insurance surveyor and adjuster, Mr. Wiley was born in Orange, N.J., and he generally assumed that he would follow his father into a career as an insurance underwriter. But he decided instead to accept an offer from his father's two first cousins to join the publishing company.
        John Wiley & Sons evolved from a Manhattan bookstore started in 1807 by Charles Wiley to an international publisher of journals, textbooks and scientific books with more than $430 million in revenues last year.
        Mr. Wiley once said that he had been warned: ''If you don't like it, you don't have to stay. If you don't do well, you won't stay.''
        In his early years as a salesman, he roved the Pacific Coast and the South, often with his wife, Esther Terry Booth, whom he had married in 1930. He moved to the New York office in 1937, and later as the editorial director of the company he worked to publish pioneering books in such topics as computer technology, statistics and nuclear physics.
        By the late 1940's, he was helping to push the boundaries of Wiley into foreign countries. His son Bradford Wiley 2d, of New York, who is editor and chairman at Wiley, recalls that he brought almost a missionary zeal to his work. Wiley was one of the early textbook pioneers in Asia, and today more than 40 percent of the company's sales come from outside the United States.
        Independence was almost a moral canon to Mr. Wiley, said his son, who described publishing as not only a business for his parents but also a way of life. ''He saw a connection between independence and quality publishing,'' Bradford Wiley said, adding that he recalled board meetings during the 1980's when ''people would say we're denying the laws of probability and he'd say, 'Yes, we are.' ''
        In addition to Bradford, Mr. Wiley's children include Deborah Wiley of New York, a senior vice president for corporate communications at the company, and Peter of San Francisco, an author and board member.
        In a memorandum to Wiley employees on Tuesday, the three children reiterated that the company would maintain its independence. The family controls the company through the ownership of shares that permits it to elect 70 percent of the board.
        ''I don't think he could ever have comprehended a life outside of publishing,'' said his son Peter. ''Books were something that you were involved in when you weren't involved with people. Even when he was having a hard time in his last year, he always had a stack of books and newspapers and magazines. Toward the end, he was trying to read 'Cold Mountain,' and he was struggling through it, probably having a hard time remembering things.''
        Mr. Wiley's wife died in 1989. In addition to his children, he is survived by two sisters, Janice Adams  of Farmington, Me., and Nancy Walker of Montpelier, Vt.; seven grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      