
        Jack D. Myers, a doctor who was widely regarded as one of the nation's best at diagnosis and who developed one of the first computer programs to help doctors diagnose complex cases, died on Jan. 31 at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 84.
        Dr. Myers, whose field was internal medicine, was the chairman of the department of medicine at the University of Pittsburgh from 1950 to 1970 and later developed his software there using the principles of artificial intelligence.
        He once said his system might have quickly identified Legionnaire's disease as a new strain of pneumonia when it broke out in Philadelphia in 1976 and baffled medical science.
        He compared his software to a doctor's stethoscope, said Dr. Randolph A. Miller, a colleague at Pittsburgh who helped write Dr. Myers's programs and who is now chairman of biomedical informatics at Vanderbilt University Medical Center. ''The program could extend a doctor's abilities,'' Dr. Miller said, ''but it could not replace what's between the ears.''
        At its best, the computer could be a diagnostic star. In hospital tests, the computer program was occasionally put up against the intuition of nationally respected doctors as each sought to diagnose a complex case. At times, the program sorted through the symptoms and came up with the correct answer when the doctors could not. Others saw the program as only moderately useful.
        A 1994 article in the New England Journal of Medicine rated Dr. Myers's system and four others, giving them a collective report card with ''a C minus,'' Dr. Miller said, noting that the rating was based on only the first response by the computer and ignored the program's ability to ask follow-up questions and apply further reasoning.
        When he began work on the program in 1970, Dr. Myers sought help from computer experts with experience in applying artificial intelligence to medicine. Dr. Myers tape-recorded his thoughts as he made a diagnosis and the programmers devised a way for the computer to follow his steps in making decisions and to apply his methods of reasoning. His first program could match 3,550 symptoms with more than 500 diseases that made up about three-quarters of the diagnoses in internal medicine. It was used at a number of hospitals and medical schools.
        In the 1980's, Dr. Myers shifted away from his original method, which Dr. Miller described as ''find a genius and can their brain.'' Instead, he built a system that would scan a computer library gleaned from medical research reports.
        Dr. Myers assigned doctors to study medical articles and code the information for entry into a single database, supplemented by Dr. Myers's own knowledge.
        That system, called ''Q.M.R.'' for quick medical reference and sold by a company called First Databank, is still in use helping doctors make diagnostic decisions at medical schools and hospitals.
        Dr. Miller said that the system was not used universally but that its wider use could come with the development of a uniform national database.
        Dr. Myers was born in New Brighton, Pa. At Stanford University, he received a bachelor's degree in 1933 and a medical degree in 1937. He then worked at Stanford and at Harvard Medical School, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston and Duke University before joining the University of Pittsburgh. He continued working at Pittsburgh until last year.
        He was president of the American College of Physicians in 1976-77, and was chairman of the National Board of Medical Examiners from 1971 to 1975.
        Survivors include his wife of 51 years, Dr. Jessica Lewis; three daughters, Jessica R. Myers of Salisbury, Md., Elizabeth R. Myers of Westwood, Mass., and Dr. Margaret A. Myers of Radnor, Pa.; a son, Dr. John L. Myers of Bangor, Me., and nine grandchildren.
      