
        Eduardo Francisco Cardinal Pironio, one of Latin America's highest ranking churchmen, who was twice considered to be a candidate for the papacy, died on Thursday morning at the Vatican, where he had lived for many years. He was 77 and suffered from bone cancer.
        Cardinal Pironio, born in Nueve de Julio, Argentina, into a family of Italian immigrants, was made a bishop at 44, and served first as secretary and then, in 1972, as president of the Latin American Bishops Conference, where he was noted for his defense of human rights.
        He was later called to Rome by Pope Paul VI to become head of the Congregation of Religious Orders and of Secular Institutions. He was made a cardinal in 1976.
        During the two papal conclaves held in 1978, the first after the death of Paul VI and the second after the death of his successor, John Paul I, Cardinal Pironio -- described by his associates as cultivated, open and amiable -- was briefly a candidate for the papacy.
        In 1984 Pope John Paul II selected him to head the Pontifical Council for the Laity, where he developed and promoted World Youth Day, an event held every other year -- most recently in Paris last August -- and always attended by the Pope.
        Speaking at the World Youth Day celebration in Denver in 1993, he said young people had attended the event not ''out of curiosity but because they have hunger and thirst for life, for Christ, for prayer.''
        In 1986 Cardinal Pironio traveled to Cuba, one of several visits there by high-ranking Vatican officials that eventually culminated in the Pope's trip to the island last month. Writing in the Vatican newspaper Osservatore Romano, Cardinal Pironio said he found the Cuban church to be more vigorous than he expected.
        ''I never would have thought to find a church so profoundly and courageously vital, and so courageously engaged,'' he said.
        The Pope, who is to celebrate Cardinal Pironio's funeral Mass on Saturday morning at St. Peter's Basilica, paid homage to him today with a eulogy, written in Spanish, that praised the ''pastoral solicitude'' of his ministry.
        Cardinal Pironio's body will be returned to Argentina and will be buried at the Basilica de Lujan, where he became a priest and was made a bishop.
      