
        The American tenor Richard Cassilly, who was a mainstay in the heldentenor repertory in opera houses around the world for 30 years, died on Friday in Boston, where he lived. He was 70.
        The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, his family said.
        Mr. Cassilly had a 6 foot 3 inch, 250-pound frame and a voice to match: a burly tenor with a bright ping on the top notes. In his prime, his singing also had a supple lyric quality that distinguished his performances of roles like Don Jose in ''Carmen.'' But he was best known for his interpretations of the Wagnerian heldentenor roles, Tristan, Siegmund and Tannhauser, as well as other dramatic parts that require vocal heft and stamina, like Verdi's ''Otello'' and Saint-Saens's ''Samson.'' He was known to bring a musical intelligence and uncommonly clear diction to his work.
        Mr. Cassilly used his physique effectively onstage. Describing his performance as Sergei in a 1965 production of Shostakovich's ''Katerina Ismailova'' at the New York City Opera, the New York Times critic Harold C. Schonberg wrote that Mr. Cassilly ''sang superbly and acted with equal finesse,'' adding that ''physically, he was ideal for the role of the bull-like, selfish lout with whom Katerina falls in love.''
        Mr. Cassilly was born in Washington and grew up in Baltimore, where he sang in his high school glee club and was a tackle for the Bel Air Athletic Club football team. At 18, he entered Peabody Conservatory, where he studied with Hans Heinz. He was also coached by the great soprano Rosa Ponselle, then living in retirement in Baltimore. In 1955, he made his operatic debut on Broadway as Michele in Menotti's ''Saint of Bleecker Street,'' which was later broadcast on television by NBC. This success led to a contract with the New York City Opera, then City Center, where he worked steadily for 10 years.
        During this period, he was attracted to new and unusual operas. His European debut came in 1965 in Geneva as the title role in ''Raskolnikoff,'' a 1947 opera by the Swiss composer Heinrich von Sutermeister. He enjoyed a long association with the Hamburg Opera, sang a notable performance as Aaron in Schoenberg's ''Moses und Aaron'' (later recorded under the conductor Pierre Boulez) and was awarded the title Kammersinger by the city.
        His debut with the Metropolitan Opera came in 1970 as Radames in Verdi's ''Aida.'' He sang in more than 100 Met performances and was seen in two of the company's PBS broadcasts, in the title role in ''Tannhauser'' and as Jimmy Mahoney, the hapless prospector in John Dexter's English-language production of the Brecht-Weill opera ''The Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny.''
        Mr. Cassilly became a professor of voice at Boston University in 1986. He is survived by his wife, the soprano Patricia Craig; two brothers, Robert, of Bel Air, Md., and Peter, of Aberdeen, Md.; two sisters, Francesca Morse of Washington and Catherine Crahan of Los Angeles; seven children and seven grandchildren.
      