
        H. Gardner Ackley, an economics adviser to Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson, and a United States Ambassador to Italy, died in Ann Arbor, Mich., on Feb. 12. Professor Ackley, who retired in 1984 after 43 years as a member of the economics department at the University of Michigan, was 82.
        Appointed to the President's Council of Economic Advisers by President Kennedy in 1962, Professor Ackley was named chairman of the council in 1964 by President Johnson, serving four years.
        Although a believer in the Government's ability to manage the economy through fiscal and monetary fine-tuning -- a belief disputed by classical economic theorists -- Professor Ackley did not favor unlimited Government involvement. As chairman of the council, he did not shy away from publicly chastising business and labor for price increases and wage increases exceeding the Government's guidelines, but he said the damage that would be done by the imposition of direct wage and price controls would outweigh that of continued large wage and price increases.
        Further, in an interview shortly before becoming president of the American Economics Association in 1982, he defended the Government's role in the economy as constructive, but added, ''Substantial further regulation would be a step backward.''
        Paul A. Samuelson, the Nobel laureate and professor emeritus of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said, ''He was one of the leading macro-economists of the time.'' His textbook, ''Macroeconomic Theory'' (1961), was widely used by graduate students.
        But Professor Ackley's finest moment, according to Professor Samuelson, was in telling President Johnson in 1966 that the nation could not afford the escalation of the Vietnam War and the Great Society programs without a tax increase -- an increase that was not enacted until 1968, and for which delay, Professor Samuelson said, ''We paid dearly in the inflation of the 1970's.''
        ''He never told the press what he told the President,'' Professor Samuelson said, ''but President Johnson included it in his memoirs. I can't think of a better epitaph than that. It took guts, because usually people tell a President what he wants to hear.''
        Writing of that incident in 1983, Professor Ackley said the basic responsibility of the Council of Economic Advisers was to provide the President with policy advice based on the best available economic knowledge. The council chairman, he added, ''should privately give him his best professional judgments, along with appropriate cautions about the inherent limitations of his knowledge.''
        Born in Indianapolis on June 30, 1915, H. Gardner Ackley grew up in Kalamazoo, Mich., where his father was a professor of mathematics at Western Michigan University. His mother was a high school Latin teacher. After majoring in history and English at Western Michigan, from which he graduated in 1936, he switched to economics at the University of Michigan to get a fellowship, which he was told was more readily available than fellowships for history or English.
        ''I also had a general resentment against the Depression,'' he said, ''and felt there must be a way and that economics must be it.''
        Soon after earning his Ph.D. in 1940, Professor Ackley joined the economics department at the University of Michigan. In 1941 he joined the staff of the Office of Price Administration, beginning an on-again, off-again relationship with official Washington that was to last three decades. His last position was two years as Ambassador to Italy, to which he was appointed in 1968. He had previously spent 1956-57 as a Fulbright scholar in Italy, and 1961-62 there on a Ford Foundation faculty research fellowship.
        His other Washington duties included consultant to the Economic Stabilization Agency in 1950 and assistant director of the Office of Price Stabilization in 1951-52, during the Korean War.
        Professor Ackley is survived by his wife of 61 years, the former Bonnie Lowry, of Ann Arbor; two sons, David, of Bologna, Italy, and Donald, of Williamsburg, Va.; one sister, Margaret, and five grandchildren.
      