
        Raymond Bushell, a lawyer who was a collector of Japanese art and an authority on the miniature sculptures called netsuke, died on Jan. 17 at a nursing home in San Francisco. He was 87.
        While living and practicing law in Tokyo from 1948 to 1989, Mr. Bushell acquired thousands of examples of netsuke (pronounced NETS-u-keh), objects made as toggles on the strings of purses worn suspended from kimono sashes by Japanese men.
        Intricately carved in ivory or wood, in the forms of people, birds or animals, netsuke stopped being used in the 20th century, after Western dress was adopted in Japan. As collector's items they were valued more highly by Westerners than by the Japanese. Because they often depict legends and religious scenes, netsuke are studied by art historians as a source of information about cultural life in 18th- and 19th-century Japan.
        A self-taught scholar and connoisseur (he did not speak Japanese), Mr. Bushell wrote seven books on netsuke that are considered standard works on the subject; two of them, ''Collectors' Netsuke'' and ''Netsuke Familiar and Unfamiliar,'' were translated into Japanese.
        In the 1980's he donated 650 netsuke to the Los Angeles County Museum. The collection is on continuous, rotating display in the Raymond and Frances Bushell Netsuke Gallery, which he endowed, in the museum's Pavilion for Japanese Art.
        Mr. Bushell, who was born in New York City, graduated from New York University and from the law school at the University of Virginia. He first went to Japan in 1945 as a civilian captain of a sea-air rescue boat with the United States occupation forces, and decided to stay. He was admitted to the Japanese bar and opened a law firm, Bushell and Asahina, in 1955. He began collecting soon after his arrival in Japan; he  said that a shoe box full of netsuke could be bought for the equivalent of $5 in 1946. For years he was patron to a contemporary netsuke carver known as Masatoshi. In 1979 Mr. Bushell put 500 of his netsukes on display in a private gallery in Tokyo. The show, carefully installed to highlight the work's sculptural qualities, did much to boost interest in these objects within Japan.
        Mr. Bushell retired to San Francisco in 1989. He is survived by his wife, Frances, of San Francisco.
      