
        Junior Hernandez, whose Spanish-language morning program was the second-most popular radio show in New York City, died of a heart attack yesterday afternoon. He was 34 and lived in the Bronx.
        Mr. Hernandez, who suffered from asthma, was stricken outside his offices at WSKQ-FM in midtown Manhattan, said Jesus Salas, the station's program director. After paramedics attempted to revive him, Mr. Hernandez was taken to St. Clare's Hospital, where he was pronounced dead, said Jayne Greene, a hospital spokeswoman.
        ''I was with him this morning and he looked very sharp,'' Mr. Salas said. ''This is a shock to all of us.''
        As co-host of ''El Vacilon de la Manana,'' which, loosely translated, means ''Morning Jam,'' Mr. Hernandez played an instrumental role in making WSKQ-FM, also known as Mega 97.9, the third highest-rated station in the city in the most recent Arbitron ratings. The show itself was second in the ratings, trailing only Howard Stern's.
        Mr. Hernandez's popularity also helped make Spanish-language programming a growing force in New York's competitive radio landscape.
        ''He was a key part of the station at a time when Hispanic radio was coming of age in New York,'' said Tom Taylor, news editor of the M Street Daily, which tracks the radio industry. ''Radio plays a very large part of the life of many Hispanics: it's current events; it's entertainment; it's a link to a culture.''
        Mr. Hernandez was so popular, in fact, that the station had to lock its doors at 7:15 last night as grieving fans tried to get inside and pay tribute to him.
        Mr. Hernandez was born in Vega Baja, Puerto Rico. He is survived by his brother and parents, Mr. Salas said. Funeral arrangements are incomplete, but he is expected to be buried in Puerto Rico.
        Mr. Hernandez started working at a Puerto Rican radio station called Radio Tropica after graduating from high school. He earned his stripes as a disc jockey and program director, and eventually moved to WKAQ-KQ 10 FM, Puerto Rico's top radio station, according to a Spanish-language biography of Mr. Hernandez on the station's Web site.
        In 1985, Mr. Hernandez arrived in New York, working for an AM Spanish-language station, Super KQ-620 AM. With a deep, raspy, resonant voice and happy demeanor, he quickly gained fans for his on-air celebrity interviews and public appearances. Later, he started a salsa program for WADO-AM.
        In 1993, Mr. Hernandez joined WSKQ as host of a program between 10 A.M. and 3 P.M. He moved briefly to a sister station in Miami, but returned in 1994 as co-host of ''El Vacilon de la Manana.''
        The show, which runs from 6 to 10 A.M., is like many morning shows: there are crank calls, parodies, wild ruminations on current events, maybe five or six songs an hour. The language is sometimes coarse, the audience young, the atmosphere frenetic and none too serious.
        ''It was like Howard Stern, but in Spanish,'' said Josue Rivas, entertainment editor of El Diario, the Spanish-language newspaper, who had known Mr. Hernandez for 15 years. ''It's a show that was strictly entertainment, and the purpose was to make people happy as they wake up.''
      