
        Hyman Nathan Glickstein, a retired Manhattan lawyer and businessman and an activist in New York City politics of the 1930's, died last Thursday at the Greenwich Woods Health Care Center in Greenwich, Conn. He was 91 and formerly lived in Manhattan, Scarsdale, N.Y., and Hollywood, Fla.
        Mr. Glickstein was also the founding president of the San Juan Racing Association in Puerto Rico, which became a successful public company with interests in Madison Square Garden, Roosevelt Raceway, Shenandoah Downs and a chain of radio stations across the country.
        As a lawyer, Mr. Glickstein dealt with a wide variety of cases before nearly all the trial and appellate courts across New York and in several other jurisdictions. He also handled the affairs of unions and the workers and employees they represented, including the sandhogs' union, the Compressed Air Workers, whom he saw through a 12-day strike during the construction of the Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel in 1948.
        He became active in party politics in the early 1930's as a founder and leader of the Knickerbocker Democrats, a group seeking to loosen the grip of Tammany Hall, the party machine. He was involved in the Fusion movement that took Fiorello H. La Guardia to the Mayor's office in 1934. He subsequently joined the newly organized American Labor Party.
        In 1948, he ran unsuccessfully for a Bronx-Manhattan seat on the State Supreme Court under the banner of the American Labor Party.
        Mr. Glickstein turned to business in the 1950's. He helped found the San Juan Racing Association, which built the lucrative El Commandante Race Track that opened in 1957, and led it as president and board chairman for nearly 35 years. The association sold its assets over the 1980's, and Mr. Glickstein retired when El Commandante was sold in 1989.
        Mr. Glickstein, a native of Manhattan, graduated from Columbia College in 1926 and Columbia Law School two years later. After practicing with the firm of Hays, Hershfield & Wolf, he helped in 1939 to organize the firm of Boudin, Cohn & Glickstein, later Cohn, Glickstein & Lurie.
        He is survived by two sons, Richard, of Edgemont, N.Y., and Jonathan, of Santa Barbara, Calif.; a brother, Cy, of Emeryville, Calif.; a sister, Sylvia Cotton of Chicago, and four grandchildren. His wife, Ruth Lurie Glickstein, died in 1994.
      