
        Kenneth Sherbell, a state senator from Brooklyn in the late 1940's, died on Jan. 23 at Parkway Hospital in Queens. He was 80 and lived in the Jamaica Estates section of Queens.
        He had a long illness, said his daughter, Suzanne Sherbell.
        Mr. Sherbell, a member of the old American Labor Party who had Republican Party endorsement, was elected to the Senate in 1946. He had also received approval from The Daily Worker and the Greater New York C.I.O. Council.
        As Senator, he declared early in 1948 that he opposed any increase in the New York City subway fare, which then was 5 cents. He also advocated better pay for teachers and curbs on landlords' powers.
        Mr. Sherbell was voted out of office in the 1948 elections, when he no longer had Republican endorsement.
        The American Labor Party was founded by liberals and labor leaders in 1936 in New York, mainly to give backing to the New Deal. The party was plagued by contention between its left and right wings.
        The members of its New York State committee voted in 1956 to end its life.
        While in the State Senate, Mr. Sherbell (pronounced sher-BELL) was also public affairs director of the Wholesale and Warehouse Workers Union, Local 65, C.I.O. At a convention in 1948, Local 65, which was identified with the left-wing faction in the Congress of Industrial Organizations, pledged support to Henry A. Wallace as a Presidential candidate after Mr. Sherbell introduced a resolution to that effect. In the 1948 election, Mr. Wallace, the candidate of the newly formed Progressive Party, won no electoral votes. President Harry S. Truman was returned to office.
        Born on a Connecticut farm, Mr. Sherbell grew up in the East New York section of Brooklyn. He attended Brooklyn College, worked part time in a dry-goods store and became a union member. He went on to be a union staff member, organizer and vice president, his daughter recalled.
        During World War II, he was in the Navy in Pensacola, Fla., and became a petty officer first class. In his later years in New York, he was a vice president at the Martin E. Segal Company, group insurance consultants, and president of National Health Plan, setting up health insurance plans for unions.
        He married Evelyn Berkowitz in 1939. She died in 1988.
        Besides his daughter, Suzanne, of Manhattan, he is survived by a son, Gary, of Manhattan; a sister, Barbara Kustin of Folsom, Calif., and a grandson.
      