
        Lawrence Sanders, whose first novel, the 1970 suspense thriller ''The Anderson Tapes,'' catapulted him into the front ranks of durable and best-selling genre authors, died on Saturday at his home in Pompano Beach, Fla. He was 78.
        Putnam is planning to publish his 38th novel, ''Guilty Pleasures,'' on Feb. 23. Some 58 million copies of his previous books have been printed in the United States and many more in 30 other countries, the publisher said.
        His editor, Christine Pepe, said Mr. Sanders ''established classic series in every form: the caper, the thriller, the police procedural and the private-eye novel.''
        Mr. Sanders was born in Brooklyn and grew up in the Midwest. He graduated from Wabash College, in Indiana, in 1940, and served in the Marine Corps from 1943 to 1946. Before turning to fiction he spent 20 years in journalism, working for magazines like Science and Mechanics.
        His technical know-how helped him write ''The Anderson Tapes,'' a crime novel built from fictional documents, primarily police reports and tape transcripts culled from sophisticated surveillance devices. The book's theme, the intrusiveness of unchecked technology in Americans' private lives, proved irresistible to readers in the pre-Watergate era. The novel won the Edgar Award for best first novel from the Mystery Writers of America.
        With ''The First Deadly Sin'' in 1973, Mr. Sanders hatched the sure-fire formula of crime, sex, violence and moral highhandedness that would sustain his career. Resurrecting a major character from ''The Anderson Tapes,'' a bluff but dedicated New York City detective named Edward X. Delaney, Mr. Sanders wrote four police procedurals in his ''sin'' cycle, focusing on pride, greed and so on. His devoted readers hung on for another four-book series of urban crime novels that began in 1979 with ''The Sixth Commandment'' and ended in 1991 with ''The Seventh Commandment'' (the Tenth and Eighth Commandments came in between). Although technology was still impressive, the characters' sins and the zeal with which they broke the moral commandments outpaced the techniques by which they were caught.
        With ''McNally's Luck'' in 1992, Mr. Sanders began yet another series, switching his locale to Palm Beach, Fla., and substituting a private investigator, Archy McNally, for the rough-edged New York police officers. The series continued through ''McNally's Gamble'' in 1997, but Mr. Sanders kept issuing books, creating a numismatist sleuth and even a Wall Street sleuth.
        Besides his series novels, Mr. Sanders wrote adventure stories, the fictional memoirs of a murderer and erotic psychodramas. Whatever he wrote, his fans just could not get enough. ''I don't go anywhere -- on vacation abroad, on the subway -- without seeing one of this guy's books,'' said Marilyn Ducksworth, senior vice president of Penguin Putnam.
        Mr. Sanders is survived by his sister, Miriam S. Roberts of Stuart, Fla., and a niece and a nephew.
      