
        Allan Grant, a California rancher who started as a sharecropper and came to speak for millions of farm families as president of the American Farm Bureau Federation in the 1970's, died on Jan. 27 at Kaweah Delta Hospital in Visalia, Calif., where he made his home. He was 91.
        Mr. Grant was president of the federation from 1976 to 1980 after 12 years as head of the California Farm Bureau. The federation has four million members among its 50 state affiliates and one affiliate in Puerto Rico.
        Founded in 1919, the federation  assesses farmers' problems and interests and lobbies for their causes. As president, Mr. Grant often voiced the group's generally conservative views on economic and political matters and gave national news briefings on the outlook for crops and prices.
        Mr. Grant was born in Perry, Calif., and studied agricultural economics at Montana State College and the University of California at Los Angeles. He was working in the oil fields around San Diego to earn money for his college tuition when his father died in 1928. He dropped out of college to support his mother and younger siblings.
        At age 22, Mr. Grant moved the family from Los Angeles to a farm in Visalia, in the lower San Joaquin Valley, where he leased land and milked cows as a sharecropper. He survived the Depression and a partner who absconded with the proceeds of their first crop.
        Mr. Grant acquired about 2,000 acres of irrigated farmland and a herd of 600 dairy cows. He worked on a cattle ranch in Coarsegold, Calif., until he retired in 1985.
        Mr. Grant was a vice president of the national farm federation for five years before he was elected president in 1976. He traveled widely to open overseas markets to American farm products and to speak on issues dealing with trade and international relations.
        He was a leader of the Future Farmers of America and, in 1980, began raising Belgian draft horses as a hobby.
        Mr. Grant's survivors include his wife of 65 years, Irene Chinowith Grant, two daughters, Joyce Greene of Coarsegold, and Margaret Petersen of Visalia; three sons, Murray, Edward and Robert, all of Visalia; 10 grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
      