
        Rene  de Epelbaum, a founder of the Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo human rights group and one of its most dynamic members, died on Saturday at age 77.
        Her colleagues said she had suffered a heart attack.
        In 1977, during its crackdown on leftists, the military dictatorship that ran Argentina at the time abducted her three adult children, Luis, Lila, and Claudio, and presumably killed them. Mrs. Epelbaum offered her home as a meeting place for mothers who had suffered the same plight.
        Soon after, in open defiance of the junta, the group of mothers began holding weekly protests in the main Government square, the Plaza de Mayo. Today, the protests at the Plaza de Mayo are still held every Thursday as the elderly mothers don their trademark white head scarfs with the names of missing children scrawled in ink.
        A Government commission found in the mid-1980's that at least 9,000 people had been killed or disappeared during the right-wing military Government's crackdown on political opponents. Human rights advocates contend that the number of victims was closer to 30,000.
        Mrs. Epelbaum, who once taught literature, was a fearless, outspoken critic of the military Government. Her writings, speeches, and trips abroad helped earn the Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo international acclaim. She also is credited with bringing worldwide attention to the atrocities of Argentina's military regime, which reliquinshed power in 1983.
        ''I remember the first time she gave a press conference in Canada and spoke against the dictatorship,'' said Laura Bonaparte, another member of her group. ''They told her to be careful because she could be killed when she returned to Argentina. Epelbaum replied: 'What is important to me is what we do today, not what will happen tommorrow.' ''
        Mrs. Epelbaum was greatly troubled by President Carlos Saul Menem's decision in 1989 to pardon senior military officers accused of human rights abuses. The democratically elected Government said the move was essential for national reconciliation.
        ''It is a true moral aberration that leaves in liberty those who violated human dignity and those who rose up against the constitutional order,'' Mrs. Epelbaum said.
        Alfredo Bravo, an opposition Congressman whose party has proposed a bill to rescind the military amnesty, said of Mrs. Epelbaum, who leaves no immediate survivors, ''It hurts me deeply that as a Congressman, I have not been able to repair her pain, at least in part, with the abolition of these amnesty decrees.''
      