
        Maurice Schumann, a French aide to General de Gaulle in London during World War II who made moving broadcasts to Nazi-dominated France and later became a Foreign Minister, died yesterday at the Invalides military hospital in Paris. He was 86.
        Mr. Schumann was also leader of a political party, a Senator, an author and a member of the French Academy, whose two-score members are known as the Immortals.
        But he was best known among his grateful compatriots for his wartime broadcasting. As the Paris newspaper Le Monde put it: ''Beginning in the autumn of 1940, the voice of the official spokesman of the General suddenly became celebrated. This man was at first a voice, 'the voice of France,' which, during four years of war, maintained the courage and nourished the hope'' of the French populace, which was either directly under German occupation or ruled by the Vichy Government, a tool of the Germans.
        Before there was the ''voice of France,'' there was the jeweler's son Maurice Schumann, who was born in Paris. The journal Current Biography has reported that Maurice's father was Jewish and from Alsace, and his mother came from a Belgian Roman Catholic family.
        A brilliant student, Maurice Schumann received a degree in literature from the University of Paris and became a Roman Catholic and an ardent anti-Fascist. In the 1930's he worked for the Havas news agency, and he was introduced to de Gaulle before the general became an internationally known figure.
        In 1939, the year World War II began, Mr. Schumann volunteered for the French Army, became an officer and was taken prisoner by the German invaders. But he escaped and joined de Gaulle's Free French headquarters in London. Before long he began making daily broadcasts in French for the BBC.
        As the French journalist Jean Lacouture has written, the broadcasts were at first only five minutes a day, and the precious air time, ''at the General's personal request, was given to a spokesman in the person of Maurice Schumann,'' whose ''eloquence soon became famous.''
        An elegant four-story house in London became, for a time, the headquarters for all the Free French civilian and military organizations. De Gaulle had a corner office, and on the floor below were the rooms used by Mr. Schumann and other members of the Free French information services. Mr. Schumann became the principal speaker on an evening program, ''The French Speak to the French.'' His nasal voice became reassuringly familiar in France, and he became known as ''the spokesman of Fighting France'' who spoke of ''honneur et patrie.''
        On the program, he denounced French citizens who collaborated with the occupying Germans, and more than once his denunciations were followed by French Resistance fighers' putting collaborators to death after receiving commands in code like ''the carrots are cooked'' that were broadcast on ''The French Speak to the French.''
        Paul Reynaud, who was Prime Minister of France early in World War II and later was interned, wrote afterward: ''I had in my luggage a small wireless. What happiness I derived in hearing the moving eloquence of Maurice Schumann,'' which ''expressed from London during the war years the spirit of Fighting France.''
        When the Allies invaded northern France in 1944, Mr. Schumann fought in a tank unit there and was decorated. Not long after the invasion began, de Gaulle made a triumphal entry into Bayeux, five miles from the Channel coast.
        When the general arrived to make a speech in the castle square, Mr. Lacouture wrote, ''There appeared Lieut. Maurice Schumann, pale with emotion under his great beret. Just as he used to do in London, he cried: 'Honneur et Patrie! Here is General de Gaulle!' ''
        After the war, Mr. Schumann became a founder and national chairman of the Popular Republican Movement, a Christian Democratic party, and served for years as a deputy in the National Assembly, representing voters near the Belgian border.
        He also held Cabinet posts, including that of Minister for Scientific Research and Minister for Social Affairs, before he served as Foreign Minister from 1969 to 1973 under President Georges Pompidou. In that post, Mr. Schumann was sometimes called ''the most European of the Gaullists and the most Gaullist of the Europeans.''
        A novelist and a versatile writer on religion and other topics, he was appointed to the French Academy in 1974. He had a seat in France's Senate from that year until his death.
        Mr. Schumann married Lucie Daniel in 1944 and they had three daughters, Christine, Laurence and Beatrice, but information about survivors was not immediately available.
      