
        Rear Adm. William Matthew Lukash, a naval internist and doctor to four sitting Presidents, from Lyndon B. Johnson to Jimmy Carter, died on Tuesday at Casa Palmera Care Center in Del Mar, Calif. He was 66 and lived in Solana Beach, Calif.
        The family did not make public the cause of death, but friends said Dr. Lukash had suffered from Alzheimer's disease.
        A specialist in digestive illnesses, Admiral Lukash served part time as an assistant White House physician for Presidents Johnson and Richard M. Nixon. He reached flag rank in 1974, and in August of that year, he became the chief physician for President Gerald R. Ford. He retired from the Navy and President Carter's White House in 1981.
        Assisted by two physicians, Admiral Lukash was responsible for the health of the President and Vice President, their families and the working staff of the White House. He also dealt with public health matters  like the level of sanitation in the White House kitchen, pantries and plumbing.
        Before his appointment by Mr. Ford, Admiral Lukash was chairman of the gastroenterology department at the Bethesda Naval Medical Center in Maryland. After his White House years, he moved to California and organized a new preventive medicine department at the Scripps Clinic and Research Foundation in San Diego, and served as its founding director. He retired from Scripps about six years ago.
        Born in Detroit, William Lukash graduated in 1952 from Michigan State University. He earned his medical degree at the University of Michigan in 1956.
        He soon joined the Naval Medical Corps and trained in internal medicine. In news articles, he was described as affable, diplomatic and considerate, a doctor who put others at ease in times of stress.
        ''I've become more aware of the importance of knowing the ramifications of the total patient,'' Admiral Lukash said in a 1974 interview, ''his personality, his dislikes, how he handles fatigue and disappointments, how he is able to be re-energized and how all this affects his health.''
        Becoming a White House physician meant changing from a specialist into a family doctor. He likened his new role to that of a country doctor.
        A swimmer himself, Admiral Lukash promptly put Mr. Ford on a regime of swimming and exercises to strengthen his knees, which had been repaired by surgeons after football and skiing injuries.
        Admiral Lukash regularly briefed the press after Presidential checkups. He made the front pages once when President Carter, an avid jogger, dropped out of a foot race at Camp David, wobbly, pale and moaning from exhaustion. Not to worry, the admiral told the public. ''He's in good physical condition,'' he said.
        He also taught at George Washington University Medical School.
        Admiral Lukash's survivors include his wife, Loraine; two daughters, Laura J. and Karaleen, both of Solana Beach; a son, Daniel, and a brother, Robert, of Lincoln Park, Mich.
        ''Bill,'' a former colleague said when Mr. Ford chose Admiral Lukash as chief White House doctor, ''made the patient sitting in front of him feel that he was the only one in the world that mattered to him at the time.''
      