
        Enoch Powell, an eloquent, right-wing British political figure known for an address he gave in 1968 opposing immigration from former British colonies, died yesterday in King Edward VII Hospital in London. He was 85 and lived in London.
        His wife, Pamela, said he had Parkinson's disease, the Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Powell was a former Minister of Health and also a leading figure in the Conservative Party and a member of Parliament at the time when he gave the speech, at a Conservative Party meeting in Birmingham. He demanded urgent measures to reduce Britain's nonwhite population.
        He also called for ending the entry of nonwhite immigrants and said that those already in Britain should be encouraged to return to their home countries through the use of grants.
        Mr. Powell, who was a classicist,  also told the audience in Birmingham that he was ''filled with foreboding'' as he looked ahead. ''Like the Roman,'' he said, ''I seem to see 'the River Tiber foaming with much blood.' '' The address became known informally as the ''rivers of blood'' speech.
        It was the most openly racist speech by any prominent British politician for many years.
        The speech touched off a public furor, but also drew public demonstrations of support from groups of meat porters and dock workers.
        In a 1988 column, Anthony Lewis of The New York Times called Mr. Powell ''an intellectual who quoted Virgil when he wanted to arouse racial fears,'' and he said the speech 20 years earlier had ''put race on the agenda of British politics.''
        But Mr. Powell repeatedly denied, over the years, that he was what he called a ''racialist,'' which he defined as ''a person who believes in the inherent inferiority of one race of mankind to another and who acts and speaks in that belief.''
        At the time he gave the Birmingham speech, he was the spokesman on defense matters for his party, which was out of power. He was to become the Minister of Defense if his party regained power.
        But soon afterward, the Conservative Party leader, Edward Heath, dismissed him from the party's ''shadow Cabinet,'' declaring that the speech had been racist in tone ''and liable to exacerbate racial tensions.''
        ''This is unacceptable from one of the leaders of the Conservative Party,'' Mr. Heath said.
        It was clear that the dismissal eliminated his prospects for gaining a high Government post.
        He once observed tersely: ''All political careers end in failure. No regrets.''
        In 1974 his opposition to Britain's entry into the Common Market led him to quit the Conservative Party, after representing voters in Wolverhampton in west central England since 1950 and serving as Health Minister from 1960 to 1963. For most of the period from 1974 to 1987 he was a Member of Parliament from the Ulster Unionist Party, representing voters in Northern Ireland, until he was defeated by Eddie McGrady of the Social Democratic and Labor Party.
        He later returned to the subject of his 1968 speech. In 1981, after urban rioting in Britain, Mr. Powell asserted that the presence of two million nonwhites there was responsible for the spasm of violence and that, ''Nobody doubts that, except when talking in public.'' And in 1995 he was quoted as saying: ''What's wrong with racism? Racism is the basis of nationality. Nations are, upon the whole, united by identity with one another.''
        Yesterday Baroness Thatcher, the former Conservative Prime Minister, said he had ''an unswerving devotion to our country, which in war and peace he served so well.'' And Prime Minister Tony Blair, of the Labor Party, said, ''However much we disagreed with many of his views, there was no doubting the strength of his convictions.''
        The son of teachers, Mr. Powell was born in Birmingham, studied classics at Cambridge, taught Greek at Australia's Sydney University and became a British Army brigadier in World War II.
        He married Margaret Pamela Wilson -- who had worked with him in the Conservative Party central office -- in 1952.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Susan Day, who lives in Lincolnshire, England, and Jennifer Lavin of London, and four grandchildren.
      