
        Bob Russell, an inveterate entertainer who sang, joked, composed, wrote, staged and M.C.'d his way through an eclectic half-century career in the very penumbra of the national limelight, died on Jan. 24 at a hospital near his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 90.
        A baritone who yearned to become an opera star, Mr. Russell was hardly the first stage-struck hopeful to fall short of his dreams, but few have accepted their failures with such good cheer, soldiered on with such pluck or found such delight on the fringes of fame.
        For whether he was dreaming up yet another forgettable television game show or scribbling a song few would hear, Mr. Russell, whose more memorable tunes include ''In a Little Church in England,'' and ''Ballot Box Boogie in the Key of Franklin D,''  was almost always working.
        He was singing in Broadway choruses as a teen-ager in the 1920's. He was the toast of Philadelphia society night life in the 1930's, and he was such a ubiquitous presence on television in the 1940's and 50's, it's almost a wonder he's not a household name.
        Then again, who remembers ''Yours for a Song,'' ''Stand Up and Be Counted,'' ''Bonnie Maid's Versatile Vanities,'' ''Live Like a Millionaire'' or ''Your Pet Parade,'' to name a few of the shows in which Mr. Russell served as host and sometimes helped create?
        Those who do remember ''Big Top'' just might recall that Mr. Russell spent six years in the 1950's doing commercials as Barker Bob, but it would take a real television addict to remember that when Ed Sullivan went on television with his original ''Talk of the Town,'' Mr. Russell, who later spent a decade as Mr. Sullivan's replacement as host of the annual ''Harvest Ball,'' dance contest, did the Mercury commercials.
        Few could know that Mr. Russell helped create ''Name That Tune.'' After appearing as host on three pilots, he typically stepped aside for a succession of hosts on what became the most durable of television's musical game shows.
        But then, by some reckonings, Mr. Russell was the Wally Pipp of show business. Well, maybe Bert Parks wasn't Lou Gehrig, but Mr. Russell was the host Mr. Parks replaced in 1955 when he began his 25-year-run as Mr. Miss America.
        To his credit, Mr. Russell, who had been the Miss America host since 1940 and had been seen by 27 million Americans at the first televised pageant, in 1954, had recommended his pal Mr. Parks for the job.
        And so what if Mr. Russell had rejected ''Here She Comes, Miss America,'' in 1954 in favor of two of his own songs? Sure, the song became the Miss America anthem and Mr. Parks's musical signature, but as a veteran nightclub performer, Mr. Russell already had a signature song, thank you, ''Donkey Serenade.''
        A native of Passaic, N.J., Mr. Russell, whose father was a Russian-born baker, lived in Schenectady, N.Y., before moving to Manhattan at 9, catching the opera bug and changing his name from Roltner to Russell.
        He sang well enough to make it into the casts of ''Countess Maritza,'' ''Princess Flavia'' and other Broadway musicals of the 1920's, but when he turned to nightclub work to help pay for voice lessons, a personal peccadillo kept him from the most lucrative jobs: a lifelong teetotaler, he refused to work in speak-easies.
        But after Prohibition, Mr. Russell became something of a regional sensation in Philadelphia, working in white tie and tails as the singing master of ceremonies at the elegant Cafe Marguery in the old Adelphia Hotel.
        For Mr. Russell, who later performed similar musical duties at the Hotel New Yorker in Manhattan, those were heady days: singing and hobnobbing with the visiting likes of Tommy Dorsey, Rudy Vallee, Benny Goodman, Harry James, Peggy Lee and Sophie Tucker; singing on local radio; taking operatic voice lessons, and playing tennis with his society friends Jack and Margaret Kelly, the parents of Grace Kelly.
        A man whose myriad friends were forever doing him favors, Mr. Russell got good value from the Kellys.
        One night they introduced him to the Catalina swimsuit man who steered him to his Miss America job. They did even better another night when they introduced him to a British society immigrant named Mignon Simpson. One week and three dates later, he and Miss Simpson eloped.
        ''Everybody gave us a month,'' she said the other day. Their marriage lasted 64 years.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Russell is survived by a daughter, Ingrid, of Sarasota; two sisters, Sylvia Marks of Foxborough, Mass., and Marcia Roltner of San Francicso, and a grandson.
        In a career in which one thing always led to another, the Miss America gig kept Mr. Russell busy for years.
        Having created the elaborate ensemble production numbers that became a pageant staple, he later spent six years as host of Miss Universe, five with Miss World and 12 with Miss Canada.
        And if Broadway didn't beckon, corporate America did. Among Mr. Russell's credits were hundreds of industrial shows.
        Not the top of his profession, perhaps, but it gave him a chance to compose and sing songs, write and tell jokes and keep on plugging, a man who started out to be an opera singer and made the most of a failed dream.
      