
        Hideo Shima, a designer and driving force behind the building of the first bullet train, a symbol of the postwar re-emergence of Japan as a technological and economic power, died of a stroke yesterday in a hospital in Tokyo. He was 96.
        In the early 1960's, as the chief engineer of the then-state-run Japanese National Railways, he helped push the plan for a new high-speed rail track linking Tokyo and Osaka through the welter of bureaucratic obstacles and doubts.
        The 320-mile line, consisting of 5,000-foot-long welded pieces of steel on a raised concrete, largely curveless track, allowed the bullet-nosed trains to whiz through the countryside at speeds above 130 miles an hour beginning in 1964 -- a breakthrough in passenger train technology similar to the conversion of the airline industry to jets.
        Japanese businessmen flocked to ride the 60 daily trains between Tokyo and Osaka, which linked the cities in 3 hours and 10 minutes.
        The popularity of the line, called Shinkansen, or new trunk line, caused Japan to develop what became known as Shinkansen fever. Politicians pushed to have trains built to their areas. They became a symbol of economic prowess and a way of spurring new industry to develop. Eventually the high-speed trains were seen as agents of cultural and social change, enabling young people in rural areas to gain quick access to major urban areas, and as an appealing way for tourists to get passing glances at the countryside.
        Now, Shinkansen trains, running at more than 185 miles an hour on some routes, link most major regions of the country. Similar networks have been built in other countries, including France and Germany.
        But the construction of the Shinkansen system also caused Japanese National Railways to take on huge amounts of debt, so much that in 1987 it was broken up and made private. Critics of the system have contended that many routes were built for reasons of political prestige, with little regard to whether the investments made financial sense. There are doubts about whether the costs of construction will be recovered on some routes.
        The cost of the first Shinkansen line also cost Mr. Shima his job. The building of the first line, which needed 3,000 bridges and 67 tunnels to allow a clear and largely straight path, led to such huge cost overruns that along with the president of the national railway, Shinji Sogo, who had backed Mr. Shima's idea, he resigned in 1963.
        By the time train service was inaugurated on Oct. 1, 1964 -- timed for the opening of the Tokyo Olympics -- at ceremonies attended by Emperor Hirohito and Empress Nagako, Mr. Shima was not part of the celebrations.
        Mr. Shima was born in Osaka in 1901. His father was part of a group of officials that had built up Japan's emerging railroad industry.
        He was educated at Tokyo Imperial University, where he studied engineering. He joined the railway ministry in 1925 and then went to Japanese National Railways, where he designed steam locomotives.
        It was during these years that he came up with an innovation that would later be employed in the bullet trains -- the trains are driven by electric motors in the individual rail cars, rather than by an engine in the front.
        As Mr. Shima's career progressed, he became the head of the national railway's rolling stock department in 1948. But a fire at a station in Yokohama that killed more than 100 people in 1951 led him to resign in the Japanese tradition of taking responsibility.
        He worked briefly for Sumitomo Metal Industries but was asked by the president of the national railways to come back and oversee the building of the first Shinkansen line.
        In addition to its innovative propulsion system, the bullet train also introduced features like air suspension and air-conditioning. Mr. Shima designed the sleek cone-shaped front from which the bullet train got its name.
        In 1969 he began a second career, becoming the head of the National Space Development Agency, where he pushed the development of hydrogen engines to power rockets.
        He retired in 1977 and was honored by the Government when the Emperor presented him with the Order of Cultural Merit. He is survived by two sons and a daughter.
        The Shinkansen is still a powerful force in Japan. Like the start of service on the first Shinkansen, the opening of the latest route was timed to coincide with the Olympics. For the 1998 Winter Games, a high-speed link was built between Tokyo and Nagano, cutting the travel time between the two cities from three hours to less than 80 minutes.
      