
        Dr. George H. Hitchings, who won the Nobel Prize in Medicine in 1988 for pharmaceutical research that led to the creation of drugs to treat leukemia, gout, malaria and disorders of the human immunity system and that eventually made organ transplants possible, died on Friday at his home in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 92.
        For more than 33 years, Dr. Hitchings was the chief researcher and biochemist with the Burroughs Wellcome Company in Research Triangle Park, N.C. (now Glaxo Wellcome P.L.C.). For most of his career he worked closely with Dr. Gertrude Elion, and their work led to the development of such drugs as AZT, used to treat AIDS.
        The two joined forces in 1944. Dr. Hitchings and Dr. Elion developed compounds for specific diseases, testing them in vitro and in animals, then watching for unexpected results. They perfected one new compound after another, shedding light on a variety of diseases.
        Their work was monumental, but because Dr. Hitchings and Dr. Elion were industry scientists, they were often overlooked by the Nobel Committee. Considered by many scientists to be the founders of the field of chemotherapeutics, they were eventually awarded the Nobel Prize in Medicine, nearly 30 years after most of their discoveries.
        ''He revolutionized the world of drug exploration and design,'' said Robert A. Ingram, chief executive of Glaxo Wellcome.
        Dr. Hitchings pioneered the biochemical approach to chemotherapy. He theorized that it was possible to alter the way that deadly cells develop by introducing compounds into the cells slightly different from those that occur naturally. Those false building blocks would inhibit the growth of unwanted cells, like cancerous ones, by fooling them into thinking that they were replacing themselves.
        The first false building block he used, in 1945, was closely related to thymine, one of four chemical roots that make up DNA.
        ''This was the key discovery from which everything else stems,'' Dr. Hitchings said.
        In 1956, he helped synthesize trimethorpim, an active ingredient in Septra, an antibacterial medication that is effective against meningitis, the blood disorder septicemia and other bacterial infections.
        Scientists have estimated that Dr. Hitchings's work, including the development of drugs like Imuran -- which blocks the immune response that triggers rejection of foreign tissues, making organ transplants possible -- has saved more than a million lives.
        ''His greatest joy was meeting people whose lives were saved by his medicine,'' said his son, Thomas.
        The son of a shipbuilder, George Herbert Hitchings was born on April 18, 1905, in Hoquiam, Wash. He received bachelor's and master's degrees in chemistry at the University of Washington, and a doctorate in biochemistry at Harvard in 1933.
        He wrote or was the co-author of more than 300 published papers and was responsible for 89 United States patents. He was also involved in charitable organizations, serving as president of the Burroughs Wellcome Fund, which supports academic research, and the Red Cross.
        Dr. Hitchings's first wife, Beverly, died in 1985. He is survived by his wife, Dr. Joyce Shaver Hitchings of Chapel Hill; his son, Thomas, of New York City; his daughter, Laramie H. Brown of Rochester, N.Y.; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      