
        Leonie Rysanek, the Austrian dramatic soprano whose illustrious international career spanned nearly 40 years, died on Saturday at a hospital in Vienna, the city of her birth, where she lived all her life. She was 71.
        She had been battling bone cancer, according to Peter S. Diggins, an artists' representative in New York and a longtime friend.
        It was during Ms. Rysanek's final performances at the Metropolitan Opera in late 1995 and early 1996 in a new production of Tchaikovsky's ''Pique Dame'' that she received confirmation of her cancer diagnosis. But she told few people about it.
        The scope of Ms. Rysanek's career was remarkable: she sang with the conductor Wilhelm Furtwangler during his final years in the early 1950's, and with the tenor Jussi Bjoerling in his prime. Yet she was still singing ardently in the early 1990's. She possessed a gleaming, refulgent soprano voice with an especially powerful top and a rich middle range, ideal for roles like Wagner's Sieglinde and Senta, Strauss's Chrysothemis, and Beethoven's Leonora.
        Her full-voiced high notes could slice through the thickness of any Strauss orchestra. In her early days, her low voice was often criticized as patchy. But as she matured, her sound darkened and deepened, and she successfully took on lower-set roles like Wagner's Kundry in ''Parsifal.''
        Ms. Rysanek's work was equally prized for its dramatic and musical intensity. Speaking of Ms. Rysanek at the time of her Met farewell, the conductor James Levine, a frequent colleague, said such longevity was striking for a singer of her fervor.
        ''She had a fire burning in her at all times,'' Mr. Levine said. ''It's remarkable for someone to combine such intensity with a voice of such resiliency and range,'' he added. ''Somehow there is a very womanly, soft-textured quality in Leonie's singing, even in its most forceful moments.''
        Her approach to singing was not classically beautiful. Reporting on her 25th-anniversary Met gala in 1984, when she sang Kundry in Act II of ''Parsifal'' and Sieglinde in Act I of ''Walkure'' in a concert with Mr. Levine conducting, The New York Times critic John Rockwell wrote that Ms. Rysanek ''has never been a singer who stresses an even vocal line and abstract bel-canto virtues. She is an Expressionistic actress, given to splintering significant words under the stress of emotion and to wrenching her body and chopping her arms in a way that inevitably distorts her singing. But the result, a few mannerisms aside, is not the disruption of the music but the enhancement of the drama.''
        Ms. Rysanek credited her longevity to careful pacing; even at the height of her career, she never sang more than 45 or so performances a year. But, in an interview with The Times on the occasion of her Met farewell, she also cited her ability to say no to the most taxing roles. And, in a way, she explained, the presence of her colleague Birgit Nilsson as the reigning dramatic soprano of her day, fortified her own resolve.
        ''Yes, I was asked to sing Brunnhilde,'' she said. ''But there was always Birgit, wonderful Birgit, next to me. She was my Brunnhilde, my Elektra. She was so wonderful in these parts. . . . Even Birgit asked, 'Why don't you sing Turandot?' I said, 'Because of you.' Maybe's it's Birgit who saved my voice.''
        Ms. Rysanek was born in Vienna on Nov. 14, 1926, one of six children of a Czech father, a stonecutter, later a chauffeur, and an Austrian mother. As a adolescent during the war years, Ms. Rysanek had to work in a munitions factory. She aspired to be an actress. But her oldest brother, who had a pleasant baritone voice, encouraged her to take her singing seriously. She entered the Vienna Academy at 16, where she studied with Alfred Jerger, and later, Rudolf Grossmann, a baritone who became her first husband. They couple later divorced.
        Her professional debut was at Innsbruck in 1949 as Agathe in Weber's ''Der Freischutz.'' But international acclaim came in 1951, when she sang Sieglinde in the first postwar production at Bayreuth, Germany, of Wagner's ''Ring.'' Her American debut was in 1956 with the San Francisco Opera as Senta.
        A long association with the Met began in 1959, unexpectedly. She was scheduled to make her debut that season in late February as Aida. But when Maria Callas, who had been scheduled to sing Verdi's Lady Macbeth in the Met's first production of the opera, was fired by the general manager Rudolf Bing during a bitter contractual dispute, Bing asked Ms. Rysanek to take over the role. Leonard Warren was Macbeth; Erich Leinsdorf was the conductor; the night was Feb. 5, and the audience had been expecting Callas.
        ''I was hesitant to debut in a production made for Callas,'' Ms. Rysanek said during an 1996 interview in The Times. ''I already had a major success in Europe. But in New York, the attitude was: 'Who are you? Who knows you? How dare you?' ''
        When she made her first entrance, someone shouted, ''Brava, Callas!'' Ms. Rysanek was not rattled. ''I said to myself, 'If he is against me, I will show him my high C's.' So I sat on that high C, which is incorrect.'' Her performance was a triumph.
        The next season, in 1960, singing Senta in Wagner's ''Fliegende Hollander,'' Ms. Rysanek solidified her claim on Met audiences. The Dutchman was George London. At the end of Act II, the reception was rapturous; a large contingent of fans kept applauding through the intermission, until the conductor Thomas Schippers returned to the pit to begin Act III.
        By the late 1960's, she was giving most of her services to her two favorite companies: the Vienna State Opera, where she sang a total of 532 performances, and the Met, where during 37 years she sang 299 performances of 24 roles.
        At the Vienna State Opera in 1977, and later at the Met, in one of her most renowned portrayals, Ms. Rysanek sang the Empress in Strauss's operatic fable ''Die Frau Ohne Schatten,'' with Ms. Nilsson as a dyer's wife. This work had been considered muddled and musically cumbersome until these powerful soprano champions sang it. A pirated recording of their Vienna performance, conducted by Karl Bohm, circulated among collectors until Deutsche Grammophon released it commercially in 1985. It is one of the most treasured of Ms. Rysanek's many recordings.
        After her 25th-anniversary gala at the Met, Ms. Rysanek returned almost every season, singing a particularly memorable Kundry in 1985 to the great Parsifal of the tenor Jon Vickers. In 1992, at 66, she gave a searing performance in Janacek's ''Jenufa'' as Kostelnicka, a Moravian villager so ashamed of her stepdaughter's out-of-wedlock son that she drowns the infant in a stream.
        Ms. Rysanek is survived by her husband of nearly 30 years, Ernst-Ludwig Gausmann, a former journalist; a stepson, Marcus Gausmann; a brother, Kurt, and sister, Lotte Rysanek, who was a lyric soprano with the Vienna State Opera.
        The role of Ms. Rysanek's Met farewell, when she was 69, was the old countess in ''Pique Dame,'' which is ''vocally almost nothing,'' she conceded at the time. But dramatically, her portrayal dominated Elijah Moshinsky's haunting production. Even after the character's death, Ms. Rysanek's ghostly countess was a riveting presence. Her ovation lasted for 40 minutes.
      