
        Benjamin Bowden, an industrial designer who created a futuristic bicycle that became an expensive collector's item, died on March 6 in Lake Worth, Fla. He was 91.
        Mr. Bowden was born in London and studied at the Regent Street Polytechnic school, a daughter, Gina Bowden-Pierce, said. He began working in the automobile industry in Britain in 1925 as a designer but also had an interest in bicycles.
        Only a few hundred examples of his streamlined, fiberglass-construction Bowden Spacelander bike were built. It was one of a handful of creations selected from hundreds of entries in 1946 by the British Council of Industrial Design for a London exhibition, Britain Can Make It.
        The original model included an electric motor that gathered energy on downhill and flat terrain and helped the rider climb hills. A number of bicycle manufacturers rejected the Spacelander as too exotic for mass marketing. But in recent years, collectors have paid as much as $15,000 for an example in good condition.
        The automobile designs he worked on included the Healey sports car, a forerunner of the Austin-Healey, and an armored car used by Winston Churchill and King George VI in World War II.
        In 1952, he moved to Windsor, Ontario, where he had a hand in making the Ford Thunderbird perform smoothly, his daughter said. ''His fingerprints are on a ton of things,'' she said. His design work also extended to objects like bathroom fixtures and gasoline station pumps.
        His last job was coordinating designs for military tanks at General Dynamics, his daughter said. He was 79 when he retired and moved to Florida in 1986.
        Survivors include his wife, Mary, of Lake Worth; two sons, Robin, of Cognac, France, and Derek, of Ludlow, England; two daughters, Patricia Sundgaard of Dallas and Ms. Bowden-Pierce, of Orlando, Fla.; a stepdaughter, Judy Patterson of Brooksville, Fla., and two stepsons, Mark Connolly of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and Dennis Connolly of Lake Worth.
      