
        Dean E. McHenry, an academic pioneer who turned his vision of a campus with a redwoods vista, a Pacific view and a no-fault grading system into a counterculture magnet and an educational gem, died on March 17 at a hospital in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 87 and the founding chancellor of the University of California at Santa Cruz.
        When he was named the first Santa Cruz chancellor in 1961 and charged with transforming a coastal ranch 75 miles south of San Francisco into a university, Dr. McHenry had had a respectable academic career in political science.
        A native of Lompoc who grew up doing chores on his family's truck farm, he graduated from the University of California at Los Angeles, where he was student body president, then studied his way up the coast, receiving a master's from Stanford University and a doctorate from the University of California at Berkeley.
        Then, after teaching government at Williams College and political science at Pennsylvania State University, Dr. McHenry returned to U.C.L.A. in 1939 as a member of the political science faculty.
        Over the next 19 years he turned out a steady stream of scholarly works, among them ''The American Federal Government'' and ''The American System of Government'' and with time out for a couple of academic appointments in Australia and New Zealand emerged as an adept administrator at U.C.L.A. In addition to being department chairman, he had a nominally chuckling stint in charge of social sciences as Dean Dean McHenry.
        As a tenured professor, Dr. McHenry might have remained at U.C.L.A. until retirement if his old Stanford roommate Clark Kerr, a longtime Berkeley professor, had not been named president of the University of California system in 1958.
        The two men had cemented their friendship by marrying Stanford roommates, and when Dr. Kerr asked for help, Dr. McHenry agreed to be his academic assistant and later dean of academic planning.
        Those were heady days for academic planners in California, and as the university's representative on the group that drafted California's master plan for higher education in 1960, Dr. McHenry played a major role in devising what became an acclaimed and oft-copied three-tier system formed to guarantee a low-cost college education for every high school graduate in the state.
        At the bottom of the academic pyramid were an array of two-year community colleges for less qualified students. In the middle was a network of four-year state colleges, like San Francisco State and Fresno State, open to students in the top third of their high school graduating classes, and at the top, for those ranked in the top eighth of their classes, were the six elite units of the University of California, among them U.C.L.A. and Berkeley.
        When the state authorized three new university campuses, at Irvine, San Diego and Santa Cruz, Dr. McHenry, who was in the thick of the planning, was named chancellor of the Santa Cruz campus.
        At a time when the University of California was being increasingly criticized as an impersonal ''multiversity'' more interested in research than teaching, Dr. McHenry and Dr. Kerr used Oxford, Cambridge and Dr. Kerr's alma mater, Swarthmore, as the models for a campus of eight semi-autonomous residential colleges, where students would have close, continuing contact with their professors.
        Leading architects were hired to construct the buildings at Santa Cruz, carefully placed to avoid disturbing the towering redwoods on the spectacular 2,000-acre campus overlooking Monterey Bay, which helped Dr. McHenry's recruitment of an impressive faculty drawn from Ivy League colleges and elsewhere.
        For prospective students, the university offered a special attraction, a pass-fail, or rather pass-don't pass, system with written evaluations rather than grades.
        When the university opened in 1965, the dawn of the flower child era, the formula for laid-back education proved so popular that Santa Cruz attracted the cream of California's students and became the cynosure of the counterculture.
        As the university has grown and times have changed, Santa Cruz has modified some of its early policies. Grades, for example, have been optional since last fall.
        In addition to his wife, Jane, Dr. McHenry, whose sons and sons-in-law are all college professors, is survived by two daughters, Sally MacKenzie of Kansas City, Kan., and Nancy Fletcher of College Station, Tex.; two sons, Dean Jr., of Claremont, Calif., and Henry, of Davis; nine grandchildren, and seven great grandchildren.
      