
        Richard F. Shepard, a retired New York Times writer who was also a former cultural news editor of The Times and was known for his amiably down-to-earth manner, which included meeting friends at a Theater District cafe he called ''the Polish Tea Room,'' died last night at his home in Fresh Meadows, Queens. He was 75 years old.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Gerald Gold, a friend who is a retired Times editor. Mr. Gold said yesterday, ''Who didn't love the guy?''
        Mr. Shepard, a tall, unathletic man born in the Bronx and reared in Manhattan and Queens, was incorrigibly urban in his outlook. He sometimes said, ''I spent a month in the country yesterday.''
        He attended City College, served as a radio officer in the Merchant Marine during World War II, joined The Times in 1946, was a copy boy until 1953 (receiving a bachelor's degree in social science from City College in 1948), and then, successively, a ship news reporter and a reporter and reviewer in what was then the radio-television news department.
        His journalistic eye always roved widely, and he showed early promise with an article in The Times of November 2, 1954, whose headline proclaimed, ''Whalemeat, for Man and Beast, Shows Skyrocket Sales Increase.'' For his tasty prose on that subject he received a Times writing award with a terse citation from the management: ''Mr. Shepard contrives to make whalemeat interesting and even palatable.''
        He went on to be a cultural news reporter from 1962 until 1969, covering stories in all the cultural divisions -- including drama, music, art, dance and books.
        In 1969 he began a couple of years as cultural news editor. His duties in that post included developing, coordinating and assigning stories about the cultural world. He eventually asked to step down from the job, which he did in 1971, because he did not like being a boss and because he liked writing and talking to people and getting around town. As he sometimes put it, ''I never ate lunch at my desk.''
        He liked to call himself a ''dilettante in languages'' and to say that he could ''get by'' in languages like French, Spanish, Portuguese, German and Yiddish and that he had a ''smattering'' of Russian and Chinese. He used to claim that he had picked up his talents as a linguist in ethnic restaurants. ''I like to eat,'' he said, ''and for that I make no apology -- except of course, to my wife.''
        The placed he called the Polish tearoom was actually the cafe of the Hotel Edison on West 47th Street. He is immortalized there by a gold-colored metal plaque that says: ''Richard F. Shepard ate here and, through his marvelous example, inspired generations of New York Times reporters to appreciate good food, good writing, good fellowship and the richness of life in New York.''
        When Mr. Shepard thought of an idea for a story that had already been written and a colleague pointed that out to him, he would sometimes grin and reply: ''What difference does it make? You're the only one who remembers.''
        And when he recalled his student days at City College, he would claim that he was one of the few students there ''who majored in nothing, giving me a broad background.''
        Yet behind his earthy manner -- the Yiddish word for it is haimish -- lay immense erudition and sophistication about life, letters and show business. During the 1970's he served as a columnist at various times, and he went on to become The Times's obituary editor. Over the years he also did a variety of other kinds of writing, including theater reviewing. He retired in 1991 but continued to contribute to The Times.
        In retirement he also wrote a well-received book, ''The Paper's Papers: A Reporter's Journey Through the Archives of The Times'' -- the title was a takeoff on the Pentagon Papers, the documents The Times scored a major scoop by publishing.
        His other writings included the books ''Going out in New York: A Guide for the Curious'' (1974) and -- in collaboration with Vicki Gold Levi -- ''Live and Be Well: A celebration of Yiddish Culture in America From the First Immigrants to the Second World War '' (1982). In ''Live and Be Well'' the co-authors ponder the cultural heritage of European Jews who immigrated to America in the early 20th century. The work includes a glossary of Yiddishisms and a survey of cultural institutions including unions -- and grandmothers.
        Mr. Shepard is survived by his wife, the former Gertrude Ellenberg, known as Trudy; two sons, Robert of Bethesda, Md., and Daniel of Queens, and three grandchildren.
      