
        Antonio Prohias, the cartoonist who drew ''Spy vs. Spy'' for Mad  magazine, died on Tuesday at Mercy Hospital in Miami. He was 77 and lived in Miami.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his daughter Marta Pizarro.
        From January 1961 until his retirement in 1990, Mr. Prohias presided over one of the longest-running, bitterest comic rivalries since Ignatz  Mouse first hit Krazy Kat with a brick.
        The premise was simplicity itself. One espionage agent dressed in white tried to eliminate his counterpart, an espionage agent dressed in black. Both usually wore outsize fedoras and, although vaguely human in appearance, had elongated, triangular heads and shiny black insectlike eyes. Neither spoke.
        Occasionally the plot thickened with the appearance of a mysterious gray female spy who wore a veil over her large hat. The black and white spies made perfect cold war antagonists, bent on annihilating each other by any means necessary, but doomed to an eternal standoff.
        Mr. Prohias was born in Cienfuegos, Cuba. He studied art at San Alejandro Academy in Havana but left school after a year to find work as a newspaper cartoonist. For many years he was the editorial cartoonist for El Mundo, a Havana daily, and his many awards included the National Association of Newspaper Journalists' first award for cartoon of the year, given in 1946.
        Soon after Fidel Castro came to power, Mr. Prohias began criticizing his policies in his cartoons, a habit that earned him the enmity of the Government, which accused him of working for the Central Intelligence Agency. Mr. Prohias, aware that he was endangering his colleagues at El Mundo, resigned from the newspaper in February 1959 and found work painting trucks. It was some satisfaction that the Association of Newspaper Journalists again gave him its cartoon of the year award in 1959, a prize that was handed to him by none other than Mr. Castro.
        In May 1960, Mr. Prohias left Havana for New York. He spoke no English, but with his daughter Marta acting as an interpreter, he walked into the offices of Mad and showed his drawings. He was hired on the spot.
        Mr. Prohias based his spies on the Sinister Man, the macabre, mute antihero of a cartoon he contributed to the weekly magazine Bohemia and the newspaper Zigzag. After deciding that the character was too bleak for American tastes, he transformed him into the black spy and gave him an enemy, the white spy. Although Mr. Prohias's cartoons had a dark quality, he himself was a genial figure in his neighborhood of Jackson Heights, Queens, where he would buy art supplies for any local youngster who showed an interest in art.
        After Mr. Prohias's retirement, ''Spy vs. Spy'' was taken over by a series of cartoonists and is now drawn by Peter Cooper. Mr. Prohias's work was collected in ''Mad's Spy vs. Spy'' (1965), ''Mad's Spy vs. Spy Follow-Up File'' (1968) and ''Mad's Big Book of Spy vs. Spy Capers and Other Surprises'' (1982).
        In addition to his daughter Marta, who lives in Miami, he is survived by his wife, Marta Leon, of Miami; a son, Antonio, of Miami; another daughter, Susana Schubert of Berlin; four grandchildren; five brothers, and two sisters.
      