
        Dr. Thomas H. Johnson, a cosmic ray physicist whose findings were part of the foundation for the field of high energy physics, died on Feb. 25 at his home in Denmark, Me. He was 98.
        Dr. Johnson worked at the Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island before becoming vice president for research at the Raytheon Corporation in Lexington, Mass., in the 1950's.
        Working at the Bartol Research Foundation in Swarthmore, Pa., in the 1930's, Dr. Johnson set out to count cosmic rays at different elevations and help explain the radiation that constantly bombards Earth.
        He and his associates sent up balloons, sometimes taken for unidentified flying objects, with film to record cosmic rays at points from sea level to mountain tops as high as 10,000 feet in Colorado, Mexico and Peru. They found that the rays came mainly from the Western sky, were weaker at the Equator and were strongest at higher elevations.
        The findings confirmed that cosmic rays are attracted by Earth's magnetic field to the North and South Poles, said Dr. Nicholas D. Samios, a senior physicist at Brookhaven and former director of the laboratory.
        ''Beyond his research, Dr. Johnson was influential in the development of science, generally, by obtaining Federal resources and improving facilities for research,'' Dr. Samios said.
        Dr. Johnson was assistant director of Bartol from 1927 until the onset of World War II, when he turned to military projects. At the Aberdeen Proving Ground in Maryland, he was chief physicist at the Ballistic Research Laboratories from 1942 to 1947 and measured the blast force of bombs and used microwaves to record movements of bullets and other projectiles.
        He was one of the original scientists at Brookhaven, set up by the Atomic Energy Commission in 1947 in Upton, N.Y. Brookhaven was one of several national laboratories created to study peaceful applications of atomic energy. Dr. Johnson, who became chairman of its physics department, led efforts to investigate the fundamental nature of matter.
        In 1951, he became vice president for research at Raytheon and remained there until retiring in 1965. In his years there, Raytheon worked on electronic countermeasures for the Air Force and on marine electronics, sonar for nuclear-powered submarines and flight-tracking radar. The company also developed the guidance computer for the Apollo spacecraft.
        Dr. Johnson was born in Coldwater, Mich. He received a bachelor's degree in mathematics and economics from Amherst College in 1920 and a doctorate in physics from Yale University in 1926.
        His first wife, Ann Benedict Johnson, died in 1964. His second wife, Dorothy Durfee Montgomery Johnson, died in 1981.
        Surviving are a stepdaughter, Katherine MacGregor of Chicago; a stepson, Charles Montgomery of Peterborough, N.H., and two brothers, Corbett Johnson of Seneca Lake, N.Y., and Lyman Johnson of Silver Spring, Md.
      