
        Edward Tatnall Canby, a choral director, teacher and writer whose conducting specialty was Renaissance and Baroque music but whose wide interests led him to work as a folklorist and as an advocate of electronic music, died on Feb. 21 at his home in Cornwall, Conn. He was 85 and also had a home in Manhattan.
        Record collectors in the late 1960's and early 70's knew Mr. Canby for the lucid annotations he provided for dozens of recordings on the Nonesuch label, and for the column he contributed to Audio magazine from 1948 to 1996. He also wrote record reviews for Harper's and Saturday Review, and was the host of a weekly radio program on WNYC for nearly 20 years.
        As a performer, Mr. Canby was best known for his work with the Canby Singers, the chamber choir he founded in New York in the early 1950's, and which has continued under his name -- and under his occasional guidance as an associate conductor -- since his retirement in the 1980's. Works by Monteverdi, Byrd, Lassus, Josquin and other early composers were the centerpieces of the choir's repertory, but when he found an interesting thematic or musical connection, Mr. Canby would add works by Brahms, Hindemith or Elliott Carter to programs otherwise devoted to Renaissance works.
        Mr. Canby was born in New Haven in 1912, and graduated from Harvard University with a music degree in 1934. During the 1930's, he joined the ethnomusicologist Alan Lomax on tours to collect folk music of Appalachia, during which he and Mr. Lomax made the first recordings of the folk singer Jean Ritchie.
        Mr. Canby respected popular culture, and in the mid-1960's he asserted that the music of the Beach Boys should be regarded seriously, mainly because of the group's often sophisticated vocal harmonies.
        Before teaching at Finch College in New York, in the 1950's, Mr. Canby taught music at Princeton University. In the 1940's, he became fascinated by the relationship between music and audio equipment, and wrote about it in a book, ''The Saturday Review Home Book of Recorded Music and Sound Reproduction,'' published in 1952.
        He is survived by a brother, Courtlandt Canby of Leeds, Mass.
      