
        Almost a half-century ago, Joe Sobek, frustrated that he could not find an indoor racquet sport he liked, designed a new racquet, found a ball of the right size and spring, and invented racquetball. Last Friday, he died at Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut at age 79.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said his wife, the former Nancy Erlichman.
        According to Luke St. Onge, the executive director of the United States Racquetball Association and secretary general of the International Racquetball Federation, the sport Mr. Sobek invented now has 7 million players in the United States, 8.5 million worldwide.
        Mr. Sobek was the first person inducted into the Racquetball Hall of Fame. His sport is played in 91 nations, with a lucrative professional tour in the United States, Japan, Mexico and Canada. It is part of the quadrennial Pan American Games, and the international federation is trying to have it added to the 2004 Olympics in Athens.
        Joseph George Sobek was born April 5, 1918, in Greenwich and was raised there. Until he retired in 1985, he had spent most of his life as a tennis and squash racquets professional at the Greenwich Country Club; the Westchester Country Club in Rye, N.Y., and the Fairview Country Club in Greenwich.
        But it was an office job at a rubber manufacturing plant in Bridgeport, Conn., that led to the start of racquetball in 1950.
        ''For me,'' Mr. Sobek once said, ''suddenly not to exercise regularly, sitting on my fanny all day and watching my waistline spread was very hard to take.''
        He was such a good squash racquets player that he had trouble finding opponents. He rejected handball as ''too strenuous and too hard on the hands.'' He spurned paddle ball as too slow. Then an idea struck, a variation of paddle ball.
        Legend has it that he sawed off part of the handle of a tennis racquet. In truth, he started with a platform-tennis paddle altered with strings. Then, after many experiments, he found that the core of a tennis ball produced a rubber ball smaller, softer and not as lively as a handball. Racquetball was born.
        To promote his invention, Mr. Sobek took it on the road. He founded the Paddle Rackets Association, but he never played in a tournament. Y.M.C.A.'s, which housed most of the nation's handball courts, would not allow professional athletes to take part, and he had been a tennis professional on and off since 1937.
        In 1968, a group of racquetball players formed an association and asked Robert Kendler, the president of the United States Handball Association, to promote the sport. In 1969, the new group held a national championship. Within a year, Mr. Kendler had taken over the sport.
        Mr. Sobek was out of the picture and went back to work as a tennis professional. He insisted that he was pleased. As he told Tom Carlson for a 1979 article in Racquetball: ''I decided that things had grown beyond me and my Paddle Rackets Association, and so I willingly let the big boys take over.''
        For a 1993 article in Racquetball Magazine, another publication, Sobek told Tom Slear:
        ''Kendler had both the money and a proven record in handball. I was old enough to know what happened to squash tennis. It was a good sport, but it never had a chance because of opposing organizations. I'm just proud that something I started has become a multimillion-dollar sport played around the world.''
        Those multimillions never reached Mr. Sobek. As Mr. Slear wrote:
        ''All those volunteer hours he spent with engineers at rubber companies designing a suitable ball, all those late nights packaging racquets, balls and rule books before mailing them to interested parties throughout the country. Make money? Hell, he lost plenty and never gave a thought to making any of it back.''
        Mr. Sobek is survived by his wife; a son, Joseph Jr. of Irvine, Calif., from a previous marriage; a brother, Edward of Conyers, Ga.; two sisters, Florence Coppola of Greenwich and Barbara DiNardo of Somers, N.Y.; four stepchildren, Peter Schuyten of Princeton, N.J.; Candace Smith of Williamsburg, Va.; Katherine Sebestyen of Melbourne, Australia, and Vicky Suscaldo of New Canaan, Conn., and seven grandchildren.
        For Mr. Sobek, the satisfaction of invention was enough. ''A sport I began for a few friends at the Greenwich Y.M.C.A. is now played by millions of people all over the world,'' he once said. ''It's truly astonishing.''
        His sport burns almost 800 calories an hour. Power and strength are not required, making it especially attractive to women and older men.
        In addition, he said: ''When you hit the ball, it makes an awful pop, and that's just a very satisfying noise. It's an easy game to learn. In about 15 minutes of practice, anyone can attain instant mediocrity.''
      