
        William M. Haenszel, an epidemiologist at the National Cancer Institute who set up the first national system to track cases of cancer and their possible causes, died on March 13 at his home in Wheaton, Ill. He was 87.
        That system -- called SEER, for Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results -- helped produce evidence of the links between smoking and lung cancer by gathering complex comparisons between nonsmokers and smokers.
        In the 1970's, when the Nixon Administration declared a ''war on cancer,'' Mr. Haenszel, as chief of biometry -- the statistical analysis of biological data -- set out to record individual cases, to track them from diagnosis to death, and to synthesize the data at the N.C.I., in Bethesda, Md., to learn about potential causes.
        SEER -- which he started in 1973 -- is probably the largest registry for any one disease in the world, said Dr. Earl S. Pollack, who was chief of biometry at the institute after Mr. Haenszel.
        With a $21 million budget, SEER works with regional cancer registries and extrapolates the data to make estimates for the country. It  gathers data on about 12 percent of the United States population, Dr. Pollack said, and can draw conclusions about cancer by subgroups based on  factors like ethnicity or geography.
        Mr. Haenszel (pronounced HEN-sel) was an innovator in methods to track the impact of diseases on society, said Dr. Jack H. Goldberg, a professor of epidemiology at the University of Illinois at Chicago.
        ''Mr. Haenszel provided the intellectual foundation for what epidemiologists do on a day-to-day basis in the study of causes of disease,'' Dr. Goldberg said. ''We can make the right inferences today because of his insights.''
        Mr. Haenszel was widely known for migrant studies in the 1950's and 1960's. In one project, he showed that  the high stomach cancer rates in Japan were no longer found in the Japanese who migrated to Hawaii. He identified the role of diet as a possible cause of stomach cancer.
        In a 1959 paper, written with Nathan Mantel, also of the cancer institute, Mr. Haenszel described what is now known as the Mantel-Haenszel Method for analysis to assess the relationship between exposure to a hazard and disease rates.
        William Manning Haenszel was born in Rochester, N.Y., and received his B.A. in sociology and mathematics from the University of Buffalo in 1931 and his M.A. in statistics there in 1932. He worked at the New York State Department of Health from 1934 to 1947, then became director of the Connecticut Bureau of Vital Statistics.
        In 1952, he joined the biometry division of the N.C.I. and worked there until 1976, when he became a senior epidemiologist with the Illinois Cancer Council. He was also a professor of epidemiology at the School of Public Health of the University of Illinois in Chicago.
        Survivors include his wife of 51 years, Helen Haenszel; a daughter, Dr. Priscilla Hensel of Oklahoma City; a son, Dr. James Hensel of Kettering, Ohio; a sister, Janice Kittle of Richland, Wash., and two grandchildren.
      