
        Henry Steele Commager, one of the nation's most distinguished historians and teachers, a prolific author, editor and essayist, and an eloquent defender of the Constitution, died yesterday at his home in Amherst, Mass. He was 95.
        For decades, the name Henry Steele Commager was synonymous with American history. Starting in  the 1930's, he published a torrent of histories, biographies, textbooks, anthologies and inquiries into the nature of democracy and the American mind. His essays in newspapers, journals and magazines were an important part of any dialogue on the issues of his day.
        He also taught history and American studies for 65 years, 36 of them at Amherst College, 18 at Columbia University and 12 at New York University. He was still teaching into his 80's and he said he could not imagine not doing so. ''What every college must do,'' he said, ''is hold up before the young the spectacle of greatness'' in history, literature and life.
        He accomplished all this while plagued by poor eyesight that deteriorated to near blindness, relying on a phenomenal memory and extraordinary energy.
        Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., the historian, called him ''a great teacher and one of the century's notable historians.'' Mr. Schlesinger said Mr. Commager brought to his profession an ''analytical keenness, grace and lucidity of expression, and a disciplined passion for the integrity and hope of the democratic experience.''
        He also was remembered for his early stand against McCarthyism. Alfred Kazin, the author and critic, said the historian showed ''extraordinary bravery and openness amid the broiling hysteria.''
        David Oshensky, a Rutgers University historian, added that Mr. Commager waged ''one of the great battles of his era -- when it was very dangerous to do so and other intellectuals were cowed.''
        Among his important books were:
        *''The Growth of the American Republic'' (1930), of which he was co-author, and which became a standard college textbook for more than four decades.
        *''The American Mind'' (1951), regarded by many historians and critics as his best work, which explored the cultural and philosophical forces that shaped the nation's outlook.
        * ''The Empire of Reason: How Europe Imagined and America Realized the Enlightenment'' (1977), was described in The New York Times as ''his most brilliant work.'' In it he  rejected what he termed the ''sterile'' economic determinism inspired by the historian Charles A. Beard and held that Americans of the late 18th and early 19th centuries had the courage and audacity to put into practice and law the principles of the Age of Enlightenment only envisioned by great European philosophers.
        *''Documents of American History'' (1934) and ''The Blue and the Gray: The Story of the Civil War as Told by Participants'' (1950), two anthologies invaluable to American historians, which were part of the work that prompted Albert Fried, a historian at the State University of New York at Purchase, to call Mr. Commager ''the greatest anthologist America ever produced.''
        In 1966 Mr. Commager warned against American involvement in Indochina, appealing to Congress on constitutional grounds to reassert its authority over the waging of war, and appealing to the public on moral grounds.
        His opposition to the war in Vietnam was not confined to his writing. He galvanized an anti-war rally on the Amherst campus in 1970 with the fluency and force of his contentions. ''Having the United States in Vietnam is like having the Chinese invade the shores of Long Island!'' thundered this jaunty little man with the thatch of white hair.
        The Learned Man Behind the Textbooks
        Henry Steele Commager was born in Pittsburgh on Oct. 25, 1902, the son of James W. and Anna Elizabeth Commager. He was orphaned in  childhood and raised by his maternal grandfather of Danish origin, a founder of American Lutheranism.
        He grew up in Toledo, Ohio, and Chicago, where he graduated from high school and enrolled at the University of Chicago, working as a harvest hand in the summers and tending furnace at night in winters. He earned his bachelor's degree at Chicago in 1923, his master's the next year, and his doctorate in history four years after that. He spent a year  at the University of Copenhagen studying Danish naval history. While he was earning his degrees, he taught at Chicago, in Europe and at N.Y.U.
        By the time he was 28, Mr. Commager had been been appointed to the N.Y.U. faculty and completed two books, ''The Reform Movement in Denmark,'' for which he received the American Historical Association's award for the best first book by an American historian, and ''The Literature of the Pioneer West.''
        His reputation then soared with the publication of ''The Growth of the American Republic,'' written with Samuel Eliot Morison of Harvard. (William E. Leuchtenburg joined the collaboration in 1969 for subsequent  editions.) It was principally through this work, a readable and detailed narrative, that thousands of college students obtained their basic knowledge of their country's history.
        Like all of Mr. Commager's work, the book is suffused with his Jeffersonian belief in the American Constitution and his trust in reason: People can learn, he insisted. Issues can be explored, explained and debated, and the people of the new American democracy, armed with knowledge and freedom to dissent, argue and choose, will make the right decisions for their common welfare.
        Such a vision had its detractors. Garry Wills, in his 1990 book ''Under God: Religion and America,'' maintained that historians like Mr. Commager and Mr. Schlesinger discounted the importance of religion in shaping the United States and its politics.
        ''Commager and Schlesinger are to American history what Michael Dukakis was, in 1988, to American politics,'' Mr. Wills wrote. ''Much of American (indeed, of human) experience is off their mental maps. They have a serene provincialism, dismissive of the ordinary torments of people less optimistic, irreverent, and pragmatic than they.''
        In later years, his work also would come under criticism for what some historians believed was insufficient attention to Native Americans and African-Americans.
        Mr. Commager left N.Y.U. in 1938 to accept a history professorship at Columbia, but his life there was soon interrupted by World War II. He worked as a consultant with the Office of War Information and was a member of the State Department's committee on the history of the war.
        He also published several books. ''America: The Story of a Free People'' (1942), written with Allan Nevins, became a best seller. ''The Pocket History of the United States'' and ''Majority Rule and Minority Rights'' both appeared in 1943, and ''The Story of the Second World War'' was published in 1945.
        ''Majority Rule,'' his first book applying constitutional history to current issues, defended Franklin Delano Roosevelt's attempt to enlarge the U.S. Supreme Court after it ruled against several New Deal programs.
        Exploring the Forces That Shaped a Nation
        Back at Columbia, he produced in 1950 his magisterial work, ''The American Mind,'' subtitled, ''An Interpretation of American Thought and Character Since the 1880's.'' With the exceptions of slavery and the Civil War, he described the nation's first century as marked by triumphant progress. He said 19th-century Americans were extraordinarily pleased with themselves and incurably optimistic: ''Nothing in all history had ever succeeded like America, and every American knew it.''
        But he voiced pessimism about developments after 1890. He found 20th-century America ''urban but not yet urbane,'' hurried, less happy, less confident. Confronted by two major crises, the Depression and World War II, the American people ''showed themselves resourceful, mature and magnanimous.'' But after those trials, he wrote, citizens  exhibited a moral and intellectual softening.
        Events had begun unfolding as he worked on ''The American Mind'' that struck him as darker in some ways than any the nation had faced. In 1947 he wrote an article in Harper's magazine attacking loyalty oaths as an abuse of power that violated the Constitution and illegally resulted in the loss of livelihood to those Americans who refused to sign them. In Senator Joseph McCarthy and his followers, Mr. Commager saw an internal threat to the principles of the Constitution that was as serious as the threat of a foreign invader.
        In 1956, Mr. Commager accepted a teaching post at Amherst and remained on its faculty until 1972. He then was named Simpson Lecturer, the college's most prestigious faculty appointment, and held the position until he was 92. Among his predecessors were Robert Frost and Archibald MacLeish.
        ''Commager on Tocqueville,'' his last book, published at the age of 91, was described by Herbert Mitgang in The New York Times Book Review as a ''brilliant new interpretation of Alexis de Tocqueville's 'Democracy in America.' ''
        A Serious Scholar With a Wry Humor
        Though deadly serious on social and political issues, especially those involving the Constitution, he was remembered as something of a campus character. Despite an extraordinary memory for historical data, he had difficulty remembering the names of his students and so called most of them Mr. or Miss McGillicuddy.
        Mr. Commager's nickname was Felix, after the Latin word for happy, and he was happiest working. He seemed to be writing nonstop -- on buses, planes, cars, even when on vacation. Friends and relatives said he not only read everything there was to read but also heard all the music there was to hear. He could quote pages verbatim from the stories of P. G. Wodehouse, whether those around him wanted to hear them or not, and he could whistle Beethoven, Schubert and Mozart compositions in their entirety.
        He was also remembered for his  self-assuredness. What colleagues called ''Commager's No. 1 Rule'' -- ''I'm right'' -- was an important factor in his success, in their view, because it lent a clarity and authority to his writing and gave him the boldness to take unpopular or risky positions.
        Mr. Commager was a member of the National Academy of Arts and Letters and was awarded its Gold Medal for History in 1972. He was the recipient of scores of other scholarly awards, honorary degrees and tributes. Among them was the 1967 publication of a collection by Harper & Row titled, ''Freedom and Reform: Essays in Honor of Henry Steele Commager.''
        Mr. Commager was married to the former Evan Carroll, an author of children's books, from 1928 until her death in 1968. He is survived by his second wife, Mary Powlesland Commager; two daughters from his first marriage, Nell Lasch of South Newfane, Vt., and Lisa Demlinger of New York; five grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren. His son Steele Commager, a classics professor at Columbia, died in 1985.
        ''History is a story,'' Mr. Commager once wrote, and ''if history forgets or neglects to tell a story, it will inevitably forfeit much of its appeal and much of its authority as well.''
      