
        F. Cecil Brenner, a scientist and regulator whose legacy can be found on nearly every tire on the road, died on Thursday at Georgetown University Medical Center in Washington. He was 79.
        He died of complications after surgery for a brain tumor, his daughter  Vivian Brenner said.
        Mr. Brenner, a longtime resident of Silver Spring, Md., devised safety and performance rating systems for tires. They were adopted in 1975 after an eight-year development period during which he faced strong opposition from most tire manufacturers.
        ''He certainly was a pioneer in the area of tire quality rating, and he was a very persistent pioneer,'' said Barry Felrice, a longtime colleague of Mr. Brenner's at the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration who is now the regulatory affairs director at the American Automobile Manufacturers Association. ''His program is still in place.''
        Molded on the sides of tires are three quality ratings, one that grades tread life, another that rates traction and a third that grades a tire's ability to dissipate heat to avoid blowouts. The tread wear, traction and temperature labeling is required by the Uniform Tire Quality Grading system championed by Mr. Brenner, and allows consumers to quickly compare the quality of tire models.
        Mr. Brenner, a fiber and textile research scientist, worked for Johnson & Johnson and the Chemstrand Research Center. He joined the National Bureau of Standards in Washington in 1965 as chief of its textile and apparel technology center. He began his work on tire standards in 1967, when he became chief of the bureau's tire systems section.
        Mr. Brenner continued his work on tire labeling after becoming chief of the tire systems division at the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration in 1971. He held several other posts before retiring as the chief of consumer information in the office of market incentives in 1985.
        Mr. Brenner published a number of articles and books about textiles, chemistry and tires, and was at the time of his death writing a book with a University of Maryland professor, Steven Spivak, called ''Essentials of Standardization for Managers, Engineers and Educators.'' The book is scheduled to be published by Marcel Dekker Inc. of New York.
        Mr. Brenner was born in Norfolk, Va. He graduated with a degree in chemistry from the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and earned a master's degree in chemistry from Polytechnic University in Brooklyn before serving as a second lieutenant in the Army in Europe in World War II.
        Survivors include his wife, Margaret Ann, of Silver Spring; his brother, L. Jack, of Cleveland Heights, Ohio; two daughters from his first marriage, Zoe, of Bethesda, Md., and Vivian, of Silver Spring, and five stepsons, R. William Powers of Silver Spring, Richard J. Powers of Madison, Va., Peter A. Powers of Eugene, Ore., Thomas A. Powers of Chantilly, Va., and David M. Powers of Ringwood, N.J. His first marriage, to the late Rose (Finkelstein) Brenner, ended in divorce in 1976.
        Correction:  March 27, 1998, Friday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Tuesday about F. Cecil Brenner, a scientist and regulator who developed the national tire safety and performance rating system, cited his educational background incompletely. In addition to a master's degree in chemistry, he received a doctorate in polymer chemistry from Polytechnic University in Brooklyn.
      