
        Cary Reich, a financial journalist and the author of a widely praised biography of Nelson A. Rockefeller, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in New York. He was 48, and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Reich, who was working on a second volume of the Rockefeller book, became ill a month ago and learned two weeks later that he was suffering from pancreatic cancer, according to his brother, Michael E. Reich of Livingston, N.J.
        ''The Life of Nelson A. Rockefeller: Worlds to Conquer, 1908-1958,'' was published in 1996 by Doubleday. It was a finalist for the National Book Award. Reviewing the book in The New York Times, Geoffrey C. Ward, a historian, called it a ''vivid, compelling'' portrait, ''as rich and nuanced as we will ever have.'' He added, ''This reader, at least, is impatient for the promised second volume.''
        Elaine Markson, Mr. Reich's literary agent and friend, said that he had completed virtually all the research for the second volume of the biography and had written roughly a third of it at the time of his death. ''We all have to figure out how we're going to complete it,'' Ms. Markson said.
        Although best known as a business writer, Mr. Reich had been fascinated since childhood by Nelson Rockefeller's political career and had dreamed of writing his biography for nearly 20 years, said Bill Thomas, the senior editor at Doubleday who is overseeing the work.
        But the project has been shadowed by tragedy. Mr. Reich's wife became ill and died just as he was finishing the first volume, Mr. Thomas said, and ''it was heartbreaking to see the effort he had to make to promote the book while he was experiencing such grief.''
        Mr. Thomas said he had expected the second Rockefeller volume to surpass the first ''because that's where the richest material was -- and he had already turned in some extraordinary material.'' Mr. Reich's death ''has just left us all speechless here,'' he added.
        Mr. Reich was also the author of ''Financier: The Biography of Andre Meyer,'' published in 1983 by William Morrow & Company. That book, a portrait of the controversial deal maker who headed the investment banking firm of Lazard Freres & Company for 33 years, has been reissued recently by John Wiley & Sons.
        Mr. Meyer was one of the many financial giants that Mr. Reich profiled for Institutional Investor in New York, the financial magazine where he spent most of his career. Explaining his interest in the human side of business life, Mr. Reich once said, ''It's nice to be able to read a balance sheet, but I think it's even more important to be able to read a personality.''
        Gilbert E. Kaplan, the founder of Institutional Investor and Mr. Reich's boss for many years, recalled that Mr. Reich was a remarkably fluent writer, handing in long, richly detailed profiles that were ''amazingly, always first drafts.''
        One of his most notable pieces, in March 1980, was a 23-page profile of Sir Siegmund Warburg, who was a believer in graphology. The famous financier, extremely shy of the press, had Mr. Reich's handwriting analyzed before agreeing to be interviewed. He told Mr. Reich that he had concluded that the journalist ''worked very hard'' and was ''very ambitious -- but in the right way,'' and that he was ''rather diffident, though you worked hard to overcome it.'' According to Mr. Kaplan, Mr. Reich later said he had been skeptical of graphology but that the Warburg analysis ''made a believer out of him.''
        Born in New York City, Mr. Reich graduated from Brooklyn College in 1970, and from the Medill School of Journalism at Northwestern University in 1971. As most aspiring young writers in the early 1970's were focusing on the political scene, where antiwar protests and political scandals dominated headlines, Mr. Reich turned to the less popular precincts of Wall Street, which was sliding into a slump that would last most of the decade.
        After working briefly for The Commercial and Financial Chronicle and a Wall Street newsletter, he joined Institutional Investor, which was becoming an incubator for graceful, accessible writing at a time when much business prose was as bland as a buttoned-down shirt. While at the magazine, he oversaw the creation of its international edition, and collected numerous writing awards, including the Overseas Press Club Award. He resigned as executive editor in 1988 to devote himself to the Rockefeller book.
        Mr. Reich was married in 1985 to Karen M. Eisenstadt, an executive at the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, who died of cancer in October 1996. Besides his brother, survivors include his son, Jeremy; his mother, Etta Reich of Delray Beach, Fla., and another brother, Wayne I. Reich  of Brooklyn.
      