
        Bernice F. Davidson, a historian of Italian Renaissance art who served as research curator at the Frick Collection for more than four decades, died at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx on Feb. 24. She was 70 and lived in Manhattan.
        She died of cancer, her sister, Anne Ferry, said.
        Ms. Davidson, who was known as Bunny, was born in New York City in 1927 and grew up on the Upper East Side, where she and her sister regularly visited the Metropolitan Museum of Art. She graduated from the Horace Mann School and Wellesley College before receiving her Ph.D. in art history from Radcliffe College. She specialized in Raphael and the artists of his circle in Rome, among them Perino del Vaga, on whom she was the leading expert. Her book ''Raphael's Bible: A Study of the Vatican Logge'' was published by Pennsylvania State University in 1983 and her articles appeared regularly in periodicals like the Art Bulletin, the Burlington Magazine and Master Drawings.
        After working at the Frick for two years in the mid-1950's, conducting research for a new and complete catalogue of the museum's paintings, Ms. Davidson was chief curator of the Rhode Island School of Design Museum of Art from 1956 to 1960 and held part-time teaching positions at Brown University, Harvard University and, later, at New York University's Institute of Fine Arts.
        In 1965 she returned to the Frick, working in all areas of the collection and developing a strong interest in small Renaissance bronzes and in drawings.
        She was a major contributor to the volumes on painting in the complete catalogue of the collection, published in 1965, and wrote the section on sculpture in ''Art in The Frick Collection,'' published by Abrams in 1996.
        Ms. Davidson's exhibitions at the Frick included ''Italian Art at the Close of the Quattrocento: Pollaiuolo and Hercules'' (1992) and ''Severo and the Sea-Monster'' (1997).
        She also oversaw the Frick's annual graduate student symposium on the history of art, a prestigious academic testing ground, and worked closely with young scholars during the two-  or three-year appointments at the Frick that were their final preparation for the museum profession. Ms. Davidson retired last April.
        She is survived by her sister, of Cambridge, Mass.
        A memorial service will be held at the Frick on April 1 at 4 P.M.
      