
        Bishop John Maury Allin, the 23rd presiding bishop of the Episcopal Church, who was a pivotal supporter of Mississippi's effort to rebuild burned black churches in the 1960's but was an ardent critic of the ordination of women, died on Friday in Jackson, Miss.
        He was 77 and had been struggling with complications from a stroke he suffered a week before his death. He also had lung cancer.
        Bishop Allin was elected presiding bishop in 1973 and served in that position until he retired in 1986. Often called John the 23d by those who knew him well, Bishop Allin was chosen to lead the church during one of its most divisive periods, as various factions were beginning to press for the inclusion of blacks and women.
        Four years after he was elected,  Bishop Allin offered to resign, saying he was unable to back the church's support of female priests. In 1976, the church had allowed women into the priesthood, two years after 11 women were illegally made priests in Philadelphia.
        ''Can you accept the service of presiding bishop who to date is unable to accept women in the role of priests?'' Bishop Allin asked a gathering of bishops and other church leaders in a 1977 speech. He added that after careful consideration, he had concluded that women could no more be priests ''than they can become fathers or husbands.''
        Though he was regarded as a religious conservative by church observers, Bishop Allin told a New York Times reporter in 1973 that he viewed himself as a liberal, at least by Mississippi's standards. Indeed, at the height of the civil rights movement in the 1960's, while he was Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Mississippi, Bishop Allin made the unpopular choice of helping to found the Committee of Concern, an alliance between ecumenical and civic leaders that raised money to rebuild more than 100 black churches that had been firebombed by white supremacists. The organization is now known as the Mississippi Leadership Conference.
        ''Those were difficult days in Mississippi; everybody had an ax to grind,'' recalled Thomas Tiller, who worked as a program director under Bishop Allin during his eight years leading the Mississippi diocese, from 1966 to 1973. ''But Bishop Allin knew how to get all the different factions to sit down at the same table. He always tried to do what he believed God would have wanted.''
        Episcopalians also remember Bishop Allin as the spark behind Venture in Mission, a $100 million fund-raising drive begun in the 1970's that was aimed at strengthening missionary work in dioceses across the nation. Some Episcopal bishops were divided over the program, which they said lacked an urban ministries agenda. Pleading with his critics for support, Bishop Allin said in a 1977 speech, ''Though we may have differences, we should still be able to respond to the greater needs of human suffering differences.''
        The program raised $150 million.
        Bishop John Maury Allin was born on April 22, 1921, in Helena, Ark. He graduated from the University of the South at Sewanee, Tenn., and its divinity school, St. Luke's Seminary, in 1945. He earned a Master of Education degree in 1962 from Mississippi College in Clinton. He was ordained a deacon in Bishop, Ark., in 1944 and was elevated to the priesthood 11 months later. In 1961, he was consecrated bishop at St. James Church in Jackson, Miss.
        Bishop Allin also held several other posts. He was a former chancellor of the University of the South, and after his retirement, he was named chaplain of the General Community of Transfiguration, an order of Episcopal nuns in Cincinnati.
        Bishop Allin also served as vicar of St. Ann's Church at Kennebunkport, Me., where President Bush was a member. He was an honorary canon of the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York, and the canon of St. George's Cathedral in Jerusalem.
        Bishop Allin is survived by his wife of 49 years, Ann; a son, Dr. John M. Allin Jr., of Jackson, Miss.; three daughters, Martha May Skelton and Kelly Ann Allin Butler, both of Jackson, and Frances Elizabeth Allin Hazel, of Brevard, N.C.; one brother, and 12 grandchildren.
      