
        Jeanette Wakin, an expert in the arcane world of medieval Islamic law, died on Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 69 and a senior lecturer at Columbia University, where she had long been a mainstay in the department of Middle East and Asia Language and Culture.
        Her family said the cause was cancer.
        The daughter of Lebanese immigrants, Dr. Wakin, who was born in Bridgeport, Conn., moved to California as a teen-ager, beginning her college studies at the University of California at Los Angeles before completing her undergraduate studies at the New School for Social Research in New York.
        For all her Lebanese heritage, Dr. Wakin, a Greek Catholic, attributed her interest in Arabic and Islamic studies to a chance course she took as an undergraduate.
        Islamic law, which is so abstruse that algebra had to be invented to calculate inheritancies, may not seem like an especially appealing field of scholarship, but once she caught the bug, Dr. Wakin could not shake it off.
        After a brief period as travel editor of the Saturday Review, she entered graduate school at Columbia, where she studied under Joseph Schacht, who was widely regarded as a pioneer in the modern study of Islamic legal traditions.
        After receiving her master's degree and doctorate, Dr. Wakin, whose name is pronounced WAY-kin, remained at Columbia as a member of the faculty, attaining tenure as senior lecturer in 1974 and serving as department chairman.
        Although she set high standards for her students, Dr. Wakin, who was just as demanding of herself, was a popular teacher. A workhorse who cheerfully accepted administrative tasks others shunned, Dr. Wakin never became a full professor. Her friends attributed the slight to the internecine world of academic politics, one of the few fields as tortuously complex as Islamic law.
        One of her more important scholarly contributions was her 1972 book, ''The Function of Documents in Islamic Law.''
        Dr. Wakin was also the editor of the Journal of the American Oriental Society and chairman of the prestigious Columbia Seminar on Arabic Studies.
        She took an active and compassionate interest in the modern Islamic world. During the war in Lebanon in 1975, she meticulously gathered the names of Lebanese citizens who had disappeared during the conflict with Israel, and more recently she arranged scholarships at American universities for Muslim students from Bosnia.
        Dr. Watkin, who created some confusion by marrying and later divorcing a man with the same surname as her own, is survived by a son, Daniel, an Associated Press correspondent in Rome; a sister, Mary Lou Wakin of Manhattan; a brother, Joseph Wakin of Stamford, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      