
        Dr. Rachmiel Levine, whose experiments on how insulin increases the body's use of blood sugars overturned conventional scientific belief and set new courses for diabetes research, died on Feb. 22 in Faulkner Hospital in Boston. He was 87 and lived in Newton, Mass.
        For 13 years, Dr. Levine was the executive medical director of the City of Hope National Medical Center, a research and treatment institution near Los Angeles that specializes in cancer and diabetes.
        In the 1950's, when Dr. Levine carried out his major experiments, insulin was an established treatment for diabetes, but how it regulated the use of blood sugars was unknown, said Dr. Charles Rollo Park, professor emeritus of physiology at Vanderbilt University.
        Without insulin, glucose accumulates in the blood and cannot enter muscle and fat cells. That can cause a condition that can lead to a diabetic coma, which can be fatal.
        Dr. Levine was skeptical of explanations that held that insulin needed to enter the cell to turn on enzymes there. Instead, he reasoned that insulin worked on the outside of the cell to stimulate the transport of glucose and other sugars.
        He set out to obtain proof in experiments using dogs at Michael Reese Hospital in Chicago.
        Such use of a whole animal system  would be seen as a crude technique today, said Dr. Phillip Gorden, director of the National Institute of Diabetes, Digestive and Kidney Diseases of the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md. But in the 1950's, these were advanced methods, and Dr. Levine's findings were so accurate that four decades of subsequent insulin research using sophisticated methods have proved him correct, said Dr. Jesse Roth of the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine.
        The standard explanation of how the transport mechanism works is known as the Levine effect, and it opened up subsequent work on how hormones modify cell functions.
        In his experiment, Dr. Levine gave the dogs a form of sugar called galactose and then calculated its level of dilution. He found that the galactose was concentrated only in the small amount of water outside the cells, until he injected insulin. Then, the sugar's dilution level showed that the galactose had reached the inside of the cells.
        His results showed that insulin was like a key that unlocked the cell membrane, allowing the sugars to get inside.
        ''His skepticism managed to reverse a major part of scientific dogma of his time,'' Dr. Gorden said.  ''This concept set the stage for many others to focus on the actions of insulin using a new approach. It led to the discovery in the 70's of the insulin receptor in the cell membrane, confirming Dr. Levine's findings that insulin begins its work at the cell membrane.''
        Dr. Levine was a frequent visitor to seminars in Washington, where he helped to shape new areas of study because he could rally biomedical researchers around certain themes to provide fresh explanations of human physiology, Dr. Gorden said.
        ''He could unify a lot of diverse thinking into clarity,'' Dr. Gorden said. ''Dr. Levine was one of the great thinkers in the biomedical community. He helped resolve many complex issues.''
        In 1978, under Dr. Levine, a team at City of Hope, along with scientists at Genentech Inc., produced human insulin from recombinant D.N.A., the first time a human hormone had been synthesized in a one-celled organism.
        Born in Zaleszczyki, Poland, (a town now in Ukraine) he received a bachelor of arts degree from McGill University in Montreal and a medical degree from McGill Medical School in 1936.
        He worked at Michael Reese Hospital and New York Medical College before he became executive medical director at City of Hope in 1971. He became deputy director for research emeritus in 1984.
        Dr. Levine was a member of the National Academy of Sciences. He was president of the American Diabetes Association from 1964 to 1965 and of the International Diabetes Foundation from 1967 to 1970.
        His wife, Anne Gussak Levine, died in 1997. Survivors include a daughter, Dr. Judith Feldman of Boston; a son, Daniel Levine of Arlington, Tex., and three grandchildren.
      