
        Ben Bagley, who produced several hit Off Broadway revues and a much-admired series of recordings  of obscure Broadway songs, died on Saturday at his home in Jackson Heights, Queens. He was 64.
        The cause was complications from emphysema, said his friend and longtime assistant, Charles Johnston.
        Mr. Bagley burst onto the theatrical scene in 1955 at age 21 with ''The  Shoestring Revue,'' a zany collection of songs and sketches that involved many show-business talents who would later become famous. In 1965, his ''Decline and Fall of the Entire World as Seen Through the Eyes of Cole Porter,'' an anthology of obscure Porter songs, would pave the way for later Broadway revues like ''Ain't Misbehavin' '' and ''Sophisticated Ladies'' that surveyed the work of a single composer.
        Among the talents Mr. Bagley discovered or helped develop were the writers Charles Strouse, Michael Stewart, Lee Adams, Sheldon Harnick, Tom Jones and Harvey Schmidt, and the performers Chita Rivera, Joel Grey, Beatrice Arthur and Tammy Grimes.
        On his own small record label, Painted Smiles, founded in 1971, Mr. Bagley released 48 albums in his ''Revisited'' series. These anthologies, produced by Mr. Bagley and conceived as revues, featured a who's who of musical comedy talent and constitute a trove of musical theater esoterica. Mr. Bagley was  remarkably successful in persuading big-name talent to contribute to these recordings for little or no money. In addition to performers like Bobby Short, Barbara Cook and Elaine Stritch, he convinced such unlikely talents as Katharine Hepburn and Anthony Perkins to make guest appearances.
        Mr. Bagley was born on Oct. 18, 1933, in Burlington, Vt., and discovered the world of musical comedy through sheet music his mother bought in the lobbies of Broadway theaters. Convinced he was a genius, he moved to New York at age 16 and worked as an office boy at McGraw-Hill. After seeing ''Touch and Go,'' an Off Broadway revue by Walter and Jean Kerr, he figured that he could do just as well and set about raising money for his own show, ''The Shoestring Revue,'' which cost just $18,000.
        The show opened on Feb. 28, 1955, at the 350-seat President Theater (later the site of Mamma Leone's restaurant) and established his reputation as a theatrical innovator with a sharp eye for talent. Overnight he became a colorful gadfly in Manhattan show-business circles.
        ''The Shoestring Revue'' was followed a year later by ''The Littlest Revue,'' which opened at the Phoenix Theater, then by ''Shoestring '57'' at the Barbizon-Plaza Theater. Mr. Bagley then began producing shows for summer stock and nightclubs, but his career was interrupted in 1958 when he contracted tuberculosis. During his two-year recuperation at the Will Rogers Hospital in Los Angeles, his best friend, the songwriter and performer Arthur Siegel, sent him tapes of little-known songs by great Broadway composers, and the idea for his ''Revisited'' series was born.
        His first album, conceived as though it were a musical revue, was ''Rodgers and Hart Revisited,'' on the tiny RIC label, which later went bankrupt. Its follow-up, ''Cole Porter  Revisited,'' led directly to ''The Decline and Fall of the Entire World as Seen Through the Eyes of Cole Porter.'' Starring Kaye Ballard, Harold Lang, William Hickey and Carmen Alvarez, the show opened at the Square East Theater in 1963 and ran for 15 months. The most successful of Mr. Bagley's revues, it quickly became a regional theater staple. But it also proved to be his last show. An attempt to put on a second Porter revue fizzled in 1972.
        Thereafter, Mr. Bagley concentrated on his ''Revisited'' series (collections of Jerome Kern and Alan Jay Lerner soon followed Porter), which came out during the next few years on several different labels. Although Mr. Bagley had to struggle for the rest of his life to finance these albums, he shrewdly maintained the rights to the master recordings, and after founding Painted Smiles, was able to keep his entire catalogue in print.
        After completing his final project, ''DeSylva, Brown and Henderson,  Vol. 2,'' in 1996, he spent the next two years raising the money to have the  series transferred from LP to compact disk.
        No immediate family members survive.
      