
        Jack Davies, a businessman turned winemaker who, with his wife, Jamie, transformed Schramsberg Vineyards in the Napa Valley of California into one of the country's pre-eminent producers of sparkling  wine, died on Tuesday at his home at the winery near Calistoga. He was 74.
        The cause was a degenerative debilitating neuromuscular disease, which had been diagnosed over a year ago, the winery said.
        A Los Angeles executive with degrees from Stanford University and the Harvard Business School, Mr. Davies was 42 when he and his wife decided to give up city life and become grape growers and winemakers. They were among the first in a  succession of academics, surgeons, lawyers and stockbrokers who, beginning in the 1960's, rejected material concerns and moved into the Napa Valley seeking what they perceived as a bucolic and more honest way of life.
        The Davies looked at several abandoned wineries and fell in love with the Schramsberg estate on Diamond Mountain, not far from Calistoga. The winery had been founded by Jacob Schram, an itinerant German barber, in 1862 and had been praised by Robert Louis Stevenson, who visited it in 1880. The winery had been abandoned for years when the Davieses bought it in 1965, determined to make sparkling wine that would rival the best Champagne.
        They restored the crumbling Schram mansion, drove the bats out of five caves that had once been  cellars for aging wine, bought winemaking equipment and replanted 40 acres of vines with true Champagne grapes, some of the first ever in California. Helped by generous neighbors, included the winemakers Louis Martini, Andre Tchelistcheff and the Mondavi brothers, Robert and Peter, they mastered the techniques of winemaking. With purchased grapes, the Davieses made their first vintage that year, 1965.
        By 1970, they were producing a modest 1,000 cases annually. Their fortunes changed two years later  when President Richard M. Nixon, who had taken a fancy to the wine and served it at the White House, carried 25 cases of Schramsberg 1969 Blanc de Blanc to China to serve at his banquet for Premier Chou En-lai celebrating the restoration of diplomatic relations between the two countries.
        Production grew to 20,000 cases by the end of the decade and to 50,000 by the mid-1980's. The caves that had been painstakingly carved out of the side of Diamond Mountain by Chinese and Irish workers in the 1860's were tripled in size with the use of a  giant tunnel-boring machine.
        Mr. Davies had little competition in the early days because only two wineries in California made sparkling wine by the method used in the Champagne region of France.
        In addition, Mr. Davies insisted on using only the grapes used in the Champagne region, chardonnay and pinot noir. Almost overnight, the Davieses raised the standards of American sparkling wine production higher than anyone in the industry had believed possible. It was Mr. Davies's success that showed the way to the famous French Champagne houses that began opening wineries  in California in the 1970's: Moet & Chandon, Mumm, Deutz, Roederer and Piper Heidseick.
        True to their insistence that genuine Champagne can be made only in the Champagne region, the French winemakers called their California product sparkling wine. Most American producers do the same. But Mr. Davies insisted on calling his wines  American Champagne.
        Early in his winemaking career, Mr. Davies became a leader in the movement to turn the Napa Valley into an agricultural preserve, to maintain its rural character and keep its vineyards out of the hands of developers. The preserve, the first of its kind in the country, came into being in 1968 with state approval, but  the battle over the future of the valley was to be contested bitterly over the next two decades, with Mr. Davies often in the center. He led a successful effort to prevent the state from widening Highway 29, the main road through the valley, to four lanes.
        He contributed to a variety of wine publications and was the author with his wife of ''Sparkling Harvest --  The Seasons of the Vine,'' published  last year by Harry N. Abrams. In the late 1980's, the Davieses invested in a winery in Portugal.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Davies is  survived by three sons, Hugh, who is associate winemaker at Schramsberg, and Bill, both of Calistoga, and John, of Boca Raton, Fla.; a sister, LouAnn Davies, of Beverly Hills, Calif., and a grandson.
      