
        Carleton Putnam, who helped create a major airline, wrote an acclaimed biography of Theodore Roosevelt, and then, driven by opposition to the Supreme Court's 1954 school desegregation decision, turned out a classic defense of racial segregation, died on March 5 at his home in Charlottesville, Va. He was 96 and a former chairman of Delta Air Lines.
        It must seem curious that a 1924 Princeton graduate who professed a passionate belief in the power of the individual and exemplified it during a life of diverse achievement should see a person's race, not the person, as the engine of individual accomplishment.
        Certainly by the time Mr. Putnam became an eloquent opponent of integration he had accomplished a lot.
        Within a year after graduating from Columbia law school in 1932, Mr. Putnam, a well-born New Yorker with roots deep in New England history, had started a shoestring coastal airline in California.
        Within a year after that, in 1934, he had secured a lucrative Chicago-to-New Orleans mail route, relocated his fledgling airline to Memphis and begun the expansion that would lead in 1953 to merger with Delta in the largest airline combination up to that time.
        After a year as Delta's chairman, Mr. Putnam abruptly changed course, moved to Washington to be near the Library of Congress and wrote ''Theodore Roosevelt,'' a work that won the respect of later biographers. Conceived as the first of four volumes, the book covered the first 28 years of the President's life.
        Mr. Putnam changed course again, abandoning the biography and taking up the cause of racial segregation.
        The issue was Brown v. Board of Education, the 1954 Supreme Court decision that outlawed school segregation, but Mr. Putnam was not drawn into the fray until 1958. After reading a Life magazine editorial supporting the decision he wrote a reply, sending a copy to an editor friend in Memphis who published it in The Commercial Appeal.
        Spurred by an outpouring of favorable comment, Mr. Putnam composed an even longer letter, addressed to President Dwight D. Eisenhower and published in The Richmond Times-Democrat.
        Within weeks, the ''Putnam letter,'' as it became known, had been published in newspapers all over the South, creating a huge demand for reprints and drawing thousands of letters of support.
        Mr. Putnam early on had asked editors to send him only those responses that criticized his position. He used those letters as the basis for a 1961 book, ''Race and Reason, a Yankee View.''
        With his letter taking up only 5 pages, Mr. Putnam devoted most of the 125-page book to rebutting his critics point by point.
        Seeing the 1954 decision as a result of an insidious campaign for ''equalitarianism'' by the anthropologist Franz Boas and other social scientists, Mr. Putnam took pains to discredit their work.
        To be sure, it was an approach that had been invited by the Supreme Court. Constrained by a half-century-old precedent establishing the dogma of separate but equal, the 1954 Court could hardly rule that separate was obviously, manifestly, transparently and self-evidently unequal.
        Instead, in reaching its conclusion that separate schools are inherently unequal the court relied on an array of modern sociological evidence.
        Mr. Putnam devoted much of his book to arguing that when it came to the personal characteristics that produced the glories of Western civilization, the Negro race could not hold a candle to the white race.
        The evidence he amassed was so impressive and so thoughtfully presented, it was easy to overlook the fact that it was irrelevant. The Supreme Court, after all, had not used sociological evidence to establish that black people were the intellectual equals of white people but only that they had been harmed by forced segregation. As citizens they were entitled to equal protection of the laws.
        Whatever its flaws, by the time he published a sequel, ''Race and Reality,'' in 1967, ''Race and Reason,'' had sold more than 150,000 copies, been widely embraced by Southern politicians and made required reading for teachers and advanced students in Louisiana.
        It is testimony to its power of persuasion in some quarters that, by his own account, reading the book as a self-described ''liberal'' junior high school student sent David Duke on the course that led him to become a leader of the Ku Klux Klan.
        When it became apparent that his campaign was in vain, Mr. Putnam withdrew from public life. His wife said she did not know if his views had changed.
        Mr. Putnam, whose first marriage ended in divorce, is survived by his wife, Esther, their daughter, Louise Putnam-Stoner of Charlottesville; a stepdaughter, Eve Lilley of Washington, and three grandchildren.
      