
        Ronald Johnson, a visionary poet who wanted to take his God out of church and find Him, say, in the exploding light of dawn as it rose across the prairie of his native Kansas, died on Wednesday at his father's home in Topeka. He was 62.
        The cause was brain cancer, his  family said.
        ''Ark,'' his 250-page work in 99 sections, which he wrote over a 20-year period in San Francisco, was published in 1996 by Living Batch Press in Albuquerque, N.M. Robert Creeley, a poet and professor at the State University College at Buffalo, said Mr. Johnson's magnum opus, ''Ark,'' would take ''its legitimate place with the great works of the century of like kind: Ezra Pound's 'Cantos,' Louis Zukofsky's 'A,' Charles Olson's 'Maximus' and Robert Duncan's 'Passages.' ''
        The critic Hugh Kenner said ''Ark'' was at heart religious; he described the central theme as ''Hail, holy light.''
        ''Ark'' was one of 10 collections of poetry Mr. Johnson published while supporting himself much of the time as a chef, caterer and bartender. He also wrote several highly praised cookbooks.
        He was born on Nov. 25, 1935, in Ashland, Kan. He attended the University of Kansas in Lawrence and completed his bachelor of arts degree at Columbia University in 1960.
        The next year, he and another writer, Jonathan Williams, hiked the length of the Appalachian Trail,  through the English Lake District  and throughout Europe. It was those hikes, Mr. Williams said, that taught Mr. Johnson to become a writer: he learned ''to pay attention to what he saw.''
        Among his other books of poetry were ''A Line of Poetry, a Row of Trees'' (1964), ''The Book of the Green Man'' (1967), ''The Spirit Walks, the Rocks Will Talk'' (1969) and ''Songs of the Earth'' (1970).
        He is survived by his father, Albert Ted Johnson; a brother, Kenneth, of Des Moines, and a sister, Jody Panula of Barnhart, Mo.
        Like Louis Zukofsky, who took 50 years to complete ''A,'' and another lover of very long poems, Walt Whitman, Mr. Johnson believed he could put anything and everything in a poem and seems to have tried to fit his entire life into ''Ark.''
        A lover of puns, he named the work  after the arc of the horizon and after Noah's ark as a kind of symbol of the creation. The poem begins with the narrator watching the sun rise over waves of Kansas grain.
        Over the rim
        body of earth
        rays exit sun
        rest to full velocity to eastwood pinwheeled in a sparrow's
        eye
        -- Jupiter compressed west to the other --
        Wake waves on wave in wave  striped White Throat song
        The poem goes on to describe how the light of day changes the objects it strikes. Mr. Johnson believed that true religion could be understood only with a comprehension of the physical universe and that ''the old God may have had His home in church, but the new one lives at M.I.T.''
      