
        Gregoris Staktopoulos, a Greek journalist who spent a decade in prison in connection with the murder of George Polk, the distinguished CBS news correspondent, in northern Greece in 1948, died on Saturday while being taken to the Evangelismos Hospital in Athens. He was 88 and had lived in Athens since being released from prison in 1961.
        His death was reported on Tuesday by the Athens News Agency and Reuters.
        The cause was a pulmonary edema, and he had suffered a heart attack on Jan. 4, said Liberty Ekonomidis, a press officer at the Greek Mission to the United Nations.
        Mr. Polk, a 34-year-old Texan, was slain after going to Salonika in northern Greece to try to talk directly to the leader of the Communist insurgents fighting a civil war with forces of the right-wing Greek Government. His body was found, tied up and with a bullet wound in the back of the head, on the shore of Salonika Bay. The George Polk awards in journalism were named in his memory.
        In Salonika, he met Mr. Staktopoulos, a local reporter known as Gregory. As described by Kati Marton, a former foreign correspondent, in her book ''The Polk Conspiracy: Murder and Cover-up in the Case of CBS News Correspondent George Polk'' (1990, Farrar, Straus), Mr. Staktopoulos bore some resemblance to characters in Eric Ambler's novels of international intrigue.
        ''Gregory Staktapoulos spoke perfect English, which he learned at Salonika's only English-speaking school, Anatolia College,'' she wrote, and he ''had learned to accommodate himself to new regimes. He was perhaps too pliant a man. He liked to please a bit too much. His politics had wavered from left to right to center and now again to the right, that being the safest course at the moment.''
        In the book, Ms. Marton contended, drawing on previously classified documents, that Mr. Polk had angered the Greek Government, and that the Government had instigated his slaying. Similarly, Prof. Edmund Keeley of Princeton University maintained in a 1989 book, ''The Salonika Bay Murder: Cold War Politics and the Polk Affair,'' (Books on Demand) that Mr. Polk was the victim of right-wing Greek militants.
        After the murder, Mr. Staktopoulos was tortured, and he confessed to having guided Mr. Polk into what was portrayed as a Communist trap. He was tried in 1949, was convicted as an accessary in the slaying and was given a life sentence, which was later reduced two times.
        He is survived by his wife, Theodora, whom he married in 1965.
        Correction:  April 16, 1998, Thursday  An obituary on March 5 about Gregoris Staktopoulos, a Greek journalist, misstated the availability of a book about the 1948 death of George Polk, a CBS correspondent, in Greece. (Mr. Staktopoulos was convicted in 1949 as an accessory in the murder.) The book, ''The Salonika Bay Murder: Cold War Politics and the Polk Affair,'' by Edmund Keeley, is available from Princeton University Press, not from Books on Demand.
      