
        Eric M. Breindel, the former editorial page editor for The New York Post and the conservative moderator of a weekly news show on public affairs on the Fox News Channel,  died yesterday afternoon. He was 42.
        Mr. Breindel, a lifelong resident of New York City, died at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was undergoing treatment for a liver ailment and suffered a massive hemorrhage, said Lally Weymouth, a longtime friend and columnist for The Washington Post.
        Mr. Breindel, a senior vice president of the News Corporation, which owns The Post, was best known for his years as the leader of The Post's lively opinion pages, which hold a decidedly conservative edge.
        He was hired as the editorial page editor of The Post in 1986, and in January 1997, he left that position to develop strategic policy for the News Corporation. He continued to write a weekly column in The Post and was seen by some as a tormentor of liberal politicians.
        ''Whether he agreed with you or not, you always knew he listened to you and understood your point of view,'' said the City Council Speaker, Peter F. Vallone, a Queens Democrat.
        More recently, Mr. Breindel was the host of a weekly television show that appeared on Saturdays on the Fox News Channel called ''Fox News Watch.'' The show analyzed the media's coverage of national news.
        Mr. Breindel was a friend of New York City police officers, and he often criticized liberals and critics of the police. During last year's mayoral election, he branded the Democratic challenger to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, the Manhattan Borough President, Ruth W. Messinger, a ''cop-basher.''
        ''Eric was a very close friend,'' Mr. Giuliani said. ''Even when there might be a media frenzy seeking to unfairly accuse police officers,'' the Mayor added, ''Eric was often one of the few who courageously stood up for them.''
        Liberals were not Mr. Breindel's only targets. In 1990, under the leadership of Mr. Breindel, the son of Holocaust survivors, The Post published an editorial attacking Patrick J. Buchanan as an anti-Semite.
        ''Eric played a major role in the growth and development of The Post,'' said Rupert Murdoch, chairman of the News Corporation.
        While Mr. Breindel's ideas carried influence with national and international leaders, particularly within the Zionist world, said Martin Peretz, editor in chief of The New Republic, he is perhaps known best in New York City for his coverage of the 1991 racial unrest in Crown Heights when a Hasidic motorist struck and killed a 7-year-old black boy. A Hasidic Jew was fatally stabbed during the unrest.
        ''He was the leading voice during the riots,'' Ms. Weymouth said. ''He found it outrageous that Jews were getting beat up. He was dedicated to his people.''
        His death left some readers and journalists in a state of disbelief. ''It's shocking. His capacity to influence world affairs was growing,'' said Charlie Rose, the television talk show host.
        Born in New York City, Mr. Breindel graduated magna cum laude from Harvard College in 1977, where he was editorial chairman of The Harvard Crimson. He received his law degree from Harvard Law School in 1982. He was United States Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan's legislative assistant for foreign policy and intelligence in 1982 and 1983 and then was a correspondent for the Public Broadcasting System. He also worked for a short time as an editorial page editor with The Daily News before joining The Post.
        Mr. Breindel is survived by his parents, Dr. Joseph H. and Sonia Breindel of New York City, and a sister, Dr. Monique Breindel of New York City.
        Funeral services will be held tomorrow at 11 A.M. at the Park Avenue Synagogue.
      