
        When Atal Bihari Vajpayee was sworn in today as the 16th Prime Minister of India since independence 50 years ago, many onlookers outside the presidential palace thought he looked curiously uncomfortable. His first words as Prime Minister were certainly more solemn than cheerful. ''I have a pledge to redeem, and a promise to fulfill,'' he said.
        Noting Mr. Vajpayee's lack of exuberance, Vinod Mehta, editor of Outlook, a leading news magazines, said Mr. Vajpayee seemed to have lost the confidence he exuded from campaign billboards across India that showed him as the friendly face of Hindu nationalism.
        ''He didn't look at all like 'A Man of Destiny' or 'The Prime Minister India Awaits,' '' Mr. Mehta said. ''But then, this isn't the Government he was hoping for.''
        On the face of it Mr. Vajpayee, 72, had much to celebrate: He was at the center of rich ceremonial panoply, with buglers sounding a salute from the parapet of the pink sandstone palace that once housed Britain's viceroys, and the occasion marked the pinnacle of a political career he began as a schoolteacher's son flirting with Communism in the 1930's, when Mohandas K. Gandhi was the colossus of Indian politics.
        The moment was more poignant for the fact that Mr. Vajpayee had been there once before, in May 1996, when he was sworn in as India's 13th Prime Minister, only to have to resign 13 days later when the minority Government he headed failed to attract support from other parties. Mr. Vajpayee told friends then that he felt humiliated, and feared he would become a historical footnote as India's most transitory leader.
        But the mortification of 1996 became the prelude to the comeback of 1998. In the election last month, opinion polls showed, Mr. Vajpayee was easily the most popular of the candidates for Prime Minister, outdistancing the next most favored figure by nearly 2 to 1.
        But Mr. Vajpayee's problem was that he proved to be more popular with the 344 million voters than did the Hindu nationalist movement, for which he has been the principal parliamentary standard bearer for 30 years. Although the election yielded the best result ever for his Bharatiya Janata Party, it won only 178 of the 543 elected seats in the Lok Sabha, the lower house of Parliament.
        That forced Mr. Vajpayee to shop for parliamentary support, and the office-holders sworn in with him today, 22 ministers and 20 junior ministers, reflected awkward compromises. More than a third belong to 14 regional parties that have joined a coalition with the nationalists, though many of them are longstanding opponents of the nationalists' doctrine of Hindu supremacy.
        When the Cabinet was announced tonight, most of the top posts went to Hindu nationalists.
        Mr. Vajpayee will be Foreign Minister, a post he held in the late 1970's. The Home Minister will be Lal Krishna Advani, 71, a vociferous nationalist, giving him police powers though he remains under indictment on charges that he incited a Hindu mob to destroy a 16th-century mosque in Ayodhya in December 1992.
        The Finance Minister, who is responsible for the free-market reforms that have revitalized the economy in recent years, will be Yashwant Sinha, 61, who held the portfolio briefly in the late 1980's. Mr. Sinha has pledged that the new Government will continue with the reforms.
        One of the most outspoken foes of foreign investment, George Fernandes, 67, who as Industry Minister in the 1970's took the lead in ousting Coca-Cola and I.B.M. from India, was denied the top economic job he sought. Instead Mr. Fernandes, who belongs to the socialist Samata Party, will be Defense Minister.
        Mr. Vajpayee's worry has been that conflicting ideologies and personalities could expose the Hindu nationalists to parliamentary defeat and replacement by a coalition linking the opposition Congress Party and the United Front, the group that formed the Government that collapsed in December.
        Mr. Mehta, the magazine editor, is one of many Indians who say the country, exhausted by two elections in two years, may face another election soon, or at least another Government change.
        ''There's not a person in the country who doesn't wish Mr. Vajpayee well, even those who don't personally approve of him,'' Mr. Mehta said. ''But you also have to look at reality. If you look at the way in which the Government is constructed, it doesn't look to be a Government that has longevity on its side.''
        Mr. Vajpayee was born into a high-caste Brahmin family in Gwalior, in central India, on Dec. 25, 1925. He was barely 15, but already steeped in Marxism, when a friend took him to a meeting of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (National Volunteer Service), a neo-fascist organization that has been the guiding force behind Hindu nationalism for much of this century.
        But Mr. Vajpayee has a reputation as an instinctive moderate. He is an admirer of Gandhi, and lists Sir Richard Attenborough's film about the independence leader as one of his favorites.
        In his speeches he praises Jawaharal Nehru, the first Prime Minister; Nehru and Gandhi are regarded as the fathers of Indian secularism. Mr. Vajpayee has condemned Gandhi's assassination by Hindu nationalists as a ''terrible crime,'' and the razing of the Ayodhya mosque as ''a blunder of Himalayan proportions.''
        In his personal habits, too, he is difficult to fit into a mold. A lifelong bachelor, Mr. Vajpayee has raised as his own child Namita Bhattachariya, a 39-year-old teacher and the daughter of a longtime friend, and Ms. Bhattachariya has at times served as his official hostess.
        He writes a reflective brand of Hindi poetry. Unlike many purist Brahmins who shun alcohol and are strict vegetarians, he has a taste for Scotch whisky and kebabs.
        Biographers have said Mr. Vajpayee shares the traditional Hindu nationalist view that India is essentially a Hindu nation that should enshrine Hindu culture at the core of all it does.
        He is also passionate about his desire to ''see India take its place as a great nation,'' with a nuclear weapons arsenal commensurate to its size. But he has repeatedly said he does not see why this should entail suppression of Muslims.
        ''In India, it has never been our way to discriminate on the basis of religion,'' he told an election rally last month in Nagpur, in central India. ''Discrimination is not in our blood, or in our soil. All of us, Hindus, Muslims, Buddhists and Christians, believe that God is one, but that he can be reached in different ways.''
      