
        Eric M. Breindel, the former editorial page editor for The New York Post and the conservative moderator of a weekly public affairs program on the Fox News Channel, died Saturday afternoon. He was 42.
        Mr. Breindel, a lifelong resident of Manhattan, died at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was hospitalized last week for gastrointestinal bleeding and suffered massive hemorrhaging and cardiac arrest, The Post said.
        Mr. Breindel, a senior vice president of the News Corporation, which owns The New York Post and the Fox News Channel, was best known for his years as the leader of The Post's lively opinion pages, which have a decidedly conservative tone.
        He was hired as the editorial page editor of The Post in 1986, and in January 1997, he left that position to develop strategic policy for the News Corporation. He continued to write a weekly column in The Post and was seen by some as a tormentor of liberal politicians.
        ''Whether he agreed with you or not, you always knew he listened to you and understood your point of view,'' said the City Council Speaker, Peter F. Vallone, a Queens Democrat.
        More recently, Mr. Breindel was the host of a weekly television program, ''Fox News Watch,'' that appeared Saturdays on the Fox News Channel. The program analyzed the media's coverage of national news.
        Mr. Breindel was a friend of New York City police officers, and he often criticized liberals and critics of the police. During last year's mayoral election, he called Ruth W. Messinger, who was the Manhattan Borough President and the Democratic challenger to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, a ''cop-basher.''
        ''Eric was a very close friend,'' Mr. Giuliani said. ''Even when there might be a media frenzy seeking to unfairly accuse police officers,'' the Mayor added, ''Eric was often one of the few who courageously stood up for them.''
        Liberals were not Mr. Breindel's only targets. In 1990, under the leadership of Mr. Breindel, the son of Holocaust survivors, The Post published an editorial that accused Patrick J. Buchanan of evincing an ''an all-too-familiar hostility'' toward Jews.
        ''Eric played a major role in the growth and development of The Post,'' said Rupert Murdoch, chairman of the News Corporation.
        While Mr. Breindel's ideas influenced national and international leaders, particularly in the Zionist world, said Martin Peretz, editor in chief of The New Republic, he was perhaps known best in New York City for his coverage of the 1991 racial unrest in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, where a Hasidic driver struck and killed a 7-year-old black child. A Hasidic Jew was fatally stabbed during the unrest.
        ''He was the leading voice during the riots,'' said Lally Weymouth, a longtime friend and columnist for The Washington Post, of Mr. Breindel. ''He found it outrageous that Jews were getting beat up. He was dedicated to his people.''
        His death left some readers and journalists in a state of disbelief. ''His capacity to influence world affairs was growing,'' said Charlie Rose, the television talk show host. ''Even if you disagreed with his opinion, you had to respect the force of his intellect.''
        Mr. Breindel graduated magna cum laude from Harvard in 1977, where he was editorial chairman of The Harvard Crimson. He received his law degree from Harvard Law School in 1982. He was United States Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan's legislative assistant for foreign policy and intelligence in 1982 and 1983 and then was a correspondent for the Public Broadcasting Service. He was briefly an editorial page editor with The Daily News before joining The Post.
        Mr. Breindel is survived by his parents, Dr. Joseph H. and Sonia Breindel, and a sister, Dr. Monique Breindel, all of Manhattan.His marriage to Tamar Jacoby ended in divorce several years ago.
      