
        Dr. Samuel A. Corson, who spent years using dogs to conduct valuable but arcane biophysical research only to have his career upstaged by his own laboratory subjects, died on Jan. 27 at the home of a daughter in Granger, Ind. He was 88 and known as the father of pet-assisted therapy.
        As a professor of psychiatry and biophysics at Ohio State University in the early 1970's, Dr. Corson, who specialized in studying the effects of stress on dogs, kept his research subjects in his laboratory in the university's psychiatric hospital.
        As he later recounted it, a severely withdrawn teen-age patient heard the dogs barking and asked to see them. He was allowed to visit the kennel and take one of the dogs for a walk. The teen-ager, who had barely spoken to the staff before, was so enthusiastic and communicated so volubly that his therapist immediately began using the dog in therapy.
        Dr. Corson and the hospital's psychiatrists were so impressed by the boy's response to the dog that they began systematic experiments using dogs with other patients, sometimes with stunning success.
        In one case, a 19-year-old psychotic who spent almost all his time lying mutely on his bed and who had been unresponsive to traditional treatment, opened up so quickly when a dog was brought to his room that he was soon released as cured.
        A native of Ukraine who came to Philadelphia as a teen-ager, Dr. Corson studied physiology at New York University and the University of Pennsylvania, received a doctorate in biophysics at the University of Texas. He later held teaching posts at the University of Minnesota and elsewhere before becoming professor of psychiatry and biophysics at Ohio State in 1960 and establishing his research laboratory there with his second wife, Elizabeth O'Leary Corson, who had been his graduate assistant at Minnesota.
        With Mrs. Corson as his lab manager, Dr. Corson immersed himself in research that included applying Pavlovian techniques to study the effects of stress on dogs and gaining so much international recognition, especially in Eastern Europe, where such research was more prevalent than in the United States, that he was forever flying off to address international conferences or serving as host to visiting scientists from abroad.
        Once his barking dogs had broadened his horizons, Dr. Corson began turning out papers on pet-assisted therapy, including one based on a word-by-word analysis that found that patients spoke significantly more often and responded significantly more quickly to questions once dogs were introduced into therapy sessions.
        Although Dr. Corson and his colleagues found that pets were used in psychotherapy as early as the 18th century and that at least one paper was written on the subject in the 1960's, his own research was credited with helping to stimulate a surging new interest in the field.
        As a result of his studies and a host of related research by others, dogs and other pets have become commonplace in nursing homes and other such settings.
        Dr. Samuel A. Corson Dr. Corson retired in 1980. In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son from a previous marriage, Eric, of Philadelphia; two daughters, Dr. Candace Corson, of Granger, and Olivia Corson, of Oakland, Calif.; a stepson, Robert Radway of Phoenix; a sister, Sylvia Ordet of Marlton, N.J., 6 grandchildren and 2 step-grandchildren.
      