
        Gordon S. (Mickey) Cochran, a skiing coach whose four children became world-class skiers by heeding his instruction for years using the family rope tow in their Vermont back yard, died last Saturday at Respite House, a hospice in Williston, Vt. He was 74.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his wife, Virginia, said.
        Although Mr. Cochran had suffered from heart disease for the last six years, he continued to operate Cochran's, the family's small ski area in Richmond, Vt., until earlier this year.
        His daughter Barbara Ann became the first American skier in 20 years to win an Olympic gold medal when she captured the women's slalom in 1972 at Sapporo, Japan. His other daughters, Marilyn and Lindy, and a son, Bobby, were on the United States ski team and were members of Olympic teams in the 1970's.
        ''He was the only reason we made it to the ski team level,'' his daughter Marilyn Brown said yesterday. ''We all had talent, but we weren't refined in our skiing. Dad always knew how to tell us what to do to make us ski faster.''
        Mr. Cochran had not skied for 20 years, his wife said, being too busy with the daily routine of running Cochran's. The ski area, which is still next to their home, no longer operates the rope tow. But it continues to be a mom-and-pop operation compared with the high-tech lift operations at most other ski resorts. Only a handlebar lift and a T-bar take skiers up the hill. An adult lift ticket is $12, compared with prices of $50 or more at many major ski areas.
        Mr. Cochran and his wife bought their 600 acres in Richmond in 1960 and installed the rope tow behind the house a year later.
        He grew up in Chelmsford, Mass., and attended the University of Vermont in 1941. After serving in the 84th Infantry Division during World War II, he returned to Vermont and graduated with a degree in mechanical engineering in 1948. In 1950, he received a master's degree in education from the University of Vermont.
        After teaching high school for eight years in Windsor, Vt., he became an engineer at General Electric in Burlington, Vt., where he worked from 1958 to 1975. Subsequently, he was a full-time operator of the family ski operation. He was executive director of the United States ski team in 1973 and 1974.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Cochran is survived by his daughters, Marilyn Brown, of Norwich, Vt.; Barbara Ann and Lindy Kelley, both of Starksboro, Vt.; his son, Bobby, of Keene, N.H.; a half brother, Tom Cochran, of Cumberland, Me., and 10 grandchildren.
        Last weekend, Mrs. Cochran said, she watched from the family lift as Ryan Siegle, the son of her daughter Barbara Ann, set up a small slalom course using parking lot cones on the snow. ''It was a good little course,'' she said. ''I thought to myself, that's Mickey's heritage, isn't it, that love of ski racing and just having fun.''
      