
        Arkady N. Shevchenko, who stunned the world two decades ago when he became the highest-ranking Soviet diplomat to defect to the United States, died on Feb. 28 in obscurity in his suburban home in Bethesda, Md. He was 67.
        Mr. Shevchenko's death was announced in a brief statement by his church, St. John the Baptist Russian Orthodox Cathedral in Washington. By the time the world began to learn of his death today, he had been buried for three days.
        Mr. Shevchenko's body was discovered in his home by a daughter, who had gone to check on her father when she could not reach him by telephone, the Montgomery County police said, adding that there was no sign of foul play.
        The manner of his death could not have been in more stark contrast to the fanfare that greeted his defection to the United States in April 1978. His decision to stay in the United States and spurn his own country caused a major diplomatic dust-up: the Administration of President Carter was at that time engaged in sensitive disarmament talks with the Soviet Union and, as one American official put it at the time, ''This is the last thing we need right now.''
        Mr. Shevchenko was Under Secretary General of the United Nations at that time, and apparently on course to have a brilliant career in the Government of the Soviet Union. He was a protege of the stone-faced Soviet Foreign Minister, Andrei A. Gromyko, and some diplomatic observers thought he had a shot at one day succeeding his mentor.
        As events would reveal, he was also a figure of contradictions, a man who wore different faces for different occasions and different people.
        One West European diplomat at the United Nations called him ''a faceless functionary'' whose habit of poking harmless fun at Soviet officialdom did not detract from the fact that he was a hard-line, doctrinaire Communist with a built-in suspicion of all things Western.
        Only a handful of people at the Central Intelligence Agency knew that Mr. Shevchenko had been providing information to the American Government for some two and a half years before his defection.
        One C.I.A. official who did know  was F. Mark Wyatt, who held various high posts in the C.I.A. before his retirement. His specialty was shepherding Soviet agents who wanted to help the United States.
        ''Arkady was a friend of mine,'' Mr. Wyatt said tonight. ''I am grieved.''
        Mr. Wyatt and other C.I.A. officials agree that, while Mr. Shevchenko did not provide sensational details of secret weapons or war plans, he furnished valuable insights into the thinking of people at the highest level of the Soviet Government, many of whom he knew personally.
        There really were people in the Kremlin who thought that the United States was controlled by a cabal of Wall Street capitalists in league with oafish Pentagon types with stars on their shoulders, he told his debriefers -- first at a secret C.I.A. ''safe house'' on East 64th Street in Manhattan and, after his defection became public, in more relaxed settings in New York City and Washington.
        Mr. Wyatt said he came to respect Mr. Shevchenko greatly, convinced that his decision to turn his back on his country was not based on greed but simply on his conviction, as an educated Soviet citizen, that the United States was a better place to live with a better system of government.
        On the eve of his defection, Mr. Shevchenko told his aides he had to go back to the Soviet Union to visit his gravely ill mother-in-law. Instead, he had told a few Americans of his decision to abandon his country and his career. As Under Secretary General, he was second only to Kurt Waldheim at the United Nations.
        ''God, we got a big fish!'' Mr. Wyatt recalls one C.I.A. colleague exclaiming at the time. Indeed, Mr. Shevchenko was considered the C.I.A.'s top trophy of the 1970's. An irony in the case was that one C.I.A. agent who debriefed him was Aldrich Ames, who would later betray the United States by selling secrets to the Soviets.
        His first wife, Leongina, eventually committed suicide after returning to the Soviet Union. He later married an American, but she soon died of cancer, Mr. Wyatt said. Mr. Shevchenko is survived by his third wife, Natasha, a son and daughter and a stepdaughter.
        In his first life, Arkady Nikolayevich Shevchenko, a native of Ukraine, studied at the Moscow State Institute of International Relations, earning a doctorate in 1954, two years before joining the Foreign Ministry.
        His second life was more erratic. In 1978, a Washington call girl charged publicly that she had been paid by the C.I.A. to provide sex for him. The publicity was shattering to him, Mr. Wyatt recalled tonight.
        But his book ''Breaking With Moscow'' (Knopf, 1985) brought him fame and prosperity, and earned money on the lecture circuit and as a consultant to research organizations.
        Mr. Shevchenko complained at first that some of his C.I.A. handlers were insensitive to the trauma of defection. But he made peace with his new country and became an American citizen. ''I was at the ceremony,'' Mr. Wyatt said. ''He was very happy.''
      