
        Todd Duncan, the baritone who created the role of Porgy in Gershwin's ''Porgy and Bess'' and was the first black singer to join the New York City Opera, died on Saturday at his home in Washington. He was 95.
        Mr. Duncan, whose stage credits beyond Porgy include the Lord's General in Vernon Duke's ''Cabin in the Sky'' and Stephen Kumalo in the first production of Kurt Weill's ''Lost in the Stars,'' was known for his elegant phrasing and burnished tone, as well as his dramatic persuasiveness. Those qualities won him his debut role at the New York City Opera in 1945, when he sang Tonio in a production of Leoncavallo's ''Pagliacci.''
        Although he had appeared in New York with black opera companies, starting with a 1934 production of Mascagni's ''Cavalleria Rusticana,'' with the Aeolian Opera, his City Opera debut made him the first black singer to perform opera with a white cast. That debut occurred 10 years before Marian Anderson made her celebrated debut at the Metropolitan Opera. By then he had also appeared at City Opera as Escamillo in Bizet's ''Carmen'' and in the title role of Verdi's ''Rigoletto.''
        Mr. Duncan was also a much sought-after recitalist, and often said that recitals interested him more than opera and the theater. In a career that lasted 25 years, he sang 2,000 recitals in 56 countries. He also appeared in two films, ''Syncopation'' in 1942 and ''Unchained'' in 1955.
        Robert Todd Duncan was born in Danville, Ky., in 1903. After earning a bachelor's degree at Butler University in Indianapolis in 1925, and a master's at Columbia University Teachers College in 1930, he joined the music faculty of Howard University in Washington. He began his operatic career while on the Howard faculty, and he remained there through three productions of ''Porgy and Bess.''
        When Gershwin was casting Porgy, and was unenthusiastic about the 100 baritones he had already auditioned, Olin Downes, the music critic for The New York Times, suggested that he get in touch with Mr. Duncan, whose debut with the Aeolian Opera he had recently heard. Mr. Duncan said that Gershwin offered him the role after hearing him sing 12 bars of an Italian aria, accompanying himself at the piano. He added that he had doubts about accepting the role.
        ''I didn't have sense enough to know that here was the most successful man on Broadway who had never had a failure,'' Mr. Duncan told The New York Times in 1978. ''I thought he was Tin Pan Alley -- and I always sang Schubert and Schumann and Brahms. And I said, 'Well, I don't know whether I could or not, I'd have to hear your music.' ''
        Mr. Duncan accepted the role, and appeared in 124 performances during the premiere run at the Alvin Theater in 1935. He also sang Porgy in revivals in 1937 and 1942, and recorded some of the music, along with songs from ''Lost in the Stars.'' Porgy, he said, presented some daunting technical challenges, mainly because the character, with one leg horribly twisted, is confined to a cart.
        ''In 'Porgy' it is especially difficult,'' he said in 1942, ''because I am on my knees all the time, and I'm thrown about the stage in all sorts of postures. But I studied the problem very scientifically. The audience hardly knows it, but no matter what position I'm in I always keep the torso completely straight so that I breathe perfectly.''
        With his opera and recital career at full throttle, Mr. Duncan left Howard University in 1945. But he later returned to teaching, both privately in Washington and at the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia. He taught into his 90's and had hundreds of students.
        He is survived by his wife, Gladys Jackson Duncan, and a son, Charles Duncan.
      