
        Harlan H. Hatcher, who as the eighth president of the University of Michigan guided the institution through a time of growth that lifted it into the ranks of the nation's elite research universities, died on Wednesday at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 99.
        Serving as president of the university from 1951 to 1967, Dr. Hatcher saw enrollment rise to 37,000 at his retirement from 17,000 when he arrived. Over the same period, the budget increased to more than $186 million from $44.5 million.
        Dr. Hatcher liked to remark about this fast-paced growth: ''There is nothing 'cloistered' about a modern state university with more than 15,000 students. In fact, I periodically escape from the rush of the university into the peace and contemplative quiet of New York City.''
        The Hatcher years also saw the development of the North Campus, which came to consist of about two dozen academic buildings and several hundred residences for married students. Also, regional university spinoffs were developed in Flint and Dearborn.
        Among the more significant buildings that went up were the Moore Building for the School of Music, the Institute for Social Research and the Undergraduate Library, which Dr. Hatcher often cited as a major accomplishment of his tenure.
        The library's long hours and open-shelf access were an innovation for university libraries at the time. Book circulation figures soared, and more faculty members began to require wider reading by their students. ''That revolutionized undergraduate training, as of that time,'' Dr. Hatcher said in an interview in 1988.
        Born on Sept. 9, 1898, in Ironton, Ohio, Harlan Henthorne Hatcher was the son of a schoolteacher. A brilliant student, he received bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees from Ohio State University, specializing in American literature. He did postgraduate work at the University of Chicago and in 1928 traveled throughout Europe to study Renaissance literature.
        Dr. Hatcher was named dean of the College of Arts and Sciences at Ohio State in 1944 and vice president in 1948. Soon after, he became president at Michigan.
        Two years later, the playwright Arthur Miller visited his alma mater, Michigan, and he later wrote that he found the campus seething with anti-Communist paranoia. In 1953, stirred by what he had seen at the Ann Arbor campus, Mr. Miller wrote ''The Crucible,'' which likened McCarthyism to the Salem witch trials.
        How responsible Dr. Hatcher was for this atmosphere on campus is uncertain, but he was criticized for bowing to the House Un-American Activities Committee in 1954. That spring, when the committee held hearings in Michigan, three faculty members refused to cooperate and were cited for contempt of Congress.
        Dr. Hatcher and his faculty advisory committee questioned the professors in a subsequent hearing. At its conclusion, Dr. Hatcher asked for the resignation of two of the three professors, explaining, according to a report in The Nation, that they had failed to convince him that they were ''sufficiently opposed ideologically to the Communist Party.'' He recommended to the regents that the third professor be permitted to remain because he had expressed strong disagreement with Communism.
        Five years later, in what seemed like a turnabout, Dr. Hatcher spent a month in the Soviet Union and before leaving expressed praise for the country in an interview with Harrison E. Salisbury, the Moscow bureau chief for The New York Times.
        ''Stalin is dead,'' Dr. Hatcher said then, ''and it is time that Washington began to realize this.''
        He wrote several books, including three novels, several academic studies and books dealing with the history and development of the Great Lakes region. These included ''The Buckeye Country: A Pageant of Ohio'' (Kinsey, 1940); ''A Century of Iron and Men'' (Bobbs-Merrill, 1950) and ''Creating the Modern American Novel'' (Farrar & Rinehart, 1935).
        Dr. Hatcher's first wife is deceased. In 1922, he married Anne Gregory Vance. In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Anne Berenberg of Winnetka, Ill., a son, Robert, the director of the Psychological Clinic and Institute for Human Adjustment at the University of Michigan, and four grandchildren.
      