
        Perrin H. Long Jr., a pioneering analyst of brokerage firms whose independent and original views alternately infuriated and charmed Wall Street's titans, died on Wednesday at Stamford Hospital in Stamford, Conn. He was 70 years old.
        The cause was the effects of a stroke that Mr. Long suffered on March 27, his wife said.
        Mr. Long was one of the first people on Wall Street to understand that the brokerage firms themselves were an emerging industry that warranted and rewarded careful analysis. Unfailingly courteous and known for his collection of tobacco pipes, Mr. Long was generally cautious in his predictions for Wall Street firms, and in recent years the firms had often criticized his traditional and wary analysis. His approach to securities analysis became increasingly rare on Wall Street, with analysts now often serving as aggressive advocates for the companies they cover and even a part of their firms' marketing efforts.
        ''Perrin could be a neutral, outside objective force, and therefore very useful,'' said Frederick B. Whittemore, an advisory director at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Company. ''He's commented on everything, recorded a reaction to everything,'' for at least ''a couple of generations.''
        A. Michael Lipper, president of Lipper Analytical Services, who worked with Mr. Long for almost two decades, said: ''In the broadcasting sense, he was the color commentator. He had a real sympathy for people, loved to talk, and talked with just about anybody. He was somebody who enjoyed controversy.'' Among the analysts of Wall Street brokerage firms, Mr. Lipper added, ''he was one of the first, and the one who has done it the longest and with the most consistent view.''
        Perrin Hamilton Long Jr. was born in New York City on Feb. 17, 1928. After graduating from the Gilman School in Baltimore and finding himself too young to join the military, Mr. Long joined the American Field Service and was attached to a Gurkha division in Burma near the end of World War II. He later served with the Army in South Korea, and was also a graduate of the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor, where he majored in geography.
        After a brief career as a pharmaceutical salesman, he joined H. C. Wainwright as a clerk in 1956, specializing in the firm's administrative business and rising to become a partner. He moved on to work at other brokerage firms including E. F. Hutton and Faulkner Dawkins & Sullivan, before founding Perrin Long Inc. in 1976. From that base, he worked with a series of firms including Lipper Analytical, First of Michigan, Brown Brothers Harriman and, most recently, Horsesmouth, an Internet information service.
        Mr. Long is survived by his wife, Margro Reppert Long, who in recent years had helped him run his consulting business from their home in Darien, Conn.; his children, Cecily Clark Long of Boston and Perrin H. Long 3d of Portsmouth, N.H.; his grandchildren, Perrin and Madeline Virginia, also of Portsmouth, and a sister, Priscilla Long Beirne of Baltimore.
      