
        Sir Ian MacGregor, the unyielding industrialist who forced Britain's coal miners to capitulate after their long and bitter strike in the mid 1980's, died on Monday while visiting friends in Somerset, England. He was 85.
        The cause of death was a heart attack.
        Alternately hailed as a hero who helped release British industry from the iron grip of the unions and reviled as an unapologetic enemy of the working class who destroyed jobs and communities, Sir Ian served on the front line of then-Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's war against organized labor and state ownership of industry. His defeat of the mine workers' union and its president, Arthur Scargill, was a turning point that helped mark the demise of the trade unions' once-awesome power in this country.
        The wildly opposing attitudes toward Sir Ian in life were reflected in the different reactions to his death. Mrs. Thatcher, who rewarded him with a knighthood but who distanced herself from him after the strike, said that he ''brought a breath of fresh air to British industry.'' But Michael McGahey, former leader of the Scottish mine workers' union, said that Sir Ian had been ''viciously anti-trade union and anti-working class'' and had worked ''to destroy trade unionism not only in mining, but in Britain.''
        Born in the shadow of an aluminum factory in which his father worked as an accountant in Kinlochleven, Scotland, Ian Kinloch MacGregor was steeped in an anti-union work ethic from an early age. During a general strike in 1924, both his older brothers drove trams in Glasgow to help break the strike.
        During World War II, Mr. MacGregor, as he was known then, traveled to the United States to help procure heavy weapons for Britain. Discouraged by the Labor Government's postwar nationalization of industry and attracted to the American notion of classless advancement, he remained in the United States for nearly 40 more years. He worked in various positions before joining what would later become Amax Inc., a multinational corporation that traded in metals, ores and minerals and is now part of the Cyprus Amax Minerals Company. He worked his way up, becoming chairman in 1969, a position he held until 1977.
        Throughout his long career, he specialized in undermining strikes by using alternative labor and suppliers, by encouraging the stockpiling of the product in anticipation of the strike, and by refusing to give in to strikers' demands.
        After leaving Amax, he served as an investment banker, becoming a partner at Lehman Brothers and later at Lazard Freres. In 1980, when Mrs. Thatcher came into power, he was hired away from Lazard Freres -- for a substantial fee -- to become chairman of the British Steel Corporation, which faced problems common to many nationalized British industries during that era: an underutilized work force, low productivity and a poor-quality product.
        By slashing the work force, reorganizing management and insisting on higher production standards, Mr. MacGregor was widely credited with turning British Steel around. The year he took over, the company produced 14 million tons of steel with a work force of 166,000 people, and lost $2.8 billion. Three years later, its work force had been slashed to 71,000, but it was producing almost the same amount of steel and losing just $410 million. By 1985, it was turning a profit.
        Labor organizations contended, however, that because of the job cuts the turnaround came at the cost of heightening the despair evident in many declining British industrial centers during this period.
        When Mr. MacGregor, then 70 years old, took over the National Coal Board, it was in similar shape to British Steel before his arrival, and its workers, led by the fiery Mr. Scargill, were on the verge of striking. Touched off by the announcement that several mines were to be closed, the workers struck in March 1984. Marked by violent confrontations between striking workers and those who -- urged on by Mr. MacGregor -- refused to honor the picket lines, the strike continued for another year until Mr. Scargill's union capitulated and the miners went back to work.
        The strike made Mr. MacGregor a hated figure among Britain's working class. But when Mr. Scargill denounced him as ''the American butcher of British industry,'' Mr. MacGregor replied that he was ''a plastic surgeon'' whose job was to ''try to rebuild damaged features.''
        The strike's resolution was a victory for Mr. MacGregor, but he found that the British Government was, privately at least, critical of his inability to present a sympathetic case to a painfully divided British public. Mrs. Thatcher, however, did give him a knighthood after his retirement from the Coal Board in 1986, but Sir Ian remained bitter about what he saw as a lack of support from his Government colleagues.
        Sir Ian's wife, Sibyl, died in 1996. He is survived by a son and a daughter.
        Professionally active into his early 80's, the man who had once said in an interview, ''The world is not forgiving to those who are not competitive,'' even displayed a softer side, lending his support to a campaign to stop discrimination against older workers.
      