
        Andrei Svetlichny, whose ability to coax gorgeous tones from concert grands made him indispensable as a personal tuner for distinguished pianists, died on April 12 at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 41 and the chief concert technician and manager of technical services for the Baldwin Piano and Organ Company.
        The cause was leukemia, his family said.
        During summers the Russian-born Mr. Svetlichny also oversaw the tuning and maintenance of some 150 pianos at the Tanglewood Music Center in Lenox, Mass. He also worked with the Montreal Symphony, the Boston Symphony and a number of recording artists, including Earl Wild, Abbey Simon, Michael Feinstein and Bruce Hornsby.
        He was the personal tuner for Jorge Bolet in the 1980's after the pianist's previous tuner failed him grievously. The tuner had forgotten to anchor the piano legs to the stage prior to a concert and when Mr. Bolet sat down to play, the piano began to roll away from him. It rolled right off the stage and fell into the orchestra pit, breaking in half.
        Mr. Wild found that he had to take Mr. Svetlichny with him when he gave recitals all over the world.
        ''He somehow knew exactly what you needed,'' Mr. Wild recalled.  What was needed, he said, was knowing when to clean the keys and when not; when to keep fiddling with the strings until each one sounded a note of precisely the right pitch when struck by its hammer; when to ''voice'' the instrument, by removing the action and filing the hammers, so that each key produces the same volume of sound in response to the same touch, and, of course, always remembering to anchor the legs.
        What was needed, too, was the ability to be a friend: ''I always took Andrei to our parties everywhere,'' Mr. Wild said.
        Baldwin had recently asked Mr. Svetlichny to assist in the first significant redesign of its SD-10 concert grand since 1966, when it was produced under the guidance of Leonard Bernstein and Max Rudolf. After crawling in, around and under the nine-foot piano and making or proposing various adjustments, he persuaded the company to make some fine changes in its basic design.
        Andrei Svetlichny was born in what was then called Leningrad on Feb. 19, 1957, the only child of Nikolai and Lyudmila Baikova, who were opera singers. He studied at Herzen Pedagogical Institute in Leningrad from 1976 to 1978, then left for England and, in 1980, for the United States. He studied at the New England School of Stringed Instrument Technology, now the North Bennett Street School, and became chief piano technician at Boston University, before joining Baldwin.
        Typically, when he tuned a piano Mr. Svetlichny would begin at A above middle C: for the amateur, that is four white keys above the starting notes of ''Chopsticks''; for the chief concert technician, that is A44, which stands for the note made by 440 cycles of sound wave a second.
        To achieve precisely the pitch he wanted, he may have had to take as many as 100 shots at it: ping, ping, ping, ping, over and over again, barely twisting the tuning wrench as he went on. ''He had great hands,'' Mr. Wild said, ''and had a way of feather tuning and hammering in the pins so that when his piano was tuned it stayed tuned.''
        Mr. Svetlichny also had a near-perfect ear, his colleagues said, and the skill to translate what was in his ear to what came out of the piano. The generally accepted pitch for the next note up, A-sharp, is 466.64 cycles a second. So, technically speaking, the pianist could actually end up with slightly more than 22 different notes, or pitches, between A and A sharp,  depending on who tuned the piano.  But the real skill is not so much in tuning each note individually to the accepted sound-wave cycle as to tune each one relative to the other, bringing all notes into balance at harmonious intervals.
        He is survived by his wife, Margaret Poppino Svetlichny of Bloomfield, N.J.; a daughter, Katherine; two sons, Nicholas and Peter, and by his parents.
        ''You could tell right off, here was a master,'' said Joe Vitti, one of his early tuning coaches. ''He knew he had to take the stage, to stride up to that huge instrument and take command. 'Remember,' he'd say, 'it's likely to kick back.' ''
      