
        Ruckins McKneely Jr., a mechanic who tended Amelia Earhart's plane  just before she took off from Miami in 1937 for the round-the-world trip on which she vanished, died on April 16 at a nursing home in Murfreesboro, Tenn. He was 89 and lived in  Murfreesboro.
        Mr. McKneely, known as Bo, a quiet, good-humored man with dark wavy hair and light blue eyes, was born in Patterson, La., and brought up, as he put it, ''in a logging camp back in the swamps of Louisiana.'' He attended the Georgia Institute of Technology for a year and was then an aircraft mechanic at the Atlanta airport.
        In 1936, he went to California and  was hired by Earhart, who was already a famous aviator, although he had not heard of her. He had been  recommended by a racing pilot, Paul Mantz.
        ''Bo loved airplanes, and he'd do anything to be around them,'' said Carol L. Osborne, an aviation historian.
        Mr. McKneely took such good care of Earhart's two-engine Lockheed Electra 10-E that Earhart said, ''The good-luck charm which seems to me most important is a good mechanic -- that and a good engine. I'm fortunate in having both.''
        Mr. McKneely is quoted in a biography of Earhart, ''Amelia, My Courageous Sister'' (1987, Osborne Publisher), by Muriel Earhart Morrissey and Ms. Osborne, as having recalled of his time with Earhart, ''I was with her when she got her Lockheed 10'' in 1936 ''and we made quite a few flights across the country shaking the airplane down.''
        Earhart wanted to become the first female pilot to circumnavigate the world, and Mr. McKneely's stepdaughter Emily Farmer told The Associated Press that the aviator wanted him to make the flight with her, ''but at the time his father was quite ill, and he didn't go.''
        It was still dark when Earhart and her co-pilot. Frederick J. Noonan,  arrived at the Lockheed Electra's hangar in the early morning of June 1, 1937, to begin their global flight.
        ''A light was burning,'' wrote Susan Butler in ''East to the Dawn: The Life of Amelia Earhart'' (1997, Addison-Wesley). ''The mechanic Bo McKneely was there, having spent the night with the plane.
        ''By 4:30 the small amount of luggage carried by Amelia and Fred had been loaded into the plane. Amelia, exercising the utmost care, warmed up the ship's two engines.''
        But then, as another Earhart biographer, Paul L. Briand Jr., wrote in his book, ''Daughter of the Sky'' (1960, Duell, Sloan & Pearce), the needle on an instrument gauge in the cockpit did not work properly. ''Bo McKneely scurried up a ladder, removed the cowling and quickly spotted the trouble,'' Mr. Briand wrote. He fixed the problem with resoldering while ''the sun edged over the gray line on the horizon.''
        Earhart and Noonan then took off, and as Mr. McKneely recalled in an interview with Ms. Osborne in 1987, he drove on the runway behind the plane in a vehicle laden with fire extinguishers in case of an accident.
        Several years ago, Mr. McKneely recalled, in an interview with The  Daily News Journal of Murfreesboro, ''The only thing I am sorry about is that I didn't go along with her. I just feel that another pair of eyes would have been all they needed, and I could have been up there controlling the fuel flow to the engines to get the most range out of the aircraft and probably gotten more time out of it.''
        Ms. Osborne said Mr. McKneely  told her that he thought Earhart and Noonan had become disoriented from fatigue and glare from the sun  and had lost their way, run out of fuel and crashed within 100 miles of Howland Island, the Central Pacific island that was to be their next stop.
        After Earhart disappeared, Mr. McKneely worked for an oil company, looking after its Lockheed aircraft. Then he worked for the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation and its successors for three decades, retiring in 1971.
        His wife, the former Sara Bell, died in 1993.
        In addition to Mrs. Farmer, of Murfreesboro, he is survived by  three other stepdaughters, Jeanne Grigsby of Clemson, S.C., Susan Graham of Mesquite, Tex., and Linda Bryan of Houston; five grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      