
        Roland (Rolly) Schwartz, a major figure in American amateur boxing for almost 60 years and a coach of the 1976 United States Olympic team, died yesterday in the Hospice of Dayton in Ohio. He was 85.
        He died of renal failure, said his daughter, Margo Bienenfeld.
        As a youth, Schwartz was an amateur boxer in his native Chicago, and he played football for Texas Christian University. During World War II, when he enlisted in the Army as a private and left as a major, he won championship medals in boxing, judo, golf, badminton and track sprinting.
        While he was working as a manufacturer's representative for a maker of ingot metals, boxing became almost his full-time avocation. He served as a coach, referee and administrator. He officiated in the 1968 and 1972 Olympics and in six Pan American Games, coached the Xavier University club team in Cincinnati from 1979 to 1994, and trained referees and coaches here and abroad. Schwartz helped shape international rules, including one that required amateur boxers to wear protective headgear.
        In 1976, he was manager and part-time coach of perhaps the best United States Olympic boxing team ever. In the 11 weight classes, the Americans won five gold medals (by Sugar Ray Leonard, Howard Davis, Leo Randolph and the Spinks brothers, Michael and Leon), one silver and one bronze. Most of the medalists became professional world champions.
        Although Schwartz was 63 that summer, he would get up at 5 o'clock every morning, awaken his boxers and run three miles with them. At night, he recalled: ''I was not only the coach, I was the jailer. I sat there with a baseball bat. I was only joking, but I told them that if anyone tried to get by me, I'd hit them in the head with it.''
        When Knute Rockne was Notre Dame's football coach, Schwartz taught boxing to his players. When Muhammad Ali was known as Cassius Clay, Schwartz helped train him and Clay stayed at Schwartz's home. When Al Capone ruled Chicago and Schwartz taught boxers at the Catholic Youth Organization there, Capone would visit the gym, hand Schwartz a roll of bills to cover the rent and say, ''I want to give you money because this is how I make peace with God.''
        Schwartz lived in Centerville, Ohio, outside Dayton. He is survived by his wife, Pearl; two sons, Jeff and Terry of Cincinnati; his daughter, Margo of Centerville; a brother, Seymour of Chicago, and five grandchildren.
      