
        Harry Torczyner, an international lawyer, art collector and writer who championed the causes of Israel and his native Belgium, died on March 26 at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 87.
        Through museum and gallery exhibits Mr. Torczyner helped introduce a wider American public to the work of Belgian artists, especially the Surrealist painter Rene Magritte, to whom he was a friend and adviser. He wrote several books and many articles about the artist, arranged for showings and donated some of Magritte's work to the Museum of Modern Art in New York (''L'Eternite'' and ''La Perspective'') and to the Israel Museum in Jerusalem.
        A native of Antwerp, Mr. Torczyner received his higher education at the University of Brussels, the University of Heidelberg and Columbia University School of Law. He practiced law in Belgium before fleeing the Nazis and coming to the United States via France, Spain and Cuba. Besides English, he spoke French, Dutch, German and Spanish.
        During World War II he worked for the Office of War Information. He set up his practice in New York in 1946, dealing with international and foreign law, copyright law and general practice.
        He served as counsel to American diamond dealers like Harry Winston Inc., to the Diamond Trade and Precious Stone Association, and to the World Federation of Diamond Bourses, and was a director of the Belgian Chamber of Commerce in the United States. He was an honorary vice president of the Zionist Organization of America and a founder and longtime supporter of the American Friends of the Israel Museum.
        His books included ''Magritte-Torczyner: Letters Between Friends'' (1994), ''The Castle of the Pyrenees in Jerusalem'' (1990), and, with L. Drachsler, ''Forgery in Art and the Law'' (1954). He also published two volumes of short poetry, bemused and sometimes ironic portraits of the human condition.
        Mr. Torczyner is survived by his wife, Marcelle Siva Torczyner; two daughters, Evelyn Musher Shechter of Manhattan and Denise Wiseman of Casper, Wyo.; a brother, Jacques, of Manhattan; five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      