
        Calvin F. Craig, an Atlanta construction worker who spent most of the 1960's in fiery opposition to racial desegregation, then abruptly resigned as the head of the Georgia Ku Klux Klan to work for integration, died on April 13 at his home in Newnan, Ga. He was 64 and had later rejoined, then abandoned, the Klan all over again.
        His family said the cause was cancer.
        From 1960 to 1968, Mr. Craig was not a hard man to figure out. Like many other white Southerners, he supported racial segregation. Like a few, in an era of civil rights marches, voter registration drives and racial ferment, he took his opposition to extremes.
        As the often robed and hooded grand dragon of the Georgia Realm of the United Klans of America, Knights of the Ku Klux Klan, Mr. Craig, an Atlanta native, became a familiar figure at Klan rallies and cross-burnings all over the South.
        For all his sometimes extravagant denunciations of racial integration, Mr. Craig took pains to disavow violence, at least in his public statements. His only serious brush with the law came in 1966 when he refused to provide Klan records to a House committee and was later fined for contempt of Congress.
        Even so, his credentials as a race-baiting Klan leader were so well established that the civil rights movement was stunned in April 1968 when Mr. Craig called a news conference to announce that he had resigned his Klan post to work for a nation where ''black men and white men can stand shoulder to shoulder in a united America.''
        As stunning as the announcement was, what was even more startling was Mr. Craig's explanation that he had been led to his decision by Xernona Clayton, a black civil rights activist who was in charge of the Atlanta Model Cities program, a federally financed interracial neighborhood improvement group.
        Although the timing of his announcement, a few days after the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., suggested that the killing may have influenced Mr. Craig's decision, he had already been moving toward racial harmony.
        A few months earlier, for example, when Mr. Craig and a black man were both elected to Model Cities policy positions, the two had promised to work closely together.
        In addition, Ms. Clayton, who had driven Dr. King to the Atlanta airport for his fateful trip to Memphis, where he was killed, had worked to convert Mr. Craig for some time.
        As she recalled it in 1991 interviews in connection with the publication of her autobiography, ''I've Been Marching All the Time,'' Ms. Clayton, who is now an executive with Turner Broadcasting, met Mr. Craig at biracial Model Cities meeting she was conducting in his the predominantly white Atlanta neighborhood.
        When she mentioned at the meeting that she often had white friends to her home for dinner, she said, Mr. Craig piped up and said he could never eat at her house, prompting what turned out to be a prophetic reply: ''I told him, 'You'll not only be eating at my house, you'll be eating out of my hand.' ''
        In frequent later meetings, Ms. Clayton, a Baptist who knew that Mr. Craig was a deacon in his Baptist church, said she used their shared religious beliefs to win him over: ''I asked him, 'What part of the Bible are you reading? Where does it say to treat someone differently because they don't look like you?' I told him he was too smart to be so ignorant.''
        Whatever the dynamics of his conversion, Mr. Craig and Ms. Clayton, ''the Dragon Slayer'' as the headlines put it, were soon the odd couple of the civil rights movement, traveling all over the country together to give joint interviews.
        But after such a spectacular conversion, Mr. Craig had a relapse. In 1970, having soured on the Model Cities program, he helped form a secretive white group called the Christian Americans Patriotic Society, and in 1975, with Klan membership declining, he helped publicize a revival of the Klan in Georgia.
        By 1984, however, he had dropped out of both groups, donated his purple robes and other Klan relics to the Emory University library and begun 15 years of family research that led to his recent induction into the Sons of Confederate Veterans.
        In addition to his wife, Leona, Mr. Craig is survived by a son, Calvin Jr. of Newnan; a daughter, Gail Mayes of Charleston, S.C.; four sisters, Mabel Bryans of Tucker, Ga., Sarah Dever of Riverdale, Marjorie Peck of Norcross, Ga., and Agnes Rubino of Tyrone, Ga.; three brothers, Horace of Gainesville, Fla., James of Steinhatchee, Fla., and Laurence of Newnan, and a grandchild.
      