
        John S. Alessio, a California entrepreneur who began his working life shining shoes in San Diego and went on to amass millions as a banker, businessman, restaurateur and race-track operator, died of cancer on March 24 at Scripps Green Hospital in La Jolla, Calif., his daughter Rose Marie Rosa said. He was 87 and lived in La Mesa, Calif.
        In the course of a colorful and controversial life, Mr. Alessio was also a philanthropist, the developer of safety helmets for jockeys and a force in California politics, serving as an adviser and fund-raiser for Gov. Edmund G. (Pat) Brown. In the 1970's, he was convicted of income tax evasion and spent two years in Federal prison.
        Mr. Alessio was born in Nutter Fort, W. Va., the fourth of seven sons of Italian immigrants. His father, Dominic, a coal mine superintendent who had asthma, moved the family to San Diego in 1920 for health reasons.
        Once in San Diego, the elder Mr. Alessio bought a pool hall and a shoeshine stand. After the seventh grade, Mr. Alessio left school and began shining shoes with his brother Russell.
        One of his regular shoeshine customers was the financier C. Arnholt Smith. In 1929 Mr. Smith gave Mr. Alessio his first break, offering him a job as a messenger in Banco del Pacifico, a bank Mr. Smith owned in Tijuana, Mexico. By 1943, Mr. Alessio had become director of the bank and was proficient in Spanish.
        Four years later, Mr. Alessio's career took a different path. He was asked to become assistant general manager of the Caliente Race Track in Tijuana to help shore up the track's finances.
        Shortly thereafer, Mr. Alessio and a Banco del Pacifico client, the Tecate Brewing Company, were indicted in San Franscisco on embezzlement charges related to an reportedly fraudulent loan that the brewery obtained from a San Francisco corporation through the Banco del Pacifico.
        Mr. Alessio surrendered voluntarily in San Francisco, and the charges against him were soon dropped. The others were convicted.
        The experience, nevertheless, proved beneficial because Mr. Alessio met Pat Brown, at the time San Francisco's District Attorney. The two remained fast friends.
        Over the next 17 years, Mr. Alessio turned Caliente into the largest legal gambling book on the North American continent. He was responsible for a number of popular innovations, including a ''5-10'' betting scheme, in which bettors picking winners in the fifth through the 10th races in a six-horse daily double could reap enormous payofffs. In 1960, a taxicab driver walked away with a $98,000 payoff on a $2 bet.
        Alarmed when a jockey died in 1955 after being kicked in the head by a horse, Mr. Alessio commissioned a design for a protective jockey helmet. Mr. Alessio donated most of the proceeds from the invention to the Jockey Guild, which named him Man of the Year in Racing in 1957.
        His enterprise was not limited to race-track operations in Mexico.
        During the 1960's he bought a number of resort properties, including the Hotel del Coronado, the Kona Kai Club and the Kona Inn in California and a greyhound track in Arizona. His company, the Alessio Corporation, owned a finance company, an insurance company and a leasing corporation.
        He also became heavily involved in civic affairs in both Tijuana and San Diego. He built 11 elementary schools in Tijuana. In 1964, he was named Mr. San Diego.
        In 1970, however, Mr. Alessio, three of his brothers and his son Dominic were accused in the United States of funneling money from a Caliente account in a Mexican bank and failing to pay nearly $1 million in taxes.
        Mr. Alessio was convicted of the charges, spent two years of a three-year sentence in prison and paid a fine of $20,000. One of his brothers, Angelo, drew a one-year sentence and a $20,000 fine.
        Three years later, Dominic Alessio was convicted of giving a gratuity to a Federal prison official to influence treatment of his father. He was sentenced to six months in jail and was fined $10,000. His father and uncle pleaded guilty to providing gratuities, and were fined $5,000 and $2,500, respectively.
        John Alessio's association with Mr. Smith, a major contributor to the political campaigns of Richard M. Nixon, continued until Mr. Alessio was imprisoned for tax evasion. In 1960, the two men merged their combined interests, and Mr. Alessio became a director and major stockholder in the Westgate-California Corporation, a conglomerate Mr. Smith controlled.
        Indeed, Mr. Alessio attributed his tax evasion conviction to politics, contending that Nixon remembered that Mr. Alessio was a strong supporter of Brown, who defeated Nixon in the 1962 California gubernatorial election, a grudge he held even after he was elected President in 1968.
        ''He told me he'd get me, and he got me,'' Mr. Alessio once told an interviewer.
        Mr. Alessio resumed his business career after his release from prison in 1973, spending much of his time in Tijuana, though he maintained his residence in La Mesa.
        At the time of his death, he had various real estate interests in Tijuana, and owned Mr. A's restaurant, a popular San Diego establishment, the Fifth Avenue Financial Centre in downtown San Diego and the Rancho Tecate Resort and Country Club in Baja California, Mexico.
        Mr. Alessio is survived by his wife, Edna; three daughters, Rose Marie Rosa, Ernestina Cutri and Tina Marie Alessio; a son, Dominic Alessio; 15 grandchildren, and three great-granchildren. All reside in La Mesa.
      