
        Frank Lloyd, the Vienna-born entrepreneur who built the Marlborough Gallery into the wealthiest, most important art gallery business in the world and then sullied his reputation with his criminal role in the Rothko art scandal of the 1970's, died Tuesday at his home in Nassau, the Bahamas. He was 86 and also had homes in Manhattan and Paris.
        Mr. Lloyd had used a wheelchair and had been unable to speak since suffering a series of strokes beginning in 1992, but he continued to visit the gallery whenever he was in New York, said his nephew, Pierre Levai, president of Marlborough.
        A diminutive, dapper man with twinkling blue eyes, Frank Lloyd was known for his toughness, keen business sense and Viennese charm. If he did not invent the idea of the multinational art gallery, he certainly applied the concept more broadly than before, often by forming partnerships with local dealers.
        At the height of his prominence, from the mid 1960's to the mid-70's, his Marlborough empire included galleries in London, New York, Rome, Zurich, and Toronto and Montreal (in partnership with Mira Godard).
        His New York gallery, an austere, stone-floored space in the Fuller Building on East 57th Street, opened in 1963 after making a nearly clean sweep of the most important Abstract Expressionists, representing David Smith, Robert Motherwell, Mark Rothko, Philip Guston and Adolph Gottlieb and the estates of Jackson Pollock, Franz Kline, Ad Reinhardt and William Baziotes. Through its various branches, Marlborough also showed work by some of the greatest figures in 20th-century European art, including the English artists Francis Bacon, Henry Moore, Ben Nicholson, Eduardo Paolozzi and Barbara Hepworth as well as Oskar Kokoschka and the estate of Kurt Schwitters.
        But Marlborough's art world prominence, if not its financial success, was severely damaged after its illegal business dealings were brought to light in the Rothko scandal, which was the most spectacular and complex court case in the history of modern art in this country, a tangled and costly 11-year battle that began with civil charges, ended in a criminal trial and shocked the art world with revelations of greed, abuses of power and conspiracy.
        When he committed suicide at the age of 67 on Feb. 25, 1970, Mark Rothko left behind 798 paintings on canvas and paper. In November 1971, the artist's daughter, Kate Rothko, then 20 years old, went to court to have the three executors of her father's estate removed and the contract they had signed with Marlborough nullified, charging conflict of interest in selling and consigning the painter's works.
        Mr. Lloyd and the executors had ''wasted the assets'' of the estate, her suit said, by obtaining the paintings for much less than their true value and under terms that were highly disadvantageous to the estate.
        The suit, which was joined by the guardian of Kate's brother, Christopher, sought to cancel a contract by which the gallery had obtained 100 paintings for $1.8 million payable in 12 years without interest, and a consignment of 698 other works for 12 years at a commission of 40 percent to 50 percent.
        The executors were Bernard J. Reis, who was also Marlborough's chief accountant, Theodore Stamos, an artist represented by the gallery, and Morton Levine, a professor of anthropology. All had been close friends of Mr. Rothko.
        After an eight-month trial that produced 15,000 pages of transcript and involved seven teams of lawyers, Judge Millard L. Midonick of New York County Surrogate Court in Manhattan ruled in 1975 that the executors had engaged in conflicts of interest and imposed damages and fines totaling $9.2 million against the executors, Mr. Lloyd and his gallery. The surrogate also canceled the contract and directed the gallery to return to the estate any unsold paintings that Mr. Lloyd could retrieve.
        The New York State Court of Appeals, calling the conduct of the executors ''manifestly wrongful and indeed shocking,'' unanimously upheld the lower-court decision in 1977.
        Pleading Ignorance  When Mr. Lloyd was called to the stand, he frequently answered with an engaging grin, saying ''I don't remember,'' or ''I never handle details'' or ''I'm not a lawyer, you'll have to ask my lawyers.''
        But it became clear that he had sold Rothko paintings after a temporary court order forbade further sales and that he had falsified the gallery's records to change the dates of these sales or to make it appear that he had sold Rothko paintings that he, in fact, still owned.
        Also fascinating to the art world was the fact that the trial brought into the open an intricate network of shell corporations in Liechtenstein and bank accounts in Switzerland that enabled Mr. Lloyd to hide both art and profits from the sale of art.
        In 1977, a Manhattan grand jury returned an indictment against Mr. Lloyd for tampering with evidence presented during the trial. He was charged with altering the stock book in which the gallery recorded the history, including the buying and selling price, of each of the Rothko paintings in its inventory.
        When the charges were brought, Mr. Lloyd, a British subject, was vacationing at his home in Nassau. He remained there for several years, leaving the day-to-day business of the gallery in the hands of his son, Gilbert, and Mr. Levai.
        In 1983, Mr. Lloyd returned to Manhattan to stand trial. He was convicted by a jury of tampering with evidence and could have served up to four years in prison. Instead he was ordered by Supreme Court Justice Herbert I. Altman to establish a scholarship fund and present a series of art lectures and private showings for New York City high school students. Through his lawyer, Mr. Lloyd asserted his innocence, but acknowledged the sentence ''as a fair, humane and socially useful conclusion to the Rothko litigation.''
        In the years after the trial, the Marlborough Gallery lost many of its most important American artists. Motherwell, Gottlieb and the David Smith estate went to Knoedler, while the Rothko estate went to Pace. But under the guidance of Mr. Levai and Gilbert Lloyd, Marlborough continued to find new areas of profit, becoming a major representative of Spanish and South American artists, including the Columbian painter and sculptor Fernando Botero.
        In 1985, Mr. Lloyd told The New York Times: ''From a perspective of experience and hindsight, I regret some of my actions, and if I had it to do over again, there are things I would do differently. However, I believe deeply that I contributed substantially to the successful careers of many European and American artists, in particular, Mark Rothko, and was instrumental in bringing to public attention the great talent that I saw in his work.''
        A Viennese Oilman  Frank Lloyd was born Franz Kurt Levai in Vienna on July 13, 1911. Although both his parents and maternal grandparents were prominent antiques dealers in Vienna, he started out in the oil importing business, earning enough money to acquire a beautiful apartment and a collection of modern art that included works by Picasso and the Fauves.
        When the Germans marched into Austria in 1938, Mr. Lloyd, who was Jewish, traded his apartment and its contents for a visa, and fled to Paris, where his brother, Paul, an antiques dealer, already lived. He was followed by his mistress, Herta Menzel,  their son, Gilbert, and his parents. In 1939, the family moved to Biarritz. Soon thereafter, before the German invasion of France began, Mr. Lloyd and his brother were interned near Bordeaux by French authorities as Jewish refugees, but then released.  Mr. Lloyd was able to leave France from the small port of St.-Jean-de-Luz on a Polish boat and make his way to London, while Miss Menzel, who was not Jewish, returned with their baby to Vienna.
        Mr. Lloyd's parents eventually died at Auschwitz, as did several other family members. In London he volunteered for the Pioneer Corps, a para-military force for foreigners, and then joined the British Army, changing his name to Francis Kenneth Lloyd on the advice of army officials in order to protect family members still in France. He saw action in France, landing during the Normandy invasion. He chose the name Lloyd to retain his initials and because he had a small account at Lloyd's Bank in London. He soon shortened Francis to Frank.
        After the war Mr. Lloyd and Miss Menzel settled in London, marrying in 1947. He opened his first gallery in London on Old Bond Street with Harry Fischer, an Austrian rare books dealer whom he had met in the Pioneer Corps, choosing the name Marlborough for its aristocratic connotations. At first the gallery dealt primarily in Impressionists, Post-Impressionists and French modern masters, using a handful of paintings that Mr. Lloyd was able to retrieve from Vienna as starter. This direction was aided by the hiring of David Somerset -- later Duke of Beauford -- who facilitated contacts with aristocratic families in need of cash and with paintings to sell.
        But Mr. Lloyd soon shifted the emphasis to contemporary art, feeling that a gallery should try to foster the development of contemporary artists. In that way, he reasoned, the gallery would not be threatened by a diminishing stock of artworks, as it would if just offered late 19th- and early 20th-century work. After Mr. Lloyd and Mr. Fisher dissolved their partnership in the early 1970's, Mr. Fisher established Fisher Fine Arts in London.
        Mr. Lloyd and his first wife divorced in 1968. In addition to the children of his first marriage, Gilbert Lloyd of Nassau and New York, and his daughter Barbara Lloyd, of London, he is survived by his wife, Susan, whom he married in 1969, their son, Alexander, and daughter, Caroline.
        Frank Lloyd could be quite direct about his ambition. ''I collect money, not art,'' he once said. He also said ''There is only one measure of success in running a gallery: making money. Any dealer who says it's not is a hypocrite or will soon be closing his doors.'' As one of his employees commented yesterday, ''He put the business in the art business.''
        Correction:  April 10, 1998, Friday  An obituary on Wednesday about the art dealer and gallery owner Frank Lloyd misspelled the title inherited by an employee in his first gallery, in London. The employee, David Somerset, later became Duke of Beaufort, not Beauford.
        Correction:  May 5, 1998, Tuesday  An obituary on April 8 about Frank Lloyd, the owner of the Marlborough Gallery, who was convicted of illegal business dealings in the Mark Rothko art scandal of the 1970's, misstated the timing of the gallery's professional relationship with the painter Theodore Stamos, an executor of the Rothko estate. Marlborough started representing Mr. Stamos in 1972; it did not represent him in November 1971, when a suit was filed over the estate.
      