
        William Burwell Fitzgerald, a Washington community leader and an entrepreneur who over 30 years built a small thrift institution into one of the country's largest black-owned businesses, died on Monday at Inova Fairfax Hospital in Washington. He was 65 and lived in Washington.
        The cause was complications from pneumonia, his office said.
        At his death, Mr. Fitzgerald was president of Independence Federal Savings Bank. He and eight associates started the institution in 1968 as the Independence Savings and Loan Association with a promise of loans for residents and businesses in neighborhoods ravaged in riots after the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
        From $1.25 million in available loans, the thrift grew into the first fully integrated but minority-controlled savings bank in the nation. As of December, its assets were $269 million, a comparatively small figure but a vital resource for neighborhoods snubbed by other lenders.
        At the same time, Independence did not ignore the white market and kept its headquarters in downtown Washington, on Connecticut Avenue.
        ''We don't look at ourselves as being a Chinese bank, an Eskimo bank or a Greek bank,'' Mr. Fitzgerald told an interviewer in 1990. ''We have a fully integrated staff, a fully integrated board and fully integrated stockholders.''
        His business, community and social interests ranged far beyond banking. He rubbed shoulders with Washington's power elite, and his ''Thursday lunches'' at Independence, casual gatherings of leaders from all walks, were legendary.
        Starting in the mid-70's, Mr. Fitzgerald invited small groups of diplomats, politicians, business people, socialites and civic leaders to join him to share thoughts over Bloody Marys and lunch. His purpose was to meld the workday world and the world that socialized afterward to get them ''honest-to-God truly integrated.''
        ''That's why I spend a lot of time and energy on these luncheons,'' he said.
        William Burwell Fitzgerald was born in Atlanta and was taken to Washington as an infant. He lacked a college degree but took some real-estate courses at American University.
        He took many jobs as a young man. Driving a taxi gave him a feel for the complexities of the city, he said. He worked in construction and real estate and achieved success as founder and president of the Burwell Realty Company.
        In the mid-1960's, he and his associates saw that there was no financial institution in the District that focused on the dire mortgage and savings needs of African-Americans. Independence grew from that realization.
        Mr. Fitzgerald was active in dozens of businesses and professional and civic organizations. Over the years, he was an officer or trustee of the National Children's Center, the Cerebral Palsy Foundation, the Washington Center for Metropolitan Studies, the Urban League, the Urban Coalition, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the Young Men's Christian Association, among others.
        He is survived by his wife of 20 years, Faustina Eaton Fitzgerald; their daughter, Ashley E. Fitzgerald of Washington; five children from his previous marriage, Janet F. Brown of Potomac, Md., and Gail F. Tynes, Donna F. Shuler, William B. 4th and Ann Marie Fitzgerald, all of Washington; a sister, Betty Catoe, of Rockville, Md., and six grandchildren. His earlier marriage, to Jeanne Fitzgerald, ended in divorce.
      