
        Lawrence R. Bailey Sr., a lawyer in upper Manhattan who was the first black member and officer of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority board, died on Thursday at Jamaica Hospital Medical Center in Queens. He was 80 and a longtime resident of Jamaica, Queens.
        The cause was complications from diabetes, his wife, Norma, said.
        Mr. Bailey was a trial lawyer with an interest in civil rights and was a former president of the Harlem Lawyers Association. His wife said he was still practicing law at the time of his death.
        He had been in private practice in Harlem for two decades when he was appointed by Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller to the board of the M.T.A. in 1970. Mayor John V. Lindsay had nominated Mr. Bailey for the board, describing him as a straphanger who could represent the riding public. He remained on the board for 20 years, becoming vice chairman in 1975. He retired in 1990.
        The board, formed to draw up budgets for transportation agencies in New York City and seven suburban counties and to make policy, took on a number of headline-making issues during Mr. Bailey's tenure. They included the board's widely disputed decision to abandon an attempt to prosecute a transit police officer on a departmental charge in the 1983 arrest and death of Michael Stewart, who was arrested for scrawling graffiti in a subway station and was delivered to Bellevue Hospital badly bruised, hogtied and in a coma. He died 13 days later. Six officers were charged with failing to protect his life while in police custody, but all were acquitted.
        Mr. Bailey cast the sole dissenting vote in the Stewart case. He also dissented in 1988, when the M.T.A. approved a regulation that prohibited smoking on the Metro-North Commuter Railroad. Mr. Bailey, a nonsmoker, contended that smoking was a ''civil right'' and that commuters were entitled to smoke.
        For decades, Mr. Bailey practiced law from offices on 125th Street, first as a sole practitioner and then, beginning in 1988, in the firm of Bailey & Bailey, in which the other Bailey is one of his sons, Lamont. Last year, the firm moved its office to Jamaica.
        Mr. Bailey, who served in the Army from 1943 to 1947, was also long active, as a lawyer, in the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
        He was born in the Panama Canal Zone, where his father had moved the family from Barbados. The family moved to New York when Lawrence was a young boy. He received a bachelor's degree in 1939 and a law degree in 1942, both from Howard University, and in 1942 and 1943, was deputy clerk of the United States District Court in Washington. He was the first black person to be deputy clerk of a Federal district court.
        His marriage in the 1950's to Cora T. Walker ended in divorce.
        In addition to his wife, the former Norma Jean Thomas, whom he married in 1961, he is survived by three sons, Lawrence Jr., of the Bronx, Lamont, of Queens, and Dr. Bruce Bailey of Norwich, Conn.; a daughter, Susan Bailey of Queens; three sisters, Ethelda Grant of Newburgh, N.Y., Thelma Fieldings of New York City, and Sylvia French of Fort Washington, Md.; a brother, Charles, of West Palm Beach, Fla., and six grandchildren.
      