
        Robert Pilatus, a member of Milli Vanilli, the German pop duo forced to give up its 1990 Grammy Award when it was disclosed that the pair  did not sing a word on its album, died on Saturday in a hotel room in Frankfurt. He was 32.
        The cause was a heart attack, according to the Frankfurt police. Though his producer, Frankie Farian, told German reporters that Mr. Pilatus had been mixing pills with alcohol, an autopsy had not yet been performed.
        Milli Vanilli represented one of the most extreme rise-and-fall stories in pop music. The duo's first album in 1989 generated three No. 1 singles (most notably the album's title song, ''Girl You Know It's True''), sold some 10 million copies and gave the pair the license to brag in interviews that they were more talented than Bob Dylan and Paul McCartney. The album earned them a Grammy for best new artist the following year.
        But when an Army veteran in his 40's stepped forward and announced that he was the real singer on the album, Milli Vanilli's career took a sharp downturn. The band returned the Grammy at a humiliating press conference, broke up, and Mr. Pilatus and his bandmate, Fabrice Morvan, went into therapy. The following year, Mr. Pilatus cut his wrists, mixed alcohol and pills and tried to jump out of a ninth-story Los Angeles hotel room.
        The son of an American soldier and a German woman, Mr. Pilatus was born in New York and eventually moved to Munich. He traveled through Europe and the United States, finding occasional work as a dancer and model until he met Mr.  Morvan, a gymnast from Paris, in a Los Angeles club. The two moved to Munich but were unable to find steady jobs until they asked a producer, Mr. Farian, for work. Impressed by their looks and their dancing, but not their singing, Mr. Farian called them Milli Vanilli and recorded an album of lightweight, preening dance-pop under their name, using uncredited studio musicians. The pair simply lip-synched in performances.
        After the band's fall from grace, Mr. Pilatus entered a dark period. ''The hardest thing to take was kids in a school bus sticking out their tongues at me,'' he once said.
        Mr. Pilatus reunited with Mr. Morvan and the pair made an album in 1993 as Rob and Fab, but the album failed and the label that released it, Taj, went bankrupt.
        Mr. Pilatus admitted to using cocaine and mixing pills and alcohol during this period, and in 1996 a judge ordered him to join a rehabilitation program after he pleaded guilty to three assault cases.
        Mr. Pilatus recently underwent therapy for drug addiction and was planning further treatment, Mr. Farian told German reporters. In the meantime, Mr. Morvan is singing as a solo act and meeting with producers to turn a recent television documentary on Milli Vanilli's tumultuous career into a film.
      