
        Eberhard F. M. Rees, a German-born rocket engineer who in 1970 succeeded Wernher von Braun as the chief of American rocketry efforts, died on Thursday at the West Volusia Memorial Hospital in Florida. He was 89 and lived at the Good Shepards Home in DeLand, Fla.
        Mr. Rees had suffered from Alzheimer's disease, relatives said.
        From their early years in Germany through NASA's successes with manned lunar landings, Mr. Rees was regarded as the top deputy to von Braun, the mastermind of the American space program.
        Mr. Rees, who had the German equivalent of a master's degree in mechanical engineering, directed teams of German and American experts in the competitive years that saw the birth and launch of rockets and the first manned space flight in 1969 in the Apollo Program. For his role in that mission, Apollo 11, Mr. Rees received a Distinguished Service Medal from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
        Mr. Rees also played important roles in the design of the Saturn family of space launching vehicles, including the Saturn 1, Saturn 1B and Saturn 5, the first crafts to be designed and developed specifically for space flight.
        He succeeded von Braun as director of NASA's George C. Marshall Space Center at Huntsville, Ala., in  1970 and retired in 1973.
        ''He was a prime mover in the Saturn Apollo Program. He had an innate ability to be a superb engineer. He had the knack to get to the point of an engineering problem quickly,'' said Dr. William Lucas, who became director at the Marshall Center after Mr. Rees. ''He was a pioneer in one of the most significant engineering achievements of all times.''
        Dr. Lucas said Mr. Rees had an intuitive sense of aeronautics, rather than formal education in the field. In fact, aerospace engineering did not exist when his team put the first rockets in space in the 50's, but Mr. Rees learned a new field as he helped solve immense and novel problems.
        In one case, Dr. Rees's team had to learn how to cope with the tremendous heat generated by re-entry of a space vehicle moving at supersonic speeds. The team solved the problem, and in August 1957, NASA's demonstration rocket carrying a nose cone went aloft, re-entered the atmosphere and reached its target intact.
        But the Soviets beat the Americans with the first satellite launching, in October 1957. Three months later, NASA used the Rees team's rocket to carry aloft the satellite Explorer I.
        After fire aboard an Apollo spacecraft killed three American astronauts in 1967, Mr. Rees served on a team that was assigned to solve some of the technical problems that had caused the accident.
        Mr. Rees was born in Trossingen, Wurttemberg, Germany, and studied at the Dresden Institute of Technology, graduating in 1934 with his master's degree. He worked at a steel mill in Leipzig, gaining experience as a manager of technology.
        In 1940, he began to work with rockets as technical plant manager for the German Guided Missile Center in Peenemunde.
        Then, in the confusion surrounding Germany's defeat in World War II, he was one of 118 scientists who surrendered to the West and were taken to England, and later to El Paso. Ultimately they were put to work in the United States rocket effort. Mr. Rees became a United States citizen in 1954.
        He was assigned to the Ordnance Research and Development Project at Fort Bliss, Tex. He also worked at White Sands Proving Ground, N.M., where he shared his expertise on the V-2, a German rocket-propelled bomb, and on guided missile projects.
        In 1950 he moved to Redstone Arsenal in Huntsville as deputy chief of the Guided Missile Development Division and managed projects that included the Hermes II Project, the Redstone and Jupiter missile programs, the Explorer Satellite and Saturn Projects.
        He was deputy director of the Army Ballistic Missile Agency's Development Operations Division from 1956 to 1960.
        Peers recall Mr. Rees as gentlemanly and modest. Once, when a colleague asked him to describe his long partnership with von Braun, Mr. Rees replied wryly, ''I have to do the dirty work.''
        Mr. Rees's survivors include his wife, Maria Rees, of DeLand, and his sister, Marianne Haller, of Germany.
      