
        Rose Maddox, a singer who was a leading figure in the West Coast country music of the 1940's, died on Wednesday at the Linda Vista rest home in Ashland, Ore., said Jonny Whiteside, her biographer. She was 72 and died of kidney failure.
        Ms. Maddox, with her five brothers -- Henry, Cliff, Fred, Don and Cal -- were the Maddox Brothers and Rose. With the occasional augmentation of other musicians they became a popular radio and live act up and down the West Coast beginning in the early 1940's; they continued as a band until 1957, after which Ms. Rose recorded as a solo artist for Columbia, Capitol, Starday and Arhoolie records, among others.
        The Maddoxes were a typically hard-bitten Depression-era dust bowl family. As Mr. Whiteside tells the story in his book, ''Ramblin' Rose,'' Ms. Maddox, whose original given name was Roselea, and five of her siblings were taken by their parents in 1933 from Big Wills Valley, Ala., where they were sharecroppers, to Glendale, Calif., in a harrowing 2,000-mile trip, hitching rides and jumping boxcars.
        She was 12 when the band, managed by their mother, Lula Maddox, began its career, performing over KTRB, in Modesto, Calif., and at local rodeos and fairs. Influenced by singers like Jimmie Rodgers and Emmett Miller, as well as the early music of the Carter Family and the Sons of the Pioneers, they played a raucous, uptempo, eight-to-the-bar music later called ''hillbilly boogie,'' and not too far away in its energy and speed from rockabilly.
        Driven by hunger and a hectoring stage mother to entertain at all costs, they whooped, laughed, joked and yelled their way through performances. In Susanville, Calif., they met Woody Guthrie and his cousin Jack, who were also making a living singing in the area; two of the Guthries' songs, ''The Philadelphia Lawyer'' and ''If You Ain't Got the Do-Re-Mi,'' became regular parts of the Maddoxes' repertory. Guthrie returned the favor, calling them ''the best hill country string band in these 48 states of ours'' in a professional endorsement in 1949. ''Even when they perform a downright badly written song,'' he added, ''it soundeth good to the soul.''
        World War II broke up the band for some years. During that time Ms. Maddox married and had a son. By  1946 the band was back together, electrifying their instruments as well as their wardrobe, hiring the Hollywood tailor Nathan Turk to dress them in an outrageous version of the singing-cowboy style: spangles, embroidered satin shirts, bell-bottom pants, short Eisenhower jackets and personalized cowboy boots. They were billed as ''The Most Colorful Hillbilly Band in America.'' ''Their costumes,'' said Tennessee Ernie Ford, ''made Liberace look like a plucked chicken.''
        By this time their musicianship was much more solid, and they eventually graduated to broadcasting over XERB, a border station from Rosarita Beach, Mexico, whose signal blanketed the entire western half of the United States. They recorded nearly a hundred songs for 4 Star records, most of them frenzied explosions shot through with wild comedy, and the occasional ballad or spiritual.
        In 1951 the band moved to Hollywood and signed with Columbia Records. After the group split up in 1956, Ms. Maddox moved to Oregon with two of her brothers and her mother. She found greater success in her solo career; Cashbox magazine named her Top Female Country Vocalist of 1963. And she exerted a great influence on the group of musicians who created the ''Bakersfield sound'' in the late 1950's, including Buck Owens, Tommy Collins and Merle Haggard.
        Ms. Maddox, along with Texas Ruby, was one of the first women to sing honky-tonk music in the 1940's, in indelicate, hard-driving songs like ''Hangover Blues'' and ''Move It on Over.'' As a forthright presence with a strong, rough voice, she inspired singers like Jean Shepherd, Dolly Parton and Janis Joplin.
        As Arhoolie and Columbia reissued the best material by the Maddoxes in the 1980's, her reputation grew as an important early figure in honky-tonk music; in 1994, her album ''$35 and a Dream'' was nominated for a Grammy. Despite continuing health problems since the 1960's -- stomach ulcers, several heart attacks and kidney trouble -- she performed up until the summer of 1997.
        She is survived by her brother, Don, of Ashland, and three grandchildren.
      