
        Jonas A. Barish, a historian of the theater and an authority on the English dramatist and poet Ben Jonson and his contemporary Shakespeare, died on Wednesday at Kaiser Permanente Medical Center in Oakland, Calif. He was 76 and lived in Berkeley, Calif.
        The cause was respiratory complications from pneumonia, said his daughter Judith Barish.
        Professor Barish taught at the University of California at Berkeley, where he joined the English department in 1954 after teaching at Yale. He retired in 1991.
        The critic and author Stanley Kauffmann wrote in 1995, ''In a distinguished book called 'The Antitheatrical Prejudice,' Jonas Barish articulates the long record of this prejudice in the Western world.'' The book reviews the history of enmity toward the theater as it has been displayed, in drama and in literary theorizing in a variety of tongues, from Plato's day to current times.
        Mr. Kauffmann cited ''one example, a famous one: in the 18th century, Rousseau, who had already achieved success as a playwright, turned bitterly against the theater as a source of moral imbalance.''
        Another Berkeley professor of English, Paul Alpers, said yesterday that ''The Antitheatrical Prejudice'' (1981, University of California Press) contains Professor Barish's ''most remarkable and scholarly work.''
        Professor Alpers said that the book ''was immediately recognized as having given intellectual and historical definition to a phenomenon which up to that point had been only dimly observed and understood.'' The book earned Professor Barish  the American Theater Association's Barnard Hewitt Award for outstanding research in theater history.
        An earlier book by Professor Barish, ''Ben Jonson and the Language of Prose Comedy'' (1960), brought him prominence in scholarly circles. It has been called a milestone in the interpretation of plays by Jonson.
        Professor Barish's writings included articles on Jonson, Shakespeare and other English playwrights. He also edited editions of works by Jonson and Shakespeare.
        Professor Barish was a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        He was born in Manhattan, was a graduate of Harvard College and served in the Army Signal Corps in Europe during World War II. He received a doctorate in English from Harvard in 1953, and taught briefly  at Yale.
        In addition to his daughter Judith of San Francisco, he is survived by his wife, the former Mildred Seaquist, whom he married in 1964; another daughter, Rachel Barish of Ann Arbor, Mich., and a sister, Grace Pologe of Teaneck, N.J.
      