
        Constantine Caramanlis, a principled statesman who returned with high drama from self-imposed exile in 1974 to restore democracy to Greece after a repressive seven-year military dictatorship, died early today at a hospital in Athens. He was 91.
        Mr. Caramanlis was hospitalized on April 7 with a respiratory infection and suffered kidney and heart complications, Reuters reported.
        Mr. Caramanlis (the accent is on the last syllable) led Greece as Prime Minister for a total of 14 years -- longer than any other leader in modern times. He then served two terms totaling 10 years as President, a prestigious though mainly ceremonial post.
        For half his lifetime, Greece was widely considered part of the Near East rather than Europe. A great achievement of this sometimes lonely politician was to lead his country into the Continent's political and economic family, attaining full membership in the European Economic Community, now the European Union, in 1981.
        In the course of his life, Greece underwent two world wars and two civil wars, four depositions of monarchs, eight coups and four dictatorships. He himself left office twice on matters of principle, once as Prime Minister and again as President.
        A Conservative Leader Of a Turbulent Country
        Mr. Caramanlis built the country's first strong conservative party, the National Radical Union, which won parliamentary majorities in five elections. He legalized the long-banned Communist Party and he conducted the referendum in 1974 that abolished Greece's ill-starred monarchy by a vote of nearly 70 percent and put a republic in its place.
        His career of six decades in Greek politics ended March 9, 1995, with his resignation from the presidency -- typically, on his own terms -- two months before his term ended. His farewell statements included this admonition to his compatriots: ''Don't encourage the Greeks' passion for publicity and self-promotion. It endangers the country's social and political life.''
        At the end of his second term, he told an interviewer, ''There are no great men, there are only great events. I've had only a public life, and public life fills you with bitterness.''
        He said he was not touched by the tumultuous events in his career. ''Little things, human things -- I am easily moved by these,'' he said. ''But in political life, nothing moves me.''
        He was never a cynic, but he was a strong skeptic, even about his own accomplishments. In 1984 he told an interviewer: ''When I first went into politics, I thought Greeks were very individualistic and poor at working collectively because they were poor. Being poor makes you cunning and conniving. So I thought, well, I'll make them richer. To some extent I did. But nothing changed.''
        Proud and imbued with a sense of rectitude, Mr. Caramanlis had earlier shocked his countrymen by suddenly resigning as Prime Minister in June 1963. The event leading to this was the assassination of a popular left-wing politician, Gregoris Lambrakis, by right-wing plotters a month before in Thessalonica.
        Although Prime Minister Caramanlis was never implicated in the killing, his conservative Government came under severe criticism by leftists around the world. This prompted him to advise King Paul and Queen Frederika to postpone a trip to London, where they would surely face street demonstrations. He warned, ''If the King persists in disregarding the Government's advice, I shall offer him my resignation.'' But King Paul, prodded by his stubborn spouse, did persist.
        For Mr. Caramanlis, the issue was a simple matter of the separation of powers in a constitutional monarchy. He felt the King and Queen had stepped on his prerogatives. So he quit, and new elections brought the Center Union party of George Papandreou to power.
        Mr. Caramanlis left Greece for Paris, explaining in a letter to his National Radical Union, ''When a political man knows what his country needs but is not in a position to take the appropriate measures because he is denied the necessary conditions, he must leave instead of making compromises with his conscience.'' Mr. Caramanlis spent 11 years outside of Greece, living in Paris but consorting mainly with Greeks. ''I don't like play-acting in politics,'' he told an interviewer. ''When I left, I did so determining not to return.''
        His marriage to the former Amalia Kanelopoulos ended in divorce during his Paris exile. He is survived by two brothers and three sisters. A nephew, Costas Caramanlis, the son of Alekos Caramanlis, is head of the opposition New Democracy Party.
        During his time in Paris, Mr. Papandreou also came into conflict with the monarchy and was forced from office. A series of weak coalitions followed, enabling the armed forces to seize power on April 21, 1967. For seven of Mr. Caramanlis's exile years, Greece was ruled by a junta led by army colonels.
        In Paris, Mr. Caramanlis spoke out against the military rulers. In 1969, he called for the overthrow of the colonels, saying: ''By their tyrannical rule, their idle boasting and their hit-or-miss methods, they have created an explosive situation in Greece and deprived Greece of international repute.''
        In July 1974 the junta came to ruin by organizing a short-lived coup against Archbishop Makarios, the leader of Cyprus. This led to Turkey's invasion of the island and occupation of the north to protect the Turkish minority there.
        The dictatorship began to collapse and Greece was on the brink of war with Turkey. Politicians and military officers felt only Mr. Caramanlis had the prestige to deal with the crisis, and he was summoned home.
        Warm Welcome Home From an Exile in Paris
        In one of the most memorable moments in contemporary Greek history, a wildly cheering crowd welcomed him in Constitution Square in Athens as a savior. Their ecstatic screams drowned out his attempts to speak, until he finally growled, ''Shut up!'' An elderly man at his elbow commented, ''He's come back the way he left.''
        Mr. Caramanlis immediately took on the task of reviving his country. ''I see the smooth restoration of democracy in 1974 as my major political achievement,'' he said a decade later. ''There was a political vacuum after the fall of the dictatorship, which could easily have led the country to anarchy or civil war.''
        He acted decisively to re-establish the authority of the state institutions, democratic rule and due process. He reinstated the 1952 Constitution guaranteeing civil rights, and began to reorganize the military command.
        He also called a plebiscite, which resulted in a vote ending the monarchy. A republic was established on Dec. 8, 1974, and a new Constitution with a strong executive was drafted.
        In building a democratic state after the dictatorship, Mr. Caramanlis led Greece into the community of West European democracies as a full member of the Common Market. This was the high point of efforts he began in the late 1950's, when Greeks still spoke of ''going to Europe'' when they traveled to Paris or London.
        In achieving his goal, he had to overcome resistance from powerful factions at home -- farmers fearful for their markets, and Socialists who simply disliked the idea of accepting economic dictates from abroad. But Greece benefited greatly from membership in the Community, initially getting $800 million annually in economic assistance, in addition to $500 million from the United States in military assistance.
        Mr. Caramanlis also improved relations with the Soviet Union and Communist neighbors to the north.
        Despite these diplomatic accomplishments, Mr. Caramanlis was never a broadly popular figure. Even friends conceded that he had some rough edges and lacked a sense of humor.
        Many of his countrymen objected to what they regarded as his un-Greek qualities: He could be abrasive in a society where the common trait is to be ingratiating. He was reserved among a people who consider themselves outgoing. He had a strong code of honor in a political culture where deviousness is sometimes seen as a virtue.
        During the 1963 election campaign, he publicly denounced a foreign journalist who predicted he would lose. But when he lost at the polls, he called the journalist to apologize.
        ''In my private life, I am simple,'' Mr. Caramanlis, a tall, handsome man with bushy eyebrows, said late in his career. ''But I don't believe I am arrogant.'' A longtime friend, the prominent Athens journalist Helena Vlachou, remarked, ''Caramanlis has retained the dignity and style of a country Greek.''
        But his notable self-control left him during a trip to his native district in 1980 when he told a large crowd that he had not come for their votes but ''to satisfy a spiritual need, to meet old and beloved friends.'' As many in the crowd broke into tears as well as cheers, Mr. Caramanlis wept too and was unable to continue his speech.
        His first term as President ended in March 1985 when the Socialist Prime Minister, Andreas Papandreou, a son of George Papandreou who had come to power four years earlier, first supported Mr. Caramanlis for re-election and then abruptly withdrew his backing, choosing instead to curry favor with the small but active Communist Party. Mr. Papandreou, however, never made good on his repeated threats then or later to remove Greece from NATO or the European Union.
        Born in a Village Under Turkish Rule
        Mr. Caramanlis did not come from Greece's traditional political elite. He was born Feb. 23, 1907, the first of the seven children of George and Fotina Caramanlis, in Kioupkioi, now Proti, a village in eastern Macedonia, a swath of tobacco country below 6,400-foot Mount Pangaios. At the time the area was under Turkish rule.
        His father, a school teacher and tobacco farmer, was also a local rebel leader. He had been imprisoned by the Turks and twice by the Bulgars, and he hid guns in a secret cellar. Young Constantine became a citizen of Greece only after the Turks were expelled from Macedonia at the end of the second Balkan War, in 1913.
        He went to the capital and graduated from the University of Athens law school in 1929. Back home in Macedonia he sold insurance door to door for a time, then served in the army with the 19th Infantry Regiment. Along the way he paid his father's debts and helped put three brothers through the university.
        His father warned him against going into politics, saying, ''You're not made for this career. I know you. You have character, you are intransigent, unyielding. Life is likely to break you.''
        Despite the warning, he entered politics, gravitating to the Populist Party, conservative and royalist, that had a support in his native region.
        He was elected to Parliament in 1935, a year before Gen. Ioannis Metaxas seized power. Metaxas offered the youthful deputy a cabinet post, but Mr. Caramanlis turned him down, saying: ''All dictatorships contain the seeds of death. They are doomed from the beginning, as will be yours.''
        He abstained from politics during the Metaxas dictatorship from 1936 to 1941, and during the Axis occupation of Greece until October 1944. After liberation, he was re-elected to Parliament in 1946 and was named to his first cabinet post, Minister of Labor. From 1946 to 1955 he held five cabinet posts.
        During the Greek civil war, which pitted the Communists against the Government, Mr. Caramanlis earned respect as Minister of Social Welfare, when he worked to solve one of Greece's gravest social problems: the resettlement of 750,000 people -- one-tenth of the population -- who had abandoned their farms and fled to urban areas to escape the fighting.
        After the defeat of the Communist guerrillas in late 1949, Mr. Caramanlis distinguished himself as Minister of Public Works, building roads around the country and modernizing Athens. To force the removal of the antiquated streetcar system of the capital, he went out into the streets one night and began digging up the rails himself.
        When Prime Minister Alexandros Papagos, a field marshal and wartime hero, died in 1955, King Paul turned to Mr. Caramanlis to form the next Government, and he became Greece's youngest Prime Minister. A year later he formed the National Radical Union, the first Greek party organized as something more than a patronage machine.
        His anti-Communist, pro-Western Government began the tough process of modernizing the economy through industrialization and foreign investment, and by holding the line on prices and wages.
        But one program that went sour involved Cyprus, the large island just off the Turkish coast with a historically Greek majority of four-fifths of the population. In 1959, after years of violence, the Prime Minister opened a dialogue with his Turkish counterpart, Adnan Menderes, that led to establishment of an independent republic of Cyprus where Greeks and Turks would share power proportionately. Though this seemed like a workable vision, it was gradually destroyed by radical Greek and Turkish nationalists.
        In retirement Mr. Caramanlis lived as a virtual recluse in the north Athens suburb of Politia. Occasionally he played golf at the Glyfada Golf Club -- alone, ''because I hate to lose.''
      