
        Tim Flock, a colorful and highly successful driver in the early years of stock-car automobile racing, died on Tuesday in his home in Charlotte, N.C. He was 73.
        Jonathan Mauk, the historian for stock-car racing's governing body, Nascar, said Flock was found only weeks ago to be suffering from lung and liver cancer.
        From 1949 through 1961, Flock drove in what is now known as the Nascar Winston Cup series for late-model sedans modified for racing (Nascar was known formally then as the National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing). He won the series championships in 1952 and 1955. In all, he won 40 of the 189 Winston Cup races he entered, or 21.4 percent, a career record that still stands.
        In his era, as now, most of the Nascar drivers came from the South. But in those days, unlike now, prize money was small, and the sport was more fun and less business.
        Consider Flock's memorable 1955 season. He won 18 races, a one-year record that stood until Richard Petty won 19 in 1967, and 19 pole positions, still the record. That July, 24 hours apart, he won major races in Syracuse and San Mateo, Calif.
        ''Keep in mind,'' he said of that coast-to-coast sojourn, ''we were riding in a propeller plane that didn't fly very fast. I still had mud in my teeth from the New York State race when I got in my car in California.''
        That was also the year when, in a race over the beach road course in Daytona Beach, Fla., his car led the field into a flock of seagulls.
        ''There must have been at least 60 of them,'' he recalled. ''Feathers were flying everywhere. I looked in my rearview mirror, and it looked like it was snowing on the rest of the field.''
        By then Flock had retired the Rhesus monkey named Jocko Flocko, who rode in his car during nine races.
        ''The last time he rode with me was in a race in Raleigh in 1953,'' Flock said. ''He got loose in the car, and I had to make a pit stop to hand him to the mechanic. During that time, Speedy Thompson passed me for second place. That monkey cost me $750.''
        Julius Timothy Flock was born May 11, 1924, in Fort Payne, Ala., the youngest of three racing brothers. Bob, the oldest, won four Nascar races. Truman Fontell, known as Fonty, won 19. Their sister, Ethell Flock Mobley, also raced in Nascar.
        In 1961, Tim Flock retired as a driver. Two years before, he moved from Atlanta to Charlotte to work with the new Charlotte Motor Speedway in Concord, N. C. One of his first jobs was selling shares in the track for 50 cents each. Until his death, he continued as an administrator there and lived three miles away.
        ''I hope they remember my championships and my victories,'' Flock said in a recent interview with ESPN2. ''I hope Frances, who I've been married to for more than 40 years, takes some of the memorabilia we've collected and puts it in some hall of fame or museum so the fans can enjoy it. I'm proud of my record, and I hope people don't ever forget what I've done and how hard it was back when we were racing.''
        Flock is survived by his wife; three sons, Richard, Donald and Carl, all of Charlotte; and two daughters, Joy Kirkpatrick of Charlotte and Peggy Black of Tampa, Fla.
        In February at Daytona Beach, Flock was honored as one of the 50 greatest drivers in Nascar history. In qualifying for a race last month in Darlington, S. C., Darrell Waltrip covered his No. 17 with No. 300, the number on Flock's car in many of his victories.
        ''I don't know how significant it was that Tim got to see that car,'' Waltrip said after learning of his idol's death, ''but I can tell you this: It was important to me.''
        In Flock's 13 Nascar years, he raced 19,343 miles and earned $109,656. For winning the 1955 series championship, he earned a bonus of $5,000.
        ''When I saw Jeff Gordon win $2.3 million in bonus money at the 1997 Nascar Winston Cup banquet,'' Flock said, ''I had tears in my eyes. I never dreamed the sport would come this far.''
      