
        Chandler (Buss) Hovey Jr., a yachtsman whose family ties brought a lifelong involvement with America's Cup racing, but whose personal kinship with sailboats helped him adjust to an enduring disability, died last Thursday at his home in Ocean Reef, Fla. He was 83.
        Mr. Hovey died of complications from multiple sclerosis, which he had suffered from since 1947, said a son, Chandler (Bee) Hovey 3d.
        The Hovey family spanned several generations of America's Cup yacht racing, from the 1930's, when it competed on J-Class yachts in trial races, to the modern racing days of the 1950's and 1960's, when it built and campaigned the 12-Meter yacht Easterner. ''We were all New Englanders, we were all Yankees, and we were all Easterners,'' Bee Hovey said. ''We grew up around Boston and Marblehead, Mass., so we named our cup yacht Easterner.''
        It was during the Herculean days of 1930's cup trial racing that Mr. Hovey shared the helm of 130-foot J-Class sailboats with his father, Chandler; his sister, Elizabeth, and his brother, Charles. In those days,  boats that competed in the trial races, such as Yankee, Weetamoe and Rainbow, customarily carried professional crews of 30 or more.
        For disabled sailors, Mr. Hovey's name carries a different legacy. In 1995, the national trophy for the disabled, the Independence Cup, was named in his honor. ''I marvel at him because he got on with his life,'' Robie Pierce, the 1993 world disabled  champion, said yesterday about Mr. Hovey's coping with multiple sclerosis. As a helmsman on Easterner, Mr. Hovey used crutches while sailing in trials competitions.
        Mr. Hovey was born in Newton, Mass., and graduated from Harvard College in 1939. He served in the Navy during World War II and was captain of the U.S.S. Miginty, a 365-foot destroyer escort. In 1949, after the death of his first wife, Nancy Blumer, he moved to New York, where he became a partner at the investment banking firm White, Weld & Company. Mr. Hovey retired in 1982.
        He was a member of the New York Yacht Club, the Eastern Yacht Club of Marblehead, Mass., and the Seawanhaka Yacht Club of Oyster Bay, N.Y.
        Besides his son Bee of New York City, Mr. Hovey is survived by another son, Thomas Blumer Hovey of Beverly, Mass.; a daughter, Nancy Hovey Cooper of Essex, Mass.; three stepchildren and six grandchildren.
      