
        John W. Sweeterman, who was publisher of The Washington Post in the 1960's and played a key role in improving its business operations, died on Friday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 91.
        A native of Ohio, he was The Post's publisher from 1961 to 1968, after joining the newspaper in 1950 and serving as its business manager and then general manager. Earlier, he was general manager of The Dayton Journal-Herald in Ohio, where he had begun as an office boy.
        Mr. Sweeterman had a complex professional relationship with his successor as The Post's publisher, Katharine Graham, details of which she recorded in her memoirs, which came out last year. She said in 1984, in a speech at a banquet in his honor, ''To say that The Washington Post Company owes its very survival to John Sweeterman is not stretching the truth.'' She said at the time that The Post had been losing millions of dollars a year before he arrived.
        Her father, Eugene Meyer, who was a financier, purchased The Post in 1933 at a bankruptcy sale, oversaw its operations for a dozen years and then -- while it was still very much in the red -- turned the helm over to Mrs. Graham's husband, Philip L. Graham, who persuaded Mr. Sweeterman to come on board.
        Mrs. Graham, who is now chairman of the executive committee of the Washington Post Company, wrote in her autobiography, ''Personal History'' (1997, Knopf): ''Phil's most important business recruit was John Sweeterman, the only non-Meyer-Graham-family publisher of The Post to date.'' She recalled that her husband said after hiring him: ''Aren't I a lucky son of a bitch? This guy could run General Motors.''
        ''John was very strong and dominating,'' Mrs. Graham recalled in her book. ''At times he was at loggerheads with various editors or executives on the news side, who wanted to do some things that required money -- which John basically didn't like to spend. But in the end, it was John's single-minded pursuit of cost-cutting and revenue-generating moves that helped turn the situation around.''
        With time, she wrote, ''the paper had come to break even, more or less.''
        The Post's advertising revenue and circulation grew, and there were other improvements. After 1953 turned out to be a particularly favorable year, Mr. Graham said wryly: ''It does not mean we are ready for retirement, but at least we are a couple of steps ahead of the sheriff.''
        In the following year, as the obituary in The Post said yesterday, there came ''the breakthrough into profitability.'' That year saw The Post's purchase of a competing newspaper, The Washington Times-Herald, by Mr. Meyer, with Mr. Sweeterman intimately involved.
        The Times-Herald was merged into The Post, and, as Mrs. Graham wrote, ''We now had the morning field in Washington to ourselves, daily circulation jumped immediately from 204,000 to 395,000, and Sunday circulation rose from 200,000 to 395,000.'' It was a basic plan drawn up by Mr. Sweeterman, she recalled, ''that was put into operation and made the whole thing work.''
        He saw to it that the combined newspaper was sent to every reader of the old Times-Herald, including those who tried to stop subscribing. ''They just rode along with us,'' as he put it, ''and they started paying their carrier bills after a while.''
        Mrs. Graham wrote that Mr. Sweeterman was ''given complete authority by Phil, almost from the time of his arrival in 1950.'' She recalled that Mr. Sweeterman's power had grown as the years passed, and beginning in 1961, when he became publisher, ''John had been conferring with few about his decisions.''
        Mr. Graham committed suicide in 1963, and Mrs. Graham took command, as president of the Washington Post Company for 10 years.
        In her new role, she wrote, there were ''strains with John.'' ''He wasn't used to women in business, and particularly one as ignorant as I was. He had a temper when crossed, and we had a few encounters that reduced me to tears and therefore made everything harder.''
        In 1965, Ben Bradlee became managing editor of The Post and, as Mrs. Graham put it, ''he rapidly learned the ropes, including how to deal with John Sweeterman about budgets.''
        ''Ben was driving to make the paper better,'' she added, ''and, of course, that kind of push was expensive.''
        Then, in 1968, Mr. Sweeterman told Mrs. Graham he wanted to stop being a day-to-day executive. ''Despite my difficulties with him,'' she wrote, ''I was fully aware of how essential he had been.'' He became vice chairman of the Washington Post Company until 1972.
        Mr. Sweeterman was born in Celina, Ohio, and attended the University of Dayton. He married Jeanne Marie Finn in 1934 and she died in 1996.
        His survivors include two daughters, Carol Shiff of Westport, Conn., and Anne Davis of Lemoyne, Pa.; four grandchildren; and a brother, Wallace of Dayton.
      