
        Linda Schele, a onetime studio art teacher who made a fateful vacation visit to Mexico that turned her life upside down and helped revolutionize Mayan scholarship, died on Saturday at a hospital near her home in Austin, Tex. She was 55 and widely known for her pioneering work in decoding inscriptions on Mayan monuments.
        Her husband, David, said the cause was pancreatic cancer.
        A native of Nashville who obtained a bachelor's degree in education and a master's in fine arts from the University of Cincinnati in 1968, Dr. Schele (SHE-lee) was more or less contentedly teaching studio art at the University of South Alabama in Mobile when her husband, a Cincinnati-trained architect who had long been fascinated with pre-Columbian architecture, suggested that the couple spend their 1970 Christmas vacation visiting Mayan ruins in Mexico.
        A woman of infectious enthusiasm, Dr. Schele, who had no special interest in the Mayan civilization, threw herself into the project, securing a grant to take photographs for the university collection and recruiting three art students for the trip.
        As the travelers began their tour, they were persuaded to make a slight detour from their itinerary to spend a couple of hours visiting the ruins at the Mayan city of Palenque.
        When they got there, Dr. Schele was so taken with the breathtaking beauty of the site and so enthralled by the scholars she encountered there that the 2-hour visit stretched to 12 days. By the time she got back to Mobile she had a new life's work.
        She remained at South Alabama until she had obtained a doctorate in Latin American studies from the University of Texas and become a professor of art there in 1981, but Dr. Schele spent virtually every spare moment at Palenque and other Mayan sites.
        Although the Mayans, who flourished from about A.D. 200 to 900, had long been recognized for their scientific work in devising a calendar based on advanced astronomical observations, they had been largely dismissed by scholars as sort of idiot savants, an illiterate nation of indolent stargazers who devoted all their considerable mathematical and intellectual resources simply to marking time. They were also seen as a blissfully peaceful people, whose fabled cities lacked even rudimentary fortifications.
        As for the abundant carvings and glyphs on the countless monuments among the ruins, scholars had assumed these were variously religious symbols or arcane notations denoting the movement of planets.
        The view had persisted even though a 16th century Spanish priest had done important though long-ignored work suggesting that the glyphs constituted an actual language and though a spate of recent work, derided by established scholars, had even worked out the syntax of the language, in which individual glyphs represented syllables of complex words.
        It was at a meeting of scholars at Palenque in 1973 that Dr. Schele emerged as a leader of a revisionist school of Mayan scholarship. When it was suggested that she and a young Calgary University student at the meeting, Peter Matthews, try to translate the inscriptions on the monuments at Palenque, it took the pair only three hours to discover that the inscriptions provided an incredibly detailed history of the Palenque dynasty.
        Over the next dozen years, Dr. Schele and others deciphered and interpreted inscriptions throughout the Mayan realm, but it was not until 1986, when Dr. Schele helped organize an exhibition at the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth that the world learned the full implications of the work: Far from being an ethereal peaceful people, the Mayans were a warring nation who tortured and sometimes sacrificed their captives, whose nobles engaged in blood-letting rituals to placate their gods and whose king was required to stick a rod through the shaft of his own penis on ceremonial occasions.
        A scholar who shared her own research generously and who organized annual conferences that became a focus of Mayan research, Dr. Schele collaborated on a series of important books, among them ''The Blood of Kings'' (1986, Braziller), ''A Forest of Kings'' (1990, Morrow), ''Maya Cosmos'' (1993, Morrow) and ''The Code of Kings'' (1998, Scribner.)
        In recent years the woman who helped decipher a language and discover a history of a once mighty civilization had held workshops to teach the Mayan descendants how to read the language of their ancestors.
        In addition to her husband, Dr. Schele is survived by a brother, Tom Richmond of Chicago.
      