
        Archbishop Trevor Huddleston, a British Anglican who spent years fighting apartheid in South Africa and helped make its abuses widely known, died in northern England yesterday, the Church of England announced. He was 84.
        Reuters reported that he suffered from diabetes.
        Though born in a well-to-do section of London, Archbishop Huddleston followed his priestly vocation to minister to poor blacks in Johannesberg. And that exprience helped him to sympathize powerfully with the downtrodden.
        Father Huddleston, as he was called early in his clerical career, raised his voice against the racial policy of what was then called the Union of South Africa, which mandated discrimination against nonwhites, especially Africans.
        ''I had to declare myself in fully supporting the resistance movement of the African National Congress,'' he said once in an interview. ''I felt as a Christian priest that was what I had to do.''
        Africans heard his voice and expressed their gratitude. President Nelson Mandela of South Africa said in a statement issued yesterday, ''Father Huddleston was a pillar of wisdom, humility and sacrifice to the legions of freedom fighters in the darkest moments of the struggle against apartheid.''
        Archbishop Huddleston received a knighthood this year for his role in the forefront of anti-apartheid efforts.
        During his years, beginning in 1943, as the priest in charge of the Anglican mission at Sophiatown, an African slum in Johannesburg, he contended that segregation was immoral. Later he was recalled to England by his order, the Community of the Resurrection. He thought that at the time of his recall legal steps were being contemplated against him by the South African Government.
        In 1956 he was banned from South Africa after the white Government concluded that his presence was a threat to its system. Four years later race riots broke out in which several hundred people lost their lives.
        The year 1956 also saw the publication of Father Huddleston's book ''Naught for Your Comfort,'' which sharply protested the apartheid system.
        The book bore a title derived from these lines by G. K. Chesterton:
        I tell you naught for your comfort,
        Yea, naught for your desire,
        Save the sky grows darker yet
        And the sea rises higher.
        Later in the 1950's, the future Archbishop was a founder of the Anti-Apartheid Movement. He was joined in that effort by Julius K. Nyerere, who went on to become Tanzania's President.
        He ministered to Africa as Archbishop of the Indian Ocean from 1978 to 1983, and was concurrently the Bishop of Mauritius. He went on to become the Anti-Apartheid Movement's president for a dozen years in the 1980's and 1990's. In 1994, in what was seen as a victory for apartheid's enemies, South Africa held its first elections in which all races were allowed to take part.
        It was not until 1993 that South Africa lifted its prohibition on the Archbishop's presence, but his influence there was long-lasting. Archbishop Desmond M. Tutu, the African former head of the Anglican church there, said yesterday that he was immensely grieved by the passing of a man whose work had been so inspiring.
        In an interview, Archbishop Tutu said that Archbishop Huddleston was ''one of those white people who enabled us not to feel embittered, so we could look at him and say, 'Not all white people are the same.' ''
        Archbishop Tutu also said yesterday: ''If I had to choose one person who got the anti-apartheid movement onto the world stage, that person would be Archbishop Huddleston without a doubt. The world was a better place for having had Trevor Huddleston.''
        The South African leaders to whom Archbishop Huddleston served as mentor and friend included a former President of the African National Congress, Oliver Tambo.
        And President Mandela, in his statement, underscored Archbishop Huddleston's courage. ''At a time when identifying with the cause of equality for all South Africans was seen as the height of betrayal by the privileged,'' the President said, he ''embraced the downtrodden. He forsook all that apartheid South Africa offered the privileged community. And he did so at great risk.''
        Over the years, Archbishop Huddleston's affirmations included contending that his own Anglican Church had not faced the problem of apartheid, which he said was ''fairly presented to the conscience of the Christian world.''
        ''It is not that white Christians are bad,'' he wrote, ''It is simply that they fail to see the relevance of their faith to social problems.''
        He also affirmed his great fondness for Africa. He once told an interviewer: ''If Africa takes hold of you, that's it, you've had it. It was the physical demonstrativeness that took me, I think, the warmth -- and the gentleness.''
        The African posts that he held while the South African ban was in force also included serving as Bishop of Masasi in Tanzania from 1960 to 1968.
        Faraway places were no novelty to the Huddleston family. The Archbishop's father was Sir Ernest Huddleston, a captain in the Indian Navy who held important port adminstration posts.
        The son, whose full name was Ernest Trevor Urban Huddleston, attended Lancing, a public school in Sussex, and took second-class honors in history at Christ Church College, Oxford. After completing theological studies at Wells Theological Seminary, he was ordained a priest in 1937.
        It was half a century later, in 1990, that Mr. Mandela, a former political prisoner of the South African Government, arrived in London to thank people around the world for supporting him in the fight to end apartheid. One of the first things he did, on his first visit to Britain since 1962, was to meet with Archbishop Huddleston.
        Then, in 1991, at a time when the African National Congress had suspended its armed struggle against the South African Government and was mounting a struggle of words and demonstrations, that Archbishop Huddleston was invited to open the first national conference of the A.N.C. in 32 years.
        Later, in 1995, he thought of taking up residence once more in South Africa, and he went back. But he returned to Britain not long afterward, saying that from there he could encourage foreign investment in post-apartheid South Africa.
        And he let it be known that his final wish was for his ashes to be scattered one day near the church that the young Father Huddleston had served in Sophiatown.
        Information about survivors was not immediately available.
      