
        Browning Ross, a two-time Olympian who started America's first magazine for runners and then founded the organization that promoted the development of distance running in the United States, died on Monday, a day after his 74th birthday.
        On Monday, after his usual three-mile morning run near his home in Woodbury in southwestern New Jersey, he got into his car and put it in reverse. Minutes later, when a neighbor noticed that the car had rolled into another, the engine still running, the police were called.
        They found Ross unconscious, and he could not be resuscitated. His daughter Barbara Knoblock said the death certificate listed the cause of death as a heart attack.
        Harrison Browning (Brownie) Ross, a native of Woodbury, had a distinguished running career. But he made a bigger mark as a visionary in an era when American distance runners had few races each year.
        In 1957, borrowing an idea he had encountered in England, he formed the Philadelphia Road Runners Club.
        ''That gave us weekly races, maybe only 20 or so runners per race, but the opportunity was there,'' said Tom Osler of Glassboro, N.J., a charter member of the club. ''For years, it was the way distance runners developed.''
        Early in 1958, Ross expanded the one-city club into a national organization by founding the Road Runners Club of America as an alternative to the Amateur Athletic Union and its limited program for distance runners. The Road Runners Club of America now has 180,000 members in 625 clubs, 32,500 members in New York City alone.
        In 1957, Ross also started the Long Distance Log, which began as a mimeographed newsletter for 150 subscribers and became a printed magazine before it ceased publication in 1975. When he kept losing money on the magazine, he started selling running shoes out of the trunk of his car to pay the magazine's bills.
        At a time when the sport was overwhelmingly amateur, the A.A.U., then the national governing body of track and field, said Ross was capitalizing on his athletic fame and ruled him a professional. Bert Nelson, the publisher of Track and Field News, called the A.A.U.'s action ''pathetically absurd'' and ''completely ridiculous.''
        Ross held no grudges. He later served as chairman of the A.A.U.'s national long-distance running committee and also won eight A.A.U. national titles.
        His track career began as a high school pole-vaulter, but he soon turned to running. He served in the Army during World War II, and he recalled that three days after Rome fell to the Allies in 1944, he ran there in the hastily arranged Allied Olympics, an unofficial competition.
        After the war, he entered Villanova University. In the 3,000-meter steeplechase in the 1948 London Olympics, he finished seventh. In the 1951 Pan American Games in Buenos Aires, he placed first in the 1,500 meters, second in the steeplechase and fourth in the 5,000 meters. In the 1952 Helsinki Olympics, he was a member of the United States team but sprained an ankle on a training run and did not qualify for the steeplechase final.
        At various times, he taught history at high schools in Woodbury and Camden and conducted youth programs at the Penns Grove (N.J.) Y.M.C.A. Since 1969, he coached track and cross-country at Gloucester Catholic High School.
        He is survived by his wife, Rosemarie; a son, Barry, of Cologne, N.J.; two daughters, Ms. Knoblock and Bonnie Ross, both of West Deptford, N.J.; a brother, Gerald, of Woodbury, and four grandchildren.
        Although Ross no longer ran seriously, he kept busy organizing more than a dozen races, most of them informal and including youngsters. As Emily McDonough, a 15-year-old high school sophomore who competed in several of his races, told Runner's World magazine, ''His friendly smile and encouraging words remind us that the greatest gift running has to offer is satisfaction.''
      