
        Marvin E. Wolfgang, who found new ways of looking at and thinking about crime and criminals, died on Sunday at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. He was 73 and a professor of criminology at Penn and the president of the American Academy of Political and Social Science.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, the university said.
        Professor Wolfgang, a Philadelphia resident, was acknowledged in 1994 by the British Journal of Criminology as ''the most influential criminologist in the English-speaking world.''
        He expanded the field of criminology by introducing and perfecting a methodology in which great masses of data like arrest records are analyzed over years to discern patterns of violence and crime. Through such longitudinal studies, now common in social sciences beyond criminology, he was able to portray criminal behavior in specific ways, examining subjects like the scale of juvenile delinquency, the relations of murderers and their victims and the extent of racial imbalances in sentencing.
        For much of this century, academic criminology had concerned itself almost exclusively with psychological studies of the criminal mind and the amassing of anecdotal material. That emphasis was irrevocably altered in 1958 when Mr. Wolfgang produced a study, ''Patterns of Criminal Homicide,'' a deep analysis of 588 Philadelphia murders.
        ''With that work Professor Wolfgang virtually defined modern criminology,'' said Richard Rosenfeld, a professor of criminology at the University of Missouri. Mr. Rosenfeld is serving as editor of a forthcoming edition of the Journal of Criminal Homicide that is dedicated to Mr. Wolfgang to mark the 40th anniversary of his work.
        One of the more significant findings in that study was that 150 of the Philadelphia murders were what Mr. Wolfgang termed, in the neutral language of sociologists, ''victim-precipitated homicides'' -- cases in which the eventual victim was ''the first one in the homicide drama to use physical force.''
        He spelled it out even more clearly with a typical example: ''A drunken husband, beating his wife in their kitchen, gave her a butcher knife and dared her to use it on him. She claimed that if he would strike her once more, she would use the knife, whereupon he slapped her in the face and she fatally stabbed him.''
        At the time, terms like ''spouse abuse'' were unknown, and Mr. Wolfgang did not use it. But with the evidence he had found from the police reports, he was able to define the shape and determine the scale of a not uncommon form of violence that few if any before him had studied in detail. Findings of a similar magnitude emerged from another remarkable longitudinal study, ''Delinquency in a Birth Cohort,'' which was published in 1972 and is generally regarded as Professor Wolfgang's crowning scholarly achievement.
        For this study, which, like all his work, was written by hand with a pen, Mr. Wolfgang obtained from schools in Philadelphia the names of 10,000 boys who were born in 1945.  After 1963, when the boys turned 18, he and his team of researchers pored through police and court records to determine how many of the boys had police records. They found that 3,400 of the boys, or just over one-third,  had records by the time they were 18.
        He also determined that it was the youths whose records showed five or more offenses who together accounted for 52 percent of all offenses recorded in the study, and that this group amounted to only 6 percent of the total.
        Mr. Wolfgang's conclusion that a few chronic offending juveniles account for a disproportionate amount of crime has strongly influenced legislative bodies and criminal justice policy makers around the world.
        At the time of his death Professor Wolfgang was working on a 10-year longitudinal study of juvenile delinquency in China in conjunction with Chinese officials.
        Neil Weiner, once his student and now a senior research associate at the Center for the Study of Youth Policy at Penn, said Mr. Wolfgang was often asked to testify in courts and before legislative commissions.  ''He routinely responded to such requests, but, in seeming contradiction, he rarely laid out policy recommendations, whether specific or general. Such things he left to others to infer from his dispassionate and objective studies.''
        However dispassionate was the form of his testimony, its content was sufficiently stirring to provoke any number of mailed threats. ''We kept a folder of these loony letters,'' said Esther Lafair, who had been Mr. Wolfgang's secretary for 27 years.
        She said the letters came in whenever he offered reasons that the death penalty should not be used or how the distribution of handguns should be curbed. Mr. Wolfgang was  proud that his research findings were used in the Supreme Court's decision in Furman v. Georgia, which held in 1972 that the death penalty as then applied by states was unconstitutional.
        Although none of Mr. Wolfgang's colleagues could say how or why he first turned his attention to criminology, Ms. Lafair said she thought his  decision had much to do with the violence he had witnessed as a soldier in Italy in World War II.
        Marvin Eugene Wolfgang was born on Nov. 14, 1924, in Millersburg, Pa. After his service in World War II,  he received a bachelor's degree from Dickinson College and completed his graduate work at Penn.
        He served on many commissions, and was director of research for the Presidential Commission on the Causes and Prevention of Violence in 1968. He received dozens of fellowships and prizes, among them two Guggenheim awards.
        Mr. Wolfgang is survived by his wife, Lenora, a professor of French at Lehigh University; two daughters, Karen W. Swenson of Bronxville, N.Y., and Nina Wolfgang of Philadelphia; a sister, Patricia W. Mignogna of Lynchburg, Va., and two grandchildren.
      