
        Maria Grandy, a ballet teacher and coach long associated with the Joffrey Ballet and the chairwoman of the Dance Notation Bureau, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 61 and lived in Brooklyn.
        She died of cancer, said her husband, Seymour Schorr.
        In 1957 and 1958, Ms. Grandy was a dancer in the Robert Joffrey Theater Ballet, as the company was then called. After appearing on television, in summer stock and at Radio City Music Hall, she returned to the Joffrey Ballet in 1966 as a coach in its apprenticeship program.
        Because of her teaching ability, she was asked in 1972 to help guide Joffrey II, the organization's second company. She worked with its artistic director, Sally Bliss, as an associate director and eventually served as full director for two years until the troupe was reorganized in 1985.
        While with the Joffrey, Ms. Grandy studied Labanotation, a system of notation for preserving dance, at the Dance Notation Bureau. Over the years, she staged ballets by Joffrey, Leonide Massine and Antony Tudor for the Vienna State Opera Ballet, the Royal Ballet of Flanders and Ottawa Ballet Theater, among other companies. She became chairwoman of the notation bureau in 1994.
        A native of Portland, Ore., Ms. Grandy began her dance training there, and in 1955 toured with the New York City Ballet on a special short-term contract. She came to New York with that company, and later danced with the Metropolitan Opera Ballet.
        Ms. Grandy joined the dance faculty of the Juilliard School in 1989. She served on the board of the National Association for Regional Ballet, a group now known as Regional Dance America. She also was ballet mistress for the New York City Opera and a member of the dance panel of the New York State Council on the Arts.
        In addition to her husband, Ms. Grandy is survived by her mother, Frances Grandy of Manhattan; two daughters, Allegra Fitch of Brooklyn and Lydia Silverman of Riverdale, the Bronx, and three grandchildren, Zachary Fitch and Julia and Evan Silverman.
      