
        James T. Pyle, who got such a boyhood thrill from Charles A. Lindbergh's pioneering solo flight across the Atlantic that he devoted his life to aviation, died on April 1 at a hospital near his home in Oyster Bay, N.Y. He was 84 and had become something of a pioneer himself. As the first Deputy Federal Aviation Administrator, he was widely known as a father of modern air control systems.
        His family said the cause was complications from a stroke.
        To say that Mr. Pyle was an impressionable teen-ager would be an understatement. A New York native who was 13 when Lindbergh took off from Roosevelt Field in May 1927, Mr. Pyle, the son of a wealthy insurance man who formed a precursor of the Blue Cross system, endured Groton on the ground, but soon after he got to Princeton he was off to the wild blue yonder, learning to fly during his college days and joining Pan American Airways soon after his graduation in 1935.
        Curiously, although he flew at every opportunity, including ferrying Clippers from base to base, and eventually accumulated more than 14,000 hours of flying time, Mr. Pyle, who owned a series of single-engine planes, was never a Pan Am pilot, but worked in administrative posts before entering the Navy in World War II and serving as an air controller in the South Pacific.
        After the war, Mr. Pyle helped start an air taxi service linking Denver, then a neglected city in the nation's airline network, with other cities. Unfortunately, the venture succeeded so well that major airlines moved in and doomed the business.
        Determined to play even a peripheral role in aviation, Mr. Pyle then formed a company to launder airline uniforms at the Denver airport, but within a few years the all-too-appropriately named Terminal Laundry succumbed, and Mr. Pyle, who had invested most of his family fortune in the enterprise, lost his shirt.
        Fortunately, a $10,000 investment in a friend's start-up business manufacturing telephone switch boxes eventually restored his wealth, but in the meantime, Mr. Pyle needed a job, and through an old Navy buddy he got one in 1953, as special assistant to the Assistant Secretary of Navy for Air in Washington.
        Three years later, in 1956, another friend, Charles J. Lowen, the Civil Aeronautics Administrator, recruited Mr. Pyle as his deputy, and when Mr. Lowen died a few months later, Mr. Pyle succeed him.
        As Administrator at a time of exponential growth in commercial aviation, Mr. Pyle made air safety a major priority. Among other things, he helped to develop a vast new system of radar-based ground controls and other safety improvements, typically taking the controls to test the latest jumbo jets and visiting National Airport at night for a first-hand check of runway lights.
        He also became an architect of the plan to combine the activities of the Commerce Department's Civil Aeronautics Administration and major functions of the Civil Aeronautics Board into a powerful new independent agency, the Federal Aviation Agency, which came into existence on Jan. 1, 1959, with E. R. Quesada as Administrator and Mr. Pyle as Deputy Administrator.
        As Deputy Administrator, and as Acting Administrator during Mr. Quesada's frequent absences and through the first months of the Kennedy Administration, Mr. Pyle extended his interest in air safety, among other things imposing the regulation requiring commercial pilots to retire at 60.
        After leaving Government in 1961, he worked as the Washington representative of an air equipment manufacturer, then came to New York in 1964 as director of the Aviation Development Council, a private group formed by airlines and the Port Authority primarily to deal with the issue of airport noise abatement.
        Mr. Pyle also developed education programs to encourage aviation careers for minority and other New York schoolchildren.
        He continued to fly until he was 73 (and forgot to lower the wheels before making a landing), but by then Mr. Pyle had had his share of triumphs in the sky, none perhaps so thrilling as the day in May 1977 when at the age of 63 he climbed into the cockpit of a silver 1928 Ryan Brougham, a sister ship of Lindbergh's Spirit of St. Louis, and a plane that had been flown by both Lindbergh and Jimmy Stewart, and took off from Bethpage, N.Y., for a short hop that commemorated a flight 50 years earlier that thrilled a nation and gave an impressionable teen-ager a career.
        Mr. Pyle is survived by his wife, Ann; two daughters, Diana Rowan of Manhattan and Ann Brickley of Malvern, Pa.; three sons, David, of Washington, Gordon, of Jericho, Vt., and John, of Halesite, N.Y., and nine grandchildren.
      