
        Dr. David C. McClelland, a psychologist who studied human motivation, job competency and the entrepreneurial spirit, died on March 27 at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 80.
        For most of his 57-year teaching and research career, he enthralled Harvard University students with his unconventional, even radical, approaches to studying human personality. He was among the first scholars to offer scientific evidence that successful entrepreneurs were driven by an inordinate need to achieve.
        Dr. McClelland's studies on motivating achievement raised many eyebrows. Instead of relying on clinical intuition to interpret fantasies and imaginative thoughts, he and his students developed scoring systems to map those thoughts. The researchers used various experiments to measure psychological characteristics, in effect quantifying those drives.
        ''He was one of the most creative psychologists that I have ever known,'' said David G. Winter, a psychology professor at the University of Michigan who had studied with Dr. McClelland at Harvard. ''He was always interested in measuring things that you might call ineffable or subtle. He tried to be both B. F. Skinner and Sigmund Freud.''
        Dr. McClelland advanced his argument that the desire to achieve was a factor in entrepreneurship and economic growth in the 1960's. Under State Department sponsorship, he trained entrepreneurs in India, Ethiopia and other countries. In 1963, he was a co-founder of McBer, a consulting company in Boston that helps employers assess and train people to improve effectiveness.
        Ten years later, Dr. McClelland wrote an influential article in The American Psychologist in which he said that commonly used I.Q. and personality hiring tests were poor predictors of applicants' performance. Companies, he argued, should hire based on competency in relevant fields, meaning that a company should hire, say, a mechanic based not on Scholastic Assessment Tests but on spatial reasoning.
        His idea, competency assessment, was considered radical at the time but has become a standard tool in many corporations.
        Toward the end of his career, Dr. McClelland focused more on the relationships among motivation, the quest for power and physical and emotional stress. He wrote or was co-author of several books, including ''Personality'' (Holt, Rinehart & Winston, 1951), ''The Achieving Society'' (Van Nostrand, 1961) and ''Human Motivation'' (Cambridge University Press, 1985).
        Dr. McClelland instructed students at institutions other than Harvard, including Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn., his alma mater, and Boston University, where he was a research professor of psychology from 1986 until his death.
        He was born in Mount Vernon, N.Y. Dr. McClelland grew up in Illinois and lived the rest of his life in New England. He graduated from Wesleyan in 1941, and received his Ph.D. from Yale University in 1941.
        Surviving are his second wife, Marian Adams McClelland, and their children, Mira, 14, and Usha, 12, as well as five children and nine grandchildren from his first marriage. The five are Catherine Dole of Morristown, N.J.; Duncan McClelland of Winchester, Mass.; Nicholas McClelland of Marblehead, Mass.; Sarah McMullen of Downey, Calif., and Jabez McClelland of Bethesda, Md.
        Dr. McClelland's first wife, Mary Sharpless McClelland, died in 1980.
      