
        Nguyen Van Linh, the former Vietcong guerrilla who directed the 1968 Tet offensive and then revitalized Vietnam's economy as the nation's Communist Party leader, died yesterday at a hospital in Ho Chi Minh City, the Foreign Ministry announced. He was 82.
        The ministry said Mr. Linh, who had been ailing for several years, had died of liver cancer.
        The Vietnamese Government announced two days of mourning, with flags at half-staff throughout the nation and all entertainment programming halted on state television. A funeral was scheduled for tomorrow in Ho Chi Minh City, the former South Vietnamese capital that many of its residents still call Saigon.
        For most Vietnamese, Mr. Linh will be remembered principally as the Communist Party general secretary who loosened the Government's stranglehold on the economy.
        With his appointment to the post in 1986, Mr. Linh, a pragmatist with political roots in southern Vietnam, pushed a program of ''doi moi,'' or economic renovation, that introduced elements of a free market to Vietnam after almost four decades of disastrous state planning.
        But to historians of the Vietnam War and of the American Presidency, Mr. Linh is more likely to be recalled as a central architect of the events of Jan. 31, 1968, when small units of Vietnamese Communist commandos struck Saigon before dawn and laid siege to the American Embassy there.
        Even though it collapsed within days, the Tet offensive -- the assault began on the second day of Tet, the Vietnamese Lunar New Year -- was the beginning of the end of South Vietnam and of American involvement in the war.
        The television images of the chaos in the streets of the South Vietnamese capital were relayed back to the United States and prompted expressions of outrage not just among antiwar activists, but also among Americans who had previously been undecided about the conduct of the war. Two months later, President Lyndon B. Johnson announced that he would not seek re-election.
        ''The result of that offensive was that it shook the White House,'' Mr. Linh said years later. ''The Vietnamese troops launched an attack right against the den of the Americans and the puppet army. From that fact, the United States realized it could not win the war in Vietnam and that it would not be beneficial economically or politically to prolong that war.''
        Nguyen Van Linh was born Nguyen Van Cuc -- like many of Vietnam's early revolutionaries, he took a nom de guerre -- on July 1, 1915, in Hai Hung province, near Hanoi.
        Official biographies say he began agitating against French colonial rule at the age of 14, when he joined the Vietnamese Revolutionary Youth League, a precursor of the Indochinese Communist Party.
        He was arrested in 1930 for distributing anti-French pamphlets and was imprisoned until 1936. On his release, he resumed his political activities, helping to organize Communist Party cells across Vietnam. He was jailed again from 1941 to 1945.
        After Vietnam's proclamation of independence in 1945, Mr. Linh moved up through the ranks of the Communist Party and by 1960 was selected to serve on the party's Central Committee. He was named secretary of the region that covered what was then South Vietnam, a post in which he oversaw the Communist insurgency against the American-backed Government in Saigon.
        After the Saigon Government fell in 1975 and Vietnam was reunified under the Communists, Mr. Linh was named party chief in Saigon, renamed Ho Chi Minh City, and promoted to the party's Politburo.
        He ran into trouble with the ideological old guard because he resisted demands by his colleagues in Hanoi for a complete transformation of the capitalist south. ''We want to reach socialism, but we want to go by airplane, not by bicycle,'' he was fond of saying.
        From 1978 to 1981, he was considered a rising star in the party, but those who knew him well say Mr. Linh had a series of heated arguments with Le Duan, who succeeded Ho Chi Minh as party leader in 1969. And in 1982, Mr. Linh disappeared from the Politburo.
        Friends of Mr. Linh say he resigned after another furious argument with the party chief over the transformation of the south to Communism and Mr. Linh's desire to preserve the force of private capital.
        But with the Vietnamese economy showing signs of collapse by the mid-1980's, the need for more liberal, pragmatic economic policies became clear to all but the most doctrinaire members of the party. Mr. Linh was reinstated in the Politburo in 1985 and was named general secretary of the party the next year.
        He quickly set to work, apologizing in a series of speeches for the errors of an ideology-driven economic policy that had marred Vietnam's recovery from nearly a half-century of warfare. He permitted private enterprise and market prices, and farm collectives were largely dismantled. There was an explosion of private shops, restaurants and home building.
        Even as he yielded the Communist Party's power in the marketplace, Mr. Linh refused to give up the party's authority in the political sphere and attacked ''pseudo-democrats'' who called for a multiparty system in Vietnam.
        ''It is not objectively necessary to establish a political mechanism of pluralism and multiparty government,'' he said. ''Socialism is the only right decision.''
        He eased Vietnam's international isolation with a more conciliatory foreign policy and sought to improve relations with both the United States and China.
        In 1989, he ordered the withdrawal of Vietnamese troops from Cambodia; Vietnam had invaded Cambodia a decade earlier and overthrew the murderous regime of Pol Pot, who also died this month, and his Khmer Rouge followers. The troop withdrawal helped Vietnam regain acceptance in the West and hastened the end of American-led embargo on aid and investment in Vietnam.
        Mr. Linh stepped down as party leader in 1991, complaining of poor health, and retired to Ho Chi Minh City.
        He lived to regret the effects of many of the economic policies he championed. He startled the audience at a party congress two years ago when he gave a speech accusing foreign investors of seeking to exploit Vietnam and topple socialism.
        In letters to newspapers last year, he criticized what he saw as a growing gap between the rich and the poor and a rise of vice connected to the free market. In a newspaper article in a party newspaper in July, he criticized American companies, saying they were dumping consumer goods in Vietnam rather than assisting the country through investment and technology.
        ''The question is not to beg to the foreign capitalists but to manage and work out policies which are more beneficial to the domestic economy,'' he said. ''I hope that in the future, Vietnam will look for every measure to make our international relations equal.''
      