
        Mel Powell, a composer who won the Pulitzer Prize in 1990 and was the founding dean of the school of music at the California Institute of the Arts, died on Friday at his home in Sherman Oaks, Calif. He was 75.
        The Associated Press reported that the cause was liver cancer.
        Mr. Powell composed in a compact and atonal style that could be remarkably engaging. He used color, rhythm and pointillistic techniques to create textures that were usually transparent and evocative, and he drew on techniques that ranged from the extreme organization of Serialism -- a method in which pitches, durations and timbres are strictly ordered -- to semi-improvisational music, in which performers had greater (if not quite complete) freedom. He also composed electronic works, including several for synthesizer and voice.
        Before he became an atonal composer, though, Mr. Powell was widely known as a jazz pianist, and many jazz fans still associate him with the golden age of swing. When he was 14,  he was performing regularly at Nick's, a jazz club in Greenwich Village. In 1942 he joined Benny Goodman's band as a pianist and arranger, and two years later he took a similar position in Glenn Miller's Army Air Force Band. Even after he returned to the classical fold, in the late 1940's, he continued to play jazz on occasion, and he made recordings as a jazz pianist until 1957.
        Mr. Powell was born in New York City on Feb. 12, 1923, and began studying the piano when he was 4. His principal teachers were Sara Barg and Nadia Reisenberg, and he later said that he dreamed of becoming a classical concert pianist until the mid-1930's, when his brother took him to a concert by the jazz pianist Teddy Wilson. His fascination with improvisation and his work with Goodman and Miller overtook his interest in classical music for about a decade. He also worked briefly, in the mid-1940's, recording piano music for Tom and Jerry cartoons.
        In 1948, he enrolled at Yale University as a composition student of Paul Hindemith. As a Hindemith student, Mr. Powell at first wrote in a distinctly tonal, neo-Classical style, but by the time he completed his degree in 1952, he had become interested in the Serial style advocated by Arnold Schonberg. Hindemith was critical of Mr. Powell's abandonment of tonality; upon hearing Mr. Powell's 1959 string quartet, ''Filigree Settings,'' Hindemith declared that his student had ''gone over to the enemy.''
        After his studies at Yale, Mr. Powell taught at the Mannes College of Music in Manhattan and at Queens College of the City University of New York. He joined the Yale faculty in 1957, and was the chairman of the composition faculty as well as the director of the electronic music studio. In 1969 he moved to California to help start a music school at the new California Institute of the Arts.
        During the 1960's, Mr. Powell's electronic pieces -- among them ''Electronic Setting'' (1961), ''Events'' (1963) and ''Analogues 1-4'' (1966) -- were his best-known works; several were performed in 1968 at the Electric Circus, an experimental concert hall in Greenwich Village.
        But although he composed occasional electronic pieces through the late 1980's, he later said that he was not a fan of the medium, and that he was surprised to find himself listed in textbooks as one of its pioneers. He wrote far more prolifically for chamber ensembles, singers, orchestras and choruses. His principal works include ''Setting for Cello and Orchestra'' (1961), ''Haiku Settings'' for soprano and piano (1961), the ''Little Companion Pieces'' for string quartet and soprano (1979), ''Intermezzo'' for piano (1984), ''Modules'' for chamber orchestra (1985) and the work that won the Pulitzer, ''Duplicates,'' a concerto for two pianos and orchestra.
        ''It is true that the music I traffic in, along with Milton Babbitt, Elliott Carter and others, has never gained a great popularity,'' Mr. Powell said in a 1990 interview in The New York Times. ''But that was true of the so-called difficult music of earlier centuries, too. And I must say that I have noticed, as we have held our ground, that there has been a softening of response. There are now those who are beginning to find expressive beauty in a music that was at first rejected entirely.''
        Mr. Powell is survived by his wife, the actress Martha Scott; two daughters, Kati Powell and Mary Harpel, and a son, Scott Alsop.
        Correction:  April 29, 1998, Wednesday  An obituary of the composer and pianist Mel Powell on Monday misstated the year of his last jazz recording. It was 1987, not 1957.
      