
        Barbara Burton Elliott, the founder and executive director of Il Piccolo Teatro dell'Opera, a small New York opera company that gave performances in Brooklyn and Manhattan, died on Saturday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. She was 63 and lived in Brooklyn.
        Her son Drew said the cause was complications from leukemia.
        Ms. Elliott started her company in 1984 with the idea of nurturing young singers and developing new audiences. Her staging of Rameau's ''Platee'' at the Brooklyn Academy of Music gave the soprano Renee Fleming one of her first starring roles in New York. Other singers who worked with the company on their way to establishing their international careers were Douglas Perry and Jianyi Zhang.
        Notable productions of the company include Puccini's ''Villi,'' Britten's ''Rape of Lucretia,'' ''Midsummer Night's Dream'' and ''Noye's Fludde,'' Weill's ''Threepenny Opera'' and an annual staging for children of Menotti's ''Amahl and the Night Visitors.'' She gave an annual series of free summer concerts in Prospect Park in Brooklyn as well as performances at Riverside Church and the Church of the Virgin Mary in Manhattan.
        Her educational efforts included a program called Create, an acronym for Collaborative Resources for the Education and Artistic Training of Every Child, and the Brooklyn Children's Chorus. She took music and dance programs to public schools in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx.
        Ms. Elliott had a knack for persuading established stars to support her cause. Tony Randall and Paul Sorvino narrated her production of Puccini's ''Villi,'' and Luciano Pavarotti, Samuel Ramey, Gian Carlo Menotti and Mirella Freni appeared at benefit dinners for the Piccolo Teatro.
        In addition to her son Drew, of Brooklyn, she is survived by her husband, Donald; two other sons, Douglas, of Brooklyn and Steven, of Glen Ridge, N.J.; her mother, Eunice Burton of Austin, Minn.; a sister, Victoria Swedish of Madison, Wis.; a brother, Robert, of Indianapolis and four grandchildren.
        Correction:  April 27, 1998, Monday  An obituary on Thursday about Barbara Burton Elliott, executive director of Il Piccolo Teatro dell' Opera, misidentified a church in Manhattan where the company has performed. It is the Church of St. Mary the Virgin, not the Church of the Virgin Mary.
      