
        Maj. Gen. Sylvester T. Del Corso, who headed the Ohio National Guard when some of its soldiers shot and killed four students and wounded eight others at Kent State University during a campus antiwar protest three decades ago, died on Tuesday at his home in Worthington, Ohio. He was 85.
        When the guardsmen fired at a crowd of demonstrators on May 4, 1970, General Del Corso was the state's Adjutant General and commander of the state militia. He was appointed in 1968 by Gov. James A. Rhodes and served until the December after the confrontation.
        Like other Ohio officials and Guard officers, General Del Corso at first insisted that a sniper had fired on the soldiers from a roof and that his men had simply been responding. But official investigations and inquiries prompted by lawsuits found no evidence of a sniper, and General Del Corso eventually accepted that conclusion.
        Just days before the episode, President Richard M. Nixon had announced what he called an American incursion into Cambodia, touching off swift, often furious responses on campuses around the nation. At Kent State, students gathered on a grassy slope in an angry, unruly protest.
        The Guard had been sent in after arsonists had burned the Reserve Officers Training Corps building on campus. When the students ignored orders to disperse, edgy troops fired the weapons that, under policy then prevailing, were loaded.
        Just exactly what prompted the soldiers to act remains unclear. Eight of the men were indicted in 1974 by a Federal grand jury but were acquitted.
        Sylvester Del Corso was born in Berea, Ohio, where he graduated from Baldwin-Wallace College in 1937. He had joined the National Guard in 1928, was commissioned in 1937 and served as a battalion and regimental commander. He saw action in the Pacific from Guadalcanal to the Philippines in World War II and accepted the Japanese surrender in northeast Luzon. He returned to active duty during the Korean War and served in Germany and with the Reserve Forces in Houston. He went to South Vietnam as a senior adviser to the country's Army.
        His wife, Emma Engel Del Corso,  died in 1987 after 41 years of marriage. He is survived by two daughters, Rita Cenname, of Newport News, Va., and Ann Momper, of Crown Point, Ind.; a son, Robert, also of Newport News; three sisters, Margaret Mackall, Marietta Portzer and Doris Blackwelder; two brothers, Joseph and Andrew; 10 grandchildren, and 3 great-grandchildren.
      