
        Philip Davis, who practiced law so unobtrusively for more than two-thirds of a century that he made his biggest legal splash as a disgruntled railroad passenger, died on March 26 at a retirement home in Basking Ridge, N.J. He was 90 and twice went to court to establish the revolutionary notion that a railroad ticket entitles a passenger to an actual seat.
        A native of the Bronx who worked his way through Fordham Law School as the chief usher at the old Strand Theater on Broadway, Mr. Davis, who retired in October, spent 67 years as a single practitioner specializing in wills and estates, a humdrum area of the law that earned him little notice beyond his clients.
        But as the once mighty New York Central Railroad learned to its dismay, Mr. Davis was also a stickler for his rights. His pioneering excursion into consumer law began on July 12, 1936, when as a young lawyer who had been vacationing at Lake George, he boarded a New York Central train in Albany and was forced to stand during the entire trip to New York, which took 2 hours and 44 minutes.
        Mr. Davis, whose aggravation was aggravated by a painful sunburn, lodged a protest with the railroad the next day. When it fell on deaf ears, he filed suit seeking the refund of his $2.80 fare plus $45 for ''inconvenience, physical discomfort, mental aggravation and breach of contract,'' a not-so-arbitrary amount that kept the suit under the $50 limit for swift action in New York's old Municipal Court.
        When the case came to trial that December, the judge threw it out, ruling that state laws -- which required trains to provide ''sufficient accommodation'' as well as ''adequate,'' ''just'' and ''reasonable'' service -- did not obligate the railroad to provide a seat ''under all or any circumstances.''
        The matter might have ended there had Mr. Davis been a shade less tenacious, but he appealed, and seven months later, in July 1937, the Appellate Term of State Supreme Court ruled unanimously that the judge had erred and that it was up to a jury to decide what was reasonable under the circumstances. In March 1938, a jury ruled in Mr. Davis's favor, prompting an appeal by the railroad, first to the Appellate Term, which upheld the verdict in November 1938, and then to the Appellate Division, which unanimously sustained the judgment in April 1939.
        On June 16 of that year, the Appellate Division rejected the railroad's request for permission to appeal further, and three weeks later, on July 7, 1939, almost three years after Mr. Davis's fateful trip, a railroad representative called at Mr. Davis's office at 535 Fifth Avenue and handed him a cash payment of $232.89, an amount that included court costs and interest on the original jury award.
        Mr. Davis would have been content with one landmark legal victory, but some railroads never learn. Thirty-two years later, on Aug. 10, 1971, Mr. Davis, by then a 63-year-old lawyer in midcareer, was forced to stand on a trip from Grand Central Terminal to North White Plains, and once again he was back in court, this time with a suit against the New York Central's successor, the Penn Central Railroad, seeking a return of his $1.80 fare plus $10 for ''discomfort.''
        When the case went to trial in Queens Civil Court on Sept. 11, 1971, a jury awarded Mr. Davis, a longtime Queens resident, the full $11.80 he had sought in a verdict that was hailed for extending the same rights to commuters that Mr. Davis had previously established for passengers on long-distance trains.
        This time there was no appeal, but as Guy Adami, who had represented Penn Central in the case, recalled on Wednesday, the railroad did not change its seating policies, either. Today, with the demise of private railroads in New York, the Davis precedents are moot. Neither Metro-North nor the Long Island Rail Road guarantees seats to commuters, and Amtrak, operating under Federal authority, makes it explicit that passengers who do not book reserved seats may have to stand.
        While his legal challenges might suggest that he was prickly, Mr. Davis was in fact a gregarious man,  who organized his law school class reunions and even formed an alumni association of Strand ushers.
        Still, he was a stickler for his rights. In his later years, as his children, both lawyers, recalled, he was forever challenging Medicare decisions limiting his medical benefits -- and winning.
        Mr. Davis, who was married for 60 years, is survived by his wife, Miriam; a son, Jed Davis of Fayette, Me.; a daughter, Jennifer Chaitman of Frenchtown, N.J.; five grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      