
        Luigi Nanni, a chef and restaurateur who was one of the first in the United States to offer Italian food as it is served in Italy, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 74.
        He had been suffering from lung cancer for some time, said Victoria Morales, his longtime bookkeeper.
        When Mr. Nanni settled in New York City in the mid-1960's, Italian food was thought of as the heavy, garlic-laden spaghetti-and-meatball dishes associated with red-and-white-checked tablecloths and basket-swathed bottles of rustic red wine. But when he opened Nanni's, his first New York restaurant, in 1968, he offered a lighter, fresher taste of Italian food.
        ''Nanni for many years was the only good Italian food in New York,'' said Sirio Maccioni, the owner of Le Cirque, who knew Mr. Nanni for 30 years. ''Nanni was the first person who was cooking the real things.''
        Mr. Maccioni said he and Mr. Nanni used to talk about how difficult it was to get proper Italian ingredients in New York. ''We wanted good oil, good Parmesan, good prosciutto, and we started to think about white truffles,'' he said. ''He refused to do a dish if he didn't have the proper ingredients.''
        Edward Giobbi, the artist and cookbook writer, called Mr. Nanni's cooking refreshingly delicate. ''He introduced the American public to the elegance and the quality of trattoria cooking, using authentic recipes and very fine ingredients,'' Mr. Giobbi said. ''That was his forte.''
        With the success of his first restaurant, Mr. Nanni opened Nanni il Valletto, a fancier, more expensive restaurant on East 61st Street, in 1975. In 1986, Bryan Miller, then the restaurant critic of The New York Times, called it ''one of the more splendiferous Italian restaurants in town'' and awarded it two stars. But some friends, like Mr. Giobbi, felt that the lively, homespun quality of the first restaurant was lost in the move toward the upscale.
        In the late 1980's, Mr. Nanni opened Da Nanni, a small, plush restaurant on East 82d Street, but it was short-lived. Mr. Nanni's other restaurants, Nanni's and Nanni il Valletto, will continue to operate.
        Luigi Fulvio Nanni was born in 1924 in Rosolo di Magliano dei Marsi, a small mountain village in the Abruzzi region. After World War II, he traveled in Europe and trained as a chef. In Florence, he met an American art student who would become his wife. The couple had no children, and Ethel Nanni died last October.
        Mr. Nanni was thin, and only about 5 feet 4 inches tall. ''But he was an extremely powerful personality in that 5-4 frame,'' Ms. Morales, his bookkeeper, said. ''He was a real paradox. He could be a very happy, outgoing gentleman, but he had a fiery temper. He wanted things done right.''
        His concern with propriety extended to the correct way to eat and prepare pasta. In 1982, he sat down with two other restaurateurs, Mr. Maccioni and Adi Giovanetti, proprietor of Il Nido, to discuss such weighty issues as whether it is proper to twirl pasta against a spoon, whether dried pasta should be broken before being put into a pot of boiling water and whether cheese should be sprinkled on pasta with seafood sauce.
        For the record, Mr. Nanni's views were: no, absolutely not and never.
      