
        James J. Leff, who was an outspoken New York State Supreme Court justice for three decades and helped the Conservative Party in its early days while he was a Manhattan lawyer, died on Sunday at New York Hospital. He was 77 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        He had a grave heart ailment and was in declining health, his son, Dr. John Leff, said.
        Justice Leff's family said he was always a registered Democrat. He retired at the end of 1996.
        As a justice, he presided at trials that were almost entirely in Manhattan. He served in what is called a criminal term of the State Supreme Court in Manhattan for more than 25 years, his wife, Miriam, recalled, presiding at criminal trials in the courthouse at 100 Centre Street. Early in his years on the bench, she said, he presided at civil trials in the courthouse at 60 Centre Street and at trials in the Bronx.
        Earlier, he practiced law in New York City for two decades, becoming a specialist in election law. Among his clients in those years, his wife recalled, were Carmine G. De Sapio, Barry M. Goldwater, Abraham D. Beame and William F. Buckley Jr.
        He was elected to State Supreme Court in 1968 with multiparty backing. In 1982, he was re-elected, unopposed, to a second 14-year term, appearing on the Republican and Liberal lines but not, because of a mix-up, on the Democratic line.
        In 1973, he was the Conservative Party's unsuccessful candidate for chief judge of the State Court of Appeals.
        In 1980, Justice Leff refused, for half a year, to accept a transfer from criminal to civil cases. And so the State Commission on Judicial Conduct censured him, while noting that he was an able judge who thought he was to be transferred as a reprisal for criticizing court administrators.
        Over the years, he presided over many homicide trials, some of them sensational. In 1989, he sentenced Steven Smith, a drifter with a history of psychiatric problems, to 50 years to life in prison for the murder, rape and robbery of Dr. Kathryn Hinnant, a pathologist. The victim, who was 33 and five months' pregnant, was killed while she was in her office at Bellevue Hospital Center.
        At the time of that sentencing, Justice Leff had been embroiled for two weeks in a dispute with Dennis W. Quirk, the head of the New York court officers' union. The wrangling began when Justice Leff refused to go through a lobby metal detector in the 100 Centre Street courthouse. The dispute escalated when he complained that searches of Hinnant murder case jurors were ''stupid harassment'' and ''totally unnecessary.'' Mr. Quirk called the justice a ''psycho,'' and the justice called Mr. Quirk a snoop who was ''aptly named.''
        By then, Justice Leff had a history of fighting with court administrators and defying court tradition since he was first elected.
        For years, he feuded with Chief Judge Sol Wachtler of the State Court of Appeals. When Judge Wachtler said in 1987 that court backlogs could be cut if judges called off their vacations, Justice Leff suggested that Judge Wachtler call off the weeklong judicial seminars upstate that many judges were attending each summer.
        In 1981, Justice Leff said he was brewing coffee early one November morning when he heard two ''explosionlike sounds'' that seemed to come from a shop on Madison Avenue, right below his second-floor apartment in the Carnegie Hill section of Manhattan.
        Later, Justice Leff said he thought that ''the place was being firebombed,'' and so he raced to a window overlooking the avenue and saw a man dashing toward a van, lugging what turned out to be a T-shirt imprinting machine. The judge pulled out his .38-caliber handgun and shot three times at the van as it sped away with two men on board. Then he called the police, who said later that no charges were filed against him because there was no complaint.
        The shooting incident came 20 years after the founding of the Conservative Party in New York in 1961. In 1962, a co-founder, J. Daniel Mahoney, and another Conservative Party organizer called on Mr. Leff, who had been recommended as ''a highly capable election lawyer'' who could play an important role ''for a struggling new party about to encounter the complexities of the New York election law,'' as Mr. Mahoney wrote later. Mr. Leff did just that for the party, and more in later years.
        He was born in Manhattan, graduated from De Witt Clinton High School and received a bachelor's degree in 1942 from New York University School and his law degree in 1945 from Harvard.
        Besides his son, Dr. John Leff of Brooklyn, his survivors include his wife, the former Miriam Wachspress, another son, Thomas, of Manhattan, and two grandsons.
        Correction:  April 16, 1998, Thursday  An obituary on April 9 about James J. Leff, a retired New York State Supreme Court Justice, misstated the source of his bachelor's degree in 1942. It was New York University; ''school'' was not part of the name.
      