
        Roger F. Murray 2d, an economist whose financial acumen made him a frequent adviser to members of Congress and business leaders during the 1950's and 60's, died on Monday at his home in Wolfeboro, N.H. He was 86.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, according to the Lord Funeral Home in Wolfeboro.
        As a vice president of the Bankers Trust Company and later a business professor at Columbia University, Mr. Murray helped untangle some of America's most frustrating problems. In 1962, Mr. Murray, an originator of the individual retirement account concept, worked for passage of the Keogh Act, which enabled self-employed people to have tax-deferred pension accounts.
        Some of Mr. Murray's other opinions were particularly forward thinking. In 1952, he warned banks to pursue aggressive equity portfolios, noting that ''timing wasn't everything'' when trading stocks. That same year, he opposed a plan by Senator Albert Gore, Democrat of Tennessee, to tax executive stock options, contending that salaries were not enough to lure executives away from established companies. Stock options remain a vital part of executive compensation to this day.
        Roger Franklin Murray 2d was born on Oct. 11, 1911, and grew up in Manhattan on West 95th Street. He graduated from Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., in 1928 and graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Yale in 1932. Mr. Murray then earned M.B.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the New York University Graduate School of Business Administration. In 1934, he married the former Agnes M. McDede of Jersey City.
        Mr. Murray had wanted to join J. P. Morgan & Company, but a family friend who was a Morgan executive warned him that the company was retrenching and that advancement was likely to be slow. Mr. Murray joined Bankers Trust instead.
        At Bankers Trust, Mr. Murray quickly found his specialty in investment strategy. In 1956, he carried that specialty to Columbia University, where he retired in 1965.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Murray is survived by his son, Roger F. Murray 3d, and a daughter-in-law, Linda T. Murray, all of Wolfeboro; three grandchildren, and a sister, Mary M. Westcote of Glen Ridge, N.J.
      