
        John Hawkes, a veteran and highly  praised author of avant-garde and experimental fiction, died on Friday  at Rhode Island Hospital in Providence. He was 72 and lived in Providence.
        The cause was a stroke that Mr. Hawkes had during heart bypass surgery on Monday at the hospital, said his son Jack.
        Mr. Hawkes was called a figure ''in a post-modern pantheon of experimental novelists who include John Barth, William Gass and William Gaddis'' by Mel Gussow in The New York Times in 1996.
        Applause for Mr. Hawkes's fiction  also came from fellow writers and scholars. Mr. Gaddis once said Mr. Hawkes's ''sentences are themselves 'events.' ''
        The novelist Edmund White said Mr. Hawkes ''must be ranked as America's greatest living visionary.'' And Robert Kelly, a short-story writer teaching at Bard College, wrote that Mr. Hawkes had ''outrageous lyric power.''
        In an interview quoted in the journal Wisconsin Studies in Contemporary Literature in 1965, Mr. Hawkes said: ''I began to write fiction on the assumption that the true enemies of the novel were plot, character, setting and theme, and having once abandoned these familiar ways of thinking about fiction, totality of fiction or structure was really all that remained. And structure -- verbal and psychological coherence -- is still my largest concern as a writer.''
        His first novel, ''The Cannibal'' (New Directions), came out in 1949. His prominence in contemporary letters was enlarged by three novels published in the 1970's, ''The Blood Oranges'' (1971, Viking Penguin), ''Death, Sleep and the Traveler'' (1974, New Directions) and ''Travesty'' (1976, New Directions).
        The journal Contemporary Literature said in 1986 that the plot of ''The Blood Oranges'' -- recounting behavior by an American couple dwelling in a site fantasized by the narrator -- consists of the narrator's ''creating lyrical landscapes in sensuous detail to offset the world's threatening forces.''
        Distinctive viewpoints are also expressed in other books by Mr. Hawkes. His 1985 novel, ''Adventures in the Alaskan Skin Trade'' (Viking Penguin), presents the girlhood reminiscences of the narrator, a middle-aged woman.
        In an interview in 1985, Mr. Hawkes said: ''The novel is about the absolute ruthless, unintended control a father exerts over a daughter. It's a simple Oedipal thing.'' The book won a French award, Le Prix Medicis Etranger.
        Liam Callanan, a teacher of creative writing at Georgetown University, wrote in a review of Mr. Hawkes's 1997 novel ''An Irish Eye'' (Viking Penguin) that the book's ''vaguely incredulous narrative voice,'' belonging to a 13-year-old orphan named Dervla O'Shannon, was ''John Hawkes's sharpest success in this, his 16th novel.''
        ''Hawkes is able to sustain the unique tilt of Dervla's speech for over 150 pages without veering into preciousness -- or for that matter taking a breath,'' the reviewer added, and ''the result is an engaging blend of genres and literary traditions -- from fairy tale to farce to the epistolary novel -- that ultimately becomes a kind of post-modern picaresque.''
        In Mr. Hawkes's 1993 novel, ''Sweet William: A Memoir of an Old Horse'' (Viking Penguin), the narrator is the horse Sweet William, who wins all his first seven races as a 2-year-old.
        Reviewing the book, the author William Murray applauded it as an ''absorbing narrative.''
        A film version of ''The Blood Oranges'' was recently made by Philip and Belinda Haas but has not been released.
        Honors Mr. Hawkes received included a $35,000 Lannan Foundation award, Ford Foundation and Guggenheim fellowships and grants from the National Institute of Arts and Letters and the Rockefeller Foundation. He was also a member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters.
        A native of Stamford, Conn., he grew up partly in Alaska, served with the American Field Service in Italy and Germany in 1944 and 1945, graduated from Harvard College in 1949, then worked for Harvard University Press for seven years.
        He taught English at Harvard from 1955 to 1958 and at Brown University from 1958 until he retired in 1988.
        Besides his son Jack, of Santa Cruz, Calif., Mr. Hawkes is survived by his wife, the former Sophie Tazewell, whom he married in 1947; two other sons, Calvert, of Sarasota, Fla., and Richard, of Providence; a daughter, Sophie Hawkes of Hudson, N.Y., and a granddaughter.
      