
        Allan MacLeod Cormack, whose boyhood fascination with the vast canopy of stars above his South African home started him on a circuitous journey that led him to the accidental discovery of the underpinning of CAT scan X-ray technology and a share of the 1979 Nobel Prize for medicine, died on Thursday at his home in Winchester, Mass. He was 74 and had been a professor of physics  at Tufts University.
        His family said the cause was cancer.
        Never mind that computed axial tomography, or CAT, has been hailed as the greatest advance in radiology since the first Nobel laureate, William K. Rontgen, discovered X-rays in 1895. To Mr. Cormack, the wonder was that nobody had done it before.
        A native of Johannesburg who studied physics to become an astronomer, then abandoned astromony in favor of the study of subatomic particles, Mr. Cormack graduated from the University of Cape Town, and spent two years of postgraduate study at Cambridge before becoming a lecturer in the Cape Town physics department.
        As the only physicist in Cape Town with training in nuclear physics and the handling of radioactive isotopes, he was recruited by the local hospital late in 1955 as an emergency, part-time replacement.
        As he later recalled it, the head of the hospital radiology department was concerned about delivering the precise X-ray dose needed at a specific point in the body and asked him to find a way to measure how much X-ray energy was absorbed by various parts of the body.
        It was a measure of his naivete, he later admitted, that until he began work on the problem he had not even realized how crude X-rays were, that because they make a record of everything they pass through, the resulting image is a jumbled, layered composite image of everything between the X-ray source and the film plate with no visible distinction between bone, soft tissue and organs.
        But since Rontgen himself had worked out how much X-ray energy is absorbed by tissues and materials of various characteristics, Mr. Cormack figured it would be a cinch to solve the immediate problem of the distribution of X-ray absorption by making an X-ray map of the body. The map would show which tissues and other materials were where by shooting X-rays through the body from many different angles, then using triangulation to derive a high-definition image of any given cross-section.
        Confident that the methods to do this triangulation, or tomographyas the method came to be known, would have been worked out decades earlier, Mr. Cormack made an exhaustive search through the literature and was astounded to find that no one had even tried. (Much later he stumbled on a long-forgotten World War I era paper by the mathematician Johan Radon who had worked out essentially the same theoretical solution Mr. Cormack came up with.)
        Over the next few years, Mr. Cormack, who spent a sabbatical year working with the Harvard Cyclotron and joined the Tufts faculty in 1957, worked out a mathematical formula to compile an accurate image from the myriad readings made by X-rays criss-crossing the body from different directions.
        He successfully tested and refined his work using crude models -- and a hand-held calculator, published a series of papers on his findings during the 1960's, then, as he put it, left it to the engineers.
        A few years later a British scientist, now Sir Godfrey Newbold Hounasfield, patented the first working CAT scan machine, and in 1979 the two men, who had never met and had worked independently, shared the 1979 Nobel award.
        Mr. Cormack is survived by his wife, Barbara; two daughters, Margaret of Charleston, S.C., and Jean of DeKalb, Ill.; a son, Robert of Milton, Mass.; a brother, William of Johannesburg and a sister, Amy Read of Cape Town, and two grandchildren.
      