
        Karolj Seles, the playful and innovative editorial-cartoonist-turned-tennis-coach who masterminded the double-handed strokes that helped turn his daughter, Monica, into the world's No. 1 ranked player by the time she was 17, died Thursday afternoon at a hospital in Sarasota, Fla. He was 64 years old and had been in declining health since suffering a recurrence of stomach cancer in December 1996.
        Monica Seles, now 24 and ranked sixth in the world, played nearly a full schedule in 1997 still helped by her ailing and absent father, who coached her by telephone while undergoing a rigorous series of chemotherapy treatments. Ms. Seles said her father had insisted that his ill health should not interfere with her playing career. But she jettisoned her plans to compete at the Australian Open in January after learning that her father's condition had deteriorated, and did not begin playing regularly this year until March.
        An oasis of congeniality in an era of overwrought and often irrational tennis parents, Mr. Seles, ever garrulous but never bombastic, managed to steer his daughter to a stellar career without alienating her or her opponents. His tendency to applaud the finer points in her matches, regardless of whether she had won them, became a trademark, as did his tendency to take bows and blow kisses after victories. In all, Mr. Seles was able to celebrate nine championships in Grand Slam events with his prodigy, who was 6-0 in Grand Slam finals when she became the first woman in 55 years to capture three consecutive French Open championships at Roland Garros in 1992 with a three-set victory against Steffi Graf.
        But perhaps Karolj Seles's most effusive, and emotional, paternal performance came in 1995 after his daughter made her comeback at the Canadian Open following a 27-month exile after being stabbed in the back by a deranged fan in Hamburg, Germany, in April 1993. The Seles family viewed that attack as an assassination attempt. ''This is terrible news to our family,'' Karolj Seles said after the German courts refused to incarcerate her assailant, who claimed he injured Ms. Seles so Ms. Graf could reclaim the top ranking.
        Mr. Seles was not the tearful type, but he cried when his daughter battled back into public prominence by winning the Toronto event. Monica Seles maintained that it was her father who persuaded her to overcome her traumas and return to tennis.
        A former triple-jump specialist in his native Yugoslavia, Mr. Seles turned to sports science, and to a successful stint as a political cartoonist, after his own competitive days ended. First he shepherded Monica's older brother, Zoltan, to a national junior title when he was 15, and then, convinced that Zoltan's future felicity did not lie in professional athletics, he turned his enthusiasm for coaching, along with his unusual theories about stroke production, to his daughter.
        Convinced that a player capable of hitting double-handed off both sides would not only hit harder but craft sharper angles than the rest of the competition, he instructed his daughter to play that way.
        The tennis net used for family practices was a line strung between two parked cars in their hometown, Novi Sad, Yugoslavia; the tennis balls were illustrated by Mr. Seles with the cartoon mice, Tom and Jerry, a ploy that not only gained the full attention of a 6-year-old Monica but inspired the makings of her legendary killer instinct when he told her to pretend she was a cat each time she hit the ball.
        ''He never, ever pushed me,'' she recalled of her father's carefree manner. ''He made the tennis fun.''
        In 1987, the Seles family relocated to Bradenton, Fla., where Nick Bollettieri had begun offering his coaching services to Monica in 1986.
        Though some in the tennis establishment ridiculed the unorthodox strokes Karolj Seles had taught his daughter, Mr. Bollettieri left them intact, and in March 1991, she became the youngest No. 1-ranked woman in history until the 16-year-old Martina Hingis usurped that honor in 1997.
        In addition to Monica and Zoltan, Karolj Seles is survived by his wife of 35 years, Ester.
        ''You take this player and you sculpt them, and if they have inside of them what makes the champion, like Monica did, you get a great joy,'' he said in 1992.
        But a more pensive Karolj Seles, disheartened by the trauma Monica endured after her stabbing, said in 1995: ''Who doesn't lose, cannot win either. I didn't only see to it that Monica should be a perfect sportswoman, and that she should see beyond the sport's fame and money, but that she should be a complete, intelligent lady, one who can find her way in the world when she gets too old for tennis.''
      