
        Alan D. Williams, a skilled and versatile editor and publisher of books by authors ranging from the thriller-writer Frederick Forsyth and the horror writer Stephen King to the novelist Nadine Gordimer, who won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1991, died on Sunday at his home in Jersey City, N.J. He was 72.
        The cause was cancer, his daughter Marjorie Williams said.
        Mr. Williams snapped up the United States rights to the action-adventure novel ''The Day of the Jackal'' by Mr. Forsyth, an Englishman who was little known in America until the book became a best seller after being edited by Mr. Williams and published in 1971 by Viking.
        Thomas H. Guinzburg, former president of Viking, recalled yesterday that Viking paid Mr. Forsyth a modest sum, something like $8,500, for ''Jackal'' -- and then had to pay him $500,000, as Mr. Guinzberg remembered, for his second thriller, ''The Odessa File,'' which Viking brought out in 1972.
        ''There was no author, however difficult, with whom Alan could not establish a workable rapport,'' Mr. Guinzburg said. He added that many writers ''have received long letters from Alan Williams in response to their manuscripts and have not known at the end of them whether or not he was rejecting their manuscript.''
        Chuck Verrill, a literary agent and a former Viking editor, said: ''Alan was good at editing all kinds of writers. He had a wide-open sensibility that was able to see talent of all kinds.'' Mr. Verrill said that in editing several novels by Stephen King for Viking, mainly in the 1980's, Mr. Williams ''recognized King's story-telling skill and the broad appeal of his work.'' Mr. Williams edited Mr. King's writing with restraint, Mr. Verrill said, knowing ''when to edit and when to leave alone.''
        The novelist Gail Godwin recalled that when Mr. Williams was editing a novel, ''he completely lived in that novel.'' When he had just finished reading the completed manuscript of her novel ''The Finishing School,'' she said, ''he called up and said, 'Listen to what I'm playing.' '' And then he played ''a certain Chopin scherzo that was a theme song in the book.'' ''The Finishing School,'' published in 1985, was a best seller.
        ''Some editors will tell you how to change things, some will tell you to take things out,'' Ms. Godwin went on. ''He was a great one for telling you to put things in.''
        Robert Fagles, a distinguished translator and Princeton professor of comparative literature who had two books of translation from the ancient Greek edited by Mr. Williams, said Mr. Williams excelled in that work because ''he was a polymath rather than a classicist; he provided for me everything from line-editing to the inspiration to undertake large and rewarding projects; and he was very good at prepositions and I'm not.''
        Until about three weeks ago, Mr. Williams was editing a book called ''November 1916,'' by Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, due out in October.
        Mr. Williams was born in Duluth, Minn., graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy in Exeter, N.H. and served with the United States Army Air Forces in 1944 and 1945. He graduated from Yale in 1949.
        Mr. Williams also worked at McGraw-Hill, J. B. Lippincott, Little, Brown, G. P. Putnam, Arbor House/ William Morrow and Grove Weidenfeld. He was with Viking Penguin for 19 years and was editorial director and vice president there from 1975 to 1984. In recent years he was a consultant to authors and publishers and a trustee of the Princeton University Press. Other authors he worked with included Isaiah Berlin, Iris Murdoch, Shirley Hazzard and Rumer Godden.
        His 1951 marriage to Beverly Alexander ended in divorce.
        Besides his daughter Marjorie of Washington, Mr. Williams is survived by his wife, Robin Rue; three other daughters, Wistar W. Rawls of Monkton, Vt., Anne A. Williams of Ringoes, N.J., and Rosina B. Williams of Jersey City; and three grandchildren.
      