
        Kalman Seigel, who spent 13 of his 41 years at The New York Times as editor of the Letters to the Editor department of the paper, died yesterday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 80 and lived in Brooklyn.
        Family members said the cause of death was pancreatic cancer.
        In the time after 1967 that he oversaw the selection of letters to be published on the editorial page -- a period that embraced the end of the Vietnam War, the rise and fall of Richard M. Nixon and Woodstock -- his mornings would begin when the man from the mail room dumped some 150 letters on his desk.
        Back then, before faxes and E-mail exploded the volume of communications beyond anyone's reading capacity, Mr. Seigel methodically pored over the pyramids of mail looking for the seven or so letters a day he would choose for publication.
        In a foreword to ''Talking Back to The New York Times'' (Quadrangle/ The New York Times Book Company, 1972), a book of letters to the editor from 1851 to 1971 that he edited, he noted that in his tenure as custodian of the page, he avoided those from obvious cranks or anonymous correspondents, from pressure groups or professional letter writers.
        The very nature of the job meant that he had to say no to about 50,000 would-be contributors a year while saying yes to only about 3,000. Those whose letters he rejected included Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, the paper's publisher at the time, who is now chairman emeritus of The New York Times Company. ''We carried some of his letters and turned down some others,'' Mr. Seigel recalled not long before his death. ''He was absolutely marvelous, very good about it.''
        On Dec. 31, 1980, Mr. Seigel marked his retirement by writing a short Editorial Notebook column.  ''As steward of the section that is the public's most direct route to the columns of this paper,'' he wrote, ''I have tried to enhance openness, welcoming a great diversity of opinion. As I leave, I am grateful to all letter writers for their faith in the liberty that Euripides tells us comes only when 'freeborn men speak free.' ''
        Before becoming letters editor, he was an assistant metropolitan editor, suburban editor and reporter. In 1952, he won a George Polk Award for a series of articles about the dangers that McCarthyism posed to freedom of thought on campuses.
        Mr. Seigel taught journalism at Brooklyn College, Long Island University and City College, from which he graduated in 1939.
        He was the co-author with Lawrence Feigenbaum of two books, ''This Is a Newspaper'' (Follett, 1965) and ''Israel: Crossroads of Conflict'' (Rand McNally, 1968).
        He is survived by his wife, Lillian, of Brooklyn; two daughters, Ann Goodman and Carolyn Shanoff, both of Bethesda, Md., and five grandchildren. A brother, Max, who was also a reporter for The Times, died in 1988.
      