
        Former Prime Minister Chatichai Choonhavan of Thailand, who personified the nation's old-school style of wheeler-dealer politics until he was ousted in a coup, died yesterday in a London hospital. He was 76.
        He was being treated for liver cancer, his family said.
        A brilliant military officer, long-serving diplomat and flamboyant public figure with his cigar, his glass of wine and his Harley-Davidson motorcycle, Mr. Chatichai presided as Prime Minister from 1988 to 1991 over the headiest years of Thailand's boom economy, when the annual growth rate soared as high as 13 percent.
        But he also led what came to be known as the ''buffet cabinet,'' a ministerial lineup whose excesses and corruption led to his Government's replacement by a military leadership. He was known for his blithe repetition of the phrase ''No problem'' when criticized for his Government's excesses.
        Though he remained active in politics, heading a major opposition party and making a failed bid for a return to power last fall, he was a figure more representative of the past of Thai politics than of its future.
        The boom times over which he presided are gone now, as Thailand struggles with the worst economic slump in its history. A new Constitution and an emerging new breed of politician are battling against the culture of corruption he reveled in. And the coup that ousted him may turn out to have been the country's last, as the politically active military grows to accept civilian supremacy.
        Prime Minister Chuan Leekpai, who defeated Mr. Chatichai in a power struggle last fall, said his Cabinet observed a minute of silence yesterday in memory of his rival. ''I express my deepest condolences to his family and Chart Pattana Party members,'' Mr. Chuan said, referring to the political party founded and led by Mr. Chatichai.
        Television stations showed footage of Mr. Chatichai playing golf, riding his motorcycle and playing the violin. His nephew, Korn Dhabbharangsi, who is deputy leader of the party, said Mr. Chatichai died early yesterday at Cromwell Hospital in London. ''We are in the process of bringing his body back to Bangkok as the family has agreed to perform funeral rights here,'' he said.
        In addition to his nephew, Mr. Chatichai is survived by his widow, Boonreun, son, Kraisak, and daughter, Wanee Hongprapas.
        Chatichai Choonhavan was born April 25, 1922, in Bangkok, the only son of Field Marshal Phin Choonhavan, the nation's most powerful military figure at that time. He graduated from the Chulachomklao Royal Military Academy in 1939, fought in Burma and China during World War II and saw action in the Korean War.
        He then embarked on a diplomatic career, surviving as Ambassador to Argentina, Austria, Turkey, Switzerland, Yugoslavia and the Vatican.
        Recalled to Thailand in 1972 to serve as Deputy Foreign Minister, he began climbing the political ladder, holding a succession of Government posts. He became Foreign Minister in 1975 and later served as Minister of Industry and Deputy Prime Minister. Starting in 1975, he was elected to Parliament nine times.
        Mr. Chatichai became Thailand's 17th Prime Minister in August 1988, ending a long succession of military rulers when Gen. Prem Tinsulanonda stepped down and allowed elections. But his tenure lasted only two years and seven months as public dissatisfaction with his administration's corruption grew.
        He was ousted in a coup by Gen. Sunthorn Kongsompong, who headed a junta known as the National Peacekeeping Council. But Thailand's middle class had also had enough of military rule and rose up against the junta in 1992, bringing it to an end with demonstrations that culminated in a bloody military crackdown.
        Mr. Chatichai's party was a partner last year in a coalition Government headed by Chavalit Yongchaiyudh that badly mishandled the emerging economic crisis and was forced out of office late last year. Mr. Chatichai lost a political standoff with Mr. Chuan -- also a former Prime Minister -- to form a new Government.
        That Government has introduced a new technocratic style of leadership, embracing the free-market formulas of the International Monetary Fund as well as the liberal tenets of Thailand's new Constitution. The nation's economy, while still crippled, is taking its first steps toward recovery.
        When Mr. Chatichai joined other opposition politicians in a parliamentary no-confidence measure in March, the measure was handily defeated by the new Government and Mr. Chatichai was derided in public with taunts of ''old man.''
      