
        Emery I. Valyi, a prolific inventor whose innovations included a way for Pepsi drinkers to more easily pour a 2-liter plastic soft-drink bottle, died May 5 at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y.
        Dr. Valyi died of complications from cancer, according to his daughter, Katherine. He was 86 and lived in Katonah, N.Y.
        While indented grip-handles are commonly used in plastic bottles containing juice, their use with carbonated beverages presented a problem because of the pressure inside the bottle. Most people believed soda bottles could not have grip-handles, but Dr. Valyi developed a design that creates an inner wall within the bottle that allows an indentation to be made.
        Dr. Valyi approached the Pepsi-Cola Company four years ago with the design, according to Sheila Mullan, director of package innovation for Pepsi. ''He was a very unconventional thinker,'' Ms. Mullan said. Pepsi introduced the new bottle, called ''The Grip,'' in Dayton, Ohio, in March and expects to offer it to a wider market this fall.
        An engineer by training, Dr. Valyi held about 200 United States patents, working initially in metals and then focusing on plastics. He served as a consulting engineer for more than five decades, helping companies like Ford Motor develop new technologies. His work with Ford helped pioneer the process of shell molding to make intricate automobile parts.
        His innovations were ''elegantly simple and profoundly scientific,'' said Michael Gigliotti, the director of the Valyi Institute for Plastic Forming at the University of Massachusetts at Lowell, which was recently created through the donation of some of Dr. Valyi's patents. Some of the income from the patents will be used to develop a new curriculum for engineering students, which will include additional liberal arts courses.
        Born in Murska Sobota, Slovenia, Dr. Valyi was educated at the Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, where he received a doctorate of science in engineering in 1937. After working as a research engineer for the Swiss Federal Institute for several years, he joined Injecta Ltd., a Swiss die casting company, in 1936. He moved to the United States in 1940, where he worked for the company's licensee before becoming a partner at Lucius Pitkin/Sam Tour & Company, a metals consulting company.
        During World War II, he was recruited to work on the Manhattan Project, developing the atomic bomb, where he worked to separate radioactive material and isotopes.
        In 1945, Dr. Valyi became a consulting engineer and formed a number of companies, including the ARD Corporation, a research and development company. Among his clients were Continental Can, Dow Chemical, DuPont and Owens-Illinois.
        In addition to his daughter, Katherine, of Yonkers, Dr. Valyi is survived by his first wife, the former Ilsabe von Behr, of Riverdale,; his second wife, Elisabeth Jenks, of Katonah, and three grandchildren.
      