
        Austin V. Koenen, a well-known Wall Street banker and public finance specialist who was chief executive of the China International Capital Corporation, an investment banking company owned by the Chinese Government and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Company, died early this month in Beijing. He was 56.
        The cause and time of death were not clear, his daughter Karestan said, although she added that the family suspected a heart attack. Mr. Koenen's body was found at his Beijing home May 2 after he failed to appear at a scheduled meeting, company officials told the Koenen family.
        Mr. Koenen was an experienced banker who built his reputation as head of municipal finance at Shearson Lehman and then at Morgan Stanley.
        In 1990, he was chairman of the Public Securities Association, the bond markets' industry association, which is now known as the Bond Market Association, and in 1992 served as president of the Municipal Forum in New York, an industry group.
        Morgan Stanley sent Mr. Koenen to Beijing in the summer of 1996 to help lead China International and to carry out the difficult job of blending the various ambitions of the owners of the company, which was established in August 1995. China International's owners include China Construction Bank, the China National Investment and Guaranty Corporation, the Government of Singapore Investment and Guaranty Corporation and the Mingly Company Ltd., as well as Morgan Stanley.
        Mr. Koenen was widely respected for his expertise in the municipal securities business, and had published several articles on the financing of public infrastructure projects in The Bond Buyer, Public Finance and other industry publications.
        ''He graced his industry; he was an extraordinary banker and an extraordinary man, very much a straight shooter, a real leader in his industry,'' said Joe Mysak, editor of Grant's Municipal Bond Observer, a newsletter that covers public finance.
        He ''personified the highest standards of the municipal bond market,'' Heather Ruth, the president of the Bond Market Association, said in a statement.
        Mr. Koenen was born in Morristown, N.J., on Oct. 15, 1941.
        After graduating from high school in Butler, N.J., he attended the United States Naval Academy, where he graduated in 1964. In 1972, he graduated from Harvard Business School.
        During his Wall Street career, Mr. Koenen worked for Kuhn Loeb & Company and Salomon Brothers before moving to Shearson Lehman, where he spent 12 years and headed the public finance division.
        In 1989, he joined Morgan Stanley as a managing director in public finance.
        Mr. Koenen is survived by his wife, Kathleen; their three children, Karestan C., of Boston, Erin K., of New York City, and Austin V. Jr., of Nashville, and a brother, Donald R. Koenen, of Basking Ridge, N.J.
      