
        J. Gordon Lippincott, who helped design the Campbell soup label, the Tucker automobile and the interior of the Nautilus nuclear submarine before pioneering the new field of corporate identity, died on April 29 at his home in North Haven. Conn. He was 89.
        He died of a heart-related illness, said his grandson, Jonathan Lippincott.
        When Joshua Gordon Lippincott, an engineer by training, joined forces in 1943 with Walter Margulies, an architect, the two men were hoping to make their mark through product design. They succeeded quite quickly.
        They designed hotel restaurants, changed the silhouettes of typewriters and selected patterns and colors for ceramic dishes. Three years after they started their company in New York, they received the Campbell packaging assignment.
        ''We probably got it because I had graduated from Swarthmore College'' in Pennsylvania, Mr. Lippincott recalled in a memorandum he wrote for the company 20 years after his retirement in 1969.
        ''In those days,'' he continued, ''guys from New York were suspect. The entire budget was $5,000. I remember telling the president and his key guys that this was for the long haul and not to confuse it with an ad layout.''
        The design used the same signature that the Campbell Soup Company had used since the 19th century, but it was placed on the red-and-white can that after attracting consumers for four decades would be given the status of a contemporary icon by Andy Warhol.
        In the postwar years, the consumer market expanded remarkably and the money spent by American companies to design or redesign their products rose from $90 million in 1945 to $500 million in 1955.
        The firm of Lippincott & Margulies kept pace with that growth, turning out both industrial designs and packaging for thousands of products. It placed the god Mercury in the logo that is still used today by FTD, Florists' Transworld Delivery Inc.
        Lippincott & Margulies also came up with the red, white and black signature that identifies Champion spark plugs, the spoon used by Betty Crocker and the big ''G'' on the products of General Mills. And it adapted the Coca-Cola logo for use on different packaging.
        Even as the packaging and product-identification businesses were growing, Mr. Lippincott remained intrigued by design challenges.
        These included a task presented to him in 1947, when Preston Tucker walked into Mr. Lippincott's office on Fifth Avenue and asked for help styling the Tucker Torpedo, an automobile with a radical design.
        The firm sent teams of designers to Detroit to shape what emerged as a sleek vehicle that Mr. Lippincott referred to as the Tin Goose. The ultimate failure of Tucker's dream car, which was the subject of a 1988 movie, came about when Tucker could not fulfill orders.
        Mr. Lippincott took pride that his firm was paid in full for his work,  and his only regret was that he did not buy one of the 46 Torpedoes that were produced. ''They are worth a fortune, now,'' he said at the time that the movie opened.
        By the mid-1950's, Lippincott & Margulies was one of the big three of design companies, along with Raymond Loewy Associates and Henry Dreyfus.
        The firm retreated from reliance on individual ''geniuses,'' which had been the common practice, and instead deployed teams that included engineers, artists, interior decorators and merchandising specialists to tackle specific assignments.
        Another design challenge that attracted Mr. Lippincott's interest came about in 1952 when the firm was commissioned to design the interior for the U.S.S. Nautilus, the Navy's first nuclear submarine.
        The mission was to create an environment that would sustain crews in reasonable spirits on voyages of virtually unlimited cruising -- or how to keep sailors from wearing out before the the fuel gave way.
        The use of color and different textures were two of the important morale-lifting considerations that a six-member design team weighed in the nine months that they worked on the project.
        In the late 1950's and early 60's, the company again shifted its approach, this time originating the concept that a company's corporate identity should be managed, preserved and extended with the same care given to other assets.
        What this meant was that all the ways a company projects its individuality -- from its logo to its advertisements to its stationery to the color of the trucks it uses to haul its goods -- should be planned, coordinated and not left either to chance or whim.
        The first initiative involved Johnson's Wax. Various images and marks were used to identify the more than 40 products the company, S. C. Johnson & Son, produced and marketed.
        Mr. Lippincott supervised the creation and implementation of a corporate identity plan, which reached its height when his firm designed the Johnson's pavilion at the 1964 World's Fair in New York City. The idea was to express the company's entire marketing concept to as broad a public as possible.
        The firm's house publication declared that the company's credo, communicated virtually wordlessly at the fair, ''could be readily appreciated by Hottentots or Eskimos.'' Though such language would understandably raise eyebrows today, in 1964 it constituted one of the first expressions of a global approach in marketing.
        In the privately circulated recollections that he wrote after his retirement, Mr. Lippincott recalled that not all of his clients accepted his recommendations as enthusiastically as the owners of Johnson did.
        He noted that when he introduced a new identity system at United States Steel, he asked all executives to send him copies of their letterheads and received a stack two feet high all of which were different.
        ''We redesigned the letterheads,'' Mr. Lippincott wrote, ''and all was well except for Roger Blough, the president. He did not want his to look like the other top executives.'' He said his team spent $25,000 of design time on letterheads and finally decided to let the executive keep his old letterhead.
        Despite such difficulties, the emphasis on corporate identity continued, and today the firm of Lippincott & Margulies specializes in this field. It has grown to include dozens of other firms, all tracing their origins to what Lippincott & Margulies set in motion.
        Mr. Lippincott left the company in 1969, and Margulies died in 1989.
        After leaving the company, Mr. Lippincott retired to his home on the Connecticut shore where he helped administer a family foundation that provided grants in the general area of foreign affairs.
        He also tinkered with and rebuilt several boats, among them an old shrimp trawler.
        Joshua Gordon Lippincott is survived by his wife, Edith; two daughters, Caroline, of Santa Fe, N.M., and Edith Freeman of Cambridge, Mass.; three sons, H. Steven, of Van Etten, N.Y, and Donald and Alfred, of North Haven; 13 grandchildren, and a great-grandson.
      