
        Former Senator Jennings Randolph of West Virginia, a Democrat who was present at the creation of the New Deal and wrote the constitutional amendment that gave 18-year-olds the right to vote, died today at a nursing home in St. Louis. He was 96.
        Mr. Randolph had been living at the St. John's Mercy Skilled Nursing Center since his health began to fail in 1988, three years after he retired from the Senate. He was a Senator for 26 years and a member of the House of Representatives for 14 years.
        For three decades, beginning in 1942 when he was in the House, Mr. Randolph pushed for an amendment to lower the voting age from 21. He pursued his cause at every opportunity, and on his 11th attempt Congress approved it. The measure became the 26th Amendment on June 30, 1971, attaining the approval of  three-quarters of the states.
        ''I believe that our young people possess a great social conscience, are perplexed by the injustices which exist in the world and are anxious to rectify these ills,'' Mr. Randolph said as his dream became reality.
        On the big issues of his time, Mr. Randolph was generally a liberal. As a Senator, he voted for the 1964 Civil Rights Act and the 1965 Voting Rights Act. He was a strong supporter of President Lyndon B. Johnson's anti-poverty programs, and he backed Medicare.
        With his home state in mind, he tirelessly supported aid programs for Appalachia. ''I essentially am a West Virginia Senator,'' he once said. ''I'm not what you'd call a national Senator or international Senator.''
        Yet on some issues of global importance, he was prescient. ''In the future, we will not be able to depend on the importation of oil from any foreign country, even though it may appear now to be a very friendly one,'' he said in a House speech in 1943.
        That was in wartime, of course, but he was making the point that the United States needed to find new sources of oil and have energy policies that would protect it in peace as well as war. In 1980, with memories of long gasoline lines from the recent Arab oil embargo still vivid, he said, ''Now at long last, we realize what the situation is when the nation's monthly payout is over $90 billion for foreign oil.''
        For much of his time in Congress, Mr. Randolph supported the coal industry. His home state was the biggest coal-mining state, and he often walked a tightrope, trying to balance economic concerns against environmental ones. In 1969, when the consumer advocate Ralph Nader criticized his support of measures that would weaken mine safety, Mr. Randolph changed his position, declaring that the measures were ''mistakes'' and he could no longer back them.
        Mr. Randolph was elected to the House in 1932, benefiting from Roosevelt's landslide victory, and was elected to six more terms. Defeated in 1946, he became an executive of Capital Airlines. In 1953, he became chairman of a Commerce Department panel to study Federal aid to airport construction.
        Mr. Randolph was elected to the Senate in 1958 to fill the unexpired term of Matthew M. Neely. He was elected to four full six-year terms, during which he was a strong supporter of the Interstate Highway System, before deciding not to run in 1984.
        Jennings Randolph (his parents were admirers of William Jennings Bryon) was born in Salem, W.Va., on March 8, 1902. After graduating from Salem College in 1924, he became a reporter for the Clarksburg Daily Telegram. Soon thereafter, he became an editor on the West Virginia Review and later headed the department of public speaking and journalism at Elkins College in West Virginia until his election to Congress.
        Mr. Randolph thought his newspaper background gave him insights into reporters' biases, and he said so. Annoyed at criticism of his remarks about the women's movement in 1970, he noted that he was a co-sponsor of the equal rights amendment. But he did allow that his use of the phrase ''braless bubbleheads'' to describe some outspoken feminists ''was perhaps ill-chosen.''
        Mr. Randolph's wife, Mary, died about 15 years ago. He is survived by two sons, Jay of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and Frank of Washington; three grandchildren and a great-granddaughter.
        Mr. Randolph described himself as a ''Jeffersonian Democrat.'' In fact, he was one of the last New Deal Democrats. On the night of March 28, 1933, the young Congressman was in a group of lawmakers who sat with the new President before a fireplace on the second floor of the White House barely three weeks after taking office.
        Some in the group urged Roosevelt not to move too fast. The President took off his glasses and said: ''By acting now we will assuredly make mistakes. But if we don't act now, I'm afraid we will not have even the opportunity to make the mistakes a little later.''
        On his way home, Mr. Randolph recalled decades later, he thought Roosevelt might be the man to pull the country together.
      