
        Floyd G. Lounsbury, who brought an anthropologist's eye to the study of American Indian languages and helped decipher the hieroglyphs of the Maya, died on May 14 at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford. He was 84 and lived in East Haven, Conn.
        ''He was a master at analyzing complex cultural and linguistic systems,'' said Harold C. Conklin, like Dr. Lounsbury an emeritus professor of anthropology at Yale University.
        Dr. Lounsbury's work on the Maya, for example, went beyond language to include astronomy and calender systems, Dr. Conklin said.
        Dr. Lounsbury also used his knowledge of linguistics in his anthropological studies of how societies classify kin, a field in which he was ''the great theoretician, without any question,'' said Michael D. Coe, another former Yale colleague.
        Dr. Lounsbury's first love was the Iroquoi languages, including Oneida, which he learned in 1939 through a Depression-era jobs program in Wisconsin. The position involved teaching Oneidas to write their language, but to teach them he had first to learn to speak the notoriously complex tongue.
        ''Floyd was a quick study,'' Dr. Conklin said, and his work with the Oneidas produced texts that have been ''the bible for Iroquoianists.''
        Dr. Lounsbury was an early supporter of the Russian linguist Yuri Knorosov, who held in the early 1960's that the hieroglyphs of the Maya represented phonetic syllables rather than letters of an alphabet, as had long been assumed.
        Dr. Lounsbury had a crucial role in the collaboration among scholars to expand upon Knorosov's work and unlock the written language of the Maya, whose civilization flourished in Central America before collapsing about A.D. 800.
        Dr. Lounsbury ''established the modus operandi, how you go about deciphering,'' said Dr. Coe, the author of ''Breaking the Maya Code'' (Thames & Hudson, 1993). ''He really gave us our methodology.''
        The key was to examine glyphs that represented an entire word and look to see where the Maya, whose language Dr. Lounsbury also spoke, had written the same thing phonetically. ''You have to have a set of cross-check readings,'' Dr. Coe said. ''It can't be done off the top of your head.''
        Dr. Lounsbury was born in Stevens Point, Wis., and studied at the University of Wisconsin, where his first degree was in mathematics, a subject that helped him in much of his later work. He received his Ph.D. in anthropology from Yale in 1949.
        Dr. Lounsbury, who taught at Yale for three decades before retiring in 1979, is survived by his wife, Masako Yokoyama Lounsbury; a daughter, Ruth Lounsbury of Cortes Island, British Columbia, and a sister, Elva Lounsbury, of Wisconsin.
        Although he was in poor health for much of his life and did most of his research at a desk, Dr. Lounsbury occasionally went into the field, including trips to Mexico to study Maya sites. ''He felt he ought to get down to the Yucatan and see what all this stuff actually looks like,'' Dr. Coe said.
      