
        Dr. David J. L. Luck, a New York educator and biologist who contributed significantly to the field of cell biology, died on May 23 at New York Hospital. He was 69 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was lymphoma, according to Rockefeller University, where he was the Alfred E. Mirsky Professor of Biology and vice president for academic affairs.
        His early research concerned how growing cells form mitochondria, the rodlike structures within the cell that produce metabolic energy. He and Edward Reich, a Rockefeller biochemist, discovered in the early 1960's that mitochondria in a simple mold called neurospora contain their own DNA, as distinct from the DNA found in the cell nucleus.
        Dr. Luck then demonstrated the presence within mitochondria of a class of ribosomes, the small, complex RNA particles that synthesize protein within the cell. Ribosomes, he found, can serve as a means of converting the genetic information of this unique DNA into protein.
        Later, in the 1970's, he established that one ribosomal protein was produced within mitochondria and regulated the entire assembly process of protein synthesis. His work led to the insight that the basic mechanisms first studied in the simplest organisms like neurospora and yeast reflected those in animal mitochondria, including those in humans.
        More recently, Dr. Luck focused on microtubules, hollow tubelike filaments found in certain cell components. They play a varied and vital role in all cells of higher species, and his studies of microtubules in algae created a framework for examining the far more complex microtubular structures in human cells and looking for links between their malfunction and reproductive and neurological disorders or cell-division defects in cancer.
        David Jonathan Lewis Luck was born in Milwaukee and graduated in biochemistry from the University of Chicago in 1949.
        He graduated from Harvard Medical School in 1953, and until 1958 was on the staff of Massachusetts General Hospital.
        In 1962, he earned a Ph.D. at Rockefeller University while working in the cell-biology laboratory of the Nobelist George E. Palade.
        In 1985, he became the first occupant of the university's Mirsky Chair.
        He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1984. He also sat on the medical advisory board of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute and served as an editor of several scientific journals, including Molecular and Cellular Biology.
        He is survived by a sister, Merriam Palitz of Bakersfield, Calif.
      