
        Paul Seymour, a guard for the old Syracuse Nationals known for his feisty style of play, the captain of their 1955 National Basketball Association championship team and a former coach, died on Wednesday at his winter home in Jensen Beach, Fla. He was 70.
        He had been suffering from heart disease, his wife, Doris, said.
        The night before he died, Seymour would not go to bed until he was through watching the Knicks and Indiana Pacers finish their playoff game. A fighter as a player, he admired the toughness of the Knicks.
        Seymour, who grew up in Toledo, Ohio, and played for the University of Toledo, joined the Toledo Jeeps of the National Basketball League in 1946.
        The following year, after playing briefly for the Baltimore Bullets, he joined the Syracuse Nationals, and he played for them until 1958, averaging 8.6 points a game for his professional career.
        Seymour, a 6-foot-2-inch guard known for his intensity, averaged 14.6 points a game and 6.7 assists for the Syracuse team that won the 1955 N.B.A. title. He served as coach of the Nationals from 1956 to 1960 and coached the St. Louis Hawks to a Western Division title in 1961.
        He also coached the Baltimore Bullets for one season and then was hired to coach the Detroit Pistons for the final 60 games of the 1968-69 season.
        He compiled an overall N.B.A. coaching record of 271-243.
        ''He still watched the game and enjoyed it,'' his wife said. ''He most enjoyed playing in that era when it was playing basketball for the sake of playing basketball, not for the money. The camaraderie those guys had was phenomenal. It was a family. He enjoyed coaching, too, because he had a lot of good men. But then, just as it is now, you had to be a priest, a marriage counselor and a saint to be a coach.''
        Saint would hardly be the way that most of Seymour's opponents considered him.
        He never hesitated to use his fists to settle a score in a game, but rarely did it on his own account.
        ''He was the heart and soul of that Syracuse Nats team in the 1950's,'' recalled his teammate and close friend, Dolph Schayes. ''He was our spiritual leader and a leader on the floor. One time we played the Celtics, and he was fiercely loyal to his team. One of their big guys was beating up on me and I wasn't the type that fought back very hard. He went over to the Celtics' coach, Red Auerbach, and said, 'The next guy that beats up on Dolph, I'll beat on Bob Cousy.' It stopped. He was hard-nosed and he would fight at the drop of a hat, but he was an excellent player.''
        But Schayes also recalls another side of Seymour. When the Nationals offered Seymour the player-coach assignment, before he took it, he consulted with Schayes. ''He came up to me and said, 'Dolph, you're the first guy I'm coming to see,' '' Schayes said. ''He was always up front, and he told me he wanted to make sure it was O.K. with me.''
        In addition to his wife, Seymour, whose main home was in Liverpool, N.Y., is survived by a son, Paul 2d, and a daughter, Shaun Nicolli, both of Liverpool, and six grandchildren.
      