
        Barry M. Goldwater of Arizona, the recklessly candid Republican Presidential candidate who founded the modern conservative political movement in America, died yesterday at his home in Paradise Valley, a suburb of Phoenix. He was 89.
        A statement made public by the family said he died of natural causes shortly after 7 A.M., mountain daylight time.
        ''He was in his own bed, in his own room, as he wished, overlooking the valley he loved with family at his side,'' the statement said. ''He died as he lived, with dignity, courage and humility.''
        While losing all but six states to President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964, Mr. Goldwater carried to the nation a credo he had developed in 12 years as a Senator, a philosophy that concentrated on reducing the role of government at home and preaching strong anti-Communism abroad. But he also focused on the social issues of crime, school prayer and opposition to Federal civil rights programs.
        Most of all, Mr. Goldwater was an individualist. He was born in Phoenix in 1909, when Arizona was still a territory. In later years he sometimes found himself out of step with the movement he had launched and with the erstwhile volunteers who had grown up to become its leaders.
        Mr. Goldwater compromised with the New Right over abortion, and tempered his libertarian opposition to any government restrictions on abortion when he ran for his last Senate term in 1980. And in 1993 he flatly supported President Clinton's promise to halt the exclusion of homosexuals from the armed services, infuriating many onetime allies.
        Mr. Goldwater's philosophy was never more simply put than in his first book, ''Conscience of a Conservative,'' published in 1960. He wrote: ''I have little interest in streamlining government or making it more efficient, for I mean to reduce its size. I do not undertake to promote welfare, for I propose to extend freedom. My aim is not to pass laws, but to repeal them.''
        Known for bluntly speaking his mind, he sometimes backtracked or apologized for the way he put his foot in his mouth. But he never took back his most famous maxim: ''Extremism in the defense of liberty is no vice,'' and ''moderation in the pursuit of justice is no virtue.''
        That statement, from his speech accepting his party's nomination for President at the 1964 Republican National Convention in San Francisco, dismayed many Republicans who hoped to see him work to unify the party. It angered moderates who feared the radical influence of the John Birch Society in the party and at the convention, whose delegates had seen Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York drowned out by boos two nights earlier, when he tried to persuade the delegates to modify the platform.
        But as he did so often, Mr. Goldwater heard his own words outside of their political context. Convinced that the press had distorted his meaning, he stood by the reference to extremists so firmly that he repeated it at the 1984 convention in Dallas, where Republicans renominated President Ronald Reagan, whose own political career was launched on national television as he spoke for the Arizona Senator at the 1964 convention.
        A 'Crystallizer' Of Conservative Ideas
        Mr. Goldwater, an heir to a department store fortune and a pilot who did not see combat but ferried planes overseas in World War II, was elected to the Senate in 1952. He quickly established himself as a major voice for the wing of his party that expected a rollback, not a continuation, of the sweeping changes brought about in the New Deal era of Franklin D. Roosevelt.
        Mr. Goldwater's intermittent criticism of President Dwight D. Eisenhower's ''Modern Republicanism,'' which he characterized as a ''dime store New Deal,'' led frustrated conservatives in the 1950's to settle on the Arizonan as their hope for the future. And if he did not fulfill their ambitions for the nation himself, he changed their party and planted the seeds that Mr. Reagan reaped.
        William F. Buckley Jr., founder of The National Review and probably the preeminent political philosopher of their shared movement, said recently of Mr. Goldwater: ''He was the primary political figure in the 60's. Around him flowered a number of ideas that galvanized in the 80's.''
        Mr. Buckley hailed Mr. Goldwater for his ability to put ideas simply and effectively, saying: ''He was a crystallizer. He probably believed that Edmund Burke was correct when he said there were no good new ideas. His notion was to revitalize what he considered to be the operating principles of this nation before it was seduced by the idea of the state as a substitute for the individual in the area of social investment.''
        Ten years after his landslide loss to Lyndon Johnson, Mr. Goldwater's standing as the founder of the conservative movement in modern politics gave him a crucial role in a national crisis, the responsibility of convincing President Richard M. Nixon in August 1974 that the time had come to resign and end the nightmare of Watergate.
        In 1968 Mr. Goldwater had campaigned for Nixon, supporting him against a late challenge by Mr. Reagan. Mr. Goldwater supported the President's continuing pursuit of the war in Vietnam and swallowed his concerns about opening relations with Communist China.
        And for months he steadfastly defended Nixon against the many charges that spread from the burglary in June 1972 at the Democratic National Committee headquarters in the Watergate office and apartment complex in Washington. In September 1973, Mr. Goldwater wrote of the President in The New York Times Op-Ed page, ''He is completely innocent of charges that he knew about the Watergate break-in ahead of time or was cognizant of the massive attempt to cover up this episode and its related incidents.''
        He supported Nixon's dismissal of Archibald Cox, the special prosecutor, in October 1973. He explained away the gaps on subpoenaed White House tapes, and welcomed Nixon to a rally in Phoenix and a reception in nearby Scottsdale.
        A Decisive Role In Nixon's Resignation
        Mr. Goldwater did not bail out even at the end of July 1974, when the House Judiciary Committee approved two Articles of Impeachment against the President. So when he joined Republican leaders in visiting Nixon at the White House and telling him on Aug. 7, 1974, that the case was hopeless, his words were decisive in persuading the President to resign. Like many other Republicans, he decided that there was no hope for Nixon to retain the Presidency when he released, on Aug. 5, transcripts of a conversation he had six days after the Watergate break-in in which he directed the Central Intelligence Agency to halt an investigation of the break-in.
        In his years in Washington, Mr. Goldwater was not a man to bear grudges himself. But he made an exception for Nixon. When the former President traveled to China in 1976, at a tough time in the campaign of his successor, President Gerald R. Ford, Mr. Goldwater said, ''As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Nixon can go to China and stay there.'' And he did not attend Nixon's funeral in 1994.
        Mr. Goldwater's role in the Nixon resignation was probably his most important moment as a Senator. He was not deeply involved in much of the legislative cut and thrust of the Senate. But on two occasions, one early and one late in his career, he played a major role.
        The first came in 1959. Following up disclosures of labor racketeering, the Senate considered a bill requiring secret ballots for union elections and fuller financial disclosures. Mr. Goldwater condemned the measure as ''a pantywaist bill'' and demanded tougher penalties for corrupt practices and secondary boycotts.
        Mr. Goldwater was the only dissenter in a 90-to-1 roll-call vote. But he persuaded Eisenhower to press for much stronger legislation, the Landrum-Griffin Act, which the House then passed and the Senate approved.
        The second came 27 years later, in Mr. Goldwater's last year in the Senate. This time his leadership was more than rhetorical. In 1986, as chairman of the Armed Services Committee, he won enactment of a bill intended to diminish interservice rivalries. The legislation reorganized the top levels of the Pentagon, establishing the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff as the principal military adviser to the President and the Secretary of Defense.
        The Early Years: Business and Flying
        Before Mr. Goldwater entered politics in 1949, when he was elected to the Phoenix City Council, he had run the department store he inherited and pursued a wide range of hobbies -- from flying to ham radio to photography to hiking and to collecting Indian art, especially kachina  dolls of the Hopi Indians in the Southwest.
        Mr. Goldwater, who was born in Phoenix on Jan. 1, 1909, three years before Arizona became a state, was the son of Baron and Josephine Williams Goldwater. His father was Jewish, the son of an immigrant tailor from Poland who had established the family fortune with a chain of clothing stores in what was then the territory of Arizona. His mother, a nurse who had left Nebraska to settle in Arizona for her health, was an Episcopalian, and he was baptized and raised in that faith.
        ''I was told I was an Episcopalian before I ever learned that my father was Jewish,'' Mr. Goldwater once said. ''But I am proud of my Jewish ancestors.''
        As a teen-ager, he failed half his courses in his first year in high school in Phoenix. His parents packed him off to Staunton Military Academy in Virginia, where he thrived. After graduating in 1928, he entered the University of Arizona at Tucson. Without the military academy's discipline, his studies suffered, and he dropped out after his freshman year.
        He went to work in the family store in Phoenix at about the time his father died. He showed a flair for merchandising, developing desert fashions for men. Mr. Goldwater took over in 1936, but he was not deeply interested in running the business. The Goldwater stores in Phoenix, Scottsdale and Prescott were sold in 1962 to a national chain. By that time, he was a United States Senator.
        Despite flawed eyesight, Mr. Goldwater managed to join the Army Air Forces in World War II, training pilots and gunners and then ferrying bombers and fighters to India and China. After the war he founded the Arizona Air National Guard as a racially integrated unit. Later he held the rank of major general in the Air Force Reserve, donating his military pension to charity.
        As part of a municipal reform movement in Phoenix after the war, Mr. Goldwater ran for City Council and led the field. His work on the Council, especially in efforts to cut municipal spending, gave him ambitions for higher office, even though Republicans had not carried the state in a Presidential election since 1928 or elected a Senator since 1920. But they had elected J. Howard Pyle as Governor in 1950. Mr. Goldwater ran the campaign, and made a name for himself around the state.
        In 1952 he ran against Ernest W. MacFarland, the Senate majority leader, and tarred him as an ally of President Harry S. Truman, ''that architect of Socialism.'' With the help of stumping by Eisenhower and Senators Robert A. Taft and Joseph R. McCarthy, Mr. Goldwater won by a margin of 6,725 votes out of 257,401 votes cast.
        As McCarthy had helped him, he stood by the Wisconsin Senator, who charged that Communists had invaded the Federal bureaucracy. ''Do I stick up for McCarthy?'' Mr. Goldwater said at that time. ''Yes. I have always done it, and I intend to continue. Those people who would like to do away with McCarthy are the type of people who would also like to coddle Communists.''
        In December 1954, when 67 senators voted to censure McCarthy for his conduct in the Army-McCarthy hearings earlier that year, Mr. Goldwater was one of 22 senators who voted against censure.
        A Foe of Communism And Social Welfare
        In the Senate, Mr. Goldwater advocated repeal of the graduated income tax and opposed grants-in-aid to the states, agriculture subsidies, Federal aid to education, foreign aid, the nuclear test ban treaty of 1963 and a long list of social welfare programs.
        Although Mr. Goldwater had contributed money to a lawsuit challenging racial segregation in Phoenix, in 1957 he criticized the Supreme Court's decision in Brown v. Board of Education, saying he was ''not impressed by the claim that the Supreme Court's decision on school integration is the law of the land.''
        Mr. Goldwater was re-elected in 1958, winning more than 56 percent of the vote despite a national Democratic sweep, and was quickly becoming the favorite of his party's conservatives. His book ''Conscience of a Conservative'' cemented that standing. He urged ''a rigid timetable'' for Federal withdrawal from almost all domestic programs on which it spent money, and repeated his criticism of the Supreme Court on school integration.
        In the final chapter, which focused on the ''Soviet menace,'' he criticized American leaders for seeking ''peace'' while Communists sought ''victory.'' He argued that the United States could not consider war ''unthinkable'' because that would give the Soviet Union an immense advantage. It was necessary for the United States to oppose Communism by achieving military superiority, by withdrawing diplomatic recognition, and ''we should encourage the captive people to revolt against their Communist rulers.''
        Mr. Goldwater's travels around the country, first for the Republican Senate Campaign Committee, which he headed in 1955 and 1956, and then on his own, built up grass-roots support for him.
        A Front-Runner And an Easy Target
        He supported Nixon for the 1960 nomination against Rockefeller's tentative challenge, and in the general election he again backed Nixon, who lost an extremely close race against the Democratic nominee, John F. Kennedy. But after Nixon lost his campaign for governor of California in 1962, Mr. Goldwater became the clear front-runner for the 1964 nomination.
        He got along well with Kennedy, although he regarded the President as incurably liberal and opposed most of his programs -- from civil rights legislation to the nuclear test ban treaty.
        In the summer of 1963, in an interview with The Saturday Evening Post, Mr. Goldwater said, ''You know, I haven't really got a first-class brain.''
        He then offered evidence to support that assertion -- at least when it came to political realities -- when he went on to remark, ''You know, I think we ought to sell T.V.A.,'' the Tennessee Valley Authority, whose popularity was far greater than his own in much of the South. And without arguing the case carefully, he also casually proposed giving NATO commanders authority to use nuclear weapons.
        The Senator and the President looked forward to the 1964 race, Mr. Goldwater because he could argue clearly defined issues, and Kennedy because he thought his rival's conservatism and verbal gaffes would make the Arizonan an easy target and enable him to win the landslide he needed to pass legislation he sought in a second term. Kennedy would just let Mr. Goldwater rattle on.
        But after Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas on Nov. 22, 1963, hate mail accused the Senator of inspiring the President's killer with his attacks on the Kennedy Administration. He wanted to pull out of the race.
        The Campaign Slogan: 'A Choice, Not an Echo'
        His conservative backers argued that he owed it to the country and the cause to persevere, and talked him out of quitting. Announcing his candidacy in Scottsdale on Jan. 3, 1964, he said: ''I will not change my beliefs to win votes. I will offer a choice, not an echo.''
        Four days later, opening his campaign for the New Hampshire primary, he told reporters in Concord that Social Security should be made ''voluntary,'' so that ''if a person can provide better for himself, let him do it.'' In a state with many elderly people, that scared voters, and he lost the primary to Henry Cabot Lodge on a write-in vote.
        But Mr. Goldwater avoided most primaries and piled up delegates in states where his followers could dominate caucuses and conventions. In California, however, he came head to head with Rockefeller, who sought to portray him as a trigger-happy candidate backed by the John Birch Society and the Ku Klux Klan.
        Mr. Goldwater helped that campaign along when he said on television that Communist supply lines in Vietnam could be damaged by ''defoliation of the forest by low-yield atomic weapons.'' But Mr. Goldwater narrowly won the primary, 51.6 percent to Rockefeller's 48.4 percent.
        Eisenhower and Republican leaders in many states feared that Mr. Goldwater's nomination would bring their own candidates down, but they could never organize to do anything about it, and the Arizonan's followers had their triumph. In the months that followed, millions of lapels bore Goldwater buttons proclaiming: ''In Your Heart, You Know He's Right.''
        Some, like Mr. Buckley, knew at the time that they had no hope of winning in 1964 and were building for future elections. And Johnson ran a rough campaign, implying that Mr. Goldwater would blow up the world.
        In the most devastating television commercial of the campaign, shown only once by the Johnson campaign but replayed dozens of times on news programs, a little girl picked the petals off a daisy and counted them. When she reached ''nine,'' an ominous countdown, like those of a missile launching, began, followed by a huge mushroom cloud. Mr. Goldwater's name was never mentioned.
        On Nov. 3, 1964, he lost in a landslide. Johnson won 61.1 percent of the popular vote, 43,129,566 to 27,178,188. Mr. Goldwater carried his home state and five others, all in the South: Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi and South Carolina.
        But he accepted his defeat with likable equanimity. ''When you've lost an election by that much,'' he observed ruefully, ''it isn't the case of whether you made the wrong speech or wore the wrong necktie. It was just the wrong time.''
        He could even joke about the press: ''I've often said that if I hadn't known Barry Goldwater in 1964 and I had to depend on the press and the cartoons, I'd have voted against the son of a bitch.''
        On another occasion, reminiscing about the campaign, he said he had always known that he did not have a chance against President Johnson. While he was writing his speech to accept the Republican nomination, he recalled, he turned to his staff and said, ''We shouldn't be writing this acceptance speech; we ought to be writing a speech telling them to go to hell and let's go home.''
        While his wife, Peggy, might have welcomed a quieter life back in Arizona, Mr. Goldwater observed after his defeat at the age of 55: ''I'm too old to go back to work and too young to get out of politics.'' So he ran for the Senate again in 1968, winning comfortably, and finding himself right at home with the growing number of conservative Republicans in the Senate.
        The Last Years: Ailing and Often Absent
        But in his second tour on Capitol Hill Mr. Goldwater was plagued with hip and leg problems, involving several painful operations. In 1982 he had triple-bypass heart surgery.
        In part because of his health problems, Mr. Goldwater seemed less and less interested in his Senate work as the years passed. But when the Republicans captured the Senate in the Reagan landslide in 1980, he took on a more active role. He led the 1981 Senate fight for confirmation of a fellow Arizonan, Sandra Day O'Connor, as the first woman to serve on the United States Supreme Court.
        Mr. Goldwater barely squeaked through in his last campaign in 1980, defeating his Democratic opponent, Bill Schulz, by only 9,399 votes out of 874,238 cast.
        A reporter asked if he saw a message in the narrow margin, and he said, ''I don't know and I don't particularly care.'' One issue had been his absenteeism, and he was asked if he would turn up to vote more often. ''I won't break my back at it,'' he replied. ''If I have something to vote for I'll be there, but I'm not going to just put my tail on the floor of the Senate.''
        In his last years in the Senate, Mr. Goldwater was often critical of Republicans. Noting the budget deficits that were ballooning during Mr. Reagan's Presidency, he said, ''Had I been in Reagan's place, this country never would have gone $3 trillion in debt.''
        He fought proposals to pass laws limiting the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court because of dissatisfaction with its decisions. When the New Right criticized him on that position, he responded, ''If they don't like it, to hell with them.'' And in 1989, he labeled the followers of Pat Robertson in Arizona ''a bunch of kooks.''
        But probably no stand, not even his endorsement of Karan English, a Democratic Congressional candidate  in 1992, stirred so much unhappiness among his onetime allies than his view of homosexuality.
        The next year, when Mr. Clinton was fighting opposition from the military to his campaign promise to end discrimination against homosexuals in the armed forces, the former Senator supported him. ''You don't need to be 'straight' to fight and die for your country,'' he wrote in in a letter to The Washington Post. ''You just need to shoot straight.''
        A gay grandson, Ty Ross, said the letter was provoked after he brought a friend home to visit and told Mr. Goldwater that his guest was about to be discharged from the Air Force because he was homosexual.
        In 1985, Peggy, his wife of 51 years, died. In 1992 he married Susan Wechsler, who is the executive director of Hospice of the Valley, which provides home care for terminally ill patients. In 1996, 10 years after retiring from the Senate, he suffered a stroke that affected his memory.
        Besides his wife and grandson Mr. Ross, Mr. Goldwater is survived by two sons, Barry Jr., of Phoenix, a former California Congressman who is now an investment counselor, and Michael, of Scottsdale, director of the state Office of the Registrar of Contractors; two daughters, Joanne, of Guadalajara, Mexico, and Peggy Clay of Newport Beach, Calif.; a brother, Bob, of Scottsdale, a sister, Carolyn, of Phoenix, nine other grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
        Funeral services will be held on Wednesday at the Grady Gammage Auditorium at Arizona State University in Tempe.
      