
        Samuel Cummings, the world's biggest small-arms dealer, died on April 29 in Monaco after a series of strokes. He was 71 and had long reigned as the undisputed philosopher-king of the arms trade.
        In a world marked by secrecy, deception, swindles and scams, Mr. Cummings stood out. He was open, had a reputation for honesty, and was a genial connoisseur of the profit found in political violence.
        ''The arms business,'' he told an interviewer in 1989, ''is based on human folly, and folly has yet to be measured nor its debths plumbed.'' His biographers limned him as a pleasant and law-abiding merchant of death.
        His company, Interarms, did $100 million worth of business in a good year, and over the course of four decades it had many. It dealt guns and ammunition to dictators, despots, revolutionaries and counter-revolutionaries -- and, in one notable case, to both sides in a Central American guerrilla war.
        Any government or guerrilla movement needing 30,000 automatic rifles in a hurry could dial Interarms' telephone numbers in Alexandria, Va., or Manchester, England, and take delivery in days subject to cash and certain licensing niceties.
        Born of well-to-do British parents in Philadelphia in 1927, Mr. Cummings collected his first gun when he was 5 years old. He recalled finding a rusting German machine gun in the trash outside an American Legion post, tossing it in his little red wagon and dragging it home. It was, he remembered, love at first sight.
        After a stint in the Army at the close of World War II, Mr. Cummings graduated from George Washington University and studied briefly at Oxford. In 1950 he began his true post-graduate education: he joined the fledgling Central Intelligence Agency, which provided him with more guns than he ever dreamed of.
        For four years, with the cold war at its peak, Mr. Cummings was the agency's most cunning arms dealer. Masquerading as a Hollywood producer buying guns for the movies, he snapped up $100 million worth of surplus German arms on the cheap in Europe and shipped them to Chinese Nationalist forces in Taiwan.
        Seeing the fantastic profit that could be made in such deals, he left the C.I.A. in 1953 and, at the age of 26, founded Interarms. The next year the agency mounted a coup in Guatemala and installed a right-wing colonel loyal to the United States. Mr. Cummings got the contract to arm the new Government.
        Mr. Cummings did not discourage speculation that he maintained ties to the C.I.A.; for example, he named one of his subsidiaries Cummings Investment Associates, and let people draw their own conclusions.
        Mr. Cummings dealt with almost anybody, drawing the line only at Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya and  Idi Amin of Uganda. He sold Communist Chinese rifles to flag-waving American sportsmen. He sold weapons to the right-wing Cuban dictator Fulgencio Batista and his left-wing successor, Fidel Castro.
        He made millions from the apartheid regime in South Africa; from the United States, Britain, Austria, France, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, Israel, and many other nations across the Middle East and Latin America. He owned the United States franchise for Walther pistols, the handgun favored by Ian Fleming's fictional secret agent, James Bond.
        He made a fortune by foreseeing passage of the 1968 Gun Control Act, which banned imports of military weapons into the United States. Months before it became law, he went on a global shopping spree, stockpiling 700,000 weapons in his huge warehouse on the banks of the Potomac River in Virginia, a few miles from the Pentagon.
        ''At that moment,'' he told an interviewer, ''we could have instantly overwhelmed the American armed forces.''
        Mr. Cummings moved to Europe at that time, becoming a British subject and establishing residences at a chateau in the Swiss Alps and in the tax haven of Monte Carlo.
        He maintained his headquarters in Virginia, which he visited less frequently in recent years. He also  bought a lavish estate in the hunt country west of Washington, Ashland Farms, which was used primarily by his daughters, Diana and Susan Cummings. They survive him, as does his wife, Irma.
        In September, Susan Cummings, 35, was charged with murder in the shooting death of her lover, Roberto Villegas, an Argentine polo player, who died of multiple gunshot wounds at Ashland Farms.
      