
        Finis E. DavisFinis E. Davis, an executive, educator and fund-raiser who spent his life serving the blind at home in Kentucky and around the world, died last Friday at the Episcopal Church Home in Louisville. He was 86.
        Mr. Davis fulfilled his service to the blind in two main arenas: the volunteer organization Lions Clubs International, whose beneficiaries include the visually impaired, and the American Printing House for the Blind, the world's largest provider of Braille publications.
        Mr. Davis spent 29 years at the printing house, a Louisville company where he was superintendent and then general manager before retiring in 1976. The company added a number of innovations during his tenure, for instance developing a process for producing Braille plates using plastic instead of metal.
        That move cut costs by 90 percent, meaning, Mr. Davis noted in 1958,  that all blind children in all schools around the country could have their very own textbooks.
        As a leader of Lions Clubs International, one of whose central goals is to make life easier for the blind, Mr. Davis also traveled throughout the world. In 1960, he served a term as the organization's president.
        Mr. Davis was born in Lead Hill, Ark., and found his lifelong commitment through the friendship of a blind schoolmate. By the time he graduated from the University of Arkansas in 1938, he had already taught for five years at the Arkansas School for the Blind in Little Rock. He headed that school from 1939 to 1947, when he resigned to join the printing house in Louisville.
        He had been president of the Lions Club of Little Rock and, after moving to Kentucky, became president of the Louisville chapter as well. In 1954, he joined the Lions' international board. In his various roles with the organization, he helped to raise millions of dollars for research and, among other things, to build the Kentucky Lions Eye Research Institute at the ophthalmology department of the University of Kentucky.
        Mr. Davis is survived by his wife of 64 years, Ethlyn Watkins Davis; three daughters, Marybel Black of Prospect, Ky.; Juliann Edwards of Plano, Tex., and Linda Sue Broecker of Louisville; a brother, Jeff, of Harrison, Ark.; 10 grandchildren, and 4 great-grandchildren.
      