
        Philip L. Carret, a founder of one of the country's first mutual funds and a legendary investor who swapped investment ideas with Warren E. Buffett's father half a century ago, died on Thursday at Mount Vernon Hospital in Mount Vernon, N.Y., where he was recovering from hip surgery. He was 101.
        In an investment career that spanned eight decades and encompassed dozens of cycles of bull and bear markets, Mr. Carret (pronounced cuh-RAY) was known as a longtime proponent of the ''value'' style of investing: buying shares of companies with steadily growing earnings, strong balance sheets and committed managers who themselves owned a hefty stake in the company, and then holding onto those investments for many years.
        It was a style he employed successfully for 55 years as manager of the Pioneer Fund, a mutual fund he founded in 1928. Mr. Carret came upon the idea for an investment pool four years earlier while working as a financial reporter at the Boston News Bureau, whose publisher, Clarence W. Barron, later lent his name to the financial weekly Barron's, where Mr. Carret also worked.
        Mr. Carret gathered $25,000 contributed by friends and family to start the investment pool, which evolved into its current incarnation as a mutual fund. The fund lost money in the stock market crash of 1929 and the Great Depression that followed, but from the mid-1930's through his retirement as its manager in 1983, Mr. Carret led the Pioneer Fund to some of the best long-term returns in the fund industry.
        Mr. Carret also displayed an equal passion for pursuits that offered fewer financial rewards. After seeing his first total solar eclipse in 1925 in Westerly, R.I., he traveled fanatically around the globe to view 19 more, the last in February in Barbados.
        Viewing a solar eclipse was ''a deeply religious experience,'' Mr. Carret said in 1981, but he also recognized that its attraction was somewhat mysterious even to him. ''I don't think I can explain it to any rational person,'' he said.
        Befitting a legacy of longevity, Philip Lord Carret was born on Nov. 29, 1896, in Lynn, Mass., the only child of a 51-year-old lawyer and a 39-year-old social worker. After graduating from Harvard College in 1917 with a degree in chemistry, he enlisted in the Army Signal Corps, a predecessor to the Air Force, where he was trained to fly the Sopwith Camel airplane. He was sent to France, but the war ended before he saw combat.
        In 1922, he married Florence Elisabeth Osgood, who died in 1986. He is survived by a son, Donald, of Manhattan; a daughter, Diane, of Pawling, N.Y.; 12 grandchildren and 15 great-grandchildren. Another son, Gerard, died of cancer in 1991 at age 70.
        In 1963, after selling control of the company that managed the Pioneer Fund, he founded Carret & Company, which oversaw investment portfolios for wealthy individuals and institutions. He sold his stake in the firm in 1988, but he continued to work there without salary. Until this month, he commuted three days a week from his home in Scarsdale, N.Y., to the Carret offices in midtown Manhattan. Mr. Carret also remained a trustee of the Pioneer mutual funds until his 100th birthday in 1996.
        A trademark of his investing style was to buy a stock only if he thought he could double his money, but to wait patiently for that to happen. He scoffed at the tendency of many younger mutual fund managers to hold a stock for weeks, if not days, which he called ''the pinnacle of stupidity.''
        In the mid-1940's, Mr. Carret traveled to Omaha, where a young stock broker named Howard Buffett recommended an investment in the Greif Brothers Corporation, a barrel maker. Mr. Carret bought the stock, which then traded for 68 cents, adjusted for subsequent stock splits. He held on through the company's sometimes difficult transitions to new packaging materials, like fiber and steel drums and containers. At the end of last year, Carret & Company still owned 4 percent of Greif Brothers' class A shares, which now trade at about $36.50.
        Mr. Carret also has been a longstanding shareholder of Berkshire Hathaway, the holding company now managed by Warren E. Buffett, the son of Mr. Carret's stockbroker friend. Mr. Carret usually traveled to Omaha for the company's annual meeting, where the younger Mr. Buffett, Berkshire's chairman, once introduced him as ''one of my heros.''
        Mr. Carret was the author of several investment books, including ''Buying a Bond,'' and ''The Art of Speculation,'' both originally written as a series of articles for Barron's magazine and published as books in 1924 and 1930, respectively. Both books have been reissued recently as commemorative editions, and in 1991, the Fraser Publishing Company of Burlington, Vt., released ''A Money Mind at Ninety,'' an anecdotal autobiography.
        Its title notwithstanding, ''The Art of Speculation'' is considered a classic of the value style of investing. But Mr. Carret was not above investing for shorter-term gains. In 1939, drawing on his grandfather's experience as owner of a sugar plantation in Trinidad, Mr. Carret bought shares of a Cuban sugar company, expecting that the price of sugar would soar during wartime. He sold the shares, purchased for $1.75 each, for $65 to $200 apiece in the 1940's.
        Last year, Mr. Carret, as one of Harvard's oldest living graduates, led the annual alumni procession at commencement exercises, and he had planned to attend this year's event on June 4 even after his recent accident. In a May 11 letter to John F. Cogan Jr., a longtime friend and chairman of the Pioneer Group, Mr. Carret wrote, ''I am confined to quarters and feasting on antibiotics, but this phase will soon be over and I shall lunge vigorously into the alien world of exercise, for I am determined to be in Cambridge for commencement day.''
      