
        Jose Francisco Pena Gomez, a three-time candidate for President of the Dominican Republic who rose from a childhood of extreme poverty to become one of the most prominent black political figures in Latin America, died on Sunday night at his home outside Santo Domingo. He was 61.
        Mr. Pena Gomez had been battling pancreatic and stomach cancer for years, but refused to give up his passion for politics. At his death, he was running for Mayor of Santo Domingo, the country's capital, in municipal and congressional elections scheduled for Saturday, and polls showed him with a comfortable lead.
        President Leonel Fernandez, who narrowly defeated Mr. Pena Gomez in 1996, yesterday decreed a suspension of all campaigning and declared three days of national mourning ''in recognition of the contribution Pena Gomez made to democracy in the Dominican Republic.''
        The campaign will then resume and the election will proceed as scheduled, Government officials said.
        No politician openly acknowledging African ancestry has ever been elected president of any Spanish-speaking Latin American nation in this century, though a few of mixed race have held power. But Mr. Pena Gomez came extremely close to achieving that feat, and even without occupying his country's highest office came to be known throughout the hemisphere as an eloquent spokesman for and defender of political, social and racial equality and justice.
        ''He was a great man, one of the very few people I have known who at critical moments put democracy ahead of his own personal interests,'' Robert Pastor, the director of the Latin American and Caribbean program at the Carter Center in Atlanta who knew Mr. Pena Gomez well, said yesterday.
        Mr. Pena Gomez was born on March 6, 1937, in Valverde to parents of Haitian descent. As an infant, he was orphaned when Rafael Trujillo, the military dictator of the Dominican Republic, ordered a massacre in which more than 10,000 Haitians and Dominicans of Haitian descent in the border area were killed and additional thousands fled across the border.
        A peasant family took in the foundling, raised him as their own child and gave him their name. In one of the ironies that marked his public life and illustrated his appeal to the poor, Mr. Pena Gomez's running mate in 1996 turned out to be none other than Fernando Alvarez Bogaert, scion of the family that owned the ranch where he was raised.
        ''I am a human being who has experienced many vicissitudes,'' Mr. Pena Gomez said in an interview in 1996. ''I was born in an era of conflicts. I have two sets of parents and two families. One is by blood, and the other is the result of cohabitation. But both are dear to me.''
        As a result of his upbringing, Mr. Pena Gomez relied on his voracious intellectual appetite to supplement a tenuous early education. At 8, he worked in a grocery store and at a bar, and by the time he was a teen-ager he had taken jobs as a shoemaker's and a barber's apprentice.
        At 15, he became an instructor in a literacy program for poor children in his native province and later worked as a teacher in rural and night schools. By 1960 he had moved to Santo Domingo, where he enrolled in a broadcasting course and proved so natural a talent that a radio station quickly hired him to announce baseball games and other sports events.
        At the same time Mr. Pena Gomez was making his first forays into politics. After an interlude when he studied political science at universities in Costa Rica and Puerto Rico, he became first the press secretary of the leftist Dominican Revolutionary Party, or P.R.D., and then its Secretary General.
        The P.R.D. was the party of Juan Bosch, the radical firebrand who for 20 years had led the opposition to the Trujillo dictatorship. By the time Mr. Bosch was elected President in 1962, Mr. Pena Gomez had emerged as a protege. Mr. Bosch was ousted by a coup in 1963, however, and that led to a civil war and, in April 1965, an American invasion of the Dominican Republic.
        Mr. Pena Gomez took his oratorical skills to the streets and the airwaves to head the opposition to that intervention, which led to Joaquin Balaguer's becoming President and the P.R.D.'s being cast into the political wilderness for 12 years. Repression was intense throughout that period, and Mr. Pena Gomez eventually had to leave the country.
        Taking refuge in France, he studied political science and constitutional and labor law for two years at the University of Paris. Earlier, Mr. Pena Gomez had earned a law degree from the Autonomous University of Santo Domingo and had also studied political science in courses at Harvard University and Michigan State University.
        In exile he also was involved in efforts to obtain international condemnation of human rights violations in the Dominican Republic, forging relationships with groups that were important for the rest of his life. It was also during that period that Mr. Bosch and Mr. Pena Gomez had a falling out that resulted in Mr. Bosch's breaking with the party that he had founded and setting up a new one.
        In 1982, Mr. Pena Gomez was elected Mayor of Santo Domingo, which automatically made him a strong contender for the presidency. But his party passed him by in 1986, with some of its leaders arguing that it would be impossible for a black man, especially one of Haitian descent, to defeat Mr. Balaguer, who was Foreign Minister at the time of the 1937 massacre and was notorious for his disdain for blacks.
        The P.R.D. lost to Mr. Balaguer anyway, and in 1990, Mr. Pena Gomez finally won the nomination. He finished third in a vote marred by widespread accusations of electoral fraud after a campaign that was full of racial innuendo, but he vowed to try again.
        In 1994 he won his party's nomination for a second time, but had to contend with what electoral observer groups described as race baiting and vote fraud that was even more blatant. The widely questioned final official results showed him losing by 30,000 votes, and though many political observers expected Mr. Pena Gomez to order his followers into the streets to challenge the tally, he chose restraint and negotiation.
        His first bout with cancer followed soon afterward. But the disease went into remission after treatment in the United States, and, with Mr. Balaguer barred from succeeding himself, Mr. Pena Gomez finished ahead of two strong competitors in the first round of a special presidential vote in 1996, receiving 47 percent of the vote. But he fell short of the majority that he needed to avoid a runoff, and was narrowly defeated by Mr. Fernandez in the second round.
        Shortly thereafter, the cancer reappeared, and Mr. Pena Gomez spent most of the rest of his life shuttling back and forth between Santo Domingo and New York, where he underwent medical treatment.
        In January, a factional dispute led him to jump back into the political arena in hopes that his personal popularity and fiery oratory would enable his party to make gains in the voting on May 16.
        Surviving are his wife, Peggy Cabral, and eight children and stepchildren.
        With his admirers converging on Santo Domingo from all corners of the country yesterday, the Dominican Government agreed that his body would be displayed at the national baseball stadium to accommodate the huge crowds that are expected.
      