
        Frank C. Montero, a racial pioneer who in his various guises as political gadfly, government official, foundation executive and real estate developer devoted his life to smoothing the way toward an integrated society, died on May 8 at a nursing home in Oberlin, Ohio. He was 89 and a longtime resident of the Riverdale section of the Bronx.
        In a career in which he spent a dozen years as associate executive director of the National Urban League, directed a foundation that brought African students to the United States, ran a program for the United States Mission to the United Nations to acclimate African and other third world delegates to American society, put in a stint as vice president of a corporation promoting integrated real estate developments and later became vice president of the Tishman real estate company, Mr. Montero was Exhibit A in a lifelong campaign to integrate American society.
        From the time he was a youngster, Mr. Montero was in the forefront of integration. His, for example, was one of the first black families to move into the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn, and as a schoolboy, Mr. Montero, who was regularly beaten by his white classmates, learned early the problems of being black in a white-dominated society.
        As the son of a largely uneducated Virginia-born baseball player who played in South America in an era when black players were not welcome in the major leagues, Mr. Montero did pretty well for himself, graduating from a New England prep school, studying under Ralph Bunche at Howard University, receiving one master's degree, in social work, from Columbia University and another, in public administration, from New York University.
        His mother, who was also from Hampton, Va., was a school teacher who knew the value of education, and, as one of the few black teachers in the New York City public school system, a woman who had little truck with the strictures of a racist society.
        When her son showed signs of becoming a juvenile delinquent, she packed him off to Mount Hermon, an exclusive boarding school in Northfield, Mass., where as only the school's second black student, albeit a distinctly light-skinned one, he thrived, becoming captain of the basketball team.
        In what he later described as an effort to ''find my identity,'' he passed up the chance to attend a white college and enrolled at Howard, a traditionally black university, where he majored in economics and came under the influence of his political science instructor, Mr. Bunche.
        His work with the Urban League in the 1940's and 1950's brought him to  prominence in New York, but for all that, Mr. Montero, a highly gregarious man whose jokes and big, booming laugh made him a cherished companion, was considered so much of an oddity on the local political scene that newspaper accounts of his activities invariably identified him by his race. In 1950, for example, when Mr. Montero, whose previous marriage had ended in divorce, married a wealthy and socially prominent Boston woman descended from the Puritan preacher, Cotton Mather, the headline on The New York Times account read, ''Miss Anne Mather Married To Negro.''
        Well, not just any Negro. The article said Mr. Montero, who had met his bride when she did volunteer work for the Urban League, was ''a prominent Negro social worker.''
        It was several years before his wife's parents fully accepted Mr. Montero, but since she had money of her own, the estrangement did not keep the couple from buying a house in Riverdale, where Mr. Montero, whose daughters attended the Fieldston School, was once again a racial pioneer in a predominantly white neighborhood. The couple were divorced in 1974.
        In 1960, Mr. Montero became a footnote to John F. Kennedy's presidential victory when the State Department turned down a request from a foundation headed by Mr. Montero for a $100,000 grant to bring poor African students to the United States and a Kennedy family foundation gleefully provided the money.
        Drawn to the reform wing of New York Democratic politics, Mr. Montero plunged into politics as a campaign coordinator for Mayor Robert F. Wagner's 1961 re-election run against the Democratic bosses.
        His political efforts won him appointment to the city's human rights commission and a job as special assistant to Ambassador Adlai E. Stevenson, the American delegate to the United Nations.
        His survivors include a daughter from his first marriage, Curle M. Lee of England; two other daughters, Marianne of Riverdale and Laurie of Ashland, Ore.; a sister, Marian Johnston of Sea Cliff, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
      