
        Henry Tanner, a Swiss-born reporter who covered everything from wars to diplomatic receptions with equal aplomb during a half-century career in journalism, died on Friday night at a hospital near his weekend home in Honfleur, France.
        A resident of Paris, he was 79 and had been a foreign correspondent for The New York Times before writing for The International Herald Tribune and then retiring.
        The cause was a heart attack , his family said.
        A trim, dapper man who spoke nine languages, Mr. Tanner had a broad and insightful knowledge of international affairs and was entirely at ease in the company of diplomats. He was known as a reporter who covered the most exciting events without getting excited.
        In 1976, for example, when Mr. Tanner was being driven across the green line separating Christian and Muslim zones in Beirut, Lebanon, a sniper's bullet crashed through the windshield, fatally wounding the correspondent at the wheel and showering Mr. Tanner with glass.
        With his face bleeding and a piece of glass lodged in his eye, Mr. Tanner reached across his colleague's body, grabbed the wheel of the speeding car and brought it under control after it had smashed through a barbed-wire obstruction.
        When his matter-of-fact account of the incident, filed to The Times as part of a broader article on the day's fighting, failed to mention his own role, Mr. Tanner was persuaded to fill in the gap, which he grudgingly did, duly noting that the doctors who treated his facial cuts and removed the shard from his eye had described the wounds as ''inconsequential.''
        Born in Bern and brought up in St. Gallen, Switzerland, Mr. Tanner became a United States citizen in 1954. As he later recalled it, Mr. Tanner was on the verge of abandoning doctoral studies in history at the University of Zurich and was planning to try his hand at psychiatry when the chance offer of a job with United Press in 1941 proved too tempting to pass up, especially for a 23-year-old man with such a yen for travel and adventure that he once took a two-month trip through France, Corsica and Italy at a total cost of $30.
        After working in the news service's Zurich and Belgrade offices, he was hired in 1946 by Time-Life to cover France, Switzerland, Belgium and the Netherlands. He joined The Houston Post in 1948, writing a daily foreign news analysis, then spending five years as the newspaper's Washington correspondent, with roving assignments in the Middle East, Eastern Europe and elsewhere. Mr. Tanner joined The Times in 1958.
        Over the next quarter of a century, Mr. Tanner was an unruffled man on the move, covering African hot spots like the Congo and Algeria, spending two years as Moscow bureau chief and four years in charge of the Paris office. Later, he served at the United Nations bureau, followed by postings in Cairo and Rome before being assigned once again to Paris. Then in 1983, he joined The International Herald Tribune, which is owned by The New York Times Company and The Washington Post Company. He retired five years ago.
        On the job, his resourcefulness was appreciated. Once, when it became apparent that a mammoth traffic tie-up in Dublin would make Mr. Tanner and a Times colleague late for an appearance by the Pope, the colleague became quite agitated, but Mr. Tanner was his usual calm self. As he explained it, he had anticipated the delays and taken the routine precaution of arranging for a sharp-eyed cardinal accompanying the Pope to give him a detailed account of the Pope's activities.
        Mr. Tanner, who had a brief early marriage to a Swiss-Italian model known as Mamoune, later married a Danish woman, Peggy Aarup, who died in 1977.
        He was married last September to Christine Geansollen. She survives, along with a son from his second marriage, Victor Tanner of Washington, and a granddaughter.
      