
        Dr. Sidney Cobb, an epidemiologist who studied the effects of job stress and who in retirement helped inspire a national study of cancer rates near nuclear reactors, died on April 7 at the Woolman Hospital at the Medford Leas, a retirement center near Mount Holly, N.J. He was 81.
        The cause was leukemia, said his brother, Dr. John C. Cobb, in reporting the death in late April. He said the form of leukemia was not among those associated with living near a nuclear plant.
        After retiring in 1980 from Brown University to Easton, Mass., an area near the Pilgrim I nuclear reactor in Plymouth, Sidney Cobb began studying the effects of living in a four-mile-wide corridor 20 miles north of the power plant. Near the plant, he found a rate for leukemia that was substantially higher than the statewide rate, said Richard W. Clapp, associate professor of epidemiology at Boston University School of Public Health. The higher rate ''might be attributable to airborne radioactive effluents'' from Pilgrim, Dr. Cobb's report said. However, the question of
        The cause of the higher rates remains a controversy.
        In 1987, the National Cancer Institute, prompted in part by Dr. Cobb's findings, began a study of cancer deaths near nuclear plants. In 1990, the institute reported finding no signs of elevated cancer or leukemia rates around nuclear installations.
        But Dr. Cobb said the statistics, taken by county, might be washing out some small, local clusters.
        Dr. Cobb's interest in epidemiology began, his brother said, when the family watched their father suffer from rheumatoid arthritis. Sidney Cobb's work on that disease found that social environment and mental health affect the risk of chronic ills.
        ''Sidney tackled the disease trying to figure it all out,'' John Cobb said. ''He was an idealist.''
        Looking at other illnesses, Dr. Cobb found that work pressures helped explain a high rate of coronary incidents and ulcers among air traffic controllers and the high rate of goutamong businessmen.
        He was an author of ''Termination: The Consequences of Job Loss'' (United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare, 1977), ''Job Demands and Worker Health: Main Effects and Occupational Differences'' (Government Printing Office, 1975) and ''Measures for Psychological Assessment'' (University of Michigan Press, 1975). Dr. Cobb and Professor Clapp wrote ''Childhood Cancer Near Nuclear Facilities'' (British Medical Journal Press, 1994).
        Dr. Cobb, who was born in Cambridge, Mass., received a bachelor's degree at Harvard College and a medical degree at Harvard Medical School. He served in the Army in France in World War II, then received a master's degree in public health from Harvard School of Public Health.
        After working with the University of Pittsburgh and the University of Michigan, he joined Brown in 1973 as a professor of psychiatry and community health.
        A marriage to Rosalind Wiggins ended in divorce.
        In addition to his brother, who lives in Corrales, N.M., Dr. Cobb is survived by his wife, Jessie M. Jones-Cobb; sons, J. Stanley Cobb of Kingston, R.I.; Peter W. Cobb of Newport, R.I., and Elijah Cobb of Cody, Wyo.; a daughter, Patricia Cobb of Cape Elizabeth, Me., and seven grandchildren.
      