
        Alan Simpson, the president of Vassar College in the turbulent 1960's and 70's whose easygoing charm, wit and scholarship helped him weather not only a time of student protest but also the admission of men to the all-women school, died on Tuesday at Lake Forest Hospital in Lake Forest, Ill. He was 85.
        The cause was pneumonia, said his granddaughter, Mary Kathleen Flynn.
        Like many college presidents of the era, Mr. Simpson became embroiled in student disputes over the Vietnam War, race, sex and coeducation. But unlike many, he frequently melted his opponents with the warmth of his personality.
        In 1969, he helped peacefully conclude a sit-in by a group of 35 African-American students who had seized a part of the college's administration building, demanding an expansion of black studies programs.
        In the mid-1970's, he defused a demonstration after the removal of the student editor of the college yearbook for attempting to publish photographs of nudes and, far more offensive in Mr. Simpson's view, for running over budget. Some students demonstrated, but not for long after Mr. Simpson looked down his Oxonian nose on the matter, rumbling, ''We're having enough trouble getting contributions from trustees without adding to that problem.''
        With elegant manners honed at Oxford, Mr. Simpson liked to say grace in Latin at the dinner table and would occasionally take part in a student theatrical production, including when he played the Devil in George Bernard Shaw's ''Don Juan in Hell'' to standing room only.
        His mission at Vassar, he said in his inaugural address, was to preserve and deepen Vassar's tradition of liberal education in an age of specialization and to help complete the ''unfinished revolution in the status of women.''
        This revolution, he said, ''has shattered the old image -- of the man striding forward to conquer while the woman trudges behind with the baby in her arms -- without replacing it with a new one.''
        Pursuing the thought, he said, ''It is not a choice of marriage or a career, or of marriage and a career, but of a life lived in phases, each with its opportunities for fulfillment.''
        By far his toughest challenge was handling the transition from an all-female student body to full coeducation in 1969. When Mr. Simpson arrived at Vassar in 1964, he strongly supported the value of an all-women's school. ''A coeducational campus is a male-dominated campus,'' he once said.
        But in time, he decided that the policy had outlived its usefulness, and soon both he and the trustees began to explore the possibility of admitting men. In 1967, according to the official Vassar historian, Elizabeth Daniels, the trustees rejected a proposed merger with Yale University and embarked on their own plan to include men in the student body.
        It is unclear whether Mr. Simpson or the trustees exercised the greatest leadership in making the decision, Ms. Daniels said, but there is no question but that Mr. Simpson had to carry it out -- and this he did in the face of bitter opposition. ''People were writing letters to the trustees, the president, everybody in sight,'' she said. ''I'd say they were running about 50-50 for and against.''
        Mr. Simpson also had to cope with fallout from Mary McCarthy's novel, ''The Group,'' which dealt with the lives (and, famously, the sex lives) of a group of Vassar classmates and was published in 1963, the year before his arrival on campus, and it led to great public fascination with the sexual conduct of Vassar students.
        Mr. Simpson dismissed the novel as ''the ring on the bathtub'' and, when a reporter pressed him about the judgment, he replied impatiently, ''Oh, for God's sake, I am resolved that my presidency shall not be marked by statements about sex.''
        In 1969, Mr. Simpson was appointed to the Presidential Task Force on Women's Rights and Responsibilities.
        Alan Simpson, the son of an English newspaper executive, was born on July 23, 1912, and raised in Newcastle-on-Tyne. After graduating from Worcester College, Oxford University, in 1933, he did graduate work at Merton College, Oxford, and then studied at Harvard University on a Commonwealth fellowship. He was granted a Ph.D. in history from Merton College in 1939.
        After World War II broke out, Mr. Simpson spent five years in the Royal Artillery, being discharged as a major. Almost immediately, he accepted a professorship at the University of Chicago, where he rose to the post of dean of the undergraduate college. There, Mr. Simpson confessed to making a blunder in his first public statement in the new job.
        He had asked ''if beauty and brawn do not deserve a place on our campus as well as brains?'' Some faculty members recoiled, fearing that the statement hinted that Mr. Simpson intended to restore easy courses, paid athletes and other abusive practices that Robert Maynard Hutchins, the former president, had recently stamped out.
        Mr. Simpson said he was only seeking to puncture ''priggishness.''
        He lived it down, and in June 1963 was appointed as the seventh president of Vassar, succeeding Sarah Gibson Blanding, who was about to turn 65 -- the age of mandatory retirement. He served as Vassar president until 1977.
        Mr. Simpson was the author of several books, including ''Puritanism in Old and New England'' and ''The Wealth of the Gentry, 1540-1660.''
        He is survived by his wife, Mary, of Little Compton, R.I., and Wilmette, Ill.; two daughters, Barbara Flynn Waller of Wilmette, and Carol Simpson Stern, also of Wilmette; a granddaughter, a grandson and two great-grandsons.
      