
        Natasha Gelman, who with her husband, Jacques, amassed an outstandingly fine group of 20th-century European paintings and sculptures and who was a friend and patron of Frida Kahlo, Diego Rivera and many other Mexican painters, died on Saturday at her home in Cuernavaca, Mexico, after a long illness. She was 86.
        Mr. Gelman's fortune was owed primarily to his share in the profits of the enormously successful Mexican movies that featured the comedian Cantinflas. Thanks to that fortune, the Gelmans could buy just about anything they liked in the way of art. They worked as a pair of equals, each of whom prized the other's opinion.
        When the collection was shown at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York in 1989-1990, it was widely remarked that the Gelmans' major paintings by Balthus, Bonnard, Braque, Derain, Juan Gris, Fernand Leger, Joan Miro, Matisse, Picasso and others would ideally complement the Met's own 20th-century holdings.
        After her husband's death in 1986, Mrs. Gelman had continued to add to the collection. Where there were holes in it, she aimed to fill them. Major examples of Leger, Max Ernst, Miro, Jean Dubuffet and late Picasso resulted. In the end she bequeathed the trove of European art to the museum, in a gift valued at more than $300 million.
        Natasha Gelman was born Natasha Zahalkaha in Prostejov in what was then Bohemia. Raised in a convent, she attended schools in Vienna and, later, in Switzerland. Famous for her beauty, she traveled the world in a sophisticated and fearless way, and finally landed in Mexico, where she lived for the rest of her life.
        Mexico City in 1939 was filled with music, dance, painting, sculpture, new movies and good conversation, and she made the most of it.
        In December 1939, she was sitting reading a French newspaper in a hotel garden when a young Russian-born and very personable Frenchman came up and deftly made her acquaintance. Jacques Gelman was in Mexico as the representative of a French film company.
        One day a friend advised him to take a look at a circus performer called Cantinflas. Mr. Gelman at once recognized his potential, and became both the producer of his prodigiously successful movies and a full partner in the company that they formed together.
        After the Gelmans were married in 1941, they were able to live well and entertain lavishly. As new-minted Mexican nationals and pioneer inhabitants of Acapulco, they cut a wide and deep swath.
        They had an extensive collection of work by living Mexican painters, and to the last day of Mrs. Gelman's life, Diego Rivera's memorably voluptuous portrait of her in her younger days dominated her salon in Cuernavaca. In the same room were paintings by Frida Kahlo that the couple had bought when Kahlo was happy to make a sale.
        In her last years, Natasha Gelman lived somewhat apart from the world, but distant echoes of her past could occasionally be detected -- as when she would ask to be taken to the only restaurant in Cuernavaca that could produce a genuine Hungarian goulash.
        Correction:  May 12, 1998, Tuesday  An obituary of the art collector Natasha Gelman on Wednesday referred incorrectly to her native region. Her birthplace, Prostejov, is in Moravia, not Bohemia. At her birth, around 1911, the region was part of Austria-Hungary, and it is now in the Czech Republic.
      