
        Hermann Lenz, who sprang from decades of obscurity to become one of modern Germany's most significant and prolific authors, died today in Munich, his publisher, Suhrkamp, said.
        He was 85 and lived in Munich.
        Between 1936 and 1997, Mr. Lenz published more than 30 works, dominated by the seven-part ''Swabian Chronicle'' centered on the fictitious writer Eugen Rapp, an autobiographical figure through whose eyes the history of the 20th century unfolds in a low-key, everyday manner.
        Mr. Lenz was passionately committed to writing as a means of dealing with life's challenges. ''Only through writing may that which confronts you be made mild enough to bear,'' Eugen Rapp observes in one of Mr. Lenz's books -- a belief interpreted by many as a statement of the author's own views on life. Another of his characters remarks that ''unless you write, you cannot participate in the theater of life.''
        More bluntly, on his 85th birthday last February, Mr. Lenz sought to explain his refusal to put down his pen as the years advanced by referring to himself as a ''pigheaded Swabian.'' His last work, ''Friends,'' appeared in 1997.
        Far more than the subject matter of his novels and poems, reviewers and admirers were taken by the vividness and plasticity of his prose. Reading Mr. Lenz's works, the German author Peter Handke said, he felt ''only happiness.''
        Mr. Lenz began writing his first novel in the mid-1930's while a student, but it took more than 30 years of obscurity and literary failure before his works reached a broader public whose ovations led to many prizes, including Germany's coveted Georg Buchner award in 1978.
        Awarding Mr. Lenz the Bavarian Jean-Paul Prize in 1991, Hans Zehetmair, the Bavarian culture minister, called him an author who had evoked in ''gentle but clear tones the dangers confronting modern humanity from isolation and guilt.''
        Mr. Lenz was born in Stuttgart, the Swabian capital, in 1913 and studied the history of art, archeology and German between 1933 and 1939 in Heidelberg and Munich. It was during this period, in 1936, that he published a first volume of poetry and embarked on his first novel, ''The Silent House.''
        Drafted into the German army in 1940, he served in an infantry unit on the Russian front and elsewhere before he was taken prisoner by United States forces and released only in 1946.
        ''The Silent House'' was published one year later to little acclaim. While continuing to write, Mr. Lenz earned a living as secretary of the Southern German Writers Association, a post he held from 1951 to 1971. Even an endorsement by Thomas Mann, who, in 1949, called Mr. Lenz an ''original and remarkable talent of dreamlike boldness'' did nothing to inspire critical acclaim.
        Only in 1973, when Mr. Handke wrote an ''invitation to read Hermann Lenz'' in a prominent German newspaper and praised the ''poetic lesson in history'' offered by his works did Mr. Lenz begin to enjoy success.
      