
        The Rev. Walter Dray Wagoner Sr., a leader in theological education, author and senior minister emeritus of the Round Hill Community Church in Greenwich, Conn., died on May 7 at Greenwich Hospital. He was 79 and lived in Greenwich.
        The cause was complications from multiple myeloma, his family said.
        An ordained minister in the United Church of Christ, he retired from the nondenominational community church in 1987 after leading it for a decade as its founding pastor. He previously served as senior minister of the Asylum Hill Congregational Church in Hartford.
        He served as a Protestant chaplain in the Marine Corps in Japan just after the country's surrender in 1945, and subsequently at Colby College and Northwestern University until 1955. From 1955 until 1967 he directed the Rockefeller Brothers Fund for Theological Education in Princeton, N.J.
        Into the mid-1970's Mr. Wagoner headed the Boston Theological Institute. He was also a founder and director of the Mansfield College summer school in Oxford, England. He served on various committees and and in the assemblies of the World Council of Churches.
        Among his books were ''Bittersweet Grace'' (1967), a survey of religious satire; ''Unity in Mid-Career'' (1963), an assessment of the ecumenical movement, and ''The Seminary: Protestant and Catholic'' (1966), a study of American seminary preparations. His last publication was ''Trespassing in Eden'' (1995), a third collection of his sermons.
        He was born in St. Louis and graduated from Yale University in 1941. He earned a Bachelor of Divinity degree at Yale Divinity School in 1945 and a master's in theology at Princeton Theological Seminary in 1958. He was ordained in 1945 in the Congregational Christian Church, now the United Church of Christ.
        Mr. Wagoner is survived by his first wife, Mariana Parcells Wagoner of West Hartford; their son and two daughters, Walter D. Jr. of Woodbridge, Conn., Lynda Bogel of Ithaca, N.Y., and Diane Stewart of Waukesha, Wis.; his second wife, Frances Frisbie Wagoner of Greenwich; a sister, Jean T. Peacock of Fort Myers, Fla; nine grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      