
        Bob Patino, an interior designer known for the quiet sophistication of his design work for homes, stores and restaurants and for his subtle experimentation with materials and textures, died on May 22 at his home in Manhattan. He was 58.
        The cause was leukemia, Vicente Wolf, his former business partner, said.
        ''My work is modern seen through a traditionalist's eyes,'' Mr. Patino said in 1990. His approach was unexpected, but never hard-edged. In one home, he suspended billowing silk on steel rods for a room-encircling wall treatment. A wooden headboard upholstered in chenille anticipated the chic of retro fabrics in interiors.
        The team of Patino/Wolf Associates was at the forefront of the movement to use industrial materials in the home during the late 1970's.
        ''They were the first minimalists,'' said Suzanne Slesin, the design editor of House and Garden magazine. Ms. Slesin and Joan Kron included five Patino/Wolf projects in their book ''High-Tech: The Industrial Style and Source Book for the Home'' (Clarkson N. Potter, 1978). ''They were the ones who championed interiors that were so stylish on account of their simplicity,'' Ms. Slesin said.
        The partnership's residential clients included Twyla Tharp, the dancer and choreographer; Elsa Peretti, the jewelry designer; Sammy Cahn, the songwriter, and Willi Smith, the fashion designer.
        Mr. Patino was born in New York City in 1940, and he entered the design profession as a salesman at Connaissance, a luxury fabric showroom at the Decoration and Design Building in midtown. He quickly worked his way up to showroom manager. In the early 1970's, he opened an interior design firm with Bebe Winkler.
        Mr. Patino and Mr. Wolf founded their partnership in 1974 and developed a following for their elegant, often monochromatic interiors, accentuated occasionally by a black-and-white photograph. Mr. Patino was also admired for his product designs, including streamlined flatware for Sasaki.
        In 1988, Mr. Patino set up his own design practice, Bob Patino & Company, and began to shift his work to public places and products, designing Jane's Bar and Grill on East 60th Street, a Long Island beauty salon, and china and flatware.
        Mr. Patino designed a 4,500-square-foot loft on Broadway near Houston Street to house Friends in Deed, a nonprofit organization for people with life-threatening diseases, primarily AIDS.
        He leaves no immediate survivors.
      