
        Baron Cudlipp of Aldingbourne, who as editorial director and chairman of the wildly popular Mirror newspapers in the 1950's and 60's brought a new populist vigor to the tabloid press in Britain, died at his home in Chichester, West Sussex, on Sunday. He was 84 and had been suffering from lung and prostate cancer.
        Taking on issues that reflected -- and directed -- the views of his working-class readers with unerring instinct for translating their thoughts and hopes onto the page, Lord Cudlipp presided over The Daily Mirror in what are now considered its golden years. Its circulation climbed to five million then, and it wore its Labor Party politics on its sleeve.
        Despite some dubious innovations -- he was the first tabloid editor to print photographs of busty topless women -- Lord Cudlipp was credited with putting out a newspaper that served as well as entertained, that had a wide appeal but was never mean-spirited.
        ''His Mirror represented the best in British tabloid journalism: entertaining and informative, but also honest, passionate and committed to the decent values of the decent majority,'' Prime Minister Tony Blair said in a tribute on Sunday.
        In later years Lord Cudlipp became profoundly disillusioned with the tabloids, particularly The Sun under Rupert Murdoch, denouncing ''the dawn of the dark ages of tabloid journalism.''
        His anger seemed to come at least in part from guilt over his role in helping set the stage for papers like The Sun, and guilt because it was he, as chairman of the International Publishing Corporation, who made the decision in 1969 to sell The Sun to Mr. Murdoch.
        Hubert Kinsman Cudlipp (he changed his name because he thought ''Hugh'' sounded better) was born in 1913 in Cardiff, Wales, the son of a traveling grocery salesman. His two older brothers went on to become editors of national newspapers.
        Hugh was bitten by the newspaper bug at the age of 14, leaving school to take a job at The Penarth News. After working at local Welsh papers, he became features editors of The Sunday Chronicle at 19. He joined The Daily Mirror in 1935 and two years later became editor of The Mirror's sister paper, then called The Sunday Pictorial.
        The newspaper was cozy and placid, with a dwindling circulation and not much punch. Mr. Cudlipp resolved, he later said, to make it into a ''boisterous'' paper.
        After serving in World War II and working briefly at The Daily Express, Mr. Cudlipp returned to The Mirror in 1952, as editorial director of The Daily Mirror and The Sunday Pictorial.
        Mr. Cudlipp, who had a shock of wavy hair and a habit of talking in the staccato style of his headlines, was a great believer in tweaking the Government and lampooning the privileged and the rich.
        Under his guidance The Mirror became known for its colorful banner headlines, whose writers prided themselves in saying what people were thinking but what other newspapers were too polite to publish. The most memorable used the imperative voice.
        ''Mr. K! Don't Be So Bloody Rude!'' the paper said when Khrushchev walked out of the Paris summit conference in 1960. ''Who Do You Think You Are? Stalin?''
        But if the papers delighted in teasing the rich and famous, they had a serious mission too. Under Mr. Cudlipp's leftist direction, they campaigned for social issues, sought to expose the failures of Conservative policies and covered the labor movement with passion and force.
        In 1964 Mr. Cudlipp became deputy chairman of the International Publishing Corporation, the Mirror papers' parent company. In 1968 he became chairman, replacing his old friend and mentor, Cecil King.
        It was while he was chairman, in a move he bitterly regretted for the rest of his life, that he sold The Sun, a huge money-losing venture, to Mr. Murdoch, who promptly converted it to a tabloid, took it downmarket and began turning a profit.
        In 1972, two years after International Publishing was bought by Reed International, Mr. Cudlipp retired. He was granted a life peerage the next year, but that proved little consolation for what he saw happening in the newly cutthroat tabloid market. The Sun was thriving, with a circulation of about four million, signifying the success of its downmarket policy and forcing other tabloids, including The Express, to follow suit.
        In 1988 Lord Cudlipp denounced the modern tabloids he had helped create. Rising at the memorial service of a friend and fellow old-style journalist, he denounced the modern tendency toward ''intrusive journalism for the prurient.''
        The tabloids, he said, had reached a point where nothing, ''however personal, was any longer secret or sacred, and the basic human right to privacy was banished in the interest of publishing profit.''
        Twice widowed, Lord Cudlipp, who was active in the theatrical and musical community in Chichester, had no children. He is survived by his third wife, the former Jodi Hyland.
        The author of four books about journalism and his career, Lord Cudlipp had little to do with newspapers in his later years. But he did not relinquish his past entirely. Visitors to his house were met by a parrot who greeted them with an admonition, simple as any Cudlipp headline: ''Buy The Mirror!''
      