
        Col. Donald Conroy, a storied Marine fighter pilot whose domestic code dictated that he never strike his daughters and not begin beating his sons until after they had learned to walk, died on Saturday at a hospital in Beaufort, S.C. He was 77 and best known as the model for the tyrannical title character in the book and movie ''The Great Santini.''
        His family said the cause was colon cancer.
        It is surely a tribute to the resilience of the human spirit, the enduring quality of family love and the capacity for personal redemption that in the last months of his life a man who had terrorized his wife and seven children, administering torrents of verbal abuse and beatings with savage and inexplicable regularity, was accompanied lovingly by his oldest and most beaten son, the author Pat Conroy, the very one who had exposed his father as a paternal brute in the autobiographical novel ''The Great Santini.''
        Until the book was published in 1976, the fear and loathing at the core of the Conroy household had been a family secret so carefully guarded that on the way to the emergency room after an especially vicious beating, a bleeding Conroy son would be instructed by his mother on what lie to tell to portray the injury as the result of an innocent mishap.
        To the world outside the family, Colonel Conroy was a widely adored and larger-than-life character who came by his swagger honestly and who deserved the Great Santini nickname he had given himself after seeing a magician of that name as a child.
        By the time he retired in 1974 after a final tour at Parris Island near Beaufort, Colonel Conroy, a native of Chicago who left St. Ambrose College in Davenport, Iowa, to enlist in the Marines in World War II, becoming a pilot in the Pacific, flying missions over Korea and serving two tours in Vietnam. In addition, he was known to claim that his very presence as a squadron commander in Puerto Rico during the Cuban missile crisis persuaded Soviet military leaders to call off the shipment of nuclear missiles to Cuba.
        As the literature of dysfunctional families goes, Colonel Conroy's violence may have been tame by the standards, say, of turn-of-the-century working class Dublin, but as detailed by his son and substantiated by other children, it was shocking enough by modern American standards.
        To Colonel Conroy, having his violent history proclaimed in a popular book and movie posed a special challenge, one he met with typical aplomb. In what amounted to an exercise of legerdemain worthy of a great magician, Colonel Conroy managed to have it both ways: savoring and exulting in his fame as the real life ''Great Santini,'' while simultaneously denying the very acts of family violence that defined the character he so proudly claimed to be.
        Colonel Conroy, who moved to Atlanta, relished his fame so much that he regularly accompanied his son on book promotions, where he frequently attracted more autograph seekers than his son.
        And in what may have been an even greater feat of personal magic, Colonel Conroy, who disappeared in shame for three days after the book was published, returned a completely changed man, emerging as what his son described yesterday as the perfect father.
        Among other things, Colonel Conroy, whose wife divorced him in 1975 and died in 1984, showered his grown children with a loving attention and a version of fatherly affection they had never known growing up. After a later autobiographical book by his son, ''The Prince of Tides,'' created sibling animosity, Colonel Conroy was credited with bringing the children back together.
        To his son, Colonel Conroy's dramatic change was at once a cynical transformation aimed at proving to an admiring world that his son's version of events was a lie, and a genuine act of contrition by a man who could never come out and ask his children for forgiveness.
        ''Marines never apologize,'' is the way his son put it yesterday.
        The closest his father ever came to acknowledging his violence, Mr. Conroy said, was when he turned to him after seeing the 1979 movie of ''The Great Santini,'' and said, ''If I'd beaten you more, you'd be a better writer.''
        In addition to Pat of Beaufort, Colonel Conroy is survived by three other sons, Michael of Columbia, S.C., James of Dallas and Timothy of Murrells Inlet, S.C.; two daughters, Kathleen Harvey of Beaufort and  Carol Ann Conroy of New York City; two brothers, Father James Conroy and Edmund Controy, both of Davenport, Iowa; two sisters, Mary Huh of Denver and Sister Margaret Conroy of Chicago; nine grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      