
        Blanche Revere Long, the Louisiana Governor's wife who played Margaret Dumont to Earl K. Long's Groucho Marx in one of the great comic turns of American political history, died on May 11 at a nursing home in Covington, La. She was 93 and best known for the zany day in 1959 when she drew the line at her husband's increasingly erratic behavior and bundled him off to a mental hospital.
        Until his health, their marriage and Louisiana politics degenerated into slapstick in the spring of 1959, Miz Blanche and Uncle Earl had been a formidable, if somewhat mismatched, political couple.
        She was a self-described city girl, a native of Covington who grew up across the lake in New Orleans where she acquired a taste for elegance and refinement in a household whose only concession to politics was voting.
        He was as country as they come and political to the bone, a rough-hewn, rough-talking product of the family pea patch in the piney woods of north-central Louisiana and the brawling baby brother of Huey P. Long, the dictatorial Louisiana Governor and Senator whose assassination in 1935 left the way open for Earl to take over one of the nation's most entrenched political dynasties.
        With Miz Blanche campaigning at his side, Uncle Earl, who had been shut out of the State House by his brother, was grudgingly allowed to become Lieutenant Governor in 1936, moving up to Governor for a year of housecleaning when the corrupt incumbent resigned, in 1939, before going to jail.
        By the time Uncle Earl had won his first full four-year term, in 1948, with the crucial support of Huey's son, Russell B. Long, Miz Blanche, who had attended Tulane University before switching to secretarial school, had become an indispensable political asset. An executive secretary when they met in 1930, two years before their marriage, she drew on her training to run his campaign headquarters with efficiency and used her innate graciousness and sense of decorum to win over voters immune to her husband's brand of bawdy charm.
        Barred by the state constitution from succeeding himself, Uncle Earl had to wait until until 1956 before winning another four-year term. Before it was over, the ''last of the red hot pappas,'' as he called himself, had become the center of a manic opera buffa, alternating between depression and increasingly out-of-control manic episodes in which he made compulsive bets on horse races all over the country, spent thousands of dollars at a time for merchandise he did not need and began a highly publicized dalliance with a 26-year-old Bourbon Street stripper, Blaze Starr.
        For all the national titters the affair occasioned, Miz Blanche, who ever after attributed her husband's strange behavior to a series of strokes, seemed more alarmed when he began drinking Champagne at breakfast.
        Finally, after the Governor made a rambling, often incoherent, speech to the Legislature at the end of May 1959, Miz Blanche, already regarded as ''the petticoat power'' behind her husband's administration, decided that enough was enough.
        With the help of political allies, including his nephew, Senator Russell Long, the Governor, drugged and apparently unaware of what was happening, was put aboard a state plane and flown to Galveston, Tex., where his wife committed him to a mental hospital.
        But before the commitment could be certified in court, the Governor won a family compromise in which he agreed to accept treatment at a mental hospital in New Orleans if his wife would drop her commitment action in Texas.
        She went along, but when her husband, not surprisingly, walked out of the New Orleans hospital the day after he arrived and headed to Baton Rouge, she signed new commitment papers and he was apprehended and confined to a state insane asylum -- just long enough for him to dismiss the hospital administrator who had agreed to his commitment and appoint a new one who obligingly released him as sane.
        Within months, Uncle Earl had embarked on a manic cross-country trip, making headlines at every stop, but by then Miz Blanche had withdrawn from the fray, leaving him to finish his term without her interference.
        Uncle Earl died in 1960, a few days after being elected to Congress, but Miz Blanche, who had a vast number of admirers across the state, remained a political power in Louisiana, generally working behind the scenes, but not always.
        In 1963, when Senator Russell Long backed a cousin serving in the House of Representatives for Governor, Miz Blanche, pointedly distinguishing between the Washington Longs and her own Louisiana Longs, backed a dark horse, John McKeithen, who won an upset victory and gratefully named her as chairwoman of the state tax commission, a post she held for years.
        She leaves no immediate survivors.
      