
        Carl H. Builder, an analyst with the Rand Corporation whose views on military affairs were widely quoted, died on May 20 at his home in Culver City, Calif. He was 67.
        The cause was cancer, said Jess Cook, Rand's director of public information.
        At his death, Mr. Builder was a senior operations research specialist at Rand, the research concern based in Santa Monica, Calif. He was on its staff for 29 years.
        Mr. Builder worked with and advised the Army, the Air Force and Government agencies on aspects of American security policy, contributed to operational doctrines for nonnuclear strategic weapons and was a main designer of an early computer-based military war-games system.
        In 1976, an internal memorandum he wrote, in a year off from Rand as the Nuclear Regulatory Commission's director of nuclear safeguards, was made public by another Government agency. It said the commission supported the view that safeguards to prevent theft of explosive materials by terrorist or other criminal elements were inadequate.
        Mr. Builder was awarded the Meritorious Service Medal by the commission and the Certificate of Merit by the Air Force Systems Command.
        In his analyses, Mr. Builder sometimes emphasized human factors. In the late 1980's he wrote that to halt the search for larger and better intercontinental ballistic missiles would be a blow to the self-image of people who had spent their careers on that kind of weaponry.
        ''For their sense of personal worth,'' he said, ''people will fight long and hard.''
        In his highly praised book ''The Masks of War: American Military Styles in Strategy and Analysis'' (Johns Hopkins, 1989), he wrote, ''The military services have acquired personalities of their own that are shaped by their experiences.''
        In a 1996 interview commenting on the differing severity of the sexual harassment problem in different services, he said: ''The Marines and the Army focus on being rough, tough and mean; 'We beat up on people.' In the Air Force, machismo takes a different form -- gallantry, brave aviators in long silk scarves taking off into the wild blue. And in the Navy, much of the machismo is simply facing the elements.''
        His book ''The Icarus Syndrome: the Role of Air Power Theory in the Evolution and Fate of the U.S. Air Force'' (Transaction, 1994) was applauded in Public Administration Review as ''an excellent and provocative study.''
        Another book, ''Information Technologies and the Future of Land Warfare'' (Rand, 1995), by Mr. Builder and Brian Nichiporuk, was praised in Foreign Affairs as a useful contribution ''from the think tank world.''
        A native of Allendale, N.J., Mr. Builder served in the Navy after World War II, attended the United States Naval Academy and earned bachelor's and master's degrees in engineering from the University of California at Los Angeles in the late 1950's.
        His first marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Gabriele Menke; a son, Mark, of Oxnard, Calif.; a daughter, Susannah Lone Horse, who lives in Southern California; six grandchildren; and a brother, Rear Adm. James A. Winnefeld, retired, of Annapolis, Md.
      