
        SHE'S relentless,'' the author James McBride said yesterday about Lisa Belzberg, the woman who installed him as principal for the day at Public School 118 in Queens, and who was eight months pregnant when she asked him to do it. ''We had lunch at some tony restaurant near her office, and a lot of these East Side fat cats were coming up, shaking her hand, saying, 'Hi Lisa.' I thought it was interesting that these really arrogant folks would bow to a pregnant woman. And I just assumed that she had a very powerful personality, and that there was no point in resisting. And she was also really nice to my son.''
        Lisa Belzberg is the president of Public Education Needs Civic Involvement in Learning, or Pencil, the group that runs Principal for a Day, the highly regarded and often criticized program that puts role models in New York City public schools for one day each year. The idea came from Ramon C. Cortines, the former Schools Chancellor, but four years ago Ms. Belzberg stopped producing the ''Charlie Rose Show,'' offered to take over the program, and then made it her own. Yesterday she had principals in almost all of New York City's 1,100 public schools.
        As usual, a lot of the principals were rich or famous, like the actress Stephanie Seymour, the lawyer Joseph H. Flom and the designer Norma Kamali. As usual, Ms. Belzberg defended the program, saying that it was not intended to make people who have a lot of money feel good about themselves because they spent a few hours in the public schools.
        ''We have a certain glitz,'' she said. ''Obviously, it gets us the publicity we want. But we don't put money people in and ask for checks at the end of the day. We ask for involvement.'' She ticked off some success stories: New York publishers now give 1.3 million books to the schools each year. VH1 television has donated $1 million worth of musical instruments. And Ms. Kamali created a student-run T-shirt company.
        Last year, Ms. Belzberg was in agony when she watched Donald J. Trump offer sneakers to students at Public School 70 in the Bronx, prompting an astute 11-year-old to ask why Mr. Trump was handing out shoes when he could afford scholarships. This year, Mr. Trump was not in the program.
        ''Did he follow through on his sneakers?'' Ms. Belzberg said. ''He did. Did he do much else? No.''
        Ms. Belzberg, 35, is a direct and personable insomniac who grew up in one of Canada's financial dynasties, then married into another one. Her father is Samuel Belzberg, the  corporate raider whose runs at American companies in the 1980's sometimes blew up in spectacular losses. Her husband is Matthew Bronfman, 38, of the Seagram family.
        Ms. Belzberg was eight and a half months pregnant with their second child when she married him last December, after his divorce in June. They live in a century-old town house just off Fifth Avenue. There is a Picasso in the living room, a Matisse in the bedroom and white-uniformed servants on all six floors.
        DO you want to take the elevator or the stairs?'' Ms. Belzberg asked Wednesday morning. The spiral staircase looked fine. On the way up was Tess, Ms. Belzberg's infant daughter, and in the library were waiting bowls of fruit. A servant brought scrambled eggs with smoked salmon. ''I'm sensitive about seeming like a rich dilettante,'' Ms. Belzberg said, gesturing with some humor to the surrounding splendors. ''Can't imagine why.''
        Ms. Belzberg graduated from Barnard College, has a master's degree from the London School of Economics, and once worked for the political consultant David Garth (''I was his slave''). Although she seems at ease with the way she lives, she pointed out yesterday that her money is really her father's and her husband's.
        ''It's not mine, is it?'' she said, sitting on the steps outside P.S. 118 in the Hollis section of Queens. ''It's just not mine. You never feel like you have done it for yourself.'' Someday, she said, ''I'd like to make enough money myself never to have to ask anybody for money. Wouldn't that be great?''
        Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew offered Ms. Belzberg a job, but Ms. Belzberg turned him down, saying she liked the freedom of running Pencil from outside, especially since she has small children. (Her other daughter is 2.)
        Will she send her own children to public schools? ''I'm an Orthodox Jew,'' she said simply, saying she keeps kosher and observes the Sabbath with her husband, who was raised in what she calls a ''traditional'' Jewish home. ''My kids will go to Jewish schools.''
        Ms. Belzberg's husband has never worked for Seagram -- he creates small companies -- but is an heir to the fortune and has been reading the articles describing his brother, Edgar Bronfman Jr., as being over his head with his investments in Hollywood. ''Look, he's taking a big hit,'' Ms. Belzberg said of her brother-in-law. ''I think he's obviously really smart. We really believe in his leadership. I don't understand Hollywood. When people say, 'Don't you think that was a stupid decision?' I say, 'I have absolutely no idea.' ''
        Yesterday, Mr. McBride, the author of ''The Color of Water,'' spent part of his day at P.S. 118 -- his alma mater -- playing the saxophone for students. ''This might mean nothing,'' he said, ''or it might make a difference in a kid's life.'' With Ms. Belzberg, he said, ''it wasn't something I was going to get out of doing.''
        PUBLIC LIVES
      