
        Sousuke Uno, a former Prime Minister who resigned after two months in the post because of accusations of an extramarital affair, died today in Moriyama, Japan. He was 75.
        The cause was lung cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Uno was an unlikely choice for Prime Minister when he was selected in 1989. Although he had served as Minister of International Trade and Industry and as Foreign Minister, he was hardly a powerful figure in the governing Liberal Democratic Party.
        But that was precisely his attraction. He came to office after Noboru Takeshita, one of Japan's most powerful back-room politicians, was forced from office in an influence-peddling scandal.
        Mr. Uno was chosen after party elders concluded that almost all of the other leading candidates might be tainted by the same scandal.
        But his own troubles marked a first in Japanese politics: while many Prime Ministers have kept mistresses, often quite openly, he was the first to be forced from office after Japanese women declared his behavior an outrage.
        Only days after Mr. Uno took office, a weekly magazine reported that he had an affair with a woman who was described in the press as a geisha but who appeared to be an entertainer.
        Later she described a four-month affair in a television interview in which she said, ''I thought a person like him who treats a weak woman badly should not become Prime Minister of the nation.'' She complained that he had paid her poorly and given her no farewell gift when the relationship ended -- accusations that did him more damage than the disclosure of the affair.
        Shortly thereafter, Mr. Uno returned to the Prime Minister's office late one night and told aides, ''I can't continue with these insults.'' His comments were immediately leaked to every major national newspaper, and he was gone within a month.
        Before his resignation took effect, the Liberal Democrats lost an election in the upper house of Parliament, a prelude to losing a much larger election -- and control of the Government -- four years later.
        Mr. Uno, the son of a sake brewer, was an accomplished pianist. During World War II he served in the army and was held as a prisoner of war in Siberia, an experience he later described in a book, which was made into a film in the early 1950's.
        He began his political career in 1951 at the local level, then won a seat in the lower house of Parliament in 1960. In the early 1960's, Mr. Uno helped build the basis for normalization of relations between Japan and South Korea. Later he served in Cabinet posts including Defense Agency director general and head of the Science and Technology Agency.
        He continued in Parliament after his resignation as Prime Minister but led a largely lonely existence. On occasion he was sighted dining alone in the Okura Hotel, a meeting place of international diplomats.
        ''I pray his soul may rest in peace,'' Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto said after hearing about Mr. Uno's death, the Kyodo News Service reported.
      