
        Roy Eckardt, a leading scholar of Christian-Jewish relations and chairman emeritus of religion studies at Lehigh University in Bethlehem, Pa., died on Tuesday at his home in Coopersburg, Pa. He was 79.
        He had a brain tumor, the university said.
        Dr. Eckardt, a clergyman in the United Methodist Church who at different times in his career used his full name, Arthur Roy Eckardt, wrote 18 books and many articles on moral philosophy and the theology of politics, some of them with his wife, Alice.
        His books included ''Black-Woman-Jew: Three Wars for Human Liberation'' (1989), ''Elder and Younger Brothers: The Encounter of Jews and Christians'' (1968) and ''Christianity and the Children of Israel'' (1948).
        In frequent letters to newspaper opinion pages, Dr. Eckardt spoke out against Christian teachings that he found anti-Semitic, and in 1989 he and his wife criticized Pope John Paul II for what they said were ''anti-Judaic'' doctrines voiced outside the presence of Jews. That complaint was challenged by a Roman Catholic leader of Catholic-Jewish relations.
        Dr. Eckardt was chairman of the religion studies department for most of the 31 years that he was at Lehigh, from 1951 to 1982. While there, he spent 10 years editing the Journal of the American Academy of Religion.
        In 1979 President Jimmy Carter named Dr. Eckardt a special consultant to the President's Commission on the Holocaust and from 1981 to 1986 he served on the United States Holocaust Memorial Council as special adviser to the chairman, Elie Wiesel.
        Dr. Eckardt graduated from Brooklyn College magna cum laude. He received a master's degree from the Divinity School of Yale University and a doctorate from Columbia University.
        Before joining Lehigh, he was a visiting professor at the City University of New York and an assistant professor at Duke University and Lawrence College. He was a senior associate fellow of the Center for Postgraduate Hebrew Studies and a Maxwell Fellow at Oxford University.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Paula Strock of Long Island; a son, Steve, of Chicago, and three grandchildren.
      