
        John Joseph Cardinal Carberry, who was a canon lawyer active in the Roman Catholic Church's affairs and who led the Archdiocese of St. Louis for 11 years, died on Wednesday at St. Agnes Home in Kirkwood, Mo. He was 93.
        Cardinal Carberry was installed in 1968 by Pope Paul VI as Archbishop of St. Louis, the spiritual leader of more than 500,000 Roman Catholics. He succeeded the late Joseph Cardinal Ritter and, like him, made civil rights a central issue in his tenure. Cardinal Carberry was also a leading national figure in ecumenism with the Protestant churches.
        He was named Archbishop emeritus in 1979 at 75, the retirement age set by the Vatican.
        Cardinal Carberry was considered  more conservative theologically than his predecessor as archbishop and was chosen with particular care by the Vatican in light of an initiative by a group of diocesan priests and laymen who wrote a program in 1965 that questioned traditional doctrines and practices.
        The Pope elevated him to cardinal in 1969, when he was the Bishop of Columbus, Ohio, as someone likely to maintain discipline among the rank-and-file and diocesan laity. In fact, he became known in St. Louis as the creator of the Archdiocesan Pro-Life Commission, a model for anti-abortion groups in church jurisdictions around the country. It was also noted that his administration left the Archdiocese in sound financial condition.
        He was respected for his careful, scholarly preparation for meetings. He took part in all four sessions of the Vatican Council convened by Pope Paul XXIII and missed only a  day and a half as the council sessions stretched from 1962 to 1965.
        Cardinal Carberry sat in the two conclaves of 1978 that elected Pope John Paul I and after his sudden death John Paul II, the first non-Italian pontiff since 1523.
        A native of Brooklyn, Cardinal Carberry began to study for the priesthood at 15 at Cathedral College Seminary in Brooklyn. He was ordained a priest of the Diocese of Brooklyn at the North American College in Rome in 1929.
        Returning to this country, Father Carberry received a doctorate in canon law at Catholic University of America in 1934, was secretary to the Bishop of Trenton and returned to Brooklyn in 1940 to teach at the diocesan seminary. Pope Pius XII named him Bishop of Lafayette, Ind., in 1957, and Pope Paul named him Bishop of Columbus in 1965.
        He was elected vice president of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops in 1974 and was an American delegate to the World Synod of Bishops in 1972, 1974 and 1976. He was a past chairman of the Bishops' Committee for Ecumenical and Interreligious Affairs.
        In retirement, he remained active in church life and community affairs in St. Louis until he suffered a stroke in 1988.
      