
        John Gutmann, a painter who left Germany in 1933 and reinvented himself as an optimistic photographic chronicler of Depression-era America, died on Friday at his home in San Francisco. He was 93.
        In the America of the 1930's, Mr. Gutmann found an exuberant car  culture, a dizzying array of billboards and graffiti, a racially diverse citizenry, music and dancing in the streets and young women galore. He photographed them all.
        Many of his pictures are photojournalistically straightforward, modern photojournalism having developed in Germany in the late 1920's. A fair number of his pictures also show the influence of the avant-garde that flourished in Europe in the late 20's and early 30's and that was to determine the course of photography for the next 50 years.
        Mr. Gutmann's ''Elevator Garage'' (Chicago, 1936), for example, has the distinctive bold, tilted angle and arresting cropping of Russian  Constructivism. ''Web of Light,'' in which the shadows of a grid fall on the face and torso of a young woman, is uncannily reminiscent of Alexander Rodchenko's ''Girl With Leica,''  but the pictures were taken in 1934 on different continents. ''Turning to Look'' (1935) is the sort of extreme close-up portraiture used by avant-garde masters like Max Burchartz.
        Self-taught and unconcerned about developing a signature style, Mr.  Gutmann never stopped experimenting with ways to frame a picture. Some of his images predate by two decades the kind of informal, lonely-in-America pictures that Robert Frank, also an immigrant, made famous in ''The Americans.''
        The big round brass ''eye'' of the tuba held by a young player in Mr. Gutmann's ''Indian High School Band'' (Arizona, 1937) is in exactly the same position as the tuba in Mr. Frank's ''Political Rally, Chicago.'' In Mr. Frank's picture the tuba obscures the player's face; in Mr. Gutmann's, the tuba is poised like some omniscient eye above a young man with a bandage on his somber face.
        And like Helen Levitt years later, Mr. Gutmann found fleeting lyrical moments on the streets. ''Jitterbug'' (New Orleans, 1937) catches the gentle grace in the movement of two dancers in a world of their own, the  young woman wearing a short skirt,  white carnival mask and hat.
        Although Mr. Gutmann always considered photo captions important, he declined to explain his intent. ''Ambiguity,'' he once wrote, ''is an  essence of life. In this sense I am not interested in trying desperately to  make art, but I am interested in relating to the marvelous extravagance of life.''
        Mr. Gutmann was born in 1905 in Breslau, Germany. He studied painting at the State Academy of Arts and Crafts in that city, and, after receiving a bachelor's degree in 1927,  moved to Berlin, where he earned a master's degree at the State Institute for Higher Education. For artists, the late 1920's in Berlin was a  gloriously heady time -- a time of Cubism, Futurism, Constructivism, Expressionism and Surrealism --  and photography was an integral part of the avant-garde.
        But with the Nazis taking control, Mr. Gutmann, who came from a wealthy Jewish family, was unable to exhibit his paintings or get a teaching job. A friend recommended that he go to San Francisco to make a living as a photographer. Before  leaving Berlin in late 1933, Mr. Gutmann bought a Rolleiflex and shot three test rolls of film. He also managed to get a contract from Presse-Foto in Berlin.
        Three years later, he signed up with the New York City picture agency Pix Inc., which placed his work in  magazines like Life, The Saturday Evening Post, Look and Time. In 1936, Mr. Gutmann also began teaching art at San Francisco State College. A decade later, he founded the  creative photography program there, one of the first in the country.
        During World War II, Mr. Gutmann served with the United States  Office of War Information in China, Burma and India. After he retired from San Francisco State College in 1973, he devoted much of his time to editing and reprinting his photographs for exhibitions and publications. In 1984, ''The Restless Decade,'' a book of his 1930's pictures, which he considered his best work, was published by Harry N. Abrams; it has been reissued in paperback.
        Since 1980, the Fraenkel Gallery in San Francisco, which represents Mr. Gutmann, has held regular exhibitions of his photographs. In 1989, a major retrospective of his work, ''Beyond the Document,'' traveled from the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art to the Museum of Modern Art in New York and to the Los Angeles County Museum of Art.
        No immediate family members survive.
      