
        Col. Oran K. Henderson, the highest-ranking officer to be tried as a consequence of the killings of Vietnamese civilians in My Lai in 1968, died on Tuesday at the Lebanon Veterans hospital in Lebanon, Pa. He was 77 and had pancreatic cancer.
        Colonel Henderson, a career officer, was acquitted in a court-martial in 1971, leaving Lieut. William L. Calley Jr., a platoon leader, as the only soldier to be found guilty and punished for the massacre in My Lai.
        The belated disclosure of apparent war crimes in the hamlet and the subsequent accusations of a cover-up tarnished the Army's reputation and broadened criticisms of American involvement in the war.
        Colonel Henderson's death came  less than a month after that of Ronald Ridenhour, a 52-year-old New Orleans journalist who as a young helicopter gunner serving in Vietnam had heard what had happened at My Lai and brought the atrocity to public attention through letters to politicians, which he felt safe enough to send only after leaving the military.
        Those letters eventually led to newspaper exposes and official inquiries that confirmed the killings at My Lai, which took place as the 105 men of Company C attacked the hamlet of 700 people, believing that it was a Vietcong base. According to Seymour Hersh, whose reporting on My Lai was awarded a 1970 Pulitzer Prize, no Vietcong were encountered. At least 350 civilians were killed, among them women and children, at My Lai, and there were other killings at nearby hamlets.
        That day, March 16, was Colonel Henderson's first as the commander of the newly formed 11th Infantry Brigade, which included Company C. When the assault was mounted, he was watching from a helicopter circling over My Lai.
        Only after the news accounts made My Lai as recognizable a name as Saigon did the Army make an official investigation. After three and a half months of taking evidence,  Lieut. Gen. William R. Peers, who headed the panel, declared on March 18, 1970, ''Our inquiry clearly established that a tragedy of major proportions occurred there on that day.''
        Ultimately the Army was to charge 25 officers and enlisted men with having taken part in the massacre in some way or of having covered it up. Of this total, 19 had charges dropped without facing trials. Of the six who came before courts-martial, only Lieutenant Calley was convicted. He received a life sentence at hard labor, which was soon reduced to 20 years in prison.
        But as Lieutenant Calley was increasingly perceived -- even by his critics -- as the single scapegoat for My Lai, he was paroled by Howard Callaway, Secretary of the Army in the Nixon Administration, after serving less than four years. He is now a jeweler in Columbus, Ga.
        Colonel Henderson was the highest ranking officer of those who went before courts-martial, and his case at the end of 1971 was the last one to be heard. He had been charged with willful dereliction of duty for not having carried out an adequate investigation. His trial at Fort Meade, Md., lasted 62 days, thus tying the Calley case as the longest court-martial in American history.
        The prosecution argued that with the information available to him and with complaints that were made at the time by helicopter pilots, it was inconceivable that Colonel Henderson could report as he did to his division commander that ''only 20 civilians'' had been inadvertently killed by artillery fire. The prosecution contended that the colonel had covered up the killings because he feared that he would lose his new position as brigade commander and  his chances for promotion.
        The defense argued that Colonel Henderson had tried to find out what had happened at My Lai, but was prevented by officers who kept lying to him, insisting that only 20 civilians had been killed. Until his first day commanding the 11th Brigade, he had an enviable military record.
        Born in Indianapolis on Aug. 25, 1920, he had spent much of his adulthood in combat. He served and was  wounded in three wars -- World War II, Korea and Vietnam. He was awarded the Purple Heart four times  for combat wounds, the Silver Star five times and the Bronze Star five times for valor.
        On December 18, 1971, after 106 witnesses had been heard, Colonel Henderson heard the president of the jury declare that he had been found not guilty. He saluted and said the verdict ''reaffirms the confidence any Army man can have in the military system.''
        He returned to active duty, becoming commandant of the Indiantown Gap Military Reservation in Pennsylvania. When he retired in 1974, he told The Associated Press that his departure was mandatory since he had been colonel for five years without promotion. He said that while his retirement was not necessarily related to My Lai, he did feel responsible for the incident because the troops involved were under his command.
        As a civilian, he became Pennsylvania's director of civil defense, organizing recovery efforts in the wake of devastating floods in 1977. As he once again found himself in the news, he observed: ''Occasionally people will come up to me and say, 'I remember your first name, Oran, from someplace.' We usually get around to the fact that I had had a little bit of publicity a few years ago.''
        Colonel Henderson, who made his home in Carlisle, Pa., is survived by three children: Kenneth R. of Guilford, Ind., Ann H. Kline of Lebanon, Pa., and Nancy V. Schultz of Monroe, N.Y.; five grandchildren; a brother, Wayne of Indianapolis, and two sisters, Glenita Bastin of Noblesville, Ind., and Virginia Betts of Indianapolis.
      