
        Robert L. D. Davidson, president emeritus of Westminster College in Fulton, Mo., who built the Churchill Memorial and Library there in a historic church transplanted from London, died on June 20 in a car accident in Missouri. He was 89 and lived in Fulton.
        Winston Churchill delivered his famous ''Iron Curtain'' speech at Westminster College in 1946.
        Dr. Davidson later proposed the memorial library to honor Churchill and Fulton's place in history. To house the library, he planned and executed the transfer of the Church of St. Mary the Virgin in Aldermanbury. It was rebuilt on the Westminster campus beginning in 1964. The memorial was dedicated in 1969.
        The church was designed by Christopher Wren in the 1670's after the Great Fire, which consumed much of London, including the original Church of St. Mary the Virgin in Aldermanbury. Wren's church was heavily damaged by German bombing in World War II, but the exterior was largely intact.
        It now is a chapel and houses the library in its undercroft. Its structure remains true to the Wren design.
        Dr. Davidson was president of the college from 1955 to 1973. During his tenure, enrollment and the endowment grew and the campus changed noticeably with the addition of a science center, freshman quadrangle, dining hall and three residence halls known as the triangle.
        Robert Laurenson Dashiell Davidson, known as Larry, was born in Dover, Del. In 1931, he graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Dickinson College in Carlisle, Pa. He received a master's degree in history in 1937 and an Ed.D. in 1946, both from Temple University. He did postgraduate work at New York University from 1937 to 1941 while he was a high school principal in Clayton, N.J.
        He served as a lieutenant commander in the Navy in World War II, commanding a torpedo boat in the South Pacific. After the war, he joined the Temple faculty and was an associate dean and associate professor of social science there when Westminster recruited him as its president.
        As president emeritus, Dr. Davidson remained active at the library and in college affairs.
        A stamp collector, he was a past president of the American Philatelic Congress and director at large of the American Philatelic Society. He also was an arbitrator for the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service for many years.
        Dr. Davidson's wife of nearly 60 years, Lois Buckingham Davidson, died in December. He is survived by their daughter, Roberta D. Cupp, and son, Francis G., both of Fulton, and three grandchildren.
      