
        Maria Reiche, who spent half a century as the self-appointed guardian of an obscure pre-Incan culture's most mysterious legacy -- a vast, dazzling tableau of giant birds, animals, plants and intricate geometric patterns scratched into the stark desert floor -- died on June 8 in a hospital in Lima, Peru. She was 95 and was known as the Lady of the Lines.
        To see the lines near Nazca, in southern Peru, from the air -- and there is no other way to make out the fabulous figures, some hundreds of yards across -- the vast tapestry looks very much like the haphazard markings on a giant child's chalkboard.
        There is a monkey with a whimsical spiral tail here, a condor there -- a whale, a shark, a pelican, a spider, a hummingbird, an owl-faced man, a pair of hands, other birds and animals, flowers, and an array of geometric shapes. There is also a profusion of string-straight lines, some extending for miles, none suggesting an immediate explanation of why they were drawn.
        After almost 60 years of intense, if highly speculative, scholarly scrutiny, it is hard to tell which is the greater mystery:
        Why the valley-dwelling Nazcan people would decorate the surrounding desert mesas with figures so large their shapes could not even be discerned before the age of aviation 2,000 years later.
        Or why an adventuresome German woman who came to South America on a whim to tutor a diplomat's children would abandon all other pursuits to devote her life to an almost obsessive preoccupation with the Nazca lines.
        Whatever possessed her to make them her life's work, almost from the time she first saw them in 1941, Ms. Reiche (pronounced RYE-kuh) was the acknowledged and acclaimed curator of the Nazca lines.
        Living in a small house in the desert so she could personally protect the delicate lines from careless visitors, Ms. Reiche -- who became a Peruvian citizen in 1994 -- shooed away intruders even as an old woman in a wheelchair.
        Over five decades she meticulously measured and mapped the intricate giant glyphs, swept away an accumulation of black dust to restore 1,000 of the lines to their original brilliance and used her own funds to hire guards and finance research projects.
        All the while, she tried to figure out  what the lines meant to the Nazcans, who carved them on a series of barren mesas covering 200 square miles of a long, narrow desert wedged between the Andes Mountains and the Pacific Ocean 250 miles south of Lima.
        Whatever possessed them to scrape away the covering of fist-sized black rocks to expose the yellow-white hardpan underneath in a series of narrow trenches only a few inches deep forming an array of giant patterns, the Nazcans could hardly have wished for a more geologically stable canvas to preserve their mysterious handiwork.
        The site is one of the driest spots on earth, drawing an average of only 20 minutes of rainfall a year. Because of a buffering cushion of warm air, it is virtually windless.
        The result is a land so devoid of erosion that a footprint can last 1,000 years and the tracks of chariots used by warring conquistador factions in the 16th century are still visible.
        The lines, which were discovered in modern times in 1926, were threatened by modern encroachments. The Pan American Highway, it was later discovered, had cut through a giant lizard in 1939. But nobody could have wished for a more dedicated or effective protector than Ms. Reiche.
        A native of Dresden, Germany, who received a mathematics degree from the local university and who spoke five languages, Ms. Reiche went to Peru as a tutor in 1932. She later became a translator in Lima and met Paul Kosok, a Long Island University scholar, who became her mentor.
        Mr. Kosok, whose interest in irrigation led him to investigate whether the Nazca lines might have been irrigation ditches, quickly concluded that the shallow trenches, which range from 5 to 18 inches wide, could not have been used for irrigation. But when he happened to be standing near one of the long straight lines at sunset on June 22, 1941, he made a discovery that would change his life and changed Ms. Reiche's even more.
        He noticed that the line pointed directly at the setting sun, suggesting that it was a marker for the winter solstice. Six months later, Ms. Reiche discovered a line pointing at the summer solstice, and a full-blown theory was born: that the Nazca lines formed an elaborate celestial calendar, or as Mr. Kosok put it, ''the world's largest astronomy book.''
        Although the initial interest was on the straight lines, once Mr. Kosok had mapped the intricate path of one circuitous line and discovered that it formed a detailed image of a bird, the interest broadened.
        Ms. Reiche, who took over Mr. Kosok's work in 1948 after he left Peru, quickly discovered and mapped 18 other animal glyphs and over the following decades elaborated on Mr. Kosok's calendar theory, deciding that at least some of the glyphs were representations of constellations.
        The calendar theory was clearly more plausible than the one that held that the lines were part of a guidance system for prehistoric spaceships. But scholars whose various rival theories held that the lines had religious, social or even athletic significance nibbled away at the calendar idea -- finding, for example, that most of the lines did not point to any celestial bodies.
        But Ms. Reiche may have made a miscalculation not unlike that made by Columbus, who made his accidental discovery of the New World through a fundamental error: his belief that the earth was much smaller (and the Indies, therefore, much closer to Europe) than they are. Her miscalculation may have been in her conviction that at least some of the animal figures were images of stellar constellations.
        Recent scholarship by her protege, Phyllis B. Pitluga, senior astronomer at the Adler Planetarium in Chicago, concluded that all of the animal figures are indeed representations of heavenly shapes. But she contends that they are not shapes of constellations but of what might be called counter constellations, the irregular-shaped dark patches within the twinkling expanse of the Milky Way.
        Whatever the explanation, largely as a result of Ms. Reiche's work, the Nazca lines have become a major tourist attraction and were designated a world heritage site by Unesco in 1995.
        And at her death, Ms. Reiche, who leaves no immediate survivors, was hailed as a national treasure. President Alberto K. Fujimori of Peru went so far as to suggest that the Nazca lines should be renamed the Reiche lines.
      