
        Louise M. Davies, the San Francisco benefactor who gave the city she loved a $5 million concert hall in 1980, died on Monday at a retirement home in Portola Valley, Calif. She was 98.
        Mrs. Davies, whose husband, Ralph K. Davies, an oil millionaire, died in 1971, bestowed millions of dollars on many cultural, educational and medical charities in the Bay Area, including the Exploratorium, the World Affairs Council, the Conservatory of Music, the University of San Francisco, Stanford University and the San Francisco Opera.
        But she will no doubt be best remembered as the benefactor of the 3,000-seat, modern concert hall on Van Ness Avenue that bears her name, the home of the San Francisco Symphony. Before the hall was built, the orchestra had to share the War Memorial building with the San Francisco Opera. The completion of Davies Symphony Hall, next door to the opera house, allowed the orchestra to expand to a full 52-week season and add additional players. After the hall opened, she gave another $3 million as a fund to attract leading guest conductors. One of the first to come was Michael Tilson Thomas, who became the orchestra's music director three years ago.
        When asked by an interviewer in 1990 why she had financed the building, Mrs. Davies, a down-to-earth woman, said simply, ''Because I had the money, and we certainly needed the hall.'' In that same interview, she added: ''I'm just learning after all these years that I have quite a lot of money. Isn't that something?''
        Mrs. Davies was born fairly poor, on a remote cattle ranch in Plumas County. When her parents divorced, her mother moved with Louise and her three other daughters, eventually settling in Oakland, where Louise attended a Catholic boarding school. As a young woman, she held a $25-per-week job as a stenographer in Oakland for seven years, then moved to Los Angeles to try her chances at film acting. There she met her future husband, a young executive with Standard Oil. They married in 1925.
        Mr. Davies rose to the rank of vice president of Standard Oil. But when the presidency eluded him, he left and formed his own oil company. He also ran American President Lines and the Natomas Company. In 1934 the couple bought 20 acres in Woodside, Calif., where in 1940 they built a magnificent house, which Mrs. Davies lived in until recent years.
        She is survived by her daughter, Maryon Davies Lewis of San Francisco, five grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
        Speaking of Mrs. Davies on Monday, Nancy Bechtle, the president of the San Francisco Symphony Board, said, ''The crowning glory of her life was that hall, and every time she walked in, she was just thrilled to be there.''
      