
        Jacob Katz, an internationally known authority on the history of the Jewish people, died on May 20 in Hadassah Hospital in Jerusalem. He was 93.
        Professor Katz, who was born in Hungary, joined the faculty of Hebrew University, in Jerusalem, in 1950 and went on to hold its Bella and Israel Unterberg Memorial Chair of Jewish Social and Educational History. From 1969 to 1972, when he retired from the university, he was its chief academic officer.
        ''He was one of this century's greatest and most influential historians of the Jews,'' said Yosef Hayim Yerushalmi, a professor of Jewish history, culture and society at Columbia University. Professor Yerushalmi, who is also the director of Columbia's Center for Israel and Jewish Studies, said: ''His work, always innovative, was of incredibly wide scope, ranging freely through medieval and modern times. No one working in Jewish history or interested in it can ignore what he achieved.''
        Professor Katz, an Orthodox Jew, has been called a pioneer in applying social science methods to the writing of Jewish history. As a social historian, he drew on his command of Talmudic and rabbinic sources and also used what has been called a critical openness. His book ''Exclusiveness and Tolerance: Studies in Jewish-Gentile Relations in Medieval and Modern Times'' (1961, Behrman) has been applauded for its openness in speaking of all aspects of that relationship, including tolerance and intolerance.
        He has also been called an innovator in writing about the history of the traditional Jewish law in terms of the relationship between social realities, including political and economic developments, and the development of the law.
        In the 1960's and 1970's he was a visiting professor at Harvard, Columbia and Brandeis Universities. He was also a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Several of his books remain in print in the United States.
        Professor Katz, who was born in Magyargencs, Hungary, pursued religious studies and was ordained a rabbi. He went to Germany and received a doctorate in social history from the University of Frankfurt in 1934. He settled in Palestine in 1936 and was a secondary school teacher and administrator before he began teaching at Hebrew University.
        He is survived by his wife of 62 years, the former Gerti Birnbaum; three sons, David of Ashkelon, Israel, and Chanan and Uriel, both of Jerusalem, and 11 grandchildren.
      