
        John N. Nassikas, who as the chairman of the Federal Power Commission from 1969 to 1975 began deregulation of the natural gas industry and the shift away from using natural gas to generate electricity, died of a heart attack on Tuesday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 81.
        Mr. Nassikas, who was responsible for one of largest shifts in energy use in the nation, presided over a time when there were shortages of natural gas and concerns that the utility industry could not build plants fast enough to keep up with the growing demand for electricity.
        Appointed by President Richard M. Nixon in 1969 to an agency that regulated the nation's utilities and natural gas industry, he thought that less Government regulation and market forces were better suited to supply the nation's energy needs.
        During his tenure, despite opposition from many Democrats and consumer groups, he was able to orchestrate a doubling of natural gas rates.
        Mr. Nassikas argued that producers did not have an incentive to explore because of the low price. He predicted that despite the price increase consumers would eventually benefit because more plentiful supplies would drive the price down.
        His policies helped lay the foundation for the gradual deregulation of the natural gas industry in the 1980's by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which took over the functions of the Federal Power Commission. Eventually the process led to lower natural gas prices, but the trade-off has been that the price now fluctuates.
        By increasing the price of natural gas, Mr. Nassikas also helped cause a shift toward development of coal and nuclear plants, which met with objections by environmentalists.
        His position was that natural gas, whose reserves were dwindling during his tenure, was too valuable and scarce a fuel to use for power generation and should instead be used by industries that need it to make products and by smaller consumers for heating.
        He was also part of an effort spurred by the Arab oil boycott in 1973 that led to huge increases in the price of crude oil to lessen the burning of oil in the nation's power plants.
        The ultimate answer, he believed, was not with Government agencies to spur the finding of new reserves of oil and natural gas, but allowing free enterprise to operate with less regulation.
        With energy being one of the main issues at the time, he became a familiar figure nationally in what had been a largely obscure agency.
        A striking figure, with deep-set eyes that were often framed by dark circles and black bushy eyebrows,  and long graying hair, he often appeared on Capitol Hill to testify. He once had a heated exchange with Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts over gas prices, a dramatic example of the bitter political infighting that went on over the proposed deregulation of natural gas.
        His tenure was embarrassed by disclosures that some staff members of the commissions had owned stocks in companies that were affected by agency decisions.
        In the 1980's, Gov. John Sununu of New Hampshire appointed Mr. Nassikas a special public utility commissioner to decide a controversial refinancing plan for the Seabrook nuclear plant project, and in the late 1980's he was named by Gov. Judd Gregg to help decide the Public Service Company of New Hampshire bankruptcy case.
        He grew up in Manchester, N.H., the son of prosperous Greek immigrant who was a lifelong Democrat. Mr. Nassikas, who worked in his father's ice cream plant wrapping Eskimo Pies, was a Republican.
        He graduated from Dartmouth College and got a master's degree in business administration from Harvard University. He served in the Navy during World War II. He graduated from Harvard Law School in 1948 and began to practice law in New Hampshire representing utilities and railroads.
        In the late 1960's, he went to work on Capitol Hill and was appointed chief counsel to the Republican minority of the Senate Commerce Committee.
        He said in an interview when he was appointed by President Nixon: ''I am challenged by matters of public or social importance. There isn't anything too small to be uninteresting or anything too large to be overwhelming.''
        He is survived by his wife, Deena, of McLean, Va.; four children, Constance Hohenadel of Charlemont, Mass., Marcy Weathers of Charlotte, Vt., Elizabeth Lowery of Wallingford, Conn., and John N. Nassikas 3d of McLean, and 12 grandchildren.
      