
        Al Campanis, the Los Angeles Dodgers executive who touched off a furor -- and shattered his career -- by suggesting that blacks were unqualified for high-level baseball jobs, died at home yesterday of coronary artery disease. He was 81.
        When the first pitch of the 1987 season was thrown, few outside the world of baseball knew the name Al Campanis. But by the following day, he had become a symbol of racial insensitivity and had unintentionally coined a buzzword in the debate over opportunities for minority-group members -- the term ''necessities.''
        It was April 6, baseball's opening day. Ted Koppel's ''Nightline'' program on ABC was marking the 40th anniversary of Jackie Robinson's breaking the major league color barrier with the Brooklyn Dodgers. What better way to remember Mr. Robinson than to speak with Mr. Campanis, a longtime executive of the franchise that had defied decades of baseball bigotry to sign him?
        Mr. Campanis could look back on 44 years in the Dodgers' organization. A native of Greece brought to New York City as a youngster by his mother, he graduated from New York University, served in the Navy and then embarked on a long and successful tenure in baseball.
        After a brief infield stint with Brooklyn in 1943, he had played shortstop for the Montreal Royals in 1946 when Mr. Robinson broke into organized baseball as the Dodgers farm team's second baseman. Mr. Campanis once recalled how he had thrown his glove down and challenged a base runner to do battle after the player tried to rough up Mr. Robinson. Later, Mr. Campanis managed in the Dodgers' farm system, served as scouting director, followed the team from Brooklyn to Los Angeles and, beginning in 1968, had been vice president of player personnel. He brought Sandy Koufax and Fernando Valenzuela to the Dodgers and oversaw decisions that shaped one of baseball's most successful teams.
        And Mr. Campanis was known as a ''Rickey man,'' a disciple of the Dodgers executive hailed as a civil rights pioneer for signing Mr. Robinson. Mr. Campanis treasured a tape recording of a 1950 talk by Branch Rickey discoursing on baseball and on life. Even then, nearly four decades later, Mr. Campanis turned to Mr. Rickey's thoughts for guidance, having transcribed those recordings to cassette tapes he kept in battered blue and white shoe boxes.
        When he interviewed Mr. Campanis, Mr. Koppel put nostalgia aside. He asked him why baseball had no black managers, general managers or owners and suggested that the answer was prejudice.
        Mr. Campanis replied: ''No, I don't believe it's prejudice. I truly believe that they may not have some of the necessities to be, let's say, a field manager or perhaps a general manager.''
        Mr. Koppel, taken aback, gave Mr. Campanis another chance, asking, ''Do you really believe that?''
        Mr. Campanis responded: ''Well, I don't say that all of them, but they certainly are short. How many quarterbacks do you have, how many pitchers do you have that are black?''
        Later, Mr. Campanis became ensnarled in athletic musculature while trying to make a point, remarking: ''Why are black men or black people not good swimmers? Because they don't have the buoyancy.''
        After a commercial break, Mr. Koppel -- pronouncing himself ''flabbergasted'' by Mr. Campanis's remarks -- gave him an opportunity to ''dig yourself out.''
        But Mr. Campanis was digging his own professional grave. ''I have never said that blacks are not intelligent,'' he told Mr. Koppel. ''I think many of them are highly intelligent. But they may not have the desire to be in the front office.''
        He added, ''But they're outstanding athletes, very God-gifted, and they're wonderful people.''
        Minutes after Mr. Campanis began speaking, the phones at ABC started ringing, with viewers denouncing him for racist statements. The next day, Mr. Robinson's widow, Rachel, Hank Aaron and the baseball commissioner, Peter Ueberroth, expressed dismay.
        The evening after the broadcast, Mr. Campanis denied believing that blacks lacked the ability to hold management positions and apologized ''to the American people and particularly to all black Americans for my statement and my inability, under the circumstances, to express accurately my beliefs.''
        Mr. Campanis added, ''This is the saddest moment of my career.''
        It was the end of his career. The next day, the Dodgers' owner, Peter O'Malley, sought and received Mr. Campanis's resignation. ''Everybody knows I'm not prejudiced,'' Mr. Campanis said in departing.
        Fred Claire, a longtime Dodgers employee, replaced Campanis.
        ''His was a life full of love for the game and his family,'' Mr. Claire told ABC Sports yesterday. ''No one loved baseball more than Al loved the game. He was a great student of the game and a great teacher of the game.''
        Mr. Campanis is survived by his sons, George and Jim, who caught for the Dodgers, Kansas City and Pittsburgh, five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
        In the aftermath of the Campanis furor, Mr. Ueberroth was prompted to make hiring of minority-group members in baseball a priority. Major League Baseball created an affirmative-action program and hired Harry Edwards, a black sociology professor at the University of California, to identify black and Hispanic former players who could work in baseball.
        Within two years, Bill White, who is black, was appointed National League president. But after an initial surge in minority-group hiring after Mr. Campanis's dismissal, the gains were minimal.
        Mr. Campanis faded from view after his resignation. But when sports figures like the broadcaster Jimmy (the Greek) Snyder, the Cincinnati Reds owner Marge Schott and the golfer Fuzzy Zoeller made racially offensive remarks, Al Campanis and ''necessities'' were recalled.
      