
        Dr. Daniel I. Axelrod, a paleoecologist at the University of California at Davis who reconstructed the ancient landscapes of the West by examining plant fossils, died on June 2 at his home in Davis. He was 87.
        Dr. Axelrod reported how wet forests slowly turned into Nevada's deserts over 40 million years of the Earth's cooling and heating and tracked the migration of plants to places that suited them better.
        Some of Dr. Axelrod's most important work came after he retired as a professor of geology and botany at Davis and became what many colleges call an emeritus professor, with no teaching to do. Before long, he won an award as the outstanding researcher at Davis, won top awards from several national research organizations and received a Guggenheim fellowship to boot.
        Dr. Axelrod roamed the world looking at how plants adapt to new environments, and he came up with ways to account for the migration of entire forests in response to climate changes.
        He documented the evolution of America's grasslands, its central prairies, the deserts of Arizona, New Mexico and Nevada, and the zones of thorny thickets called chaparral in the foothills of the Rockies and the Sierra Nevada.
        All this, said Dr. Michael G. Barbour, a botanist and professor of environmental horticulture at Davis, was a scope of work achieved by few botanists. Dr. Axelrod created maps showing how plant communities evolved through most of the Western United States.
        ''He reconstructed the climate and topography, the steepness of slopes, the height of mountains, all from studying the fossils in the rocks he found, by looking at the veins and margins of the leaves of the ancestors of plants we see today,'' Dr. Barbour said.
        For example, Dr. Axelrod's collection of tens of thousands of fossils showed him that the Sierra Nevada were once just gentle foothills, with slopes rising no more than 2,000 feet. He also found that the giant redwoods, lately living in California, were once rooted in Nevada's ancient wet forestland.
        He could identify the ancient plants, compare them with their modern relatives and then make surmises about what the Earth was like millions of years ago, Dr. Barbour said. ''He followed the basic principle of paleobotany: The present is the key to the past.''
        Dr. Axelrod, who wrote about such topics as dinosaur extinction and plate tectonics, was a founder of the discipline of paleobotany, which uses fossils to recreate climates that existed millions of years ago, said Dr. Jay Quade, director of the Desert Laboratory of the University of Arizona in Tucson.
        Dr. Axelrod figured out that today's plants of a dry Nevada evolved from ancestral plants that lived in central Mexico long ago in a zone like the Nevada desert of today.
        Daniel Isaac Axelrod was born in Brooklyn. He received all his degrees from the University of California at Berkeley, his B.A. in botany in 1933, and his M.A. and Ph.D., both in botany and paleontology, in 1936 and 1938.
        He served in the Army from 1942 to 1946, winning the Bronze Star for his work in photographic intelligence in the Philippines.
        In 1946, Dr. Axelrod joined the University of California at Los Angeles, moved to the Davis campus in 1967 and became an emeritus professor there in 1976.
        He was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        His marriage to Nancy Robinson ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his wife, Marilyn Gayler Axelrod; a son, Peter Axelrod of Santa Rosa, Calif.; a stepdaughter, Hillary Dion Gayler of Davis; a sister, Dorothy Heller Axelrod of Arcata, Calif., and a brother, Walter Axelrod of Rainbow, Calif., and one grandchild.
      