
        Leon Lianides, the demanding owner of the Coach House restaurant in Greenwich Village, died Monday at his home in Riverdale, the Bronx. He was 81.
        He had been in declining health since suffering a head injury in a car accident in 1991, his wife, Aphrodite, said yesterday.
        In 1949, when fine dining in America meant French cuisine, Mr. Lianides started his restaurant, determined to create a first-class establishment devoted primarily to American food. ''He'd say, 'Everybody thinks that to be elite you have to go to a French restaurant, but we have great food in America, too,' '' his wife said.
        The Coach House won accolades for its clubby, intimate setting and for signature dishes like black bean soup with Madeira, crab cakes, triple lamb chops, pecan pie and the corn sticks that were served to guests as soon as they sat down.
        ''From the early 1950's to the early 1970's, those gastronomically ingenuous days when goat cheese was unheard of and radicchio could have been mistaken for a virulent form of crab grass, the Coach House epitomized the pinnacle of sophisticated dining,'' wrote Bryan Miller, the restaurant critic for The New York Times, soon after the Coach House closed in 1993.
        Mr. Lianides, the son of tobacco planters, was born in 1916 on the Greek island of Corfu, where he attended private school. He immigrated to the United States in 1929, initially living with relatives in Worcester, Mass., where he shortened his name from Napoleon and worked as a soda jerk to earn money for college. He attended New York University, studying literature and history.
        Mr. Lianides would often pass by the Lane Restaurant, a tearoom at 110 Waverly Place, a site that had been a carriage house and hayloft for Wanamaker's. ''He told me, 'I have so many ideas about that place,' '' his wife said. Mr. Lianides, with a group of backers, bought the Lane, renamed it, and set about creating a warm, elegant restaurant. Retaining the heavy beams and brick, he added red leather banquettes, spindly brass chandeliers and 19th-century paintings.
        The restaurant quickly developed a reputation as one of the finest restaurants in the city. It was a favorite of James Beard, who lived nearby and made a ritual of dining at the restaurant on Christmas Eve. In a 1977 review by Mimi Sheraton, the restaurant critic at the time for The New York Times, the Coach House was awarded four stars, the highest rating.
        ''Mr. Lianides has developed a repertory of dishes that reflects the world crossroads that New York is, and the period in which we live,'' Ms. Sheraton wrote. ''The best American products and dishes such as chicken pie, corn sticks and Maryland crabmeat, are in perfect harmony with such European classics as veal piccata a la Francaise, quiche Lorraine, gazpacho or steak au poivre. What may well be the world's mellowest crunchy Mississippi pecan pie does not seem out of place alongside an equally exceptional Grand Marnier Bavaroise. Above all, it is the consistency of excellence that makes this restaurant worth four stars.''
        Mr. Lianides, a stern taskmaster with a relentless eye for detail, involved himself in every aspect of the restaurant's operation, from wine selection and menu planning to decor. He tested recipes endlessly at home and delivered lectures on food and wine at daily staff meetings. In a pinch, he could stand in for the chef at the restaurant, a sight that might have shocked his patrons.
        A trim man with a bold mustache, Mr. Lianides cut a dapper figure in his tailored suits. He drove a Jaguar, collected fine art and every night at 10 sat down to an English cut prime rib.
        With the passage of time and the rise of newer restaurants, some of them pushing deep into the terrain of American food that Mr. Lianides opened up, the Coach House lost some of its luster. A New York Times review in 1984 demoted it to one star,  more in sorrow than in anger. A year later, Mr. Miller upgraded the rating to two stars.
        In the summer of 1993, the Coach House closed for the summer, and in December 1993 it was put up for sale. In January, it was announced that a new Mediterranean restaurant, Grillo, would open there.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Lianides is survived by a son, Ronald, of Brooklyn, and two sisters, Victoria Chicolas, of Athens, and Olga Marulis, of Albania.
      