
        William Abrahams, a Harvard-bred poet who tried his hand at novels before finding a lasting literary niche as a distinguished book editor credited with almost single-handedly preserving the short story as a viable genre, died on Tuesday at his home in Hillsborough, Calif. He was 79 and had presided over the annual O. Henry short story awards for more than three decades.
        His companion, the historian Peter Stansky, said the cause was congestive heart failure.
        For Mr. Abrahams, a Boston-born lawyer's son who found his world in words, the literary life was a quest, first to find the true turn of his own talent and later to seek out, celebrate, nurture and hone the talent of others.
        It was a measure of his success that he had not only maintained his own imprint since the 1970's, first with Holt, Rinehart and Winston, and since 1984 with Dutton, but that he had managed to work with authors like Joyce Carol Oates, Pauline Kael, Lillian Hellman, John Knowles, Shirley Hazzard and Jessica Mitford from a West-Coast base far from the Boston-New York publishing axis.
        By the time he found his way into editing in 1963, when a friend got him a part-time job reading manuscripts for Atlantic Monthly Press, Mr. Abrahams had learned a thing or two about the publishing process.
        Some of his early poems had appeared in literary magazines and been included in anthologies and he had published four well-received novels.
        Still, none were bell ringers. And while it is tempting to wonder would have happened if Mr. Abrahams had done his World War II Army duty as, say, an infantryman in the Pacific rather than as a military policeman in Miami, his debut war novel, ''Interval in Carolina,'' an ironic story about a stateside soldier who seeks easy pleasure and finds ill-fated love, won rare praise for a first novel and showed the fine eye for nuance, language and structure that would make him a editor cherished by some of the finest writers of his day.
        In a 1945 review in The New York Times, Orville Prescott, describing Mr. Abrahams as ''an esthete of sorts,'' and ''a sensitive intellectual,'' said the ''mature'' and ''expert'' book ''marks the debut of a promising young writer.''
        Even so, Mr. Abrahams, whose later novels included ''By the Beautiful Sea,'' (1947) and ''Imperial Waltz,'' (1954), found he could make more of a splash as an editor, especially when he was tapped to compile the nation's most prestigious collection of short stories.
        Chosen on the basis of his work for Atlantic, Mr. Abrahams, who began as an assistant to the previous editor, Richard Poirier, became the sole editor of the O. Henry Awards in 1965. Until his retirement in 1996, he was a powerful and often lonely champion of the oft-derided genre.
        Sure the short story had declined since the glory days of The Saturday Evening Post and other defunct magazines, but Mr. Abrahams found enough worthy work in literary journals and other little magazines to make the annual O. Henry collections a recognized treasure.
        Although his imprimatur provided the first national recognition for scores of writers who went on to distinguished literary careers, Mr. Abrahams did not shirk the famous. A pushover for funny stories, he once awarded first prize to Woody Allen.
        By 1968 Mr. Abrahams was so well established that when Mr. Stansky, who had been a young graduate student at Harvard when the two met, was named associate professor of history at Stanford, Mr. Abrahams had no trouble moving his base to the West Coast.
        The Atlantic Monthly Press cheerfully made him West Coast editor, something of a misnomer for a man whose authors lived all over the country. As Mr. Abrahams once explained, he could work anywhere that had a telephone.
        Mr. Abrahams's life with Mr. Stansky also led him back to writing, in yet another format. Together they wrote four nonfiction books, including an acclaimed two-volume bioghraphy of George Orwell, ''The Unknown Orwell,'' (1972) and ''Orwell: The Transformation'' (1980). Their most recent book, ''London's Burning: Life, Death and Art in the Second World War,'' was published in 1994.
        Mr. Abrahams, whose wit and charm, not to mention his legendary editing skills, inspired devoted loyalty in his authors, would probably not have been allowed to retire if he had wanted to, but he had shown no signs of abandoning his lifelong quest for literary quality.
        One of his projects, Diane Johnson's novel ''Le Divorce,'' was a finalist for last year's National Book Award, and Mr. Abrahams, who had been working on Ms. Oates's latest novel, ''My Heart Laid Bare,'' had high hopes for ''The Mistress,'' a forthcoming novel by his latest discovery, Philippe Tapon.
        In addition to Mr. Stansky, he is survived by a sister, Fay Swartz of Gloucester, Mass.
      