
        Eric Tabarly, the robust Frenchman known as the ''iron man'' for his daring and clever efforts at sailing across oceans single-handedly, was lost at sea late last Friday after falling overboard from his century-old sailboat, Pen Duick, near the coast of Wales.
        A national hero from the time he won his first trans-Atlantic race in 1964, Mr. Tabarly was declared dead on Sunday by officials in Brest, France, a city in the Brittany region where he was born. He was 66.
        An extensive sea and air search failed to turn up any sign of the missing yachtsman over the weekend. ''Despite the last searches that seemed in vain, I didn't dare believe the demise of Eric Tabarly,'' French President Jacques Chirac said yesterday. ''It is with great sadness and much emotion that I give in to the evidence.''
        Mr. Tabarly reportedly was not wearing a life jacket or carrying any kind of radio transmitter when he fell into the sea.
        According to accounts from four friends who were sailing with him as crew, Mr. Tabarly was knocked off his sailboat when its gaff rig hit him as the boat lurched. He was directing them at the time in lowering the mainsail and raising a storm jib as winds increased during their journey to Scotland. The crew threw Mr. Tabarly a life jacket, but said they were unable to see him in the dark. The team lowered the 50-foot yacht's sails, then turned on the boat's engine to look for Mr. Tabarly.
        Throughout his sailing career, Mr. Tabarly kindled a French appreciation for adventure by his solo exploits. His second sailboat, the 44-foot ketch Pen Duick II, was well thought out for the job at hand: finishing the 1964 Observer Single-Handed Trans-Atlantic Race first -- in 27 days, a full two days ahead of Mr. Tabarly's British rival, Sir Francis Chichester.
        In 1976, Mr. Tabarly came back to win that race again, the second time in Pen Duick VI, a 73-foot maxi-yacht that completed the 3,300-mile voyage in 23 days. ''He was this square-jawed, muscular, very fit sailor who always had a swarm around him of fans and media,'' said Tony Lush, of Jamestown, R.I., a fellow solo sailor who competed against Mr. Tabarly that year. ''There was always a buzz around him, like drones around a queen bee, but he was always just tending to his task at hand.''
        The mystique continued with victories in European races as well as a solo trans-Pacific crossing in 1969. Mr. Tabarly set a new trans-Atlantic record in 1980, a crossing from New York to England in 10 days 5 hours on the futuristic, 60-foot hydrofoil, Paul Ricard.
        Mr. Tabarly is survived by his wife, Jacqueline, and his 14-year-old daughter, Marie.
      