
        Victor Romagna, an outspoken force in America's Cup yacht racing for a quarter of a century, died on June 12 at his home in Annapolis, Md. He was 80.
        Mr. Romagna sailed on the crew of three successful America's Cup defense teams: the 12-Meter Columbia in 1958, Weatherly in 1962 and Intrepid in 1967.
        A sailboat efficiency expert, Mr. Romagna was instrumental in rearranging the layout of Intrepid for the 1967 cup races. The yacht's winches were moved below deck to reduce clutter, and the cockpit was moved forward to improve viewing.
        Mr. Romagna and Emil (Bus) Mosbacher Jr., who was Intrepid's skipper in 1967, led their United States America's Cup team to victory against the Australian challenger, Dame Pattie, in a 4-0 sweep.
        ''He was the quintessential Corinthian yachtsman,'' Mr. Mosbacher, who died last year, said in 1996 about his friend and sailing colleague. ''He believed it was important to give kids an opportunity to go sailing because they loved the sport, not because they were going to be paid a salary. He wanted them to learn to sail under the utmost pressure, but as amateurs. He was a kind of scoutmaster for the crews.''
        During the cup races of 1980 and 1983, Mr. Romagna served as secretary of the America's Cup Selection Committee of the New York Yacht Club, which was the guardian of the America's Cup for 132 years.
        In 1983, when the club finally lost its ornate silver trophy to Australia, Mr. Romagna was one of the first to concede that he had mixed feelings about seeing it go. He had become increasingly agitated over the creeping commercialism in cup racing and bemoaned the loss of amateurism in the sport.
        Mr. Romagna was born in Port Washington, N.Y., and lived there until 1981, when he retired to Annapolis. He learned to sail on Manhasset Bay and competed on Long Island Sound during the 1940's in several classes of small boats. When he was 17, he sailed in his first Newport Bermuda Race.
        He competed in 22 Bermuda races, two trans-Atlantic competitions and three British Fastnet Races. He was inducted into the America's Cup Hall of Fame in 1994 and was an honorary trustee of the South Street Seaport in New York. He was sailing coach at the United States Naval Academy from 1981 to 1989.
        Mr. Romagna served in the Coast Guard during World War II. From 1960 to 1981, he worked at the Ivy Hill Corporation a printing firm, and was vice president of sales when he retired.
        He is survived by his wife, Louise; three daughters, Lisa Frappaolo, of Port Washington, Marion Jones, of Catonsville, Md., and Lenore Alexander, of Annapolis; a brother, Leonard, of Sun City Center, Fla., and four grandchildren.
      