
        Dr. Charles Rycroft, a British psychoanalyst who offered a generation of therapists new ways to interpret not just dreams but Freud's entire legacy, died May 24 in London, where he lived. He was 83.
        For three decades or more, Dr. Rycroft was the leading intellectual force in British psychoanalytic circles, said Dr. Paul Roazen, a retired professor of social and political science at York University in Toronto.
        Dr. Rycroft's colleague and most famous patient was the psychoanalyst R. D. Laing, and Dr. Rycroft was every bit as independent-minded. Like Dr. Laing, Dr. Rycroft both acknowledged and departed from Freud.
        Dr. Rycroft saw the subconscious not as a force that brings out the worst in people, but as a potential source of energy and creativity. The imagination, he often said, is a vital link between the subconscious mind and the perception of reality.
        Last year, Dr. Rycroft wrote in The New York Review of Books that ''average, alienated, well-adjusted, but unimaginative'' Westerners needed the therapist's help to listen to their dreams, get in touch with their true selves and come to understand the messages sent by the unconscious.
        Dr. Rycroft's editor at the New York Review, Robert Silvers, said that in his books and 160 or so articles, all of them lucid and free of jargon, Dr. Rycroft ''had a calm way of explaining rather charged psychoanalytic controversy.''
        ''He wrote on dreams, on Jung, on the bearing of psychoanalysis on literature, and always there was something solid and distinguished,'' Mr. Silvers said.
        In the 1950's Dr. Rycroft became a leader in the British Psychoanalytic Society, then detached himself from the mainstream of psychoanalysis, saying he was bored by the factional feuding over who were the true followers of Freud. He turned to writing books interpreting psychoanalysis for the general reader.
        In ''The Innocence of Dreams'' (Pantheon, 1979), Dr. Rycroft parted company with Freud, contending that dreams were extensions of the normal imagination, rather than merely expressions of unconscious wishes. Dreaming, he said, ''is a universally occurring neurotic symptom,'' neurotic in the sense that artists and writers are neurotic. The dream, he argued, is ''the sleeping form of creative imagination.''
        His methods of interpreting dreams -- which hold that dreams should be viewed in light of the individual's life experiences rather than through the filter of Freudian concepts -- are still widely used by therapists, Dr. Roazen said.
        His other books include ''Psychoanalysis Observed,'' (Coward, 1967), ''Anxiety and Neurosis'' (Penguin, 1968), ''Imagination and Reality'' (Hogarth, 1968), ''A Critical Dictionary of Psychoanalysis'' (Basic Books, 1969), ''Reich'' (Viking, 1971), ''Sources of Hope'' (1979) and ''Psychoanalysis and Beyond'' (1985).
        Charles Frederick Rycroft was born in Basingstoke, England, and received his bachelor's degree at Trinity College, Cambridge, in 1936. He was born into the aristocracy.
        In the 1930's, alarmed by the rise of Nazism in Germany, he briefly joined the Communist Party and visited the Soviet Union. Later he said that being a Communist in those years was simply a fashionable thing to do.
        His rebellious spirit moved him to seek training in psychoanalysis at a time when that academic field was often viewed with suspicion. He obtained degrees in medicine and psychoanalysis at University College Hospital in 1945 and began his private practice in 1948.
        A marriage to Chloe Majolier ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his wife, Jenny Pearson of London, and three children from his first marriage: a son, Francis, and two daughters, Julia and Catherine.
      