
        Dick Gibson, a longtime jazz aficionado and the producer of what he called an annual jazz party in Colorado, died at the Red Rocks Health Center hospice in Denver on Wednesday. He was 72 and lived in Denver.
        The cause was complications from diabetes, said his son Robey.
        Mr. Gibson ran his jazz party for some 30 years, starting in 1963, and usually during the Labor Day weekend. Each year, he took musicians he liked to towns in Colorado, including Vail, Aspen, Colorado Springs and Denver, along with critics and fans, and for three days different formations of musicians played.
        Those events pulled together musicians who had not seen one another in years, and the spontaneous nature of the festivities created a casual sort of brilliance, where the musicians were playing for themselves and friends. The parties were also important because they were held during a period in which jazz had fallen out of favor in American culture. While Mr. Gibson strove to break even, bringing in up to 500 paying guests at a time, they were in a sense underground events, where the overlooked idiom of mainstream jazz had its yearly reunion in front of its fans. And out of each party inevitably came other parties, along with recording and club dates.
        Mr. Gibson had a widely varied career. An expert on Oriental rugs and cloisonne, he also wrote fiction, worked as an investment banker and made a fortune by forming the Water Pik company, which he sold in 1967.
        He was also a jazz entrepreneur, having formed the World's Greatest Jazz Band in 1968. It included Bob Haggart on bass, Yank Lawson on trumpet, Bob Wilber on reeds, Ralph Sutton on piano and Gus Johnson on drums. On Tuesday evening at the  Kaye Playhouse, Hunter College, 68th Street between Lexington and Park Avenues, Mr. Gibson is to be celebrated by the JVC Jazz Festival, which will present ''The First Ever New York City Jazz Party: A Salute to Dick Gibson.''
        In addition to his son Robey, he is survived by his wife, Maddie; two other sons, Richard Jr. and Joshua, and a daughter, Molly.
      