
        Lucio Costa, the architect and urban planner whose vision of man living in harmony with his tropical surroundings carried Brazilian architecture into the modern age, died on Saturday at his home here. He was 96.
        Internationally, Mr. Costa was best known as the planner of Brasilia, the ambitious, futuristic Brazilian capital that surged up from the arid savanna in the state of Goias under President Juscelino Kubitschek in the 1950's. Though Mr. Costa detested the comparison once made by an American writer, the plan of Brasilia did resemble an airplane, with wings and other axes. At the cockpit stood the Plaza of the Three Powers, and along the body of the plane, sectors for monuments, cultural centers and a chapel.
        He placed apartments and homes  in peaceful green spaces largely free of traffic. Shunning the names of colonial viceroys, counts and generals that marked the streets of the old capital in Rio de Janeiro, Mr. Costa simply numbered blocks and neighborhoods.
        It was a time of optimism and audacity, recalled Oscar Niemeyer,  who designed Brasilia's buildings.  ''We had to rush to get everything done so the President could inaugurate it before the end of his term,'' said Mr. Niemeyer, who started his career working under Mr. Costa.
        In Brazil, Mr. Costa became known in the early 1930's when Getulio Vargas appointed him head of the National School of Fine Arts. He organized an art show that featured a new generation of artists who would become major figures in Brazilian modern art, including Candido Portinari, Cicero Dias and Ismael Nery.  Mr. Costa won the commission to design the Brazilian Pavilion at the New York World's Fair in 1939 and invited Mr. Niemeyer to join him. The result, a two-story building with glass walls looking out on a pond of waterlilies, bore the trademark simplicity and serenity that would mark Mr. Costa's later works.
        ''His biggest contribution was seeking a balance between the modern problems of technology that becomes outdated every day and human values of an earlier age,'' said Julio Roberto Katinsky, director of the school of architecture and city planning at the University of Sao  Paulo. ''He tried to establish a connection between a world that's in permanent transition and enduring human values.''
        In the 1960's, Mr. Costa was called upon to plan an emerging suburb of Rio, the Barra da Tijuca. But unlike Brasilia, the land in Barra was already privately owned and a master plan proved largely impossible to implement. The suburb is now a chilly seaside mass of apartment towers dotted with shopping malls.
        While Brasilia was initially hailed for its futuristic vision and scale, it later came under stinging criticism as a city without soul whose wide avenues were dangerous for pedestrians. Mr. Costa felt impelled to defend his work.
        ''Don't bother visiting Brasilia if you've already formed an opinion and have preconceived ideas,'' he once wrote. ''Stay where you are. Let them say what they want, Brasilia is a miracle.''
        Mr. Costa gradually withdrew from social life after 1956, when his wife, Julieta, died in a car accident after Mr. Costa fell asleep while driving. In recent years, the architect suffered from glaucoma and cataracts and was gradually losing his vision, said his daughter, Maria Elisa Costa. Three years ago, she helped him gather the books, letters and sketches that cluttered his room into a tome on his life and work.  ''When we realized how much material there was,'' Ms. Costa recalled, ''I suggested breaking it into two volumes.''
        ''No, I'm only one person,'' she remembered her father answering.
        As well as Ms. Costa, Mr. Costa is survived by another daughter, Helena; three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
        More than a scholarly treatise, his book ''Lucio Costa: Record of a Way of Life'' (1995) is the album of an erudite man living a balanced life. Mixed with his sketches for the country's new capital and explanations of its logic are photos of one of his grandchildren, Julieta, and her childhood paintings. The book also includes an open letter he wrote to Americans in 1961, when he believed the United States was feeling daunted by the Soviet challenge. ''Americans, you belong to the New Era. Look forward -- that is your tradition,'' he urged.
        But the book is also the album of a man who had ridden the crest and had been thrown on the shore, forgotten there, to watch others rise. On the inside flap of his book is a quote: ''When all else changes for you, nature remains the same, and the same sun rises on your days.''
      