
        Martin Stone, a longtime broadcasting executive and entertainment lawyer who was the producer of ''Howdy Doody'' and the founder of a suburban radio network, died on June 7 in Washington, where he was attending the graduation of a grandchild. He was 83 and lived in Pound Ridge, N.Y.
        The cause was a heart attack, family members said.
        Mr. Stone owned WVIP in Mount Kisco, N.Y., which he founded in 1957. He was forced to close the station last year, however, after a fire gutted the seashell-shaped building that housed it.
        In the late 1940's and early 50's, Mr. Stone produced ''Howdy Doody'' at NBC and ''Author Meets the Critics,'' a book-discussion program that ran for six years variously on NBC, ABC and the old Dumont network.
        In the early 1960's, he helped establish a group of suburban AM and FM stations in New York under the  Herald Tribune Radio Network, said William O'Shaughnessy, president of Whitney Radio in New Rochelle. The group included WVIP, WVOX in New Rochelle, WFYI on Long Island and WGHQ in Kingston, N.Y.
        Under Mr. Stone's leadership, suburban radio stations began to offer more variety, from local news to big-band music, from local political debates to announcements of school closings. ''He was a pioneer in radio and TV,'' Mr. O'Shaughnessy said. ''He taught us that radio could aspire to be more than a jukebox, that it achieves its highest calling when it is a platform for many different viewpoints.''
        A lawyer by training, Mr. Stone worked in the 1940's on the Lend-Lease Act, under which Britain was permitted to use American armaments during World War II, and the G.I. Bill of Rights. In later years, he worked as an entertainment lawyer, whose clients included Jackie Robinson, Howard Cosell, Merv Griffin and the actor Gabby Hayes, Mr. O'Shaughnessy said.
        In 1952, Mr. Stone was an unofficial adviser to President Harry S. Truman, who was reviewing his post-Presidential employment possibilities. Mr. Stone produced three television appearances Mr. Truman made for the Ford Foundation soon after he left office.
        Mr. Stone was the head of the Industrial Division of the 1964 World's Fair in Queens. In recent years, he was a director of the New 42d Street Development Corporation, a nonprofit organization involved in the revitalization of Times Square.
        Mr. Stone was born in Brooklyn and attended Bard College and Yale Law School.
        Mr. Stone's first wife, Lyndel, a painter, died in 1967. He is survived by his wife, Antje Schwecke; a son, Richard, of Rhinebeck, N.Y.; a daughter, Judith Ain of Washington; a brother, Allan, of Great Neck, N.Y.; and four grandchildren.
      