
        Alexander Pregel, a worldly Russian-born dealer in uranium and other radioactive elements, died on June 6 at Memorial Hospital in Sarasota, Fla. He was 91 and lived in Sarasota.
        Mr. Pregel, working with his older brother, Boris, had a cosmopolitan  career in which roles were played by notables like the scientists Leo Szilard and Enrico Fermi; Lieut. Gen.  Leslie R. Groves, the head of the  Manhattan Project in World War II, and even Richard M. Nixon, while he was a member of the House from California.
        A native of Odessa, Russia, Mr. Pregel was a teen-ager when he, his parents and sister fled the Bolsheviks with help from Boris, who escaped to Turkey earlier. Alexander Pregel received a bachelor's degree  from Robert College, an American college in Istanbul, and a master's degree in engineering in 1929 from the University of Minnesota. Then he and Boris went into business in Paris.
        ''Their trade was the marketing of radium and uranium; they were essentially the middle-people,'' said Vilma R. Hunt, a retired professor of environmental health at Pennsylvania State University who is writing about the brothers in a book to be titled ''Uranium Merchants.'' She said that they were agents for Union Miniere du Haut Katanga, a Belgian company operating in the Belgian Congo, which she said had a world monopoly on radium and uranium from the 1920's into the 1930's, and that they had other business interests. In those days, radium was used in medicine and industry and uranium was used in industry.
        Mr. Pregel was visiting New York City with his family in 1939 when World War II began in Europe. The family stayed in New York for more than two decades, and he became an American citizen. In 1940 he rescued Boris and their parents from the invading German Army in France, and the brothers moved their business to New York.
        In the same year they founded  Canadian Radium and Uranium in Manhattan, with Boris as president and Alexander as vice president.
        Professor Hunt said the brothers became agents for a Canadian uranium enterprise in 1941, and were able to supply Fermi and Szilard, both nuclear physicists, with uranium ore for their fission experiments at Columbia University, which prepared the ground for experiments in Chicago in controlled nuclear fission for the Manhattan Project.
        In World War II, Richard Rhodes wrote in his book ''The Making of the Atomic Bomb'' (1986), Boris supplied uranium to the Manhattan Project, which developed the atomic bomb. Professor Hunt reported that the brothers also provided polonium -- a rare radioactive chemical element found in uranium ores -- to the Manhattan Project early in its existence, when its staff could not obtain polonium elsewhere. But, Professor Hunt said, General Groves was suspicious of the brothers, largely because of their Russian origin, and  dropped them.
        After the war the brothers bought a silver mine site in Colorado, and uranium was found in it. Their business interests came to include other mines in the West, and Alexander ran what became Canadian Radium and Uranium's mining operations.
        In 1950, members of the the House Committee on Un-American Activities heard testimony that Canadian Radium and Uranium, which had arranged the sale of 1,000 pounds of uranium to the Soviet Union in 1943, had been under contract at the time to give the United States the first opportunity to acquire all it could get.
        Dr. Philip L. Merritt, who had been with the Manhattan Project, told the committee about the contract. Under questioning by Nixon, a committee member, Dr. Merritt said he thought the sale by the corporation to the Soviet Union had violated the contract, which he said had ''very clear'' wording.
        But Boris contended afterward that ''the shipment was made with the approval of the Governments of the United State and Canada.'' He also said that he wanted to be heard ''as soon as possible'' by the House panel. But neither he nor Alexander was called before it.
        In 1954 Canadian Radium and Uranium was reported to be one of the largest of the companies mining and refining radioactive ores. In 1957 it became the target of New York State's first prosecution of a corporation for exposing employees to excessive radiation.
        State Labor Department officials filed charges against Canadium Radium and Uranium, which pleaded guilty, in a court in Mount Kisco, N.Y., to permitting excessive radiation in a company plant in Mount Kisco. The plant processed radioactive materials for medical, research and industrial organizations.
        But the judge in the case, Police Justice John F. Reed Jr., said nothing further could be gained by a fine. Therefore, he said, ''The court suspends sentence.''
        He also said: ''The court notes that there has been no proof of any kind that the health of any person, either in or out of the plant, has been impaired in any way by the acts of the defendant, or that the health of the community has been in any way disturbed.''
        Around 1965 the name of Canadian Radium and Uranium was changed to Canrad, Professor Hunt said, and the company was later bought by another company. She said that in the mid-1960's, Alexander Pregel, being ''pretty well exhausted,'' stopped being an officer of the concern, ''essentially retired'' and moved back to Paris. He returned to New York in the 1970's and moved to Sarasota in 1995.
        Boris died in 1976. Alexander's  wife, the former Galla Feldman, died in 1983. He is survived by his wife of 14 years, the former Ellie Kahan; a son, Robert of Lansing, Mich., a grandson and a great-grandson.
      