
        Mary Brecht, who designed costumes for Joseph Chaikin, Charles Ludlam, Robert Wilson, Richard Foreman and other prominent directors and writers in the experimental theater, died on June 3 at her summer home in Greenport, N.Y. She was 65 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, said Phillip Price, her friend and companion.
        Depending on the demands of the show, Ms. Brecht's costumes could be elaborate or threadbare, as if they came directly from a thrift shop. In both cases, she was imaginative on a minuscule budget.
        For Mr. Ludlam and the Ridiculous Theatrical Company, her designs were fiendish (''Bluebeard''), startlingly hermaphroditic (''The Grand Tarot'') and lavish (''Camille'').
        It was a Mary Brecht gown that Mr. Ludlam wore in his satirical, hairy-chested version of Dumas's tearjerker.
        Her most extensive work was with Mr. Chaikin and the Open Theater. She designed more than a dozen of the director's productions, including ''Endgame,'' ''Waiting for Godot'' ''Tourists and Refugees,'' ''The Bald Soprano'' and his collaborations with Sam Shepard: ''Tongues,'' ''Savage Love,'' ''The War in Heaven'' and ''When the World Was Green (A Chef's Fable).''
        Together, Mr. Chaikin and Ms. Brecht did two versions of Samuel Beckett's ''Texts for Nothing,'' one in 1981 starring Mr. Chaikin, the other in 1992 starring Bill Irwin.
        She also worked with Paul Zimet's Talking Band, a direct descendant of the Open Theater. In the Talking Band's ''Giaconda and Si-Ya-U,'' classic paintings like Manet's ''Dejeuner sur l'herbe'' came to life, with starched collars and frock coats juxtaposed with nudity.
        Ms. Brecht, who was born in Boston, began her New York career in 1973 with the costumes for Mr. Wilson's dusk-to-dawn epic ''The Life and Times of Joseph Stalin,'' followed by his ''Dollar Value of Man.''
        In a review in The New York Times of a 1997 retrospective exhibition at Public School 1 of the work of Jack Smith, the filmmaker and performance artist, Holland Cotter said that the artist's ''heart would have  warmed to see how lovingly his costumes have been refurbished'' by Ms. Brecht. Those costumes included ornamental brassieres designed for men and a Carmen Miranda-style gown.
        In addition to Mr. Price, she is survived by her husband, Stefan Brecht (the son of Bertolt Brecht); a daughter, Sarah, and a son, Sebastian, all of New York City.
      