
        Oliver E. Treyz, who helped make ABC's television network a formidable competitor to CBS and NBC in the 1950's and 60's, died June 14 at a retirement home in Englewood, N.J., from kidney failure caused by prostate cancer, his son James O. Treyz said. He was 80.
        As head of the American Broadcasting Company's television operation, from 1956 to 1962, Mr. Treyz relied on strong ties to West Coast film companies and a rich diet of hourlong prime-time action programs to help ABC shed its image as the perennial also-ran of the television business.
        ''Oliver headed the first major threat to the two networks, NBC and CBS,'' said Michael H. Dann, a broadcast consultant who was the head of programming at CBS when Mr. Treyz was the president of ABC's television unit. ''ABC got an ascendancy under Ollie Treyz that is unheard of before, during or since.''
        The ABC success story was built on westerns and shows about private detectives and law enforcement officials, including ''Adventures in Paradise,'' ''Cheyenne,'' ''Hawaiian Eye,'' ''77 Sunset Strip,'' ''Surfside 6,'' 'Maverick,'' ''The Rifleman'' and ''The Untouchables.''
        Many of the more popular shows were produced by the broadcast unit at Warner Brothers, with which ABC and Mr. Treyz enjoyed a close relationship.
        Referring to the founder of CBS, Mr. Dann said: ''I can remember William S. Paley calling me and saying: 'This Ollie Treyz has all this product. Why don't we get some Warner Brothers product?' ''
        But the very programming formula that drove Mr. Treyz's success also contributed to his ouster from ABC. In December 1961, ABC broadcast an episode of a program called ''Bus Stop'' that dealt with adultery and suicide and starred Fabian, the popular singer, as a psychopath who attacked an elderly man with an ax.
        Protest over the episode led to Federal hearings about violence on television. Before a Senate subcommittee in January 1962, Mr. Treyz defended the broadcast in the name of artistic freedom. But the following month he told the Federal Communications Commission that broadcasting the show had been a mistake.
        By that time ABC had reverted to the No. 3 position in the ratings. In March 1962, Mr. Treyz was dismissed as the network's president.
        In the late 1960's Mr. Treyz attemped unsucessfully to start a fourth television network. He later worked as a television consultant.
        After graduating from Hamilton College in 1939, Mr. Treyz began his career in broadcasting at a small radio station in Binghamton, N.Y. During World War II, Mr. Treyz served in the Army Air Corps.
        He joined ABC in 1948 as a presentation writer and was director of the company's radio network in 1954 when he left to become the founding president of the Television Bureau of Advertising, a trade group for local television stations.
        Mr. Treyz rejoined ABC in 1956 and was named president in 1957.
        Mr. Treyz is survived by two sons, Donald C., of San Diego and James, of Chappaqua, N.Y., and two granddaughters.
      