
        Rear Adm. Vincent Patrick Healey, a retired antisubmarine specialist who as a young gunnery officer saw naval combat from the Philippines to Iwo Jima to Japan itself in World War II, died on May 30 at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 80 and lived in Arlington, Va.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Fresh out of the United States Naval Academy in 1940, he was assigned to the cruiser Astoria. The ship survived the Japanese raid on Pearl Harbor, and Admiral Healey fought in engagements in the Coral Sea and at Midway before enemy gunfire sank the cruiser in the first battle for Savo Island in August 1942. He helped save the lives of the officers and crew around him and for his ''gallantry and intrepidity'' was awarded the Bronze Star.
        He was reassigned to destroyer duty, serving as gunnery officer on the Beale, executive officer aboard the Ault and, in August 1945, commander of the Dyson. Throughout the war Admiral Healey took part in operations at the southern Palau Islands, Taiwan, Luzon in the Philippines and the China coast. He participated in the assault on Iwo Jima and in raids against the group of islands that includes Okinawa and, finally, against Japan itself.
        He then did postgraduate work at the Naval Academy and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He won the Legion of Merit for his work in antisubmarine warfare and tactical aircraft, ship, missile and electronic warfare systems while posted to the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations.
        After he retired from the Navy in 1972, Admiral Healey became a consultant for aerospace companies and headed the Washington operations of the EDO Corporation, an engineering concern.
        Born in the Bronx, he was the first native of the borough to reach the rank of admiral. He attended Fordham University before his appointment to the Naval Academy in 1936.
        Admiral Healey's first wife, Helen Marie Clarke Healey, died in 1995.
        He is survived by his wife, Joan Casey Saenz Healey; five children from his first marriage, Dominic M., of Maywood, N.J., John S., of Manhattan, Mary H. Healey of Arlington, Jane Marie Healey Zamm of Manhattan, and Peter J., of San Diego, and five grandchildren.
      