
        John H. Richardson, the Central Intelligence Agency station chief in Saigon in 1962 and 1963 who supported the Government of President Ngo Dinh Diem for a time and was recalled to Washington shortly before Diem was overthrown, died on June 1 in his home in Zapopan, a suburb of Guadalajara, Mexico. He was 84.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his son, John H. Richardson.
        Mr. Richardson ''was a decent and intelligent man who had the virtue of being able to change his mind,'' said Neil Sheehan, an author, authority on Vietnam and former New York Times correspondent in Vietnam.
        Mr. Sheehan said that as Saigon station chief, Mr. Richardson had the mission ''to work with, get close to and influence Ngo Dinh Nhu, a brother of President Diem and a kind of eminence grise of the regime.'' At first, he said, Mr. Richardson ''was very optimistic about the war.''
        But then, Mr. Sheehan said, for various reasons, Mr. Richardson ''changed his mind and he decided that the regime was really an impossible regime and you couldn't work with these people.''
        ''And then Henry Cabot Lodge took over'' as United States Ambassador in Saigon, Mr. Sheehan said, ''and he deliberately forced Richardson to leave as part of his campaign to bring down the regime -- not because Richardson had performed badly as station chief, but because Richardson was a kind of symbol of American support for Nhu.''
        ''The fact that Richardson was sent home'' in October 1963, he said, ''was a public signal that the United States had withdrawn its support for the regime.''
        Mr. Richardson was born in Rangoon, Burma, now Myanmar, while his father, an oil engineer, was working there. He was reared in Whittier, Calif., and received a bachelor's degree and a master's degree in English, from the University of California at Berkeley. He studied in Paris, at the Sorbonne, in Berlin and at the University of Chicago.
        During World War II, he served in the United States Army Counter-Intelligence Corps in North Africa, Italy and Austria and rose to be a second lieutenant. He became the C.I.A.'s station chief in Vienna in 1947, his family said, and then the director for Southeast Europe at the C.I.A.'s headquarters in Washington, and then station chief in Athens and in Manila before becoming station chief in Saigon in June 1962.
        In addition to his son of Westchester County in New York, he is survived by his wife of 48 years, the former Eleanore Koch; a daughter, Jennifer Lynn Richardson of Louisville, Ky., and two grandchildren.
      