
        Harold Segal, a Marine fighter pilot who shot down 12 Japanese planes in World War II, three of them in a single duel that ended with his being fished out of the Pacific Ocean by an American destroyer, died on Wednesday at his home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 77.
        In March 1944, more than 500 people, including Army, Navy and Marine officers and the Manhattan Borough President, Edgar Harvey Jr., gathered at the Hotel Pennsylvania in Manhattan to honor Lieutenant Segal, a former art student from New York, on his triumphant return home. The Marine ace and winner of the Distinguished Flying Cross had an extraordinary tale for them.
        The odds had been overwhelming back on July 11, 1943, when Lieutenant Segal and seven other pilots from Marine Fighting Squadron 221 had taken off in single-engine Corsair fighters that the Japanese called Whistling Death to escort American bombers over Rendova island in the  Solomons. Then six pilots returned to base with faulty engines, leaving only Lieutenant Segal and Capt. James Swett to continue the mission.
        When they spotted at least 40 Japanese Zero fighters and bombers at 25,000 feet, Captain Swett, who would win the Medal of Honor for having downed seven Japanese planes in a single encounter the previous April, dived toward the bombers. Lieutenant Segal followed in a fighter he had named Ruthie in honor of his mother. The Zeros then got on the Americans' tails, but just as one opened fire on Captain Swett, Lieutenant Segal shot it down.
        Before pulling out of his dive, Lieutenant Segal spotted two Zeros to his left.
        ''I caught the top Zero first,'' he reported soon afterward. ''He blew up like matchwood. The second Zero never knew what hit him. My dive practically carried me into his cockpit with all guns blazing. He hit the sea a mass of flaming wreckage.''
        While passing through a layer of Japanese bombers on his dive, Lieutenant Segal's plane was hit by a long burst of fire. Four Zeroes then pursued him, and two peppered his plane, sending it plunging into the Pacific 10 miles off New Georgia Island at 110 miles an hour.
        His plane sank in 20 seconds, but his injuries were minor: a broken nose, two cracked front teeth and a cut on his upper lip. He freed himself, inflated his life jacket and spent 22 hours in the ocean, killing a sea gull for his only source of food, before being picked up by a destroyer.
        ''He was waving and yelling but the ship passed him by,'' Mr. Segal's son, Robb, recalled. ''A man on the end of the boat then looked back and happened to see him. The ship had orders not to turn around for anyone, but it did.''
        The destroyer hauled Lieutenant Segal in with a rope and let him off on Guadalcanal. He tried to learn the identity of the sailor who had spotted him, hoping to offer thanks for saving his life, but he never found out the man's name.
        Harold Edward Segal was born in Chicago but moved with his family to the New York area as a youngster. He graduated from Lawrence High School in Cedarhurst and studied art at the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn before enlisting in the military in September 1941.
        After his discharge in 1946, he was involved in real estate in Los Angeles. He later retired to Scottsdale.
        In addition to his son, of San Gabriel, Calif., he is survived by a daughter, Laurie Nadershahi of Scottsdale; a brother, George, of New York City, and four grandchildren. His marriage to the former Patricia Heselton ended in divorce.
        Upon his return home in 1944 as a captain, he was introduced to reporters at the Marines' public relations office in New York.
        Asked how he was able to survive after having been shot down, he replied, ''A man named God was sitting beside me.''
        His fellow pilots nicknamed him Murderous Mannie after his exploits on July 11, 1943. As his son explained it, ''His father's name was Mannie, and Murderous Mannie sounded a lot tougher than Murderous Harold.'' The sobriquet stuck over the years, but Mr. Segal came to be amused at the fuss that had been made over his heroics.
        A friend, Col. R. Bruce Porter, himself a Marine air ace in World War II, remembered what Mr. Segal had said a few years ago when asked how he managed to down three Zeros that day in July 1943.
        ''I really didn't shoot them down,'' he said. 'They just got in my way when I was going home.''
        Correction:  June 20, 1998, Saturday  An obituary on June 9 about Harold Segal, a fighter pilot decorated for his defense of American bombers against the Japanese in World War II, misidentified the Manhattan Borough President who was among those honoring Mr. Segal on his return to New York in 1944. He was Edgar J. Nathan Jr., not Edgar Harvey Jr.
      