
        Dr. A. McGehee Harvey, who developed the first research-based school of medicine in the United States at the Johns Hopkins Hospital and trained an army of medical school leaders there, died on May 8 in the hospital where he had taught. He was 86 and lived in Baltimore.
        The cause was a stroke, according to his family.
        At 34, Dr. Harvey became the youngest doctor to direct the department of medicine at Johns Hopkins, which had been renowned for its application of research to medical care since the late 19th century.
        In 27 years as head of that department, Dr. Harvey emphasized bringing research findings to the bedside. He required residents to carry notebooks and pencils to collect the maximum information from patients.
        In a departure from decades of separation between research and clinical training, Dr. Harvey's faculty members were expected to do basic research and then to apply it to patients in the diagnosis, treatment and management of diseases.
        ''He trained a whole generation of leaders in American medicine,'' said Dr. Richard J. Johns, the University Distinguished Service Professor in biomedical engineering and medicine at Johns Hopkins, who studied under Dr. Harvey.
        ''Dr. Harvey had a ripple effect,'' recalled another former student, Dr. Eugene Braunwald, the dean for academic programs at Harvard Medical School. ''The things I saw in him, the environment, the attitude toward patients, it all got burnished into me. To his entourage of students, he was the Herr Professor, but he would stop at a bed and really demonstrate how to gather information from a patient.''
        In 1977, Dr. Harvey received an award for distinguished teaching from the American College of Physicians. The citation, which praised his gentle bedside manner, read in part: ''When all had been told to him, Dr. Harvey responded with clarity and wisdom, so often reducing complexity to simplicity that his audience would wonder how the answer could have been so obscure for so long.''
        Dr. Harvey wrote several textbooks, including ''Differential Diagnosis'' (published by Saunders in three editions between 1955 and 1979). He was also the editor in chief of five editions of ''The Principles and Practice of Medicine,'' the latest of which was published in 1988 by Appleton Century Crofts.
        In 1981 he received the Kober Medal, the highest honor of the Association of American Physicians, for his leadership in internal medicine.
        Dr. Harvey was born in Little Rock, Ark., and received his B.A. from Washington and Lee University and his M.D. from Johns Hopkins.
        He received a fellowship at the National Institute for Medical Research in London, and worked at the Johnson Foundation for Biophysics at the University of Pennsylvania and at the Vanderbilt University Medical School. In World War II, he served in the South Pacific with the Hopkins 118th General Hospital, a unit affiliated with Johns Hopkins.
        In 1969, Dr. Harvey and his wife, Elizabeth, who was also a doctor on the staff of the Johns Hopkins Hospital, went to the Soviet Union to treat the daughter of Nikita S. Khrushchev, the former Soviet leader, for lupus, which was one of his specialties. He also treated two Presidents of Peru and the leader of India, Jawaharlal Nehru.
        According to the hospital, Dr. Harvey taught 2,151 medical students and nearly 1,000 residents over the course of his career. Sixteen of those doctors became heads of departments and eight became deans of medical schools.
        He is survived by his wife of 41 years; three daughters, Dr. Jenette Harvey Wheeler and Dr. Elizabeth Baker Harvey, both of Philadelphia, and Dr. Joan Harvey Lotze of Pittsburgh, and a son, Dr. George Treide Harvey of Princeton.
      