
        James G. Wallach, the chairman and chief executive of Central National-Gottesman Inc., a pulp, paper and newsprint marketing concern, died on Friday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 55.
        The cause was a cerebral aneurysm, his family said.
        Mr. Wallach became president and chief executive of Central National-Gottesman in 1979 and chairman and chief executive in 1997. The privately owned company is based in Purchase, N.Y., and has sales of more than $2 billion a year.
        It was after receiving a master's degree in business administration in 1966 from the University of California at Berkeley that he joined the Central National-Gottesman organization. He foresaw the growing significance of Asia for the pulp and paper business and directed a swift expansion in the company's Asian operations in the early 1980's. It now has 22 offices in foreign countries, including 10 in Pacific Rim nations.
        In the mid-1980's he supervised the company's expansion into sales of paper used in business forms and stationery. The company also sells paper for use in book publishing, magazines and catalogues.
        Mr. Wallach was a trustee of Bates College in Maine and a vice president and a director of the University of Maine Pulp and Paper Foundation. He was also on the boards of several Wallach family charitable foundations. Beneficiaries of the family's philanthropic largess have included the New York Public Library, the Metropolitan Museum, the Central Park Conservancy and the American Museum of Natural History.
        He was born in Manhattan and raised in Scarsdale and went on to graduate from Deerfield Academy in Deerfield, Mass., and in 1964 from Bates College.
        He is survived by his wife of 27 years, Mary Kerr Wallach; two sons, Andrew and Scott, both of Scarsdale; his parents, Ira Wallach and Miriam Gottesman Wallach of Scarsdale; a brother, Kenneth, of Manhattan, and two sisters, Sue Wachenheim of Rye, N.Y., and Kate Cassidy of East Hampton, N.Y.
      