
        Jim Hearn, a right-handed pitcher who helped propel the New York Giants to victory in a dramatic 1951 National League pennant race with the Brooklyn Dodgers a year after his career was seemingly ending, died Wednesday at his winter home in Boca Grande, Fla. He was 77.
        Hearn, whose main home was in Greensboro, Ga., had suffered from Hodgkin's lymphoma, his family said.
        The Giants' drive to a pennant in 1951 after they were 13 1/2 games behind the Dodgers in mid-August has been labeled ''The Miracle of Coogan's Bluff.'' Although thrilled by Bobby Thomson's pennant-winning homer off Ralph Branca at the Polo Grounds in Game 3 of a playoff, Hearn would point to the Giants' pitching in the regular season's final week as the real miracle.
        ''The only really bad pressure was on the pitching staff,'' he recalled. ''We were just plain worn out; our arms were hanging dead. In those last four games of the season -- two in Philly, two in Boston -- we gave up a total of four runs, pitching with two, three days' rest. That, to me, is the Miracle of Coogan's Bluff.''
        A 6-foot-3-inch, 205-pound native of Atlanta, Hearn had a 17-9 record for the 1951 Giants in a pitching rotation led by Sal Maglie and Larry Jansen. Hearn beat the Dodgers twice late in the season and then pitched the Giants to a 3-1 victory over Brooklyn at Ebbets Field in Game 1 of the playoff. He beat the Yankees in Game 3 of the World Series, which the Giants lost in six games.
        Hearn compiled a 12-7 record as a St. Louis Cardinal rookie in 1947, having been signed out of Georgia Tech and then converted from a third baseman. But he did not enjoy much more success in St. Louis; he sustained a shoulder strain and was sent to the minors early in 1950.
        St. Louis sent Hearn to the Giants for $10,000 that July. With his shoulder becoming sound again, and with the Giants' pitching coach, Frank Shellenback, teaching him to throw a sinker, Hearn went 11-3 for the Giants in 1950, led the league in earned run average at 2.49 and tied for the lead in shutouts with five.
        Going into Game 1 of the 1951 playoff, Hearn had pain from a ligament strain in his side. After each inning, the team trainer, Doc Bowman, applied a hot ointment. It made Hearn forget about the ligament problem, and he limited the Dodgers to five hits in a complete-game victory.
        Hearn had a career record of 109-89 over 13 seasons with the Cardinals, Giants and Phillies.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary; three sons, Jeffrey, of Charleston, S.C., Paul, of Dunwoody, Ga., and Christopher, of Chamblee, Ga.; a daughter, Mary Crawford, of Dunwoody; a brother, Jack, of Atlanta; a sister, Mary Elrod, of Boca Grande, and 11 grandchildren.
        Hearn would retain vivid memories of the moment when Thomson hit baseball's most dramatic home run. He was throwing in the Giants' bullpen in right field, prepared to enter the game if it went to extra innings, when he heard a roar.
        At first, he did not realize what had happened. Then, as he recalled it: ''I saw Duke Snider on his knees in center, pounding his glove on the grass. That's when I took off for home plate. It was just the greatest thrill of my life.''
      