
        Tom Dent, a civil rights campaigner who went on to become a writer of prose and poetry, died on Saturday at a hospital in New Orleans. He was 66 and lived in New Orleans.
        He had had heart surgery recently, said Joan Rhodes, a family friend.
        Mr. Dent, a native of New Orleans, was a Manhattan-based public information worker for the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund in the early 1960's. That job took him to places that figured prominently in the civil rights movement. He played a part in James Meredith's entering the University of Mississippi in Oxford as its first black student.
        From 1966 to 1970 he was an executive of the Free Southern Theater, a troupe of actors that brought quality drama with racial themes to economically depressed places in the South.
        In a performance one evening in 1966 in the Desire section of New Orleans, for example, the company presented a reading of ''A Poem for Mr. Lincoln'' by Mr. Dent. The work describes the experience of a black youth who decides he will pattern his life after that of the Great Emancipator but eventually learns that the racial barriers on the road to the Presidency are insurmountable.
        David J. Garrow, a civil rights historian and a professor of legal history at Emory University in Atlanta, said, ''Tom was someone who both deeply appreciated the civil rights movement's history and, maybe as much as anyone, personified how the movement had a cultural impact as well as a political one.''
        Mr. Dent returned to New Orleans, where he became one of the city's  leading literary figures. His writings included two volumes of poetry, ''Magnolia Street'' (1976) and ''Blue Lights and River Songs: Poems'' (1982).
        He spent the early 1990's writing poetry and essays and working on a book, ''Southern Journey: My Return to the Civil Rights Movement.''
        The book, which was published in 1996, is an account of a trip that he took in 1991 to communities that had been in the news during the civil rights movement's tumultuous years. Reviewing it in The New York Times Book Review, Lynn Karpen said, ''Mr. Dent paints a bleak picture in which entrenched racism, seemingly little altered by time, continues to hold sway.''
        Mr. Dent, whose full name was Thomas Covington Dent, was born to Albert Dent, an educator, and Jessie Covington Dent, a concert pianist. He received a bachelor's degree in 1952 from Morehouse College in Atlanta and a master's degree in 1975 from Goddard College.
        His writings also include a 1968 play, ''Ritual Murder,'' about a killing done ''for no apparent reason.'' It  is performed annually in New Orleans. For several years, until 1990, he was the executive director of the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Foundation. He also taught at Southern colleges and universities.
        His marriage to Roberta Yancy ended in divorce. He is survived by his mother, of New Orleans, and two brothers, Walter, of Washington, and Benjamin, of Camarillo, Calif.
      