
        Mallalieu S. Woolfolk, a lawyer who gave legal and political assistance to prominent black elected officials, including David N. Dinkins, Percy E. Sutton and Charles B. Rangel, died on Saturday at Beth Israel Hospital in Passaic, N.J. He was 92 and lived in Teaneck, N.J.
        Dr. Woolfolk, whose doctorate was in law, specialized in corporate law. In recent years, although partly retired, he advised Mr. Sutton, the chairman emeritus of Inner City Broadcasting Corporation, which owns the Manhattan-based radio station WLIB-AM, Queens Inner City Unity Cable and other radio stations and ventures. Earlier, Dr. Woolfolk provided financial and legal assistance during the founding of Inner City Broadcasting.
        Mr. Sutton has described Dr. Woolfolk, who was known as Mal, as ''my friend, my super lawyer and my grammarian, who reminds me of why I use the words that I do.''
        Dr. Woolfolk was also associate counsel of the Bill of Rights Committee at the New York State Constitutional Convention in 1967 and legal secretary to Oliver C. Sutton, a New York State Supreme Court judge and a brother of Percy Sutton.
        Dr. Woolfolk was long active in the political life of Harlem and New York City. He assisted in Percy Sutton's successful campaigns for the State Assembly and for Manhattan borough president. He also helped Oliver Sutton become elected a Civil Court judge and then a State Supreme Court justice. And he was active in the campaigns of Congressman Rangel, former Mayor Dinkins and former State Senator Basil A. Paterson.
        In addition, Dr. Woolfolk was director of training at the Upper Manhattan Small Business Development Center, which has become the Workshop in Business Opportunities Inc., a nonprofit organization that teaches New Yorkers how to become entrepreneurs.
        During World War II he served in the Army Air Forces as a member of the all-black corps of pilots known as the Tuskegee Airmen. He became a captain and saw combat in the Mediterranean.
        Dr. Woolfolk was born and raised in Holly Springs, Miss. His early education was in segregated schools. He received a bachelor's degree in 1938 from Lincoln University in Jefferson City, Mo., and a master's degree in psychology in 1940 from the University of Minnesota. He then taught at Alabama State College before joining the Army Air Forces in 1942.
        He received his law degree in 1951 from De Paul University in Chicago. In the next two decades he was an energetic civil-rights advocate and became a figure in Harlem's political life.
        His marriage to Dr. Muriel Petioni ended in divorce after 28 years.
        He is survived by his wife of 25 years, Jacqueline Rhinehart Woolfolk, and a son, Charles Mal Woolfolk of Manhattan.
      