
        Marshall Green, who was the State Department's leading expert on East Asia and served as Ambassador to Indonesia during the violent uprising in the 1960's that brought President Suharto to power, died on Saturday. He was 82 and lived in Washington.
        His family said he suffered a heart attack while playing golf with one of his sons.
        At the side of a succession of Presidents and Secretaries of State, Mr. Green helped steer foreign policy in East Asia as the United States deepened its involvement there in the decades after World War II.
        He was a witness to history from the earliest days of his career, which began with his appointment in 1939 as the private secretary to the United States Ambassador to Tokyo. He left the Embassy only a few months before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor in December 1941.
        In 1961 he was the senior American diplomat in South Korea during a coup that toppled a democratically elected Government. Four years later he was Ambassador to Indonesia during the overthrow of President Sukarno and his replacement by President Suharto. In 1969 he was named a member of the United States delegation to talks in Paris to end the Vietnam War.
        In the 1970's he was a key aide to Secretary of State Henry Kissinger and accompanied President Richard M. Nixon on his historic 1972 visit to China. After the China trip, Nixon sent Mr. Green to several Asian nations to calm their fears about the new relationship with Beijing.
        ''History is likely to regard the period from 1940 to about 1970 as the golden age of the American Foreign Service,'' said William P. Bundy, who preceded Mr. Green as Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs and later edited Foreign Affairs magazine. ''No career officer exemplifies that period and its ethos better than Marshall Green.''
        Mr. Green was born in Holyoke, Mass., on Jan. 27, 1916, and graduated from Yale in 1939. His introduction to Asia came later that year, with his appointment as secretary to Ambassador Joseph Clark Grew in Japan.
        Shortly before the attack on Pearl Harbor, Mr. Green returned to the United States to prepare to take the examination for the Foreign Service. With the start of the war in the Pacific, he joined the Navy as a Japanese-language translator. He had learned to speak Japanese during his years in Tokyo.
        After his discharge from the Navy in 1945, he joined the Foreign Service and received his first assignment -- third secretary in Wellington, New Zealand, for two years.
        Mr. Green was admired by his State Department colleagues for his persuasive speaking style, his almost preternatural calm and his quick wit.
        He endeared himself to many diplomats -- although not to Mr. Kissinger -- when he let slip in a speech that the former Secretary of State was a ''self-made man who worshiped his creator.''
        His cool head served him well as he managed the American response to diplomatic and military crises in East Asia, beginning in 1958 with the Chinese Communists shelling of Quemoy and Matsu, two offshore islands held by the Nationalists on Taiwan. The clash brought the United States and China to the brink of war.
        Mr. Bundy later said that Mr. Green, who was the State Department's chief working-level officer on the issue, ''argued at the moment of greatest apparent crisis that China was in fact easing off, and that a policy of quiet firmness would win out and bring the threat to an end without outright war. He was right.''
        In 1961 Mr. Green was the senior American diplomat in Seoul, South Korea, when Gen. Park Chung Hee seized power in a military coup that ousted an elected Government. As soon as he learned of the coup, Mr. Green announced on local radio that the United States continued to back the ousted civilian Government, a decision that did not endear him to the Korean military.
        He was named Ambassador to Indonesia in July 1965, only weeks ahead of an anti-Communist purge there that would see Sukarno replaced with Mr. Suharto and would lead to the deaths of an estimated 500,000 Indonesians.
        To make clear the tensions between Indonesia and the United States at the time of Mr. Green's appointment -- the Indonesians were opposed to American military involvement in Vietnam -- Mr. Sukarno organized a ''Go Home, Green'' protest by thousands of demonstrators outside of the Ambassador's residence, only hours after Mr. Green presented his credentials to the Indonesian leader.
        Ambassador Green, who was widely praised within the State Department for his bravery during the months of bloodshed that followed, practiced what he described as a ''low-profile concept'' of diplomacy during his years in Indonesia.
        From 1969 to 1973, at the height of the Vietnam War, Mr. Green served in Washington as the Assistant Secretary for East Asian and Pacific Affairs, a post in which he helped oversee foreign policy in all of the Far East. His office did much of the background work in preparation for Mr. Nixon's visit to China, and he was one of the 13 senior American officials who accompanied the President to Beijing.
        From 1973 to 1975, Mr. Green was Ambassador to Australia. He returned from Australia to become the State Department's coordinator of population affairs.
        He retired in 1979 and went on to write three books, all of them touching on his experiences in Asia.
        Legend had it that upon his arrival in the Tokyo Embassy in 1939 as the secretary to the Ambassador, Mr. Green saw the portrait of a young woman named Lispenard Seabury Crocker on the mantelpiece of the home of her father, a senior diplomat in the Embassy, and announced that he would marry her.
        In 1942, he did. The couple had three children, two of whom survive -- Mark Green and Edward Green, both of Washington. Mrs. Green died in 1986. Their other son, Brampton, died in 1988.
      