
        John Malcolm Brinnin, a poet and literary biographer who witnessed and chronicled the alcoholic deterioration and death of Dylan Thomas,  died on Friday at his home in Key West, Fla. He was 81.
        He came to know many famous poets during the 1950's, when he was director of the Poetry Society of the Young Men's and Young Women's Hebrew Association, and invited them to come and read. For one,  Thomas, he set up a series of readings across the country, a tour that turned into a four-year nightmare that ended with the Welsh poet's death in Manhattan and Mr. Brinnin's resignation from the YMHA/ YWHA Poetry Society and withdrawal from talks and readings.
        As a close friend, unpaid lecture agent and ignored financial adviser for Thomas, Mr. Brinnin watched helplessly as he drank, brawled, publicly insulted his audiences and disintegrated mentally and physically. His detailed account, ''Dylan Thomas in America,'' published in 1955, two years after the poet's death, was made into a Broadway play, ''Dylan,'' in 1964.
        Gradually, Mr. Brinnin moved away from writing poetry, publishing his last book of verse, ''Skin Diving in the Virgins and Other Poems,'' in 1970. He had turned to travel and memoir writing because ''he had become interested in life,'' wrote Richard Wilbur, a friend, Key West neighbor and fellow poet, in this week's issue of Solares Hill, a newspaper in the Florida Keys
        Mr. Brinnin wrote a well-received biography, ''The Third Rose: Gertrude Stein and Her World'' (1959), and two nonfiction books and magazine articles about the history and decline of luxury liners, ''The Sway of the Grand Saloon: A Social History of the North Atlantic'' (1971) and ''Beau Voyage: Life Aboard the Last Great Ships'' (1981).
        Mr. Brinnin loved to travel, crossing the Atlantic more than 60 times, preferably on a luxury liner and carrying Louis Vuitton luggage, Mr. Wilbur wrote. But he made a point of exposing his own foibles: his classy suits came from Filene's, he told Mr. Wilbur; the most embarrassing anecdotes in his memoirs of encounters with famous writers were about himself.
        ''When something embarrassing happens, some stupid thing, it happens to John Malcolm,'' said David Ethridge, the editor of Solares Hill. ''He's the one who gets soup spilled on him.''
        In subtropical Florida, residents  called Mr. Brinnin the dean of Key West's literati. When the board members of a writers' festival on the island argued about whom to invite, Mr. Brinnin advocated artists who published sophisticated verse in obscure literary journals instead of authors of paperbacks sold in airport bookstores. ''He would hold out for good art even if no one had ever heard of them,'' Mr. Ethridge said.  ''He wasn't on the side of the market,'' although he did manage to sign up the popular Mexican man of letters, Octavio Paz.
        ''Sextet: T. S. Eliot & Truman Capote & Others,'' Mr. Brinnin's memoir published in 1981, ''has wonderful little epiphanies,'' Mr. Ethridge said.  It recounts, for example, how Eliot walked around for hours, newsstand to newsstand, to peek at himself on the cover of Time magazine.
        Born in Nova Scotia, Mr. Brinnin moved to Detroit when he was young and graduated from the University of Michigan. A year later, while he was a graduate student at Harvard University, he published his first book of poems, ''The Garden Is Political'' (1942), which received enthusiastic reviews. For the next 30 years, while teaching at the University of Connecticut, Vassar College and the University of Boston, he published five more poetry collections.
        As a poet with a ''very formalist streak,'' as he described himself, Mr. Brinnin was awarded the Poetry Society of America's highest medal.
        In Key West, where he retired, he could be found playing poker under a beach umbrella with Mr. Wilbur and John Hersey, or presiding over the weekly anagram game, deciding who would be invited and where it would be held. He continued to wear stylish clothes even in a place as casual as Key West.
        He is survived by his companion, Bill Read, of Key West.
        During his last decade or so in Key West, Mr. Brinnin was working on  further memoirs, probably focusing on writers and artists that he had known rather than on himself. As he once told an interviewer, ''I think I'm as well known as I deserve to be.''
        Correction:  July 1, 1998, Wednesday  An obituary of the poet and biographer John Malcolm Brinnin yesterday cited a survivor erroneously. No immediate family members survive. Mr. Brinnin's companion, Bill Read, died some 20 years ago; he had lived with Mr. Brinnin in Boston and Duxbury, Mass., not in Key West.
        The obituary also misstated the name of a university at which Mr. Brinnin taught. It was Boston University, not the University of Boston.
      