
        Maj. Gen. Marion E. Carl, one of the leading Marine air aces of World War II and a record-setting test pilot, was shot to death on Sunday night in a robbery at his home in Roseburg, Ore., the Douglas County Sheriff's Department said. He was 82.
        General Carl, who was credited with 18 1/2 ''kills'' in Pacific combat against the Japanese and commanded the Second Marine Air Wing in the Vietnam War, was pronounced dead at Mercy Medical Center in Roseburg. His wife, Edna, who suffered a glancing shotgun burst to the head, was treated at the hospital and released.
        Mrs. Carl told the authorities that a man carrying a shotgun broke into their home about 10:35 P.M. as she was reading a newspaper and demanded cash and car keys.
        Mrs. Carl said that when General Carl emerged from a bedroom and confronted the gunman, he shot both of them. The man took $200 to $400 and drove off in the couple's car, which was found abandoned.
        The authorities issued a warrant for the arrest of Jesse Stuart Fanus, 19, who has a record of arrests for drunken driving, burglary and criminal trespass, The Associated Press reported.
        Marion Eugene Carl was born on a dairy farm in Hubbard, Ore. He received an engineering degree from Oregon State University in 1938, won his Marine wings and was commissioned as a second lieutenant on Dec. 1, 1939.
        General Carl first saw combat in the Battle of Midway in June 1942, then arrived on Guadalcanal on Aug. 20, 1942, 13 days after the Marines had come ashore in an effort to wrest the island from the Japanese. He was among the pilots who engaged in the first dogfights over Guadalcanal, and was shot down on Sept. 9, 1942.
        He floated for four hours in his life jacket before being picked up by an island native in a canoe.
        After the war, General Carl became a military test pilot.
        He set a world airspeed record on Aug. 25, 1947, when he flew a Douglas Skystreak at more than 650 miles an hour over Muroc Dry Lake in California.
        He set an unofficial world altitude record on Aug. 21, 1953, when he ascended to 83,235 feet over Muroc, flying a Douglas Skyrocket. His rocket plane was dropped from a B-29 at 34,000 feet.
        After going to 28,000 feet, he began climbing. The mark was not an official record because it was not ground to air.
        Two years later, he flew U-2 reconnaissance missions over China.
        In 1950, he estimated he had flown more than 100 types of airplanes.
        ''A good pilot doesn't take chances,'' he said. ''But being a good pilot is a matter of constant flying, constant practice and thoroughly knowing your airplane. What might be a chance to some pilots isn't to others. I never quit practicing.''
        Capt. F. M. Trapnell, a former commanding officer of the Naval Air Test Center, once said that ''Carl has no nervousness and no uncertainty.''
        ''I don't mean he has no fear,'' Captain Trapnell said. ''Any man who isn't afraid sometimes is a fool. Carl has a quiet sureness. He goes about his job as if he were getting ready to milk a cow. It makes his work twice as easy -- or maybe he just makes it look twice as easy.''
        General Carl retired from military service in 1973, having logged 13,000 flying hours. He received numerous decorations, including the Navy Cross and the Distinguished Flying Cross.
        General Carl is also survived by a son, Bruce, and a daughter, Lyanne.
      