
        Paul O'Dwyer, a spirited liberal voice in New York politics from his immigrant days in the Democratic clubhouse to his glory years as a fiery anti-Vietnam War insurgent, died Tuesday night at his home in Goshen, N.Y. He was 90.
        Mr. O'Dwyer had been in failing health from the effects of a stroke and died quietly in his sleep, according to his nephew and law partner, Frank Durkan.
        To his deathbed, Paul O'Dwyer, a white-maned, fiercely browed advocate, embraced a raft of minority causes, identifying with indigents and immigrants, progressives and underdogs well beyond America -- from the guerrilla fighters for a Jewish home state to the diehard rebels of his beloved Ireland.
        Mr. O'Dwyer was an enduring if rarely elected politician who impressed successive generations as an eloquent battler in the name of conscience. Arriving in America at age 18, he labored up from dock work and garment packing to become one of New York's leading defenders of the underclass.
        ''The ideals should always come first,'' Mr. O'Dwyer counseled in a long public life steeped in voluntary civil-rights battles and vociferous challenges of the political establishment.
        Elected twice to the New York City Council, he seemed more at home in the politics of the outsider. As an Irishman who had lived under British occupation, he heartily joined the ongoing American struggle against prejudice suffered variously by Jews, blacks, women and the very latest immigrant wave.
        ''Politics is the only machinery around on which you can really straighten things out,'' he said in his softly unyielding brogue.
        A fleet, unapologetic gadfly, Paul was the antithesis of his older brother William, who rose from the police force to become an urbane master of machine politics as Mayor of New York from 1946 until 1950, when scandals shook his administration. The O'Dwyers moved separately on the crest of Irish-American political power before it faded in the city.
        Paul O'Dwyer far outlasted his brother ''Bill-O'' in public life, fighting for the labor movement and embattled immigrants in the 1940's, against McCarthyism and racial segregation in the 50's, and against the  Vietnam War in the 60's. In the antiwar movement, he stood as a patriarchal exception in the eyes of young pacifists intent on trusting no one over 30.
        'We Were Changing This Nation'
        An ally of Senator Eugene J. McCarthy in the successful antiwar challenge to President Lyndon B. Johnson's renomination in 1968, Mr. O'Dwyer scored an upset victory himself in the New York Democratic Senate primary that year, but lost in the November election to Senator Jacob K. Javits.
        ''We were taking a country engrossed in an immoral war,'' he declared afterward, pounding the arm of his chair in celebration of that struggle. ''We were changing this nation. By God, we did it. We did do it.''
        He could make a rampart of a legal brief, too, successfully litigating a landmark 1951 fight against the powerful Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. That suit opened the way for blacks to live in Stuyvesant Town, a huge Manhattan housing complex, and presaged an era of desegregation across the nation.
        Mr. O'Dwyer honed his courtroom skills suing insurance companies in negligence cases. But his outside interests were his larger life: He successfully defended Kentucky miners accused of blowing up a bridge in a union dispute, just as he won acquittal of a black teen-ager accused of homicide in a New York City riot in the mid-60's. He sued City Hall to force more budget money into public transit for the working class, just as he defended an unpopular union chief during a city garbage collection strike. In 1958, he joined with Eleanor Roosevelt and Herbert H. Lehman, the former Governor, to found the Committee for Democratic Voters, the state party reform movement.
        But his outspokenness for minority causes helped deny him a mainstream role in politics. As president of the New York chapter of the National Lawyers Guild, Mr. O'Dwyer was denounced as a radical for angrily challenging Red-baiting assaults on civil liberties by politicians who were intent on searching for Communist leanings among teachers and other government workers.
        ''When you come from the period of, first, the Depression and then the McCarthy era,'' he explained, ''if you survive that, then you're less likely to be cautious expressing yourself.''
        Paul O'Dwyer was among the first volunteers litigating in Deep South  integration struggles. ''It was like a present on Christmas morning,'' he enthused about his participation. He was also gladly troublesome as a delegate to the 1964 Democratic National Convention, leading the fight to see the black Freedom Democratic party of Mississippi represented. Personally close to a generation of black politicians, Mr. O'Dwyer managed the campaigns of several. He was credited by Mayor David N. Dinkins with salvaging his career by coaxing him back into public life after Mr. Dinkins had earlier been forced to resign a city job because of his failure to file income tax returns from 1969 to 1972.
        ''As a young person, impressionable, I almost forgot who I was, as the Irish often do here,'' Mr. O'Dwyer once commented on the roots of his desegregation fervor. ''Because you are white you think you will be treated equally. I was corrected by my brothers, who were here ahead of me.''
        He rued the fading of an era when ''Irish Catholic'' was synonymous with ''liberal Democrat,'' and told the joke about a tenement clubhouse boss scandalized at the news that O'Brien had turned Republican. ''That's a damned lie,'' the boss thundered. ''I saw O'Brien at Mass last Sunday.''
        As a civil libertarian, Mr. O'Dwyer tapped into vivid memories from his Irish childhood of insurrection against British occupation forces. ''The Black and Tans used to drive through the town, shooting it up,'' he said, recalling the rampages of the British auxiliary police. ''It wasn't too different from Mississippi.''
        Defended Berrigan And Bricklayers
        A florid-faced, articulate bantam, Mr. O'Dwyer successfully argued before the Supreme Court for the right of mainland Puerto Ricans to take their voter literacy test in Spanish. In 1972, he stood in defense of a pacifist group called the Harrisburg Eight, led by the Rev. Philip F. Berrigan, and won them a mistrial on charges of an anti-Government plot against the Nixon Administration during the Vietnam War.
        No less fervidly did he represent uncelebrated sandhogs, hod carriers and warehouse clerks in formative trade union years when, he recalled, ''strikebreaking and union-busting remained widespread and brutal.'' He carried a union card in Local 975 of the International Longshoremen's Association. In 1968, he declined to cross a wildcat picket line outside a television studio when he was a Senate candidate, telephoning the apoplectic interviewer to explain, ''These are my people.''
        Mr. O'Dwyer accepted the role of  the city's Commissioner for the United Nations during the Dinkins administration. But soon he was boycotting the U.N. cafeteria for its anti-unionism, and finally resigned so he could speak out against human rights abuses by some of the nations he was supposed to be welcoming.
        Born June 29, 1907, in the village of Bohola, County Mayo, in western Ireland, Peter Paul O'Dwyer was the 11th and last surviving child of Patrick and Bridget McNicholas O'Dwyer. They were schoolteachers who raised their family in Ireland's grim potato economy, packed into a rude house without plumbing. He later endowed a home for the handicapped on his family home site.
        ''I sprang from the 'shabby genteel,' '' he once said with a smile, using Eugene O'Neill's qualification for the striving Irish poor. Paul O'Dwyer counted himself fortunate for the high school education he received before having to follow four older brothers to New York in the age-old immigration of young Irish to opportunity.
        He soon picked up on the politics of Jefferson and Paine after finding clannish lodgings in Mrs. Maguire's Irish boarding house at West 103d Street and Columbus Avenue in Manhattan. Landing a paying job within two days -- a touch of clubhouse patronage via brother ''Bill-O'' -- he moved fast on the classic immigrant's route to betterment through night school, first at Fordham University, then at St. John's Law School in Brooklyn.
        So fast did he move that he had to obtain special permission from Chief Judge Benjamin Nathan Cardozo of the New York Court of Appeals to take his bar exam in 1929, four years after arriving from Ireland and two years before he could receive citizenship. In 1931, Paul O'Dwyer became America's newest citizen-lawyer, ringing with the impulses of Thomas Paine. ''He sounded simple and logical to my young mind,'' Mr. O'Dwyer explained.
        Anti-Semitism in college fraternities had bonded him to Jewish friends, he recalled in his 1979 autobiography, ''Counsel for the Defense.'' ''And the Kings County Young Democratic Club thenceforward was made up of 35 Jewish classmates and me,'' he noted proudly.
        It followed naturally that he was involved in the cause of a Jewish homeland in 1946 by arranging for the illegal entry of Holocaust survivors to Palestine and by aiding the gun-running operations of the Irgun militants fighting the British in the Holy Land. The next year, as chairman of the Lawyers' Committee for Justice in Palestine, he pleaded at the United Nations for Israeli sovereignty.
        Successfully defending an admitted Jewish gun-runner in New York in 1948, Mr. O'Dwyer told the court, ''He was only doing what every other freedom-loving person would be doing.''
        As a lawyer, Mr. O'Dwyer became a principal in one of the city's flagship immigrant law firms, O'Dwyer & Bernstien. He began as a clerk to Oscar Bernstien and worked his way to senior partner. From the firm's offices in the financial district, Mr. O'Dwyer helped build the business but found time for assorted challenges to social injustice, typically without fee. He soon was respected as one of the city's sharper-tongued liberals.
        ''If I thought at the end of the year that all I did was make a living, I'd regard it as a pretty incomplete year,'' he said of his rich life as an agitator within the system.
        ''If I've had any success at all, it's been in large measure from listening to young people,'' said Mr. O'Dwyer, whose eagle-like visage -- a dark-eyed glare and shock of prematurely white hair -- stood out in the thick of any battle.
        Leading a Welcome For Gerry Adams
        Even in decline he stayed keen for political justice. In 1994, he beamed from a wheelchair and led the welcoming cheers when Gerry Adams, the Northern Irish republican political leader, was finally allowed into the United States to plead his grievance against Britain. Mr. O'Dwyer was the national coordinator for the American League for an Undivided Ireland.
        He ran 12 times for elective office in campaigns noteworthy for threadbare war chests and left-liberal agendas, daring to call for decriminalizing drug addiction in one. His two successes were in 1963, as Councilman at Large in Manhattan, and 1973, as City Council President, a post in which he made sure to alter the city's official founding date from 1664, when the British landed, to 1625, when Dutch settlers arrived. In six total years in office, he instigated numerous causes, including an uphill battle in 1965 to raise the city's minimum wage to $1.50 an hour.
        Mr. O'Dwyer's abiding comfort was in the good fight. Losing to Carol Bellamy in a 1977 bid to remain Council President, he said, ''I fought for a lot of civil rights 25, 35 years ago, including women's rights, and I'm in poor shape to complain if I find myself in the way of the machinery that I myself helped set in motion.''
        He offered a decidedly Irish smile of bemusement when critics focused on his antiwar activity and tried to dismiss him as a single-issue politician.
        ''The one issue is fair play over the period of a lifetime,'' Mr. O'Dwyer amended.
        His wife of 45 years, the former Kathleen Rohan, died in 1980. In 1984 he married Patricia Hanrahan, then the upstate chief of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's women's division. She survives him, along with four children from his first marriage: William, of Albany; Rory, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; Brian, of Manhattan, and Eileen O'Dwyer Hughes of New York. He had eight grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
        Mr. O'Dwyer long tried to persuade his wife, Patricia, to restake the family flag in elective politics. She finally agreed this year, and he lived to see her running for the 95th State Assembly District in Orange County, true to his favorite line of Yeats:
        That I may seem, though I die old,
        A foolish, passionate man.
      