
        Lounes Matoub, a popular Algerian singer and Berber patriot who was kidnapped by Muslim militants in Algeria four years ago but was freed and had lived mostly in France since, was killed in an ambush near his hometown east of Algiers on Thursday. He was 42.
        News of his death, apparently at the hands of Islamic fundamentalists, brought expressions of grief from the large Algerian and Berber communities in France and tributes from French leaders.
        Violent armed conflict between fundamentalists and the military-backed Government in Algeria, a former colony that fought its way to independence from France in 1962, has taken an estimated 70,000 lives in the past six years. Mr. Matoub's art denounced both sides.
        ''He was a man who was the voice of Algeria, loud and clear,'' President Jacques Chirac of France said during a visit to southern Africa, ''and I hope this voice will continue to be heard.''
        Demonstrators marched today through the streets of Tizi-Ouzou, near his hometown in the Kabylia region of Algeria, and chanted ''Zeroual, assassin!'' blaming Algeria's President, Liamine Zeroual, for Mr. Matoub's death, Reuters reported. Riot police officers dispersed the marchers, who threw stones at them.
        His death came shortly before the introduction of a law in Algeria, to take effect early next month, making Arabic the country's sole official language -- a step he and other Berber patriots had resisted as a blow to other native languages.
        Hundreds of thousands of the Berbers, a minority of several million in a country of 30 million, saw him as an enemy of both the Islamic fundamentalists and of the authorities.
        The civil war in Algeria began after the authorities in Algiers canceled elections in 1992 that radical Islamic parties were expected to win. In his songs, in Arabic and in the Kabyle language of the Berbers, Mr. Matoub expressed bitterness at the killing and love for the land where he was born, in direct and sometimes earthy language that Islamic purists regarded as decadent.
        Islamic militants kidnapped him near Tizi-Ouzou in September 1994 and held him for more than two weeks. More than 100,000 people demonstrated there then to demand his freedom, and he was liberated in a cafe. He said the Armed Islamic Group, one of the most radical of the fundamentalist groups, had condemned him to death for his songs.
        He came to France three months later and gave two sold-out concerts in Paris before leaving again to sing in Kabylia, but had lived most of the time since in France, returning to Algeria only a few weeks ago.
      