
        David Duval Thomas, a principal architect of the country's air-traffic control and safety system, died on June 17 at Inova Fairfax Hospital in Northern Virginia. He was 85 and lived in Annandale, Va.
        Mr. Thomas, a pilot for more than 30 years, retired in 1970 as deputy administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration. Mr. Thomas was a frequent spokesman for the agency on air safety and accidents, and for much of his career, he oversaw the nation's network of civilian air-traffic control centers and its entry into modern technology.
        Mr. Thomas, who was born in New Castle, Tex., studied mechanical engineering at the University of Tennessee and business administration at George Washington University.
        He entered Federal service in 1938 as an air-traffic controller in Pittsburgh and filled various field assignments for the Civil Aeronautics Administration, a forerunner of the Federal Aviation Administration.
        In 1946, he moved into policy-making positions in Washington as a planning officer in the C.A.A.'s traffic-control office; by 1956, he was named director of the office. When the Federal Aviation Administration was formed two years later, he took charge of its Air Traffic Service.
        In 1963, as associate administrator for planning, he was responsible for planning and coordinating the operating programs for air traffic, flight standards, airports and systems maintenance. He was appointed deputy administrator in 1967.
        President John F. Kennedy honored Mr. Thomas in 1963 with an Award for Distinguished Civilian Service, which recognizes exceptional achievement. He also received the Rockefeller Public Service Award from Princeton University in 1966, an award celebrating ''unsung heroes,'' meaning Federal officials who perform important functions behind the scenes. In Mr. Thomas's case, he helped create a nationwide air-traffic tracking system and supervised its evolution from radar into the computer era.
        Mr. Thomas is survived by his wife of 60 years, Dorothy Clark Thomas; a son, David C., of Fairfax, Va., and two grandchildren.
      