
        Leo Buscaglia, the bearded self-help author and cuddly television guru who preached love with such single-minded fervor that he seemed unable to stop until he had hugged everyone in sight, died yesterday at his home in Lake Tahoe, Nev. He was 74 and known variously as Dr. Love, the Love Merchant and the Hug Doctor.
        His friend and business manager Stephen Short said the cause was a heart attack.
        Those who doubt the power of love must not have seen the phone lines light up when one of Dr. Buscaglia's love programs was being shown on public television during fund-raising weeks in the 1980's.
        They surely haven't seen the sales figures for his 15 love books, five of which were once on the New York Times best-seller list at the same time, and which together have sold more than 10 million copies.
        And they most certainly couldn't have attended one of his hundreds of love lectures, which typically started with an hourlong talk and ended with three hours of meeting, greeting and hugging members of the audience.
        Along the way Dr. Buscaglia became so associated with his spontaneous, big-hearted embraces that he could hardly walk down the street without having some stranger come up and give him a hug. (Once, in Toronto, he almost caused as traffic jam when a motorist stopped his car, jumped out and pinned him in a hug.)
        In a world in which he found that a version of love-thy-neighbor is a part of every major religion, Dr. Buscaglia, who knew his Aristotle as well as anyone, never claimed to be original.
        But if his underlying message, that love conquers all, seems trite, Dr. Buscaglia, who frequently quoted Gore Vidal's remark that truth tends to become platitude, saw his mission not so much as telling people what they already knew but persuading them to act on it.
        His enthusiasm was so infectious and his own booming love so obviously genuine that when he asked parents in an audience how long it had been since they had told their children they loved them, he could tell by the perplexity on their faces that many would be making up for lost time when they got home.
        If his popularity made him something of a cult hero, Dr. Buscaglia shunned the role. He wasn't a preacher seeking a congregation, he said, but a teacher trying to inspire people to be, and, yes, love, their  individual selves.
        Although he interlaced his philosophy with bits of pop psychology, as any of his fans could attest, Dr. Buscaglia's notions of love and his zest for life were both grounded in a sprawling, high-spirited Italian-American family so stereotypical that Dr. Buscaglia could bring tears to his eyes describing his mother singing at the stove or make his  mouth water simply by recalling spaghetti piled so high on the platter he could not see his sister across the dinner table.
        A native of Los Angeles whose immigrant parents took him to Italy shortly after he was born, Dr. Buscaglia spent his first five years in an Italian village. When his family returned to Los Angeles he spoke fluent Italian, a smattering of French and Spanish, but not English, a circumstance that led school authorities to assign him to a class for retarded children.
        In his short stay there, as Dr. Buscaglia liked to recall, he found the teacher so warm and nurturing that after he was finally assigned to a regular classroom he spent the rest of his public education bored to tears.
        After serving in the Navy in World War II, Dr. Buscaglia got a degree in education from the University of Southern California, followed it up with a master's and later a doctorate in language and speech pathology, and worked as a speech therapist in the California school system until a promotion to an administrative position left him longing for the classroom.
        Taking a salary cut to resume teaching, he joined the University of Southern California education faculty, eventually becoming a full professor.
        Then one of his prize students committed suicide and Dr. Buscaglia became so distraught that he began teaching an unofficial, noncredit course on life that he called Love 1.
        Although his colleagues were skeptical, when the course, which had been expected to attract 50 students, drew 600, Dr. Buscaglia was off and hugging. With the course regularly ranked as the most popular at the university, Dr. Buscaglia began taking it on the lecture circuit.
        When Charles Slack, a New Jersey publisher of health books, heard him speak at an education conference, Dr. Buscaglia was persuaded to write a book. The result, ''Love,'' was published in 1972 and proved so popular that Dr. Buscaglia kept on writing, turning out such titles as ''Living, Loving and Learning'' (1982), ''Loving Each Other'' (1984), ''Born for Love'' (1992) and finally ''Leo Buscaglia's Love Cookbook'' (1994), written with Biba Caggiano and combining Dr. Buscaglia's lifelong love of people and food.
        He is survived by a sister, Marge Macagno, of San Marino, Calif.
      