
        Sheldon Gunsberg, a film producer and distributor who later headed the Walter Reade chain of movie theaters in New York, died last Thursday of a heart attack at his home in Manhattan. He was 78.
        Born in Jersey City, Mr. Gunsberg served in the United States Merchant Marine during World War II, then entered the film industry, promoting the 1945 version of ''Henry V,'' starring Laurence Olivier, for United Artists. He joined Universal Pictures as a publicist in 1948, where he directed advertising and marketing for films including ''The Lavender Hill Mob'' and ''Kind Hearts and Coronets.''
        In 1954, he joined the Walter Reade Organization, whose principal Manhattan theaters included the Ziegfeld, the Coronet and the Baronet. He was named chief operating officer in 1971. In 1973, Walter Reade Jr., the chain's president, was killed in a skiing accident in Switzerland and Mr. Gunsberg succeeded him.
        At the time, the Walter Reade Organization was a nationwide theater chain with about 80 movie houses, but it was plagued by financial losses. The company filed for Federal bankruptcy protection in 1977, and its holdings were whittled down to 10 theaters in the New York area before it emerged from bankruptcy in 1981.
        As one of the executors of Mr. Reade's estate, Mr. Gunsberg was charged with finding a buyer for his 31 percent stake in the company. Columbia Pictures bought it in 1981. But a year later, Mr. Gunsberg said he regretted that deal, because Columbia backed an attempted takeover of the company. Columbia eventually acquired the Walter Reade chain outright in 1985, then sold it to Cineplex Odeon in 1987. Mr. Gunsberg retired as chief executive just before the Cineplex Odeon deal.
        During his tenure with the Walter Reade company, Mr. Gunsberg also headed its Continental Distributing subsidiary, which distributed and often financed or produced many notable foreign films. Among them were the British ''Saturday Night and Sunday Morning,'' the French ''Mon Oncle,'' and ''War and Peace,'' from the Soviet Union. It also produced and distributed the American films ''Ulysses'' and ''A View From the Bridge.''
        At his death, Mr. Gunsberg was chairman of the Walter Reade Foundation and vice chairman of the Film Society of Lincoln Center, whose Walter Reade Theater he was instrumental in creating.
        He is survived by his wife of 53 years, Lois; two daughters, Mayra Bloom of Nyack, N.Y., and Donna Lerner of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      