
        Richard N. Yezzo, an administrator who rescued a bankrupt St. Clare's Hospital and Health Center in Manhattan by welcoming patients that few others wanted -- people with AIDS in the early years of the epidemic -- died on Friday at his home in New Rochelle. He was 46.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his wife of 21 years, Phyllis Yezzo.
        When Mr. Yezzo became president of St. Clare's in 1983, it was $16 million in debt and fear and ignorance about AIDS flourished. The fast-growing group of patients with AIDS and AIDS-related illnesses were scattered in various hospital units throughout the city, where they sometimes encountered prejudice: orderlies who would leave meal trays outside their door rather than enter their rooms, for instance.
        At the behest of John Cardinal O'Connor, Mr. Yezzo set aside beds and recruited medical staff for the  AIDS wing, the first on the East Coast.
        ''Back then, there was a fear of designating an AIDS center,'' said Jeffrey Frerichs, president of Cabrini Medical Center in downtown Manhattan. ''People thought it would stigmatize an institution.''
        But Mr. Yezzo saw opportunities -- for helping sick people in need of a wide range of medical treatments and social services and for receiving Medicaid fees and government grants well above the usual rates.
        ''It was a smart move, an opportunistic move that benefited the institution,'' Mr. Frerichs said.
        Under Mr. Yezzo's guidance, St. Clare's spread into many specialized corners of AIDS care, providing the city's first outpatient AIDS treatment center, its first methadone clinic for drug-addicted AIDS patients and the state's first off-site unit for prisoners with AIDS and other medical problems. Its dental clinic for AIDS patients is still one of the city's best, said Dennis DeLeon, president of the Latino Commission on AIDS.
        ''This was unpopular care at the time,'' said Dennis Whalen, executive deputy commissioner of the New York State Department of Health. St. Clare's, located in the Clinton neighborhood, was the first medical center to join with the state's AIDS Institute to create medical units devoted to a disease few wanted to face.
        ''He was willing to take risks,'' Mr. Whalen said, making the hospital vital again by addressing a pressing community need. That included homeless and drug-addicted residents of the Chelsea and Clinton neighborhoods. More recently, it has included Latino patients with AIDS.
        Some AIDS advocates had mixed feelings about St. Clare's Roman Catholic affiliation. It was a place where Cardinal O'Connor volunteered, working with indigent AIDS patients. But it was also a hospital that refused to distribute condoms as a part of safe-sex programs.
        Theater people, also, have had mixed attitudes toward the hospital. Many have donated time to performances to raise money for St. Clare's, known as Broadway's hospital. But when Mr. Yezzo tried to expand by constructing badly needed new buildings on Eighth Avenue between 49th and 50th Streets, industry leaders rallied to stop it. A hospital would be out of place with show business, they said. In the face of strong opposition, Mr. Yezzo dropped the project.
        When he was not at St. Clare's, Mr. Yezzo was often taking care of others who asked for his help -- from the players on a Bronx elementary-school basketball team to Mother Teresa, who sought his help in opening a West Coast residence for people with AIDS. The nuns of Mother Teresa's order, who run a Greenwich Village AIDS residence, often called on Mr. Yezzo for help in fixing a boiler or paying a bill, his wife said.
        ''He took care of everybody,'' she said. ''He was like everybody's Dad.''
        St. Clare's emerged from bankruptcy in 1990. But it is facing another transition -- one that other hospitals devoted to inpatient AIDS care are also grappling with. St. Clare's has cut back on its AIDS-treatment units, as AIDS care has shifted from inpatient to outpatient. It is trying to re-establish itself as a community hospital for all kinds of ailments, said Mary Cataudella, a hospital spokeswoman. Mr. Yezzo left the hospital last year to do consulting, she said.
        Mr. Yezzo is survived by his wife, Phyllis, and two daughters: Nichole, 18, and Marie, 15, as well as his mother, Anna, and a sister, Angela.
      