
        Ivo John Lederer, a refugee in the only group of European Jews given special passage to the United States by President Roosevelt during World War II, and who went on to became a Russian and Eastern European scholar and teach generations of future American leaders, died last Thursday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 68 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, a family member said.
        Dr. Lederer was a professor of contemporary Russian and Eastern European history at Princeton, Yale and Stanford between 1954 and 1977, when he began a second career bringing government and business leaders together to discuss the interaction of foreign and business policies.
        At the time of his death, he was the director of the global business policy council at A. T. Kearney, a management consulting firm, helping corporate leaders adapt their strategies to changing world conditions.
        Shortly before he became ill last year, Dr. Lederer ran a conference in Shanghai to examine, among other things, the desire of executives to take advantage of abundant opportunities in China but at the same time see democratic freedoms expanded in China and elsewhere in Asia.
        He was also president of West-West Agenda/USA, an association of European and American business and policy leaders that seeks to resolve trans-Atlantic political, economic and security issues.
        James Schlesinger, former Secretary of Defense and of Energy and Director of Central Intelligence, who often took part in Dr. Lederer's forums, called him a ''master at policy dialogue, knowing how best to identify and orchestrate a multiplicity of views to advance understanding.''
        Ivo John Lederer was born on Dec. 11, 1929, in Zagreb, Croatia, to Ruza and Otto Lederer, a lawyer. When he was 11 and his sister, Mira, was 16, the Nazis invaded Zagreb and their father was arrested for defying a ban against Jews practicing law. But his mother, the first woman licensed to practice architectural design in Yugoslavia, was able to bribe officials and obtain his release.
        Using false papers, the family fled to Italy. There, with the help of friends and the Catholic Church, they hid for three years. Then, in Naples, they got aboard the Henry Gibbons, a Liberty ship dispatched by Roosevelt to transport wounded soldiers and 982 refugees, mainly Jews. (Other Jews who fled the Nazis were admitted to the United States under set immigration quotas.)
        Once in New York, the 982 were sent to a detention camp in Oswego, N.Y., by order of the War Department and held for a year until the end of the war. Initially, they agreed to return then to Europe, but after the war President Truman signed an order permitting them to remain.
        Dr. Lederer earned a bachelor of arts degree at the University of Colorado in 1951 and a master's and doctorate in contemporary diplomatic history at Princeton by 1957. He joined the faculty at Princeton in 1954, moved to Yale in 1957 and to Stanford in 1965.
        Among his students were a former Senator, Timothy Wirth of Colorado, who is now president of the United Nations Foundation; Strobe Talbott, the Deputy Secretary of State, and Fred Smith, chief executive of Federal Express.
        At Stanford he founded and directed the Center for Russian and East European Studies. While on leave to work at the Ford Foundation, he helped set up the Institute for Central European Studies in Dubrovnik, Croatia, which was then still part of the Yugoslav Federation.
        Dr. Lederer was the author of several books and articles, including ''Yugoslavia at the Peace Conference'' (Yale University Press, 1963), which won the George Louis Beer Prize from the American Historical Association.
        Last month he won the United Nations Society of Writers Award for his ''great contributions to the worlds of history, politics and literature.''
        Dr. Lederer had essentially completed his childhood memoirs, titled ''I Have Seen the Mississippi,'' before his death, his son Michael said. Besides Michael, of Manhattan, Dr. Lederer is survived by another son, Philip, of Los Angeles, and by two grandsons, Nicholas and Brandon.
        The reference in the title of the memoirs, which Michael Lederer is now preparing for publication, was to a refugee's cry when the Henry Gibbons steamed into New York Harbor, ''Look, it's the Mississippi!'' The young boys aboard ship could not be persuaded otherwise.
        He further recounts: ''In Yugoslavia my family were assimilated Jews. The first time I became aware that I was Jewish was when a local fascist in my very own hometown slapped a yellow star on my chest and spat in my face. . . . Only a foreign-born can truly appreciate what America is.''
      