
        Bill Tuttle, a former American League outfielder who waged a campaign against the use of chewing tobacco after developing oral cancer that left him disfigured, died Monday at a hospice in Brooklyn Center, Minn. Mr. Tuttle, who lived in Anoka, Minn., and who had been battling cancer since 1993, was 69.
        In the spring of 1996, players at major league clubhouses around the spring training circuit were visited by a man who had been a center fielder with the Detroit Tigers, the Kansas City Athletics and the Minnesota Twins in an 11-year career during the 1950's and 1960's. He had been an excellent defensive player, and in 1959 he hit .300 for the A's.
        He had appeared on baseball cards with a wad of tobacco in his cheek. But now, Bill Tuttle had lost part of his jaw and a cheek as well as teeth and taste buds in a series of operations for oral cancer that, he was told, had resulted from chewing tobacco for almost 40 years.
        Accompanied by his wife, Gloria, and the former major league catcher and broadcaster Joe Garagiola, who had joined in his cause, Mr. Tuttle was on a mission in 1996 to warn against the use of smokeless tobacco.
        As Mrs. Tuttle recalled yesterday: ''The players felt, 'Who's this?' Then they would see my husband's face and they would just look. Bill would give his story and you could hear a pin drop. Then they would hug us. Million-dollar players would come up with tears in their eyes and cans of tobacco in their hands and they would say, 'I want you to throw this away for me.' ''
        Mr. Tuttle said then that he wanted players to consider the example they were setting for youngsters, and he asked them at least to refrain from chewing while they could be caught by television cameras. ''It's going to be pretty hard to tell someone making $4 million a year not to chew,'' he said. ''So what we're trying to do is get it off TV.''
        Mrs. Tuttle said yesterday that her husband began to chew when he was with the Tigers, who had signed him out of Bradley University. He had asked a teammate, Harvey Kuenn, for tobacco to keep him occupied while nursing an injury, and soon he was using it regularly.
        In his drive against chewing tobacco, Mr. Tuttle became involved with the National Spit Tobacco Education Program, headed by Mr. Garagiola and formed by the organization Oral Health America. Mr. Tuttle spoke at schools as well as before players.
        Mr. Garagiola, who had helped provide financial assistance for Mr. Tuttle through BAT -- the Baseball Assistance Team, which aids former players -- will deliver a eulogy for Mr. Tuttle tonight in Minnesota.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Tuttle is survived by three daughters from their marriage, Debra Heyer of Andover, Minn; Kimberly Oliver of Washington, Ill., and Cindy Chase of Rogers, Minn.; four children from a previous marriage, Robert and James, Patricia Bradley and Becky Porter, and 17 grandchildren.
        The drive against smokeless tobacco has gained momentum since the day Mr. Tuttle walked into those clubhouses, but chewing and spitting are hardly things of the past. Last spring, 141 major leaguers volunteered for screening by Dr. John C. Greene, an oral cancer specialist for the spit-tobacco education program. Dr. Greene found that 83 had at least one tobacco-related oral lesion and recommended biopsies for 15. He estimated that as many as 300 of the 750 players in the majors use chewing tobacco.
        Mrs. Tuttle said that last Friday, her husband, unable to speak, had written a note expressing remorse for anguish he had caused his family, but also offering hope that his campaign would succeed. It read: ''I know what I did to myself was wrong and I'm so sorry I hurt everybody. But maybe I can show them how sorry I am by teaching other people.''
      