
        Jack Hausman, a retired textile manufacturer who raised millions of dollars as a founder of New York and national organizations to benefit people with cerebral palsy, died on Friday at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 96 and for many years also had a home on Long Island.
        In 1946, Mr. Hausman and his wife, Ethel, together with Leonard and Isabelle Goldenson and Jane Hoving,  gathered a group of parents to raise money for medical care for children with the disorder. The Hausmans' middle son, Peter, had been born with it and some of the children of the parents' group had been as well.
        Their effort produced what was initially called the Cerebral Palsy Society. It, in turn, spawned about 150 United Cerebral Palsy affiliates, along with the United Cerebral Palsy Associations in Washington, an umbrella organization that Mr. Hausman helped to organize in 1948.
        The Hausmans and the Goldensons succeeded in mobilizing thousands of business and labor leaders, celebrities and parents as volunteers. Under their leadership, United Cerebral Palsy raised more than $100 million for medical research and a variety of clinical, educational, recreational, training and employment services and family support for children and adults with palsy.
        Mr. Hausman also helped bring about the first United Cerebral Palsy telethon in 1951. He initiated the New York chapter's annual awards dinner in 1955, with Bob Hope as the guest of honor, and he remained a central figure in the event until his death.
        He was a former chairman, president and executive vice president of the New York and national groups. In 1955, he also helped create the national group's Research and Development Foundation, a separate organization based in Washington.
        The Hausmans also played a crucial role in creating North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset on Long Island. They established the Ethel and Jack Hausman Lectureship in Pediatrics and supported the Hausman Department of Pediatrics. Mr. Hausman was the hospital's president in the 1960's and endowed the Jack Hausman Professorship in Pediatrics.
        A native of Vienna, Mr. Hausman came to New York as a boy. His father, Morris, started M. Hausman & Sons, and Jack joined the company at 14 as its bookkeeper while studying accounting at night.
        The sons, Jack, Leo and Sam,  helped to build it into a concern with nationwide operations. They bought out Belding Heminway & Company  in 1960, and Jack Hausman remained its board vice chairman until the company was sold in 1994.
        Ethel Hausman died in 1993 after nearly 65 years of marriage.
        Mr. Hausman is survived by two sons, Richard, of Montauk, N.Y., and Michael, of Manhattan; his brother, Leo, of Manhattan, who is president of New York United Cerebral Palsy; eight grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren.
      