
        Robert Gorham Davis, a prolific literary critic and a professor emeritus of English at Columbia University, died yesterday at the Vernon Hall Nursing Home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 90 and lived in Cambridge.
        Mr. Davis was the author of influential studies of John Dos Passos, C. P. Snow and James Farrell, and he wrote regularly for The New York Times Book Review, Partisan Review, Commentary and the American Scholar. He also wrote short stories that appeared in The New Yorker and was the winner of an O'Henry Award for one of them. Mr. Davis was the editor of an anthology of short stories, ''Ten Modern Masters,'' and a companion volume, ''Ten Masters of the Modern Essay,'' which were widely used as texts by college students.
        As a teacher, Mr. Davis was interested in the relationship between psychology and literature, and taught a course called ''Metaphor, Symbol and Myth.'' As a young professor at Harvard, Mr. Davis had as students John Simon and Norman Mailer, and it was he who encouraged Mr. Mailer to submit his first short story to Story magazine. The story won the annual college prize.
        Mr. Davis also taught at Smith College, in Northampton, Mass., where one of his students, he said, was Sylvia Plath.
        Mr. Davis was born in Cambridge in 1908. His father was a banker, and the family traced its roots in Massachusetts to the landing of the Mayflower. His grandfather was a Salem sea captain, and among his forebears was Obed Brooks, a founder of the Brooks Academy, now the Brooks Museum, in Harwich, Mass. Mr. Davis graduated from Harvard College in 1929.
        Like other young intellectuals of the time, Mr. Davis was attracted to left-wing politics. He became a member of the Communist Party, but after the Hitler-Stalin pact of 1939, he grew disillusioned with Communism.  He became, said his wife, the writer Hope Hale Davis, ''a liberal Democrat.''
        In 1953, Mr. Davis testified with reluctance before the House Committee on Un-American Activities, giving the names of some of his fellow Communists, but only after they had already been named in a secret session of the committee, his wife said.
        Mr. Davis also served as chairman of the American Committee for Cultural Freedom from 1953-1954. The committee's members were intellectuals from both the left and right, including, at one time or another, Norman Thomas, Whittaker Chambers, Dwight MacDonald and Sidney Hook. The members seemed to agree about little, but they had one thing in common: a wish to defend the United States against what they perceived as charges by the Soviet Union that it was a ''fascist'' and ''racist'' state.
        In 1957, Mr. Davis became a visiting professor at Columbia University, and stayed for nearly 20 years. In 1968, he served as secretary of the Executive Committee of the Faculty at Columbia University, which sought to bring calm to the campus  after student protests. ''He was trusted by the students,'' his wife said. He helped reorganize the University Senate to give students a voice in the governance of the university. He went on to win the Distinguished Teacher Award at the Columbia School of General Studies in 1973. Mr. Davis retired from Columbia in 1976.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Lydia, of Port Ewen, N.Y.; a son, Stephen, of New York, and four grandchildren.
        Correction:  July 21, 1998, Tuesday  An obituary of the literary critic and author Robert Gorham Davis on Friday misstated the name of an award he won for short story writing. It was the O. Henry Award, not O'Henry.
      