
        Anthony Avena, a shoeshiner of 75 years whose shop became a Queens institution and who successfully fought the city to save it, died on June 22. He was 83 and lived in Whitestone, Queens.
        The cause was bladder cancer, said Helen Avena, his wife of nearly 58 years.
        When he was a sophomore at St. John's University in 1937, Mr. Avena abandoned his dream of becoming a lawyer after his father, an immigrant from Italy, died unexpectedly, leaving six young children and the shoeshine shop. ''He had to take over the business,'' Mrs. Avena said. ''He had to feed the kids.''
        In the tiny shop, directly below the elevated tracks of the Long Island Rail Road in downtown Flushing, Queens -- through two world's fairs and four wars -- he came to know thousands of commuters and residents. ''The heart and soul of Flushing,'' is how Brian M. McLaughlin, a State Assemblyman and Democrat from Flushing, described the 200-square-foot area occupied by Mr. Avena's shoeshine stand and the flower and key-duplicating stands he added later.
        With a lawyer's gift of persuasion, Mr. Avena talked local boys into completing school; he got the powerful Metropolitan Transportation Authority to lower his rent, and enlisted Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's support for his case. Along with Mr. Giuliani's help came public praise for Mr. Avena's shoeshine as the best the Mayor had ever had.
        It was two years ago, during Mr. Avena's 73d year of shining shoes, that the M.T.A. announced that it was raising the rent on his shop, at Main Street and Kissena Boulevard, to more than $6,000 a month, from $750. It was far more than he could afford, he said.
        The news media picked up the story and a short time later Mayor Giuliani stopped by to reassure him. ''And the M.T.A. gave my husband a three-year lease'' at a figure he could afford, Mrs. Avena said.
        ''He won,'' she added. ''He was so proud. It was a kind of glory for him.''
        After the deal with the M.T.A., a representative from St. John's University presented Mr. Avena with a plaque, she said, and offered him free tuition if, at 82, he wanted to complete his degree, an offer that Mr. Avena declined.
        It was not the first time Mr. Avena had successfully pleaded his case directly to a mayor. More than 50 years earlier, after the intercession of a friend, Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia ushered Mr. Avena into his office to hear Mr. Avena's complaint: the city, which had bulldozed the Avena family home for construction of the 1939 World's Fair, was two years late with the payment. ''La Guardia said, 'Send him right in,' '' said Mrs. Avena, recounting a familiar family story. ''In 10 minutes he had the check.''
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Avena is survived by a son, Michael, of East Northport, N.Y.; a daughter, Geraldine Mazza of Flushing; a brother, Gerard, of Bohemia, N.Y.; a sister, Grace Barone of Whitestone, five grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
        Mr. Avena closed the shoeshine shop last year when he became ill, his wife said. Family members still run the floral and key-duplicating shops, though, and will continue to do so, it seems. At the wake for her husband, Mrs. Avena said, Mayor Giuliani pulled her aside and said, ''Any trouble from the M.T.A., you let me know.' ''
      