
        Don Dunphy, the nasal-voiced announcer who brought the Friday night fights into America's living rooms in the era when voices had faces, died on Wednesday night at St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn, N.Y. He was 90.
        In a career marked by his election to 10 halls of fame, Mr. Dunphy, with his staccato style, called the blow by blow for more than 2,000 fights, 200 of them for titles, 50 for the heavyweight championship.
        His clear voice cut across the crowd noise, but Mr. Dunphy never allowed himself to become the focus. He was an objective observer of a most subjective sport, and his style was good enough for him to announce championship fights 40 years apart from 1941 to 1981.
        But on the night he once described as ''the greatest event in sports history'' -- Muhammad Ali's first fight against Joe Frazier in Madison Square Garden in 1971 -- Mr. Dunphy refused to share the microphone. The event was too important, he believed, to become a mere show-business spectacle.
        That night, when Frank Sinatra was shooting pictures at ringside for Life magazine, and Col. Harland Sanders of Kentucky Fried Chicken was in celebrity row in his white suit, the theatrical promoters had the movie star Burt Lancaster beside Mr. Dunphy. The idea was for Mr. Lancaster, a friend of one of the promoters, to handle the color commentary. But the mild-mannered Mr. Dunphy said: ''I'm working these rounds solo. Burt Lancaster can talk between rounds.''
        At his home in Manhasset, N.Y., Mr. Dunphy kept a tape of one of his famous broadcasts, Joe Louis's 1941 heavyweight fight against Billy Conn -- his first broadcast of a title fight. Although that was his first year of broadcasting the fights for Gillette, he had already crafted his signature no-nonsense delivery, pungent phrasing and just the right ring of drama.
        In the 12th round, Mr. Dunphy announced above the roar of the crowd, ''Louis is staggered by a left hook!'' And then, ''The champion is hurt!'' Louis held on to win, however.
        Mr. Dunphy, who was born in New York City on July 5, 1908, went to Manhattan College, where he ran on the mile relay team. (''I never fought,'' he said. ''I was too good a runner.'') He began a radio career on local stations broadcasting football and minor league baseball. He was also the host of a boxing talk show. His first blow-by-blow broadcasts came in 1939, but he leaped to fame in 1941 when Gillette began its Friday night fight tradition.
        Mr. Dunphy liked to tell people that he got the job through an audition competing with other announcers, each of whom worked a few rounds of the Gus Lesnevich-Anton Christoforidis fight at the Garden.
        ''The other guys tripped on the second names,'' Mr. Dunphy would explain. ''But I just called them Gus and Anton.''
        He called fights on radio for Gillette for 19 years.
        ''Sometimes I would hear criticism that I was faking it on the broadcasts,'' he recalled in 1984. ''But I never did. Not all the fights are epics; in fact, most are not. But if punches weren't being thrown, I'd describe the body movements, the footwork, and that seemed to create excitement for the listeners.''
        In 1960, he deftly moved to television to call fights on ABC. Although by the 1970's he had retired from network television, he was still in demand for such major closed-circuit bouts as the Ali-Frazier battle and Ali's epic confrontation with George Foreman in Zaire in 1974.
        Mr. Dunphy's expertise was not limited to boxing. He also handled Yankee baseball games, the Cotton Bowl in college football, track and field events, bowling, basketball and horse racing. But boxing was his signature sport: he appeared in six movies, all as a boxing announcer, and when his autobiography was published in 1988, it was entitled ''Don Dunphy at Ringside.''
        He is survived by his wife of 56 years, Muriel; two sons, Don Jr. of Westbury, N.Y., and Robert of Ridge field, Conn., and five grandchildren.
        For many years, Mr. Dunphy was paired with the sports columnist Bill Corum on radio. On television and in closed-circuit events, he shared a ringside broadcasting seat not only with Ali and Mr. Lancaster, but also with such entertainers as Pearl Bailey, Flip Wilson and Ryan O'Neal.
        He was not a fan of modern television's insistence on multiple announcers at ringside. ''When two or three people do blow by blow,'' he said in a 1996 interview, ''they overtalk and emphasize too much.''
      