
        Joseph Anthony Mazzeo, a Renaissance scholar at Columbia University whose interests ranged from Egyptian hieroglyphics to biology to  television, died on July 6 in Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 75 and lived in Manhattan.
        He suffered a brief illness, said Iris L. Beller, his executor and friend.
        To his colleagues, Dr. Mazzeo was known as a true polymath fascinated by the history of thought. He was fluent in Italian and French, read classical Greek, Latin and German and most recently taught himself Hebrew so he might study the Psalms in the original. In retirement he also took up the study of hieroglyphics.
        After teaching at Columbia off and on for 37 years, he retired in 1985 as Avalon Foundation Professor emeritus of the humanities in the English and comparative literature department. He was asked to join a group of distinguished retired faculty members in the Society of Senior Scholars in the Humanities who occasionally teach an undergraduate course in Columbia's core curriculum, as he did for a number of years.
        While his books characteristically focused on the Renaissance and Dante -- the subject of three of his works -- he also read scientific journals to keep himself up to date in biology. In his book ''The Design of Life: Major Themes in the Development of Biological Thought'' (1967), the reader traveled from Aristotle and Galen to Linnaeus and Mendel and all the way to the moderns.
        ''Renaissance and Revolution: The Remaking of European Thought'' (1966) discussed the writers of the era and how their legacy is reflected in present-day thought. It also dealt with the relationship between science, art, philosophy and history.
        Dr. Mazzeo was most recently an  editor of ''Meanings of the Medium: Perspectives on the Art of Television'' (1989).
        The son of an architect, he grew up in Greenwich Village. His college studies were interrupted by World War II, when he served as an Army lieutenant in Europe and won a Bronze Star.
        He graduated from Columbia in 1946, and earned an master's degree in arts in 1947 and a Ph.D. in 1950, both at Columbia. He joined the faculty as a lecturer in 1948, but spent the late 1950's as a professor of English and professor of Italian at Cornell University.
        He rejoined Columbia in 1960 and became Parr Professor of English and Comparative Literature in 1977. He was named Avelon Foundation Professor in 1977 after serving for a year as department chairman.
        Dr. Mazzeo is survived by his wife,  Lucy Welch Mazzeo, and three sisters, Mary Rinaldi of Deltona, Fla., Mae Scolaro of Mamaroneck, N.Y., and Lauretta Korothy of Del Ray, Fla.
      