
        Clyde de Loache Ryals, a Duke University English professor and an authority on British Victorian literature, died on Friday at his home in Durham, N.C. He was 69.
        The cause was a brain tumor, said a friend, Fred Kaplan.
        Professor Ryals was a co-editor of a multivolume edition of the letters of Thomas Carlyle (1795-1881), the Scottish essayist and historian, and his wife, Jane Welsh Carlyle, who was also a gifted letter-writer. Not long before Professor Ryals's death, he finished working on the notes for the 27th volume in the series of books, which are being published by Duke University Press. Duke and the University of Edinburgh are collaborating on the scholarly project. The editors plan to produce an additional 15 volumes.
        Professor Kaplan, who teaches English at the City University of New York and is a biographer of Carlyle and Henry James, said yesterday that the series, ''which brings vividly alive daily life in Victorian literary and cultural Britain, is arguably the most important edition of Victorian documents being made available for modern readers.''
        Last year the Modern Language Association of America presented its Morton N. Cohen Award for a distinguished edition of letters to Professor Ryals and his co-editor, Kenneth J. Fielding, a retired University of Edinburgh professor, for their work on volumes 22 through 24, spanning the period from mid-1847 through 1849. The association said, ''These generously annotated volumes allow readers to witness the personalities and events of a turbulent era through the eyes of two eloquent, witty and passionate observers.''
        In 1996 The Times of London said, in a review of the same three volumes, that the multivolume project was an ''epic of scholarship.'' The review added: ''There is nothing in these three volumes to detract from the view that the Carlyles were the finest letter-writers of the 19th century. The vividness, the immediacy of the world described, jumps off the page. This scholarship does not come cheaply, but the fruits it has unearthed are golden.''
        Born in Atlanta, Professor Ryals received a bachelor's and a master's degree from Emory University and a doctorate in English from the University of Pennsylvania, where he was a professor from 1960 to 1973. He joined the Duke faculty in 1973.
        His many writings include well-received and influential books about the British Victorian poets Robert Browning and Alfred Lord Tennyson.
        He is survived by his wife, Hildegard Thun Scheffey Ryals, whom he married in 1971; a stepson, Mark Ellerkmann, of Baltimore; and a brother, Chester Arthur Ryals, of MacRae, Ga.
      