
        Ronald Lawrence Mace, a polio victim who devoted his life as an architect and industrial designer to devising environments suitable for all people regardless of age or condition, died on June 29 at his home in Raleigh, N.C. He was 58.
        The cause was heart arrhythmia resulting from polio, said North Carolina State University. Mr. Mace was a senior research associate, research professor and program director of the university's Center for Universal Design, which he founded.
        Mr. Mace was credited with creating the concept of universal design, built on the idea that good design ought to accommodate everybody. The concept helped make Washington landmarks like the Capitol and the Kennedy Center accessible to the disabled.
        He was also president of Barrier Free Environments Inc., a consulting company that offered help in making buildings just that way.
        Mr. Mace himself, born in Jersey City and reared in Winston-Salem, N.C., grew up in a world full of barriers. He was 9 when he contracted polio, and used a wheelchair from then on. He had to be carried up and down stairs to attend classes when he was a student at North Carolina State, and his wheelchair did not fit into the men's rooms. But in 1966 he graduated with a degree in architecture from the university's School of Design.
        After four years of practicing his profession conventionally, he became a pioneer in accessible architecture and ''adaptable'' housing: apartments or houses with built-in features that fit the needs of all people at all ages.
        Mr. Mace helped develop the country's first accessible-building code, which, adopted by North Carolina in 1973, served as a model for similar regulations in other states. His work also set a pattern for Federal legislation forbidding discrimination against people with physical impairments: the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988 and the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990.
        In 1989, he created the Center for Accessible Housing, which later became the Center for Universal Design at North Carolina State.
        Mr. Mace's wife, Lockhart Follin-Mace, died in 1991. He is survived by his companion, Joy Weeber of Raleigh.
      