
        Owen McGivern, the son of an iceman who with the backing of Tammany Hall, Manhattan's powerful Democratic organization, rose through the ranks to become presiding justice of the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court, died on Monday at New York University Medical Center. He was 87.
        The cause was heart failure, said Joan, his wife of 43 years.
        Mr. McGivern grew up in Hell's Kitchen when the lives of Irish immigrants revolved around two institutions: the parish church and the local Democratic club. With the encouragement of the Rev. Francis P. Duffy, his parish priest and the World War I military chaplain, he attended Regis High School, Holy Cross College, Columbia University and St. John's University Law School. He was elected, at 25, to the State Assembly, moved on to a municipal court judgeship and then State Supreme Court, all with Tammany's help.
        ''He was proud of it,'' said Jim McManus, who heads the McManus Democratic Club, one of the city's oldest local political clubs. ''Owen would say, 'A man in dark glasses made me a Supreme Court judge,' '' Mr. McManus said, a reference to Carmine G. De Sapio, the Tammany Hall boss who decided which candidates the party would back.
        ''He was a product of the West Side,'' said James F. Gill, a lawyer and friend. ''He never forgot where he came from.''
        Justice McGivern favored the old system of political patronage, said Timothy P. Sullivan, former secretary of the Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick. ''He wouldn't want any young man he knew to go into politics now,'' Mr. Sullivan said. ''He would say, 'There's no organization, no strong leadership. How can you have a political career that way?' ''
        From his election to the State Assembly in 1938, he was known for his strong, persuasive and witty public speaking. ''He was master raconteur,'' former Mayor Edward I. Koch said. ''He had the gift of the leprechaun. He beguiled audiences with his humor and intelligence.''
        It was a gift he used in the service of issues that he supported throughout his career: improved schools and centers for juvenile delinquents and mentally handicapped children and renovation and refurbishing of dilapidated court buildings.
        He was asked several times to speak at the city's two biggest dinners, attended by hundreds of people: the Alfred E. Smith Dinner and the Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick event. ''People would make a point of coming to just hear him,'' Mr. Koch said.
        Paul Crotty, a lawyer, Bell Atlantic executive and lifelong friend, called Justice McGivern one of the city's two best speakers. The other, he said, was William Hughes Mulligan, a dean of Fordham Law School and a former judge who died in 1996.
        ''He never cracked a smile,'' Mr. Crotty said. ''He would get up and make quick one-liners. He was self-deprecating, kidding the Irish and the Catholics.''
        The judge's wife, Joan, put it succinctly, ''He would say that the best speaker is a finished speaker.''
        In 1950, he was elected a judge of the old City Court of New York, and three years later, he won election to State Supreme Court, where he served for 14 years. He ran in 1965 for judge of the State Court of Appeals but lost to United States Senator Kenneth B. Keating.
        In 1967, he was appointed by Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller to the Appellate Division. Eight years later, he was designated the presiding justice. He resigned in 1976 after saying that continuing with an annual salary of $55,266 would ''work a financial deprivation on my family.''
        That was the year that New York City was facing possible bankruptcy. Appointed by Mayor Abraham D. Beame to study the fiscal problems, he and his committee members produced hundreds of pages during two years of study. They concluded that the city was spending far too much on city personnel benefits. Furthermore, its high taxes on businesses were driving them from the city.
        The study recommended wide-reaching budget cuts that, Mr. McGivern wrote, ''will dramatically increase tomorrow's employment and revenues.'' It also proposed that the city cede control of its welfare programs, prisons and higher education institutions to the state. The downsizing that it recommended was a foreshadowing of the reduced government services of the present.
        After he resigned from the bench, he joined the law firm of Donovan, Leisure, Newton & Irvine, where he had started as a lawyer in the 1930's.
        Troubled throughout his career by the rundown conditions of courthouses, he once described the Bronx County Courthouse as having ''filth and squalor of which are surpassed only by some chapters out of Dickens novels, or perhaps by the conditions of an 18th-century sailing ship.''
        During the 1980's, he formed a committee of lawyers to contribute money to redo the flaking, peeling murals painted on the inside of the State Supreme Courthouse dome.
        At home, his wife said, he rarely talked of work. ''His passions were Shakespeare and Churchill and his family.'' Well into his 80's, he continued to work on keeping himself in shape. As a judge, he kept a chinning bar in his office. Until about two years ago, he rode a bicycle. ''My mother took my bike away,'' he would say after his wife asked him to quit after a heart attack.
        ''You have to be organized about life,'' she remembered him saying often. When he bought a table at a dinner, he would ''place and replace the cards 92 times,'' she said.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Joan Morgan McGivern of Upper Montclair, N.J., Tara Lynn, of New York City;  three sons, Owen, of Manhattan, Thomas, of San Francisco, and Morgan, of East Hampton, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
        More than a year ago, Mrs. McGivern said, he planned every detail of his funeral: a low Mass with no incense; a eulogy by one daughter and one son, not to exceed five minutes each; the singing of two hymns, ''Amazing Grace'' and ''A Mighty Fortress Is Our God,'' followed by a reception at the Union Club.
        ''He was afraid I wouldn't get it quite right,'' she said. ''He would say, 'You can't leave it to chance.' ''
      