
        James P. Rod, a naturalist who revealed the secret world of Hudson River snapping turtles, muskrats and cattails to governors and schoolchildren alike as warden of a protected marsh in Garrison, N.Y., died last Saturday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 53.
        The cause of death was cancer, said his brother Douglas, of Buchanan, N.Y.
        James Rod became manager and warden of the Constitution Marsh Sanctuary, a 270-acre preserve managed by the National Audubon Society, in 1982. In every season he could be found leading a canoe tour or dipping a seine in that secluded backwater on the east bank of the Hudson, 50 miles north of Times Square in Putnam County.
        Mr. Rod's studies of cadmium contamination in the marsh's muskrat population helped prompt the Federal Environmental Protection Agency to order a $100 million Superfund cleanup at a defunct battery factory that abutted the preserve, New York State environmental officials said.
        The cleanup was completed last year, and Mr. Rod helped cultivate thousands of cattail seedlings to plant where tainted mud had been dredged. Along with leading countless school groups and bird-watchers through the marsh over 16 years, he frequently acted as a wildlife guide to Gov. George E. Pataki, who lives two miles from the marsh.
        ''There are a lot more high-profile figures in conservation,'' Mr. Pataki said last week, ''but there was no more knowledgeable or caring a figure than Jim Rod. He taught me an awful lot.''
        Recalling one tour of the marsh, before the cadmium cleanup, Mr. Pataki said: ''We were out there in canoes one time, and he said, 'Look for the muskrats.' There weren't any. And that was the whole point.''
        The marsh, tucked in a bay created when railroad tracks were laid along the Hudson in the 19th century, is a refuge for more than 200 bird species, 45 kinds of fish and several reptiles, including an ugly, sometimes nasty creature Mr. Rod was particularly fond of, according to his family and friends: the snapping turtle. Douglas Rod, who is 51, said his older brother began taking snapping turtles and other creatures to their  home in Ames, Iowa, when he was 5 or 6. Soon, the boys started a ''neighborhood zoo'' in the garage, he said.  ''Jim was scaring little girls with snapping turtles 40 years ago.''
        That early fascination with wriggling things led to undergraduate studies in wildlife biology at Iowa State University. Mr. Rod dropped out before graduating, later earning a bachelor's degree in journalism at Iona College in New Rochelle, N.Y.
        He received a Bronze Star and Air Medal for service in Vietnam in the Army's 173d Airborne Brigade.
        When Mr. Rod started work at the marsh, it was a rarely visited preserve, known mainly to duck hunters. But soon, with rounds of fund-raising and hammering, Mr. Rod and a small crew built meandering boardwalks, bird-watching blinds and a small education center that is visited by 5,000 people a year.
        In addition to his brother, he is survived by his mother, Pauline Rod, of Ames; his wife, Dee Hughes, of Garrison; another brother, William, of Ames, and a son, Terry Totemeier of Idaho Falls, Idaho.
        Douglas Rod said in a memorial service in the fall that his brother's ashes would be scattered in the marsh.
      