
        Garland Wright, a versatile stage director who was for many years the artistic director of the Tyrone Guthrie Theater in Minneapolis, died on Wednesday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 52 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, said his friend Cynthia Mayeda.
        During a career that spanned almost 30 years, Mr. Wright became a leading figure in the regional theater movement and was celebrated for his imaginative productions of classics and new plays. In 1986, when he  was first offered the position as head of the Guthrie Theater he rejected it because of the administrative demands of the job. But when he turned 40 later that year, he changed his mind and accepted the challenge.
        In his 10 seasons, the longest run of any director at the Guthrie, he staged plays by Shakespeare, Moliere, Chekhov and Oscar Wilde, among others, putting his signature on an eclectic repertory. At the same time he built an admirable reputation as an artistic director and company leader. After leaving the Guthrie in 1995, he returned to Manhattan.
        ''I think he was one of the most brilliant directors of his generation,''  Michael Kahn, artistic director of the Shakespeare Theater in Washington, said. While praising Mr. Wright for his visual sense and his understanding of text, Mr. Kahn also said ''he remade the Guthrie into another major theater.''
        Mr. Wright was born in Midland, Tex. His first ambition was to be a painter, but he soon switched to theater. In 1970, after studying at Southern Methodist University, he joined the American Shakespeare Festival in Stratford, Conn. As an actor at Stratford, he came under the tutelage of Mr. Kahn, who was the artistic director. As Mr. Kahn said: ''I started being his director. I ended  being his pupil.''
        With friends from Stratford, Mr. Wright and Gene Nye founded the Lion Theater Company, an Off Broadway company specializing in adventurous work. In the former West Side Airlines Terminal, he staged ''K,'' his Obie award-winning adaptation of ''The Trial,'' by Franz Kafka. In direct contrast, he presented a vibrant production of ''Twelfth Night,'' in which he played Orsino, and other roles were taken by Mr. Nye and Jack Heifner.
        In 1976, Mr. Wright directed ''Vanities,'' a play by Mr. Heifner who was a friend of his from Southern Methodist University. The play (about three Texas cheerleaders) was a phenomenal success. There were 1,785 performances, making it one of the longest-running nonmusical plays Off Broadway. It was the catapult for the careers of the playwright and director (and for Kathy Bates, who played a leading role).
        Instead of becoming a director in the commercial theater, Mr. Wright continued to work at the Lion and also directed at major regional theaters in the United States, including the Arena Stage in Washington, the Mark Taper Forum in Los Angeles, the Seattle Repertory Theater and the Guthrie. From 1980 to 1983 he was associate artistic director to Liviu Ciulei at the Guthrie.
        Periodically he returned to New York. In 1979 he staged a hauntingly visual production of Len Jenkin's ''New Jerusalem'' at the New York Shakespeare Public Theater. In 1987 he presented an antic version of Eric Overmyer's ''On the Verge.''
        After leaving the Guthrie, he was one of the directors of the New Directors Program at the Juilliard School. In recent years, he staged Christopher Durang's ''Sex and Longing'' for Lincoln Center Theater and ''The Devils,'' by Elizabeth Egloff, at the New York Theater Workshop.
        He is survived by his sister Lalla Van Ness of Fort Worth.
        Throughout his career Mr. Wright remained devoted to regional theater and to the idea of working with actors within a company. He said with pride that he was a part of the first generation of theater artists whose lives were formed and spent in nonprofit theater. It was from Mr. Ciulei at the Guthrie, he said, that he realized the difference between ''putting on plays'' and ''participating in the world through theater.'' His commitment was ''to treasure the work, the work above all else.''
      