
        Michael Denison, who epitomized the English gentleman in scores of roles on stage, screen, television and radio and who, with Dulcie Gray, formed one of acting's most durable husband-and-wife teams, died on Wednesday at his home in Amersham, a Buckinghamshire town about 30 miles southwest of London. Mr. Denison was 82.
        The cause was cancer, said his agent, Barry Burnett.
        Although Mr. Denison and Miss Gray appeared in more than 100 productions in London's West End, it was not until 1996, after 57 years of marriage and 28 plays together, that they made their dual Broadway debut in Oscar Wilde's ''Ideal Husband'' at the Barrymore Theater as the humorously dour Earl of Caversham and the flighty Lady Markby.
        In an enthusiastic review of the production in The New York Times, Vincent Canby wrote, ''It's good to see Mr. Denison and Miss Gray, who are husband-and-wife icons of the English cinema of the 1950's, so full of zest in the 1990's.''
        Mr. Denison remained zestful about the actor's life right to the end. On July 16, when he was interviewed on BBC Radio by the critic Sheridan Morley, Mr. Denison spoke of his refusal to retire and the plans he and Miss Gray had made to offer an evening of their reminiscences soon at the Theater Royal Haymarket in London.
        ''He was determined to carry on as long as the parts were there,'' Mr. Burnett said. And from the time Mr. Denison began acting professionally nearly 60 years ago, they usually were.
        ''They loved to tour England,'' Mr. Burnett said of the couple. ''They felt that people in the provinces should be treated to good acting. They loved that.''
        Mr. Denison's roles ranged from  Aguecheek in ''Twelfth Night'' with Laurence Olivier and Vivien Leigh at Stratford-Upon-Avon to Henry Higgins in ''My Fair Lady'' in Australia to the title role in 80 episodes of the popular television series ''Boyd QC'' to Algy in the 1952 film of Wilde's ''Importance of Being Earnest,'' with Michael Redgrave, Edith Evans, Margaret Rutherford, Joan Greenwood and Dorothy Tutin.
        In other film roles, he appeared as a member of the Royal Air Force squadron pitted against the Luftwaffe in the Battle of Britain in the 1952 film ''Angels One Five''; as Flight Lieut. Rick Chambers of the Coastal Command in ''Landfall'' (1949), a study of young love under the stress of war, and as a married British pilot and composer who falls in love with a pretty Italian partisan (Valentina Cortese) in ''The Glass Mountain'' (1948). Miss Gray played the pilot-composer's self-effacing wife.
        The couple appeared in at least five films together, most recently in ''Shadowlands'' with Anthony Hopkins; and their joint appearances onstage included ''Heartbreak House,'' ''The Fourposter,'' ''Where Angels Fear to Tread'' and ''Venus Observed.''
        Mr. Denison made clear that he regarded it as an honor to belong to the generation of British actors that included Olivier, John Gielgud, Noel Coward and John Mills, all of whom he and Miss Gray numbered among their friends, along with the Queen Mother, who sent Miss Gray a message of condolence yesterday.
        For more than 25 years, Mr. Denison helped run British Equity and expressed pleasure when he and Miss Gray performed here in 1996 that it had achieved greater rapport with its American counterpart on the sometimes contentious issue of work permits. ''We're here as part of an exchange,'' he said.
        Mr. Denison and Miss Gray were made Commanders of the British Empire in 1983.
        He was born to Marie Louise and Gilbert Denison in Doncaster, England, on Nov. 1, 1915. Within three weeks, the baby's mother was dead. Mr. Denison was reared by an aunt and uncle, and until he was an adult never saw his father again.
        At Harrow, Mr. Denison was cast in female roles in school productions and never thought seriously about a professional career as an actor until he went to Oxford, where John Gielgud was directing productions that sometimes included professionals.
        ''I acted with Vivien in 'Richard III,' and it was a key moment,'' Mr. Denison said of Miss Leigh. ''I went into that production with no intention of being an actor, and when it was over, I had no intention of being anything else.''
        At the Webber Douglas Academy of Dramatic Art, he met Miss Gray. Six months later, in 1939, when she was 19 and he was 23, they were married and honeymooning in weekly repertory in Scotland. But with the outbreak of World War II, Mr. Denison abandoned his career to serve for six years as a captain in military intelligence. Miss Gray became established in films; and while on leave in 1942, he accompanied her to a screen test, appeared opposite her in a love scene and was offered a contract by Associated British Pictures.
        The couple had no children.
        ''They were looking forward to their 60th wedding anniversary next year,'' Mr. Burnett said.
      