
        Tazio Secchiaroli, the celebrity-hounding photographer who was the inspiration for Paparazzo, a central character in Federico Fellini's 1960 movie ''La Dolce Vita,'' died in his sleep on Friday at his home in Rome at age 73. His son, David, said the cause was a heart attack.
        Mr. Secchiaroli was a paparazzo in all but name when Fellini spotted him in the late 1950's. He and his fellow photographers, Sergio Spinelli, Velio Cioni and Elio Sorci, would chase celebrities on their Vespas and try to photograph them unawares. Mr. Secchiaroli found that magazine editors, bored with staged portraits, would pay dearly for what he called surprise pictures of stars, especially if they were caught in compromising positions.
        Mr. Secchiaroli was one of the most aggressive. Carol Squiers, the senior editor of American Photo magazine, said his reputation as an ''assault photographer'' was made on a single night, Aug. 14, 1958, during the Ferragosto, or Feast of the Assumption, holidays in Rome. That night, Mr. Secchiaroli snapped a picture of King Farouk of Egypt, who had been deposed a few years earlier, sitting in a cafe with two women, neither of them his wife. The former King tried to break his camera, and another photographer, Umberto Guidotti, caught the moment.
        Then Mr. Seccharioli took a photograph of Ava Gardner and Tony Franciosa kissing in the Bricktop Cafe. ''It was a scandal,'' Ms. Squiers said, ''because Franciosa was still married to Shelly Winters.''
        Mr. Seccharioli took a third picture, of Anita Ekberg and her husband, Anthony Steel, a British actor, looking inebriated. When Mr. Steel saw the photographer, he lunged at him drunkenly.
        Mr. Secchiaroli became the model for Paparazzo partly by accident,  Ms. Squiers said. Fellini wanted to make a film about cafe society and saw some street photographers' pictures; he ended up talking to Mr. Secchiaroli.
        There are a number of theories about the name Paparazzo. Some say it is a contraction of the Italian words papagallo (parrot) and ragazzo (guy). Fellini was quoted as saying he chose it because it was the name of a childhood friend of his ''who liked to imitate the buzzing sounds of pesky insects.'' In any case, from that name an infamous word was born.
        After the movie came out, Mr. Secchiaroli's reputation soared. Various filmmakers and stars, including Marcello Mastroianni and Sophia Loren, used him as their personal photographer.
        ''Once Marcello Mastroianni wanted to be alone with Catherine Deneuve, so he called me,'' Mr. Secchiaroli told The New York Times last year. ''I made five or six spreads. In that way the newspapers had their fill, and no photographer bothered them.''
        Nonetheless, the public's perception of paparazzi got worse and worse, reaching a low last August when Diana, Princess of Wales, and her friend Emad Mohamed al-Fayed died in an car accident while being pursued by paparazzi. An exhibition of paparazzi photographs at the Robert Miller Gallery in New York the next month showing the less sordid side of the profession did not fully clean up their reputation.
        Mr. Secchiaroli had just finished putting together a collection of his photographs, to be published by the Italian publishing house Motta.
        His survivors include two children, Lucilla and David, and a grandson. He will be buried today from a church in the working-class neighborhood in Rome where he grew up.
        To the end, Mr. Secchiaroli remained unrepentant about his style of photography. Although he indicated that he thought paparazzi might sometimes go too far, he suggested that in the case of the Princess of Wales and Mr. Fayed, it might have been their fault for fleeing from the photographers.
        His attitude was summed up in an interview last year with The Glasgow Herald: ''We photographers were all poor starving devils and they had it all -- money, fame, posh hotels. The doormen and porters in the grand hotels gave us information tips -- you could call it the fellowship of the proletariat.''
      