
        Louis L. Goldstein, an indelible figure in Maryland politics as well as one of the longest-serving state officials in American history, died on Friday night at his home in Prince Frederick, Md. He was 85.
        The cause was a heart attack, family members said.
        As Comptroller of Maryland for 40 years, Mr. Goldstein was the state tax collector. He won his first four-year term in 1958 to start a storied career, interrupted only briefly, in 1964, by his campaign for the United States Senate. In the only election he ever lost, he was defeated in the Democratic primary by the eventual winner in the November general election, Joseph D. Tydings.
        Mr. Goldstein -- ''Call me Louie,'' as he always insisted -- combined a jovial personality and sharp financial skills to win re-election as Comptroller 10 times, usually without much of a fight from either party. Just last month, he announced he would seek an 11th term, and not a single Democrat stepped up to challenge him in the primary.
        He was so popular that today he became the state's first elected official to lie in state under the Rotunda of the Maryland Statehouse in Annapolis. A funeral was scheduled for Tuesday in Prince Frederick.
        For all his financial abilities, Mr. Goldstein was best known around the state as an indefatigable campaigner who traveled as many as 100,000 miles a year by car even in non-election years. He gave as many as 300 speeches each year and always had a pocketful of gold-colored coins to give out, inscribed with the line he used to close many of his speeches, ''God bless you all real good.''
        Once, campaigning in western Maryland, he drew quizzical stares from a small crowd that had gathered to hear him in a rural town. He realized later that he had inadvertently crossed into West Virginia.
        Last week at his condominium in Ocean City, Md., in his last interview, Mr. Goldstein discussed his political career and attributed his success to advice given to him as an 11-year-old child by his father, Goodman, an immigrant from Prussia who became a store owner in southern Maryland. Young Louis worked in the store until he went off to Washington College in Chestertown, Md.
        ''He taught me to be kind, be polite, remember people's name, remember their children and their backgrounds,'' Mr. Goldstein said. ''I still do that the same way, give people responsibility, accountability and service. How can you beat that?''
        Louis Lazerus Goldstein was born on March 14, 1913, in Prince Frederick after his family had settled there by chance. His father, after receiving a peddler's license, was hired by a Baltimore store and assigned the sparsely populated territory of Calvert County to sell its goods.
        ''He had no more of an idea what it was like where he was going than astronauts going to the moon,'' Mr. Goldstein said.
        Mr. Goldstein's interest in politics was sparked by radio accounts of the 1928 Presidential campaign between Herbert Hoover and Alfred E. Smith. Mr. Goldstein said he worked his county for Smith, and four years later he volunteered to campaign for Franklin D. Roosevelt.
        Two years later, Mr. Goldstein graduated from the University of Maryland Law School and began his own political career, winning election to the Maryland House of Delegates. After one four-year term, he joined the Marines to serve in World War II, and then returned to politics in 1946, winning the first of three consecutive four-year terms to the State Senate.
        ''Every election is tough,'' he said. ''In love, war and politics, you never know what's going to happen.''
        For Mr. Goldstein, at least, two of those three became rather predictable. He was married more than 48 years to Hazel Horton Goldstein, who died in April 1996. It was largely in deference to her that he decided earlier that year not to seek a 10th term. But after she died, he changed his mind.
        ''We had a very wonderful married life,'' he said. ''But she would not have wanted me sitting on my back side. She would have wanted me doing something.''
        Mr. Goldstein is survived by a son, Philip Goldstein of Chesapeake Beach, Md., and two daughters, Louisa Goldstein of Baltimore and Margaret Janney of College Park, Md.
      