
        Henri Ziegler, a trained pilot and commander of the Free French Air Force in World War II who helped start some of Europe's most ambitious postwar aviation projects, including the Concorde supersonic jetliner and the Airbus civilian airliner program, died at a nursing home in Paris on July 23. He was 91.
        Mr. Ziegler, once denounced as a traitor by a French Government minister for suggesting that France should abandon its splendid isolation and cooperate with other European governments to produce jetliners, lived to see Airbus Industrie, the consortium that he founded and ran from 1970 to 1975, emerge as a vigorous challenger to the Boeing Company as a premier supplier of planes to the world's airlines.
        Airbus has clawed its way from a fragile alliance of British and French aircraft manufacturers in the early 1970's, to dominance of roughly one-half of the orders placed around the world this year for civilian aircraft. But when Mr. Ziegler first hinted in 1969 that without a dramatic overhaul, Europe's atomized aircraft industries would fail to keep step with aircraft industries in the United States and the Soviet Union, he faced fierce resistance from the party of the go-it-alones in France. ''My views raised hell,'' he was later quoted by The Times of London as saying. ''My minister called me into his office and said, 'You are a traitor to your country.' ''
        Last week, the French Prime Minister, Lionel Jospin, lauded ''the memory of one of those who was at the origin of the technological and economic success of the European aeronautic and space industries.''
        Born Nov. 18, 1906, in Limoges, Mr. Ziegler earned degrees in management and aeronautical engineering, then entered the French Air Force, where he rose quickly to become, in 1938, deputy director of the air force test flight center. One year later, as World War II engulfed Europe, he left for the United States as part of a procurement mission to purchase badly needed aircraft and parts for the French Air Force.
        After the fall of France, Mr. Ziegler returned to his occupied homeland to help organize the anti-German resistance. In 1944, he smuggled himself to Britain where, under the nom de guerre Colonel Vernon, he first commanded the ragtag Free French Air Force, then served as chief of staff of the French resistance fighting under Gen. Charles de Gaulle to liberate France.
        After the war, he served briefly in Washington and London as military liaison, then joined the French national airline, Air France, in 1946. Two years later, he was named chairman, a job he held until 1954.
        Mr. Ziegler held various cabinet- level posts in the 1950's, but he is best remembered for his role in building the French and European aircraft industry. In 1968, he was appointed to run Sud-Aviation, a leading aircraft manufacturer in the south of France, and charged with reorganizing the badly splintered aircraft industry. Sud-Aviation was later absorbed by the larger Societe Nationale Industrielle Aerospatiale, or Snia, which in 1984, as the core of the French aerospace industry, was renamed Aerospatiale S.A.
        During his tenure at Sud-Aviation and Snia, Mr. Ziegler championed the ambitious project to join British aircraft builders to jointly develop a supersonic civilian jetliner, the Concorde, which entered regular service, flying at twice the speed of sound, in January 1976. Mr. Ziegler later published a memoir of the project titled ''The Great Adventure of the Concorde.''
        By the mid-1960's, Britain and France were casting about for further ways to unite the forces of their fragmented aircraft industries in a bid to challenge the dominance of the United States, which at the time produced 85 percent of the world's commercial aircraft. Contacts between the British Aircraft Corporation and Hawker Siddeley Aviation with French and German aircraft manufacturers led to the first design studies for a new range of civilian jetliners, beginning with a twin-engine wide-body airliner, which was started in October 1972, as the Airbus 300B. In 1970, Mr. Ziegler had been named to head a consortium of companies to build the plane, and against the bitter resistance of a part of the French bureaucracy he championed the idea of a unified management and sales organization. He stayed at Airbus until 1975, laying the groundwork for the later enlargement of the consortium by the addition of British and Spanish companies.
        If Airbus is Mr. Ziegler's greatest legacy, the supersonic Concorde may have been his greatest commercial disappointment. Together with his British counterpart, Sir George Edwards, chairman of British Aircraft, he vigorously lobbied American political leaders and airline officials, and at least six American airlines originally took options to purchase 31 Concordes.
        In 1971, President Richard M. Nixon toured a Concorde that had carried President Georges Pompidou of France to a meeting of the two leaders and expressed enthusiasm. To further promote the Concorde, Mr. Ziegler publicly urged a joint European-American project for an even larger supersonic plane for the 1980's. But Boeing, joined by environmental organizations that objected to its noise, fought the Concorde. Thus, the decision in 1973 by Trans World Airlines and Pan American World Airways, then the largest American carriers, to cancel their orders was a major setback. Other American airlines soon followed suit, and the Concorde's entry into the crucial American market was effectively blocked.
        Mr. Ziegler is survived by four children. A son, Bernard Ziegler, served as senior vice president for engineering at Airbus Industrie until his retirement last year.
      