
        Edward Danforth Eddy, an educator, college administrator and frequent commentator on women's education and educational excellence, died on Sunday at his home in South Kingstown, R.I. He was 77.
        The cause was prostate cancer, according to the Avery-Storti Funeral Home in Wakefield, a village in South Kingstown.
        In his last academic post, Dr. Eddy was president of the University of Rhode Island, where he served from 1983 to 1991. Since then, he was engaged in community affairs and served as chairman of the Providence Blueprint for Education, or Probe, and as a catalyst for improvements in public education throughout Rhode Island.
        Dr. Eddy was an authority on land grant colleges. His history of such institutions, ''Colleges for Our Land and Time: The Land Grant Idea in American Education'' (Harper & Row, 1957), remains a classic on the subject and was issued in French and Spanish editions.
        He was the author of ''The College Influence on Student Character'' (1959), a study he conducted for the American Council on Education. Financed by the Ford and Calkin Foundations, it concluded, essentially, that a climate of intellectual excellence builds character.
        Dr. Eddy also wrote studies that compared private colleges in Pennsylvania in terms of quality, costs and faculty appointments. In addition, he contributed many articles for national publications.
        He was a member of the executive board of HERS/Mid-Atlantic. The organization, Higher Education Resource Services, promotes opportunities for women who are college students.
        Dr. Eddy was born in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. He graduated from Cornell University in 1944 and received a master of divinity degree from Yale University in 1946 and a Ph.D. from Cornell in 1956. He started his career as associate director of Cornell's interfaith office in 1946.
        From 1949 to 1960 he was associated with the University of New Hampshire, serving as acting president in 1954 and 1955 and as provost and a vice president from 1955 to 1960. He then served as president of Chatham College in Pittsburgh and as provost of Pennsylvania State University before moving to Rhode Island in 1983.
        He is survived by his wife of 49 years, Mary Schurman Eddy; two sons, Edward D. Eddy 3d of Los Angeles, and David H. Eddy Spicer of Cambridge, Mass.; two daughters, Mary I. Eddy of Denver and Catherine E. Hahn of Ashland, N.H., and seven grandchildren.
      