
        Mark Hampton, the interior decorator whose relaxed traditionalism was embraced by America's stylish elite, making him a celebrated symbol of gracious living for decades, died yesterday at New York University Medical Center. He was 58 and had homes in Manhattan and Southampton, N.Y.
        The cause was cardiac arrest brought on by liver cancer, his wife, Duane, said.
        In recent years, Mr. Hampton was most closely associated with President and Mrs. George Bush, for whom he consulted on the decor of a half-dozen homes, including the White House; the Vice President's residence; Blair House, the official residence for guests of the President; the Presidential retreat at Camp David, Md.; the Bush family's seaside retreat in Kennebunkport, Me., and the couple's retirement home in Houston. He also decorated the George Bush Presidential Library and Museum in College Station, Tex.
        More a distiller than an innovator, Mr. Hampton built his career on giving the public exactly the style it wanted at precisely the time it realized it wanted it. In the 1960's and 70's that meant discotheque modernism in primary colors, inspired by the work of his mentor, David Hicks, the flamboyant British decorator who died on March 29. It was crisp but comfortable traditionalism, however, that became Mr. Hampton's hallmark in the early 1980's, and that made him an icon of American style and one of the nation's most sought-after decorators.
        His use of such upper-crust accouterments as 18th- and early 19th-century American and English antiques, flowery chintz and smartly tailored upholstery added up to a seductive atmosphere of low-key privilege that attracted eminent clients like Anne Bass, the dance patron; Brooke Astor, the philanthropist; Estee Lauder (for whom he decorated three houses); Mike Wallace; Carter Brown, the former director of the National Gallery; Susan Burden, the socialite, and her husband, Carter, the rare book collector; Senator H. John Heinz 3d of Pennsylvania and Lincoln Kirstein, the dance patron.
        Like Sister Parish, the late doyenne of American interior design, and Mario Buatta, known as the Prince of Chintz, who worked with Mr. Hampton on Blair House, Mark Hampton was one of the few American decorators to become a household name. Part of his renown was due to his timing; he came to prominence in the 1980's, a decade in which fortunes were being made, interior design magazines were almost as avidly followed in some circles as the stock market, and the English country style that Mr. Hampton so successfully mined and refined was at its peak of popularity.
        But that was only one aspect of Mr. Hampton's career, whose stylistic influences were much broader than his popular image would indicate.
        ''I have absolutely no interest in a trademark style,'' he once said.  ''Some would say, 'He has no style, no look.' Well, I don't get it. That isn't what I set out to do. I just set out to be a decorator, to do a good job and have fun. I've wondered with envy at people who like one thing and work at it and it becomes their realm. Those people who can say, 'I love Winterthur but I hate Lyndhurst,' people who have these enormous, refined senses of hate. I love Winterthur, Lyndhurst, Greek Revival and French houses. Of course, I daydream constantly about English houses, and those shingle-style American houses built in 1905 full of furniture from jillions of other periods.''
        Mr. Hampton's fame was aided, too, by his success in the retail and  publishing worlds. In 1988, the decorator began an association with Hickory Chair, a leading furniture manufacturer in North Carolina, creating furnishings for the well-heeled consumer. Eventually, the Mark Hampton Collection grew to more than 250 pieces, some of them inspired by antiques found in the decorator's own apartment on Park Avenue and his weekend house, a remodeled gardener's cottage in Southhampton on Long Island. He also designed fabrics for Kravet and upholstery trimmings for Scalamandre.
        A year after he signed a contract with Hickory Chair, Random House published ''Mark Hampton on Decorating'' a collection of refreshingly opinionated, sensible essays that were originally published in House and Garden, and later, in House Beautiful.
        ''He was that rare thing, an articulate decorator,'' said Louis Oliver Gropp, editor in chief of House Beautiful, who led House and Garden when Mr. Hampton's columns were a popular feature of the magazine. ''He was a memorable speaker, a thoughtful speaker, and his writing had content as well as verve.''
        ''Mark Hampton on Decorating'' and a companion volume of essays  that followed, ''Legendary Decorators of the Twentieth Century'' (1992, Doubleday), gave him a cult following, a rarity in the world of decor. The books were admired as much for their easy, conversational tone and generous, impeccable advice as for their illustrations: polychrome and grisaille watercolors from Mr. Hampton's own hand.
        Magazine editors and friends had long looked forward to receiving personal notes from Mr. Hampton, whose neat calligraphy was often accompanied by comical drawings depicting, say, Madonna's cone-shaped bustier or the Buster Brown-bob wig of Madeleine Castaing, a Parisian decorator who was one of Mr. Hampton's idols.
        But the public knew nothing of his artistic skills until 1980, when a one-man show of his artwork was held at  Acquavella Galleries in Manhattan. A 40th-birthday gift from his wife, Duane, the show featured more than 400 items assembled from private collections, including a pair of corduroy pants that had been hand-decorated for a college classmate and a hand-painted Easter egg made for Edward Lee Cave, the real-estate broker.
        After years of celebrity, Mr. Hampton's in-store promotional appearances began to attract many admirers, who would ask to be photographed with him as a souvenir. Stores came to expect crowds as enthusiastic as, though smaller than, those that awaited the arrival of rock stars.
        In his appearances and lectures and in print, he imbued the study of design with a novelist's appreciation of a good story and an actor's skill in wryly telling it. He could keep his listeners enthralled with tales of Rose Cumming, an eccentric 1940's grande dame decorator, who began her career as a kept woman, all the while wondering aloud how Miss Cumming's romantic life might explain the louche, unconventional glamour of her interiors.
        ''His knowledge of the decorative arts was really unparalleled,'' said Paige Rense, the editor in chief of Architectural Digest. ''He loved teaching.''
        Mark Iredell Hampton Jr. was born in 1940 in Plainfield, Ind., a small town near Indianapolis that has been home to the Hamptons for seven generations. The only son of Mark Hampton, an undertaker, and the former Alice Burkert, he had an  Andy Hardy-style childhood, passed in a white clapboard Colonial-style house with inky green shutters.
        He spent his teen-age years driving a tractor and baling hay on the family's 380-acre farm. The first hint that Mr. Hampton would not grow old tilling the soil in rural Indiana was his first do-it-yourself decorating project at age 12: a set of shutters for his bedroom, which he refinished in his parents' basement and then installed on his own. ''From that moment on, I considered myself a decorator,'' wrote Mr. Hampton, who went on to confound his parents by amassing a collection of back issues of House and Garden. The parents, however, had other career ideas for their only son.
        Mr. Hampton graduated from DePauw University and dutifully attended the University of Michigan Law School. But his love of design was not to be forgotten. On the first day of school, he startled his law school roommate by unpacking an  unlawyerly cache of objects from a footlocker: an obelisk, small antique boxes and a branch of rhododendron. So it was no surprise when Mr. Hampton abandoned law school in 1964 to pursue a degree in art history at Michigan's School of Fine Arts. He later earned a master's degree at the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University.
        In 1967, Mr. Hampton, newly incorporated as a decorator, became the New York representative of David Hicks, the British designer whom he had met six years earlier during a junior year abroad at the London School of Economics.
        Mr. Hicks was in his heyday, and Mr. Hampton was an eager acolyte. For the next decade, he turned out largely Hicksian interiors that had more to do with Studio 54 swagger than the country-club comforts for which he later became celebrated. They sported Op Art paintings, attenuated metal tables by Baron Albrizzi, white goatskin carpets and chrome-plated Italian lamps.
        Mr. Hampton's one-bedroom apartment on East 63d Street, where he and his wife lived after their marriage in 1964, attracted the attention of House and Garden in 1968. Credited to Mr. Hampton and Mr. Hicks, the low-ceilinged living room featured reflective Mylar wallpaper with a herringbone motif, a Hicks-design wall-to-wall carpet of tiny interlocking black-and-white hexagons and a pair of Louis XV-style chairs from the Door Store.
        After breaking with the famously temperamental Mr. Hicks, Mr. Hampton spent eight years with McMillen Inc. the New York society decorators. He left the company to start his own business in 1975.
        In time he became one of America's leading decorators and among the few to call for important redesigns. He was part of the team in 1984 that restored a wing of Gracie Mansion, the residence of the mayor of New York. He also worked on the  Governor's Mansion in Albany and  the American Academy in Rome.
        Though Mr. Hampton was an ardent preservationist and lover of history -- social, decorative and otherwise -- his clients occasionally did not share his sentiments.
        The only project that the decorator ever regretted accepting, he once told a reporter, was the renovation of  the Treaty Room of the White House. Decorated in a spirited High Victorian style during the Kennedy Administration by Stephane Boudin, the French decorator, it was redone at the request of President Bush, who was no fan of Victoriana, into a blandly traditional private office. Mr. Hampton later expressed disappointment in the previous decor's loss to the history of the decorative arts. The room's 19th-century theme was revived in a much awaited and then highly criticized redecoration for the Clintons in 1993 by Kaki Hockersmith, the Arkansas designer.
        In addition to his wife of 23 years, the former Duane Flegel, and his sister, Rachel Hampton Blank of Winnetka, Ill., Mr. Hampton is survived by two daughters, Alexa and Kate, both of Manhattan.
        To Mr. Hampton, decorating was not just a job, but an adventure. The pursuit of the beautiful for him rendered life endlessly promising.  ''Whether you are in Birmingham, England, or Birmingham, Ala., you cannot have a bad time because the food is awful or it's raining or you don't like the hotel,'' he once told Marilyn Bethany in The New York Times. ''There is always something to see.''
      