
        Prof. Charles William Mann Jr., a sleuth of the unpublished Hemingway and the keeper of rare books at Pennsylvania State University for the last four decades, died on July 17  at his home in Baltimore. He was 68 and also lived in State College, Pa.
        The cause was a heart attack,  Penn State Libraries announced.
        Professor Mann, who joined the staff of Penn State in 1954, was chief of rare books and special collections. He also taught English and comparative literature and since 1994 had held the first Dorothy Foehr Huck Chair for Special Collections in the University Libraries.
        In the 1960's he teamed with Philip Young, a Hemingway scholar at Penn State, to garner the first detailed inventory of Ernest Hemingway's unpublished work. The result was ''The Hemingway Manuscripts,'' published by Penn State Press in 1969.
        A good deal of it was familiar to scholarly cognoscenti, but there were surprises as well. At his death in 1961, Hemingway left 50 pounds of manuscript and typescript stored in a back room of Sloppy Joe's Bar in Key West, Fla., and in bank vaults in Cuba. Mary Welsh Hemingway, his wife and executor, brought together the nearly 20,000 written pages in New York.
        The unpublished work, dated from 1925 to 1945, consisted of 4 novels, 19 short stories, 33 poems and 11 works of nonfiction. Unknown among them were a novel, a short story and a letter from F. Scott Fitzgerald.
        The novel was ''Jimmy Breen''; the short story, ''Summer People,'' was believed to be the first Nick Adams tale. Fitzgerald's 10-page letter offered a critique of ''The Sun Also Rises.''
        Besides Hemingway, another of Professor Mann's special interests was the work of John O'Hara, whose manuscript collection he helped bring to Penn State. But his wide range of knowledge also covered the history of books and bookmaking, bibliography, architecture and the history of photography.
        Mr. Mann started as a library assistant at Penn State, was named librarian in 1972 and a professor of English in 1975. As chief of rare books and special collections he directed the University Archives, Historical Collections and Labor Archives as well as the Rare Books Room, of which he became the first head in 1958.
        Mr. Mann is survived by his wife, Nancy McCall, a medical archivist at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore; a daughter from an earlier marriage, Molly M. Ziegler of State College; a sister, Charlene Kuttriff of Hollidaysburg, Pa., and a granddaughter.
      