
        Murray Patrick, who was raised in a legendary family of professional hockey players and builders in the middle decades of the century and became a player, coach and general manager of the Rangers, died Thursday at his home in Riverside, Conn. He was 83.
        His son, Dick, said that Patrick suffered a heart attack.
        Murray Patrick, who was known as Muzz, was born in Victoria, British Columbia, and was bred for a life in the major leagues of ice hockey.
        His grandfather, Joseph Patrick, had helped build the first artificial ice rinks in Canada, at Vancouver and Victoria. His father, Lester Patrick, became a Hall of Fame star in the National Hockey League and later the coach of the Rangers. His uncle, Frank Patrick, joined Lester as one of hockey's great builders and innovators. And Murray's brother, Lynn Patrick, played and coached in the National Hockey League, as did his nephews, Craig and Glenn.
        He was nicknamed Muzz by a boyhood friend because he had a full head of curly black hair that somehow translated into Fuzzy Muzzy, and the name stuck. But he grew into a hulking defenseman, 6 feet 2 inches tall and weighing 205 pounds, with a rough-and-tumble nature to go with the tradition that made the Patricks pillars of Madison Square Garden.
        The tradition reached a milestone in 1940 when the Rangers won the Stanley Cup, a moment in history that lasted 54 years until they won another in 1994. A hard skater and pile-driving defenseman, Patrick scored only five goals during his four seasons and only two goals during the championship season. Yet, in the playoffs, he scored three times, including one key goal in overtime in Game 5 at Toronto. And in the best traditions of the family, the championship team was coached by his father.
        The Rangers received shares of $1,009 each for winning. But Murray Patrick remembered: ''That was a lot of money in those days. It was the first time the players' shares went above $1,000.''
        He once described life in professional hockey through the violent contrasts between the Rangers and the Garden's other team, the Americans, in these words:
        ''When we played each other, it was like the Civil War. The landlords against the tenants. The aristocrats against the people's choice. The Yankees against the Dodgers. There was electricity in the place.''
        Patrick left many more memories of his combative attitude, which he displayed most notably one night in 1939 when he enlivened the Garden with a one-punch knockout over Eddie Shore, the star defenseman for Boston. The fight started after Shore, in Patrick's words, was ''massaging Phil Watson's neck with his stick and I had to help.''
        Patrick's career was interrupted in midstream in 1941 when he joined the United States Army. He served as an officer in North Africa, in the battle for Anzio in Italy and during the invasion of southern France.
        After the war, he returned to the Rangers for one more season before retiring as a player after the 1945-46 season. But his career was committed to hockey, and he pursued it as a coach and manager in Seattle and Victoria before returning to Madison Square Garden on Jan. 6, 1954, as coach of the Rangers, a job that both his father and brother had filled.
        He replaced Frank Boucher, a onetime Hall of Fame hockey player, for the rest of the season, then yielded the position to Phil Watson and moved into the Rangers' front office as general manager. He remained general manager for 10 years before undertaking a variety of other executive jobs at the Garden.
        As general manager, he negotiated several memorable trades. In 1961, he acquired Doug Harvey from Montreal to become a player-coach for New York. And later he traded Gump Worsley to Montreal for Jacques Plante in an exchange of All-Star goaltenders.
        Patrick returned as coach of the team at the start of the 1962 season, until he hired Red Sullivan to take over. Then he went back to the front office until his retirement in 1973.
        Patrick is survived by his wife of 54 years, Jessie; 2 daughters, Lynda Vargas and Lori Koleszac; 2 sons, Dick and Paul; 12 grandchildren, and 2 great-grandchildren.
      