
        Edith Appleton Standen, one of the world's leading authorities on tapestries and a longtime curator at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died last weekend at her home in Manhattan. She was 93.
        Ms. Standen's writings, which include an award-winning, two-volume catalogue of the Met's European post-medieval tapestries, helped broaden the interest in her speciality, which was one she never set out to have. When the Met's director offered her a curatorial position in charge of its Textile Study Room in 1949, she said yes, but added that he should know three things: she didn't know much about textiles; she cared less than most women about fashion, and she never used a needle and thread unless she had to. The subject took: until a month ago, she was at the Metropolitan every day at 9 A.M., said Thomas Campbell, an associate curator.
        She was born in Halifax, Nova Scotia, the daughter of a British Army officer, and spent her childhood in Ireland and England. She received an honors degree in English from Somerville College, Oxford University, in 1926, and immigrated to the United States two years later. In Boston, she went to work for the Society for the Preservation of New England Antiquities, founded by William Sumner Appleton, her uncle.
        She is survived by a sister-in-law, Lisl Standen.
        Ms. Standen also did volunteer work for the photo collection of Harvard University's Fogg Art Museum. She was invited to take the legendary museum course taught by Paul J. Sachs, the Fogg's associate director. In 1929 she was hired by Joseph Widener as secretary to his art collections. This position lasted until he gave the works to the National Gallery of Art in 1942. With World War II  under way, Ms. Standen became an American citizen and joined the Women's Army Corps, ending up in Ohio working for the Air Force. In 1945, she was sent to Europe as a member of the American Military Government's Monuments, Fine Arts and Archives Section, the group that preserved, restored and returned art plundered during the war to its rightful owners. In early 1946, she took over management of the Weisbaden Collecting Point.
        Ms. Standen, who remained single all her life, worked at the Met until 1970, organizing exhibitions and writing and lecturing on textiles and paintings. Besides her 1985 catalogue, ''European Post-Medieval Tapestries and Related Hangings in the Metropolitan Museum of Art,'' she published more than 50 articles.
        After her retirement, she remained a consultant to the Met until 1988. In 1986, she began to compile a biennial newsletter about tapestries, which she distributed in the academic world. She had just completed her final article, about Beauvais tapestries, which Mr. Campbell said was to be published posthumously in the Metropolitan Museum Journal. Her archives and books are expected to be left to the Metropolitan.
      