
        John Henrik Clarke, an Alabama sharecropper's son whose thirst for unfettered knowledge led him to hop a freight train to New York and transform himself into an African history scholar who helped spur the development of black studies and who spent six decades as a gadfly fixture in the intellectual life of Harlem, died on Thursday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was  83.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Mr. Clarke was a professor emeritus at Hunter College. If it is unusual to become a full college professor without benefit of a high school diploma, let alone a Ph.D., nobody said Professor Clarke wasn't an academic original.
        An eighth-grade dropout who eventually took courses at New York University and Columbia but never graduated, Professor Clarke, who ultimately received a doctorate from the nonaccredited Pacific Western University in Los Angeles at age 78, was hardly stymied by the lack of formal academic credentials.
        Indeed, as a scholar devoted to redressing what he saw as a systematic and racist suppression and distortion of African history by traditional scholars, he said he had not missed all that much.
        In a varied career in which he wrote 6 books, edited and contributed to 17 others, composed more than 50 short stories, turned out a stream of articles and pamphlets, helped found or edit several important black quarterlies, lectured widely and did research in every African country except South Africa, Mr. Clarke, largely self-taught and highly outspoken, became an imposing figure in black intellectual circles.
        A native of Union Springs, Ala., who moved to Georgia as an infant, Mr. Clarke demonstrated his academic prowess early, once amazing one of his teachers by ''reading'' a seamless English essay. The teacher later realized, after seeing the student's pages were blank, that the essay had been composed on the fly. (A man with a prodigious memory, Mr. Clarke later amazed his students and lecture audiences by delivering complex, detailed lectures without notes.)
        Mr. Clarke, who left school to help support his family with jobs that included caddying for Dwight D. Eisenhower, Omar N. Bradley and other officers at Fort Benning, Ga., came to New York in 1933 partly because he had become enchanted by tales of the literary and cultural fervor of the Harlem Renaissance of the 1920's and partly because, as a black youth in segregated Georgia, he was not allowed to check books out of the local library.
        Once he arrived in New York he haunted the city's libraries and gravitated to an influential personal tutor, Arnold A. Schomburg, the scholar whose library became the foundation for the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture. Like Mr. Schomburg, Mr. Clarke said he had been led to study African history after being told that black Africans had no history before European colonization.
        If some of the scholarship he championed was dismissed by traditional historians as specious propaganda seeking to aggrandize African influence on Western culture, Mr. Clarke threw the charge right back, accusing white scholars of having disguised their own Eurocentric propaganda as historic fact.
        Whatever the truth, Mr. Clarke relished the fray, among other things editing a 1968 book, ''William Styron's Nat Turner: 10 Black Scholars Respond,'' in which he and the other contributors accused Mr. Styron of painting a false picture of slavery and of Turner's character in his acclaimed novel, ''The Confessions of Nat Turner.''
        Other collections Mr. Clarke edited include ''American Negro Short Stories'' (1966), ''Malcolm X: The Man and His Times'' (1969), ''Harlem U.S.A.'' (1971) and ''Marcus Garvey and the Vision of Africa'' (1973).
        By the time he joined the Hunter faculty as a lecturer in 1969, Mr. Clarke, who quickly established black studies programs there and at Cornell, had supported himself in a series of low-paying jobs, served a wartime stint in the Army Air Forces and emerged as a key figure in the 1960's movement to celebrate black culture. Among other things, he had been director of the Heritage Teaching Program for the anti-poverty agency Haryou-Act (Harlem Youth-Associated Community Teams) and a consultant and coordinator of the 1968 CBS television series ''Black Heritage: The History of Afro-Americans.''
        A gregarious man whose Harlem home became a way station for visiting Africans, Mr. Clarke, whose interest in modern African affairs led him to support the pan-African political movement, was on a first-name basis with many African leaders.
        Once, when he was stranded in Ghana without funds, he bumped into a man he had known in New York years earlier, Kwame Nkrumah, the first president of Ghana, who promptly gave him a Government research job.
        Years later, when a younger colleague told Mr. Clarke how proud he had been to meet Eduardo Mondlane, the founder of the Mozambique Liberation Front, Mr. Clarke nodded and recalled that during his visits to New York, Mr. Mondlane always stayed at his home.
        Mr. Clarke is survived by his wife, Sybil Williams Clarke; two children from a previous marriage, a daughter, Nzinga, and a son, Sonni, both of Manhattan; a sister, Eddie Mary Hobbs; two stepbrothers, Walter and Hugh Clarke, and a stepsister, Earlene Clarke, all of Columbus, Ga.
      