
        John H. Prescott, a marine biologist who directed the New England Aquarium in Boston for 22 years and was among the first to describe how dolphins use sound waves to find food, died on Tuesday at his home in Weston, Mass. He was 63.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Early in his career, Mr. Prescott studied how dolphins navigate and described the way they send out high-frequency sonic pulses and then focus the returning signals inside a football-shaped region of their foreheads. The technique is so precise, he said, that a blindfolded dolphin can distinguish between different shapes of toys in the water.
        In 1972, Mr. Prescott became the executive director of the New England Aquarium, which he described at the time as simply a tourist attraction on the Boston waterfront, ''like a postage stamp collection.''
        Mr. Prescott introduced rigorous marine science to the aquarium and developed research and education programs of international stature, said Scott Kraus, the aquarium's director of research. It soon became a model for other aquariums around the world, and it is now widely considered one of the top institutions of its kind in the United States.
        In November 1994, Mr. Prescott retired and set up the Prescott Group for consulting on conservation and aquarium development. He joined the team of scientists that converted the sealed areas of Biosphere 2, near Tucson, Ariz., into public spaces for educational exhibits.
        Mr. Prescott was also an outspoken advocate of the conservation of large whale and other marine populations, Mr. Kraus said.
        At the aquarium, Mr. Prescott established one of the first marine animal rescue programs. He assembled a team of veterinarians to care for whales, sea turtles and other creatures and prepare them for return to the ocean.
        An episode of the public television series ''Nova'' in 1988 documented the work of Mr. Prescott's team at the aquarium in caring for three whale calves who survived after 27 pilot whales had died on the beaches of Cape Cod in 1986.
        Mr. Prescott developed theories to explain why whales sometimes beach themselves and die. He found that pilot whales, which grow to 22 feet, are highly communal, with ''a cohesive social structure'' that works as a survival strategy at sea but can become a fatal flaw. For example, he found, when one whale becomes disoriented in a storm, others will follow it onto a beach.
        Mr. Prescott was born in Corona, Calif., and received his bachelor's degree in zoology at the University of California at Los Angeles in 1957. He went on to do graduate work at the University of Southern California and at the Harvard Graduate School of Business.
        He was assistant curator of fishes and general manager of operations at Marineland of the Pacific in Palos Verdes, Calif., before joining the New England Aquarium.
        Mr. Prescott was chairman of the committee of scientific advisers to the United States Marine Mammal Commission and head of the National Humpback Whale Recovery Team. He was also a director of the American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquaria and wrote scientific papers about whales, seals, porpoises, dolphins and fishes.
        He is survived by his wife, Sandra Baker Prescott; a brother, William Prescott of Forest Falls, Calif.; two sons, Craig Prescott Oakes of Tucson and Blane Prescott of Los Angeles; two stepsons, William B. Marsh of Cambridge, Mass., and John B. Marsh of Boston, and one grandson.
      