
        Col. Andrew Croft, a British explorer of the frozen north who became an expert on winter warfare during World War II and made his expertise available to the United States Army during the Korean War, died on June 26. He was 91 and lived in London.
        Colonel Croft, an Oxford graduate who was an Anglican clergyman's son, chose a life with more than its share of faraway places and derring-do after spending a troubling year on the European Continent between the World Wars.
        After trying his hand at the cotton trade, he went there to learn German and French because he was thinking of becoming a schoolteacher. But then, as The Daily Telegraph put it, ''Croft's observation of the rise of Nazism convinced him of the inevitability of war and disinclined him to settle into a career.''
        Colonel Croft, then a civilian, became one of three members of the British Trans-Greenland Expedition in 1934. It was led by Lieut. Martin Lindsay of the Royal Scots Fusiliers. Colonel Croft was the expedition's principal dog driver and photographer.
        ''The object was to explore the western side of the unknown mountains which extend for 350 miles between Scoresby Sound and Mount Forel,'' Colonel Croft wrote in his book ''Polar Exploration.'' The second edition was published in 1947; the first edition came out in 1939.  ''Lindsay determined to approach the mountains from the west,'' he wrote. ''This meant a long journey across the icecap before the objective could be reached. The plan had the additional attraction, however, that the height of this part of the icecap was then unknown.''
        Colonel Croft went to Jakobshavn, on Greenland's west coast, late in 1933. There, as he wrote, his ''main tasks were to select the best forty-three sledge-dogs and learn how to drive them; to choose an overland route up on to the edge of the icecap; and to lay a depot there of about two tons of dog-food.'' Doing those preliminary tasks, he traveled 3,000 miles by sled in the next eight months.
        After some delay, the three explorers set out on their expedition in June 1934. But, he wrote: ''Two days before the journey began, there was a violent storm. In thirty-six hours, all the snow in sight was washed away, exposing crevassed ice-ridges and filling the intervening valleys with ice-cold slush.''
        The expedition managed to cross Greenland, traveling 1,080 miles from west to east, in 15 weeks, setting a record for a self-sustaining journey by dog sled.
        Colonel Croft was aide-de-camp to the young Maharajah of Cooch Behar in India in 1934 and 1935 before becoming the second in command of the 10-member Oxford University Arctic Expedition to North-East Land, which did research in fields including glaciology on Nordaustlandet, an icy, 5,710 square mile Norwegian island in the Arctic Ocean's Barents Sea in 1935 and 1936. He was also the expedition's photographer and in charge of its sled dogs.
        The greater part of the island ''is covered by icecap which is gradually retreating and exposing more land,'' Colonel Croft wrote in ''Polar Exploration.'' ''The only reliable way of studying this glacial retreat was to carry out a series of observations on the icecap over as long a period as possible.''
        In the summer of 1935 the expedition's base hut was built below a rocky headland on the island's coast.
        Despite such problems, Colonel Croft wrote, the expedition made valuable contributions to knowledge of the island and in addition, ''an extensive scientific program was accomplished.''
        He joined the British Army when World War II began and went on to be an intelligence officer in Norway and a military attache in Sweden. He also helped gather data about floating ice to provide to Allied convoys bound for the Soviet Union. He remained in uniform after the war and put his expertise at the disposal of the United States Army as a liaison officer in Washington in the early 1950's.
        His wife, Rosalind, died in 1996. He is survived by their three daughters.
      