
        Tillman Durdin, a longtime foreign correspondent for The New York Times who was one of the first to write about the Japanese atrocities in China that became known as the Rape of Nanking, died on Tuesday at the Green Hospital in San Diego. He was 91 and lived in San Diego.
        In December 1937, the year Japan invaded China, Mr. Durdin found himself in Nanking, then the Chinese capital, when it was occupied by the Japanese Imperial Army.
        There he became an eyewitness to the beginning of months of atrocities inflicted on the Chinese by Japanese troops.
        After several days of watching in horror, Mr. Durdin and several other correspondents left the city, now known as Nanjing, for nearby Shanghai in order to send dispatches to their newspapers without hindrance from the Japanese.
        ''Just as Mr. Durdin boarded a ship bound for Shanghai, he saw 200 Chinese men being executed by the Japanese Army,'' said Iris Chang, a historian who wrote the best-selling book ''The Rape of Nanking'' (Basic Books, 1997).
        ''He not only wrote the pages of history under pressure, but tried to save Chinese lives in Nanking. He should be remembered as an exemplar of humanity and courage in the darkest of times.''
        In a dispatch to The Times shortly after he arrived in Shanghai, Mr. Durdin wrote: ''Just before boarding the ship for Shanghai, the writer watched the execution of 200 men. The killings took 10 minutes. The men were lined against the wall and shot. Then a number of Japanese, armed with pistols, trod nonchalantly around the crumpled bodies, pumping bullets into any that were still kicking.''
        From Shanghai he also wrote: ''The conduct of the Japanese Army as a whole in Nanking was a blot on the reputation of their country.
        ''Their victory was marred by barbaric cruelties, by the wholesale execution of prisoners, by the looting of the city, rapes, killing of civilians and by general vandalism.''
        ''Every able-bodied male was suspected by the Japanese of being a soldier,'' he wrote. ''Civilians of both sexes and all ages were also shot by the Japanese,'' and, ''Any person who, through excitement or fear, ran at the approach of the Japanese soldiers was in danger of being shot down.''
        Small bands of Chinese men ''who had sought refuge in dugouts were routed out and shot or stabbed at the entrances of the bomb shelters,'' he wrote.
        ''Tank guns were sometimes turned on groups of bound soldiers.''
        Looking back in the early 1990's, Mr. Durdin described how he felt when he passed a Chinese soldier who was lying on the sidewalk.
        ''His jaw had been shot away,'' Mr. Durdin said. ''There was nothing I could do for him. I didn't know where to take him or what to do, so I just stupidly decided to do something. I just put a $5 bill in his hand, utterly useless to him, of course, but somehow I felt the impulse to do something. He was just barely alive.''
        Mr. Durdin, whose full name was Frank Tillman Durdin, was born in Elkhart, Tex., on March 30, 1907, and never lost his Texas drawl.
        He was remembered yesterday as an extraordinary journalist by Seymour Topping, a former foreign editor and managing editor of The Times who is now the administrator of the Pulitzer Prizes.
        As a correspondent for The International News Service and then for The Associated Press, Mr. Topping said, ''I worked alongside of Till covering the China civil war from 1946 to 1948, and later during the French Indochina war'' in 1950 and 1951.
        ''Like a lot of other young reporters,'' Mr. Topping said, ''I looked at Till as role model, and in that sense he influenced a whole generation of China correspondents. He wrote more of the raw stuff of China history than any other correspondent I have known.''
        Mr. Durdin was introspective and taciturn, a meticulous reporter who did not complain about the hardships of overseas duty. He and his wife, Peggy, became sophisticated collectors of Asian art.
        Mr. Durdin attended Texas Christian University and years later was a Nieman fellow at Harvard. He was a reporter for newspapers in Texas and California and then worked as a reporter and editor of English-language newspapers in China from 1930 to 1937.
        He joined the staff of The Times in 1937 and served as a foreign correspondent in Asia, Africa and Europe until 1961, then spent three years as a member of The Times's editorial board. From 1964 to 1967 he was a correspondent in Australia and the southwestern Pacific area, then became the paper's Hong Kong bureau chief, based there until his retirement in 1974.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Peggy Armstrong, whom he married in 1938 and who has also written for The Times.
      