
        Theodore Beaubrun, one of Haiti's leading comedians and actors, died on Tuesday at his home in a Port-au-Prince suburb. He was 79.
        He had been waging a long battle against Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Ginette.
        Mr. Beaubrun, who was widely known as Languichatte, or cat's tongue, captured a whole country's imagination with his comic portrayal of everyday life in Haiti.
        In a career that spanned more than 40 years, Mr. Beaubrun delighted generations of Haitians with his sardonic comedy on radio, television and in films. His comedy transcended class and color differences. He also was able to retain his popularity under the various governments that came to power in Haiti, not a small feat in a country where some artists were discredited and others killed for their political associations.
        His early works were laden with political undertones, but under the dictatorship of Francois Duvalier, Mr. Beaubrun shied away from political satire and began to concentrate on Haitian social mores.
        Born in Port-au-Prince, the capital, on Dec. 26, 1918, Mr. Beaubrun began his career in 1942 by publishing a weekly pamphlet of his comic works. He later moved into theater writing and also performed in various musicals and plays. In the 1960's, he created one of the first Haitian television shows.
        One of his more famous routines depicted a typical middle-class Haitian family, with the father sitting on a rocking chair reading his newspaper, his wife sewing and his two children playing. The father suddenly declares that if he wins the lottery  his life would consist of living in Paris, drinking champagne and courting beautiful women. When the impertinent son asks what would happen if the father doesn't win the lottery, the father replies, ''Well, it would be Port-au-Prince, Haitian liquor and your mother.''
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by nine children, including his son Theodore Jr., the leader of Boukman Eksperyans, one of Haiti's most popular bands, and eight grandchildren.
      