
        James Flora, a magazine art director and children's book author and illustrator who in the early 1940's became one of the first artists to design and illustrate record album covers, helping to transform the way records were marketed, died on July 9 at his home in Rowayton, Conn. He was 84.
        In 1942 Mr. Flora was hired by Columbia Records, then a record company owned by CBS, to create original artwork for 78 r.p.m.  records. Until the late 1930's, records were routinely packaged in albums covered with heavy art paper with only a title embossed on the front and spine. They were displayed on shelves with only the spines showing. Columbia had recently become the first company to use original designs on album covers, printing artwork on the sleeves of classical recordings.
        Mr. Flora, a jazz fan who was working in advertising at the time, sent a proposal to Columbia, suggesting ways to improve the packaging of jazz recordings. He was hired almost immediately and began producing ideas for covers in the company's small art department, quickly working his way up to being an art director with responsibility for jazz imagery.
        His drawing style, a distinctive, lighthearted blend of surrealism and cartoon notable for its comic juxtapositions of physically exaggerated characters, and his concept of design quickly helped to define the look of record albums and the way they were sold.
        He was soon promoted to advertising manager and sales promotion manager, a position in which he found himself spending more time as an administrator than as a designer. Mr. Flora left Columbia in 1950, moving his family briefly to Mexico, where he focused on art. He returned the next year to start a career as a freelance illustrator, designing covers for Fortune, Life, Look, Holiday and The New York Times Magazine. He also produced artwork for RCA  Records, and he became the art director of Park East (the Magazine of New York).
        In 1954 Mr. Flora wrote what was to be the first of 17 successful children's books, the story of the Guadillo family, who made highly regarded fireworks in Mexico. The book, ''The Fabulous Firework Family,'' was published by Harcourt Brace in 1955.
        Mr. Flora's lighthearted line and detailed vignettes were suited to children's sensibilities and similar projects followed, including the 1957 book ''The Day the Cow Sneezed,'' about a young boy who leads an old cow to a creek for a drink and leaves her there unattended.
        The cow proceeds to cause a series of mishaps. Another, ''Leopold, the See-Through Crumbpicker,'' was published in 1961.
        Mr. Flora's other children's books  include ''Charlie Yup and His Snip-Snap Boys'' (1959), ''Kangaroo for Christmas'' (1962), ''Grandpa's Farm'' (1965), ''Little Hatchy Hen''  (1969), ''Wanda and the Bumbly Wizard'' (1980) and ''Grandpa's Witched-Up Christmas'' (1982).
        Mr. Flora, born in 1914 in Bellefontaine, Ohio, was a graduate of the Cincinnati Art Academy.
        His first wife, Jane Sinnickson, died in 1985.
        He is survived by his wife, Patricia; five children from his first marriage, including three daughters, Roussie Woodruff of Staunton, Va., Caroline Kalliotzis of Ramsey, N.J., and Julia O'Connor of Orange, Conn., and two sons, Joel and Robert, both of Rowayton, Conn.; a stepson, Steven Larsen of Phoenix; two stepdaughters, Jan and Nanci Larsen, both of Palm Beach, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      