
        Lord Rayner, who oversaw a revival and vast expansion of Britain's leading retailer as chairman and chief executive of Marks & Spencer P.L.C., died on June 26, the company announced in London. He was 72.
        The tight financial controls and strong management practices that Lord Rayner applied at Marks & Spencer were also put to use in the British Government, where he served in a variety of posts, most notably beginning in 1970 when he arranged to have all three branches of the British military use a single procurement office, which he then ran for three years.
        ''He was just applying some of the things that we do commercially at Marks & Spencer to a government organization,'' said Christopher Littmoden, chief executive of the company's North American operations, which include the Brooks Brothers clothing chain acquired a decade ago. ''In defense, he saw efficiencies in having one buying overhead instead of three.''
        Derek George Rayner was a management trainee with Marks & Spencer in 1953 when the company's chairman, Lord Marcus Sieff, asked for his thoughts about solving a problem. The young man's advice was so cogent that he was soon rising in the ranks of management, becoming a director in 1967.
        In 1970, when Edward Heath became Prime Minister, the future Lord Rayner joined the Government to centralize military procurement. He also advised Margaret Thatcher in the early years of her efforts to improve Government efficiency, saving taxpayers millions of pounds through efficient operations of mundane government tasks.
        He often railed against the number of meetings officials held, once suggesting that a ''meet-o-meter'' be used to charge individual departments the cost of time spent in meetings, The Times of London reported.
        In 1973 he was knighted for his work on behalf of taxpayers and in 1983 he was given a life peerage for his work cutting Government costs.
        Lord Rayner returned to Marks & Spencer in 1982 and two years later became the first person from outside the founding families to become chief executive.
        St. Michael, the company's world famous trademark, had become a bit tarnished by the early 1980's, with the company reporting its first decline in unit sales of clothing and household goods, in 1980. Sales became so weak that for the first time in two decades the company held an unscheduled sale to bring in cash.
        Lord Rayner set about restoring the company, with an emphasis on holding down costs and encouraging enterprise by employees. ''He introduced much stricter financial controls and carried out a larger store refurbishment and expansion than anyone had previously envisioned,'' Mr. Littmoden said.
        In 1988 he arranged for the company to buy Brooks Brothers for $770 million (a price that was later trimmed by $20 million) from the Campeau Corporation, a Canadian company that collapsed two years later under heavy junk bond debt.
        In Britain, Lord Rayner introduced a store charge card and opened stores in distant suburbs of major cities. He also expanded operations in Canada.
        He was a bachelor who left no survivors, the company said.
      