
        Fred Golden, a dean among theatrical advertising men and winner of a special Tony Award in 1988, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 83.
        Mr. Golden started his career in 1931 as a messenger for the Blaine Thompson Company, a theater advertising agency that spawned most of the firms in that business today. To the end he remained close to the theater, sitting on industry committees, attending functions and dispensing counsel as one of Broadway's elder statesmen.
        In the course of his 60-year career he handled the publicity for more than 1,000 Broadway productions, including classics like ''The Glass Menagerie,'' ''Kiss Me Kate,'' ''Mr. Roberts,'' ''Hello, Dolly!,'' ''Funny Girl,'' ''A Raisin in the Sun,'' ''Gypsy'' and ''A Streetcar Named Desire.'' He was Frank Sinatra's advertising representative for many years. Adweek magazine proclaimed him ''Broadway's Star Adman.''
        Fred Golden was raised in West New York, N.J., the son of Romanian immigrants who had arrived in steerage. He helped his father deliver seltzer from a horse cart on weekdays, and if he behaved, his mother took him on the ferry to Manhattan on Sundays.
        Now and then she splurged and bought standing-room tickets at the Metropolitan Opera -- $1 for both of them. Right there began his life in and around the performing arts. When he was a teen-ager, he worked as an usher at the Met and could not get over the fact that he was hearing Mozart and getting paid for it.
        He went to work for the Blaine Thompson agency and rose to become an owner and partner in the firm. After it was sold he moved to the Ash-LeDonne agency in 1978 for six years, then joined Diener/ Hauser/Bates to create the Golden Group in 1984.
        At the age of 68, after laboring for the talented and vainglorious alike behind the scenes, he had his name on a company's logo. He formally retired 10 years later.
        At the Tony Awards ceremonies in 1988 he was honored by the League of American Theaters and Producers for ''Lifetime Service to the Theater.'' Many of those present did not know him, but Broadway insiders seemed in rare unanimity when voting him that rare special award.
        Mr. Golden is survived by his wife, Hope Mansfield Golden; a sister, Ruth Lev Peck of Fort Lee, N.J., and a stepson, Dr. Scott Smoller of Plantation, Fla.
      