
        Alvin Chriss, a New York lawyer and sports administrator who created the system that allowed track and field athletes around the world to be paid, died on Friday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 68 years old.
        His son Joel said brain cancer was diagnosed seven weeks ago.
        In 1979, when the Amateur Athletic Union relinquished its role as the American governing body for the track and field, long-distance running and race walking, it was replaced by a new organization, the Athletics Congress. Mr. Chriss was named special assistant to Ollan Cassell, the new group's executive director.
        At the same time, the Association of Road Racing Athletes, whose members included Frank Shorter and bill Rodgers, planned a series of races offering prize money. Even thought many athletes were receiving under-the-table payments, open payment violated rules of amateurism.
        While the congress said it would have to disqualify any road runner who accepted prize money outright, Mr. Chriss, a tough negotiator, devised the TAC Trust, in which road runners and other track and field athletes could accept money and place it in an escrow account. The athletes could use it to cover training expenses and take the rest when they retired.
        Thus, the elite part of this once-amateur sport became professional. The system served as a model for other Olympic sports in the United States and elsewhere. The trust system was later abandoned in favor of open payment of athletes.
        In 1990, he left the congress. From 1991 to 1996, he worked with the International Management Group. Mr. Chriss had a bachelor's degree in English literature from Brooklyn College, a master's in military history from Yale and a doctorate of law from New York University.
        He is survived by his wife, Rachelle; three sons, Joel of New York, Daniel of Great Neck, N.Y., and Stephen of Edgewater, N.J.; a daughter, Lisa Swiedler of New York; a brother, Michael, of San Francisco; a sister, Irene, of Oakland, Calif., and three grandchildren.
      