
        Irwin H. (Sonny) Bloch, a radio show host who persuaded hundreds of listeners to invest in worthless securities, bilking them of $21 million, died on March 10 at a relative's home in Bloomfield Hills, Mich. He was 61 and lived in Tampa, Fla.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Otto Dube, director of the Ira Kaufman Chapel in Southfield, Mich., where the funeral was held. Mr. Bloch was released five months early from a Federal prison in New York, where he was serving a 21-month sentence for tax evasion. When he was found to be in the final stages of cancer, both the prosecutors and his own lawyers asked the court to allow him to go home to die. His death, which had been not been widely reported beyond Michigan, was confirmed this week.
        Mr. Bloch -- who apologized after the tax-evasion conviction for his ''greed and stupidity'' -- died before he could be sentenced in New Jersey in the $21 million telemarketing scheme. ''He seemed to think the cancer was retribution for what he'd done,'' said Jayne K. Blumberg, a Federal prosecutor in New Jersey.
        Most of the people Mr. Bloch defrauded were retirees. Some were left penniless. Many had been listening to ''The Sonny Bloch Show'' on radio for years and entrusted Mr. Bloch with most or all of their savings.
        When the fraud was exposed, Ms. Blumberg said, the rage of many victims was almost boundless.
        Mr. Bloch and 10 co-defendants pleaded guilty or were convicted in 1995 of taking in $21 million between 1993 and 1995 through the sale of investments in failed wireless cable and radio stations in four states and in Venezuela. Mr. Bloch's role was to promote the investments to his 1.5 million listeners in 200 cities, including New York, where his show was broadcast on WOR. For a minimum investment of $10,000, investors were promised ''incredible returns -- astronomical,'' Ms. Blumberg said.
        Of the 11 people who pleaded guilty or were convicted of fraud in the scheme, 9 are serving prison terms of up to six years. One other died before being sentenced.
        In addition to his role in the telemarketing case, Mr. Bloch pleaded guilty to evading taxes on $700,000 of income he received between 1991 and 1993 and to spending $500,000 of money from his company, Bloch Broadcasting, on a Mercedes-Benz and on living expenses and then treating those payments as tax-deductible business expenses.
        To persuade his listeners to invest in the fraudulent securities, Mr. Bloch relied on the trust he had developed among his listeners over more than 15 years on radio. On his show, he dispensed financial tips with folksy warmth -- advice that was, by all accounts, solid and sometimes sophisticated, especially concerning real estate. A self-described consumer advocate, he produced several seminars and six books of financial advice.
        ''He was everybody's friend -- we felt he knew us all,'' said Jean Goldsmith, an 89-year-old widow who lives on the Upper East Side and invested $35,000 in the radio and cable securities. ''Everybody simply adored him. He gave some wonderful, wonderful advice. He made a lot of money for people.''
        Born in Chicago, Mr. Bloch studied education at the University of Miami but quit in 1958 to sing and play the drums and trombone with the Coral airs, a local band. The family business, he told prosecutors, was real estate. In the early 1960's, acting on a tip about the Walt Disney Company's imminent project in Florida, he bought 1,000 acres around Orlando for $110 an acre and developed residential communities, according to The St. Petersburg Times.
        In 1977, with a million dollars in his pocket, he moved to Palm Beach, where he worked as a model and acted in the community theater. He got his start in radio, he said, after listening to a host give bad mortgage advice on a tiny Florida station. He complained to the manager, who hired him to be the radio's financial adviser. ''I was hooked,'' he said. ''I fell in love with radio.''
        Eventually his show, which was broadcast from Tampa and New York, was heard nationwide.
        Mr. Bloch's first wife, Mary Lou, lives in Bloomfield Hills.
        In March 1995, when the securities scheme was being investigated after complaints had been filed in New York and New Jersey, Mr. Bloch began broadcasting from Santiago in the Dominican Republic, the home of his second wife, Hilda. After three months there, he was deported to the United States to face the Federal charges. After 28 months in prison, including the months he was detained before his sentencing, he was released to relatives in Michigan.
        His other survivors include two sons, Brad, of Auburn Hills, Mich., and Paul H., of Clearwater, Fla.; two brothers, Ivan, of Bloomfield Hills, and Stuart, of Washington, and two grandsons.
      