
        John Michael O'Mara, a retired vice president of New York University who had an earlier career as a rackets investigator, died on June 19 at Hackensack University Medical Center in New Jersey. A former resident of Leonia, N.J., he was 84 and more recently lived in Norwood, N.J.
        The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, his family said.
        He retired in 1984 after about 20 years as assistant vice president for business affairs and later vice president for institutional facilities at N.Y.U.
        A native of Worcester, Mass., Mr. O'Mara graduated from Holy Cross College there in 1936, attended Harvard Law School and received his law degree from Boston College in 1939.
        He joined the Federal Bureau of Investigation as a special agent and for 10 years dealt with major criminal and espionage investigations in New York, including the Alger Hiss perjury case.
        In 1951, he was named chief investigator for a newly formed New York City Anti-Crime Committee. Privately financed, it was a citizens' initiative headed by Spruille Braden, a retired diplomat. Its purpose was to expose rackets and thereby spur officials to prosecute the racketeers. Its activities led to confrontations with the Police Department, District Attorney Frank S. Hogan and politicians from both major parties.
        Mr. O'Mara was promoted to executive director, but internal quarrels on the committee and a public dispute over wiretaps forced his resignation in 1955.
        Mr. O'Mara then was a vice president at Webb & Knapp, the real estate empire of William Zeckendorf Sr., until N.Y.U. recruited him.
        Mr. O'Mara is survived by his wife of 54 years, Elisabeth; three daughters, Kathleen of Modesto, Calif., Patricia Adair of New Canaan, Conn., and Elisabeth Sutter of Millbrae, Calif; a son, Michael, of Nantucket, Mass.; three sisters, Christine Sullivan of Boston, Sister Claire O'Mara of New Rochelle, N.Y., and Lucille Murphy of Dennis, Mass.; and eight grandchildren.
      