
        Octav Botnar, one of the first businessmen to import Japanese cars to Britain and whose last years were clouded by a huge tax scandal, died on July 11 at his home in Villars, Switzerland. He was 84.
        Mr. Botnar had been suffering from stomach cancer, British newspapers reported.
        After working as an executive for NSU, a German automobile company, Mr. Botnar acquired the exclusive rights to sell and distribute cars for a fledging Japanese company called Datsun in 1971. Datsun later changed its name to Nissan, and by the mid-1980's, the line had become one of the biggest car imports in  Britain, holding 7 percent of the market and outselling its Japanese rival Toyota. Mr. Botnar, chairman of Nissan U.K., owned more than 200 Nissan dealerships and was considered one of Britain's wealthiest men.
        But his automotive empire toppled in 1991, when Nissan withdrew its distribution agreement in an effort to take control of its dealership network after a bitter dispute with Mr. Botnar over his business practices.
        In June 1991, Inland Revenue, the British tax authority, raided Nissan U.K.'s headquarters in Worthing, on England's south coast, as well as Mr. Botnar's home and homes of other company officials. The tax agency accused Mr. Botnar and the company of an intricate tax fraud scheme.
        The Government contended that Mr. Botnar and two senior officials of Nissan U.K. defrauded the country of $:239 million in taxes over a 15-year period. The agency said Mr. Botnar artificially inflated the car freight cost from Japan to reduce taxable profits in Britain. Nissan U.K. used forged invoices and corrupt shipping agents to inflate costs by nearly 50 percent, the agency said.
        Mr. Botnar left for Switzerland  and lived there the rest of his life in Villars, near the village of Chesieres. Two company officials charged in the case, Frank Shannon and Michael Hunt, were found guilty and received prison sentences.
        While Mr. Botnar always maintained his innocence, the company agreed to pay $:59 million to settle the case. Last year, Inland Revenue dropped all criminal action against Mr. Botnar because he was too ill to stand trial. Earlier this year, Mr. Botnar said he planned to sue Inland Revenue, contending he had been subjected to malicious prosecution.
        Mr. Botnar was born in Bukovina, then part of the Austro-Hungarian empire and now part of western Ukraine. At age 18, he was imprisoned for organizing a left-wing youth demonstration. Released in 1936, he later fought for the French Resistance during World War II and was held captive by the Nazis. He escaped and traveled to Romania after the war, but soon became disillusioned with Communism. He was imprisoned on a barge on the Danube before he was released in 1964 under general amnesty. A few years later, he moved to Britain.
        Mr. Botnar became a philanthropist after his only daughter, Camelia, died in a car accident in 1972 at the age of 21. He set up a foundation for children in her name and contributed $:13 million to Great Ormand Street Hospital in London in her memory.
        Mr. Botner is survived by his wife, Marcela.
      