
        Corbett Monica, the durable comedian whose gentle jokes went down so well for so long that he spent more than 40 years touring as the opening act for Frank Sinatra and other big name singers, died yesterday at his home in North Miami, Fla. He was 68 and best recalled by television audiences as Joey Bishop's best friend on the 1960's ''Joey Bishop Show.''
        His family said the cause was cancer.
        He may not have been the funniest man who ever came down the pike, but in a career that included 18 appearances on ''The Ed Sullivan Show,'' frequent guest host stints for Johnny Carson and a leading role in Woody Allen's 1984 movie, ''Broadway Danny Rose,'' Mr. Monica got his share of laughs.
        To say that he and his humor traveled well would be something of an understatement. Over the years he appeared in Las Vegas, Atlantic City, Miami and elsewhere with the likes of Paul Anka, Nat King Cole, Sammy Davis Jr., Lena Horne, Dean Martin, Lisa Minnelli and Jerry Vale, and made something of a late-life career touring with Steve Lawrence and Eydie Gorme.
        Along the way Mr. Monica appeared with Frank Sinatra so often he became a virtual member of the Rat Pack, a comedian who could be counted on to lace his material with Sinatra jokes and who never failed to include the singer's favorite, the one about the time Mr. Monica got on a bus at O'Hare Airport in Chicago and asked the driver, ''Do you go to the loop?''
        ''No,'' the driver replied, ''I go beep-beep.''
        At a time when Mr. Bishop was a Sinatra sidekick, Mr. Monica became something of a sidekick's sidekick, spending two situation comedy seasons, from 1963 to 1965, as Larry Corbett, Mr. Bishop's friend and manager on ''The Joey Bishop Show.''
        If Mr. Monica never made it to the first ranks of American comedy it may have been because as a comedian he had something of a deprived childhood. A native of New York, he was born in neither Brooklyn nor the Bronx or even on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, but in the East 70's of all places.
        If that had not been enough to give him a comedic inferiority complex, when he was 13 his family moved to St. Louis, a city not renowned as a springboard for comedy.
        Even so, Mr. Monica had enough natural talent and enough comedic inclination that he almost immediately gravitated to show business, becoming first a dance instructor and then a budding drummer before taking full advantage of St. Louis's most appealing natural resource: when he was 17, Mr. Monica, apparently no great shakes as a student, began doing stand-up comedy at the wide-open city's numerous strip joints and other clubs.
        By the time he entered the Army, Mr. Monica had been married, divorced and developed enough material that he was assigned to entertain at U.S.O. clubs.
        It was during an Army assignment in Washington State in the early 1950's that he met a self-styled Seattle showgirl named Helen Stover, who recalled yesterday that she had been attracted to Mr. Monica by his infectious personality and the fact that they had both been dance instructors.
        The couple were married in 1954, and after two more years working in St. Louis clubs and making tours of the Midwest, Mr. Monica brought his family to New York, settling first in Manhattan and later in Englewood, N.J., as he worked his way up from suburban clubs to big-time gigs at the Copacabana and the Latin Quarter and made his first television appearances.
        By the time the 20-year marriage, which produced five children, ended in an amicable divorce, Mr. Monica had milked it for everything it was worth.
        A man who shunned risque material, Mr. Monica became known for his family-based humor, noting, for example, that he and his wife were trying to get their son to learn a trade, ''so we can know what kind of work he's out of.''
        For all that, Mr. Monica's digs were never vicious or hurtful to his family. He might tell an audience, for example, that his wife was such an inept cook that ''she louses up Corn Flakes,'' but she would be mollified by the knowledge that she was not only an accomplished cook but one who wrote recipes and scheduled meals for a diet cookbook.
        After a sojourn in Beverly Hills, Calif., during his years on the ''Joey Bishop Show,'' Mr. Monica, who was a member of the eclectic cast, along with Jacqueline Bisset, Jim Brown and Joseph Cotton, of the 1970 movie, ''The Grasshopper,'' returned to Englewood.
        As he became a certified old-timer of comedy, Mr. Monica found regular duty as a stand-in for Freddy Roman's ''Catskills on Broadway,'' and later starred in the show's Atlantic City production.
        After moving to Miami a decade ago, Mr. Monica continued touring with singers, especially Mr. Lawrence and Ms. Gorme. The aging audiences may have heard some of Mr. Monica's jokes before, but their inevitable laughter was a reminder that they had liked him and his humor the first time, too.
        Mr. Monica is survived by his companion, Barbara Ortwein; a son from his early marriage, George, of Bothell, Wash.; two other sons, Corbett Jr. of San Marcos, Calif., and Tony, of Deer Park, N.Y.; three daughters, Julie of Upper Montclair, N.J., Nanette D'Aquila of Burbank, Calif., and Elena Monica of Miami Beach; a brother, Lenny Geiger of Los Angeles, 6 grandchildren and 2 great grandchildren.
      