
        Charles Haskill, the former president of the shipbuilding company that made the Edmund Fitzgerald, a freighter whose demise during a storm in Lake Superior was memorialized in a popular song by Gordon Lightfoot, died on July 16 at his home in Farmington Hills, Mich. He was 94.
        The cause was heart failure, said his daughter, Carol Haskill of San Francisco.
        Mr. Haskill was the president of the Great Lakes Engineering Works in River Rouge, Mich., for more than two decades, and he was its president when the Edmund Fitzgerald, a freighter that carried iron ore, was launched in 1958.
        The Edmund Fitzgerald sank with all 29 crew members on Lake Superior on Nov. 10, 1975, battered in a storm that was described as the worst autumn gale in 35 years, with 60-mile-an-hour winds and 15-foot waves.
        The ship was bound for Detroit from Superior, Wis., loaded with 26,000 tons of ore pellets. A year later, the tragedy and the ship's name became famous thanks to the popular ballad by Mr. Lightfoot titled ''The Wreck of the Edmund Fitzgerald.''
        The cause of the sinking was difficult to determine because no one survived. A Coast Guard investigation, closed in July 1977, pointed mainly to leaking hatch covers.
        But remarks made by officers who were monitoring the Fitzgerald's movements by radar from a nearby ship, the Arthur M. Anderson, suggested that the Fitzgerald might have strayed too close to shore, perhaps seeking calmer waters. The Fitzgerald was further hobbled by the fact that its two radar sets, which used the same antenna, were knocked out.
        Despite questions raised about equipment failures, the design and construction of the ship, done by Mr. Haskill's company, were not found to be the cause of the sinking, said George J. Ryan, president of the Lake Carriers Association, a group representing carriers in the Great Lakes.
        Mr. Haskill had left the shipbuilder in the early 1960's after the company was sold to a neighboring steelyard, the Great Lakes Steel Company. But his daughter, Carol, recalled: ''My father grieved deeply for those men who went down on the Edmund Fitzgerald. In a way, he felt responsible, even though that was not the case.''
        After the Fitzgerald sank, standards for ship-to-shore weather communications on vessels in the Great Lakes were improved and ships were required to have two separately operating radar sets before leaving port, Mr. Ryan said.
        Mr. Haskill was born in Paris on June 11, 1904, and his family soon immigrated to the United States. His father, Harry, a garment worker in New York City, died in the influenza epidemic of 1918, leaving the 14-year-old Charles to support the family, including his mother and a younger brother.
        Mr. Haskill worked at various jobs and educated himself at nights. He attended classes at City College of New York and Columbia University and became an accountant, working for a law firm.
        One of its clients was a shipbuilder, Fred Morley, who owned Great Lakes Engineering Works.
        Impressed by the young accountant, Mr. Morley hired Mr. Haskill, who moved to Michigan in 1939 to join Great Lakes Engineering Works, where he soon rose to become president, a position he held for 21 years.
        After the shipyard was sold in 1961, Mr. Haskill joined the Kelsey Hayes Company, an automotive supplier in Romulus, Mich., as a vice president. He retired in 1969.
        Mr. Haskill was a member of the Institute of International Shipmasters and the United States Naval Institute.
        In addition to his daughter, he is survived by his wife, Charlotte, of Farmington Hills.
      