
        Noel Behn, a novelist, screenwriter, theatrical producer and celebrated raconteur who held court nightly at Elaine's, the Upper East Side watering hole, died on Monday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 70 and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Behn died in his sleep from a heart attack after a yearlong battle with cancer, said Tom Fontana, the executive producer of the NBC series ''Homicide: Life on the Street,'' for which Mr. Behn was a creative consultant.
        A member of New York's theater community for more than 50 years, Mr. Behn was at the forefront of the creation of the Off Broadway movement as the producing director of the Cherry Lane Theater in the 1950's and 60's, during which he presented the New York premiere of Sean O'Casey's ''Purple Dust'' and the world premiere of Samuel Beckett's ''Endgame.''
        He was the author of seven books, including the novels ''Seven Silent Men'' and ''The Shadowboxer.'' His first novel, ''The Kremlin Letter'' -- which drew on his experiences in the United States Army's Counterintelligence Corps -- was released as a motion picture in 1970, directed by John Huston and starring Orson Welles. ''The Brink's Job,'' a 1978 movie starring Peter Falk and Peter Boyle, was adapted from Mr. Behn's nonfiction work ''The Big Stick-Up at Brink's,'' about the 1950 Brink's heist in Boston. His latest book, ''Lindbergh,'' a study of the kidnapping of the Lindbergh baby, is currently in development as a feature film.
        During the late 1960's and 70's, Mr. Behn rented an office in the same 57th Street building as the screenwriter Paddy Chayefsky, the choreographer Bob Fosse and the playwright Herb Gardner. The foursome became inseparable, said Mr. Fontana, an ''unofficial club who worked together and played together,'' their offices ''a fountain of creativity where they shared ideas and helped each other on whatever the other was working on.''
        A captivating storyteller both in his writing and his private life, Mr. Behn could be found at the Russian Tea Room eating lunch in the first booth and at Elaine's in the evening where, as the host of his own table, he shared food, drink and conversation with the writers Gay Talese, A. E. Hotchner, Peter Maas and Pete Hamill. It was there that he met Woody Allen, who also had his own table, and through the years, each often joined the other's table. Mr. Allen cast his friend in his films ''Another Woman,'' ''Stardust Memories'' and ''Manhattan'' -- although his appearance in the last one ended up on the cutting-room floor.
        In addition to his work in film and theater, Mr. Behn wrote for television shows, including ''Tattinger's,'' a series that Mr. Fontana produced for NBC in 1989, with Blythe Danner and Mary Beth Hurt. Since 1991, Mr. Behn had served as a creative consultant on ''Homicide: Life on the Street,'' for which he wrote or co-wrote six episodes and was writing a seventh at the time of his death. His script ''A Many Splendored Thing'' was nominated for the 1994 Writer's Guild Award for Outstanding Writing for a Drama Series.
        Among his friends, Mr. Behn was noted for his generosity in helping younger people enter the arts world. ''Noel was one of these people who loved young talent, whether it was writers, actors or directors,'' Mr. Fontana said. ''Stemming all the way back to his theater days, he was always there for people who were trying to get into the business.''
        ''Noel was also in the counterintelligence, so there are a whole lot of mysteries, both in his life and in his writing,'' he added.
        Mr. Behn, who was divorced, is survived by his mother, Dorothy Behn, of Miami Lakes, Fla.
      