
        Moshood Kashimawoo Olawale Abiola, who died yesterday just as his release from prison appeared imminent, apparently won Nigeria's presidency in 1993.
        But instead of serving in office, he endured years in detention, in increasingly bad health, and he collapsed yesterday just as he met with officials of the United States and of the new Nigerian Government.
        Mr. Abiola entered the 1993 race as a millionaire businessman and a traditional leader, with a base of support in the south.
        He had attended the Baptist Boys School in his home town, Abeokuta, in Ogun State, and studied accountancy at the University of Glasgow. On his return he had lucrative posts with Pfizer of Nigeria, where he was chief accountant, and with International Telegraph and Telephone of Nigeria. In 1969 he was appointed a regional vice president for ITT and chairman of ITT Nigeria.
        His wealth grew and so did his holdings. He was the publisher of Concord Press, a chain of newspapers; the founder of Africa Ocean Lines; chairman of the Abiola Bookshop, Abiola Farms and Concord Airlines. He married four women, had 18 children and lived in a large home in Lagos on a street bearing his name. Critics said some of his fortune came from shady deals with both military and civilian leaders.
        Then he ran for President and his life changed.
        On June 12, 1993, after a decade of military rule, the strongman then presiding, Gen. Ibrahim Babangida, called an election with civilian candidates.
        Mr. Abiola, a candidate of the center-left Social Democratic party, ran against Bashir Tofa, a similarly rich businessman, who represented the center-right National Republican Convention. Both parties had been established by General Babangida, who had stipulated that there should only be the two new parties, ''one a little to the left and the other a little to the right.''
        Mr. Abiola unexpectedly took an early lead and General Babangida, who had been friendly with both candidates, annulled the election. No real explanations were given. But Mr. Tofa was a northerner from the Muslim Hausa Falani areas, like General Babangida and much of the military elite, while Mr. Abiola was from the south and held many traditional African titles, among them Basbortun of Ibadanland and Baba Adini of Yorubaland.
        After the protests and strikes that followed, General Babagida stepped down, but an interim Government was ousted by Gen. Sani Abacha, the Defense Minister.
        Mr. Abiola kept a low profile until the first anniversary of the annulled elections, when he announced that he was ready to claim the presidency. He was then imprisoned on the orders of General Abacha.
        Mr. Abiola had been in detention for almost two years when, on May 8, 1996, his second wife, Kudirat, was seized by the police and questioned after asserting her husband to be Nigeria's rightful leader. She was ordered to stand trial, but less than a month later she was shot to death by six armed men who attacked her car.
        During his imprisonment, Mr. Abiola's family had expressed concern about his failing health. Such concerns were repeated even as hopes for his release were raised after General Abacha's sudden death from a heart attack on June 8.
        Hafsat Abiola, a daughter of Kudirat and Moshood Abiola who graduated from Harvard and lives in the United States, spoke out.
        ''On Monday General Abacha, my father's jailer and my mother's murderer, died, reportedly of a heart attack,'' she wrote in an Op-Ed piece in The New York Times. ''His successor, Gen. Abdulsalam Abubakar, has called for acceptance as Nigeria's legitimate ruler. But before the world acknowledges him, some changes must be made. General Abubakar must release all political prisoners, including my father.''
        Since then, the Nigerian leader has freed a number of detainees, but the Government seemed to vacillate about Mr. Abiola, who was 60. Just last Thursday Secretary General Kofi Annan of the United Nations met with Nigeria's leaders and declared that they had pledged to release all political prisoners, including Mr. Abiola.
        Mr. Annan, who had met with Mr. Abiola two days earlier, said the prisoner had agreed to drop his claim to the Presidency. But after Mr. Annan left Nigeria, a Government statement said Mr. Abiola's release could be delayed if his followers continued to clamor to have him installed as President.
      