
        Watkins M. Abbitt, a Virginia Democratic Congressman who advocated school segregation but supported a black candidate for governor more than 30 years later, died on Monday at Virginia Baptist Hospital in Lynchburg, Va. He was 90 and lived in Appomattox, Va.
        Mr. Abbitt had been suffering from leukemia, said his son, Watkins M. Abbitt Jr.
        Watkins M. Abbitt, a native of Appomattox who was still working as a lawyer as recently as last week, spent most of his life in politics. He served in the House from 1949 until retiring in 1973, representing the Fourth Congressional District in rural south-central Virginia, and from 1964 through 1970 he was chairman of the state Democratic Party.
        A leading figure in the political machine led by Senator Harry F. Byrd that ruled Virginia's Democratic Party for more than 35 years, Mr. Abbitt was a strong voice in efforts to resist court-ordered integration of Virginia's public schools in the 1950's. He called the Supreme Court's ban of racial segregation in the landmark 1954 case Brown v. Board of Education ''the naked and arrogant declaration of nine men.''
        ''He was the epitome of old, conservative rural Virginia,'' said Larry Sabato, a professor of political science at the University of Virginia, describing a political style that embraced segregation along with traditional conservative positions, including support for farmers and businessmen and opposition to increases in Federal authority and spending.
        But Mr. Abbitt's fervor for segregationist policies waned, culminating with his support for L. Douglas Wilder, who became the nation's first elected black governor in 1989.
        Watkins Abbitt Jr., a member of the Virginia House of Delegates from Appomattox since 1985, said his father's change of heart had had much to do with ''raising a family that included three enlightened children,'' referring to himself and his two sisters, Anne Abbitt Kerr of Appomattox and Corinne Abbitt Hynes of Richmond.
        ''The first time I ran, I supported the Equal Rights Amendment,'' Mr. Abbitt said. ''At the time, nobody else in Southside Virginia supported the Equal Rights Amendment. Except for my two sisters.''
        But other Virginia Democrats said the elder Mr. Abbitt had been too shrewd a politician not to soften his views as Virginia's electorate turned moderate. They ascribed his early support for segregation as the politically expedient course for someone representing a region that was closely tied to the Old South, and his denunciation of it as the expedient course when it was no longer politically prudent to support it.
        ''A decision was made by the Virginia political leadership in the 50's to actively resist integration,'' said Craig Bieber, the executive director of the state Democratic Party. ''Wat had active input in the decision-making process to resist.''
        As decades passed and even rural areas of Virginia learned to accept integration, Mr. Abbitt ''evolved in his thinking about black people and progressiveness in Southside Virginia,'' Mr. Bieber said. That led Mr. Abbitt to support a series of Democratic candidates for governor: Charles S. Robb in 1981, Gerald Baliles in 1985 and Mr. Wilder in 1989.
        Mr. Abbitt's son explained his father this way: ''He came 180 degrees. He worked as a lawyer for free for any black church that needed him. We're even having a black minister speak at his funeral.''
        In addition to his children, Mr. Abbitt is survived by his second wife, Mary Ann Schmidt Abbitt; two brothers, Herbert M. Abbitt of Appomattox and Charles W. Abbitt of Austin, Tex., and two sisters, Dora Abbitt Conner of Appomattox and Eloise Abbitt Snead of Lynchburg. His first wife, Corrine Hancock Abbitt, died in 1989.
      