
        Tossy Spivakovsky, a violinist and teacher who developed a special bowing technique for the performance of the solo Bach suites, and who gave the first American performances of Bartok's Second Violin Concerto, died on July 20 at his home in Westport, Conn. He was 91.
        Mr. Spivakovsky was part of the wave of Russian and Ukrainian violinists who dominated the concert stage for much of the 20th century. But Mr. Spivakovsky's training, musical interests and early career decisions put him in a different orbit from his colleagues. Where most of the famous Russian players of the time studied with Leopold Auer at the St. Petersburg Conservatory, Mr. Spivakovsky studied in Berlin with Arrigo Serato and Willy Hess. His focused style and fascination with musicological propriety rather than sheer emotionalism were more Germanic than Russian.
        Mr. Spivakovsky was born in Odessa in 1906 and grew up in Berlin, where he established himself as a prodigy with a debut recital at age 10. He undertook his first tour of Europe when he was 13, and although he took a position as concertmaster of the Berlin Philharmonic when he was 18, he returned to touring after two years with the orchestra. He toured Australia in 1933 and accepted a teaching position at the University Conservatorium of Melbourne.
        In 1940, he moved to New York. He made his debut at Town Hall that year. He gave the American premiere of the Bartok Second Concerto with Artur Rodzinski and the Cleveland Orchestra in 1943, and then gave the work its first performances in New York and San Francisco.
        He was always open to contemporary music: he later gave the premieres of Leon Kirchner's Sonata Concertante and David Diamond's ''Canticle and Perpetual Motion.'' He also composed and published his own cadenzas to the Beethoven and Mozart concertos, and he recorded accounts of the Sibelius and Tchaikovsky concertos that have recently been reissued on compact disk.
        Mr. Spivakovsky taught violin and chamber music at the Juilliard School from 1974 to 1989.
        He is survived by his daughter, Ruth Voorhis, and a grandson, Dave Mark Voorhis, both of Brandon, Manitoba.
        Mr. Spivakovsky had an interest in the special problems of Bach's unaccompanied sonatas and partitas, in which a violinist must play chords and suggest counterpoint. Most violinists solved the problems of playing chords by quickly arpeggiating them. Mr. Spivakovsky believed that they should be played solidly, as a keyboardist might play them, and solved the problem by developing a new approach to holding the violin and bow.
        His method was hotly contested and not widely adopted, but it was the subject of a 1949 book, ''The Spivakovsky Way of Bowing,'' by Gaylord Yost. Mr. Spivakovsky also wrote on the topic, and experimented with unusual bows to make chordal playing more practical.
      