
        Paul Q. Chow, who helped lead the effort to preserve and restore the Angel Island Immigration Station as the Ellis Island of the West Coast, died on June 30 at his home in San Francisco. He was 69.
        The cause was liver disease, said Daniel Quan, president of the Angel Island Immigration Station Foundation.
        Mr. Chow, a transportation engineer, volunteered his time for the past 25 years to preserving the legacy of Chinese immigration to the United States by helping to protect one of its most significant cultural landmarks. From 1910 to 1940, Angel Island, in the San Francisco Bay, was the main Pacific gateway for immigration into the United States, processing more than one million immigrants from Asia.
        Under the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882, which limited Chinese immigration until 1943, thousands of Chinese, including Mr. Chow's father, were detained on Angel Island and interrogated about their eligibility to immigrate. Many were held there for weeks, months and, in some cases, years before they were deported to China.
        After the station was closed in 1940, it was used to house Italian and German prisoners of war, but in 1945 the barracks was boarded up and abandoned. As the state was poised to demolish the remaining buildings in the early 1970's for the California State Park system, a park ranger discovered that Chinese characters had been etched into the walls of the barracks. A group of Chinese-American scholars found that the carvings were of hundreds of poems by detainees writing of their plight.
        Mr. Chow led the effort to create an Angel Island Immigration Station Historical Advisory Committee in 1974 to promote the restoration of the immigration entry point. Following the group's recommendations, the State of California financed that restoration with $250,000. The site was then opened to the public, and is now visited by about 300,000 people each year. Mr. Chow himself gave docent tours of the station in his free time.
        In 1983, Mr. Chow founded the Angel Island Immigration Station Foundation, a nonprofit organization established to continue advocating on both state and Federal levels for historical designation of the site and for a museum in the barracks, similar to the one on Ellis Island.
        On May 16, part of Mr. Chow's vision was accomplished when the Interior Department designated the site a National Historic Landmark. Mr. Quan, the foundation's president, credited Mr. Chow's persistence for that designation.
        ''He was very concerned about the telling of forgotten chapters of history,'' Mr. Quan said, ''and he wanted to make sure that this particular chapter in history got told.''
        Felicia J. Lowe, a documentary film maker and vice president of the foundation, first met Mr. Chow when she was researching ''Carved in Silence,'' a 1988 documentary about those detained and employed at Angel Island. The greatest contribution to the preservation effort was Mr. Chow's ability to convey to people the significance of the immigration center, Ms. Lowe said.
        ''Paul was very effective in inspiring the imagination and the hearts of people to the fact that this was not a story of statistics,'' she said, adding that he was able to ''translate into human terms, the cost of exclusion.''
        For his preservation work, Mr. Chow received awards and commendations from President Jimmy Carter, the Internal Revenue Service and the California Department of Parks and Recreation. Most recently, on June 18, he was honored with the Free Spirit Award from the Freedom Forum, a nonprofit, nonpartisan foundation focused on journalism and First Amendment issues, for ''his vision in seeing the lessons that could come from a place that had meant fear and despair to so many.''
        From 1964 to 1976, Mr. Chow was also a member of the Juvenile Justice Commission in San Francisco.
        Paul Quingpoy Chow, who was born in 1928 in San Francisco, graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a degree in civil engineering. He later joined the California Department of Transportation in 1953 as a junior engineer.
        Mr. Chow is survived by his wife of 20 years, Dorothea Char; his children, Gail and Gary Chow; his stepchildren, William Char and Patricia Char Miller; two brothers, Frank and Martin Chow; two sisters, Ruby Huey and Betty Tom, and four grandchildren
      