
        Morris (Red) Badgro, whom Red Grange, the legendary running back, called ''one of best half-dozen ends I ever saw,'' died on Monday at a hospital in Kent, Wash., outside Seattle. He was 95 years old and the oldest living member of the Pro Football Hall of Fame.
        He had been hospitalized briefly after a fall in Kent, where he had spent his retirement years.
        From 1930 through 1934, Badgro played offensive and defensive end for the Giants. He was a big-play receiver who made the National Football League's All-Pro teams in 1930, 1931, 1933 and 1934. Steve Owen, his Giants coach, said, ''He could block, tackle and catch passes equally well, and he could do each with the best of them.''
        Badgro went to the University of Southern California on a basketball scholarship and won four letters each in football, basketball and baseball. A football teammate was the fullback Marion (Duke) Morrison, later known as John Wayne. During their college years, they worked occasionally as movie extras, but as Badgro's niece, Dorothy Westland, of Palm Desert, Calif., said, ''Uncle Badge chose football and John chose movies.''
        In 1927, Badgro began his pro football career with Grange and the upstart New York Yankees. When the team collapsed the next year, Badgro turned to baseball and played the outfield in 1928 for the Tulsa minor league team and in 1929 and 1930 for the St. Louis Browns. He batted .239 in 89 games for the Browns.
        Late in 1930, when the Browns demoted him to Houston of the Texas League, he was recruited by Owen to play pro football for $150 a game, the going rate, and his baseball career ended. N.F.L. teams were limited to 20 players then so, at 6 feet and 190 pounds, Badgro played end on both offense and defense.
        In 1935, he left the Giants to coach and play for the new Syracuse team in the American Football League. The team disbanded after two games, and in 1936 he joined the Brooklyn Dodgers of the N.F.L. for his final season as a player.
        His most memorable moment came on the last play of the N.F.L.'s 1933 championship game between the Giants and the Bears in Chicago. He caught a pass and raced for the goal line, with only Grange, a shrewd defensive player in the day of two-way players, between him and the winning touchdown.
        Dale Burnett, a Giants running back, chased Badgro, ready for a lateral pass if necessary, but Grange tackled Badgro high in a bear hug to prevent a lateral. With the ball wedged between them, they went down, and the Bears won, 23-21.
        ''Grange's arms were around the ball,'' Badgro recalled four years ago, ''and I couldn't get rid of it. If I get by him, we win the game. I wish I had the ball again.''
        Instead, Badgro and each teammate received a loser's share of $142.22.
        In 1993, the last time the Giants played in Seattle, Badgro watched the game as a guest of Wellington Mara, the team's president and co-owner. When Badgro played for the Giants, Mara was a teen-age helper to his father, Tim, who owned the team.
        ''Red Badgro was a rugged, fierce competitor,'' Wellington Mara said, ''and a 190-pound defensive end was pretty big in those days. He was a very mild-mannered guy, but murder on the field. He was a clean player. You had to be because there were only three or four officials and the other guy could get back at you without the officials catching on.
        ''In those days, players had to supply their own shoes, just as in baseball then. He didn't have money to buy extra football shoes, so he worked out in baseball spikes. Everyone gave him a lot of room so he wouldn't step on their toes. When we had a scrimmage, he had to change his shoes.''
        Morris Hiram Badgro was born Dec. 1, 1902, in Orillia, Wash. His niece said he enjoyed playing football as a youngster, but added, ''He said that when he graduated from high school, there weren't enough boys big enough to play the game.''
        After his playing career, Badgro was an assistant coach at Columbia and the University of Washington, but he declined to become a head coach because he feared he could no longer be close to the players.
        His wife of 63 years, Dorothea, died in 1993. They had no children. He is survived by his niece and her three sons.
        In 1981, at age 78, Badgro became the oldest inductee into the Pro Football Hall of Fame.
        ''I hadn't thought much about it,'' he said of his election. ''All I knew is that a lot of players were in it who hadn't been All-Pro four times like I had. Being elected is the greatest thrill of my life.''
      