
        Henry J. Leir, who built a leading commodities trading firm and became a dedicated philanthropist after selling his company in 1968, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 98 and had gone to his New York office every day until Tuesday, said Steven Rosenthal, who had worked for Mr. Leir the last 14 years.
        Mr. Leir, who was born in Germany, entered the metals and mining business in that country, where he worked his way up at Magnesis G.m.b.H., a company based in Bonn.
        In 1933, he fled Nazi Germany for Luxembourg, where he continued his career in metals trading. Five years later, he left Europe for the United States, where he established the Continental Ore Corporation. ''It was the smallest of the large firms,'' Lewis Lipton said in a telephone interview yesterday. Mr. Lipton served as president of Continental Ore until it was sold.
        In 1962, Mr. Leir arranged a $250 million pig iron contract between South Africa and Japan. Not only was the deal unusually large, but pig iron, a crude form of the metal, was not normally sold internationally, and it took Mr. Leir two years to piece the deal together.
        Six years later, Mr. Leir agreed to sell Continental Ore to the International Minerals and Chemical Corporation for $40 million in stock. By then, he had built a major international trading concern, dealing in ores, minerals, alloys and carbon products, with offices in Luxembourg, London, Paris, Tokyo, Mexico City and Dusseldorf, Germany. It also invested in mining and processing operations. After that, Mr. Lipton said, Mr. Leir stepped away from day-to-day operations.
        He became involved with philanthropy after the sale of his company, focusing on institutions like universities and hospitals, Mr. Rosenthal said. Mr. Leir also gave money to help underprivileged children, including children in Luxembourg, to which Mr. Leir felt gratitude for giving him a haven from the Nazis. He was also an active donor to Jewish institutions.
        Mr. Leir held honorary doctorates from Tufts, Denver and Sacred Heart universities, and was an officer of the French Legion of Honor and the recipient of the highest civilian award from Luxembourg.
        Ema Leir, Mr. Leir's wife of 67 years, died in 1996. He is survived by a sister, Hedy Weiger of Manhattan.
      