
        Todor Zhivkov, the Communist ruler of Bulgaria from 1954 until his ouster in 1989, died on Wednesday in Sofia, the capital. He was 86.
        Mr. Zhivkov, the longest-serving leader in the old Soviet bloc and last prominent survivor of its old guard,  was a conventional party apparatchik. This, more than anything else, enabled him to endure the turmoil of Balkan politics and the periodic upheavals in the Kremlin, to which he paid fealty throughout his career.
        The only known threat to his rule was an abortive coup in 1965 organized by a handful of party dissidents and some army officers -- believed to be the first of its kind against a Communist regime. Mr. Zhivkov said the coup was a pro-Chinese conspiracy. Others attributed it to the rigidity of his regime and his dutiful acquiescence to the Soviet Union.
        In his heyday, he boasted more than any other European Communist leader about his intimate ties with the Soviet Union, saying that the two countries ''breathe with the same lungs, and the same blood flows in our veins'' and that they were as close as ''teeth to lip.'' This served him well through the three decades in which Nikita S. Khrushchev and Leonid I. Brezhnev ruled the Soviet bloc. In the 1970's, a Bulgarian critic wrote that he had earned ''the reputation of a Communist leader who had caused the minimum of trouble for the Soviet Union.''
        But in November 1989, as East European regimes were collapsing one by one, he was brought down with the blessing of the reform-minded Mikhail S. Gorbachev in Moscow in a bloodless putsch organized by senior officials in the Sofia Government, who recognized that the Communist system in which they had all grown up was doomed and that Mr. Zhivkov would block transition.
        ''My connection with Gorbachev became strained,'' Mr. Zhivkov acknowledged in a 1993 interview with The New York Times. ''I entered into a conflict with him, and he and his helpers organized my release,'' he said, using the traditional Communist euphemism ''release'' for dismissal.
        In the 1980's, Mr. Zhivkov authorized a forced assimilation drive against Bulgaria's one million ethnic Turks in which more than 100 were killed and 310,000 forcibly expelled. In a campaign that aroused international condemnation, ethnic Turks were deprived of linguistic, cultural and religious rights. They were dismissed from jobs and rounded up at night, trucked to police stations and forced to change their Islamic Turkish names into Slavic names. In 1988-89, hundreds of thousands jammed borders in forced flight to neighboring Turkey
        He was responsible for the construction in 1959 of concentration camps for political prisoners just as the Soviet Union was dismantling Stalin's gulags. He was also said to be behind the killing in London in 1978 of Georgi Markov, a Bulgarian writer in exile who had made mocking broadcasts about Mr. Zhivkov for Radio Free Europe. In one of the strangest assassinations of the cold war, Mr. Markov was killed on Waterloo Bridge by an agent who used a special umbrella to shoot a poisoned pellet into his leg.
        Many of Mr. Zhivkov's actions paralleled those of other Soviet bloc leaders: brutal collectivization of farmlands, the installation of nuclear-power reactors that had a Chernobyl disaster potential, the opening of a huge steel factory that polluted the air of Sofia. His legacy for his country of under nine million people included a foreign debt of $10 billion.
        The Zhivkov-era concentration camps were at Kotsian, Bogdanov Dol, Belene Island in the Danube and Lovech. As many as 1,000 prisoners were held in Lovech from 1959 to its closing in 1962, and at least 100 died or were killed there, according to the Interior Ministry. Disclosures of their existence came in 1990 a few months after Mr. Zhivkov was ousted. A Ministry of Interior spokesman said: ''Todor Zhivkov at least knew or gave the orders. The problem is that from this period there were few material traces. It was done on the telephone.'' Or, as Mr. Zhivkov boasted in 1991, ''You won't find Todor Zhivkov's name where the things were done.''
        He was never tried for political crimes; prosecutors concluded that it would be too difficult to make charges stick. Instead he was tried on charges of illegally spending the equivalent of $24 million in state funds. In 1992, after a trial that lasted 18 months, during which he was scornful and defiant, he was convicted of embezzlement and sentenced to seven years in prison.
        In deference to his heart problems and age the middle-sized man with the long thin nose and the heavy jowls was allowed to serve his time under house arrest at his granddaughter's mountain slope home overlooking Sofia, and even to make a foray to his birthplace in Pravets, 44 miles northeast of the capital. On that occasion he bragged, ''The whole country loves me.'' In February 1996, Bulgaria's highest court acquitted him of the embezzlement charges, although he remained under indictment on charges that he abused human rights.
        Todor Zhivkov was born Sept. 7, 1911, in Pravets, a farm village in the foothills of the Balkan Mountains. He was one of a generation of Balkan Communists who were raised in poverty, got some education, imbibed the militant Marxism of Stalin in the 1930's and took power after World War II. His father and mother, Hristo and Maroutsa, had grown up poor,  and young Todor had to leave school after the sixth grade. He was accepted in the Secondary School of Book Printing and Graphic Arts in Sofia in 1929 and became acquainted with the rigid Communists of the printing trade. Within a year he was accepted in the Bulgarian Young Communist League. From there he moved steadily forward in the Communist Party apparatus.
        In 1941 Bulgaria aligned itself with the Axis powers. After the Russians defeated the Germans at Stalingrad, the Bulgarian Communist Party organized guerrilla movements in Bulgaria, and Mr. Zhivkov took part as a political commissar of a guerrilla detachment.
        In September 1944, the Soviet Army swept into Bulgaria, the country's pro-German Government was ousted, and a Fatherland Front coalition of anti-Fascists was created by the Soviet occupation force. The Bulgarian Communist Party, which numbered about 8,000 in September 1944, became the dominant force of the Fatherland Front and set about killing off its political opponents -- agrarians, social democrats and monarchists -- in addition to Fascists. In Sofia alone, 2,138 death sentences were passed in one of the bloodiest Communist takeovers in Soviet-occupied Europe.
        Mr. Zhivkov was credited with playing an important role in the seizure of power as chief of the newly established People's Militia with the rank of colonel. His ''Biographical Sketch,'' published in 1981 in Sofia related that ''under the direct leadership of Todor Zhivkov,'' an armed force of Communists rounded up ''the most reactionary elements of the bourgeoisie hiding in the villas'' at the end of September 1944. He also wrote the orders ''to catch the intellectual and physical murderers of the fighters for national freedom.''
        He was elected to the central committee of the party six months later. As a senior official in its organizational bureau, he presided over the expansion of the party to 460,000 members. In this capacity he also served in the autumn of 1949 as an interrogator of Traicho Kostov, the wartime secretary of the party, in preparation for his Stalinist show trial on charges of collaborating with Yugoslavia's maverick Tito Government and opposing Soviet domination. Mr. Kostov was tortured before his brief trial and then executed.
        Mr. Zhivkov won full membership in the party's governing Politburo in 1951. After Stalin died in 1953, Khrushchev ascended to power in Moscow and began replacing ''Muscovite'' lieutenants sent out to run the Soviet satellites with ''home Communists.'' Mr. Zhivkov's hour had arrived, and he was installed as first secretary of the party in 1954.
        Seven weeks after Khrushchev's epochal denunciation in February 1956 of the crimes of Stalin, Mr. Zhivkov spoke gingerly before his own party about the 1949 Bulgarian purge, mentioning neither Mr. Kostov's name nor his own role in that case. He said only that ''innocent comrades were accused and unjustly punished.'' In 1962, with the backing of Khrushchev, Mr. Zhivkov became Prime Minister and, in 1971, the chairman of a new Council of State -- the equivalent of president -- while retaining his party chieftainship. His speech, according to Mr. Markov, the writer, who met him in these years, ''frequently showed the uneasy combination of simple peasant language and pompous phrases.'' But Mr. Markov credited him with ''natural intelligence, quick wit and a magnificent memory.''
        By this time confident in his durability, Mr. Zhivkov began publishing the first of 38 volumes of ''works,'' mainly the seemingly interminable speeches that party leaders of his era were accustomed to make.
        In the early 1980's, at the height of his power, he turned his birthplace of Pravets into a model town, reached from Sofia by a rare four-lane highway. The house where he was born was opened as a historical monument. In addition, Pravets got a ''historical'' museum chronicling the life of both Zhivkov and Communist Bulgaria, together with a factory where Bulgaria's first computer, called the Pravets, was manufactured.
        After Mr. Zhivkov's political demise, the Pravets memorials went the way of so many other Communist monuments across the bloc. The Zhivkov home was empty, the museum closed. But when Mr. Zhivkov visited the town in 1995, he was handed the deed to the eight acres of farmland owned by his father, collectivized by the son in the 1950's and now returned to his private hands. A circle had been closed.
        In his final years, Mr. Zhivkov gave occasional interviews to foreign media, ruminating on his career and reinventing history somewhat by portraying himself as a Soviet bloc visionary who had seen that technological and economic advance was essential, and that the ailing Brezhnev should have relinquished power years before he died in November 1982.
        He was largely ignored by Bulgarians themselves. As post-Communist misery grew, however, so did nostalgia for the seeming stability and prosperity of the Zhivkov era. Early this year, Mr. Zhivkov, who had been stripped of his Communist Party membership, was suddenly reinstated as a member of the Socialist Party, which succeeded the old Communists, and even inspired a rousing ovation at a rally in Sofia.
        Mr. Zhivkov married Dr. Mara Maleyeva, a physician, in 1938. She died in 1971. Their daughter, Lyudmila, who under her father's tutelage became Minister of Culture at age 32 in 1975 and encouraged modern art and published works by authors like Allen Ginsberg, died under mysterious circumstances six years later. Some suspected that her death in a bathtub at her father's official residence was a suicide, others that she was killed by political enemies.
        A son, Vladimir, and two grandchildren survive.
      