
        Ralph G. Newman, an unlikely bookstore proprietor and even less likely Civil War scholar who made a name for himself specializing in Abraham Lincoln and almost ruined it befriending Richard M. Nixon, died on July 23 at a hospital near his home in Chicago. He was 86.
        It may seem strange that a college dropout would deem himself qualified to write or edit more than a dozen historical books, among them ''The American Iliad'' (1947) and ''Lincoln for the Ages'' (1959). But Mr. Newman, who was encouraged by Carl Sandburg, the Pulitzer Prize-winning poet and Lincoln biographer, knew that after his single term at Northwestern University he had more formal education than Lincoln and Sandburg put together.
        Mr. Newman's Abraham Lincoln Book Shop became a magnet for Civil War scholars and buffs and a Chicago tourist attraction, and the Civil War Round Table he helped found in 1940 spawned hundreds of similar discussion groups across the country and abroad. He also became a highly visible civic leader.
        He served as president of the Chicago Public Library's board for more than a decade, as chairman of the Illinois Sesquicentennial Commission in 1968 and, to his special delight, as chairman of the Illinois Pavilion at the 1964-65 New York World's Fair.
        Mr. Newman commissioned the lifelike Disney model of Lincoln that became one of the fair's main attractions, selected the excerpts from Lincoln's speeches that were ''spoken'' by the model during the 10-minute show, and sat next to Pope Paul VI through two performances.
        In the city of big shoulders, Mr. Newman became known for the size of his paunch. As he grew older and rounder, it became harder and harder to imagine that he had once been a promising athlete.
        A native of Chicago whose father operated a cigar store on the West Side, Mr. Newman apparently had little truck with books as a youth. He grew up dreaming of becoming a major league baseball player, but after he dropped out of college and spent two minor league seasons among heavy-hitting farm boys, an injury helped convince him that his destiny lay elsewhere. It just took him a while to discover what it was.
        In 1932, after a brief, boring fling in Depression-era banking, Mr. Newman was walking along a street one day when he had his epiphany. Intrigued by a going-out-of-business sign in the window of a used book store, he went inside and learned he could buy the entire stock for $10,000.
        Mr. Newman may not have had a previous interest in books, but as a 21-year-old former bank teller he knew how to count. And when he figured out that the asking price worked out to something like six cents a book, he returned to the bank, persuaded some of his former colleagues to lend him the money, and bought the store.
        Reopening the store as Home of Books, he started cutting prices by 75 percent and created such a buying stampede that he was able to repay the loan plus 100 percent interest within four months.
        Moving the store to the Loop a few years later, Mr. Newman, a gregarious man whose customers tended to become friends, fell in with a newspaper crowd that included Ben Hecht; Lloyd Lewis, the managing editor of The Chicago Daily News; and Sandburg, a former Daily News reporter and columnist.
        At the urging of Lewis and Sandburg he converted the store into a shop specializing in Lincoln and the Civil War. In 1940 he renamed it the Abraham Lincoln Book Shop and joined a dozen of his customers in establishing the first Civil War Round Table.
        With Lewis and Sandburg operating as volunteer publicists, the store, which also dealt in Lincoln autographs and papers, soon received reams of national publicity, and Mr. Newman was recognized as an authority on Lincoln and the Civil War.
        After selling the store in 1984 to a partner, who still operates it, Mr. Newman, who over the years claimed to have sold books to every President from Herbert Hoover to Bill Clinton, continued to operate a sideline business as an appraiser of historic documents, including the Presidential papers of Harry S. Truman, Lyndon B. Johnson and, much to his later anguish, Richard Nixon.
        In 1975, as an offshoot of the Watergate investigation, a jury found Mr. Newman guilty of having falsely sworn that Nixon had made a charitable donation of his papers before a law took effect severely limiting the tax deductions for such gifts.
        Mr. Newman, who was fined $10,000, told his lawyer, Edward Bennett Williams, that he was afraid the incident would ruin his appraising business. Mr. Williams assured him that because of the publicity the business would double.
        ''He was wrong,'' Mr. Newman said years later. ''It tripled.''
        Mr. Newman, who was married three times, is survived by his wife, Patricia; two daughters from a previous marriage, Carol Parry Fox of Manhattan and Maxine Brandenberg of Denver; and two grandchildren.
      