
        Dr. Leroy E. Burney, who as Surgeon General of the United States  Public Health Service in the Eisenhower Administration was the first Federal official publicly to identify smoking as a cause of lung cancer, died on Friday at a hospital in Park Ridge, Ill. He was 91.
        On July 12, 1957, after organizing a group of scientists to appraise 18 studies on smoking and health, Dr. Burney, himself a smoker, issued a report saying, ''It is clear that there is an increasing and consistent body of evidence that excessive cigarette smoking is one of the causative factors in lung cancer.''
        The Scientific Advisory Board to the Tobacco Industry Research Committee immediately rebutted Dr. Burney's statement, saying that it ''adds nothing new to what has been known about the cause of lung cancer'' and reflected the opinions of a small number of researchers.
        Nevertheless, the evidence against smoking was mounting.
        Dr. Burney's first statement, and a stronger one in 1959, paved the way for Luther Terry, Surgeon General under President Lyndon B. Johnson, to issue a landmark report on smoking and health in 1964.
        Dr. Burney was not the first Surgeon General to discuss the hazards of smoking. Last year, in the journal Public Health Reports, Dr. John Parasandola, the Public Health Service's historian, wrote that in 1929, Surgeon General Hugh Cumming ''warned that smoking could lower the 'physical tone' of the nation.''
        In the Journal of the American Medical Association in 1959, Dr. Burney expanded on the link between smoking and lung cancer, now saying smoking was ''the principal'' causative factor in lung cancer.
        ''Unless the use of tobacco can be made safe, the individual person's risk of lung cancer can best be reduced by the elimination of smoking,'' he wrote, adding ''stopping cigarette smoking even after long exposure is beneficial.''
        But the American Medical Association, which for years had investments in tobacco, said in an editorial in 1959 that there was insufficient evidence ''to warrant the assumption'' that smoking was the principal factor in the increase in lung cancer.  ''A number of authorities who have examined the same evidence cited by Dr. Burney do not agree with his conclusions,'' the Journal's editor, Dr. John H. Talbott, wrote.
        Leroy Edgar Burney was born on Dec. 31, 1906 in Burney, Ind., then a town of 300 that was founded by his great-grandfather, William E. Burney.
        After attending Butler University in Indianapolis for two years, Leroy Burney received a bachelor's degree in 1928 and a medical degree in 1930 from Indiana University. After an internship at the U.S. Marine Hospital in Chicago, he earned a degree in public health from Johns Hopkins University.
        Dr. Burney joined the Public Health Service in 1932, starting out at its Marine Hospital in Cleveland. In  1937, he set up the country's first mobile venereal disease clinic, in Brunswick, Ga. At the time, he wrote that effective control programs had been created for white people in Northern states but ''no such programs for the Negro was in progress in the South.''
        Dr. Burney helped control sexually transmitted diseases for the Navy during World War II. From 1945 to 1954, he was Indiana state health officer. In 1956, he became the eighth Surgeon General of the Unite States Public Health Service, replacing Dr. Leonard Scheele, who resigned after a number of children developed polio from being injected with Salk vaccine because of a manufacturing problem.
        In 1960, Dr. Burney approved the Sabin oral polio vaccine for use in the United States after the vaccine had been used on millions of people in South America and the Soviet Union. Dr. Burney defended the long delay in endorsing the vaccine by saying that he had ''no apologies to make for conservatism, which is justified in an issue as important as this.''
        As Surgeon General, Dr. Burney worked to improve health care for the elderly, particularly in nursing homes. Concerned about the indiscriminate use of X-rays in health care, Dr. Burney set up a division to unify radiation-related activities in the Public Health Service.
        Dr. Burney also championed improving environmental health and cleaning up pollution. He helped create the National Library of Medicine, the National Center for Health Statistics and a national influenza surveillance system at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
        The day before leaving the White House in 1961, President Eisenhower wrote Dr. Burney, praising his efforts to control air pollution, raise the quality of water and improve health internationally. A week later, Dr. Burney retired as Surgeon General and became vice president for health sciences at Temple University in Philadelphia.
        Last April, at a meeting of former Surgeon Generals of the United  States Public Health Service, Dr. Burney spoke about the effects of managed care on the health care of Americans and said the patient often was losing out. ''Some people, particularly the elderly, need the warmth and friendliness of a personal physician's touch,'' he said.
        Survivors include his wife, the former Mildred H. Hewins; a son, Robert G., of Washington; a daughter, Kay S. Butler of Lake Forest, Ill.; five grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
        Editor's Note:  September 15, 1998, Tuesday  An obituary on Aug. 4 reported the death of Dr. Leroy E. Burney, who was Surgeon General of the United States Public Health Service during the Eisenhower Administration. The obituary said his predecessor, Dr. Leonard A. Scheele, had resigned ''after a number of children developed polio from being injected with Salk Vaccine because of a manufacturing problem.''
        In fact the resignation came more than a year after the vaccine problem. There is no evidence of any connection between the resignation and the vaccine scare, and no such link should have been suggested. The publication of this note was delayed by an editing lapse.
        The obituary also misspelled the surname of the health service's historian, who was quoted on the health hazards of smoking. He is Dr. John Parascandola, not Parasandola.
      