
        Lillian Hoban, who illustrated or wrote more than 100 children's books, including those featuring a badger named Frances and a chimpanzee named Arthur, died on July 17 at New York and Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. She was 73 and lived in Manhattan and in Wilton, Conn.
        The cause was heart failure, said her principal publisher, HarperCollins Children's Books.
        Ms. Hoban's best-known works explored the trials and tribulations of early childhood. She first established herself as an illustrator in the 1960's, providing the drawings for the ''Frances'' series written by her husband, Russell Hoban, a prolific author of children's books. She illustrated his ''Baby Sister for Frances'' (1964) and drew the pictures for five more books in that series about Frances and her family.
        After the couple divorced in 1975, she began writing and illustrating an ''I Can Read Books'' series about Arthur and his little sister, Violet. An 11th title, ''Arthur's Birthday Party,'' is due out early next year.
        Born in Philadelphia, Lillian Aberman Hoban attended the Philadelphia Museum School of Art, studied dance with Martha Graham and taught modern dance in New York and Connecticut. She also danced on television during the 1950's.
        She taught herself to draw still lifes, using crayons and pastels, and started writing stories after she had her own children, basing her tales on their everyday adventures.
        Ms. Hoban is survived by three daughters, Phoebe, and Julia, both  of Manhattan, and Esme, of Wilton; a son, Brom, of Austin, Tex.; a sister, Esther Man of Los Angeles, and six grandchildren.
        Ms. Hoban was active in civic affairs in Wilton, particularly at the Wilton Library.
        She also played a prominent role in the National Arts Club's creative writing program for public-school children, hoping to whet their taste for reading and writing.
        ''When I am writing, I like writing best, and when I am drawing, I like drawing best,'' she once said. ''But probably what I like better than anything is just messing around with color.''
      