
        Otto Wichterle, a Czechoslovak chemist who in 1961 used an Erector set and a phonograph to produce the world's first soft contact lenses, died yesterday at his summer home in Sdradisko, a Moravian village in the Czech Republic. Dr. Wichterle, a former president of that nation's Academy of Sciences, was 84 years old.
        Dr. Wichterle died in his sleep after having suffered a heart attack and a stroke within the last year, according to his grandson, Hynek Wichterle, a doctoral candidate in neurobiology at Rockefeller University.
        The consequences of Dr. Wichterle's kitchen-table experimentation changed the way millions of people see and look. ''Before his discovery, there were, of course, contact lenses,'' said Dr. Dwight Cavanaugh, a professor of ophthalmology at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas. ''But they were made of glass or hard plastic. They were difficult to make and to fit and probably no more than 10,000 or 20,000 were being used. As a result of what Dr. Wichterle achieved, a billion-dollar industry came into being; today there are about 30 million people in the United States and 100 million people around the world who use soft lenses.''
        As explained by his grandson, the discovery came about in a difficult period for his grandfather. Until 1958, Dr. Wichterle had been the dean of the Institute for Chemical Technology in Prague, having acquired dozens of patents for various polymer materials, among them Silon, a substance similar to nylon that he developed in the late 1940's. But in that year Communist Party officials dismissed him from his position, calling him politically unreliable.
        About this time he discovered a polymer called HEMA, or hydrogel poly-hydroxyethyl methacrylate, which was a hydrophilic, or water-loving, plastic able to retain moisture. Dr. Wichterle, who had long had an interest in finding materials that could be adaptable to the body, realized that HEMA might be used to form a corrective lens.
        With his wife, Lidia, who was trained as a doctor, he used his newly found leisure to experiment with ways of forging the material into soft and pliable lenses. Using the motor of an old phonograph and a child's Erector set, he was able to discover the spin-casting process, which forms the basis of soft lens manufacturing.
        Despite initiating the growth of a multibillion-dollar soft lens industry, Dr. Wichterle never became very wealthy from his invention. He patented both the material and the process in 1963. In 1960, he published the results of his experiments in the journal Nature, arousing interest among entrepreneurs. Robert J. Morrison, an optometrist in Harrisburg, Pa., went to Czechoslovakia and bought the patent rights to the material and the process from the Czechoslovak Government for what was reputed to be $330,000. He ultimately sold those rights to the National Patent Development Corporation of New York, which subsequently sold them to Bausch & Lomb.
        Since then, many new patents have been obtained modifying both the original material and the spin-casting process. According to the inventor's grandson, Dr. Wichterle received no more than one-tenth of one percent of what the Czechoslovak Government had been paid for his patent rights. He said his grandfather never complained about this.
        ''He was never primarily interested in the money and he never regretted not making more from his invention,'' Hynek Wichterle said. ''He led a comfortable life and he enjoyed traveling and visiting scientists and scholars in many parts of the world.''
        Otto Wichterle was born in 1913, the son of an owner of a factory that produced farm machinery. By the time he was in elementary school, the Austro-Hungarian empire had collapsed and the family members found themselves citizens of the new state of Czechoslovakia. Fascinated by chemistry from an early age, he completed his education at the Institute of Technology in Prague, where he received his doctorate.
        Shortly before Germany seized Czechoslovakia in the prelude to World War II, Dr. Wichterle was hired by the Bata shoe company's  owners, who were pioneers in benevolent management and introduced what would today be called research and development.
        Dr. Wichterle was hired to set up an independent polymer laboratory in Zilin, the company's model town, where his discoveries might or might not be used for shoes. It was there that he came up with Silon, which was used to make socks and shirts in postwar Czechoslovakia.
        After the war, he taught at the Institute of Chemical Technology until his dismissal. Then after his invention of the soft lens technology, as the political atmosphere grew somewhat more liberal, Dr. Wichterle was permitted to establish and direct another laboratory, the Institute of Macro-Molecular Chemistry. He was in this post when the Prague Spring, the short-lived period of liberalization, flourished in Czechoslovakia in 1968. He was one of the co-authors and circulators of a document called ''2,000 Words,'' which argued that strategies calling for a human face on Communism did not go far enough.
        When the arrival of Russian troops and tanks put an end even to timid experimentation. Dr. Wichterle was dismissed as director of his laboratory. But when Communist rule collapsed in 1989, Dr. Wichterle was quickly elected to head the Czechoslovak Academy of Science. When the country split in 1992, he became the first President of the Academy of the Czech Republic.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Karil and Ivan.
      