
        Robert M. Luby, a restaurateur who had such a down-home devotion to quality and such an accommodating string of unemployed relatives that he helped turn a small Texas cafeteria business into a $500 million chain with more than 200 restaurants in 11 states, died on Thursday at a hospital near his summer home in Colorado Springs. He was 88 and had retired as president of Luby's Cafeterias Inc. in 1971.
        To say that Mr. Luby grew up on cafeteria food would be something of an understatement. Within a year after he was born in Mansfield, Mo., in 1910, his father, Harry, an Illinois-born entrepreneur who operated a men's clothing store in Springfield, had made a fateful business trip to Chicago and returned fired by the possibilities of a strange new food establishment he had encountered there.
        Copying the Chicago operation from its name to its menu he daringly opened the New England Dairy Lunch in Springfield and promptly discovered that people there had been hankering for bargain-priced boiled vegetable dinners served buffet style from a 12-foot counter.
        A family operation from the beginning (Mr. Luby's mother, Julia, planned meals and helped cook even with a toddler underfoot), the original short-counter cafeteria was so successful that a second one was opened in Springfield in 1912 and Mr. Luby's father embarked on a novel path of incremental improvements.
        Concerned that patrons would resent changes, even those that improved operations, the elder Mr. Luby began the practice of selling one cafeteria, usually retaining a minority interest, while opening a new, improved version in a different town. The result was the creation of what was not so much a chain as a dotted line of a dozen cafeterias stretching from Missouri through Oklahoma, Texas and Louisiana.
        By the time the family and the family business reached San Antonio in 1927, Harry Luby had done well enough to retire at 39, leaving his teen-age son with a near obsession for the business he had grown up in.
        During his high school years Mr. Luby did every facet of cafeteria work from serving food to washing dishes and while studying business administration at the University of Texas in Austin he took a couple of years off to open and operate a cafeteria in Corpus Christi, Tex.
        After his graduation in 1934, Mr. Luby indulged in a short burst of wanderlust, opening a cafeteria in San Francisco. The city's Depression-era maritime union problems helped doom the business but not before it had brought Mr. Luby two important assets, an especially satisfied customer named Georgina Wenglein, who became his wife, and her brother, George, who was persuaded to return to Texas with Mr. Luby and join him in the cafeteria business.
        By 1940 Mr. Luby had opened several cafeterias in Texas, but after the outbreak of World War II he sold out and joined the Army Air Corps, typically spending his years as an intelligence officer stationed in California and dreaming of creating a chain of cafeterias.
        Teaming up with a cousin, Charles R. Johnston, he founded the modern Luby's chain in San Antonio in 1947 and began an expansion using Mr. Wenglein and other relatives as trusted managers.
        When he ran out of relatives, Mr. Luby, recruited investor-managers whose 40 percent share of the profits assured that they would be as concerned about quality and efficiency as Mr. Luby was.
        Although there were several long-established cafeteria chains in the South, where an appetite for a hearty, home-style meal that doesn't cost an arm and a leg is not considered as declasse as it is elsewhere, Mr. Luby's insistence on quality and attention to detail helped assure a steady expansion.
        Initially operated as Cafeterias Inc., the company sold stock to the public in 1973, changed its name to Luby's Cafeterias Inc. in 1981 and gained a listing on the New York Stock Exchange in 1982, the year Mr. Luby stepped down as chairman of the board.
        Since then, as the company he founded continued to flourish and expand (its 231 cafeterias specializing in regional favorites from grits to tamales stretch from Arizona to Florida) Mr. Luby, who became a multimillionaire providing low-cost food that even now averages just above $5 a meal, devoted himself to civic work, travel, hunting and fishing, golf and -- gourmet cooking.
        Mr. Luby, twice a widower, is survived by his wife, Kathleen; a daughter from his first marriage, Martha Lahana of Littleton, Colo.; a stepdaughter, Elizabeth Rogers of San Antonio, and two stepgrandchildren.
      