
        Marshall Barer, the lyricist and the book writer (with Jay Thompson and Dean Fuller) for ''Once Upon a Mattress'' (the 1959 show that introduced Carol Burnett to Broadway), and the wit who wrote the words for the Mighty Mouse theme song, died on Tuesday at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 75 and had lived for many years in Venice, Calif., where his home had been an informal salon for West Coast songwriters and performers.
        The cause of death was cancer, said the actor Brandon Maggart, a longtime friend of the lyricist.
        ''Mattress,'' which had music by Mary Rodgers, was a farcical adaptation of the popular fairy tale ''The Princess and the Pea.'' After running for 460 performances off and on Broadway it had two successful television adaptations, both starring Ms. Burnett, and went on to enjoy numerous local productions around the country. It was revived last year on Broadway with Sarah Jessica Parker in the leading role.
        A prolific songwriter whose work flourished in cabarets with the support of performers like Michael Feinstein and Andrea Marcovicci, Mr. Barer was a master of the witty revue song that satirized human foibles and punctured cliches with a devilish insouciance. If none of his songs was a bona fide hit, he was regarded by cognoscenti as one of the finest exponents of a brittle late-1950's-early-60's style that carried clever lyrical observation to a peak of refinement.
        Ironically, his best-known song was probably the Mighty Mouse cartoon theme, ''Here I Come to Save the Day.'' ''Some claim to fame, huh?,'' Mr. Barer once said in an interview. ''I'm actually not all that proud of it. I wrote it in the back of a taxicab.''
        Mr. Barer was born in Long Island City, Queens, and began his career as a designer and illustrator for such magazines as Esquire, McCall's and Seventeen. From there he branched out into writing special material for performers, including Celeste Holm. Moving into children's music, he worked as a staff composer for Golden Records, collaborating with Alec Wilder, and in 1951 he began collaborating regularly with Mr. Fuller. They wrote several numbers for the Broadway revue ''New Faces of 1956.''
        The following year, the same team contributed three songs and a sketch for the 1957 Ziegfeld Follies starring Beatrice Lillie. ''Once Upon a Mattress,'' which was nurtured at the Tamiment Playhouse, the summer playhouse in the Poconos, followed in  1959. And in 1966, he and Ms. Rodgers re-teamed to write five songs in ''The Mad Show,'' the Off Broadway revue based on the humor magazine that ran for 871 performances. The same year, he was lyricist for an unsuccessful Broadway show, ''Pousse-Cafe,'' with music by Duke Ellington.
        Although Mr. Barer's most successful collaborations were with Ms. Rodgers, he also worked with Leroy Anderson, J. Fred Coots, Hoagy Carmichael, Burton Lane, David Raskin,  Michel Legrand, Vernon Duke and, most recently, Mr. Feinstein.
        He is survived by a sister, Natalie Feingold of Florida.
      