
        The Rev. Raymond E. Brown, an internationally influential Roman Catholic biblical scholar who taught at Union Theological Seminary for two decades, died on Saturday in Sequoia Hospital in Redwood City, Calif. He was 70 and lived in Menlo Park, Calif.
        The cause was a heart attack, which he suffered after being admitted to the hospital earlier that day for treatment of a respiratory problem, said the Rev. Ronald Witherup, provincial of the Society of St. Sulpice, a fellowship of priests who teach in seminaries, of which Father Brown was a member.
        Father Brown, whose scholarly career spanned four decades, was the author of nearly 40 books, many of them commentaries on the New Testament, including detailed studies of the Gospel accounts of Jesus' birth and death. The first Catholic in a tenured position at Union, a historically Protestant institution, Father Brown taught there from 1971 until his retirement in 1990.
        In the contentious field of biblical studies, which ranges from biblical literalists to those who have tried to strip down the New Testament texts to seek out a historical figure of Jesus, Father Brown was regarded as a centrist, with a reputation as a man of the church and a rigorous, exacting scholar whose work had to be reckoned with.
        ''You cannot fault him on a single footnote, and he wrote thousands,'' said James A. Sanders, a former colleague of Father Brown at Union, who recently retired as a professor at Claremont School of Theology in California.
        ''I would say,'' Professor Sanders added, ''that his basic position was that the Gospel accounts are, yes, products of the church, but they are basically trustworthy,'' from a broadly historical point of view.
        In recent years, Father Brown had become concerned about the public attention drawn to some scholarship, like that produced by members of the Jesus Seminar, that questioned whether the biblical accounts of Jesus' life and teachings contained historical truth about Jesus or were the largely the product of early Christian theologians writing decades after the crucifixion.
        One of Father Brown's responses was to write ''An Introduction to the New Testament'' (Doubleday, 1996), in which he declared he wanted to inform general readers where most biblical scholars stood, apart from what he called ''new and bold theses'' that drew the attention of the news media.
        One of his former doctoral students, Marion L. Soards, said the book was a major effort ''to try to bring some balance and direction'' to biblical studies.
        Professor Soards, who teaches the New Testament at the Louisville  Theological Seminary, recalled Father Brown as a model lecturer whose classroom presentations were so carefully prepared he could bring them to ''a perfect conclusion'' seconds before the bell signaled the end of class.
        Father Brown first came to Union as a visiting professor in 1967, became a permanent faculty member in 1971, and was appointed Auburn Professor of Biblical Studies in 1981.
        Both Professors Soards and Sanders said Father Brown, who never lectured without his clerical collar, possessed a pastoral presence, encouraging to his students. Rather than being someone who pursued scholarship for its own sake, Professor Soards said, ''Ray understood himself to be a priest, and he understood himself to be in service to Christ and the church.''
        Father Brown was born in New York City on May 22, 1928. He received bachelor's and master's degrees from Catholic University of America in Washington, a doctorate in sacred theology from St. Mary's Seminary in Baltimore and a doctorate in Semitic languages from Johns Hopkins University.
        He was among the first Catholic scholars to take advantage of a new openness within the Catholic church to critical biblical studies, a profoundly important development that followed Pope Pius XII's 1943 encyclical ''Divino Afflante Spiritu,'' which allowed scholars to use critical methods to study the sources and historical contexts of the Bible's books.
        Ordained a priest in the Diocese of St. Augustine, Fla., in 1953, Father Brown served as an adviser to his bishop at the Second Vatican Council in 1963.
        Throughout his career, he received  academic and church distinctions, including more than 25 honorary doctorates. At different times, he served as president of the Catholic Biblical Association of America, the Society of Biblical Literature and the International Society of New Testament Studies.
        ''He was respected as a major figure in biblical studies in most denominations,'' said Father Witherup, until recently the academic dean at St. Patrick's Seminary in Menlo Park, where Father Brown lived after his retirement from Union. He recalled Father Brown as ''a master communicator.''
        As in his writing, a part of Father Brown's speaking was devoted to reaching an audience of interested lay people. In March 1994, he gave a public lecture at a Presbyterian church in Ridgewood, N.J., about his research into the biblical accounts of Jesus' crucifixion.
        Doubleday had just published his two-volume study, ''The Death of the Messiah,'' in which he discussed the differences in the four Gospels' accounts of Jesus' death. In his lecture, Father Brown asked his audience to understand that those accounts were each built around a central, historical memory of Jesus' last days.
        It was a way of pointing believers toward a critical understanding of the Passion stories that steered clear of fundamentalism and also of a view of the Gospels as unhistorical. One man attending the lecture told a reporter afterward that he had come ''thirsty for an affirmation of my faith'' and ''drank in every word'' that Father Brown spoke.
        With Father Brown's books, articles and lectures in mind, Father Witherup said, ''His impact is still going to be widely felt, but his presence will be missed.''
        Father Brown is survived by a brother, Robert J. Brown of Harrisburg, Pa.
      