
        Fabrice Simon, the fashion designer known professionally as Fabrice, whose glittering evening wear symbolized the glamour of the high-flying 1980's, died last Wednesday in New York. He was 47.
        The cause was AIDS, his family said yesterday.
        At the height of his success, Mr. Simon (pronounced see-MOHN) dressed women in society and show business in dresses that were elaborately beaded and jeweled and that were guaranteed to draw the spotlight. In lightweight fabrics like georgette and crepe de chine, and fit to cling to the body, the dresses tended to have a sensuous look, shimmering with abstract designs that were sometimes inspired by graffiti or modern art. He won a special Coty Fashion Critics Award in 1981 for his beaded dresses.
        The socialite Cornelia Guest wore a Fabrice design at her coming-out party and became a faithful client and friend. Mr. Simon also designed special-occasion dresses for Kathleen Turner, Shirley MacLaine, Natalie Cole, Ivana Trump, Nina Griscom and Whitney Houston in addition to celebrity models like Iman, Beverly Johnson, Christie Brinkley and Jerry Hall.
        He also designed formal wear for men, although it was anything but traditional dinner suits. His designs included such items as silk T-shirts worn with suspenders and damask or boldly checked jackets.
        Born in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, on Jan. 29, 1951, Fabrice Simon came to New York in 1964, graduated from Flushing High School in Queens and studied textile design and fashion illustration at the Fashion Institute of Technology. After working as a textile designer for five years, he took some silks on which he had hand-painted or air-brushed patterns, whipped them into dresses and -- voila! -- had his first fashion collection. That was in 1976. The dresses were bought by Henri Bendel, a 57th Street store known in those years for showcasing unknown designers. In fact, when the store was bought by the Limited and moved to 56th Street and Fifth Avenue in 1991, it was still carrying Fabrice designs.
        At first he both painted and sewed all the clothes. Then a few years later his sister, Brigitte, brought a piece of beaded embroidery from Haiti to New York and asked him to fashion it into a dress.
        ''I was intrigued by the idea,'' Mr. Simon was quoted as saying in a 1983 article in The New York Times, ''and I designed a very simple blouse with a star-burst pattern and had it embroidered in Haiti in copper beads.''
        The result pleased Mr. Simon, who then commissioned Haitian beaders and embroiderers to execute his designs. His timing was superb. It was 1980, and elaborately beaded clothes seemed to be just what the newly rich were hungering for.
        Through his friendships with Ms. Guest and the models Toukie Smith and Beverly Johnson, he also became part of the 80's scene. His summer home on Fire Island was a meeting place for fashion models, photographers and stylists. His sexy dresses adorned many a magazine cover.
        Mr. Simon's early designs were mainly in black and silver, which he called ''very sophisticated, like diamonds.'' He later broadened his range to include colors and even some daytime clothes, often adding beading to simple sweaters. But he rejected mass-produced sequins-by-the-yard. Each bead had to be sewn on individually.
        ''They are my artwork,'' the designer said. ''Before I make the dress, I draw the patterns. I make sure the design has the right proportions for the dress.''
        He designed custom and ready-to-wear clothing until what came to be known as the gilded decade came to an abrupt end with the stock market decline of 1987. After that he concentrated on custom-made designs for private clients.
        In 1994 he shuttered his business and returned to what he called his first love: painting. The art was in many ways an extension of his fashion design. The paintings were color-drenched abstracts that could easily be envisioned as patterns for beadwork. His paintings were exhibited last year in Palm Beach, Fla., and at the Jamson Whyte gallery on Wooster Street in New York.
        He is survived by his sister, Brigitte Steibel, and a brother, Andre Simon, both of New York.
      