
        Thomas Steel, a San Francisco lawyer who took on some of the most widely followed cases in California involving free speech, freedom of religion and the civil rights of minorities, died at a San Francisco hospital on July 18. He was 48.
        He died of complications from AIDS, a family member said.
        In Mr. Steel's most celebrated case, he won a $920,000 settlement for S. Brian Willson, whose legs were severed by a train at the Concord Naval Weapons Station near San Francisco in 1987 as he took part in a protest against the United States role in Nicaragua.
        Mr. Steel sued the Federal Government, arguing that the train crew could easily have seen Mr. Willson and other demonstrators on or alongside the three-mile spur of track to the munitions plant and had sufficient time to stop the train.
        The train crew members filed a countersuit, contending that it was Mr. Willson who had inflicted damage on them. They said they had suffered emotional distress.
        ''We believe,'' Mr. Steel told the court, ''that their lawsuit is particularly outrageous. What they are saying is that Brian got run over intentially to make them feel bad.''
        The case was ultimately settled, and with the money, Mr. Willson was fitted with artificial limbs.
        One of the first of Mr. Steel's cases to be followed widely was his successful defense of Huey P. Newton, a leader of the Black Panthers, on assault charges in Alameda County, Calif., in 1978.
        He also waged a 15-year legal battle against the Federal Bureau of Investigation over documents involving surveillance of the free-speech movement in Berkeley in the 1960's, ultimately obtaining a court order in 1995 granting access to the documents for The San Francisco Examiner.
        Two years ago, Mr. Steel won a lawsuit against the City of San Francisco, convincing a Federal appeals court that a municipally owned 130-foot cross atop a hill violated the constitutional provision for the separation of church and state.
        A native of Yuba City, Calif., Mr. Steel graduated from the University of California at Berkeley in 1972 and the Hastings College of Law in 1975.
        He is survived by his partner, Dr. Milton Estes; their son, Jacob, of Mill Valley, Calif.; his parents, Margaret and Robert Steel, of Yuba City, Calif.; four brothers, John and Michael of Oakland, David of New York, and Paul, of Yuba City, and four sisters, Angela M. Steel of Orinda, Calif., Susan Medland of Phoenix, Julie Ovian of Madison, Conn., and Mary A. Steel of San Francisco.
      