
        She wrote no symphonies, played on no concert stages, conducted no orchestras, but Wanda Toscanini Horowitz, who died yesterday at her Manhattan home at the age of 90, played a unique part in this century's music world.
        For almost all of her life she was at the center of a world that lionized her father, Arturo Toscanini, and adored her husband, Vladimir Horowitz.
        ''To be the daughter of Toscanini, I didn't have any merit because I could have been born to anybody,'' she once told an interviewer. ''But to be the wife of Horowitz, in that I take a little bit of pride.'' She was married to Horowitz for 55 years, a period in which he was hailed as perhaps the greatest pianist ever and in which he withdrew and refused to play in public.
        When Horowitz died on Nov. 5, 1989, Leonard Bernstein paid tribute to Mrs. Horowitz. ''I send you loving sympathy, but let me add my admiration for you and your long years of devotion to this amazing man,'' he wrote. ''He was not only a super-pianist but a super-musician with all the mental fallibilities such geniuses have. You cared for him and guarded him through a series of neurotic crises the world may never know nor understand; and you returned him to us time and again, refreshed, renewed and ever greater.''
        In an interview shortly before Horowitz's death, Mrs. Horowitz said: ''I went with him through very difficult times. For 12 years he was not playing and for 12 years I heard, 'I will never play again,' and I kept silence. I never said, 'Oh, yes, you have to play.' I never prompted him, pushed him to play.''
        She wore a permanent scowl and was famous for her fiery temper. Once she exploded at a reporter who asked about her life with Toscanini and Horowitz: ''Don't talk to me about them. My father made me neurotic and my husband made me crazy.''
        But she rejected the thought that she had lived in the shadow of the great musicians. ''No, not in the shadow, because still people know me,'' she said, just weeks before Horowitz died. ''I have my own personality. But now, at this point in life, I wish I would have done something for me.''
        ''If you ask me what I would have liked to do,'' she added, ''I had a lovely, small voice. I can act because I have a very severe face but I can be very funny. I have a great sense of humor. And I used to dance very well. So what more do you want? I was not bad-looking. I was thinner then than I am now. I could have done a little bit of dancing or singing, to be, you know, an operetta singer. That was my aim.''
        She was a teen-ager when she gave up her hopes to be a performer, although she was the most musically talented of the Toscanini children. She took piano lessons and singing lessons and was fairly good at both.
        But ''fairly good'' was not good enough in the Toscanini family. ''I remember I used to play an upright piano,'' she recalled. ''On top there was a photograph of my father. Young. Dark hair. Dark mustache. Dark eyes. I couldn't look at him.'' She was afraid to practice when he was home.
        ''A mistake was like a stab in his stomach,'' she once said.
        With ambition behind her, she took up the position of assistant to her mother, who was in charge of organizing the maestro's affairs for his concert tours. ''I was taught to listen,'' she said simply.
        When she married Horowitz in 1933 she followed her mother's example and began to serve her husband -- to pack his bags and see to it that he had every comfort of home on the road, from the proper curtains and bedding in his hotel room to the filet of sole and asparagus he favored in his later years.
        She screened telephone calls, fought with managers and saw that  record jackets -- and the recordings inside them -- were just so.
        She was born in Milan, Italy, on Dec. 5, 1907, the youngest of four children, and was christened Wanda Giorgina.
        She was 25 when she met Horowitz and was smitten. ''In the first place he was good-looking,'' she recalled. ''And his playing! I heard him play in a house after a concert. He played a Chopin mazurka and I remember I went home and said, 'I never heard anybody play a mazurka of Chopin like this.' ''
        The music world was stunned by the liaison and saw Horowitz, who had shown little or no interest in women, seeking to add luster to his name by establishing a link to Toscanini.
        They were married in Milan on Dec. 21, 1933, and left on their honeymoon -- a trans-Atlantic voyage on the liner Rex -- accompanied by the groom's concert agent and Horowitz's musical contemporaries (Yehudi Menuhin and Gregor Piatigorsky), as well as the bride's father,  mother and cousin. ''I didn't feel that I left my family,'' she said years later.
        The marriage was stormy. There was a separation in 1949, and then, Mrs. Horowitz recalled, in 1951 she started to accompany her husband on his concert tours. When they arrived in New York he would go to a hotel and she would go home. Then in 1953, he got sick. ''So I took him back,'' she said.
        The Horowitzes had a daughter, Sonia, a troubled girl who was seriously injured in a motorcycle accident from which she never fully recovered. She died in 1974 at 40.
        No immediate family members survive.
        In her daughter's memory, Mrs. Horowitz sold the emerald her husband had given her when the child was born and contributed the money to provide guide dogs for the blind.
        The Horowitzes collected fine Impressionist paintings, but sold most of them.
        ''When my husband didn't play for 12 years,'' Mrs. Horowitz said, ''that's when we started to sell, as we say, for the grocery store -- to live.''
        In 1987, Mrs. Horowitz and her family gave Toscanini's papers, valued at about $2 million, to the New York Public Library. Mrs. Horowitz also gave the library 38 letters written to her parents by the composer Giacomo Puccini, along with $100,000 to help catalogue and preserve the collection.
        For relaxation, Mrs. Horowitz played cards, mostly canasta, occasionally to the piano accompaniment of her husband. But in her last years, she played little.
        ''I must tell you something,'' she said when she was almost 82. ''At one moment, I could have 5 tables of 4 -- 20 people. Today, I cannot make 4. They're all underground. You know, to get old is not easy because all your friends go. I cannot go through my telephone book because half of them are not here anymore. That's life.''
      