
        Rudel Briscoe, a Harlem-bred painter who adored art, but loved women and making a living so much that he made a flamboyant detour into the world of high-fashion hairdressing, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan.
        Mr. Briscoe, who eventually returned to his roots and reconciled his passions as an artist who specialized in painting beautiful, fashionable women, was 65. He was known as one of the first black hairdressers to operate a downtown salon.
        Friends said the cause of death was heart disease.
        A native of Philadelphia whose artistic bent emerged during his boyhood in Harlem, Mr. Briscoe studied with such acclaimed artists as Romare Bearden, Jacob Lawrence and Ben Shahn and took courses at the Cooper Union School of Art before a sense of reality set in.
        Mindful of the difficulty of making a living from art in a city where there seemed to be at least as many artists as actors, and not enough waiting jobs to go around, Mr. Rudel, who had become enchanted with the world of fashion and fashion models while working as a Seventh Avenue sketch artist, hedged his bets by switching to hairdressing school and emerging as an artist in a new medium.
        When he and a partner, Walter Fountaine, opened their Coif Camp salon on West 23d Street in the predominantly white Chelsea section of Manhattan in 1965, it caused something of a sensation and not only because the proprietors were black hairdressers who dared to venture outside Harlem.
        For all their pride in the breakthrough accomplishment, Mr. Briscoe and Mr. Fountaine, who had long lived below 110th Street, did not see themselves so much as bringing Harlem styles downtown as pursuing their own styles on their home turf.
        And if they were known primarily for their expertise in handling black women's hair, their idol was not Madame C. J. Walker, who virtually invented the modern hair-straightening industry (and in the process won fame as the first American woman to become a self-made millionaire), but their friend and mentor, Vidal Sassoon, the British-born trendsetter whose short geometric cuts influenced many of their own creative variations.
        Their timing could not have been better. Within months of opening their shop they had attracted scores of models, secretaries and other black women who were finding an upsurge in employment opportunities outside Harlem.
        The clientele of the ''interracial beauty salon,'' as they called it, was about 30 percent white, but it was the black models and black celebrities like the singer Leslie Uggams and the actress Diana Sands who put Mr. Briscoe on the high-fashion map. That eventually led to hundreds of credits in publications like Harper's Bazaar, Mademoiselle, Seventeen and Women's Wear Daily, not to mention Ebony and Essence, and work as a stylist for movies like ''Come Back Charleston Blue'' (1972) and ''Book of Numbers'' (1973) and a dozen album covers.
        Mr. Briscoe could braid with the best of them and shape and decorate Afros to a fare-thee-well. But it was an index of the strength of black women's demand for hair that could be cut, shaped and softened into the full array of modern styles that in 1968 -- a year the ''black is beautiful'' movement was in full cry, and Afros were being hailed as a symbol of black pride -- 90 percent of his black customers had their hair straightened, including two Atlanta school teachers who flew to New York every four months to have the master, as he delicately put it, ''rearrange the curl pattern.''
        Whatever his customers wanted, and for all his continuing interest in art, as a hairdresser Mr. Briscoe was in his element. A gregarious man with an infectious optimism, he became a beloved figure who was much in demand, among other things developing a line of designer wigs with Miss Uggams and serving as a consultant to Revlon and Clairol.
        Mr. Briscoe, who opened his own salon on Lexington Avenue in 1969 and later worked in salons in Boston and Washington, never abandoned art, and in 1991 after dabbling variously in sculpture, silk screens and illustrations, he returned to New York to pursue his old calling full time.
        The scores of acrylics, collages and mixed media paintings he turned out never made him as famous as he had been as a hairdresser, but at gallery shows in New York and Washington they were snapped up by private collectors at prices ranging from several hundred to a few thousand dollars.
        And while he painted a variety of subjects, it should not be surprising that a self-styled romanticist who revered and respected women should favor paintings depicting elegant women looking very much as if they had just come from a high-fashion beauty salon.
        Mr. Briscoe, who was married and divorced twice, is survived by a son, Oliver Paul Briscoe of Manhattan.
      