
        John Seabury Thomson, an Asia analyst for the Central Intelligence Agency who was better known for his avocation as an untiring proponent of canoeing, died on Monday at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 77 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md.
        The cause was a heart attack that Mr. Thomson suffered on July 29 after canoeing on a whitewater stretch of the Potomac River, his brother, James, said.
        Mr. Thomson's canoeing exploits were first noted in a 1961 article in The New York Times about C.I.A. employees who paddled a canoe across the Potomac from their homes on the Maryland side to the agency's headquarters in Langley, Va., because paddling to work was quicker than driving.
        John Thomson was born in Nanjing, China, in 1921 to missionary teachers sent there by the Presbyterian Board of Foreign Ministries.
        He spent almost all of his early years in China before entering Swarthmore College in 1939. He joined the Navy after graduation and served as an officer on a submarine chaser along the Atlantic Coast and was then recruited into the Office of Strategic Services, the United States wartime intelligence agency, to work in China. He was posted to Xian, where he trained troops to operate behind the Japanese lines.
        After the war, Mr. Thomson received a master's degree and a doctorate from Columbia University in political science and Far Eastern affairs, and he taught for seven years at the University of Wisconsin. He joined the C.I.A. in 1957 and engaged in research, specializing in China and Southeast Asia.
        In recent years, Mr. Thomson returned to China many times, eventually becoming a tour leader who helped introduce a new generation of Americans to the country.
        He is survived by his wife of 53 years, Peggy; two sons, Christopher, of Ribera, N.M., and David, of Holyoke, Mass.; a daughter, Hilary, of Concord, N.H.; two sisters, Nancy Waller of Cherry Valley, N.Y., and Sydney Brown of Palo Alto, Calif.; his brother, James, of Cambridge, Mass., and six grandchildren.
      