
        Joel Barr, an electronics engineer linked to Julius and Ethel Rosenberg who defected to the Soviet bloc in 1950 and became a leading force in the Kremlin's computer industry, died in a Moscow hospital on Aug. 1. He was 82 and had lived in St. Petersburg for many years.
        He died of heart failure, said Morton Sobell, who spent 18 1/2 years in prison for conspiracy to commit espionage as part of the Rosenberg case and who had kept in touch with Mr. Barr.
        Mr. Barr was suspected of passing secret information about technology advances to the Soviets. Fearing arrest by the F.B.I., he defected to Czechoslovakia in 1950 and later settled in the Soviet Union.
        Mr. Barr and another American electronics engineer who defected, Alfred Sarant, were later instrumental in the development of ''the whole microelectronics and computer industry in the Soviet Union,'' according to Ronald Radosh, co-author with Joyce Milton of ''The Rosenberg File'' (Yale University Press, 1997).
        Unlike the Rosenbergs, who were tried with Mr. Sobell and executed in 1953 for providing nuclear secrets to the Soviets, Mr. Barr was never arrested or indicted for any espionage role. But Mr. Radosh said that recently released American intelligence reports provide ''conclusive proof that Barr was part of the spy ring that Julius Rosenberg put together'' and that the two of them  gave the Soviets ''17 drawings related to high-resolution airborne radar systems developed at M.I.T. and built by Bell Labs.''
        Mr. Radosh said the papers even provided Mr. Barr's and Mr. Sarant's wartime secret Soviet code names, Metr and Kh'YuS, although it was unclear which was which.
        John Haynes, the co-author with Harvey Klehr of a forthcoming Soviet history to be published by Yale, said that the intelligence reports  show that Mr. Barr and Mr. Sarant ''were among the K.G.B.'s most valuable technical spies.''
        Mr. Barr was born in Brooklyn to parents who had emigrated from Russia. During the Depression, he studied engineering at the City College of New York. There he met Julius Rosenberg and Mr. Sobell, fellow students and fellow members of the Young Communist League.
        During World War II, Mr. Barr worked in the laboratories of the Army Signal Corps and later for technology companies, including Western Electric and Sperry Gyroscope. Those jobs gave him an opportunity to copy secret documents about technological advances.
        Edward Wierzbowski, a television producer and close friend of Mr. Barr, said those secrets were passed on to Julius Rosenberg, who gave them to his Soviet contact, Col. Aleksandr Feklisov, head of the industrial espionage arm of the K.G.B. in New York from 1941 to 1945.
        But in 1948, Sperry dismissed Mr. Barr after discovering he was a Communist.
        Mr. Barr, fearing arrest for his activities, left for an extended stay in Europe. When the Rosenbergs were arrested in 1950, Mr. Barr slipped away from his apartment in a suburb of Paris. He settled in Czechoslovakia, where he took the name Josef V. Berg of South Africa, married a Czech woman, Vera Bergova, and eventually became the father of four children.
        Mr. Barr told The Los Angeles Times in 1992 that he kept his true identity secret from his wife for 20 years. The couple later divorced and Ms. Bergova returned to Prague.
        Mr. Barr had been joined in Czechoslovakia by Mr. Sarant, his old roommate in Greenwich Village and fellow member of the Communist cell with the Rosenbergs. Mr. Sarant had also disappeared after the arrest of the Rosenbergs and questioning by the F.B.I., who suspected him of espionage and of photographing material with Mr. Barr.
        Mr. Wierzbowski said the two engineers eventually persuaded Khrushchev, then Soviet leader, that the Soviet Union was way behind the United States in computer technology, and were invited to set up their own institute in 1956.
        The two defectors worked together, earning a reputation as a highly effective engineering team. Mr. Wierzbowski said they established the large Zelenograd microelectronics center, 30 miles outside Moscow, and worked there on high-level projects until Khrushchev fell from power in 1964.
        Mr. Barr and Mr. Sarant later started the Leningrad Design Bureau. Mr. Sarant, who took the name Filipp G. Staros, died in 1979, eulogized in the Soviet Government newspaper as an indefatigable contributor to Soviet microelectronics.  Mr. Barr's last job was at the Svetlana Electronic Device Manufacturing Company, a huge electronics enterprise outside St. Petersburg.
        In an interview with The Los Angeles Times, Mr. Barr said that he helped the Soviets build their first radar-guided anti-aircraft artillery. He said that his actions were never meant to ''put the United States in peril,'' but rather to help Communism thrive so that it might spread to the United States.
        Mr. Barr remained a stanch Communist even when Stalin's crimes were revealed. But toward the end of his life, especially after Mikhail S. Gorbachev disclosed the shortcomings of previous Communist rulers, Mr. Barr said he gave up on Communism.
        ''I believe that now history will show that the Russian Revolution was a tremendous mistake,'' Mr. Barr told Elizabeth Shogren of The Los Angeles Times. ''It was a step backward. The real revolution for mankind that will go down for many, many years was the American Revolution.''
        ''Knowing what I do now, it was a tremendous mistake to have done what I did,'' he said.
        Mr. Barr is survived by his Russian companion, known only as Elvira; four children from his marriage to Ms. Bergova, Vivian Berg and Robert Berg, both of whom defected to the United States and now live in San Diego, and Alena Berg and Anton Berg, who live in Russia; two daughters, Lera and Julia, from his relationship with Elvira, who live in Russia; two brothers, Arthur of New York and Bernard of San Diego; a sister, Iris Gilboard of Brighton, Mass., and four grandchildren.
        Although he continued to live in Russia, Mr. Barr began to travel to the United States in the early 1990's to visit his children and to try to interest American investors in a microelectronics venture. He even applied for -- and received -- Social Security benefits, to the chagrin of American officials. He had American and Russian citizenship and even held a New York driver's license.
      