
        Eldon Shamblin, a gifted rhythm guitarist who quietly helped Bob Wills's Texas Playboys with their influential merger of big-band jazz and old-time Southwestern fiddle music, died on Wednesday at a rest home in Sapulpa, Okla. He was 82.
        Born and raised in Weatherford, Okla., he got a job with the Playboys in 1936, shortly after Wills made Tulsa the group's base of operations. Mr. Shamblin's sound made a big impact on the band. A bit like Freddie Green, Count Basie's rhythm guitarist at that time, he cranked up the propulsive beat of the Western swing big-band sound by playing walking chords, altering them on every beat of a bar. A few years later his hard-driving, popping single-note solos showed that he had been listening to Charlie Christian, a fellow Oklahoman. He was also the band's primary arranger; what he did with ''San Antonio Rose'' became the Texas Playboys' signature.
        Mr. Shamblin left the band to join the Army in 1941. As a captain in the 99th Infantry Division, he fought in the Battle of the Bulge. He was missing in action behind enemy lines for three weeks and presumed dead but  found his way back to his unit.
        One night in 1946 in San Diego, ''Eldon came in with his Army uniform on,'' recalled Herb Remington, the band's steel guitarist, ''put on his cowboy hat and his boots, and he was a Texas Playboy again.'' Until he left the band in 1959, he was also its payroll manager. After Wills died in 1975, Mr. Shamblin joined Leon McAuliffe's band, the Original Texas Playboys, remaining until 1981.
        In the mid-1970's, he worked with Merle Haggard and became a sometime member of his band, the Strangers. He was also a member of the Playboys II, who released five records on the Glad Music label. He taught music theory and guitar at Claremore College in Oklahoma and had a piano-tuning business.
        Mr. Shamblin is survived by his daughter, Rita Shamblin Miller of Tulsa; a stepdaughter, Sue Lackey of Tulsa; a brother, J. C. Shamblin of Dallas, four grandchildren and three stepgrandchildren.
      