
        Oleg Prokofiev, whose work as a painter and sculptor was often overshadowed by his championship of the music of his composer father, Sergei, died on Aug. 20 while vacationing on the island of Guernsey in the English Channel. He was 69 and lived in London.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Prokofiev, the composer's second son, was born in 1928 while his parents were living in self-imposed exile in Paris. His mother, who was known as Lina (her full name was Carolina Codina y Llubera), was born in Spain and grew up in the United States. She met the composer after he played at Carnegie Hall in 1918, and returned to Europe with him. In 1935, the family returned to Moscow, where Sergei Prokofiev was first celebrated and later persecuted by the Soviet authorities.
        During World War II, the couple became estranged, and Oleg and his older brother, Sviatoslav, spent most of their time with their mother in Moscow. As a foreigner, she was regarded as a security risk, particularly since she continued to correspond with her mother in Nazi-occupied Paris, and maintained contact with Western friends, particularly Americans, despite her husband's warnings that she be more cautious.
        In 1948 she was arrested, charged with espionage and sent to a prison camp, where she remained until 1957, four years after the composer's death.
        Oleg Prokofiev studied sculpture at the Moscow School of Art, and privately with Robert Falk, but because he was attracted to avant-garde techniques, his work was rarely exhibited in Moscow. In 1971, after the death of his second wife, Camilla Gray, an English art historian, he and his daughter were allowed to visit his in-laws in England. They did not return, and were later joined in London by his mother.
        In the 1970's, he was a fellow in the fine arts department at Leeds University, and he continued to produce painting, sculpture and poetry, although his artworks were most widely seen when they were associated with festivals of his father's music.
        It was, in fact, as a lecturer and authority on his father's music that Mr. Prokofiev was best known. In 1985, he joined his mother, who was then 88, onstage at Alice Tully Hall for a performance of ''Peter and the Wolf'' with Lukas Foss and the Brooklyn Philharmonic. He also narrated the work for a recording on the Hyperion label in 1991.
        He was involved in the translation and editing of his father's ''Soviet Diary 1927 and Other Writings,'' and he corresponded enthusiastically with musicians, musicologists and filmmakers who were interested in works by his father and other Soviet composers. He was also active in the establishment of the Prokofiev Archive at Goldsmiths College, University of London.
        He is survived by his wife, Francis Child, and their four children, as well as a son and a daughter from earlier marriages. His mother, Lina, died in 1989 at age 91.
      