
        Thomas M. Mulry, who was the senior member of the New York public school system's Bureau of Attendance in 1985, when he publicly criticized the schools' policies for handling absenteeism, died on Thursday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 73 and lived in the Bronx all his life.
        He died during heart surgery, said his daughter Christine Gallo.
        Mr. Mulry delivered his criticism in Albany. At issue was the question of how best to handle absenteeism in the school system, which had 930,000 students, with 141,000 missing on any given day. He contended that the system was increasingly bypassing and playing down the bureau, thereby blunting the system's best weapon against absenteeism.
        But school officials said that the bureau had largely outlived its usefulness and that new strategies were required. By then, the days were long gone when truant officers had prowled the streets and visited homes to pick up hooky players. By 1985, weapons against absenteeism included computerized switchboards that automatically sent recorded messages to the homes of students who did not show up at school.
        The bureau was founded in 1914 to oversee measures against truancy, but its role dwindled in the 15 years before 1985. That change, Mr. Mulry asserted, amounted to a failure by the school system to enforce the attendance law.
        He joined the bureau in 1953 as an attendance officer, rose to become assistant director in 1976 and retired in 1987. During his last years in the bureau, he was its senior official because the directorship was vacant.
        Mr. Mulry was in the Marines during World War II. He received a bachelor's degree in education and master's degrees in education and social service, all from Fordham.
        Besides his daughter, Ms. Gallo of Bayport, N.Y., he is survived by his wife, the former Kathleen Claire Rahilly; four other daughters, Mary Virginia Lofsted of Manhattan, Julie Kaen of Yorktown Heights, N.Y., Janine Corona of Fairfield, Conn., and Claire Mulry of Edison, N.J.; two sons, Thomas Jr. of Little Neck, N.Y., and William of Fairfield, Conn.; 11 grandchildren; two brothers, James P. of Austin, Tex., and Dr. Charles A. of Beverly Hills, Calif., and a sister, Barbara Backus of Putnam Valley, N.Y.
      