
        Aaron Birnbaum, a New York dress manufacturer who took up painting after he retired and found himself hailed as an exceptional folk artist at the age of 100, died on Friday at the Crown Nursing Home in Brooklyn. He was 103.
        Mr. Birnbaum was one of the last of the 20th-century ''memory painters'' who, like Grandma Moses and Morris Hirschfield, recorded romanticized scenes from their youth in bright colors reflecting an optimistic spirit. In his work, Mr. Birnbaum merged incidents of his childhood in Eastern Europe with the settings of houses, streets and bridges of Brooklyn, where he had lived since 1913. He worked in oil or acrylic on paper, wood, glass or tin.
        ''Aaron Birnbaum was not a one-note Charlie as an artist,'' said Gerard C. Wertkin, director of the Museum of American Folk Art. ''He was able to use painting to record memories and also the shapes of things. There is a playfulness and an abstract quality that is most appealing. But there is also an edgy seriousness to his work.''
        Even at 100, Mr. Birnbaum was a powerful presence, all voice, lively eyes and a ready smile, as he welcomed visitors to his one-bedroom apartment. A small man, 4 foot 9, he painted daily in the living room, perched on a stool. When showing his work to a visitor, he moved easily about the room pulling out examples of his favorite paintings.
        Mr. Birnbaum took up painting at the age of 70, after the death of his wife, Sadie. He had closed his dress business, and to help ease his loneliness, his daughter, Lorraine Pearce, brought him paints, recalling that he had sketched the dresses he produced. Ms. Pearce, of Howard Beach, Queens, survives him, along with a son, Eugene, of Valley Stream, N.Y..
        Fame came some 30 years after he started painting, when the Museum of American Folk Art celebrated his art and his age at a party at the museum for his 100th birthday. His paintings were reproduced in the museum's Folk Art magazine and were shown with great success six months later at the Outsider Art Fair in Manhattan by Kerry Schuss, a Manhattan dealer who had represented him since 1986.
        Last year, Mr. Birnbaum went to the opening of a retrospective of his work at the Aldrich Museum of Contemporary Art in Ridgefield, Conn. When they arrived for the opening, Mr. Schuss recalled, Mr. Birnbaum seemed humbled, saying, ''If I would have known my paintings were going to a museum, I would have worked a little longer on them.''
        Mr. Birnbaum was born in Skole, a summer resort in what is now Ukraine. His father was a tailor, his mother a dressmaker. At 13, he was  apprenticed to a tailor, working from 5 in the morning to 10 at night, six days a week. This memory and the anti-Semitism he endured as a boy of 10, when teen-agers tore buttons off his new suit, were never depicted in his paintings.
        Disabled by a stroke two years ago, Mr. Birnbaum moved to the nursing home. He was no longer able to paint, but his ego and sense of humor remained intact. He was proud to display his work on the Internet, and was looking forward to his first one-man gallery show in October at K.S. Art in TriBeCa. ''Be sure to have the preview party early, between 1 and 3 in the afternoon,'' Mr. Birnbaum told Mr. Schuss. ''I go to sleep early these days.''
      