
        Jacek Kalabinski, a Polish journalist and former opposition figure who worked in the United States after fleeing his native land in 1983, died on July 24 at his home in Rockville, Md. He was 59.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Mr. Kalabinski was the Washington-based correspondent of the Warsaw daily Rzezcpospolita (The Republic). He previously worked for Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty as a program editor in New York and a senior correspondent in Washington.
        A 1961 journalism graduate of the University of Warsaw, he did postgraduate work at the Ecole Nationale des Sciences Politiques in Paris and as a journalism fellow at Stanford University. He started his career in the 1960's working as a reporter and editor in Warsaw.
        In 1968 he became a news editor for Polish Radio, and from 1973 to 1981 he was a foreign affairs commentator for the Polish National Radio network. After the imposition of martial law in Poland he was dismissed as ''unfit to serve in a militarized unit of Polish Radio and Television.''
        He had become the president of the Warsaw chapter of the Polish Journalists' Association in 1981. The association was shut down by the Government the following year. He was then the foreign editor of a Roman Catholic monthly in Warsaw and of Poland's largest uncensored underground weekly, Tygodnik Mazowsze. By then in hiding and on an arrest list, he wrote under the pen name Cassandra.
        Upon his arrival in the United States, he was named a visiting fellow at Yale University. His Op-Ed articles on Central Europe and the Soviet Union soon appeared in The New York Times and elsewhere.
        A linguist, he also accompanied Lech Walesa to Capitol Hill when Mr. Walesa, the chairman of Solidarity, Nobel laureate and future President of Poland, addressed Congress in November 1989. To the audience, Mr. Kalabinski's voice, a radio-trained baritone, became Mr. Walesa's, rendering the speech into idiomatic English as the visitor asked for support in efforts to make Poland ''the America of the East.''
        Mr. Kalabinski's survivors include his wife, Barbara; a daughter, Marta, 14, and his mother, Maria Kalabinska of Warsaw.
      