
        Chalmers P. Wylie, who represented Ohio for 26 years in the House and helped to win approval of the Federal bailout of the savings-and-loan industry, died today in Columbus, Ohio. He was 77.
        Mr. Wylie had a heart attack while waiting to have a routine eye examination at Ohio State University Medical Center, the center announced.
        As the ranking Republican on the House Banking Committee, Mr. Wylie helped to tailor President Bush's plan to rescue the savings-and-loan industry so it could gain support in the Democratic-controlled Congress.
        Although the precise causes and costs are still in doubt, there is widespread agreement that many members of the industry went astray in the 1980's, an era of relaxed regulation and high-flying finance, and plunged into risky investments outside their original mission of providing home mortgages.
        When a deep real estate slump, undependable interest rates, hard times in the oil industry and other factors slowed the economy, the savings-and-loan industry was in big trouble, and since its deposits were federally insured it was certain that taxpayers would be left holding the bag. The total cost of the bailout, stretched over many years, has been estimated into the hundreds of billions of dollars.
        Mr. Wylie, along with a Republican ally on the Banking Committee, Representative Jim Leach of Iowa, helped to win initial financing for the bailout in 1989 and renewed financing for several more years.
        Mr. Wylie was able to work with lawmakers of both parties, The Almanac of American Politics said,  because he was, basically, ''a pleasant man.''
        He was also, by some standards, a proudly old-fashioned one. In 1984, Mr. Wylie, a Methodist, opposed giving Federal money to the Library of Congress so it could produce a Braille edition of Playboy magazine. The magazine featured ''wanton and illicit sex,'' he said.
        Mr. Wylie's district encompassed much of Columbus, including some of its black population, white working-class and rural areas, and the Ohio State neighborhood. Throughout his career, The Almanac of American Politics said in its 1988 edition, Mr. Wylie blended impulses that were ''standard Republican'' with political instincts that were ''entirely practical, not theoretical.''
        Mr. Wylie was first elected to Congress in 1966, and his re-elections were often landslide victories. His worst showing was in 1990, when he won 59 percent of the vote against a relative unknown.
        He strongly supported veterans' benefits, military spending and a law against desecration of the American flag. His stands on issues were dependably heartland Republican.
        But a scandal involving the Department of Housing and Urban Development in the Ronald Reagan Administration distressed him, and he said so. The scandal involved former Reagan Administration officials who were paid large fees by developers seeking housing funds from H.U.D.
        ''My visceral reaction is that the fees paid were not appropriate,'' he said. Official inquiries would prove him right.
        Chalmers Wylie was born in Norwich, Ohio, on Nov. 23, 1920. He attended Otterbein College and Ohio State and graduated from Harvard Law School.
        Mr. Wylie enlisted in the Army in 1943 and rose to the rank of first lieutenant, serving with the 30th Infantry Division in France, Belgium and Germany. He was awarded a Silver Star for helping to evacuate wounded men from a mine field under enemy fire near the Rhine River in 1945. He was also awarded a Bronze Star, the French Croix de Guerre and the Purple Heart, for being wounded by artillery fire while helping to rescue wounded soldiers.
        Before going to Congress, Mr. Wylie was the City Attorney for Columbus, an assistant Ohio attorney general and a member of the State Legislature.
        Just before he retired from Congress in 1992, Mr. Wylie was one of more than 350 members who were hurt by disclosures that they had overdrawn their accounts on numerous occasions in the House's private bank. Although the overdrafts were simply covered by the deposits of other members, and there was no loss of taxpayer money, public surveys showed that many people thought erroneously that the offending representatives had ''bounced'' checks.
        Upon his retirement Mr. Wylie said, ''There is an ugliness in the House now which does not appeal to me.'' He practiced law in Columbus until his death.
        Surviving are his wife, Marjorie Ann; a son, Bradley, and a daughter, Jacquelyn Poston, both of the Columbus area; three sisters, Ramona Wylie and Georgia Miller, both of Columbus, and Opal Bailey of Florida, and four grandchildren.
      