
        They played ''Danny Boy'' for Tommie Ryan the other day, and how could they not? In the three-quarters of a century since he arrived in Chicago with his fiddle, a wiry 22-year-old refugee from the Irish nationalist rebellion and 14 months in a British prison camp, Thomas F. Ryan had played the same sad strains in sunshine and in shadow at more than 1,000 funerals.
        And when Mr. Ryan, long Chicago's best known and most beloved Irish icon, died on July 26 at 97 at his son Tom's home in suburban Park Ridge, the only question was whether the violin strains at his own funeral on Thursday would be drowned out by the skirl of bagpipes.
        For as Mr. Ryan often recalled, he had not been in Chicago four years before he and two friends had founded the Shannon Rovers, a bagpipe marching band that has since become one of Chicago's most famous musical groups, not to mention something akin to the house orchestra for the local Democratic Party.
        Among other things, the Rovers have played for every President from Franklin D. Roosevelt on, and they lead Chicago's annual St. Patrick's Day Parade, which, not surprisingly, is another of Mr. Ryan's legacies.
        In 1952, dismayed that Chicago had not celebrated St. Patrick's Day properly since 1898, Mr. Ryan organized a parade through his West Side neighborhood. Four years later, after a similar parade had been started on the South Side, Mayor Richard A. Daley brought them together downtown, and the Rovers have led the parade ever since, with Mr. Ryan marching at the fore into his 80's.
        Over the years, Mr. Ryan taught many of the band members to play the bagpipes, no mean feat for a man who mastered the fiddle as a youngster but had to wait until he became a streetcar conductor in Chicago to learn to play the bagpipes -- from an accommodating Scotsman who had formed a similar band.
        As Mr. Ryan never tired of recalling, bagpipes had long been banned in Ireland by British rulers who had learned the hard way that the music could stir the blood and spur rebellion.
        Mr. Ryan's personal rebellion began, by his own account, when the Black and Tans, the British force sent in to suppress the 1919 nationalist revolt, beat up his mother in her farmhouse in Limerick. Mr. Ryan joined the Flying Column of Middle Limerick of the Irish Republican Army, and he recalled blowing up bridges and felling trees to block the path of advancing troops as a teen-ager.
        After his capture, the British took him on a long boat ride around Ireland, gave him one grim night in the Dublin jail, where the leaders of the 1916 Easter Rising had been slain, then sent him to the Curragh prison camp in County Kildare, where Mr. Ryan, ever the optimist, promptly joined a group of prisoners who spent 10 months digging an escape tunnel with knives and forks.
        Some 200 prisoners escaped, Mr. Ryan said, but on the night he was to have made his crawl to freedom, a heavyset prisoner got stuck in the tunnel ahead of him, and by the time he was pulled out, ''the game was up.''
        Released after the treaty that created the Irish Free State in 1922, Mr. Ryan, following an older brother, went to Chicago and began making his legend. After 20 years as a streetcar conductor and bus driver, plum jobs that earned him more than policemen and firemen got, he recalled, he operated a popular tavern for a few years in the 1940's. He sold that and began a suburban phase, building a house on 25 acres in Wooddale, in part to be close to his new job as a state snowplow operator.
        Mr. Ryan, who later returned to Chicago, never held a party position higher than volunteer precinct captain, but under the patronage system operated by the original Mayor Daley, or ''His Lordship,'' as Mr. Ryan styled him, he never had to look far for a job, either. When he retired in 1969 to become a private building contractor, his title was stationary engineer for the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District.
        As he grew older, Mr. Ryan became an increasingly popular figure, one whose sense of humor never flagged. At a cemetery after a funeral not long ago, when a friend said he was 92, Mr. Ryan replied, ''You might as well stay here.''
        After the death of his wife, Julia, in 1987, he lived alone for a while, but Mr. Ryan, the last of 10 children, loved company so much he later divided his time among various of his seven children: Sheila Wisniewski, Marie Auer and Bob, Tom, John, Jerry and Ed Ryan. All of them live in or around Chicago, as do most of his 21 grandchildren and 20 great-grandchildren.
        When it came time to say goodbye  to the man who had played ''Danny Boy'' at more than 1,000 funerals, it was a son, John, and a grandson, Robert Emmett Ryan, who joined in a violin duet at St. Juliana Roman Catholic Church.
        Not that his Shannon Rovers were denied. They were out in kilted force, piping Mr. Ryan's coffin into and out of the church and later to his grave at a cemetery in suburban Hillside.
      