
        Thomas-Robert Ames, a New York educator and nationally known authority on the rehabilitation of the mentally retarded and disabled, died on Monday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 68 and lived on the Upper West Side.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said the YAI/National Institute for People with Disabilities. At his death Dr. Ames was vice chairman of the board of the Manhattan-based rehabilitation agency.
        The nonprofit YAI/National Institute, an outgrowth of the Young Adult Institute, operates 200 programs in New York City and State on an annual budget of $100 million. Its staff of more than 2,000 serves more than 12,000 individuals and their families. The agency provides day programs, group residences, counseling, help with employment, crisis intervention and a help line, among other services. Dr. Ames was credited with creating many of its innovative, nationally noted approaches, particularly its sexuality training and AIDS education programs, subjects that had previously received little attention.
        He was a past president of the Coalition on Sexuality and Disability, and had retired recently from the Department of Social Services at CUNY's Manhattan Community College after 28 years on the faculty. He was in private practice as a consultant, psychotherapist and sexuality educator and therapist.
        Dr. Ames joined the Young Adult Institute in 1966, was its executive director from 1967 to 1971, and was a board member for more than 20 years. He served Mayor John V. Lindsay as a member of the Committee on Mental Retardation, helping to write guidelines for dealing with the needs of people with developmental problems after the closing of Willowbrook State Hospital in 1975.
        ''In the beginning when sexuality was not talked about, understood, and restricted among the mentally retarded and other developmentally disabled individuals, Bob broke the barrier to say that these people have sexual needs and sexual rights,'' Harold Michal-Smith, past president of the American Association of Mental Retardation, said this week.
        A native of Daytona Beach, Fla., Thomas-Robert Ames graduated from the University of Florida with a degree in social sciences, studied theology at General Theological Seminary in New York City, and earned a master's degree and a doctorate in rehabilitation counseling at New York University's School of Education. He also trained in psychotherapy and sex therapy.
        Dr. Ames is survived by his mother, Helen-Margarett Reed Ames of Daytona Beach, Fla., and a brother, Dr. Richard K. Ames of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
      