
        Julian Green, the prolific and highly idiosyncratic novelist, playwright and memoirist who was the first American elected to the Academie Francaise, France's gallery of 40 literary luminaries, died on Thursday in Paris. He was 97.
        Mr. Green, who had his first novel published in 1927, is believed to have had the longest career of any major 20th-century writer. His life was distinguished, and to a great extent defined, by startling contrasts and contradictions. Born in Paris on Sept. 6, 1900, of American parents, he was fascinated by his ancestors but visited the United States infrequently, spending most of his life in France. All but a few of his books were written in French, and he came to be regarded as one of the preeminent stylists in the language, on a level with Paul Valery, Marcel Proust and Andre Gide.
        He was one of the few modern writers to have his collected works published in Gallimard's Pleiade library during his lifetime. Although he knew many of the century's leading French writers, and was an amused observer of their internecine battles, his own novels, like ''Moira'' and ''Each Man in His Darkness,'' owed more to Dickens, Balzac, Hawthorne and Poe. His books consistently received substantial attention in France, yet only intermittent, modest coverage in the United States.
        Mr. Green balanced a native reticence with a profound need to publicly explore his psyche, to chart his long, deeply tormented struggle to master physical desire and submit to faith, eventually publishing 14 volumes of his journals as well as five frank volumes of memoirs. (He and Gide, longtime friends, traded diaries so that they could read what each had said of the other.) He was both a devout Roman Catholic and a homosexual.
        Mr. Green was the youngest of seven children. His parents were from long-established Southern families, and he recollected in a 1991 interview with Alan Riding in The New York Times that when his father was sent to Europe in 1895 by an American firm, his mother, given the choice between Germany and France, had decided that they should live in Paris because ''the French had been defeated in 1870 and would understand the Southerners.''
        His mother's longing for the idealized world of her childhood, for plantations populated by gracious ladies and courtly gentlemen, and her stories of that lost world, made a powerful impression on Mr. Green. ''She told us all about the splendid victories,'' he said. ''But she was always bursting into tears. She didn't tell us until very late in the day that we had lost the war.''
        His father's success as a businessman provided the family with a life of privilege in a well-to-do neighborhood of Paris. In ''Green Paradise,'' the first of a quartet of memoirs devoted to his youth, Mr. Green wrote that while his childhood appeared unremarkable, by the age of 5 or 6 he had begun to sense a ''monstrous hunger,'' a vague but persistent and increasingly frantic yearning for sensual pleasure.
        Homosexual Desires That Scared a Teen-Ager
        He was horrified when, as an adolescent, he found this free-floating appetite becoming focused on his male schoolmates. He described the sensation as ''desire mingled with terror,'' and the disabling power of passion was to become a constant refrain in his work.
        He converted to Roman Catholicism in 1914. His mother died that  year, severing him, he said, from life's ''more amiable aspects.'' Devastated by the loss, he later identified his longing for the unquestioning love she represented, and the need to dissipate the ''inexpressible solitude'' following her death, as formative elements in his career.
        Mr. Green followed France's struggle during the early years of World War I with fervor. Impatient to serve, he joined the Red Cross in 1917 and drove an ambulance on the Italian front.
        He eventually talked his way into a French artillery regiment and was a member of the Allied occupation force in Germany. Discharged in 1919, he enrolled in the University of Virginia.
        While he later recalled having been fascinated by American society, he felt isolated. He described those years as ''some of the saddest of my life.''
        It was also when a recurrent fascination with writing displaced most other interests. He left the university without graduating in 1921, returning to France.
        He moved back in with his family, beginning a lengthy struggle to master his craft. Unwilling to sublimate his desires, he renounced his faith and ''threw myself into the streets in search of sensual pleasure.'' He was, he said, ''crucified in sex.'' Mr. Green wrote at night, in rooms ''so small and badly lighted,'' he later noted, ''that I had to supplement the electricity with the light of several candles.''
        It is a resonant image. The flickering light of another time seems to fall across Mr. Green's narratives: many of his 18 novels share with the works of such writers as Poe and Hawthorne a fascination with extremes of behavior, corrosive secrets, obscure passions, violence and guilt, all generated by intense, obsessive relationships. Like the writers he admired, he had little interest in rendering the day-to-day realities of his times or in grappling with social themes. He did, however, study Freud and incorporate many of the insights of the new field of psychoanalysis into his character studies.
        Intense Tales Inspired By Family Histories
        His first novel, ''Avarice House'' (1926), inspired by stories he had heard from his American relatives, deals with an innocent young woman growing up on an isolated Virginia estate, slowly destroyed by her mother's ferocious cupidity. The 18-year-old heroine of his poignant novel ''Adrienne Mesurat'' struggles to escape from the stifling proprieties of her provincial society and tyrannical family, throwing herself into an  affair that leads to betrayals, violence and insanity. The book, published in 1927, won the Femina Prize in France. It received enthusiastic reviews in the United States, sold 20,000 copies, and was a selection of the Book-of-the-Month Club.
        ''Dark Journey'' (1929) traces the complex aftermath of a violent assault on a young woman by a frustrated lover. After reading it, the playwright Maurice Maeterlinck described Mr. Green as ''a subterranean Balzac who trawled his miner's lamp through shadows far denser than those to which we have become accustomed. And what a beautiful light, when at certain moments, he comes out of the darkness and looks at the view.''
        Mr. Green's early success, and the acclaim of such writers as T. S. Eliot and Gide, seemed to have had little impact on his imagination: his novels (between 1926 and 1940 he produced roughly one a year) continued to plumb extremities of behavior, dwelling on violent encounters and characters who were often hapless victims of their appetites. These claustrophobic, intense tales were narrated in a prose of great precision and simplicity. Mr. Green labored to create a distinctive style. It was particularly challenging, he told Mr. Riding, because in modern French ''there are very few words. In the 16th century there were 50,000 words. Today the French only use about 4,000 words. But it means there is just one word to describe a certain thing, not two. You have to find 'le mot juste.' ''
        During the 1930's he studied Buddhism, and his novels became more fantastic. At the time Mr. Green knew many writers, took an interest in the arts and yet deftly remained outside the battles convulsing the literary world. He and Gide developed a strong, if guarded, friendship. Gide described Mr. Green as having ''a somber genius,'' and wrote in his ''Diaries'' that Mr. Green ''is one of those for whom one would demand the best of oneself.''
        As war approached, Mr. Green left Paris in 1940 and settled in America. He prepared radio programs in French for the Allies, and taught creative writing at several universities, including Princeton and Harvard. He published little during this period aside from ''Memories of Happy Days'' (1942), an elegiac memoir of his childhood and youth that dwelt on his spiritual conflicts. He rejoined the Roman Catholic Church in 1939.
        Mr. Green's output picked up when he returned to France after the war. But while his novels remained somber studies of romantic excess, often dwelling on sexual obsessions, they began to exhibit a more direct emphasis on faith. ''Moira'' (1950) and ''Each Man in His Darkness'' (1960),  generally considered his most accomplished novels, deal with extreme events. In ''Moira'' a young man rapes and then murders a girl; in ''Each Man in His Darkness'' a man struggling to suppress his homosexuality is drawn into a series of increasingly tormented relationships before being murdered by a would-be lover who has become obsessed with him. But both novels conclude with subtle suggestions of redemption and of the power of faith to ''obstruct the terrible mechanism of destiny,'' in Mr. Green's words. The protagonist of ''Darkness'' dies in serenity, having found, the narrator says, ''a region of light.'' Hermann Hesse described Mr. Green's novels of this period as the productions of ''a Christian Kafka.''
        A Man's Meditations On Faith and Flesh
        In 1953 Mr. Green's first play, ''South,'' was produced in Paris. More followed, and he diversified further by writing several screenplays. Mr. Green had issued the first volume drawn from his ''Journals'' in 1938 (he had begun keeping a daily journal in 1926, setting down not only his meditations on faith and the flesh but musings on literature and art and recollections of his family and friends). In the 1940's and 50's additional volumes appeared with regularity. Their prose was so exact and pure and their expression of faith so serene and deeply contemplative that some critics compared them favorably to Pascal's ''Pensees.''
        In 1970 his battle between ''intensely carnal and profoundly religious sides'' of his character ended when he renounced sex. Sexuality, he told a French interviewer, ''is an obstacle that stands between God and man.'' He also prepared four additional volumes of memoirs about his childhood and youth. (They were not released in the United States until the 1990's.)
        In 1971 Mr. Green was elected to the Academie Francaise, becoming its first foreign member. The academy, which was founded in 1635 by Cardinal Richelieu, restricts its membership to 40 writers, called the immortals, elected by members and approved by the President of France. Members are chosen primarily for their devotion to preserving the beauty and purity of the French language.
        Mr. Green never ceased writing: his work eventually included not only the novels, ''Journals'' and memoirs, but five plays, six collections of essays and two works of history. It was not that he was prolific, he told Mr. Riding, it was just that ''I am very old.'' His last major work in a planned trilogy brought him full circle. In the massive novels ''The Distant Lands'' (1991), ''The Stars of the South'' (1993) and ''Dixie'' he recreated the antebellum South as his mother had described it to him in  tales that fired his imagination.
        He is survived by his son, Jean-Eric Green.
        Few writers' lives have spanned so long or turbulent a period, or been as productive. And no modern writer has charted, with more ingenuity or energy, in more diverse ways, the weird landscape of erotic obsession, the corrosive effects of repression or the struggle to achieve faith in a disbelieving age.
        Mr. Green remained a courtly, serene eminence into his 90's, writing, giving interviews and still visible around Paris. He told an interviewer in 1990 that he could now, after a long struggle, await death with serenity. He was looking forward, he said, ''to standing before God . . . finally to know exactly who I am, free of all the illusions, the little lies, knowing I am going to purgatory, and knowing I will be very happy.''
      