
        James Roland Malley, a retired F.B.I. division chief who played a central role in the investigation of President John F. Kennedy's assassination, died on Aug. 7 at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 86.
        Mr. Malley, a 34-year veteran of the F.B.I., also served as president of the Society of Former Special Agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and as chairman of its charitable arm, the Former Agents of the F.B.I. Foundation. He retired from the agency in 1971 as head of its general investigative division with the rank of inspector.
        A native of Kansas City, Kan., he graduated from the University of Missouri at Kansas City School of Law and joined the bureau in 1937. He worked in Missouri, New York and Texas, where he was in charge of the Houston office.
        He was called to Washington in 1952 and assigned to the general investigative division. When President Kennedy was killed in November 1963, Mr. Malley helped direct the F.B.I. investigation.
        After President Lyndon B. Johnson ordered creation of the panel popularly known as the Warren Commission for its chairman, Chief Justice Earl Warren, Mr. Malley became the bureau's liaison to the panel. It heard from 552 witnesses and pored over reports from 10 Federal agencies involved in the investigation. The panel's report in September 1964 pronounced Lee Harvey Oswald as the lone killer.
        Accusations of a whitewash persisted, however, and in 1978 Mr. Malley was called to testify before a Select House Committee on Assassinations, which wanted to know how Federal agencies handled themselves in the inquiry. He was asked then about the possibility of a conspiracy.
        ''I do know it was on everybody's mind,'' Mr. Malley told the panel. ''Was somebody else involved? That existed from the minute it happened.'' He then told of the F.B.I.'s efforts to track down possible Cuban or crime-syndicate connections, but said that no credible evidence was found.
        Mr. Malley's survivors include his wife, Pat; a daughter, Patricia M. Tighe, also of Alexandria, and two grandchildren.
      