
        Leslie B. Worthington, who as president of the United States Steel Corporation guided the company out of a prolonged steelworkers' strike and into a confrontation with President John F. Kennedy over the industry's 's attempt to raise steel prices, died Monday at his home in Ligonier, Pa. He was 96.
        The son of a coal miner who came to this country from England with his family in 1907, Mr. Worthington was elected the eighth president of the country's largest steel manufacturer on Nov. 10, 1959. At the time, United States Steel was four months into a six-month strike by steelworkers, then the longest strike in the industry's history. The labor dispute was settled in January 1960 after intervention by Vice President Richard M. Nixon and Labor Secretary James P. Mitchell.
        Even for someone who had spent his entire career in the steel industry, Mr. Worthington's move to the top ranks of corporate America came earlier than expected. His predecessor, Walter F. Mumford, had been president of United States Steel for only a few months in 1959 when he accidentally inflicted a knife wound on himself. A day after undergoing surgery to repair the wound, Mr. Mumford suffered a stroke. He died shortly thereafter.
        At the time of Mr. Worthington's appointment, observers on Wall Street expected him to fight a pitched battle against the low-cost imported steel that was dogging the industry. Like the company founder Charles M. Schwab, Mr. Worthington's background was in sales, rather than manufacturing. He joined the Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corporation as a sales apprentice in 1923 after graduation from the University of Illinois, and worked his way up through the marketing ranks, heading the company's sales offices in St. Paul, Detroit and Pittsburgh.
        In 1942, Mr. Worthington moved to the United States Steel Supply Corporation as a vice president, becoming president in 1946, a post he held for 11 years. In 1957, he was named president of the company's big Columbia-Geneva Steel division in San Francisco.
        After taking over as president and a director of the parent company in 1959, Mr. Worthington remained second-in-command to United States Steel's chairman, Roger M. Blough. But as head of the company's executive committee, Mr. Worthington was most often the company's public face.
        As such, he used the wage increases granted to steelworkers in 1960 and again in 1962 as an opportunity to engage in a battle of wills with the Kennedy Administration, which had chastised the steel industry for failing to make enough investments in new plants and equipment.
        Mr. Worthington countered by arguing that the industry's real problems were caused by cheaper imports, made overseas by workers who earned less than one-third the $32 a day paid to American steelworkers, and from domestic manufacturers of rival materials, like aluminum and plastics.
        The confrontation reached a culmination in April 1962, when United States Steel announced its first price increase in four years, raising the price of steel mill products by $6 a ton, to $176.
        The move shocked and enraged President Kennedy, who attacked the increase as ''a chilling and irresponsible defiance of the nation's interest'' and ordered a Federal grand jury investigation of United States Steel under the Sherman Antitrust Act.
        After three days of rhetoric and negotiation, which included a move by the Defense Department, the biggest steel buyer in the nation, to divert purchases to other manufacturers, United States Steel followed the lead of several smaller steelmakers in rescinding the price increase.
        But that was not the end of the acrimony. Two weeks later, United States Steel and the Bethlehem Steel Company were indicted on charges of violating Federal antitrust laws. Federal officials said the indictment had nothing to do with the aborted price increase, but again in September 1962, United States Steel was one of 15 companies named in a Federal indictment for conspiracy to fix prices of plastic hose and pipe.
        In April 1963, United States Steel and the other steel companies finally pushed through ''selected price adjustments'' that averaged $4.85 a ton. This time, President Kennedy said, the price increase was ''not incompatible with a framework of general stability and steel price stability.'' And when the big steel companies again raised prices in August 1966, President Lyndon B. Johnson made nary a protest.
        In 1966, one year before his retirement, Mr. Worthington began to push United States Steel into more vigorous competition in the chemicals industry, consolidating its packaging and plastics operations into a new division, USS Chemicals. But by and large, the days of Big Steel had passed.
        Mr. Worthington is survived by his second wife, Bernice Hubbard Worthington; two sons, John Rice Worthington of Washington and Paul Leslie Worthington of Milwaukee;  five grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren. His first wife, Dorothy Helen Rice Worthington, died in 1968.
      