
        Ernest M. Dickerman, who was known by the Sierra Club as ''the granddad of the Eastern wilderness'' for his efforts to persuade people to defend their forests and wilderness from the power saws and bulldozers of loggers, developers, road builders and other commercial interests, committed suicide late Friday or early Saturday at his cabin in the mountains of Buffalo Gap, Va. He was 87.
        He was found under a cherry tree behind his cabin, having shot himself, the sheriff's office reported. In a note to his family, Mr. Dickerman said he took his own life as he had long planned to do after the infirmities of age left him unable to ''master my own fate in the wilds of this wild country.''
        Mr. Dickerman was a well-known lobbyist for the Wilderness Society, president of the Smoky Mountains Hiking Club and a leader of campaigns that led to the designation of protected wildlife status for more than 100 million acres in the United States, beginning in 1964. For several decades he was in the forefront of efforts to hold down development in the national parks, forests and designated wild lands. Among his accomplishments was the halting of proposed oil drilling that he said threatened the scenic highlands of Laurel Park in the George Washington National Forest in Virginia.
        Brock Evans, former vice president for national issues of the Audubon Society, said, ''The only way the environmental movement ever gets anything accomplished is through endless pressure, endlessly applied. And that was Ernie Dickerman -- always writing letters or making calls.''
        Mr. Dickerman, by all accounts, was a tireless hiker who was said to have had a compass in his head. He never used trails or trail maps, often carried the backpacks of less hardy companions and plunged onward through the wild and up the sides of mountains to what he regarded as a greater glory. On one of his climbs to the summit of Mount LeConte in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park in Tennessee and North Carolina, he said, ''This is what I was looking for on this planet,'' and instead of planting a flag he did a handstand at the top.
        Ernest Miller Dickerman was born on Dec. 22, 1910, in Chicago. His father, Judson C. Dickerman, was a civil engineer with the Federal Power Commission in Washington. His mother died when he was 5, and he and his brother, Charles, were taken care of at home by their sister, Virginia, who was 11, and were then sent to boarding schools. Mr. Dickerman graduated from Gettysburg Academy in Gettysburg, Pa., and then from Oberlin College in 1931.
        He loved the outdoors from an early age and went to work for the Tennessee Valley Authority in Knoxville in 1933, a job in which he hiked or biked or canoed around the poor villages of Tennessee, telling people what it was going to be like for them when they got electricity and trying to figure out where to put the power lines. He left after four years and went to work in a button factory in Knoxville.
        Soon after, he joined the Smoky Mountains Hiking Club, which was formed to help preserve the natural woodlands and successfully pushed for three national parks, the Smokies, the Shenandoah Valley in Virginia and Mammoth Cave in Kentucky. He monitored the Government's management and development of the Smokies, fighting several battles on those issues with the National Park Service.
        ''Fortunately the service decided that there would be no commercial development, but it was unfortunate that the Civilian Conservation Corps was allowed to put in a dozen camps,'' Mr. Dickerman said. ''The C.C.C. was one of the best things any government ever did anywhere but they overdid it in the Smokies. They built endless numbers of fire roads up every big hollow, and too damn many automobile camps, and 650 miles of park trails. Guys like me considered them another form of devastation.''
        Mr. Dickerman served in England and France with an Army chemical warfare unit in World War II. After the war, he found that, ''where the Forest Service had been adding wild lands to its system, lands were now being removed.''
        ''World War II technology made rough-terrain vehicles a reality,'' he continued, ''and wilderness areas once thought inaccessible could now be logged at a profit.''
        A crisis arose in the mid-1950's for Mr. Dickerman and other conservationists when the Federal Bureau of Reclamation announced a plan to build a dam in Echo Park in the Dinosaur National Monument on the Utah-Colorado border. With the Wilderness Society and the Sierra Club leading the way, the conservationist groups, acting in concert for one of the first times, blocked the dam and persuaded Congress to pass the Wilderness Act in 1964 to provide permanent protection from development for wilderness areas.
        Two years later, when George B. Hartzog Jr., then director of the Park Service, announced a plan to build a second highway through the Smokies, Mr. Dickerman quit his job at the button factory and joined the staff of the Wilderness Society as a full-time organizer. He traveled the country giving speeches and organizing hikes against the highway, and the resulting overwhelming public opposition killed the project.
        After he retired from the Wilderness Society in 1976, Mr. Dickerman was given a number of awards from the Sierra Club and other groups for his work in conservation and environmental protection. But he did not slow down. He worked for years at promoting conservation from his cabin on the farm of a nephew, C. Robert Dickerman, his only survivor.
        As he approached his 90's, the phone in his cabin often rang with calls from young conservationists seeking advice on how to overcome opposition.
        ''You have to keep right on pointing out how important it is to preserve the wild country,'' Mr. Dickerman told them. ''There is always a lot of opposition to wilderness. People are always a lot more interested in the short-term economic benefits rather than the long-term quality-of-life issues.''
      