
        Anthony J. Genovesi, a State Assemblyman and powerful political force in Brooklyn Democratic politics for two decades, was killed on Monday night in a one-car accident about 50 miles north of New York City.
        Mr. Genovesi, 61, and his 26-year-old daughter, Lara, were returning from a family home in the Berkshires when the car, driven by his daughter, lost control on a rainy highway in Dutchess County, according to the state police. Ms. Genovesi was slightly injured.
        Mr. Genovesi, a liberal politician whose political views were often considered somewhat out of sync with his moderate-to-conservative district in the Canarsie section of Brooklyn, was known as a master campaign technician.
        He was a bulky, gruff-talking figure who knew the ins and outs of neighborhood and state politics better than, arguably, any of his rivals of the day. Perhaps because he rarely agreed to talk to reporters, he developed a reputation over the years for being an enigmatic and  influential political player. He was, in many ways, a political strategist in the tradition of the Brooklyn politics of old -- an insider who, unlike most politicians today, hated to see his name in print.
        He was an early and staunch supporter of Edward I. Koch and helped to turn out the vote in Brooklyn for each of his mayoral campaigns.
        ''He was like an oak,'' Mr. Koch said yesterday. ''You could count on him. He treated his turf as though it was a small town. And he would work with government, not for himself, but for those people, like a Little League ball team that needed funding. I loved him like a brother.''
        In recent years, Mr. Genovesi had become a strong political opponent of Assemblyman Clarence Norman Jr., the Brooklyn Democratic chairman. Their most notable clash came two years ago, when the two leaders backed competing candidates for Brooklyn surrogate. The victory by Mr. Norman's candidate signaled to some the waning of Mr. Genovesi's political prowess.
        Still, Mr. Genovesi's death upends Brooklyn politics in that it removes the most significant rival to Mr. Norman's leadership. It is unclear who, if anybody, will emerge as the successor to lead that opposition group to Mr. Norman's leadership.
        The state police said the accident in which Mr. Genovesi was killed occurred about 11:40 P.M. on Monday on State Route 22 in Pawling.
        Mr. Genovesi was a passenger in the 1988 Toyota driven by his daughter. Ms. Genovesi told state troopers that water from a passing vehicle had splashed onto the windshield of her car, which then slid across the highway and struck a concrete retaining wall. Sgt. Robert L. Hogan Jr. of the state police said the Assemblyman was pronounced dead at the scene. Ms. Genovesi was treated for a bruised hip and was not hospitalized.
        Anthony Joseph Genovesi was born in Brooklyn and graduated from St. Peter's College in 1958 and Fordham University School of Law in 1961. He served in the Army in the Judge Advocate General's Corps.
        Mr. Genovesi was a Democratic  state committeeman and was director of the Democratic Assembly Campaign Committee from 1980 until 1986, helping to elect many of the officials who were to become his colleagues and were thus always in his political debt.
        In Albany, he was chairman of the Committee on Oversight, Analysis and Investigation. In that role, he led a battle that resulted last year in a court decision that ordered the opening of financial records on the contributors to the 1995 inauguration of George E. Pataki as Governor.
        While Mr. Genovesi was known for his brusque demeanor, he was also widely admired for his powerful and moving speeches on the floor of the Assembly opposing the death penalty, which were annual events until a capital punishment bill was signed into law in 1995. He was remembered yesterday by politicians throughout the state as a fighter for the interests of his district and for Brooklyn.
        Though he was an Assemblyman, his real political power came from his command over intricacies of neighborhood politics through his leadership of the Thomas Jefferson Democratic Club, the political base of his principal political benefactor, Meade H. Esposito, the once-powerful Brooklyn Democratic chief, and Stanley Fink, the longtime Assembly Speaker. Mr. Genovesi was the right-hand man to Mr. Fink, whom he succeeded in the Assembly in 1987.
        While he had several political successes -- including engineering the election of several Brooklyn officials and judges -- Mr. Genovesi had his share of losses as well. He was twice unsuccessful in his effort to become the Brooklyn Democratic chairman.
        Over the years, his political rivalries involved some prominent Democrats, like Sheldon Silver, the current Assembly Speaker, and Mario M. Cuomo, the former Governor.
        Mr. Genovesi was one of several rivals that Mr. Silver beat out in 1994 to succeed the late Saul Weprin as Assembly Speaker. And Mr. Genovesi twice found himself at odds with Mr. Cuomo over election politics. In 1977, he backed Mr. Koch over Mr. Cuomo for mayor of New York City -- a race Mr. Koch won -- and in 1982, Mr. Genovesi supported Mr. Koch in his bid for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination, a race Mr. Cuomo won.
        Both Mr. Silver and Mr. Cuomo praised their sometime rival yesterday.
        In a statement, Mr. Silver said, ''Assemblyman Genovesi was a man whose boisterous spirit and down-to-earth manner did not hide a generous heart and a genuine compassion for people.''
        Mr. Cuomo said of the Assemblyman, ''He followed his beliefs always, whether they were popular or not.''
        Governor Pataki yesterday called Mr. Genovesi ''a dedicated public servant with a sharp mind and quick sense of humor.''
        Mr. Genovesi was a colorful figure and politics was his lifeblood. For years, he convened Thursday breakfasts at the old Woerner's Restaurant in downtown Brooklyn, where he led discussions of the borough's political landscape with political figures, strategists and others.
        Throughout his tenure in the Assembly, he maintained his law practice in Canarsie with several partners, including his son, Anthony, and City Councilman Herbert E. Berman. He often took on the cases of neighborhood residents, frequently for free. His daughter, Lara, recently joined the firm.
        In addition to his daughter, Lara, he is survived by his wife of 38 years, Joyce; three sons, Joseph, of Rye, N.Y., and Anthony and Mark, both of Brooklyn, and another daughter, Elena Sirota of Brooklyn.
      