
        Michael D. Palm, a former English teacher who made a fortune in reinsurance -- the business of sharing the risk of insurance companies -- and then contributed millions to benefit the arts, gay rights and AIDS treatment, died last Friday at his home in Telluride, Colo. He was 47 years old and also had homes in Manhattan and St. Croix in the Virgin Islands.
        The cause of death was heart failure caused by complications from AIDS, according to his sister, Melissa Jamula of Reading, Pa.
        Along with Steven Gluckstern, a former colleague at an English-language school in Teheran, Iran, Mr. Palm founded Center Re, a Bermuda reinsurance company, in 1988. Centre Re specialized in a then relatively little-used kind of coverage that specificially limited the losses the reinsurer could suffer and rewarded customers with rebates on premiums  for keeping claims down.
        The approach, known as finite risk and now often used as a tool in both reinsurance and primary insurance, lowered the cost of protection for  customers and eliminated the rare, but very real, possibility of a reinsurance company's being wiped out by an avalanche of claims.
        While the method Mr. Palm helped popularize can be profitable, it is not a factor in most reinsurance, partly because calculating limits of coverage and rebate levels is difficult and because an overweening goal of many primary insurers is virtually unlimited protection against huge losses. Also, many reinsurers prefer the higher premiums that come their way in exchange for fuller protection.
        One of the initial backers of Centre Re, now called Centre Solutions, was the Zurich Insurance Group. The Zurich group bought the entire company in 1993 and kept the founders as the chief executives. Mr. Palm retired as vice chairman at the turn of the year, saying he wanted to devote himself to philanthropy and more reading and thinking.
        Mr. Palm, whose father was a policeman and later a city councilman in Reading, graduated from Yale University and earned a master's degree from Harvard University.
        After working together in Teheran, Mr. Palm and Mr. Gluckstern initially followed different paths in finance. But they were reunited when Mr. Gluckstern was hired by Warren E. Buffett to run a reinsurance unit of Berkshire Hathaway and Mr. Gluckstern invited Mr. Palm to join him. Mr. Buffet did not share their enthusiasm for finite risk, so the two friends struck out on their own. Their creation now has assets of more than $9 billion.
        Mr. Palm set up the Michael Palm Foundation in New York in 1995 with an endowment of $10 million. The next year, the foundation gave $2.5 million to the Gay Men's Health Crisis, the nation's largest provider of AIDS services, to help build a $12 million headquarters in New York.  The foundation also pledged $1 million each to the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation and the Human Rights Campaign, the nation's largest gay political organization. It pledged $1 million to Yale the next year.
        Mr. Palm, who kept two pianos -- a Baldwin and an antique Steinway --  in his penthouse apartment overlooking Lincoln Center and loved to romp through classical pieces and popular  songs from the 1930's and 1940's, also contributed to the Metropolitan Opera and Carnegie Hall as well as the opera in Telluride.
        In addition to his sister, Mr. Palm is survived by his mother, Irma, of Reading.
      