
        Dr. Bennett M. Derby, a neuropathologist who specialized in brain injuries suffered by boxers and who persuaded New York boxing officials to establish stronger safety standards, died Aug. 9 at his home in Manhattan. He was 69.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        He had been a professor of neurology and pathology at the New York University School of Medicine since 1965.
        After the widely reported boxing death of Willie Classen in 1979, Dr. Derby reviewed videotapes of the bout at the Felt Forum in Madison Square Garden and then testified before a State Senate investigating committee that the fighter seemed to have suffered a concussion a round before receiving the knockout punches that eventually killed him.
        Three consecutive rights to the left side of the boxer's head in the ninth round ''stopped his clock,'' Dr. Derby said, and the fight should have been halted then. Instead, the referee let the bout continue.
        A ringside doctor -- a pediatrician working his first fight for $50, without training in trauma or athletic injury -- testified that he had not even seen the three punches, but had been engaged in a conversation that might have distracted him. He also pronounced the fighter fit to continue after examining him before the 10th round.
        As Mr. Classen rose, late, for the 10th, he took two rights to the head that in Dr. Derby's view caused a brain hemorrhage and his death.
        But it was the fighter's weakened reflexes that left him open to the fatal blows, Dr. Derby said. ''In the ninth round I saw exactly when the fight should have been stopped,'' he testified. ''In the 10th round, I saw a man killed in front of my eyes. All of this was preventable.''
        He testified that the customary count of 10 was not enough time for a boxer to recover his senses, that the standard one-minute rest between rounds was not enough for a doctor to assess brain injury, and that after being knocked out, boxers should be barred from ring training and fights for 90 days, not 30.
        For years, he advocated CAT scans of the brain for all boxers at regular intervals and after a knockout. In 1983, such exams were required, at state expense. Dr. Derby kept files on boxers whose brain conditions he tracked over the years, looking for blood clots or atrophy.
        His efforts resulted in mandatory protective headgear for amateur boxers, softer ring mats to prevent head injury, and trauma training for referees and ringside doctors.
        Dr. Derby was an attending neurologist at Bellevue Hospital Center, where Mr. Classen died five days after his knockout, prompting the State Athletic Commission to suspend all professional fights until more safety procedures could be adopted. The next year, Dr. Derby was named to the commission's medical advisory board.
        In the 70's and 80's, Dr. Derby's expertise helped solve hundreds of murder cases and prison deaths in New York, Maine and other states, said Dr. Michael Baden, New York City's chief medical examiner in the 70's and now director of forensic sciences for the New York State Police.
        He said Dr. Derby worked to improve care of battered children and to prevent brain deterioration resulting from repeated sports injuries -- the sort of decline experienced by Joe Louis and Muhammad Ali.
        From 1965 to 1980, Dr. Derby was chief of the neurology service at the Veterans Administration Hospital in New York City.
        Over the years he was employed by the United States Attorney's office for the Eastern District of New York and the Medical Review Board of the state's Commission of Correction, and was the city's assistant medical examiner.
        Bennett Marsh Derby was born in Brooklyn and received his B.A. from Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y., in 1952, and his M.D. from the University of Virginia School of Medicine in 1956.
        He is survived by his wife, Susan; two brothers, the Rev. Roger Sherman Derby, of Pontiac, Mich.; and Joel Morse Derby, of Syracuse, N.Y., and a sister, Leora Derby Howe, of Brattleboro, Vt.
      