
        C. Dickerman Williams, a corporate lawyer who also represented freedom-of-speech clients of diverse perspectives, including The Daily Worker in the 1920's and The National Review in the 1960's, died on Aug. 12 at his Whitney Center retirement home in Hamden, Conn. He was 97.
        Mr. Williams had moved to the Whitney Center from Manhattan in 1983.
        Over the years, his corporate clientele at the Park Avenue firm of Baker, Nelson & Williams included large transportation concerns like the American-flag shipping lines fighting for lower tolls in the Panama Canal in the 1950's. But his career ran the gamut.
        He was an assistant United States attorney in Manhattan fighting bootleggers as head of a prohibition enforcement unit in 1926. Right after that he became active in the Young Republican Club, was an election district captain and led a campaign for a new Federal courthouse, denouncing the one then occupying the south end of City Hall Park as filthy and cramped.
        The same year, 1927, he volunteered his services to the Civil Liberties Union to defend six writers and editors of The Daily Worker, the Communist Party newspaper. They were accused of publishing an obscene -- and unpatriotic -- poem, but Mr. Williams persuaded a Federal judge to dismiss the indictment.
        With Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia, he conducted years of legal maneuvering to seize the Interborough Rapid Transit Company and unify the city's transit system, and he headed the Citizens Union's efforts to stem successive fare increases.
        In 1951, President Harry S. Truman appointed him Solicitor, or chief legal officer, of the Commerce Department, a post he held for two years.
        In 1966, Mr. Williams defended William F. Buckley Jr. and his National Review in a libel suit brought by the Nobelist Linus C. Pauling. Dr. Pauling objected to being described in the publication's editorials as a fellow traveler. But Mr. Williams obtained a dismissal on the ground that Dr. Pauling had made himself a public figure whose complaint did not meet the standard for a finding of libel.
        Mr. Williams again represented Mr. Buckley and the radio commentator M. Stanton Evans in a seven-year legal fight against compulsory membership in the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists. As a compromise, Aftra agreed to notify performers that they need not join the union, but all who worked under a standard Aftra contract were required to pay union dues whether they joined or not.
        Mr. Williams was a past director of the American Civil Liberties Union, which elected him to its board in 1954.
        At his death, he remained of counsel to Baker, Nelson & Williams.
        He was born in Milton, Pa., and graduated from Yale University in 1922 and Yale Law School in 1924. He spent the next year as law clerk to Chief Justice William Howard Taft.
        He is survived by two daughters, Joan W. Farr of Manhattan and Honor W. Ishida of Tokyo; a son, Judge Stephen F. Williams of the United States Circuit Court in Washington, and nine grandchildren. His wife, Virginia Fain Williams, died in 1979 after nearly 50 years of marriage.
      