
        Jim Murray, whose humorous, vinegary and graceful columns for The Los Angeles Times made him one of only four sportswriters to win the Pulitzer Prize for general commentary, died Sunday of cardiac arrest at his home in Los Angeles, the newspaper reported. He was 78.
        Mr. Murray filed his last dispatch on Saturday from the Del Mar race track, a column about a victory by the thoroughbred Free House, who barely fell short in all three Triple Crown races last year.
        ''The bridesmaid finally caught the bouquet,'' he wrote. ''The 'best friend' got the girl in the Warner Bros. movie for a change. The sidekick saves the fort. Free House just won't fold the hand.''
        Despite eye problems and heart surgery in past years. Mr. Murray was still writing his column regularly, puncturing a subject's pomposity or skewering cities. ''Detroit,'' he once wrote, ''should be left on the doorstep of the Salvation Army.''
        The sportswriter Frank Deford said: ''He could be brutal. But there was so much humor, people didn't get mad about it.''
        Well, some did. Indianapolis 500 officials were not amused that he dubbed the race ''America's Earache'' and suggested they start the annual car race by saying, ''Gentlemen, start your coffins.''
        Mr. Murray joined The Los Angeles Times in 1961, after stints with The New Haven Register, The Los Angeles Herald-Examiner, Time and Life magazines as their Hollywood correspondent, and Sports Illustrated, which he helped found in 1953.
        The Times hired him as a sports columnist, and he won numerous awards for his writing, but in a business known for bravado and hyperbole, Mr. Murray was revered for his modesty.
        ''There was no bluster in the guy,'' said Bill Dwyre, the sports editor of The Times. ''I have agate clerks with more ego than he did.''
        When he won the Pulitzer in 1990, Mr. Murray said he thought a winner had ''to bring down a government or expose major graft or give advice to prime ministers.''
        He added, ''Correctly quoting Tommy Lasorda shouldn't merit a Pulitzer Prize.''
        Mr. Murray joined Arthur Daley, Red Smith and Dave Anderson, all of The New York Times, as the only sportswriters to win Pulitzers for commentary.
        Mr. Deford recalled an award ceremony several years ago in Los Angeles. ''Ronald Reagan came,'' he said. ''He did a 10-minute standup. Not for many sportswriters would an ex-President show up to pay tribute.''
        In his autobiography, Mr. Murray described his vivid approach to writing. ''People need to be amused, shocked, titillated or angered,'' he wrote. ''But if you can amuse or shock or make them indignant enough, you can slip lots of information into your message.''
        In 1979, a detached retina in his left eye left him nearly blind; his right eye had a cataract. ''I lost an old friend the other day,'' Mr. Murray wrote after failed surgery. ''He was blue-eyed, impish, he cried a lot with me, saw a great many things with me. I don't know why he left me. Boredom perhaps.''
        He continued to cover sports for The Times with a companion to describe what he could no longer see. But surgery in early 1982 restored some sight to his right eye, allowing him to observe sports unaided.
        Later that year, Ricky, 29, the youngest of his three sons with his first wife, Geraldine, died of a drug overdose. In 1984, Mrs. Murray died of cancer. ''I don't mean to inflict my grief on you, but she deserves to be known by anyone who knows me,'' Mr. Murray wrote after her death. ''She has a right to this space more than any athlete who ever lived.''
        Mr. Murray is survived by his second wife, Linda McCoy; three children, Pam Skeoch, Ted and Tony; two granddaughters and a stepson.
      