
        Sister Irene Kraus, a onetime schoolteacher with such a high-spirited talent for leadership and such hard-nosed business ability that she went on to run a series of hospitals and spend six years as the founding chief executive of the $3 billion Daughters of Charity National Health System, died Aug. 20 at a hospital in Baltimore. She was 74 and lived in Emmitsburg, Md., where she was administrator of her order's provincial headquarters.
        Friends said the cause was cancer.
        While it is tempting to speculate on what direction her life might have taken if she had not joined the Daughters of Charity of St. Vincent de Paul, in an era when women's horizons were bounded largely by home and family, it would be hard to find a secular career path that would have allowed her to become president of the nation's largest nonprofit hospital chain.
        But then for Sister Irene, who grew up in Philadelphia, the religious life seems to have been a foregone family conclusion. Like her business acumen and her boundless good humor, her religious commitment seems to have come from her father, Frank, a Pennsylvania Railroad executive with a weakness for practical jokes and such a spiritual bent, his daughter later recalled, that ''he would pray all the way to work, and when I went with him, I would pray, too.''
        A standout student at the Daughters of Charity's Elizabeth Seton High School in Baltimore, Sister Irene graduated at 17 in 1941 and immediately joined the religious order.
        After a year of novitiate training, she spent seven years teaching elementary and high school students in Richmond. Then her superiors decided it was time for her to get a college education and asked her to switch to a medical career.
        After earning a nursing degree at the Catholic University of America in Washington in 1952, she quickly became an operating room supervisor, performing her duties at a series of hospitals with such efficiency and flair that three years later she was made administrator of Our Lady of Lourdes Memorial Hospital in Binghamton, N.Y., the first of several hospitals nationwide she ran for the order.
        When the five autonomous American provinces of the Daughters of Charity decided to consolidate their hospital systems in 1986, Sister Irene was the obvious choice to put the merger into effect and run the operation, which included three dozen hospitals and 19 other operations in 17 states with a combined annual budget of more than $3 billion.
        And over the next six years, during a period of mounting fiscal and other pressures, she proved more than equal to the task of meshing often incompatible accounting and other systems into an efficient operation with common purchasing and other functions.
        In addition to its embrace of women's potential, the religious order gave Sister Irene other advantages. In a business world where women have had to pick their way through contradictory advice on how to dress for success, Sister Irene never had a wardrobe worry. Whether conducting a board meeting or entertaining at a reception, she wore a version of the same understated habit, a simple blue dress, she had worn as an elementary school teacher.
        If the men she encountered were unaccustomed to dealing with a hard-driving business woman in a habit, Sister Irene, a raconteur with an impish sense of humor, knew how to put them at ease and rarely stopped there. At stodgy gatherings, Sister Irene, a tall, imposing woman with a commanding laugh, would sometimes break into an impromptu dance. And when she got up from her seat at a formal dinner to ''work the room,'' Sister Irene would be easy to track: She inevitably left a trail of laughter in her wake.
        During a career in which she served on more than 70 national boards and committees, Sister Irene became accustomed to being the only woman in the room. And in 1980, when she became the first woman to serve as chairman of the American Hospital Association, she headed off a move to call her chairwoman or chairperson. She told the board, ''I didn't work this hard to get here and have my title changed.''
        For all her accomplishments as president of the national system, Sister Irene, who later ran a hospital in Pensacola, Fla., and was still vice chairman of the merged Baptist St. Vincent's Hospital system in Jacksonville, Fla., at the time of her death, said her proudest achievement was developing a five-point value system for the national chain. The first four, including treating people with respect and serving the impoverished, sounded like familiar religious principles. The fifth, ''Be Creative to Infinity,'' sounded exactly like Sister Irene.
        Sister Irene is survived by three sisters, Gertrude Hunter and Maguerite Williams of Bel Air, Md., and Dolores Freeman of Willards, Md.
      