
        Eddie Shipstad, a onetime Minnesota rink rat who learned early that a little fancy skating would attract a crowd on the ponds of St. Paul, then made a fortune proving that a lot of fancy skating would draw throngs across the country, died on Aug. 20 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 91 and a founder of the Shipstad and Johnson Ice Follies, the first of the traveling extravaganzas on ice.
        There were ice shows before Eddie Shipstad came along with his comic skating partner, Oscar Johnson, and his top-hatted little brother, Roy Shipstad, but until the three put their show on the road in 1936, ice shows tended to be small one-shot amateur charity productions, entertainment between periods at hockey games or occasional nightclub engagements.
        Considering how popular traveling ice shows became, it was a wonder nobody had thought of them before. Somebody undoubtedly had. The logic was compelling. Like circuses, an ice show that would quickly run out of potential customers in a given city could find an endless supply of fresh audiences simply by moving from city to city.
        But unlike circuses, which had catered to loyal audiences since the 19th century, ice shows were new, and when they came of age in the Depression, entrepreneurs were reluctant to find out if a traveling ice show was worth the risk.
        After all, who knew if ice shows would attract enough paying customers to justify the transportation and other costs?
        Well, Eddie Shipstad knew, and so did his friend, Oscar Johnson.
        Since they were children, the two had been giving impromptu performances on frozen Minnesota rivers and ponds, sometimes attracting so many fans that the police were concerned that the audience would plunge through the ice.
        The son of Swedish immigrants, Mr. Shipstad, whose father worked at a foundry in a job that barely brought in enough to feed his 10 children, began dreaming early on about the possibilities of earning a living from skating.
        Aware that he was not good enough for a professional hockey career, he concentrated on his athletic stunts and fancy skating skills, teaming up with Mr. Johnson to work out elaborate comic skits.
        Along with Mr. Shipstad's brother, Roy, the young men haunted local rinks, sweeping the ice in exchange for skating time.
        By the late 1920's, the pair had attracted such local renown that they were hired to perform at St. Paul hockey games, which led to a five-year stint at Madison Square Garden, where they entertained fans at Ranger games by, among other comic turns, using a simple blanket to transform themselves into a skating horse, with Mr. Shipstad gamely bringing up the rear.
        In the wake of their success in New York, the Shipstad brothers and Mr. Johnson recruited other skaters in 1935 to put on a show at the St. Paul Auditorium that became the model for the Follies the next year.
        After what turned out to be a 16-month engagement at the Sherman Hotel in Chicago (after the performance, the ice would be covered with a plywood dance floor), they had enough money to mount a show and take it on the road.
        At a time when arena managers were desperate for attractions, their timing proved perfect, but not right away. Their first stop, in Tulsa, Okla., coincided with a local polio epidemic and drew such a small audience that after counting the meager house, Mr. Johnson delivered a famous reassurance to the nervous troupe. ''Don't worry,'' he said, ''We've got them outnumbered.''
        Within a few weeks, however, the Follies were packing them in at every stop, delighting audiences with a fast-paced show featuring elaborate costumes, daring stunts, elegant ice dances, Roy Shipstad as a top-hatted soloist and a show-stopping number in which Mr. Johnson and Mr. Shipstad performed a raucous skid-row routine as Spike McDuff (Mr. Johnson) and Gashouse Annie (Mr. Shipstad).
        The success led to a movie, ''The Ice Follies of 1939,'' starring Joan Crawford, James Stewart and Lew Ayres, along with the Shipstads, Mr. Johnson and other Follies skaters.
        The movie was a flop, but the real Follies continued to be such a sensational success that when the partners declined to form a second company, arena managers spurred the creation of copycat rival, the Icecapades, in 1940.
        The partners stopped performing in the 1940's and sold the Follies for $3.5 million in 1954. It was eventually absorbed by Disney on Ice.
        Mr. Johnson died in the 1960's, and Roy Shipstad died in 1975.
        Mr. Shipstad is survived by three sons, Eddie, of Grand Rapids, Mich., Bob, of Orcas Island, Wash., and Don, of Los Angeles; a brother, George, of Los Angeles, nine grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      