
        Richie Powers, whose 23 years as a National Basketball Association referee ended in bitterness, died last Friday in Lehigh Valley Hospital in Allentown, Pa., where he lived. He was 67.
        His sister and only survivor, Alice T. Powers of White Plains, said he suffered a stroke the day before he died. She said he had a heart condition for the last two years.
        Powers, a Manhattan native, played baseball at St. John's University and later umpired in the Eastern League. He refereed in the N.B.A. from 1956 to 1979, working three All-Star Games and 25 games in playoff finals.
        He once recalled: ''I used to come out on the court, and my two feet would hit the floor -- boom, boom -- and I'd be home. It was like: 'Beat me if you can. But I dare you. Nothing is going to happen here tonight that I'm not in control of.' ''
        For most of his career, he was in control.
        ''If I'm working Game 7 of the final series,'' said Earl Strom, another leading referee of that era, ''Richie is the guy I want across the floor from me.''
        But in later years on the job, Powers became erratic. He infuriated the Boston Celtics and the Phoenix Suns with questionable calls in Game 5 of the N.B.A.'s 1976 playoff finals. ''If it wasn't for Richie Powers, we would have won that game and probably the championship,'' Jerry Colangelo, the Suns' owner, said years later.
        In the mid-1970's, the N.B.A. referees formed a union. When they struck on the eve of the 1977 playoffs, only Powers and Strom, neither a member of the union, continued to work.
        ''It was a mistake, my not striking,'' Powers said later. ''But it would have been wrong. I was the only referee with a contract, and I was morally bound to uphold it. For this, I was ostracized. My rating among my fellow officials went from the top to virtually the bottom overnight.''
        After those playoffs, Powers applied for the newly vacant job of supervisor of officials. He did not get it. In February 1978, he allowed the New Jersey Nets and the Atlanta Hawks to use zone defenses in a game, even though the rules barred them. The league suspended him for three weeks and fined him $5,000. That November, he called extra technical fouls on a coach and a player, again violating the rules and prompting another suspension and fine.
        After the 1978-79 season, he was dismissed.
        ''In his time,'' said Norm Drucker, another N.B.A. referee, ''Richie was a good ref, but he did some weird things. It reached the point where he couldn't officiate anymore.''
        He became a broadcaster for WABC, USA Network and SportsChannel. When his broadcasting career ended, he became director of operations in 1985 for the United States Basketball League, but by midseason the N.B.A. had signed away most of the new minor league's best players. In 1987, his second marriage ended.
        He sold cable-television subscriptions, then cars. For six months, his bed was the back seat of a station wagon on the showroom floor.
        A 1990 article in the sports daily The National said Powers told of how he almost committed suicide the year before.
        ''I was in a very depressed state,'' he said. ''I had a great profession, for which I was very accomplished and dedicated. I felt I had a positive effect on every game I worked. But I just don't do much good anymore. For anything or anyone.''
        In 1990, he returned to his old job with the United States Basketball League.
        ''I have an existence now,'' he said, ''but I haven't got a life.''
      