
        Rabbi Leibish Lefkowitz, an important figure in the organization of Kiryas Joel, the politically powerful Satmar Hasidic community in Orange County, N.Y., that has repeatedly gone to court over the issue of public financing for its religiously based schools, died on Aug. 1 at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 78.
        The cause was pneumonia following a stroke that he suffered seven months ago, said Rabbi Hertz Frankel, a spokesman for the Satmar sect.
        Although he was never ordained, Rabbi Lefkowitz was given that title as a mark of respect, as is customary in the ultra-Orthodox Satmar world for figures regarded as sources of wisdom and counsel. According to his admirers, the rabbi was the epitome of leadership in secular matters and the right hand of the movement's spiritual leader, Joel Teitelbaum, the Grand Rabbi, who died in 1979, and his successor, Rabbi Moses Teitelbaum.
        Rabbi Lefkowitz was one of the handful of refugees who followed Rabbi Joel Teitelbaum to Williamsburg, Brooklyn, after World War II to rebuild their shattered sect, now the largest Hasidic group in the country.
        As a natural leader and a man of means who had prospered through his business, Crystal Clear Industries, a wholesale importer, Rabbi Lefkowitz was asked by the Grand Rabbi in the mid-1970's to seek out land on which a village could be built for the Satmar, known for their insularity and strictness.
        ''Rabbi Lefkowitz and several other philanthropists went from place to place, area to area, looking for a large tract not too far from the city,'' Rabbi Frankel said. ''Finally, they decided on Monroe because they thought there was room for expansion there and bought the original 150 acres.''
        Indeed, it was needed. The original goal for the Monroe site in Orange County was 200 families. Today, when it is commonplace for a single family to have 10 or 12 children, the population is more than 12,000.
        ''He was instrumental in making the deals and developing the heart and mind of the project,'' Rabbi Frankel said of Rabbi Lefkowitz.
        In fact, Rabbi Lefkowitz, who lived in Williamsburg and had a summer home in Kiryas Joel, was the village's first Mayor. He relinquished the responsibility of that office, though not the title, several years ago because of poor health. He was not a principal player in the controversy that thrust the village he helped create into the national consciousness.
        Three successive times, the town fathers succeeded in persuading the State Legislature and two Governors, Mario M. Cuomo and George E. Pataki, to enact laws creating a special Kiryas Joel public school district to permit the schools to receive tax dollars for the education of the community's severely handicapped children. Most Kiryas Joel children attend local yeshivas, but the village has sought money to educate disabled students whom it does not want to place in public schools. Each time, the law was overturned in court, most recently last month.
        Rabbi Lefkowitz was born in 1920 in a Hungarian village and, after being educated in a yeshiva, went to work for his father in the lumber business. In 1943, he was imprisoned for six months in Budapest for being Jewish but escaped and, with his wife, Dinah Fischer, went to Palestine. He immigrated here in 1946.
        As he prospered in his business, he put much of his fortune -- and his energy as president of numerous organizations -- back into his community. Among the projects he helped finance are the Satmar Congregation Yetev Lev, which is now under construction and will seat 10,000, as well as the United Talmudical Academy, the school system for boys, and Beth Rachel, its counterpart for girls. The systems have a statewide enrollment of 18,000 students. He was also president of the World Council of Orthodox Jewish Communities.
        The rabbi's generosity was legendary. When parents found themselves unable to pay tuition, they would be sent to appeal to Rabbi Lefkowitz,  who would often pay the bills himself, Rabbi Frankel recalled.
        Rabbi Lefkowitz is survived by his wife of 57 years; a son, Abraham; a daughter, Chana Green; a brother, Hershel, and a sister, Eva Hillman, all of them of Brooklyn; and 16 grandchildren and 42 great-grandchildren.
      