
        Wallace Henry Coulter, an inventor whose experiments in a Chicago basement spawned the Coulter Corporation, one of the world's leading makers of medical diagnostic equipment of all types, died on Aug. 7 at Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami. A Miami resident, he was 85.
        He suffered a long illness, a company spokesman said.
        Mr. Coulter, who held 74 patents, was best known for developing the ''Coulter Principle,'' which provided a methodology for counting, measuring and evaluating microscopic particles suspended in fluid. The resulting Coulter Counter helped reshape the field of hematology and cellular biology.
        With his younger brother, Joseph, he built the first commercial blood-cell counter. It changed clinical diagnostics and medical research by replacing labor-intensive and often haphazard methods for counting blood cells.
        With Joseph's knowledge of electronics, business sense and knack for finding the right staff, the brothers turned the family venture into an enterprise with more than 5,000 employees, designing and manufacturing diagnostic systems for laboratories throughout the world. Remarkably, the pair also remained a team and close friends until Joseph's death in 1995.
        Wallace Coulter was born in Little Rock, Ark., and developed a fascination with electricity and crystal radio sets in childhood. He studied at Westminister College and took electrical engineering courses at Georgia Tech. But he got restless and in 1934 went to work as a radio station engineer and announcer.
        After working in electronic development for Press Wireless in New York and Raytheon Manufacturing, he moved to Chicago in 1946 and went to work for Illinois Tool Works and the Mittelman Electronics Division of Century Steel. In his spare time, he and his brother, an electronics engineer, spent hours experimenting in their basement.
        This led Mr. Coulter to discover the Coulter Principle and to construct the Coulter Counter, which the brothers set out to produce and market. They incorporated in 1958, moved the company headquarters to Miami and added to its catalogues many other types of equipment used in diagnosing types of cancer, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, leukemia and other complex modern diseases.
        Mr. Coulter served as the longtime president of the company, which was sold last year to Beckman Instruments Inc. Known as Beckman Coulter now, it is based in Fullerton, Calif., and has more than 10,000 employees worldwide.
        Mr. Coulter, who never married, leaves no immediate survivors.
      