
        Harry Scharaga, who did such a good job clearing snow off the streets of Queens in 1968 that he may have helped doom Mayor John V. Lindsay's Presidential aspirations in 1969, died on July 28 at his home in Lauderdale Lakes, Fla. He was 88 and had retired as First Deputy Sanitation Commissioner in 1974.
        Whether Mr. Lindsay would have otherwise made a viable Presidential candidate, after what happened -- or rather, didn't happen -- in Queens in February 1969 he had little chance of winning the 1972 Democratic Presidential nomination.
        As many Queens residents still recall with rancor, when 15 inches of snow fell on New York on Feb. 9, 1969, cleanup proceeded apace elsewhere in the city, but in Queens, where Mr. Scharaga had recently been the Sanitation Department's borough superintendent, the cleanup was so sluggish that some streets were impassable for a week and Mr. Lindsay was widely and extravagantly blamed.
        Various administrative lapses were singled out for blame, but Mr. Scharaga's wife, Mildred, knew immediately and exactly what the underlying problem was.
        When a reporter from The Long Island Press called her at 3 A.M. the night of the snowstorm to find out why the cleanup in Queens was going so slowly, as she recalled last week, she gave him an earful:
        ''It's because my husband has been promoted to Manhattan.''
        Indeed. Mr. Scharaga, who had a recognized talent for planning, organizing and directing complex operations, did such a good job with snow removal and everything else in Queens that his promotion seemed only reasonable, even if it did leave Queens residents with what turned out to be unrealistic expectations for continued administrative efficiency.
        That his promotion may have inadvertently left an administrative vacuum that contributed to the dismal snow cleanup in Queens a short time later was an irony not lost on the Lindsay administration.
        Within months of the 1969 Queens debacle, and with Mr. Lindsay in a tight race that preceded his narrow re-election as Mayor that November, Mr. Scharaga had been promoted again, to chief of staff of the Sanitation Department's bureau of cleaning and collection, and put in charge of citywide snow removal operations.
        He planned so well and so thoroughly that in what became known as the Christmas Night snowfall of 1969 so many snowplows and salt spreaders were deployed so rapidly that the city was hardly affected. And with the February storm still a raw memory, Mr. Scharaga was hailed as a municipal hero.
        A few months later he tackled another festering problem that was generating a wave of complaints. Finding that many city neighborhoods ostensibly scheduled for three garbage pickups a week were actually averaging only two -- and these so haphazardly that residents never knew when the next one would be -- Mr. Scharaga came up with an ingenious solution: He cut the number of scheduled pickups in the affected neighborhoods to two a week but put them on regular fixed schedules.
        Mayor Lindsay was so grateful that in August 1970, Mr. Scharaga was promoted to the newly created post of first deputy commissioner for operations. It was the first time in 28 years that a uniformed Sanitation Department employee had made it to the commissioner level, and Mr. Scharaga promptly earned his keep championing the introduction of plastic garbage bags, which sharply reduced the number of injuries to collectors.
        For Mr. Scharaga, who was born on the Lower East Side and dropped out of high school to help support his family, the job and the title were a culmination of a career of steady advancement.
        After joining the Sanitation Department in 1930, he rose rapidly through the civil service ranks, his ambition fueled in part by memories of his first sanitation job: shoveling refuse down a chute into an incinerator, work so dangerous he had to wear a chain around his waist to keep from falling in.
        Mr. Scharaga, a close friend of John DeLury, the longtime president of the Uniformed Sanitationmen's Association, was active in forming the union in 1936 but elected to stay on the job rather than join the union staff.
        After his retirement, Mr. Scharaga fared somewhat better in Florida than Mr. Lindsay had when his Presidential campaign collapsed after Queens residents followed him to Florida and jeered him in 1972.
        After four restless years, Mr. Scharaga became director of community service for the Broward County tax assessor's office and did such an acclaimed job that he held it until a few months before his death.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Scharaga is survived by a daughter, Arlene Eisenberg of Manhattan; a son, Victor Schargai of Washington; three grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      