
        Jack Brickhouse, whose avuncular cheer and exuberant storytelling imbued his calls of more than 5,000 Chicago Cubs and White Sox games, died of cardiac arrest at St. Joseph Hospital in Chicago yesterday, said a spokeswoman. He was 82.
        Within six months, Chicago fans have lost two beloved baseball announcers, Mr. Brickhouse, and the flamboyant Harry Caray, who died on Feb. 18. Mr. Brickhouse had been rehabilitating from surgery last March 3 to remove a brain tumor, but had been seen recently at various events in Chicago. In late June, he was a guest announcer for three innings of a Cubs game on WGN-TV.
        He was supposed to attend a Cubs charity event Wednesday night, but called to say that he was feeling ill, said Jay Blunk, the Cubs' advertising director. Born in Peoria, Ill., in 1916, Mr. Brickhouse chose breeziness over bombast as his broadcasting style. He was short on criticism, long on hope and simple charm.
        ''I regard sports first and foremost as entertainment,'' he once said. ''I like the 'let's forget our troubles and have some excitement' approach.''
        Not surprisingly, his home run call was a simple, friendly, rumbling exclamation. ''Back, back, back!'' he started, then paused to see if the ball was struck far enough. ''That's it!'' he added. ''Hey-hey! Hey-hey!''
        Chet Coppock, a Chicago sports broadcaster, said: ''In the 1950's, 'Hey-hey' meant the Eisenhower Administration and a wonderful stock market. In the 1960's, it was a dose of reality during a changing America.''
        Mr. Brickhouse's career began at age 18 in his hometown of Peoria. He went to Chicago in 1940, and with breaks for military service and a year to broadcast New York Giants baseball games, Mr. Brickhouse called Cubs games from 1941 to 1981 and White Sox games from 1940 to 1967 on WGN Radio or TV. For more than two decades, he would call the home games of the crosstown rivals, unusual in local sports broadcasting.
        ''You'd have thought some people would hate him for that, but he was manifestly a person of good will,'' said Curt Smith, a sports broadcasting historian. His ambition was to broadcast a World Series between the Cubs and White Sox. ''Every game would go extra innings,'' he once told The Chicago Tribune. ''The seventh and final game would be called because of darkness.''
        Like many sports broadcasters of the 1940's and 1950's, Mr. Brickhouse covered myriad events, and was part of the transition from radio to television. His was the first voice heard on WGN-TV when it signed on in 1948.
        With The Chicago Sun-Times columnist Irv Kupcinet, Mr. Brickhouse called Chicago Bears football games for 24 years. He also called Chicago Bulls, Zephyrs and Packers basketball, Notre Dame football, wrestling, golf and boxing. He covered five national political conventions and Franklin D. Roosevelt's 1945 inauguration. Mr. Brickhouse retired as one of the Cubs' regular announcers after the 1981 season -- succeeded by Mr. Caray, who left the White Sox -- and received the Ford C. Frick award for broadcasting excellence by the Baseball Hall of Fame two years later. Yesterday fans flocked to his Walk of Fame stone outside Wrigley Field to pay their respects. The red Wrigley sign said, ''We'll miss you, Jack.''
        Mr. Brickhouse is survived by his second wife, Patricia; a daughter, Jean Sky, from his first marriage, and a grandson.
        Though he was a fixture for Cubs and White Sox games, one of his more memorable calls came in Game 1 of the 1954 World Series, when Willie Mays of the Giants made a spectacular over-the-shoulder catch against Vic Wertz of Cleveland at the Polo Grounds in New York.
        ''That must have been an optical illusion,'' Mr. Brickhouse said.
      