
        Gregg Burge, a dancer and choreographer on Broadway and in films, died on July 4 at Piedmont Hospital in Atlanta. He was 40 and had homes in Atlanta and New York.
        The cause was complications from a brain tumor, his mother, Thelma, said. A friend of Mr. Burge's reported his death to The New York Times.
        Nominated for two Tony awards and two Drama Desk awards, Mr. Burge had a distinctive style that blended a glittering, crackling stage presence and virtuoso tap dancing with the aristocratic manners, lightness and ground-skimming speed of a classical ballet performer.
        He began performing professionally on television and on the stage while a teen-ager. His first major stage role was as the Scarecrow in the Broadway musical ''The Wiz.'' He was also featured on Broadway in ''Sophisticated Ladies,'' ''Song and Dance'' and ''Oh Kay!'' In a New York Times review of ''Sophisticated Ladies'' in 1981, Frank Rich described Mr. Burge as ''a lithe fellow with an insouciant grin'' and as a ''standout tapper.''
        Mr. Burge's lead film roles included Richie in ''A Chorus Line'' and Virgil in Spike Lee's ''School Daze.'' He appeared on numerous television specials. He also performed in one-man shows. In a review of Mr. Burge's act at the Ballroom in 1990, Stephen Holden of The New York Times described his dance solos as ''spectacular.''
        Born in New York City and raised on Long Island, N.Y., Mr. Burge was inspired at an early age to become a song-and-dance man after seeing Sammy Davis Jr. perform on the Ed Sullivan show. At age 7, after four years of nagging, he persuaded his parents to enroll him in tap classes at the Red Slipper Dance Studio in Merrick, N.Y. Three years later he began winning local talent shows and soon after emerged a three-time winner on ''The Ted Mack Amateur Hour'' on television. By 13, Mr. Burge was earning $30,000 a year.
        Television commercials followed, along with a job as a regular on ''The Electric Company'' and, at 13, a stint in the Off Broadway musical ''Bojangles.'' There he learned dance history firsthand, appearing with tap stars like Chuck Green, Rhythm Red and Mabel Lee, who taught him to improvise rather than simply dance steps. Mr. Burge received formal training in ballet and tap from the High School of the Performing Arts and the Juilliard School.
        Mr. Burge was assistant choreographer and director to Donald McKayle and starred in ''One More Time'' in Israel. He was a lead performer in ''Evolution of the Blues'' at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington. He choreographed the Steel Pulse ''Reaching Out'' video, directed by Mr. Lee, and Michael Jackson's ''Bad.'' He also starred for two years as the Easter Bunny in the Easter show at Radio City Music Hall, and represented the United States and Atlanta as a featured performer in and co-choreographer of the closing summer Olympics in Barcelona.
        Mr. Burge received two Fred Astaire Awards, for his performances in ''Song and Dance'' and ''Oh Kay!''
        In addition to his mother, he is survived by his father, Fred; two brothers, Frederick Daryl Burge and Christopher Lance Burge, and his grandmother, Mary.
      