
        Hoyt Clarke Hottel, a retired chemical and combustion engineer and a leader in the development of alternative fuels at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, died on Aug. 18 at his home in Winchester, Mass. He was 95.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said officials at M.I.T., where he taught and directed the Fuels Research Laboratory from 1934 until he retired in 1969.
        Professor Hottel's particular interest was solar energy and the ways the sun's heat could be captured and stored. He was a director of what is now known as the David H. Koch School of Engineering Practice and headed the M.I.T. Research Committee on Solar Energy from 1938 to 1964. He put his research to work by building three houses that used solar energy.
        His research dealt with such subjects as the transmission of radiant heat, flame propagation, combustion mechanisms, combustion in ramjets and turbines and new energy technology. In his honor, M.I.T. instituted the Hoyt C. Hottel lectureship in 1985 and the Hoyt C. Hottel chair in chemical engineering in 1995.
        A native of Salem, Ind., he grew up near St. Louis and finished high school at age 15. He received a bachelor's degree in chemistry from Indiana University in 1922 and a master's in chemical engineering from M.I.T. in 1924. He spent two years there as a fellow in fuel and gas engineering, was named an assistant professor in 1928 and became a full professor in 1941. After his formal retirement, he taught and lectured at many universities abroad.
        During World War II he headed a panel of the National Defense Research Committee that studied and developed incendiary devices.
        A member of the National Academy of Sciences, he headed the academy's fire research committee from 1956 to 1967, pursuing tactics for fighting powerful blazes like forest fires and fire storms in urban settings. He also was a member of the National Academy of Engineering and a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        Professor Hottel is survived by a son, Hoyt Jr., known as Clarke, of Mattapoisett, Mass.; three daughters, Lois H. Wood of Lebanon, N.H., Barbara H. Willis of Severna Park, Md., and Elizabeth H. Barrett of San Diego; 10 grandchildren, and 18 great-grandchildren. His wife, Nellie Rich Hottel, died in 1994 after 65 years of marriage.
      