
        Benny Waters, a saxophonist, clarinetist and singer who was the country's oldest touring jazz musician, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Columbia, Md. He was 96 and had recently moved to Columbia from New York City.
        Mr. Waters, old enough to have taught clarinet to an original member of Duke Ellington's late 1920's band, was an independent operator to the end, appearing as a solo artist with ad hoc bands at clubs and festivals around the world. Performing until late June of this year, he never failed to enjoy himself in public, making jokes in different languages, calling tunes faster than his musicians could remember them, scatting through vocal breaks.
        Though his tone became fragile in the last few years, his phrasing still had the signature of a man who was a contender in the 1930's; his rounded, swooping alto-saxophone lines and plush vibrato advertised his authenticity as surely as the stylish American diction heard in James Cagney movies.
        Born in Brighton, Md., near Baltimore, Mr. Waters started his musical education at age 5 with organ lessons and soon moved to reed instruments. While in high school, still in the pre-jazz era, he played syncopated music with Charlie Miller's band; in his late teen-age years he attended the Boston Conservatory of Music for three years, where he studied theory and arranging and gave private clarinet lessons. Among his pupils was Harry Carney, who went on to play baritone saxophone with Duke Ellington.
        Mr. Waters relocated to Philadelphia and then Atlantic City, where in 1926 he joined Charlie Johnson's Paradise Band. Johnson's band, for which Mr. Waters was a soloist and arranger, played dramatic, exotic music, often for theatrical revues, on a level with the highest-ranking jazz outfits in Harlem.
        The band included such other renowned musicians as Jabbo Smith, Benny Carter and Sidney De Paris. It  performed regularly at Small's Paradise in Harlem, and recorded for Victor until the late 1920's. As Mr. Waters told it, the Johnson band may have passed up a crucial opportunity to become more famous than it is now: in 1927, Johnson was offered a long-term residence for his band at the Cotton Club, with a built-in radio broadcasting setup, but turned down the offer because the club's wages were too low. Ellington accepted the engagement and soon thereafter became world-famous.
        In those days Mr. Waters's heavy drinking saddled him with a roguish reputation, which may have hindered his career; a conversion to Christian Science in 1938 tempered his habits. (He finally quit drinking in 1969.) After the dissolution of Johnson's band in 1933, for a time Mr. Waters succeeded the premier saxophonist of the day, Coleman Hawkins, in the reed section of Fletcher Henderson's band, and then became a freelancer, spending time through the end of the 1940's playing with Jimmie Lunceford and Hot Lips Page, among others.
        In 1952, a tour with a Dixieland band led by the trombonist Jimmie Archey took Mr. Waters to Europe, and he stayed, living and working primarily in Paris until 1991, during which time he published a memoir.  When he couldn't get sufficient health insurance coverage for cataract removal, he moved back to the United States to have the operation, which was not successful.
        In blindness he persevered, averaging 100 dates a year until this year, making a second-floor apartment in Hollis, Queens, his home base. He was awarded the Legion of Honor by the French Ministry of Culture in 1996, and subsequently wore the medal in all his performances.
        Of the nine recordings he made in the last two decades, his most recent is ''Birdland Birthday -- Live at 95'' (Enja), recorded on his 95th birthday at Birdland in Manhattan.
      