
        John R. Hopkins, a British playwright and screenwriter, author of the drama ''Find Your Way Home'' and the television adaptation of  ''Smiley's People,'' died on July 23 at his home in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 67.
        His wife, the actress Shirley  Knight, said the cause was a head injury that resulted from a fall.
        Mr. Hopkins's wide range of work included the creation of the popular police drama ''Z Cars'' for the BBC; the drama ''Hiroshima'' for Showtime; the four-part 1966 teleplay ''Talking to a Stranger'' for BBC,  and the screenplay for the 1979 film ''Murder by Decree,'' in which Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson investigate the Jack the Ripper murders.
        With Richard Maibaum, Mr. Hopkins wrote the screenplay for the 1965 James Bond film ''Thunderball,'' and wrote such plays as ''This Story of Yours,'' produced at the Royal Court Theater in London in 1968, and ''Find Your Way Home,'' which brought stardom to Michael Moriarty when it was produced at the Brooks Atkinson Theater on Broadway in 1974. He adapted the 1980 John Le Carre novel ''Smiley's People'' for a BBC production starring Alec Guinness.
        ''Z Cars'' won Mr. Hopkins a British Screenwriters' Guild Award in 1963; ''Hiroshima,'' an account of the atomic bombing from both the Japanese and American points of view, won him the 1996 Humanitas Award and a PEN Center West literary award. ''Talking to a Stranger,'' a precursor of the mini-series genre, won him a British Guild of Television, Producers and Directors Award for writing in 1967 and an Emmy in 1968 when it was broadcast in the United States on ''Masterpiece Theater.''
        ''So many of his plays were evaluating the world in which he lived and trying to come to terms with both the beauty and the horror of the world,'' Ms. Knight said.
        Ms. Knight appeared in his plays ''Absent Forever,'' about the anguish of a woman whose daughter vanishes after her arrest in a demonstration at a university, and ''Losing Time,'' a 1979 Manhattan Theater Club production about an abandoned wife's journey toward self-discovery and positive self-esteem. Mr. Hopkins had recently completed a trilogy called ''The Mary Plays,'' about Mary, the mother of Jesus, in which  Ms. Knight was to play Elizabeth, the mother of John the Baptist.
        Mr. Hopkins, who was born in London on Jan. 27, 1931, studied literature at St. Catherine's College, Cambridge University, and after graduation went to work for the BBC as a studio manager.
        Ms. Knight said he got his start as a writer when the novelist Nigel Balchin, then his father-in-law, asked him to try his hand at adapting one of his novels, ''A Small Back Room,'' for television. The venture was a success. In the dozen or so years that Mr. Hopkins spent writing for the BBC, he created more than 100 original teleplays and adaptations, which included 57 episodes of ''Z Cars.''
        In addition to Ms. Knight, Mr. Hopkins is survived by three daughters,  Justine Hopkins of Bristol, England, from his first marriage, to Prudence Balchin; Kaitlin Hopkins Passer of Woodland Hills, from Ms. Knight's first marriage; and Sophie Hopkins of Studio City, Calif., from his marriage to Ms. Knight, and by a brother, Arthur Hopkins, of Bognor Regis, England.
        Ms. Knight said she and Mr. Hopkins met in 1967 when the producer David Susskind bought the rights to remake the interwoven stories of ''Talking to a Stranger'' with an American setting, The central role, of a feisty young woman estranged from her family, had been played in England by Judi Dench, and Mr. Susskind asked Ms. Knight to star in the American version. He also asked her to come and meet the author in his office in New York.
        ''The date was May 11, 1967, at four o'clock in the afternoon,'' Ms. Knight said. ''That was that, really.''
        She and Mr. Hopkins were married in 1972.
      