
        Dr. Edward F. Edinger, a leading Jungian analyst whose books on the interplay between symbols and psychology carried the concepts of Carl Jung to a new generation of American analysts, died on July 17 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 75.
        The cause was bladder cancer, family members said.
        Colleagues said he was the most influential Jungian analyst in the United States from the 1950's until  his death.
        Dr. Edinger believed that many neuroses were associated with the decline of religion and the dominance of science. He thought it was important for the afflicted to grasp elements of religion, philosophy, literature and even alchemy to heal and thrive.
        ''He taught that the goal in analysis was for the ego to establish contact with a greater personality within the psyche, to strengthen the ego-self axis,'' said Dr. George R. Elder, a friend and therapist in Ocean Ridge, Fla.
        Dr. Edinger taught that people with neuroses or psychoses could benefit from an awareness of their  spiritual and creative dimensions and from thinking in terms of the archetypes that artists and sages use. For Jungians, the term archetype refers to categories within the collective unconscious that often appear as literary or religious images of, for example, the Great Mother or the Spiritual Father.
        Dr. Edinger looked ahead to an age when the ideas of Jung would heal a broken world, and once said, ''Jung's psychology offers not only a method for the psychological healing of individuals but also a new world view for Western man which holds out the possibility for healing the split in the contemporary collective psyche.''
        In short, Dr. Edinger predicted that the world would one day turn to Jung for a hopeful view of things after an impending eruption of ''chaos in vast proportions.''
        Dr. Edinger gave Jung's writings -- done ''in a German-Swiss flavor'' -- an American accent, using ''Moby Dick,'' for example, to show the need for healing the split between the ego and the self.
        His final work, to be published in 1999 by Open Court Publishing Company and edited by Dr. Elder, analyzes the Book of Revelation as a psychological text.
        Among his other books were ''Ego and Archetype: Individuation and the Religious Function of the Psyche'' (1972), ''Anatomy of the Psyche: Alchemical Symbolism in Psychotherapy'' (1968) and ''Creation of  Consciousness'' (1995), all published by C. G. Jung Foundation Books.
        Dr. Edinger was a supervising psychiatrist at Rockland State Hospital in Orangeburg, N.Y., and later was a founding member of the C. G. Jung Foundation, in Manhattan, and the C. G. Jung Institute of New York.  He was the institute's president from 1968 to 1979, when he moved to Los Angeles. There, he continued his practice for 19 years and became a  senior analyst at the C. G. Jung Institute of Los Angeles.
        He was born in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and received his B.A. in chemistry at Indiana University and his M.D. from Yale University in 1946. He was a medical officer in the United States Army in Panama. In 1951 in New York, he began analysis with M. Esther Harding, who had been an associate of Jung.
        His marriage to Frances McCarthy ended in divorce.
        Survivors include his wife, Dianne D. Cordic; a brother, Robert F. Edinger of Bedford, Ind.; two children from his first marriage, Clara Jendrowski of Lockport, N.Y., and Dr. Bruce Edinger of Salem, W.Va., and two grandchildren.
      