
        Luke William Finlay, a retired lawyer, legislative lobbyist for the oil industry and general who moved troops and supplies during World War II, died Tuesday at his home in Annapolis, Md. He was 91.
        He had suffered from a long illness, his family said.
        Mr. Finlay, in his military role, kept the trains running when labor disputes threatened to bring them to a halt during and just after the war. He also served the Truman Administration as a civilian aide, helping carry out the Marshall Plan and shaping the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
        A native of Memphis, he was appointed to the United States Military Academy and graduated with honors in 1928. He entered the Army Corps of Engineers and was posted to his native Tennessee and the Mississippi River flood control project. He also worked on the Nicaraguan Canal Survey. When President Herbert Hoover released officers like him from their obligation in order to reduce Federal spending as the Great Depression took hold, Mr. Finlay promptly resigned and entered Yale Law School, from which he graduated in 1933 at the top of his class. He was hired by the New York firm of Davis Polk & Wardwell as a personal assistant to John W. Davis, who had been the Democratic nominee for President in 1924.
        Mr. Finlay chose New Deal labor legislation as his specialty and drew the attention of a Davis Polk client, Standard Oil of New Jersey, now Exxon. It hired him away in 1938 to be a legal counsel for the company.
        He was recalled to active duty in World War II and rose to the rank of brigadier general as the executive officer of the Army Transportation Corps. He coordinated the movements of men, materiel and sundry supplies around the world, for which he received the Distinguished Service Medal.
        At one point, President Harry S. Truman relied on Mr. Finlay's military and labor-law expertise to head off a strike against the country's railroads. The railroads were nationalized, in effect bringing the would-be strikers under the command of the Army Transportation Corps.
        He rejoined Standard Oil's legal department after the war. But President Truman ''borrowed'' him three more times and made him a top-grade civil servant in the process. He directed the nationalization of the railroads once again at a time of labor trouble in the late 1940's.
        He was sent to Paris in 1952 as deputy for defense affairs in the Office of the United States Special Representative in Europe. The office played a central role in administering the Marshall Plan and shaping the NATO alliance. Mr. Finlay earned the Distinguished Public Service Award.
        Between such Government assignments, Mr. Finlay served Standard Oil with increasingly higher responsibilities in Europe. The company then brought him back to New York in 1962 and appointed him manager for government relations. He retired from the company in 1969 but continued to represent it as a lawyer for many years.
        Mr. Finlay is survived by three daughters, Anne Schenck of New Haven, Leila Dane of McLean, Va., and Susan Chavez of Annapolis; two sons, Luke Jr., of Annapolis, and Michael, of Stamford, Conn.; 14 grandchildren, and 19 great-grandchildren. His wife, Annie Sue Tucker Finlay, died in 1991 after 63 years of marriage.
      