
        Fritz Haber, an aeronautical engineer who developed a way to simulate the gravity-free environment of space in the training of Apollo astronauts by flying a plane in a roller-coaster pattern, died on Aug. 21 at Norwalk Hospital in Norwalk, Conn.
        Dr. Haber, one of the German scientists who were recruited after World War II to work on the American space program, was 86 and lived in Westport, Conn.
        His technique for simulating zero-gravity was used in the movie ''Apollo 13'' during scenes showing astronauts floating in an aircraft cabin, filled with terror and exhilaration. The scenes were shot aboard a KC-135 NASA jet that would take deep plunges to reproduce for sustained periods the weightlessness that astronauts would come to know in their monthslong trips into space.
        The future astronauts could walk on the ceiling, float inside the aircraft and feel euphoric -- and sometimes they became nauseated, which is why the training plane came to be known as the vomit comet.
        Before and during World War II, Dr. Haber worked for Junkers Aircraft in Dessau, Germany, where he developed a way that a missile could be transported piggyback on another aircraft. He had joined Junkers, one of Nazi Germany's top aeronautics companies, soon after receiving a doctorate in technical engineering from the Technical University of Darmstadt. Dr. Haber was born in Mannheim, Germany.
        The war ended before his piggyback design could be used, but his idea was put to work by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to carry the space shuttle on a modified Boeing 747 from its landing site in California back to the launching site in Florida.
        Many scientists working in Dessau, in what would become East Germany, were enlisted in the Russian space program after the Russians occupied that region. But Dr. Haber was in western Germany for the birth of a son and wound up in a zone controlled by the United States.
        He later signed on with the United States space program, researching the effects of space travel on humans and animals.
        In 1954, he joined Avco Lycoming, a producer of rocket engines in Stratford, Conn. There he and other German engineers produced some of the first gas turbine engines, including the T-53, which was used mainly in the Bell UH-1 helicopter, known as the Huey. He also became vice president for European operations.
        He is survived by his wife, Gigi; two sons, Jurgen, of Washington, and Jochen, of Encino, Calif., and a grandson.
        Dr. Haber's first wife, Lisa, died in 1958.
      