
       Georgi M. Malenkov, who was a leading political figure in the Soviet Union after the death of Stalin but who was ousted in a Kremlin power struggle and sent into political oblivion, died last month, a Soviet official said yesterday. He was 86 years old.  Malenkov was Prime Minister for two years and, for a short time, head of the Communist Party.
        Georgi M. Malenkov, who was a leading political figure in the Soviet Union after the death of Stalin but who was ousted in a Kremlin power struggle and sent into political oblivion, died last month, a Soviet official said yesterday. He was 86 years old.  Malenkov was Prime Minister for two years and, for a short time, head of the Communist Party. He also gained notoriety in the Soviet Union for his personal role in helping conduct the Stalinist purges in which millions of Russians died.
        In announcing Malenkov's death, Gennadi I. Gerasimov, a Foreign Ministry spokesman, said the funeral had been private. He provided no other details. Sought Alternatives to War
        Malenkov had an apartment in Moscow but spent most of his time in recent years at a dacha outside the capital, according to Roy A. Medvedev, the dissident Soviet historian. Mr. Medvedev said another tenant at the Moscow apartment house was Lazar M. Kaganovich, the sole surviving former Politburo member from the Stalin era.
        Some commentators have credited Malenkov, a longtime close aide to Stalin, with proposing initiatives that later leaders, including Mikhail S. Gorbachev, claimed as their own. In the nuclear era, Malenkov said, Moscow and Washington had to establish a relationship that was not premised on war being inevitable. This became Khrushchev's doctrine of peaceful coexistence.
        Malenkov also urged a major effort to increase the output of farm products and consumer goods, a theme often sounded by later Soviet leaders.
        Malenkov was eventually banished to remote Kazakhstan in central Asia to manage a hydroelectric plant. For more than 30 years he lived in obscurity.
        As a young Communist, Malenkov served as Stalin's private secretary. Toward the end of the dictator's life, Malenkov was a Kremlin intimate and seemed well placed to inherit the mantle of power.
        Less than 24 hours after the announcement of Stalin's death in 1953 Malenkov appeared as Chairman of the Council of Ministers and Prime Minister, head of the Soviet Government. He was listed first among the members of the Communist Party's policy-making body, the Presidium, and became the First Secretary of the party - all the posts Stalin had held.
        This clean sweep was short-lived. Ten days later Malenkov was forced by his rivals to give up control of the party machinery. He retained the post of Prime Minister as the jockeying among Stalin's heirs continued. But in February 1955, he stood before the Supreme Soviet, the nominal legislature, and announced his resignation.
        Malenkov was succeeded as Prime Minister by Marshal Nikolai A. Bulganin, who himself fell victim in 1958 to the Kremlin power politics of Nikita S. Khrushchev, who became Prime Minister in addition to holding the post of party leader. Khrushchev was ousted in 1964. It was later reported that Malenkov had asked to retire as director of the power plant because his subordinates there ignored his directives. In 1961 it was announced that Malenkov had been expelled from the Communist Party. He was never rehabilitated.
        Stocky and unsmiling in his years at Stalin's side, Malenkov gave a forbidding impression consistent with the atmosphere of the cold war. One Western diplomat quipped that his picture was ''the best anti-Communist propaganda I know.''
        Outsiders were surprised, therefore, when Soviet leaders emerged from the darkness of Stalin's Kremlin and mingled with foreigners, to discover that Malenkov had a charming and light side to his personality in striking contrast to his heavy stature. He flashed an almost boyish smile and he chatted quickly and easily. Joined Red Army in 1919
        Georgi Maksimilyanovich Malenkov was born Jan. 8, 1902, in Orenburg, now called Chkalov, on the Ural River. The conspicuous silence of Soviet biographies about his parents suggests that he came from a bourgeois rather than a working-class or peasant background.
        Official Soviet accounts of his life usually begin with the year 1919 when, at the age of 17, he joined the Red Army and quickly became a political agitator and commissar in central Asia among Red Army units putting down attempts by Moslems to obtain freedom. Malenkov joined the Communist Party in 1920 and within two years became one of the chief political commissars in central Asia.
        With Soviet victory achieved there, he moved to Moscow and enrolled in the Higher Technical School, where he quickly became secretary of its Communist Party unit.
        In three years at the school he attracted the attention of superiors as a promising young man. Upon graduation Malenkov entered the apparatus of the Communist Party Central Committee, where he remained until 1930. Won Stalin's Confidence
        This was the key initial period of his rise. During this time he won Stalin's confidence, serving for a time as one of his secretaries, and made important contacts among the most influential Soviet leaders.
        The 1930's saw Malenkov rise speedily in the party hierarchy. From 1930 to 1934 he worked in the Moscow organization, under Kaganovich, as head of personnel. His most important task was helping to eliminate those called foes of Stalin. In 1934 he returned to the Central Committee as a chief aide to Nikolai Yezhov, who later became head of the secret police.
        From 1936 to 1940 Malenkov edited the magazine Party Construction, which dealt with problems of party personnel and organization.
        In the great Stalinist purges of the mid-30's Malenkov in effect was the highest party official directly concerned with personnel. He controlled the folders containing detailed information about all party officials and recommended who should be purged and who should succeed them. Role in Purges Disclosed
        Years later, in 1961, the disgraced Malenkov was fair game for disclosures about his role in the purges. An Armenian party secretary, Y. N. Zarobyan, charged that Malenkov was personally responsible for the arrest of 3,500 Armenians in 1937, and that many of them were shot without trial.
        Malenkov personally interrogated the accused, according to Zarobyan, and used ''impermissible'' methods, a euphemism for torture. An Armenian security police official asserted that a purge unit headed by Malenkov had arrested 1,000 people in a single month.
        Malenkov's services during the purge years were rewarded in 1939 when he became a party secretary, a member of the powerful Orgburo, or Organizational Bureau, and chief of the party's Cadres Administration, where personnel decisions were made.
        This made him a key figure in the Kremlin hierarchy. He was in a position to start building a personal political machine by naming friends to important posts and helping remove those who were, or might be, enemies. Key Speech in 1941
        Malenkov burst into public view at a party conference in early 1941, delivering a key speech assailing incompetents in the Kremlin bureaucracy. He demanded that ability be the chief criterion for appointments, assailing those who made appointments more on the basis of genealogy - ''with determining who were his grandfather and grandmother, than with studying his personal business and political qualifications.''
        After the speech, a number of relatives of high officials, including the wife of Vyacheslav M. Molotov, were removed from important posts. Malenkov was rewarded by being named an alternate member of the Politburo, the party's highest policy-making body.
        World War II gave Malenkov an opportunity to show his administrative talents. He was named a member of the ruling State Defense Committee after the German attack in June 1941. He was responsible for Soviet airplane production, a task he apparently fulfilled effectively.
        In 1943 he was also made head of the Committee for Restoration of the Economy in areas liberated from German occupation, a post in which he had authority over full Politburo members who nominally outranked him.
        When he also became a Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers, or Deputy Prime Minister, in 1946, he was the first Soviet figure after Stalin to simultaneously hold posts in all the highest Government and party agencies. That year he also became a full member of the Politburo. Rivalry With Zhdanov
        There is evidence to suggest that from 1946 to 1948 Malenkov was in partial disgrace, for reasons that are not clear, and did not assume his post as a Party Secretary.
        His partial eclipse is generally believed to be related to his rivalry with Andrei A. Zhdanov, a Politburo member who won glory in the defense of Leningrad and who emerged after the war as the Soviet Union's cultural dictator under Stalin.
        Zhdanov's death in 1948 coincided with Malenkov's re-emergence as a Party Secretary and as one of the three or four most powerful leaders below Stalin.
        In denouncing Malenkov in 1957, Khrushchev accused him of being one of the planners of the so-called Leningrad Case of 1949, in which some of Zhdanov's leading aides were purged and executed. The victims were posthumously cleared of charges and restored to the party rolls. Played Key Role in Congress
        That Malenkov was a great favorite of Stalin was clearly established in several ways from 1948 to 1952. In listings of Politburo members Malenkov's name usually appeared third, behind only Stalin and Molotov. When Stalin's birthday was celebrated in 1949, Malenkov's article of tribute was printed in the Soviet press first among the articles written by Stalin's Politburo colleagues.
        Finally, Malenkov seemed to have been chosen Stalin's heir when the Soviet press announced he would give the key speech to the 19th Soviet Party Congress in October 1952.
        At the first public meeting of the Supreme Soviet after Stalin's death in 1953, Lavrenti P. Beria, the secret police chief, nominated Malenkov for Prime Minister.
        Between March and June 1953, several events indicated a power struggle between Malenkov and Beria. Among them, an amnesty for minor offenders was announced and an easing of stringent discipline laws was promised, but never fulfilled. Party Figures Removed
        In addition, the notion that the Soviet state would guarantee civil rights to its citizens, a theme sounded in Beria's funeral address for Stalin but not mentioned by Malenkov, became a leading propaganda slogan in the Soviet press. High party figures in various regions, particularly the Ukraine, were removed for trying to Russify non-Russian minorities.
        Malenkov made only one public appearance during those three months, at the May Day celebration. His conciliatory statement that all international problems should be solved by agreement was often cited, but without crediting him.
        After March 15, the Soviet press stopped mentioning him and soon began an attack on the ''cult of personality,'' an allusion to Stalin's one-man rule.
        Behind the scenes, a furious struggle was going on. The Soviet press announced the arrest of Beria, and it said that Malenkov had gone before the Central Committee to charge that Beria was a Western spy seeking to return the Soviet Union to capitalism and foreign domination. Announced Soviet H-Bomb
        Simultaneously, the themes of guaranteeing personal rights and attacking Russification were dropped. Then Malenkov, in a major Supreme Soviet speech, set the new themes for the post-Beria period. He maintained his previous, seemingly conciliatory attitude on foreign policy but announced that the Soviet Union had the hydrogen bomb.
        An important part of Malenkov's speech for Soviet citizens was his promise to press for a ''great increase'' in production of food and consumer goods by 1955 or 1956. At the same time, in an unprecedented admission, he acknowledged the low Soviet standard of living and provided statistics to confirm it.
        He called heavy industry the foundation of the Soviet economy, but added that the time had come to shift production to provide more food, housing and other consumer goods. The current Soviet leader, Mr. Gorbachev, would voice similar views three decades later.
        Malenkov is believed to be survived by a wife and daughter.
        Correction:  February 3, 1988, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition
      