
       James Rosati, a sculptor whose monumental yet precisely crafted geometric works stand in the gardens and plazas of many art museums and corporate headquarters, died Wednesday of a heart attack at his home in Manhattan. He was 76 years old.
        James Rosati, a sculptor whose monumental yet precisely crafted geometric works stand in the gardens and plazas of many art museums and corporate headquarters, died Wednesday of a heart attack at his home in Manhattan. He was 76 years old.
        In his early career, Mr. Rosati experimented with rounded marble sculptures and busts, but it was in the 1960's that his distinctive style emerged -monumental works of strong Cubist influence that often strikingly combined geometric forms of aluminum and steel.
        A close friend of the sculptor David Smith, to whose work his own sculptures have often been compared, Mr. Rosati also made smaller, welded-steel sculptures that playfully abstracted from such forms as antique iron farm tools, the human form and even potted plants.
        In 1969, Hilton Kramer wrote in The New York Times: ''He is a superlative craftsman, trained in the patient methods of the old sculpture, and is possessed of a very keen, elegant, intelligent sensibility, at once very poetic and very analytical.'' . Violinist in His Youth
        Mr. Rosati, born in 1912 in Washington, Pa., became a violinist at an early age and, for a time in his late teens, played with the Pittsburgh Chamber Orchestra. In an interview in Newsweek in 1969, he explained his switch to sculpture by saying that while he played the violin he ''looked at the classical nudes in the music hall and knew I wanted to become a sculptor.''
        In the late 1930's, he worked as a sculptor for the Works Progress Administration, and in 1944 he moved to New York. He taught at the Pratt Institute and at Cooper Union in New York in the mid-1950's, and from 1960 to 1973 was a professor of sculpture at Yale University.
        In the late 1960's his monumental sculptures began to attract wide attention and he gained increasing numbers of commissions, especially for museum gardens and for corporate plazas and lobbies.
        In an interview with the art historian Albert Elsen, printed in the catalogue to a survey of his work that opens at the Marlborough Gallery in Manhattan on March 2, Mr. Rosati said it was his hope that his sculptures humanized the places in which they stood. A Sense of Intimacy
        ''I feel that the sculpture should project the intimacy I sense within myself,'' Mr. Rosati said. ''I want my sculpture to invite man to get involved with it, not to make him sit there and be baffled.''
        In Manhattan, one of Mr. Rosati's monumental works, a stainless steel sculpture called ''Ideogram,'' is on permanent display in the plaza of the World Trade Center. Other works are on permanent display on the grounds of the National Gallery of Art in Washington and at the Hubert Humphrey Building, also in Washington. Others are in the collections of several dozen museums and corporations around the world.
        Mr. Rosati is survived by his wife, Carmel; by his daughters, Margaret Norton of Holmdel, N.J., Phillippe Tuscano of Manhattan, and Mary Joset Rosati, also of Manhattan; by his son, Anthony Rosati of Princeton, N.J., and by eight grandchildren.
      