
       James A. FitzPatrick, a former state assemblyman who served as chairman of the New York State Power Authority from 1963 to 1977, died of leukemia Saturday at Champlain Valley Hospital in Plattsburgh, N.Y. He was 71 years old and lived in Plattsburgh.
        James A. FitzPatrick, a former state assemblyman who served as chairman of the New York State Power Authority from 1963 to 1977, died of leukemia Saturday at Champlain Valley Hospital in Plattsburgh, N.Y. He was 71 years old and lived in Plattsburgh.
        As chairman of the power authority, Mr. FitzPatrick, who was appointed a trustee by Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, oversaw the acquisition and construction of almost $2 billion in new facilities, and he held his post longer than any other chairman in the authority's history.
        The improvements made under his guidance more than doubled the generating power of the authority, a public benefit corporation established under Gov. Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1931. The authority, which now provides about one-third of the electrical power used in the state, is one of the largest producers of electricity in the country.
        In 1975, the power authority named a nuclear power plant on Lake Ontario near Oswego after Mr. FitzPatrick. Five-Time Assemblyman
        Mr. FitzPatrick, who was born in Plattsburgh, attended local Catholic schools and briefly attended Villanova College in Philadelphia. In 1938, he graduated from the Catholic University of America and in 1941 he received a law degree from Columbia University Law School.
        He also served as an ensign in the Navy and was discharged in 1946 with the rank of lieutenant commander.
        Mr. FitzPatrick was elected to the State Legislature as a Republican from Clinton County in 1946 and was re-elected to four subsequent terms before retiring from elective office in 1956. In 1952 he won re-election by a landslide and in 1954 he was endorsed for re-election by both the Republican and Democratic Parties.
        While in the Legislature, he sponsored a measure that led to the construction of the Adirondack Northway, the highway that connects Albany to the Canadian border. He also served as chairman of the Joint Legislative Committee on Comic Books, which developed a series of regulations that prohibited the sale and distribution of obscene magazines and comic books. The bills were signed into law by Gov. Thomas E. Dewey in 1954. Mr. FitzPatrick is survived by his wife, the former Joan F. Manning; two sons, James A. Jr. and Daniel M., both of Manhattan; three daughters, Joan Maureen, of East Lansing, Mich., and Cynthia Duffy and Susan Pellerin, both of Plattsburgh; a brother, Phillip E., of Plattsburgh, and three grandchildren.
      