
       Alain Savary, whose policies as Education Minister in 1984 provoked street protests, died today. He was 69 years old.
        Alain Savary, whose policies as Education Minister in 1984 provoked street protests, died today. He was 69 years old.
        A Socialist Party statement said Mr. Savary had been hospitalized for several weeks with a serious infection, but did not give the cause of death.
        Mr. Savary proposed a bill in the National Assembly in 1984 to carry out President Francois Mitterrand's campaign promises to restructure the system of private education.
        Among its provisions, the bill gave local authorities more control over management and finances of private schools. It also gave teachers in those schools the right to chose civil service status, and linked state subsidies to the number of teachers who changed status.
        Nearly 16 percent of France's 12 million schoolchildren attend private schools, and 94 percent of those schools are Roman Catholic and heavily subsidized by the state.
        The Savary Law, as it became known, inflamed passions for months. Opponents contended it threatened their right to choose how their children would be educated. Supporters sought to hold Mr. Mitterrand to his pledge to create ''a unified, secular public education service.'' Protests Across France
        More than a million people joined daylong demonstrations across France on June 24, 1984. Pierre Mauroy, then the Prime Minister, said the changes had been ''totally misunderstood,'' but the Socialists withdrew the bill.
        A month after the demonstrations -and after Socialist losses in the European Parliament - Mr. Savary resigned and was replaced by Jean-Pierre Chevenment. Shortly afterward, President Mitterrand replaced Prime Minister Mauroy with Laurent Fabius.
        Mr. Savary, who was in the Resistance during World War II, was a leader in the Government formed just after the Liberation and a member of the National Assembly. He held ministerial positions under de Gaulle and in other Governments.
        Born on April 25, 1918, in Algeria, then a French colony, he was a strong advocate of decolonization of Africa.
        Lionel Jospin, secretary of the Socialist Party, said today of Mr. Savary, ''He represented Socialism, with his strong sense of morality, his sense of justice and his commitment to the decolonization.''
      