
       Ronald Bladen, a sculptor born in Canada and known for his austere poetic imagery in steel, wood and aluminum, died of cancer yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 69 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Ronald Bladen, a sculptor born in Canada and known for his austere poetic imagery in steel, wood and aluminum, died of cancer yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 69 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Fascinated with scale, Mr. Bladen was not averse to filling with a single work the entire exhibition space allotted him. His assertive sculptures are represented in a number of public and private collections, including those of the Museum of Modern Art, the Federal Reserve Bank in Boston, King Saud University in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia and the State Office Building in Albany.
        Sometimes Mr. Bladen worked with elemental principles, such as opposing or crossed planes, to dramatic effect. But his pieces often had figural overtones, or seemed to refer to such technological commonplaces as solar panels and satellite dishes. In his last exhibition at the Washburn Gallery, in Manhattan, he showed a group of wall sculptures whose surfaces were charged and changed by the light playing over them. A Friend of the Beats
        Mr. Bladen was born in Vancouver, British Columbia, on July 13, 1918. After attending the Vancouver School of Art and the California School of Fine Arts in San Francisco, he set up as a painter and formed friendships with writers of the so-called Beat Generation, among them Jack Kerouac, Kenneth Rexroth and Allen Ginsberg. His own interest in jazz found expression in playing the saxophone, and he liked to perform with amateur groups.
        In the early 1950's, when his tall, angular presence first became known on the New York art scene, he showed painterly abstractions at several downtown galleries before branching into sculpture. In the 1960's and 70's, he received several fellowships and grants, from the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation, the National Endowment for the Arts and the Mark Rothko Foundation.
        Mr. Bladen leaves no survivors. There will be no funeral service, but a memorial service will be announced at a later date.
      