
       James A. Linen 3d, publisher of Time magazine for 15 years after World War II and president of the parent Time Inc. from 1960 to 1969, died yesterday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 75 years old and lived in Greenwich.
        James A. Linen 3d, publisher of Time magazine for 15 years after World War II and president of the parent Time Inc. from 1960 to 1969, died yesterday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 75 years old and lived in Greenwich.
        Mr. Linen, who spent most of his working life with the Time organization, was a major force in expanding the publishing empire left by Henry Luce, the company's founder. Under Mr. Linen and Andrew Heiskell, then chairman of Time Inc., the company branched out into allied fields, like textbook publishing, learning systems and films.
        Mr. Linen stepped down as president after suffering a stroke, but he continued as chairman of the concern's executive committee, finally retiring in 1973. But that did not end his active business life. Traveled in Wheelchair
        Although confined to a wheelchair, he traveled around the world as an international business consultant. Only in the last year was he compelled to reduce his schedule.
        Mr. Linen, a native of Waverly, Pa., graduated from the Hotchkiss School and Williams College. When he left Williams in 1934, Mr. Luce hired him as an office boy at Time, thanks to a family connection: his grandfather had helped finance the missionary work of Mr. Luce's father in the Far East.
        Mr. Linen failed a writing test at Time but was kept on as an advertising salesman. Curt Prendergast, corporate historian for Time Inc., recalled last night that Mr. Linen was sent to Michigan in 1937 and proceeded to sell more advertising than any predecessor.
        In 1938 he became Life's advertising manager. During World War II he served in the eastern Mediterranean as a psychological warfare specialist for the Office of War Information, capitalizing on an interest in Byzantine civilization that he had developed in college. Named Publisher in 1945
        When he left Government service in 1945, expecting to return to Life magazine, he was made publisher of Time, the Luce empire's flagship publication.
        He traveled extensively over the years and built up a network of friends around the world. His retirement from Time and confinement to a wheelchair barely slowed him. He continued to circle the globe as a consultant, specializing in arranging meetings among heads of state, international developers and business leaders from many countries to bolster their economies.
        ''He had an adrenal gland as big as a baseball,'' recalled Mr. Prendergast, a former director of correspondents for Time.
        Speaking of his post-retirement activities a few years ago, Mr. Linen said, ''I knew I couldn't sit home and read away - my mind's as sharp as ever.''
        He found that because of his many contacts, he did not have to solicit business. ''It came in over the transom,'' he said.
        Being confined to a wheelchair was no obstacle ''as long as airlines have ramps,'' he said. Active in Community Work
        In addition to his consulting work, Mr. Linen was active in several community efforts, including the Japan Foundation, the Urban League, which he served as president, and the American Red Cross.
        In earlier years he was an accomplished golfer. His principal hobby was collecting toy soldiers; he had thousands, including one of the largest collections extant of the Napoleonic era.
        Mr. Linen is survived by his wife, the former Sara Scranton; three sisters, Harriet Goodbody and Sarah Fleming of Seabrook Island, S.C., and Mary Graham of Scranton, Pa.; six children, Ellen S. Conway of Greenwich; James A. Linen 4th of Richmond; Marion M. Dawson of Greenwich; Jonathan S. Linen of Summit, N.J.; Christopher T. Linen of Alexandria, Va., and Worthington W. Linen of Manhattan, and 13 grandchildren.
        A memorial service will be held at 3 P.M. Friday at Christ Episcopal Church in Greenwich. Burial will be in Scranton.
      