
       Dr. John J. Meng, the president of Hunter College from 1960 to 1966 and later executive vice president of Fordham University and president of Marymount College,, died of heart failure on Monday at his home in Jackson, Miss. He was 81 years old. Dr. Meng, a historian and an authority on French-American relations in the period of the American and French Revolutions, retired in 1973 as president of Marymount but remained active in educational affairs.
        Dr. John J. Meng, the president of Hunter College from 1960 to 1966 and later executive vice president of Fordham University and president of Marymount College,, died of heart failure on Monday at his home in Jackson, Miss. He was 81 years old. Dr. Meng, a historian and an authority on French-American relations in the period of the American and French Revolutions, retired in 1973 as president of Marymount but remained active in educational affairs. He served as executive director of the Consortium of Small Private Colleges and since 1983 had headed the Foundation for Educational Futures.
        He was also in demand in recent years as a lecturer in connection with the bicentennial of the American Revolution and the forthcoming French Revolution bicentennial. A National Competition
        Although teaching and college administration became his career, this was not his original intent. Dr. Meng, a native of Cleveland, wanted to enter the United States Foreign Service and took the rigorous examination in his late teens. He just missed qualifying for an appointment, but he also entered a national competition sponsored by the Knights of Columbus and won a full four-year scholarship to Catholic University in Washington, where he later received his bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees in history and economics.
        He was hired as a teaching assistant at his alma mater and rose to assistant professor before leaving to join the political science faculty at Queens College in 1939. By 1942 he had become chairman of the department and of the social sciences division at Queens College.
        In 1949 he moved to Hunter College, another unit of what was to become the City University of New York, as professor of history. He was made dean of administration in 1952 and president in 1960.
        In the fall of 1965, Dr. Meng was at the center of a controversy over administration of the municipal colleges. He, along with Dr. Albert H. Bowker, the chancellor of City University, and two other high university officials, announced their resignations, protesting what they said was an overstepping of policy-making functions and interference in academic matters by the city's Board of Higher Education, which served as the university's board of trustees. Changes in Procedures
        After many bitter exchanges with Gustave G. Rosenberg, the board's chairman, and other board members, Dr. Bowker stayed on as chancellor, but Dr. Meng retired at the end of the 1965-66 academic year. The protesters succeeded in winning changes in board procedures that made Dr. Bowker the undisputed administrative officer of the university. Several board members resigned within a short time.
        A decade later, Dr. Meng headed a task force named by Gov. Hugh L. Carey that made several recommendations to strengthen the university.
        After leaving Hunter, Dr. Meng was appointed as executive vice president of Fordham in charge of developing its new Lincoln Center campus, a position he held until 1969, when he was chosen as the first man and the first lay person to head Marymount, a women's college in Tarrytown, N.Y., established by the Roman Catholic order of the Sacred Heart of Mary.
        Dr. Meng was the author of several books and many articles, most of which dealt with history or academic affairs.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Marjorie Brunini, whom he married in 1937; two daughters, Marie Louise Caffrey of New City, N.Y., and Marjorie Kathryn Meng of Westbury, L.I.; six sons, John Joseph Jr., of Boston; George, of Upper Marlboro, Md.; Alexander, of Ossining, N.Y.; Charles, of Washington; Matthew, of Westbury, and Michael, of Boca Raton, Fla., and 18 grandchildren.
      