
       Thomas Babbitt Lamb, an inventor and industrial designer, died of pneumonia Tuesday at the Carolton Manor convalescent home in Fairfield, Conn. He was 91 years old and lived in New Canaan, Conn.
        Thomas Babbitt Lamb, an inventor and industrial designer, died of pneumonia Tuesday at the Carolton Manor convalescent home in Fairfield, Conn. He was 91 years old and lived in New Canaan, Conn.
        In a long and varied career, Mr. Lamb was a cartoonist, writer and textile designer before turning to inventing. The range of his inventions was wide, from a lounging chair to a piggy bank to rifles. But he devoted his greatest energy to designing handles for anything that needed them: kitchen utensils, cutlery, surgical instruments, among others.
        The Lamb Handle was the subject of a one-man show at the Museum of Modern Art in 1948.
        A native of New York City, he studied at the Art Students League and New York University and served in the Navy in World War I. As a young man he drew cartoons for the Hearst syndicate and had a monthly page for children in Good Housekeeping magazine called ''Kiddyland Movies,'' which spawned a line of Kiddyland products, from talcum powder to handkerchiefs. He wrote and illustrated several children's books in the 1920's. 'Make Him Squeal'
        He was a textile designer when he turned to inventing. During World War II, he worked on rifle designs for the Army and came up with a piggy bank in the image of Hitler that had a voice box and bore the legend: ''Save for Victory and Make Him Squeal.''
        His first invention, a relaxing chair that pulsated when it was sat upon, failed commercially but led him to investigate the problem of fatigue in general and the crutch in particular. He invented a crutch handgrip and then turned his attention to other kinds of handles. His Wedge-Lock Handle, used on cutlery, won several design awards.
        In more recent years, he sought to design the perfect pen, but never succeeded. His final design was a baby spoon.
        Mr. Lamb was a fellow of the Industrial Designers Society of America.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Carolyn Buchanan; two daughters, Helen Gubar of Cohutta, Ga., and Wendy Lamb of Manhattan; a son, Christopher Lamb of Chesterfield, Mo., and four grandsons.
      