
       Adrian Wilson, a book designer and scholar who was considered one of America's leading fine printers, died Wednesday of congestive heart failure at the Pacific Presbyterian Hospital in San Francisco. He was 64 years old.
        Adrian Wilson, a book designer and scholar who was considered one of America's leading fine printers, died Wednesday of congestive heart failure at the Pacific Presbyterian Hospital in San Francisco. He was 64 years old.
        Working out of a small San Francisco studio known as ''The Press at Tuscany Valley,'' Mr. Wilson designed and printed scores of books, and became a mentor to younger men and women eager to learn the printer's craft. His many volumes, while little-known to the general public, are famous among print connoisseurs, and many are collectors' items.
        In 1983, Mr. Wilson won a MacArthur Fellowship, a cash prize awarded to ''exceptionally talented individuals'' in diverse creative fields. His Writings on Printing
        One of his most popular books is ''The Design of Books,'' published in 1967 and regarded as a classic text of book design. Others include ''Printing for Theater'' (1957), ''The Making of the Nuremberg Chronicle''(1976) and ''The Work and Play of Adrian Wilson,'' an illustrated autobiography that he designed and printed in 1983. In 1986, Mr. Wilson designed and printed ''Three Stories of the Raj,'' by Ved Mehta, a writer for The New Yorker.
        Mr. Wilson, a native of Ann Arbor, Mich., grew up in Beverly, Mass. He attended Wesleyan University, and became interested in typography and book design while doing alternative service as a conscientious objector at a civilian public service camp in Waldport, Ore., in 1944.
        That year, he planted trees by day, and by night worked in the camp's print shop, printing chapbooks of poetry and a little magazine called ''The Illiterati.'' After the war, he moved to San Francisco and married Joyce Lancaster, an actress, with whom he collaborated on many of his book projects in subsequent years.
        He is survived by his wife and by his daughter, Melissa Wilson Marshall, of San Francisco.
      