
       Kenneth Lee Porter, one of the last surviving American air aces of World War I, died Wednesday at his home in Jackson Heights, Queens. He was 91 years old.
        Kenneth Lee Porter, one of the last surviving American air aces of World War I, died Wednesday at his home in Jackson Heights, Queens. He was 91 years old.
        Mr. Porter was a 21-year-old second lieutenant in 1918, when he was sent to France as a member of the 147th Aero Squadron of the Army Air Service, a forerunner of the Air Force. The squadron was attached to the First Pursuit Group of the First Army of the American Expeditionary Forces.
        The American aviators attached to the A.E.F. first went into combat over France in April 1918. In the few months that remained before the end of the war in November, Lieutenant Porter was credited with six confirmed and three unconfirmed victories, or kills of enemy aircraft. He was also shot down and crash-landed three times.
        In an interview some years ago, Mr. Porter recalled that he and other members of his squadron were flying over Chateau-Thierry in July 1918, when they spotted German planes below them. It was his first dogfight. After maneuvering to ''get the sun at my advantage,'' he said, the squadron swooped down out of the clouds, and he shot down his first enemy plane, a Fokker D-VII. Machine Gun on Cowling
        To qualify as an ace, an Allied aviator had to shoot down with confirmation at least five enemy aircraft. Five American aces from World War I are alive - four with six victories each and one, George A. Vaughn of Dongan Hills, S.I., with 13.
        Lieutenant Porter was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross and the Croix de Guerre. He flew fragile Nieuport 28 and Spad 13 single-seat biplanes with the machine gun mounted on the engine cowling in front of the pilot.
        After the war, Mr. Porter, who had an engineering degree from the University of Michigan, worked as an engineer and executive for the Burroughs Corporation in Detroit and the old Pesco Hydraulic Pump Company in New York. He retired in 1962.
        Surviving is a sister, Louise Baldauf of Grand Forks, N.D.
      