
       Al Cohn, a tenor saxophonist and arranger who worked with the Artie Shaw, Buddy Rich and Woody Herman orchestras, died of liver cancer Monday in Poconos Hospital in East Stroudsburg, Pa. He was 62 years old and lived in Canadensis, Pa.
        Al Cohn, a tenor saxophonist and arranger who worked with the Artie Shaw, Buddy Rich and Woody Herman orchestras, died of liver cancer Monday in Poconos Hospital in East Stroudsburg, Pa. He was 62 years old and lived in Canadensis, Pa.
        Mr. Cohn became ill Jan. 1 after playing in Chicago on New Year's Eve. One of his final concerts in New York was a tribute to Woody Herman at the Cooper Union with the American Jazz Orchestra in December.
        Mr. Cohn, a New York City native, joined the Woody Herman band in 1948, when he was 23 years old. On the road since he was 17, Mr. Cohn had worked previously with Joe Marsala, Georgie Auld, Alvino Rey and Mr. Rich.
        A year before, the Herman band had produced a piece called ''Four Brothers'' by Jimmy Giuffre. The saxophonists featured in that work were the tenor saxophonists Stan Getz, Zoot Sims and Herbie Steward and the baritone saxophonist, Serge Chaloff. When Mr. Cohn joined the group, he replaced Mr. Steward.
        The sound they produced was one of the significant ensemble sounds in jazz at the time. Long Association With Zoot Sims
        Mr. Cohn joined the Herman band in Salt Lake City, and began an association with Mr. Sims that ended only with Mr. Sims's death in 1985. Both men were musically inspired by Lester Young. They worked together in the Herman band for about a year and a half, and teamed up after they left the band in 1949.
        The two musicians played together in New York almost daily. In 1957, they made an album for Coral records, ''Al and Zoot,'' in which they displayed what the New York Times critic John S. Wilson called their ''matchless musical empathy.'' In the late 1950's and early 60's, the Cohn-Sims duo appeared regularly at the Half Note, a club at Hudson and Spring Streets.
        Describing their performances, Mr. Wilson wrote: ''Mr. Sims's solos are gracefully lightfooted, floating on feathery phrases that have a sinuous energy as he enlivens a ballad with glancing asides or softens an up-tempo piece with a warm, purring tone.
        ''Mr. Cohn's tougher, more hard-edged sound provides a solo balance and establishes a jumpy intensity around which Mr. Sims can curl in the swinging duets that have always been the team's hallmark.'' Writing and Arranging
        In addition to performing, Mr. Cohn had an active career arranging and writing for television and Broadway musicals as well as orchestras. He wrote arrangements for the Benny Goodman band when it returned from Moscow and recorded ''Jazz Mission to Moscow.''
        For television he wrote for ''Your Hit Parade'' and the Ernie Kovacs and Sid Caesar shows. He was an arranger for the musicals ''Raisin'' and ''Sophisticated Ladies.''
        He was ambivalent about his writing and arranging. At one point he was devoting all of his time to writing. ''It didn't do my playing any good,'' he said. Later, in the early 1980's, he said, ''In the last couple of years I've become more selective about taking writing assignments and I practice my horn every day.''
        He is survived by his wife, Flora; a son, Joseph, of Boston; a daughter, Lisa Sjoholm of Queens; a sister, Sybil Levenson of Southfield, Mich., and his father, David, of Brooklyn.
      