
        Daisy Anderson, an old man's darling who kept the flame of her own youthful love and her husband's searing slave memories burning for more three quarters of a century, died last Saturday at a nursing home in Denver. She was 97, and, as the oldest of the nation's three known surviving Civil War widows, may also have been the last widow of a Southern slave.
        The death of Miss Daisy, as she was known, leaves only two known surviving widows of Civil War veterans, one each from the Union and Confederate armies.
        One, Alberta Martin, 91, of Elba, Ala., whose husband fought for the South, joined Miss Daisy at a ceremony at Gettysburg last year. The other, Gertrude Grubb Janeway, 89, of Blaine, Tenn., is the widow of a Union soldier.
        No official records exist of the marital histories of former slaves, but the arithmetic suggesting that Miss Daisy may have been the last woman married to a man born into Southern bondage is compelling.
        When they were married in Forest City, Ark., in 1922, Miss Daisy was 21, and her husband, Robert Anderson, was 79.
        For Miss Daisy, or Daisy Graham, a native of Hardin County, Tenn.,  whose impoverished sharecropping family had moved to Arkansas because of racial tensions when she was 17, it was hardly love at first sight.
        When she first saw Mr. Anderson, in church, she recalled snickering at the sight of his bushy white beard.
        But Mr. Anderson, who was born into slavery in Green County, Ky., in 1843 and grew up on a flax and hemp plantation before fleeing with his master's blessing to join the Union Army in the waning days of the Civil War in 1865, had more than whiskers to offer the lithe young woman who eked out a living teaching the alphabet to neighborhood children and owned one dress.
        Mr. Anderson, who saw no action in the Civil War but later took part in the western Indian campaigns, had done well since being mustered out of the Army in 1867.
        After several abortive farming ventures he had acquired a 2,000-acre homestead in Nebraska and made such a success of it that by the time he visited a brother in Forest City in 1922, Mr. Anderson, a bachelor, was rich as well as lonely.
        Whatever her reaction to his whiskers, once Mr. Anderson began talking about his experiences as a slave, soldier and gentleman farmer, Miss Daisy was captivated.
        Thirty days after being introduced by a matchmaking preacher, they were married and began what Miss Daisy later described as an eight-year honeymoon, which ended when her husband was killed in an automobile accident in 1930.
        Mr. Anderson took his bride on an extensive trip through the West and lavished her with clothes and other gifts. The gifts continued after they settled on his ranch, which she recalled had 20 hands and two cooks.
        He also regaled his wife with stories of his childhood as a slave, so impressing her that she turned them into a book, ''From Slavery to Affluence: Memoirs of Robert Anderson, Ex-Slave,'' which was published privately in 1927.
        After her husband's death, Miss Daisy, who said she had been spoiled by his generosity, became such a  spendthrift that she soon lost the farm in the Depression.
        After that she had a largely hardscrabble life, joining a sister in Steamboat Springs, Colo., and eventually acquiring a 10-acre farm in nearby Strawberry Park, where she raised geese and chickens, kept a garden, ran a restaurant with a sister and worked as a guide.
        For all the drama of her own life, Miss Daisy, who lectured widely in her later years, becoming such a celebrity that she was introduced to Pope John Paul II in Denver in 1993 and presented President Clinton with a copy of her book there last year, made it her life's mission to work for racial harmony and keep the memory of her husband alive.
        Originally named after his owner, Col. Robert Ball, Mr. Anderson, who never saw his mother after she was sold to a Louisiana sugar plantation when he was 6, later adopted the name Anderson after the neighboring farmer who owned his father.
        Although he always described his own master as kind, Mr. Anderson suffered horribly at the hands of the man's third wife, a drunken harridan who once gave him a savage rawhide whipping, then rubbed salt and black pepper into his wounds, leaving such extensive scars that Miss Daisy later said the welts on his back were as thick as her own fingers.
        She was in a position to know. She had lovingly used her own fingers to trace the very scars of slavery and had vowed that they would not be forgotten.
        Miss Daisy, who never remarried and had no children, is survived by two nieces, Mary L. Cox of Westminster, Colo., and Anne Williams of Los Angeles.
      