
        Fiamma di San Giuliano Ferragamo, a designer who helped develop one of the most famous shoe labels in fashion, died on Monday at her home in Florence. She was 57. She died of cancer, said Ferrucio Ferragamo, her brother and chief executive officer of Salvatore Ferragamo Italia.
        For almost 40 years Fiamma Ferragamo was responsible for the design of the famed Ferragamo shoes and leather accessories, helping to build Ferragamo from a custom shoemaker for the elite to a global fashion powerhouse with a network of boutiques in New York, Milan, London and Paris. In 1996 the company had become so robust it was able to scoop up the Emanuel Ungaro company.
        Ms. Ferragamo pursued her vigorous activities for her family company in defiance of doctors' prognostications a decade ago after she underwent surgery for breast cancer. ''She went against all the predictions at the beginning,'' Ferruccio Ferragamo said yesterday. ''They thought it was only a question of a few months and she made it 10 years.''
        As executive vice president and a board member of the Ferragamo company, Ms. Ferragamo played a central role in the business, attending meetings as recently as two weeks ago with her five siblings and her mother, Wanda, the chairman, said Ferruccio Ferragamo.
        Ms. Ferragamo prided herself on the comfort and elegance of the Ferragamo shoe, values she inherited from her father, Salvatore, who founded the firm in 1927.
        Ms. Ferragamo's most successful shoe design, a round-toe low-heeled pump with grosgrain ribbon and gold buckle stamped with the family signature, became a badge of executive propriety and country club chic. Even though Ms. Ferragamo designed the Vara -- as she called the model -- in the 1960's, the shoe has never lost its appeal and remains a wardrobe staple for many conservative white-collar women in much the same way the Oxford wingtip is for white-collar men.
        Ms. Ferragamo was born in Florence in 1941, the eldest of three boys and two girls. She began working for the company at 16 when her father had already established it as one of the most prestigious names in shoes. At one point it seemed that there was no foot in royal Europe or royal Hollywood that Mr. Ferragamo had not dressed -- from Audrey Hepburn, Elizabeth Taylor, Sophia Loren and Greta Garbo to the Duchess of Windsor, Queen Elena of Italy and, as he pointed out in ''Shoemaker of Dreams,'' his 1957 autobiography, Eva Braun.
        Ms. Ferragamo inherited his mantle when she was only 19. When he was dying of cancer, Salvatore Ferragamo left her in charge while he sought treatment in the United States. He died in 1960.
        Ms. Ferragamo believed in promotion as well as creation and she spent weeks flying around the United States selling her product in stores.
        In 1967 she received the Neiman Marcus Award for Distinguished Service in the Field of Fashion, 20 years after her father was similarly honored.
        When she was not designing or plotting acquisitions, Ms. Ferragamo served on the board of the Italian Environmental Fund, which protects historic Italian houses. She loved entertaining in her home and shopping for the home even more. She adored nights at the opera. A regular visitor with her husband, Giuseppe di San Giuliano, to the Salzburg Festival, she would not miss a night of the Maggio Musicale season in Italy directed by Zubin Mehta, a frequent guest in her home.
        An ear for music was augmented with a nose for marmalade, as  Ms. Ferragamo developed her own recipe for the orange jam, which is sold by the jar in Japan.
        In addition to her husband, her mother and her brother, she is survived by a son, Diego, two daughters, Giulia and Maria, two other brothers, Leonardo and Massimo, a sister, Fulvia Visconti Ferragamo, all of Florence; and another sister, Giovanna Gentile Ferragamo, of Milan. All are officers of the company.
        Ms. Ferragamo's successor at the company has not been named, said Ferruccio Ferragamo. A team of designers that reported to her will continue to design the line.
        Ms. Ferragamo pursued her passions to the last. On a typical shopping jaunt here in May, she was unstoppable. ''We did Banana Republic, always Saks, Gracious Home was like a candy store to her,'' said Helen O'Hagan, a friend and former Saks executive. ''Here she is -- I'm falling on my face -- straight out of chemo. We went to one of those antique shows at the pier and she would be there in four-inch heels and ahead of the pack.''
      