
        James Aaron Washington Jr., a retired District of Columbia judge and Howard University law dean who helped to formulate the Supreme Court case that resulted in the 1954 decision against school segregation, died on Saturday in his home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 83.
        Judge Washington, who was left partly disabled by a fall in 1976, retired from District of Columbia Superior Court in 1984. Besides his teaching career at Howard, he held a number of government posts before being named to the bench in 1971.
        He was a legal expert who worked for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People preparing arguments against racial separation in public schools. The goal was to overturn the Supreme Court's 1896 Plessy v. Ferguson precedent that established the doctrine of separate but equal.
        Having gained expertise in years of earlier civil rights litigation, Judge Washington worked with teams that drew up briefs, held moot court exercises and tested presentations for the cases that culminated in Brown v. Board of Education.
        A native of Asheville, N.C., he graduated from Howard in 1936, took his law degree there in 1939 and earned a master of laws degree at Harvard Law School in 1941. After working in the War Division of the Justice Department, he joined the Howard faculty as a professor of law in 1946. He became dean of the law school in 1969 after three years as Langston Professor of Law.
        He served on several District of Columbia commissions and headed the Police Community Relations Institute of the National Conference of Christians and Jews. From 1969 until he was named to the bench, he was general counsel of the Federal Transportation Department.
        His judicial career nearly ended in 1976 with a fall that broke his neck and severely injured his spinal cord, but he returned to work in a wheelchair a year later.
        Judge Washington's wife, Ada Collins Washington, died in 1987 after 51 years of marriage. He is survived by four daughters, Dr. Grace C. Cooper of Lewisdale, Md., Eleanor J. Jackson of Fort Washington, Md., Vivian A. Johnson of Upper Marlboro, Md., and Diana V. Smith of Washington; four sons, Dr. James A. 3d, of Fort Washington, Michael G., of Baltimore, Carleton C., of Washington, and Stephen C., of Kalamazoo, Mich.; 16 grandchildren; and 11 great-grandchildren.
      