
        Terence A. McEwen, a former executive with London Records, a general director of the San Francisco Opera during the 1980's and a witty frequent panelist on the ''Texaco Opera Quiz,'' the intermission feature of the Metropolitan Opera radio broadcasts, died on Sept. 14 at his home in Honolulu. He was 69.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his sister Jessie Rattray. Mr. McEwen had also suffered a stroke some years ago.
        As a frustrated tenor, a student with a background in law and an insightful devotee of opera, Mr. McEwen was ideally suited to the classical record business. He joined Decca Records in London in 1950, working in merchandising and artist development and guiding the careers of artists like the conductors Herbert von Karajan and Sir Georg Solti and the sopranos Renata Tebaldi and Joan Sutherland. He worked in the London and Paris offices of Decca until 1959, when he moved to the company's American branch, London Records, in New York, first as manager of the classical division, then in 1973 as a vice president, and, starting in 1978, the executive vice president of the company.
        In 1982 he left London Records to accept the post with the San Francisco Opera, succeeding the exacting conductor Kurt Herbert Adler, who had run the company with strong-armed authority. Mr. McEwen's managerial style was breezy and affable, yet he had a clear vision of what he wanted to do, and the company made strides during his tenure.
        Though not the most adventuresome programmer, he presented the acclaimed American premiere of Sir Michael Tippett's ''Midsummer Marriage'' in 1983. Most notably, he oversaw a new production of Wagner's four-opera ''Ring'' cycle, presented serially during the summer festivals of 1983 and 1984, and in its entirety in 1985.
        Dismayed by the modernistic conceptual productions of the ''Ring'' that had become prevalent, Mr. McEwen wanted something beautiful and Romantic, he said at the time. He found a sympathetic creative team in the director Nikolaus Lehnhoff and the designer John Conklin, who based the look of their production on German Romantic paintings by Caspar David Friedrich and on the architecture of Karl Friedrich Schinkel. The production's success  was one of Mr. McEwen's finest achievements.
        He also appointed the company's first musical director, the conductor  John Pritchard, and was responsible for bringing order to the company's overlapping training programs, including the Merola Opera Program, the Kurt Herbert Adler Fellows program and the Western Opera Theater touring program. He grouped these under the San Francisco Opera Center. The company has nurtured many young talents who have gone on to major success, including the sopranos Ruth Ann Swenson, Deborah Voigt and Nancy Gustafson, and the bass Kevin Langan. Mr. McEwen also urged the role of Wotan on the bass James Morris, who was hesitant at first. But Mr. Morris took the advice and became a leading Wotan of our time, singing the ''Das Rheingold'' Wotan for the first time in San Francisco.
        ''Terry was in love with the human voice,'' Lotfi Mansouri, Mr. McEwen's successor in San Francisco, recalled yesterday. ''He had the most encyclopedic knowledge of singers and their voices of anyone I ever knew, and an incredible record collection going back to the invention of recording.''
        Mr. McEwen was born on April 13, 1929, in Thunder Bay, Ontario. He was the eldest of six children. His father was a steamship company executive. The family moved to Montreal when Mr. McEwen was a child. There, he attended Strathcona Academy and George Williams College.
        A diabetic, a heavy smoker and a portly bon vivant, Mr. McEwen was subject to bouts of poor health. Illness compelled him to retire from the opera company after only six years, in 1988. He moved to Honolulu, claiming that he had always wanted to be a beach bum. But he stayed abreast of the opera world, and, friends recalled yesterday, whenever one phoned him, an opera recording could be heard blasting in the background.
        Mr. McEwen is survived by his five siblings.
        Mr. Mansouri said yesterday that a 1999 revival of the San Francisco Opera ''Ring'' cycle would be dedicated to Mr. McEwen.
      