
        Marco Rizo, a Cuban pianist best known for composing for the ''I Love Lucy'' show, died on Tuesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 78.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, said a friend, David Younger.
        Although Mr. Rizo was known for his work with Desi Arnaz, he spent much of his career immersed in classical music. As a pianist -- he recorded some 30 albums -- he had a light, sure touch, and his playing combined classical technique with the syncopation of the Afro-Cuban tradition and the swing of jazz.
        Mr. Rizo was born in Santiago de Cuba and received his early musical training from his father, who was the principal flutist with the Santiago Symphony Orchestra and ran the Rizo-Ayala Jazz Band. He continued studying classical music, and by the time he was 16 he was Santiago's most important concert pianist.
        Working with his father's jazz band led him to explore jazz orchestration. He moved to Havana, performing duets with the composer and pianist Ernest Lecuona, and played under the direction of visiting conductors like Leopold Stokowski and Erich Kleiber. In 1940 Mr. Rizo received a scholarship to Juilliard,  where he studied under Rosina Lhevinne. He performed and orchestrated with the 2d Army Military Band during World War II.
        After the war, Mr. Arnaz, whom Mr. Rizo had known since childhood, invited him to join his orchestra as a pianist and orchestrator, and he toured the United States with the band until 1950. He was pianist and orchestrator for the ''I Love Lucy'' show, which ran from 1951 to 1957.
        During that time Mr. Rizo attended U.C.L.A., studying under Stravinsky and Mario Castelnuovo-Tedesco. He scored motion picture music for Columbia, Paramount and MGM studios. In 1960 he took a job as a staff orchestrator for CBS and started a concert career, playing the music of Ernesto Lecuona and other Cubans.
        His own piano and orchestral compositions include ''Suite Campesina,'' ''Suite Espanola,'' ''Nanigo'' and ''Danzas Cubanas.'' His most recent CD, ''Habaneras,'' traces the history of Cuban classical piano.
        He is survived by a son, Mark, of Atlanta.
      