
        Rabbi Sender Deutsch, a leader of one of the largest Hasidic Jewish groups in the United States and the longtime chief editor and publisher of Der Yid, a Yiddish-language weekly newspaper, died on Sept. 2 at Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 76 and a resident of the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn, where he had lived for about 45 years.
        The cause was cancer of the liver, said Rabbi Hertz Frankel, a spokesman for the Satmar Hasidic community.
        At his death, Rabbi Deutsch was vice president of the Brooklyn Satmar group, one of the two leading international Hasidic communities.
        Rabbi Deutsch was also, at his death, the chief editor and publisher of Der Yid, having held those posts since he founded the paper 40 years ago.
        In addition, he was senior vice president of the World Council of Orthodox Jewish Communities, which coordinates social and other services for the Orthodox and Hasidic communities.
        The Council was a party to the recently settled class-action lawsuit against leading Swiss banks, accusing them of improperly retaining assets of victims of the Nazi era. In the settlement, reached last month, the banks agreed to pay $1.25 billion to claimants in the suit -- people who survived the Holocaust and the heirs of those who did not.
        Rabbi Deutsch was himself a Holocaust survivor, but he lost all the closest members of his family except for a sister.
        Born in Czechoslovakia, the son of a printer and publisher, he was forced into slave labor in Hungary during World War II, was freed by the advancing Soviet Army and came to the United States in 1949. He was later awarded the honorary title of rabbi because of his leadership role in the Satmar community.
        During his decades with Der Yid, Rabbi Deutsch wrote a weekly column for the newspaper, under the pseudonym Eliezer Epstein. The column appeared next to the editorials -- which in most cases he also wrote.
        Der Yid, which has a total circulation of about 50,000, including newsstand sales and subscriptions, is sent to every part of the world where there are Orthodox Jews, Rabbi Frankel said. ''In the Orthodox Jewish community, Yiddish is a living language,'' he said. ''In the rest of the world it is a museum language.''
        Over the years, Rabbi Deutsch was a close aide to the current Satmar Grand Rabbi, Moses Teitelbaum, and to his predecessor and uncle, Grand Rabbi Joel Teitelbaum, who died in 1978.
        In addition, Rabbi Deutsch was prominent in the Satmar religious education network, which Rabbi Frankel said has an enrollment of more than 18,000 students, making it the largest Jewish school system in the United States.
        Rabbi Deutsch was born in Brezno, in what is now Slovakia, graduated from a religious secondary school there and went on to study at a yeshiva, a Jewish school of higher learning. For a time after World War II, he lived in a camp for displaced persons near Munich, in the part of Germany that was occupied by American soldiers. At the camp he met a cousin, Rachel Deutsch, and they married in 1947.
        Rabbi Deutsch was the founding editor and publisher of another Yiddish-language newspaper, Yiddishe Zeitung. It ceased publication after a few years, Rabbi Frankel said.
        In addition to his wife, Rabbi Deutsch is survived by three sons, Aaron, Hersh and Yidel, all of Williamsburg, Brooklyn; three daughters, Esther Blumenfeld, Zisel Mittelman and Rivka Lefkowitz, all of Williamsburg; 38 grandchildren; 43 great-grandchildren, and his sister, Yenti Rosenberg of the Borough Park section of Brooklyn.
      