
        Leonid Kinskey, the Russian-born character actor best known for his portrayal of Sascha, the bartender in Rick's Cafe Americain in ''Casablanca,'' died on Tuesday in Fountain Hills, Ariz. He was 95.
        In his most memorable role, Mr. Kinskey was one of the vivid nightclub characters who plotted against the Nazis and France's Vichy regime in the Oscar-winning 1942 Michael Curtiz film, which starred Humphrey Bogart and Ingrid Bergman.
        In a well-remembered scene, Bogart as Rick arranges for a young Hungarian couple, played by Helmut Dantine and Joy Page, to win enough at roulette to pay for an exit visa, which spares the beautiful young wife the need to obtain the document by sleeping with the chief of police, portrayed by Claude Rains.
        Sascha, overcome by the usually cynical Rick's romantic generosity, kisses him and says, ''Boss, you've done a beautiful thing.'' And Rick snarls, ''Go away, you crazy Russian.''
        Aljean Harmetz, the author of ''Round Up the Usual Suspects: The Making of Casablanca,'' published in 1992 by Hyperion, said yesterday that Mr. Kinskey was not the first choice to play Sascha. Production of the film was under way when a decision was made to replace Leon Mostovoy as the bartender because he wasn't funny enough.
        Mr. Kinskey told Ms. Harmetz that he got the role because he was a drinking buddy of Bogart's. He signed a contract for a guaranteed two weeks at $750 a week, and the name of the character he played was changed from Fyodor to Sascha.
        The role was but one of many that cast Mr. Kinskey as a foreigner and often as an exaggerated version of one.
        The names of the characters he played were themselves frequently indicative: Ivan Boultonoff in ''On Your Toes'' (1939); Ivan Ianski in ''Broadway Limited'' (1941); Comrade Nicky in ''He Stayed for Breakfast'' (1940); Boris in ''Lady for a Night'' (1942); Pierre in ''That Night in Rio'' (1941), and ''Rafael'' in ''Week-End in Havana'' (1942).
        Mr. Kinskey, whose name was sometimes spelled Kinsky, was in fact something of a citizen of the world. He was born on April 18, 1903, in St. Petersburg, Russia, and performed across Europe and in South America before he arrived in the United States in the 1930's and found work in Hollywood, starting in 1932 in Ernst Lubitsch's comedy ''Trouble in Paradise.''
        Mr. Kinskey appeared in more than 30 films, including ''Duck Soup'' (1933), ''Les Miserables'' (1933), ''Algiers'' (1938), ''The Story of Vernon and Irene Castle'' (1939), ''The Fighting Seabees'' (1944), ''Monsieur Beaucaire'' (1946) and ''The Man With the Golden Arm'' (1955).
        After the mid-1950's, he appeared occasionally on television and directed and produced industrial shows.
        His marriage to Iphigenie Castigloni, an Austrian who played small roles in Hollywood films, ended with her death.
      