
        George E. Danielson, a California Congressman who urged the impeachment of President Richard M. Nixon in 1974, died of heart failure on Sept. 12. He was 83 and lived in Monterey Park, Calif.
        During his 12 years in the House, Mr. Danielson became known nationwide for the wit, brevity and dead-on accuracy of his comments.
        Trying to obtain information from  John N. Mitchell, the Attorney General in the Nixon Administration who later became the head of Mr. Nixon's re-election effort, the California Democrat said, was ''like trying to nail a drop of water to the wall.''
        He made that remark in 1974, while sitting on the House Judiciary Committee that was considering whether to begin impeachment proceedings against Mr. Nixon. This was the heaviest and most burdensome responsibility of his career, he said later. Perhaps it was the sobering drama of the task that inspired his eloquent descriptions.
        In calling for the removal of Mr. Nixon, Mr. Danielson made what an article in The New York Times said at the time was ''the most forceful argument'' for the abuse of power article of impeachment. Mr. Nixon resigned before the full House could consider the motion.
        ''The offenses charged against the President in this article are uniquely Presidential offenses,'' he said. ''No one else can commit them. You or I, the most lowly citizen, can obstruct justice. You or I, the most lowly citizen, can violate any of the statutes in our criminal code. But only the President can violate the oath of office of the President. Only the President can abuse the powers of the office of President.''
        Before being elected to represent the 30th Congressional District in 1970, Mr. Danielson was a state assemblyman and senator, an agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and an Assistant United States Attorney.
        Mr. Danielson earned a law degree from the University of Nebraska, his home state. After serving in the Navy during World War II, he started his own law firm before his election to the State Assembly.
        In 1982, after 20 years in politics, Mr. Danielson resigned from the House to accept an appointment to the California Court of Appeal. He retired in 1992.
        Mr. Danielson is survived by his wife of 45 years, Gladys, and a sister, Sarah Danielson.
      