
        Deputy Chief Emil A. Ciccotelli, a longtime New York police commander who was an expert on organized crime and oversaw investigations of some sensational killings, died last Sunday at Our Lady of Mercy Hospital in the Bronx. He was 69.
        The cause apparently was a heart attack, said Richard J. Ruggiero, the manager of the F. Ruggiero and Sons funeral home in Yonkers. Mr. Ruggiero is a friend of the family.
        Chief Ciccotelli (pronounced chick-oh-TELL-ee) retired in 1992 after 38 years in the Police Department. ''He had a reputation as a very strong commander,'' said Tom Reppetto, the president of the Citizens Crime Commission, ''and he was given a lot of responsible assignments in the department.''
        After retirement, he taught criminal justice at Iona College in New Rochelle, N.Y. Chief Ciccotelli spent more than a decade, as an inspector and then a deputy chief, overseeing investigations, first by the Organized Crime Control Bureau, then as commander of Bronx detectives and later as commander of Brooklyn detectives. The Brooklyn assignment was  his last before retiring.
        In 1983, when he was with the Organized Crime Control Bureau, he was among the witnesses, along with  Rudolph W. Giuliani, the United States Attorney in Manhattan, who testified about organized crime at a special hearing of the United States Senate Judiciary Committee. The hearing focused on organized crime in New York City, and particularly on narcotics traffic.
        At the hearing, Chief Ciccotelli led a team of other New York Police Department experts who outlined the structure, leadership and activities of the city's five major crime families. He also spoke of other organized groups, including Colombian cocaine traffickers, and he told the committee that the time had come for ''a major, cooperative offensive'' by law enforcement against organized crime. At the hearing, Mr. Giuliani said, ''If we could now redouble our efforts, we could end La Cosa Nostra within this generation.''
        In the last 15 years, most authorities say, the influence and power of the five Mafia families in New York City have indeed been reduced, especially in the construction industry and the garbage carting industry, and at the Fulton Fish Market.
        The amount and quality of resources used in the fight against crime were a perennial concern of Chief Ciccotelli's. In 1982, while with the Organized Crime Control Bureau, he told how important confidential informers had become. He said in an interview that they were most frequently used in cases involving organized crime, especially narcotics, and he said that informers in those kinds of cases could be the most expensive. In one case, the police promised to give an informer ''payments not to exceed $5,000.''
        Among the investigations of killings that the chief supervised as commander of detectives in the Bronx (1984-87) and Brooklyn (1990-92) was the fatal shooting of five people in a Flatbush apartment, including Michael Johnson, who the police said was a drug dealer. Another case was the slaying of a 15-year-old girl, Zipora Yagodajev, under the Williamsburg Bridge.
        Chief Ciccotelli was born in Manhattan and received a bachelor's degree from Iona College in 1975. He was an adjunct professor of criminal justice at Iona from 1992 to 1994.
        He is survived by his wife of 48 years, the former Lorraine B. Reeber; 6 sons, Thomas E., of Pelham, N.Y., Michael P., Emil A. Jr., James T., and Peter M., all of the Bronx, and Richard T., of Yonkers; a daughter, Jeanmarie A. Dool of Flemington, N.J.; 15 grandchildren; and 2 brothers, Anthony and Nunzio, both of the Bronx.
      