
        Junius Kellogg, the Manhattan College player whose refusal to accept a bribe to fix the score of a 1951 game touched off the widest betting scandal in basketball history, died Wednesday in the Kingsbridge Veterans Affairs Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 71.
        Kellogg, who was paralyzed in a 1954 automobile accident, had been hospitalized since December and underwent heart surgery at Mount Sinai Hospital in December and February. Bob Otten, his college roommate and teammate and a close friend since, said the cause of death was respiratory failure.
        In the betting scandal, 32 players from seven colleges admitted to taking bribes to fix 86 games in 17 states between 1947 and 1950. The players included seven from the City College team that in 1950 won the National Invitation Tournament and the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament, the only such double in history.
        In 1951, the 6-foot-8-inch Kellogg, a sophomore from a poor family in Portsmouth, Va., was Manhattan's first black scholarship athlete. In those days, college basketball doubleheaders consistently sold out Madison Square Garden while the Knicks played their games before small crowds in an armory. The Garden crowds included many bettors who cheered not necessarily for a team to win, but also to win or lose by a certain number of points.
        After a Manhattan practice one day, Henry Poppe, the co-captain the previous season, visited Kellogg's dormitory room.
        ''I heard from other players that he had a problem with me being black,'' Kellogg once recalled. ''This guy would pass me in the street and not even say so much as good morning. And all of a sudden he was acting like my best friend, and he had a deal for me.''
        De Paul University was coming to the Garden as a 3-point favorite over Manhattan. Poppe wanted Kellogg, Manhattan's leading scorer, to be sure his team lost by at least 5 or 6 points.
        ''He offered me $1,000,'' Kellogg said. ''I told him to get the hell out of my room.''
        Kellogg said he did not sleep well that night. The next day, he told the story to Kenny Norton, the Manhattan coach, and Norton sent him to the District Attorney's office.
        ''I didn't want to hurt the guy,'' Kellogg said of Poppe, ''but I had to do it. If at any time in the future that guy decided to tell someone he came to see me, my scholarship was gone.''
        The gamblers approached Kellogg again, and the District Attorney's staff wired him for a listening device to wear when he met the gamblers at a neighborhood bar.
        The gamblers told him to ''throw hook shots over the basket'' and ''miss rebounds occasionally.'' Kellogg declined, and Manhattan won the game, 62-59. Hours later, the police made the first arrests.
        ''I didn't realize the enormity of the situation,'' Kellogg said. ''I was just this naive kid.''
        Mixed in with the messages of praise for Kellogg were a few threatening letters. A guard was stationed around the clock at his dormitory room. He and Otten were told not to use the bed by the window.
        Kellogg left college for the Army, returned, took a double class load and graduated in 1953 with his original class. Then he was hired by the Harlem Globetrotters for their second barnstorming basketball unit.
        In April 1954, he and four Globetrotter teammates were driving through Pine Bluff, Ark., to an exhibition game, when the right rear tire blew. The car flipped five times, throwing all of the players out of open windows. All escaped serious injury except for Kellogg, whose spinal cord was damaged.
        When he revived, Kellogg recalled, he heard a voice saying: ''Is he alive? Does he have any chance at all?'' He remembered a doctor coming into his room every so often and saying, ''Is he gone yet?''
        For six weeks, Kellogg drifted in and out of a coma. Later, he was sent to the Bronx hospital, where he would die 44 years later. He spent four years there, finally regaining the use of his hands and arms. He spent the rest of his life in a wheelchair and learned to drive a specially fitted car.
        From 1957 to 1966, Kellogg coached the Pan Am Jets to four international championships in wheelchair basketball. He taught, gave speeches and counseled inner-city children. From 1966 until his death, he worked for New York City, becoming the first deputy commissioner and director of strategic planning for the Community Development Agency.
        He lived in a high-rise apartment in Riverdale, the Bronx, overlooking the Manhattan College campus. The college awarded him an honorary Doctor of Laws degree and helped run testimonial dinners for him last year in Albany and on campus.
        Kellogg was the oldest of 11 children. He is survived by three brothers, Theodore of Suitland, Md.; James of Fairbanks, Alaska, and John of Chicago; three sisters, Elvin Edwards of Baltimore and Rosa Gibbs and Evangeline Pope of Portsmouth, Va., and 20 nephews and nieces.
        Last year, Otten, his college roommate, said, ''I never -- and I mean never -- heard him complain once.''
        To which Kellogg responded: ''Complain about what? I can't complain about my life. Too many good things have already happened.''
      