
        Glenn Bernbaum, the owner of Mortimer's restaurant, a favorite watering hole for Manhattan socialites, glitz folk and achievers since 1976, died late Monday night or early yesterday morning at his home in Manhattan. He was 76.
        The cause of death was unknown, his lawyer, A. Richard Golub, said.
        Mr. Bernbaum built Mortimer's on the sheer force of his personality. An unassuming, brick-walled, moderate-size restaurant at Lexington Avenue and 75th Street, it became virtually a private club to the sort of fashionables whose names fill the gossip columns. Through the years, Mr. Bernbaum spent hours each day juggling seating arrangements because his restaurant had only 19 tables, most of which barely accommodated four diners each.
        Royalty, nobility and status names like Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, Brooke Astor, Gloria Vanderbilt, Bill Blass, Reinaldo and Carolina Herrera, and Nan Kempner were automatically assigned visibility -- 1B, the window table to the right of the door.
        On the rare times when these luminaries were not present, Mr. Bernbaum had to make decisions that would stump Solomon. If there was a party of four or five ''known'' people, the table went to them. If there were more than one party of such rank, Mr. Bernbaum would reach back to his maxim: ''The trick in seating is not where they are but who they are surrounded by.''
        Generally, older well-knowns got tables along the wall and younger ones got the tables down the middle. Diners of faint accomplishment were exiled to tables near the kitchen, Mr. Bernbaum's version of Elba. Men and women not familiar to the owner or the maitre d'hotel were known to stand forlornly at the door for embarrassing minutes and were often brusquely turned away. A food critic dining anonymously at Mortimer's once described the welcome accorded walk-ins as a greeting normally given to bill collectors.
        Mr. Bernbaum's decisions naturally inspired strong feelings, as did his favorite stance, hands clasped behind his back. The unrecognized thought him rude, affected and elitist. The ''regulars'' considered him one of their own. Mr. Bernbaum, when he deigned to defend himself, observed that all restaurateurs favored friends and loyal customers.
        Mortimer's was generally acknowledged to be the clubby East Side restaurant described by Tom Wolfe in ''Bonfire of the Vanities.'' But the scenes for the film adaptation were not photographed there, because the movie people ''believed people in the Midwest wouldn't understand the plainness of the place,'' Mr. Bernbaum once said.
        The undistinguished decor of Mortimer's was matched by the food, which rated few critical accolades. But the menu items known as comfort foods -- twinburgers, chicken hash, mashed potatoes, lemon meringue pie and rice pudding -- were renowned among the sophisticated clientele. Renowned, too, were the moderate prices, no small attraction to the well-heeled. ''The rich don't like to spend money,'' Mr. Bernbaum said. ''And they like to spend money here less than anyplace else.''
        Many of the rich used the restaurant for private parties -- birthdays, anniversaries, farewells and welcomes for social lion guests -- and publishers used it for book parties. Mr. Bernbaum orchestrated almost all of them, from the table settings and flowers to the theme decorations. He also created what came to be known as his ''society sandwiches'' for them, little triangles that were consumed like peanuts.
        Robert Glenn Bernbaum was born on April 5, 1922, and grew up in a house just off Rittenhouse Square in Philadelphia. His father was in the retail business, his mother was a devotee of fashion, and although he had lost contact with his family, it is believed he is survived by a sister. He was raised by a nanny and later attended the University of Pennsylvania. When World War II started, he left Penn and entered the Army, serving in the psychological warfare division. After the war, he returned to Penn and got his degree.
        His first jobs were in retailing in Philadelphia and New York. In 1959, he began running the Custom Shops, a New York chain of men's-wear stores owned by Mortimer Levitt. He remained there for 20 years as executive vice president, a position he retained for four years after opening his restaurant.
        Although it was generally considered that the restaurant was named after Mr. Levitt, Mr. Bernbaum maintained that the name came about through a combination of circumstances -- in rapid succession, a dinner at Morton's, a restaurant in  London; a talk with his friend Stanley Mortimer, a grandson of a founder of the Standard Oil Company, and a visit from Mr. Levitt.
        Mr. Bernbaum was considered unflappable, perhaps because little could measure up to a flap he survived soon after establishing Mortimer's. Police officers walked in one day and arrested the maitre d'hotel Mr. Bernbaum had brought from Greece. The charge: conspiracy to murder Mr. Bernbaum. In the drawl that no one could quite define and in a milder than expected reaction, Mr. Bernbaum said he was ''surprised.''
        It seemed that several employees had been told that they were in the Bernbaum will, and the maitre d'hotel thought he would hurry things along. The man, who had been turned in by a fellow employee, was convicted and spent several years in jail.
        Mr. Bernbaum also originated the annual Fete de Famille, a benefit for the AIDS Care Center at New York Presbyterian Hospital. Started in 1986, the fete, held outdoors on 75th Street, has raised almost $7 million.
        Mr. Golub, the lawyer, said the restaurant would be closed indefinitely and that no decision had been made as to whether it will reopen.
      