
        George Hermann Buchi, an organic chemist who laid the groundwork for what became modern organic photochemistry, died on Aug. 28 while hiking with his wife in his native Switzerland, according to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He was 77 and lived in Cambridge, Mass., and Jackson, N.H.
        Dr. Buchi retired from M.I.T. as the Dreyfus Professor of Chemistry emeritus in 1991.
        His research contributed to organic chemistry and its myriad industrial applications. His work in the 1950's on the effects of light on reactions among carbon-based compounds helped convert the largely barren field of organic photochemistry into a fruitful area of research.
        Dr. Buchi determined the structure of some 55 natural substances and the synthesis of more than 75 complex natural products. Many of the syntheses covered in his more than 200 scientific papers produced quantities of a compound in just a few simple steps.
        He was also a productive teacher. During his tenure at M.I.T., Professor Buchi trained 70 Ph.D.'s and more than 100 postdoctoral students, many of whom rose to leadership positions in academia and industry around the world.
        In 1991, M.I.T. gave him its prestigious James R. Killian Jr. Award and Lecture, saying, ''His contributions in research and education have added to the quality of life globally, and his colleagues and students have derived direct benefit from his wisdom, dedication to excellence and friendship.''
        Born in Baden, Switzerland, George Buchi graduated in chemical engineering from the Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich in 1945 and earned a doctorate in organic chemistry there two years later, while working in the laboratory of Prof. Leopold Ruzicka.
        He was a Firestone Postdoctoral Fellow at the University of Chicago before accepting a faculty appointment at M.I.T. in 1951. He advanced to full professor in 1958 and was named Dreyfus Professor in 1971.
        The recipient of many awards and honorary doctorates, he was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1965. He was a consultant to chemical companies in the United States and Switzerland and held more than 30 United States patents.
        Dr. Buchi is survived by his wife of 43 years, Anne Barkman Buchi, and a brother, Heinrich, of Bern.
      