
        Allen Drury, the quintessential Washington novelist and author of ''Advise and Consent,'' died yesterday at St. Mary's Medical Center in San Francisco. He was 80 and lived in Tiburon, Calif.
        He suffered a cardiac arrest, said his nephew Kenneth Killiany.
        ''Advise and Consent,'' for which Mr. Drury won a Pulitzer Prize in 1960, is about a nominee for Secretary of State who during his confirmation hearing is found to have had communist sympathies. It is a big, sprawling work of betrayal and intrigue, packed with details and insider knowledge of Congress. One character, a senator, commits suicide after being blackmailed because of his homosexual past.
        Mr. Drury, a former reporter in the Washington Bureau of The New York Times, was a prolific author of 19 novels and 5 books of nonfiction.
        As a novelist, he was in the tradition of Galsworthy, Dickens and Thackeray, and not incidentally, of Henry Adams. Mr. Drury was fond of complicated plots and larger-than-life characters, and wrote trilogies and series of books about the same characters. But judgments of the literary merit of his work were often based on the political sympathies of the reviewer. ''Rarely has a political tale been told with such vivid realism,'' Richard L. Neuberger wrote in The New York Times Book Review in 1959 when ''Advise and Consent'' was published. The book, said Mr. Neuberger, was ''one of the finest and most gripping political novels of our era.'' But other critics saw Mr. Drury's work differently. Pamela Hansford Johnson wrote in The New Statesman that the book was ''politically repellent and artistically null with a steady hysterical undertone.''
        Mr. Drury was born in Houston,  the son of Alden Monteith Drury, a real estate broker and insurance agent, and Flora Allen, a legislative representative for the California Parent-Teacher Association from whom he learned a love of politics. He grew up in California, and graduated from Stanford University in 1939. His experiences at Stanford formed the core of his intellectual and emotional life, and provided the basis for his novels ''Toward What Bright Glory'' and ''Into What Far Harbor.''
        In 1940, he went on to work for The Tulare California Bee where he won a Sigma Delta Chi citation for editorial writing. During World War II, Mr. Drury was a Senate reporter for United Press International in Washington. ''They were big men in the Senate then,'' Mr. Drury once said in an interview. ''And they didn't have the phalanx of aides then they have now. They wrote their own speeches, staked out their own positions.''
        The New York Times hired Mr. Drury as a reporter in 1954. During the early morning hours before going to Capitol Hill, Mr. Drury wrote ''Advise and Consent,'' bringing to bear the knowledge he had gleaned as a reporter on the Hill. As soon as it was published, the book became a best seller, and Mr. Drury quit the newspaper to become a political correspondent for the Reader's Digest.
        He wrote six sequels to ''Advise and Consent,'' including ''Preserve and Protect'' and ''A Shade of Difference,'' following a group of Washington characters through a series of political crises.
        ''He was concerned with moral ambiguity,'' said Mr. Killiany. ''He always called his characters 'fallible people in difficult situations who were called on to solve great problems.' ''
        ''Advise and Consent'' became a Broadway play, and was made into a movie in 1962 with Charles Laughton as a senator from the Deep South, and Walter Pidgeon as the Senate Majority Leader. Henry Fonda played the nominee for Secretary of State, who eventually fails to achieve the office. Franchot Tone was the dying President.
        ''He unapologetically insisted on the gravity of the stakes in the Cold War, and he did so without joining any particular faction,'' said Mr. Killiany. While his uncle, he said, ''appreciated the good feelings of many at the end of the Cold War, he watched the recent course of world affairs and changes in Washington with growing concern and found little comfort in them.''
        But Mr. Drury's writing was not just confined to Washington politics. He also wrote novels and nonfiction books ancient about Egypt, a country whose political struggles, he said, resembled those of Washington.
        Since 1964, Mr. Drury lived in Tiburon. His passions were reading and travel, said his nephew. He was an intensely private man, who never married, and lived quietly. In addition to his nephew Kenneth, of Washington, Mr. Drury is survived by a sister, Anne Drury Killiany of Hampstead, N.C.; another nephew, Kevin Killiany of Wilmington, N.C., and three grandnieces and nephews.
        Mr. Drury's most recent published book was ''A Thing of State,'' in 1995, a novel about a Mideast crisis and how the State Department responds to it. Two weeks ago, Mr. Drury completed his 20th novel, ''Public Men,'' which is scheduled for publication by Scribner's in November.  The novel completes his trilogy about Stanford and young men caught up in the events of World War II.
      