
        Dr. Jonathan Max Mann, a pioneer in the international campaign against AIDS and a founder of a movement to link health issues with those of human rights, died on Wednesday night alongside his wife, Dr. Mary Lou Clements-Mann, a vaccine scientist at Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health University, in the crash of Swissair Flight 111 off Nova Scotia. He was 51 and lived in Columbia, Md.
        Dr. Mann and Dr. Clements-Mann were on their way to Geneva to attend a series of global strategy sessions on AIDS, sponsored by the World Health Organization and United Nations. On Thursday, Gro Harlem Brundtland, the former Prime Minister of Norway who is now the W.H.O. director general, led a memorial service attended by about 80 colleagues.
        Fighting tears, Ms. Brundtland, said Dr. Mann ''was the kind of person who changed the course of events by his dedication, conviction and commitment.''
        ''He had a burning engagement for human rights,'' she said.
        Dr. Mann, who spent much of his career at the Harvard School of Public Health, came to international prominence in 1986 when he founded and became the first director of the World Health Organization's Global Program on AIDS.
        Colleagues said he was both fierce and sensitive at the same time, and took on large challenges with an apparent disregard for their difficulty.
        ''Jonathan was the architect of the global mobilization against AIDS,'' said Dr. Daniel Tarantola, a senior policy adviser for the director general of the W.H.O. ''He said many times that the way you define a problem will determine what you do about it.''
        In the 1980's, the spread of H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, appeared uncontrollable and seemed to create a political paralysis among health officials worldwide. ''Jonathan determined to project an image of the epidemic that was one of a disease that could be managed, could be controlled in some ways,'' Dr. Tarantola said. ''He defined the problem not only as a terrible viral disease, but as a social problem to be solved.''
        Dr. Mann started the AIDS program with one assistant and in four years built it into the W.H.O.'s largest program, with 280 people and an annual budget of $109 million.
        Mild-mannered in person, Dr. Mann could be a passionate speaker. In 1989, at a AIDS Action Committee dinner in Boston, he said: ''In the last few years we have gained confidence that as individuals and all together we are not condemned passively to allow the disease AIDS or the fears and forces which it can unleash to dominate us. Against AIDS we will prevail together, for we will refuse to be split, or to cast into the shadows those persons, groups and nations that are affected.''
        Dr. June Osborne, president of the Josiah Macy Jr. Foundation, a philanthropy working for better medical education, said Dr. Mann developed working relations between the W.H.O. and 155 countries.
        ''He got the developing countries to buy, for at least a time, the idea that we really had a common cause -- to work on this deadly epidemic,'' said Dr. Osborne, who worked with Dr. Mann throughout his career.
        Eventually, Dr. Mann's zeal on the issue brought him into conflict with the W.H.O. director general, Dr. Hiroshi Nakajima, and, in March 1990, Dr. Mann resigned. He went on to raise the point that improvements in health methods, instruments and technology would not alone solve world health issues. Instead, he said, many diseases and other health problems are rooted in social issues like education and the status of women and in the continuing violations of human rights.
        Dr. Mann, with money and assistance from Albina du Boisrouvray, whose son died on a medical mission in Africa, founded and became first director of the Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Center for Health and Human Rights at the Harvard University School of Public Health, where he founded the Health and Human Rights journal. He also organized the first world conference on health and human rights, at Harvard in 1996.
        ''Jonathan was a critical player in this new field,'' Dr. Tarantola said, ''bringing together two worlds that had never spoken to each other: the world of doctors and scientists and medical officials, with the world of human rights activists and lawyers. They had two completely different jargons, and there was at first only cacophony. But now they speak.''
        Dr. Mann loved the role of founder, and when Allegheny University in Philadelphia gave him the chance to become the first dean of a new school of public health, he seized it. He started in January.
        Dr. James Curran, dean of the Rollins School of Public Health at Emory University in Atlanta, hired Dr. Mann for a Centers for Disease Control project near the beginning of Dr. Mann's career. The job was to go to one of the hottest spots of the AIDS epidemic in Africa, in what was then Zaire, to found a program surrounded by suspicion, hostility and little chance of success, Project SIDA in Kinshasa. Dr. Mann had never worked on AIDS, but the project became regarded as the most innovative and important center of AIDS research in Africa, until it was dissolved by President Mobutu Sese Seko in 1991.
        It was always safe for scientists and institutions to think of AIDS as a virus, a transmissible infection, Dr. Curran said, but Dr. Mann structured it ''as a human rights issue, and a global rights issue. He really was a spiritual leader as well as a scientific leader.''
        In lines often remembered by colleagues, at the World AIDS Summit meeting that Dr. Mann organized in London in 1988, he said, ''We live in a world threatened by unlimited destructive force, yet we share a vision of creative potential. . . . AIDS shows us once again that silence, exclusion, and isolation -- of individuals, groups, or nations -- creates a danger for us all.''
        Dr. Mann was born in Boston and grew up in nearby Newton. His father, the late James Mann, was a Boston psychiatrist and psychotherapist, and his mother was a librarian. He got his B.A. degree from Harvard University, magna cum laude, with a major in history, and his M.D. from the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis. He returned to the Harvard School of Public Health for his master's degree in public health. From 1975 to 1977, he worked for the Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta as an epidemic intelligence service officer. He moved to New Mexico to become State Epidemiologist and chief medical officer of the state Health Services Division, where he served from 1977 to 1984.
        After his terms at Project SIDA and the Global Program on AIDS, he returned to the Harvard School of Public Health, where he was director of the International AIDS Center, and then director of the Bagnoud Center for Health and Human Rights. He was also the editor of ''AIDS in the World,'' which contains an array of scientific, practical and human rights articles.
        Dr. Harvey Fineberg, provost of Harvard, said one of Dr. Mann's most characteristic remarks was one of both passion and invitation. ''He used to say to us, 'People say there is no use trying to change the world. But if we don't try, will it change?' ''
        Dr. Mann's first marriage, to Marie-Paule Bondat, ended in divorce in 1996. He is survived by their children, Naomi, a law student in Washington, Lydia, a social health worker in Boston, and Aaron, a Peace Corps member in Africa; his mother, Ida nee Laskow of Newton; and his siblings, Gerald, an obstetrician in Northern California, Joshua, a rabbi in Israel, and Carol, a rancher in Wyoming.
      