
        Ricardo Ramirez, the Guatemalan guerrilla commander turned peacemaker who was better known to his countrymen by his nom de guerre, Rolando Moran, died on Friday in a hospital in Guatemala City. He was 67 and had lived in the Guatemalan capital since a peace accord that ended the country's long civil war was signed in December 1996.
        He died of a heart attack, associates said.
        At his death Mr. Ramirez was secretary general of a left-wing party that the former guerrilla coalition, the Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unit, was organizing.
        Along with fellow rebels who had taken the aliases Carlos Gonzalez, Gaspar Ilom and Pablo Monsanto, Mr. Ramirez had been part of the general command of the guerrilla group since its founding and was regarded as its dominant and perhaps most flexible figure.
        ''His contributions to the revolutionary struggle and the peace process were extremely valuable,''  Jorge Soto, who had been known as Mr. Monsanto, said at a news conference on Saturday, when the death was confirmed.
        President Alvaro Arzu Irigoyen, who visited Mr. Ramirez's wife to pay his respects, and other officials also praised the leader for his role in  helping end the 36-year conflict that resulted in the deaths of more than 100,000 Guatemalans.
        The accord that Mr. Ramirez helped broker included measures intended to protect the rights and culture of the poor Mayan Indian majority and bring them into national life, as well as provisions for land and other social changes.
        Progress has been slower than desired. But Guatemalans have welcomed the cessation of organized violence and the prospect of real democratic change.
        ''Because of Rolando Moran, Guatemala is a society transformed for the better,'' said Jennifer Schirmer, an expert on the Guatemalan peace  effort who teaches at Harvard University. Mr. Ramirez, son of an army colonel, was attracted to radical politics early, joining student revolutionary groups and labor unions as a teen-ager. He enthusiastically supported the left-leaning Government of Jacobo Arbenz, and after an American-sponsored military coup overthrew that Government in 1954,  Mr. Ramirez moved even further left.
        By the early 60's, inspired by Fidel Castro's success in Cuba and mounting repression in Guatemala, he had taken up arms. In 1972 he helped organize the Guerrilla Army of the Poor, which soon became the largest of Guatemala's four separate -- and sometimes quarreling -- left-wing rebel factions.
        As the writer Jorge Castaneda noted in his book ''Utopia Unarmed,'' Mr. Ramirez's group was distinguished by its ''strong emphasis on the Indian factor in Guatemalan politics and society.''
        Mr. Ramirez argued that ''the ethnic-national struggle'' was just as important as the class struggle that orthodox Marxists stressed. He spent much of that era in exile.
        An offensive by the group in 1980 and 1981 was a failure and was answered by a military onslaught that led to the deaths of thousands of Mayans. In January 1982 the guerrilla groups, facing extinction, put aside their ideological and strategic differences to forge their coalition, which continued to fight through the 80's.
        By 1990 it was becoming evident that, just as in the case of similar wars in neighboring El Salvador and Nicaragua, only a negotiated settlement could end the war. Mr. Ramirez endorsed that view, counseling patience when prospects for peace appeared darkest and often offering compromises to keep the talks moving. ''Objectives vary according to historical circumstance,'' he said in an interview with The New York Times in July 1996. ''We have proclaimed the political struggle as the means to revolution because we recognize that armed struggle is no longer feasible.''
        As a child Mr. Ramirez contracted tuberculosis and lost a lung to the disease. As a result his health had been fragile for many years.
        On Wednesday he was admitted to a hospital for unspecified surgery. The operation caused internal bleeding, which led to the fatal heart attack, political associates said.
        Surviving are his wife, three sons and four grandchildren.
      