
        William Whitney Ballard, professor emeritus of biology at Dartmouth College, died on Sept. 14 at his home in Norwich, Vt., in the same bed in which he was born 92 years earlier in Griswoldville, Mass.
        In between, Dr. Ballard seemed to do a little bit of everything, researching and publishing books and articles on embryology as he fought for conservation causes, bred orchids and served as local tree warden and moderator of the fire district.
        In 1991 at a Dartmouth Alumni Ceremony at Lincoln Center, Dr. C. Everett Koop, the former Surgeon General, called him one of the teachers who had most influenced his professional life.
        Dr. Ballard was a ''true scholar and Renaissance man,'' Dr. Koop said this week, recalling a time at Dartmouth when the professor presented a crocodile, wearing a tie, to be dissected.
        Dr. Ballard's research -- particularly in studying ancient fish, the bowfin and the gar -- was supported by the National Science Foundation and the National Academy of Science.
        He called these studies his ''Odyssey of Strange Fish,'' a passion that took him to field sites and laboratories all over the world.
        But he remained deeply involved in his local community. In World War II he watched for enemy planes and then went to people's barns at milking time because he knew he would find farmers there to tell them about what to do if a bomb fell.
        He was an architect of the first interstate school district in the United States, combining Norwich and Hanover, N.H., in 1963 in the Dresden School District, which still exists.
        A strong supporter of conservation causes, Professor Ballard intensively studied a local gorge called the Norwich Grand Canyon and blazed a series of trails through wooded areas that became known collectively as the Bill Ballard Trail. He recently donated 42 acres to the Town of Norwich to be preserved as a natural area.
        Dr. Ballard was born April 4, 1906, and spent his childhood in Greenfield, Mass. He graduated from Dartmouth in 1928 and received his doctorate from Yale in 1933.
        In 1938, he married Elizabeth Flanders, who was the daughter of Senator Ralph Flanders of Vermont. She died in 1992.
        He is survived by four children, Nancy-Jean Seigal of Bethesda, Md., David Ballard of Sonoma, Calif., Helen Sagan of Wellesley, Mass., and William Ballard of Putney, Vt.; a sister, Margaret McMahan of Tracy, Calif; six grandchildren and four great grandchildren.
        Dr. Ballard is remembered for his enthusiasms, including his nature walks known as ''salamander meanders'' at the Montshire Museum in Norwich, which he helped found.
        Because of his efforts to discover how to propagate a rare orchid from seeds, he earned the nickname Ladyslipper Man, receiving awards from the National Orchid Society and the New England Wildflower Society.
        He played minor roles in Gilbert and Sullivan operettas and delighted in inviting friends over for evenings of music-making, at which guests sang old hymns or listened to chamber music.
        At Thanksgiving, Dr. Ballard invited students unable to go home to eat at his home.
        John Copenhaver, who studied as an undergraduate with Dr. Ballard and was later his faculty colleague for more than 30 years, said in an interview that Dr. Ballard was not without faults. ''He was always very proud of his homemade beer, which was lousy,'' Mr. Copenhaver said. He added that his wife always brought a six-pack when they visited the Ballard home.
        Dr. Ballard collected his last fish egg at age 91 in Lake Champlain, and was said to be bitterly disappointed that failing health prevented him from joining a Japanese colleague on a piscatorial expedition to Lake Michigan last spring.
        Acquaintances recalled that in a book he published in 1961, ''Comparative Anatomy and Embryology,'' he quoted an old hymn on the last page: ''Strange that a harp of a thousand strings, should stay in tune so long.''
      