
        Johnny Adams, one of the last of the great blues and ballad singers, died on Monday in Baton Rouge, La., where he lived. He was 67.
        The cause was cancer, said a spokesman for his publicists, Myers Media, in New York.
        Mr. Adams was in many ways an anachronism, a singer who could sing virtually all the prewar styles of American music. And he was an entertainer, with much of his presentation coming out of a tradition that included vaudeville; he pretended to play the trombone, or he would whistle and tell jokes. But his singing was flawless; he could use the gospel tradition with extraordinary ease and was also adept at jazz singing.
        Mr. Adams began his singing career in his hometown of New Orleans, working in a gospel group, the Soul Revivers. In the mid-1950's, he sang with Beside Griffin and her Soul Consolators, and made the change into secular music while singing in a bathtub. His upstairs neighbor, Dorothy Labostrie, a songwriter, heard his version of ''Precious Lord,'' persuaded him to sing a song of hers, ''Oh Why,'' and had him signed with the local Ric label. The first session was produced by Mac Rebennack, 18, later known as Dr. John; ''Oh Why'' was released as ''I Won't Cry'' and was a hit record in New Orleans.
        From then on, until Mr. Adams signed with Rounder Records in 1983, he worked in unfair obscurity. His singing had a cool sense of relaxation and a ceaseless caressing of notes.  He attacked and ornamented melodies in endless ways, either leaving them plain, so the luxury of his voice did the work, or charging them with falsettos and other gospel filigrees.
        But by the time Mr. Adams's abilities had come together, jazz and sophisticated blues singing weren't much in demand. He had small local hits, and one national success with ''Losing Battle''; it was widely reported that Berry Gordy Jr. at Motown wanted to sign him, but his record company threatened to sue.
        In 1983 Mr. Adams started recording what became a nine-album series  for Rounder, and on these records he moved from a tribute to the songwriting of Doc Pomus to tunes that have become jazz standards, like ''Come Rain or Come Shine'' and ''Teach Me Tonight.'' He recorded ''One Foot in the Blues,'' an album  featuring Dr. Lonnie Smith on organ. The connection with Rounder, along with an increasing public appreciation, made him an international concert star, and during the last decade, he worked regularly. His most recent recording, ''Man of My Word'' (Rounder), was released in August.
        He is survived by his wife, Judy.
      