
        Dr. Ellis R. Kerley, a forensic anthropologist whose expertise was widely sought in identifying human remains, including those of the Nazi war criminal Josef Mengele and victims of the Jonestown suicides in Guyana, died on Sept. 3 at a hospice in San Diego. He was 74 and lived in Lake San Marcos, Calif.
        The cause was leukemia, family members said.
        Dr. Kerley devised a way to derive precise knowledge, often including positive identification, from remains as small as a bone fragment. The techniques are widely employed today and are particularly important in identifying victims of mass killings and other large-scale disasters like airplane crashes.
        The National Aeronautics and Space Administration recognized his skills in 1986 and hired him to study the Challenger shuttle disaster, said Dr. William Stuart, a professor of anthropology at the University of Maryland, where Dr. Kerley was a professor for 17 years and was head of the anthropology department.
        Earlier, Dr. Kerley had helped anthropologists at the Smithsonian Institution with its forensic assignments, including identification of Korean War dead. In addition to being summoned to Jonestown, Guyana, in 1978, he was called on for the 1980 Marine helicopter crash in Iran in which eight people died in an unsuccessful effort to rescue American hostages in Teheran.
        He also worked for a House investigation of the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.
        But Dr. Kerley is perhaps best known for his 1985 assignment in which he and 16 other experts analyzed the bones from a grave in Brazil and concluded that they were the remains of the fugitive Dr. Mengele, who was said to have died there -- under another name -- in 1979.
        After a week of sifting through X-rays and data from crumbling bones, Dr. Kerley found a hip bone fracture that matched a report of an injury in a motorcycle accident at Auschwitz and noticed a gap between front teeth that matched a 1938 military photograph of the smiling Mengele.
        Dr. Kerley also noted that Dr. Mengele, wanted for torture and the gassing of 400,000 people at the Auschwitz concentration camp, had ''a rather painful bunion on his right foot.'' At the end, he said, everything pointed to the same conclusion. ''I feel quite confident,'' he said, ''this is indeed Mengele.''
        He also was invited to examine skeletal remains repatriated from France and believed to be those of John Paul Jones, the Revolutionary War naval commander. He confirmed that identification.
        In the late 80's, he worked for the Army Central Identification Laboratory in Hawaii, identifying the Vietnam War dead.
        One technique -- now known as the Kerley Method -- involved mathematical analysis of data derived from cross-sections of fragments of long bones from the arms and legs,  said a former student, Dr. Rebecca Huss-Ashmore, now an associate professor of anthropology at the University of Pennsylvania.
        He would take a cross-section of a bone fragment and look for areas of altered bone. Bone gets weak as people age, and as new cells enter the original bone, they chew away older parts of the bone and then incompletely fill it in, in a process related to osteoporosis, Dr. Ashmore said. The new bone tissue forms concentric circles, leaving a cavity.
        The data from several areas of the bone can be entered into a computer and the age can be roughly determined.
        Combined with other clues, the bone fragment can aid in identifications from a list of possible victims.
        Dr. Kerley brought to his work a range of expertise, Dr. Huss-Ashmore said, and in particular was ''simply an outstanding bone biologist.''
        The Kerley Method ''epitomizes the development of modern physical anthropology,'' said Dr. Stuart. He added that Dr. Kerley was the leading anthropologist of his generation in creating the science of forensic anthropology.
        Dr. Kerley was born in Covington, Ky., and received his B.A. from the University of Kentucky and his M.A. and Ph.D. from the University of Michigan.
        He served in the Army in World War II and later worked for the Army and the Veterans Administration, doing research on age changes and evolutionary patterns in bones. He also was a staff anthropologist at Bowman Gray School of Medicine in Winston-Salem, N.C., and taught anatomy at the Medical Center of the University of Puerto Rico. He joined the University of Maryland in 1972.
        Survivors include his wife, Mary Adams Kerley, and three daughters, Amy Kerley Moorhouse of Atlanta; MaryElise Kerley of Honolulu; and Laurelann Bundens of San Diego.
        He kept a paper-thin slice of thigh bone from the Nazi Mengele on the piano in the living room of his home, where talk of cadavers was not uncommon at the dinner table, his daughter Amy recalled.
        His family often became part of his consulting career, so it was no surprise when the Chicago police, finding him on holiday, sent a cadaver to his home where the family kept it for him in the basement over the weekend. ''It was memorable,'' his daughter recalled.
        Despite his newsworthy moments, Dr. Kerley was especially proud of his small successes, his wife said, including an identification of an air crash victim from one small bone. ''He had a great deal of love for the cadavers he dealt with,'' she said. ''He treated them with dignity, compassion and respect.''
      