
        Pierce Gerety, a Harvard-educated lawyer who briefly considered the priesthood but instead devoted his life to helping refugees trapped in the maelstroms of war and disaster around the world, died on Wednesday night in the crash of the Swissair jetliner off Nova Scotia. He would have been 57 next Monday.
        Mr. Gerety worked for the United Nations High Commission for Refugees as director of operations for the region of central Africa encompassing Lake Victoria and Lake Tanganyika, an assignment that took him into Congo, Rwanda and Burundi. He was admired by other humanitarian workers for his coolness in the face of trouble.
        ''He had probably been in more physically dangerous situations than anyone else in the refugee field,'' said Robert P. De Vecchi, the retired president of the International Rescue Committee, which originally hired Mr. Gerety to work with Cambodian refugees in Thailand. ''He was equally comfortable briefing a head of state or pulling a Vietnamese fishing boat out of the water.''
        Mr. Gerety's brother Tom, who is president of Amherst College, said: ''Pierce was shot at a lot. It seemed like he was constantly courting risk and always pretty much got away scot-free.''
        It was ironic, Dr. Gerety added, that his brother lost his life on one of the world's safest airlines, flying to one of the world's safest cities.
        Pierce Gerety was born into a family in Fairfield, Conn., that valued public service. His father, Pierce Joseph Garety Sr., was appointed by President Dwight D. Eisenhower to supervise the admission of refugees entering the United States after World War II.
        The younger Mr. Gerety graduated from Yale University in 1962 and studied theology and philosophy at the Institute Catholique in Paris, where he found time to set up a soup kitchen. He considered becoming a Roman Catholic priest until he fell in love with a young Frenchwoman, Marie de la Soudiere. They married and went off to India to work for the Catholic Relief Services.
        After a couple of years Mr. Gerety returned home to attend Harvard Law School, receiving his law degree in 1971. Ignoring more lucrative prospects, he became a Legal Aid lawyer in New York City.
        ''He was a little impatient with American law,'' Dr. Gerety said of his brother. ''He wanted to be out and among people in crisis and need.''
        In 1979, Pierce Gerety approached the International Rescue Committee and volunteered to go to Thailand and help with Cambodian refugees who had fled their homeland.
        ''He was a person with a very quick intelligence, an intuitive sense of a situation and what needed to be done with the resources at hand,'' Mr. De Vecchi said.
        In 1982, Mr. Gerety became a legal officer at the headquarters of the United Nations High Commissioner in Geneva, but soon began pushing to get back into the field.
        ''He had a quality of impatience and of a desire to go out and live on the edge,'' Dr. Gerety said. ''It was not dogmatic or ideological. He retained this almost Catholic passion for working with the poorest of the poor.''
        Pierce Gerety demonstraterd this in a succession of difficult assignments, helping Afghan refugees in Pakistan, Vietnamese refugees in the Philippines and, more recently, refugees in southern Sudan.
        Mr. Gerety was lent to the United Nations Children's Fund in Somalia, where a warlord, Mohammed Aidid, took to kidnapping humanitarian aid workers. Mr. Gerety walked into the warlord's armed camp and coolly negotiated their release.
        Mr. Gerety returned to the refugee agency and was appointed last year as its director of operations in cental Africa, where he and other officials pleaded with the Congolese rebel leader Laurent Kabila to stop the slaughter of Rwandan refugees.
        After the risks he took, friends said, Mr. Gerety wanted to spend more time with his wife, who directs the International Rescue Committee's program for children affected by wars, and their three children, Sebastian, Pierce and Maeve. Mr. Gerety is also survived by his mother, Helen, of Southport, Conn., and two other brothers, Peter, a lawyer in Fairfield, Conn., and Miles, a lawyers in Redding, Conn.
        ''He was very proud of his children and very much in love with his wife, and vice versa,'' said Susan Walker, a coordinator of the International Campaign to Ban Land Mines, who first met Mr. Gerety in Thailand. ''It was a joy to see them.
      