
        Dane Clark, the Brooklyn-born actor whose down-to-earth portrayals of tough but appealing soldiers, sailors and pilots in World War II films for Warner Brothers brought him stardom, died on Friday at St. John's Health Center in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 85 and lived in Brentwood.
        ''That was the best break of my life, hooking up with the Warners,'' Mr. Clark said in a 1946 interview. ''They don't go much for the 'pretty boy' type there. An average-looking guy like me has a chance to get someplace, to portray people the way they really are, without any frills.
        ''The only thing I want to do in films is to be Mr. Joe Average as well as I know how. Of course, anyone whose face appears often enough on the screen is bound to have bobby-soxers after him for autographs. But what I really get a kick out of is when cab drivers around New York lean out and yell ''Hi, Brooklyn' when I walk by. They make me feel I'm putting it across O.K. when I try to be Joe Average.''
        Mr. Clark made some 30 films,  beginning with ''Sunday Punch'' in 1942 and ending with ''Last Rites'' in 1988. But he also appeared on Broadway and on the road in a variety of stage roles and performed frequently on television. But he never became as big a star as his friend John Garfield, who suggested he take up acting, or Humphrey Bogart, who, he said, gave him the name Dane Clark.
        Mr. Clark's early credits were under his real name, Bernard Zanville, and it was under that name in the role of a sailor named Johnnie Pulaski that he caught the attention of the critics in the 1943 Warners Brothers feature ''Action in the North Atlantic,'' which paid tribute to the heroism of the merchant marine.
        As Bernard Zanville, he appeared in films like ''The Glass Key,'' ''Wake Island'' and ''The Pride of the Yankees'' in 1942, and as Dane Clark he portrayed a sailor aboard a submarine in ''Destination Tokyo'' in 1944, a flier in ''God Is My Co-Pilot'' in 1945 and a leatherneck in ''Pride of the Marines'' that same year.
        Among his other films were ''Hollywood Canteen'' (1944), ''A Stolen Life'' (1946), ''Whiplash'' (1948), ''Fort Defiance'' (1951), ''Never Trust a Gambler'' (1951) and ''Outlaw's Son'' (1957). His co-stars were people like Bogart, Garfield, Cary Grant, Bette Davis and Raymond Massey.
        Mr. Clark was especially proud of the 1954 film ''Go, Man, Go!,'' in which he played Abe Saperstein, the founder of the trailblazing black basketball team the Harlem Globetrotters, because he regarded the film as a forerunner of others that decried racial discrimination and championed civil rights.
        Mr. Clark, who was born in Brooklyn on Feb. 18, 1913, was a product of the Great Depression. As a graduate of Cornell University and St. John's Law School in Brooklyn in the mid-1930's, he said, he found that lawyers were having as hard a time as anyone else finding work. He drifted into boxing. At 5 foot 10, weighing 162 pounds, the hazel-eyed, brown-haired Mr. Clark soon concluded that he was outmatched and saw no sense in taking beatings. To earn a dollar, he said, he played baseball, labored at construction, worked as a salesman and then, as a sculptor's model, fell in with what he called an arty set.
        ''They fascinated me at first,'' he said. ''Then suddenly it struck me that their constant snobbish talk about the 'theatah' was a little on the phony side. I decided it give it a try myself, just to show them anyone could do it. Before I knew it, I was getting small parts on Broadway, then bigger ones. Then finally I got some good spots in 'Dead End'' and 'Stage Door' and finally took over the lead from Wally Ford in 'Of Mice and Men.' '' Before long, Mr. Clark decided to try his luck in Hollywood.
        Mr. Clark's first wife, Margot Yoder, a painter and sculptor, died in 1970. He is survived by his wife of 27 years, Geraldine.
        ''This is a very complex, wondrous business I'm in,'' Mr. Clark once said as he reminisced. ''My kicks are my work. I'm miserable when I'm not working.''
      