
        Michael Stephen Currier, a rancher and philanthropist who was the manager of the Economic Development Fund for the Tibetan Community in Exile, died on Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 37, and lived in Santa Fe.
        The cause was injuries suffered in a fall in Santa Fe, his family said through a spokesman.
        For 11 years before his death, he was the manager of the exiles fund, which he also established. The revolving loan fund provides technical and other aid for small businesses operated by Tibetan refugees and their descendants in India and the United States. Those businesses include various Tibetan crafts.
        Mr. Currier, who visited Tibet and made many trips to meet with Tibetans in India, wanted to help make Tibetan refugees economically self-sufficient and to help preserve Tibetan religious and cultural traditions. The fund was a major recipient of his philanthropic largesse in the last decade.
        His family said that they had received a message from the Dalai Lama, whose headquarters are in India. ''He has been especially generous in the help he gave us Tibetans,'' the message said, ''and we will always remain grateful.''
        In 1995 the Dalai Lama presented the Light of Truth Award, a high honor, to Mr. Currier.
        A native New Yorker, he was the son of Stephen Currier and the former Audrey Mellon Bruce, co-founders of the Taconic Foundation, whose operations have included programs to further equal opportunity with emphasis on housing and jobs for young people.
        Michael Currier's mother was the granddaughter of Andrew W. Mellon, the financier, industrialist and philanthropist.
        Mr. Currier's parents vanished in 1967, while in a private plane flying over the Caribbean Sea. They were never found.
        He was raised by a guardian, graduating from Collegiate School in Manhattan, Putney School in Vermont and Williams College.
        In his early 20's he was a patron of the Morgan Library and of the Gauchos, a basketball program for children in New York.
        An orphan himself, he was devoted to his own children and gave many grants to programs providing nurturing for children.
        A grant from him in 1985 helped expand a community foundation founded by blacks in Pittsburgh. Other grants from him in the same period helped found a mental health crisis center and a wild horse sanctuary, both in California.
        After he moved to Santa Fe, his philanthropies, mostly anonymous, came to include Southwestern charitable organizations concerned with the environment, rural economic development, care and education for needy children and human rights.
        He was on the boards of the Taconic Foundation, the Putney School, the Forest Trust of New Mexico and the Santa Fe Waldorf School.
        He also collected art, chiefly drawings of the Old Masters and Chinese works.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Karin Griscom; two sons and a daughter; two sisters, Andrea Currier and Lavinia Currier of the Plains, Va., and a grandmother, Mary Warburg of Wilton.
      