
        Dr. Edwin A. Weinstein, a former neuropsychiatrist at Mount Sinai Medical School in Manhattan who maintained that people, even Presidents, go to extraordinary lengths to hide their illnesses, died on Sept. 7 at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 89.
        The cause was a stroke, family members said.
        Dr. Weinstein's study of President Woodrow Wilson argued that Mr. Wilson carried with him into the White House ''psychological baggage'' resulting from illnesses, which explained some of his policy positions and his figures of speech.
        In his book ''Woodrow Wilson: A Medical and Psychological Biography'' (Princeton University Press, 1981), Dr. Weinstein emphasized that Mr. Wilson's family called the future President lazy as a child because he had dyslexia, a form of reading impairment. His guilt over that, Dr. Weinstein said, helped explain Mr. Wilson's often troubled relationships with those around him from the time he became president of Princeton University in 1902.
        Dr. Weinstein argued that while Mr. Wilson was campaigning for the League of Nations in 1919, he sought to keep secret his physical collapse, which was caused by a clogged blood vessel, and pushed himself and others to work even harder to compensate.
        Dr. Weinstein used letters written by Mr. Wilson, the 28th President, to analyze the effects of the series of strokes that President Wilson suffered beginning in 1898.
        He noted that after the President's doctors diagnosed his cardiac failure, Mr. Wilson pleaded for the League of Nations as a way to cut out ''the heart of the war'' -- the neglect of needs of smaller nations -- or else ''that heart is going to live and beat and grow stronger,'' and more war would follow.
        Dr. Weinstein was convinced that President Wilson's denial of his illnesses contributed to ''his inability to recognize new answers'' and the way Europeans manipulated him after World War I, said a longtime colleague, Dr. Robert Cohn of Howard University Medical School.
        Dr. Weinstein also studied Mr. Wilson's extramarital relationship with Mary Peck when he was President, noting that when the affair was finally over, Mr. Wilson, sensitive to the pain he had inflicted on his wife, Ellen, set higher policy goals for his next years.
        Dr. Weinstein wrote of Mr. Wilson: ''No longer pure in his personal life, he would devote himself to the service of others and to purifying politics.'' Just as Mr. Wilson used ''the metaphors of revitalization and regeneration of Princeton'' after his strokes, Dr. Weinstein wrote, he used ''the dogmas of the new morality'' to cope as President with a guilty conscience after his affair.
        Later in his career, Dr. Weinstein studied Ronald Reagan's Presidency and, contradicting the White House doctors, concluded that President Reagan suffered Alzheimer's symptoms, like loss of memory, that left him at times unaware of world affairs, Dr. Cohn said.
        Mr. Reagan disclosed his Alzheimer's in 1994. His doctors afterward argued that Mr. Reagan did not exhibit any symptoms in his Presidency, which ended in January 1989.
        Dr. Weinstein's collaborator in studies of Alzheimer's over a period of 25 years, Dr. Robert Friedland, an associate professor of neurology at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, said both of them were convinced that the Constitution's 25th Amendment, which governs Presidential disability and succession, gave inadequate protection to the nation.
        Dr. Weinstein believed that neurologists should be members of medical teams created to evaluate a President regularly, Dr. Friedland said, because White House doctors often lack full awareness of Alzheimer's, whose early symptoms can be difficult to detect.
        After President John F. Kennedy's assassination, Dr. Weinstein was invited by the Federal Office of Science and Technology to help officials there recognize serious threats to Presidents' lives. He told the officials that ''socially isolated'' people who considered assassination heroic were as a rule the most dangerous. He also worked for the Central Intelligence Agency on how to tell which terrorist threats should be taken seriously, and how to predict the effects of illnesses of foreign leaders on world affairs.
        Edwin Weinstein was born in Manhattan and received his B.A. from Dartmouth College and his M.D. from Northwestern University Medical School.
        He taught at the College of Physicians and Surgeons in New York from 1947 to 1954, then went to Washington to study brain injuries and other disorders at the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research in 1954. In the late 1950's, he was clinical and research director of the Virgin Islands Bureau of Mental Health.
        He taught at the Washington School of Psychiatry from 1960 to 1968, when he became a professor of neurology at Mount Sinai Medical School, remaining there to his retirement in 1977.
        He wrote ''Denial of Illness'' with Robert L. Kahn (1955) and ''Cultural Aspects of Delusion'' (1962).
        His first wife, Helen Emerson Strong, died in 1970.
        Survivors include his wife, Anne; two children from his first marriage, Robert Weinstein, of San Francisco, and Lucy Emerson Haagen, of Durham, N.C., and two grandchildren.
      