
        Toni House, an author and a longtime Washington journalist who spent the last 16 years as the Supreme Court's public information officer, died here today of lung cancer, the Court announced. She was 55.
        A former president of the Washington Press Club and officer of other press organizations, Ms. House was a Washington institution even before Chief Justice Warren E. Burger hired her for the anomalous position of press officer for an institution that often appeared to have an aversion to press coverage.
        As a reporter and editor for The Washington Star for 15 years, Ms. House had won visibility and success covering the District of Columbia Police Department and local courts, one of the few women at the time to work that beat. With a co-author, Chuck Conconi, she wrote ''The Washington Sting,'' a book about an undercover police fencing operation she had covered in the early 1970's. She was deputy picture editor of The Star when the newspaper ceased publication in 1981.
        As the Supreme Court's public information officer, Ms. House was the Court's public voice, although not, as she often stressed, its interpreter. ''From the city that brought you the word 'spinmeister,' I am not one,'' she told the Atlanta Lawyers Club in a speech several years ago, adding, ''I mean, if you don't like a Supreme Court decision, who are you going to appeal to?''
        For the last several years, she served on the board of the American Judicature Society, a public interest group that strives to increase public understanding of legal issues.
        Antoinette Aiello House -- she used the name Toni all her life -- was born on Jan. 5, 1943, in Washington, where her father was a doctor. She graduated from American University here and lived in Arlington, Va., with her husband, William J. Weller, whom she married in 1990. Besides Mr. Weller, she is survived by a daughter from an earlier marriage, Valerie Reuther of Seattle, and a brother, Dr. Homer House of Sherwood, Md.
      