
        Thomas J. Murphy, who led the Newspaper Guild of New York for 22 years, including during the bitter 114-day strike of 1962-63, died yesterday at Regency Park Nursing Home in Hazlet, N.J. He was 91.
        Mr. Murphy was widely respected as a tough and savvy negotiator when he headed the Guild from 1948 to 1970, helping its members obtain pensions for the first time as well as a shorter workweek and some of the highest newspaper salaries in the country.
        As head of the Guild, he played an instrumental role in turning New York City's 10 newspaper unions into a cohesive force -- unofficially called ''the blood brotherhood'' -- that usually forged common positions and honored one another's picket lines.
        Although Mr. Murphy's title was executive vice president, he was the unchallenged No. 1 official in the New York Guild at a time when the city still had 13 newspapers, and the Guild represented more than 6,000 reporters, copy editors, and advertising and circulation workers at The New York Times, The New York Herald Tribune and other newspapers.
        ''What stood out was his ability to operate in a bargaining relationship with multiple unions and multiple employers when you're bargaining with not just the employers but your fellow unionists,'' said Theodore Kheel, the veteran labor negotiator.
        Mr. Murphy headed the Guild when New York's newspaper unions had considerably more leverage than today because in that era, before computers, unions were far more effective in shutting down newspapers when they went on strike.
        ''He was a powerful union leader,'' said Barry F. Lipton, the president of the Newspaper Guild of New York. ''They could shut down newspapers in those days, so they could very often get what they wanted.''
        Mr. Murphy came from a generation in which labor leaders were crustier and blunter, and he had his share of enemies. Often when his opponents asked hostile questions, he threw them off track by giving long-winded answers that he broke down into part 1(a) and 1(b), all part of an effort to lose his listeners.
        Mr. Murphy was credited with maximizing the Guild's bargaining power by insisting throughout the 1950's that its contracts expire at the end of October, a few days before Election Day. He recognized that newspaper publishers, eager to avoid a strike in the important days before Election Day, might be more conciliatory at the bargaining table when there was a late-October deadline.
        ''He was a good trade unionist,'' said Bertram A. Powers, the longtime president of the typographers union in New York. ''He was way ahead of his contemporaries.''
        During the 1940's, Mr. Murphy was in the thick of the battles between pro-Communists and anti-Communists within the Guild. His anti-Communist faction emerged triumphant in the late 1940's, and he played a major role -- one that still angers some aging Guild members -- in ousting officials and members regarded as too far to the left.
        Mr. Lipton said that when Mr. Murphy was interviewed recently as part of an oral history of the union, Mr. Murphy said that purging Communists was one of his major accomplishments.
        Mr. Murphy often served as the effective leader of the coalition of 10 newspaper unions, known officially as the Allied Printing Trades Council. But in the 1960's, Mr. Powers of the typographers' union eclipsed Mr. Murphy largely because the typographers had a far greater ability to shut down the industry.
        Thomas Joseph Murphy was born in Manhattan on Sept. 24, 1906, the son of Thomas Francis Murphy and Elizabeth McCollough Murphy. His father died when he was 3 years old, and as a boy he took odd jobs in grocery stores to help support his mother and sister.
        Mr. Murphy never finished high school, and, according to family members, took a job working for the circulation department of The New York Times right after dropping out of school. He became active in the Newspaper Guild in the late 1930's, and in the early 1940's he served as a negotiator. In 1943, he became the first paid business agent of the New York Guild and from 1945 to 1947, he was its secretary-treasurer.
        Mr. Murphy married Elizabeth Clark on July 14, 1945, and they raised two children. She died in 1969, and, his children said, Mr. Murphy married again in 1975 to Nancy O'Sullivan, who died a decade later.
        He is survived by a daughter, Nancy Back of Staten Island; a son, Joseph Murphy of Middlesex, England, and three grandchildren.
      