
        Nikos Kefalidis, a real estate developer and founder of KLM Construction Inc., was among the 229  passengers who died on Swissair Flight 111 when it plunged into the sea off Peggy's Cove, Nova Scotia, last Wednesday. He was 55 and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Kefalidis (pronounced keff-a-LEE-deez) had been on the flight en route to Istanbul for the wedding of a boyhood classmate.
        He was reared in humble circumstances in the Greek town of Alexandroupolis, near the Turkish border. His ancestors were Greek refugees from the Pontos region near the Black Sea in Russia.
        At age 9, he was sent on a scholarship to Anavryta College, a boarding school near Athens, and he later studied at the University of Athens, where he received a degree in economics. He came to the United States in 1970.
        ''One of the only jobs he could get was as a house painter,'' said Grant Ruthizer, a vice president of KLM Construction Inc., and of Beta Steel, a privately owned steel mill in Portage, Ind., that Mr. Kefalidis helped found. ''Then he moved from being a painter to establishing his own painting company and from that to general contracting and property development. He built several thousand residential apartments in Brooklyn and Manhattan.''
        There are now some 20 projects in the company's pipeline, Mr. Ruthizer said, including the construction of an 80,000-square-foot Old Navy store on a lot Mr. Kefalidis owned opposite Macy's on West 34th Street in Manhattan.
        In June, despite some vocal opposition, Community Board 1 in Queens voted to approve a zoning change that would permit his firm to convert an old Steinway piano factory in Astoria into a $30 million project that would include 142 assisted living units for the elderly and 163 apartments.
        Mr. Kefalidis was also involved in the development of Showboat Casino, a riverboat complex in East Chicago, Ind. ''He had a passion for the deal and for negotiating, and he loved property,'' Mr. Ruthizer said.
        In 1986, Mr. Kefalidis and a partner bought the village hall of Bellport on Long Island, only hours after they had first laid eyes on it. Asked what had prompted the purchase, he said: ''I saw an ad this morning that the building was for sale. We decided to come out and bid on it. We'll rent it out.''
        He was also a leader in numerous political, civic and religious organizations and became a member of the Democratic National Committee in 1994. He was vice president of the board of the Archdiocesan Cathedral of the Holy Trinity on the Upper East Side and on the Archdiocesan Council of the Greek Orthodox Church in the Americas.
        ''He treated everyone with the same deference and affection, from bricklayer to head of government,'' said Toli Fliakos, a vice president and assistant chairman of Beta Steel, in whose wedding Mr. Kefalidis had served as best man.
        ''He once noticed that something seemed to be bothering one of his employees,'' Mr. Fliakos recalled.  ''He dragged it out of the man, and it turned out that he was concerned about not having enough money to pay his daughter's private school tuition. Nikos said, 'Is that the problem? Go to the office and get a check tomorrow.' He did things like that all the time.''
        President Clinton sent a message of condolence to a memorial service for Mr. Kefalidis that was led last night at the cathedral by Archbishop Iakovos, the former Primate of the Greek Orthodox Church of North and South America.
        Mr. Kefalidis is survived by his wife of 18 years, Laurie Doane Kefalidis, and their three children, Melanie, 17, Elias, 14, and Marisa, 8, all of Manhattan; his parents, Symeon and Kerasia Kefalidis of Alexandroupolis; a brother, Chrysanthos Kefalidis of Athens, and a sister, Efthimia Melidis of Alexandroupolis.
      