
        Albert V. Maniscalco, who was the Borough President of Staten Island during its dizzying shift from rural to urban borough, died on Sept. 2 at the Sisters of Charity Medical Center there. He was 90.
        Mr. Maniscalco, a lifelong politician who joined a Democratic Party club at the age of 14, was Borough President from 1954 to 1965, a period in which the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge was planned, built and completed. The bridge, which opened in 1964, brought a flurry of development that caused the population of the city's least populous borough to multiply and new neighborhoods to sprout like mushrooms in what had been farmland.
        Ada Louise Huxtable, the architecture critic of The New York Times, wrote in 1965 that development was racing forward on Staten Island with ''a haphazard abandon that could not be better calculated to destroy the countryside if it had been planned by enemy action.''
        But she praised Mr. Maniscalco for delaying an urban renewal project that would have accelerated the damage. In essence, it would have involved putting a Manhattan-style street grid on the island. He also opposed running a parkway through land that became parkland.
        The Greenbelt Conservancy, a private parks group, honored him for his role in saving land that eventually became an emerald spine of natural areas on Staten Island. Indeed, the term ''greenbelt'' was first used by Mr. Maniscalco at a meeting of the Board of Estimate.
        Everyone called Mr. Maniscalco Al, although he was always careful to use the proper title of any person to whom he spoke. He was revered for his politeness, and he spoke a version of English that some considered rarefied.
        Mr. Maniscalco was born in Manhattan in 1908, a fact he never tired of repeating in his public speeches. His family moved to Staten Island when he was 9. Five years later, he joined the South Beach Democratic Club and a year later was the club's secretary. He was particularly interested in helping immigrants achieve citizenship.
        ''While most kids were playing games after school I was hanging around Democratic meetings,'' he said in an interview in 1960.
        He left high school to work as an engine cleaner for the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad, but later earned a bachelor's degree and a law degree by attending night classes at St. John's University. In 1938, he was elected to the State Assembly, and served for two terms. He then served as Borough Secretary under two borough presidents and on the City Council for one year before becoming Borough President.
        He is survived by his wife of 62 years, the former Grace Fiorelli; a son, Dr. Albert M. Maniscalco of Staten Island; a daughter, Linda J. Calarco of Woodbridge, Conn., and four grandsons.
      