
        Phil G. Goulding, a Pentagon spokesman who unknowingly passed along encouraging but false reports about United States progress in the war in Vietnam and later wrote a book urging officials to press for accurate information from the military, died on Tuesday at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 77 and also had a home in Brainardsville, N.Y.
        The cause was brain cancer, his son Kent said.
        The author David Halberstam, who covered the war for The New York Times, said today that Mr. Goulding was the innocent he was because he was used by people in the field whose mission was to put the American position in a better light.
        ''It was a great lying machine, and he was at the tail end of it,'' Mr. Halberstam said. ''I think he got sucked up into the vortex of that thing.''
        Mr. Goulding spoke of his role in a 1970 book, ''Confirm or Deny: Informing the People on National Security'' (Harper & Row), writing:
        ''I misled and misinformed the American people a good many times in a good many ways -- through my own lack of foresight, through carelessness, through relaying incomplete information which the originators considered complete, through transmitting reports which had been falsified, deliberately, at lower levels.''
        Another instance involved the strafing of a Soviet vessel in a North Vietnamese port.
        Mr. Goulding was misled into telling reporters that the ship had not been attacked by an American plane, said Neil Sheehan, another author and reporter who covered the war for United Press International and The Times.
        Mr. Goulding was born in San Francisco and graduated from Hamilton College. His son said he entered the Navy in World War II and rose to the rank of lieutenant (j.g.).
        After the war, he joined The Cleveland Plain Dealer as a reporter, eventually obtaining an assignment  to the paper's Washington bureau. He joined the Defense Department in 1965 and became its chief spokesman in 1967.
        After leaving the Defense Department in 1969, Mr. Goulding joined a consulting firm and in 1975 became vice president of the American Petroleum Institute, a trade group. He retired in 1990 and began a second career writing and lecturing about classical music.
        His first marriage, to Ann Wright Goulding, ended in divorce in 1977.
        He is survived by his wife, Miriam Bower Goulding; five children from his first marriage, Kent, of Potomac,  Barry, of Bethesda, Md., Philip, of Barrington, Ill., Laura Jacoby, of Derwood, Md., and Nancy Swanberg of Worcester, Mass., and seven grandchildren.
      