
        John Mortimer, 75, a former senior vice president of The New York Times for personnel and industrial relations, and his wife of 22 years, Hilda, 69, died in the Swissair plane crash on Wednesday. They lived in Stamford, Conn.
        They were on their way to a vacation in France, their family said.
        Howard Bishow, a retired senior vice president of The New York Times for operations, said yesterday that Mr. Mortimer played the dominant role on behalf of the newspaper in negotiations before and during every strike while he was with The Times during the 1960's and 70's.
        Mr. Mortimer was born in Bronxville, N.Y. He served in the Army Air Force in the South Pacific during World War II and graduated from Williams College in 1948.
        After working in industrial relations at The Daily News, he joined The New York Times in 1962 as industrial relations manager and held a succession of industrial relations and personnel positions. From 1973 to 1981, he was senior vice president for personnel and industrial relations. He later held other positions, including senior vice president and assistant to the general manager of the newspaper and, finally, assistant to the president of the New York Times Company before retiring in 1983.
        His first wife, the former Harriet Watson, died in 1974 after more than 20 years of marriage.
        Mr. Mortimer's survivors include two daughters, Claire Mortimer of Berkeley, Calif., and Katherine Mortimer of Albany, Calif.; a son, Stewart of Tucson, Ariz.; a brother, Donald, of Riverside, Conn.; and a sister, Mary Hillegas, also of Riverside.
        Mrs. Mortimer, the former Hilda Barnes Belcher, divorced Robert S. Huffman in 1972. Mrs. Mortimer's survivors include a daughter, Susan Parker Boal of Salisbury, Conn.; a son, Philip B. Huffman of Williston, Vt.; four sisters, Marjorie S. Belcher of Washington, Elizabeth B. Rogers of Champaign, Ill., and Helen C. Belcher and Ruth S. Belcher, both of Plymouth, Mass.; and a brother, Edward L. Belcher of Rochester, N.Y.
        Mr. and Mrs. Mortimer are survived by seven grandchildren.
      