
        Juan E. Metzger, the man credited with turning yogurt -- an obscure, highly acidic dairy product -- into a fruit-flavored staple in the diets of many Americans, died on Sunday at his home in New York. He was 79.
        The cause was heart failure following complications from a stroke in December, said his brother-in-law, James Lomuscio.
        Mr. Metzger served as president of the Dannon Company, the yogurt maker, starting in 1959, and became its chairman in 1965.
        His first job at the company, which had been co-founded by his father, was to clean and sterilize re-usable glass jars. He is widely credited as the first to suggest putting fruit in the bottom of yogurt containers -- strawberry was the first -- an addition that improved its flavor and increased its appeal to Americans. Moreover, his efforts to heavily advertise and market yogurt are said to have helped to increase American consumption of it. In 1942, he spent $2,000 on an unsuccessful campaign promoting yogurt as an ideal meat substitute.
        Mr. Metzger's advertising campaigns capitalized on such healthful qualities of yogurt as its low-fat and low-sugar content. He was so successful in his marketing of Dannon that he was named ''Marketer of the Decade'' in the 1970's by Marketing Communications, a trade magazine.
        An avid skier, he heavily promoted the product at ski resorts, recalled Harold Burson, founder and chairman of Burson-Marsteller, the advertising and public relations firm.
        Mr. Metzger was also credited with expanding the overall yogurt market, attracting competitors to Dannon, while also continuing to increase Dannon's own sales. William Camacho, a former marketing director at Dannon, said, ''He took pride in the statement that he took a company from a 90 percent market share to a 60 percent market share and still was a success because he grew the market for the company.''
        Mr. Metzger approved the well-known Dannon commercial the ''old Russians,'' created in 1973 by the agency Marsteller Inc. Filmed in the mountains of Soviet Georgia, it showed an 89-year-old man and his 114-year-old mother leading active lives by eating yogurt. In 1996, Advertising Age, the trade publication, chose the spot as one of the 50 greatest commercials of all time.
        ''He had an instinctive flair for public relations that was more perceptive than most professionals in the field,'' said Milton Sutton, a longtime friend and former vice president of Marsteller. ''He broadened the line of flavors and extended their retail outlets until the Dannon brand became a household name from coast to coast.''
        Under Mr. Metzger, Dannon increased its yogurt product line to 15 items and introduced Danny, a frozen yogurt. In 1979, Dannon yogurt became the first perishable dairy product distributed across the country. It carried a 25-  to 30-day freshness date code, and Dannon's own route drivers delivered it to stores and reclaimed it at the expiration dates.
        Dannon was founded in the Bronx by Daniel Carasso and his friend Joe Metzger, a Swiss-born industrialist. In Spain and France, Mr. Carasso's father, Isaac, had manufactured a cultured milk product called Danone, named after his young son, ''Little Daniel.'' Daniel Carasso came to New York in 1942 to sell his product. He teamed up with Joe Metzger and Americanized the name of the company, calling it the Dannon Milk Company. Juan Metzger, born in Barcelona, Spain, in 1918, was almost 24 at the time.
        In 1959, after Mr. Carasso had returned to France, the multinational conglomerate Beatrice Foods bought the company, for $3 million in Beatrice stock, as part of its plans to expand into more profitable and growing specialty food products. Mr. Metzger was a vice president of Beatrice at the same time that he headed Dannon. Beatrice sold Dannon in 1982 for $84 million to BSN Groupe, a French company that is now called Groupe Danone, after its leading international brand.
        Mr. Metzger retired from Dannon in 1981 and became a business consultant to entrepreneurs in the food industry.
        In World War II, he served in Army military intelligence, interrogating prisoners of war.
        He is survived by his wife, Florence, of Manhattan; three children, Joe and Timothy, of Manhattan, and Jacqueline of Seattle; a granddaughter, Jill, and a sister, Miriam Koryn of Scarsdale.
        As testament to its increasing popularity, per capita sales of yogurt have increased from 1.5 pounds in 1974 to an estimated 5 pounds in 1998, according to Department of Agriculture and Business Trends Analysts data. Last year, the Agriculture Department also approved the use of yogurt as an alternative to meat in school lunches.
      