
        Edward Robb Ellis, who in 1927 began keeping a diary to fend off the boredom of his small town Midwestern adolescence and emerged nearly 70 years later as the most prolific known diarist in the history of American letters, died on Monday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan.
        A newspaperman and author of several books of narrative history  who once spent the better part of a decade trying to single-handedly compile an encyclopedia of New York City, Mr. Ellis published approximately 1 percent of his 70-volume diary in 1995 in a single volume entitled ''A Diary of the Century: Tales From America's Greatest Diarist'' (Kodansha America).
        The unedited diaries, estimated at 22 million words or roughly half the size of the Encyclopedia Britannica  and filling 50 cartons that if laid end to end would extend 75 feet, became part of the manuscript collection of the Fales Library at New York University last spring.
        ''Eddie was a force of nature,''  Marvin Taylor, the director of the Fales Library, the rare book library at N.Y.U., said. ''He was incredibly intelligent, quick, funny and always on the make. He had an abiding interest in everyone's story, and clearly also in his own.''
        Born and brought up in Kewanee, Ill. (''Hog Capital of the World,'' he wrote in his first diary entry), he embarked upon his diary writing at  age 16 when, bored during a Christmas break and shooting hoops with a few friends, he idly suggested they see who could keep a diary longest.
        In simple, direct language, the diary tracks Mr. Ellis's trajectory through the University of Missouri and a succession of newspaper and wire service jobs in New Orleans, Oklahoma City, Peoria and Chicago and finally to New York City, where he worked for The New York World-Telegram from 1947 to 1962.
        ''Today I arrived by train in New York City, which I had never seen before, walked through the grandeur of Grand Central Terminal, stepped outside, got my first look at the city and instantly fell in love with it,'' he wrote on May 22, 1947. ''Silently, inside myself, I yelled: 'I should have been born here!' ''
        Mr. Ellis went on to become in many ways a classic New York City character. In 1966, he published a history of the city from Peter Stuyvesant to John V. Lindsay, entitled ''The Epic of New York City,'' that  the writer Pete Hamill has called ''the best one-volume history of the metropolis ever published.''
        When Yale University Press and the New-York Historical Society came out with their Encyclopedia of New York City in 1995, Kenneth T. Jackson, the Columbia University historian and editor of the book, credited Mr. Ellis in the introduction with being the first to recognize the need for such a work.
        In later life, Mr. Ellis lived alone in an increasingly rundown apartment in a 19th-century town house in Chelsea amid mounting towers of manila folders, five sets of encyclopedias and a collection of books whose extent he estimated at various times at 10,000 to 15,000 volumes.
        A gregarious eccentric who talked about one day publishing a book of maxims called ''Infinity and Three Doors Beyond,'' Mr. Ellis took notes each day, then typed them up into diary entries the next day.
        The diaries, which were for a time listed in the Guinness Book of World Records under the category of ''Largest Diary,'' combine the worldly and the mundane -- encounters with the likes of Herbert Hoover, Arturo Toscanini, John Dewey, Louis Armstrong and Mae West; details about things like the cost of a cup of coffee; an excruciating account of the early death of his beloved second wife, Ruth Kraus Ellis.
        ''I think it is one of those diaries that will be useful to people for a long time,'' Mr. Hamill said yesterday. ''You can always get the memoirs of some general or half-baked politician. But to try to get the diaries of ordinary people is the hardest thing for a certain kind of historian.''
        Mr. Ellis, who also wrote a history of the Depression, ''A Nation in Torment,'' and a history of the home front during World War I, ''Echoes of Distant Thunder,'' is survived by a daughter from his first marriage, Sandra Gail Ellis of Creswell, Ore.; two half-sisters, Doris Wedge Kent of Peoria, Ill., and Joanne Ellis Alley of Suring, Wis., and two granddaughters.
      