
        The Rev. Lynn L. Hageman, a pioneer in drug counseling and the founder of Exodus House, a nationally known drug treatment center in East Harlem, died in his apartment at the center on Oct. 3. He was 67.
        Mr. Hageman, who suffered an incapacitating stroke 17 years ago, died of a heart attack, said his son  Ivan, of Manhattan.
        At Exodus House, which opened in 1963, Mr. Hageman developed a rehabilitation approach that involved abstinence, spiritual guidance, group therapy and artisan training. Thousands of addicts from the New York metropolitan region took part in the program, which had an unusually high success rate.
        Born in Lincoln, Neb., Mr. Hageman received a bachelor's degree from North Central College in Naperville, Ill., in 1951. He also received a Bachelor of Divinity degree from the University of Chicago in 1956 and a Doctor of Ministry degree from Drew Theological Seminary in 1976.
        After graduating from college, he worked with children in Chicago's welfare department and at St. Mark's Episcopal Church in Chicago, site of the first church-based program for rehabilitating drug addicts.
        The Rev. Reuben H. Gums, president of Tri-State Media Ministry in New York, said Mr. Hageman began counseling drug addicts while working as a lay reader in a church on the South Side of Chicago in the 1950's.
        ''Jazz musicians played music in the church there, and he got to know them,'' Mr. Gums said, adding that some were on drugs. ''And as a result, Lynn just started informally counseling the guys.''
        In 1959, Mr. Hageman, whose efforts to become an Episcopal priest were thwarted because of his interracial marriage to a black woman, moved to East Harlem and began serving as an Evangelical United Brethren minister at the East Harlem Protestant Parish. Four years later, he established Exodus House at 309 East 103d Street.
        He was on the Mayor's Committee on Narcotics Addiction in 1965 and often appeared in newspaper and magazine articles and on television.
        While he was a participant in the civil rights struggles of the 1960's, he was arrested and spent time in jail with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in Albany, Ga.
        In 1981, Mr. Hageman, a physical fitness enthusiast, had a stroke while working out in a gym; he was 50 years old, at the peak of his career.
        ''He was paralyzed on one side and had speech problems,'' Ivan Hageman said. ''But he remained a voracious reader. We were just talking about Brazilian politics, and he was always a big Nebraska football fan.''
        Ivan said that after his father accepted his disability, he was more patient and sentimental. ''He became more comfortable with expressing emotion,'' he said.
        After the stroke, Mr. Hageman's wife, Leola, reinvented Exodus House as an after-school program for neighborhood children. In 1991, Ivan and his brother, Hans, converted Exodus House into the East Harlem School at Exodus House, a private middle school for children.
        In addition to his wife and sons, Mr. Hageman is survived by a daughter, Erika Robinson of Fair Haven, N.J.; a sister, Gwendolyn Dahle of Naperville, and three granddaughters.
      