
        Joseph Machlis, an author and opera translator whose 1955 textbook ''The Enjoyment of Music'' is one of the most popular music appreciation books published in English, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 92.
        Mr. Machlis was a familiar figure in the classical music world, although to see him -- a small, frail-looking man with thick glasses and a shock of unruly white hair -- one would not have guessed that he was a powerhouse into his 90's. Around his 85th birthday, he told a reporter that he still exercised regularly and swam 50 laps a day. He was a fixture at the opera house, recitals and new-music concerts, and he helped many  young musicians, particularly pianists, by letting them perform for invited audiences at his apartment on East 57th Street, by lobbying critics on their behalf, or by quietly providing financial support for their work.
        He maintained that apartment solely for musicales and lavish parties, where musicians, literary figures and politicians mingled. The apartment he called home, also on the East Side, was a cramped studio with an antique refrigerator, a camp cot and stacks of papers representing various projects in progress. He said that the spaciousness of the other apartment upset his equilibrium.
        Mr. Machlis's 90th-birthday celebration, in 1996, was an indication of the esteem in which he was held. For a party given by his publisher, W. W. Norton, 13 American composers -- among them Milton Babbitt, Ned Rorem, Lukas Foss, John Corigliano, Hugo Weisgall, Yehudi Wyner and George Perle -- supplied humorous musical tributes to him.
        Mr. Machlis was born in Riga, Latvia, in 1906, but moved to New York when he was 3 and grew up in Brooklyn, where he studied the piano. After he completed his bachelor's degree at City College in 1927, he won a scholarship from the Steinway piano company to study in France.
        Upon his return to New York, Mr. Machlis decided not to pursue a concert career. He earned his master's degree in English literature from Columbia University while supporting himself by giving piano lessons, and in 1938 he joined the music faculty at Queens College, where he taught for 35 years. After retiring  from Queens College, he taught at  the Juilliard School.
        Early in his career, Mr. Machlis developed a new approach to teaching music history.
        ''I had noticed teachers beginning with medieval music,'' he told The New York Times in 1985. ''But I thought, 'Why not start with something more interesting and go backwards?' So I began with Tchaikovsky and Grieg to arouse students' interest. Just like if you wanted to teach English lit, you would start with Mailer and Tom Wolfe and go backwards to 'Beowulf.' ''
        When a representative of W. W. Norton asked Mr. Machlis to write a textbook in the early 1950's, his course notes became the basis of ''The Enjoyment of Music.'' Since its original publication, the book has sold more than two million copies and has undergone several revisions, the most recent with a co-author, Kristine Forney. Mr. Machlis also wrote ''Introduction to Contemporary Music'' (1963) and two books for younger readers, ''Composers of Our Time'' (1963) and ''Getting to Know Music'' (1966).
        He was also a respected translator of opera librettos. His English edition of Poulenc's ''Dialogues of the Carmelites'' is still used by the Metropolitan Opera, and many of his translations were used in televised NBC Opera productions starting in the 1950's. Among the works he translated were Beethoven's ''Fidelio,'' Mussorgsky's ''Boris Godunov,'' Prokofiev's ''Fiery Angel,'' Puccini's ''Boheme'' and Falla's ''Atlantida.''
        Mr. Machlis also wrote six novels between 1964 and 1990, including ''The Career of Magda V,'' widely regarded as a roman a clef about the soprano Elisabeth Schwarzkopf, although Mr. Machlis vehemently denied this; ''Stefan in Love'' and ''Allegro.'' His earlier novels were published under the name George Selcamm (the surname being Machlis, phonetically, backward). Mr. Machlis said that this was at Norton's insistence.
        ''Norton thought I was writing a sexy book,'' he explained, ''and my textbooks were used in a lot of Catholic schools.''
        Mr. Machlis, a bachelor, left no immediate family.
      