
        Dr. Andrew B. Myers, a long-time Fordham University English professor who pursued a lifelong scholarly obsession into virtual oblivion, died on Monday at Flushing Hospital in Queens. He was 78.
        It's been almost four centuries since the 17th-century Dutch settled what they called Nieuw Amsterdam and planted their distinctive culture so deeply there and among the hills along the Hudson River to the north that it continued to help shape New York society long after the English took over a generation later.
        The Dutch legacy was still so evocative in the late 18th century that childhood visits to the Hudson Valley by an impressionable young Manhattan native of Scottish heritage, born under the Articles of Confederation and named for the father of his new country, helped lay the groundwork for his career as America's first literary lion and the most beloved figure of the first half of the 19th century.
        And if the old Hudson Valley magic has long since shrunk to museum dimensions it was still evocative enough in the 1920's and 30's to enchant an impressionable young Manhattan native whose boyhood visits laid the groundwork for his own life's work.
        The difference was that Washington Irving fell in love with Dutch culture and Andrew Breen Myers fell in love with Washington Irving.
        And while Irving's childhood visits led him to write the wildly popular ''Legend of Sleepy Hollow'' and ''Rip Van Winkle,'' and go on to to become a prolific author, scholar and diplomat, Dr. Myers labored in comparative obscurity as a tireless and almost obsessive Irving scholar.
        Largely, perhaps, because Irving seems such a quaint and remote figure to 20th-century sensibilities, Dr. Myers never achieved breakthrough success, but was widely regarded by his fellow scholars as the nation's foremost expert on Irving.
        For Dr. Myers, who had suffered a debilitating stroke in 1989, the trouble was that while the 19th-century world loved Irving and Irving' works, modern America seemed immune to his appeal. To Dr. Myers, this indifference to his hero was a matter of perpetual puzzlement.
        After all, his own Sunday drives up Route 9 through Tarrytown and Irvington with his immigrant parents, an Irish-born nurse and an English coal miner turned hospital engineer, left him with such a powerful fascination with Irving, he once recalled, that it survived a Jesuit high school regimen whose misplaced emphasis on grammar, sentence structure and parsing seemed designed to ''beat the life out of a piece of literature.''
        For all his childhood interest, Dr. Myers, a 1940 Fordham graduate who later obtained a master's and eventually a doctorate from Columbia, took a while to settle into his Irving groove. After working variously as a singing waiter, a trainee at The Wall Street Journal and a high school geometry teacher and serving three years in the Army in World War II, he joined the Fordham faculty while still in graduate school in 1946 and began pursuing his scholarly interest in earnest.
        Doing research at Sunnyside, Irving's summer home in Tarrytown, which had been turned into a museum by the Rockefeller-backed Sleepy Hollow Restorations, now known as Historic Hudson Valley, Dr. Myers showed such enthusiasm that the curator allowed him to work after hours in Irving's study, sitting at Irving's actual desk.
        Although he was tall enough, Dr. Myers had a bit too much meat on his bones to pass as the young Ichabod Crane, and he was far too handsome to be mistaken for the older Washington Irving.
        But Dr. Myers, who struck people as an uncommonly kind and good-humored scholar, had such a pleasant manner that in time he came to be seen by colleagues as virtually embodying the vaunted personality of the man who captivated 19th-century America as the nation's first true celebrity.
        (Among other things, Irving, whose name was applied to streets, schools and towns all over the country, turned down appointment as Secretary of the Navy by President Martin Van Buren and anointment as Mayor of New York City by Tammany Hall but allowed President John Tyler to name him the nation's first Spanish-speaking ambassador to Spain, an appointment that helps explain why Dr. Myers, who was predictably a fellow of the Pierpont Morgan Library and of the New York Historical Society and who held many other learned positions was also a trustee of the Hispanic Society of America.)
        If Dr. Myers's expertise was appreciated more by the grateful scholars he helped than by the general public, it was at least partly because for all his years as a consultant to the Sleepy Hollow project and the numerous works he edited, including the authoritative 1983 edition of Irving's ''Alhambra,'' he never completed the definitive Irving biography he had planned as a successor to Stanley Williams's two-volume 1935 biography.
        Still, Dr. Myers, a bibliophile whose vast library contained many Irving editions and even manuscripts, had his moments in the sun. He was a regular honored visitor at the Irving Day ceremonies in Irving,  Tex.
        He is survived by his wife, Dr. Margaret Lohrmann Myers; two children, Cathleen Rumpf of Manhattan and Andrew 3d of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
      