
        Robert Lewis Taylor, a prolific and witty writer of a Pulitzer Prize-winning novel, a respected biography of W. C. Fields and New Yorker articles that a magazine colleague and memoirist called ''some of the funniest profiles we ever published,'' died on Wednesday at his home in Southbury, Conn. He was 88.
        He received a Pulitzer Prize in 1959 for ''The Travels of Jaimie McPheeters,'' a novel about a 14-year-old boy and his father trekking  West during the 1849 gold rush. Calling it authentic and ''tremendously exciting,'' a review in The New York Times said that ''Mr. Taylor takes an entire train of diverse human beings all the way from Independence, Mo., to California'' with incidents that ''will curl the hair of many a reader.''
        For The New Yorker, Mr. Taylor wrote profiles on characters as diverse as the city fire chief and the conductor Artie Shaw to Gargantua, a circus ape nearly as famous as King Kong, and Charles Atlas, the muscleman pictured in the back of comic books. He zeroed in on any little oddities or curious characteristics and in a few breezy sentences pinned them down with often wicked precision.
        In a piece on Larry MacPhail, general manager of the Brooklyn Dodgers in the late 1930's, he wrote: ''His habitual expression seems to be a silent appeal for Bromo Seltzer.''
        Mr. Taylor, who grew up in Carbondale, Ill., and graduated from the University of Illinois, began his career as a reporter for The Carbondale Herald. After a year, he quit and rode a steamer to Tahiti, stayed until he was broke and returned to work on The St. Louis Post Dispatch.
        In 1939 Harold Ross, editor of The New Yorker, hired him. He remained there until 1961. Like many of the  magazine's other writers and editors, he began to accumulate a stock of personal legends along with his published stories. From them, he emerges as tall and good-looking, a brilliant comic writer and sharply --  some say caustically -- witty.
        But when the jabs were aimed at him, he became ''infuriated,'' said Philip Hamburger, who has written for The New Yorker for more than 50 years. ''He was deeply eccentric: he could be your best friend one day, and didn't know you the next,'' Mr. Hamburger said.
        In the 1975 memoir ''Here at The New Yorker,'' Brendan Gill wrote of an exchange between Mr. Taylor and William Shawn, who succeeeded Ross as the magazine's editor. On his rare vacations, Mr. Shawn went on working at home. When he returned to the office after one of these vacations, Mr. Taylor congratulated him: ''Bill! You must have had a marvelous time!''
        ''Yes, very nice, thank you.''
        ''Played a lot of golf?''
        ''Well, no, not golf, exactly.''
        ''Tennis, then?''
        ''No, I don't play tennis.''
        And so on, Mr. Gill wrote, sport to sport, with ''Shawn remaining invincible in his politeness, Taylor ruthless in his persistence.''
        In New Yorker anecdotes, Mr. Taylor was also described as extremely conservative. While Elizabeth Peek, his daughter, said he was very respectful and nearly in awe of Mr. Shawn, Mr. Hamburger said Mr. Taylor had a heated argument with the editor in an office corridor,  ''Which,'' he said, ''nobody ever did.'' It was about atomic bombs, he added.
        Around that time, 1960 or so, Mr. Taylor ''drifted away from the magazine into wealth and a querulous political recidivism,'' reported the Gill memoir. As a supporter of Barry Goldwater, he could have come to feel uncomfortable with the urban liberals at The New Yorker.
        His most popular biography was ''W. C. Fields: His Follies and Fortunes,'' the story of the comedian's journey from vagrancy and flea-circus juggling to Hollywood. Other books included ''Center Ring: The People of the Circus'' and several novels, ''Adrift in a Boneyard,'' a tale of survivors of an atomiclike cataclysm, and ''A Journey to Matecumbe,'' an adventure set in the South during the Reconstruction.
        His wife, Judith Martin, died a few years ago. In addition to his daughter, he is survived by a son, Martin, of Camden, Me., and five grandchildren.
      