
        Joseph H. Baum, the tirelessly innovative restaurateur who created a new American style in dining with theme restaurants like the Four Seasons, the Forum of the Twelve Caesars and La Fonda del Sol, and who gave new meaning to high style in skyscraper restaurants like Windows on the World and the renovated Rainbow Room, died yesterday at his home. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan and North Salem, N.Y.
        The cause was prostate cancer, his son Charles said.
        As an executive of Restaurant Associates in the 1950's and 60's and its president from 1963 to 1970, Mr. Baum ruled over a dining empire whose far-flung possessions included airport restaurants, freeway rest stops, snack bars in Central Park, popular chains like Zum Zum and top-dollar trend-setters like the Four Seasons, a modernist temple patronized by Manhattan's power elite.
        At a time when fine dining in New York began and ended with haute cuisine, Mr. Baum created top-quality restaurants with an American accent and an American sense of informality and fun. More than any other restaurateur, he operated in the conceptual territory where food and theater overlapped, producing what Time magazine called ''a blend of slick spectacle and lofty cuisine.''
        ''He had a tremendous sense of theater,'' said Mimi Sheraton, a former restaurant critic for The New York Times, who worked as a consultant to Mr. Baum on the Four Seasons. ''He was the Cecil B. DeMille of restaurateurs -- everything was a big production.''
        Joseph Harold Baum was born Sept. 17, 1920, in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., where his parents ran the Gross & Baum Family Hotel during the summer season. (A Holiday Inn now stands on the site.) After graduating from high school in Lakewood, N.J., in 1937, he worked for two years as a busboy, waiter and cook in hotels in New Jersey and Florida to earn tuition money to attend Cornell University, where he earned a degree in hotel administration in 1943.
        After enlisting in the Navy, he was assigned to the Supply Corps and served as an ensign in the South Pacific aboard a destroyer-minelayer. After the war, he found work as a desk clerk in Miami, where he met his wife, Ruth. The couple, who were married for 54 years, had a daughter, Hilary, of Riverdale, the Bronx, and two sons, Charles, of Manhattan, and Edward, of Katonah, N.Y. In addition to his wife and children, Mr. Baum is survived by a brother, David, of Palo Alto, Calif.; a sister, Pearl Golden, of Westport, Conn.; six grandchildren, and a great-granddaughter.
        In 1946, Mr. Baum took a job in Manhattan with Harris, Kerr, Foster & Company, which did accounting for hotels and restaurants. There he first showed the obsession with financial detail that would mark his later career, confounding his employers by spending long hours drawing up comparative charts for, say, martini sales at various restaurants. He was soon made a supervisor in charge of food and beverage control for the company's clients, and in 1947 he became the manager of the Monte Carlo Hotel in New York, one of the company's accounts.
        In 1949, Mr. Baum joined the Schine hotel chain, working as the director of its restaurants in Florida. Four years later, Restaurant Associates hired him to open and manage its newest venture, a restaurant at Newark Airport called the Newarker.
        On the face of it, opening a luxury restaurant in an airport terminal looked like a suicide mission. Undeterred, Mr. Baum brought in Albert Stockli, a classically trained Swiss chef, to develop an ambitious menu. He invested in good china and well-designed menus. He also came up with the kind of attention-grabbing features that he would bring to all of his later restaurants.
        The Newarker eventually became famous for its generous portions, notably its Absecon oysters, called ''knife and fork oysters'' because they were so large that they had to be eaten with a knife and fork. Mr. Baum sold them by the half-dozen, but added a seventh oyster, presented on its own plate. He added a third claw to every order of lobster. He stuck Fourth of July sparklers into birthday cakes, and whenever possible, set dishes afire.
        ''The customers like to see things on fire, or accompanied by fiery props, and it doesn't hurt the food that much,'' he once explained to an interviewer.
        The Newarker lost $25,000 in its first year, but Mr. Baum pressed on. ''The more money we lost in those early days,'' he said, ''the more trouble Albert Stockli and I took to make the food and cooking outstanding.'' By 1955 the Newarker was serving 1,000 meals a day, 90 percent of them to nontravelers, and turning a handsome profit on an annual gross of $3 million.
        After Mr. Baum was named to run Restaurant Associates' specialty restaurant division in 1955, he and Jerome Brody, the company's president, began looking around for new ventures. They took over the Hawaiian Room, a money loser at the Hotel Lexington in Manhattan, and transformed it into a gaudy tropical paradise with an island menu sprinkled with Polynesian pidgin. The Hawaiian Room created a sensation, and Restaurant Associates gained a reputation as a company with the Midas touch.
        Working for Mr. Baum could be exhilarating or maddening, associates said. He spoke in cryptic half-sentences, often seasoned with malapropisms. His associates would often leave meetings trying to figure out what had been said. It was useless to complain to Mr. Baum that he had contradicted himself, because self-contradiction was at the heart of his style.
        ''He always reminded me of Merlin,'' said Michael Batterberry, the editor in chief of Food Arts magazine. ''His eyes would narrow, he'd roll these things around on his tongue, and in a low, mysterious voice he would let loose these fragments that were very haiku-like; sometimes enlightening, sometimes puzzling.''
        Michael Whiteman, Mr. Baum's longtime business partner, said: ''The positive side of this was that he never came into a project with a doctrinaire position and then tried to bully people. He'd come in with half-formed ideas that came out in half-formed sentences, which allowed the creative process to get rolling.''
        It was often said that Mr. Baum, a compact, dapper man, did not know exactly what he wanted until he saw it, and he was willing to spend until he did. This approach committed him to endless hours of research and menu testing. Mr. Baum and Mr. Brody spent freely to attract leading architects, interior designers and food consultants, like Julia Child and James Beard.
        ''The concept and theme were very important, and they were researched down to the last detail,'' Ms. Sheraton said. ''The ideas sometimes had a gimmicky aspect to them, but they were original and they had intellectual content.''
        Mr. Baum was a relentless perfectionist who used his incandescent temper as a motivational tool. He was known to visit 14 of his restaurants in a single night. A favorite tactic was to ask a manager, ''What's wrong with the consomme?'' -- his theory being that something is always wrong with consomme.
        He believed that a restaurant meal should be a seamless production from beginning to end, and to achieve this effect he spent countless hours fussing with the interior design, the silverware and the staff uniforms. Restaurant Associates maintained an extensive culinary library, and Mr. Baum would fly all over the world with his team to do field research when devising a menu.
        ''Nothing couldn't be done, if you disregarded the cost, which Joe often did,'' Mr. Whiteman said. ''The only thing he failed to do was build a two-story replica of the Statue of Liberty out of chopped liver. He wanted to put it in Rockefeller Center to kick off Restaurant Week in 1995.''
        Mr. Baum came into his glory in the late 1950's with the Forum of the Twelve Caesars, La Fonda del Sol and the Four Seasons. The Forum, which opened in 1957 on the ground floor of the United States Rubber Company Building in Rockefeller Center, featured dishes like truffle-stuffed quail Cleopatra, wrapped in Macedonian vine leaves and baked in hot ashes. Wine was chilled in buckets that resembled upended centurions' helmets, and the waiters' uniforms, in imperial purple and royal red, were cut to resemble togas. So many dishes were flambeed that the restaurant's air-conditioning system was built with an excess capacity of 10 percent.
        The Forum took its place alongside Le Pavillon and Le Chambord as one of the most expensive restaurants in the city. La Fonda del Sol, which drew its Latin theme from its setting on the Avenue of the Americas, on the ground floor of the Time and Life Building, presented reinterpreted South American dishes in a spare, elegant interior designed by Philip Girard and decorated with Latin American folk art.
        The piece de resistance, however, was the Four Seasons, opened in 1959, a $4.5 million project in the Seagram Building with interior design by Philip Johnson and artworks by Miro and Picasso. Mr. Baum, who named the restaurant after a haiku collection he had read, envisioned a menu, a color scheme and foliage that would change with the seasons. Even the restaurant's typewriter ribbons changed color four times a year. The annual budget for plantings, which included four seven-foot ficus trees stationed at the corners of the marble pool in the dining room, added up to $50,000.
        The restaurant's five dining rooms seated 400 and employed 20 captains, 50 waiters and 15 busboys. The menu offerings anticipated, by some 20 years, the food style that would become known as new American cuisine.
        The Four Seasons created a sensation. ''Both in decor and in menu, it is spectacular, modern and audacious,'' Craig Claiborne wrote in a review in The Times. ''It is expensive and opulent and it is perhaps the most exciting restaurant to open in New York within the last two decades.''
        In 1963, Mr. Brody was forced out of Restaurant Associates, after divorcing his wife, who also happened to be the daughter of the company's owner, Abraham F. Wechsler. Mr. Baum was named his successor as president. He inherited an operation that was a byword for glamour in American dining, and the source of innovations that would ripple through the American restaurant scene for decades to come.
        The company was more influential than it was profitable, however. By 1965 Restaurant Associates operated 130 restaurants and food-service establishments around the world. These included Mamma Leone's, a theater-district cash cow acquired in 1959; two restaurants at the New York World's Fair; the Zum Zum chain, which Mr. Baum described as ''rapid service in the Bavarian-sausage mood'' (he thought the name sounded fast); Tavern on the Green in Central Park, and Charlie Brown's Ale and Chop House.
        Overexpansion and thin profit margins caused the company's stock price to plummet from a high of more than $47 in the mid-1960's to less than $2 by the end of 1970.
        That year, Restaurant Associates merged with Waldorf Systems, a company that concentrated on lower-priced operations and had no interest in Mr. Baum's visionary approach.
        Mr. Baum left to start his own consulting company, often working with Arthur Emil, a longtime adviser. The company quickly landed a contract from the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to develop the 22 restaurants planned for the new World Trade Center. The complex's extensive food service operations included one showpiece restaurant, Windows on the World, a no-holds-barred Baum production that, soon after opening in 1976, had a six-month waiting list for reservations.
        As an independent consultant, Mr. Baum developed restaurants at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, the Hallmark Cards Crown Center in Kansas City, Mo., and Place Bonaventure in Montreal.
        In 1986, he opened his own restaurant, Aurora, with Gerard Pangaud as chef. Despite earning a positive review in The Times by Bryan Miller, who praised its idiosyncratic French menu, the restaurant closed after five years.
        In the meantime, Mr. Baum had taken on the $25 million renovation of the Rainbow Room complex in Rockefeller Center, with his son Charles serving as general manager. The new Rainbow Room, with its Art Moderne touches and lush color and design treatment by Hugh Hardy, was hailed for its brilliant evocation of New York glamour, circa 1930. ''We want it unabashedly theatrical,'' Mr. Baum said in an interview. ''It will be wine, dine, dance and romance.''
        As an encore, Mr. Baum orchestrated the redesign of Windows on the World in 1996.
        ''He transformed the American restaurant industry, which was slightly seedy and tawdry,'' said John Mariani, a food critic and the author with Alex von Bidder of ''The Four Seasons: A History of America's Premier Restaurant.'' ''He saw that a restaurant could be sophisticated and refined, the equal of anything in Europe in quality, and that it could also be exciting.''
        ''He saw that the restaurant business could be sexy and glamorous, Mr. Mariani added, ''and that in fact is what it has become.''
      