
        Frank Yankovic, the hard-working singer and accordionist who was crowned the Polka King at a polka contest in Milwaukee in 1948 and was known by that title through five subsequent decades of performing and recording, died yesterday at his home in New Port Richey, Fla. He was 83.
        Although Mr. Yankovic moved to Florida in the late 1980's, the ''polka belt'' -- his hometown, Cleveland, and the mid-Atlantic and upper Midwestern states -- was his territory. Until 1994, when he retired after 65 years on the road, he played ''Champagne Taste and a Beer Bankroll,'' ''Happy Mountaineer,'' ''My Wife's Chirping Voice Polka,'' and ''In Heaven There Is No Beer'' in up to 300 shows a year.
        The modern polka evolved from a Bohemian dance dating from the 1830's. After the great wave of Polish immigration to the United States in the early 20th century, different styles of the two-beat dance music emerged: mainly the East Coast, Chicago and Cleveland-Slovenian.
        Mr. Yankovic became the premier figure in the Slovenian style, and though he still played songs derived from traditional Eastern European folk melodies, he updated the oompah, shedding the heavy brass that defined older polka bands in favor of a banjo, a saxophone and an electric organ.
        Mr. Yankovic's parents were Slovenians who had come to the United States in 1903 and met in a lumber camp in Davis, W.Va. Mr. Yankovic was born in Davis, but when his father ran afoul of the local authorities with his bootlegging business, the family relocated to the Slovenian-Italian section of Cleveland called Collinwood, where Mr. Yankovic stayed through his young adult life.
        Impressed by the accordion playing of one of his father's boarders, Mr. Yankovic took lessons from him starting at age 9. Within a few years he had mastered the button accordion and started supplementing the family income with his playing. His exposure on a local Slovenian radio program led to greater renown, and his band, the Slovenian Folk Orchestra, cut two records that became local hits.
        After serving in World War II, in which he fought in the Battle of the Bulge, Frank Yankovic and his band, the Yanks, did ''Just Because'' for Columbia Records, a song previously recorded by the Texas hillbilly Shelton Brothers.
        Since the war, polka and country music have shared audiences as the twin musics of America's working-class steel country; in later years Mr. Yankovic would record with Chet Atkins, Riders in the Sky and Cowboy Jack Clement.
        ''Just Because'' was a crossover hit, and the first polka record to sell more than a million copies. The following year Mr. Yankovic had almost as great a success with ''Blue Skirt Waltz.'' It was a time of obsession with ethnic music in the United States, especially Spanish and Cuban, but even Mr. Yankovic was mainstreamed: he went to Hollywood, where he filmed movie shorts, played at the Aragon Ballroom and made records backing artists like Doris Day.
        ''I want to see how far the polka really can go,'' he told Time magazine in 1950. ''There's no reason why polkas shouldn't be just as popular as rumbas.''
        In the early 1960's Mr. Yankovic found his greatest sideman, the accordionist Joey Miskulin, who would serve the five-man band both as accordionist (while Mr. Yankovic sang) and record producer to the end. In recent years Mr. Yankovic made novelty records with the parodist ''Weird Al'' Yankovic, whom he believed may have been a distant relative, the author and singer Kinky Friedman and the actor Drew Carey. In 1986, the first year the polka became a category, he won a Grammy Award; since then he has been nominated for three more.
        Mr. Yankovic's retirement was widely reported in 1994, but this was to be a repeated announcement, each one with a party to celebrate it. His  last performance was 15 months ago in Ohio.
        Mr. Yankovic is survived by his wife, Ida, of New Port Richey, Fla., and nine children: Linda Takita of Pleasanton, Calif.; Frank Jr., of Mayfield Heights, Ohio; Richard, of Maui, Hawaii; Andrea McKinnie of Avon Lake, Ohio; Gerald, of Alaska; Mark and Robert, both of Cleveland, and Teresa and Tricia, both of Ohio.
      