
        Dr. Samuel J. Messick, a leader in educational testing who argued for restraint in the use of student test scores, died on Oct. 6 at the University of Pennsylvania Medical Center in Philadelphia. He was 67 and lived in Pennington, N.J.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, family members said.
        Dr. Messick, who spent his career with the Educational Testing Service in Princeton, N.J., retired as a vice president and assumed the position, created for him, of distinguished research scientist.
        ''He was in the forefront of the mathematics and statistics of psychometrics,'' said Dr. Henry Chauncey, who became the first president of the testing service in 1947. ''But he also knew how the educational system worked, its values, and what impact testing could have on schools and colleges.''
        Dr. Messick's research helped shape the S.A.T., a crucial part of college admissions, which the testing service creates and administers for the College Board. But he cautioned that the scores should be kept in perspective.
        When the National Collegiate Athletic Association wanted to use test scores to set an absolute cutoff for playing sports, Dr. Messick resisted, arguing for use of scores only with other indicators.
        Dr. Messick wrote 20 books and 175 scholarly articles, many arguing that testing should never be used to discriminate against children from disadvantaged backgrounds, who tend to score below more affluent counterparts on standardized tests.
        Samuel James Messick grew up in Philadelphia, the son of a police officer who died when Samuel was a child. He studied psychology at the University of Pennsylvania. After graduating with a B.A. in 1950, he went on to study at Princeton and became a fellow at the testing service. After he received his M.A. and Ph.D. at Princeton, he joined the staff of the testing service.
        Survivors include his wife of 46 years, Betty Messick; two sons, Jonathan of Long Branch, N.J., and Christopher of Ewing Township, N.J.; two daughters, Marjorie Hurley of Blue Bell, Pa., and Kathy Mora of Ewing Township, N.J., and six grandchildren.
      