
        Roger Vivier, a leading shoe designer whose innovations in heel and toe shapes changed the silhouette of women's shoes, died on Friday at his home in Toulouse, France. He was 90.
        Mr. Vivier created shoes for a number of the major French couture designers, including Christian Dior, Yves Saint Laurent, Cristobal Balenciaga, Emanuel Ungaro, Alix Gres, Andre Courreges and Nina Ricci.
        Scores of illustrious women were devotees, among them Princess Grace, Princess Margaret, Marella Agnelli, Elsa Martinelli, Elizabeth Taylor, Josephine Baker and several members of the Rothschild family.
        He designed the gold kidskin sandals worn by Queen Elizabeth at her coronation and, for the Duchess of Windsor, ''Black Magic,'' an understated black velvet and satin evening slipper with a diamante buckle.
        Many Vivier designs were extravagantly decorated, in kingfisher feathers, seed pearls, rock crystal and coral. But no matter how lavish the material, the design itself was almost always simple and sleek.  Heels were often the focal point of his designs. Some of the most notable were the ''comma,'' in curved steel, developed with aeronautical engineers, and the ''ball of diamonds,'' created for Marlene Dietrich's stage engagements.
        In 1954, he introduced the stiletto heel, a towering sliver more than three inches high. The ''choc,'' a high heel that curved inward toward the toe, was introduced in 1959.
        Mr. Vivier was associated with Christian Dior from 1953 through 1963, and in 1955 the two introduced ''Christian Dior created by Roger Vivier,'' the first ready-to-wear designer label shoes. After Mr. Dior's death in 1957, Mr. Vivier began a long collaboration with Mr. Saint Laurent; in 1965, he created for Mr. Saint Laurent the era's status shoe, a pilgrim-buckle pump, with a square heel and a gold metal buckle.
        Mr. Vivier began designing shoes in Paris in the 1930's, in a little workshop on the Place Vendome, then relatively inexpensive. He had studied sculpture at the Ecole des Beaux-Arts and then served an apprenticeship at a shoe factory owned by a relative.
        Elsa Schiaparelli was the first couturier to recognize the unique Vivier talent and in 1937 commissioned him to design shoes for her collection. He came to the United States in the late 30's and soon entered into an association with Herman Delman, the American designer.
        Their relationship continued until 1955, and was renewed for a short period between 1992 and 1994 when Vivier shoes for Delman were sold at prestigious stores, including Bergdorf Goodman and Neiman Marcus.
        Mr. Vivier was also involved in the retail business at various times. His first shop opened in Paris in 1937, the same year his designs for Schiaparelli gave him international exposure.
        He opened a salon across from Mr. Dior in 1963, managed by his collaborator, the late Michel Brodsky, where a two-hour fitting for one pair of shoes was not unusual. Ms. Dietrich, who lived nearby, was reported to visit the shop almost every day.
        The boutique continued until the mid-70's, when Mr. Vivier moved to a castle in the Dordogne region of France and designed shoes for the Japanese market. Another boutique opened on Madison Avenue in the 80's and a shop in Paris in the mid-90's.
        Mr. Vivier continued working at his craft until his death. Although there was almost a decade when the Vivier name faded from the forefront of fashion, a new generation of admirers emerged in 1985, when an exhibition of his work was held in New York.
        There are collections of his shoes in the Costume Institute of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and in both the Musee de la Mode et du Costume and the Musee des Arts de la Mode in Paris.
        He is survived by his companion, Gerard Benoit-Vivier of Airoux, France, whom he adopted.
      