
        Karl E. Prindle, an industrial chemist who helped transform cellophane into a mass-market wrapping, then devised a way for the masses to unwrap it without breaking their fingernails, died on Oct. 13 at a hospital in Willoughby, Ohio.
        He was 95 and was recalled as an inventor of both moisture-proof cellophane and the zip-tape strip used to open billions of cellophane-wrapped cigarette and chewing gum packages and other tightly sealed products.
        In a career in which he was always looking for an encore, Mr. Prindle made his most significant contribution to commercial science as a 24-year-old research assistant for the old DuPont Cellophane Company, which was based in Buffalo.
        Never mind that what people still persist in calling cellophane is rarely anything of the biodegradable, cellulose sort, but a petroleum-based product known as polypropylene.
        For the better part of half a century, cellophane was among the most ubiquitous and profitable products. But until Mr. Prindle came along, it was known primarily as an attractive, elegant and highly expensive wrapping for high-ticket items like perfumes. Because it was porous, it was unsuitable for wrapping cigarettes, candy and other products that required protection from moisture.
        By helping to develop a complex, four-component coating that increased cellophane's moisture resistance, Mr. Prindle helped lay the groundwork for a commercial bonanza that gave DuPont a virtual monopoly on a product that was not its own.
        Considering its long and close identification with E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, it is easy to forget that unlike, say, nylon, and other signature products, cellophane was not a DuPont invention.
        Indeed it had been developed in France in the early 1900's as the accidental discovery of a Swiss scientist looking for a coating to protect restaurant tablecloths from wine stains.
        By the time DuPont secured an American license to make cellophane in 1923, it seemed to have little mass-market potential.
        That is where Mr. Prindle came in. A native of Charlotte (pronounced shar-LOT), Vt., whose father operated a lumberyard and whose mother sold insurance to put her two children through college, Mr. Prindle joined DuPont soon after he graduated from Oberlin College in 1925.
        Within a year he had helped develop a moisture-proof version of cellophane that not only all but displaced the original, but gave DuPont a lucrative, second-generation patent that allowed it to dominate the cellophane market.
        Mr. Prindle was given full credit for the invention and had his name on the patent, along with that of his young boss, William Hale Charch. But it was DuPont, which had spent $15,000 on the research, including Mr. Prindle's salary, that reaped the millions in profits.
        Mr. Charch, who died in 1958, went on to a legendary career as a DuPont research chief. Mr. Prindle went on to another company and another cellophane milestone.
        Joining the old Dobeckmum Company, which was based in Cleveland, in 1932, Mr. Prindle turned his attention to another cellophane problem: the difficulty of opening anything sealed in it.
        While his invention will seem rather more crucial to anyone who has tried, say, to open the wrong end of a pack of cigarettes, his solution was as simple as it was ingenious: he put a stickum on a thin strip of cellophane and adhered it to the inside of the cellophane wrapper with a protruding tab that could be pulled to cut cleanly through the wrapper.
        It took some doing to get the stickum just right, but Mr. Prindle was a perfectionist if nothing else, and it is a tribute to his ingenuity that similar strips are still used on packages made of polypropylene.
        During his years with Dobeckmun, which was bought by the Dow Chemical Company in 1957, Mr. Prindle developed Lurex, a synthetic metallic thread widely used to give fashions affordable glitter, and scores of other products, but none that quite rivaled cellophane.
        He may not have shared in the millions his inventions made for their corporate owners, but Mr. Prindle managed to do quite well for himself. After his retirement in 1968 he concentrated on his hobby, investing, and made millions in the stock market.
        Mr. Prindle's wife Mary, to whom he was married for 66 years, is deceased. He is survived by two daughters, Janet of Manhattan and Anne Johnson of Dayton; a sister, Eleanor Benning of Charlotte; three grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
        He had the satisfaction of outliving his own product. The last American manufacturer of cellophane went bankrupt last year, and cellophane is no longer made in the United States.
      