
        Jerome Weidman, the prolific and popular novelist who wrote ''I Can Get It for You Wholesale'' and also won a Pulitzer Prize as the author (with George Abbott) of the Broadway musical ''Fiorello!,'' died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 85.
        In his two prosperous careers as novelist and playwright, Mr. Weidman often wrote about the rough underside of business and politics -- and daily life -- in New York, the city in which he was born. His first novel, ''I Can Get It for You Wholesale,'' published in 1937 when he was 24, teemed with the life in Manhattan's garment center, telling about the rise of the ragingly ambitious Harry Bogen. Along with the title character in Budd Schulberg's ''What Makes Sammy Run?,'' Harry became an archetypal figure in American literature: the abrasive young man who would do anything to get ahead.
        Mr. Weidman wrote 22 novels, many volumes of short stories, several plays and screenplays and, in 1986, a memoir, ''Praying for Rain.''
        ''Wholesale'' was a striking debut. The reviewer in The New York Times said that the author ''knows his subject about as well as Ernest Hemingway knew the Paris cafes, James M. Cain the postman who always rang twice, John O'Hara the life and death of Julian English.''
        The novel made his reputation and became his longest running success. Transformed into a Broadway musical in 1962 (with a score by Harold Rome), it starred Elliott Gould as Harry Bogen, and was the show in which Barbra Streisand made her Broadway debut (as the secretary Miss Marmelstein). ''Wholesale'' was also the source of a 1951 movie, which retained very little of the book except for its title and gave Susan Hayward the central role as a female version of Harry Bogen. The book was followed by an equally hard-driving sequel, ''What's In It for Me?''
        The musical ''Wholesale'' came after ''Fiorello!'' and ''Tenderloin,'' both with book by Mr. Weidman and score by Jerry Bock and Sheldon Harnick. In addition to winning the Pulitzer Prize, ''Fiorello!'' -- a musical about Mayor La Guardia of New York -- won a New York Drama Critics Circle award as best musical of the 1959-60 season and tied with ''The Sound of Music'' for a Tony award that season.
        Mr. Weidman's first novel became the hallmark of his career, and also a subject of controversy. There were those like Meyer Levin who thought of him, along with Mr. Schulberg, as examples of ''the self-hating period in writing,'' as novelists who wrote too negatively about their Jewish backgrounds.
        ''The novelist is not a propagandist,'' said Mr. Weidman in an interview in 1978 with Richard F. Shepard in The Times. ''I have lived all my life with Jewish people, and I have to paint them, warts and all. My beat is the beat that Sinclair Lewis took, life in America.'' He added: ''I admit that some of the people I write about are not of the most estimable character. I am never apologetic about it.'' His was an insider's report on life as he saw it. Mr. Weidman said that Hemingway thought of him as the American Balzac, and wrote, in a letter, ''Don't let them get you down, kid, because I think you can write  just a little better than anybody else that's around.''
        For the next five decades, Mr. Weidman continued to write his novels and stories. Though his literary reputation wavered, and some critics felt that he had written his best work at the beginning of his career, he retained his audience. Many of his books were best sellers. The author responded philosophically to adverse criticism. Commenting on ''the number of geniuses that flared and faded'' in his time, he was proud of his ability to survive as a writer and to be continually productive.
        His claim was more that of an entertainer and an artisan. As he said: ''I know how to handle my bag of tools. I can write a story about anything under the sun.'' To some, his stories, along with ''Wholesale,'' were at the core of his career. Reviewing one collection, a Times critic wrote of the book's ''savage brilliance'' and called it a ''splendid exhibition of Mr. Weidman's work.''
        The fiction was often drawn from the life of the author. Before he wrote ''Wholesale,'' he worked in the garment district, and ''The Enemy Camp,'' which was about anti-Semitism in suburbia, paralleled his own life, as a New York Jew who moved with his family to Connecticut.
        Reviewing ''Before You Go'' in The Times in 1960, Charles Poore said this novel about World War II was ''bound to be one of the outstanding successes of the year,'' and added that it was ''about passion, ambition, heartbreak and revenge'' and ''traces the rise in New York's mean streets to glamorous toughness on the world's high, mysterious peaks of decision.'' Except for the mysterious peaks, something like this could have been said about many other Weidman novels.
        Mr. Weidman was born on April 14, 1913, on the Lower East Side, a son of immigrant parents. After he graduated from De Witt Clinton High School, he moved with his family to the Bronx and took a job as an office boy in the garment district, where he immediately began gathering material. Later he studied at City College of New York. At 17, he sold his first story, to the American Spectator. He soon had stories in Story, The American Mercury and The New Yorker, where 23 of his stories appeared between 1936 and 1946.
        While studying at New York University Law School, Mr. Weidman wrote his first novel, which he called ''Ten O'Clock Scholar.'' After many rejections, it was published as ''I Can Get It for You Wholesale.'' Mr. Weidman quickly followed it with its sequel. In 1939, Alfred Kazin reviewed Mr. Weidman's first collection of stories in The Times, calling the book ''a snarling, joyous, rambunctious carload of sound effects in the best Seventh Avenue New Yorkese.''  Among Mr. Weidman's other novels were ''The Third Angel,'' ''The Enemy Camp,'' ''Before You Go,'' ''The Sound of Bow Bells,'' ''Other People's Money,'' ''The Temple,'' ''A Family Fortune'' and ''Counselors-at-Law.''
        The prize-winning ''Fiorello!'' added a new dimension to his career. In addition to ''Tenderloin'' and ''Wholesale,'' he wrote the book for Duke Ellington's ''Pousse-Cafe'' and a Broadway comedy, ''The Mother Lover.''
        Mr. Weidman is survived by his wife, Peggy, of Manhattan; two sons, John of Manhattan, and Jeffrey of Kansas City, Mo., and two grandchildren. John Weidman is the author of the books for two Stephen Sondheim musicals, ''Pacific Overtures'' and ''Assassins.''
        In his memoir, Mr. Weidman looked back on his beginnings as a New Yorker and as a writer: ''Living as part of the sweaty traffic of New York's East River docks in the early part of this century was for me a time of excitement I did not think about, much less understand.'' It was not until he read Mark Twain that he realized he could be a writer. As he said: ''Life for me on East Fourth Street when I was a boy was not unlike what life on the banks of the Mississippi had been for young Sam Clemens of Hannibal, Mo. Guileless, untrained and unself-conscious, I put the stories down on paper the way I learned to walk.'' Soon he was running.
      