
        Louis L. Redding, Delaware's first black lawyer, who argued one of the cases that led to the Supreme Court's landmark 1954 decision that resulted in the desegregation of the nation's public schools, died on Monday at a hospital in Lima, Pa. He was 96 and lived in Glen Mills, Pa.
        The Supreme Court's ruling in Brown v. Board of Education affirmed that segregation in public schools was unconstitutional. At the time of the ruling, four other cases had been made part of the Brown case, including one in which Mr. Redding argued for school integration in Delaware.
        Mr. Redding, Delaware's only black lawyer for two decades, was prominent in the struggle for desegregation there, in fields including housing. He was a longtime local counsel for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in Delaware. He worked for the Public Defender's Office in Wilmington, Del., from 1965 to 1984 and then retired from the law.
        Born in Alexandria, Va., Mr. Redding was reared in Wilmington. He received a bachelor's degree in 1923 from Brown University and a law degree in 1928 from Harvard. He became the first black to be admitted to the Delaware bar and began practicing law in the state in 1929.
        In his book ''Simple Justice: The History of Brown v. Board of Education and Black America's Struggle for Equality'' (Random House, 1976), Richard Kluger described Mr. Redding as a ''man of great dignity and elocution that would be well regarded in Buckingham Palace'' who ''fought, largely alone, for the civil rights and liberties of black Delawareans.''
        Jack Greenberg, who worked with Mr. Redding as a lawyer for the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund on civil rights cases in Delaware, said, ''His father was a mailman, and he came back to Delaware because his father thought there should be a black lawyer in Delaware.''
        Professor Greenberg, who now teaches civil rights law at Columbia Law School, first met Mr. Redding several years before the Brown ruling. At that time, Professor Greenberg recalled yesterday, ''He was one of a very small group of black lawyers in the country who were handling civil rights cases.''
        Mr. Redding and Professor Greenberg worked together in the years preceding the Brown ruling on a civil rights case involving the University of Delaware, which did not admit blacks, and on another one that became part of the Brown case.
        The University of Delaware case began in 1949 and involved black students from Delaware State College who had been refused admission to the university. As Mr. Kluger wrote, Professor Greenberg and Mr. Redding ''put together an overwhelming case on the comparative merits of the white university and the Delaware State College for Negroes.'' The university lost the case in 1950 and was desegregated by court order.
        Professor Greenberg went on to work with Mr. Redding on a suit filed in 1951 on behalf of black schoolchildren in Delaware who had not been permitted to enroll in white public schools in the state.
        A court ruled in favor of the black schoolchildren in 1952, but the State of Delaware appealed that ruling and the case went on to become part of the Brown case before the High Court. The Delaware case was the last of the five school cases heard by the Court, and Mr. Redding and Professor Greenberg, as Mr. Kluger put it, ''held that the temporary relief granted to the clients by the courts below was not sufficient and that the state ought to be permanently enjoined from segregating its students.''
        Mr. Redding's brother Saunders Redding, an author and Cornell professor, died in 1988.
        Louis Redding's first marriage, to Ruth Albert Cook Redding, ended in divorce. His second wife, the former Gwendolyn Carmen Kiah, died in June.
        Mr. Redding is survived by three daughters, Ann Holmes Redding of Atlanta, Rupa Cook Redding-Lallinger of Chapel Hill, N.C., and Judith Boardman Redding of Aberdeen, Md., and five grandchildren.
      