
        John Didcott, a South African judge known for his firm support of  human rights during 23 years on the bench in and after the apartheid era,  died last Tuesday at his home in Durban, South Africa. He was 67.
        The cause was leukemia, said his wife, Pam.
        ''Farewell, Grand Master of Justice'' was the headline in Sunday's issue of The Sunday Times, a national South African weekly newspaper, which said: ''Judge Didcott became a human rights legend. During the worst years of apartheid, his scathing attacks on the unjust policies of the Government'' of that day ''were pored over with delight by opponents of those policies.''
        At his death Judge Didcott was a member of his country's four-year-old Constitutional Court. He was named to it by the post-apartheid Government in 1994, when the court was established as part of the post-apartheid legal system that was set out in the interim Constitution of 1993. He was on sick leave and sat on the court for only a few weeks this year, his wife said.
        During the apartheid era, Judge Didcott was a judge on the Supreme Court of Natal, a province in east South Africa that includes Durban.
        Prof. Jack Greenberg of Columbia Law School, an authority on civil rights law, said yesterday: ''Under apartheid, South Africa had a peculiar legal system in that there was a small handful of judges, maybe six or eight in the whole country, who interpreted the law in a humane fashion and whenever possible made an effort to interpret it so that it was not discriminatory or harsh toward the black population. Judge Didcott was one of that small number of judges.''
        Professor Greenberg, an old friend of the judge, recalled that in those days: ''He was the one judge who never sentenced anybody to death. When I asked him how he could maintain that record, he said he always found a reason. I said, 'What if you weren't able to find a reason?' and he said, 'Then I'd resign.' ''
        ''The fact that he was selected for the Constitutional Court having been a judge under apartheid,'' Professor Greenberg said, indicates that the African National Congress, which is now South Africa's ruling party, and Nelson Mandela, the post-apartheid President, ''recognized him as a beneficient and humane judge who did all he could do under the circumstances'' during apartheid.
        The Constitutional Court is South Africa's highest court, and its jurisdiction is limited to constitutional cases, roughly the same role as the United States Supreme Court.
        While Judge Didcott was on the Natal court he concluded that defendants in south African courts were entitled to counsel -- which they had not been under the apartheid system. Then, after apartheid's downfall, his view concerning right to counsel was vindicated when it was incorporated into the interim Constitution and into South Africa's permanent Constitution, which is now in force.
        John Mowbray Didcott was born in Durban and went on to receive a bachelor's degree in 1951 and his law degree in 1953, both from the University of Cape Town.
        He was president of the National Union of South African Students in 1955 and 1956 and became a much sought-after commercial lawyer in Durban before he was invited to become a judge in 1975. He was a visiting scholar at Columbia for a year in the mid-1980's.
        Besides his wife of 40 years, the former Pam Brokensha, his survivors include two daughters, Sally Goldman of Durban and Corin Didcott of Johannesburg; four grandchildren, and his mother, Flo Didcott of Durban.
      