
        Gary Thomas Rowe Jr., 64, a controversial F.B.I. informer who infiltrated the Ku Klux Klan during the civil rights struggles of the 1960's, died of a heart attack four months ago in Savannah, Ga. He was buried under the name of Thomas Neal Moore, the identity that Federal authorities helped him to assume in 1965 after he testified against fellow Klansmen who were accused of killing Viola Gregg Liuzzo, a civil rights volunteer.
        Mr. Rowe's death became known last week when a television crew shooting footage for a program about the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Ku Klux Klan searched for Mr. Rowe in Savannah, only to learn that he had died on May 25. Eugene Brooks, who had been Mr. Rowe's lawyer, confirmed the death.
        Mr. Brooks said Mr. Rowe had settled in Savannah, his home town, under the Federal witness protection program. The lawyer said Mr. Rowe had worked for a private security company but died bankrupt. Mr. Rowe had long been divorced, the lawyer said, and left five children whose names were not released ''for obvious reasons.''
        As an informer and a trial witness, Mr. Rowe provided information that led to the conviction of three Klansmen for the Liuzzo killing. But for the next 18 years, he remained a figure of recurring controversy, accused of, and at times admitting to, planning and participating in the violence he was reporting to the F.B.I.
        In 1975, wearing a bizarre cotton hood that resembled a Klan headpiece without the point, he told a Senate committee that the F.B.I. had known of and condoned his participation in violence against black people and had ordered him to sow dissent within the Klan by having sexual relations members' wives.
        He admitted to taking part in a baseball bat assault on Freedom Riders in Birmingham in 1961 and told the Alabama police that he had fatally shot a black man, never named, in a riot in 1963 and that Federal authorities knew about these incidents. As late as 1983, Mrs. Liuzzo's children brought an unsuccessful $2 million suit against the F.B.I., charging that through its negligence in recruiting, training and controlling Mr. Rowe, it bore responsibility for the killing.
        As Mr. Rowe made his often boastful disclosures, figures inside and outside Government debated the proper use of informers; some demanded greater oversight and others contended that good intelligence could not be obtained if infiltrators had to act like angels or Boy Scouts.
        David Garrow, a historian of the civil rights period, learned of Mr. Rowe's death from the television crew when it interviewed him for the program. He passed the information on to The New York Times. Mr. Rowe's story raised three sets of questions, he told The Times. ''The first was to what extent did Rowe like to behave like a thug irrespective of who he was working for? Then there was the question of how much did he or did he not tell the F.B.I., and then, after he went public as an informer, how much did Klansmen and their sympathizers try to offload every unsolved Klan crime on his shoulders?''
        Mr. Rowe's name first appeared in public after the killing of Mrs. Liuzzo, a 39-year-old wife of a Detroit teamsters official and mother of four, who had come to Alabama to help in the Selma-to-Montgomery civil rights march in the spring of 1965. On March 25, the day after the procession, as she drove a young black volunteer home, she was shot to death on a desolate stretch of road.
        The next day, President Lyndon B. Johnson declared war on the Ku Klux Klan in an address to the nation and named Mr. Rowe as one of four Klansmen who had been arrested by the F.B.I. in the shooting.
        The arrest of the four suspects within 12 hours of the crime suggested that the F.B.I. had inside sources, and when Mr. Rowe was the only one of the four not indicted, he stood revealed as the informer.
        In his autobiography, ''My Undercover Years With the Ku Klux Klan,'' published in 1976 by Bantam, Mr. Rowe wrote that an F.B.I. agent urged him to join the Ku Klux Klan in 1960 and report on its activities. He became a member of the Klan's Eastview 13 Klavern. F.B.I. records show that he received $20 to $300 a month from the bureau.
        In 1965, Mr. Rowe testified in three trials that he had been with the three accused men when they followed and overtook Mrs. Liuzzo's car. When the others fired at her, he said, he pretended to shoot. Despite his testimony and ballistics evidence linking the fatal bullet to a weapon taken from a defendant, the first trial on murder charges in an Alabama court in Lowndes County ended in a hung jury. The second ended in acquittal.
        The third trial, in December, was a Federal civil rights case based on an 1870 law. The three defendants were found guilty, each receiving the maximum penalty of 10 years in prison.
        Afterward Mr. Rowe vanished into the Federal witness protection program, presumably becoming Thomas Moore. Then in 1975 he emerged, masked in his hood, as a witness before the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. He said that in 1961 he had given the F.B.I. advance warning of an attack in which he and other Klansmen participated, beating Freedom Riders with baseball bats, chains and pistols at the Birmingham bus station. He said that the Klansmen had been promised 15 minutes of free rein by the Birmingham police and that he had advised his F.B.I. contacts of this three weeks in advance. He added that when he asked his bureau contacts after the attack why nothing had been done, he said he was told: ''Who were we going to report it to? The Police Department was involved.''
        He also testified that the F.B.I. had told him to cause dissension in the Klan. ''I was told to sleep with as many wives as I could, to break up marriages,'' he said.
        In 1978, two sets of merging developments brought Mr. Rowe back into the news. The first involved a series of civil actions brought by the Liuzzo children and by several former Freedom Riders who had been injured in the Birmingham attack. They essentially charged the F.B.I. with negligence and failure to protect the rights workers. The second development was a series of accusations by Alabama investigators relying on former Klansmen. Mr. Rowe was indicted in 1978 on murder charges for having shot Mrs. Liuzzo, on the basis of evidence offered by the men he had helped convict in the Federal case 13 years before.
        Attempts to extradite Mr. Rowe were blocked, and other efforts by Alabama to prosecute Mr. Rowe were rejected by a Federal judge who ruled that the prosecution was based on highly prejudiced evidence. Earlier Alabama investigators had revealed that they suspected Mr. Rowe of involvement in the 1963 bombing attack on the East 16th Street Baptist Church in which four girls were killed.
        In 1980 the Justice Department compiled a 302-page report on accusations involving Mr. Rowe and concluded that the F.B.I. agents knew about and apparently covered up his participation in nonfatal attacks on blacks. But it said there was no evidence in F.B.I. files to support accusations that Mr. Rowe had failed lie detector examinations in which he had denied knowledge of the bombing. Robert E. Chambliss, who in 1977 was convicted of the bombing, had been Mr. Rowe's superior in the Eastview 13 Klavern.
        In the 1983 negligence suit filed against the F.B.I. by Mrs. Liuzzo's children, Judge Charles Joiner, a Federal judge in Mrs. Liuzzo's home state of Michigan, ruled that no negligence had been proved.
        In another case in 1983, however, Judge Charles E. Stewart Jr. of Federal District Court in Manhattan ordered the Government to pay $25,000 to James Peck, one of the Freedom Riders who had been badly beaten in Birmingham.
        In his autobiography Mr. Rowe portrayed himself as a man eager to help the F.B.I. fight the Klan.
        Near the end of the book, he said: ''While my ghost was writing the story, an editor remarked that it would make a good book if I 'could demonstrate a complete change of opinion and become a civil rights advocate.' Maybe so but I prefer to let the facts speak for themselves.''  Although he thought black people should be treated fairly, he added, he did not approve of ''integrating schools or churches or neighborhoods or interracial marriage.''
      