
        Marius Goring, a British actor who played Shakespearean villains and Nazi officers and stole Moira Shearer's heart in the classic ballet film, ''The Red Shoes,'' died on Wednesday at his home in the West Sussex county of England. He was 86 and had cancer, the BBC reported.
        Although long known for his classical roles, Mr. Goring achieved his greatest popular success in the 1960's and 70's as the star of the BBC series ''The Expert,'' in which he played a flamboyantly red-bearded forensic scientist who hunted criminals with a microscope.
        Earlier he starred in another British television series as the Scarlet Pimpernel.
        He appeared in so many World War II movies that he claimed to have played every rank in the German Army from private to field marshal. The mostly forgettable films included ''U-Boat 29'' (1939) with Conrad Veidt; ''Pastor Hall'' (1940), based on the story of the anti-Nazi minister, the Rev. Martin Niemoeller; ''Odette'' (1950) with Anna Neagle, Trevor Howard and Peter Ustinov; ''Circle of Danger'' (1951) with Ray Milland; ''So Little Time'' (1952) with Maria Schell, and ''Night Ambush'' (1957) with Dirk Bogarde.
        In 1954 he joined the all-star cast of Ava Gardner, Humphrey Bogart, Rossano Brazzi and Edmond O'Brien in ''The Barefoot Contessa,'' in which he played a South American wastrel.
        His cinematic peak may have come in 1948 with ''The Red Shoes,'' the British retelling of a Hans Christian Andersen fable still widely regarded as the greatest dance movie ever made. An early Technicolor feature, the film cast Mr. Goring as Julian Craster, the young composer who presents a romantic distraction to the dance-bewitched ballerina.
        His next starring role came in another British film, ''Mr. Perrin and Mr. Traill,'' in which he played a foolish mathematics professor laid low by love.
        His notable stage roles included Richard III in 1958 and Angelo in ''Measure for Measure,'' with the Royal Shakespeare Theater in Stratford-on-Avon in 1962.
        Mr. Goring was born on the Isle of Wight in 1912. His mother was a pianist and his father a doctor and criminologist.
        He attended universities in Europe and studied theater at the Old Vic dramatic school.
        During World War II he made British propaganda broadcasts to Germany and provided the voice of Hitler in an anti-Nazi radio serial, ''The Shadow of the Swastika.''
        A founding member of the actors' union, Equity, he long opposed efforts to involve it in political causes, whether miners' strikes, the troubles in Northern Ireland or South African apartheid.
        He is survived by his third wife, the former Prudence FitzGerald.
      