
        Dick Higgins, a writer, poet, artist, composer and publisher who was a seminal figure in Happenings and the concrete poetry movement and a co-founder of the anti-authoritarian Fluxus movement in the early 1960's, died on Sunday while visiting Quebec City. He was 60 and lived in New York City and in Barrytown, N.Y.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, his family said. He was staying at a private home in Quebec City while attending a colloquium on ''Art Action, 1958-1998'' at a performance space named Le Lieu.
        Mr. Higgins, who invented the term ''intermedia,'' had a long list of achievements, most of which he enumerated in a carefully maintained curriculum vitae that ran to 47 pages. Its table of contents listed such headings as Visual Art, Movies and Videotapes, Music and Sound Art  and ''Selected Discussions of Dick Higgins,'' one category of which was ''articles, or interesting reviews.''
        The bibliography reflected a polymorphic involvement with language, literature and books. It included books of theoretical essays, plays, poems, word scores, musical scores, graphic music notions and performance piece instructions. Titles could be strange: ''foew&ombwhnw,'' a 1969 book of essays, is an acronym for ''freaked out electronic wizard and other marvelous bartenders who have no wings.''
        This volume was a characteristic combination of the traditional and the iconoclastic: while its pages featured columns of word scores, visual poetry and essays that ran vertically from spread to spread, the volume was bound like a prayer book, in leather, with a ribbon bookmark.
        Most of Mr. Higgins's books were published by companies that he founded, funded and ran himself, the best known being Something Else Press. During its brief life span (1964-1975) it published books and pamphlets by avant-garde writers and artists of several generations, including Gertrude Stein, Richard Hulsenbeck, Merce Cunningham, John Cage, Emmett Williams, Claes Oldenburg, the Futurist painter Luigi Russolo and the 17th-century  poet George Herbert, whose pattern poems Mr. Higgins considered a precedent for concrete poetry. As his books were extremely well made and Mr. Higgins was prone to order reprintings on the slightest excuse, many Something Else titles are still in print.
        Mr. Higgins was born in 1938 in Cambridge, England, the son of a wealthy family that owned Wooster Press Steel in Wooster, Mass. He was educated at several New England boarding schools, attended Yale University and received a bachelor's degree in English from Columbia University in 1960. He also studied at the Manhattan School of Printing, attended John Cage's influential course on music composition at the New School and studied with the avant-garde composer Henry Cowell.
        By the late 1950's, Mr. Higgins was working for a book manufacturer while immersing himself in the flourishing New York art scene, where the increasing dissolution of boundaries between traditional art media fit his sensibility. He was interested in anything that was new and within a short time seemed to know nearly everyone moving in that direction. With Allan Kaprow and others he planned and performed in the first Happenings. With George Macunius, he established the loosely knit group known as Fluxus, which accepted any activity as art and played fast and loose with definitions.
        Thus Mr. Higgins's musical composition ''Dangerous Music No. 17'' of 1963 consisted of Mr. Higgins's wife, the poet Alison Knowles, shaving his head. ''Dangerous Music No. 2,'' which Mr. Higgins had performed on Sunday at the colloquium in Quebec City, involved screaming as loudly as possible for as long as possible.
        In 1966, Mr. Higgins's essay ''Intermedia'' -- published in the first issue of the Something Else Newsletter -- drew on his experiences with Happenings, Fluxus, concrete poetry and performance art. It formulated the concept of works of art that combined different forms -- film and dance, painting and sculpture -- that are today often referred to as multimedia installation art.
        In addition to Ms. Knowles, whom he married in 1960, divorced in 1970 and remarried in 1984, Mr. Higgins is survived by their twin daughters, Hannah, of Chicago and Jessica, of New York; a sister, Lisa Null of Washington; a granddaughter, and his stepfather, Nicholas Doman of Manhattan.
      