
        Joseph Howard Stamler, a former Newark lawyer whose decisions had a wide impact in the seven years he was a New Jersey Superior Court judge, died on Friday at his home in Stony Creek, Conn. He was 86 and a former resident of Summit, N.J.
        Judge Stamler suffered a long illness, his family said.
        He was on the bench from 1966 to 1973, carrying on after suffering two strokes in the late 1960's. While serving in the Chancery Division in Morris County, his thorough oral and written decisions took on statewide and national significance, particularly in his final years on the bench.
        He handled ''novel impression'' cases with no clear legal precedents to guide him, touching on social issues like religion in the classroom, airport noise and sex education.
        His most celebrated case involved the school board of Netcong, N.J., which had a policy providing for daily school readings of prayers published regularly in the Congressional Record, as delivered by Congressional chaplains at the start of the day.
        Attendance at these readings was voluntary, and the board said they were inspirational remarks, rather than prayer in the schools, but Judge Stamler nevertheless ordered the practice stopped in 1970.
        By discounting ''beautiful prayers'' as ''remarks,'' the board tried to ''peddle religion in a very cheap manner under an assumed name,'' he wrote, adding, ''This type of subterfuge is degrading to all religions.'' The State Supreme Court unanimously agreed, and the United States Supreme Court refused to hear the school board's ultimate appeal.
        Another Stamler opinion with national resonance came in an airport case in 1969, when he limited the hours for jet landings and takeoffs at Morristown Airport. Suit had been brought by four neighboring towns and six residents fed up with the engine noises of corporate jets at night and early in the morning.
        The judge refused to allow the National Business Aircraft Association, the Air Transport Association and 12 large carriers to intervene in the case. ''Perhaps the time has arrived,'' he wrote, ''when the giants of industry will see the wisdom of slowing the cross-country speed of their important executives, and will take a close, concerned look at the little people of this country.''
        They are the ones ''who, by their purchases, contribute to industry's growth,'' he added in an order that soon echoed in courthouses elswhere.
        He was born in Elizabeth, N.J., and graduated from Cornell University in 1933 and Harvard Law School in 1935. In World War II, as a warrant officer, he skippered an air-sea rescue craft in the North Atlantic.
        He was in private practice, taught law at Rutgers University and served on numerous legal boards. He practiced mainly in the Chancery and Federal courts and gave up a thriving 30-year-old practice when Gov. Richard J. Hughes named him to Superior Court.
        After retiring to Connecticut, Judge Stamler developed a statewide program for youthful first offenders, some still in their pre-teens, to teach them respect for the law. It let them learn by playing the roles of lawyers, judges, jurors and other court figures in moot cases.
        He also volunteered to help coordinate the state bar's court-visitation program. The bar association conducts it as part of its efforts to inform people how their judicial system works.
        He was the brother of Nelson Stamler, a ''racket-busting'' prosecutor, legislator and Union County, N.J., judge, who died in 1972.
        He is survived by his wife of 59 years, Lillian Spitzer Stamler; two sons, Joseph Jr., of Fairfield, Conn., and S. Paul, of Stony Creek, Conn., and four grandchildren.
      