
        Spottswood W. Robinson 3d, a Virginia civil rights lawyer who argued one of the five cases that led to the Supreme Court's 1954 desegregation ruling in Brown v. Board of Education, died on Sunday at his home in Richmond. He was 82.
        The cause appeared to have been a heart attack, said Mr. Robinson's only surviving son, Spottswood W. Robinson 4th.
        After the Brown case, Mr. Robinson went on to become dean of the Howard University Law School and Chief Judge of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia.
        The Supreme Court's decision in Brown v. Board of Education declared that segregation in public schools violated the Constitution. When the court handed down its decisions, the justices also ruled on four other cases, among them a Virginia case Mr. Robinson had argued challenging conditions at an all-black high school.
        Professor Jack Greenberg of Columbia Law School, an authority on civil rights law, said yesterday that Mr. Robinson, who was black, was ''one of just a very small handful of practicing lawyers who handled civil rights cases in the late '40's and early '50's in Virginia.''
        Mr. Greenberg, a former director of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, added: ''He was a curious combination of a property lawyer, who knew the ins and outs of property law, and a constitutional lawyer, who knew the great policies of the Constitution as they were expressed in 14th Amendment.
        A graduate of Howard's law school, Mr. Robinson became legal representative of the Legal Defense and Educational Fund in Virginia in 1948. Three years later, he began working on the case of a black student in Prince Edward County, in south-central Virginia, who said that the Robert R. Moton High School there, which had only black students, was inadequate.
        The lawsuit was eventually combined with the Brown case, out of Kansas, and the other cases, from South Carolina and Delaware.
        While the Virginia case was being heard in Richmond, Mr. Robinson recalled in a 1963 interview, when he wanted lunch he had to rush to a hotel for blacks 12 blocks from the courthouse.
        A black lawyer then sometimes had ''a hard time finding any place to eat,'' he said.
        When it was time for the Brown cases to be heard by the Supreme Court, recalled Professor Greenberg, who argued the Delaware case before the justices, Mr. Robinson ''got the assignment of, among other things, arguing the constitutional history of the 14th Amendment.''
        In his court appearances, Professor Greenberg said, Mr. Robinson ''was uniquely effective, in that he was just one of a couple of people doing what he was doing in Virginia'' at that time.
        Mr. Greenberg added: ''He was also an exceptionally capable lawyer. He was good with judges and juries. He knew the law. He knew some of the esoteric, technical, sort of obscure parts of legal history.''  Mr. Robinson's view was that the 14th Amendment had envisioned the establishment of complete equality for all people, regardless of race. Equality was denied to blacks, he held, as long as their children could not go to white schools.
        In Mr. Robinson's appearances before the Supreme Court, Professor Greenberg said, ''He was very calm and just absolutely brimming with facts and information and legal doctrine.''
        Mr. Robinson became a professor and then dean at Howard's law school from 1960 to 1963, and was named a judge of the United States District Court in the District of Columbia from 1964 to 1966.
        He was elevated to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia in 1966, where he became chief judge from 1981. He retired from the chief judge position when he turned 70 on 1986, and from the court in 1989.
        A lawyer's son, Mr. Robinson, who was tall, spare and mild-mannered, attended Virginia Union University in Richmond and received his law degree in 1939 from Howard, magna cum laude. He began his law career as a teacher at Howard, mainly in property law. He took a leave of absence in 1947 and did not return until he became the school's dean. In the intervening years he practiced law in Richmond, for the N.A.A.C.P. and other clients.
        Among his other civil rights cases over the years were lawsuits involving interstate bus travel, public parks and restrictive covenants.
        Over the years he practiced law in Richmond on his own, as a law-firm partner and as a general counsel in the banking industry. He was a member of the United States Commission on Civil Rights from 1961 to 1963.
        The honors he received included an honorary doctorate of laws in 1986 from New York Law School, for his efforts ''to achieve true equality under the law for all Americans'' and addressing ''the conscience of the nation.''
        In addition to his son, a Richmond resident, he is survived by his wife of 62 years, the former Marian Wilkerson; a daughter, Nina R. Govan of Greenbelt, Md.; one grandson, and a sister, Isadore Burke, of Freeport in the Bahamas.
        Mr. Greenberg recalled that among Mr. Robinson's interests besides the law was building his own boat. ''I saw it in his basement as he was building it,'' he said. ''He fitted the elements so closely that he didn't need nails or anything of that kind.'' He used the boat, built in 1953, for fishing.
      