
        Charles Clinton Killingsworth, a labor-management economist, mediator and University Professor emeritus at Michigan State University, died Oct. 16 at Sparrow Hospital in Lansing. He was 81 and lived in nearby Okemos, Mich.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Starting in 1943, Dr. Killingsworth was a mediator and arbitrator in labor-management disputes. At various times he was chosen to act as the national umpire and go-between for leading steel, rubber and airline companies on one side and their unions on the other.
        He also sat on various Presidential boards appointed to head off or settle labor confrontations in vital industries. He was a panel chairman and special hearing officer for the National War Labor Board in World War II, and returned to Government service in the early 1950's as vice chairman, later chairman, of the Federal Wage Stabilization Board.
        Dr. Killingsworth was an author of many articles on industrial relations and economics for law reviews and academic journals. He was co-author of a three-volume compendium, ''Trade Union Publications, 1852-1940'' (Johns Hopkins Press, 1944).
        His book credits include ''State Labor Relations Acts'' (University of Chicago Press, 1948) and ''Jobs and Income for Negroes'' (1968), which remains in print at the University of Michigan's Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations.
        Dr. Killingsworth was born in Webb City, Mo., and graduated from Southwest Missouri State University in 1938. He received a master's degree in science from Oklahoma State University in 1939 and a Ph.D. in economics from the University of Wisconsin in 1946.
        His first academic appointment was as an instructor in political economics at Johns Hopkins University, where he remained until 1945. He joined the faculty at Michigan State two years later, and was named a full professor and head of the department of economics in 1949.
        For a time Dr. Killingsworth also headed the university's Labor and Industrial Relations Center, which he helped establish in 1956. He was promoted to University Professor of Labor and Industrial Relations and Economics in 1960.
        Dr. Killingsworth's first wife, the former Beverly Kritzman, died in 1970 after 27 years of marriage. He is survived by his second wife of 27 years, the former Jacqueline Schrecengost; a son, Mark R., of Princeton, N.J.; a daughter, Charlotte Senour of Hermosa Beach, Calif.; two adopted daughters, Randi Tupper of Grand Rapids, Mich., and Tammy Hall of Boston, and eight grandchildren.
      