
        Clark M. Clifford, the silver-haired Brahmin of the nation's political establishment who advised Presidents across half a century of American history, died yesterday morning at the age of 91 at his home in Bethesda, Md.
        A Secretary of Defense for one President, friend and confidant of three others, Mr. Clifford frequently played the role of capital Wise Man in inner sanctum crises, helping President Harry S. Truman keep peace with labor and warning President Lyndon B. Johnson about the folly of the Vietnam War.
        With a gentle drawl and an insider's run of the halls of power, Mr. Clifford was consulted as well by Presidents John F. Kennedy and Jimmy Carter, bridging the nation's postwar political era until he ran afoul of legal troubles in high-finance brokering.
        For all the roles he played in Presidential history, Mr. Clifford faced a rigorous ordeal in his final years, insisting on his innocence to the end as he faced charges of fraud, conspiracy and taking bribes in the biggest banking scandal in history, the collapse of the Bank of Credit and Commerce International.
        It was only earlier this year that Mr. Clifford and his law partner, Robert A. Altman, reached a $5 million settlement with the Federal Reserve. Just last month, they settled the last of several civil lawsuits brought in the case.
        Mr. Altman was acquitted in 1993 in New York state court of charges of bank fraud; indictments against Mr. Clifford had been set aside because of his failing health.
        Mr. Clifford considered his role in extricating the United States from what he called that ''wretched conflict in Vietnam'' to be his finest moment; the day he was indicted and fingerprinted like a common criminal, he said, was the worst.
        Few people in Washington, let alone Clark Clifford himself, could have imagined so inglorious an end to so glorious a career. From the time in World War II when he went to Washington as a naval aide to Truman, Mr. Clifford was a highly respected lawyer and public servant about whom scarcely an unkind word was ever uttered.
        He was a symbol of elegance -- 6 feet 2 inches tall, trim, wavy-haired, his French cuffs always a precise half-inch longer than the sleeves of his impeccably tailored double-breasted suits.
        There were a few who saw in him a little too much smoothness, a touch of the riverboat gambler, perhaps. But to most people who knew Mr. Clifford, he was a symbol of probity, even a legend in his own time. Except for Spiro Agnew and a lone article in Ramparts magazine, nobody had a bad word to say about him in public, at least not until the B.C.C.I. scandal.
        Whether in the White House or in his law offices across the street from the White House, Mr. Clifford was the man politicians and business leaders turned to for advice.  Johnson, beleaguered by the Vietnam War, asked him to be his Secretary of Defense, and President Carter called on him to be a White House adviser. Kennedy asked him for legal help and put him at the head of his transition team, and Truman appointed him special counsel.
        Few people in Government were as familiar with as many of the nation's problems as Clark Clifford. He helped articulate the policies for the reconstruction of Europe after World War II. He wrote the basic legislation establishing the Central Intelligence Agency and the Defense Department. On the domestic front, he wrote some of Truman's most important speeches and helped keep labor peace in the postwar period.
        With a thriving private law practice, Mr. Clifford liked to think of himself as a bridge between business and government. But he was more than that. Like many lawyers who made up the Washington establishment, he advised corporations on how to navigate their way through laws and regulations.
        For each new client he had the same well-rehearsed speech that he offered to one of his first clients, Howard R. Hughes. As Mr. Clifford recounted it in his memoir, ''Counsel to the President'' (Random House, 1991), he said his firm had no influence and would not represent anyone before the President or any of his staff.
        ''If you want influence you should consider going elsewhere,'' he would tell prospective clients. ''What we can offer you is an extensive knowledge of how to deal with the Government on your problems. We will be able to give you advice on how best to present your position to the appropriate departments and agencies of the Government.''
        He gave the same speech to the Arab investors who came to see him in 1978, the same investors who, it turned out, were front men for the Bank of Credit and Commerce International. The bank, which was chartered in Luxembourg and the Cayman Islands and had offices in 70 countries, was shut down in July 1991 in a worldwide swoop by banking regulators.
        B.C.C.I. was accused of fraud, laundering drug money and bribing bank regulators and central bankers in 10 developing countries.
        The Importance Of Credibility
        In an interview in the mid-1980's, Mr. Clifford said his concept of the practice of law ''is that through the years you conduct yourself in such a manner that the staffs of the Government agencies have confidence in your integrity and your credibility.'' He added, ''I've never contended that I have influence, felt I had influence or attempted to use influence.''
        It was precisely his reputation for integrity and credibility that led the group of Arab investors to seek Mr. Clifford's help in the late 1970's when they wanted to acquire an American bank. The Federal Reserve Board approved the takeover in 1981, reassured by Mr. Clifford that there would be no control by B.C.C.I., which he also represented. The fact that Mr. Clifford himself was to become chairman of the bank further reassured the regulators. The bank, with Mr. Clifford as its chairman, was called First American Bankshares and became the largest in Washington.
        Ten years later, Robert M. Morgenthau, the District Attorney in Manhattan, disclosed that his office had found evidence that the parent company of Mr. Clifford's bank was secretly controlled by B.C.C.I. The District Attorney convened a grand jury to determine whether Mr. Clifford and his partner, Mr. Altman, had deliberately misled Federal regulators by assuring them that B.C.C.I. would have no control.
        Mr. Clifford's predicament worsened when it was disclosed that he had made about $6 million in profits from bank stock that he bought with an unsecured loan from B.C.C.I. A New York grand jury handed up indictments, as did the Justice Department. Mr. Clifford's assets in New York, where he kept most of his investments, were frozen.
        Mr. Clifford said the investigation caused him pain. If the regulators had been deceived about any secret ownership by B.C.C.I., he said, he, too, had been deceived.
        But if he was deceived, it would have been an aberration. While Washington lawyers like Mr. Clifford say they do not ''sell'' influence, what they do offer is sophistication, experience and knowledge of the mechanics of government. That is why it was so difficult for people to believe that Mr. Clifford, who was so experienced at seeing around corners and anticipating problems for his clients, could have been duped by front men for B.C.C.I.
        ''It's easy to say I should have known, but a client tells his lawyer what the client wants the lawyer to know,'' Mr. Clifford said. ''I have to admit that they came to me because of my standing and reputation. If you think of that, then you'd understand better that I'd be the last person they'd divulge this stuff to. I gave them standing. Why would they jeopardize that? They knew if they told me I'd be out the door.''
        A 'Wretched' War: Pride and Regrets
        Although he spent a total of only six years in Government service, those were the years that he liked to dwell upon. Looking back one day in the mid-1980's as he was preparing to publish his memoirs, he said in his customary measured tones, ''I believe the contribution I made to reversing our policy in that wretched conflict in Vietnam is very likely the most gratifying experience I have had.''
        There was no sense of self-congratulation. ''I was part of the generation that I hold responsible for our country's getting into that war,'' he said. ''I should have reached the conclusion earlier that our participation in that war was a dead end.''
        Mr. Clifford added: ''I've been quite severe with myself that I didn't make a greater issue of it with President Johnson. I permitted myself to be lulled into a false sense of optimism over reports that came back from Vietnam.''
        But in the nine months that he headed the Defense Department, succeeding Robert S. McNamara in 1968, Mr. Clifford used everything he had ever learned about the levers of power, all his skill as an advocate and all his political capital to persuade the President not to further escalate the role of American ground troops in South Vietnam. United States military involvement in Southeast Asia, Mr. Clifford argued, was sapping the nation's strength as a world power.
        In his later years, no longer in Government service, he sought to end the arms race as he once tried to end America's participation in the Vietnam War. When he began in Government, the world had two atomic bombs. Within four decades the world had 24,000 nuclear bombs, and that awesome fact continued to preoccupy him long after he left public office.
        In the Truman years, Mr. Clifford wrote that military power was the only language the Soviet Union understood. He was nevertheless a consistent advocate of finding a way to coexist with the Russians, and urged the adoption of arms agreements and a nuclear freeze. He often said he was haunted by a remark Winston Churchill had made about the superpowers and the arms race: ''All they're going to do is make the rubble bounce.''
        Old World Grace, Midwest Openness
        Trim and disciplined -- he kept his weight at 180 pounds and allowed himself dessert only when he fell below that, and he smoked one cigarette a day, proving to doubters that he could do it -- Mr. Clifford was the personification of Old World grace combined with a kind of Midwestern openness.
        To close the door on entering Mr. Clifford's office meant to close out the hurried pace of the 20th century and to return to the more measured rhythm of the 19th. In the cauldron of the Vietnam-era Pentagon or in the paneled luxury of his Connecticut Avenue office, there was always time for the niceties of conversation. He would inquire after one's spouse, and ask whether the children were writing from college.
        The quintessential insider, Mr. Clifford had access to the corridors of power and to the private clubs that were the marks of success. He tried to play golf at Burning Tree Country Club in Maryland every weekend, but he liked to take his lunch at the People's Drugstore around the corner from his office. He said he could have a sandwich and a glass of skim milk in 22 minutes at the lunch counter there, while his occasional visits to the Metropolitan Club meant an hour and 22 minutes.
        His office kept a car and chauffeur at his disposal but, until his health declined, he liked to drive himself to work from his 150-year-old house on Rockville Pike in Bethesda.
        No one can recall a time when Mr. Clifford raised his voice. What Washington veterans do remember was his ability, even into his 80's, to speak, seemingly extemporaneously and without notes, for 40 minutes. In fact, Mr. Clifford prepared every statement carefully and then memorized it. ''The mind is a muscle,'' he said. ''The more I use it the better it gets.''
        Mr. Clifford had a way of taking his listeners step by step through an argument, pausing now and then to ask rhetorically, ''Do you see?'' as he ushered them along with him with carefully reasoned logic.
        ''Clark was so smooth that when you lost with him, you thought you'd won,'' said Phil G. Goulding, an Assistant Secretary of Defense under Mr. Clifford.
        His Father's Words: 'To Live Is to Work'
        Clark McAdams Clifford was born in Fort Scott, Kan., on Dec. 25, 1906. He was named for his mother's brother, Clark McAdams, a crusading editor of The St. Louis Post-Dispatch. His mother, Georgia McAdams Clifford, was, as her son remembered her, a great storyteller, very dramatic and ''beautiful beyond belief.'' His father was an official of the Missouri Pacific Railroad, a man who, Mr. Clifford said, ''instilled in me the precept that to live is to work.''
        ''He developed in me habits of industry -- too much, my wife thinks sometimes,'' Mr. Clifford said.
        He was given chores to do when he was a boy, and as he got older the tasks increased. When the family moved to St. Louis he was a delivery boy for a grocery store and, in the summertime, was a night delivery boy for a drugstore. He also remembered earning $30 a month for singing in a choir.
        ''I had an extremely happy childhood; it was ideal,'' Mr. Clifford said. ''I thought everybody loved his mother and father and would go to the wall for his sister. Boy, was I naive!''
        Mr. Clifford attended college and law school at Washington University in St. Louis. On graduating in 1928 he entered law practice there. In the summer of 1929, while traveling in Europe, he met a Boston woman, Margery Pepperell Kimball. They were married on Oct. 3, 1931. In addition to his wife, he is survived by their three daughters, Faith Christian of Chico, Calif., Dr. Joyce Burland of Halifax, Vt., and Randall C. Wight of Baltimore; 12 grandchildren and  17 great-grandchildren.
        From Naval Aide To Truman Adviser
        Although Mr. Clifford was over the draft age and already a father when the United States entered World War II, he volunteered for the Navy in 1943 and was accepted as a lieutenant junior grade. After an assignment to assess the state of readiness at naval bases on the West Coast, he was drawn into the White House in 1944, where he began a career, as the columnist James Reston once put it, of rescuing American Presidents from disaster.
        In July 1945, when Truman attended the Potsdam Conference near Berlin, Mr. Clifford found he did not have enough to do. ''You're kind of a potted plant when you're a naval aide,'' he recalled. ''So I offered to be helpful to Judge Samuel I. Rosenman, the special counsel, who had more work than he could handle.'' When the President returned, Mr. Rosenman said, ''Let's keep that young fellow here.''
        As a speechwriter, and later as special counsel to Truman, Mr. Clifford helped articulate the Truman Doctrine, a program proposed in 1947 to help Greece and Turkey resist potential Communist expansionism, and related innovative programs for assisting underdeveloped countries.
        Mr. Clifford also participated in the creation of the Marshall Plan for the rehabilitation of Western Europe and in the formation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
        It fell to Mr. Clifford to be Secretary of State George C. Marshall's adversary on the issue of recognition of Israel. ''President Truman said he would like me to prepare the case for the formation of a Jewish homeland as if it were a case to be presented to the Supreme Court,'' Mr. Clifford said.
        Marshall, who opposed recognition, became almost apoplectic at a White House meeting when Mr. Clifford made his points -- points that he could still reel off in detail 40 years later. When Truman decided in favor of immediate recognition of Israel, Mr. Clifford said, there were some tense days until Marshall relented.
        Mr. Clifford insisted that Truman acted out of conviction and humanitarian considerations, and not for domestic political advantage, as Marshall had suggested.
        In his years in the Truman White House, Mr. Clifford was a poker-playing regular of the kitchen cabinet; he even played a hand or two with Churchill.
        Mr. Clifford was an important architect of the President's ''give 'em hell Harry'' whistle-stop campaign in 1948, when Truman won an upset victory over the Republican nominee, Thomas E. Dewey.
        Mr. Clifford was also one of the principal architects of the National Security Act of 1947, which unified the armed services and established the Central Intelligence Agency. Amendments that he framed two years later greatly strengthened the authority of the Secretary of Defense.
        In his memoirs, he expressed regret that he had not made a greater effort to kill the loyalty program instituted to root out Communist subversives. But he has been criticized for contributing to the climate of fear -- the proposition that ''the United States must be prepared to wage atomic and biological warfare if necessary.''
        Mr. Clifford left the White House in 1950 to open a law firm in Washington, hoping to repair his personal finances, which had been tattered by his years in the Government, most of them at an annual salary of $12,000.
        When Truman discussed with him the possibility of a seat on the Supreme Court, Mr. Clifford told him he would not be happy there. In 1949 he turned down an offer from a group of prominent Missouri Democrats to run for the Senate.
        ''I'd been in the Navy and the White House for almost seven years,'' he said, looking back at that period. ''I had three growing daughters reaching the age when daughters become expensive, and going through this economic ordeal again that I'd been through was an obstructing factor I could not overcome at that time.''
        After leaving the Government, Mr. Clifford overcame his economic problems so quickly that within four months he was able to move his family from a rented house in Chevy Chase, Md., to the historic house on three acres outside Bethesda that was his home for the rest of his life.
        Clients lined up outside his door. One of the first was Mr. Hughes, who asked Mr. Clifford to be the Washington counsel for Trans World Airlines. There followed a clientele that represented blue-chip America and included General Electric, A.T. & T., I.T.T, the RCA Corporation, ABC, Du Pont, Hughes Tool, Time Inc., Standard Oil, Phillips Petroleum and El Paso Natural Gas.
        In time, the man whose early ambition was to be the finest trial lawyer in St. Louis became the first Washington lawyer to make a million dollars a year, a Washington superlawyer -- highly paid, it was thought, because he could fix things for his clients. Mr. Clifford said he always found that concept deeply disturbing.
        But the legend of his influence had grown so that a favorite story around Washington was that whenever Mr. Clifford had occasion to go to a Government office on behalf of a client, the meeting would be interrupted by the announcement that the President was calling Mr. Clifford.
        ''That happened exactly once,'' he protested. The President, he said, was Kennedy, and there was a genuine emergency at the White House.
        In the Eisenhower years Mr. Clifford was not called by the White House, but he remained active in Democratic politics. He was also the personal lawyer for Kennedy, then a young Senator from Massachusetts.
        In 1960, when Kennedy won the Democratic nomination for President over Stuart Symington, whom Mr. Clifford had supported, Kennedy asked Mr. Clifford to prepare an analysis of the problems Kennedy would face in taking over the executive branch. Mr. Clifford wrote a detailed assessment and, after the election, was named to head the transition team.
        At a dinner shortly after his election, Kennedy paid tribute to Mr. Clifford for all the work he had done and for asking nothing in return. ''All he asked was that we advertise his law firm on the back of one-dollar bills,'' the President-elect quipped.
        After the abortive invasion of Cuba at the Bay of Pigs in April 1961, an operation supported by the C.I.A., Kennedy again turned to Mr. Clifford, who in 1947 had written the legislation establishing the agency. The President asked him to become a member, and then chairman, of the newly created Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board.
        Kennedy also turned to Mr. Clifford a year later, when the nation's major steel companies refused to honor an agreement that the President thought he had with them not to increase prices. The companies backed down several days later, after Mr. Clifford convinced them that it would be in their best interest to rescind the increases.
        President Johnson was hardly in office 24 hours when he called for Mr. Clifford. Faced with the sudden and enormous task of running the country after Kennedy's assassination, Johnson talked with Mr. Clifford for two hours, then three, then four. It was late in the evening, Mr. Clifford remembered, when Lady Bird Johnson entered the Oval Office and reminded her husband, ''Just because you're President now doesn't mean you don't have to eat dinner.''
        Mr. Clifford's warm relationship with Johnson became strained and almost broke over Vietnam in 1967, when Johnson asked him to be Secretary of Defense. Mr. Clifford's first assignment was to determine how to meet Gen. William C. Westmoreland's request for 206,000 more American troops in Vietnam. The special panel Mr. Clifford set up to study the issue soon became a forum for debating the rationale for the war.
        Because he then had the complete confidence of the President, whom he had known for more than 20 years, and because he had the luxury of not being bound to previous official positions on Vietnam, Mr. Clifford was able to ask the difficult questions. He did not like the answers. No one could say whether the 206,000 troops would be enough. No one could say whether the war would take another six months, a year, two years or more.
        Mr. Clifford finally came to the conclusion that there was no plan for military victory in Vietnam and that the United States was in what he called ''a kind of bottomless pit.'' He said he realized that ''we could be there year after year, sacrificing tens of thousands of American boys a year, and it just didn't add up.''
        When Mr. Clifford began to oppose Johnson on the war, a rift opened. Mr. Clifford remembered a ''sense of personal hurt that I was doing this to him.'' To help heal the breach, Mr. Clifford asked Johnson to have lunch at his home on his final day in Washington, the day Richard M. Nixon was inaugurated as President. Johnson accepted and, as one of his last official acts, awarded Mr. Clifford the Medal of Freedom with Distinction, the highest award given to civilians in the United States.
        Having persuaded Johnson to cut back the bombing and negotiate an end to the war, Mr. Clifford spent the next years trying to urge President Nixon to end the war. His efforts led Vice President Agnew to accuse him of being ''a late-blooming opportunist who clambered aboard the rolling bandwagon of the doves when the flak really started to fly.''
        Except for Mr. Agnew's comments and a broadside from Ramparts magazine at the other side of the political spectrum, Mr. Clifford's more than 40 years in Washington passed with a relative absence of criticism, until the bank scandal broke. At the time, no one paid much attention when Ramparts called Mr. Clifford a ''curious hybrid of Rasputin, Perry Como and Mr. Fix,'' in an article that depicted him as an architect of United States economic imperialism and linked that role to his legal work representing major multinational corporations.
        Only once in his long career did he step out of character, and that was when he referred to President Ronald Reagan as an ''amiable dunce.'' The remark was made at a private dinner party but, unknown to Mr. Clifford, a tape recording had been made so that the hostess, who was ill with the flu and unable to come to her own party, could hear what was expected to be some sparkling conversation. Excerpts from that tape were published out of context.
        Mr. Clifford explained his remark this way: ''In the fall of 1982, President Reagan said he would cut taxes by $750 billion, substantially increase defense expenditures and balance the budget in the 1984 fiscal year. Those were public promises. I made a comment that if he would accomplish that feat, he'd be a national hero. If, on the other hand, it did not work out after such a specific and encouraging promise and commitment, I thought the American people would regard him as an amiable dunce.''
        Given the opportunity some time later to retract his remark, however, Mr. Clifford declined to do so.
        In time, even President Carter, who kept his distance from the Washington establishment, turned to Mr. Clifford for advice when Mr. Carter's budget director, Bert Lance, came under attack for his banking practices in Georgia. A former Kennedy aide later remarked, ''They ran against Washington, but when the water comes up to their knees they call for Clark Clifford.''
        A New Challenge In His Later Years
        It was Mr. Lance who introduced Mr. Clifford to the Arab investors who sought to take over the bank in Washington that was to become known as First American Bank. Mr. Clifford and his young partner, Mr. Altman, structured the deal that led to the takeover of the bank and, according to prosecutors, the success of the Bank of Credit and Commerce International in the United States. Mr. Clifford said to the end that he did not know that B.C.C.I. had been behind the purchase of the bank.
        For him, the bank became a new challenge for his later years. He looked at his contemporaries and did not like what he saw, he said in an interview in The Washington Post.
        ''Some of them would go with their wives each morning to the market and help with the marketing, pushing those carts and all,'' he told the interviewer. ''Well, I didn't find that very appealing.''
        And so he accepted the clients who are now known to have been associated with B.C.C.I., and agreed to become the chairman of First American Bank. In itself, some lawyers saw his wearing of two hats as a conflict of interest.
        Mr. Clifford was called before Congressional committees and had his lawyers send reams of material to the prosecutors in an effort to show that his work for B.C.C.I. and First American was proper.
        How will history judge Clark Clifford, he was asked by a visitor to his office several months before he was indicted. ''It depends on the ultimate result,'' he said. ''If it comes and goes and nothing else happens, gradually it gets swallowed up in history. If it turns out badly, as far as history is concerned I've taken a bad tumble.''
      