
        William E. Griffith, a historian and political scientist who was an authority on Communism, the cold war and Central and Eastern Europe, died on Sept. 28 at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 78 and lived in Lexington, Mass.
        The cause was a stroke, said Robert J. Sales of the news office at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which announced Professor Griffith's death on Monday.
        Professor Griffith spent 31 years in teaching and other posts at M.I.T.  and was the Ford International Professor of Political Science when he retired in 1990.
        ''He foresaw the first thaws in the cold war while it was at its height,'' and he realized early on that the Sino-Soviet split was occurring, said Lucian W. Pye, a retired M.I.T. political science professor.
        ''He often could spot things just as they were beginning to bud,'' Professor Pye added, and he said that when Zbigniew Brzezinski was national security adviser in the Carter Administration, Dr. Brzezinski had Professor Griffith as a part-time consultant and ''found him very helpful.''
        Professor Griffith, who collaborated with Dr. Brzezinski on several books and commuted to Washington once a week from Cambridge, was called ''Zbig's idea man'' by a White House aide in 1979.
        ''Bill Griffith was a very dedicated anti-Communist and understood Communism better than most people,'' said Lincoln P. Bloomfield, a retired M.I.T. professor of political science who was director of global issues at the National Security Council in the Carter Administration. Mr. Griffith wrote in his book ''The Superpowers and Regional Tensions'' (1982), ''Bolshevik ideology gave to Soviet expansionism a conviction of legitimacy and of inevitable success and, paradoxically, the imperative to push history forward faster.''
        Professor Griffith's writing and editing in his field won applause. He edited the book ''Central and Eastern Europe: The Opening Curtain?'' (1989), consisting of chapters by various specialists. The book was praised by John C. Whitehead, a former Deputy Secretary of State, as ''a major contribution to the analysis of political and economic developments in this very important part of the world.''
        Other books Professor Griffith wrote included ''Albania and the Sino-Soviet Rift'' (1963), which Harry Schwartz praised in The New York Times Book Review. Mr. Schwartz, also an expert on the East Bloc, wrote: ''Almost two years have passed since Premier Khrushchev first denounced the Communist leaders of Albania as murderers and traitors, but the leaders of that tiny primitive country continue in power. How this David and Goliath struggle arose, what forces brought together Albania and the colossus of China, the result of the quarrel on other Communist nations are all matters admirably discussed in Mr. Griffith's book.''
        Before moving to M.I.T., Professor Griffith was the chief political adviser at Radio Free Europe in Munich when it was still operated by the Central Intelligence Agency from 1950 to 1958.
        He was born in Remsen, N.Y., and received a bachelor's degree in liberal arts in 1940 from Hamilton College and a master's degree in 1941 and a doctorate in 1950, both in history from Harvard. He was an Army officer in France and Germany during World War II and later was a high military government official in Bavaria.
        He is survived by his wife of 50 years, the former Ingeborg Maria Ehrhardt; two daughters, Evelyn and Dorothy, both of Munich; a son, Oliver, of Paris, and five grandchildren.
      