
        Noel Carroll, a hulking half-miler who set Irish, European and world records and helped establish Villanova as a showcase for a generation of Irish track stars, died in Dublin on Friday as he had so conspicuously lived -- on his feet, apparently after suffering a heart attack during his regular noontime run.
        He was 56 and one of Ireland's leading exponents of clean living and physical fitness.
        If his death inevitably recalls that of Jim Fixx, the American running guru who was 52 when he suffered a fatal heart attack while running in 1984, Mr. Carroll was known in Ireland as more than a celebrated athlete who neither smoked nor drank and who preached the joys and benefits of running.
        Since his competitive career ended in the 1970's, he had spent 24 high- profile years in a continuing public dialogue with aggrieved citizens and municipal critics as the official spokesman of the so-called Dublin Corporation, the city's chief operating authority. Since 1996 he had held the equally high-profile position of chief executive of the Dublin Chamber of Commerce.
        For all that, sports fans in the United States can be forgiven if they recall Mr. Carroll chiefly as the oversized Irish speedster who caught the eye of Villanova's legendary track coach, James F. Elliott, at the 1962 Millrose Games in New York and went on to turn an Irish trickle started by Ron Delany into a tide as a pioneer of the famous Irish-Villanova pipeline, which drew a torrent of star Irish runners like Eamonn Coghlan and Marcus O'Sullivan to suburban Philadelphia.
        As a 20-year-old half-miler, Mr. Carroll, a member of the Irish two-mile relay team, wasn't much to look at, or was rather too much. At 6 foot 3 inches and 196 pounds, he was built more like a tight end, or maybe two half-milers, than a middle-distance runner, but Coach Elliott, a former quarter-miler, wasn't called Jumbo for nothing.
        Besides, at 18 and 19, Mr. Carroll had set world age-group records in the 880-yard run, and when the coach saw how well he moved his bulk around the banked Madison Square Garden track, he offered him a scholarship.
        For Mr. Carroll, who had dropped out of school at 13 and held a series of jobs before beginning his running career in the army, where he was converted from cross-country to the 880 and 440, the chance to get a college education without having gone to high school was too good an opportunity to pass up.
        At Villanova he did not disappoint, maintaining reasonable grades while leading the Wildcats to a series of track championships and helping to set a world record along the way, in 1964, as the anchor of the 4-by-880-yard relay team.
        Although he turned in disappointing performances and failed to win a medal in two Olympic Games, 1964 and 1968, Mr. Carroll was a dominant runner of his time. He set an indoor European record in the 880 in 1964, won three consecutive European and British titles in the event, won a total of 14 Irish championships and set a progression of national records in the 880 and the 440.
        For all that, he maintained such a sense of humor about his career that he once dismissed athletics as ''a way of proving you're better than someone else at something that's of no use to anybody.''
        It was a sense of humor that came in handy during his later career as designated apologist for Dublin's municipal government. As the Dublin Corporation's first official spokesman, Mr. Carroll relished his role of defending government decisions that inevitably stepped on someone's toes.
        If it was sometimes a thankless task, Mr. Carroll maintained his credibility in part by bluntly speaking his mind, sometimes to the point of insensitivity. When a 1986 hurricane, for example, flooded some low-lying homes, Mr. Carroll, feeling that the wails of the afflicted had risen above the water line, was not as sympathetic as he could have been.
        ''People who live by the river,'' he said, ''should expect to get their feet wet now and again.''
        Throughout his public career, Mr. Carroll maintained his athletic visibility by writing extensively about running and physical fitness, and by serving as mentor and even coach to young runners.
        In time he grew a bit sheepish about his role in steering native talent out of the country, and for the last several years he had sought to stem the flow by coaching the track team at University College in Dublin.
        Mr. Carroll, who is survived by his wife, Deirdre O'Callaghan, a singer and harpist; four children and five grandchildren, maintained his high spirits to the end.
        The night before his death he had been in his element, mingling with 1,000 guests at the Chamber of Commerce's annual dinner.
      