
        Albert Johnson, a film critic and historian who, as program director of the San Francisco International Film Festival from 1965 to 1972, was celebrated for his pioneering tributes to Hollywood legends, died on Oct. 17 in Chicago. He was 73 and lived in Berkeley, Calif.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his sister, Coretta Greaux. He was in Chicago to present an award at the Chicago Film Festival, she said.
        Born and reared in Harlem, where his mother danced at the Cotton Club and his father practiced medicine, Mr. Johnson attended the University of California at Berkeley, majoring in English. After graduation, he studied at Oxford University, and at the Shakespeare Institute in Stratford, England. He began his film writing and criticism career as a contributor to the British Film Institute's Sight and Sound magazine, and was its  United States editor for 10 years after his return to California.
        In 1965, Mr. Johnson became the program director of the San Francisco International Film Festival, where he introduced works by the foreign directors Andrzej Wadja, Nicholas Ray, Lina Wertmuller, Bernardo Bertolucci and Volker Schlondorff to American audiences. He also began what was to become standard festival fare in the form of tributes to stars. By 1980, he had become its  artistic director, but resigned after a season in which, he said, ''commercial interests undermined artistic standards.''
        Since 1974, Mr. Johnson was a member of the department of African-American studies at Berkeley, where he introduced courses on third-world cinema and ''Images of Minorities in the American Cinema.'' But it was his course on the American musical film that earned him his reputation as a compelling lecturer.
        True to the lessons learned from his mother, Mr. Johnson was a performer, introducing his lectures with a song -- and sometimes, a dance -- from the musical being discussed.
        ''It was like magic when he entered a room,'' said Edith Kramer, the film curator and director of the university's Pacific Film Archives.
        In addition to his sister, of Sunrise, Fla., he is survived by a brother, Jesse Jenkins Jr. of New York.
      