
        Eric Ambler, whose name is synonymous with novels of suspense, action, adventure and intrigue in foreign lands and whose books became models for generations of other writers, died on Thursday at his home in London. He was 89.
        Mr. Ambler, a worldly Englishman, is generally credited with having raised the thriller to the level of literature. He brought intellectual substance to the genre at a time when it often suffered from shortages of surprise, maturity, verisimilitude and literary skill. He did that by writing half a dozen eloquent novels that were published, and widely applauded, between 1936 and 1940.
        Those books, set mostly in Europe, painted haunting panoramas of intrigue and villainy. They were also distinguished by credible heroes, realistic settings and vivid evocations of the nervous, politically charged years that led to World War II.
        His early feat still fascinates literary historians. Peter Lewis of the University of Durham in England wrote in a 1990 book: ''Ambler raised the thriller from the subliterary depths, showing that the genre and good prose were not incompatible, and redeeming its conventions for more serious purposes than the display of macho derring-do. Virtually single-handedly, he redefined the thriller so as to make possible the achievement of such postwar realists as John le Carre and Len Deighton.''
        Graham Greene praised him as ''the greatest living writer of the novel of suspense'' and called himself one of Mr. Ambler's disciples. Mr. le Carre, who is 22 years younger than Mr. Ambler and is best known for his espionage novel ''The Spy Who Came in From the Cold,'' called Mr. Ambler's novels ''the well into which everybody had dipped.''
        Mr. Ambler's work has withstood the test of time. Julian Evans, writing in The Guardian in 1997, called him ''the begetter of the modern thriller'' and praised the early Ambler novels for mirroring ''the queasy atmosphere and conspiratorial politics'' of 1930's Europe. Julian Symons, the British crime novelist and critic, wrote in 1994 that Mr. Ambler belonged to the breed of thriller writers ''who charm us by the elegance of their prose and their subtlety in dealing with places and people.''
        An Advertising Man With Real Imagination
        Eric Ambler was a fantasy-prone advertising man when he began writing his suspense novels in the 1930's. He was a slender figure then, with pale blue eyes that have been called hooded and with, as he wrote later in a self-mocking moment, ''such a sensitive face.''
        His books were innovative, as the young author cocksurely meant them to be. ''Dorothy Sayers had taken the detective story and made it literate,'' he once said. ''Why shouldn't I do the same with spies?''
        Mr. Ambler's heroes were generally more ordinary and believable than those of novels of their type written in the preceding years. Their technological knowledge was certainly more authoritative, and the worlds these heroes moved through were depicted in a more realistic and gritty way.
        He made his name with ''A Coffin for Dimitrios'' and his five other earliest novels, ''The Dark Frontier,'' ''Background to Danger,'' ''Cause for Alarm,'' ''Epitaph for a Spy'' and ''Journey into Fear.'' All six were published between 1936 and 1940.
        ''A Coffin for Dimitrios'' is about a British writer of detective fiction who becomes involved with a Turkish underworld figure called Dimitrios. A classic political thriller, it was a Book-of-the-Month Club selection in September 1939, when Germany invaded Poland, touching off World War II.
        Otto Penzler, an American expert on mystery fiction and thrillers who  owns the two Mysterious Bookshops in Manhattan and Los Angeles, has said the book is ''one of the milestones of espionage fiction and brought it truly and irrevocably into the modern era.''
        ''A Coffin for Dimitrios'' has even been called prophetic. Robert D. Kaplan, the author of ''Balkan Ghosts: A Journey Through History,'' wrote in The New York Times Book Review in 1993, that for fun, ''and not a little insight into the chaos and anarchy now being unleashed in the Balkans,'' readers should ''turn to 'Coffin for Dimitrios.' '' Mr. Kaplan added: ''Here is a tale of drug smuggling, assassination and political intrigue, set in the early part of the century, that perfectly captures the atmosphere at the end of the century, as political crime networks make their return not just to Bucharest, but even more so to Belgrade and other former Communist capitals.''
        The book's appeal to Americans has proven so durable that in 1996 -- six decades after it first came out -- a new edition was published by the New York publishers Carroll & Graf.
        A 1935 Novel Foresaw Atomic Bombs
        Another of Mr. Ambler's thrillers that proved prophetic was ''The Dark Frontier,'' which he wrote in 1935. It begins in Britain, shifts to Europe and proceeds in Ixania, a fictional Balkan state. It has to do with nuclear weaponry, and Mr. Ambler, writing about the book decades later, said, ''What, it may be asked, was I doing in those far-off days using the term 'atomic bomb' so familiarly and describing the effects of an atomic explosion as if the hideous thing already existed?''
        ''I lay no claim to special prescience,'' he continued. As a student he had read about science, and he recalled that he had learned about the early work of Ernest Rutherford, the British physicist who studied atoms, and of other scientists in the field, and that he had come to understand some of its implications.
        Among Mr. Ambler's other books are ''Judgment on Deltchev'' (1951), ''The Schirmer Inheritance'' (1953), ''State of Siege'' (1956), ''Passage of Arms'' (1960), ''A Kind of Anger'' (1964), ''The Intercom Conspiracy'' (1969), ''The Levanter'' (1982) and ''Doctor Frigo'' (1982).
        In addition to his novels, he wrote or collaborated on more than a dozen screenplays in Britain and Hollywood between the end of World War II and 1960. He was nominated for an Academy Award for his script for ''The Cruel Sea'' (1953), and movies were made -- though not by him -- from several of his books, including ''The Light of Day,'' which became the successful Jules Dassin film ''Topkapi'' with Peter Ustinov and Melina Mercouri in 1964; ''A Coffin for Dimitrios,'' which was made into the 1944 movie ''The Mask of Dimitrios'' with Peter Lorre and Sydney Greenstreet, and ''Journey Into Fear,'' which became a 1942 film, under the same title, with Orson Welles as Colonel Haki of the Turkish secret police, one of Mr. Ambler's most memorable characters.
        Mr. Ambler was born on June 28, 1909, in London, the son of Alfred Percy Ambler and Amy Madeleine Ambler. His father's many metiers ranged from church organist to music hall performer to publicist and brewery employee. Young Eric went to Colfe's Grammar School in London, studied engineering at London University, found it dull and left in 1927 without a degree. Then came a stint with an electrical-equipment company, a disappointing stab at show business, early, nonlucrative writing of fiction and plays, and some years in advertising, where he began as a copywriter and did well before turning full time to the writing of thrillers.
        When Mr. Ambler was still a London advertising man in 1934 he had an odd formative experience. While on vacation in Marseilles, he was cheated out of money playing poker dice with a larcenous bartender and then fantasized about murdering the man with a rifle at a street crossing in the city. At that same spot, later that year, a Croatian assassin shot and killed King Alexander of Yugoslavia.
        That coincidence spurred Mr. Ambler's imagination. In an interview half a century later, he recalled: 'I felt I had a fresh bit of my character, which was an assassin. And I felt there were people all over Europe just like me, just ready for the word to kill.''
        In his book ''Here Lies: An Autobiography,'' which came out in Britain in 1985, he wrote that he had cut out news pictures of the site of both the bartender's imagined death and the king's actual demise. ''I felt oddly guilty, but also pleased,'' he added. ''In the Mediterranean sunshine there were strange and violent men with whom I could identify, and with whom, in a way, I was now in touch.''
        As it happened, Mr. Ambler recalled in ''Here Lies,'' ''the only kind of popular novel about which I had strong feelings'' around that time ''was the postwar thriller'' -- that is, the thriller as it had been being written since the end of World War I. ''I could no longer find any worth a second reading,'' he complained. He felt that the villains were unbelievable -- ''power-crazed or coldly sane, I no longer believed a word of them.'' Moreover, for Mr. Ambler, ''The hero did not seem to matter much. He was often only a fugitive, a hare to the villain's hounds. He could be a tweedy fellow with steel-gray eyes and gun pads on both shoulders or a moneyed dandy with a taste for adventure. None of that really mattered.'' Pre-Ambler thrillers of that era have also been criticized as lacking a political and atmospheric sense of Europe and of the looming prospect of another war.
        ''As I saw it, the thriller had nowhere to go but up,'' Mr. Ambler recalled in ''Here Lies.'' ''I set out to start the upward trend.'' He wrote ''The Dark Frontier,'' which got favorable reviews but had many faults, he felt. He told a friend, Eileen Bigland, who was a serious author, that he had been reading Gogol, Pirandello and James Joyce. She replied: ''Never read very good writers when you are trying yourself to write good trash. You'll only get depressed.''
        Average People In Sinister Situations
        Mr. Ambler turned out to be immensely skilled at depicting heroes who were unremarkable but appealing people enmeshed in sinister situations. As Mr. Penzler put it, ''Average people behaving bravely, albeit through no desire of their own, as events threaten and engulf them is the hallmark of Ambler's thrillers.''  In The Guardian in 1972, describing the basic plot that Mr. Ambler evolved in reshaping the thriller, Thomas Wiseman wrote: ''The villain will be as colorful as the hero is colorless, he will be gross and excessive, with extreme appetites of one sort or another, while the hero or narrator will tend to be abstemious, reserved, unused to firearms or women, physically weak, but possessing a native shrewdness, and some special knowledge that in the end turns the tables on his most powerful adversary.''
        Mr. Ambler drew on his early training in engineering, and he made engineers the heroes of five of his novels: ''Cause for Alarm,'' Journey into Fear,'' ''State of Siege,'' ''Passage of Arms'' and ''The Levanter.'' It also helped him to write believably about technical matters.
        His vivid characters include Arthur Abdel Simpson, who has been called the half-hero of Mr. Ambler's novels ''The Light of Day'' and ''Dirty Story'' (1967). He is a part-time journalist, minor thief and confidence man who says things like ''I have only really been arrested 10 or 12 times in my whole life.''
        Among Mr. Ambler's nonheroes are Professor Krom in ''The Siege of the Villa Lipp'' (1977), who says, ''What use is an honest lawyer when what you need is a dishonest one?,''  and Colonel Haki, who, on arriving at a house party in a Turkish villa early in ''A Coffin for Dimitrios,'' ''clicked heels, kissed hands, bowed, acknowledged the salutes of the naval officers and ogled the businessmen's wives.''
        Salted with such figures, the plot of at least one Ambler novel has inspired imitation in real life. As Jay Pearsall, owner of the two Murder Ink bookstores in Manhattan, has written, ''After seeing 'Topkapi' (1964), a film based on Eric Ambler's 'The Light of Day' (1962), Jack Murphy (aka Murf the Surf) stole the world's largest star sapphire, the Star of India, from New York's Museum of Natural History.''
        During World War II, Mr. Ambler served in the British Army; he spent much of the time helping to make training and educational films for Army use and wrote no novels. Soon after the war, Noel Coward urged him to resume his novel writing.
        ''The admonitory Coward index finger wagged under my nose,'' Mr. Ambler recalled in ''Here Lies.'' '''Forget all this film nonsense,' he said. 'Write more books. You think that you will always be able to go back to the well. But if you stay away too long, there will come a day when you will go back and find the well drr-y.' ''
        Mr. Ambler collaborated with an Australian writer, Charles Rodda, on some thrillers that were published under the pseudonym Eliot Reed between 1950 and 1958. But Mr. Ambler wrote later that he had only contributed substantially to the first two of the five thrillers that came out under the Reed pseudonym (''Skytip'' and ''Tender to Danger'')
        Mr. Ambler's first novel written under his own name after the war, ''Judgment on Deltchev,'' came out in 1951. Its subject is a British playwright who is sent to a Balkan city to report about a treason trial for a newspaper and then acquires dangerous knowledge. ''The Schirmer Inheritance,'' in which a well-born American lawyer hunts in early post-war Europe for the heir to an American fortune, followed.
        Turmoil and Chaos In the Third World
        During the next 30 years Mr. Ambler wrote 10 more novels. In this second, post-war phase of his career, he repeatedly turned to Third World settings involving volatile politics, international megacompanies and other forces.
        ''Passage of Arms'' takes place in  Asia and involves the finding of a hidden store of guerrilla weapons; James M. Cain said it was ''tops for its picture of Southeast Asia, in all its color and turmoil.'' ''The Intercom Conspiracy,'' which came out in 1969, is set mainly in Switzerland, where Mr. Ambler lived for some years, and is about two espionage agents working for minor NATO nations.
        In the early 1970's he wrote ''The Levanter,'' about Palestinians plotting against Israel. That book was followed by ''Doctor Frigo,'' which involves scheming by a group seeking power over a Caribbean island. Admirers of his last published novel, ''The Care of Time'' (1981), point to  its inviting start: ''The warning message arrived on Monday, the bomb itself on Wednesday. It became a busy week.''
        In 1975, the Mystery Writers of America gave Mr. Ambler its Grand Master Award. In 1981 Queen Elizabeth II made him an Officer of the Order of the British Empire.
        Mr. Ambler's 1939 marriage to Louise Crombie, to whom he dedicated ''Journey Into Fear,'' ended in divorce in May 1958. His second wife was Joan Harrison, a screenwriter and film and television producer. She helped write the scripts for ''Foreign Correspondent,'' ''Rebecca'' and other films directed by Alfred Hitchcock, and she produced the television series ''Alfred Hitchcock Presents'' from 1955 to 1962. She died in 1994. He left no immediate survivors.
        ''Thrillers are respectable now,'' Mr. Ambler said in a 1981 interview with Herbert Mitgang of The New York Times. ''Back in the beginning, people weren't quite that sure about them,'' but ''they really say more about the way people think and governments behave than many of the conventional novels. A hundred years from now, if they last, these books may offer some clues to what was going on in our world.''
      