
        Charlie Zito, whose family bakery provided Greenwich Villagers with crusty, yeasty Italian bread for decades before it became fashionable, died of colon cancer on Friday at Lutheran Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 78 -- four years older than the plain little Bleecker Street shop where he was a fixture -- and he lived in Brooklyn.
        In 1924, when his father, Antonio, moved the family bakery to Bleecker from Sullivan Street, there were dozens of Italian food shops nearby -- tiny stores or pushcarts where newly arrived immigrants peddled meat, cheese and olive oil. Competition was stiff. When Berenice Abbott, the photographer, took her famous Depression-era picture of Zito's, the local bakeries were waging a price war. One had cut the cost of its 7-cent loaf, so the others, including Zito's, began selling 5-cent loaves, too.
        As the years passed, nearly all the other Italian food shops shut down. But A. Zito & Sons kept on going, and Charlie Zito did not quit working until early September, when his cancer was discovered. In fact, the store itself, from its maroon awning to its cramped interior, was one of the few constants in an ever-changing Greenwich Village. Eventually, said Mimi Sheraton, the food writer and Village resident, Zito's ''became sort of chic without trying to be chic.''
        Among the unchanging characteristics were the family workers. Mr. Zito, his three brothers and two sisters were helping out there well before entering kindergarten, said Anthony Zito, his nephew, who now runs the bakery. A baker's day is long, he said. Perhaps that is why Ms. Sheraton, a lifelong customer, describes the atmosphere at Zito's as brisk and the employees as taciturn and unsmiling. Two of Charlie's brothers, Julius and Vincent, known as Jimmy, tended the ''business end of the business,'' Anthony said.
        But Charlie ''did P.R.,'' Anthony added. ''He'd stay in the store and talk to people all day long.'' Ed Koch, who discovered Zito's long before he ran for mayor, remembers Charlie as the gregarious brother. ''He was the kingpin, around which that whole place operated,'' Mr. Koch said.
        Small as it was, the interior of Zito's was frequently jammed with packages, Anthony recalled. Charlie was usually willing to hold packages for his neighbors. Certainly, he could be counted on to be at the store. His only extended break from the bakery occurred during World War II, when he joined the Army infantry -- though, in later years, he would duck out to his condo in Hallendale, Fla., for a week or two.
        Like the Zito brothers themselves, Zito's bread was not showy or flamboyant. It is simpler than, for instance, Eli's very sour, needle-thin baguettes or the extra-hard-crusted peasant's bread sold at several stylish bakeries. But, by all accounts, it was, and is, excellent.
        ''At its best,'' Craig Claiborne wrote in The New York Times in 1986, ''the crust of Zito's tapered loaf is crisp and crunchy, and the inner crumb is of good color, well flavored and properly 'marbled' with characteristic flecks of ground wheat.''
        ''It has a real Italian taste,'' Ms. Sheraton said. ''It's wonderful delicious bread that goes with everything.'' The thin whole-wheat loaves, her favorite, are ''absolutely wonderful,'' she said.
        ''Great bread,'' said Pat Ruddick, captain of a Greenwich Village fire station. Mr. Zito was a ''special friend'' at the firehouse, the captain said, and at his funeral on Tuesday morning, several uniformed firefighters acted as color guards.
        Often as not, Mr. Zito would repeat tales of his encounters with Zito's celebrity customers, like Lena Horne, Liza Minnelli and, most of all, Frank Sinatra. Mr. Zito loved Sinatra at least as much as a great whole-wheat loaf. When the singer was in town, the story went, he would personally call Mr. Zito to deliver bread personally to the Waldorf-Astoria.
        Besides his three brothers, Vincent, Julius and Jack, Mr. Zito is survived by Judy, his wife of 33 years, who was a blues singer before her marriage; a son, Charles James, of Brooklyn, and his nephew, Anthony, who runs Zito's East, a pizzeria on 13th Street, as well as the bakery.
      