
        Collins Jacques Seitz, a senior Federal appeals court judge in Delaware who as a young judge helped refute the separate-but-equal doctrine in public education, died on Friday at the Foulk Manor North retirement home in Wilmington. A  lifetime resident of Wilmington, he was 84.
        The cause was a heart ailment, his family said.
        Judge Seitz was serving as Chancellor of Chancery Court of the State of Delaware when he ordered an end to public-school segregation there in 1952, a decision upheld by the Delaware Supreme Court. The case reached the United States Supreme Court and, bundled with cases from Virginia, Kansas and the District of Columbia, became embedded in the historic 1954 decision of Brown v. Board of Education.
        Alone among the consolidated suits, Judge Seitz's decision directly confronted the doctrine underlying racial segregation in the schools, an issue the other judges had approached more circumspectly. He wrote that the very existence of black schools meant that ''the state in this situation discriminates against Negro children.''
        The Supreme Court agreed by ruling that all segregation in public schools was ''inherently unequal'' and denied blacks equal protection under the law as guaranteed by the 14th Amendment. In the unanimous 1954 decision, Chief Justice Earl Warren repeatedly cited Judge Seitz's opinions, particularly in the case of Belton v. Gebhart.
        ''I conclude from the testimony,'' Judge Seitz had written and Justice Warren affirmed, ''that in our Delaware society, a state-imposed segregation itself results in the Negro children, as a class, receiving educational opportunities which are substantially inferior to those available to white children otherwise similarly situated.''
        In a 1984 article Chief Justice Warren Burger praised Judge Seitz's innovations as Chief Judge of the Third Circuit beginning in 1971.
        Collins Seitz graduated from the University of Delaware in 1937 and the University of Virginia Law School in 1940. He was in private practice until 1951, when he became vice chancellor, later chancellor, of the Delaware Chancery Court. President Lyndon B. Johnson named him to the Third Circuit, based in Philadelphia, in 1966, and he was given senior status, with a shortened docket, in 1989.
        He took on the ''separate but equal'' issue in 1950 and in 1952. In both cases he went beyond legal interpretations, using educational and sociological studies to conclude that state-sponsored school segregation by its nature decreed unequal,  inferior education for blacks.
        Nevertheless, he wrote in 1952, the doctrine remained the law of the land, and the United States Supreme Court had yet to recognize such inferiority as a violation of the Constitution. ''It is for that Court to re-examine its doctrine in light of my findings of fact,'' he declared confidently.
        His expectation was met in Brown v. Board of Education, as Chief Justice Warren duly noted.
        Judge Seitz is survived by his wife of 43 years, Virginia Day Seitz; a daughter, Virginia A. Seitz of Washington; three sons, Collins Jr., of Hockessin, Del., Mark T., of Nashville, and Stephen D., of Omaha; a sister, Margaret Jane Seitz of Wilmington, and six grandchildren.
      