
        Jonathan B. Postel, who played a pivotal role in creating and administering the Internet, died of complications after undergoing heart surgery on Friday in St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, his brother Thomas Postel said yesterday. He was 55 and lived in Los Angeles.
        Dr. Postel, a computer scientist at the Information Sciences Institute, a branch of the University of Southern California in Marina del Rey, Calif., was a creator of the Internet's address system. For 30 years he handled the administrative end of Internet addresses under the auspices of  the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority, or I.A.N.A., a federally financed entity.
        ''Jon's greatest achievement was operating I.A.N.A.,'' said Stephen  Crocker, a colleague of Dr. Postel's.  ''It is a very central piece of the  infrastructure. As mundane and as simple as it seemed, he set policies that made it very easy for the network to grow. He minimized bureaucratic delay and at the same time kept silly and nonsensical things to a minimum.''
        Dr. Postel's interest in computers began while he attended a community college in Los Angeles in the 1960's. He once described himself as a ''mediocre student,'' a late academic bloomer whose intense interest in computer science in general, and networking in particular, did not begin until he transferred to the University of California at Los Angeles, where he received his undergraduate degree in engineering in 1966.
        He was one of a small group of computer scientists who created the Arpanet, the precursor to the Internet. At U.C.L.A. in 1969, Dr. Postel assisted in the installation of the Arpanet's first communications switch, which routes network traffic.
        For nearly 30 years, Dr. Postel also served as editor of the Request for Comments series, or R.F.C.'s, technical notes that began with the earliest days of the Arpanet and continued into the Internet. Though intended to be informal, R.F.C.'s often laid the foundation for technical standards governing the Internet's operation. Nearly 2,500 R.F.C.'s have been produced.
        As R.F.C. editor, Dr. Postel was technically rigorous, often refusing to distribute an R.F.C. until he was satisfied that it made good engineering sense and showed tasteful design.
        ''His taste in design was by and large extraordinary,'' said Vinton Cerf, chairman of the Internet Society, a professional group to which Dr. Postel belonged. ''And yet he did it in a way that you were only barely conscious that was nudging you toward better design. As the rest of the Internet unfolds, we're going to discover that Jon isn't there to remind us what good taste means.''
        As part of the effort to hand administration of the Internet over to an international private corporation, this month Dr. Postel delivered to the Government a proposal to transform the I.A.N.A. into a nonprofit  corporation, with broad representation from the commercial and academic sectors.
        The proposed organization has been incorporated and has an interim board of directors. Pending final approval from the Department of Commerce, the new entity is prepared to take up its responsibility, Dr. Cerf said.
        As testament to Dr. Postel's control over the highest levels of the Internet, in conducting a test of the Internet's reliability this year, he rerouted the Internet's directory service to alternate locations. Although there was no disruption of the Internet's operation, the incident attracted widespread attention. Dr. Postel said he was conducting an experiment to demonstrate the network's backup capability.
        Explaining the action, Dr. Crocker said, ''I think he was exercising his  legitimate responsibility to make sure the network worked as advertised.''
        At U.C.L.A. Dr. Postel also obtained a master's degree in engineering in 1968 and a doctorate in computer science in 1974.
        In addition to the Internet Society, where he served as a trustee, Dr.  Postel was a member of the Association for Computing Machinery.
        Besides his brother Thomas, of Sherman Oaks, Calif., Dr. Postel is survived by his his companion, Susan Gould, also of Los Angeles; his mother, Lois Postel, of Sherman Oaks; another brother, Russell Postel, of Sebastopol, Calif., and a sister, Margie Bradshaw, of Paisley, Scotland.
        Dr. Postel assiduously avoided conflicts of interest. In 1995, as the Internet was growing into a commercial business, a reporter asked him why he had repeatedly turned down opportunities to pursue wealth. He replied that starting a company to profit from his activities would have amounted to what he called a ''violation of public trust.''
      