
        Maynard Parker, who as editor of Newsweek helped transform the weekly newsmagazine from a digest of foreign and political events into a publication that put greater emphasis on science, religion, social issues and technology, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 58 and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Parker, who had been suffering from leukemia for the last year, died of complications from pneumonia, said Richard M. Smith, the chairman and editor in chief of Newsweek. Mr. Parker re-entered the hospital in September after closing Newsweek's cover story on the Starr report.
        He was Newsweek's editor for the last 16 years, a time when newsweeklies realized that to survive they had to change, that magazine covers featuring foreign dignitaries no longer sold on the newsstand, that people got their news from other places, especially television, and that magazines had to offer something else: deeper analysis, broader subject matter, articles with a voice and point of view.
        In a television roundtable discussion about newsmagazines last year, Mr. Parker said, ''The economy's good; people aren't worried about threats from abroad.''
        ''They're looking at some other things,'' he said. ''Health. They're looking at religion of all sorts, formal and informal. They're looking at medicine. They're looking at science. They're interested in what's going on around them. They're interested in technologies.''
        Although news media experts have long predicted the demise of newsmagazines, Mr. Parker helped to increase Newsweek's total paid circulation and make the magazine more competitive with Time magazine. Time remains the best-selling weekly newsmagazine, but Newsweek closed the gap, creating real competition between the two publications. Newsweek's circulation increased to 3.2 million in 1998 from 3 million when Mr. Parker took over as editor in 1982. The current circulation of Time is 4.1 million; U.S. News & World Report's is 2.2 million.
        During Mr. Parker's tenure, Newsweek received several honors, including Overseas Press Club awards in 1996 and 1997 for best reporting from abroad and a National Magazine Award for general excellence in 1993.
        Maynard Michael Parker was born in Los Angeles on July 28, 1940. After graduating from Stanford University in 1962, he went on to Columbia University's Graduate School of Journalism a year later and started out as a reporter at Life magazine in 1963. After Army service as an officer in Thailand from 1964 to 1966, he returned to Life as a correspondent in the Hong Kong bureau.
        He moved to Newsweek in 1967, where he continued to cover Hong Kong and went on to become Saigon bureau chief. As bureau chief there and later in Hong Kong, he led Newsweek's coverage of the Vietnam War, including the Tet offensive and the invasion of Cambodia.
        In June 1969, Mr. Parker filed this dispatch from the Mekong Delta:  ''The most striking difference between the Americans and the ARVN [Republic of Vietnam] regulars lies in method. The Americans use what they call 'jitterbug tactics.' At the start of every day, each brigade commander is given a list of 5 to 20 targets chosen by intelligence. The commander gives his orders verbally, the troops pile into helicopters, and the brigade assaults each target on the list until the enemy is located. This approach overcomes the division's most serious problem -- finding the enemy in the first place.''
        He also reported on the second India-Pakistan war, China's Cultural Revolution and America's rapprochement with Beijing.
        He returned to the United States in 1973 to become managing editor of Newsweek International, a new global newsmagazine, and went on to be Newsweek's national editor, assistant managing editor and then executive editor.
        Mr. Parker was named editor in November 1982 and served as chief deputy to Mr. Smith, who became the editor in chief in 1984, before assuming responsibility for daily editorial operations in March 1991, winning the post over Stephen G. Smith, who is now editor of U.S. News & World Report. He also continued to write articles for The Atlantic, Foreign Policy and Foreign Affairs.
        The tall, slender editor is remembered by his colleagues for his military language -- he loved using phrases like ''scramble the jets'' when he moved reporters around the globe to cover a fast-breaking story. ''He was a larger-than-life field general,'' Mr. Smith said, ''wielding all the weapons of the magazine to tell a story.''
        Mr. Parker is also remembered as a driven and dedicated editor who stayed on at Newsweek even after being passed over twice for the top job. His enthusiasm was particularly apparent on deadline, colleagues said, when he was known for making last-minute decisions and savoring every one of them.
        ''What would daunt most people was thrilling to him,'' said Evan Thomas, an assistant managing editor of Newsweek. ''The later, the harder, the better. He was never happier than when we were either at war or on the brink of war.''
        As an editor, Mr. Parker's strength lay in asking the right questions. He grew frustrated when his staff did not work as hard as he did,  and he criticized them for ''leaning on their shovels.'' As a hands-on editor, he was understated; the sum total of his notes on a story often amounted to a simple line: ''Say better pls.''
        Mr. Parker also loved to scoop the competition. In September 1995, for example, after losing out to Time on the right to excerpt the memoirs of Gen. Colin L. Powell, Newsweek obtained an advance copy of the book and raced ahead with a cover story.
        His career was marred by two decisions. In 1983, he pushed Newsweek to publicize the so-called Hitler diaries. After bargaining unsuccessfully for United States publication rights to the diaries from the West German photo-weekly Stern, Newsweek ran an 11-page cover story despite questions about the documents' authenticity. Newsweek's coverage of the diaries included the observation, ''Hitler's diaries -- genuine or not, it almost doesn't matter in the end.''
        When the German authorities later declared the diaries a hoax, Newsweek ran a second cover story suggesting that the magazine had played a major role in uncovering the fraud. Mr. Parker described the experience as the low point in his career.
        In 1996, Mr. Parker was forced to answer for having guarded the secrecy of Joe Klein, then a Newsweek columnist, who had vehemently denied being Anonymous, the author of the best-selling novel ''Primary Colors,'' even as Newsweek published Mr. Klein's denial and speculated about other writers.
        At the time, Mr. Parker said he did not consider it a conflict that his magazine published an item at odds with his own personal knowledge, although in retrospect, he said that perhaps he should have killed or delayed the item. ''I don't think it's a conflict,'' Mr. Parker said in an interview. ''This is not a matter of national security. This is more a matter of who shot J. R.''
        But Mr. Parker's job remained secure. In the wake of the Klein controversy, Mr. Parker's superiors at The Washington Post Company, which owns Newsweek, vouched for his work. Donald E. Graham, the company's chairman, said in 1996,  ''If magazine editors were all free agents, without a second's hesitation I would pick Rick and Maynard'' to lead Newsweek, referring to the magazine's chairman, Richard M. Smith, and Mr. Parker.
        Mr. Parker's first marriage ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his wife, Susan Fraker, an assistant managing editor at Fortune magazine; a daughter from his first marriage, Francesca L. Parker of Beaver Dam, Wis.; two sons from his second marriage,  Nicholas Maynard Parker and Hugh Fraker Parker, both of Manhattan, and his father, C. N. Parker of Bradbury, Calif.
      