
        Mary Main, a novelist who also wrote a highly regarded biography of Eva Peron, died on Nov. 8 at her home in Ridgefield, Conn. She was 95.
        Ms. Main was born to British parents in Buenos Aires, where her father was general manager of the Buenos Aires Western Railway.
        She grew up in privileged Anglo-Argentine society, attending finishing school in England before returning to her home, where she married James Main, a British engineer, in 1927.
        In 1941, the couple moved to the United States and Ms. Main began writing short stories for The Saturday Evening Post, Collier's and other magazines. She published two novels in the late 1940's, and in 1950 Doubleday asked her to write a biography of Eva Peron, who with her husband, Juan, was at the peak of power in Argentina.
        Fearing trouble from the Peronistas, Ms. Main researched the book clandestinely in Argentina and published it under the pseudonym Maria Flores. ''Evita: The Woman With the Whip'' appeared in 1952, shortly after Eva Peron's death.
        After Juan Peron was thrown out of power, subsequent editions appeared under Ms. Main's real name.
        The success of the Andrew Lloyd Webber musical ''Evita'' in the 1970's and the appearance of the movie version in 1996 revived interest in Ms. Main's book, and it was republished several times in the United States and Britain.
        ''I felt compassion, not sympathy,'' Ms. Main said in a 1980 interview in The New York Times. ''Eva did evil things, but she wasn't really evil. She lived a life of fantasy. She was her own creation.''
        As Maria Flores, Ms. Main wrote two other books based on events in Latin American dictatorships: the novel ''The Call From Calle Moreno,'' about a doctor called in to treat a victim of Juan Peron's police, and ''The Benefactor,'' a story inspired by the disappearance of the Columbia University professor Jesus de Galindez, who was widely assumed to have been kidnapped by agents of Rafael Trujillo, the Dominican dictator.
        Ms. Main's eyesight began to fail slowly in the 1940's, but it was many years before she could accept that she was going blind.
        She was totally blind by the early 1960's, but she continued to write, dictating her works on tape and editing by going back and forth from one tape to another. But she published only one more book, ''The Girl Who Was Never Queen,'' a historical novel, in 1962.
        In 1973, she moved to Connecticut to live with her son, Jeremy. She joined the National Federation of the Blind, founding its Stamford-area chapter and serving as its president.
        In addition to her son, she is survived by three grandchildren, two stepgrandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      