
        Javier Garcia Paniagua, a former senior Mexican official whose hard-line views exemplified those of a group within the governing Institutional Revolutionary Party known as the ''dinosaurs,'' died of a heart attack on Tuesday in Guadalajara. He was 61.
        The son of a Defense Minister, Mr. Garcia held many of Mexico's most important posts during the Government of Jose Lopez Portillo, from 1976 to 1982, an era marked by anti-guerrilla campaigns, ultranationalist foreign policies and state-dominated protectionist economics.
        Under the traditional Mexican system in which Presidents pick their own successors, Mr. Garcia was one of Mr. Lopez Portillo's two final choices to become the governing party's presidential candidate in 1982. The President's eventual selection of Miguel de la Madrid, an economist educated at Harvard, marked a watershed in Mexican politics, dividing the PRI into two camps and ushering in an era in which foreign-trained technocrats have dominated the Mexican presidency.
        Mr. de la Madrid was succeeded in 1988 by Carlos Salinas de Gortari, a Harvard-trained economist, who was in turn succeeded by Ernesto Zedillo, a Yale-trained economist, in 1994. All of them have been leaders of the technocrat wing of the PRI, which has faced constant opposition from the party's traditional politicians, who are schooled in populous politics and pork-barrel methods of government and who are called dinosaurs because they have resisted party reforms.
        Mr. Garcia was born on Feb. 13, 1937, the son of Marcelino Garcia Barragan, an army general who became Mexico's Defense Minister during the 1960's. Perhaps because of his long-standing ties to the armed forces, President Zedillo sent Gen. Enrique Cervantes Aguirre, the current Defense Minister, to carry his condolences to Mr. Garcia's family in Guadalajara.
        Mr. Garcia's first public post, during the late 1960's, was as manager of a state-run agricultural bank. But his family ties to power allowed him to rise quickly, and the PRI installed him in the Senate in 1970 when he was only 33 years old, ignoring a Constitutional requirement that senators be at least 35.
        In 1977, the President named Mr. Garcia to head the Federal Security Directorate, the powerful plainclothes police agency. In that post, he directed a violent counterinsurgency campaign that virtually wiped out several leftist guerrilla groups. During the last three years of Mr. Lopez Portillo's presidency, he rose to serve as a deputy Interior Minister, Agrarian Reform Secretary and president of the PRI.
        A year before Mr. Lopez Portillo finally selected his candidate, many newspapers were already suggesting that Mr. Garcia would be the choice, and he made clear in public statements that he expected to be named.  But plunging world oil prices in 1982 sank Mexico into a lengthy debt crisis, and Mr. Lopez Portillo picked Mr. de la Madrid because he wanted a candidate with good relations in the international banking community.
        When he learned that he had been passed over, Mr. Garcia barely contained his fury, and after a three-month stint as Labor Minister, retired from public life. In 1990, he returned to serve as Mexico City's police chief and then to head the National Lottery, but only briefly.
        He lived his last years in retirement in Mexico City, in Guadalajara and at his ranch in Jalisco state.
        Mr. Garcia is survived by his wife, Olivia Morales de Garcia, and six children: Javier, Enoch, Dolores, Olivia, Claudia and Marcelo.
      