
        Dr. George Lee McNew, a plant pathologist who directed the Boyce Thompson Institute for Plant Research for 25 years and negotiated its move to Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y., died on Oct. 30 at a retirement community in Las Cruces, N.M. He was 90.
        The institute was established as an independent research center in 1923 by William Boyce Thompson, a mining magnate, on 38 acres on the Hudson River, near his Yonkers mansion. Foreseeing the world population explosion, he created it for pure research to enhance foods and fibers for future generations. The institute has been a base for research on germination, parasites, plant diseases and the breeding of sturdier, more productive plant strains.
        Dr. McNew arrived at the institute in 1949 and took over as managing director when the once-bucolic Yonkers had become caught up in suburban sprawl, with conditions best used for investigating the effects of air pollution on plant life.
        He was instrumental in bringing about the move to Ithaca under a 1972 state law that enabled the institute to move to new quarters with Cornell's College of Agriculture and Life Sciences. The combination created one of the world's largest centers for plant and related research.
        Dr. McNew retired as managing director in 1974 but remained associated with the institute, with the title of distinguished scientist, until 1978.  He most recently taught at New Mexico State University in Las Cruces.
        A rancher's son from Alamogordo, N.M., he graduated from New Mexico A & M (now State University) in 1930 with a degree in agriculture, majoring in biology. He went on to Iowa State University to earn an M.S.  and a Ph.D. in plant pathology.
        He was a research assistant there, taught at Rockefeller University and did research on agricultural chemicals at the United States Rubber Company before returning to Iowa State as chairman of the botany department in 1947. He was a past president of the American Phytopathological Society.
        His own research focused on plant diseases and on crop pests and their control. A professorial chair in his honor was established at Cornell in 1987.
        He is survived by his wife of 66 years, Anne Elizabeth Mehlhop McNew.
      