
        Lee P. Gagliardi, a senior judge of Federal District Court for the Southern District of New York who presided over the historic trial of two former Nixon Cabinet members, John N. Mitchell and Maurice H. Stans, on criminal-conspiracy charges in 1974, died on Friday at his home in Manchester, Vt. He was 80.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Marian.
        The trial ended with the acquittal of both defendants on all charges. It was the first trial of former Cabinet officials since the Teapot Dome scandal in the 1920's, and it was the first time in the country's history that two former Cabinet officials were tried together.
        Mr. Mitchell had been Attorney General, while Mr. Stans was Secretary of Commerce. The two had also had been leaders of Nixon's 1972 re-election campaign.
        Judge Gagliardi (pronounced Gal-YAR-dee), a native of Larchmont, N.Y., became a senior judge in 1983. A Nixon nominee, he became a judge in Federal District Court for New York's Southern District in January 1972. He had spent relatively little time on the bench when he presided over the 48-day trial. But before becoming a judge he was a trial lawyer in New York for more than two decades.
        He got the Mitchell-Stans trial assignment when his name was picked at random in 1973. The defendants were charged with conspiracy, obstruction of justice and perjury. The Government contended that they had tried to impede a Securities and Exchange Commission investigation of Robert L. Vesco, a financier, in return for a secret contribution of $200,000 in cash that Mr. Vesco made to Nixon's 1972 campaign.
        The Mitchell-Stans trial was the first trial of defendants who had been high-ranking Nixon Administration officials who had at least a tenuous link with the Watergate scandal. The verdict temporarily heartened the White House, where Nixon was the target of a House impeachment inquiry -- arising from Watergate.
        But in 1975 Mr. Mitchell was found guilty of conspiracy, obstruction of justice and perjury and served 19 months behind bars. And in the same year Mr. Stans pleaded guilty to five charges of violating campaign-finance laws and was fined $5,000.
        After becoming a senior judge, Judge Gagliardi sat regularly in courts in Albany and in Vermont and Florida. He continued that judicial work until until early this year.
        He was born and raised in Larchmont and graduated from Williams College. After serving as a Navy officer, mostly on a destroyer in the Atlantic, in World War II, he received a law degree in 1947 from Columbia.
        He went on to spend 7 years as trial lawyer for the New York Central Railroad and 16 years as the chief trial counsel in his father's law firm. It came to be called Clark, Gagliardi & Miller and is based in White Plains, N.Y.
        Besides his wife of 55 years, the former Marian Hope Selden, he is survived by a daughter, Elizabeth Tobin of Delmar, N.Y.; and three sisters, Diana Collins of Carmel, N.Y., and Gloria M. Gagliardi and Mary Ann Dugan, both of Fairfield, Conn., and four grandchildren.
      