
        Wendell Chino, the longtime president of the Mescalero Apache Nation who helped to lift his tribe from tar-paper shack poverty with his persuasive style of ''red capitalism,'' died on Wednesday at the Santa Monica-U.C.L.A. Medical Center in California. He was 74.
        Mr. Chino had suffered from a heart ailment and collapsed while walking on a treadmill at a health clinic in Santa Monica, said Catherine Bedell, a spokeswoman for the Mescalero Apache tribe of New Mexico. Mr. Chino was revived but later died of a second heart attack, she said.
        After more than a century of Federal policies that ranged from extermination to assimilation, Indian nations began in the 1960's to gain a greater degree of self-determination. The movement began in earnest with men like Mr. Chino, the president of his tribe for 34 years, who demanded that the Federal Government honor the treaties it made with Indian nations regarding the use of the land and its resources.
        ''He took stances that affected Indians not only on his reservation, but all over the country,'' said Roy Bernal, chairman of the All Indian Pueblo Council and a member of the Taos Pueblo nation.
        ''In the scheme of the 20th century, it has been said that Wendell Chino was a Martin Luther King or a Malcolm X of Indian Country,'' Mr. Bernal said. ''He was truly a modern warrior.''
        Until the mid-1960's, the Federal Bureau of Indian Affairs had significant control over the Mescalero reservation, 200 miles south of Albuquerque. The agency oversaw everything from mining to lumber to grazing contracts on the reservation, which is home to 4,000 people.
        As those contracts expired, Mr. Chino did not renew them, instead creating lumber and cattle companies controlled by the impoverished tribe.
        With Mr. Chino's guidance, the Mescalero Apache Nation built a ski resort, the Inn of the Mountain Gods, Casino Apache, a timber mill and a metal fabrication plant, as well as Indian schools, a hospital and a health center.
        In 1977, during a court battle in which Mr. Chino was attempting to secure sole control of Mescalero Apache natural resources, he described the problem: ''The white man has raped this land and now he wastes the six million acres of Indian land in this state.''
        Mr. Chino believed Indian people should make decisions about Indian land, a notion he described as ''red capitalism.''
        Mr. Chino's positions could also be unpopular: he split with New Mexico Indian leaders last year, refusing to honor a gambling revenue-sharing agreement with the state.
        ''He did not recognize the state as a legitimate entity,'' Mr. Bernal said. ''He would only deal with the Federal government, nation to nation.''
        Mr. Chino also created a split within the Mescalero community when he invited nuclear power companies to bury their radioactive waste on tribal land in the early 1990's. The tribe rejected the proposal.
        ''His friends were few,'' said James Toulouse, an Albuquerque lawyer who considers himself part of that small circle. ''But folks listened to what he had to say.''
        Even Presidents did not escape Mr. Chino's wrath. He lambasted President Jimmy Carter in 1978 for what Mr. Chino called the President's lack of attention to the economic and political problems of the American Indian.
        ''If Jimmy Carter has time enough to worry about human rights in Latin America and poverty in Africa, he should find some time to visit American Indians,'' Mr. Chino said.
        Mr. Chino, described at times as a benevolent dictator, held tightly to the reins of Mescalero affairs while he traveled the world as a spokesman for Indian issues and served as the president of the National Congress of American Indians.
        Born on Dec. 25, 1923, on the reservation, Mr. Chino was educated in the Santa Fe Indian School System. He attended Central College in Pella, Iowa, and the Cook Christian Training School in Phoenix. He was an ordained minister in the Dutch Reformed Church and a graduate of Western Theological Seminary in Holland, Mich.
        He is survived by his wife, Rita, and son, Mark, both of Mescalero.
      