
        Chris Dundee, who promoted hundreds of fights and turned Miami Beach into a boxing center in a career that spanned six decades, died at the Miami Jewish Home for the Aged on Monday. He was 91.
        Dundee promoted eight world championship fights, including the Miami Beach bout in which Muhammad Ali, then known as Cassius Clay, won the world heavyweight title with a knockout of Sonny Liston on Feb. 25, 1964.
        An older brother of the trainer Angelo Dundee -- both of them are members of the International Boxing Hall of Fame -- he also promoted bouts for such renowned fighters as Sugar Ray Robinson, Jake LaMotta, Ezzard Charles, Archie Moore, Kid Gavilan, George Foreman and Sugar Ray Leonard.
        Born Cristofo Mirena in Philadelphia on Feb. 25, 1907, he changed his last name to Dundee as a teen-ager, following the lead of his older brother, Joe, a club fighter in South Philadelphia at the time, who had taken the name of a noted fighter, Johnny Dundee.
        Dundee dropped out of school at 13, had an abortive stint as a boxer, and then moved to Norfolk, Va., in 1932. It was there that he discovered a naval recruit named Ken Overlin, who possessed a punishing right hand. Overlin became world middleweight champion in 1940, giving Dundee his first national exposure.
        Dundee was later a promoter in Richmond, Washington and New York before setting up his headquarters in Miami Beach. It was 1950 and he quickly put the city -- and his Fifth Avenue Gym -- on the nation's boxing map.
        ''He was Mr. Chamber of Commerce on Miami Beach, because he promoted the first televised fight out of here,'' Angelo Dundee said, referring to the Livio Minelli-Bobby Dykes fight. In 1952, Dundee put together what was believed to have been the first interracial bout in Florida, in which Kid Gavilan of Cuba, who was black, successfully defended his welterweight title against Bobby Dykes. The bout helped break down barriers against interracial fights in the South.
        Dundee's gym in Miami Beach was the center of his operations for more than 30 years. In the 1960's, Ali kept in shape in the three and a half years he was banned from boxing because he refused to register for the draft. Joe Louis and Rocky Marciano also trained at the gym, which was razed in 1993.
        Hank Kaplan, a boxing historian, remembered how Dundee had a keen sense of when to show his face around fight fans.
        ''When he put on a great show, he'd walk out with the patrons and accept all the handshakes and congratulations,'' Kaplan said. ''On the rare occasion he'd have a stinko, he'd hide. You couldn't find him. But his shows usually were class acts. They went like clockwork.''
        As much success as he enjoyed, Dundee never thought the old days were better.
        ''I like boxing better today,'' he said shortly before suffering a stroke in 1990 that incapacitated him. ''Who wants yesterday? Yesterday is gone.''
        But he did not forget the old-timers. Former champions and club fighters alike remembered him for his annual parties on Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.
        In addition to his brother Angelo, Dundee is survived by a son, Michael; a daughter, Suzanne Bonner; his brother Frankie Mirena; a sister, Mary Galone, and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  November 27, 1998, Friday  An obituary of the boxing promoter Chris Dundee on Nov. 17 misstated the name of the Miami Beach gym that was his headquarters. It was the Fifth Street Gym, not Fifth Avenue.
      