
        Francisco Sainz, an artist and member of the Abstract Expressionist circle in New York City and East Hampton, N.Y., died on Oct. 20 in East Hampton. He was 75.
        He had a heart attack while taking his morning walk, his family said.
        Born in 1923 in Santander, Spain, Mr. Sainz, who was called Paco, fought as a teen-ager in the Spanish Civil War and was briefly imprisoned.
        He arrived in New York just after World War II, having become interested in painting while living under an assumed name in Barcelona and working as an apprentice to a fashionable academic painter.
        In New York, Mr. Sainz became friendly with many members of the New York School of painters, including Willem de Kooning, Lester Johnson and Alfred Leslie.
        His style, developed during the 1950's, centered on figures, often in Spanish dress, isolated against colorful landscapes. These images, which had something in common with painters as dissimilar as Alex Katz and William Copley, were rendered in a blunt, somewhat stiff manner and were reminiscent both of 19th-century photography and folk painting.
        Mr. Sainz also painted portraits of saints and historical figures, including George Washington, General Franco and Grandma Moses.
        In the 1960's he had several solo shows with the Dorsky Gallery in Manhattan, including a show in 1969 of painted masks that he had started to make a few years before. His most recent exhibition was at the Morgan Rank Gallery in East Hampton in 1993.
        In East Hampton, Mr. Sainz was known for organizing and acting in plays, playing the harmonica, reciting his poems, officiating at weddings and making an excellent paella, sometimes for as many as 200 people, in a bathtub on the beach.
        Mr. Sainz's marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by a brother,  Jose Miguel Sainz of Santiago, Spain; a daughter, Elena Sainz of  Eugene, Ore.; a son, Daniel, of Lisbon, and four grandchildren.
        Correction:  November 10, 1998, Tuesday  An obituary headline yesterday about the painter Francisco Sainz characterized his style incorrectly. His work drew on traditional portraiture and folk art; it was not Abstract Expressionist, though many of his friends painted in that style.
      