
        William Kennedy Douglas, the Air Force doctor who cared for Lieut. Col. John H. Glenn Jr. and the nation's six other original astronauts, died on Nov. 15 at Lewisville Medical Center in Lewisville, Tex., near Dallas. He was 76 and lived in Albuquerque, N.M.
        The cause was a viral infection, his family said.
        Dr. Douglas fell ill while he and his wife were driving back to Albuquerque from Cape Canaveral, Fla., after watching Senator Glenn return to space with the launching of the shuttle on Oct. 29.
        Dr. Douglas, a lieutenant colonel, took leave from the Air Force from 1959 to 1962 to work for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and became one of the earliest practitioners of space medicine. Assigned to NASA's Manned Spacecraft Center at Langley Air Force Base, Va., he was personally responsible for the medical care and flight preparation of the seven Mercury astronauts. He stayed with NASA through the nation's first four manned space flights, those of Alan B. Shepard Jr., Virgil I. Grissom, Colonel Glenn and Scott Carpenter.
        After leaving the service in 1977 with the rank of colonel, he joined the McDonnell Douglas Corporation as life sciences director to help with the design of an orbiting space station. In 1988, he retired to Albuquerque and the life of an amateur radio operator. He was inducted into the International Space Hall of Fame in Alamogordo, N.M., in 1992.
        Dr. Douglas was born in Estancia, N.M., near Albuquerque, took his premedical training at the University of New Mexico and Texas Western College, and received his medical degree from the University of Texas Medical School in Galveston. He did postgraduate work at the Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health.
        He entered the Air Force in 1949 and was board-certified in aviation medicine in 1956.
        He is survived by his wife, Mariwade McIlroy Douglas; their son, Michael Wade Douglas of Tijeras, N.M., and two grandchildren.
      