
        Tommy Flowers, a British civil servant with a genius for electronics whose pioneering Colossus computers enabled the Allies to decode top-level German military communications in World War II, died on Oct. 28 at his home in London. He was 92.
        The Colossus machines were once described by Mr. Flowers as a ''string-and-sealing-wax affair.'' But they became the capstone of the intelligence operation known as Ultra, which outwitted the Germans and, in the words of Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, ''saved thousands of British and American lives.''
        Soon after Britain went to war with Germany in the summer of 1939, many of its leading mathematicians, cryptographers and technicians were assembled at Bletchley Park, a Victorian-era estate 55 miles north of London. It was there that the German military codes were broken.
        Mr. Flowers was named a Member of the British Empire, receiving a $:1,000 award for the decoding of military messages from the German Enigma machines in the war's early years.
        But his major contribution came in 1944 and 1945, when the computers he designed tackled the codes produced by the more sophisticated German Lorenz machines. The deciphering of those messages, between Hitler's headquarters and his generals, gave the British and Americans insight into German defenses for the D-Day invasion and subsequent battles.
        Thomas Harold Flowers was born on Dec. 22, 1905, in London, where his father installed bakery machines. Early on, he showed a penchant for engineering. As his son Kenneth related, ''When he was age 5 he was told he'd just gotten a baby sister. He said, 'I'd rather have a No. 5 Meccano,' '' a construction kit.
        Mr. Flowers obtained a degree in engineering from the University of London and in the late 1930's experimented with electronic telephone transmissions for the research arm of the British Post Office, which oversaw the nation's communications.
        He was enlisted in the Bletchley Park effort in 1942, although he later developed his computer at the Post Office's Dollis Hill research station in London.
        The British deduced the principals behind the Lorenz codes, but had been frustrated in developing technology for quick decoding. The machine the British were using in 1943 was slow and unreliable, and sometimes caught fire.
        Over a period of nine months, working with several senior engineering aides and a few dozen technicians, Mr. Flowers developed the first large electronic-valve computer, overcoming the skepticism of Bletchley Park officials.
        Colossus measured 16 feet by 7 feet, weighed one ton and was put together partly with standard telephone-exchange parts, the ''string and sealing wax.'' Although primitive by today's standards, it quickly pinpointed the wheel settings used by the Germans' Lorenz machine operators for coded messages, an essential first step in deciphering. Another device then completed the decoding.
        ''As soon as they delivered the machine to Bletchley Park in December 1943, it was a sensation,'' said Prof. Brian Randell of the University of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, an authority on the program. ''It was an incredibly revolutionary idea.''
        Decades later, Mr. Flowers wrote how ''at the time I had no thought or knowledge of computers in the modern sense and had never heard the term used except to describe somebody who did calculations on a desk machine.''
        Churchill's Government wanted 10 Colossus devices delivered by early June 1944, for the D-Day invasion. At least 10 machines were in operation by the war's end, but only one more Colossus could be produced in time for the Allied invasion of Normandy, on June 6. That machine was, however, five times as fast as the first Colossus, which started work the previous December.
        After the war, British authorities dismantled most of the Colossus machines. The very existence of Bletchley Park and the Colossus computers remained secret until the 1970's.
        Mr. Flowers returned to his electronics research for the Post Office and remained there until 1964. He then worked for a division of International Telephone and Telegraph, before retiring in 1969.
        In addition to his son Kenneth, of Beverley, England, he is survived by his wife, Eileen; another son, John, of London, and three grandchildren.
        Professor Randell remembered how Mr. Flowers was ''very quiet and modest'' when finally allowed by British authorities to reveal his accomplishments.
        ''He had to come to terms with the fact that he was now being encouraged to talk about something that he'd been very actively discouraged from almost thinking about for 30 years,'' Professor Randell observed.
        Although recognized by the scientific community, Mr. Flowers remained largely unknown to the British public. Yet his work lives on at Bletchley Park, which is now a tourist attraction. Run by a historic trust, it displays the Germans' Enigma and Lorenz machines. But the centerpiece is a replica of the Colossus computer, which was switched on by the Duke of Kent -- in the presence of Mr. Flowers -- on June 6, 1996, the 52d anniversary of the D-Day invasion, which marked the beginning of the end for Nazi Germany.
      