
        Dick Sisler, a member of a prominent baseball family who gained his own niche in the sport's history with a pennant-winning home run for the Philadelphia Phillies' 1950 Whiz Kids team, died on Friday in his hometown of Nashville. He was 78.
        Sisler had been suffering from pneumonia, his family said.
        When the Phillies faced the Dodgers at Ebbets Field on the final Sunday of the 1950 season, they held a one-game edge on Brooklyn in a bid for their first pennant since 1915. The last time the Phils had won anything, Sisler's father, George, was a rookie first baseman for the St. Louis Browns. The elder Sisler became a Hall of Famer, and now, as an executive with the Dodgers, he was sitting behind the Brooklyn dugout.
        The Phils, who had squandered a large lead in the final two weeks and faced a playoff if they lost that Sunday, were tied with the Dodgers, 1-1, going into the ninth. The game stayed tied when the Dodgers' Cal Abrams was ill-advisedly sent home from second on a single to short center, and the Phils' Richie Ashburn threw him out by a lot.
        In the top of the 10th, Sisler, the Phillies' left fielder and a left-handed batter, came to the plate against the Dodgers' best pitcher, the right-hander Don Newcombe, with two men on and one out. Sisler already had three singles and had scored the Phils' only run although playing with a sprained right wrist that was heavily taped. He was hoping he would not get an inside pitch, because the wrist injury made it hard to connect if he was jammed.
        With the count one ball and two strikes, Newcombe threw a fastball on the outside corner. Sisler hit a drive to the opposite field and, as Abrams watched, the ball landed in the lower left-field seats.
        Sisler had given the Phillies a 4-1 lead, and as he ran toward second base, he jumped up and down, his arms raised in exultation. When he touched home plate, he was mobbed by his teammates. Robin Roberts, Philadelphia's ace starter, retired the Dodgers in order in the bottom of the 10th, and the Phillies were pennant winners after a 35-year drought. They were swept by the Yankees in the World Series, but this team -- known as the Whiz Kids for its mostly youthful cast -- would long be remembered.
        Sisler, a month short of his 30th birthday when he hit his dramatic homer, was one of the oldest Whiz Kids. A native of St. Louis, he made his major league debut with the World Series champion Cardinals in 1946, then was traded to the Phillies before the 1948 season.
        The 1950 season was Sisler's best. He batted .296 with 13 homers and 83 runs batted in and made the All-Star team. But he played only one more year with the Phils before being traded to Cincinnati, then finished his career back with the Cardinals in 1953. Over eight seasons, playing the outfield and first base, he batted .276 with 55 home runs.
        Sisler served as the Reds' manager for part of 1964 and all of 1965, succeeding Fred Hutchinson when he was stricken with cancer. Sisler was later a batting instructor for the Cardinals, San Diego Padres and Mets and a minor league manager.
        He is survived by his wife, Dorothy; a son, Richard; three daughters, Kathleen Hand, Patricia Sweeney and Shari Patterson; two brothers, Dave, who pitched in the major leagues for seven seasons, and George Jr., a former president of the International League; a sister, Francis Drochelman, 10 grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
        Although burdened with the wrist bandage, Sisler had something else with him for his dramatic at-bat that final Sunday in 1950.
        When the taxi he was taking to Ebbets Field with his teammates Del Ennis, Russ Meyer and Willie (Puddin' Head) Jones stopped for a light, a car with a priest in it pulled alongside. The priest recognized the players and offered Sisler a rose, saying it had been blessed.
        Sisler said, ''Father, I'm not a Catholic.''
        The priest replied: ''Take it anyway. Maybe it will bring you good luck.''
        Sisler kept the rose with him during the game and, as he remembered it: ''When I came up to bat in the 10th inning, I thought of the rose in my pocket. I reached in my hand and touched it. I doubt that it had anything to do with what happened afterward, but who knows?''
      