
        Jose Figueroa, a leading Puerto Rican violinist and teacher, died on  Nov. 9 at his home in San Juan, P.R. He was 94.
        Mr. Figueroa was born into a musical family; his father, Jesus Figueroa Iriate, was a composer, and his mother, Carmen Sanabia Ellinger, a pianist. At age 7, he began violin lessons with Henri Ern, a pupil of Joachim. Six years later, he made a concert tour of Cuba and Mexico with Ern.
        Between the ages of 15 and 18, he studied at the Royal Conservatory in Madrid, then transferred to the Ecole Normale de Musique in Paris. His teachers there included Nadia Boulanger and Jacques Thibaud. After graduating, he worked for 12 years as Thibaud's assistant.
        As a performer, meanwhile, he was concertmaster of the Societe des Concerts du Conservatoire, appeared as a soloist throughout Europe and played chamber music with Alfred Cortot, Pierre Fournier and Nathan Milstein.
        At the outbreak of World War II, he moved to New York, where he led the Figueroa Quintet, whose other members were his siblings. He also played in orchestras, including the National Symphony, of which he was concertmaster for a summer season in the mid-1940's. Since 1946, he had used a Stradivarius, a gift from the people of Puerto Rico.
        He returned home in 1958 at the request of Pablo Casals to become concertmaster of the newly formed Puerto Rico Symphony, with which he remained for 32 years. He also played in the Casals Festival Orchestra and taught at the San Juan Conservatory, where his four brothers and three sisters were also on the faculty. From 1960 to 1969, he was the conservatory's dean.
        The Figueroa Quintet continued to play. In 1981, a concert for Mr. Figueroa's 75th birthday assembled four generations of his family. And on his 92d birthday he celebrated by playing with an orchestra of students. He never retired from teaching, and gave lessons from his bed during his  last week.
        Mr. Figueroa's marriage to Renee LaCroix ended in divorce in 1961. He is survived by two sons, Jose Jr., of Alexandria, Va., and Jordan, of McLean, Va.; four brothers, all of San Juan, and two grandchildren.
      