
        Henry Hampton, an Emmy-winning documentary filmmaker whose series ''Eyes on the Prize'' was hailed by many critics as the definitive look at the nation's early struggle over civil rights, died on Sunday in Boston. He was 58.
        Mr. Hampton had the bone marrow disease myelodysplasia, which arose from a treatment for lung cancer. He had surgery last week to repair a hematoma in his brain, said his nephew, Jacob ben-David Zimmerman.
        A lifelong chronicler of the poor and the disenfranchised, Mr. Hampton began his career in 1963 as a spokesman for the Unitarian Universalist Association in Boston, a strong  voice in the civil-rights movement.
        Mr. Hampton's true moment of revelation would come two years later, however, during the ''Bloody Sunday'' march in Selma, Ala. The event, led by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., devolved into violence when police beat some 600 marchers trying to cross the Edmund Pettus Bridge, a moment Mr. Hampton would later credit as inspiring him to undertake ''Eyes on the Prize.''
        Mr. Hampton, who suffered from polio as a teen-ager and walked with a limp, was near the back of the march and watched the violence flare ahead of him.
        ''What he said he realized then was the enormous care and warmth of the people involved in this terrifying event,'' said Judy Richardson, the  associate producer for ''Eyes on the Prize.'' ''He wanted to show their strength, not their weakness,'' she said.
        From the clashes in Selma, Mr. Hampton returned to Boston and in 1968 founded Blackside Inc., a film company whose mission, in his words, was to explore ''democracy, diversity, culture and civil society.''
        Operating out of a book-stuffed office in Boston's South End, the company produced more than 60 documentaries and films on subjects ranging from the life of Malcolm X to the Great Depression.
        In 1976, Mr. Hampton undertook his most ambitious project, a six-hour survey of the civil-rights movement that would eventually be televised by the Public Broadcasting Service in 1987. It was a concept born that afternoon in Selma and fostered by what Mr. Hampton said was a lack of black perspective on the movement.
        The problem with most civil-rights films, Mr. Hampton said in a 1986 interview with The New York Times, was ''that they have always been done by whites who depicted black folks as poor, downtrodden and brutalized primitives.'' His version would show that ''it was the strength of blacks that made the civil-rights movement happen, with support from some whites.''
        Beginning with the lynching of a 14-year-old Mississippi boy in 1954 and continuing through to the signing of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, Mr. Hampton and his crew wove together narration, newsreels and interviews into a series that explored the nation's first steps toward racial equality.
        ''Eyes on the Prize'' would win four Emmy Awards and the Peabody Award for excellence in broadcast journalism. After a brief commercial release, the film was nominated for an Academy Award for best documentary.
        In 1990, Mr. Hampton would return to the subject for ''Eyes on the Prize II,'' an eight-hour look at the civil-rights movement from 1965 to the mid-1980's. It, too, was well received and won two Emmys. The program was immediately preceded by a book by Mr. Hampton and Steve Fayer with Sarah Flynn, ''Voices of Freedom'' (Bantam Books, 1989).
        Mr. Hampton and his company continued to produce a broad range of work, including a seven-hour examination of the Great Depression in 1993 and the five-hour series ''America's War on Poverty'' in 1995.
        His work was widely hailed by political and arts organizations; in 1990, Mr. Hampton received the Charles Frankel Prize from President George Bush for being one of five Americans who made outstanding contributions to the humanities.
        After years of scraping for and charming his way into funding, Mr. Hampton received an $800,000 grant in 1996 from the National Endowment for the Humanities. The fruit of that money was ''I'll Make Me a World,'' about African-American artists in the 20th century, which is scheduled to be shown early next year.
        Mr. Hampton was born in St. Louis, where his father was a surgeon at the city's black hospital and his mother was a homemaker. He received a bachelor's degree in English at Washington University in St. Louis, and later received 14 honorary degrees from universities around the country.
        He is survived by two sisters, Viva Hampton Zimmerman and Judith Hampton, both of New York.
        Correction:  December 12, 1998, Saturday  An obituary of the documentary-film maker Henry Hampton on Nov. 24 misidentified the leader of the ''Bloody Sunday'' civil rights march in Selma, Ala., in 1965, the event that inspired Mr. Hampton's Emmy-winning survey of the civil rights movement, ''Eyes on the Prize.'' The march was led by John Lewis of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee; the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. led a second march two days later.
      