
        James L. Day, a former Marine Corps squad leader who belatedly won a Medal of Honor earlier this year for almost single-handedly killing more than 100 advancing Japanese at the height of the Battle of Okinawa and went on to become an unofficial ambassador of good will on the island, died on Oct. 28 at his home in Cathedral City, Calif. He was 73.
        The cause was a heart attack, family members said.
        Mr. Day did not receive the medal until President Clinton presented it to him last January at a White House ceremony because most of the men who witnessed his gallantry were soon killed in another battle.
        There were snags as well. Over the years, paperwork got lost, then discovered and then lost again. But by 1995, statements from eight witnesses were assembled telling how Corporal Day, who retired from the Marine Corps as a major general, repelled enemy attacks by hurling hand grenades and blazing away with his carbine and a light machine gun. All this despite suffering white phosphorus burns over much of his body (from friendly fire) and fragmentation wounds on his hands when his machine gun overheated and exploded.
        Some waves of enemy infantry consisted of as many as 40 men, according to the citation, and nearly a dozen of them came to within a few feet of Corporal Day's fox hole.
        After being knocked unconscious by an artillery shell, Corporal Day was found surrounded by the bodies of the more than 100 Japanese infantrymen he had killed.
        ''There was really no good reason for me to fall back,'' he said in an interview. ''I expected help to come at any time. It just never came, so I kept doing what I was doing.''
        The action took place on May 14 and 15, 1945. Corporal Day was then a member of the Second Battalion, 22d Marines, Sixth Division, which bore the brunt of the fighting.
        The battle for Okinawa, which began on Easter Sunday, was not only the last but also one of the bloodiest battles of the Pacific war. American and Japanese commanders recognized that the island, only 350 miles south of the nearest of the Japanese home islands, was the final barrier to an invasion of Japan.
        In 81 days of intense fighting, with a sharp increase in the use of kamikaze aircraft, American losses came to 12,500. The Japanese death toll rose to 120,000, and more than 150,000 civilians died.
        General Day returned to Okinawa in 1984 as commanding general of United States Marine Corps bases in the Far East with headquarters in Okinawa. On that tour, he said, he became aware of how little Okinawan cultural property had survived.
        Since his discharge in 1986, he played a major role in returning more than 130 works of art and artifacts that had been removed by Americans during and after the war.
        One of his most important recoveries came in 1991, when General Day secured approval for the return of a 15th-century temple bell seized by marines on Okinawa in June 1945; for the next 45 years, it was exhibited as a war trophy at the Virginia Military Institute in Lexington.
        General Day was praised for his efforts to recover lost Okinawan cultural property by Shizuo Kishaba, president of the Ryuku-America Historial Research Society in Okinawa who flew from Japan to California to attend the funeral.
        ''Our culture was in danger of being erased from the earth,'' Mr. Kishaba said. ''General Day spared us that fate.''
        General Day is survived by his wife, Sally; a daughter, Gayle Eustice, of Barstow, Calif.; and three sons, Bill Day, of Atlanta; Jim Day, of Honolulu, and Matt Day, of San Diego.
      