
        Peter Griffin, who called himself a simple algebra teacher but had such a winning way with numbers that he unlocked the mathematics of blackjack with a wink and became a cult figure to a generation of casino card counters, died on Oct. 18 at a hospital near his home in Sacramento, Calif. Mr. Griffin, who wrote the authoritative ''Theory of Blackjack,'' was 61 and had taught algebra and a good deal more as a professor of mathematics at the California State University there.
        Friends said the cause was prostate cancer.
        To say that Mr. Griffin was a consummate mathematician would hardly do justice to a man who led a life of such meticulous precision that fellow faculty members could set their watches by the times he got his mail, arrived at his office or started home on his bicycle, as he did even when he lived 13 miles from campus. A creature of calculated habit, he not only jumped rope at the same time every day but always with the same rope, one he had found on the street years before.
        Since a grandfather had been a prominent mathematician at Reed College, and his father was an actuary who ended up running an insurance company, the source of Mr. Griffin's mathematical aptitude would seem obvious.
        Mr. Griffin, a native of New Jersey, grew up in Williamsport, Pa., Chicago and Portland, Ore., graduated from Portland State University and received a master's from the University of California at Davis.  Although Mr. Griffin stands as a mathematical giant of blackjack, or 21, as the game is also known, his book exploring and explaining the probabilities of every conceivable situation in the game was not published until 1979, 17 years after Dr. Edward O. Thorp's ''Beat the Dealer'' had presumably exhausted the subject, codifying the basic strategy and establishing that players could gain an actual statistical edge over the house by keeping track of cards as they were played and betting big when the remaining deck was rich in 10's and face cards.
        Mr. Griffin had not even played blackjack until January 1970, when, to gain practical experience for a proposed course on gambling mathematics, he paid a visit to Nevada and promptly got his clock cleaned.
        Like Dr. Thorp, who had had a similar experience in 1956, Mr. Griffin vowed revenge on the casinos.
        Dr. Thorp's book had created a gambling revolution, selling more than 700,000 copies and transforming blackjack from a sleepy diversion for dice players' wives into a high-roller's favorite that now typically accounts for nearly half of casino table-game revenues.
        Mr. Griffin's book extending and illuminating Dr. Thorp's findings had a more specialized appeal, selling fewer than 50,000 copies, and transforming mainly himself.
        The depth of his mathematical analysis, the clarity with which he provided step-by-step explanations of complex calculations, and the book's humor delighted card sharks and mathematicians alike, making Mr. Griffin a highly popular figure among blackjack aficionados and opening up new vistas for him as well-traveled visiting expert at casinos and gambling conferences around the world.
        A sequel of sorts, ''Extra Stuff: Gambling Ramblings,'' was published in 1991 by Huntington Press, which is issuing the sixth edition of ''The Theory of Blackjack'' next month.
        A man of self-deprecating humor, Mr. Griffin could deftly steer virtually any conversation to mathematics but never lorded it over those who found it difficult to understand why, say, in any random group of 35 people the odds are overwhelming that at least 2 will have the same birthday.
        Even accomplished card counters tended to gasp when Mr. Griffin demonstrated his own card-counting skills, keeping six separate running tallies in his head rather than the single high-low counts most card counters can handle.
        For all that, he found blackjack too boring to play for long stretches, as profitable card counting requires, and was resigned to never making a fortune at it.
        But then, the man whose idea of an author's photograph was to pose sitting on an elephant, had little need of a fortune to keep up his spirits. If all else failed there would always be another math problem to chuckle over.
        Mr. Griffin is survived by his wife, Lydia, and a brother, Alan, and a sister, Barbara Dann, both of Salem, Ore.
      