
        Larry Ellis, the head coach of the 1984 United States Olympic men's track and field team, the first African-American head coach in any Ivy League sport and the former president of track and field's national governing body, died Wednesday at his home in Skillman, N.J. He was 70.
        He had been in good health since receiving a heart transplant in 1995. The cause of death was a pulmonary embolism, his daughter Joanne Glenn said. She said he had not felt well since returning Monday from Virginia, where he had given the eulogy at the funeral of an old friend.
        For 13 years, Ellis coached at Jamaica High School in Queens, where his best athlete was Bob Beamon, a future Olympic champion and world record-holder in the long jump. Then, from 1970 to 1992, he coached the men's teams at Princeton -- outdoor and indoor track and field for the first 20 years and cross-country for 22 years.
        Princeton competed in the Heptagonal League, which consists of the eight Ivy League colleges plus Army and Navy. Until Ellis arrived, Princeton had not won a Heptagonal team title since 1938 and had never won a Heptagonal cross-country title, but under his leadership it won 11 titles in track and eight in cross-country.
        Ellis's best athlete at Princeton was Craig Masback, a world-class miler and now the chief executive officer of USA Track and Field, the national governing body. Ellis was the president of that organization from 1992 to 1996.
        Ellis was dignified but with an active sense of fun. When he was elected Olympic coach, he once recalled, ''I didn't jump up and down, but a little guy inside me jumped up and down.''
        In those Los Angeles Games, his team won gold medals from such athletes as Carl Lewis and Edwin Moses. But he was disappointed by the cold war boycott of the Olympics by almost all of the Soviet-bloc nations.
        ''God knows, we need an opportunity to meet our fellow men on a common ground and break down some of these barriers,'' he said. ''We can have a common understanding of what we're doing and an appreciation for each other that will defuse some of the myths that we have about other people. If we let other people see us, they may say, 'Hey, you know, you're not really so bad after all.' ''
        Larry Thomas Ellis was born Sept. 29, 1928, in Englewood, N.J., and was reared in the Bronx. During his high school days, he delivered milk on a horse and buggy -- ''A nice horse,'' he recalled -- from 4:30 to 6:30 A.M., then took a bus home to get ready for school. The bus did not run often, so he started running the two and a half miles home.
        ''Then I decided to wait for the bus and race it home,'' he said. ''I would beat the bus because it had to stop for lights and to pick up passengers.''
        That speed earned him a tryout for the DeWitt Clinton High School cross-country team. He ran his first timed mile in 5 minutes 15 seconds, and a career was born. It continued at New York University, where he was a 1:51.3 half-miler and 4:14 miler and earned a bachelor's degree in physical education and a master's in secondary-school administration.
        Two months ago, he was head coach of the United States men's team in the World Cup competition in Johannesburg. He also coached United States international teams in 1973, '78 and '81. In 1966, a cousin, Stan Wright, became the first African-American head coach of a United States international track and field team.
        Last Friday, at the Heptagonal cross-country championships at Van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx, Fred Samara, Ellis's longtime assistant and successor as Princeton coach, said Ellis looked so good that ''I told him he should run the course himself.'' Ellis laughed.
        ''On spring trips,'' Samara said, ''we would always go to all-you-can-eat places. His appetite was legendary and insatiable, like his appetite for life.''
        Ellis is survived by his wife of 45 years, the former Shirley Beard; a son, Larry Jr. of Oakland, Calif.; three daughters, Lesley Smalls of Skillman, Robin Williams of New York and Ms. Glenn of Montclair, N.J.; a sister, Ginger Robinson of the Bronx, and six grandsons.
        Masback said Ellis was ''far more than my college coach.''
        ''He was a mentor, an inspiration, a leader and someone who very substantially shaped my whole life by his guidance and example,'' Masback said. ''He gave me the belief that I should pursue my dreams. I'll forever thank him for that.''
      