
        Svetlana Beriosova, an incandescent leading ballerina with the Royal Ballet of England for two decades, died on Tuesday at the hospice at St. Charles's Hospital in London. She was 66 and lived in London.
        The cause was cancer, said Patricia Daly of the British journal Dancing Times.
        A taste of caviar in the sumptuous banquet of English ballet dancing of the 1950's and 60's, Ms. Beriosova embodied pure classicism shot through with quietly shimmering mystery. A dancer of almost subliminal contradictions, she was a regal ballerina who projected a warmth that was poignant in its unexpectedness. She was an introverted dancer who could be funny, though she was seldom called upon to be. She was reticent yet eloquent, moving with a Russian ballet amplitude but none of the typical Russian fireworks.
        In her greatest roles, among them Odette, the swan queen in ''Swan Lake,'' Aurora in ''The Sleeping Beauty,'' the title role in ''Giselle'' and the wife of Edward Elgar in Frederick Ashton's 1968 ''Enigma Variations,'' Ms. Beriosova was exquisitely lyrical yet possessed of an innate grandeur.
        The English dance writer Katherine Sorley Walker, writing this year in Dance Now, praised Ms. Beriosova for her ''poise and serenity, her unhurried perfection of line.'' Early in Ms. Beriosova's career, the dance writer Annabel Farjeon described the ballerina as ''one of those rare beings -- the natural dancer,'' adding that ''no amount of training can give this inborn beauty to every pose.'' A. H. Franks wrote of Ms. Beriosova's fluency, of arabesques and attitudes that ''became movement in suspension rather than a cessation of movement.''
        Ms. Beriosova was born in Kaunas, Lithuania, where her father, the dancer and ballet master Nicholas Beriozoff, worked at the Lithuanian State Opera. Ms. Beriosova was a very young witness to the development of the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, where her father danced in the 1930's and where she saw the work of some of the great emigre Russian dancers and choreographers of the time. She trained in ballet first with her mother, who died when she was 10, and then with the noted Russian teachers Anatole Vilzak and Ludmila Shollar in New York City, where the family moved in 1940.
        Ms. Beriosova performed in children's roles with the Ballet Russe and at 15 became an apprentice with the Marquis de Cuevas's Grand Ballet de Monte Carlo. She joined the Metropolitan Ballet in London in 1947, at 15, and despite her inexperience quickly impressed the director, Cecilia Blatch. ''Well, she isn't quite what we need at the moment,'' the director is said to have commented,  ''but in a few months she'll be what everyone needs.''
        While still a teen-ager, Ms. Beriosova was given major roles in classical and contemporary ballets. She joined the second company of the Sadler's Wells Ballet (later Royal Ballet) in 1950, moving on to the first company two years later. She danced with the troupe until 1975, when she retired from the stage.
        Ms. Beriosova never quite became the star that many expected her to be. She lacked self-confidence and had the misfortune to be cast, into the early 1960's, in a string of unpopular second-rate works by leading choreographers. ''She seemed to lack the toughness that can allow an artist to express herself to the full in spite of unhelpful circumstances and depressing setbacks,'' Ms. Walker wrote in Dance Now.
        But Ms. Beriosova seldom failed to make a strong impression in Europe and abroad particularly in the United States, sometimes in small roles that she quietly made her own, like the Tsarevna in ''The Firebird.'' In 1961, she charmed audiences in the title role of Ashton's unsuccessful ''Persephone.'' Her other notable roles included the Bride in Bronislava Nijinska's version of ''Les Noces,'' the Tsarina in Kenneth MacMillan's ''Anastasia,'' the lead female characters in ''Coppelia'' and ''Sylvia.''
        Ms. Beriosova also danced the title roles in Ashton's ''Cinderella'' and ''Ondine'' and lead roles in Ashton's ''Birthday Offering'' and a wide range of other ballets by Ashton and MacMillan and by choreographers including Andree Howard, John Cranko and George Balanchine.
        Plagued by illness and injuries, Ms. Beriosova performed very little in the 1970's. On her retirement from dancing, she became a popular teacher and dancers' coach, working in public onstage in Maina Gielgud's ''Steps, Notes and Squeaks'' in 1978 and 1980.
        Ms. Beriosova's marriage to Mohammed Masud Khan ended in divorce in 1974.
        She is survived by her stepmother, Doris Beriozoff of Zurich.
      