
        Lord Hunt of Llanfairwaterdine, who led the expedition in 1953 in which Sir Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay became the first people to reach the top of Mount Everest, died on Sunday at home in Henley, England, his family said. He was 88.
        Lord Hunt, then Colonel John Hunt of the British Army, was chosen to lead the expedition under highly inauspicious circumstances. Several British efforts had failed to reach the summit and the man previously selected to lead the expedition, the mountaineer and explorer Eric Shipton, had been summarily removed from the post when the Everest Committee of the Alpine Club, which was co-sponsoring the attempt, lost faith in his abilities.
        Instead, the committee turned to Colonel Hunt, an experienced amateur climber with a glittering military record who was seen as a go-getter with the organizational experience to lead the group to success.
        Although Lord Hunt would forever be linked with Edmund Hillary's achievement, he never reached the 29,028-foot summit himself. Forced to turn back after one attempt to climb to the top, he tried again, setting out with Mr. Hillary and Mr. Norgay. But the tubes on his oxygen bottle froze solid, and he had to return to base camp to wait for the others' triumph.
        ''I'd have loved to have got to the top,'' Lord Hunt said later. ''But it is the experience shared that, in the long run, matters to me.''
        Indeed, he was given full credit as the man behind the extraordinary logistical planning needed to carry out the expedition. ''What he achieved with us on Everest was that he had a group of prima donnas who all wanted to be the first to the top, and he made us a team,'' said George Lowe, a mountaineer who was also on the expedition. ''There was no doubt that we all felt a great feeling of comradeship when Everest was climbed.''
        Henry Cecil John Hunt was born in India in 1910, the son of an army captain who was killed in action in 1914, but whose body was not discovered until seven years later. He joined the army, too, signing up with the Royal Rifle Corps serving first in India, where he volunteered for the Indian police at a time of great civil unrest. During World War II, he returned to India and then was sent to Greece.
        A man of great energy, whose languages included French, German, Urdu and Bengali, Lord Hunt was active in later years in a dizzying array of diverse activities. In 1956, he became the first secretary of the Duke of Edinburgh's program that sought to give young people the chance to experience the outdoors. In 1967, he became the first chairman of the newly formed Parole Board of England and Wales. He conducted official inquiries into policing in Northern Ireland and into famine relief in Biafra, and served in the Council for Overseas Volunteers and in the Royal Commission on the Press.
        As he went on, spending many of his vacations trekking in the Alps and climbing new mountains, he amassed many awards: the Indian Police Medal for his work in India; an appointment as Commander of the British Empire for his work in Greece after World War II; a knighthood, along with Sir Edmund, after the Everest expedition, and elevation to the House of Lords as a life peer in 1966. In 1979, he was made a Knight of the Garter. He is survived by his wife, Joy, a former Wimbledon tennis player whom he married in 1936, and by their four daughters.
        Known for his confident charm and flirtatiousness, Lord Hunt also had a reputation for bluntness. Asked by a group of schoolchildren what Sir Edmund had said after reaching the top of Everest, he quoted the explorer as saying: ''We've knocked the bastard off.'' The children were shocked, but Lord Hunt said, ''I think it is better that I told you the truth, even if it isn't what you expected.''
      