
        Roman Cycowski, the last surviving member of the Comedian Harmonists, a legendary German vocal sextet that was forced to break up by the Nazis because three of its members were Jewish, died on Wednesday at his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 97.
        Mr. Cycowski had been cantor at the Temple Isaiah in Palm Springs  for several decades and at the time of his death was still singing there regularly.
        The Comedian Harmonists were formed in 1927 by Harry Frommerman and aspired to be the German answer to a popular American singing group called the Revelers. For  eight years, the group enjoyed enormous popularity, until the Nazis forced them to disperse. The group sang everything from German folk songs to ''Tea for Two'' to Duke  Ellington to the work of classical composers like Brahms and Rossini. One of their special skills was the ability to imitate musical instruments so accurately that when they sang from behind a curtain, audiences could easily mistake them for an actual chamber orchestra.
        Mr. Cycowski, who was born in Lodz, Poland, was trained as a cantor and moved to Germany in 1921 to become an opera singer. When he joined the Comedian Harmonists six years later, he viewed it as a temporary sidetrack to his operatic career. One of the group's three lead singers, he was the only one who was operatically trained. His specialties included ''The Blue Danube,'' a comic number from ''The Barber of Seville'' and a number of folk songs. In 1935, when the group was forced to break up, he and its two other Jewish members formed the Comedy Harmonists in Vienna. The group toured  all over the world.
        He eventually settled in San Francisco, where he served for 15 years as cantor at Beth Israel Temple before moving to Palm Springs.
        The Comedian Harmonists are the subject of an acclaimed three-hour  documentary by Eberhard Fechner,  filmed in the mid-1970's and first shown in the United States in 1991, that weaves together first-person accounts of the group's then-surviving members and their wives. More recently, their story has been made into a feature film, ''The Harmonists,'' to be released by Miramax early next year. Barry Manilow has also written a musical, ''Harmony,'' based on the group's story. A musical play, ''Band in Berlin,'' by Susan Feldman, based on extensive interviews with Mr. Cykowski, is also expected to open on Broadway early next year.
        Mr. Cycowski is survived by his wife, Mary, to whom he was married for more than 60 years.
      