
        Norbert Wollheim, a tenacious Auschwitz survivor who went on to sue the Germans for compensation for his work as a slave laborer, then devoted his life to building a spirited movement of Holocaust survivors, died on Sunday at Long Island Jewish Medical Center. He was 85 and lived in Fresh Meadows, Queens.
        The cause of death was heart failure, said his stepson Peter C. Sprung.
        It is hard for many to imagine that someone who lived through the horrors that Mr. Wollheim endured could sustain so deep a zest for life. His aspirations as a lawyer were shattered by the Nazis' anti-Jewish laws. His pregnant wife and 3-year-old son died at Auschwitz, two of 80 relatives killed by the Nazis. He was one of the 25,000 Jews who were forced to build a synthetic-rubber plant for I. G. Farben, risking extermination in Auschwitz's gas chambers if they collapsed from fatigue.
        Yet, far from succumbing to despair, Mr. Wollheim, upon liberation, built a second family with a woman he met at Bergen-Belsen, a former concentration camp that was later used by the British to house refugees. And he did not stop there.
        In 1951, he sued Farben, one of Germany's largest manufacturers, saying it was a matter of principle that the Germans should pay him for two years of work. Not only did he initially win about $25 a week for himself, but his suit also opened the way for a settlement with Farben that established a fund of $6.43 million to compensate other Jewish laborers. He remained active in work for survivors' claims for much of his life.
        After immigrating to the United States in 1952, Mr. Wollheim, along with Benjamin Meed, Ernest W. Michel and a handful of others, knit together the survivor community at a time when many did not want to dwell on their experience, or felt they were not even entitled to complain.
        The movement produced its most luminous moment in 1981, when 7,000 survivors from around the world -- mostly successful middle-aged men and women who had once endured starvation, degradation and the loss of their families -- gathered in Jerusalem to pay tribute to their dead and affirm the triumph of their own redemption.
        Mr. Wollheim, a courtly, cultured man with a gift for tart understatement, was born on April 26, 1913, in Berlin, the son of a Jew who had fought for the German Army in World War I. When the Nazis made it impossible for Mr. Wollheim to pursue a legal career, he worked for the embattled Jewish community. After the ravages of Kristallnacht in November 1938, he helped arrange and escort transports that took 9,730 Jewish children by train and ferry to safety in Britain. Although some journeys had the cliffhanger elements of an espionage novel, the most painful part for Mr. Wollheim was watching children being separated from their parents.
        ''Nobody knew that, for many, it would be the last goodbye,'' he said 50 years later.
        Mr. Wollheim had been promised that he would be able to get his wife, Rosa, out as well. But war replaced the rescue transports with more lethal ones, and the Wolllheims, who by then had a son, Uriel, were sent to Auschwitz in 1943.
        Mr. Wollheim, whose arm bore the number 107984, spoke with eloquent simplicity about what one interviewer called the ''art of survival.'' He described how he endured by picking lice off his body, keeping himself clean and doggedly obtaining a razor so that he could shave and keep up his morale.
        ''There's no art,'' he said. ''Art is something that has to do with beauty, with ingenuity. I survived because I had a will to survive, a will to tell the world what happened.''
        In the United States, the need for supporting a family that now included two children precluded the study of law, but, working as a bookkeeper, he studied accounting at New York University, was certified in 1962, and built an accounting career that lasted until 1991. When his second wife, Friedel, died in 1977, he married the former Charlotte Sprung from Michigan, who today works with schoolteachers to help them teach about the Holocaust.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Peter, of Boise, Idaho; a daughter, Ruth Wachter of Queens; two stepsons, Peter, of Brooklyn, and Jeffrey T. Sprung of Seattle, and a grandson.
      