
        Frankie (Mr. Zero) Brimsek, the Boston Bruins' Hall of Fame goaltender who was renowned for a remarkable string of shutouts during his first weeks in the National Hockey League, died Wednesday at his home in Virginia, Minn. He was 85 and one of the first American-born players to star in the N.H.L.
        When Brimsek was signed by the Bruins' organization in 1937, his chances of seeing Boston Garden anytime soon seemed remote. A native of Eveleth, Minn., he was a rare American in a game controlled by Canadians. And the Bruins' goalie, Cecil (Tiny) Thompson, was a long-established star.
        But early in the 1938-39 season, the Bruins sold Thompson, a future Hall of Famer, to the Detroit Red Wings for $15,000 and staked their future on Brimsek.
        ''The kid had the fastest hands I ever saw -- like lightning,'' said Art Ross, the Bruins' general manager and coach.
        After playing two games early in the season and then going to the minors, Brimsek returned when Thompson was sold.
        In his first game back, he lost to the Canadiens at Montreal. But then he stopped the Blackhawks in Chicago, 5-0.
        He made his debut in Boston Garden against the Blackhawks before fans stunned by the departure of Thompson. ''That crowd was so quiet that first night that I could hear them breathe and feel their cold eyes on my back,'' Brimsek would recall. ''Tiny was such a great goaltender, I had to be good or they would have chased me right out of Boston.''
        Brimsek also seemed out of place fashion-wise since he liked to wear red pants, although the Bruins' colors then were gold, brown and white.
        But Bruin fans would hardly be looking to chase Brimsek out of town. He beat Chicago, 2-0, and then made it three straight shutouts with a 3-0 blanking of the Rangers.
        By the time he was scored on in his next game, he had put together a stretch of 231 minutes 54 seconds without yielding a goal, besting the record of 224:47 set by Thompson. After that, he reeled off three more shutouts -- one against Thompson and the Red Wings -- giving him six in seven games.
        From then on, he was known as Mr. Zero.
        Brimsek won the Vezina Trophy as the league's top goalie and the Calder Trophy as the best rookie in leading the Bruins to the 1939 Stanley Cup championship. He took the Bruins to another title in 1941 and won the Vezina again in 1942.
        An eight-time All-Star in his 10-year N.H.L. career, he was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in Toronto in 1966 and the United States Hockey Hall of Fame in Eveleth in 1973, the year it opened.
        Brimsek played goalie at Eveleth High School and the college now known as St. Cloud State, then was signed by the Bruins' organization after playing amateur hockey.
        He emerged as a star when the Bruins were an N.H.L. power featuring the famous Kraut Line of Milt Schmidt, Bobby Bauer and Woody Dumart. Seldom leaving his crease, Brimsek was adept at playing the angles. Decades later, he took a dim view of many modern goalies, saying: ''They have no business roaming. They get caught so badly, it's pathetic. They'd be wise to fine the guy $500 for every goal that got by.''
        During World War II, Brimsek played goal for the United States Coast Guard Cutters team out of Curtis Bay, Md. Featuring several N.H.L. players, the team faced top amateur clubs and appeared before large crowds in Boston and New York, accompanied by a 30-piece military band. Later in the war, Brimsek served with the Coast Guard in the South Pacific.
        Returning to the Bruins in 1945, Brimsek was an All-Star three times in the next four seasons. He was sent to the Blackhawks in 1949, then retired after one season in Chicago.
        He returned to Minnesota and worked as a railroad engineer.
        Brimsek is survived by his wife, Marguerite; two daughters, Chris Mucci of Virginia, Minn., and Karen Carlson of Eveleth, and five grandchildren.
        Mrs. Mucci said that her father retained a keen interest in hockey in his later years and was still remembered for his rookie feat of the late 1930's.
        ''He had three or four letters a week,'' his daughter said, ''and it's always to Mr. Zero.''
      