
        Allan Raymond Johnson, a former chairman of Saks Fifth Avenue who helped shepherd the elegant department store through an era of rapid expansion, died on Thanksgiving Day at the Mary Manning Walsh nursing home in Manhattan. He was 82 and had lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications from a stroke, his family said.
        During his years at Saks, Mr. Johnson was involved in the renovation or addition of nearly two dozen stores, said his daughter Susan Johnson.
        Mr. Johnson, the son of a Saks executive, joined the store as personnel director in 1945 and held a variety of senior executive posts until he was named executive vice president in 1961. In 1969, when his mentor, Adam Gimbel, retired, Mr. Johnson became the store's chairman.
        One year later, he was given the added title of chief executive; he held that job until 1978, when he was named a senior vice president of Brown & Williamson Industries, then the store's parent company.
        He continued to serve as chairman of Saks until 1979, when he was appointed chairman of the Batus Retail Division, then the corporate owner of Saks Fifth Avenue and Gimbel Brothers. Saks Fifth Avenue was run for four decades by the Gimbel family, until 1969.
        Mr. Johnson was a popular executive who maintained a warm, familial atmosphere at the store, said Helen O'Hagan, a former vice president of public relations. He organized a glee club for employees and held dinners to honor longtime employees, she said. ''It was really like a very big family,'' Ms. O'Hagan said.
        Mr. Johnson's personal touch -- what might be considered paternalism today -- was credited with helping prevent his employees from unionizing despite several organizing drives.
        After his retirement in 1981, Mr. Johnson served on corporate boards, including those of Viacom International Inc. and Shearson Lehman Investments (now Salomon Smith Barney). He also served as chairman of the New York Convention and Visitors Bureau, the National Retail Merchants Association and the Fifth Avenue Association. But his family said that the organization he was most devoted to was the Boy Scouts of America.
        Mr. Johnson was divorced three times and is survived by his fourth wife, Maria Toia Johnson, whom he married in 1980. In addition to Ms. Johnson, who lives in Riverdale, he is survived by three other daughters, Jane Fell of Rochester Hills, Minn., Kathy Jones of Los Angeles and Barbara Hobin of Worcester, Mass.; a brother, Patrick Raymond Johnson of Boston; seven grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      