
        Jonathan Kwitny, a journalist and author whose subjects were as varied as Mafia forays into board rooms and papal biography, died on Thursday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 57 and lived in Cuddebackville, N.Y., and Manhattan.
        The cause was stomach cancer diagnosed in July, said a friend, a fellow writer Anthony Scaduto.
        Mr. Kwitny's latest book was ''Man of the Century: The Life and Times of Pope John Paul II'' (Holt, 1997). In it, Mr. Kwitny melded journalism and history to chronicle not merely a life but also the world events that surrounded the Pope's tenure.
        A decade ago, Mr. Kwitny and a producer, Tom Naughton, created ''The Kwitny Report'' for the Public Broadcasting System. Backed by a team of reporters, Mr. Kwitny wrote and narrated the weekly national half-hour news program, which won a George Polk Award for investigative reporting in 1990.
        Jonathan Kwitny was born in Indianapolis, graduated from the University of Missouri in 1962 with a journalism degree and received a master's degree at New York University in 1964. He started a newspaper career working as a reporter for The Evening News of Perth Amboy, N.J., from 1963 to 1969, with two years out as a Peace Corps volunteer in Nigeria.
        In 1971, he joined The Wall Street Journal as staff writer producing front-page columns and articles about national and international topics. He stayed with The Journal until his move to PBS in 1988. Most recently, he worked for the Gannett newspaper group guiding Trenton coverage for its New Jersey papers. He also served as a consultant on Pope John Paul for ''NBC Nightly News.''
        Mr. Kwitny is survived by his wife of five years, Wendy Wood Kwitny; two sons, James W., 22 months, and Peter B., 5 months old; two daughters by a previous marriage, Susanna Lynn Kwitny of Norwalk, Conn., and Carolyn Romasz of Saratoga, N.Y.; his mother, Julia Goldberger Kwitny of Indianapolis, and one grandson. His first wife, Martha Kaplan Kwitny, died in 1978.
      