
        Red Holzman, the Hall of Fame coach who led the New York Knicks to their only two National Basketball Association championships, died last night at Long Island Jewish Hospital. He was 78.
        Holzman, whose wife, Selma, died in July, died of complications from leukemia, according to their daughter, Gail.
        When he retired from coaching in 1982, Holzman was the second-winningest coach in N.B.A. history, with a .535 winning percentage. His 696 victories in regular-season play were second then only to Red Auerbach's 938, and the number of his triumphs as a Knick coach -- 613, by far the most in club history -- was retired on a Knick jersey and raised to the Madison Square Garden rafters in 1990.
        Holzman was the molder, conductor and architect of one of the most unusual, most thrilling and, for the involved basketball fan, most gratifying teams ever assembled.
        The 1970 and 1973 championship Knick teams -- the team lost in the finals in 1972 -- featured, in one or both seasons, Willis Reed at center; Bill Bradley, Dave DeBusschere, Cazzie Russell and Jerry Lucas at the forwards, and Walt Frazier, Earl Monroe and Dick Barnett at the guards. The teams brought an excitement to the Garden that the so-called Mecca of Basketball had rarely seen from hometown professional play.
        The Knicks beat the Los Angeles Lakers of Wilt Chamberlain, Jerry West and Elgin Baylor in a grueling seven-game series for their first title, and Holzman was named coach of the year. They beat the Lakers again in 1973, this time in five games.
        Holzman was voted to the Basketball Hall of Fame in Springfield, Mass., in 1991, on the strength of his ability to successfully instill the basic precepts of the game into his team, and that was teamwork.
        ''I don't think there is such a thing as a coaching genius,'' Holzman said, ''just hard workers.''
        Holzman's hard work revolved around the fundamentals of the game.
        ''I stressed defense -- pressure defense,'' he once said. ''And team basketball. And, on offense, moving the ball to hit the open man.'' In huddles he would sometimes let his players devise plays to create baskets. As for defense, however, he was the sole voice.
        Holzman, a City College of New York all-American, a pioneer player in the N.B.A. with the Rochester Royals and a former coach with the Milwaukee and St. Louis Hawks, had been a scout for the Knicks when, in December 1967, the team owner, Ned Irish, decided to replace the coach, Dick McGuire. The team was in last place, and Irish decided to reach out to the nearest candidate, which he presumed to be Holzman.
        Holzman was not interested. ''I like scouting,'' he said. But Irish persisted. ''And I realized that if I didn't take the coaching job,'' Holzman said, ''I might not have any job.''
        Holzman began his Knick reign by fining several players for coming late to his first practice. The fines were for $10 each, but they set a tone.
        To some, Holzman could be quite tough.
        ''During Red's early years, he was by design a superauthoritarian,'' Bradley said, ''and I was one of his targets for abuse. I would go for days without speaking to him. But his manner changed after we won the championship in 1970, and he became downright paternal and kind. Playing basketball became more fun than I had ever imagined.''
        But on the sideline, the tail of Holzman's suit jacket flapping in the imaginary wind, he could be vociferous, particularly to referees. But he always seemed to keep his poise and sense of humor.
        On the surface, Holzman seemed an uncomplicated man, but he had many layers. He liked to tell reporters that he was boring, and that they should look elsewhere for the good stories. One writer wrote a column in which he imagined Holzman disappearing in his office in a cloud of humility. But indeed he understood his value, and had a wide range of interests: he read history books and detective novels, and he was a lover of films, particularly the old ones, and of good food and drink.
        He and his wife bought a house in Cedarhurst, N.Y., in the affluent Five Towns area of Long Island in the 1950's, and stayed there all their lives, raising Gail, their only child. But the house was as understated as Red Holzman's life seemed -- away from the basketball court, that is.
        For a long time, the television in their den was not color. ''What's wrong with black and white?'' he asked.
        He had nine suits, he said, all the same color. ''Who's looking?'' he wanted to know. He ordered his clothes by mail. ''They know my size,'' he said.
        And he was a street philosopher of sorts, with such homemade axioms as ''Never let a bald barber cut your hair, he has no respect for it.
        After the Knicks made the playoffs in the season in which Holzman took over the club, he agreed to stay on as coach. In December of the next season, the team traded for DeBusschere, giving the Knicks a tremendous force around the basket, as a defensive forward and long-range shooter. It was the piece that made the difference.
        Later, Holzman helped to engineer a trade that brought Monroe to the Knicks. Many thought the Knicks would need two basketballs, with Frazier and Monroe both needing to handle the ball in the backcourt. But under Holzman's guidance and team orientation, the players fit in perfectly.
        William Holzman was born on Aug. 10, 1920, on the Lower East Side of Manhattan and moved with his family to a tenement in the Ocean Hill-Brownsville section of Brooklyn when he was 4 years old. His parents were Jewish immigrants, his mother from Romania, his father from Russia. His mother, Sophie, was, he said, ''a terrific cook and made every meal taste as if you were eating it for the first time in your life.'' His father, Abraham, was a tailor, and, like many Jewish parents, discouraged his son from playing sports.
        But young ''Roita,'' as he called him, which was Yiddish for Red -- Yiddish was the language Holzman grew up with -- became a standout athlete at Franklin K. Lane High School (which in 1977 named its new sports facility the William Red Holzman Gymnasium).
        Red was the tallest person in his family, at 5 feet 10 inches. He received a basketball scholarship to the University of Baltimore. ''But I missed the soul food that my mother made, and I was always hungry,'' he recalled. ''I missed my folks. I missed Selma. And after six months I transferred to City College of New York.''
        He became an all-America guard for two seasons there for the legendary taskmaster-coach Nat Holman, whose basketball philosophies of aggressive defense, movement without the ball, and hitting the open man Red would bring to perfection in his time as a coach.
        In 1942 he enlisted in the Navy and was placed in the morale unit at the Norfolk Naval Base. His job was to play basketball against other service and college teams, and he became friendly with a baseball player on the base, Phil Rizzuto. On one weekend pass, he returned to Brooklyn and married Selma.
        Holzman went on to play nine seasons for the Royals, playing alongside such stars as Bobby Davies and Bobby Wanzer. He was an integral part of the N.B.A. championship team that beat the Knicks in a seven-game finals series in 1951 -- and was dribbling the ball, killing the clock, protecting the 4-point lead at game's end.
        He played briefly for the Milwaukee Hawks -- he finished his career with a 7.4-point scoring average and then took over as coach when the franchise moved to St. Louis in 1955 -- until midway through the 1956-57 season when, despite having taken the team to the playoffs the season before, he was replaced.
        In 1959 Holzman was hired as chief scout for the Knicks, a move engineered by his pal Fuzzy Levane, then the coach of the Knicks. In an age before mass communications allowed for few secrets of prospects, Holzman beat the bushes, traveling all over the country in search of possible players. His recommendations included players like Reed and Frazier.
        Holzman became general manager and coach of the Knicks and repaid a favor by hiring Levane as scout. But when the great Knick teams began to dissolve because of age and injuries, Holzman was fired in 1977 after the team missed the playoffs for the second straight year, and was replaced by Reed. Two years later he was brought back as coach and remained until after the 1981-82 season. With a new set of players, Holzman, then 62 and the oldest coach in the league, was unable to duplicate his earlier triumphs.
        He remained a consultant to the Knicks, and a valued elder statesman.
        He is survived by his daughter and one grandchild.
        Through the good days and bad, Holzman retained his sophisticated yet homespun composure. In winter he played mixed tennis doubles (''the women usually beat me, but I give them a workout'') and in summer he regularly went to an oceanside club near his home. ''I like to go to the beach,'' he said, lighting up a cigar. ''It's a good life.''
      