
        Valentin M. Berezhkov, a Russian who interpreted for Stalin and Molotov at conferences that they, Roosevelt and Churchill attended during World War II, died last Friday at his home in Claremont, Calif. He was 82.
        At his death he was the Diane and Guilford Glazer Distinguished Visiting Professor at Occidental College in Los Angeles.
        ''I have had the good fortune to be witness to some of the events that have helped shape our century,'' Dr. Berezhkov wrote in his volume of memoirs, ''At Stalin's Side: His Interpreter's Memoirs from the October Revolution to the Fall of the Dictator's Empire'' (1994, Carol). He was also a Soviet diplomat and a journalist during the Soviet era.
        But in 1991, with the Soviet system disintegrating, he and his wife Valeria moved to Claremont, Calif. He went on to teach at Pomona, Pitzer and Harvey Mudd Colleges, which are all in California, before going to Occidental. The subjects he taught included World War II and the cold war. He also lectured widely about Russia and about Russian-American relations.
        In his book Dr. Berezhkov, a tall, strapping man with flowing white hair, recorded his impression of Stalin when he first saw him, late in 1941 in Moscow. At that time Dr. Berezhkov was a promising young interpreter. He had been picked to work for Stalin, who was meeting with a British-American delegation.
        ''When I took a look at him, I felt a shock,'' Dr. Berezhkov wrote. ''He was completely unlike the image of Stalin I had formed in my mind. He was short and haggard, his tired face, covered with smallpox scars, was the color of the earth. His uniform hung loosely on his lean frame.''
        Dr. Berezhkov also recalled: ''Stalin always treated me in the same, even indifferent, manner. Sometimes it seemed to me that he was looking right through me.'' But he described Stalin's fury after he was kept awake by a blind peasant's barking dog: he ordered a guard to kill the dog, saying that if he failed to do so, ''I will order you killed, too.''
        In an interview after the book came out, Dr. Berezhkov recalled that sometimes Stalin would ask a nervous subordinate suspiciously: ''Why don't you look me in the eye? What are you afraid of? Why are your eyes shifting around?''
        Dr. Berezhkov also wrote that just before Stalin met with Roosevelt at the Teheran Conference in 1943, the Soviet leader paid careful attention to the placing of the furniture, and ''It occurred to me he might be nervous before his meeting with Roosevelt.'' But when the two leaders got together, he recalled, ''They asked about each other's health, spoke about the harm of smoking and the benefits of fresh air. It was beginning to look like a meeting of old pals.'' At the conference, attended also by Churchill, agreement was achieved about the extent and scheduling of military operations against Germany.
        Dr. Berezhkov was born in St. Petersburg, studied English and German and received an engineering degree in 1938 from the University of Kiev. After serving in the Soviet Navy he went on to become an aide to Molotov, the Soviet Foreign Minister, and an official of the Soviet Embassy in Berlin in the period leading up to the German invasion of the Soviet Union in 1941.
        Late in 1940 he accompanied Molotov to Hitler's office in Berlin and shook hands with Hitler. ''His palm was cold and damp,'' he wrote in the book, ''giving me an unpleasant sensation, as if I were touching a reptile.''
        After the war Dr. Berezhkov became a journalist in the Soviet Union and rose to be a high editor of the foreign affairs weekly New Times and of the journal U.S.A. Economics, Politics and Ideology. In 1974 he received a doctorate in international relations from the Soviet Academy of Science in Moscow. From 1978 to 1983 he was a high official of the Soviet Embassy in Washington.
        Dr. Berezhkov's 1940 marriage to his first wife, Galina, ended in divorce.
        Besides his second wife, Valeria, whom he married in 1966, he is survived by two sons, both of Moscow: Sergei -- who interprets for President Boris N. Yeltsin and for Prime Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov of Russia -- and Alexei; and five grandchildren.
      