
        Marion Donovan, a onetime Connecticut housewife who had to change one damp diaper too many, died on Nov. 4 at Lenox Hill Hospital near her home in Manhattan. She was 81 and had helped spearhead an industrial and domestic revolution by inventing the forerunner of the disposable diaper.
        Her family said the cause was heart disease.
        Disposable was not what Mrs. Donovan had in mind in 1946 when her second daughter came along and proved as maddeningly reliable as the first: Put her down for a nap and by the time the light was out her diaper would be wet, and her clothes and crib sheet would soon be soaked and in need of changing.
        With cloth diapers serving more as wick than sponge, and with rubber baby pants virtually assuring a nasty case of diaper rash, Mrs. Donovan started looking for a way to hold the dampness in without keeping the air out.
        It's not that she was immune to the joys of motherhood. After all, after marrying James Donovan, a leather importer, and starting a family, Mrs. Donovan, a 1939 graduate of Rosemont College near Philadelphia, had willingly given up her job as an assistant Vogue beauty editor in New York and moved to Westport, Conn.
        It's just that unlike many stay-at-home mothers of the day Mrs. Donovan, as befitting a woman who would eventually obtain more than a dozen patents, had a genetic weakness for invention. As students at Purdue, her Irish-born father, Miles O'Brien, and his identical twin brother, Richard, had invented the South Bend lathe, an ingenious device that proved so useful for grinding automobile gears and the like that the brothers made a fortune turning them out in a factory in South Bend.
        Mrs. Donovan also benefited directly from her father's ingenuity. When her mother died when she was 7, he offhandedly invented the take your-daughter-to-work movement. The Fort Wayne Lathe Works became little Marion O'Brien's after-school home and she grew up absorbed by complicated machinery.
        At college, she majored in English literature, a parallel interest that had no doubt been sharpened when her father and uncle produced a little book, ''How to Operate a Lathe,'' in 1930 that sold 1.5 million copies in 78 countries.
        In her quest for a dampless diaper, Mrs. Donovan was in the bathroom one day when the shower curtain caught her eye and a lightbulb went off in her head. Before you could say waterproof material, the curtain was missing a panel and Mrs. Donovan was up in the attic at her sewing machine. Three years and many shower curtains later she came up with the Boater, a re-usable diaper cover made of surplus nylon parachute cloth.
        In addition to solving the soak-through diaper problem, Mrs. Donovan, made another major advance in diaper technology: replacing the optimistically named safety pins with plastic snaps.
        The moisture-proof diaper covers were an immediate sensation when they went on sale at Saks Fifth Avenue in 1949. By the time her patents came through in 1951, she had sold their rights for $1 million and moved on to her next brainstorm: replacing cloth diapers with disposable absorbent paper.
        As a striking woman who was forever being likened to Myrna Loy when she wasn't being likened to Rosalind Russell, Mrs. Donovan had no trouble getting in to see top executives of leading paper companies. But when they heard her idea, they laughed. As a result, it was a decade before a grandfather named Victor Mills completed her mother's work and perfected Pampers, the first mass-produced disposable diaper.
        By then Mrs. Donovan's diaper days were over, but her inventing days were just beginning. When it came to finding inspired solutions to mundane problems, she was incorrigible. She reacted to an overstuffed closet, for example, by inventing the Big Hangup, a hanger that could accommodate 30 skirts or slacks in a compact space, and she solved the affront of rancid, semi-congealed soap festering in the bottom of a soap dish by inventing a wire soap holder that attached to the overflow opening and drained directly into the basin.
        She got so wound up she even reinvented herself. She obtained an architecture degree from Yale at 41 in 1958. Then, after working with a Fairfield firm and designing her own house in Greenwich, she returned to inventions, including Zippity-Do, an elasticized zipper pull that allowed a woman to zip up the back of a dress by pulling down from the front.
        When she saw her second husband, John F. Butler, flossing his teeth one day, she realized how painful and ungainly it was to wrap the ends of a length of dental floss tightly around one's index fingers to pull it taut. So she solved the purple finger problem by inventing Dentaloop, individual precut circles of two-ply dental floss that could be manipulated like a cat's cradle without cutting off digital circulation.
        Mr. Butler died in July.
        She is survived by two daughters, Christine Donovan of Manhattan and Sharon Dodd of New Orleans; a son, Dr. James F. Donovan Jr. of Oklahoma City, and three grandchildren.
      