
        William J. McCarthy, a New England labor leader who served a term as national president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters when the union was fighting Federal racketeering charges, died on Thursday at Symmes Hospital in Arlington, Va. He was 79 and lived in Arlington.
        Mr. McCarthy was president of Local 25, New England's largest teamsters union, for 35 years before he lost a re-election bid to a reform candidate in 1991. That year, the end of his four-year term as national president, he had chosen not to run for the office in the first election by the rank and file in the union's 90-year history. Until then, the national presidents were chosen by a small circle of insiders.
        The following year he also stepped down as head of Joint Council 10, which he had run for 20 years. The council is an umbrella group of 40  unions with nearly 40,000 members throughout New England.
        Mr. McCarthy, who was named national president of the teamsters in 1988, was the last teamsters chief picked without a vote by the membership. In 1989, under Mr. McCarthy's leadership, the teamsters agreed to Federal oversight of their activities. In return, the Government agreed not to prosecute the teamsters on Federal racketeering charges. Mr. McCarthy agreed to the settlement reluctantly, he said at the time, contending that the union deserved ''vindication and exoneration'' from the Government's corruption claims.
        In 1991 the 1.6 million teamsters were enfranchised for a federally supervised vote that brought many reformers to the fore.
        The candidate for president preferred by Mr. McCarthy lost to a reform candidate, Ron Carey, who was expelled from the union this year because of an illegal scheme to finance his re-election campaign in 1996.
        Mr. McCarthy's 1984 bid for the second spot in the union's national hierarchy failed amid accusations that he had sought the support of mob allies in order to manipulate the appointment. The accusations were made by Jackie Presser, Mr. McCarthy's predecessor as national president and an informer for Federal law officials.
        Mr. McCarthy denied the accusations, and the case was closed.
        William McCarthy was born in Boston and became a teamster at age 17, driving a rig on the Boston-to-New York run. In 1946, after 10 years at the wheel, he became business agent for Local 25, based in Boston, and its 7,000 members. He quickly rose through the ranks, becoming president of the local in 1955 and a vice president of the national union in 1969.
        Mr. McCarthy is survived by his wife, Audrey; two daughters, Rosemary Treacy and Anne Prendergast, both of Sudbury, Mass.; two sons, Lawrence Pope of Sudbury and Thomas C. Pope of Marlborough, Mass.; a brother, John, of Chelsea, Mass.; and 11 grandchildren.
      