
        Perry H. Young Jr., an aviator whose career spanned more than 50 years and who was the first African-American pilot for a commercial airline in the United States, died on Nov. 8 at the Horton Medical Center in Middletown, N.Y. He was 79.
        Mr. Young, who lived in Pine Bush, N.Y., had cancer, said his wife, Shakeh Young.
        His historic flight occurred on Feb. 5, 1957. With Mr. Young as the copilot, a 12-passenger New York Airways helicopter rose three feet, hovered gently for a moment, then soared straight up from La Guardia Airport. Nine minutes later, the snub-nose helicopter landed at Idlewild Airport, ending the racist notion ''that blacks could not fly,'' said Perry Jones, the former chairman of the Organization of Black Airline Pilots.
        Up to that point, commercial airlines had refused to hire blacks in any on-board capacity, even though African-Americans had distinguished themselves as capable aviators during World War II.
        During the war, Mr. Young had also been one of the first black flight instructors in the United States Army Air Corps. Assigned to the 99th Pursuit Squadron, a black unit, he taught more than 150 pilots, many of whom saw action during the war. The squadron was highly decorated and went on to become part of the Tuskegee Airmen.
        ''Very few of us knew anything about flying -- few blacks did -- and we thought our instructors were going to be white,'' said Lee A. Archer, 77, an African-American fighter pilot who destroyed more enemy planes than any other in the squadron.  ''When I saw men like Perry Young, I was surprised and proud. They were like minor gods to me.''
        After the war, when the commercial industry was unwilling to open its doors, Mr. Young went to the Caribbean to fly. Over the next 10 years, he was in Haiti, Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands, working in various capacities: the owner and operator of his own commercial flight service, a contract pilot and a flight mechanic. During that time he earned his helicopter pilot's license.
        In December 1956, 17 years after he had earned his first pilot's license, Mr. Young was hired by New York Airways in an aggressive campaign to break the color barrier in the commercial airline business. Within months, he rose to captain and flew  with the company for 23 years until it declared bankruptcy in 1979.
        ''He was both an airplane and helicopter pilot,'' said Mr. Jones, 63. ''He would have preferred to fly planes. But at that time, if your skin was dark, so were your chances of becoming a pilot of any kind.''
        After Mr. Young was hired by New York Airways, other men became emboldened to challenge the status quo. Marlon Green, a former Air Force captain, took Continental Airlines all the way to the Supreme Court in 1963, winning a landmark judgment that opened interstate commercial airlines to black pilots.
        Mr. Young took his first airplane ride in July 1937 in his hometown of Oberlin, Ohio, just days after Amelia Earhart had disappeared while trying to fly around the globe.
        After that first ride, Mr. Young began taking flying lessons. He worked odd jobs while attending courses at Oberlin College, earning $9 a week to pay for flying lessons that cost $5.25 for 20 minutes. He earned his private pilot's license in 1939 and dropped out of college a year later to pursue a career in aviation.
        ''It was not easy,'' Mrs. Young said. ''There was a lot of hurt but he never wore it on his sleeve.''
        Besides his wife, Mr. Young is survived by a son, Perry H. Young 3d of New York City; a daughter, Linda Young Ribeiro of Accra, Ghana, and three grandchildren.
        Correction:  November 27, 1998, Friday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Nov. 11 about Perry H. Young, an early African-American airline pilot, misstated the precedent he set. In 1956, he was the first black pilot for a regularly scheduled American commercial passenger airline. Another African-American, August Martin, had flown earlier for chartered passenger and scheduled cargo airlines.
      