
        Gerard Grisey, one of the most important French composers of the generation after Pierre Boulez, died Wednesday in a Paris hospital. He was 52.
        The cause was a stroke, the French Consulate said.
        Mr. Grisey was born in Belfort, France, and studied from 1963 to 1965 at the music high school in Trossingen, Germany. He then entered the Paris Conservatoire, where he was a member of Olivier Messiaen's class from 1968 to 1972. He also had lessons with Henri Dutilleux at the Ecole Normale de la Musique in 1968, began work on electroacoustics with Jean-Etienne Marie in 1969, and in 1972 attended the Darmstadt summer school, where Karlheinz Stockhausen, Gyorgy Ligeti and Iannis Xenakis gave courses. As a winner of the Rome Prize, he spent the next two years in the Italian capital.
        Among his fellow students in Messiaen's class were Michael Levinas and Tristan Murail, and the three composers remained close. Together they formed the group L'Itineraire in 1976 and pioneered what they called ''spectral music,'' in which harmonic spectra became the focus of interest. In Mr. Grisey's case, the result was often a gradual, probing search through the resonances of an actual or imaginary sound, a kind of echo chamber music, profiting from his further studies in acoustics with Emile Leip at the Faculty of Sciences in Paris.
        ''I see sounds,'' he said, ''as beams of force oriented in time, infinitely mobile and fluctuating.'' Metaphors of darkness (complex spectra) and light (pure harmonic spectra) became important to his music, notably in two works for ensemble and electronics: ''Modulations'' (1976-77), which Mr. Boulez took up and recorded, and ''Jour Contre-Jour'' (1978-79).
        In 1980 he became one of the first composers to work at Mr. Boulez's research institute in Paris, Ircam, where he produced ''Les Chants de l'Amour'' for 12 voices and electronics (1982-84). A West German Government scholarship took him to Berlin in 1981, and he taught at the University of California at Berkeley from 1982 to 1986. There he completed the concert-length cycle, ''Les Espaces Acoustiques,'' whose forces grow from a solo viola in ''Prologue'' (1974) to full orchestra with four solo horns in ''Epilogue'' (1985). ''Modulations'' is part of the process.
        With ''Talea'' for mixed quintet (1986) Mr. Grisey deliberately emphasized two features underplayed in his earlier music: speed and contrast. The speed takes place within slowly changing harmonic fields, and the contrast moves toward homogeneity.
        In 1986 he returned to Paris to teach at the Conservatoire.
        Two CD's of his music have appeared on the Accord label.
      