
        Gene Moore, a window dresser who worked such fanciful wonders with shoes and had such a whimsical way with diamonds that he had Fifth Avenue pedestrians doing delighted double takes for more than half a century, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88 and best known for turning Tiffany's five little windows into head-turning attractions.
        While the 5,000 or so windows Mr. Moore decorated for Tiffany & Company during his 39 years as the store's vice president for window display were testament enough to the scope of his imaginative powers, to fully appreciate the impact of his artistic genius you must take a stroll down memory lane, force yourself to stop in front of a typical Tiffany window of the 1940's and yawn as you regard a neat, linear arrangement of silver platters, bowls, candlesticks  and the like.
        Now fast forward a decade or so, retrace your steps and just try not to stop when, out of the corner of your eye you spot, say, a bird, its beak extended, pulling -- hey, that's not a worm, that's a diamond necklace! -- out of the earth.
        For all the acclaim he enjoyed at Tiffany's, which drew the curtains on its displays yesterday in tribute to him, by the time he joined the store in 1955 Mr. Moore had spent 20 years making a name for himself as a Fifth Avenue innovator, first at the I. Miller shoe store chain, then at Bergdorf Goodman and its Delman shoe division and later at Bonwit Teller.
        At a time when the theory of window display was to cram in as many mannequins displaying as much merchandise as possible, Mr. Moore created interest simply by clearing away the clutter and limiting a single window to one or two mannequins, but always in such a startling pose or situation that they were sure to draw attention.
        In one Bonwit window on a fireman-red theme, for example, he had red-clad fashion mannequins interacting with firemen, one of whom roasted a hot dog against a mannequin's presumably red-hot red swimsuit.
        He also enlisted artists like Robert Rauschenberg to provide backdrop paintings and other artistic touches for his displays, even giving Jasper Johns his first public exhibition as part of a Bonwit window display.
        The man who captivated New York was born in Birmingham, Ala., ''the wrong place,'' as he called it in his 1990 illustrated autobiography, ''My Time at Tiffany's,'' written with Jay Hyams. He spent his childhood plotting to escape, dreaming first of being a concert pianist, later imagining himself as a painter and enjoying some modest success until he decided he would never be great and burned all his paintings.
        By then, Mr. Moore had made it to New York, a city in which his impish humor and extravagant flights of fancy fit right in.
        It should come as no real surprise that the man who repeatedly used his collection of stuffed hummingbirds in window displays would make it a practice to talk to himself and even converse, he boasted, with ''what other people call inanimate objects.'' What set Mr. Moore apart in the pantheon of artistic eccentrics is that the inanimate objects talked back.
        It was, for example, one of the lions in front of the New York Public Library, the downtown lion, to be exact, that steered him to his first job in New York.
        Frustrated at not being able to find work after arriving in the city in 1935, Mr. Moore was resting against the lion's pedestal, he recalled, when he asked what he should do. The lion told him to follow his nose, down East 41st Street, where, sure enough, he found a job as a bookstore messenger.
        He stumbled onto his career a year later when he went to work for a company that made props for window displays and impressed a client, Jim Buckley, a freelance window dresser who later became display manager at I. Miller and hired Mr. Moore as his assistant.
        In addition to his window work, Mr. Moore had a hand in many artistic projects over the years, designing costumes and sets for the Paul Taylor dance company, for example, and creating a rage for tiny white Christmas tree lights with a series of seasonal displays for the plaza of the Seagram Building.
        Still, it was his window displays, especially at Tiffany's, that established his reputation for zany creativity. He used broken glass as a motif so often that alarmed passersby were forever calling the police, and once, during a local water shortage, he insisted on replacing the water in a fountain display with gin.
        Mr. Moore, who leaves no immediate survivors, never worried about where his next idea would come from. When he was stumped, as he was when it came time for his last Tiffany's windows, in December  1994, Mr. Moore knew where to turn,  in that case to his favorite teddy bear, Porridge, which explains why Mr. Moore filled all five windows with teddy bears.
        Correction:  December 2, 1998, Wednesday  A picture caption last Thursday with the obituary of Gene Moore, window designer at Tiffany's, gave an incomplete credit for the display design and an incorrect credit for the photographer. The depiction of water pouring from a crystal pitcher, made of strips of balsa wood, was by Jordan Steckel; the photograph was by the Virginia Roehl Studio.
      