
        Stan Wright, the track coach who took the blame for the disqualification of two American sprinters who showed up late for their races in the 1972 Munich Olympics, died on Friday night at St. Luke's Episcopal Hospital in Houston. He was 78.
        ''His kidneys just shut down,'' said his daughter Toni Hartfield. ''He had had dialysis treatments four times since he was in the hospital.'' He had been hospitalized since Sunday.
        Wright had been ill for many years. About 12 years ago, he had a heart-bypass operation, Hartfield said.
        His death came only two days after the death of his cousin, Larry Ellis, coach of the 1984 United States Olympic men's track and field team and a former president of USA Track & Field.
        For a third of a century, starting at a time when black coaches were excluded from high positions in the American track hierarchy, Wright was a highly respected coach and administrator. In 1966, he became the first black head coach of a United States national track team when he was named to handle the United States team for dual meets against Poland and the Soviet Union a week apart in Los Angeles. His athletes on those teams included Jim Ryun, Al Oerter and Ralph Boston.
        In 1972, he was the assistant coach in charge of sprinters for the United States Olympic team. His three men in the 100-meter dash were Eddie Hart, Rey Robinson and Robert Taylor, all potential medalists. In the first morning of the Olympics, they easily won their first-round heats and qualified for the quarterfinals later in the day. Wright's time schedule indicated they would not run again before 7 P.M.
        At 4:17 P.M., relaxing in the Olympic Village, they saw on television what appeared to be a replay of their morning races. When they realized it was really the quarterfinals, they rushed to the track, but Hart and Robinson arrived after their races had been run. Taylor got there less than a minute before his race, stretched twice and finished second, advancing to the semifinals.
        The next day, Valery Borzov of the Soviet Union won the gold medal and Taylor the silver. On the last day of track, Hart anchored the United States to the gold medal in the 4x100-meter relay, but the onus of the disqualification would not go away.
        In an interview with Wright, Howard Cosell of ABC television assailed the coach. Months later, Wright accused Cosell of ''an unfair and inaccurate portrayal of my part in the incident.''
        ''In the interview,'' Wright said, ''I took the responsibility, but not as an admission of incompetence or negligence on my part. I took the responsibility to get the athletes off the hook because it wasn't their responsibility and they didn't act irresponsibly.''
        Wright said he learned after the fact that the schedules team officials had given to him and the other American coaches a month before the Olympics were outdated. After the morning races, he said he had shown the schedule to German officials in the check-in area and asked if it was still correct. He said they told him it was.
        Although little was said about it publicly, athletes from other nations missed races in three other events because of time changes they were not told about. Hart, the Olympic favorite, felt Wright was a scapegoat.
        ''As an athlete,'' Hart said, ''you don't even want to think about such things as schedules. It is perfect for someone else to handle this part of the situation. I don't think there was anything wrong or bad about the way Stan Wright handled us.''
        Stanley Van Dorne Wright was a round-faced, soft-spoken man who seldom hid his feelings. He was born Aug. 1, 1921, in Englewood, N.J., and starred there in high school baseball and basketball. He received a bachelor's degree from Springfield College and a master's from Columbia.
        He was the head track coach at Texas Southern University (1950-67), Western Illinois (1967-69) and Sacramento State (1969-79). He was also the athletic director at Fairleigh Dickinson (1979-85). He was chairman of the men's track and field committee of the Amateur Athletic Union and its successor as the sport's national governing body, The Athletics Congress. In 1993, he was elected to the National Track and Field Hall of Fame.
        At the behest of the State Department, he coached the Singapore track team in the 1962 Asian Games and Malaysia in the 1964 Tokyo Olympics. In 1968, he was assistant coach in charge of sprinters for the United States Olympic team, and there was controversy there, too, when Tommie Smith and John Carlos, two of his sprinters, gave a Black Power salute during a medals ceremony and bowed their heads during the playing of ''The Star-Spangled Banner.''
        ''I was shocked and upset,'' Wright said then. But he also understood their protest of racial inequities in the United States.
        ''I would never tell anyone to do this or that,'' Wright said.
        ''They are men, not babies, admittedly young men, and if they want to raise a clenched fist or raise hell or whatever and they are willing to take the consequences, that is their business.''
        In addition to Ms. Hartfield, he is survived by two children, Sandra Robinson and Tyran Wright; two sisters, Charlotte Eddings and Mary Whitehead; five grandchildren, and one great grandson. Wright's wife, Hazel, died in October 1997.
      