
        Warren Hunting Smith, who devoted more than 50 years of his life to editing the letters of Horace Walpole, died on Sunday at his home in Geneva, N.Y. He was 93.
        From 1931 to 1982, Mr. Smith worked in Yale University's Sterling Library on a project that had been started in 1924. The result is a 48-volume edition of Walpole papers, an indispensable source on the life of the 18th-century English author and man of letters.
        While admitting that others might think his work tedious, Mr. Smith found a special pleasure in projecting himself back to Walpole's day. Walpole, who lived from 1717 to 1797, was the son of the British Prime Minister, Sir Robert Walpole, and was himself a member of Parliament as well as a writer. His literary reputation rests largely on his letters, in which he wrote about everything from Benjamin Franklin's experiments with electricity to the discovery of the planet Uranus.
        ''It was something like existing in a monastery,'' said Mr. Smith in 1983, after the project was completed. ''There were these Gothic arches, and we were sitting there like medieval monks, reading manuscripts.'' He said it was pleasant being in ''the backwater of the university,'' as he peacefully went about his daily work researching and editing and writing footnotes in what was popularly referred to as the Walpole Factory.
        It was before the days of the computer, and Mr. Smith did all his work by hand. Frank Brady, chairman of the project that edited the papers of James Boswell at Yale, marveled at the painstaking labors. He compared it to being ''in the solarium when Gutenberg came along,'' and concluded that ''no one will ever do that again.''
        The project began in 1924 when Wilmarth S. Lewis, a 1918 graduate of Yale and a book collector, bought several Walpole letters. Those letters inspired him to collect Walpole's books, letters and memorabilia and to make him his life's work. Mr. Lewis financed the project at Yale and was in charge of it until his death in 1979. Mr. Smith began working with Mr. Lewis as a graduate student. After Mr. Lewis died, Mr. Smith, one of 14 editors and 48 students involved in the process, took over the older scholar's mission as managing editor, with a zeal equal to that of his predecessor.
        ''The Yale Edition of Horace Walpole's Letters'' was never intended to have a large readership, with a first edition limited to 1,250 copies. But some of the early volumes went into a second printing. The index takes up five volumes, and the work on it was principally attributed to Mr. Smith. Mr. Lewis's home in Farmington, Conn., which he donated to Yale, houses the university's Walpole Library, by far the largest repository of Walpole material.
        Mr. Smith was born in Geneva, N.Y. He graduated from Yale in 1927 and received a Ph.D. from Yale in 1931. During World War II, he served in United States Army intelligence. In addition to his work on Walpole, he published six books, including histories of Geneva and Hobart and William Smith Colleges, and two novels set in his hometown. No immediate family members survive.
        Walpole was his consuming passion, but even as he immersed himself in the author's world of letters, the man himself remained at a remove. ''Walpole never completely unbuttoned, so to speak,'' Mr. Smith said. ''He wrote a great deal about his prejudices and opinions on all subjects but very little about himself.''
        Correction:  December 2, 1998, Wednesday  An obituary on Nov. 26 about the Yale University scholar Warren Hunting Smith, who edited the letters of Horace Walpole, included an incorrect word in a quotation from another Yale scholar who commented on Mr. Smith's 50-year effort. Frank Brady, chairman of the project that edited the papers of James Boswell at Yale, said Mr. Smith's painstakingly handwritten work in the days before computers was like being ''in the scriptorium when Gutenberg came along,'' not ''in the solarium.''
      