
        Jacques Medecin, Mayor of Nice from 1966 until 1990, when he fled to Uruguay to avoid prosecution on corruption charges that later landed him in jail for nearly two years, died in Uruguay on Tuesday after several heart attacks, his family said. He was 70.
        Nice, where Mr. Medecin made casinos, business leaders and the tourist industry rich but left municipal coffers nearly empty, loved him like a godfather and prepared to lay him out in state in the City Hall. The city plans to pay for funeral ceremonies, Mr. Medecin's successor, Jacques Peyrat, announced, and even Mr. Medecin's left-wing critics did not object.
        ''One day in 1938, I decided I would be the Mayor of Nice, like my father,'' Mr. Medecin once wrote. ''I was 10 years old.'' Between him and his father, Jean, the Medecins ruled for 62 years.
        Jacquou, as people of Nice called him, never got the law degree he studied for, but soaked politics at home and as a journalist for Paris-Presse and the local daily, Nice-Matin, before picking up the reins after his father died in December 1965. For most of the next 15 years, there seemed little he could do wrong.
        The Medecin method, as it was called, was to spread public money around, lavishly -- for a convention hall here, for a water-purification plant there, for an arts pavilion, not forgetting the casinos.
        His support for Valery Giscard d'Estaing for the presidency in 1974 was briefly rewarded two years later when he was named a junior Government minister for tourism, until Prime Minister Raymond Barre ejected him from the post in 1978.
        Still at the height of his power in Nice, he was divorced from his first wife, Claude, who had been a model for the Jacques Fath fashion house, and in 1979 married an American 21 years his junior, Ilene Graham, a 31-year-old Southern Californian.
        In 1981 Mr. Medecin's nemesis, the Socialist Party, came to power. Soon tax inspectors and magistrates began looking into the Mayor's methods, and he began to take long trips to Miami and Los Angeles.
        The prosecutors found that a traffic-signal company had paid many of his campaign expenses. They discovered that Nice-Opera had also sent money to his private accounts in Panama. And they found that municipal contractors had been taking paid advertisements in his newspaper. Investigation followed investigation.
        ''In the Nice-Opera affair, I am guilty of carelessness,'' he later told the newspaper Le Figaro. ''I paid certain expenses incurred for the city of Nice or for promoting it, without proper documentation. But I would like to repeat: the amounts drawn never exceeded $24,000.''
        From the president of the traffic signal company, he admitted, he had received $800,000 over four years. But that was before campaign financing laws made such payments illegal, he protested. Prosecutors paid no attention.
        On Sept. 15, 1990, Mr. Medecin cracked under the pressure while on a city-paid promotional trip to Japan and fled to Uruguay. ''Never will I accept being photographed with my wrists in handcuffs on the courthouse stairs,'' he declared.
        His second marriage had fallen apart, and in Uruguay, where he hoped to be safe from extradition, he settled in Punta del Este and married Berta Bittar, his third wife. She survives him, as do three daughters from his earlier marriages.
        In France in 1992, a court convicted him of malfeasance, and prosecutors obtained a court order for his arrest in Uruguay. A year later, he was flown to France to face further trials.
        Released on appeal in September 1995 after being convicted of embezzlement and fraud and sentenced to three and a half years in prison, Mr. Medecin never went back to jail again. In January 1996 an appeals court upheld the convictions but sentenced him to time served, and Mr. Medecin went back to Uruguay.
        With about $800,000 -- from the sale of family property, he insisted -- he invested in real estate and lived living happily until Sunday, when he was felled by heart attacks.
      