
        M. Donald Grant, a winning amateur competitor in hockey, squash and golf who became the controversial chairman of the Mets and enjoyed mixed success, died at his home in Hobe Sound, Fla., on Saturday. He was 94.
        As the Mets' chairman, Mr. Grant made the key move that led to the team's surprising World Series championship in 1969, hiring Gil Hodges as manager in 1968. But Mr. Grant became best known for trading pitcher Tom Seaver, the Mets' ''franchise,'' in 1977, even though the dispute that led to the trade was triggered by Seaver's desire to renegotiate his contract.
        ''I cannot even go into my own seat in my own stadium,'' Mr. Grant said of Shea Stadium after the trade. ''I have become lower than the lowliest bum on the street.''
        The fans did not care why Seaver, an eventual Hall of Famer, was sent to Cincinnati, just that he was. They did not care that he had a three-year contract that he wanted to renegotiate in the face of escalating salaries with the advent of free agency.
        ''It didn't sit well with my father that Seaver had signed a contract and now wanted to renegotiate it,'' Michael Grant Jr. said. ''He really dug his heels in about that. He was a word-is-your-bond kind of guy.''
        Just before he was traded, Seaver switched tactics and asked Lorinda de Roulet, daughter of the late Joan Payson, the Mets' original owner, for a contract extension, and she agreed to it.
        However, a newspaper column suggesting that Seaver's wife, Nancy, was jealous of the wife of a former teammate, Nolan Ryan, infuriated Seaver. Believing that Mr. Grant was responsible for the item, Seaver said he wanted to be traded.
        The Mets, who also had gone to the World Series in 1973 but lost, finished in last place in the 1977 season and the next as dwindling crowds watched them play. After the 1978 season, the Mets' board of directors ousted Mr. Grant from his position, which he had held since the team's creation in 1962.
        Mr. Grant became involved with the Mets through his long-term association with Mrs. Payson, whom he met in the early 1940's at a private club in Florida.
        Along with other wealthy people, they were sitting around a table playing a game of ''what would you do if you had all the money in the world?'' When Mr. Grant's turn came, he said he would buy a baseball team, the New York Giants.
        ''You can't do that,'' said Mrs. Payson, whose turn was next. ''That's what I want to do.''
        Mr. Grant, who owned five shares in the Giants, subsequently bought shares for Mrs. Payson, accumulating a 10 percent interest for her, and he became a member of the team's board of directors. As such, he was the only one to vote against the Giants' move to San Francisco in 1958.
        After the Giants left, he became active in the effort to create a new baseball league, the Continental League, and that move led to the National League expansion team known as the Mets.
        Michael Donald Grant was born in Montreal, the son of a professional hockey player, Mike Grant, who is a member of the Hockey Hall of Fame. The younger Grant, who left school when he was 15 years old, was a good amateur player himself but was discouraged from playing professionally by his mother, who felt there was not any money in it.
        Instead, persuaded by a cousin, he left his job at a bank in Montreal in 1924, going to New York and taking a job as a night clerk at the Commodore. He also refereed hockey games to earn extra money.
        ''Since I came to New York,'' Mr. Grant once said, ''there haven't been two consecutive years when I haven't worked at two jobs.''
        Indeed, even as chairman of the Mets' board, he was also the managing partner at the Wall Street firm of Fahnestock and Company.
        Mr. Grant had an image that some observers referred to as stuffed shirt. The image also led to a change in his name. He went by the name Donald rather than Michael and was known to his friends as Don or Donnie. But a newspaper columnist, trying to be derogatory, called him M. Donald, and the name stuck.
        ''He hated the name,'' Michael Jr. said. Yet his name appeared that way in the Mets' official publications. ''He was a formal kind of guy,'' his son said, ''but he wasn't an aristocrat or a blue blood. It annoyed him that he was given the image of a stuffed shirt.''
        Mr. Grant was not a stuffed shirt to Mrs. Payson, who called him Donnie. The Mets' owner loved to hear and sing old songs, and she periodically asked Mr. Grant to sing one of his specialties, ''Jimmy Cracked Corn,'' which he did with all its many verses.
        Mrs. Payson died in 1975, just before free agency was created in baseball's 1976 labor agreement. Mr. Grant shunned free agents because of the cost, maintaining that his style of conducting baseball business would put the Mets ahead of teams that spent lavishly to lure players from other teams.
        He adopted that stance at the same time that the Yankees aggressively sought top free agents. While the Yankees won the World Series in 1977 and 1978, the Mets finished in last place with a total of 130 victories compared with 200 for the Yankees.
        Asked in February 1978 when the Mets would become contenders, Mr. Grant said, ''We are contenders right now.''
        But they were not and would not be until after he was voted out as chairman and after the de Roulet family sold the team, one year later.
        Mr. Grant is survived by his wife, Alice; two sons, Michael Jr. and Tim; a daughter, Patsy Warner, and nine grandchildren.
      