
        William Gaddis, author of ''The Recognitions'' and ''JR,'' and a novelist of immense range, complexity and satiric humor, died yesterday at his home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 75.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said his daughter, Sarah Meares Gaddis.
        Mr. Gaddis was one of the most innovative and demanding of writers. His four published novels stand tall and totemic in the field of modernist literature. For ''The Recognitions,'' his first novel, in 1955, he was compared to James Joyce. With other books, critics drew parallels with Malcolm Lowry and Herman Melville. Aspects of all three and others figured in his work, but most of all he was, in Cynthia Ozick's words, ''an American original.''
        Reviewing Mr. Gaddis's 1985 novels, ''Carpenter's Gothic,'' in The New York Times Book Review, Ms. Ozick looked back on ''The Recognitions'' as ''the most overlooked important work of the last several literary generations.'' It was, she said, ''a vast fiction about fabrication and forgery, about the thousand faces of the counterfeit, and therefore, ineluctably, about art and religion.''
        ''Carpenter's Gothic,'' Ms. Ozick said, was an ''unholy landscape of a novel - an extra turret added on to the ample, ingenious, audacious Gothic mansion William Gaddis has slowly been building in American letters.'' In her judgment the book marked a turning point in his career; admirers hoped that it would bring him a wider audience.
        Despite rapturous reviews and a covey of awards (including two National Book Awards and a MacArthur ''genius'' grant), he was not destined to have a popular readership. He was often considered one of the least read of important American writers. But his books have become contemporary classics.
        As his reputation grew, he was surrounded by academics seeking symbols and offering deep analyses of his work. He maintained his equi-librium, saying, ''What can I do if people insist I'm cleverer than I think I am?''
        Observing Mr. Gaddis at a writers conference in the Soviet Union in 1985, Louis Auchincloss said that he was ''reserved and quiet, impeccably clad, with the patient composure of a m an of the world and the piercing eye of a wit,'' and that he spoke ''in measured tones of the small sales that the serious novelist might expect.''
        Mr. Gaddis was born in Manhattan on Dec. 29, 1922, grew up in Massapequa, N.Y., and went to boarding school in Connecticut and Farmingdale High School on Long Island. He studied English literature at Harvard University, and wrote stories, poems, essays and reviews for the Harvard Lampoon. In his senior year, he was asked to resign from the college after he and a friend were involved in an alteration with the police.
        In New York, he worked as a fact checker at The New Yorker, and spent his free time in Greenwich Village with Allen Ginsberg, Jack Kerouac and other writers of the Beat Generation. Leaving New York, he traveled through Mexico and Central America, joining insurgents in Costa Rica during a brief civil war. Subsequently he went to Spain and Africa, gathering experience and material while working on ''The Recognitions.''
        He continued work on the novel through the early 1950's. Published in 1955, it weighed in at a hefty 956 pages. It received generally unappreciative reviews. In a brief on ein The New York Times Book Review, Granville Hicks said that the author had ''ostentatiously aimed at writing a masterpiece,'' but had written a book that was ''no more than very talented or highly ingenious or, on another level, rather amusing.'' Mr. Gaddis said the book's reception was ''a sobering experience.''
        It was 20 years before he published another novel, but during the interval, ''The Recognitions'' was reprinted in a paperback edition and was published aboard, and it began building an underground reputation for the author. To continue his fiction, Mr. Gaddis supported himself by teaching and writing nonfiction on assignment. For four years, he worked in public relations for the Pfizer pharmaceutical company. In 1963 he won a National Arts and Letters grant and, four years later, another from the National Endowment for the Arts.
        In 1974, ''The Recognitions'' was reissued in a mass market paperback. Tony Tanner took that occasion, in a review in The New York Times Book Review, to extol Mr. Gaddis, ranking him alongside Thomas Pynchon as an experimentalist: ''In its scope, its witty-serious use of erudition, its endless exploitation of the resources available to a modern text, its brilliant use of language, and, not least, its marvelous humor and range of tone,'' the book seemed to him ''one of most important American novels written since the last war.''
        By the time ''JR'' was published the following year, Mr. Gaddis had achieved the recognition that had been denied him upon publication of his first novel. In The New York Times Book Review, George Stade characterized the theme of ''The Recognitions'' as ''the multiple and paradoxical relations between recognition and forgery,'' and said the book had raised the question whether ''all human products and activities are each no more than items in a series of copies for which there is no original.''
        The reviewer continued that ''as much, and more'' could be said about ''JR,'' and concluded that ''no recent novel I know of with anything like the fullness or accuracy of 'Jr' is at once so inventive and subtle in the structure of relations among its parts.''
        The title character of ''JR'' is an 11-year-old who becomes a wizard of Wall Street. In a Paris Review interview, Mr. Gaddis explained why the character was so young. ''He is in this prepubescent age where he is amoral'' and ''dealing with people who are immoral, unscruplulous,'' he said, ''whereas his good cheer and greed he considers perfectly normal.''
        Praised by William H. Gass and other writers, ''JR'' won the National Book Award. ''Carpenter's Gothic'' followed in 1985. At 262 pages, it was Mr. Gaddis's shortest work. At the time of the book's publication, the author said in an interview that there was no underlying scheme to his novels. ''There is an obligation not to bore or be bored yourself in doing your work.'' Mr. Gaddis said. ''If a writer is bored, the reader will be too.'' For ''A Frolic of His Own'' in 1994, a book about plagiarism and intellectual porperty, he won his second National Book Award.
        In addition to his daughter, a novelist who lives in Asheville, N.C., and Sag Harbor, N.Y., he is survived by a son, Matthew Hough Gaddis, a filmmaker in Manhattan.
        In ''Jr,'' the writer Jack Gibbs is trying to finish a book titled ''Agape Agape.'' Before his death, Mr. Gaddis finished his fifth novel, also titled ''Agape Agape.'' It is, said his son, an extension of that original idea in ''Jr,'' a novel about ''the secret hisotyr of the player piano.'' The player piano was an early obsession of the author, who considered it to be an example of a ''a nonparticipatory art form.'' In other words, the new Gaddis will be about the destructive elements of mechanization and the arts.
        A Universe Hums In 4 Ironic Novels
        William Gaddis, an American original of modernist fiction, published four novels brimming with historical and literary allusions. His family says that a fifth novel, ''Agape Agape,'' is forthcoming.  The Recognitions (Harcourt, Brace) 1955  JR (Alfred A. Knopf) 1975  ''Carpenter's Gothic'' (Viking Press) 1985  A Frolic of His Own: A Novel (Poseidon Press) 1994
      