
        John Chadwick, a self-effacing linguist who played a critical role in deciphering the ancient Greek writings known as Linear B, then spent the rest of his life deflecting credit to his collaborator, died in England on Nov. 24.
        Mr. Chadwick was 78 and a longtime resident of Cambridge.
        In an era in which astronauts spend weeks in space and sheep are cloned, it is hard to imagine the excitement -- or the controversy -- the two men created in 1953.
        That was when Mr. Chadwick and his colleague, Michael G. F. Ventris, announced that they had unlocked the secrets to a puzzle that had confounded scholars for more than half a century, and even determined that Linear B was a style of Greek used 500 years before the age of Homer.
        The mystery began in 1900 when Sir Arthur Evans, a British archeologist excavating the ancient Minoan palace at Knossos, on Crete, discovered clay tablets imprinted with strange pictograms that had been baked kiln-hard and had survived a fire that had destroyed the palace 3,000 years earlier.
        The 90 or so symbols on these and other tablets later found elsewhere on Crete and in a few places on the Greek mainland dated to about 1400 B.C., and they bore no resemblance to any known writing system.
        So Sir Arthur gave them the prosaic name of Linear B, to distinguish the writing from a system he called Linear A.
        Sir Arthur and other scholars may not have been able to decipher Linear B or to account for its origin, but they had no doubts on one point: it was not Greek.
        That language could not possibly have been used when Crete was under Mycenaean control, they said, and anyway, the entire Bronze Age world was thought to have been illiterate.
        As a result, when Mr. Ventris and Mr. Chadwick published their findings, they were widely derided by scholars who felt it was impossible that there had been a Greek-speaking people on Crete hundreds of years before the rise of the Greek city states, notwithstanding the two men's analysis of an apparently consistent syntax and their plausible reading of the tablets as Greek listings of commercial transactions.
        And then there was the matter of the men's scholarly credentials.
        Mr. Ventris was neither an archeologist nor a professional linguist, but a 31-year-old architect, of all things; Mr. Chadwick, 33, who had admittedly studied Greek and other languages at Cambridge, had work ed as a lowly assistant lexicographer for the Oxford Latin Dictionary before becoming a classics lecturer at Cambridge in 1952.
        But as Mr. Chadwick, an incorrigibly modest man, never tired of pointing out, Mr. Ventris was an amateur linguist of genius with a lifelong interest in cryptography who had been fascinated with the Linear B puzzle ever since he was 14 and happened to attend a lecture given by Sir Arthur in 1936.
        Similarly Mr. Chadwick, a London native who had served in the Navy in World War II, had only a cursory interest in Linear B until he happened to turn on the radio in June 1952 and heard an interview in which Mr. Ventris discussed his outrageous theory that Linear B was Greek.
        Fascinated, Mr. Chadwick wrote to Mr. Ventris, and the two men began an intense collaboration.
        In a matter of months they produced a complete system to decipher the ancient tablets and eventually translated 300 of them, which were published as ''Documents in Mycenaean Greek'' in 1956, just weeks before Mr. Ventris was killed in an automobile accident.
        By then the discovery of further Linear B tablets on the Greek mainland, all yielding plausible readings by the Ventris-Chadwick system, had persuaded almost all scholars that Linear B really was the earliest form of what evolved into classical Greek.
        The scholars' reluctance to admit as much was understandable. The discovery that an early form of Greek had been spoken and written on Crete and elsewhere from about 1400 to 1150 B.C. forced a vast revision of settled scholarly understanding of the development of the Greek world.
        Mr. Chadwick, who is survived by his wife, Joan, and a son, described the detective work in ''The Decipherment of Linear B'' (1958) and became a leading authority on the Mycenaean Greek language and society, publishing ''Mycenaean World'' in 1976.
        Although the initial inspiration and the breakthrough were clearly Mr. Ventris's, it is generally recognized that Mr. Chadwick's exhaustive knowledge of ancient Greek was indispensable in developing the complete deciphering system, a contribution that has often been overlooked.
        The entry on Linear B in the Grolier Multimedia Encyclopedia, for example, attributes the discovery to Mr. Ventris and makes no mention of Mr. Chadwick, which is hardly surprising -- the entry was written by Mr. Chadwick.
      