
        Vladimir Dokoudovsky, a founding member of Ballet Theater, a principal dancer with the Ballets Russes troupes of the 1930's and 40's and an influential teacher in New York, died on Wednesday at St. Clare's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Patricia.
        As a member of the Mordkin Ballet, a forerunner of American Ballet Theater, Mr. Dokoudovsky was among the dancers who in 1940 formed the nucleus for the first New York season of Ballet Theater, as that company was originally called. But he was best known for his appearances with the two organizations that tried to preserve the heritage of Diaghilev's innovative Ballets Russes: Col. W. de Basil's Ballets Russes and the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo. He danced with the Monte Carlo company in 1938, and with the colonel's group from 1942 to 1952, interrupting his tenure there to return to the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo as a guest artist in 1950 and 1951. He also choreographed ''Les Femmes d'Alger,'' inspired by a Delacroix painting, for Colonel de Basil in 1952.
        Born in Monte Carlo of Russian and Italian parents, Mr. Dokoudovsky received his early training from Olga Preobrajenska in Paris and made his debut with the Monte Carlo Opera Ballet in 1934.
        Although noted for his wide range of classical and character parts, Mr. Dokoudovsky specialized in the works of such Ballets Russes choreographers as Michel Fokine, Leonide Massine and David Lichine. He was especially associated with Fokine's choreography, displaying his versatility in such roles as the barbaric Warrior in ''Prince Igor,'' the sensuous Golden Slave in ''Scheherazade'' and the nimble Harlequin in ''Carnaval,'' as well as in the title roles of ''Petrouchka'' and ''Paganini.'' In recent years, Mr. Dokoudovsky revived Ballets Russes productions for several regional companies.
        In the early 1950's, he started teaching in various New York schools, including Ballet Arts and the American Ballet Theater School. He opened his own New York Conservatory of Dance in 1977. A popular teacher, he was also a highly demanding one and his authoritative presence led several generations of students to nickname Mr. Dokoudovsky ''the Duke.''
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a sister, Tatiana Dokoudovska of Kansas City, Mo.
        Correction:  December 8, 1998, Tuesday  An obituary headline on Sunday about Vladimir Dokoudovsky, a ballet dancer and influential teacher, misstated his involvement with American Ballet Theater. As noted in the obituary, Mr. Dokoudovsky was a founding member; the founder was Richard Pleasant.
      