
        Rolando Alphonso, the tenor saxophonist for the Skatalites and a major figure in Jamaican music, died on Nov. 20 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 67 and lived in New York City.
        The cause was a brain hemorrhage, said his daughter Michele Alphonso. He had burst a blood vessel while playing a solo with the Skatalites at the Key Club in Hollywood the night before.
        Since the 1950's, Mr. Alphonso's saxophone had been one of the most dependably ebullient sounds in Jamaican music. He worked as a studio musician during the evolution of Jamaican music from American-style rhythm-and-blues to the insistent backbeat of ska to the steadfast lope of rocksteady and reggae. He backed Jimmy Cliff, the Wailers, the Maytals and most of the other leading Jamaican performers of the 1960's, and he toured the world with the Skatalites, a group that could transform anything from movie themes to jazz tunes into buoyant ska.
        Mr. Alphonso played drums and then trumpet in the band at the All Boys Catholic School in Kingston, Jamaica, and his mother gave him his first saxophone when he was 15. After playing in hotel bands, he became a studio musician and appeared on his first recording in 1954. He worked for two of the most influential producers in Jamaica, Duke Reid and Coxsone Dodd. The Duke Reid Band of session musicians included Mr. Alphonso and most of the future Skatalites, while Mr. Dodd worked with Mr. Alphonso as an arranger of the Blues Blasters, who recorded American-style rhythm-and-blues shuffles from 1958 to 1961.
        Jamaica gained independence from Britain in 1962, and as it did, Jamaican musicians were creating a distinctively Jamaican version of rhythm-and-blues, drawing on New Orleans rhythm-and-blues and styles from around the Caribbean. The ska beat clearly emerged around 1960 on songs by Derrick Morgan and the producer Prince Buster, and Mr. Dodd and Mr. Reid were quick to adapt to the up-and-coming style. Mr. Alphonso performed at Mr. Dodd's sessions that yielded the first hits for the Wailers in 1963.
        In 1964, the Skatalites officially became a group, led by Don Drummond on trombone. The band also  included Mr. Alphonso and Tommy McCook on tenor saxophones, Lester Sterling on alto saxophone, Johnny Moore on trumpet, Lloyd Knibbs on drums, Lloyd Brevett on bass, Jackie Mittoo on piano and Jerome Hinds on guitar. They brought a jazz background to dance tunes, adding harmonic surprises to their propulsive music. The Skatalites, often with arrangements by Mr. Alphonso, recorded instrumentals and songs with various vocalists.
        But the original Skatalites lasted barely 14 months. In 1965, Mr. Drummond was convicted of murdering his girlfriend and was committed to a mental hospital; he died in 1969. Although the Skatalites played their farewell concert in August 1965, the band left an indelible mark on Jamaican music.
        After the group disbanded, Mr. Alphonso led the Soul Vendors. He also worked with the Soul Brothers and as a studio musician. In 1971, he suffered a stroke, and during his recovery he was told by doctors that he had only five years to live. But he continued to work in Jamaica's studios before moving to the United States in the 1980's.
        When the British ska revival at the end of 1970's rekindled interest in ska, the Skatalites regrouped, first for a 1983 performance at the annual Sunsplash festival in Jamaica and, since the mid-1980's, as a working band in Brooklyn. Two albums by the reunited band, ''Hip Bop Ska'' (Shanachie) and ''Greetings from Skamania'' (Shanachie), were nominated for Grammy Awards in the 1990's.
        In addition to his daughter Michele, who lives in New York, Mr. Alphonso is survived by his wife, Hermine; his children, Dennis, of Ontario, Canada; Rolando Jr., of Los Angeles; Pauline, of Seattle, and Barrinton and Noel of New York; 33 grandchildren, and 3 great-grandchildren.
      