
        Theodore Strongin, a music critic for The New York Times in the 1960's, died on Nov. 24 at St. Joseph's Hospital in Asheville, N.C. He was 79 and lived in Englewood, Fla.
        The cause was leukemia, said his daughter, Debby Randolph.
        Mr. Strongin began writing about music for The Times in 1963, and within his first few months at the paper he produced an extensive report about the acoustical deficiencies of Philharmonic (now Avery Fisher) Hall, with material from a secret architects' report showing that the hall's interior had to be rebuilt, and quotations from musicians and conductors who were critical of the hall's sound a year after it opened.
        As a reviewer, Mr. Strongin was particularly interested in contemporary music. He had been a composer himself, and in the 1950's several of his works, including a Suite for Unaccompanied Cello and an Oboe Quintet, were performed in New York.
        Mr. Strongin was born in New York in 1918 and grew up in Darien, Conn. He attended Harvard University and Bard College, where he studied music and biology. His specialty was entomology, the study of insects, and he identified several rare species of beetles for the American Museum of Natural History. After military service, between 1942 and 1946, he attended the Juilliard School and Columbia Graduate School, where he studied flute and composition.
        He began his newspaper career as a reviewer for The New York Herald Tribune in the early 1950's but gave up reviewing briefly to teach composition at Bennington College and Dartmouth. He returned to writing in 1957, when he became the arts editor and music critic for The Chattanooga Times. He held the same positions at The Knickerbocker News, in Albany, from 1961 until he joined The Times in 1963. He remained at The Times until 1970, when he retired, moved to East Hampton, N.Y., and occasionally contributed reviews to The East Hampton Star.
        In addition to his daughter, of Manhattan, he is survived by a son, Daniel of Richmond, Calif.; a grandson, John Randolph of Manhattan; two stepdaughters, Alice Friedman of Fern Park, Fla., and Judith Rosenberg of Austin, Tex., and his companion, Leah Lasbury.
      