
        Jim Turner, the pitching coach for nine Yankee pennant-winning teams in the Casey Stengel era and a pitcher for the Braves, Reds and Yankees in a baseball career spanning 51 consecutive seasons, died Sunday in his hometown of Nashville. He was 95 and the oldest former Yankee.
        In the 1950's, a familiar cast was on hand in pinstripes every March at spring training and most Octobers at Yankee Stadium: Manager Stengel in the dugout, Turner running the pitching staff, Bill Dickey coaching at first base and Frank Crosetti on the lines at third.
        Turner guided staffs led by Allie Reynolds, Vic Raschi, Eddie Lopat and Whitey Ford, noting his pitchers' every move in his little black book. ''He knew if one of them changed a blade in their razors,'' Phil Rizzuto once said.
        In his first tenure as a Yankee coach -- 1949 to 1959, through all but the final season of the Stengel years -- Turner took home seven World Series-winning paychecks. After being replaced by Lopat, he managed in the minor leagues for one year, then served as a pitching coach for Cincinnati's 1961 pennant winner. He remained with the Reds for four more seasons, then returned to the Yankees as pitching coach from 1966 to 1973 under Manager Ralph Houk.
        A native of Antioch, Tenn., who was known as Milkman Jim for having worked in his family's dairy business during the off seasons, Turner spent 14 years in the minors before making his major league debut with the 1937 Boston Braves at age 33.
        He was 20-11 for a fifth-place team, leading the National League in earned run average at 2.38 and complete games with 24 and tying for the lead in shutouts with five. He went 14-11 and made the All-Star team in 1938, when Stengel became the Braves' manager, and had a 14-7 record for the pennant-winning 1940 Reds. A right-hander, Turner pitched for the Yankees in relief from 1942 to 1945 and led the American League in saves with 10 in his final season. He had a 69-60 record over nine years in the majors.
        He became the Yankees' pitching coach in October 1948, one day after Stengel was hired as manager.
        While managing at Portland in the Pacific Coast League while Stengel managed Oakland, Turner had shown Raschi how to throw a slow curve to go with his fastball, and by the time Turner arrived with the Yanks, Raschi was becoming a star with them.
        When Ford was a rookie in 1950, Turner discovered why he was tipping off his pitches. ''Turner had me throwing in the bullpen and we found out I was twisting my elbow whenever I cranked up for a curveball,'' Ford remembered.
        Meanwhile, Turner wanted to make sure that Ford measured up to the Yankees' standards of decorum, Reynolds recalled. ''Turner asked me to room with Whitey, who had just come up from the minors,'' Reynolds said. '' 'Give him some class,' Turner said.''
        Later in the 1950's, Turner helped Don Larsen and Bob Turley gain control of their pitches through no-windup deliveries.
        Johnny Sain, who pitched for the Yankees under Turner, regarded him so highly that he emulated Turner's meticulous record-keeping when he became the Yankees' pitching coach in 1961.
        Turner is survived by two daughters, Jacquelyn Turner and Dr. Dorothy Turner, and two sisters, Alice Turner Smith and Marguerite Turner King, all of Nashville.
        In 1988, Turner looked back with gratitude, designing bronze plaques as gifts for Reynolds, Raschi and Lopat. ''I got a letter from Jim,'' Lopat recalled. ''He said we had made him rich, did so much for him, made him famous, changed his life.''
        An old-school type who once remarked how ''baseball is not a tea party,'' Turner sought to regulate his pitchers' activities off the field, too. He did not want them to do any swimming during the afternoon if they were to pitch at night. When Bobby Shantz, a Yankee left-hander of the 1950's, did some diving at a country club, he asked, ''Am I getting sunburned?'' He feared that Turner would notice he had defied his edict.
        But there were times when Turner was not so controlling. Stengel once sent him out to talk with Raschi when the pitcher was about to face the strapping Red Sox first baseman Walt Dropo. Raschi scowled, and Turner quickly returned to the dugout.
        ''I asked him how he was going to pitch to Dropo,'' Turner told Stengel.
        ''And what did he answer?'' Stengel inquired.
        ''Hard,'' said Turner.
      