
        Cleopa, an Orthodox monk who once fled Communist pressure by becoming a solitary anchorite in Romania's forests, died this week in the remote monastery where his down-to-earth teachings came to attract large and steady streams of pilgrims. He was 87.
        Romanian Orthodox officials in Bucharest, who reported his death on Thursday, said he succumbed to the illnesses of age. They disclosed that he was to be buried at the 14th-century Sihastra Monastery, 200 miles north of Bucharest, where an amphitheater was constructed after 1989 to accommodate the growing numbers of visitors eager to hear Cleopa's teachings.
        In accordance with an Orthodox tradition traced to Gregory of Sinai, a 14th-century saint, they said Cleopa's body would be lowered directly into the ground seated on a small stool, as a mark of respect for a life of particular asceticism.
        In a recent article posted on a Romanian language Web site devoted to Cleopa's teaching, he was described at a recent appearance as being frail as he greeted visitors while being carried by younger monks.
        A child of illiterate peasants who was born in northern Romania, Cleopa entered the Sihastra Monastery in 1934, when he was 25, taking a single name as is customary for monks. As he cared for the monastery's sheep, he quickly gained respect in the religious community for his remarkable memory.
        ''He could recite long sections of scripture and the teachings of the church fathers by heart,'' recalled the Rev. Roman Braga, a 77-year-old priest who is the spiritual leader at the Romanian Orthodox convent of the Dormition of the Mother of God in Rives Junction, Mich.
        ''I met Brother Cleopa in between my prison terms,'' said Father Braga, who spent 11 years in custody in Communist Romania. ''I had heard of him and traveled to see him in the early 1950's. He was not highly educated, but he was able to speak in simple ways that were at the same time very deep and went to the heart of his listeners.
        ''I remember how joyful he was. He kept saying that life was a gift and he had his special way of greeting you; he would say, 'May Heaven consume you.' ''
        By the time Father Braga met the monk, Cleopa had returned from his years of solitude. As Father Braga told the story, the monk had spent 12 years as a shepherd when the old abbot of Sihastria died. The monks elected Cleopa to be the new abbot.
        After that, his reputation spread and people began traveling to the remote monastery to seek his absolution and guidance. After 1948, when Communists consolidated their control over Romania, such visits brought Cleopa to the critical attention of state authorities, police and even some fellow churchmen.
        ''He was told to tell the people who were coming to see him to go away, to stop coming, but he could not do that,'' Father Braga said. ''Instead, sometime around 1950, he left the monastery and became a hermit. He went into the mountain forests, living in solitude in an underground den he built. Woodsmen brought him sacks of potatoes each month and every day he would eat one potato.''
        Father Braga said that after Stalin died in 1953, pressure on the Orthodox Church eased and Cleopa was able to return to the monastery. His reputation for wisdom and good humor grew and so too did the number of visitors, particularly after the fall of Nicolae Ceausescu's dictatorship in 1989.
      