
        Gen. Hamilton H. Howze, who began his military career in the horse cavalry, served in tanks during World War II and then helped change how the Army fights by developing helicopter-warfare tactics used in the Vietnam War and beyond, died on Dec. 8 in Fort Worth. He was 89.
        General Howze would not have surprised anyone if he had been devoted to the old Army ways. His great-grandfather, Hamilton Smith Hawkins, was an Army doctor who died in the Mexican War. His father, Maj. Gen. Robert Lee Howze, won the Medal of Honor fighting the Sioux and presided over the 1925 court-martial that found Gen. Billy Mitchell, the crusader for air power, guilty of insubordination.
        But the son was hardly shackled by tradition. In 1962, General Howze presided over a military panel, the Howze Board, that issued a landmark report. It proposed that aircraft, mainly helicopters, carry soldiers into battle, resupply them, rain firepower upon the enemy and remove the wounded.
        The skies over Vietnam were filled with Huey helicopters, and the First Cavalry Division (Airmobile) used hundreds of helicopters in one of the first major encounters of the war, the Battle of the Ia Drang Valley, in November 1965.
        In the 90's helicopter-borne troops cut off Iraqi soldiers in the Persian Gulf War. ''The Huey was to our riflemen roughly what the horse was to the old cavalryman, close by and ready,'' General Howze said.
        Hamilton Hawkins Howze was born on Dec. 21, 1908, at West Point, where his father was Commandant of Cadets. When the elder Howze commanded cavalry at Fort Bliss, Tex., his son shared the family house with two visitors who presumably left a youngster wide-eyed, Marshal Ferdinand Foch and Gen. John J. Pershing. Decades later General Howze recalled having seen the two walking down ''our back upstairs hall in pajamas and bathrobe, toothbrushes in hand, on the way to what I considered to be my bathroom, but from which, of course, I was temporarily barred.''
        After graduating from West Point in 1930, he joined the cavalry and spent the Depression in an Army in which officers honed polo skills while Germany and Japan built war machines. When the United States entered World War II he served in the First Armored Division in Tunisia and then Italy, taking part in the breakout from Anzio and the liberation of Rome on June 4, 1944. He carried a thin book with a red cover, ''On War'' by Karl von Clausewitz.
        Lieut. Gen. James Gavin, an early proponent of helicopters, which had seen limited use in the Korean War, named General Howze as first director of Army Aviation in 1955. General Howze later commanded the 82d Airborne, General Gavin's old unit.
        In October 1962, while commanding the umbrella 18th Airborne Corps, General Howze was sent by the Kennedy Administration to the University of Mississippi to command Federal troops that quelled the violence over the admission of James H. Meredith, the first black student in the college.
        Before the end of October, President Kennedy summoned him again, for the Cuban missile crisis. Six decades after his father and both grandfathers had fought in Cuba in the Spanish-American War, he was ordered to help plan an invasion of the island. General Howze, who would have commanded the invading troops, was awarded the Legion of Merit by Kennedy for his planning work.
        After having presided over the board that carried his name and set in motion the helicopter-warfare plans, General Howze was United Nations commander in South Korea from 1963 to 1965. He then retired from the Army, in part, he said, because he had been passed over in favor of Gen. William Westmoreland as commander in Vietnam.
        General Howze became an executive and consultant for Bell Helicopter Textron in Fort Worth.
        Surviving are his wife, Mary, whose grandfather, Col. Guy V. Henry, won the Medal of Honor in the Battle of Cold Harbor in the Civil War; two sons, Lieut. Col. William Howze of Harker Heights, Tex., and Guy Howze of Austin; four grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
        In retirement General Howze pondered the Army way of doing things as it prepared for an all-volunteer force. Writing in Army magazine in 1971, he weighed the claims of the flexibility that he prized and the military tradition that his family embodied. Finally the old soldier make his choice, saying:
        ''I fully agree with the value of frequent talks by the commander with his subordinates, and the desirability of explaining why, as well as how, things must be done. But this must not be carried to the point where a conference must precede virtually every order. A compelling 'why' must remain: because the Old Man said so.''
      