
        Ron Alexander, who spent almost three decades as a reporter for The New York Times and made Metropolitan Diary one of the paper's most popular weekly features, died on Monday night at his home in Manhattan. He was 68.
        Mr. Alexander died of complications from Parkinson's disease, said Edward Frantz, his companion. After learning he had the disease in 1989, Mr. Alexander continued to fight its ravages. He edited Metropolitan Diary until last spring and was associated with it until his death.
        As whimsical and offbeat as many of the features he wrote, Mr. Alexander joined The Times in 1970 and initially reported on men's fashion for The New York Times Magazine. His light touch soon led to feature assignments and a stint reporting on parties for a column called Evening Hours. He took over Metropolitan Diary, which first appeared in 1976, in June 1984.
        The Diary, consisting of anecdotes, observations, light verse and reminiscences mailed in by readers, has inspired a fierce following. Eight to 10 items are selected for use each week, chosen from several hundred submissions received. Some years ago, The Times dropped the column from its national edition, but so many letters of protest poured in that the paper reversed its decision. ''We underestimated the affection people have for the Diary,'' an executive wrote in a letter of apology to readers.
        Although Mr. Alexander was a shy man, he did behave uncharacteristically on occasion. One evening, on a No. 10 bus, he spotted a young woman reading Metropolitan Diary. He couldn't resist tapping her on the shoulder and asking which item she enjoyed most. She looked somewhat startled, so he explained that he was the editor of the column. She shunned him but a few days later he received a letter that obviously came from her. ''I think you should know there's someone going around town claiming to be you,'' she wrote. It was one of his favorite anecdotes.
        Some years ago, Mr. Alexander was on assignment at a party at the New York Public Library. He approached Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, who made a few remarks about the library's glories. A year later, at another party at the library, he approached Mrs. Onassis and requested another comment, suggesting that they talk about animals since a number of authors were being honored that night as ''Literary Lions.''
        ''If you had your choice,'' he asked. ''what animal would you be?''
        She looked at him as if he were deranged, he recounted later.
        ''Can't you just repeat what I said last year?'' she asked. ''No one will remember.''
        At their third, and final, library encounter, he walked over to her and said ''I always know each year I'm going to see you at this event.'' ''How nice,'' Mrs. Onassis replied, then added with concern, ''But what do you do the rest of the year?''
        Mr. Alexander's byline was prized by those readers fond of his quirky stories. A memorable one was ''A Town Celebrates the Lowly Lima Bean,'' about a day in West Cape May, N.J.; another dealt with the popularity of red and yellow neckties (for which he won an award from the tie industry). But he also wrote a number of serious articles about consumer affairs.
        Mr. Alexander was born in Manhattan on March 3, 1930. After attending Syracuse University and graduating from Hofstra College in 1953, he worked for Fairchild Publications, and was associate editor of Men's Wear Magazine from 1954 to 1960. After writing advertising copy for a year, he joined Gentleman's Quarterly and later Esquire magazine, for which he interviewed movie stars, wrote about fashion, and edited manuscripts.
        Mr. Alexander was a movie buff. One of the most conspicuous decorative items in his apartment was a larger-than-life cardboard cutout of Betty Grable, his favorite star.
        In addition to Mr. Frantz, he is survived by a sister, June Alexander of Manhattan.
        Last year, Mr. Alexander's compilation of vignettes, conversations and observations from his column, was published by William Morrow & Company under the title ''Metropolitan Diary.'' In his preface, he wrote about his zest for ''Metropolitan Moments'' -- stories that were sly and sassy, funny and sometimes touching, like the vignette about a boy ''having a heartbreakingly tough time selling homemade lemonade on a late-summer afternoon.'' He also wrote about what his column was not  -- ''a series of random 'Only in New York' cliches,'' a ''putdown of city people or an outlet for the praise of overzealous grandparents.''
        A Sampler From the Metropolitan Diary
        DEAR DIARY:
        We cannot wait to hear about Gary's kindergarten play this year. Two years ago, his school put on ''Snow White'' -- with 27 dwarfs so more of the children could be in the play. Last year, it presented the Nativity. Joseph came to the inn and knocked on the door. The boy playing the innkeeper decided to be inventive. When Joseph asked if there was room at the inn, he answered by saying:
        ''You are so lucky. We have just had a cancellation.''
        MAXINE MARRON
        Dear Diary:
        Our friend Natalie is witness to a continuing conversation in a Roslyn, Long Island, beauty salon between the woman in the next chair and the manicurist. With each visit, they discuss the woman's deteriorating relationship with her husband.
        Finally, the woman says she is considering a divorce. ''What do you think?'' she asks.
        The manicurist is taken aback. ''That's a very serious matter,'' she says. ''I think you should consult another manicurist.''
        STAN ISAACS
        Dear Diary:
        Autumn afternoon at a Long Island mall. My daughter Janet was pushing her two sons in a double stroller. The 3-year-old had just had his first haircut, the 1 1/2-year-old was still in curls. A 50-ish woman interrupted her shopping to admire the children.
        ''What a fine young man and what a sweet little girl,'' she cooed.
        ''They're both boys,'' their mother corrected.
        The woman paused thoughtfully. ''Are you sure?''
        SHEILA B. BLUME
        Dear Diary:
        My daughter-in-law, Laura, was having a difficult time locating a particular air-conditioner permitted in her co-op apartment. After a futile search through the Manhattan Yellow Pages, she asked her mother to continue the search in the Queens directory. A few minutes later her mother called to say she had located the precise model and gave the delighted daughter the number of the retailer who carried it.
        Laura immediately dialed the retailer, told him that her mother had just called, and proceeded to quiz him regarding the particulars of the unit. After listening to all her questions, the salesman finally asked, ''What's the matter, don't you believe your mother?''
        RHODA FINER
      