
        William R. Perl, who as a young  lawyer in Vienna organized a waterborne rescue operation that carried thousands of Jews from Nazi-occupied Europe to Palestine, died last Thursday at his home in Beltsville, Md., near Washington. He was 92.
        Years after his operation, which he called the Action, Dr. Perl estimated that it had carried 40,000 Jews aboard cattle boats, rundown freighters and sailboats on 62 clandestine voyages to Palestine from Romania, Greece, Yugoslavia and elsewhere in southern Europe. The sealift employed subterfuges, including forged documents, to defy the British, who governed Palestine under a League of Nations mandate and sought to block large-scale Jewish immigration in hopes of maintaining influence in the Arab world.
        Born in Prague, the son of a textile merchant, Dr. Perl received a law degree from the University of Vienna and during the 1930's was active  in the militant Zionist movement led by Vladimir Jabotinsky.
        He began his rescue operation in 1937. A year later, after Hitler had taken over Austria, he was summoned by Adolf Eichmann, then a lieutenant in the SS, who stuck a pistol in his back, demanding to know the whereabouts of a fugitive Jew. Dr. Perl did not give Eichmann any information but instead interested him in a plan to remove Jews from Vienna through sailings to Palestine.
        When Eichmann ultimately rejected the proposal, Dr. Perl went to the German Finance Ministry in Berlin and, suggesting that he had the backing of Nazi authorities, received permission to exchange German marks for sought-after British pounds that would be used to bribe Greek seamen involved in clandestine sailings.
        Dr. Perl told Ralph Blumenthal of The New York Times in 1990 that the most painful part of his work had been selecting the healthiest evacuees for the scarce shipboard space. He said he was still haunted by the image of a sick Hungarian woman and her family whom he had barred  from a transport. ''I convicted them to death,'' he said.
        Dr. Perl was arrested in Greece in 1940 -- at the behest of the British, he believed -- and put on a train for Berlin. But he cut his wrists as the train approached Yugoslavia, was taken off as he had intended and was eventually sent back to the Greek authorities. He later escaped to Portugal and then Mozambique, where in 1941 he obtained a visa for the United States. After that, his operation carried out few missions; it  ceased entirely in August 1944.
        Dr. Perl enlisted as a private in the United States Army soon after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. He became a lieutenant colonel in military intelligence, serving in Europe, then joined the Army staff at the war crimes tribunal after the German surrender. He was the chief interrogator of German SS men who had been involved in the massacre of 72 American prisoners of war at Malmedy, Belgium, during the Battle of the Bulge.
        After the war, he received a doctorate in clinical psychology from Columbia University and then served with the Army in Munich, counseling soldiers. On retiring from the military in 1958, he became a psychologist for the District of Columbia's welfare department, taught at George Washington University and maintained a private practice in psychology.
        Dr. Perl ultimately became an official of the militant Jewish Defense League. In November 1976, a Federal jury in Baltimore convicted him of conspiring to shoot out the windows in the apartments of two Soviet Embassy officials in Hyattsville, Md., in protest of the treatment of Soviet Jews. The conspiracy conviction was overturned on appeal, although Dr. Perl was sentenced to three years' probation for a related  firearms conviction.
        Dr. Perl recounted his rescue efforts in ''The Four-Front War: From the Holocaust to the Promised Land'' (Crown, 1979), in which he denounced not only the Germans but also the British Government, for blocking entry of Jews to Palestine, and what he called the ''Jewish establishment,'' for failing to take vigorous action to save European Jewry. His second book, ''The Holocaust Conspiracy: An International Policy of Genocide,'' was published in 1990 by Shapolsky Publishers.
        Dr. Perl's wife, Lore, who secretly converted from Roman Catholicism to Judaism shortly before their marriage in April 1938, was imprisoned in a concentration camp from 1942 to 1944 for trying to hide a Jewish neighbor. Dr. Perl was reunited with her in Vienna at the war's end. She  survives him, as do two sons, Solomon, of Olney, Md., and Raphael, of Silver Spring, Md., and four grandchildren.
      