
        J. Harold Flannery Jr., an Associate Justice of the Massachusetts Appeals Court since 1995 who was a civil rights lawyer in the South and in Boston in the 1960's and 1970's, died on Friday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 65 and lived in Weston, Mass.
        The cause was complications from cancer, said Rudolph Kass, also an Associate Justice of the Appeals Court.
        Judge Flannery was a trial lawyer in the civil rights division of the Justice Department from 1958 to 1970. He was deputy and acting director of the Center for Law and Education at Harvard University from 1970 to 1974, national director of the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law from 1974 to 1975 and a Justice of the Massachusetts Superior Court from 1984 to 1995.
        Another justice, Benjamin Kaplan of the Massachusetts Appeals Court, said Judge Flannery ''spent the better part of his professional life, as a government lawyer and otherwise, in Mississippi, Washington and Boston in defense of civil rights,'' adding: ''This marked deeply his personality and view of things. He had a keen, unsentimental understanding of public issues and could spot hypocrisy and venality at long range.''
        In the 1970's, Judge Flannery was the lead counsel and strategist for the plaintiffs in Morgan v. Hennigan, the Boston school desegregation case. A Federal judge, W. Arthur Garrity Jr., ruled in 1974 that the Boston School Committee, the main administrative body for Boston's public school system, had long breached the 14th Amendment by sending white and black pupils to separate schools and withholding from blacks equal protection under the law. Court orders were issued, and implemented, requiring that the Boston school system be desegregated by busing.
        In earlier years, Mr. Flannery played a role in more than 40 civil rights cases and in other civil-rights matters in the South. In 1966 he went to Oxford, Miss., to take part in litigation by the Federal Government to require the authorities in Grenada, Miss., to protect journalists and black schoolchildren who had been attacked by mobs near that city's newly segregated schools.
        In 1963 he went to Danville, Va., to confer with agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation at a time when Danville city officials were considering a strict curfew to deal with Southside Virginia's first determined effort by blacks to obtain equal rights by demonstrations. The effort had led to violence and charges of police brutality.
        While he was on the bench, Judge Flannery was perhaps best known for his ruling in 1993, as the trial judge in a case involving the right of homosexuals to march in South Boston's St. Patrick's Day parade. In that decision he declared, ''History does not record that St. Patrick limited his ministry to heterosexuals or that General Washington's soldiers were all straight. Inclusiveness should be the hallmark of the parade.''
        He held that it should be open to all participants who were peaceful. His decision was upheld in 1994 by the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, but was reversed in 1995 by the United States Supreme Court. That ultimate outcome led Judge Kass to write in Sunday's Boston Globe, ''It is well to remember that the U.S. Supreme Court is, as Justice Robert Jackson observed, not final because it is infallible but infallible because it is final.''
        Judge Flannery was born in West Pittston, Pa., and received a bachelor's degree in 1955 from Wilkes College in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., and his law degree in 1958 from the University of Pennsylvania.
        He was a partner in the Boston-based law firm of Foley, Hoag & Eliot from 1975 to 1984 and was named to the Massachusetts Appeals Court by Gov. William F. Weld, a Republican.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Barbara Marie Nash, whom he married in 1967.
      