
        Sir Otto Frankel, a plant geneticist who was among the first to warn of the threat to whole species, died on Nov. 21 in Canberra, Australia. He was 98.
        In the 1960's Dr. Frankel and a small band of scientists sounded the alarm over the loss of species in agriculture, pointing to farming regions and even individual fields that were undergoing rapid changes in the intricate and vital interactions among millions of species.
        From crops they cast their eyes on flora and fauna in general, and the disappearance of species seemed foreboding. It was Dr. Frankel and his colleagues who kept the issue of genetic resources alive through the 1960's and 70's, well before the word biodiversity entered the language.
        He spoke out at international conferences and wrote or edited books defining the problems involved, and exploring solutions. His address to the 1972 United Nations Conference on the Human Environment in Stock holm drew widespread attention.
        ''Wild species must have available a pool of genetic diversity if they are to survive environmental pressures exceeding the limits of developmental plasticity,'' he once wrote. ''If this is not the case, extinction would appear inevitable.''
        Otto Herzberg Frankel was born to affluence in Vienna. His mother's family owned estates in Galicia (now in southeast Poland and western Ukraine), where he discovered his interest in agriculture. He attended universities in Vienna and Munich and received his doctorate from the Agricultural University of Berlin. In the late 1920's he worked as a plant breeder on a large estate in Slovakia and in Cambridge.
        New Zealand asked him to join its new Wheat Research Institute in 1929 as a plant breeder and geneticist; he stayed there for 22 years, the final seven as chief executive. On trips back to Europe he developed close ties with eminent geneticists like C. D. Darlington and J. B. S. Haldane.
        In 1951 Dr. Frankel became chief of the division of plant industry for the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization in Australia. He formally retired in 1966, but returned to the plant division to resume his research.
        He was knighted in 1966.
        He continued to work, ski and fish, his favorite pastimes, until he was 90. His last book, written with two colleagues, appeared when he was 95; its American edition is titled ''The Preservation of Plant Biodiversity.''
      