
        Clay Blair, an author who wrote extensively on World War II and the Korean War and was a former editor of The Saturday Evening Post, died on Wednesday at his home on Washington Island, Wis. He was 73.
        He suffered a heart attack, said his agent, Russell Galen.
        In World War II, Mr. Blair served aboard the submarine Guardfish, participating in its last two patrols off Japan. In the 1950's, when he covered national security affairs as a magazine correspondent, Mr. Blair got to know many of the wartime skippers and made ''dives'' in postwar submarines. Those experiences inspired a deep and abiding interest in submarine warfare and led to a series of books in which Mr. Blair told the story of the ''silent service.''
        Many of his 26 books focused on military history. In the first, ''The Atomic Submarine and Admiral Rickover'' (Henry Holt, 1954), Mr. Blair told of the development of nuclear-powered submarines. He collaborated with Comdr. William R. Anderson in ''Nautilus 90 North'' (World, 1959), about the first submarine voyage beneath the North Pole.
        Mr. Blair wrote of heroic exploits as well as failures in American leadership and of design problems like defective torpedoes in ''Silent Victory: The U.S. Submarine War Against Japan'' (J. B. Lippincott, 1975). He provided a wide-ranging look at the Korean conflict in ''The Forgotten War'' (Times Books, 1987), collaborated with Gen. Omar N. Bradley, a commander of Army forces in World War II, in ''A General's Life'' (Simon & Schuster, 1983) and described American airborne operations in World War II in ''Ridgway's Paratroopers'' (Dial, 1985).
        Mr. Blair and his co-author, James R. Shepley, stirred controversy with ''The Hydrogen Bomb'' (David McKay, 1954), maintaining that the race by the United States against the Soviet Union to develop the bomb was hampered by opposition from the nuclear physicist J. Robert Oppenheimer and his supporters.
        Mr. Blair and his wife, Joan, collaborated on several books, including ''The Search for J.F.K.'' (Berkley/ Putnam's, 1976), an account of John F. Kennedy's younger years.
        Mr. Blair, a native of Lexington, Va., attended Tulane University and then Columbia, leaving in 1949 to become a reporter-trainee at Time magazine. He was Washington correspondent for Time and Life from 1950 to 1957, then joined the Washington bureau of The Saturday Evening Post, which was owned by the Curtis Publishing Company. Mr. Blair was editor in chief of all Curtis magazines and served as editor of The Post in the early 1960's.
        Mr. Blair sought exclusive articles for The Post. But several libel suits were brought against the magazine, including a case in which Wally Butts, the athletic director and former football coach at the University of Georgia, won a $460,000 judgment.
        In 1964, Mr. Blair was a leader in a rebellion by 15 editors and advertising employees who demanded that the Curtis board oust Matthew J. Culligan, the president, chairman and chief executive of the company, charging mismanagement. The turmoil resulted in the departure of both Mr. Blair and Mr. Culligan.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Blair is survived by six children from his marriage to the former Agnes Devereux: four sons, Clay 3d, of Germany; Kemp and Robert, of Boulder, Colo., and Christopher, of Washington, and  two daughters, Marie Louise Houle of Amherst, Mass., and Sibyl Dance of Palm City, Fla. He is also survived by two stepsons, David West of Greenville, Tex., and Christopher West of Denver, and five grandchildren.
      