
        Bangalore Venkata Raman, one of India's most respected astrologers, died on Sunday, suffering a heart attack as he edited The Astrological Magazine, the monthly publication he founded 62 years ago. He was 86.
        In India, where a widespread belief in Vedic astrolology dictates the timing of both private and public occasions, from marriages to inaugurations, Mr. Raman was widely regarded as an honored scientist.
        He wrote some 200 books on the impact of celestial bodies on human destiny and world events and crusaded to gain international respect for traditional Indian beliefs and practices that Western encyclopedias discuss under the heading of occultism.
        In India he was addressed as ''Doctor,'' and at his death political leaders in his home state of Karnataka and in New Delhi offered public condolences.
        In its obituary, the national newspaper, The Hindu, noted without any qualification that Mr. Raman ''made several outstanding predictions relating to the Second World War, the fates of Hitler, Mussolini, Hirohito and others, Indian independence, the Chinese invasion of India, Nehru's death, Indo-Pakistan conflicts, the Vietnam War, the Declaration of Emergency in India, the assassination of Indira Gandhi and other events through his column in The Astrological Magazine.''
        The obituary also cited Mr. Raman as a researcher in ''astro-psychology, weather and political forecasts and disease-diagnosis.''
        From his home in Bangalore, a city that is one of the centers of Indian science and computer technology, Mr. Raman often challenged the Western scientific view of astrology as a pseudoscience whose methodology was distinctly opposed to its own findings and theories.
        In his book ''Astrology in Forecasting Weather and Earthquakes,'' he declared, ''There is a need on the part of the seismologists and meteorologists to shed their prejudices and embark on the investigation of the ingenious methods used for thousands of years with such success.''
        Elsewhere he lashed out at those who paid no heed to Vedic astrology, which links astrological lore from Greek and Chaldean sources to the notions of karma and the aims of life described in ancient Hindu texts.
        ''The Government's supine ignorance to the tremendous potential of astronomy is indigestible, especially so since those forewarnings can save lives and sufferings,'' he wrote, citing the 10 months' advance notice he gave in his column of the earthquake that struck Iran on Sept. 18, 1978.
        Mr. Raman traveled widely, addressing conferences and university meetings. In 1970 he lectured at the United Nations on the ''Relevance of Astrology in Modern Times.''
        In 1959 he came to New York to address a Congress on Astronomy, leading him to write ''A Hindu in America,'' in which he said he had no difficulty in surviving on a diet of vegetables, fruit, milk and cornflakes.
        In 1994 he delivered the keynote address at the first international symposium on Vedic Astrology, in San Rafael, Calif., where he was given a lifetime achievement award. In his travels abroad he would often cite such Western scientists as Max Planck, George Wald and Bertrand Russell, and their reservations about the possibilities of science, as proof that Indian disciplines of thought and faith deserved respect alongside the dominant canons of science.
        He was was born in a village near  Bangalore on Aug. 8, 1912.
        He studied in Bangalore, specializing in homeopathy. He started his magazine in 1936, building it into a publication read in India and 20 other countries. The magazine's Internet site declares that he received an honorary directorate from the Pythagorean University in 1947 and was elected a Fellow of the Royal Astronomical Society in London. It also says that while he did not draw up charts for money, he was regularly consulted by ''saints, scientists, political leaders and heads of governments.''
        In his writings and publishing, Mr. Raman was helped by his wife, Rajeswari, who is the director of an institute of yoga for women. He is also survived by his daughter, Gayatri Devi Vasudev.
      