
        Dr. Martin Rodbell, a biochemist who shared the 1994 Nobel Prize in Medicine and Physiology for shedding light on the mysteries of life's basic processes, died on Monday at the University of North Carolina Hospitals in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 73 and lived in Chapel Hill.
        The cause was cardiovascular disease, his family said.
        Dr. Rodbell's career spanned more than four decades with the National Institutes of Health, in Bethesda, Md. He formally retired in 1994 from the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences in Research Triangle Park, N.C., but continued his research.
        Dr. Rodbell and Dr. Alfred G. Gilman, a pharmacologist, won the Nobel Prize for their work on a component of the communications system that regulates cellular activity, known as G-proteins. Proceeding separately on parallel research projects, the two men discovered those proteins and how they work.
        G-proteins are natural substances that help cells translate signals emitted by the environment and from within the body into cellular chain reactions that govern fundamental life functions. The discoveries led to the knowledge that some types of cancer are caused by mutated and hyperactive G-proteins.
        In 1970, Dr. Rodbell found that the signal transmission, or transduction, by which the body's cells get their directions requires a tiny intracellular molecule, guanosine triphosphate, or GTP. That finding had many implications for the treatment of many diseases, including cholera and cancer.
        Dr. Rodbell joined the staff of the National Institutes of Health in 1956 as a nutrition and endocrinology chemist.
        He was a native of Baltimore, graduated from Johns Hopkins University in 1949 and received his doctorate from the University of Washington in 1954. After doing postdoctoral work in chemistry at the University of Illinois, he joined the laboratory of Christian B. Anfinsen, who shared the 1972 Nobel Prize in chemistry, at the National Heart Institute.
        In 1985, he transferred to North Carolina as scientific director of the environmental health institute.
        He is survived by his wife of 48 years, Barbara Ledermann Rodbell; three sons, Paul, of Silver Spring, Md., Andrew, of Bethesda, and Phillip, of Hingham, Mass.; a daughter, Suzanne Richardson of Cabin John, Md.; a sister, Judy Risberg of Baltimore, and seven grandchildren.
      