
        Viola Farber, a founding member of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company, a choreographer and the director of the dance program at Sarah Lawrence College, died on Dec. 24 at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. She was 67 and lived in Bronxville.
        The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, Jeff Slayton, her former husband and longtime dance partner, said.
        A tall, long-bodied individualist with uncompromisingly cropped hair long before that was fashionable, Ms. Farber was an unself-conscious study in quiet unpredictability. She moved with a fierce passion and intensity and a gentle lyricism. She could speak with the softness of a shy, reflective child or, in the studio, with the toughness of a drill sergeant. An edge of lazily subversive wit lay beneath her plain-spokenness in conversation and in her dancing.
        In the quintessentially Farberesque ''Legacy,'' which she choreographed in 1968 to a Chopin etude, Ms. Farber moved like a dreaming, elegant giraffe, dressed in a flowing shift but wearing a baseball catcher's mitt on one hand. Poetic and mysterious, the solo was not at all Dadaist despite the incongruity and potential humor of the mitt.
        ''Her body often had the look of one part being in balance, and the rest extremely off,'' Mr. Cunningham wrote of her in David Vaughan's book ''Merce Cunningham: Fifty Years,'' in a description of Ms. Farber in his 1960 ''Crises,'' created in part for her odd talents. ''Now and again it was like two persons, another just ahead or behind the first. This was coupled with an acute rhythmic sense.''
        Born in Heidelberg, Germany, Ms. Farber came to the United States with her family at the age of 7 and became a naturalized citizen six years later. She met Mr. Cunningham and his collaborator John Cage in 1952 at Black Mountain College, where she was studying dance with Katherine Litz and music with Lou Harrison. Ms. Farber joined the Cunningham company in 1953, dancing there through 1965. She created roles in some of Mr. Cunningham's major early works, among them ''Crises,'' ''Rune'' and ''Nocturne.''
        During her Cunningham years, she also performed with Litz, playing a vampire in her ''Dracula,'' and with Peter Saul and Paul Taylor. Her last performance was in a 1995 collaborative duet, ''Threestep (Shipwreck),'' which she created with the choreographer Ralph Lemon, a former student, for his company's season at the Joyce Theater.
        Ms. Farber formed the Viola Farber Dance Company in 1968, creating most of her choreography for the troupe, which disbanded in 1985. Writing in the International Encyclopedia of Dance, Christopher Caines describes her earliest dances as having a febrile atmosphere and ''a dark, violent intensity that some interpreted as sadomasochistic, despite moments of tenderness.'' By the 1970's, Ms. Farber had mellowed considerably. ''My dances report what I see,'' she told Jack Anderson in a 1978 interview in The New York Times. ''They are my response to the way everything is mixed up together in this world -- people and microbes and elephants and cassowary birds.''
        In her 1973 ''Poor Eddie,'' Ms. Farber incorporated the gestures of flight attendants as they demonstrate the use of safety equipment in planes. Her own nervousness about driving in the middle, passing lane on a three-lane highway inspired the creation of another dance, ''Route 6.'' Like Mr. Cunningham, Ms. Farber favored the juxtaposition of disparate kinds of activity in dance, where formal patterns and the combinations of steps often mattered more than the steps themselves.
        Ms. Farber was especially popular in France, where she won a gold medal, with Mr. Slayton, in the Ninth International Dance Festival in Paris in 1971. From 1981 to 1983 she was the artistic director of the Centre National de Danse Contemporaine in Angers, establishing, at the same time, an institute for the training of dance teachers in Paris. Ms. Farber returned to the United States in 1988 to take the Sarah Lawrence post, but continued to teach and choreograph in France into the 1990's. She also taught at the London Contemporary Dance School from 1984 to 1987 and, from early in her career, at universities and dance festivals throughout the United States.
        The French Government recently named Ms. Farber an Officier de l'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres in France.
        She is survived by two sisters, Elisabeth Lanzl of Chicago and Irene Aikin of Parkdale, Ore.
        Correction:  January 6, 1999, Wednesday  An obituary of the dancer and choreographer Viola Farber on Dec. 31 misstated the work and the year in which she last performed. It was in James Cunningham's ''From the Horse's Mouth'' at the Joyce SoHo last April, not in ''Threestep (Shipwreck)'' in 1995.
      