
        Archie Moore, the fighter whose legendary career spanned almost three decades and who won the light-heavyweight championship when he was well into his 30's, died yesterday at a hospice in San Diego. His age, always the subject of speculation, which he helped fuel, was 84.
        Moore had entered the San Diego Hospice about a week ago, said a family spokesman, John W. Stump.
        Archie Moore invented himself in many ways, from his age, to the dieting secrets he said he learned from an Australian aborigine in his world travels, to his various careers. But what was undeniable was his remarkable career as a fighter, one that lasted from the mid-1930's to 1963 and took him around the world. He held the light-heavyweight title nine years, longer than any other fighter.
        When Moore did not like the way he was treated by the boxing community, he would campaign to right the wrongs he perceived. Thus, when a sanctioning body threatened to take away his title because he refused to defend it, he appealed to the United Nations.
        And when he felt that the heavyweight champion, Rocky Marciano, was ducking him, Moore spent $50,000 on a letter-writing and advertising campaign -- including a ''wanted'' poster of the champion -- to embarrass Marciano into a title defense. When Moore finally got his chance, in 1955, Marciano knocked him out.
        For much of his career, Moore fought an average of almost once a month, with more than 200 bouts, most for small paydays. He had a record of 194-26-8, and his 141 knockouts are believed to be the most by a professional.
        With all that, he did not become a nationally known (and then worldwide) figure until he was well into his 30's.
        ''There's a saying,'' he once said, ''that good things come to those who wait -- providing you have the ability to wait long enough.''
        His professional career, by some accounts, began in 1935 with a second-round knockout of one Piano Mover Jones. Other accounts have his career beginning in 1936 with a knockout of the Poco Kid. In any event, he fought as a middleweight in his early years.
        But a perforated ulcer in 1940, he said later, caused his weight to drop from 160 pounds to 100. That was also the year of his Australian travels and the secret diet that he contended allowed him to balloon in weight and then, miraculously, shed the pounds.
        The key, he liked to say, was chewing meat and extracting the juices but not the fiber. He spit that out. He said that he saw the aborigine eating beef jerky that way.
        ''Have you ever seen a fat Australian?'' Moore asked rhetorically.
        There was another component to his diet. In the morning, he drank sauerkraut juice flavored with lemon juice. But these ''secrets'' came out only once he had written an autobiography. Before then he would eat behind a screen at his training camp when reporters were present.
        Mystery always surrounded him. He claimed to have been born on Dec. 13, 1916, in Collinsville, Ill., but his mother, and at least one boxing record book, fixed his birthdate as Dec. 13, 1913, in Benoit, Miss., a date his family confirms.
        ''I guess my mother should know, since she was there,'' he conceded. ''But I have given it a lot of thought and have decided that I must have been 3 when I was born.''
        It was known that he was born Archie Lee Wright, and that his parents separated after he was born. He was brought up in St. Louis by an uncle and aunt, and he took their surname.
        By 1952, fighting as a light heavyweight, he was still searching for a title bout. Although he had lost to the former heavyweight champion, Ezzard Charles, three times, he had defeated the highly regarded Harold Johnson.
        But Joey Maxim, the light-heavyweight king, declined to face Moore. So Moore began a letter-writing campaign. He started to correspond with well-known journalists like Red Smith, demanding to meet Maxim, a cautious, cagey fighter.
        Finally, Maxim agreed -- but only if Moore guaranteed Maxim a $100,000 cut of the purse. Moore's manager, Doc Kearns (who had been Jack Dempsey's manager as well), cut the deal.
        Moore was 39 years old (or 36, by his account) when he finally met Maxim on Dec. 17, 1952. Moore won the title in a 15-round unanimous decision and then enhanced his legend with his gift of gab and, perhaps, fanciful recollections.
        He did not make any money on the fight, however. After the purse was divided, Moore came out with $800.
        ''Well, at least we'll be able to get some credit at a bank now,'' he told his manager.
        His whimsical nature contrasted with his persona in the ring. True, weighing 175 pounds he had a belly. But he had little tricks that eventually found their way into the repertory of Muhammad Ali and are found in many of today's fighters -- an ability to hit with one hand while his other dangled at his side, and then backpedal. That lashing style, along with his ring savvy, earned him the nickname The Mongoose.
        Although Moore defended his title four times in the next two and a half years, it was Marciano he angled for. The pressure by Moore's sportswriter friends finally forced Marciano, who was considered indestructible, to meet Moore. If Moore's mother was right, her son was almost 42 years old, 10 years older than the undefeated champion.
        Moore achieved one of his finer moments by knocking down Marciano in the second round of their bout, on Sept. 21, 1955. But Marciano got up and surged back. At the end of the eighth round, the referee went over to Moore's corner and told him he wanted to stop the bout.
        ''The only way to go out in a championship fight is on your back,'' protested the old challenger. In the ninth round, Marciano flattened him.
        The next year, Moore again fought for the heavyweight title, which was vacated when Marciano quit after stopping him. This time, Moore met 21-year-old Floyd Patterson. Moore was bloated at 196 pounds and was knocked out in the fifth round.
        Moore still fought as the light-heavyweight ruler. In 1958 he survived four knockdowns and knocked out a brawling Canadian fisherman, Yvon Durelle, in the 11th round.
        He remained champion until Feb. 10, 1962, when sanctioning bodies withdrew recognition because of his failure to defend the title. In his next to last fight, on Nov. 15, 1962, he met a young Cassius Clay -- who had not yet won the heavyweight championship or changed his name to Muhammad Ali -- and was knocked out in the fourth round. He was the only boxer to fight both Marciano and Ali.
        Moore's last fight was a three-round knockout of Mike DiBiase on March 15, 1963, nine months before what the record book says was his 50th birthday.
        He also played the role of Jim in the 1960 film version of ''The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.'' He studied books on slavery and attempted to avoid stereotyping in playing the part.
        ''I didn't have time to read when I was a kid,'' he said, ''so I didn't know anything about Huck Finn and those cats. I read the book before playing the part. Now that I've found books, I'm really living.''
        At the height of his fame in the mid-1950's, he married Joan Hardy, a sister-in-law of the actor Sidney Poitier. She was his fifth wife. Moore is survived by his wife, of San Diego; three daughters, Rena and JMarie of San Diego and Elizabeth Stump of City Heights, Calif.; four sons, Archie Jr., Billy, Anthony and D'Angelo of San Diego, and two grandchildren.
        His entourage at various times included Ali and Redd Foxx. After his final bout, he moved in and out of boxing as a trainer and adviser. He was assistant coach of the Nigerian boxing team at the 1976 Olympics in Montreal. He worked most recently with George Foreman when the former heavyweight champion tried a comeback in the early 1990's.
        ''He taught me his secrets of escapology and breathology,'' Foreman said.
      