
        Tony Tanner, a versatile and prolific literary critic and professor whose love for American literature inspired the first courses on the subject at Cambridge University, died on Saturday. He was 63.
        The cause was cancer, the university said.
        In 1960, when the young Mr. Tanner returned from two years on a Harkness fellowship at the University of California at Berkeley and Stanford University, American literature was still considered a young and exotic specialty, not worthy of serious study in English academia. But Mr. Tanner returned with a passion for the subject and a doctoral dissertation on wonder and naivete in American literature that became the first on an American subject to be accepted by the Cambridge English faculty.
        Professor Tanner's teachings on the topic helped persuade the university to offer a master's degree in American literature, and in 1989, he was appointed to its first chair in American literature.
        Paul Anthony Tanner was born in Richmond, Surrey, and was educated at Jesus College, Cambridge, after spending two years of military service in the Intelligence Corps. Upon returning to Cambridge after his studies in the United States, he rose quickly to become an influential member of the faculty at King's College.
        Although he was perhaps most renowned for his large body of work on the subject of American literature, Professor Tanner did not want to be known purely as an Americanist, and was just as knowledgeable about English works. Indeed, his scholarly work reflected a catholic taste in literature that extended from Shakespeare and Byron to Ruskin, Pope and the metaphysical poets.
        ''Tanner was a reader of a voracity and originality unparalleled in my experience,'' the critic Frank Kermode wrote in an appreciation earlier this week. ''He was an ecstatic reader, and his sheer pleasure in great writing was, to his fellow professionals, an anachronistic delight.''
        Professor Tanner was known as a gracious reader, a clear, graceful writer and such a generous teacher that some of his colleagues complained he could be too soft on his students.
        Among his books were ''The Reign of Wonder'' (1965), a study of the work of Henry James, Twain, Emerson and others that grew out of his dissertation, and ''City of Words'' (1971), which dealt with contemporary and very recent American literature. He also wrote short books on Saul Bellow and Thomas Pynchon and published ''Henry James and the Art of Nonfiction'' (1995), a compilation of lectures on James as a travel writer, autobiographer and critic.
        Professor Tanner also wrote extensively about Joseph Conrad, wrote introductions to Penguin's Jane Austen series (the pieces were collected in a book in 1986), and edited and wrote the introductions to the Everyman editions of Shakespeare's plays.
        In ''Venice Desired'' (1992), he wrote about Venice through the eyes of Byron, Ruskin, James, Hugo von Hofmannsthal, Proust and Pound, and in 1979 he published ''Adultery in the Novel,'' explaining in an introduction his critical philosophy, which was to approach the subject as if it had never been examined before. ''I wanted to try having my own say in my own words,'' he explained, adding that he also wanted to ''avoid continuous reference (and deference) to other works.''
        He is survived by his wife, Nadia Fusini, a translator and critic.
      