
        Quentin Crewe, who fell down so much as a child and bounced back with such good cheer that he grew up to challenge prevailing stereotypes as an iconoclastic journalist, an innovative restaurant critic, a high-spirited social lion, a high-minded gossip columnist, a globe-trotting adventurer, a prolific author and an even more prolific lover, died in his home in Oxfordshire, England, on Nov. 14. It was the 72d birthday of a man who had not so much suffered from, as gloried in, a lifelong affliction with muscular dystrophy.
        The son of a career diplomat and the grandson of a titled Government official, Mr. Crewe stumbled resolutely through his first six years. Then he was examined by a doctor who told his mother that he had muscular dystrophy and would be dead by age 16.
        She, in turn, told young Quentin that he would be fine at 16, which might explain why Mr. Crewe continued to stumble on with such heightened optimism. By the time he turned 16 and realized that his condition would only worsen, picking himself up had become so ingrained that he masked his disappointment by reveling in challenges for the rest of his life.
        Confronted, for instance, with a body so weakened that he could lift one hand only with the help of the other, his response was to peck out 11 books, several of them accounts of world travels undertaken specifically to demonstrate that his disability was not disabling.
        It was hardly a coincidence that the most strenuous of his travels, including a grueling trek through the uncharted wastes of the so-called empty quarter of Saudi Arabia in 1966 and an even more grueling two-year trek through the Sahara in the early 1980's, came after he was forced, at age 29, to start using a wheelchair.
        If he could not have accomplished his feats without assistance, Mr. Crewe, a man of captivating charm, never lacked for volunteers eager to push his wheelchair and to share his high-living company. During the heady 1960's, for instance, when friends like Dudley Moore, Peter Sellers and Kenneth Tynan helped make his Belgravia apartment party central for Britain's smartest smart set, Princess Margaret once flew out by helicopter to help strip wallpaper in his country house and her husband, Lord Snowdon, made modifications to his wheelchair.
        An incurable romantic who claimed that he could fall in love over the course of a weekend and was forever doing just that, Mr. Crewe was married and divorced three times, always maintaining cordial relations with his former wives. He fathered six children, five of whom survive.
        A major theme of his life was established at Eton when he copied a fire door key and escaped for a rollicking day in London, an escapade that led to his expulsion. With the help of tutors he made it into Cambridge, but spent so much time partying that he was expelled for indolence, qualifying him for the life of a journalist.
        After a series of menial jobs, he broke into journalism in 1952 by writing reviews for The Times Literary Supplement, then won a freelance assignment from The Evening Standard of London to investigate rumors that Aristotle Onassis was taking over Monaco. Typically, Mr. Crewe turned the assignment on its head, discounting the rumors but filing a humorous article that won him a full-time job.
        During a later journalistic stint, when he was sent to South Africa to report how conditions for blacks were improving, he wrote a series of articles on how they were actually getting worse.
        Although Mr. Crewe was proudest of his South Africa reports, his most significant contribution to journalism came while he was working for the magazine Queen in the 1960's. When the young woman assigned to compile the magazine's regular list of restaurants with one-line descriptions got sick, Mr. Crewe, who was on his way to lunch at a posh restaurant called Wilton's, volunteered to fill the space.
        His resulting review, suggesting  that nursery food was served to aristocrats by waitresses dressed as nannies, created such a sensation that it has been credited with inventing modern British restaurant criticism. Later, as a gossip columnist for The Daily Mail, Mr. Crewe shunned items dealing with divorce, adultery, family disputes and the like, but failed to set a trend.
        His sense of decorum was reflected in his 1991 autobiography, ''Well, I Forget the Rest,'' which noted that friends, marveling at his romantic conquests, were forever pestering him to give details of how a man in a wheelchair managed to perform.
        In a passage that can only seem mercifully reticent in an era of salacious excess, he wrote, ''I had no intention of enlightening them, then or now.''
      