
        Thomas W. Gomez, a teacher of the Katherine Dunham technique and a leading dancer with Ms. Dunham's company in the 1940's, died on Oct. 29 at the Warren Barr Pavilion, a home for the aged, in Chicago. He was 77 and lived in Chicago.
        The cause was bone cancer, his son, Thomas Gomez 3d, said.
        Mr. Gomez, whose stage name was Tommy Gomez, trained in New York  at the schools of Martha Graham and Jose Limon and at the School of American Ballet. He met Ms. Dunham in 1939 and by the early 1940's was a prominent member of her troupe, appearing with her on Broadway, in European tours and in the film ''Stormy Weather.''
        A small, lithe and intense performer known for his good-natured disposition in a company of larger-than-life temperaments, Mr. Gomez first gained fame as the Boy Possessed in the ''Shango'' section of ''Carib Song.'' He also danced the Jealous Husband in ''Rara-Tonga,'' opposite Ramona Erwin as the wife, whom he later married in real life in an onstage wedding. Mr. Gomez also danced lead roles in Ms. Dunham's ''Flaming Youth'' and ''L'Ag'Ya.''
        Mr. Gomez took over many of the star roles danced by Talley Beatty when Beatty left the company. He also partnered Ms. Dunham frequently. He performed on Broadway as a Dunham dancer in ''Cabin in the Sky'' and ''Tropical Revue.'' He also danced on Broadway in ''On the Town,'' ''Show Boat'' and ''The King and I.'' On film, he danced in ''Carnival of Rhythm'' and ''Cleopatra.'' He helped Ms. Dunham choreograph the 1964 production of ''Aida'' at the Metropolitan Opera House in New York.
        Mr. Gomez taught at the Dunham School in New York in the 1940's and was later a master teacher in annual summer Dunham workshops in St. Louis. He was on the faculties of the Kennedy King College, Truman College and Joel Hall Dance Center, all in Chicago. In 1984, he became the artistic director of the Body Language Dance Company in Chicago.
        He was honored in 1980 in ''A Gala Celebration of 50 Years of Men in Dance'' in New York.
        In addition to his son, of Ann Arbor, Mich., he is survived by his wife, Ramona, of Stamford, Conn.; his mother, Theresa Woosley of Chicago, and five grandchildren.
      