
        Andre de Wavrin, the ''Colonel Passy'' who forged a Resistance intelligence network for de Gaulle during World War II, died at his home in Paris on Sunday, friends said. He was 87.
        Born in Paris in 1911 and a graduate of the Ecole Polytechnique, the leading French engineering school, Mr. de Wavrin was a 29-year-old captain teaching fortifications at the French military academy of St.-Cyr when war broke out.
        He first saw action in a British-French expedition to retake the northern Norwegian port of Narvik from the Germans in 1940. The expedition was recalled after France's defenses against the Germans collapsed, and Mr. de Wavrin ended up stranded with the other French officers near Manchester, England.
        Though his wife and family were still in France, Mr. de Wavrin decided to stay in Britain and, on July 1, 1940, found the headquarters that de Gaulle had just set up in London and volunteered for whatever duty the general might see fit to give him.
        He emerged from a brief meeting with the job of organizing the Free French operational and intelligence organizations.
        ''Nothing had prepared Passy for this unprecedented mission,'' de Gaulle wrote in his memoirs, ''but I preferred it that way.''
        Mr. de Wavrin and three lieutenants picked their Resistance pseudonyms from a map of the Paris Metro.  He chose Passy, a station near his home in the 16th Arrondissement, and decided to concentrate on the intelligence part of the assignment de Gaulle had given him.
        Working out of a three-room suite at the Resistance's new London headquarters at 4 Carlton Gardens, Mr. de Wavrin and his men scoured military camps and hospitals in southern England to recruit volunteers for a service that had to be built from scratch.
        Slowly, with skeptical help from the British and despite fierce rivalries within de Gaulle's organization, Mr. de Wavrin's group began sending agents across the English Channel in boats.
        Tall, with thinning blond hair and piercing blue eyes whose constant scanning unnerved many who dealt with him, Mr. de Wavrin soon built up a roster of enemies almost as long as those of his agents.
        ''His enemies accused him of operating a small-scale Gestapo office in London, complete with dungeons for the uncooperative,'' the American historian Gordon Wright later wrote, and Mr. de Wavrin was accused (falsely, he insisted) of having been associated with an extreme-right subversive organization, the Cagoule, before the war.
        One of his own agents, Gilbert Renault, known by the code name Remy, recalled that Colonel Passy had initially received him ''with all the warmth accorded an unwelcome traveling salesman,'' as an American historian, Douglas Porch, put it.
        There were setbacks, notably the failure of a mission with de Gaulle to Dakar, Senegal, in 1940 to try to persuade the French garrison there to rally to the Resistance. There were also fiascos over Mr. de Wavrin's attempts to keep enemy agents from penetrating his group. And its relationship with the British was strained by rivalry and suspicion.
        ''We had practically no means, while the English had everything,'' Mr. de Wavrin wrote, and that included the radios on which his organization depended for contact with agents in occupied France.
        To prevent the British from eavesdropping, Mr. de Wavrin established a separate French code. Annoyed, the British started delivering the messages to him only at midnight. He retaliated by summoning British secret service officials to his headquarters to receive inconsequential messages at odd hours of the night. ''Miraculously the telegrams began to arrive at more normal hours,'' he related later.
        But in 1942 and 1943 his Bureau Central de Renseignements et d'Action attracted people in France like Jean Moulin, who were disaffected with the Vichy occupation regime.  Mr. Moulin, later a martyred hero, was part of a group that worked to unify all the various strands of the Resistance, under de Gaulle's leadership, and Mr. de Wavrin began planning for a new political organization in France.
        By D-Day, June 6, 1944, Mr. de Wavrin's network had mounted extensive sabotage operations and provided Eisenhower, the Allied commander, with so much information that he said the Resistance was worth six allied divisions.
        Mr. de Wavrin himself parachuted into Brittany in August 1944 and helped take charge of a force of 2,500 Resistance soldiers operating with advancing American units. The force captured 2,000 prisoners.
        In 1945 Mr. de Wavrin became director general of the precursor of the present-day French foreign intelligence service, the Direction Generale de la Securite Exterieure.
        But three months after he resigned in February 1946, he was arrested and charged with setting up secret bank accounts in Britain and Paris with diverted intelligence money. He was imprisoned for three months in an affair judged later to have had mostly to do with Communist desires to discredit de Gaulle.
        Decorated with the Grand Cross of the Legion of Honor in 1981, Mr. de Wavrin was later a banker with the private Banque Worms and a director of several French companies.
      