
        Pierre Vallieres, a writer and political advocate whose raw, emotional manifesto on injustice and violence became the intellectual foundation of the early Quebec separatist movement, died on Tuesday in Montreal. He was 60.
        Mr. Vallieres never fully recovered from a heart attack last year and slipped into a coma last week. A friend, Philippe Duhamel, told reporters that Mr. Vallieres had died in a hospital surrounded by friends.
        While in custody in a prison in New York awaiting extradition to Montreal on manslaughter charges in the 1960's, Mr. Vallieres wrote ''Les Negres Blancs d'Amerique,'' which was published in English under the title ''White Niggers of America.''
        The book, a collection of personal essays and memoirs that expressed pent-up anger at the dominant English-speaking class in Quebec and the Roman Catholic Church, became a call to arms for the fledgling Front for the Liberation of Quebec.
        ''To be a nigger in America is to be not a man but someone's slave,'' Mr. Vallieres wrote in his book, which was published in French in 1968. He and the movement clearly identified with the struggles of blacks in the American South, although he was criticized for comparing the history of the blacks to the less burdensome travails of French-Canadians.
        In the 1960's, the organization said it was responsible for bombings throughout Quebec, but mostly in Montreal, as it attempted to nurture a revolution to split the French-speaking province from the rest of Canada.
        The early movement also bore a distinct socialist tint, and a goal of many of its most influential members, including Mr. Vallieres, was to create an anticapitalist society as much as to form an independent Quebec. Divisions appeared in the movement as those goals diverged.
        Mr. Vallieres was a revolutionary who personally experienced the inequality that he believed crippled capitalist societies. He was born in the Montreal slums in 1938, the son of an exhausted railroad employee and a doting mother who came to resent his efforts to read and write and to avoid finding a regular job to help the family.
        Mr. Vallieres entered a Franciscan seminary. But he left after a few years, with an open antagonism toward the church. After traveling to France for a brief and disillusioning brush with French bureaucracy, he returned to Montreal and tried journalism. Mr. Vallieres wrote for the largest French-language newspaper in the city, La Presse, and and was co-editor of a liberal magazine, Cite Libre, which Pierre Trudeau and others had founded.
        In his book Mr. Vallieres said that from the magazine he was easily led ''to the picket lines, the protests against the war in Vietnam . . . and the F.L.Q.''
        A review of ''White Niggers of America'' by Laurier L. LaPierre, in The New York Times Book Review, on its publication in English in 1971 referred to Mr. Vallieres as ''Canada's Eldridge Cleaver and Malcolm X.'' The reviewer found the book, in some sections, ''profound in its assessment of men and events.''
        The book challenged Quebecers to take up arms and toss gasoline bombs in their campaign for independence. Mr. Vallieres wrote it after he was arrested in 1966 at a demonstration in front of the United Nations. He was held at the Tombs prison in Manhattan until January 1967, awaiting deportation to Canada on charges related to the bombing of shoe factory in Montreal in the early 60's that killed a secretary at the plant.
        Mr. Vallieres was convicted of manslaughter in late 1969. He was released pending appeal, and the conviction was overturned in 1973.
        While awaiting the appeal, Mr. Vallieres returned to Montreal and soon became involved in the separatist movement's most violent offensive. On Oct. 5, 1970, the British Trade Commissioner in Montreal, James Richard Cross, was kidnapped. Five days later four armed men abducted Pierre Laporte, the Quebec labor minister.
        The kidnappings intensified the insecurity created by bombings and threats of violence by the front. At 4 A.M. on Oct. 16, Prime Minister Trudeau, invoking the War Measures Act for the first time in peace, called the Army into Montreal. Under the law the police had the power to round up and detain anyone suspected of involvement in the violence without bringing formal charges.
        Mr. Vallieres was one of 450 arrested. A few days later, acting on a tip from the kidnappers, the police found Mr. Laporte's body in the trunk of a car. The Front for the Liberation of Quebec claimed responsibility.
        Mr. Vallieres was released without being charged, although he was later accused of seditious conspiracy because of remarks in his book. In 1973 he was cleared of those charges, and the manslaughter conviction related to the factory bombing was overturned.
        Despite the declarations in his book, he turned his back on violence and disassociated from his organization, calling it a ''terrorist menace.'' He then threw his support to the political wing of the separatist movement, the Parti Quebecois, which had just been formed by Rene Levesque, a former journalist.
        Mr. Vallieres eventually grew disenchanted with the Parti Quebecois and did not even vote in the separation referendum in 1980.
        By the time of a second separation referendum in 1995, Mr. Vallieres had grown distant from the movement to which his writing had helped give intellectual life.
        In recent years, Mr. Vallieres took up many causes, including gay rights, native self-government and mental health. He was a founder of the Quebec-Bosnia Solidarity Committee and traveled to Sarajevo in 1995.
      