
        E. W. (Skip) Etchells, a boat builder and world champion yachtsman, died last Sunday in Memorial Hospital in Easton, Md. He was 87.
        Most yacht racing is done in one-design sailboats, all built to a specific design so that the outcome rests with the skill of the crew rather than the builder.
        In the 1940's and the 1950's, Etchells dominated international competition in the one-design Star Class. In the 1960's, he created a new one-design yacht, the Etchells 22, now known as the International Etchells Class. Etchells built Stars for 30 years and Etchells 22's for 20 years.
        In 1951, with his wife, Mary, as crew, he won the Star Class world championship. She is the only woman to have won a world title in this popular boat. Skip Etchells won the 1959 North American Star Class and many United States and international championships. Some victories came on Long Island Sound, where one-design racing is popular.
        Ellwood Widmer Etchells was born July 5, 1911, in Philadelphia and raised in Trenton. At the University of Michigan, where he won three consecutive Big Ten titles in the discus throw, he graduated in 1936 with a degree in naval architecture and engineering.
        He started designing boats and during World War II helped build destroyers and icebreakers for the Navy. After the war, he worked in New York for Sparkman & Stephens, the yacht designers. After two years, he founded the Old Greenwich (Conn.) Boat Company, which became a leading builder of Stars, Lightnings and other one-design boats.
        In 1965 and 1966, the International Yacht Racing Union held a competition in Kiel, Germany, to choose a new three-man keelboat for the Olympics. The six entries included an Etchells-designed craft 30 feet 6 inches long, with a wooden hull covered with fiberglass. Although it won 10 of the 13 races, the officials chose a 27-foot Soling.
        A disappointed Etchells said only, ''The various sponsors never were called upon to present their plans or arguments.'' But sailors around the world praised his yacht, and he started production of the class that he called the Etchells 22 because the boat's waterline length is 22 feet.
        The design's first national championship was held in 1968. Etchells won it and sailed in Etchells 22 races throughout the 1970's.
        In 1984, Skip and Mary Etchells retired to Easton. He is survived by his wife of 57 years, the former Mary O'Toole; a son, Tim of Middlebury, Vt.; a daughter, Anne Nieusma of Easton, and three grandchildren.
        Tim Etchells, a senior editor of the magazine Mountain Sports and Living, said his father would be remembered for designing ''very fast boats.''
        ''The Etchells 22 is probably the fastest keelboat of its length before or since,'' the son said. ''In addition to being fast, it's a delight to sail. Last summer, more than 100 of them sailed in the world championship in Marblehead, Mass. There were 15 Olympic champions in the fleet. The Etchells Class is a nice legacy to him.''
      