
        David S. Jackson, a member of the American Stock Exchange for 73 years and an exchange governor from 1965 to 1968, died Sunday, a son-in-law, Andrew Segal, said. Mr. Jackson was 96 years old.
        Mr. Jackson, who was born in Manhattan, joined the exchange in 1925, working as a specialist. By 1930, when he married Freda King, he had made his first million. In 1931, during the second wave of the stock market crash, he lost most of his money but subsequently recovered.
        Mr. Jackson came into the limelight in 1955 as a result of a Sunday night broadcast by Walter Winchell during which Mr. Winchell ''tipped'' Pantepee Oil stock as a recommendation to his audience. At the time, Mr. Jackson was the specialist in the stock. Public reaction was so great that Mr. Jackson risked his own finances by selling the stock short to meet the surge of demand. In large part because of Mr. Jackson's selling, the stock did not rise significantly. In the following week, it fell, and Mr. Jackson made $50,000 after buying back shares to cover his short position.
        Mr. Jackson was not shy about taking risks or making his views known. In 1969, he was openly critical of the exchange's administration and sought the resignation of its president, Edward T. McCormick, contending that the exchange had not dealt promptly with a specialist who had been enjoined for securities violations by the S.E.C.
        Mr. Jackson was angered that the injunction was never formally brought to the attention of the general membership. The exchange eventually appointed a special committee that rewrote the exchange constitution, and both Mr. McCormick and his board resigned.
        Mr. Jackson; Ralph Saul, a former S.E.C. commissioner, and the Securities and Exchange Commission later rewrote the rules that governed specialists' obligations and trading rules.
        Mr. Jackson's other interests were as diverse as ballet, fishing, horse racing, bridge and travel in France.
        He retired from active work in 1971, but his firm, Jackson & Segal, continued until 1982. Subsequently, Mr. Jackson retained his seat privileges on the exchange.
        Mr. Jackson is survived by his wife, Freda, and two daughters, Linda Segal of New York and Nancy Godwin of Paris.
      