
        Cesar, a prominent French artist who created large sculptures formed by crushed cars and scrap iron, died on Sunday in Paris. He was 77.
        Friends said the cause was cancer.
        Cesar -- he was born Cesar Baldaccini but used only his first name -- was France's best-known sculptor of recent decades, yet his works provoked strongly contradictory reactions. ''Cesar was loved and detested,'' Le Monde wrote on Monday.
        Only late in life was he embraced by the French cultural establishment: he was France's representative at the 1995 Venice Biennale (where he showed a monument of crushed cars); and his first retrospective in a French museum was not held until last year, at the Jeu de Paume.
        By then, however, the work by the stocky, bearded artist had begun to look dated.
        ''His love of life and good humor barely disguised his anxiety and his legitimate desire to be recognized as one of the great sculptors of his time,'' Jack Lang, a former French Culture Minister, said.
        Cesar's harshest critics said that he was obsessed with self-promotion, yet he seemingly felt that he had not won the appreciation that he deserved.
        He once complained that he never had an art dealer to promote him in the United States and that he had not been properly recognized in Paris.
        At least two of his sculptures are nonetheless seen daily by thousands of Parisians: a large equestrianlike statue, ''Centaur -- Homage to Picasso,'' which stands on Rue du Cherche-Midi along the Left Bank; and ''La Pouce,'' a 40-foot-high reproduction of his thumb at La Defense in western Paris.
        Born in Marseilles to Italian immigrant parents, Cesar left school at 12 to help his father make casks, but at 15 he began night classes at the Ecole des Beaux-Arts in Marseilles. Six years later, he entered the Ecole des Beaux-Arts in Paris, where he lived for the rest of his life.
        Working first with plaster and iron, then with lead, wire and ceramics, he was initially influenced by the likes of Brancusi, Picasso, Giacometti and Germaine Richier.
        But in the early 1950's, when he was too poor to buy materials, he was delighted to discover the potential offered by scrap iron.
        ''You can find it anywhere and buy it for almost nothing,'' he later explained.
        He began by creating what became known as his beastiary, a series of fish, animals and insects made of scrap iron that earned him an invitation to exhibit at the 1956 Venice Biennale.
        It was in 1960, though, that he presented his first crushed cars at the Salon de Mai, provoking an outcry from many French art critics.
        ''People thought I did it so I'd be talked about, because I was a 'provocateur,' '' he recalled, although conceding that it was a form of rebellion to present ''such an aggressive object.'' These works led him to be associated with the New Realists.
        In the 1960's, when one art critic described him as a ''modern predator of industrial folklore,'' he saw his work as going in three directions: ''compression'' (cars), ''expansion'' (multicolored lavalike sculptures made of polyurethane) and ''prints'' (''La Pouce'' or an enlarged breast).
        In 1976, he gained still greater renown in an unexpected way: he was commissioned to create the trophy  for a new French equivalent of the Oscar film awards, the Cesar.
        ''He loved cinema and he liked being its symbol,'' said Daniel Toscan du Plantier, who heads France's movie industry academy.
      