
        A. Leon Higginbotham Jr., who called himself ''a survivor of segregation'' and became one of the country's most prominent African-American judges, died yesterday in Boston. He was 70 and died after a stroke for which he had been hospitalized on Saturday.
        Judge Higginbotham, a legal scholar, author and historian, was an influential Federal judge for 29 years until he retired in 1993. He often used the story of his own life, which began in an era of discrimination in Trenton, as an example of how what he called voiceless and forgotten people could overcome obstacles if they had help.
        From 1990 until his retirement, Judge Higginbotham was Chief Judge of the Federal appeals court in Philadelphia, the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. He was only the third black jurist to have directed any one of the country's circuit courts, the 12 Federal appeals panels that are second in importance only to the United States Supreme Court.
        Some historians say Judge Higginbotham was one of a handful of black jurists President Lyndon B. Johnson considered as candidates to integrate the Supreme Court before he named Thurgood Marshall the first black Justice in 1967.
        In a career of energetic accomplishment and unambiguous liberalism, Judge Higginbotham received much recognition as a legal scholar and civil rights advocate, including the nation's highest civilian honor, the Presidential Medal of Freedom,  in 1995.
        But he persistently said that many of the advances for black Americans that he had applauded over a long legal career were endangered by cutbacks in affirmative action and reduced opportunities for black lawyers and judges. ''I witnessed the birth of racial justice in the Supreme Court and here now, after 45 years as a lawyer, judge and law professor, I sometimes feel as if I am watching justice die,'' he wrote in an article in The New York Times Magazine in January.
        After his retirement from the bench he taught at Harvard University, practiced law in New York and Washington and served on various corporate boards, including that of The New York Times Company.
        In 1996 he published ''Shades of Freedom'' (Oxford University Press), the second of four books he planned to write on the law and race. His earlier book, ''In the Matter of Color,'' published in 1978, dealt with the evolution of legal and racial attitudes in the era of slavery. At the time of his death, he was at work on an autobiography.
        Charles J. Ogletree Jr., a friend and fellow professor at Harvard, said yesterday that Judge Higginbotham would be remembered most as an influential legal thinker who championed affirmative action and civil rights. ''Once he succeeded,'' Professor Ogletree said, ''he was one who didn't hesitate to let the rope drop back down and help others who needed it.''
        Only days before his death, Judge Higginbotham's voice was still influencing the issues of the day. On Dec. 1, he testified before the House Judiciary Committee's impeachment inquiry. He joined other legal experts in expressing the view that there were no grounds for impeachment of President Clinton.
        In his testimony, he said that even if President Clinton had committed perjury, not all perjurious statements were equal under the law. He suggested that Mr. Clinton's misstatements about his relationship with Monica S. Lewinsky were more like lies to avoid a speeding ticket than like lies about selling the nation's security secrets to a foreign enemy.
        Judge Higginbotham often took strong positions. In recent years he was one of the most bitter public critics of Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas, saying that Justice Thomas's conservative opinions had injured black Americans.
        Last summer, after Justice Thomas addressed a group of black lawyers and judges, Judge Higginbotham said he did not deserve the honor of being keynote speaker because his rulings ''have done more to turn back the clock of racial progress than any other African-American public official in the history of this country.''
        Judge Higginbotham often cast his commitment to the law as a commitment to social justice. He said it had come from hard experience. In emotional speeches, the judge, who was a commanding 6 feet 5 inches tall, described how a white college president at Purdue University had flatly told him when he was a college freshman in 1944 that the school was not required under the law to provide black students with heated dormitories and, therefore, never would.
        He said that experience had persuaded him to become a lawyer, because he did not believe that the law should sanction such injustices. But even as an award-winning graduate from Yale Law School in 1952, he said in speeches, he could not escape the sting of bigotry.
        When he accepted an invitation for an interview at one of the premier Philadelphia law firms after law school, he said, a secretary seemed puzzled when he arrived. He soon realized that the firm's lawyers had assumed that the Yale student named Leon Higginbotham was white. The interviewing lawyer told him his resume was impressive. But then he added: ''Of course, you know there's nothing I can do for you,'' Judge Higginbotham said.
        By the time he reached the lobby of the law firm's building, he told a group of Yale Law School alumni years later, he was in tears. Ernest Rubenstein, a New York lawyer and Yale classmate who was in that crowd in 1989 when Judge Higginbotham described that experience, said yesterday that there were few dry eyes in the audience.
        But the speech, Mr. Rubenstein said, also included ample descriptions of teachers who had encouraged the young black scholar, and of the struggling parents who had insisted that he be given the chance to rise out of their troubled Ewing Park neighborhood in Trenton. ''I think he understood,'' Mr. Rubenstein said, ''no one ever does it alone.''
        Judge Higginbotham's most passionate opinions often dealt with social or racial issues. He was sometimes criticized by conservatives who said his liberal views were so evident that he could not project an impartial appearance.
        In one nationally noted opinion, he held in 1987 that local governments must pay for abortions for prison inmates if no other public or private financial aid was available.
        In an interview in 1989, he suggested that his accomplishments had come at some personal cost and described himself as a workaholic.
        Judge Higginbotham's wife, Dr. Evelyn Brooks Higginbotham, is a professor of history and Afro-American studies at Harvard, where the retired judge had been a professor at Harvard College, Harvard Law School and the John F. Kennedy School of Government. He was also associated with the New York law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison.
        In addition to his wife, Judge Higginbotham is survived by two sons, Stephen and Kenneth of Philadelphia, and two daughters, Karen of Denver and Nia, a college student in Massachusetts. His first marriage, to Jeanne Higginbotham, ended in divorce in 1988.
        In the account of his life that Judge Higginbotham gave to audiences, he told of his journey from the segregated Trenton schools to his days as an assistant district attorney in Philadelphia and then as a partner in a black law firm. He was president of the Philadelphia chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People from 1960 to 1962.
        He was named to the Federal District Court in Philadelphia in 1964, at age 36, by President Lyndon B. Johnson. In 1977, President Jimmy Carter elevated him to the United States Court of Appeals. When Judge John J. Gibbons, the only judge who was his senior on the bench, stepped down in 1989, Judge Higginbotham automatically moved up to the chief judge's position. The other two black jurists who had held similar posts were William H. Hastie and Spottswood Robinson 3d.
        Justice Marshall of the Supreme Court suggested in an interview then that the time for measuring ''firsts'' for black judges should be drawing to a close. ''There is no more significance to it than anybody else becoming chief judge,'' Justice Marshall said. ''I think he is a great lawyer and a very great judge. Period.''
        That was an optimistic assessment of racial progress that Judge Higginbotham seemed not to share over the last few years as he expressed increasing alarm at what he described as an erosion of hard-won progress on racial issues in the law.
        But when he spoke to young people, the judge sometimes dwelled more on the opportunities for continued progress than on the problems he had seen in a long career.
        ''I will make two requests of you,'' he said to graduating seniors at Wesleyan University in 1996. ''They are that you always attempt to see those human beings who become invisible to most people, and that you always try to hear the pleas of those persons who, despite their pain and suffering, have become voiceless and forgotten.''
        Correction:  December 16, 1998, Wednesday  An obituary of Judge A. Leon Higginbotham Jr. yesterday referred incorrectly in some editions to the date and source of his appointment to the Federal District Court in Philadelphia. He was named in September 1963, not 1964. While nominated by President John F. Kennedy, he was sworn in the next year during the Administration of President Lyndon B. Johnson.
      