
        Morris K. Udall of Arizona, a liberal conscience of the House of Representatives for 30 years and a tireless advocate for environmental protection and political reform, died late Saturday in Washington. He was 76.
        According to Terrence L. Bracy, the chairman of the Morris K. Udall Foundation in Tucson, Ariz., Mr. Udall died of complications from Parkinson's disease, which was first diagnosed in 1980 and led to his resignation from Congress in 1991. He spent the final stage of his life in a veterans' hospital in Washington.
        Mr. Udall, a lifelong Democrat, was a rare figure on the Washington scene, a politician who flourished despite the fact that his politics frequently did not square with the views held by many of his constituents.
        The voters of his district were known for their support of conservative issues and conservative politicians like Senator Barry M. Goldwater. But from the time Mr. Udall was first elected in 1961 in Arizona's Second Congressional District until his retirement, they voted for him in overwhelming numbers, and they did not seem to care that he earned high marks from organizations like Americans for Democratic Action and the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
        Arizonans identified with Mr. Udall's unabashed love of unspoiled nature, and they applauded his efforts to create safeguards for the environment, including curbs on strip mining and legislation to protect more than 100 million acres of wilderness in Alaska.
        Mr. Udall's supporters came to believe in the 1970's that the 6-foot-5-inch former professional basketball player known to his friends as Mo might be a viable candidate for President. Mr. Udall believed it, too, hoping that his reputation for honesty and rugged integrity would help him become the nation's first elected post-Watergate President.
        But in 1976 he finished second in six Democratic primaries, losing the nomination to Gov. Jimmy Carter of Georgia. His liberal positions, among them proposals to break up the large oil companies and to set up a national health insurance program, were considered too extreme by some elements in his party. In addition, he lacked both the name recognition and the money needed to keep his campaign going.
        Mr. Udall considered running again in 1980, because he did not believe that President Carter could defeat Ronald Reagan. But he ultimately threw his support to Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, largely because he was mindful of questions about the state of his health.
        Mr. Udall had disclosed earlier that year that he had Parkinson's disease, a progressive disorder that is often characterized by tremors, stiff muscles and a deterioration of certain functions of the brain. Despite his condition, he remained active in the House for another decade.
        In the 80's, he continued to be in the vanguard of those who insisted that the environment be protected from industry. He actively opposed oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska. The coastal plain of the refuge was thought to be especially rich in oil, but Mr. Udall, who served as chairman of the House Interior Committee, called it ''a sacred place'' that should never be invaded by oil rigs.
        He was also a leader in the fight to push a tough strip-mining bill through the House in the 70's. The bill was vetoed twice by President Gerald R. Ford before it passed in 1977 and became a pioneering piece of environmental legislation, reclaiming millions of acres of coal land.
        In his years in Congress, Mr. Udall was in the forefront of efforts to protect the environment, expand the national parks system and restructure the energy industry. The National Wildlife Federation named him its legislator of the year in 1973.
        In 1963 he proposed legislation to put cigarettes and other tobacco products under the control of the Food and Drug Administration. He favored putting the Government on a pay-as-you-go basis and slashing the Federal debt. He also promoted major legislation dealing with postal reform and land-use planning.
        He worked overtime to reform the way the House does business. From the start he disclosed his finances and put his income tax returns in open files. He gave up his lucrative law practice. He fought for financial disclosure legislation. He proposed curbs on lobbyists.
        He played a key role in drafting and passing the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971, the first substantial revision of campaign financing laws since 1925. The law, which required candidates for Federal office to file detailed reports on the money they raised and spent, was used to help expose the Watergate scandal in 1973.
        Mr. Udall also took on the powerful committee chairmen who controlled Congress under the seniority system. He wanted to break their hold by allowing the top three ranking members on each House committee to be eligible for the chairmanship.
        Morris King Udall was born June 15, 1922, in St. John's, Ariz., the son of Levi S. and Louise Lee Udall. One of his great-grandfathers had led the first Mormons into Arizona from Utah. His father started out digging ditches, achieved success as a farmer, took law school correspondence courses and served for 16 years on the Arizona Supreme Court. His mother was the author of the book ''Mine and Me,'' the story of a Hopi woman's life.
        Levi Udall stressed to his children the need for responsible people to enter public service. Morris had two brothers and two sisters. One of his brothers, Stewart, was elected to Congress from Arizona's Second Congressional District and served until he resigned to become Secretary of the Interior in 1961. Mo Udall won the special election to fill his brother's seat.
        As a boy, Mo Udall had more than his share of adversity. When he was 5 years old, his right eye was accidentally injured by a playmate. At that point, Levi Udall was still struggling and did not have enough money to obtain decent medical care for his son. Morris Udall later recalled being taken to a doctor in St. John's who, he said, was ''mostly drunk'' and who recommended that the eye be treated with poultices. The eye soon became infected and was lost.
        Mr. Udall said the experience helped mold his sense of social consciousness and strengthen his belief that all Americans should have the right to consult with qualified physicians, regardless of ability to pay.
        When in later life Mr. Udall talked about any of his problems, it was always with self-deprecating wit, and no illness could change that. ''I'm a one-eyed Mormon Democrat from conservative Arizona,'' he would say, ''and you can't have a higher handicap that that.''
        After graduating from high school in 1940, Mr. Udall entered the University of Arizona, but after the United States entered World War II, he maneuvered his way into the Army despite the loss of his eye. In fact, he recalled, it was at Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio that he got his first decent glass eye: it not only fit, but the color matched as well.
        He served as commander of an all-black squadron in Louisiana for two years. ''That really shaped my life,'' he later said. ''I fought their fights with them. We had some battles over local discrimination.'' He served in the South Pacific and achieved the rank of Captain in the Army Air Corps.
        In 1946, he returned to the University of Arizona, where he was voted president of the student body and was a co-captain and all-conference forward on the basketball team. After completing his undergraduate work, he briefly played professionally with the Denver Nuggets.
        But he set aside his athletic career in 1949, after his admission to the bar. He returned to Arizona, set up a law practice with his brother Stewart and entered politics. He was elected chief deputy attorney for Pima County in 1950 and three years later was elected county attorney. He suffered a setback in 1954 when he failed to win a nomination for a Superior Court judgeship. But seven years later he succeeded his brother in Congress, and he remained a leading liberal voice there for the next three decades.
        Mr. Udall prided himself on his independence and outspokenness. In 1967, he broke with colleagues in the House who wanted to unseat Representative Adam Clayton Powell Jr. of New York; he felt it would be an injustice to Mr. Powell's constituents. That same year, he returned to hawkish Arizona and made a speech in Tucson in which he said he had erred in supporting American involvement in the war in Vietnam.
        His experiences in World War II led him to cease being an active member of the Mormon Church. Citing the church's policy of not allowing black people to become priests (which it has since rescinded), he said, ''For more than 25 years I have held and expressed a deep-seated and conscientious disagreement with the church doctrine on the role of blacks.''
        Throughout his career, Mr. Udall was regarded as a formidable parliamentary tactician and an astute politician. But he failed in his efforts to oust John McCormack of Massachusetts as Speaker of the House in 1969, when Mr. McCormack was 77 and tiring but still too formidable for anyone else to dare challenge him. And he also failed in a bid to oust Hale Boggs of Louisiana as House majority leader in 1970.
        When he lost to Mr. Boggs, after promised support from some liberals failed to materialize, he turned his ''Mo'' campaign button upside down so it read ''Ow.''
        Mr. Udall was married to Patricia Emery from 1949 until their divorce in 1966. They had six children. He married Ella Royston in 1968. She committed suicide 20 years later. In 1989, he married Norma Gilbert. He is survived by his wife; two brothers, Stewart L. Udall of Sante Fe, N.M., and David Burr Udall of Tucson, Ariz.; two sisters, Elma Udall of Albuquerque, N.M., and Eloise Whiting of Albuquerque; six children, Mark of Boulder, Colo., Randolph of Carbondale, Colo., Judith Udall Harding of Boulder, Anne Udall of Charlotte, N.C., Bradley of Eagle, Colo., and Katherine Udall of Norman, Okla.; and seven grandchildren.
        Mr. Udall's son Mark was elected to the House of Representatives from Boulder this year. A nephew, Tom Udall, won a House seat from Santa Fe, N.M., in the same election.
        Mr. Udall resigned from the House after a fall in his home in Arlington, Va., in 1991. But he had decided even before that, he said, that he could not be a candidate for office in 1992.
        In his honor, Congress in 1992 established the Morris K. Udall Foundation, which is dedicated to environmental education and mediation.
        Before illness took its toll, Mr. Udall liked to write and took pleasure in creating his own newsletters to his constituents. Some of his newsletters, which were distinctive because they were devoid of self-promotion and concentrated on voter education, were published in book form in 1972 under the title ''The Education of a Congressman.'' His witticisms were the subject of another book, ''Too Funny to Be President,'' which he published after his bid for the Presidency in 1976.
        Mr. Udall's humor was appreciated in Washington and Arizona.
        As a member of the House Post Office Committee, he would joke: ''Let's turn inflation over to the Post Office. That'll slow it down.''
        During his modest campaign in 1976 for the Democratic nomination for President, he told audiences about the time he stopped in a barbershop in New Hampshire, announced who he was and what he was running for, and was told by a patron, ''Yep, we were just laughing about that yesterday.''
        He enjoyed telling stories to his friends, and when in the final stage of his illness he fell mostly silent, it was an agonizing loss for them. ''You'd tell him a joke and his eyes would twinkle as he prepared to tell you two back -- but he couldn't get them out,'' said Representative Pat Williams, a Democrat of Montana. Still, his friends remembered that he even joked about his Parkinson's disease. Indeed, he suggested there was a similarity between his disease and Paula Parkinson, a lobbyist who was involved in one of Washington's periodic sex scandals. ''They both cause you to lose sleep,'' he said, ''and they both give you the shakes.''
        As the disease progressed Mr. Udall was confined to the veterans' hospital in Washington. And as time passed, his condition deteriorated. Michael Lewis, a columnist for The New York Times Magazine, found that Senator John McCain, the conservative Republican from Arizona, was one of Mr. Udall's few visitors.
        ''Mo reached out to me in 50 different ways,'' Senator McCain told Mr. Lewis. When he was elected to the House in 1982, he said, Mr. Udall took him in hand, although they did not think alike on many issues. Four years later, when Mr. McCain won the Senate seat of a retiring Barry Goldwater, he said he felt his deepest sense of gratitude not to his fellow conservative but to Mr. Udall.
        ''There no way Mo could have been more wonderful,'' Mr. McCain told Mr. Lewis, ''And there was no reason for him to be that way.'' Whenever he takes the Senate floor on behalf of American Indians or argues that the Republican Party should support environmentalism, the Senator said, he remembers his debt to Mo Udall.
      