
        Anatoly Rybakov, whose long-suppressed novel about the Stalinist era, ''Children of the Arbat,'' finally appeared in 1987 to affirm the reality of glasnost, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87 and also had a home in Moscow.
        His wife, Tatyana Rybakova, said that he died in his sleep. He had heart surgery last summer and recently suffered a bout of bronchitis, but two days before his death he had attended a party for a visiting Russian democrat, Grigory A. Yavlinsky. His widow said the author's remains would be cremated and his ashes returned to Moscow.
        When in 1987, ''Druzhba Narodov,'' or ''Friendship of the Peoples,'' one of the Soviet Union's so-called ''thick journals,'' published ''Children of the Arbat,'' the reaction inside and outside the the nation was immediate and remarkable. In the Soviet Union, the magazine's circulation, went from its normal run of 150,000 to 800,000. Abroad, the book's release sharply raised the credibility of President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's talk of new thinking, reform and openness.
        Using fictional characters in a historical setting, the book described and evoked the Stalinist past, portraying the lives of childhood friends from a Moscow neighborhood as they became enmeshed in the terror of the 1930's, some as prisoners in Siberian camps, others as apparatchiks compromised by opportunism. Stalin  was portrayed mostly through imagined interior monologues as cunning, brutal and cynical.
        But it was not the literary quality of the work that stimulated such a wide response. Irving Howe reflected the views of most critics when he called the work ''disappointing, lumbering and uneven.'' He noted that it lacked ''the lyricism of Boris Pasternak's 'Dr. Zhivago,' the moral fire of  'The First Circle,' the intellectual audacity of Vasily Grossman's 'Life and Fate.' '' Instead, Mr. Howe contended, ''What we have here is a novel that seems made to order, decades in advance, for the Gorbachev moment: tell more than anyone since Khrushchev about the time of terror, but don't stray too far from the party's orthodoxies and avoid the 'delicate' problem of the relations between the terror and the system. Boldness of presentation fades off into timidity of reflection.''
        But it was precisely ''the boldness of presentation'' that made ''Children of the Arbat'' so singular. This was, after all, a book that first appeared in the Soviet Union. It was not published in some samizdat, or underground, venture and then reprinted abroad. It had been written 20 years earlier, and twice before, in 1966 and in 1978, it had been announced that it was to be serialized in journals only to have those decisions countermanded by Communist Party officials. When the book first appeared, the poet Yevgeny Yevtushenko declared, ''After this, it will be impossible to have the same history books in our libraries and schools.''
        Moreover, it was written not by a marginal dissident, but by a writer who had been enormously well known throughout the Soviet Union for his children's stories, which had been turned into films and which four decades earlier had won him that imprimatur of orthodoxy, the Stalin Prize.
        A short but stocky and powerful man, who had used his own experiences as a gulag prisoner, truck driver, war hero and dance instructor, in ''Children of the Arbat'' and its two sequels, Mr. Rybakov was abashed by the criticism that related his work to that of Pasternak and Aleksandr I. Solzhenitsyn. ''These are great writers and I am not trying to equate myself with them,'' he said in an interview in 1987. ''But their books were published across the border, and mine was the first to be published in the Soviet Union.''
        He also wrote two novels that continued to trace the lives of the scattered group of friends from the old Arbat neighborhood. ''Fear'' was published in 1992 and ''Dust and Ashes,'' which concludes as the Soviet Army is turning the tide of battle in World War II, was published in 1996.
        Mr. Rybakov continued to write until his death, while serving as a leader of Russia's PEN Club. He divided his time between Moscow and New York, saying that because of the nearly steady stream of people eager to see him in Russia and enlist his support for their causes, he found it easier to write in his Manhattan apartment.
        Anatoly Rybakov was born on Jan. 14, 1911, in Chenigov in what is now Ukraine. His father, Naum, was an engineer. The family, assimilated Jews, moved while Anatoly was still a child to the Arbat district of Moscow, where he attended the Moscow Institute of Railway Engineers. He was still in school when he was arrested in 1933 and sentenced to three years of exile in Siberia. He once said that as a committed Communist, ''I was very depressed after the arrest for I had done nothing.'' He added:  ''But I soon found out from others that if you did nothing you only got three years. If I had done something, they would have given me 10 years.''
        He wrote his first book, a work for children called ''Kortik'' (''The Dagger''), in 1948. A story of wartime heroism, it became extremely popular and was made into a movie. Stalin is said to have admired it, and in 1951, after having written several  children's books and a novel called ''The Drivers,'' Mr. Rybakov was awarded the Stalin Prize.
        In 1978, Mr. Rybakov's novel  ''Heavy Sand'' appeared in the Russian literary journal Oktyabr. It dealt with the plight of Ukrainian Jews tortured and killed by the Nazis. Peter Lewis, writing in The Times Literary Supplement, said the publication ''caused a sensation in the Soviet Union,'' where ''Russian writers, while pouring out material about the Patriotic War of 1941-45, have shied away from the uniquely  terrible Jewish experience of that time for domestic political reasons (including Stalinist and post-Stalinist anti-Semitism).''
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons from earlier marriages, Aleksandr and Aleksei.
      