
        Hurd Hatfield, the handsome actor forever identified with the title role in the 1945 movie version of Oscar Wilde's novel ''The Picture of Dorian Gray,'' died on Friday at a friend's home in Monktown, Ireland. Since the 1970's, he had been living in Rothcormack, Ireland. He was 80.
        Although Mr. Hatfield had a long and varied career as a character actor onstage and in films, his signature role was Dorian Gray, the sensualist who remained eternally youthful while his portrait in the attic aged and revealed his decline in graphic detail. The portrait, a vision of a decomposed Dorian Gray that appeared as a sudden burst of color in a black-and-white movie, was painted by Ivan Albright.
        When Mr. Hatfield auditioned for the director Albert Lewin, he began by announcing, ''I don't belong here,'' then read a passage from the Wilde novel and furiously threw it across the room. His arrogance may have helped win the role. The movie also starred George Sanders, Donna Reed and Angela Lansbury. After ''Dorian Gray,'' Mr. Hatfield was often called upon to play villains.
        Because of his elegant and often acerbic manner on and off screen, it was sometimes assumed that he was British. Actually, he was born in Manhattan (as William Rukard Hurd Hatfield). He began his career with the Dartington Hall company run by Michael Chekhov in Britian.
        In 1952, he appeared on Broadway with Rex Harrison and Lilli Palmer in Christopher Fry's ''Venus Observed,'' directed by Laurence Olivier. He often acted in works by Shakespeare, playing the title role in ''Julius Caesar'' in the premiere production at the American Shakespeare Festival in Stratford, Conn., and on Broadway he played Don John in John Gielgud's 1959 ''Much Ado About Nothing'' He also portrayed Lord Byron and Don Quixote in Elia Kazan's original production of Tennessee Williams's ''Camino Real,'' and starred Off Broadway in Leslie Stevens's ''Bullfight.''
        His films included ''Dragon Seed,'' ''Diary of a Chambermaid,'' ''The Left-Handed Gun,'' ''King of Kings,'' ''El Cid,'' ''Mickey One'' and ''King David.'' In 1986 he played the grandfather in the film version ''Crimes of the Heart.'' On television he had the title roles in ''The Count of Monte Cristo'' and ''Don Juan in Hell'' and was a frequent guest star on Ms. Lansbury's ''Murder She Wrote.''
        No immediate family members survive.
        In recent years, Mr. Hatfield toured Germany, Northern Ireland, Russia and Latvia in Lawrence and Maggie Williams's play, ''The Son of Whistler's Mother,'' a one-man show about James McNeill Whistler. John Cullum had the role Off Broadway when the play was titled ''Whistler.'' In July 1997, Mr. Hatfield made a personal appearance at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, in connection with an exhibition of Albright paintings (including the artist's picture of Dorian Gray) and a screening of the Hatfield movie.
        ''He was very young-looking until a year ago,'' said Ms. Williams, and added that people remembering ''Dorian Gray'' often would ask him if he had a portrait of himself in his attic.
      