
        Gov. Lawton Chiles, a homespun centrist politician from the middle of Florida who served three terms as a Democratic Senator and was elected to two terms as governor, died yesterday at the Governor's Mansion in Tallahassee. He was 68.
        Mr. Chiles apparently suffered a heart attack during his daily workout, the Governor's office said in a statement. The Governor, who had a history of heart trouble, was found by a Florida law-enforcement agent next to an exercise bicycle, where he was pronounced dead.
        Governor Chiles was to have left office in January, after his successor, Jeb Bush, was inaugurated. Mr. Chiles was barred by law from serving a third term and his Lieutenant Governor, Kenneth H. MacKay Jr, who lost to Mr. Bush last month, will complete the remaining weeks of Mr. Chiles's term.
        In a sign of the stature Mr. Chiles accrued during four decades in politics, the House Judiciary Committee paused yesterday to honor Mr. Chiles during debate of a resolution to censure President Clinton.
        In 12 years as a state legislator in Tallahassee, 18 years in Washington and 8 years as Governor, Mr. Chiles earned a reputation as a lawmaker deeply concerned about the environment and the fiscal responsibility of government.
        In the Senate, he focused on what he called ''government in the sunshine''; he was the chief sponsor of a 1976 Federal law requiring regulatory agencies to conduct their meetings in public. And he pressed with some success for similar openness in Congressional committee hearings and for requirements that officeholders disclose personal and campaign financial information, as well as similar rules for lobbyists.
        Mr. Chiles was also the main sponsor of the Federal Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, and carried on this cause as Governor by proposing the repeal of half of Florida's 28,750 state regulations by the end of 1996. He began by issuing executive orders removing several thousand regulations and replacing them where deemed necessary with looser common-sense ''guidelines.''
        He retired from the Senate at the end of his third term in 1988, ''burned out,'' in his words, by the impasses he had encountered in the two years he served as chairman of the Budget Committee. His efforts to achieve a bipartisan consensus on where and how much to cut Federal spending were undercut by both Republicans and fellow Democrats eager to preserve certain projects, and by officials in the Reagan Administration.
        In 1989, depression was diagnosed in Mr. Chiles. Around that time, he had been taking part in negotiations to stem the growth of the Federal budget.
        ''I began to see the President wasn't serious, the Speaker wasn't serious, the majority leader wasn't serious,'' he said. ''It was all a charade. I just wanted to scream, 'This is a fraud!' But I helped to create it.''
        Mr. Chiles spoke of his depressive period as ''not the blues, but the blacks, the black blacks.'' He couldn't digest food properly and developed insomnia. One day, after being shown a calendar jammed with appointments, he told his Senate staff, ''I can't see anything here that I want to do.''
        His successful medical treatment included Prozac, then a new antidepressant.
        Having recovered by the spring of 1990, he re-entered politics, ran for governor and, by a vote of 57 percent to 43 percent, defeated a one-term Republican, Gov. Bob Martinez.
        During Mr. Chiles's nearly 40 years in public office, the population of Florida doubled to 14 million; in the same period, the state's political profile shifted from Deep South Democrat to an almost equal division of Democrats and Republicans. Noting this change, he described the new Florida as ''more a crowd than a community.''
        But having early acquired a reputation for probity, the soft-spoken Mr. Chiles never lost an election. Noting the absence of scandal or indications of misuse of office in his career, David Schultz wrote in The Ledger, the daily newspaper of Mr. Chiles's hometown, Lakeland, ''It's refreshing and rare to find such integrity in public office.''
        Mr. Chiles was an unknown State Senator when he entered national politics in 1970 after Spessard L. Holland, then Florida's senior Senator, decided to retire. Lacking name recognition and money, Mr. Chiles attracted attention by walking the length of the state, 1,003 miles in three months.
        His ''shoe leather, shoestring campaign'' proved effective, and was successfully employed two years later by Richard C. Clark, an Iowa Democrat who was elected to the United States Senate after winning recognition by walking across that state.
        Mr. Chiles refused campaign contributions of more than $10 (in later contests he raised this to $100). In the Democratic primary runoff he beat a former Governor with nearly 69 percent of the vote. In the general election, Walkin' Lawton, as he was then known, upset his Republican opponent, Representative William Cramer, winning nearly 54 percent of the vote.
        Mr. Chiles's vote totals remained high thereafter: 63 percent in the 1976 senatorial race, and 62 percent in 1982. After defeating Governor Martinez in 1990 he sought re-election in 1994 and, defying a Republican tide that swept the nation that year, defeated Jeb Bush, the son of former President George Bush, by 51 percent to 49 percent.
        Reflecting on his narrow victory in 1994, Mr. Chiles said, ''There's a feeling loose in the land of utter frustration and anger, stronger than I've ever seen it.''
        As Senator, Mr. Chiles successfully fought a project to dig a barge canal across Florida, which would have damaged the state's environment. In 1974 he sponsored legislation creating the Big Cypress National Preserve, a 574,000-acre preserve that helps control water flow to the Everglades. And he opposed phosphate strip mining in the Osceola National Forest.
        As Governor, one of Mr. Chiles's most notable achievements was in political campaign financing, pushing through legislation requiring public money for candidates running for state offices.
        He also became a leader in encouraging litigation against the tobacco industry, first by sponsoring a law that permitted the filing of lawsuits against cigarette manufacturers and then filing such a lawsuit on behalf of the state in 1995. That suit, which sought to recoup the costs of treating Medicaid patients suffering from smoking-related diseases, culminated in 1997 in a $11.3 billion settlement to be paid over 25 years.He also advocated health-care reform and adamantly opposed Federal restrictions on benefits for legal immigrants.
        Lawton Mainor Chiles Jr. was born on April 3, 1930, in Lakeland. His father was a railroad conductor. After attending public schools, he graduated from the University of Florida in Gainesville in 1952, and served in the Army as an artillery lieutenant in Korea in 1953 and 1954.
        Mr. Chiles returned to the University of Florida and received a law degree in 1955. He was elected to the Florida House of Representatives in 1958 and served four consecutive two-year terms; he was elected to the State Senate and served from 1966 to 1970.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Rhea May Grafton; two sons, Lawton M. 3d and Edward G.; two daughters, Tandy M. and Rhea Gay, and 10 grandchildren.
      