
        Dave Williams, who coached the University of Houston golf team to 16 National Collegiate Athletic Association championships and sent a host of players to the Professional Golfers Association Tour, died Wednesday in Wharton, Tex. He was 80 and had been ill for several years, the university's sports information department said.
        Houston was the dominant college in golf during Williams's 36-year tenure. In addition to the 16 national championships, the Cougars won 14 conference championships and 340 tournaments under Williams. Seven of Williams's golfers won N.C.A.A. individual championships, and 41 of his golfers were all-America selections.
        Some of the world's best golfers were coached by Williams in college, including Fred Couples, the 1992 Masters champion; Steve Elkington, the 1995 P.G.A. Championship winner; John Mahaffey, the 1978 P.G.A. champion, Bill Rogers, the 1981 British Open champion, and Fuzzy Zoeller, who won the 1979 Masters and the 1984 United States Open. Others coached by Williams who became winners on the PGA Tour include Billy Ray Brown, Keith Fergus, Bruce Lietzke, Ed Fiori, Homero Blancas and Kermit Zarley.
        In 1988, the Golf Coaches Association of America named its collegiate coach of the year award in honor of Williams. He retired in 1987, but he left an indelible impression on his pupils.
        ''When he was recruiting me, Coach Williams called me in Australia every Saturday for one year,'' Elkington said. ''He convinced me to leave Australia when I was 18 years old, and I owe my start in America to him. Nobody else was recruiting me at that time, and he convinced my mother that he'd take care of me, even though I'd be thousands of miles away from home. That's the kind of influence he had on people.''
        Regarded by many as the father of college golf, Williams had a far-reaching impact on the game. Before 1955, teams competed against each other in dual matches using match-play format. But in the 1955 All-America Intercollegiate Invitational, Williams thought it was more logical and economical to play several opponents at once, using stroke play in a tournament format. That scoring method eventually became standard for college golf, and it was Williams who also started the practice of outfitting teams with uniforms.
        After serving in the Navy during World War II and reaching the rank of full lieutenant, Williams joined Houston's engineering faculty in 1946. He became the university's golf coach in 1952 at the urging of his friend Harry Fouke, who was the school's athletic director. In 1956, Houston won the first of five consecutive national championships.
        Williams is survived by his wife, Virginia; a son, Joel; a daughter, Peggy, and four grandchildren.
      