
        Hazel Bishop, who cooked up the first kissproof lipstick (''stays on you . . . not on him'') in a kitchen fitted out as a laboratory, then lost the right to use the name she made famous, died on Saturday at the Osborn Home in Rye, N.Y. She was 92.
        She exploited the skills of a research chemist, a merchant and a teacher to achieve eminence in three careers over the course of 50 years.
        It was soon after World War II that Miss Bishop, a trained chemist who had worked in a dermatologist's laboratory, developed a nondrying, nonirritating, long-wearing lipstick. (Long-lasting types contain high amounts of colorants called bromo acids that have staining qualities.)
        In 1950, she formed Hazel Bishop Inc. to manufacture and market her discovery. ''Never again need you be embarrassed by smearing friends, children, relatives, husband, sweetheart,'' the early advertising said, pointing out that older formulations tended to leave greasy marks on glasses, cigarettes and teeth. And the new brand did not have to be applied several times a day.
        The brand found instant acceptance. When it was introduced that summer at $1 a tube, Lord & Taylor sold out its stock on the first day. The brand soon captured 25 percent of the fast-growing lipstick market and locked horns with Charles Revson of Revlon in ''the lipstick war.''
        But Miss Bishop was engaged in a war of her own with her majority stockholder over financial issues. In settling her lawsuit, she left the company in 1954, when its sales exceeded $10 million a year. She set up Hazel Bishop Laboratories to develop household and personal care products, but ran into legal problems with her former partner, losing the right to sell products under her own name or to use it in personal appearances.
        In 1962, she became a stockbroker for Bache & Company and later a financial analyst for Evans & Company. With the burgeoning of the fragrance business in the 1960's and 70's, cosmetics companies became hot stocks and her advice was ardently sought. She was quoted in newspaper financial pages and lectured throughout the United States.
        Her third career was in fashion education. In 1978, she became an adjunct professor at the Fashion Institute of Technology in Manhattan in a program preparing young people for careers in cosmetics.
        In 1980, on the occasion of Miss Bishop's appointment to the Revlon Chair in Cosmetics Marketing at F.I.T., Michel Bergerac, chairman of Revlon, said: ''It is really quite an achievement to carve one outstanding career in a lifetime. To succeed in business, in finance, and in academics in only part of a life is truly an amazing thing.''
        Hazel Bishop was born in Hoboken, N.J.. on Aug. 17, 1906, one of two children of Henry and Mabel Bishop. Her father ran a dozen successful enterprises, including numerous stores on Washington Street, the main concourse of Hoboken. One Thanksgiving, he brought Santa Claus to town on an elephant to advertise his candy emporium.
        ''The family talk around the dinner table always concerned business,'' Miss Bishop said.
        After graduating from Barnard College, Miss Bishop intended to go to medical school, but the stock market crash forced her to take a job as a chemist at Columbia University Medical Center, where she worked for a leading dermatologist, investigating allergies and cosmetics.
        In World War II, as senior organic chemist with what is now Exxon, she discovered the cause of deposits affecting superchargers of aircraft engines. After the war, she moved on to what is now Mobil, but in the meantime made her historic discovery.
        She is survived by a niece, Randa Bishop of Las Vegas, Nev., and two nephews, Arthur Lipper of Delmar, Calif., and A. Michael Lipper of Summit, N.J.
        Described over the years as demure and trim, with hazel eyes and a weakness for hats, the woman who invented kissable lipstick never married. She said she felt the obligation, in her courting years, to keep her widowed mother company at home.
        After she left the business, she still mixed up lipstick for herself, a red shade with a blue cast, and once offered the following beauty advice: ''Women should use makeup to accentuate their most attractive feature. After the age of 25 or thereabouts, personality becomes an increasingly more attractive feature.''
      