
        Merle E. Gilliand, retired chairman and chief executive of the PNC Bank Corporation, who presided over several mergers of the bank holding company over 30 years, died on Tuesday at the UPMC St. Margaret Hospital in Pittsburgh. He was 76.
        Mr. Gilliand, a resident of Fox Chapel, Pa., and Naples, Fla., was recently diagnosed with cancer.
        Mr. Gilliand joined the accounting department of the People's First National Bank and Trust Company in 1953, after a five-year stint as a certified public accountant. As controller six years later, he negotiated the merger with Fidelity Trust Company of Pittsburgh that created Pittsburgh National Bank. From 1970 until 1983, he was chairman and chief executive of the bank. In 1983, as chairman and chief executive officer of Pittsburgh National and its holding company, he led the merger with Provident National Bank of Philadelphia, creating the PNC Financial Corporation. Later acquisitions of Pennsylvania banks included Marin Bank of Erie; Northeastern Bank in Scranton and Wilkes Barre, and Hershey Bank in central Pennsylvania.
        When Mr. Gilliand retired as chairman and chief executive in 1985, the bank holding company was the nation's 27th largest, with close to $15 billion in assets. He continued to serve as a director and chairman of the board's executive committee until 1992.
        The son of a house painter, Mr. Gilliand was a 1948 graduate of Duquesne University with a bachelor's degree in business administration. He was an ardent fan of the school's sports teams and often helped arrange job interviews for former athletes. After he retired, the bank established the Merle E. Gilliand Scholarship fund at the university. He served in the Army as a first lieutenant in World War II. He also served as president of the Federal Advisory Council of the Federal Reserve System, a Congressionally mandated group of bankers that meets regularly with the central bank's top officials.
        He is survived by his wife, Olive Lee, of Fox Chapel and Naples, and a cousin, Doris Morley. A son, Dr. Mark H. Gilliand, died previously.
      