
        Harry W. Treleaven Jr., an advertising executive and early political consultant who is credited with creating the ''Nixon's the One!'' slogan for the 1968 Presidential campaign, died Dec. 9 at the Sarah Neuman Nursing Home in Mamaroneck, N.Y. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan and Amagansett, N.Y.
        A former wife, Elsie Lawall Treleaven, said the cause was heart failure.
        Mr. Treleaven (pronounced TRELL-eh-ven) was one of the first practitioners of techniques that are used commonly in politics today in the packaging and handling of candidates. Though he was not the best known of Richard M. Nixon's Republican brain trust in the 1968 campaign (others included Leonard Garment, Roger Ailes and Frank Shakespeare), he played an important role in setting its tone and conveying the desired image to the public.
        Some of his contributions were recorded by Joe McGinniss in his book about the campaign, ''The Selling of the President,'' for which Mr. McGinniss received access to Mr. Treleaven's confidential staff memorandums. In one memorandum quoted by Mr. McGinniss, Mr. Treleaven discussed how the campaign had to turn Nixon's liabilities into assets. ''Not always loved, he is universally respected,'' Mr. Treleaven wrote. ''Not glamorous, he does have a certain star quality going for him.''
        Mr. Treleaven conceded that there were some negatives to Mr. Nixon's personality, but said, ''If we recognize them, deal with them intelligently instead of worrying about them, their effect can be minimized.''
        There was, for example, Mr. Nixon's apparent lack of humor. ''Can be corrected to a degree,'' Mr. Treleaven wrote, ''but let's not be too obvious about it.''
        On another of the candidate's shortcomings, warmth, Mr. Treleaven wrote, ''He can be helped greatly in this respect by how he is handled, by what he says and how he says it.'' One solution offered by Mr. Treleaven: ''presenting him informally.''
        In another memorandum, Mr. Treleaven wrote of Mr. Nixon's pictures: ''Avoid closeups.''
        Mr. Nixon presented a difficult case for the handlers. At one point,  Mr. Treleaven wrote, ''the chances of overcoming Richard Nixon's cold image and the chances of making him loved and making him glamorous via commercial exposure on television (where admittedly he has not been at his best) are far less than the chances of making him loved and making him glamorous via saturation exposure of artfully conceived and produced four-color, full-page (or double spread) magazine advertisements.''
        Mr. Treleaven was born in Oak Park, Ill., and graduated from Duke University, where he was editor in chief of The Duke Chronicle, and rose to the rank of lieutenant while serving with the Navy's Seabees in the South Pacific during World War II.
        After the war he wrote plays for radio shows like ''The Whistler'' in California and then moved to New York as an executive at the J. Walter Thompson agency, working on accounts like Ford, Pan Am and Singer.
        Mr. Treleaven's first political job was as consultant to George Bush's Congressional campaign in Houston, which Mr. Bush won in an upset at the start of his political career. He then was involved in Republican campaigns for many years.
        Mr. Treleaven is survived by a son from his first marriage, to Joan Westphal, Gregory P. Treleaven of Boston; two children from his second marriage, to Elsie Lawall Treleaven, Bruce D. Treleaven of Montclair, N.J., and Gwyneth T. Claiborne of Fairfield, Conn., and four grandchildren.
        Mr. Garment, the Nixon counsel, in his book ''Crazy Rhythm,'' said Mr. Treleaven had a genius for political advertising. ''He enjoyed the manipulative esthetic of advertising's words, pictures and music in the same way he enjoyed the late-afternoon light bouncing off the ocean waves at Amagansett.''
        Mr. Garment once said the ''Nixon's the One!'' campaign showed Mr. Nixon as a person ''who has had experience and has been able to stay on his feet -- even if he is unpleasant.''
      