
        Dr. David Newton, who shaped the introduction of open admissions at the City University of New York as chairman of its Task Force on Open Enrollment in 1969, died on Monday at his home in Brookville, N.Y. He was 76.
        He had suffered from serious heart and kidney ailments, his wife, Laura, said.
        Many education officials blend into the woodwork. But Dr. Newton was an outspoken champion of students, someone who arranged student-faculty picnics and marched in student demonstrations -- a bearded administrator in solidarity with his bearded students in the turbulent 1960's.
        After CUNY faculty members formed one of the first faculty unions in the nation, Dr. Newton was credited with helping to define standards for university labor relations. Although he was considered pro-union and invited faculty labor leaders to his house, he pressed for contract concessions from faculty and staff unions and endured faculty strikes to insure that the university served students the way he thought it should.
        In 1969, when proponents of open admissions won their sudden victory to open CUNY to a broader array of students who would previously not have met its admission standards, the university turned to Dr. Newton, a 47-year-old dean of students at Baruch College, to lead a task force to answer questions like where to put 15,000 new freshmen and who would teach them.
        ''David was a good administrator,'' Albert H. Bowker, CUNY's chancellor at the time, said on Monday, noting that he got to know him after ''we'd had a big fight, and David had picketed me when I had plans to move Baruch to Brooklyn.''
        He later named Dr. Newton as acting president of the City University's troubled York College and then vice chancellor for faculty and staff relations, making him CUNY's chief bargainer with more than 15,000 faculty and staff members.
        His biggest challenge came in 1969, when the university decided to open its doors to any student with a high school diploma. It was a daunting task. Dr. Newton's panel moved to assess what the City University faced in carrying out the new policy and accommodating the surge in its colleges' student bodies. It sent questionnaires to 80,000 high school students and conducted a room-by-room inventory of space at the colleges.
        The resulting report spelled out CUNY's needs, from 1.6 million square feet of additional space to 1,200 more faculty members just for remedial instruction. The panel estimated that 25 to 45 percent of the open-admissions students would need counseling, remedial classes and financial aid, and called for each college to have a clearly defined procedure for evaluating each student. It also recommended a universitywide testing program in the spring, a forerunner of the CUNY placement tests now in use.
        World War II delayed Dr. Newton's route to college. Born in New York City, the son of Polish immigrants, he served in Merrill's Marauders, an Army guerrilla unit that infiltrated Japanese-occupied Burma. After the war, he worked as a cabdriver and in a factory to support his growing family while he attended New York University, receiving bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees.
        His first administrative job was as director of student life at City College. He moved from there to Baruch, York and then CUNY's central administration. He left CUNY for Long Island University in 1975 and joined Adelphi University in 1988.
        During his battles with cancer and heart problems and the need for kidney dialysis, he continued to work until last August, keeping a sense of humor throughout. Mary M. Lai, chief financial officer at Long Island University, recalls, for example, how he wore sunglasses to one middle-of-the-night bargaining session.
        Despite his affection for faculty unions, he would speak out against faculty prerogatives. In a 1977 faculty strike at L.I.U.'s C. W. Post College, Dr. Newton, then the university's vice chancellor, said that in past negotiations the university ''gave away the store,'' ceding administrative power to the faculty, power he was determined to take back.
        Two years later, when an arbitrator ordered C. W. Post to suspend nine tenured faculty members who refused to join the faculty union or pay nonmember fees to it, Dr. Newton said the union cared more about money than academic freedom.
        His prowess at the negotiating table carried over to the poker table. Long after he left CUNY, a group of poker-playing CUNY presidents used him as their gold standard. ''People would say, 'If you thought that play was great, David Newton would have done this,' '' said Matthew Goldstein, a former CUNY president who now heads Adelphi.
        Besides his wife, Dr. Newton is survived by their children, Manya, of New York City, and William, of San Antonio; three children from a previous marriage, Adam, of Austin, Tex., Frederic, of Ross, Calif., and Scott, of Kazakhstan, and a sister, LeeMarie Bernstein of Woodbury, N.Y.
      