
        Anita Hoffman, who aided and abetted her Yippie husband, Abbie Hoffman, in his anti-establishment protests and pranks and then sustained him through her letters during his years as a fugitive, died on Sunday at the age of 56.
        She had been suffering from breast cancer.
        Mrs. Hoffman had lived in Petaluma, Calif., where she sold rare books. Until shortly before her death she continued to advise on the production of ''Steal This Movie,'' a film produced by Robert Greenwald that is scheduled for release next summer. It is based on letters she had exchanged with her husband during the six years he was sought by the F.B.I. on charges of selling cocaine. The exchanges appeared in a book, ''To America With Love: Letters from the Underground,'' not long before Mr. Hoffman committed suicide at 52 in 1989.
        After Mr. Hoffman, the founder of the Yippie movement, jumped bail in 1974, Mrs. Hoffman and her son, america, who was deliberately named with a lower case a, became the objects of constant F.B.I. surveillance. For his part, Mr. Hoffman traveled in the United States and Europe and eventually settled with his companion, Johanna Lawrenson, in a remote hamlet in New York near the Thousand Islands, where under the name of Barry Freed he campaigned to protect the St. Lawrence River.
        Fully aware of his relationship with Ms. Lawrenson, his wife wrote regularly and supportively, at one point helping him to find a psychiatrist to treat him for what was later described as schizophrenia and manic depression.
        The couple divorced after Mr. Hoffman surfaced in 1980 and served a short prison term, but Mr. Greenwald, who is also the director of the film, said, ''They always remained good and close friends, even after the romance had ended.''
        They had met on the Lower East Side of Manhattan in 1967. She, then still Anita Kushner, had recently received a master's degree in psychology and he was operating Liberty House, a store that sold the produce of rural blacks in Mississippi. Like him, she had been active in civil rights groups and was thinking of ways to engage the hippies who were flocking to the Lower East Side in antiwar protest.
        As Abbie Hoffman was to write in his book, ''Soon to Be a Major Motion Picture,'' they had much in common. ''If I had been born a woman, I would have been Anita,'' he wrote. ''Sometimes couples take 50 years of living together to look and act alike; we began right off. The first night we spent together we fell in love. She was a born rascal.''
        She reportedly helped plan and certainly witnessed her husband's first major piece of guerrilla theater when he and a group of blithe spirits burned money at the New York Stock Exchange. She was also with her husband during the huge antiwar protest in Washington in 1967 when Yippie formations encircled the Pentagon in an effort to levitate the building with incantations. And she was with him in Chicago when street battles with police officers led to Mr. Hoffman's arrest and trial in the Chicago Seven conspiracy trial.
        At one point Mrs. Hoffman went to Algeria to meet with Eldridge Cleaver in an effort to forge a coalition between the anarchic Yippies and the militant Black Panthers. According to Marty Jezer, the author of a recent biography of Abbie Hoffman, she was shocked by Mr. Cleaver's misogynist behavior and fled his residence through a window.
        In 1971, she had a son. As many other Americans do, they notified the White House and duly received pro forma congratulations from the Nixons, a fact they gleefully announced through the press.
        From 1974 on, after Mr. Hoffman fled trial on drug charges, his wife reared their son on her own, leading a less prominent life. After working as an organizer of welfare recipients, she moved to the West Coast where she read scripts for Hollywood producers. In 1970 she had written a novel about radicals of the period, called ''Trashing,'' using the pen name Ann Fettaman.
        She is survived by her son, an electrician who lives in North Carolina; her sister, Truusje Kushner, of the Los Angeles area, and her mother, Leah Kushner, of Laguna Hills, Calif.
      