
        Dr. Louis Jolyon West, a charismatic leader in psychiatry whose work centered on people who have been taken to the limits of human experience, like ''brainwashed'' prisoners of war, kidnapping victims and abused children, died last Saturday in his home in Los Angeles. He was 74.
        The cause was metastatic cancer, family members said.
        Dr. West's life and career were punctuated with events that suggested his broad range of work. He examined Jack Ruby, the killer of Lee Harvey Oswald, and helped convince the court that Mr. Ruby should not be sentenced to death. Dr. West once saw a gruesome execution in Wisconsin and for years led a movement of doctors against the death penalty. He was a court-appointed witness in the defense of Patricia Hearst after her kidnapping and what appeared to be conversion to the outlaw life.
        In the 1950's and early 1960's, he aided civil rights workers who led lunch-counter sit-ins, and later he traveled to South Africa to testify on behalf of prisoners during apartheid.
        Dr. Milton H. Miller, a longtime colleague of Dr. West and the chairman of psychiatry at the Harbor-University of California at Los Angeles Medical Center, described Dr. West, nicknamed Jolly, as ''above all, a colorful figure, an alive person who loved being on the stage.''
        An experiment of Dr. West's in the 1950's was a national event. A disk jockey, Peter Tripp, was subjected to sleep deprivation, broadcasting live for 200 hours without stopping. He suffered temporary physical and mental illness in the process.
        Another prominent study, also in the 1950's, came about when Dr. West was part of a panel appointed to find out why 36 of 59 United States airmen captured in Korea confessed or cooperated in charges of war crimes against the United States. What seemed to be a collapse of will led some to call the airmen cowards, and others raised the fear that the Communists had found drugs or mysterious methods to induce ''brainwashing.''
        Dr. West's work, which included interviews with the servicemen, showed that the explanation was both simpler and more important.
        ''What we found enabled us to rule out drugs, hypnosis or other mysterious trickery,'' he once said in an interview. ''It was just one device used to confuse, bewilder and torment our men until they were ready to confess to anything. That device was prolonged, chronic loss of sleep.'' That, combined with the constant fear of harm and the total dependency on their captors, led the airmen into startling and fairly long-lasting personality changes.
        Dr. West's work saved the airmen from court-martial. It also demonstrated the vulnerability of people in general.
        The principle is also at work in families, he said, where children may become violent when they are exposed to coercion and violence. Dr. West was among the first in psychiatry to demonstrate in scientific papers that inflicting painful punishment was not a necessary part of good child-rearing.
        He illustrated the point with his usual flair by publishing a study of a very unusual people, the Tarahumara of the Sierra Madre in southwestern Chihuahua, Mexico, describing how they maintained nonviolence as one of the highest principles of society and never physically punished their children. The children grew up learning no expressions of anger or rage, and violent crimes were practically unknown among them.
        Dr. West's efforts to study violence caused a public confrontation in the early 1970's. He proposed a center, which he called the ''world's first and only center for the study of interpersonal violence.''
        But early drafts of the proposal included descriptions of human experiments, including psychosurgery, or brain surgery to change behavior. Protest was quick and vehement. In one effort to confront the objections, he met with the Black Panther leader Huey Newton in Mr. Newton's Oakland apartment; the ethics of human experiments were debated, but neither budged. Although Dr. West drew enthusiastic support from the Governor of California, Ronald Reagan, the proposal finally failed.
        Louis West was born on Oct. 6, 1924, in Brooklyn to an immigrant from Ukraine, Albert Jerome West, and a Brooklyn piano teacher, Anna Rosenberg. He received his medical degree from the University of Minnesota and did his psychiatric residency at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center.
        At 29 he became chairman of the psychiatry department at the University of Oklahoma School of Medicine. He remained at Oklahoma until 1969, when he became chairman of psychiatry and head of the Neuropsychiatric Institute at the University of California at Los Angeles. He stayed there until he retired in 1989.
        Dr. West is survived by his wife, Kathryn, of Los Angeles; two daughters, Anne Kathryn, of New York, and Mary Elizabeth Hawkins of Sacramento; one son, John Stuart, of Seattle, and a sister, Nancy Wheeler of St. Paul.
        Correction:  January 25, 1999, Monday  An obituary on Jan. 9 about Dr. Louis Jolyon West, a psychiatrist involved in many famous court cases, misstated the place of the execution he witnessed that turned him against the death penalty. His family says it was in Iowa, not Wisconsin.
      