
        Paul E. Manheim, a collector of Asian art, died on New Year's Day at his home in East Hampton, N.Y., 55 years to the day after he became a partner at the old Wall Street investment house of Lehman Brothers. He was 93.
        It was Mr. Manheim who led Lehman Brothers into providing individual investment services to wealthy Americans in the prosperous years after World War II, said Robert S. Rubin, a former president of the brokerage firm.
        Mr. Manheim started out as a statistical analyst in 1928, when the idea of technical research was relatively new on Wall Street. He was made a partner on Jan. 1, 1944, and over the years he managed money, worked on rehabilitating failed companies and in 1958 helped organize the One William Street Fund, the first open-end investment fund offered by Lehman, which was slow to expand from a wealthy clientele into selling its expertise to the masses.
        ''Today on Wall Street you are a specialist,'' Mr. Rubin said, ''an analyst or money manager or broker, but he had his hand in everything.''
        Mr. Manheim came to New York as an infant. He was born in what is now the Slovak Republic, where his father and grandfather were timber merchants.
        He graduated from the University of Virginia in 1925 and went to work in the Caribbean for Dunbar Molasses and was United States consul in Guyana, which at the time was a colony known as British Guiana. He returned to New York in 1927, worked briefly for a brokerage firm and then joined Lehman Brothers in 1928 as a statistical research analyst.
        Over the years he was a director of Air Express International, Ekco Products, Great Western Financial, Loew's, Media General, Paramount Pictures, the Postal Telegraph and Cable Corporation and Western Union.
        He moved to limited partner status, semiretirement, in 1970.
        He is survived by his wife, Simone Gardner; a brother, Frank, of London; a sister, Louise Espy of Manhattan; two daughters, Emily Goldman of Santa Fe, N.M., and Martha Green of Brooklyn; a son Anthony, of Brooklyn; seven grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
        His marriages to Kate Carns in 1931 and to Ruth Gram in 1958 ended in divorce.
        In the 1960's, Mr. Manheim used his growing wealth to acquire Asian art, especially from India and Nepal.
        But on Labor Day weekend in 1975, a chain-smoking burglar broke into his East Side mansion and took 200 pieces of Asian art. It was one of the first of a rash of burglaries at the homes of Asian art collectors at a time when prices were soaring. The police put Mr. Manheim's losses at $750,000, about $2.3 million in today's dollars.
        The F.B.I. later recovered much of the art, and Mr. Manheim donated many of the items to the Brooklyn Museum, where he was a governor from 1969 to 1982, said Amy Poster, the museum's Asian art curator.
      