
        George Jackson Eder, a lawyer and economist active in Latin American affairs, died last Wednesday in Shands Hospital in Gainesville, Fla. He had collapsed the previous evening while Christmas shopping at Wal-Mart, his son Richard said. He was 98.
        Born and raised in New York City, Mr. Eder served in the Cavalry during World War I in France. After studying law and accounting, he served as a coffee buyer for several years in Costa Rica.
        In 1926, Mr. Eder was appointed to head the Latin section of the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce. It was a period in which the United States was superceding Europeans as the leading trading partner of South and Central America.
        In 1931, Mr. Eder was dismissed after publishing a feisty attack on British efforts to promote their exports to Argentina. In a 175-page pamphlet published by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Mr. Eder wrote that a recent visit by the Prince of Wales to open a British trade fair in Argentina was to ''attack American mercantile supremacy.'' And he wrote that British merchants and diplomats were making ''veiled attacks on Argentine-American friendship.''
        After working at an investment firm, Mr. Eder joined the International Telephone and Telegraph Company in 1939 as a deputy counsel. He was sent to work in ITT's Argentine subsidiary in 1940, which operated that country's telephone system. After negotiating the sale of the telephone company to the Argentine Government, he moved back to ITT's New York headquarters in 1947.
        In 1956, he took a leave from ITT to head an economic mission to help the Bolivian Government cope with spiraling inflation. He helped concoct a plan that included balancing the budget and eliminating currency exchange limits, followed by a one-year freeze on wages. A key element of the plan was to repay debt the country owed to the United States.
        The plan had critics on the Bolivian left. In June 1957, Nuflo Chaves, the labor-backed Vice President of Bolivia, resigned after a public dispute with Mr. Eder. But in a speech before Congress two months later, President Hernan Siles Zuazo said that the plan created by Mr. Eder had ''saved the country.''
        Mr. Eder left ITT in 1961 and spent several years teaching, first at Harvard Law School and then at the business school of the University of Michigan.
        Mr. Eder's wife, Marceline Gray Eder, died in 1971. He is survived by four children: Donald Eder, a teacher in Norwalk, Conn.; Richard Eder, a book critic in Milton, Mass.; Luli Gray, a writer in Chapel Hill, N.C., and Elizabeth McCulloch, a lawyer in Gainesville. He is also survived by eight grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      