
        Marshall Perlin, a civil-liberties lawyer who was engaged on a decades-long quest to keep the Rosenberg spy case in the national consciousness, died last Thursday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 79 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
        He suffered a brief illness, his family said.
        Mr. Perlin did his most famous work representing the sons of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg and Morton Sobell, the Rosenbergs' co-defendant. The couple, accused of plotting to pass atomic bomb secrets to the Soviet Union, were convicted and electrocuted at Sing Sing prison in 1953. Mr. Sobell spent 18 1/2 years in Federal prison before he was paroled.
        Mr. Perlin entered the scene after the sentencing. He argued court motions that resulted in the public release of hundreds of thousands of pages of documents on the Rosenberg case and helped change the way the Federal Bureau of Investigation handled documents.
        Mr. Perlin pursued Mr. Sobell's appeals of his original 30-year sentence and served as counsel to the Rosenbergs' children, Robert and Michael Meeropol, who use their adoptive parents' surname. In an effort undertaken at their request to have the case reopened and prove the couple were framed, he began in the mid-1970's to challenge the F.B.I., the Justice Department, the Central Intelligence Agency and other offices to release classified documents. He was armed with the Freedom of Information Act, which had become law a decade earlier, long after the trial.
        The Government reluctantly surrendered the files. At the time of his death, Mr. Perlin was still trying to fill in gaps in documents that had pages, paragraphs, phrases or names blanked out or omitted when they were released.
        The stacks of Rosenberg files that were released eventually threatened to outgrow Mr. Perlin's law office on West 44th Street. He started sending them to Columbia University several years ago. The collection, now known as the Perlin Papers, is stored at Columbia Law School.
        Mr. Perlin also brought a suit on behalf of the American Friends Service Committee and four dozen other groups and individuals, seeking to oblige the F.B.I. to follow a standard retention system for documents that applies to other Federal agencies. The F.B.I. formerly had a policy of throwing out or keeping records with little oversight.
        The action was brought in United States District Court in Washington and was upheld on appeal. A commonly used retention system provides certain rules by which Government officials determine which records can be discarded, which should be kept for a certain period of time and which are of enough historical value to be stored at the National Archives.
        Mr. Perlin's other clients included labor unions and people accused of disloyalty or subversion during the McCarthy era in the 1950's.
        Mr. Perlin was born in Manhattan and graduated from Rutgers University. He finished Columbia Law School in 1942, but his degree was deferred until 1947 while he served in World War II.
        He was a first lieutenant and navigator in the Army Air Force, flying bombing missions in the Pacific. He earned the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Air Medal with two oak leaf clusters and two battle stars.
        He practiced in Federal Court in several states and tried a case that was admitted to the United States Supreme Court in 1955. Although he had a solo practice much of the time, he at one time was a partner of Arthur Kinoy, a retired professor of constitutional law at Rutgers.
        Mr. Perlin is survived by his wife, Loretta Rowe; a son, Hank Perlin of Manhattan; and a daughter, Jan Perlin of Brooklyn.
        Correction:  January 6, 1999, Wednesday  An obituary on Monday about Marshall Perlin, a civil liberties lawyer, misstated his age and the number of his war decorations. He was 78, not 79, and the Air Medal he earned in World War II had three oak-leaf clusters, not two.
      