
        Gonzalo Torrente Ballester, a novelist who drew heavily on the myths and witchcraft lore of his native Galicia and won top literary prizes, died on Wednesday at his home in Salamanca. He was 88.
        The cause was a heart attack, a family member said.
        In 1985, he won the Government's Cervantes Prize for Literature, considered the world's most important award for Spanish-language writing. He also won Spain's National Prize for Literature in 1981.
        He wrote 25 novels and had been working on another, dictating about a page a day to his wife. Colleagues said that his work mixed irony and profound thought, emphasizing the poetic dimension of the novel. But he also strove to include what one friend called ''a sufficient reality'' and ambiguity.
        Mr. Torrente did not gain a wide following until 1972, with his novel ''La Saga/Fuga de J. B.'' (The Legend/Flight of J. B.). It was set in Galicia, the rainy, green and hilly section of northern Spain with deep Celtic traditions.
        In a report, a censor for the Franco dictatorship complained that it was ''completely impossible to understand. The action takes place in an imaginary town where there is a holy figure who appears in water and a series of crazy people who talk a lot of nonsense.''
        Mr. Torrente's fame increased in the 1980's after state-run Spanish Television serialized his trilogy ''Los Gozos y Las Sombras'' (The Delights and the Shadows). Written from 1957 to 1962, the books focused on a humble Galician fishing family confronting a local political tyrant.
        Mr. Torrente was a smallish man with a broad face and large ears. He wore thick spectacles with dark frames and in later years still had nearly a full head of hair. He dressed classically, favoring suits and ties.
        Mr. Torrente was born on June 13, 1910, in Serantes, a hamlet near the northwestern port of Ferrol. His father, a sailor, brought home plenty of books by Spanish and foreign authors. Mr. Torrente earned Spanish university degrees in philosophy and letters, and later in science and law.
        He was studying in Paris when the Spanish Civil War began in 1936 and he returned home, enlisting in Franco's right-wing Falange movement in 1937. Some Torrente scholars have since interpreted that as a move to save his own neck, because Mr. Torrente as a young man had worked as a journalist for an anarchist union newspaper, La Tierra.
        After the war, he taught literature at high schools and worked as a theater critic, but Franco's censors kept a close watch despite his professed allegiance.
        He quit the Falange in 1942. In 1943, his first novel, ''Javier Marino,'' about the search for identity by someone on the edge of the Civil War, was censored.
        Mr. Torrente definitively broke with the Falange in 1962, signing a manifesto in opposition to Franco regime policies. This prompted his expulsion as a history professor at the School of Naval Warfare, and his next novel (in 1963), ''Don Juan,'' suffered because he was ostracized politically.
        In 1996, he moved to New York, where he taught Spanish literature at the State University of New York at Albany. He returned to Spain in 1972 and soon settled in the historic university town of Salamanca, where he taught at a high school for five more years before retiring.
        In 1977, Mr. Torrente was inducted into the Spanish Royal Academy, the Madrid institution seen as the ultimate arbiter and guardian of the Spanish language.
        Mr. Torrente also wrote six plays, which were rarely staged, and numerous essays.
        He is survived by his wife, Fernanda Sanchez-Guisande, and 11 children from his two marriages.
      