
        Dr. William E. Hunt, a retired neurosurgeon at Ohio State University who devised a widely used system for the clinical evaluation of brain aneurysms, died on Tuesday at his home in Columbus. He was 77 and also had a home in Gouldsboro Point, Me.
        The cause was a recurrent rupture of his thoracic aorta, his family said.
        Dr. Hunt served for 37 years on the faculty of Ohio State College of Medicine, retiring as a professor emeritus of surgery in 1991. He was the chairman of its division of neurological surgery from 1964 to 1989.
        Dr. Hunt was best known for the Hunt-Hess classification for weakened blood vessels in the brain, called intracranial aneurysms. Named also after a resident who worked with him, Dr. Robert Hess, it is the most widely used classification of aneurysms.
        Working with a Spanish pathologist, Dr. Eduardo Tolosa, Dr. Hunt defined the Tolosa-Hunt syndrome of ophthalmoplegia, a painful paralysis of the eye muscles. From 1973 to 1988 he was the principal investigator and director of the national Spinal Cord Injury Research Center based at Ohio State.
        He served on the American Board of Neurological Surgery, which oversees graduate medical education in that specialty, wrote a textbook about the Tolosa-Hunt syndrome and articles for professional journals.
        Dr. Hunt received the first Lifetime Achievement Award of the Neurological Society of America and its Gold Medal, in 1988.
        William Edward Hunt was born in Columbus, the fifth physician in four generations of his family. In 1943, he was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Ohio State. He earned his medical degree with honors at Ohio State in 1945. After two years in the Army as a general surgeon, he trained in neurology and neurophysiology.
        In 1953, Dr. Hunt returned to Ohio State. He took charge of the medical school's division of neurologic surgery in 1963 and was appointed a full professor the following year.
        Dr. Hunt is survived by his wife, Dr. Carole Ann Miller, a retired professor of neurosurgery; two sons, William W. 2d, of Austin, Texas, and Dr. David D., of Hoboken, N.J.; his daughter, Virginia R. Hunt-DaCosta of Bainbridge, Ohio; a sister, Marian H. Lyle of East Windsor, N.J., and four grandchildren.
        His first marriage, to Virginia Reimold Hunt, ended in divorce. His second wife, Charlotte Curtis, a columnist for The New York Times and former editor of the newspaper's family/style news and later of its Op-Ed page, died in 1987.
      