
        Jules W. Lederer, the founder of Budget Rent-a-Car and former husband of Ann Landers, the popular syndicated newspaper advice columnist, died of a heart attack Thursday at his home near London. He was 81.
        Born in Detroit, Mr. Lederer dropped out of school in the ninth grade to support his mother and sister after his father had died. He made his living as a salesman, selling everything from pens and pencils bearing advertising slogans to hats and logs and newspapers before starting Budget in the late 1950's, which grew into one of the nation's largest automobile rental companies.
        The company became popular in its early days by renting cars at lower prices than its competitors. It charged $5 a day and 5 cents a mile. It gained a following among a growing business and leisure travel market because of its practice of renting cars from offices outside of airports. Mr. Lederer is also credited as one of the first to apply franchising to the rental car industry.
        While selling hats in Sioux City, Iowa, in 1939, he met Ms. Landers, then known as Eppie (Esther Pauline) Friedman, who was engaged to another man and was shopping with her twin sister, Pauline, who later became known as the advice columnist Abigail Van Buren. The two were looking for wedding veils for their double wedding.
        In a statement yesterday, Ms. Landers said: ''Jules was a world class salesman. At age 21, he sold me on himself when I went to the T. S. Martin Department Store to buy a wedding veil. I was engaged to marry Lewis Dreyer, a Beverly Hills law student. I broke the engagement and married Jules in a double wedding with my twin sister, Pauline.''
        The couple divorced in 1975, after 36 years of marriage. Informing readers of the decision in a column, which was shorter than most, Ms. Landers said, ''I left the white space as a memorial to one of the world's best marriages that didn't make it to the finish line.''
        Mr. Lederer spent more than two decades living in Chicago. He also lived in Milwaukee, New Orleans and Sioux City, Iowa. He sold Budget to the Transamerica Corporation, an insurance company based in San Francisco, in 1968. He moved to London about 25 years ago after he separated from Ms. Landers. While in London, he remarried and the couple had a daughter, Anthea.
        Mr. Lederer is survived by his wife, Elizabeth; two daughters, Margo Lederer Howard and Anthea Lederer; a brother, Sol; a sister, Madelyn Ferris; three grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  January 30, 1999, Saturday  An obituary Jan. 23 of Jules W. Lederer, former husband of the advice columnist Ann Landers, misstated his involvement in the early days of Budget Rent-a-Car. Morris Mirkin, a distant relative of Mr. Led erer, founded the first business with the Budget Rent-a-Car name in 1958, and Mr. Lederer formed the Budget Rent-a-Car Corporation in 1960. Mr. Lederer was not the founder.
      