
        George L. Mosse, a retired University of Wisconsin historian who was an authority on European fascism and Hitler's Germany, died on Jan. 22 in his home in Madison, Wis. He was 80.
        Professor Mosse was selected to be the first scholar-in-residence at the Holocaust Museum in Washington.
        He was praised in 1970 by Prof. Gordon Craig of Stanford University, then the dean of American historians of Germany, for his book ''Germans and Jews: The Right, the Left, and the Search for a 'Third Force' in Pre-Nazi Germany'' (Fertig, 1970).
        In The New York Times Book Review, Mr. Craig said Mr. Mosse had cast ''much light on the characteristic attitudes of rightist intellectuals'' and showed how it was possible for some of them ''to shut their eyes to Hitler's brutalities.''
        He said that Mr. Mosse had also revealed ''the desperate nature of the search'' by Jews in Germany in the three decades before Hitler came to power in 1933 ''for a means of integration with a society that rejected them, desperate because in some cases it led to their adoption of the ideology and elitism of their most virulent enemies.''
        Mr. Mosse, who pronounced his name MOSS-ee, served as both the John C. Bascom Professor of European History and the Weinstein-Bascom Professor of Jewish Studies at the University of Wisconsin, whose faculty he joined in 1955. He was also  the Koebner Professor of History at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. He retired from all three posts in the 1980's.
        In an earlier book that Mr. Mosse edited and for which he wrote an introduction, ''Nazi Culture: Intellectual, Cultural and Social Life in the Third Reich'' (1966), he described what happened to cultural life in Germany after Hitler became dictator.
        The impact varied, with some  areas hardly touched. But some academic fields were eliminated or died off, because most people working in those areas had to flee Germany.
        That work was praised by Walter Laqueur, then director of the Institute for Advanced Studies in Contemporary History (The Wiener Library) in London, as ''a very illuminating new source book.''
        A significant essay by Mr. Mosse, ''Toward a General Theory of Fascism,'' was also first published in 1966. It appealed for more comparative studies of fascism and for more far-reaching research on the subject. That call, as Frederick Ludwig Carsten, a historian of Central Europe, observed in 1981, was heeded by  younger political scientists and historians.
        In the 1980's Mr. Mosse wrote about the broader impact on cultural life in Europe of World War I, the Holocaust and other cataclysms. A Princeton historian of modern Europe, Anson Rabinbach, said that Mr. Mosse's book ''Nationalism and Sexuality'' (Fertig, 1985) ''is a path-breaking study of how stereotypes like 'healthy' and 'degenerate' and 'normal and abnormal' underlay what became the persecution of Europe's Jews, homosexuals, Gypsies and the insane.''
        Mr. Mosse wrote more than two dozen books, and his other writings included reviews in The New York Times Book Review.
        The many honors he received included the American Historical Association's award for scholarly distinction and the Leo Baeck Medal.
        He was born in Berlin and was a grandson of Rudolf Mosse, the publisher of the liberal Berlin newspaper The Berliner Tageblatt. The Nazis denounced the Mosse family, shut the newspaper and forced the family, which was Jewish, to flee Germany in 1933.
        After some years in Britain, George Mosse came to the United States and earned a bachelor's degree in 1941 from Haverford College and a doctorate in 1946 from Harvard. During his academic career he also taught at the University of Iowa, Cornell, Cambridge University and Tel Aviv University.
        He is survived by his partner, John Tortorice, of Madison, and by a niece, Joy Mosse of Beverly Hills, Calif.
        Correction:  February 2, 1999, Tuesday  A picture on Sunday with an obituary of George L. Mosse, an authority on Nazi Germany, was published in error. It showed Rabbi Moshe Davis of the Jewish Theological Seminary of America, who died in 1996.
      