
        Dr. Charles Gordon Zubrod, a retired oncologist at the National Institutes of Health who furthered the use of chemotherapy to treat cancer, died on Tuesday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 84 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md.
        Dr. Zubrod's medical career included 20 years with the institutes, beginning in 1954. He was scientific director of the National Cancer Institute from 1961 to 1974.
        In those years, he led a team of physicians and other specialists who were researching and developing drugs to attack a broad range of cancers. His group first showed that acute childhood leukemia was curable.
        Under his leadership, chemotherapy evolved as a standard treatment for cancer. The principles established by his team remain valid.
        For his contributions to cancer research, Dr. Zubrod won the Lasker Award in 1972. He was also recognized for his work in pharmacology and marine biology.
        In the book ''The Cure of Childhood Leukemia: Into the Age of Miracles,'' Dr. John Laszlo, a fellow scientist, wrote, ''If ever there was a maestro who orchestrated the cure of childhood leukemia, it had to be Dr. C. Gordon Zubrod.''
        Born in Brooklyn, the son of a well-to-do stockbroker, he was reared on Long Island and graduated from Georgetown Preparatory School in Bethesda, Md. He graduated from the College of the Holy Cross in 1936 and from the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1940.
        Trained as an internist, he became interested in pharmacology and took part in the search for a substitute for quinine to treat malaria in World War II when he was in the Army Medical Corps.
        He started an academic career at the Johns Hopkins University Medical School in 1946. Before he joined the staff of the National Cancer Institute he was an associate professor and director of research in the department of medicine of St. Louis University.
        Dr. Zubrod left the institute in 1974 to become a professor of oncology and department chairman at the University of Miami. Until his retirement there in 1990, he also directed the Florida Comprehensive Cancer Center at the university's School of Medicine.
        Dr. Zubrod's wife of 58 years, Christina Catherine Mullins Zubrod, died last year. He is survived by two daughters, Christine Craun and Margaret Mary Fleury, both of Bethesda; three sons, Gordon, of Camp Hill, Pa., Justin, of Chicago, and Stephen, of Omaha; 18 grandchildren, and 3 great-grandchildren.
      