
        Former Representative Carl Elliott, a Democrat from rural Alabama who sacrificed his political career to the principles of social justice, died Saturday at his home in Jasper, Ala. He was 85.
        Having grown up poor, Mr. Elliott took pride in serving as a prime mover of the National Defense Education Act of 1958, which supported millions of poor college students, and the Library Assistance Act, which helped libraries in the poorest regions of the country. He also pushed for enactment of Great Society programs, like Medicare.
        Shunning racial demagogy, he often found himself casting crucial votes on social legislation to advance Federal initiatives in education, health and civil rights. But as the forces of segregation and states' rights, spearheaded by Gov. George Wallace, came to dominate Alabama politics, they drove him from office in 1964 after eight terms in the House. Mr. Elliott came in ninth in an at-large Democratic primary for eight House seats, a loss seen as a victory for Governor Wallace.
        He was in poor health and nearly destitute when his service received a belated tribute in 1990 with the inaugural Profiles in Courage Award bestowed by the John F. Kennedy Library Foundation. The award, named after the President's book, honors public servants who show unusual courage in defiance of the odds.
        Carl Elliott was the eldest of nine children growing up on a farm in Franklin, near Jasper.
        He worked his way through the University of Alabama in the 1930's, waiting tables, shoveling coal for a campus boiler, clipping shrubs and shining shoes.
        After graduation he practiced law in Jasper until winning a seat in Congress in 1948.
        Tall, broad-shouldered and easy-going, he displayed unexpected skills in calming and coordinating dissident factions. He was one of the rare Southern politicians who campaigned for Mr. Kennedy in 1960.
        The following year Speaker Sam Rayburn put him on the powerful Rules Committee to shepherd the President's programs. Teaming up with Senator Lister Hill, a fellow Alabama Democrat, he managed the education aid bill in the House and, after more than two decades, accomplished what had been deemed an impossible mission.
        Once ousted by the Wallace camp, he made a run for governor in 1966 but lost to Lurleen Wallace, the Governor's first wife. He tirelessly spoke out against the Ku Klux Klan and the John Birch Society.
        But his campaign debts forced him to cash in his Congressional pension. Spurned by Alabama's political establishment and using a wheelchair, he was living on a meager Social Security check when the Kennedy Library chose to honor him.
        Paul G. Kirk Jr., the library foundation's chairman at the time, noted that Mr. Elliott had ''faced intense public scorn and suffered personal abuse and eventual political defeat, while achieving victories for the good of a nation he loved.''
        In an interview, Mr. Elliott called the award, which came with a stipend, ''a nice gesture by these folks.'' But he added: ''As far as I'm concerned, I didn't think much vindication was required. I saw myself making social change.''
        His wife, Jane Hamilton Elliott, died several years ago. Mr. Elliott is survived by two daughters, Lenora E. Cannon of Jasper and Martha E. Russell of Jackson, Miss.; two brothers, Ernie O. of Vina, Ala., and Gober of Florence, Ala.; four sisters, Mable Carpenter of Tuscumbia, Ala., Jewel Peters and Martha Jean Williams of Florence, and Willie Mae McKinney of Russellville, Ala.; seven grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      