
        Michel Petrucciani, a French jazz pianist and composer with an international following whose keyboard virtuosity earned him comparisons to Art Tatum and Bill Evans, died yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 36 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was a pulmonary infection, said a representative of his French record company, Francis Dreyfus Music.
        Mr. Petrucciani was a national hero in France, and his records were best sellers in Europe. The French President, Jacques Chirac, was among the many who paid tribute to him yesterday, praising his ability to ''renew jazz, giving himself up to his  art with passion, courage and musical genius.'' He called him an ''example for everyone.''
        The career of Mr. Petrucciani, who was considered one of the great romantics of the jazz piano, flourished in spite of a severe physical disability. The pianist was born with osteogenesis imperfecta, also known as ''glass bones,'' a disease that stunted his growth (he was only three feet tall and weighed barely 50 pounds) and weakened his bones. Mr. Petrucciani had to be carried onto the stage, and he used a special attachment to work the sustaining pedal of the piano.
        The ailment didn't affect his hands, however, and he played with a seemingly inexhaustible vigor and enthusiasm.
        Mr. Petrucciani was born to Italian parents in Montpellier, France. His family was musical, and as a child he played the drums in a band with his father, Tony, a guitarist, and his brother Louis, a bassist. After studying classical music for eight years, he turned to jazz full time because he loved to improvise and wanted to write his own music.
        He began his professional career when he was 15, playing for the drummer and vibraphonist Kenny Clarke.
        Moving to Paris, he recorded his first album at 17, and he was appearing regularly at European jazz festivals while still a teen-ager. After a visit to New York he toured France in a duo with the saxophonist Lee Konitz, with whom he recorded an album of duets.
        While in California in 1981, Mr. Petrucciani was discovered by the saxophonist Charles Lloyd, who made him a member of his quartet. They toured Europe and recorded an album, ''Montreux '82.'' One of his most acclaimed early recordings, ''100 Hearts'' (Concord), was an album of solos.
        Between 1986 and 1994, he made seven albums for Blue Note Records, including ''Power of Three'' (with Wayne Shorter and Jim Hall), and an acclaimed album of original songs, ''Michel Plays Petrucciani'' (Blue Note).
        In 1994 he was made a knight of the Legion of Honor in Paris.
        For all the comparisons to Bill Evans, Mr. Petrucciani had found his own style, which was more aggressive, fuller and sunnier than that of his idol and incorporated secondary influences as disparate as McCoy Tyner and Debussy.
        A marriage to Gilda Butta, a pianist, ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his companion, Isabelle, his publicist said, and by a son, Alexandre, and a stepson, Rachid Roperch, both of Paris, from a previous relationship.
        At the time of his death, he was hoping to set up an international jazz school in France.
        ''It's my life's work,'' he said. ''Jazz is dying out.''
      