
        Robert E. Kirby, a former chief executive of the Westinghouse Electric Corporation who masterminded a turnaround of the company in the 1970's, died last Thursday at Naples Community Hospital in Naples, Fla. He was 80.
        Mr. Kirby, who retired from the company in 1983, suffered several strokes, a Westinghouse spokesman said. Since 1993, Mr. Kirby had also suffered from Guillain-Barre syndrome, the nerve disorder.
        When Mr. Kirby became chief executive and chairman of Westinghouse in 1975, it was the 36th-largest corporation and the largest supplier of nuclear power plants in the nation. But the company, based in Pittsburgh, was in an earnings slump, was burdened by several money-losing operations it had acquired the previous decade, had poor internal financial controls and had little in the way of strategic planning.
        With the company's future in doubt, Mr. Kirby orchestrated a sweeping reorganization that included shedding some acquisitions, strengthening internal control systems and returning the company to its core electrical and industrial businesses. As a result, the company's profits increased to $223 million in 1977 from $28 million in 1974.
        By 1981, the company's turnaround was completed, and Westinghouse reported earnings of $403 million and began buying new assets rather than shedding old ones. One main acquisition was the $646 million purchase of Teleprompter, then one of the nation's largest cable television operations. That deal doubled the size of Westinghouse and positioned it for its later decision to become a communications company.
        Mr. Kirby's nine-year tenure in the top position at Westinghouse was also marked by difficulties in the company's uranium supply contract business, which led to several legal entanglements that Mr. Kirby took charge of negotiating. With uranium prices falling in 1975, the company argued that it was not obligated to fulfill uranium supply contracts that would have cost it more than $2 billion.
        A flurry of lawsuits by Westinghouse customers were settled a few years later at a price to Westinghouse of about $600 million, substantially below what it would have cost the company to fulfill the contracts. Later, the company also settled suits it had filed against what it called a cartel of uranium producers.
        Mr. Kirby was born in Ames, Iowa, on Nov. 8, 1918, and grew up in State College, Pa., where his father was a professor of plant pathology at Pennsylvania State University. Mr. Kirby and his father assisted in the first filming of Penn State football games at Beaver Stadium.
        After receiving a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering from Penn State in 1939, Mr. Kirby took a job with the West Virginia Pulp and Paper Company in Tyrone, Pa., and within a year became assistant superintendent of the mill. In 1943, he joined the Navy's highly secret radar corps. He was sent to study electrical engineering at Princeton University, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Bell Labs and was discharged in 1946 with the rank of lieutenant after serving as an electronics officer.
        He joined Westinghouse in 1946 in its industrial electronics division in Baltimore and left in 1954 to get an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School. He returned to Westinghouse in 1956 and rose through the ranks from an electronics general manager to vice president for engineering in 1963. In 1966, he became an executive vice president, only one of two for the company, and in 1969 he was named president of the Industry and Defense Company, the largest operating division at Westinghouse.
        In 1995, long after Mr. Kirby's retirement, Westinghouse acquired the CBS Corporation and took the CBS name in 1997. After leaving Westinghouse, Mr. Kirby moved to Pelican Bay, a retirement village near Naples that had been developed by Westinghouse two decades earlier. Mr. Kirby had pushed for development of the resort as a way to reduce the company's reliance on cyclical manufacturing.
        Mr. Kirby's wife of 52 years, Barbara Anne, died in 1994. He is survived by a daughter, Linda Mewshaw of London, and two grandsons.
      