
        John Frederick Nims, a poet, translator and author, died on Tuesday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 85 and lived in Chicago.
        Mr. Nims wrote eight books of poetry, beginning in 1947 with ''The Iron Pastoral,'' in which he addressed life in Chicago. One poem, ''Penny Arcade,'' read in part:
        Here heaven ticks: the weariest
        tramp can buy
        Glass mansions in the juke-
        seraphic sky.
        His other books of poetry include ''Knowledge of the Evening, Poems 1950-1960,'' nominated for a National Book Award; ''A Fountain in Kentucky and Other Poems,'' ''The Kiss: A Jambalaya,'' ''Of Flesh and Bone,'' ''Zany in Denim'' and ''The Six-Cornered Snowflake.'' In the introduction to his ''Selected Poems,'' published in 1982, he wrote: ''From the time I was 5 or 6, I thought poems were a part of the natural world, as real certainly as the rabbits and collies we kept.''
        Born in Muskegon, Mich., Mr. Nims was a graduate of the University of Notre Dame and received a Ph.D. in comparative literature from the University of Chicago. He taught poetry at Notre Dame, the University of Toronto, the University of Illinois at Urbana, Harvard University, Williams College, the University of Florida and the University of Illinois at Chicago. He also taught abroad, as a visiting professor in Florence, Milan and Madrid, and taught poetry at the annual Bread Loaf Writers' Conference in Vermont, for more than 10 years. He was the author of ''Western Wind,'' a textbook for introductory poetry and creative writing courses.
        Mr. Nims's books of translations included ''Sappho to Valery: Poems in Translation,'' ''The Poems of St. John of the Cross'' and, last year, ''The Complete Poems of Michelangelo.'' He was editor of Poetry magazine from 1978 to 1985 and editor of ''The Harper Anthology of Poetry'' (1981).
        He is survived by his wife, Bonnie; a son, Frank, of Chicago; two daughters, Emily Nims of Kalamazoo, Mich., and Sally Martin of Gainesville, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      