
        Gavin W. H. Relly, the retired chairman of the Anglo American Corporation who in 1985 led a delegation of business leaders to meet the banned African National Congress in Zambia, died on Sunday in Hermanus, South Africa. He was 72.
        The cause of death was complications of cardiac surgery, a spokeswoman for the company said.
        Mr. Relly's meeting with exiled leaders of the congress was important in efforts to end apartheid and the world sanctions that were slowly strangling the economy. Anglo  American, then as now, was the largest conglomerate in South Africa and at the time accounted for more than half the market capitalization of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
        Its eagerness to talk to the congress signaled that business here was tentatively willing to defy the white Government and pursue a negotiated transition to black power and majority rule. At the time the National Party Government was killing A.N.C. advocates at home and abroad.
        Mr. Relly, following the lead of the Oppenheimer family, which founded Anglo American and its sister companies De Beers Consolidated Mines and Minorco, was a critic of apartheid and endorsed creating opportunities for black South Africans, who were barred by law from the better-paying mine jobs.
        At the same time he could be a tough executive. Beginning in the 1970's the Oppenheimers and their companies favored recognizing black trade unions. But in 1987, when the National Union of Mineworkers struck Anglo, whose gold, diamond, platinum and coal mines employed nearly 40 percent of the miners here, Mr. Relly dismissed 20,000 workers.  Some were later rehired.
        His successor as chairman, Julian Ogilvie Thompson, noted this week  that Mr. Relly had run Anglo's copper interests in Zambia from 1965 to 1970, building up a relationship with President Kenneth Kaunda of Zambia, who became the chief protector of the A.N.C. in exile. After that Mr. Relly worked for three years in Toronto as North American chief of Anglo.
        ''I think he brought back a clear understanding that South Africa was on the wrong course and ought to be on the right course,'' Mr. Thompson said.
        After Nelson Mandela was released from prison in early 1990, Mr. Relly spent 40 minutes talking with him at his house in Soweto. In May 1990 the two led a joint business-A.N.C. conference on the economic shape of South Africa.
        Mr. Relly had opposed sanctions in the apartheid era, arguing that they hurt blacks, as well as business, a view that the A.N.C. opposed. But Mr. Relly, who had watched Mr. Kaunda seize the company's rich copper mines and bleed them dry, also argued forcefully against nationalization as a means of redistributing wealth.
        By 1994 the A.N.C. had dropped its  socialist platform in favor of aggressive free-market capitalism, fiscal prudence and privatization as the engines of job creation.
        Mr. Relly was born in Cape Town in 1926. He attended private schools there. In World War II he served with the South African Army in Italy. Like many Anglo executives, he then studied at Oxford.
        After working for Sir de Villiers Graaff, leader of the opposition United Party, he joined Anglo American in 1949. He was private secretary to Harry Oppenheimer, the heir apparent, and then to the company founder, Sir Ernest Oppenheimer.
        Mr. Relly helped develop gold mines so far south of Johannesburg that the company built a whole city, Welkom, to support. He oversaw the creation of the Highveld Steel and Vanadium subsidiary. After running other divisions at home and overseas, he succeeded Harry Oppenheimer as chairman in 1983 and retired in 1990.
        He was a trustee of several South African universities, as well as a board member of the Worldwide Fund for Nature.
        He is survived by his wife, Jane;  three children, Janis, Georgina and Giles, and four grandsons.
      