
        Jose Vela Zanetti, a Spanish artist who in the 1950's created the imposing mural ''Mankind's Struggle for a Lasting Peace'' at United Nations headquarters in New York, died on Monday in a hospital in Burgos in northern Spain. He was 85.
        In 1952, Mr. Vela Zanetti won an international competition to create a mural on the theme of peace for the United Nations headquarters. At the time, he was in exile in the Dominican Republic after the Spanish Civil War. Spain, under the Franco regime, was not admitted to the United Nations until 1955.
        The mural, 64 feet long by 9 and a half feet tall, depicts the ravages of war and concentration camps and shows people working together to rebuild the shattered globe. It was painted in tones dominated by blues and reddish browns and was inaugurated in 1953 in the hallway outside the United Nations Security Council chambers.
        The mural was restored last year. On Dec. 15, in a rededication ceremony with the mural as a backdrop, Secretary General Kofi Annan lauded Mr. Vela Zanetti's accomplishments.
        Another major work, painted in the Dominican Republic, hung from 1959 to 1968 in the assembly hall of the International Labor Office, a United Nations agency in Geneva. The untitled painting, measuring 14 feet by 12 feet, pictured broad-backed workers engaged in industry, construction and agriculture. It remains in the labor office's collection.
        Mr. Vela Zanetti was born in Milagros in Burgos province on May 27, 1913, but his family soon moved to the northern provincial capital of Leon, where he began artistic training.
        In 1933, he won a public scholarship to study art in Florence, but the Spanish Civil War interrupted his education. His father, director of a provincial slaughterhouse, was executed by forces loyal to Franco.
        Mr. Vela Zanetti went into exile at the end of the war in 1939, settling in the Dominican Republic where he painted more than 100 murals. He later won a Guggenheim scholarship for Hispanic artists and lived in New York in the 1950's. He also worked in Colombia, Mexico and Switzerland.
        He returned to Spain in 1960, well before Franco's death, and went to live in the house in Milagros where he had been born. He turned to paintings in his later years; his subjects included pastoral scenes, Castilian landscapes and religious works.
        In 1997, the Vela Zanetti Foundation opened in Leon, exhibiting 50 of his paintings and a mural.
        He is survived by his wife, Esperanza de la Cuevas; a daughter, Maria, and a son, Jose.
      