
        Dr. Henry Paolucci, a prolific scholar of classical politics and literature, professor emeritus of government and politics at St. John's University and vice chairman of the New York Conservative Party for the last 20 years, died Friday at New York Hospital Medical Center of Queens. He was 77 and a resident of Beechhurst, Queens.
        The cause was complications from prostate cancer, said John Hamill, a spokesman for the City University, where his wife, Dr. Anne Attura Paolucci, heads the board of trustees.
        Dr. Henry Paolucci taught comparative literature as well as ancient Greek and Roman history at Iona College, Brooklyn College and City College before he joined the St. John's faculty in 1967. He was American correspondent for Il Borghese of Italy and contributed to the Encyclopedia Americana and to national magazines and dailies, including the Op-Ed page of The New York Times.
        He was the founding president of the Walter Bagehot Council on National Sovereignty. Its affiliate, the Council of National Literatures, published his studies on subjects from Aristotle and Dante to Southern political history and Dr. Henry A. Kissinger's persona and policies. Many of them remain in print.
        With his wife as collaborator, he did a translation of Machiavelli's ''Mandragola'' (Macmillan, 1957), which is in its 32d printing. He also wrote the introduction to his translation of ''Beccaria: On Crimes and Punishment'' (Bobbs-Merrill, 1963).
        Dr. Paolucci, a Bronx native, graduated from City College in 1942. In World War II, he was a navigator in the Army Air Forces in Africa and Italy, where he spent a year as a prisoner of war. He completed his education at Columbia University with an M.A. degree in 1948 and a Ph.D. in 1961 and also studied at the University of Florence and the University of Rome.
        In 1964, Dr. Paolucci was persuaded to run as the Conservative candidate for Senate against Senator Kenneth B. Keating, a Republican, and Robert F. Kennedy, who won the seat for the Democrats. Dr. Paolucci was named vice chairman of the Conservative Party two years later.
        He retired from St. John's in 1991.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by two sisters, Lucille Gorton of Stamford, Conn., and Phyllis Albano of Queens.
      