
        Sammy Solovitz, a wise-cracking, hard-living mentor to generations of copy boys at The New York Times, died on Jan. 12 in Houston. He was 71 and had lived in Texas since his retirement in 1984.
        He died in his apartment of natural but as yet undetermined causes, said his niece, Brenda Polunsky.
        From the day he was hired at The Times -- Nov. 18, 1943 -- Samuel Leo Solovitz captivated the low and the mighty with his feisty manner and pugnacious wit. To the scores of well-known reporters and editors who came to the business through his newsroom boot camp, he became a figure in lore -- a symbol of an era when newsrooms still pulsated to the clack of typewriters and copy boys rushed stories, a few paragraphs at a time, from reporters to editors, and then to the printers in the composing room.
        On the day he was hired, he was 16 and delivering telegrams. At 4 feet 9 inches in height, he was too short for the Army but tall enough to work as a uniformed messenger for Western Union. When he whisked into the city room, Edwin L. James, the managing editor, looked up from his desk and was intrigued by the sight of a pillbox hat bobbing above a railing that surrounded his corner office -- all he could see of Mr. Solovitz.
        Mr. James investigated and engaged the messenger in conversation. The messenger spoke his mind. (He always did.) Mr. James asked him if he would like a job. Mr. Solovitz said he would. He went to the Western Union office, turned in his uniform and then returned to take up his duties as a copy boy, earning $16 a week, $2 more than he got from Western Union.
        He had found his calling and rose quickly to become head of the nightside copy boys, supervising a crew of overeducated journalistic aspirants, many of whom would stay in the business and many who would not.
        Over 40 years, Mr. Solovitz could often tell the difference, developing a fine eye for character and talent. ''He was the best judge of people,'' said Arthur Gelb, who started as a copy boy and later became the paper's managing editor. He remembered what an odd couple they were when they went out to Times Square to pick up the first editions of competing papers. Mr. Gelb stood 6 foot 2, while Mr. Solovitz, to his delight, was often taken for a jockey. On such occasions, he was not above telling attractive women that he was riding at Belmont the next day.
        Among those who counted him as their first boss at The Times are Russell T. Lewis, now president and chief executive officer of The New York Times Company; Joseph Lelyveld, executive editor of The Times; Norman Pearlstine, who led The Wall Street Journal and who is now the editor in chief of Time Inc., and Albert Gore, who spent a summer as a copy boy before one day becoming Vice President of the United States.
        Mr. Solovitz would start work at 7:30 P.M. and finish at 3 A.M., when the last edition went to press, repeatedly goading his dawdling charges: ''Tell your story walking!'' or ''This is a daily, not a weekly!'' or ''Where do you think you are, the Yale Club?''
        At times he would resort to obscure Yiddish curses he had picked up at his mother's candy store in Brooklyn, where his formal education involved nothing more than spotty attendance at P.S. 17. There were Ivy League magna cum laudes who feared him as a martinet, but there were many more of his copy boys who later gave him a place of honor at their weddings and at parties celebrating the birth of their children.
        Though he loved life's diversions, he was dedicated to his job and energetically made sure that every bit of paper got where it was supposed to go. When the electricity failed and the lights of New York City went out on Nov. 9, 1965, Mr. Solovitz somehow found a kerosene lantern to help the staff put out its ''blackout edition.''
        On Nov. 10, 1970, after the paper had closed for the night, Mr. Solovitz, was lingering alone in the office when the bells on the Teletype machines signaled a bulletin. Charles de Gaulle had died. Realizing that the presses were still rolling, he raced across West 43d Street to Gough's bar and led back a group of editors and copy boys who were able to prepare a replate and get the news into some copies of the paper.
        In time, Mr. Solovitz became the stuff of legend. A. J. Liebling, the ''Wayward Press'' critic for The New Yorker, called him ''a newsroom institution.'' Sketches of him appeared in Editor & Publisher and The Columbia Journalism Review. He lectured to students at the Columbia School of Journalism.
        More informally, he would pass on the romance and lore of the newspaper business to his charges, telling them what happened in the newsroom on V-E Day or V-J Day, or the day that Franklin D. Roosevelt died, or the nights that Robert F. Kennedy and the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. were assassinated. Sometimes, he would do it over late-night poker games, or sometimes, he would tell his story walking, heading to Sam Wo's restaurant at 3 o'clock in the morning or taking copy boys -- there were not yet any copy girls -- eager for authenticity to race tracks or to second-floor tearooms on Allen Street, where men with pinkie rings played cards until after dawn.
        After enjoying Mr. Solovitz's wit and intelligence, one senior editor once tried to talk him into continuing his education. ''Why, school never did any thing for Meyer Berger,'' he replied, evoking the Pulitzer Prize-winning star reporter and columnist of The Times who never earned a high school diploma.
        When technological change came to the newsroom in the 1980's, Mr. Solovitz took it hard. He had loved the Linotypes, the delivery trucks being loaded outside the building, even the spittoons that one or two die-hard editors kept by their desks. When computers replaced typewriters, copy boys, and by then, copy girls, were no longer as vital to the operation as they had been. Smoking was increasingly frowned upon, not to mention spittoons.
        It was harder to find people to go to the track or to Chinatown.
        In 1984, Mrs. Polunsky, his niece, persuaded him to retire and move to Houston. Mrs. Polunsky and a nephew, Lewis Solovitz, survive him.
        ''Sammy had an apartment nearby,'' Mrs. Polunsky said. ''He missed New York, but he had a life here. He would go to New Orleans and Las Vegas. He kept active. Right up until the end, he smoked, he drank, he gambled and he told people exactly what he thought.''
      