
        Vernon E. (Copy) Berg 3d, an artist who was one of the first military officers to challenge a discharge on the ground of homosexuality, died Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 47 and lived in Manhattan and Bridgehampton, N.Y.
        The cause was complications from AIDS, said his partner, Dub Williams.
        After Mr. Berg's suit against the Navy, which had given him an ''other than honorable'' discharge as an ensign in 1976, the armed forces adopted a policy of generally granting honorable discharges to homosexuals.
        In 1978, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia ruled that Mr. Berg and former Tech. Sgt. Leonard P. Matlovich of the Air Force had been unfairly discharged, although it did not reinstate them, as both had sought. Mr. Berg was discharged after an investigation revealed he was in a gay relationship.
        ''He was one of the first to stand up to the military,'' said Kevin M. Cathcart, executive director the Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund, which represented Mr. Berg. ''People forget in the 1990's what kind of courage that took. Tens of thousands of people have benefited from his fight.''
        In recent years, Mr. Berg attracted attention anew as a prolific artist who documented life with AIDS in sculptures, paintings, photographs and thousands of cartoonlike drawings in hundreds of sketchbooks that he called the ''pages of my unfinished Surrealist novel.''
        Barbara Hunt, executive director of Visual AIDS, which offers assistance to artists with H.I.V., said the artworks ''do appear simple and innocuous at first glance, but you catch the touches that he slips in.''
        ''He conveys a difficult message and wins people over to AIDS activism.''
        Mr. Berg graduated from the Naval Academy at Annapolis. He was called Copy because he was so like his father, Cmdr. Vernon E. Berg Jr., a Navy chaplain. Commander Berg, who supported his son's legal battle, died in 1984. Besides Mr. Williams, Mr. Berg is survived by his mother, Vera Berg of Kitty Hawk, N.C.; a sister, Valerie Berg Rice of San Antonio, and two brothers, Victor and Vincent, both of Kitty Hawk.
        After his discharge, which was upgraded to honorable in 1977 as a result of the legal action, Mr. Berg received a master's degree in design from Pratt Institute in Brooklyn.
        Last March, Mr. Berg was embroiled in controversy again when some students at Rutgers University objected to the sexual content of Marcus Leatherdale's photographs of Mr. Berg and his previous partner, Paul Nash, who died in 1993. Eight photos, six of which depicted Mr. Berg nude, accompanied a show of his artwork in a gallery on the Newark campus.
      