
        Paul Metcalf, who made his mark as an experimental writer of prose, poetry and plays, died on Jan. 21  near Pittsfield, Mass. He was 81 and lived in Chester, Mass.
        His wife, Nancy, said Mr. Metcalf had a heart attack after buying apples at a farmers market not far from Arrowhead, the Berkshire home of Herman Melville, his great-grandfather.
        ''Like a medieval chronicler with the eye of a poet and the heart of a taleteller, he fits together radiant fragments into a wholly new kind of construct,'' the author Guy Davenport once wrote of Mr. Metcalf. His more than 20 books were often collages of first-person historical narratives, science writing, newspaper clips and his own words, woven together in a single fabric. ''It was like a symphony, with sources like old diaries and botanical descriptions as the different instruments,'' said his daughter Adrienne.
        Nonetheless, the words had a cumulative effect. In his 1976 book ''Apalache,'' an epic about the settlement of the New World, he mixed native and settler chronicles with his own musings: ''The fragrance drifts seaward/we smelled the land a hundred leagues, and farther when they burned the cedars/before we come in sight of it thirty leagues, we smell a sweet savour/we had now fair sunshine weather, and so pleasant a sweet air as did much refresh us, and there came a smell off the shore like the smell of a garden.''
        Mr. Metcalf came from a distinguished New England family. His mother was Eleanor Thomas Metcalf, a granddaughter of Herman Melville and his literary executor. His father, Henry Knight Metcalf, who worked for an insurance company, was a descendant of Roger Williams, the founder of Rhode Island.
        Mr. Metcalf was born in East Milton, Mass., and was educated at private schools. He attended Harvard but disliked it and left after only three months. In 1942 he married Nancy Harman Blackford of Charleston, S.C., and during the next 20 years the couple spent long periods in the South. In addition to his wife, he is survived by a brother, David, of Topsham, Me.; two daughters, Anne Westmoreland of Schuyler, Va., and Adrienne, of Becket, Mass., and two granddaughters.
        Early in his life, Mr. Metcalf thought little about his famous ancestor and his writings. His first book, ''Will West,'' published in 1956, was a short novel about murder with a Cherokee as the protagonist.
        But in the early 60's Mr. Metcalf returned to the Berkshires, and in his 1965 book, ''Genoa,'' acknowledged the relationship to Melville. ''Genoa'' was one of his best-known works, a blend of references to Melville, other sources and his own language.
        In the book, a man called Michael Mills muses about his own history, and his brother, Carl, who is a monster: ''Herman would harangue his wife and two daughters (this was after the sons were gone) on matters that had no interest for them, and they would roll their eyes, and sigh, and wait, or there would be outbursts of temper, sarcasm.''
        Mr. Metcalf told his hometown newspaper, The Berkshire Eagle, that the book ''was a way of getting the Melville monkey off my back.''
        William H. Gass, reviewing ''Genoa'' in The New York Times, said that the book ''invites us to pass our minds down a new but ancient track, to become, ourselves, both fact and fiction, and to discover something true about the geography of time.''
        Mr. Metcalf was a tall man with a powerful physical presence. In recent years, with his hair nearly shoulder length and his pipe in his mouth, he was a colorful figure. His home in Becket became a center for artists and writers in the area. As a writer he remained a cult figure, although in 1987 he was honored by the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters. Beginning in 1996, the Coffee House Press of Minneapolis published a three-volume edition of his collected works.
        He also supported efforts to increase the collection of Melville's papers at Arrowhead and at the Berkshire Athenaeum in Pittsfield. In 1921, the manuscript of Melville's novel ''Billy Budd'' was discovered in a tin box in his family's home. Several months ago, as Mr. Metcalf was moving out of his Becket house, he found two more boxes of family papers and memorabilia that he had long forgotten. He donated the papers to the Melville Room of the Berkshire Athenaeum.
      