
        Charles Brown, the singer of the hit ''Merry Christmas Baby'' and a member of Johnny Moore and the Three Blazers, died on Thursday in Oakland, Calif. Mr. Brown, who was 76 and lived in Oakland, was to have been inducted into the Rock-and-Roll Hall of Fame in March.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said a spokesman at his management company.
        Mr. Brown, toward the end of his career, had benefited from a revived  interest in his art, partly helped by  support from the singer Bonnie Raitt. But in the 1940's and 1950's, Mr. Brown, as part of the Three Blazers and on his own, was a star in the new black music that was coming out of postwar Los Angeles. Though in the last part of his career Mr. Brown played the role of the blues pianist and singer, he was, as so many of the musicians in the  rhythm-and-blues scene, well versed  in jazz, gospel and classical music.
        Mr. Brown also had a bachelor's degree in chemistry, which led him to seek work in California during World War II. He landed in Los Angeles, abandoned chemistry and took work as an elevator man near Central Avenue, Los Angeles's center of jazz and rhythm-and-blues. He won a spot at the amateur hour at the Lincoln Theater, much like the Apollo's in Harlem, and in the audience were Mr. Moore, a guitarist, and his friend Eddie Williams, a bassist. They needed a pianist and singer, and hired Mr. Brown. The group became the Three Blazers.
        The group became one of the premier examples of the new, sophisticated rhythm-and-blues that was replacing jazz as popular music among  blacks. Like Nat (King) Cole's trio (which featured Mr. Moore's brother Oscar on guitar), the group mixed swing, blues and often-advanced harmony, and placed Mr. Brown's voice out in front. In 1945 they recorded Mr. Brown's composition ''Drifting Blues,'' which became a hit, and in its introspective, sophisticated way became a template for a new style.
        Mr. Brown's singing, casual and with a drawl, was intimate and in the jazz crooning tradition, even if the group's sound was deeply based in blues. One sign of the influence of Mr. Brown is that Ray Charles's early recordings are a direct imitation of his style; others are that Frankie Laine and Kay Starr were regulars at Mr. Brown's recording sessions, and scores of rhythm-and-blues singers based their careers on his style.
        In 1948, Mr. Brown went on his own and began recording under his  name; a year later he married the rhythm-and-blues singer Mabel Scott. In 1951, he had a hit performing ''Black Night,'' and in 1952 he had another with a tune written by Jerry Leiber and Mike Stoller, ''Hard Times.''
        For the next several decades, Mr. Brown's style, replaced by more modern black music, fell out of favor, and by the 1970's Mr. Brown was working as a teacher and janitor. By the end of the 70's, European record companies were interested in him, and his career flourished. Until recently, Mr. Brown spent much of his time touring and recording. In the early 1990's, he toured as Ms. Raitt's opening act, and that brought him to a new market.
        There are no survivors.
      