
        The Rev. Dr. Charles Earl Cobb, a civil rights advocate who led a major Protestant commission on racial justice, died Dec. 27 after a lengthy illness. He was 82 and lived in Washington, where he died.
        Dr. Cobb leapt to national prominence from the pulpit of St. John's Congregational Church in Springfield, Mass., in 1966, when he was named executive director of the United Church of Christ's Commission on Racial Justice, which he had helped form three years before. Working within the predominantly white denomination, the group had dual goals of combating racism within the church and strengthening the black community.
        Dr. Cobb was a defender of the Wilmington 10, a group of young people accused of arson and conspiracy in the burning of a grocery store in Wilmington, N.C., in 1971. He pushed his church to pay $500,000 bail and $250,000 in other legal costs for the defendants, one of whom had been sent to Wilmington by Dr. Cobb to help black students integrating the local high school. Their convictions were later overturned.
        Dr. Cobb made headlines in 1977, when he criticized William F. Buckley Jr. for questioning Vernon E. Jordan Jr.'s leadership of the National Urban League.
        At his own church in Springfield, Dr. Cobb focused on young people, starting a basketball program and buying a bus to ferry students to historically black colleges in the South. He ran unsuccessfully for mayor of Springfield in 1965, in part to protest the teaching of ''Little Black Sambo'' in reading classes.
        The Commission on Racial Justice continued its emphasis on higher education, providing scholarships to 4,000 college students. Dr. Cobb also started a program for women in prison, and was arrested on picket lines protesting South Africa's apartheid government.
        Dr. Cobb was a founder of the National Conference of Black Christians, and served on the boards of TransAfrica, the Interreligious Foundation for Community Organization and the Black United Fund.
        Born in Durham, N.C., in 1916, Mr. Cobb graduated from Howard University and received a master's degree from Boston University and a doctorate from Huston-Tillotson College in Austin, Tex.
        He is survived by his wife, Dr. Martha Cobb; three children, Adrienne Brooks, Ann Cobb and Charles Cobb; 14 grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      