
        William Bentley Ball, a constitutional lawyer nationally known for his defense of religious doctrine and practice against secular encroachment, died Jan. 10 at Lee Memorial Hospital in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 82, lived in Camp Hill, Pa., and was in Florida on vacation.
        Mr. Ball suffered a brief illness, said Richard E. Connell, a partner in the Harrisburg, Pa., firm of Ball, Skelly, Murren & Connell, which Mr. Ball helped found 30 years ago. At his death, he was of counsel to the firm but had remained active in it to the end, Mr. Connell said.
        Mr. Ball was the vice chairman of the National Committee for Amish Religious Freedom, for which he won a precedent-setting case before the Wisconsin Supreme Court in the early 1970's. The case, Wisconsin v. Yoder, reversed the conviction of three Amish farmers who had refused to enroll their children in a small public school in the state.
        The court held, 6 to 1, that requiring the children to attend public school violated their constitutional right to freedom of religion. It held that the state's compulsory-education law as ''applied to the Amish violates the free exercise clause of the First Amendment.''
        Mr. Ball's argument before the court made the case that government must prove a compelling public need for actions affecting religious groups. Subsequent court decisions weakened that doctrine, causing Congress to pass the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993 to enshrine the compelling-reason doctrine.
        In a rebuke to Congress, the Supreme Court substantially gutted that legislation in 1997. But the act had passed almost by acclamation, and efforts continue to revive the issue perhaps in narrower language acceptable to the court.
        Mr. Ball was a prominent Roman Catholic layman and member of the Order of St. Gregory the Great, a papal knighthood. He often served his church in the courts and before Congress.
        He was in the forefront of the church's efforts to block the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations from denying Federal money to parochial schools. He also testified before Congress against Federal policy on the dissemination and coordination of birth-control information to individuals and public agencies on request. At the time he appeared as general counsel to the Pennsylvania Catholic Conference of bishops.
        He was active in the Pennsylvania Equal Rights Council, the Christian Legal Society and the Catholic League for Religion and Civil Rights.
        He was admitted to practice before the Supreme Court in 1969 and argued nine cases relating to civil rights before it. He assisted in 25 other cases, and practiced on the Federal district and appeals levels as well as in state courts.
        Born in Rochester, he graduated from Western Reserve University in 1940 and received his law degree from the University of Notre Dame in 1948. Early in his career he was a lawyer for W. R. Grace & Company and Pfizer Inc., and a law professor at Villanova University.
        Mr. Ball is survived by his wife of 55 years, Caroline Cook Ball; a daughter, Virginia Duncan of Etters, Pa., and a sister, Mary Ball Martinez of Mexico.
      