
        Jose Quintero, the director whose reverent stagings of ''The Iceman Cometh'' and ''Long Day's Journey Into Night'' led to a worldwide revival of interest in the Nobel Prize  plays of Eugene O'Neill, died yesterday. He was 74 and lived in Sarasota, Fla.
        The cause was cancer, said Robert Lantz, his agent and longtime friend.  Mr. Quintero died at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
        As a founder of Circle in the Square, Mr. Quintero was also a major contributor to the renaissance in Off Broadway theater that began soon after World War II and continued into the 1960's. It was Circle in the Square's 1952 production of Tennessee Williams's ''Summer and Smoke,'' directed by Mr. Quintero and starring a relatively unknown actress named Geraldine Page, that changed Off Broadway from a small but interesting Greenwich Village phenomenon to a theatrical movement of national importance.
        Although Mr. Quintero captured the essence of other playwrights' work, he had a special bond for O'Neill. From 1956 to 1996, he directed 19 productions of O'Neill plays. Mr. Quintero often said he believed that O'Neill single-handedly elevated the American theater from frivolity to seriousness. He said that he looked on O'Neill as his symbolic father, and almost always referred to him as Mr. O'Neill.
        O'Neill, the winner of four Pulitzer Prizes and the only American dramatist to receive a Nobel Prize, was recognized as the country's finest  playwright. But by his death in 1953 his popularity had diminished. Some critics said that the body of his work, most of it written from 1920 to 1943, had become outdated.
        Mr. Quintero shattered this view with his Off Broadway revival of ''The Iceman Cometh,'' with Jason Robards in May 1956, and followed that six months later on Broadway with the American premiere of ''Long Day's Journey Into Night,'' which starred Mr. Robards, Florence Eldridge and Fredric March.
        Both plays stunned critics and audiences. In The New York Times, Brooks Atkinson called the four-hour 45-minute ''Iceman,'' staged at Circle in the Square, ''a major production of a major theater work.''
        ''O'Neill is a giant,'' Mr. Atkinson wrote, ''and Mr. Quintero is a remarkably gifted artist.''
        Mr. Atkinson also raved about Mr. Quintero's production of ''Long Day's Journey,'' calling it ''inspired.'' He wrote that ''it restores the drama to literature and the theater to art.''
        In an article in The New York Times Magazine in 1988, Mr. Quintero recalled how he had obtained permission to present ''The Iceman Cometh.'' On a frigid afternoon in the winter of 1956, he went to see Carlotta Monterey O'Neill, O'Neill's third wife, widow and literary executor, at her apartment in the Lowell Hotel on East 63d Street. ''It had been 10 years since any of O'Neill's works had been performed in America,'' Mr. Quintero wrote. ''He had been sentenced to oblivion, convicted of being dark, undistinguished and of no more than historical importance.''
        An Obsession And Inner Demons
        Mrs. O'Neill greeted him, escorted him down a hallway, opened a closet door and said she was going to show him four hats; he was to tell her which was right for her. He rejected the first three; the fourth, trimmed in black lace, was the one he judged appropriate.
        She smiled. ''You come here in search of the rights to produce 'The Iceman Cometh,' '' she is quoted as saying. ''They are yours. The hat you chose was the hat I wore to bury my husband.''
        He was to see her once a week until her death 14 years later, becoming involved in her family travails and her battles over the rights to O'Neill's work. She took to calling him Gene. And for many years Mr. Quintero wore O'Neill's wedding ring, which she had given him as a gift.
        Indeed, over the years Mr. Quintero seemed to be obsessed with the playwright. A 1977 profile in The Times Magazine described him as ''possessed by O'Neill's spirit.''
        ''He has O'Neill's haunted, penetrating eyes,'' wrote Barbara Gelb, an O'Neill biographer with her husband, Arthur. ''When his demons converged, he hid, like O'Neill, in a bottle; he talks to O'Neill's portrait and he has been visited by O'Neill's ghost.'' Friends have said that Mr. Quintero, like O'Neill, had an extraordinarily seductive sense of  compassion, combined with delicacy and intuition.
        ''Iceman'' and ''Summer and Smoke'' were but two of the many plays Mr. Quintero staged at Circle in the Square in Greenwich Village, which he founded in 1951 with Theodore Mann, Emilie Stevens, Jason Wingreen and others. Among his other well-received productions were Truman Capote's ''Grass Harp,'' Jean Genet's ''Balcony'' and a revival of the bleak 1930's comedy ''Children of Darkness,'' which featured Colleen Dewhurst and George C. Scott.
        Critics also applauded his direction of O'Neill's ''Strange Interlude'' for the Actors Studio Theater in 1963, with a cast that included Ms. Page, Ben Gazzara, Franchot Tone, Pat Hingle, Betty Field, Richard Thomas and Jane Fonda; ''A Moon for the Misbegotten,'' a major triumph of the 1973 Broadway season, which starred Mr. Robards and Miss Dewhurst and for which he won a Tony Award as best director; 1977 productions of ''Anna Christie'' with Liv Ullmann and ''A Touch of the Poet'' with Mr. Robards and Geraldine Fitzgerald, and, in 1988, the centennial of O'Neill's birth, a Broadway revival of ''Long Day's Journey'' starring Mr. Robards and Miss Dewhurst.
        Mr. Quintero, Mr. Robards and Miss Dewhurst were for more than two decades the classic O'Neill triumvirate: the O'Neill director, the O'Neill actor and the O'Neill actress; they created a repertory and a stage presence unlikely to be forgotten by anyone who saw their work.
        Mr. Quintero's efforts also won recognition for many young actors. Mr. Robards achieved his first major success in ''The Iceman Cometh'' for his performance as Hickey, the prime denizen of Harry Hope's saloon, O'Neill's metaphor for the world, where people cannot live without their illusions, their pipe dreams of love and connection and success.
        ''Summer and Smoke,'' with Ms. Page as Alma Winemiller, established the actress as one of the American theater's stellar talents. And ''Children of Darkness'' strongly advanced Mr. Scott and Miss Dewhurst's budding careers.
        Mr. Quintero was a great admirer of Ms. Page's work, and because of her, he said, he counted ''Summer and Smoke'' as one of his favorite plays. Ms. Page returned the admiration. ''What made Jose a great director was that he would do everything by suggestion,'' she once said. ''He would give you the means without telling you what to do. His ideas were so human. So poetic.''
        Jose Quintero was born in Panama City on Oct. 16, 1924, the day after O'Neill's 37th birthday; the proximity of their birthdays would become important to Mr. Quintero, who later in life always celebrated both.
        He was one of four children of Carlos Rivera Quintero, a Spaniard of humble origins who moved to Panama and prospered, and the former Consuelo Palmerola, who came from a wealthy family. His childhood was not happy. His father had wanted a daughter to go with two sons, and was disappointed by his birth. He  disapproved of a boy whose skin was darker than anyone else's in the family.
        ''From birth I was branded a disaster,'' Mr. Quintero once recalled. It was the first of his many affinities with O'Neill, whose mother would frequently remind him that it was the pain of his unwanted birth that made her a drug addict. Such beginnings prepared both men for the tragic view of life they shared in their work for the theater.
        The young Jose found it hard to  please his father or meet any of his demands; at age 15, taken by his father to a brothel, he recounted, he could not function sexually.
        He was educated at LaSalle Catholic High School in Panama City. When he graduated in 1943, he was known for his ability to decorate altars and for his resolve to see every Bette Davis movie that came to town.
        His father wanted him to be a doctor, but that was not to be; he had barely average grades and showed little interest in serious study. He was sent to Los Angeles City College even though his English was poor.
        He soon returned home to Panama and looked for employment, but his work identity card listed his color as ''brown,'' barring him from certain white-collar jobs.
        He returned to the United States and transferred to the University of California. Soon after, he received a letter from his father that contained $500 and a note.
        ''I once had a son whose name was the same as the one you bear,'' it read, ''but as far as I am concerned, he is dead.''
        From a 'Death,' A New Life
        Mr. Quintero said the letter freed him: if he was dead, he did not have to worry about failure. He became interested in drama courses; his English improved quickly and by the time he received his bachelor's degree in 1948 he was determined to pursue his interest in the dramatic arts. He enrolled in the Goodman Theater Dramatic School in Chicago.
        A year later, he moved to Manhattan. In the summer of 1950, Mr. Quintero, Ted Mann and their partners, calling themselves the Loft Players, took 12 young actors to Woodstock, N.Y., and with a budget of $500 put on a series of shows. Among the plays Mr. Quintero directed there were Williams's ''Glass Menagerie'' and Synge's ''Riders to the Sea.''
        They returned to New York, and when the Greenwich Village Inn, a nightclub at 5 Sheridan Square, went out of business, they obtained a $7,500 loan, took over the site and began producing plays. They called their theater Circle in the Square, the  circle being a theater in the round.
        The Circle's first production, in 1951, was ''Dark of the Moon,'' a revival of the musical fantasy by William Berney and Howard Richardson. It was well received by the critics, ran for eight weeks and won four awards. (After this theatrical success, Mr. Quintero visited Panama and was greeted warmly by his father.)
        Off Broadway theater, reborn after World War II in Greenwich Village, was growing out of its infancy. Several major groups were putting on plays, but the notice they were receiving was largely parochial, extending barely beyond the Village's limits and primarily involving theater devotees. Newspapers would send second-, third- and even fourth-string critics to review the openings.
        Then in April 1952 Mr. Quintero and Mr. Mann decided to revive Williams's ''Summer and Smoke,'' which had failed on Broadway. The Williams name led Brooks Atkinson, the chief drama critic of The Times, to journey to the Village and write a review. Mr. Atkinson acclaimed the play, the direction and the performances. Off Broadway was on the map; audiences flocked there from all over, and the boom began. Almost overnight, Ms. Page became a star.
        ''Quintero's success ignited footlights all over the Village,'' The Times reported. ''The American theater expanded some 40 blocks. Critics realized they would not fall into the Atlantic if they ventured south of Times Square.''
        The next year, Mr. Quintero ventured onto Broadway, directing Judith Anderson in Jane Bowles's ''In the Summer House.'' By 1961 Circle in the Square had presented 21 plays  and Mr. Quintero had directed 17 of them. When he directed Thornton Wilder's ''Our Town'' at the theater in 1959, Wilder attended the rehearsals.
        Of all the playwrights whose works he directed, Mr. Quintero maintained the closest friendships with Williams and Wilder. He greatly admired Williams and publicly defended him against critics who said that the playwright's work had declined in his later years.
        In 1980, he directed Williams's last play, ''Clothes for a Summer Hotel,'' a tale of F. Scott and Zelda Fitzgerald, which reunited the playwright and the director with Ms. Page. The play, which also starred Kenneth Haigh, was a critical and financial failure on Broadway and closed after 7 previews and 14 performances.
        In his 1974 autobiography, ''If You Don't Dance They Beat You,'' Mr. Quintero wrote: ''When you direct, you're after that shy, inner thing hidden in the woods of your being. But it is not technique that I was ever searching for, but rather the treasure of the blind heart.''
        The quiet moment, he said, could be a source of revelation: ''I prefer subtlety and atmosphere. And particularly silences. Silence is as eloquent as words. Characters without some silences tend to be too secure, just people mechanically reciting lines.''
        Late in life, Mr. Quintero reflected on his 1956 production of ''Long Day's Journey'' and said it had a special place in his mind because it ''introduced me to that big level of success.''
        The Failures Built Into Success
        ''Success is a terrible thing,'' he added. ''It changes the world overnight. You go from nobody wants you to everybody wants you and you don't know why. You're not prepared to deal with it, especially if you've been educated for failure as I'd been. You're afraid they'll find you out.''
        For many years, Mr. Quintero had an intense friendship with Gloria Vanderbilt, whom he met in 1958 at a party in Greenwich Village. His longtime companion was Nicholas Tsacrios, a former advertising executive.
        It was Mr. Tsacrios who in the mid-1970's helped Mr. Quintero deal with his drinking problem, which had  dogged the director, as it had O'Neill, for many years. Several years in analysis had provided no improvement, and Mr. Quintero finally agreed, under Mr. Tsacrios's urging, to see Vincent Tracy, a layman and recovering alcoholic.
        ''I used to fill little bottles and put them in my pockets and during rehearsals I would go away in the dark and drink them,'' Mr. Quintero once said. ''If anyone mentioned my drinking, the fury was enormous. I would consume that much more.''
        In addition to Mr. Tsacrios, of Sarasota, he is survived by a sister, Carmen, of Panama.
        In 1987, Mr. Quintero underwent surgery for removal of his larynx and was without his voice for a year. He thought he was through as a director.
        ''When I was told I had cancer of the throat, and I was told that my vocal cords were going to be removed, it meant to me that I could no longer work,'' he said in a 1988 interview. ''And my first thought was of O'Neill, in the last 10 years of his life, when he could no longer work because of the tremor in his hands. And he could not dictate and he could not write on a typewriter, so it meant the end of his life.''
        But O'Neill's fate was not to be his. Mr. Quintero learned how to use a mechanical voice box and continued his work as vigorously as ever, beginning with the 1988 revival of ''Long Day's Journey.'' He even created a new career as a lecturer and university professor, dividing his year between the University of Houston and Florida State University.
        In August 1996, he directed two early O'Neill one-act plays, ''The Long Voyage Home'' and ''Ile,'' at the Provincetown Repertory Theater in Provincetown on Cape Cod, the town where the plays were written.
        That summer, 40 years after ''The Iceman Cometh'' and his first meeting with Carlotta O'Neill, Mr. Quintero indicated that his feelings for the playwright had not diminished. ''Part of my soul,'' the director said, ''belongs to O'Neill.''
        Correction:  March 3, 1999, Wednesday  An obituary of the director Jose Quintero on Saturday referred incorrectly to his birth date. It was Oct. 15, 1924, not Oct. 16, and was the day before the playwright Eugene O' Neill's 36th birthday, not the day after his 37th.
      