
        The folk and pop singer Baris Manco, who had great cultural influence in Turkey and became one of this country's most beloved figures, died here on Monday. He was 56 and lived in Istanbul.
        The cause was a heart attack, relatives said.
        Tens of thousands of people, many in tears, turned out on Wednesday for his funeral, which was broadcast live on national television. ''Today, we as a nation feel pain in our hearts for having lost a great artist and a good friend,'' the Culture Minister, Istemihan Talay, said in his eulogy.
        Mr. Manco wrote and recorded more than 200 songs, many of which not only became hits on the pop charts but also found their way into the rural popular culture.
        He was an arresting personality who dressed outlandishly in clothes he designed himself, and he covered his fingers with rings. In the 1970's, when Turkey had only a single state-owned television channel, he was offered appearances on condition that he cut his flowing hair. He refused, and the authorities finally relented, making him the first member of the alternative youth culture to appear on Turkish television.
        Mr. Manco's weekly program lasted nearly a decade, making it the longest-running Turkish television show. The first segment was aimed at young people, and a generation of Turks grew up with his children's songs, like ''My Friend the Donkey.''
        The second part consisted of travel documentaries, which helped educate Turks about foreign countries, peoples and cultures.
        Besides bringing the world into Turkish living rooms, he was also an unofficial Turkish ambassador. His songs were translated into many languages, and he had wide followings in Bulgaria, Greece, Romania, Arab countries, Central Asia and the Caucasus and was especially popular in Japan, where he produced children's programs.
        Mr. Manco was born in Istanbul on Jan. 2, 1943, and began his career by starting a rock band in high school. He studied graphic design and textile design in Belgium, where he was later made a Chevalier of the Order of Leopold II. He is survived by his wife, Lale, and two sons, Dogukan and Batikan.
        An avid collector, Mr. Manco had a fleet of British cars from the 1950's and important collections of Japanese and Chinese porcelain, 19th-century Orientalist paintings and Art Deco and Art Nouveau glassware.  Perhaps his proudest possession, however, was his first name, which means ''peace'' in Turkish.
      