
        Adm. Harold E. Shear, retired, a onetime Vice Chief of Naval Operations and veteran submariner who helped build the nation's undersea armada into a powerful nuclear force, died on Monday at his home in Groton Long Point, Conn. He was 80 and, his family said, had long been ill.
        For 25 years beginning in World War II, Admiral Shear sailed on destroyer escorts and submarines.  When the Patrick Henry, the nation's  second submarine equipped with Polaris ballistic missiles, was commissioned at Groton in 1960, he was aboard as skipper. President Dwight D. Eisenhower saluted him that year with a personal ''well done'' after a successful test-firing off Rhode Island, and by 1961 his sub and others of the fast-growing Polaris class were within missile range off Russia to counter any Soviet nuclear threat.
        Admiral Shear had first become a central player in the naval fleet's missile buildup in the role of commander of Soviet submarine units during a war game in 1956, when his ''enemy'' subs wiped out much of the Strategic Air Command's bomber and land-based missile force. His boldly conducted attack underscored the notion, endorsed by President Eisenhower, that missile-armed submarines could be an important weapon for the West.
        Harold Edson Shear was born in New York City and grew up on Shelter Island, near Long Island's East End, an experience he never forgot. Many years later, after retiring from the Navy, he was instrumental in organizing Shelter Island's Mashomack Preserve, covering 2,000 unspoiled acres bought by the Nature Conservancy in 1980. He was a leading member of the board of trustees, which last year dedicated to him the overlook at Major's Harbor.
        He graduated from the United States Naval Academy in 1941, the Armed Forces Staff College in 1954 and the National War College in 1965. In 1974, he received his fourth star, making him a full admiral, from President Richard M. Nixon, who put him in command of American naval forces in Europe. He then served a tour as Vice Chief of Naval Operations, the Navy's second-highest-ranking officer, until President Jimmy Carter chose him to be commander in chief of Allied forces in southern Europe.
        It was in that post that he retired from the Navy, in 1980. After a brief period in corporate life, he was chosen by President Ronald Reagan to head the Maritime Administration in the Commerce Department. He retired from that job in 1985 and, back in Groton, helped develop the Submarine Force Library and Museum, home to the Nautilus, the world's first atomic-powered submarine.
        Admiral Shear is survived by his wife of 56 years, Elizabeth Perry Shear; a daughter, Kathleen Shear of Manhattan; a son, Kenneth E., of London; a stepbrother, Capt. Kenneth H. Payne Jr. of Shelter Island, and a stepsister, Constance Payne Mattie of Anderson, S.C.
      