
        Lili St. Cyr, the tall, blond beauty who left almost nothing to the imagination when she stepped dripping wet out of her signature onstage bubble bath, died on Jan. 29 at her apartment in Hollywood. She was 80.
        In a field that began when a Syrian beauty who called herself Little Egypt danced her way into legend at the 1893 Chicago World's Fair, Miss St. Cyr was a master of elegant invention.
        Her well-choreographed acts included portrayals of famous seductresses, few of whom could hold a candle to Miss St. Cyr.
        A woman who welcomed the attentions of well-heeled stage door Johnnies, she had dalliances with the likes of Orson Welles and Victor Mature, but it was her romances with comparatively obscure businessmen that kept her in jewels, furs and lavish hotel accommodations.
        But then, as Miss St. Cyr once put it: ''Sex is currency. What's the use of being beautiful if you can't profit from it?''
        For all that, her six husbands included a waiter, a dancer, a sometime actor and the restaurateur Armando Orsini, who got his start with financing from Miss St. Cyr.
        A native of Minneapolis whose name was originally Willis Marie Van Schaack, Miss St. Cyr moved to Pasadena, Calif., when she was 7, dropped out of school after the ninth grade and was working as a waitress at a Chinese restaurant when she got her start as a showgirl. It didn't take her long to realize that the big money in burlesque lay in nudity.
        Adopting the name St. Cyr after reading about the French military academy, she made her first splash at the Gayety Theater in Montreal in 1944 and remained a regional phenomenon for seven years.
        She got her big break in Hollywood in 1951 when she was charged with indecent exposure during a bubble bath performance at Ciro's nightclub. By the time she beat the charge in court, the publicity had made her a headliner and led to series of low-budget movies, among them ''The Son of Sinbad'' (1955).
        Although she once made as much as $7,000 a week, drug use marred her later years, her money ran out and she was supported by friends and the occasional sale of her photographs.
        She is survived by a sister, Rosemary Minsky of Los Angeles.
      