
        Charles Blitzer, a founder and director emeritus of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington and a past president of Phi Beta Kappa, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 71.
        The cause was pulmonary disease, his family said.
        Dr. Blitzer founded the Woodrow Wilson center in 1971 with Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York, as an affiliate of the Smithsonian Institution dedicated to advanced academic research in international relations and political and social studies. He served as its third director, from 1988 to 1997.
        Dr. Blitzer prepared the center for its recent move to larger quarters in the Ronald Reagan Building on Pennsylvania Avenue, where it serves about three dozen scholars on annual fellowships with still others who visit to do research. After his retirement and election to director emeritus, he was succeeded by former Representative Lee H. Hamilton, Democrat of Indiana.
        Charles Blitzer, a native New Yorker, graduated from Williams College and earned an M.A. in 1949 and a Ph.D. in 1952 at Harvard University. He began his academic career as a political science instructor at Yale University and in the early 1960's worked as executive associate at the American Council of Learned Societies in New York.
        His association with the Smithsonian began in 1965, when he joined the staff as director of education. He served as assistant secretary for history and art from 1968 to 1983.
        At Phi Beta Kappa, he held several official positions, beginning in 1979. He was a former member of the academic honor society's senate and served as vice president and then president from 1991 to 1997.
        Dr. Blitzer was also a longtime member and recent chairman of the Indo-United States Sub-Commission on Education and Culture and served on the United States-New Zealand Council, among other international affiliations. He was a past trustee of Smith College and in recent years served as chairman of a publications subcommittee at the Holocaust Memorial Museum.
        He is survived by a brother, Dr. John R. Blitzer of Bradford, N.H.
      