
        Thomas A. McMahon, a whimsical American synthesizer who fused sciences in a pioneering academic career in biomechanics even as he blended science and literature, died on Sunday on the way to a hospital near his home in Wellesley, Mass. He was 55, and was both the Gordon McKay Professor of Applied Mechanics and professor of biology at Harvard University, as well as the author of three well-received novels.
        His family said he died after abdominal surgery last week.
        If it is an open question whether Dr. McMahon was a novelist who did science or a scientist who wrote novels, he had only himself to blame. Not only did he do acclaimed work in both fields, but he also clouded the issue from the beginning.
        His first book, completed while he was studying for his doctorate in fluid mechanics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, was ambiguously -- if ultimately, helpfully -- entitled ''Principles of American Nuclear Chemistry: A Novel.''  Published by Little, Brown in 1971, the book is a coming-of-age story focused on the prosaic off-duty lives of the scientists who worked on the atomic bomb.
        A man who was fascinated by the process of invention, Dr. McMahon, to satisfy his own scientific interests, helped invent a new science, biomechanics, which applies the principles of mechanics to the study of locomotion in humans and other animals.
        It was a reflection both of the blended field's novelty and Dr. McMahon's academic standing that to accommodate his research interests, Harvard had to give him dual appointments in applied mechanics and biology.
        Although he had recently helped invent a hip-padding system to protect the elderly from fractures because of falls, perhaps the most significant application of his science came in the 1970's when he and a colleague, Peter R. Greene, designed a tuned indoor track for Harvard.
        By optimizing the spring, or returned energy, when a foot pounds into the boards, the largely plywood track, which had been designed to reduce runners' shinsplint injuries, improved running times by an average of 3 percent, an accomplishment that might have made Dr. McMahon more a hero at Harvard if he had not helped install a similar track at Yale, as well as others at Madison Square Garden and the Meadowlands.
        As a literary scientist or scientific novelist, Dr. McMahon came by his bifurcated vision naturally. His mother, Lucille, had a literary flair, while his father, Howard O. McMahon, did some scientific fusing of his own as a physical chemist who worked on low temperature science and became president of Arthur D. Little, the management and technology consulting company.
        He was born in Dayton, Ohio, in 1943, grew up in Lexington, Mass., and studied physics at Cornell University before going to M.I.T. and then to Harvard, first as a postdoctoral research fellow.
        Dr. McMahon, who once published a paper complete with detailed computer projections and complicated graphs promoting what he called ''Groucho running,'' based on the comedian Groucho Marx's signature bent-knee gait, as a low-impact, high-energy form of exercise, was equally whimsical as a novelist.
        His tongue was firmly in his cheek with his second novel, ''McKay's Bees'' (Harper & Row, 1979). Published two years after Dr. McMahon took the Gordon McKay chair, the book raised eyebrows at Harvard because the main character is a wealthy Bostonian named Gordon McKay who goes to Kansas during the bloody struggles over slavery in the 1850's to make money by raising bees, a purely imaginary endeavor pursued by neither the real McKay nor any other real person.
        Like his third novel, ''Loving Little Egypt'' (Viking Penguin, 1987), in which a technician subverts the phone company to develop a toll-free network for the blind, ''McKay's Bees'' was a widely praised comic novel that won a cult following and became the basis for a play.
        Dr. McMahon also won praise for his scientific books, ''On Size and Life,'' a 1983 collaboration with John Tyler Bonner that analyzed for general readers the effects of size on animals of various dimensions, and the more specialized ''Muscles, Reflexes and Locomotion'' (1984), which Science magazine called an instant classic.
        Known as an especially nurturing teacher who always had time to advise his students on their careers, Dr. McMahon, a master at securing research grants, could not quite hide his playful side.
        A man who for many years pedaled a bicycle the 14 miles from his Victorian home in Wellesley to his office, he had recently taken to driving to work, an apparent concession to his constant companion, Tess, a golden retriever that became a student petting favorite and an excuse (dogs need exercise) for Dr. McMahon to take outdoors ''fetch breaks.''
        Dr. McMahon, who made headlines with research showing how the basilisk, or so-called Jesus Christ lizard, could run on water -- a cinch if you weigh three ounces and have fringes on your feet to keep the water from flooding the air pocket created by the downstroke before the lift -- was never one to rest on his laurels. Before his death, he was rubbing his hands over his next project: determining how ants are able to walk on glass ceilings.
        Dr. McMahon is survived by his wife, Carol; a son, James, of Atlanta; a daughter, Elizabeth Kirsten of Portland, Me.; two sisters, Jean Humez of Somerville, Mass., and Nancy Swanborn of Duxbury, Mass., and a granddaughter.
      