
        Albert P. Gagnebin, the former president and chairman of the International Nickel Company, died on Sunday at the Jupiter Medical Center in Jupiter, Fla. Mr. Gagnebin, a resident of Jupiter and of Little Silver, N.J., was 90.
        Mr. Gagnebin joined the research division of Inco, as International Nickel is known, after he graduated from Yale University in 1930 with a degree in metallurgy. He concentrated on research into ferrous metals at the company's laboratory in Bayonne, N.J., where he was co-inventor of the casting formula for ductile iron, a new type of metal.
        Ductile iron, which was patented in 1949, is made by mixing a small amount of magnesium ore with iron ore. It is strong, like iron, but without iron's brittleness, which means it can be tooled at a faster rate and readily made into products. Ductile iron quickly became popular for agricultural machinery, automotive parts and pipes.
        Mr. Gagnebin was put in charge of the commercial development of ductile iron. By the end of 1950, more than 15,000 tons were being produced in American foundries.
        He was cited by the American Foundrymen's Society and the American Institute of Mining and Metallurgic Engineers for his role in discovering and developing ductile iron.
        Mr. Gagnebin was named manager of the nickel sales department in 1956, and vice president four years later. In 1964, he became an executive vice president, in charge of research, development and sales for all of the company's metal products. A year later he was named a director.
        In the 1960's, Mr. Gagnebin helped guide Inco's expansion into mining operations and markets overseas, including Japan, Indonesia and New Caledonia. He was appointed president in 1967 and chairman in 1971. After he retired in 1974, Mr. Gagnebin remained a company director until 1980.
        Mr. Gagnebin is survived by his wife, Genevieve Hope of Jupiter and Little Silver; his daughters, Anne Coffin and Joan Wicks, both of New York, and four grandchildren.
      