
        Cora Cheney Partridge, a children's book author and feminist who was one of the first women to become an Episcopal priest, died on Sunday in her home in Tacoma Park, Md. She was 82.
        The cause was a stroke, her family said.
        While rearing four children and following her husband, Benjamin W. Partridge Jr., through his assignments as a Navy officer from the United States to the Philippines to Iceland, Mrs. Partridge wrote ''Skeleton Cave,'' published in 1954.
        A story about a boy who finds Indian relics near his house, ''Skeleton Cave'' was the most popular and enduring of Mrs. Partridge's 15 children's novels, said her daughter Marika Partridge of Tacoma Park, a director of ''All Things Considered,'' the National Public Radio program.
        ''We were amazed to get a fan letter, from a grown man no less, just last month,'' Ms. Partridge said.
        After Mrs. Partridge's children had grown, she took new interest in her Episcopal faith.
        Mr. Partridge said that as he and his wife were sailing in the Gulf of Mexico one day in 1979, she told him, ''When you die, I think I want to go into the priesthood.''
        Mr. Partridge, who had previously suffered heart problems, remembered that he had gulped and then replied, ''Why wait until I die?''
        After Mrs. Partridge was ordained in 1982, Mr. Partridge followed her to postings in Vermont, Delaware and Florida. In holding services for shut-ins, she used a portable altar that a son had fashioned from an ironing board. And while in Tallahassee, Fla., she helped organize an abortion rights demonstration led by elderly women wearing their Sunday finest and carrying parasols.
        In addition to her husband and daughter, Mrs. Partridge is survived by another daughter, Denny Partridge of New York; two sons, B. Waring Partridge of Far Hills, N.J., and Alan Partridge of South Windham Vt.; two sisters, Christine Cheney Otis of Vashon, Wash., and Linna Cheney White of Yuma, Ariz., and nine grandchildren.
      