
        William M. Bronk, a poet known for the philosophical depth of his work, died on Monday at his home in Hudson Falls, N.Y. He was 81.
        He had emphysema and died of respiratory failure, said his editor, Edward Foster.
        Mr. Bronk, who was descended from Jonas Bronck, for whom the Bronx is named, won the American Book Award in 1982 for his collected poems, ''Life Supports,'' and was considered one of the most prominent poets of his generation. The Nation once referred to him as ''our most significant poet,'' and critics hailed his intellect, precise use of language and what reviewers praised as his intimate, haunting and unfrivolous vision.
        He grew up in Hudson Falls in the spacious Victorian house where he lived the rest of his life. He entered Dartmouth College in 1934, where he studied under the critic and poet Sidney Cox and met Robert Frost. After graduation he studied at Harvard briefly and then left to write a study of Thoreau, Melville and Whitman that was published 30 years later as ''The Brother in Elysium: Ideas of Friendship and Society in the United States.''
        After Army service in World War II, he taught at Union College, then took charge of his family's business, the William M. Bronk Coal and Lumber Company in Hudson Falls, which he ran until his retirement in 1978.
        But he never lost his love for poetry. His first major publications was in 1951 in the journal Origin, edited by the poet Cid Corman. Origin also published Mr. Bronk's first book of poems, ''Light and Dark,'' in 1956. His second book ''The World, the Worldless'' was published in 1964 by New Directions. He went on to publish at least 28 books, 10 of them since 1990. They include ''My Father Photographed With Friends'' (1976), ''Life Supports'' (1981), ''Death Is the Place'' (1989), ''The Cage of Age'' (1996) and ''All of What We Loved'' (1998).
        Mr. Bronk often wrote in abstract language about metaphysical topics. ''My poems come to me in their own language,'' he once said, ''and if they were not in that language, they would not have any force.''
        In ''Light and Dark,'' he wrote:
        World, world, I am scared
        and waver in awe before the wilderness
        of raw consciousness, because it is all
        dark and formlessness; and it is real
        this passion that we feel for forms. But the forms
        are never real. Are not really there. Are not.
        Since 1993 his publisher has been Talisman House, which has reissued all but one of his earlier works and will publish his final collection of poems, ''Metaphor of Trees,'' in October. Mr. Bronk did not drive and rarely traveled or gave readings. Instead, his house became a mecca for poets and artists.
        No immediate family members survive.
      