
        Dr. John Lambert Cotter, an archeologist who dug into America's ancient and not-so-ancient past, died on Friday at a retirement residence in Philadelphia. He was 87.
        Dr. Cotter retired as curator emeritus from the University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archeology and Anthropology but kept an office and regular working hours there until last month.
        In the late 1930's he headed a team from the Academy of Natural Sciences in Philadelphia that dug up weapons and tools used 11,000 years ago by the earliest humans known to have been in North America, Paleo-Amerindians, at a site in New Mexico. More recently he explored the origins of Philadelphia and Jamestown, Va., the first permanent English settlement in America.
        Dr. Cotter wrote ''Archeological Excavations at Jamestown Virginia'' (University of Pennsylvania Press, revised, 1994) and was co-author of ''The Buried Past: An Archaeological History of Philadelphia'' (University of Pennsylvania Press, 1992) and ''Walnut Street Prison Workshop'' (Athenaeum, 1988). All three remain in print.
        He contributed more than 200 articles and reviews to professional journals, beginning in 1937. Among his many honors was the 1978 David E. Finley Award for Outstanding Achievement from the National Trust for Historic Preservation.
        Dr. Cotter, who was born in Denver, graduated in anthropology from the University of Denver in 1934. He received an M.A. in anthropology there in 1935 and a Ph.D. in the same discipline at the University of Pennsylvania in 1959.
        His work took him to sites in Canada, Mexico, Peru, the Middle East, Greece, Italy and Britain. Dr. Cotter joined the National Park Service in 1940 as the archeologist in charge of a prehistoric pueblo preserved as a national monument in Arizona.
        He spent 37 years with the agency, the last 4 as head archeologist of the Colonial National Historic Park at Jamestown. He joined the Penn faculty in 1960, initially as an adjunct professor, having been sent to Philadelphia to plan and start archeological projects at Independence National Historical Park.
        As a member of the university's department of American civilization, he taught that subject and introduced a novel course in American historical archeology. He was curator for American historical archeology at the Museum of Archeology and Anthropology from 1971 to 1980, when he took emeritus status.
        Dr. Cotter is survived by his wife of 58 years, Virginia Tomlin Cotter; a son, Laurence T., of Albuquerque, N.M.; a daughter, Jean C. Spaans of Montgomery Village, Md., and three grandsons.
      