
        William D. McElroy, a biologist and administrator who never abandoned his first love in research, fireflies, died on Wednesday at Scripps Memorial Hospital in San Diego. He was 82 and lived in San Diego.
        Dr. McElroy was the director of the National Science Foundation for three years during the Nixon Administration and chancellor of the University of California at San Diego for eight years after that. But interspersed with his administrative jobs was a career in research on bioluminescence that made him the leading authority on the flashing bugs.
        Working at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Dr. McElroy and his colleagues uncovered the basic mechanism behind the flash, which involves an enzymatic reaction and the compound ATP, or adenosine triphosphate.
        ''This was a period of basic science,'' recalled J. Woodland Hastings, a Harvard biologist who worked with Dr. McElroy at Johns Hopkins. Fireflies were a ready subject for studies of bioluminescence, about which little was known. ''They were not only an example, but a leading example, and they were available, especially in Baltimore.''
        The researchers organized local schoolchildren to collect the bugs, paying a bounty of 25 cents per hundred. Hundreds of thousands of fireflies were gathered each summer, including more than 37,000 by one 14-year-old boy in August 1952.
        William David McElroy was born in Rogers, Tex., and received an undergraduate degree from Stanford University. He got a master's from Reed College and a doctorate from Princeton University. He came to Hopkins in 1946.
        He showed an early aptitude for administration, setting up the McCollum-Pratt Institute, which researches nutrition issues, in the early 1950's, and serving as chairman of the Hopkins biology department from 1956 to 1969, when he was nominated to head the National Science Foundation.
        Dr. McElroy was the second choice for the job. The nomination of Franklin A. Long, a Cornell chemist, was withdrawn by the White House after it was discovered that Dr. Long had opposed a favorite Administration project, the antiballistic missile system.
        Dr. McElroy, a Democrat, ''didn't like Nixon either,'' Dr. Hastings recalled. ''But he didn't say anything.''
        Dr. McElroy left the agency in 1972 to become chancellor of the University of California at San Diego, where he was again a compromise choice between those who wanted a disciplinarian and others who favored someone with a strong scholastic background.
        While chancellor, he also served for two years as president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. He kept up his research interests as well, working with his second wife, Marlene DeLuca, who was also a biologist, on the genetic basis for bioluminescence.
        ''He was probably the consummate administrator,'' said Ed Jablonski, who worked with Dr. McElroy and his wife in San Diego. ''But he had such an insight into science that he couldn't help himself. When he'd come home after being chancellor, he'd want to talk about science.''
        Dr. McElroy's first marriage, to the former Nella Winch, ended in divorce. Dr. DeLuca died in 1987. Dr. McElroy is survived by his wife, Olga Robles McElroy; a sister, Lola Rector of Pismo Beach, Calif.; a son, Eric, of San Marcos, Calif., by his second wife, and two daughters and two sons by his first wife: Mary McElroy of Boston, Ann McElroy of Hickory, N.C., Thomas McElroy of Glen Arm, Md., and William McElroy of Woods Hole, Mass.
      