
        Dorothea Zack Hanle, a longtime editor at Bon Appetit, a cookbook writer and one of the founders of Les Dames d'Escoffier, an international women's organization that promotes fine dining and wine, died Tuesday at the home of her son, Alan, in North Brunswick, N.J. She was 83 and lived in Manhattan and Ship Bottom, N.J.
        Ms. Hanle was born in Philadelphia and grew up in Ship Bottom, where her father, Richard A. Zachariae, was a real estate agent. Throughout her life, she was called Zack.
        After attending Wilson College in Chambersburg, Pa., and Barnard College, she was hired by Mademoiselle, where she wrote on a wide range of subjects. Dell Publishing took note of her flair for dispensing useful advice and hired her as editor in chief of its special-projects division. At Dell, she wrote and edited more than 65 pocket-size how-to handbooks, and in 1964, under the name Dorothea Zack Hanle, wrote the book ''The Hairdo Handbook: A Complete Guide to Hair Beauty.''
        In 1972, CBS Publications wooed her to edit a new publication, Epicure, but she remained at Dell, editing the first issue of Epicure under the pen name Carter Chase. She then left Dell and edited Epicure for two years under her own name, and later edited another CBS magazine, Everywoman's, which competed with Family Circle.
        In 1976 she joined the staff of Bon Appetit, where she created several columns and features, including  ''The Bon Vivant,'' ''Entertaining With . . .'' and ''Profiles in Cooking.'' According to Tanya W. Steel, a senior editor for the magazine, her byline appeared more often than that of any other writer.
        She was Bon Appetit's New York editor until 1990, when she was named an editor at large. From 1997 until her death she was a consultant to the magazine.
        Her books include ''The Surfer's Handbook'' (1968), ''Cooking With Flowers'' (1971) and ''Cooking Wild Game'' (1974). With Martin Herz, she wrote a children's cookbook, ''The Golden Ladle'' (1945). She also wrote books on gardening, diet and exercise.
        In 1990, Ms. Hanle was honored by the James Beard Foundation at its first annual Editor's Dinner.
        She is survived by her son; a daughter, Jennifer Malahowski of Austin, Tex., and three grandchildren.
      