
        Ed Herlihy, a radio announcer whose voice charted the course of World War II for moviegoers, then for the better part of 40 years spoke for Kraft foods on radio and television, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 89.
        In his early successes, few could recall his name or know what he looked like. But to moviegoers who saw the Universal newsreels in the 1940's, his was one of the voices that told of the Allies' early setbacks against the Axis powers, then of the successes that led to victory in 1945. His two principal competitors were his fellow announcer Harry Von Zell of Warner Pathe and the radio commentator Lowell Thomas of Fox Movietone News.
        In 1947 Mr. Herlihy started his association with Kraft Foods on radio and continued it when the company sponsored the ''Kraft Television Theater'' on television in the 1950's. A dramatic offering, all of it done live, the show featured everything from Shakespeare to Rod Serling; it was at the center of what critics would come to call television's Golden Age.
        During commercials for Kraft products (''Good food and good food ideas,'' Mr. Herlihy would say), audiences heard only his voice, a voice he said he tried to make sound friendly. It was an avuncular, next-door-neighbor, deep, mellow kind of voice, a digestive guide through the preparation of all manner of souffles, dips, marshmallow salads and fondues.
        He was noted for his ability to ad lib through commercials when dramatic presentations ran too long or too short. In his capacity with Kraft, he introduced Cheez Whiz, offered innumerable entreaties to buy Velveeta and delivered eloquent apologias for the entombment of almost anything edible with Miracle Whip.
        People may not have known his face, but his voice was another thing. Mr. Herlihy liked to recall a summer day in Times Square when he helped a blind man to cross at 44th Street. He took the man's arm, and the man said it was a beautiful day.
        ''Yes,'' Mr. Herlihy replied, ''this is the kind of day the Lord made for the good guys.''
        The blind man replied: ''I know you. You're the cheese man on TV.''
        Mr. Herlihy's voice was also heard announcing myriad radio shows in the 1930's and 40's. Among them were ''America's Town Meeting,'' a public affairs program; ''The Big Show,'' with Tallulah Bankhead; ''The Falcon'' and ''Mr. District Attorney,'' both crime dramas, and  ''Just Plain Bill,'' a soap opera about a small-town barber. Mr. Herlihy was also the master of ceremonies for radio's ''Horn & Hardart Children's Hour'' in 1948. He continued with the show on television.
        In addition to his work for Kraft, Mr. Herlihy's early television credits included Sid Caesar's ''Show of Shows,'' ''As the World Turns'' and ''All My Children.'' When he worked for Mr. Caesar, he met Woody Allen, then a fledgling writer. Mr. Allen was so impressed with Mr. Herlihy's voice that he used him in some of his films in the 1980's, including ''Hannah and Her Sisters,'' ''Radio Days'' and ''Zelig.'' His other film credits included Martin Scorsese's ''King of Comedy'' and ''Pee-wee's Big Adventure.''
        He also appeared in many stage productions outside New York City, including ''Camelot,'' ''Good News'' and ''Damn Yankees.'' He was in ''Watergate: The Musical,'' in Atlanta in 1982. Mr. Herlihy played Senator Sam Ervin, a role for which he spent $40 for a pair of bushy eyebrows, only to find that they would not move up and down.
        Edward Joseph Herlihy was born in Boston on Aug. 14, 1909, and was educated at Boston College. He graduated in 1932 and got his first radio job at WLOE in Boston. He joined NBC in 1935.
        He is survived by his wife, Fredi; two daughters, Lori Selden and Jeanne Herlihy; two sons, Donald and Stephen; five grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
        Mr. Herlihy maintained an active schedule, even in his later years. In 1994 he was the narrator for the television version of Mr. Allen's Broadway comedy ''Don't Drink the Water.'' He also served as a lecturer on the Queen Elizabeth 2, the Cunard liner.
      