
        Former Gov. Mills Edwin Godwin Jr. of Virginia, who rose above his segregationist past to become one of his state's most effective chief executives, died on Saturday in Newport News, Va. He was 84 and lived in Suffolk, Va.
        Governor Godwin had just been released from Riverside Hospital in Newport News, where he was treated for pneumonia, said the office of Gov. James S. Gilmore 3d in Richmond.
        Mr. Godwin was the only two-term Governor for the Commonwealth of  Virginia since the Civil War, and he served his terms eight years apart -- elected in 1965 as a Democrat and in 1973 as a Republican. He epitomized the end of an era dominated by the Democratic machine of Harry F. Byrd Sr., whose organization ran Virginia politics from the 1920's to the 1960's.
        In his first term, Mr. Godwin broke with the policies of the Byrd machine and was able to piece together a mainline conservative coalition that attracted labor leaders and the rank and file, African-Americans and whites, liberals as well as conservatives.
        With such broad support he was able to build roads, overhaul the state Constitution and tap a new source of revenue in the form of sales taxes. His legacy was a community college system that gave Virginia an educational basis for economic growth.
        Born a farm boy in Chuckatuck, Va., Mills Godwin was a 1938 law graduate of the University of Virginia and practiced law in his home county, Nansemond, until 1960. He was elected to the Virginia House of Delegates in 1947 and to the State Senate in 1952.
        It was in the Senate that he became a pillar of his state's policy of ''massive resistance'' to the racial integration of schools. He vowed that there would be no compromise on the issue. But that intransigence shattered in the late 1950's, and he eventually argued that Virginia just needed time to adjust to the inevitable.
        He was elected lieutenant governor in 1961 and governor four years later. He later left the splintering Democratic Party and was elected to a second four-year term as a Republican in 1973.
        After his second term, he worked as a business consultant and corporate director.
        Mr. Godwin is survived by his wife of 58 years, Katherine Beale Godwin, and a sister, Leah G. Keith of Chesapeake, Va.
      