
        Leonard James Arrington, the dean of Mormon historians, died on Thursday at his home in Salt Lake City. He was 81.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        An economist by training, Dr. Arrington had a notable parallel career as an economic historian of the American West, especially of the Utah Territory. His works in that area included ''The Changing Economic Structure of the Mountain West, 1850-1950'' (1963) and, with Gary B. Hansen, ''The Richest Hole on Earth: A History of the Bingham Copper Mine'' (1963). Both remain in print, as do a dozen other of his titles.
        He directed the history division of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and from 1972 to 1980 served as Church Historian. He was the first professional historian to hold that office.
        His tenure occurred during an interlude when the Mormon Church allowed outside academics relatively free access to its archives. When that period came to a close he was replaced with a more conservative scholar.
        Dr. Arrington wrote ''Brigham Young: American Moses'' (Knopf, 1985), an authoritative biography of Young, molder of Mormonism and successor to the faith's founder, Joseph Smith. The book covers a long stretch of the Mormon experience, and, though Mr. Arrington was not uncritical, some reviewers observed that he skimmed over some intriguing aspects of it.
        Of Young himself, Dr. Arrington observed that he embodied ''the supreme American paradox, not because he contained elements foreign to American soil but because he united them -- the business genius of a Rockefeller with the spiritual sensitivities of an Emerson, the lusty enjoyment of the pleasures of good living with the tenderness of a Florence Nightingale.''
        Dr. Arrington told the story of his own rich life in ''Adventures of a Church Historian'' (University of Illinois Press, 1998). Straying from his usual style of the aloof scholar, he consented to tell in it of some spiritual experiences as a Mormon that had influenced his personal life and his work.
        Leonard Arrington was born in Twin Falls, Idaho, and graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Idaho in 1939. He also graduated from the Latter-day Saints Institute of Religion before serving in the Army in North Africa and Italy in World War II. He earned a Ph.D. in economics at the University of North Carolina in 1952.
        He taught at the University of Utah from 1946 to 1972, rising to professor of economic history. Then, until 1987, he was the Lemuel Redd Professor of Western History at Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah and directed the Charles Redd Center for Western History for some of those years.
        Altogether, he wrote 21 books on American, Western and Mormon history and published hundreds of articles in professional journals. In the late 1950's he was a Fulbright professor at the University of Genoa, Italy, and wrote ''Introduzione Alla Storia Economica Degli Stati Uniti,'' published in Genoa in 1959.
        Dr. Arrington's first wife, Grace Fort Arrington, died in 1982 after 39 years of marriage. He is survived by his wife, Harriet Horne Arrington; his sons, James W., of Orem, Utah, and Carl W., of Larchmont, N.Y.; a daughter, Susan Madsen of Hyde Park, Utah; two stepdaughters, Annette Rogers of Phoenix and Heidi Swinton of Salt Lake City; and two stepsons, Frederick C. Sorensen and Stephen Moody of Salt Lake City.
        Also surviving are five brothers, Kenneth R. and Donald C., of Twin Falls, Wayne, of Sacramento, Calif., Ralph M., of Mesa, Ariz., and Ross L. of Vacaville, Calif; two sisters, Marie Davidson of Burley, Idaho, and Doris E. Shelley of Twin Falls; 9 grandchildren, and 10 step-grandchildren.
      