
        Victor G. Bloede, a former advertising executive who helped introduce the slogan ''Good to the last drop'' for Maxwell House coffee as well as other enduring advertising campaigns for consumer products, died on Wednesday in Boca Raton, Fla., from complications after surgery. He was 79.
        In his career, Mr. Bloede rose to chairman and chief executive of Benton & Bowles Advertising, where he was hired as a copywriter in 1950.
        He rose quickly, becoming a vice president in 1955 and regularly receiving promotions before being named president and chief executive in 1968. He was the first and only creative executive to run Benton.
        His promotion came as several  agencies were considering moving creative talent, rather than businessmen, into management.
        ''Advertising is a rough business,'' Mr. Bloede said in an article in The New York Times on March 10, 1968. ''It's scary. If I'd known that it was going to be like combat, I never would have gone into it.''
        In fact, if the Baltimore native had had his way, he would have become a police reporter for The Baltimore Sun. Mr. Bloede worked on newspapers in high school and college but found it difficult to break into the newspaper business. So he went into public relations and later moved to an advertising agency, French & Preston, before joining Benton.
        Mr. Bloede became chairman of the agency in 1971 and held that position until 1983, having given up the chief executive job in 1974.
        He was credited with turning around the agency, which in 1967 saw its domestic billings fall more than $10 million and reduced its work force by 255.
        He was among the first agency heads to refuse to take cigarette accounts after the negative health effects of smoking became known.
        In addition to being instrumental in building the Maxwell House brand for General Foods, Mr. Bloede helped Procter & Gamble establish Crest toothpaste as a leading brand and persuaded the company to use the ''Please don't squeeze the Charmin'' slogan for its toilet tissue. He also led the agency's creative efforts in building the Zest soap and Pampers diapers brands.
        Benton & Bowles merged with D'Arcy, Masius in 1985 and is now D'Arcy, Masius, Benton & Bowles.
        Mr. Bloede attended St. John's College in Annapolis, Md., and graduated from the University of Maryland in 1941. In World War II, he was a captain in the Army Air Force and flew 33 missions over Europe as a bombardier.
        He was the author of ''The Full Service Advertising Agency'' and contributed to other books.
        Mr. Bloede was chairman of the American Association of Advertising Agencies in 1973. In retirement, he was a member of the board and the advisory committee of the Professional Golfers Association.
        He is survived by his wife, Merle; a son, Victor Jr.; a daughter, Susan; seven grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      