
        Dr. William Kessen, a developmental psychologist whose research, theoretical contributions and teaching at Yale University helped shape the thinking of a generation of child psychologists, died on Saturday at a hospital in New Haven. He was 74 and lived in Branford, Conn.
        The cause was a stroke, his family said.
        In the 1960's and 70's, Dr. Kessen conducted classic studies on visual perception, activity level and other aspects of the first years of life, and made fundamental contributions to the understanding of how infants perceive and make sense of the world. Later in his career he did research in many other areas of child development, including problem solving, and studied the later 19th-century emergence of professional psychology.
        He was also influential as a theorist. In ''The Language of Psychology'' (John Wiley & Sons, 1959), a book he edited with the psychologist Dr. George Mandler, Dr. Kessen addressed fundamental problems in psychology that are still central 40 years later, his colleagues said.
        He wrote or edited several other books on child psychology and at his death was completing ''The Baby Book: 75 Years of Infant Care.''
        William Kessen was born in Key West, Fla.; received his bachelor's degree from the University of Florida in 1948, his master's from Brown University in 1950 and his doctorate from Yale in 1952. In the same year, he began a postdoctoral fellowship at the Child Study Center at Yale.
        From 1977 to 1980, Dr. Kessen was chairman of the psychology department at Yale, and was named as the Eugene Higgins Professor of Psychology in 1976. He was also a professor of pediatrics, retiring in 1997.
        In the early 1970's, Dr. Kessen led one of the first American delegations to China after the United States re-established diplomatic relations with Beijing.
        He was a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and a trustee of Barnard College and was to receive the Distinguished Contributions to Education in Child Development Award from the Society for Research and Child Development in April.
        Many leading developmental psychologists are former students of Dr. Kessen. ''The question you ask about someone like him is, 'Were your students so inspired that they went on and became eminent themselves?' '' said Dr. Jerome Kagan, a professor of psychology at Harvard University who attended graduate school with Dr. Kessen. ''Bill had a high batting average.''
        He is survived by his wife, Marion Lord Kessen; three daughters, Judith Crawford of Millersville, Md., Deborah Trofatter of Branford, and Anne Lowell of St. Louis; three sons, Peter C., of Branford, and Andrew L. and John M., both of Boston, and six grandchildren.
      