
        Winthrop K. Edey, who found nothing so fascinating as the mechanical clarity of antique clocks and the minutiae of his own offbeat life, died on Monday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, near his home on the Upper West Side. He was 61 and had devoted his life to assembling one of the world's finest private collections of clocks and watches and to the extraordinary diary he had kept since he was 6 years old.
        His family said the cause was Hodgkin's disease.
        If he sometimes seemed eccentric -- and a man who strolled in Central Park wearing plaid Bermuda shorts, short black socks and brown wingtips inevitably would -- Mr. Edey, known as Kelly (a diminutive of his middle name, Kellogg), was simply not bound by life's usual constraints.
        As the grandson of Morris W. Kellogg, an engineer who made millions designing and building oil refineries, not to mention the nation's World War II atomic-bomb plants, Mr. Edey was relieved of the need to earn a living. As a result, after growing up in Upper Brookville on Long Island, graduating from Amherst College and studying at the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University, he spent the rest of his life doing exactly what he felt like doing.
        To Mr. Edey, who began taking clocks apart and putting them back together about the time he started his diary as a boy, what he felt like doing was pursuing his childhood interests with devotion.
        Along the way, Mr. Edey, whose interest was less in the clocks' decorative cases than in the timeless beauty he saw in their intricate inner workings, became an internationally known expert on antique clocks, and collected them with such a discriminating eye that when he helped the Frick Collection assemble an exhibition of French clocks in 1982, nine of the finest specimens were from his own collection.
        A creature of habit, Mr. Edey chose a life of such regularity that friends could set their watches by his schedule. He got up at 5 in the afternoon, and after an evening out with friends (dinner for them, breakfast for him), Mr. Edey would return to his West 83d Street town house and work through the night studying clocks, pursuing a separate and abiding interest in ancient Egypt and writing in his diary.
        Described as Proustian in its sweep and attention to detail (Mr. Edey could devote several pages to the ramifications of a friend's failure to return a phone call) the multivolume diary, some of his friends are convinced, will someday be regarded as an important social document of New York life.
        If so, it will be partly because Mr. Edey traveled in some heady art circles, befriending the likes of Andy Warhol (who included Mr. Edey in his 1963 underground movie, ''The 13 Most Beautiful Boys'') and Robert Mapplethorpe, as well as prominent gallery owners, museum officials and collectors.
        Mr. Edey also developed a passionate interest in photography, assembling a small but impressive collection of photographs by Man Ray and others, and taking pictures of his own, generally New York street scenes and foreign landscapes.
        Typically, Mr. Edey, a fussy sort who favored old-fashioned fountain pens over ballpoints and maintained his town house in such 19th century purity that it still has its original working gas jets, tapestries, stove, and marble-slab kitchen table, was not one to whip out a little Leica when he spotted an appealing scene on his extensive travels. Instead he, or rather his hapless traveling companion of the moment, would lug a huge wooden turn-of-the-century view camera complete with tripod and 11-by-14-inch glass plates. Although he continued to take pictures, which often had a dark, moody quality, after an exhibition in the early 1970's, Mr. Edey did not pursue photography professionally.
        Mr. Edey is survived by a brother, Maitland, of Vineyard Haven, Mass., and two sisters, Beatrice Phear of Cambridge, Mass., and Marion Edey of Silver Spring, Md.
        Mr. Edey, who began buying antique clocks before they became a collecting rage, continually refined and improved his collection of about 60 clocks and watches, 39 of which he has given to the Frick Collection, along with his diaries.
        Pending an appraisal, Edgar Munhall, the Frick curator, would not venture a guess on how many millions the clock collection might be worth, but after taking a glance he suggested that the real treasure might be the diaries, whose publication future is yet to be determined.
      