
        Michael St. Clair, director of the Babcock Galleries in Manhattan for 40 years and an influential dealer in American art, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86 and also had a home on Fire Island, N.Y.
        A dapper, exquisitely mannered man who rarely talked about himself, Mr. St. Clair was one of the deans of American art dealers. His main accomplishment lay in reviving, through exhibitions and publications at his gallery, the reputations of several neglected American painters, including the early 20th-century modernists Alfred Maurer and E. Ambrose Webster and the Impressionist Childe Hassam. But it was the legacy of Marsden Hartley that Mr. St. Clair probably affected the most, partly because he was able to acquire so many of the artist's works,  and partly because Hartley's achievement sustained the most dramatic upward re-evaluation.
        Mr. St. Clair was born in Bradford, Pa., and grew up in the oil fields of Pennsylvania and Oklahoma, where his father worked. Intent on becoming a painter, he studied with Thomas Hart Benton at the Kansas City Art Institute from 1934 to 1939, and then with George Grosz at the Art Students League in New York and with Boardman Robinson and Yasuo Kuniyoshi at the Colorado Springs Art Center. In the early 1940's he was director of the Works Project Administration Art Center School in Oklahoma City and had his only solo show there, in 1942, at the Oklahoma Art Center.
        During World War II, Mr. St. Clair served with the 328th Fighter Squadron in North Africa and Europe, earning a silver star and three bronze stars for bravery during a battle near Salerno, Italy, in September 1943.
        After the war he settled in New York City and pursued painting for more than a decade, supporting himself as a window designer and also as a private art dealer. In 1959 he joined Babcock as director and subsequently purchased the gallery, which was founded in 1852 and is the country's oldest commercial gallery devoted exclusively to American art.
        That same year Mr. St. Clair also took over the Hartley estate from the dealer Paul Rosenberg, who had become frustrated by the lack of interest in the artist's work. Mr. St. Clair drove to Maine and acquired the works held by the artist's executor, returning with a small truck full of Hartleys. The works ranged from the artist's exuberant semi-abstract ''German Officer'' paintings of 1914-15 to the soft elegiac landscapes and stark portraits from the years before he died in Maine, in 1943.
        Between 1959 and 1980, Mr. St. Clair mounted 11 Hartley exhibitions and began carefully placing Mr. Hartley's work in public and private collections. He ultimately sold Hartley paintings to nearly 70 museums, often earmarking certain paintings for specific museums long before the museum showed any interest in the artist. In 1978 the Whitney Museum of American Art staged the first Hartley retrospective in a New York museum in more than 30 years.
        The living American artists Mr. Babcock exhibited in his gallery included Ben Ben, Bessie Boris, Jerome Hill, Byron Burford, Margo Hoff and Stephen Edlich. He remained involved with Babcock, which was purchased by John Driscoll in 1988, until recently and was an adviser on its current exhibition of Hartley prints.
        In 1998 Mr. St. Clair established the Babcock Galleries Endowed Fund for Art History at the Department of Art History at Pennsylvania State University. He is survived by his companion, Paul M. Jones.
      