
        Marion Boyars, an independent publisher whose eclectic and internationally minded list of authors included at least four Nobel Prize winners, died on Monday at her home in London. She was 71.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, her family said.
        In an industry increasingly populated by conglomerates with deep pockets and a penchant for books that appeal to as wide an audience as possible, Mrs. Boyars was rare in her insistence on publishing only what she liked, whether the book was likely to sell or not. ''Most of my publishing is out of enthusiasm,'' she told The New York Times in 1995.
        Over the years, often working on a shoestring and struggling to stay afloat, she published some 500 books by such writers as Eudora Welty, Julio Cortazar, Yevgeny Yevtushenko, Georges Bataille, Tim O'Brien, Pauline Kael and Ingmar Bergman,  works translated from more than 20 languages. Among the Nobel Prize winners on her list were Heinrich Boll, Elias Canetti, Kenzaburo Oe and Eugenio Montale.
        She was born Marion Asmus in New York, and grew up there and in Switzerland. After graduating from Keele University in Staffordshire with a degree in politics, philosophy and economics, she married George Lobbenburg, an American who ran a successful clothing company in Britain. The couple had two daughters.
        Divorced in her early 30's, she answered an advertisement in The Bookseller, a London trade magazine, and ended up buying a 50 percent stake in a firm run by the independent publisher John Calder. The two set up business in London under the name Calder & Boyars, publishing works by such authors as Samuel Beckett, Marguerite Duras, Henry Miller, Eugene Ionesco and William S. Burroughs. They also specialized in the writings of modern composers, publishing works by Cage, Ives and Stravinsky, and social commentators including Ivan Illich and Robert Heilbroner.
        In an international cause celebre, the company was brought to court here and charged with obscenity in 1966 after publishing ''Last Exit to Brooklyn'' by Hubert Selby Jr. It lost the original case in the Old Bailey but won on appeal two years later after a successful argument by a young John Mortimer.
        But Mrs. Boyars, who by then had married her second husband, Arthur Boyars, fell out with her business partner. Taking along the firm's big money-maker, Ken Kesey's ''One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest,'' among other things, she eventually set up Marion Boyars Publishers, with offices in London and on East 39th Street in Manhattan.
        She published about 25 new books a year, becoming a fixture at the annual Frankfurt Book Fair and  mining world literature for anything worthy of publication in English.
        Mrs. Boyars formed close friendships with many of her authors. When Michael Ondaatje -- who by then was published by another company -- won the Booker Prize for ''The English Patient'' in 1992, he publicly thanked her for helping to start his career.
        She is survived by Mr. Boyars and her two daughters, Susan Quateman of Beverly, Mass., and Catheryn Kilgarriss of London, who is now managing her publishing house.
        Correction:  February 11, 1999, Thursday  An obituary last Thursday about Marion Boyars, an independent publisher with offices in London and New York, misspelled the surname of her first husband. He was George Lobbenberg, not Lobbenburg. The obituary also misspelled the surname of one of her daughters. She is Catheryn Kilgarriff, not Kilgarriss.
      