
        Willard R. Espy, who had such a winsome way with words, such an elegant ear for rhyme and such a sure sense of the absurd that he once began a poem with the words ''I do not roister with an oyster,'' died on Saturday at New York Hospital. He was 88 and had elevated wordplay to a career, as the author of more than a dozen chucklingly informative books on words.
        To suggest that Mr. Espy attached uncommon importance to words would hardly do justice to a man who attributed a brief early marriage to a woman named Ann Hathaway to a youthful yearning to become a poet worthy of Shakespeare.
        While it is tempting to wonder what masterpieces he might have produced if his wife had not promptly run off with a former boyfriend, Mr. Espy did not give up his ambition altogether, merely trimmed it a bit and with such flair that his outpouring of light verse has been compared favorably to that of Lewis Carroll, W. S. Gilbert, Ogden Nash and Cole Porter.
        An inveterate punster who collected clerihews, dabbled in double dactyls, limned lipograms, mixed macaronics and exulted in anagrams, homonyms, oxymorons, palindromes and spoonerisms, Mr. Espy simply could not help himself. It wasn't so much that he had a way with words as that words had their way with him, or as he once put it, ''words choose their lovers arbitrarily.''
        Maybe so, but Mr. Espy, a native of Olympia, Wash., who grew up in Oysterville, a little coastal town founded by his grandfather in southwest Washington, was both willingly seduced and well primed.
        His mother's family, he once observed, was a ''scribacious lot,'' and his father, a onetime state senator, spoke in such long, complicated and ultimately syntactically perfect sentences that Mr. Espy was hooked early on the possibilities of language.
        For all that, before he found his true calling his life took a long detour. A 1930 graduate of the University of Redlands in California, he spent a heady year abroad, among other things working as a male model in Paris and enrolling at the Sorbonne, ostensibly to study philosophy but actually, he later conceded, to conduct ''an extensive research project on girls,'' the results of which led eventually to a thesis of sorts:
        I love the girls who don't.
        I love the girls who do;
        But best, the girls who say, 'I don't. . . .
        But maybe just for you.'
        Returning to the United States, he worked as a reporter for a small newspaper in California, then worked for a short-lived magazine in New York and a Cuban wire service before joining The Reader's Digest in 1941.
        He eventually became the magazine's promotion director, a job that entailed interviewing prominent people like Winston Churchill and Albert Einstein for a cover essay in which the subjects were invariably lured to say something nice about the magazine.
        Quitting the magazine in 1957, about the time his second marriage ended in divorce, he worked in advertising and promotion in New York until a fateful day in the late 1960's when he was basking on the beach in East Hampton and began dreaming up anagramic mystery ditties in which the reader was to fill in a series of blanks with different words produced from a single group of letters, for example, a, d, e, i, p, r and s in this one:
        When I ------ to be a father,
        You ------ my willingness to bother.
        Now you ------ ; you never knew
        I'd leave the ------ to you.
        The words are aspired, praised, despair and diapers)
        When he submitted the verse to Punch, the British weekly humor magazine, the editors were so delighted they asked him to compose a similar rhyme for every issue. He did for about two years before his first collection, ''The Game of Words,'' was published in 1971.
        From then on Mr. Espy wrote like a man possessed, turning out nearly a book a year, among them ''An Almanac of Words at Play'' (1975), 'O Thou Improper, Thou Uncommon Noun'' (1978), ''Say It My Way'' (1980) ''Have a Word on Me'' (1981), ''The Garden of Eloquence: A Rhetorical Bestiary'' (1983) and ''Words to Rhyme With'' (1985), an acclaimed rhyming dictionary.
        Along the way he also turned out an autobiography, ''Oysterville: Roads to Grandpa's Village,'' and a guide to the pronunciation of obscure Washington State place names ''Omak Me Yours Tonight.''
        Mr. Espy is survived by his wife, Louise Manheim Espy; a son from his first marriage, Ian Alden of Sarasota, Fla.; four daughters from his second marriage, Mona Schreiber of Seattle, Freddy M. Plimpton of Bridgehampton, N.Y., Joanna P. Espy of Manhattan and Cassin E. Speziala of Cold Spring, N.Y.; two stepchildren, Dr. Jonathan House and Penny House, both of Manhattan; a sister, Dale Little of Oysterville, seven grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      