
        In the 1930's, when polo was a sport of the rich, a Texan named Cecil Smith began a career that made him perhaps the greatest player in the history of a game more than 2,000 years old. On Jan. 21, the one-time polo-pony wrangler died in Boerne, Tex., where he had lived more than 30-years. He would have been 95 years old today.
        He started playing polo in 1924. By 1930, he was a spare member on the United States international team. Then, starting in 1938, he began a string of 26 years, 25 consecutively (1938-62), in which he was a 10-goal player, the sport's highest ranking and one achieved by only 20 American-born players.
        He more or less retired from polo in 1967. Despite warnings from his doctor, he continued to ride and train polo ponies at his 100-acre ranch in Boerne (pronounced Bernie). After hip-replacement surgery, he kept riding because he considered it psychological if not physical therapy. He played his last polo game at 83 and last rode at 92.
        In 1985, he told Polo magazine:
        ''I can't ride very much any more, but I do ride a couple of hours every morning. I haven't been able to ride much since my hip operation several years ago. I think I would still be playing polo if I hadn't had that. If I ever got where I couldn't ride, I don't think I'd live very long.''
        He was born poor on Valentine's Day, 1904, on the Moss Ranch near Llano, Tex., and learned to ride by age 3. As a youth, he won roping prizes in rodeos and seemed destined for the $1-a-day life of a cowpuncher.
        But at 20, he went to work for George Miller, a horse trader from Austin who also trained polo ponies (they are really horses, not ponies). Smith made a mallet from an old broom handle and started practicing polo by hitting rocks and tin cans. As Miller once observed, ''It was like learning to play baseball in a railroad switchyard.''
        Miller and Smith would train up to 100 horses a year for four months each, then ship them to California. Smith started playing a polo there with such celebrities as Will Rogers, Darryl Zanuck, Walt Disney and Reginald Denny. Horses that didn't sell in California were sent to Long Island.
        Tommy Wayman, a 10-goal player in the 1980's, said the polo-pony business could be lucrative.
        ''In those days,'' he said, ''you could get $165 from the Government for a cavalry horse, which wasn't bad, but you could get $300 for a polo pony. So those cowboys would get an old mallet and they'd go out to the ranches, where they knew they could find horses that were broke to the saddle. ... Then they'd swing the mallet on them for a little bit, and the next day they'd be able to sell them as polo ponies. ... The Government would buy a lot of them, but private players would buy them, too.''
        Polo ponies were espeically needed because of the game's intense pace. It is played with four players to a team on a grass field 300 yards long and 160 yards wide. A game lasts six chukkers, or perids, of seven and a half minutes each, and each player needs a new horse every chukker.
        Smith and Hubert Windshield (Rube) Williams were two of the many cowboys who started selling polo ponies and then took up the sport. Will Rogers, the humorist and a high-ranked polo player, told Easteners what expert horsemen those cowboys were. Rogers was there as the cowboys led a West team to victory over the supposedly invincible East in 1933 in Lake Forest, Ill.
        In the third and deciding game, Smith scored six goals as the West won, 12-6. Tommy Hitchcock of the East, polo's most renowned player, was held scoreless. Smith later said, ''I never enjoyed a series any more than I did that one.''
        Rogers enjoyed it, too. In his newspaper column, he wrote:
        ''Well, the hillbillies beat the dudes and took the polo championship of the world right out of the drawing room and into the bunkhouse. And she won't go East in years. ... Poor old society. They got nothing exclusive left. The movie folks outmarried and outdivorced 'em, the common folks too their cocktails, 'near' society look to bridge. Now polo has gone to the buckwheat belt.''
        In 1938, Smith led a United States team that toured England and won five titles, including the King's Coronationa Cup. He often competed at the Meadow Brook Club in Westbury, N.Y., in major tournaments that attracted up to 30,000 spectators, many arriving on Long Island Rail Road special trains from Manhattan. Over the years, his teams won the United States Open seven times, the Pacific Coast Open seven times and the Monty Waterbury Cup four times.
        At 5 feet 11 inches and 195 pounds, Smith seemed to play effortlessly. As H.I. Brock wrote in 1934 in The New York Times Magazine, ''There is certainly no flavor of Wild West rashness.''
        Smith's era marked the American zenith of polo, a game invested by Asiatic nomads and brought to the United States in 1872 by Englishmen riding American horses. Mostly because of the high cost of horses - $12,000 to $40,000 for the best - only 3,000 players are registered with the United States Polo Association. The sport is popular in Argentina and England and has received wide attention because of such celebrity players as the Duke of Edinburgh and his son Prince Charles.
        In 1966, Smith and his wife moved from San Antonio to Boerne. He is survived by his wife of 64 years, the former Mary Miller of Wading River, N.Y.; two sons who became ranked polo players, Charles of Fort Worth, Tex., and Sidney of Boerne; two grandchildren and a sister, Macy Janner of Llano, Tex.
        When the Polo Hall of Fame opened in 1990, six players were elected on the first ballot - Smith, Hitchcock, Harry Payne Whitney, Devereux Milburn, Bob Skene and Stewart Iglehart. Smith's citation read in part:
        ''Cecil Smith was endowed with unquestionable talents both as a horseman and polo player. With determination and fortitude, he developed his abilities to perfection. Over the years, he played on more fields with more players than perhaps anyone else in polo. He has always been and still is the inspirational leader of the game.''
      