
        Gerald Dickler, a New York lawyer who represented artists, writers and broadcasters, including some of those blacklisted in the McCarthy era, died last Saturday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 86 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was pneumonia, his family said.
        At his death, Mr. Dickler was chairman of the Pollock-Krasner Foundation, which he helped to establish in 1985 under the will of Lee Krasner, the Abstract Expressionist painter and widow of Jackson Pollock. Mr. Dickler was the lawyer for Lee Krasner's estate. The foundation gives individual grants to ''talented visual artists in need of funds'' in the United States and abroad. Its most recent report said it had assets of almost $50 million.
        Besides his volunteer work, Mr. Dickler was a successful lawyer with lucrative links to the broadcast industry. He was a founder and corporate secretary of Capital Cities Broadcasting in the mid-1950's. In 1959, he joined what is now the firm of Hall, Dickler, Kent, Friedman & Wood, from which he retired as a senior, founding partner in 1989.
        He was born in Manhattan to immigrants from Russia and Romania and graduated from George Washington High School in 1928. After completing Columbia College in 1931, he got his law degree from Columbia Law School at 20 in 1933 and went to work for the law firm of Sam Rosenman, a member of Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal brain trust, his policy-making advisers. Two years later, he went into practice on his own.
        One day he received a call from Rolf Kaltenborn, son of the news broadcaster and commentator H. V. Kaltenborn, requesting his legal help -- without pay -- to organize the first radio workers' union, a forerunner of Aftra, the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists.
        Mr. Dickler's work for the union shaped his career. H. V. Kaltenborn, impressed by the work of the 23-year-old lawyer, recommended him to others in the business, and Mr. Dickler went to work with the writer and broadcaster Lowell Thomas and Mike Todd, the movie director, in promoting Cinerama, the wide-screen movie format.
        After Cinerama was sold in the mid-1950's, Mr. Dickler and others joined to buy a small radio station in Albany and a television outlet in Durham, N.C. They formed the cornerstones of Capital Cities Communications, which grew into a major media force with stakes in radio, television and publishing.
        In 1986, the company took over ABC and became Capital Cities/ABC Inc., of which Mr. Dickler was a board member emeritus; it, in turn, was swallowed up in 1996 by the Walt Disney Company.
        Mr. Dickler was the author of ''Man on Trial: History-Making Trials from Socrates to Oppenheimer'' (Doubleday, 1962). It summed up 13 trials and excerpted court records from cases that he selected for having reflected their times and leaving an impact on Western history.
        Mr. Dickler represented John Henry Faulk, whose career in radio and television was cut short when CBS fired him 1955. The dismissal followed allegations of Communist sympathies on Mr. Faulk's part. Mr. Dickler, his former business manager, worked for him without pay in the ensuing litigation.
        He also had his brush with the bitter and labyrinthine feud over the valuable estate of Mark Rothko that went on for years among the painter's heirs, executors and other parties. Rothko committed suicide, and Mr. Dicker represented the guardian and aunt of Rothko's young son, Christopher, in the court battles.
        Mr. Dickler is survived by his wife of 65 years, Ruth Crohn Dickler; three daughters, Abby Pratt of West Stockbridge, Mass., Jane Lebow of Manhattan and Susan Dickler of Lexington, Mass.; a brother, Irving, of Sunrise, Fla., and four grandchildren.
      