
        Norman Bluhm, a prominent member of what has often been called the ''second generation'' of Abstract Expressionist painters, died on Wednesday at his home in East Wallingford, Vt. He was 78.
        The cause was heart failure, said Meyer Raphael Rubenstein, a friend.
        Mr. Bluhm's work from the 1950's was a broad-stroked gestural painting that owed a debt to Abstract Expressionist pioneers like Willem de Kooning and Franz Kline, both of whom he knew. Later he developed a distinctive style that combined abstraction with figurative elements, painterly looseness with a delicate, near-calligraphic line.
        The large-scale works he exhibited beginning in the 1970's were often symmetrical compositions that packed swelling forms -- including Rubensian nudes in flesh-pink, yellow and lavender -- into vividly colored decorative borders. The results, which suggested an ebullient, sometimes violence-tinged eroticism, drew on a wide range of art historical references, from Asian manuscript paintings to stained glass windows to Surrealism. Mr. Bluhm, who had an interest in religious imagery, Western and non-Western, named many of these paintings after goddesses.
        Mr. Bluhm was born on March 28, 1921, in Chicago. As a child he spent six years in Italy with his mother's family but returned to Chicago, and at 16, right out of high school, he was a student of the Bauhaus architect Mies van der Rohe at the Armour Institute of Technology (later Illinois Institute of Technology).
        In 1941 he joined the Army Air Force, became a B-26 pilot and flew dozens of missions over Europe and North Africa. He later said that the war, in which his younger brother was killed and he himself was wounded, had lasting psychological repercussions, giving Abstract Expressionism's life-and-death ethos a personal edge for him. It also affected the course of his career in practical terms.
        Like many young American artists after the war, he returned to Europe on the G. I. Bill, living first in Florence, then settling in Paris, where he studied at the Ecole des Beaux-Arts. Fluent in French, he mixed easily with both Parisian artists and expatriot contemporaries like Joan Mitchell and Sam Francis. He encountered Giacometti and Antoine Artaud, made a brief appearance in Jean Cocteau's film ''Orphee'' and eked out a precarious living on the sale of his paintings.
        He moved to New York in 1956, where he became an integral part of the city's multilayered, ever-shifting art world. Abstract Expressionism was still dominant. But many younger painters championed by the poet and curator Frank O'Hara, were mixing abstraction with figures, still life and landscape.
        Mr. Bluhm and O'Hara became friends and collaborated on a series of 26 ''poem-paintings.'' The artist also designed covers for avant-garde literary journals and for books of poetry, including collections by Paul Auster and Bill Berkson. A collaboration with the poet John Yau was published in 1987.
        With the advent of Pop Art in the 1960's, gestural abstraction lost its cachet, but Mr. Bluhm continued to work with increasing inventiveness and on an ever-larger scale. In Manhattan he showed at Leo Castelli Gallery, Martha Jackson Gallery and Washburn, and in Paris for many years at Galerie Stadler. His last New York exhibition was at Ace Gallery in SoHo in 1994.
        He had one-person shows at the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington in 1969 and 1977, and at the Everson Museum in Syracuse in 1973. An exhibition of drawings traveled the country in 1987. His work is in many public collections, including those of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Museum of Modern Art and the Whitney Museum of American Art. A 40-year retrospective of his paintings is to open on March 7 at the Butler Institute of American Art in Youngstown, Ohio.
        Although Mr. Bluhm moved to Vermont in 1986, he visited Manhattan regularly and was a familiar sight in galleries and on the street. An energetic man with an expansive, street-wise manner, he had a wide knowledge of and deep enthusiasm for art and its history, which many critics over the years found reflected in his work.
        Mr. Bluhm is survived by his wife, Cary; a daughter, Nina, of New York, and a son, David, who lives in Paklay, Laos.
      