
        Herman (Pat) Herst Jr., who was so enthralled by a stamp he saw in a Manhattan store window when he was 7 that he grew up to be the stamp world's most revered dealer, auctioneer and collector and by far its most garrulous booster and most prolific authority, died on Jan. 31 at his home in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 89 and had carried his passion to such an extreme that he started his own postal service.
        To suggest that Mr. Herst was a ubiquitous figure in philately would hardly do justice to a man who once belonged to 81 stamp clubs, rarely missed a major exhibition, made scores of stamp-scouting trips abroad, wrote 18 books and thousands of columns about stamp news.
        He gave hundreds of speeches, and spent so much time on his voluminous personal correspondence that it is a wonder he had any left over for his myriad other interests, including the American Civil Liberties Union, Americans United for Separation of Church and State, Citizens for Religious Liberty and Baker Street Irregulars.
        Along the way, Mr. Herst's contributions to philately were so widely recognized that he won every honor of consequence in the United States, including the American Philatelic Society's Luff award, and several in Britain, where he was so esteemed that he became the only American ever elected to the board of the august Philatelic Traders Society.
        For all his later achievements in philately, it was some years before Mr. Herst's childhood enthusiasm became his life's focus.
        The son of a New York lawyer, also named Herman Herst Jr., who died when he was 4, Mr. Herst adopted the junior. But once his boyhood friends found that he was born on St. Patrick's Day, he was never called anything except Pat.
        To make ends meet, his Oregon-born mother, Lillian Myers Herst, played first violin in John Philip Sousa's all-female orchestra, leaving her rambunctious son so unsupervised that when he was 12 she packed him off to her sister's home in Portland, Ore.
        After studying international law at Reed College and receiving a master's degree from the University of Oregon, he returned to New York in 1932 and was soon working as a $12-a-week runner for a Wall Street bond house.
        A chance delivery to a millionaire stamp dealer on Nassau Street, then the center of American philately, reawakened Mr. Herst's interest in stamps and laid the groundwork both for his career and his later outpouring of books, beginning in 1960 with ''Nassau Street.''
        After organizing his fellow bond house employees into a syndicate that made a minor killing when Mr. Herst tracked down a supply of a much sought-after series of silver jubilee commemoratives issued by the Republic of Nauru, a small island-nation in the central Pacific, he used his profits to set up shop at 116 Nassau Street in 1935.
        Mr. Herst began holding the auctions that became his stock in trade and turning out a newsletter, Herst's Outbursts, which established his reputation for solid expertise and entertaining anecdotes.
        He was soon contributing columns to virtually every stamp publication in the country, a practice he continued until shortly before his death.
        In response to a vast postwar proliferation of stamps that made it impossible to collect them all, he became a champion of the topical collecting movement, in which collectors specialize in stamps that depict, for example, dogs or nursing mothers, or in one of Mr. Herst's specialties, covers posted from high-altitude places listing the elevation.
        A two-year sojourn in England in the late 1930's made him a familiar figure to British stamp collectors, so much so that when Mr. Herst, who had returned to the United States with an English wife in 1938, made his first postwar visit to London, in 1948, he received a standing ovation when he walked into the Stampex show.
        Mr. Herst was just as well known in New York, where his office became such a popular gathering spot for idlers that to get some work done he closed it in 1945 and moved his operations to Shrub Oak, N.Y., 40 miles north of Manhattan in north-central Westchester County.
        It was a reflection of Mr. Herst's impact on the little community of 674 people that when he moved into a house across from the post office, the 100,000 pieces of mail generated by his business each year led it to be upgraded to second-class from third-class status.
        Even then there were no deliveries from Friday to Monday, a matter of some inconvenience for a town that served as a weekend getaway for New Yorkers.
        So in 1953, having discovered an obscure 1862 law that allowed such supplemental services, Mr. Herst opened a private mail service, using first his children and later his German shepard, Alfie, to deliver the mail for 2 cents a letter.
        In time, his privately issued stamps, including one depicting Alfie, became collectors items even as his initiative led scores of other philatelists to set up similar private post offices across the country.
        Mr. Herst continued to hold regular auctions in New York until 1973, when he and his second wife moved to Florida, where he quickly became the state's leading philatelist and donated his extensive library to Florida Atlantic University.
        Besides his wife, Ida, Mr. Herst is survived by two children, Kenneth of Springfield, Va., and Patricia Held of Centerville, Va.; two stepchildren, Gary K. Busch of London and Gail C. Busch of Manhattan; six grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
        Even in his later years, however, Mr. Herst never forgot the stamp that caught his eye when he was 7 and awakened his interest in philately. How could he? The tricolor Barbados design showing a ship became the pattern for a throw rug he kept in his house.
        Correction:  February 13, 1999, Saturday  An obituary on Sunday about Herman Herst Jr., a prominent stamp dealer and collector, omitted a survivor. She is his sister, Edith Herst Silverstein of Deerfield Beach, Fla.
      