
        Paul Mellon, the patrician collector who tenaciously turned philanthropy into his personal art form, above all through his stewardship of the National Gallery in Washington, died on Monday at his home in Upperville, Va. He was 91.
        A son of enormous wealth, Mr. Mellon turned from his family's world of banking and business to become an endlessly inventive benefactor of the nation's cultural life. The Mellons' total contributions to museums and other causes from parks to poetry has been estimated at nearly a billion dollars. The money has gone to save seashores and encourage scholars. It established the Yale Center for British Art and America's top poetry award, the Bollingen Prize.
        But to many, the greatest monument to the family's fortune, and to Paul Mellon's personal dedication, is the National Gallery of Art in Washington, originally conceived as a gift to the people by his father, Andrew W. Mellon (1855-1937), the financier and longtime Secretary of the Treasury. The elder Mellon did not live to see his wish fulfilled. But Paul Mellon, who could never share his father's love for commerce, more than inherited a dedication to giving something back to society. For the son it became a way of life.
        ''Giving away large sums of money nowadays is a soul-searching problem,'' he once said. ''You can cause as much damage with it as you may do good.''
        At a time when many patrons of the arts insist that their names be chiseled on a museum's facade, Paul Mellon was remembered for avoiding self-promotion and refraining from narcissistic exercises of power.
        ''Some of it, I suppose, is just a natural shyness on my part,'' Mr. Mellon once said. But there were other reasons. In ''Reflections in a Silver Spoon,'' his 1992 autobiography, written with John Baskett, he said, ''If my father had created 'the Mellon Gallery of Art' in Washington, would other donors have been willing to support it?''
        Characteristically he insisted that the Yale Center not bear his name either, ''in the hope that other future donors of works of art and of funds would be more forthcoming.''
        Paul Mellon was born in Pittsburgh on June 11, 1907, the only son of Andrew W. Mellon and his first wife, the English-born Nora McMullen. The couple had a daughter, Ailsa, six years earlier. Andrew Mellon, a partner in the private bank founded by his father, Judge Thomas W. Mellon, in Pittsburgh in 1870, became one of the most successful American financiers of all time.
        Philanthropy In His Genes
        As Paul once put it, Andrew ''had an astonishing flair for recognizing nascent industrial potentialities.'' Among the Mellon Bank's earliest loans was one to Andrew's friend Henry Clay Frick to develop coke ovens. The bankers approved the loan, noting privately that Frick may have been ''a little too enthusiastic about pictures, but not enough to hurt.'' Those pictures became the Frick Collection in Manhattan.
        In his 60's, after having established and consolidated an international commercial empire, Andrew Mellon entered public life, serving as Treasury Secretary from 1921 to 1932, under three Presidents, and as the United States Ambassador to Britain in 1932 and '33.
        He might have had a predestined crown prince in his only son, but from the very first Paul found neither happiness at home nor any hope of fulfillment in his father's offices. By the time he was 2, his parents' marriage was effectively at an end. As he put it with characteristic concision, ''Within 18 months of my parents' marriage in 1900, my mother fell in love with an Englishman who would have described himself as a gentleman but who was, in fact, nothing more than a devious adventurer.'' The couple divorced in 1912.
        Paul Mellon recalled that ''it was not much fun to be a divorced person or to be the offspring of divorced parents in Pittsburgh in 1912.'' He spent portions of his childhood in England, where he began to develop a lifelong love of British culture.
        When he did see his father, relations between them were not easy. ''I do not know,'' Paul wrote, ''and I doubt if anyone will ever know, why Father was so seemingly devoid of feeling and so tightly contained in his lifeless, hard shell.''
        Throughout his school days at Choate, in Connecticut, and later during his years at Yale and at Clare College, Cambridge, Paul Mellon developed in ways that defined and strengthened his character, even if they did not always delight his father.
        A Love of Horses And the Countryside
        Whether in the United States or in England, he loved the countryside. It was there that he could indulge his passion for horses, a passion that was requited.
        When his horse Mill Reef won the English Derby in 1971, Mr. Mellon was naturally euphoric. But what crowned the whole experience, he said, was that three generations of Mill Reef's ancestors had come from Mr. Mellon's Rokeby Stables in Virginia, long his adopted home state.
        He loved to see his horses win, he said, but ''the sights and sounds of the countryside, as well as the color and action and excitement of the racecourse, are what turn me on: the mare suckling her foal, the renegade foal bothering all the others, the yearling who is boss of the field.'' To watch them, to ride them and to breed them gave him satisfaction. He was a champion trail rider until well into his 70's.
        At Cambridge he also came to love English literature as it was imparted at that time by gifted teachers. He had heard many other lectures on the subject at Yale, including one by Gene Tunney, the former heavyweight champion, who had spoken without notes on Shakespeare's ''Troilus and Cressida.'' ''It wasn't a bad lecture at all,'' Mr. Mellon remembered.
        His feelings for England went deep. He had been baptized in St. George's Chapel at Windsor Castle. He enjoyed rowing, and he kept his oars from Cambridge above the bookshelves in his personal library on his Virginia estate.
        As a landowner and an independent scholar in England before World War II he might have been very happy. But when he left Cambridge in 1931 and went back to Pittsburgh, he agreed, almost as a courtesy to his father, to enter the Mellon Bank as a trainee clerk, moving from one department to another. His father's employees never dared to evaluate the boss's son, and in due time he was invited to join one corporate board after another. Besides the Mellon Bank, the family had large holdings in Gulf Oil and Alcoa, among other corporations.
        A Collection Begun With a Favorite
        Paul Mellon began amassing his own collection of British art in 1934 when he bought a painting of a horse by the 18th-century artist George Stubbs, who would remain a Mellon favorite. The following year Mr. Mellon was married in New York to Mary Elizabeth Conover Brown; the couple had a son, Timothy, and a daughter, Catherine.
        Shortly after their marriage, the Mellons, seeking to learn the source of Mary's asthma, went to Switzlerland to seek out C. G. Jung, the founder of analytical psychology. He became a friend and guided them in some of their early philanthropy. But before that Mr. Mellon had to tell his father he could never settle down in the family business.
        The crucial meeting took place on Nov. 29, 1936, when Andrew Mellon was already in failing health. (He was to die nine months later.) Paul had taken great trouble to prepare his case. He recalled telling his father that he could not be ''an inadequate replica of yourself, or a counterfeit.'' Nor, he said, could he retreat into silence and mental compromise. He was not a man of business, and never would be.
        To his surprise, his father told him that it was really not necessary for Paul to take any active part in the business. He should consider himself as an owner who ''kept vaguely in touch through the head people.'' In the end, Andrew said, good management was the only thing that mattered.
        But if they could never share a love for business, father and son were ultimately joined in another sphere. Just two months before Andrew died in 1937, construction began on the National Gallery of Art, which had been approved by Congress earlier that year. Andrew Mellon had provided funds for the initial gallery, now known as the West Building, which was designed by John Russell Pope. He also gave a collection of 115 paintings, 31 of which had been sold by the cash-poor Soviet Government from the Hermitage in Leningrad.
        On March 17, 1941, Paul Mellon officially presented the National Gallery to President Franklin D. Roosevelt along with the Andrew Mellon Collection, which included Raphael's ''Alba Madonna,'' van Eyck's ''Annunciation,'' Botticelli's ''Adoration of the Magi'' and a Gilbert Stuart portrait of George Washington. In his speech Mr. Mellon said that he hoped that the gallery ''would become a joint enterprise on the part of the Government, on the one hand, and of magnanimous citizens, on the other.'' Magnanimous citizens did come forward and have continued to do so.
        Serving Two Terms As Gallery President
        Mr. Mellon was the National Gallery's president and a trustee from 1938 to 1939, rejoining the board in 1945. He served again as president from 1963 to 1979 and as board chairman from 1979 to 1985, when he became an honorary trustee.
        Through the years he made clear that he did not wish anyone on the staff to bow and scrape at his arrival. To his final days, he would call the gallery's director, Earl A. Powell 3d, and ask, ''Would it be all right if I came to lunch tomorrow?''
        Still, when he retired from the board in 1985, he told the trustees that he would haunt the museum for the rest of his life. ''And who knows?'' he said. ''Perhaps from beyond.''
        The same year that the nation accepted the gallery from Mr. Mellon, it accepted another offer from him. He enlisted in the Army and asked to join the cavalry. After nine months he was made a second lieutenant and spent two years at Fort Riley, Kan., as an instructor in horsemanship. The Army later sent him to England, and by the end of World War II he had become a major in the Office of Strategic Services.
        Mary Conover Mellon died in 1946. Two years later Mr. Mellon married Rachel Lambert Lloyd, universally known as Bunny, an heir to the Listerine fortune. A spectrum of new interests -- domestic, decorative and horticultural -- came into Mr. Mellon's life. So did his wife's particular fondness for French painting of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. In addition to his wife, Mr. Mellon is survived by his son, Timothy, of Lyme, Conn.; his daughter, Catherine M. Conover of Washington, and three grandchildren.
        A Second Building On the Mall
        At the National Gallery the great business of the postwar years was the completion in 1978 of the East Building. With its huge aerial inner space and its dexterous use of a difficult trapezoid-shaped ground plan, the East Building was from the outset a crowd pleaser. It also proved itself well able to display 20th-century art of many kinds and to attract substantial gifts in that field. But the Mellons consistently donated French and American masterworks. Their gifts of 20th-century art included works by Matisse, Magritte and Giacometti as well as earlier ones by David and Gericault.
        Aside from the challenge of designing a building that would complement the West and yet not be at all like it, the East Building project initially presented some problems. Andrew Mellon had stipulated in his original gift that Congress should reserve an additional area on the Mall for the gallery's eventual expansion. After 30 years this had become the most desirable unused site in Washington, and there were fears that Congress might refuse to hand it over.
        But John Walker, then the gallery's director, was able to tell the Committee on Public Buildings that the money for construction would be provided privately: Paul Mellon and his sister, Ailsa Mellon Bruce (who died in 1969), had agreed to underwrite the costs, which were estimated at around $20 million. In his memoirs, Mr. Mellon said that by the time the East Building opened, ''the final figure had risen to slightly over $94 million.'' The building committee for the project had held more than 60 meetings, and Paul Mellon was there for every one of them. It was Mr. Mellon who commissioned I. M. Pei to be architect of the East Building after being charmed by his designs for the Everson Museum of Art in Syracuse and the Center for Atmospheric Research in Boulder, Colo.
        Mr. Mellon gave 913 works to the National Gallery over the years, including Cezanne's ''Boy in a Red Waistcoat,'' two paintings by Mark Rothko, Alexander Calder animal sculptures, Winslow Homer's ''Dad's Coming,'' Picassos, Gauguins, Bonnards, Vuillards, a Manet, the original wax version of Degas's ''Little 14-Year-Old Dancer'' and postcards that had been written by van Gogh and Matisse. The gallery is organizing a memorial exhibition to highlight some of his gifts.
        The pictures he donated were not bought expressly for museums, but were works he valued intimately. Most had been hung in his homes, often on nails he drove himself. Like his love of literature and horses, Paul Mellon's love of art was authentic.
        Among the gifts that he and his wife made to the National Gallery on its 50th anniversary in 1991 were two paintings in his father's collection that he would never forget. One was the portrait of a very young Miss Willoughby by George Romney that he had found quite irresistible when he was 5 and had cherished ever since. ''In Pittsburgh, that painting was like an oasis in a desert of smog,'' he said. Another was the portrait of the Marchesa Balbi by van Dyck, which had been the first thing he saw when he walked in through the front door of his father's apartment in Washington.
        But if he lavished attention on the National Gallery, many other museums were dear to him, too, including the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts in Richmond, where in 1963 he first revealed the extent of his own growing holdings in British art.
        Through his friendship with an English scholar, Basil Taylor, Mr. Mellon became fascinated by aspects of English art that ''seemed to me long neglected or even abandoned, not only in this country but in its homeland,'' he said. This was not the English art of the formal portrait and the ''fancy picture.''
        ''Let's take it seriously,'' he said when he opened the Richmond exhibition of his collection. ''Let's re-evaluate it, let's look at it. Let's enjoy it.''
        He once maintained that ''collecting is the sort of thing that creeps up on you.'' That was certainly true of his panoramic enthusiasm for English art in all its forms. Before long those holdings seemed to call out for a home of their own. From this came his decision to create the Yale Center for British Art, a museum and research institution that is the largest collection of British works outside Britain. It opened in April 1977 in a memorable building by Louis Kahn.
        Mr. Mellon remembered his encounter with Kahn in California. ''He was eccentric,'' Mr. Mellon once said. ''I had gone to see him in La Jolla, where he was working on the Salk Institute, to talk about his designing the Yale Center. He came to breakfast at the hotel and made pencil drawings all over the tablecloth. I always regret not having asked to keep it: one work of art I was never able to collect.''
        A Deep Concern For the Environment
        In addition to his love for art, Mr. Mellon was a single-handed and single-minded environmentalist. In 1956, foundations that had been started with his sister published a report, ''Our Vanishing Shoreline.'' As a result of this alarm, and with considerable amounts of Mellon funds, parts of the Cape Hatteras National Seashore, the Great Beach of Cape Cod and Cumberland Island off the coast of Georgia have been preserved. He bought Virginia the 2,600-acre Sky Meadows State Park and Washington the outdoor chess tables in Lafayette Square. He used his resources to help insure that riding and hiking trails would remain available to everyone.
        Through his family foundations Mr. Mellon was also instrumental in supporting libraries as well as organizations in the arts, education and public health. He bought the papers of Samuel Johnson's biographer, James Boswell, when they turned up in a castle in Ireland, and gave them to Yale. When he was offered 835 volumes from the private library of the philosopher John Locke -- catalogued, annotated and shelf-numbered in Locke's own hand -- he bought them forthwith and before long gave them to the Bodleian Library at Oxford.
        He gave $500,000 for restoring Monticello and $1 million for saving monuments in Britain. The Bollingen Foundation, which he established, not only created the nation's top poetry prize but also published an idiosyncratic array of elegantly designed books in a series that has no parallel in this country. The series included the complete works of Jung and Coleridge; a four-volume edition of Pushkin's ''Eugene Onegin,'' translated into English and annotated by Vladimir Nabokov; the ''I Ching''; Joseph Campbell's ''Hero With a Thousand Faces,'' and scores of other studies in esthetics, cultural and art history, mythology and religion.
        Some Requests Were Turned Down
        Mr. Mellon did not give money to every cause that came by. In ''Reflections in a Silver Spoon,'' he recalled his encounter with Vanessa Redgrave, a distant relative, in the 1980's. ''She arrived dressed in jeans and some kind of Daniel Boone leather jacket.'' Over tea, Ms. Redgrave explained ''that she was raising funds for the revolution and that she wanted some money from me to help in her fight for the proletariat.''
        He declined to enlist in her battle. ''I tried to explain to her,'' he wrote, ''that for my part, I was really not in favor of a revolution.''
        Nor did Mr. Mellon's generosity deprive him of a supremely comfortable life. Besides buying art and raising horses, the Mellons maintained homes simultaneously in Washington, Manhattan, Paris, Antigua, Cape Cod and other places, as well as their 4,000-acre estate in Virginia. The Mellon jet was decorated with work by George Braque, Paul Klee and Ben Nicholson.
        In June 1967 Mr. Mellon was the commencement speaker at the Carnegie Institute of Technology in Pittsburgh, which was about to merge with the Mellon Institute as Carnegie-Mellon University. He advised the graduates to experience great works of literature and art for themselves, saying, ''There is no intellectual or emotional substitute for the authentic, the original, the unique masterpiece.''
        Then he went further: ''Just as there is no substitute for original works of art, there is no substitute for the world of direct sensual experience.'' Among them he listed the sound of birds, the smell of flowers, the taste of ''the evening's first cold and dry martini'' and ''perhaps the most important, the thrill and mystery of touching, of love between a man and a woman.''
        Such poetic thoughts were not rare for Mr. Mellon, who once said that ''what this country needs is a good 5-cent reverie.''
        He even wrote light verse, usually for family consumption. But when one of his racehorses won a prize, Mr. Mellon read the awards dinner guests a poem expressing the horse's appreciation.
        As I browse through my field in Virginia
        And muse, at the close of the day
        Once again they will give me a medal
        Made of silver, although it ain't hay . . .
        Another man with Mr. Mellon's wealth might have aimed for high office. But ''for many reasons the idea of power has never appealed to me,'' he once said. ''What has appealed to me is privacy. To me, privacy is the most valuable asset that money can buy.''
      