
        Bill Crofut, a singer, composer and master banjo player whose style often defied categorization, died on Jan. 25 at his home in Sandisfield, Mass. He was 64.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Susan.
        Though he surfaced during the folk-music boom in the late 1950's, Mr. Crofut broke free of the mold through his penchant for experimentation, setting music to the poetry of Robert Penn Warren or transcribing for banjo the compositions of Vivaldi and Bartok.
        Mr. Crofut, who was born in Cleveland, studied the French horn as a music and literature major at Allegheny College in the early 1950's. ''I was doing O.K. until I met Pete Seeger,'' he said in a 1977 interview in The New York Times. Aware of Mr. Seeger's troubles with the House Committee on Un-American Activities, Mr. Crofut was among the first to raise money for his defense, even though he admitted that he did not necessarily agree with him. Mr. Crofut's $300 contribution earned him an invitation to Mr. Seeger's home in Beacon, N.Y., and soon he was working as Mr. Seeger's ''gofer'' in exchange for a few minutes of banjo lessons at the end of each day.
        His other major musical influences, he said, were the jazz clarinetist Tony Scott, whom he had met while teaching music in Japan, and the pianist Peter Lang, whom he had heard performing Mozart sonatas in Salzburg.
        Mr. Crofut recorded more than 20 albums, first as half of a folk duo with the singer and guitarist Stephen Addiss, with whom he toured as part of the State Department's cultural exchange program, and later with the keyboard player Chris Brubeck and the classical guitarist Joel Brown.
        His love of classical and traditional-music repertory led to collaborations with the baritone Benjamin Luxon and the harpsichordist Kenneth Cooper in the 1970's, and with the soprano Dawn Upshaw in recent years. He also spent summers teaching a vocal master class at the Tanglewood Music Center. Mr. Crofut recently finished recording ''Simple Gifts for Children,'' a compilation of children's songs with Frederica von Stade and Ms. Upshaw.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by three daughters, Erika, of East Canaan, Conn.; Anni, of Cambridge, Mass., and Catherine, of Lee, Mass., and three grandchildren.
      