
        Wilmer (Vinegar Bend) Mizell, a fastballing left-hander with a well-publicized country-boy image who pitched for nine seasons in the National League, then served as a Congressman from North Carolina and an official in the Ford and Reagan Administrations, collapsed and died Sunday while visiting family members in Kerrville, Tex. He was 68.
        Mizell, who lived in Midway, N.C., had sustained a heart attack last October, but the cause of death was not immediately determined.
        Although he went on to serve three terms in Congress, Mizell had long been viewed as a rustic innocent.
        By the time he made his debut with the St. Louis Cardinals in 1952, he had established himself in the tradition of Southern ballplayers known for small-town roots: pitchers Clyde (Pea Ridge) Day of Pea Ridge, Ark., and Bill Voiselle, who wore No. 96 for his hometown of Ninety-Six, S.C.
        Mizell was born and reared in Leakesville, Miss., but gained his sobriquet playing baseball in nearby Vinegar Bend, Ala., population 50.
        His rural origins became the stuff of promotional fare.
        When he pitched for the Winston-Salem, N.C., minor league team, he rode around the field one night on a mule and then sang country music over the public-address system. ''I walked behind more mules than I walked batters -- and that's saying a lot,'' he said of his farm-boy days.
        While he was pitching for Houston of the Texas League in 1951, management staged a Vinegar Bend Night, flying in 32 people supposedly representing the town's entire adult population. Mizell later noted that Vinegar Bend was so small, some guests ''must've come from the suburbs.''
        A 6-foot-3-inch, 205-pounder, Mizell was a power pitcher, striking out 319 batters in 414 innings during his first two major league seasons. But he was hampered by wildness and an inability to hold runners on base.
        He made the National League All-Star team in 1959 when he was 13-10 with the Cardinals, then helped the Pirates win a World Series championship in 1960, going 13-5 after being traded by St. Louis in May. Mizell was sent to the expansion Mets in 1962, and after going 0-2 with them, retired with a career record of 90-88 and an earned run average of 3.85.
        Dick Groat, the Pirate shortstop, would recall how ''as a ballplayer he wasn't political -- players didn't really talk politics.'' Billy Johnson, a Cardinal third baseman, once remarked how Mizell ''was a tall, good ol' country boy, so quiet that you would never know he would go on to become a politician.''
        But Mizell did just that. After working as an executive with Pepsi-Cola, he served on the Board of County Commissioners of Davidson County, N.C., in the mid-1960's, then was elected to Congress as a Republican in 1968 from a district centered in Winston-Salem. Serving three terms, he was a staunch defender of his home state's tobacco industry.
        Mizell flashed his old form as a pitcher in the annual Congressional baseball game. He once struck out seven Democrats in a row, prompting the opposing manager to announce, ''If this guy throws one more pitch, we walk off the field.''
        After he lost a bid for a fourth term, Mizell was named by President Gerald R. Ford as Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development in March 1975. He served 14 months, then made an unsuccessful attempt to win back his House seat. President Ronald Reagan appointed Mizell in 1982 as Assistant Secretary of Agriculture for Governmental and Public Affairs.
        He is survived by his second wife, Ruth; two sons, David of High Point, N.C., and Curtis of Vinegar Bend; a brother, Danny of Midway, and four grandchildren. His first wife, Nancy, died earlier.
        Political foes were not the only ones to discover Mizell was no rube.
        Frank Lane, the Cardinals' general manager, once told of the time he called Mizell in to negotiate his 1956 contract.
        ''I was looking for a typical Ozark Ike type,'' Lane recalled. ''Vinegar told me how he had turned most of his earnings over to his family to put them on their feet, how he had bought his brother a truck, and now that he was married and expecting his first child, he thought it was time to get something for himself. I never got a chance to open up my mouth again for the next half-hour. He signed for more than I had intended to give.''
      