
        Jacob Reingold, a leader in caring for the aged who laid groundwork for the nationwide observance of Grandparents Day, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 83 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        At his death, Mr. Reingold was vice chairman of the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale, in the Bronx. He was its executive vice president from 1958 to 1995. The home now serves more than 2,000 elderly people in residential and outpatient programs. Its main campus is in Riverdale on the Hudson River, with a view of the Palisades.
        As Senator David H. Pryor of Arkansas put it in his opening statement at the 1995 White House Conference on Aging: ''Jacob Reingold attended the 1961 White House Conference on Aging, the first of its kind. Because he was so moved by the conference's focus on creating a new image of aging, he began his quest for a national observance of the role grandparents play in our society. The result of his work, nearly 35 years later, is national Grandparents Day, which we celebrate each September.''
        Senator Edward M. Kennedy said yesterday that Mr. Reingold ''was a giant in the field.''
        Mr. Reingold was one of the pioneers in creating what are called staged options of living for older adults. This approach may allow them to continue living at home or to take advantage of different levels of institutional care as their needs change.
        Former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger said yesterday that ''Jacob Reingold ran an institution which did enormous good for older people at a precarious stage of their lives.''
        He said his mother's last years ''were made better because of his help to her as an outpatient.'' Dr. Kissinger's mother, Paula Stern Kissinger, died on Nov. 15, 1998.
        While Mr. Reingold was executive vice president, the Hebrew Home greatly increased the number of elderly men and women it served. He felt that the Hebrew Home should have a pleasing and stimulating physical environment, and it acquired large collections of art and of Judaica, both of which are on display in its Riverdale buildings. He also expanded the Hebrew Home's physical fitness activities, added a workshop with special equipment for the elderly, and drew up and put into effect what has been called the first sexual policy and procedure in a long-term-care establishment in the United States.
        The policy's preface says in part, ''The resident's rights respect the importance of emotional and physical intimacy.'' One provision states,  ''Residents have the right to seek out and engage in sexual expression, including words, gestures, movements or activities including reaching, pursuing, touching, which appear motivated by the desire for sexual gratification.'' Another says, ''Expressions of intimacy should not infringe upon the rights and reasonable sensibilities of others in the Home community.''
        Mr. Reingold was born in Lodz, which was in Russia and is now in Poland. He came to the United States in 1936 and settled in Cincinnati. He  received a bachelor's degree from the University of Cincinnati in 1942 and a master's degree from Case Western Reserve University, also in Cleveland, in 1943. He did further graduate work at the Center for Human Relations and Community Studies of the New York University School of Education.
        Early in his career, he headed a reception center in the Bronx for orphans from camps for displaced people in Germany who came to the United States after World War II.  And from 1952 to 1958 he was executive director of Blythedale Orthopedic Hospital in Valhalla, N.Y.
        He is survived by his wife of 48 years, the former Estelle Gold; four sons, David, of Delray Beach, Fla., Joel, of St. Louis, Daniel, of Scarsdale, N.Y., who succeeded his father as the Hebrew Home's executive vice president, and Michael, of Manhattan; eight grandchildren; a brother, Chaim, of Chicago, and a sister, Devorah Chajut, who lives near Tel Aviv.
      