
        Dr. Eliot Corday, a Los Angeles cardiologist who played a major role in conveying American knowledge about cardiology to other countries, particularly underdeveloped ones, died on Monday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 85 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif.
        At his death, Dr. Corday, a Canadian who became a United States citizen in 1951, was a member of the board of Cedars-Sinai, where he was a senior attending physician from 1961 until recently. He was also a longtime clinical professor of medicine at the University of California of Los Angeles School of Medicine.
        Another cardiologist, Dr. Samuel M. Fox 3d, a past president of the American College of Cardiology, said, ''For the better part of 30 or 40 years, Dr. Corday was the contact person arranging overseas lecture tours'' by American cardiologists. ''They had tremendous influence in increasing personal contact with our colleagues overseas.''
        Dr. James Forrester, a Cedars-Sinai colleague of Dr. Corday, , said that Dr. Corday was ''the leading force in initiating Federal support of cardiovascular research'' and that he had contributed to a number of ''fundamental practices of cardiology, including the management of acute coronary syndromes.''
        In 1965 and 1966, Dr. Corday was president of the American College of Cardiology, and in the years that followed he became one of the most prominent advocates of Federal financing for cardiovascular research.
        In those years, he also became a noted champion of the conveying of American cardiovascular expertise to other countries. To help achieve that goal, he founded the American College of Cardiology's international education program.
        Over 20 years, more than 70 groups of American cardiologists went to underdeveloped countries, where they gave instruction in cardiovascular diagnosis and treatment. That program has been credited with greatly improving care.
        In addition, Dr. Corday was invited by President Ronald Reagan to head the United States Information Agency's Medical Science Advisory Committee, and he went on to arrange live televised communication sessions between American cardiologists and cardiologists in the Middle East, India, Hungary and Russia.
        A cardiologist who is a former president of the American Heart Association, Dr. Sidney Smith, said, ''Dr. Corday has been a real ambassador in terms of sharing ideas internationally and in encouraging the cardiovascular community to see themselves beyond national borders and understand that cardiovascular disease has become a worldwide problem and requires worldwide dialogue if we are going to to be effective in combating it.''
        Dr. Smith, who is also a professor and chief of cardiology at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, added: ''Dr. Corday was a leader in cardiovascular disease. He was highly respected for his contributions to clinical cardiology, and we will miss him.''
        From 1967 to 1977, Dr. Corday was national consultant in cardiology to the Surgeon General of the Air Force and he rose to be a major general.
        He was born in Prince Rupert, British Columbia, and received his medical degree in 1940 from the University of Alberta School of Medicine. During World War II, he served in the Royal Canadian Air Force.
        In 1946, he came to the United States and went on to become a resident at two New York hospitals, Bellevue and then Mount Sinai, before moving to Los Angeles. There, from 1950 to 1961, he was chief of cardiology at Cedars of Lebanon hospital, which merged with another hospital, Mount Sinai, to form Cedars-Sinai.
        He is survived by his wife of 59 years, the former Marian Lipkind; a son, Dr. Stephen Corday, who lives in the Los Angeles area; a daughter, Joanne Kozberg, and two grandchildren.
      