
        Dr. George E. Shambaugh Jr., one of the world's foremost authorities on disorders of the ear and a pioneer in the use of the operating microscope to prevent deafness in people with a congenital defect in the inner ear, died on Feb. 7 at his home in Sandwich, Ill. He was 95.
        He was still seeing patients, his family said, within two weeks of his death and staunchly fought retirement, arguing with hospital officials that he should retain operating privileges at the age of 82. On losing the argument, he pioneered treatment for hearing loss caused by allergies and environmental factors.
        George E. Shambaugh was born in Chicago on June 29, 1903, the son of Dr. George E. Shambaugh Sr., an ear, nose and throat specialist who was the first to describe a portion of the inner ear now called Shambaugh's gland. His father was also a founder of the American Board of Otolaryngology.
        The younger Dr. Shambaugh graduated from Amherst College in 1924 and Harvard Medical School in 1928. After his residency at the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Hospital in Boston, he became a staff surgeon, chairman of the department of otolaryngology and a professor of medicine at Northwestern University's hospital and medical school.
        He wrote about 400 articles and editorials for medical journals and for 10 years edited the Archives of Otolaryngology. In addition, he wrote a leading textbook in his field, ''Surgery of the Ear,'' now in its fifth edition since 1959.
        During his residency, Dr. Shambaugh improved methods of detecting a condition, otosclerosis, that caused people to go deaf because of an abnormal formation present at birth in the bone structure of the inner ear. If not corrected, the condition can cause noise in the ear and then deafness later in life.
        He then began studying under a French physician, Dr. Maurice Sourdille, and Dr. Julius Lempert of New York, who were developing surgical procedures to address the problem.
        At Northwestern, Dr. Shambaugh set up a research laboratory and operated on rhesus monkeys to try to reopen the tiny window between the middle and inner ear, which was being closed by the steadily growing abnormality and was blocking out sound waves.
        He said he then realized that the operation required using an operating microscope, and then borrowed and expanded on early techniques developed by Dr. Sourdille. The two of them introduced the technique in the early 1950's to colleagues in lectures, monographs and operations.
        Later, when some 30 percent of the successfully treated patients began to experience recurrences of the otosclerosis, Dr. Shambaugh, in 1964, introduced the use of sodium fluoride, which was used to treat osteoporosis. This, specialists reported, significantly reduced recurrences.
        Dr. Shambaugh married Marietta Susan Moss in 1927, and the marriage ended in divorce in 1945. He is survived by their two sons, Dr. George E. Shambaugh 3d of La Grange, Ill., and Dr. David Shambaugh of Arlington, Va., and 10 grandchildren. His second wife, Genevieve Krum, died in 1993.
      