
        Sarah Kane, a provocative playwright whose bleak view of the limitations of human relationships and graphic dramatizations of violence and sex earned her a reputation as an enfant terrible of the British theater, died on Saturday at King's College Hospital here. She was 28.
        She was found hanged in her room at the hospital, where she was being treated for depression, friends said. The police said they considered the case a suicide.
        Ms. Kane exploded onto the London theater scene at 23 with her nihilistic first play, ''Blasted,'' a precocious debut that shocked critics and brought her tabloid denunciations as a promoter of depravity. The play depicted a rampaging soldier raping another man and then gouging out his eyes, eating his tongue and forcing him to cannibalize a dead baby.
        No play or playwright had caused such outrage since Edward Bond had an infant being stoned to death in a baby carriage in his play ''Saved'' 30 years earlier on the same Royal Court stage. The theater, which has had a policy of presenting bold new playwrights since its 1956 success with John Osborne's groundbreaking  ''Look Back in Anger,'' stuck by Ms. Kane and staged two of the three other plays she was to write in her short, high-profile career.
        One of them, last May's ''Cleansed,'' brought forth a fresh cascade of negative comment with scenes that included the injection of heroin into an eyeball, a savage amputation and a rape with a broom handle. Her other works were  ''Phaedra's Love,'' an adaptation of Seneca, produced at the Gate in 1996,  and ''Crave,'' which opened at last year's Fringe Festival in Edinburgh before moving on to the Royal Court.
        Early performances of ''Crave'' listed a pseudonymous author, an effort on her part to free the play from the unwanted celebrity that ''Blasted'' had brought her. She said she had been wounded by the bad publicity, and according to a newspaper account, confided to a friend that ''the only good journalist is a dead journalist.''
        While the dominant view of her work was typified by The Daily  Mail's verdict that ''Blasted'' was ''a disgusting feast of filth,'' there were critics who found courage and honesty in her work. One classed her tormented visions as ''the bleached language of truth and poetry'' depicting a world in which love and violence are intertwined.
        Reviewing ''Cleansed,'' Benedict Nightingale of The Times of London wrote: ''She is not the gloating opportunist that some reviewers of 'Blasted' thought. She has no less integrity than Pinter or Bond, but, God knows, I would hate to live in her head.''
        In contrast to the ferocity of her words, in person she was a pale, thin, soft-spoken presence, living alone in Brixton in South London and writing feverishly in the early morning hours instead of sleeping. She spoke of her moments of mental affliction with a grim appreciation, saying:  ''Many people feel depression is about emptiness, but actually it's about being so full that everything cancels itself out. You can't have faith without doubt, and what are you left with when you can't have love without hate?''
        The daughter of a journalist, Ms. Kane grew up in Brentwood in suburban Essex County, east of London, in a household that went through an obsessive Christian redemption process during her youth. At 17 she turned her back on religion, saying that her family's experience was ''a spirit-filled, born-again lunacy.''
        To critics of her dramas' dependence on savagery, she said: ''The reading I did in my formative years was the incredible violence of the Bible. It was full of rape, mutilation, war and pestilence.''
        She was drawn to theater as a teen-ager, directing school productions of Chekhov's ''Bear'' and Joan Littlewood's ''Oh, What a Lovely War!'' She went on to Bristol University, where she graduated with honors in drama, and to Birmingham University, where she got a master's degree in playwriting.
        She was a writer in residence at the experimental company Paines Plough, working with emerging writers at the urging of her friend and fellow playwright Mark Ravenhill, the author of ''Shopping and . . .,'' which played at the New York Theater Workshop last year. She ran workshops in Bulgaria and Spain with the Royal Court International summer school, and her plays were produced by a number of continental companies.
        ''People in Britain never realized the extent of her fame throughout Europe,'' said Michael Billington, the  drama critic of The Guardian. ''Wherever I went, I found an extraordinary curiosity about her work and what it said about contemporary Britain.''
        Mr. Ravenhill said that Ms. Kane ''talked about suicide all the time -- so much so that it became a joke.'' Her last play ''Crave,'' ends with a suicide, and, interviewed about the play recently, Ms. Kane said: ''Some people seem to find release at the end of it, but I think it's only the release of death. In my other plays it was the release of deciding to go on living despite the fact that it's terrible.''
      