
        Justice Harry A. Blackmun, a modest Midwestern Republican who became a passionate defender of the right to abortion in 24 years on the Supreme Court, died today at the age of 90.
        Justice Blackmun, who retired from the Court five years ago, died of complications after hip replacement surgery, the Court announced. He underwent the procedure last week after a fall at his home in suburban Virginia.
        In his retirement, he was a frequent visitor to the Court, where staff members and former law clerks helped celebrate his 90th birthday in November. He made his movie debut in 1997, playing a cameo role as Justice Joseph Story in the Stephen Spielberg film ''Amistad.''
        Justice Blackmun was well aware that despite an active, 62-year career as a lawyer and judge, his name would be forever linked to the issue of abortion and to the opinion that bore his signature, Roe v. Wade.
        When Harry Blackmun took his seat on the Supreme Court on June 9, 1970, few people would have predicted that this soft-spoken, 61-year-old judge, a lifelong Republican never known for breaking new ground or challenging the status quo, was about to embark on an extraordinary personal journey that by the time he retired 24 years later would find him  one of the last liberal voices on a transformed Court.
        Not even three years into his tenure, Justice Blackmun guaranteed his place in the country's judicial, political and social history as the author of Roe v. Wade, the decision that established a constitutional right for women to obtain abortions.
        In that opinion, on which Justice Blackmun labored for more than a year, the Court found constitutional protection for ''a right of personal privacy'' that is ''broad enough to encompass a woman's decision whether or not to terminate her pregnancy.''
        The vote in Roe v. Wade was 7 to 2, an indication that far from being solely the product of Justice Blackmun's personal vision, the decision reflected a broad consensus on the Court that the time had come to end the criminal prohibitions against abortion that in 1973 were still retained by most states. Even such a conservative member of the Court as Chief Justice Warren E. Burger, Justice Blackmun's boyhood friend from St. Paul, joined the opinion that he had assigned Justice Blackmun to write.
        Nonetheless, it was Justice Blackmun who became the personal symbol of the abortion issue that assumed an increasingly dominant, and divisive, role in American politics. Abortion opponents flooded his chambers at the Court with tens of thousands of letters.
        ''Think of any name,'' he said in a 1983 interview. ''I've been called it in these letters.''
        When he appeared in public, even years after the decision, Justice Blackmun was sometimes confronted by pickets and hecklers.
        Toward the end of his career on the Court, as the majority in favor of a constitutional right to abortion dwindled, Justice Blackmun became another kind of symbol as a grim survivor of what looked like a judicial counter-revolution. In 1989, the Court voted in Webster v. Reproductive Health Services to uphold a Missouri law that restricted access to abortion. The 5-to-4 decision did not overturn Roe v. Wade, but indicated that the framework of the 1973 decision no longer commanded a majority on the Court.
        Justice Blackmun, then 80, read his dissenting opinion in a tense and hushed courtroom.
        ''I fear for the future,'' he said. ''The signs are evident and very ominous, and a chill wind blows.''
        The subsequent retirements of Justices William J. Brennan Jr. in 1990 and Thurgood Marshall the next year left Justice Blackmun as the only remaining member of the Roe v. Wade majority still on the Court. Roe v. Wade did indeed appear doomed.
        Yet this intensely unhappy period for Justice Blackmun ended not in defeat but in a personal triumph when, in a 1992 decision that took much of the country by surprise, a new majority coalesced to preserve and even to solidify the constitutional right to abortion.
        The plurality opinion in that case, Planned Parenthood v. Casey, reaffirmed what it called the ''essential holding'' of Roe v. Wade, the right of a woman to choose abortion in the first six months of pregnancy, before the fetus is able to live outside the womb.
        Justice Blackmun did not agree with all of the plurality's opinion, which was written jointly by Justices Sandra Day O'Connor, Anthony M. Kennedy and David H. Souter. He would have struck down all the abortion regulations in the Pennsylvania law that was before the Court, while the plurality opinion upheld most of them.
        But he, along with Justice John Paul Stevens, signed the portion of the opinion reaffirming the constitutional framework for the right to abortion.
        ''Just when many expected the darkness to fall, the flame has grown bright,'' he wrote in a separate opinion. He commended Justices O'Connor, Kennedy and Souter for ''an act of personal courage and constitutional principle.''
        Justice Blackmun also used his separate opinion to underscore the fragility of the Court's support for the right to abortion, since a dissenting opinion signed by four Justices had called for Roe v. Wade to be overturned.
        ''I fear for the darkness as four Justices anxiously await the single vote necessary to extinguish the light,'' he said, adding: ''I am 83 years old. I cannot remain on this Court forever.'' He predicted a fierce confirmation battle for whoever was named to succeed to his seat.
        But that battle did not materialize. By the time Justice Blackmun announced, on April 6, 1994, that he would retire at the end of Court's 1993-94 term, a Democrat was in the White House. The margin of support for abortion rights on the Court was a solid 6 to 3, the result of President Clinton's choice of Ruth Bader Ginsburg to replace Justice Byron R. White, a longtime opponent of Roe v. Wade, who retired in 1993.
        To succeed Justice Blackmun, President Clinton chose Stephen G. Breyer, a Federal appeals court judge who was widely assumed to support abortion rights, although he did not say so explicitly. In any event, Judge Breyer was easily confirmed after a four-day hearing in which the right to abortion -- no longer perceived as being at stake -- never became an issue.
        The Evolution Of a Legal Mind
        Over the years, in reviewing his career in interviews and conversations, Justice Blackmun rebuffed suggestions that he had changed since President Richard M. Nixon chose him for the Court in 1970. The Court had changed around him, he would insist.
        It certainly had, and yet the evidence of his own evolution was unmistakable. He himself provided the most direct and dramatic evidence just months before his retirement, when he announced that after years of joining Supreme Court opinions that upheld the death penalty, he had concluded that ''the death penalty experiment has failed'' and that it was time for the Court to abandon the ''delusion'' that capital punishment could be carried out in a manner consistent with the Constitution.
        ''From this day forward, I no longer shall tinker with the machinery of death,'' Justice Blackmun wrote.
        The vehicle for his announcement was a 22-page opinion dissenting from the Court's refusal to hear an appeal from a Texas death-row inmate, Bruce E. Callins.
        There was nothing unusual about the crime -- a barroom murder -- for which the inmate had been sentenced to die. For Justice Blackmun, the very ordinariness of the case demonstrated that the death penalty could never be other than random or arbitrary despite the Court's best efforts to make it even-handed and fair. Mr. Callins had been sentenced to death while many others who committed similarly brutal crimes of opportunity were not.
        ''It seems that the decision whether a human being should live or die is so inherently subjective, rife with all of life's understandings, experiences, prejudices and passions, that it inevitably defies the rationality and consistency required by the Constitution,'' Justice Blackmun wrote in his dissenting opinion, which no other Justice joined.
        He acknowledged that he would not quickly win converts to his view, but said he believed the Court would agree with him in time. ''I may not live to see that day, but I have faith that eventually it will arrive,'' he said.
        His death penalty stance was only the most notable example of the transformation in Justice Blackmun's social vision and in his view of the role of the Court. A successful middle-aged lawyer and judge when he came to the Court, Justice Blackmun brought with him a certain Midwestern complacency and belief that the Government worked well for most people most of the time without intervention from the Federal judiciary. Over the years, he came to see the Court as an essential voice for the vulnerable and powerless.
        The evolution was quite swift. In 1973, he wrote the opinion for a 5-to-4 majority in United States v. Kras, upholding an element  of Federal bankruptcy law that required people filing for bankruptcy to pay a $50 fee. The fee was challenged, as a denial of constitutional due process, by a man who asserted he was too poor to pay it.
        Justice Blackmun's opinion said that it was reasonable for Congress to want to make the bankruptcy system pay for itself; Congress could provide for a waiver of the fee, but was not constitutionally required to do so. He noted that the law permitted the fee to be paid in installments over nine months, for a weekly payment ''less than the price of a movie and little more than the cost of a pack or two of cigarettes.''
        This observation provoked a sharp rejoinder from Justice Marshall, who said in a dissenting opinion that movie-going by poor people, ''which the majority seems to believe is an almost weekly activity,'' is in fact a rare luxury. Justice Marshall added: ''It is disgraceful for an interpretation of the Constitution to be premised upon unfounded assumptions about how people live.''
        By 1977, Justice Blackmun had come to a strikingly different view of the extent of the Government's obligations to the poor. In Beal v. Doe, the Court ruled that states participating in the Federal Medicaid program of medical care for the poor were not required to pay for abortions. Justice Blackmun and Justice Marshall were on the same side this time, in dissent.
        Justice Blackmun wrote: ''There is 'another world' out there, the existence of which the Court, I suspect, either chooses to ignore or fears to recognize. And so the cancer of poverty will continue to grow. This is a sad day for those who regard the Constitution as a force that would serve justice to all evenhandedly and, in so doing, would better the lot of the poorest among us.''
        Once a 'Minnesota Twin' And Then a Cooling
        During Justice Blackmun's first few years on the Court, his votes so closely paralleled those of Chief Justice Burger that he appeared to be in his old friend's shadow. While the two were popularly identified as the ''Minnesota Twins,'' the derisive label also carried the clear implication that Justice Blackmun was the junior twin.
        The label lingered after it had long become outdated. By the Court's 1985-86 term, Chief Justice Burger's last year on the bench, the two were voting together less than half the time in cases in which the Court was not unanimous. The Chief Justice rarely asked Justice Blackmun to write opinions in important or even interesting cases.
        Their earlier friendship -- Mr. Blackmun had been best man at the Burgers' wedding in 1933 -- cooled considerably. In civil liberties cases, particularly, Justice Blackmun was much more likely to vote with Justices Brennan and Marshall than with the Court's conservatives. By the end of his career, after those two Justices had retired and Justice Blackmun became the Court's senior Associate Justice, his was the most reliable voice for civil liberties.
        ''Paradoxically, by donning the robes of high office, Justice Blackmun became less isolated from the everyday world and more aware of the human beings behind the cases,'' one of his former law clerks, Prof.  Harold Hongju Koh of Yale Law School, wrote in The New York Times after Justice Blackmun announced his retirement plans.
        ''He took his job seriously and did his own work,'' Professor Koh wrote. ''The Court's sprawling docket exposed him to a broader, more brutal slice of life than he had ever known.''
        Justice Blackmun's appointment to the Supreme Court was the result of political happenstance. It came at a time in his life when many people are beginning to think about retirement. He had already had a multifaceted legal career, first in private practice with a big law firm, then as resident counsel to the Mayo Clinic, and finally as a Federal appeals court judge, for 11 years.
        He was Nixon's third choice to fill the vacancy created by the forced resignation of Justice Abe Fortas, who left the bench amid reports that he had accepted lecture fees and a legal retainer while serving on the Court. The Senate rejected Nixon's first two choices, Clement F. Haynsworth Jr. , a Federal appeals court judge from South Carolina, and G. Harrold Carswell. , a Federal district judge from Florida.
        The Senate's action frustrated the Nixon Administration's plan to name a Southerner to the Court. Mr. Nixon then looked north in search of an uncontroversial nominee who could be easily confirmed and who at the same time would fit the requirement the President had set for a ''law and order'' judge.
        Chief Justice Burger, whom Nixon had named to the Supreme Court the year before, suggested his friend Harry Blackmun. Within a month, Judge Blackmun was confirmed by the Senate by a vote of 94 to 0. The Supreme Court seat once occupied by such Justices as Oliver Wendell Holmes, Benjamin N. Cardozo and Felix Frankfurter had been vacant for a year by the time he took the oath of office.
        Reflecting on the events that led to his nomination, Justice Blackmun referred to himself wryly as Old No. 3. He gently passed the nickname on to Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, who joined the Supreme Court in 1988 only after President Ronald Reagan had been unsuccessful with his first two choices, Robert H. Bork and Douglas H. Ginsburg, for the vacancy created by the retirement of Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr.
        As a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, Judge Blackmun was known for quiet diligence. The Eighth Circuit covers seven states from Minnesota south to Arkansas. He kept his chambers in Rochester, Minn. He wrote over 200 opinions for the appeals court, later citing as his favorite a case called Jackson v. Bishop, which banned the use of whips for punishing prisoners in the Arkansas prison system.
        He had been recommended to President Dwight D. Eisenhower for the seat on the Eighth Circuit by Senator Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota, whose political career Justice Blackmun had quietly supported. Warren Burger, then an Eisenhower appointee to the Federal appeals court in Washington, D.C., also urged his nomination. Justice Blackmun was a Republican but, as his admiration for the liberal Humphrey indicated, his approach to politics and public affairs was nonpartisan and nonideological.
        'Best Legal Scholar I Have Ever Known'
        Harry Andrew Blackmun was born on Nov. 12, 1908, in Nashville, Ill., the son of Corwin Manning Blackmun and the former Theo Reuter. His mother's family owned a flour mill in Nashville. The family moved to the Minneapolis-St. Paul area when he was a small child. He grew up in St. Paul, where his father worked in several businesses, at one point running a hardware store. His mother was a talented musician and passed on to her son a lifelong interest in a wide variety of music.
        A neighbor in the working-class Dayton Bluffs section of St. Paul was Warren Burger. The two boys went to elementary school together and delivered newspapers after school.
        Their lives diverged when, after high school, Mr. Burger went on to the University of Minnesota while the Harvard Club of Minnesota offered Harry Blackmun a scholarship to Harvard. Working as a janitor and tutor to earn additional money, he compiled an impressive academic record. He was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and graduated summa cum laude in 1929 with a degree in mathematics. He had trouble deciding between law school and medical school. He chose Harvard Law School but retained a lifelong interest in and respect for the medical profession.
        He did well in law school, graduating in 1932 and accepting a Federal appeals court clerkship back in Minnesota with an Eighth Circuit judge, John B. Sanborn. It was Judge Sanborn whom he succeeded on the appeals court 27 years later. Judge Sanborn presided at the swearing-in of his former law clerk, commenting, ''Harry is the best legal scholar I have ever known.''
        After his clerkship, he taught for a year at the St. Paul College of Law, now known as the William Mitchell College of Law. Warren Burger had received his law degree there two years earlier, attending at night while working during the day as an insurance salesman.
        Mr. Blackmun then joined a prestigious Minneapolis law firm, Dorsey, Colman, Barker, Scott & Barber. He spent 16 years there, working on tax and estate cases and on the firm's longtime representation of the Mayo Clinic, the medical research and treatment center in Rochester. Among other duties, he probated the wills of the Mayo brothers, who had founded the clinic.
        In 1950, he left private practice to become general counsel of the clinic. He spent nearly 10 years in that position, a period he later said was the happiest in his professional life. The job let him apply his legal skills to his lifelong interest in medicine.
        He and his wife, the former Dorothy Clark, whom he married in 1941, were also rearing three daughters during this period. The Blackmuns had met on a municipal tennis court in 1937, and their long marriage was very much a public love affair to those who knew them. In a 1983 interview, he lamented that the Court's heavy workload and the demands of his life as a Justice made the job ''unfair'' to his wife, who is known as Dottie. ''It's lonely for her,'' he said.
        Justice Blackmun's survivors include his wife and daughters, Dr. Nancy C. Blackmun, a psychologist, of Framingham, Mass.; Sally Ann Blackmun, a lawyer, of Orlando, Fla., and Susan Blackmun, a freelance writer, also of Orlando, and five grandchildren.
        Modest Manner, Wide Interests
        Around the Court, where he had breakfast in the public cafeteria with his four law clerks each morning, few tourists would have picked Harry Blackmun out as a Justice. He never acquired a trace of self-importance. He was modest in both his manner and appearance, rarely wearing a suit to work. He was a good storyteller and excellent mimic, using that skill to devastating effect in deadpan impersonations of his colleagues on the Court. Trim and sprightly even in advanced age, he exercised daily in the Supreme Court gym.
        The Blackmuns spent part of many summers in Aspen, Col., where he helped lead a seminar on ''justice and society'' for corporate executives at the Aspen Institute for Humanistic Studies. Robert McDuffie, a young violinist the Blackmuns met at the music festival in Aspen, became a close family friend. Justice Blackmun took great pride in Mr. McDuffie's increasingly successful career, and he arranged several private recitals for Mr. McDuffie and other well-known musicians at the Court. The singer Bobby Short was among those who performed at the afternoon concerts.
        One of his great loves in addition to music was baseball. One of his early opinions, Flood v. Kuhn, in 1972, reaffirmed professional baseball's longstanding immunity from Federal antitrust law. The opinion was notable not only for its significance in the baseball world but also for the long excursion that its author took through the history of baseball. Justice Blackmun even quoted from ''Casey at the Bat'' and listed his favorite players.
        In a 1987 television interview, Justice Blackmun noted that some people, including some Supreme Court colleagues, had viewed the style of the opinion as ''beneath the dignity of the Court.'' But he said, ''I would do it over again because I think baseball deserved it.''
        Early in his Supreme Court tenure, Justice Blackmun acquired a reputation as a slow writer who took a long time to make up his mind. In a 1983 interview for The New York Times Magazine, he conceded that he had disregarded, at his peril, a piece of advice that Justice Hugo Black gave him when he first arrived at the Court. He quoted Justice Black as telling him: ''Harry, never display agony in public, in an opinion. Never say that this is an agonizing, difficult decision. Always write it as though it's clear as crystal.''
        In the interview, Justice Blackmun said: ''I probably agonize over cases more than I should and more than most of my colleagues do. I always have done that, and it's something I haven't been able to get over. But at the same time, once a decision has been made, I don't lose any sleep over it.''
        Justice Blackmun did not hide the fact that some cases engaged his emotions. ''Poor Joshua!'' he exclaimed in a 1989 opinion, dissenting from the majority's view that a state had no constitutional duty to protect a child from brutality at the hands of his father. His critics accused him of substituting sentimentality for legal reasoning.
        Looking Beyond Government's View
        Justice Blackmun's changing approach to cases involving unconventional behavior or defiance of government authority marked his evolution on the Court. In his early years, he took the government's side in such cases almost automatically. For example, in 1971 he dissented in the Pentagon Papers case, in which the Court refused the Nixon Administration's request to block The Times and The Washington Post from publishing portions of a classified history of the War in Vietnam.
        He also dissented in another 1971 case, Cohen v. California, in which the Court ruled that a person could not be prosecuted simply for wearing a jacket that bore a vulgar criticism of the draft. Justice John M. Harlan's majority opinion, noting that ''one man's vulgarity is another's lyric,'' said that the First Amendment protected even so ''distasteful'' a message.
        Justice Blackmun, in his dissenting opinion, called wearing the jacket an ''absurd  and immature antic.'' He said, ''This Court's agonizing over First Amendment values seems misplaced and unnecessary.''
        Fifteen years later, Justice Blackmun forcefully dissented from the Court's refusal to extend the constitutional right to privacy to homosexual behavior between consenting adults. His dissenting opinion, in Bowers v. Hardwick, was marked by a tone of acceptance and understanding of a style of life other than his own.
        ''A necessary corollary of giving individuals freedom to choose how to conduct their lives is acceptance of the fact that different individuals will make different choices,'' he said.
        One of his most important majority opinions was Bates v. State Bar of Arizona, a 1977 decision recognizing a First Amendment right for lawyers to advertise the prices as well as the availability of their services. His opinion traced the history of the organized bar's rule against advertising, finding its roots in the profession's self-image as being above the ''unseemly'' business of earning a living.
        In a 1978 affirmative action case, Regents of the University of California v. Bakke, Justice Blackmun voted in partial dissent to uphold a state medical school's special minority admissions program, which a 5-to-4 majority found unconstitutional. In his separate opinion, Justice Blackmun wrote: ''In order to get beyond racism, we must first take account of race. There is no other way.''
        In Roe, the Opinion Of a Lifetime
        Without doubt, nothing else Justice Blackmun ever wrote had as great an effect or was scrutinized as carefully as his 50-page opinion in Roe v. Wade, issued on Jan. 22, 1973.
        The case had been developed by a team of lawyers seeking to end the era of criminal abortion prohibitions. It was filed under the pseudonym Jane Roe on behalf of a Texas woman whose real name was Norma McCorvey. Under Texas law, the performance of an abortion that was not necessary to save a woman's life was a crime punishable by two to five years in prison. As a result, Ms. McCorvey had been unable to find a doctor to terminate her pregnancy; by the time the case reached the Supreme Court, she had carried the pregnancy to term and given the baby up for adoption.
        The care with which Justice Blackmun approached the issue was evident from the opening passage of his opinion, in which he acknowledged ''the deep and seemingly absolute convictions that the subject inspires.'' He added: ''One's philosophy, one's experiences, one's exposure to the raw edges of human existence, one's religious training, one's attitudes toward life and family and their values, and the moral standards one establishes and seeks to observe, are all likely to influence and to color one's thinking about abortion.''
        The opinion, based in part on research that Justice Blackmun conducted in the Mayo Clinic library during the Court's 1972 summer recess, reviewed social, religious, medical and legal approaches to abortion going back to ancient times. He concluded that abortion, at least in early pregnancy, was widely tolerated both under English common law and at the time of the adoption of the United States Constitution, with legal prohibitions becoming widespread only late in the 19th century.
        In its constitutional analysis, the opinion noted that the Constitution did not explicitly mention a right to privacy. Nonetheless, Justice Blackmun said, the Court in a variety of contexts ''has recognized that a right of personal privacy, or a guarantee of certain areas or zones of privacy, does exist under the Constitution.''
        The opinion did not locate the right to privacy in a specific constitutional provision -- a source of much future criticism of Roe v. Wade -- but concluded that the right ''is broad enough to encompass a woman's decision whether or not to terminate her pregnancy.''
        A state could interfere with this fundamental right only for a ''compelling'' reason, Justice Blackmun said.
        He said that regulation of abortion served two ''important state interests,'' the protection both of women's health and ''the potentiality of human life.'' The state's interest in regulating abortion for the sake of a pregnant woman's health could not be compelling during the first three months of pregnancy, he said, because abortions during this period caused fewer deaths than full-term pregnancy and eventual childbirth. After the first trimester, a state ''may regulate the abortion procedure to the extent that the regulation reasonably relates to the preservation and protection of maternal health,'' the Court said.
        The opinion then addressed, in what was to prove its most controversial portion, the argument that the state's interest in protecting potential life was a ''compelling'' one that justified prohibiting abortion completely.
        While Texas had argued that life begins at conception, Justice Blackmun said, ''We need not resolve the difficult question of when life begins.''
        He added, ''When those trained in the respective disciplines of medicine, philosophy and theology are unable to arrive at any consensus, the judiciary, at this point in the development of man's knowledge, is not in a position to speculate as to the answer.''
        Justice Blackmun said that the state's interest in protecting potential life became ''compelling'' only at the point of fetal viability, the period after which a fetus is ''potentially able to live outside the mother's womb, albeit with artificial aid.'' Citing obstetrical texts, he placed this point at roughly from 24 to 28 weeks of pregnancy. He said that state regulation designed to protect a viable fetus ''has both logical and biological justifications.'' Roe v. Wade permitted states to prohibit abortion after the point of viability ''except when necessary to preserve the life or health of the mother.''
        For the remainder of his career, Justice Blackmun regarded Roe v. Wade with pride and a fierce attachment.
        ''If it goes down the drain,'' he told a group of law students in 1986, ''I'd still like to regard Roe v. Wade as a landmark in the progress of the emancipation of women.''
        By the time he retired at the age of 85, Justice Blackmun was the third-oldest person ever to serve on the Court. Only Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, who retired at 90, and Chief Justice Roger B. Taney, who died in office at 87, were older.
        ''I know what the numbers are, and it's time,'' Justice Blackmun said as he stood with President Clinton at a White House news conference on April 6, 1994.
        The President praised him warmly, saying, ''Justice has not only been his title, it has been his guiding light.''
      