
        Dr. Gerhard Herzberg, winner of the 1971 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for research into the structure of molecules, died on March 3 at his home in Ottawa. He was 94.
        Dr. Herzberg was known as the creator of modern molecular spectroscopy, which uses optical instruments to measure the characteristics of light emitted or absorbed by molecules and atoms. He spent most of his career with the National Research Council of Canada and retired formally in 1994, with the title of senior research scientist.
        In making its award, the Nobel Prize jury cited ''his contributions to the knowledge of electronic structure and geometry of molecules, particularly free radicals.'' Free radicals are fragments of molecules that are highly reactive and combine easily with other molecules.
        Dr. Herzberg's three-volume ''Molecular Spectra and Molecular Structure,'' still in print, won him recognition in chemical laboratories everywhere.
        He had made his own laboratory in Ottawa, the Nobel jury said, the world's foremost center for molecular spectroscopy. Such investigations, the jury added, provide extremely precise information on molecular energies, rotations, vibrations and electronic structures.
        After he won the prize, Dr. Herzberg said: ''I was brought up as a physicist. But my recent work, for example, on free radicals and molecules has been in a way more appreciated by chemists.''
        In fact his work produced important tools for investigation into fields as diverse as physics, chemistry, astrophysics, biology and medicine. He discovered the spectrum of methylene, a free radical and transient intermediate molecule with a very short life span in chemical reactions.
        For astronomers, his accomplishments meant surer knowledge of  stars and planets' atmospheres. And his research on spectroscopic properties and electronic structure led the way to precise quantum mechanical descriptions of small molecules.
        Fellow scientists viewed Dr. Herzberg as a kind of gift from Nazi Germany to the free world. Like many others from central Europe, he sought refuge in the West from the Nazis.
        He was born in Hamburg and educated at the Darmstadt Institute of Technology and the Universities of Gottingen in Germany and in Bristol, England, where he received a doctorate in physics in 1928.
        He started as a lecturer at Darmstadt but left in 1935 for the University of Saskatchewan and a research professorship in physics.
        In 1948, after three years as a professor of spectroscopy at the Yerkes Observatory of the University of Chicago, he joined the staff of National Research Council of Canada, and made it his professional home for the next 46 years.
        He received many honors in addition to the Nobel. His honorary doctorates came from as far away as Oxford, Stockholm, Frankfurt and Delhi. When the Government research center in Ottawa added an Institute of Astrophysics in 1975, it was named in his honor.
        Surviving are his wife of 27 years, Monika Tenthoff Herzberg, and a son and daughter from his first marriage, to the late Luise Oettinger Herzberg: Paul, of Toronto, and Agnes, of Kingston, Ontario.
      