
        Valentino D. B. Mazzia, who was a pioneer in the investigation of operating room deaths in New York and who also served as chairman of the department of anesthesiology at the New York University School of Medicine, died on March 10 at Mount Sinai Hospital. Dr. Mazzia, who held degrees in medicine and law, was 77 and lived in Manhattan.
        Dr. Michael Baden, the forensic pathologist and a longtime friend,  said Dr. Mazzia died of cirrhosis of the liver caused by hepatitis C, which he contracted years ago in his work as an anesthesiologist. He had received two liver transplants, Dr. Baden said.
        From 1961 to 1972, before he turned to law, he worked with Dr. Baden and under Dr. Milton Helpern, who was then New York's City's Chief Medical Examiner. Dr. Baden said that Dr. Mazzia's work led to improvements in anesthesiology and surgical procedures in operating rooms around the world.
        ''His greatest contribution was helping to create the specialty of forensic anesthesiology by actually going to the scene, which was the operating room, to see if something went wrong,'' Dr. Baden said. ''He would go in and say, 'You can't use this room until it is checked out,' if there was a death. He investigated on the spot and not later from a file.''
        Dr. Mazzia was born in New York City on Feb. 17, 1922, the son of Alexander Mazzia and the former Francesca D'Alessandro. A 1943 graduate of City College, he earned his medical degree from New York University in 1950. He taught at Cornell University Medical School from 1952 to 1961. He was chairman of the anesthesiology department at New York University in the 60's.
        He then became interested in the legal aspects of medicine, and in the early 1970's he earned a law degree from the University of Southern California and a doctorate in jurisprudence from the University of Denver in 1978. For the next two decades, he worked as a malpractice lawyer, mostly in New York and in the South.
        From 1971 to 1973, Dr. Mazzia was director of anesthesiology at the Los Angeles County-Martin Luther King Jr. General Hospital, and he practiced medicine in the 1970's in Bakersfield, Calif., and in Las Vegas, Nev.
        Dr. Mazzia was a consultant in several well-known criminal cases. He worked with the prosecution in the second murder trial of Dr. Carl Coppolino, in Naples, Fla., in 1967. Dr. Coppolino, charged with killing his wife with a muscle-relaxing drug, was convicted of second-degree murder and sentenced to life in prison; he was granted parole in 1979.
        Dr. Mazzia was also a consultant with the defense in the trial of Dr. Mario E. Jascalevich in Hackensack, N.J., in the late 1970's. Dr. Jascalevich, known as Dr. X before he was publicly identified, was acquitted of murdering three patients with another muscle relaxant, curare.
        Dr. Mazzia's survivors include his wife, Rosana; a brother, Alexander L., of Palos Verdes Estates, Calif.; a sister, Leticia L. Kahrilas of Placentia, Calif., and three children from a previous marriage.
      