
        Gershon Legman, a self-taught scholar of dirty jokes and bawdy limericks and ballads who played a pivotal role in opening up the field of erotic folklore to scholarly study in the 1960's and 70's, died on Feb. 23 at a hospital near his home in Opio, France. He was 81.
        Mr. Legman is best known as the author of a two-volume psychoanalytic study of sexual and scatological humor titled ''Rationale of the Dirty Joke'' and as an anthologist of limericks. He also published books on violence in comic books, oral sex and aspects of erotic folklore.
        He accumulated what has been described as one of the world's largest collections of published and unpublished erotic and scatological literature, and served as a kind of intermediary for scholars worldwide, maintaining a voluminous correspondence from his home in a hill town on the Riviera.
        A tireless autodidact, he was also credited with a role in introducing the art of Japanese paper-folding to the West. In interviews, he also said he had developed a vibrator in the late 1930's and coined the phrase ''Make love, not war'' during a talk at the University of Ohio in 1963.
        At his death, after a series of strokes that began in 1991, he left behind several unpublished manuscripts, including a two-volume book on ballads that he had worked on for years and an autobiography that his wife, Judith, said he was unable to complete after he became ill.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by their three children, David, of Summit, N.J., and Rafael and Sarah, of Opio, and by his daughter Ariela, of Amsterdam. Mrs. Legman, his wife since 1966, said she was unsure whether their marriage was his second or third.
        The son of immigrants from Eastern Europe, Mr. Legman grew up in Scranton, Pa. His parents, he said, expected him to become a rabbi. But he became interested in erotica at an early age and took to clipping racy jokes out of magazines and filing them by subject.
        He dropped out of college in his first semester, his wife said. In interviews, Mr. Legman said he had traveled lecturing on contraception for organizations that promoted birth control and being arrested for violating anti-obscenity statutes.
        Eventually, he landed in New York, took a series of odd jobs and began spending long hours at the New York Public Library, cultivating what his wife called ''his interest in all that was erotic and at that time completely forbidden except in medical circles.''
        In the late 1940's, he became editor of Neurotica, a short-lived Freudian quarterly. Along with work by Allen Ginsberg, Marshall McLuhan and others, he published his own essays attacking violence in comic books, which later appeared in his first book, ''Love and Death: A Study in Censorship.''
        In the book, Mr. Legman questioned why children were exposed to lurid depictions of violence but shielded from descriptions of people making love. After publishers rejected the manuscript, he published it himself and distributed it by mail out of his book-cluttered house in the Bronx.
        Shortly afterward, the postal service stopped delivering his mail, Mr. Legman said. So he moved to France with his first wife, Beverly Keith, in 1953. They settled eventually on the Riviera, having arrived one day by train and having been overwhelmed by the sight of the bougainvillea, Judith Legman said.
        Mr. Legman's first anthology, ''The Limerick,'' appeared in France in 1953 and later in the United States. Like much of his work, it was encyclopedic; it contained 1,739 limericks. In 1977, Crown Publishers published a sequel, ''The New Limerick,'' with 2,750.
        ''Rationale of the Dirty Joke'' came out in 1968, published by Grove Press. A second volume, ''No Laughing Matter: Rationale of the Dirty Joke, 2d Series,'' appeared in 1975. In it, Mr. Legman sorted more than 2,000 jokes into categories like ''sex and money,'' ''castration'' and ''homosexuality.''
        In a review in Time magazine, R. Z. Sheppard called the book ''an undeniable presence, a work of majestic ego that was weathered by new attitudes and ideas long before completion.'' The review continued: ''In the future, it will be plundered, measured and thumbed through for titillation. But the book will remain impervious in all its pocked dignity, authenticity and embattled romanticism.''
        Among Mr. Legman's other books are ''The Horn Book: Studies in Erotic Folklore and Bibliography'' and ''Oragenitalism,'' on oral sex.
        A devotee of paper-folding, he put together a bibliography on the topic in the early 1950's and is said to have helped initiate a museum exhibition on origami in Amsterdam.
        Bruce Jackson, a professor of American culture at the State University of New York at Buffalo and the author of a 1974 book on narrative poetry from the black oral tradition, said Mr. Legman made accessible to other scholars material that scholarly journals had long been afraid to publish.
        ''Legman is the person, more than any other, who made research into erotic folklore and erotic verbal behavior academically respectable,'' Professor Jackson said. ''He's utterly famous in the world of erotica for what he did -- for making these materials accessible by providing them freely to anyone who asked and for finding stuff that nobody else knew about.''
      