
        William Wrigley, chief executive of the Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company and the heir of  the chewing gum family that once owned the Chicago Cubs baseball team, died Monday after a brief bout of pneumonia. He was 66.
        The Wrigley company announced the death in a terse, one-sentence statement, in keeping with Mr. Wrigley's private and understated approach during the 38 years he ran the company.
        Mr. Wrigley's 35-year-old son, William Wrigley Jr., was named acting president earlier on Monday, the fourth generation of the family to head a company that was founded in 1891 by an earlier William Wrigley Jr.
        The intensely private William Wrigley had headed the company since the age of 28 in 1961, guiding it through a time of eroding market share in the 1970's. Today, as in the 1920's, the Wrigley company remains the world's largest chewing gum maker, with about 50 percent of the American market and more than $2 billion in sales in 1998. (In the 1920's, however, the company had about two-thirds of the market.)
        As a result, Mr. Wrigley -- who inherited an $81 million estate from his father, Philip Knight Wrigley, in 1977 -- was worth more than $2.7  billion at the time of his death, ranking him 64 in the latest Forbes 400 survey of the richest Americans. Mr. Wrigley owned about 25 percent of the company's stock, and the Wrigley family together owns more than 50 percent of the voting shares. Over a period of several years, he donated a total of $15 million to the University of Southern California to establish the Wrigley Institute of Environmental Studies.
        Mr. Wrigley rarely granted interviews and kept a low profile, even here in Chicago, where the company's headquarters, the Wrigley Building, a majestic white skyscraper, is a city landmark, and the Cubs still play at Wrigley Field.
        When other companies were diversifying, often borrowing to do so, Mr. Wrigley shunned debt and maintained a singular focus on chewing gum, relying on marketing skills to increase sales.
        William Wrigley was born on Jan. 21, 1933, in Chicago. His father had succeeded his own father, William Wrigley, as the head of the company. The founding William Wrigley Jr., a former soap salesman who arrived in Chicago with $32 in his pocket, turned to selling chewing gum in the 1890's, and created his own brand, Wrigley's gum.
        When the founder, who was the majority owner of the Chicago Cubs, died in 1932, he was succeeded by his son, known as P.K., who in turn ceded the company to his son William Wrigley. After graduating from Yale University in 1954, William Wrigley served in the Navy on active duty in the Pacific until 1956, when he went to work at the Wrigley company.
        He was named president and chief executive in 1961. In 1977, both of his parents died within two months of one another, giving Mr. Wrigley a controlling interest in the company. To meet a large estate tax burden, Mr. Wrigley sold the family's 80 percent stake in the Chicago Cubs to the Tribune Company in 1981 for $20.5 million.
        Mr. Wrigley was married three times. All three of his children came from his first marriage. He is survived by his wife, Julie Ann; two sons, William Wrigley Jr. of Lake Forest, Ill., and Philip K. Wrigley of Arizona; a daughter, Alison Rusack of California, and a sister, Ada Schreiner of Seattle.
      