
        Harry Ford, whose unerring ear and impeccable taste made him one of the nation's leading poetry editors, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80.
        Friends said the cause was apparently a heart attack.
        In a nation in which poetry is more revered than read, Mr. Ford was a splendid anomaly, a man who not only read poetry with discriminating delight but could reliably pick out the gold from the dross in a pile of manuscripts. Since 1987 he had been the senior poetry editor at Alfred A. Knopf, a company he had originally joined in 1947.
        It is a reflection of his taste that in a career that included a 28-year stint at Atheneum, he edited poets like Wallace Stevens, Langston Hughes, Richard Wilbur, Howard Moss, W. S. Merwin, James Merrill, Mark Strand, Anthony Hecht, and more recently, Mary Kinzie, George Bradley, Jill Bialosky and Edgar Bowers.
        If those are not all household names, it is at least partly because poetry is not high on the reading list in the average American household.
        Indeed, although there has been a recent upsurge in poetry's popularity, it is an index of its continued lowly standing that at Knopf, whose active roster of some 40 poets makes it perhaps the leading trade book publisher of poetry, only seven of some 200 books on its current list are new books of poetry. Nobody knew better than Mr. Ford why poetry had such a paltry showing on commercial lists. As he put it in 1993, ''it is a money-losing proposition.''
        Although Mr. Ford, a native of Philadelphia, apparently developed such an early passion for literature that he dropped out of Columbia after concluding that the college's literary standards did not measure up to his own, he seems to have gravitated to poetry almost by accident.
        After working at a series of bookstores he got a job in 1945 with the old publishing house of Reynal & Hitchcock, where a legendary editor, Albert Erskine, guided him into poetry, though not at the expense of his main duties in production and design.
        Mr. Ford had such an artistic flair for designing books and their eye-catching jackets that it long remained his major specialty in publishing, one that won him considerable acclaim in the industry even as he was developing his reputation as a poetry editor.
        Indeed, when he started at Knopf in 1947 it was as assistant production manager and design director. His work with poets was a sideline.
        Even when he left Knopf in 1959 to join the new publishing house of Atheneum created by Alfred Knopf Jr., he started out as production design director and only gradually took over and built what became such an impressive list of poets that when he rejoined Knopf in 1987 (after Macmillan had bought Atheneum and shown disinterest in poetry) he brought along so many established poets that Knopf turned out 13 of their books in his first year.
        A man who loved poetry so much that he assembled a vast library of fine volumes, Mr. Ford, whose apartment walls were not so much lined with as formed by bookshelves, had other interests as well, typically bringing to them the same sense of discrimination that marked his work as an editor.
        Friends who went out to eat with him knew that he would select the best restaurant, order the perfect dish and accompany it with the finest of wines.
        Precisely because poetry is such a perennial stepchild of publishing, Mr. Ford's devotion to poetry and his loyalty to poets helped make him a beloved figure. In 1991, after Joseph Brodsky, the Russian-born poet who became an American citizen in 1977, was named the fifth Poet Laureate of the United States, succeeding Mark Strand, a member of Mr. Ford's stable, Mr. Ford called it ''a slap in the face to an awful lot of Americans.''
        Mr. Ford, who could be equally blunt in telling his poets why he was rejecting their latest submission, seems not to have offended many of them, and poets were forever dedicating their works to him. In 1986 he received the PEN American Center's Eighth Biennial Publisher Citation, and the next year the Academy of American Poets sponsored a reading in his honor. In 1992, when the National Poetry Series created an Editor's Award, Mr. Ford was the first recipient.
        Mr. Ford, whose wife, Kathleen, died last year, leaves no immediate survivors.
        Correction:  April 1, 1999, Thursday  An obituary on March 12 about the poetry editor Harry Ford described the formation of Atheneum Publishers incompletely. Atheneum, where Mr. Ford worked for 28 years, was created in 1959 by Alfred Knopf Jr., Simon Michael Bessie and Hiram Haydn, not by Mr. Knopf alone.
      