
        Lord Denning, whose bent for favoring the relaxed precepts of common sense over the starchier ones of common law earned him the nickname the People's Judge, died today at Hampshire County Hospital in Winchester. He was 100.
        He rose to prominence as the person in charge of the inquiry into the 1963 sex and politics scandal caused when John Profumo, the Secretary of War in Harold Macmillan's Government, lied to Parliament about the affair he was conducting with Christine Keeler, a model who was also sleeping with a Soviet diplomat.
        Lord Denning's populist appeal became fixed in the public mind when one of the young women involved, Mandy Rice-Davies, said, ''He's one of the nicest judges I know.''
        He went on to build a reputation as the champion of the underdog, with decisions protecting individuals from exploitation by bureaucrats, large companies and trade unions.
        He allowed Sir Freddie Laker to compete with British Airways, paving the way to low-cost trans-Atlantic fares. He ruled that couples living together could have the same rights as married ones, and broadened women's power to make claims on their husbands' wealth in divorce cases. He favored legal aid for the middle classes and helped disabled veterans get compensation.
        But later in life he showed another side when the underdogs were blacks or immigrants, student demonstrators, or Irish Republican sympathizers arrested on charges of terrorism. He ridiculed the claims of police abuse levied by the Guildford 4 and the Birmingham 6, two groups charged with fatal pub bombings in 1974 but later exonerated.
        The ''good English common sense'' that he said guided his thinking left him out of step when individuals increasingly challenged the authority of the police. To accept the notion that police might lie or set up suspects for conviction would, he said, ''open up an appalling vista.''
        Lord Denning was obliged to withdraw from publication a book he wrote in the early 1980's because it questioned the capacity of immigrants to serve on juries and the impartiality of nonwhite Britons. He argued, unconvincingly, that the perceived slurs were misinterpretations, and he retired reluctantly in the aftermath.
        His maverick approach as an appeals court judge led to many reversals from the Law Lords, but he took them philosophically. ''It's not the first time, and probably won't be the last,'' he said after one.
        He gazed out at courtrooms from beneath his gray wig with a mischievous grin, and he delivered verdicts in story-telling mode, introducing one, ''It was bluebell time in Kent.''
        To one admiring lawyer, Peter Carter-Ruck, Lord Denning ''steered the law towards the administration of justice rather than the administration of the letter of the law.''
        But Lord Hailsham, one of the Lord Chancellors he served under, was less charitable. ''The trouble with Tom Denning,'' he said, ''is that he's always remaking the law, and we never know where we are.''
        Prime Minister Tony Blair recalled today how Lord Denning treated him as a young lawyer: ''He was always the soul of courtesy, helping out the young barrister or someone with a hopeless case, and sometimes I was both.''
        Alfred Thompson Denning was born on Jan. 23, 1899, in Whitchurch, Hampshire, the son of a wool-cloth maker. He studied at Magdalen College, Oxford, on a scholarship, earning honors in mathematics and law.
        He was called to the bar in 1923, and in a rapid rise, he gained the robes of the upper ranking of King's or Queen's Counsel in 1938.
        He entered the House of Lords in 1957 and five years later became Master of the Rolls, a 15th-century title given to the third-ranking justice in Britain's court system.
        Lord Denning resisted stepping down at the usual retirement age of 75, saying, ''I have all the Christian virtues -- except resignation.'' When he finally retired at 83, he had served 38 years. ''I want to go while I'm still at my peak,'' he explained.
        A nonsmoker and teetotaler, he ascribed his longevity to a fondness for fish and chips. Asked how he remained so astute in old age, he said: ''By eating plain English food. I don't want any of that French stuff.''
      