
        Garson Kanin, who broke into show business as a saxophone-playing high school dropout and went on to write ''Born Yesterday,'' direct ''The Diary of Anne Frank'' and become the co-writer of two classic Tracy-Hepburn movies, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86.
        He died after a lengthy illness, according to a spokeswoman for the family. His wife, the actress Marian Seldes, whom he married in 1990, was with him.
        In a life filled with work -- ''I become physically ill if I don't work for three days,'' he once said -- Mr. Kanin wrote or directed 32 plays, acted in 8, worked on 29 films and wrote more than a dozen books of fiction and nonfiction, as well as hundreds of short stories and articles that were translated into numerous languages.
        For most of his life, Mr. Kanin and his first wife, the actress Ruth Gordon, were a team. They were feisty, argumentative collaborators as playwrights and strikingly close as man and wife for 43 years. They became something of a fixture at the Russian Tea Room -- first booth on the left -- where they had lunch together almost every day. After Miss Gordon died in 1985, he said: ''I'm half dead. If you understand what it's like to be a team, with Ruth no longer here I feel half alive, that's all. I don't feel completely with it.''
        Mr. Kanin and Miss Gordon wrote five films together, including ''Adam's Rib'' (1949) and ''Pat and Mike'' (1952), both of which starred Spencer Tracy and Katharine Hepburn. But the chemistry that worked so well for the two stars did not rub off on Mr. Kanin and Miss Gordon, at least not at first. Although Mr. Kanin said they never had a single domestic quarrel, ''the battles at work were horrendous.'' Their first joint screenplay was such a hit, however, that Hollywood wanted more of the same. ''We were trapped by success,'' Mr. Kanin said. ''The studio wanted us to write together or not at all.''
        Big Break Rooted In Red Hair Dye
        Mr. Kanin, a compact, restless man of almost ascetic thinness who nevertheless loved good food, was that rare combination of great raconteur and intent listener. Born in Rochester on Nov. 24, 1912, he moved with his family to Detroit and finally to New York City. He made his way onto the stage as an actor after dropping out of James Madison High School in Brooklyn and trying to make a living as a saxophonist and leader of a band, Garson Kay and His Red Peppers. He then attended the American Academy of Dramatic Arts and in 1933 landed a role in a play about a reform school, called ''Little Ol' Boy.''
        In 1935 he heard there was an opening in a George Abbott play, ''Ladies' Money,'' for an actor with red hair. He borrowed money from a friend, the actor Sam Levene, to have his hair dyed and showed up for the audition. Mr. Abbott wrote in his autobiography that ''an actor turned up who was just right for the part.
        ''He was so bright and so imaginative that I took to him immediately,'' he wrote. ''His name was Garson Kanin, and he was to be my right-hand man for many years.''
        ''I insinuated myself on him,'' Mr. Kanin said of Mr. Abbott, who was already a Broadway legend. I knew he was an ace and I knew I had everything to learn from him.''
        Mr. Kanin, who was making $60 a week for his role in the play, got another $25 a week to work in the office, and was soon put in charge of directing the road companies of Abbott shows. He was also made a casting director, and was able to find roles for Jose Ferrer, Eddie Albert, Betty Field, Ezra Stone, Everett Sloane and other friends. ''I didn't really discover them,'' Mr. Kanin said recently. ''They were all my pals; they were the guys and girls that I was knocking around New York with, looking for work.''
        The playwright Thornton Wilder became another mentor. Mr. Kanin said that when he confessed to Wilder that he had never gone to college, indeed had not even finished high school, ''he almost fainted dead away.''  But, Mr. Kanin said: ''Thornton simply took me in hand, took pity on me, I suppose you would say, and for the next 40 years just looked after me. He certainly was the one who told me that I should write. That had never occurred to me. He finally told me he thought I was ready to write a play.''
        But before there was a play there was Hollywood, where in 1937, Samuel Goldwyn gave him a job but very little to do. In his book ''Hollywood,'' Mr. Kanin described himself on his first visit to Goldwyn's office as ''an odd-looking, 24-year-old bundle of nerves who had been an early high school dropout, a mediocre musician, a burlesque stooge, a stock clerk at Macy's, a drama student, a mildly successful minor New York actor, and the director of one Broadway failure.'' So it came as something of a surprise when Goldwyn greeted him saying, ''Sidney Howard tells me you're a very clever genius.''
        Mr. Kanin steeped himself in movies, studying the work of the masters of film and trying every stratagem to fulfill his pressing ambition to be a director. Of all of the masters, he admired Frank Capra most. ''I'd rather be Capra than God,'' Mr. Kanin said, ''if there is a Capra.''
        Finally, he was able to talk Goldwyn into releasing him from his contract, and he went to RKO to direct ''A Man to Remember,'' a poignant story about a small-town doctor. The film was a success, and at 25 Mr. Kanin became known as the boy wonder,
        the youngest director in Hollywood.
        He directed six more movies before his thriving $2,800-a-week career was cut short by the draft in 1941. He handed one of his script ideas over to his older brother, Michael, who, with Ring Lardner Jr. and some suggestions from Miss Hepburn and Mr. Kanin, came up with ''Woman of the Year'' (1942), the film that teamed her and Tracy for the first time.
        In the Army, Mr. Kanin served in the Signal Corps and then in the Office of Strategic Services. In 1943, when he was serving in Europe, he was promoted to captain and was chosen to be co-director, with Carol Reed, of ''The True Glory,'' a film about Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower's preparations for D-Day that won him an Academy Award in 1945. Waiting for security clearance, Mr. Kanin said, meant ''long stretches of excruciating boredom,'' time he used to develop a script that became ''Born Yesterday.''
        A Capital Comedy Is Born of Boredom
        He said the idea started out as a serious expose of Washington as he observed it. At first, he said, he was going to have a tycoon arrive in the capital with three mistresses.  Then two. The two finally became one, but Mr. Kanin said he then realized that with  movie industry censorship being what it was -- ''We're talking about a time when kisses used to be timed with a stopwatch'' -- his idea would never work as a movie. It would have to be a play.
        In 1946, it became not just a play, but a prize-winning play with antecedents in Shaw's ''Pygmalion.'' Mr. Kanin directed Judy Holliday in a funny and touching portrayal of Billie Dawn, the not-so-dumb blond mistress of the tycoon Harry Brock (Paul Douglas). In three years on Broadway, she never played to an empty seat. The Roman Catholic press called the play a ''Marxist satire,'' but the critics called it a hit. Miss Holliday won an Oscar for her performance in the 1950 movie version, directed by George Cukor. A 1993 remake, with Melanie Griffith as Billie Dawn, got poor reviews.
        Mr. Kanin was a private in the Army when he and Ruth Gordon were married in Washington in 1942. He was 31; she was 46. Many years later, he wrote of his life with her: ''Married to this versatile creature, I enjoy many of the advantages of polygamy without having to deal with its complexities.'' Three of their movie scripts -- for ''Adam's Rib,'' ''A Double Life'' and ''Pat and Mike'' -- were nominated for Academy Awards.
        Although he spent a lot of time in Hollywood, Mr. Kanin continued to work on Broadway. He also translated and directed a version of ''Die Fledermaus'' for the Metropolitan Opera.
        When Mr. Kanin was given the script of ''The Diary of Anne Frank,'' he prepared himself to direct it by going to Amsterdam to meet Anne's father and retrace the steps of the girl's life. ''I talked to all the people who knew the Franks, who knew little Anne,'' he said. ''I talked to their neighbors, I talked to the milkman, I talked to her teachers from the school. I spent a lot of time in Amsterdam just soaking it up and making her and making the family as real to me as possible.''
        Instead of making the play a tragedy, Mr. Kanin said, it became a play about human courage, faith, hope, brotherhood, love and self-sacrifice. ''We discovered as we went deeper and deeper,'' he said, that it was a play about what Shaw called 'the life force.'  Anne Frank was certainly killed, but she was never defeated.''
        Although he was meticulous in his research, new facts about the Frank family became available decades later that might have altered his portrayal of them. But his effort to get at the truth was typical of the way he worked. ''If I do anything in the theater,'' he said, ''I steep myself in the background or even in other works of the imagination which touch on the same subject. Remember when you say the word playwright, the word is playwright -- W-R-I-G-H-T -- like wheelwright. A play is not so much written as wrought. It's designed and built and shaped; it's carved out.''
        'Funny Girl' Revives A Flagging Career
        Not all the plays Mr. Kanin carved out were hits. Reviewing ''Into Thin Air'' in London in 1955, Brooks Atkinson of The New York Times wrote that it was ''one of those little pieces of theatrical malpractice that one sits through in a state of numbed horror.'' Reviewing another of his plays in The Times in 1962, Howard Taubman wrote: ''It is distressing to believe that Garson Kanin could perpetrate 'Come On Strong.' ''
        Mr. Kanin rebounded by directing the Broadway musical ''Funny Girl,'' starring Barbra Streisand, which became a hit in 1964. Two years earlier, he had written and directed ''A Gift of Time,'' with Henry Fonda, which was also well received.
        Mr. Kanin, who did his writing in a studio in the Carnegie Hall building and kept an office across the street where he stored his memorabilia and papered the walls with theater ticket stubs and invitations, concentrated more on books and articles in his later years. ''Remembering Mr. Maugham'' (1966), a memoir of a long friendship with the writer; ''Tracy and Hepburn'' (1971), another reminiscence, and ''Hollywood'' (1974), with its funny and loving portrait of Samuel Goldwyn, were all products of his habit of writing down everything he heard.
        His fiction included ''Moviola'' (1979), about an attempted takeover of a Hollywood studio, ''Smash'' (1980), a behind-the-scenes story of the making of a Broadway musical, and ''Cordelia'' (1982), a theatrical novel and a collection of short stories, ''Cast of Characters'' (1969).
        Also in his later years, Mr. Kanin became an advocate for the elderly, a campaign he took up with his book ''It Takes a Long Time to Become Young'' (1978). He believed that no one should ever retire from anything, and in a society taken by the cult of youth he preached the gospel of experience. In 1985, when he was 72, he was elected president of the Authors League of America.
        His youthful attitude was reflected in his marriage, when he was 76 years old, to Ms. Seldes, a longtime friend and colleague. In addition to Ms. Seldes, he is survived by a sister, Ruth Kanin, of Montreal. Mr. Kanin believed in W. Somerset Maugham's maxim that ''it is only happiness which ennobles.''
        But had his been a happy life? ''Not especially,'' he said in an interview when he was 73. Was it an unhappy life? ''No,'' he said. ''I've had a life, like everybody. There were some good things in it and a great many frustrations and disappointments and failures. And five years cut out of a very important part of my life, to be in the Army. It couldn't have come at a worse time. So I can hardly call that a happy life.''
        Correction:  March 16, 1999, Tuesday  A credit was omitted on Sunday for the picture with Garson Kanin's obituary in some editions, showing him with Ruth Gordon. The photographer was Yousef Karsh of Ottawa.
      