
        Jack Tarver, who used his influence as publisher of The Atlanta Journal and The Atlanta Constitution in the 1960's and early 1970's to protect Ralph McGill, The Constitution's Pulitzer Prize-winning editor, from bitter complaints about his support for the civil rights movement, died of a heart attack on Sunday at his home in Atlanta, his daughter, Margaret Tarver Jason, said. He was 82.
        ''He was the one who propped up Ralph McGill's soapbox,'' said James Minter, who held a number of editorial posts under the two men.
        Mr. Tarver regularly tangled with fellow members of Atlanta's conservative Establishment during the civil rights years, Mr. Minter said. Once when the owners of Rich's, Atlanta's biggest department store, threatened to quit advertising, Mr. Tarver responded that he was confident that Davison's, the city's second-largest department store chain, would be delighted to get the space.
        But supporting Mr. McGill did not mean following all his suggestions for civil rights coverage. The two men disagreed over whether to send their reporters to places like Birmingham and Selma, Ala., to cover confrontations, and Mr. Tarver prevailed with his cautious decision to use news agency reports instead.
        Mr. Tarver's tenure as publisher of the Atlanta papers included a climb up the executive ranks of Cox Enterprises, their parent company. He was named president of Cox in 1969 and vice chairman in 1976, the year he stepped down as publisher. He held that position until 1983, devoting much of his time to work with The Associated Press news service,  which he served as chairman from 1976 to 1983.
        Throughout the rise to prominence as a newspaper executive, Mr. Tarver maintained an acerbic sense of humor. In a 1957 interview after being named president of Atlanta Newspapers Inc., the Cox holding company, he noted that his index finger on his left hand was permanently crooked as a result of an accident at The Toombs County Democrat, a one-man weekly that he founded in rural southeast Georgia in 1939 at the age of 22.
        ''I realized almost immediately after I got it caught in the gears of that old flat-bed press that if I were ever going to amount to anything in the newspaper business it would have to be on the executive level,'' he said.
        Fittingly, he first won attention with a weekly humor column he wrote for The Macon News after The Democrat closed. His review of ''Gone With the Wind,'' which was reprinted in more than 40 newspapers, said that Scarlett O'Hara ''was as changeable as a baby's underwear.'' The movie was so long and the seats in the theater so hard, he added, that by the time Rhett Butler tells Scarlett, ''Frankly, my dear, I don't give a damn,'' neither did the audience.
        Such work caught the eye of Mr. McGill, who persuaded him to come to The Constitution as associate editor and humor columnist in 1943. But Mr. Tarver's business skills became apparent to the paper's owners and he was recruited to help restore the paper to profitability in 1949. After The Constitution and The Journal came under the joint ownership of what is today Cox, he rose rapidly through the ranks to become publisher in 1958. The Constitution remains the evening paper and The Journal the morning one; the two are published as one on weekends.
        Jackson Williams Tarver was born March 2, 1917, in Savannah, Ga., the son of Otis M. Tarver and deLuth Williams Tarver. His father owned a chain of hotels that was decimated by the Depression, so Mr. Tarver took advantage of a football scholarship at Mercer University in Macon. An injury ended his playing days, but his coach kept him on as a trainer.
        Mr. Tarver began his newspaper career at The Vidalia Advance, a weekly, in 1938 before moving to Lyons, Ga., the following year to establish The Democrat. He later described that ill-fated effort to create a second newspaper in ''a one-dentist town'' as proof that he was optimistic by nature.
        In addition to his daughter, who lives in Jacksonville, Fla., Mr. Tarver is survived by his wife, the former Margaret Birch Taylor; a son, Jackson W. Tarver Jr. of Atlanta, and four grandchildren.
        Correction:  March 26, 1999, Friday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Tuesday about Jack Tarver, the former publisher of The Atlanta Journal and The Atlanta Constitution, misstated their publishing schedules. The Constitution is the morning paper and The Journal is the evening paper; they are published as one on weekends.
      