
        Dr. John L. Madden, whose groundbreaking work helped advance the field of vascular surgery, died Thursday at the Wartburg, a nursing home in Mount Vernon, N.Y. He was 86, and had been living in Pelham Manor, N.Y.
        Dr. Madden, a former director of surgery at St. Clare's Hospital and Health Center in Manhattan, was credited with helping develop techniques used in a variety of surgeries, including those for aortic aneurysms, in colorectal procedures and in mastectomies.
        ''John Madden has made innumerable contributions to the field of surgery, most notably in the field of biliary and pancreatic diseases,'' wrote the authors of the 1996 book ''Band of Brothers: Creators of Modern Vascular Surgery'' (G. Johnson, 1996). The book, which consists of a series of interviews with prominent surgeons, described Dr. Madden as ''one of the pioneer vascular surgeons,'' and cited his work in the field of grafting arteries into patients suffering from an aortic aneurysm, a bulge in the body's main artery.
        In the book, Dr. Madden recounted how he came to perform one of the first such surgeries. In 1949, after learning that other grafts had been used for similar purposes, he proposed the surgery to a patient at St. Clare's with an aneurysm.
        ''He asked, 'How many have you done?' '' Dr. Madden recalled. ''I replied, 'I haven't done any. I think this will be the first one ever done.' He said, 'Not on me!' ''
        Dr. Madden's chance came in 1952, after surgeons in France and the United States had already performed the procedure twice. In his case, the graft held, but the patient died of other complications.
        Dr. Francisca Tolete Velcek, a New York pediatric surgeon who was a resident under Dr. Madden from 1966 until 1971, said Dr. Madden also helped pioneer a technique, electrofulguration, which has spared many tumor patients from having to undergo a colostomy. In the procedure, the tumor is burned away.
        Dr. Madden also helped popularize the use in the United States of the modified radical mastectomy, a less extensive operation than that commonly being used.
        Dr. Tolete Velcek said that through teaching, and as author of the classic ''Atlas of Technics in Surgery,'' Dr. Madden had influenced countless surgeons.
        Dr. Denton A. Cooley, the pioneering heart surgeon, said of Dr. Madden, ''I think his contributions were really important.''
        In 1952, he received the American Medical Association's Ludwig Hektoen gold medal for work illustrating blood vessels. John Leo Madden was born in Washington on Aug. 15, 1912, the son of John J. and Catherine McLaughlin Madden, both Irish immigrants. He graduated from the medical school at George Washington University in 1937, and served in the Army Medical Corps in the Pacific Theater during World War II. His wife, Bertie Antonades Madden, whom he married in 1942, died in 1995.
        He is survived by four sons: John and Brian, of Manhattan, Dr. Michael, of Milbrook, N.Y., and Tom of New Canaan, Conn.; and two daughters: Pam Favale of Manhattan, and Kathy Falvey of Pelham Manor.
      