
        DEBBIE BOYLAN is a dinosaur and proud of it, the owner of an independent bookstore in Westchester County who is not persuaded that she wants to go head-to-head with Barnes & Noble and Amazon.com.
        Her customers at Good Yarns in Hastings-on-Hudson are more than happy to bring their own coffee, a plain cuppa joe for 60 cents from the bagel place next door, rather than take out a loan for a double latte at the nearest superstore.
        And they'd prefer to drop in for an hour of good conversation rather than order a book with the click of a mouse. Internet shopping may be  efficient, but it's not a way of finding out whose daffodils have popped and whose children have gotten into college.
        Good Yarns, by all accounts, is a dying breed, a hole-in-the-wall in an era of megamalls, a brick-and-mortar business in the age of on-line commerce. It is one of 3,300 independent book stores, according to the American Booksellers Association, down from 5,200 in 1992.
        In response to the threat of extinction, the trade group has hired a marketing heavyweight, begun a national advertising campaign to encourage people to shop small and created its own on-line store, scheduled to open this summer.
        Ms. Boylan and her co-owner, Rowie Edelman, plan to read the prospectus on the joint venture, which Michael F. Hoynes, the association's new marketing director, says is ''like True Value Hardware,'' a way for the little guys to ''come together but keep their identity.'' But the owners of Good Yarns are skeptical.
        ''I don't see us expanding on the Internet,'' Ms. Boylan said. ''We have a finite and loyal customer base. They want to touch books, look at books, talk about books.''
        Good Yarns was abuzz with gardening chatter earlier this week, when 60 degree temperatures had snow dripping from eaves all over town, the current rushing in the Saw Mill River and doors open along Main Street. A landscape architect from Irvington came in for Faulkner's ''As I Lay Dying.'' She stayed to commiserate with Ginny Auld, a saleswoman, who was mourning a dead butterfly weed, whose orange blooms had brightened her yard for 19 years.
        A former Hastings resident who now lives across the river in Nyack stopped in after her weekly Jewish history class at the temple. She left with ''A Boy's Life,'' by Tobias Wolfe and ''The Story of Little Babaji,'' a version of ''Little Black Sambo'' that restores much of the original 1899 text. But not before a lengthy discourse on roses.
        THE hot book on this balmy day was a well-reviewed first novel, ''Amy and Isabelle,'' by Elizabeth Strout. Ms. Boylan had ordered two copies for regular customers from the nearby river towns who were willing to wait a few days rather than shop in one of several Barnes & Nobles on Central Avenue, the dreary commercial spine of the county. Both costumers rushed in as soon as they got the telephone call. ''I have it on order, too,'' Ms. Boylan said. Disappointment crossed her face. She could not ''borrow'' a copy for the early morning hours when she does most of her reading.
        Ms. Boylan grew up just blocks from the store, graduated from Hastings High School and Mercy College in neighboring Dobbs Ferry. She went to school with half the merchants in the village, and her 53-year-old sister, Donna, with the other half. The women own a two-family house and share responsibility for their elderly father, who is blind. Reading time is scarce with the demands of an aging parent and a seven-day-a-week business. Ms. Boylan pines for the expansive days of childhood, when she would read ''Black Beauty'' over and over. At 12, she discovered ''Franny and Zooey,'' was ''knocked of my feet'' and ''never read another kids' book again.''
        Now, binge reading is possible only  on vacation. During a recent week in Florida, she raced through three novels and found herself bookless at the airport. It was one of the few times in her life, Ms. Boylan said, that she has bought a book someplace other than at Good Yarns.
        The store was once a needlepoint shop. But times changed, wives and mothers went to work, and the wool and crochet hooks gave way to novels and biographies. Ms. Boylan was a customer back then, buying books -- mainly 20th century American fiction -- to read on the train to Manhattan, where she worked as an editor. Later, with her sister, she owned a graphic design business. With the advent of desktop publishing, her business became obsolete and Ms. Boylan took part-time work at Good Yarns while she looked for something to do. That turned out to be buying a share of the store when Ms. Edelman's partner retired.
        The two women seem quaintly oblivious to issues like foot traffic. ''I'm trying to envision a busy day, '' Ms. Boylan said. ''Fifty customers? A hundred? I'm guessing. But a good day is anything over $1,000.''
        And what sells well in a village of 8,000 that supports four bookstores (one second-hand, one for foreign language books and one for first editions)? Hardcover nonfiction. Paperback fiction. Local authors. Whatever Ms. Boylan recommends -- lately Alice McDermott's ''Charming Billy'' or Don DeLillo's ''Underworld.''
        ''Low-end political scandal and movie star books don't go here,'' she said. ''We've only sold two Monicas. If we sold three I'd be surprised.''
        PUBLIC LIVES
      