
        Sir Arnold Machin, a master British sculptor who upstaged his distinguished career with a single bas-relief bust that became one of the world's most reproduced images, died on Monday at his home in Staffordshire, England. He was 87 and had designed the portrait of Queen Elizabeth II that has appeared on every British postage stamp since 1967.
        He also designed the effigy of the Queen that appeared on British coins from 1967 to 1985, but it was his separate design for the royal stamp that made Sir Arnold (whose surname is pronounced MAY-chin) a household name among philatelists.
        Since they were first issued in March 1967, depicting a youthful but regal-looking Queen wearing a tiara and pearls, more than 60 billion of the distinctive stamps have been issued in scores of denominations, a variety of printing processes and some 80 colors, making the issue a favorite of discriminating collectors.
        And while it is the Queen who is honored by the stamps, it is a tribute to the appeal of Sir Arnold's design that the stamps are known not as Elizabeths but as Machins.
        Born into a family of Staffordshire potters and trained at a series of art schools including the Royal College of Art, Sir Arnold first achieved signal success in the 1940's when three of his terracottas -- ''John the Baptist,'' ''The Annunciation'' and ''Spring'' -- were acquired by the Tate Gallery in London.
        Within 20 years he had become a member of the Royal Academy, taught at the Royal College of Art and settled in as Master of Sculpture at the Royal Academy schools, where he became mentor to many young sculptors.
        In 1964, after having failed in coin competitions, a design by Sir Arnold was chosen by the Royal Mint for the first British decimal coins.
        By the time the new coins appeared in Britain in 1968, Sir Arnold's separate design for British stamps had been in use for a year.
        His stamp and coin designs were both the second of Queen Elizabeth's reign, which began in 1952. Curiously, while the coins have since been redesigned twice by other artists, each depicting a progressively older monarch, the Machin stamps have endured since they were first issued in 1967, when the Queen was 41. They replaced stamps first issued on Dec. 5, 1952, based on a portrait of the Queen by Dorothy Wilding, a society photographer who made the first of her Elizabeth portraits when the Queen was still a young Princess.
        The longevity of the Machins, Sir Arnold once speculated, was due to the fact that the profile portrait was derived not from a photograph of the Queen but from a photograph of a delicately lit sculpture, whose subtle highlights and shadows produce a timeless cameo effect.
        Achieving that subtlety was not easy. As Sir Arnold recalled, when studio lighting failed to produce the desired effect, the sculpture was taken outside on a foggy day and photographed in a parking lot.
        At a time when sculptors were experimenting with streamlined modern forms, Sir Arnold reverted to a classical approach for the Royal Mail commission, even using as his inspiration the first postage stamp ever issued, the 1840 Penny Black depicting Queen Victoria.
        As the only country not required by the Universal Postal Union to include its name (or initials) on its stamps (the portrait of the current sovereign being considered sufficient international identification), Britain had long been known for the elegant simplicity of its stamps.
        The Machins took simplicity a step further, eliminating all extraneous decorations and symbols, including the words ''postage'' and ''revenue,'' leaving only the portrait and the postal value.
        After his great postal and mint triumphs of the 1960's, Sir Arnold continued to produce portraits of the royal family, including the designs for the commemorative coins issued for the royal silver wedding anniversary in 1972 and the 25th anniversary of the Queen's coronation in 1977.
        As a hobby, Sir Arnold took up more ambitious sculpting, working not in terracotta but in landscapes, creating at his home near Eccleshall a large garden of paths, grottoes, waterfalls and fountains.
        He is survived by his wife, Patricia Newton, a well-known flower painter, and a son, Francis, an architect.
      