
        Stefan Albrecht Riesenfeld, an international law expert who taught at the University of California and helped frame the Constitution for West Germany after World War II, died on Feb. 17 at Alta Bates Hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 90 and lived in Berkeley.
        Professor Riesenfeld, a native of Germany, officially retired and was granted emeritus status in 1976 but continued to teach at Boalt Hall, the law school at Berkeley, until last December.
        Speaking German, French and Italian and with two European law degrees to his credit, he learned English only while studying at Boalt Hall in the 1930's. He nonetheless graduated on time and near the top of his class in 1937 and went on to receive a doctorate in law at Harvard University three years later.
        He joined the faculty at Berkeley in 1952 as a professor of law after teaching at Harvard and the University of Minnesota.
        One of the last surviving founders of comparative international law in the United States, he was an authority on property law, creditors' recourse and bankruptcy, administrative law and legal history in a career of more than 60 years.
        He wrote or edited 32 books dating to the 1940's, including most recently ''Creditors' Remedies and Debtors' Protection: Cases and Materials'' (4th ed., 1986; with a 1990 supplement), ''Parliamentary Participation in the Making and Operation of Treaties: A Comparative Study'' (1994), and, with Robert B. Krueger, ''The Developing Order of the Oceans'' (1986).
        A native of Breslau -- now Wroclaw, Poland -- Stefan Riesenfeld received law degrees from the University of Breslau in 1932 and the University of Milan in 1934. Having a Jewish grandparent, he grew leery at the Hitler's rise and moved to Italy before the Nazis took power in Germany in 1933.
        In 1935 Boalt Hall was looking for an expert on the European criminal codes and invited him to join the staff as a research assistant. At Harvard, he studied under Prof. Felix Frankfurter, who later became a Supreme Court Justice and while at Minnesota obtained a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering.
        Professor Riesenfeld is survived by his wife of 55 years, Phyllis Thorgrimson Riesenfeld; two sons, Peter W., of Saunderstown, R.I., and Stefan C., of London, and two grandsons.
        A United States citizen since 1940, Professor Riesenfeld turned down an Army assignment to broadcast propaganda to the Germans in World War II and instead served in the Navy in the South Pacific.
        After the war, as a civilian legal adviser to the military government in West Germany, he helped lay the foundation for the basic law of the Federal Republic of Germany, whose Constitution serves a reunited Germany.
        While in his 70's, he served two terms as counselor on international law for the State Department and often represented United States before the International Court of Justice. He helped revamp Hawaii's workers' compensation system in the 1970's and helped develop human rights litigation in the United States.
        Over the years Professor Riesenfeld was a visiting professor at universities in Germany, Australia and New Zealand. Named the Emanuel Heller Professor at Boalt Hall in 1954, he attracted students to his classes in droves to the end with his broad knowledge, served up in humorous, if at times harsh, style.
        He lectured without a prepared text and expected to be listened to and did not hesitate to aim his famously biting comments at students who came to class ill prepared.
        Despite his heart trouble, on the day before he died, Professor Riesenfeld finished grading blue books for a course on bankruptcy law he had conducted the previous semester.
      