
        Elbridge T. Gerry, a banker, polo star and breeder of harness horses that twice won the Hambletonian, died on Feb. 26 at his home in Delhi, N.Y. He was 90.
        Mr. Gerry, known as Ebby, was a partner in the private banking firm of Brown Brothers Harriman & Company and came from a family steeped in American history. He was a great-great-grandson of Elbridge Gerry, a signer of the Declaration of Independence and the Articles of Confederation and the politician for whom the term gerrymander was reportedly named. The word, pronounced with a soft G, unlike the family name, describes the act of designing an oddly shaped electoral district to favor a particular candidate or party.
        Mr. Gerry numbered among his uncles Gov. W. Averell Harriman of New York and E. Rowland Harriman, the latter of whom he joined as a partner in the Arden Homestead Stable, which campaigned many champion trotting horses.
        Their stable produced Florican and Star's Pride and the two horses who won the Hambletonian, the premier trotting race in the world: Titan Hanover in 1945 and Flirth in 1973. His family, which was also active in thoroughbred racing, produced such champions as Forego, the Horse of the Year in 1974, 1975 and 1976.
        Mr. Gerry was born in New York City on Nov. 22, 1908, and attended St. Bernard's School, the Aiken Preparatory School in South Carolina, St. Paul's School in Concord, N.H., and Harvard College. When he graduated from Harvard in 1931, he joined the Hanover Bank in New York and, five years later, joined Brown Brothers Harriman & Company, where he became a general partner in 1956. From 1957 to 1986, he was a director of the Union Pacific Railroad and head of its board's executive committee from 1969 to 1986.
        He served for 63 years as a trustee and president of the New York Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, which was founded by his grandfather Elbridge T. Gerry in 1875.
        In World War II he was an intelligence officer on the staff of Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower and rose to the rank of major.
        While at Harvard, Mr. Gerry had been captain of the polo team and continued as a star of the sport after graduation; he played on teams that won the United States Open Championship and competed successfully in England. He was also captain of a team consisting of himself and his three younger brothers, and he played alongside Tommy Hitchcock and Stewart Iglehart and other legendary figures of a way of life that has since faded into memory. In 1940, he earned a ranking of 9 goals. (The highest is 10.) He later served as chairman of the United States Polo Association and was inducted into the Polo Fall of Fame in 1991.
        A founding member and president of the Harness Racing Museum and Hall of Fame in Goshen, N.Y., he was inducted into the Harness Racing Living Hall of Fame in 1975.
        Mr. Gerry's wife of 67 years, the former Marjorie Kane, died Thursday morning at their home in Delhi. She was 89.
        They are survived by two sons, Elbridge T. Jr. of Locust Valley, N.Y., and Peter G. of Hopewell, N.J.; a daughter, Marjorie Gerry Ryland of Beverly, Mass.; two brothers, Henry A. Gerry and Edward H. Gerry; 11 grandchildren; two step-grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      