
        Roy Lee Johnson, the Navy admiral who oversaw what the Government said were defensive attacks against North Vietnamese torpedo boats in the Gulf of Tonkin in 1964, died on Saturday in Virginia Beach, Va. He was 93.
        What became known as the Gulf of Tonkin incident led to major United States involvement in the Vietnam War, and Admiral Johnson was the commander of the United States Seventh Fleet in the Western Pacific during the confrontations on Aug. 2 and Aug. 4, 1964.
        President Lyndon B. Johnson cited what he said was North Vietnamese aggression in his Gulf of Tonkin Resolution, which was overwhelmingly approved by Congress three days later and became the political foundation for the war. The resolution gave the President power to take all necessary measures to quell and prevent aggression by the North Vietnamese. It was repealed by Congress in 1970.
        At the time, only two Senators, Wayne Morse of Oregon and Ernest Gruening of Alaska, both Democrats, voted against the resolution, questioning the President's assertion of serious aggression by the North Vietnamese.
        ''It was one of the turning points of the war,'' said Stanley A. Karnow, the author of ''Vietnam: A History'' (Viking Press, 1983).
        Scholars and journalists have debated whether the North Vietnamese boats engaged in aggressive behavior against the American destroyers Maddox and C. Turner Joy. Some have asserted that the President concocted the incidents to counter the accusation by the Republican Presidential candidate, Barry Goldwater, that he was not taking strong action against Communism in Vietnam.
        Edwin E. Moise, a professor of history at Clemson University and the author of ''Tonkin Gulf and the Escalation of the Vietnam War'' (University of North Carolina Press, 1996), said the confrontation on Aug. 2, involving the Maddox, did not stem as the White House contended from an unprovoked North Vietnamese attack.
        Instead, Professor Moise said, North Vietnam boats approached the Maddox in retaliation for the shelling of an island in the gulf by other American ships, with Vietnamese crews, three nights before. He said the crew of the Maddox, feeling threatened as the boats moved toward them, opened fire.
        At the time, Admiral Johnson was aboard the Oklahoma City, in port in Japan. After receiving word that the Maddox was engaged in battle, he ordered increased air support and then ordered the Maddox to leave the area, Professor Moise said.
        As for the Aug. 4 incident, involving the Maddox and the C. Turner Joy, Professor Moise said the officers of the two ships believed that they were under attack and opened fire. Having set out from Japan two days earlier, Admiral Johnson was still miles from the gulf when he was informed of the action and did not countermand it.
        ''There are people who were there, and they are still divided on whether there was or wasn't an attack,'' said Professor Moise, who interviewed the Admiral in 1988. ''Admiral Johnson told me he was having trouble determining whether there was or wasn't an attack.''
        Admiral Johnson was born on March 18, 1906, in Big Bend, La., graduated from the United States Naval Academy in 1929 and three years later became a naval aviator. In World War II, he served in the Pacific aboard the carrier Hornet. He received the Air Medal for Meritorious Achievement in Aerial Flight as commander of the Hornet's Air Group. He also received a Legion of Merit with gold star, a Bronze Star and two Distinguished Service Medals.
        He served in the Korean War, and in 1955 was given command of the Forrestal, the first of the nation's super aircraft carriers and rose to command the Seventh Fleet.
        After the confrontations in the Gulf of Tonkin, in March 1965, Admiral Johnson was named commander in chief of naval forces in the Pacific. He retired from the Navy in 1967.
        His wife of 69 years, Margaret, and a son, Roy Lee Johnson Jr., died last year. Admiral Johnson is survived by a daughter, Jo-Anne Lee Coe of Alexandria, Va., five sisters and three grandchildren.
      