
        Michael Higgins, a pioneer designer of glass, died at his home in Riverside, Ill., on Feb. 13. He was 90.
        Since gaining prominence in the 1940's, the Higgins name has come to stand for technologically daring glass, objects with bold textures, saturated colors and patterns inspired by the 1950's and 60's and the art of Miro, Calder and the Surrealists.
        Mr. Higgins and his wife, Frances, collaborated so closely that they signed their works simply Higgins. They began working more than five decades ago, firing up kilns in their tiny Chicago apartment. Today their mass-produced platters, dishes, bowls and trays are avidly collected and sold at auction on the Internet, while their studio-made pieces can be found at the American Craft Museum, the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Victoria and Albert Museum in London.
        ''The history of American glass after Louis Comfort Tiffany was a quiet story,'' said David McFadden, chief curator at the American Craft Museum in New York. ''The Higginses, along with a few others, were lone voices in the wilderness keeping interest in the material alive. People like Michael Higgins proved to be a touchstone for what American ingenuity and creativity could do in the field of glass.''
        Mr. Higgins was born in London on Sept. 29, 1908. His father was a judge. He studied at Eton, where he was a King's Scholar, and went on to Cambridge University and the London Central School of Arts and Crafts. In 1947 he moved to Chicago, where he ran the visual design department at the Institute of Design and met Frances Stewart, a graduate student. They were married in 1948.
        At first the couple sold pieces at arts festivals and crafts fairs and to department stores like Marshall Field, Gump's and Bloomingdale's.  Their unusual technique is called slumped glass, in which layers of colored glass are laid over shallow molds, drawn on or decorated with bits of enamel, foil or wire, then sandwiched between more layers of glass. Mrs. Higgins preferred drawing, while Mr. Higgins's works more often used the cut pieces.
        In 1957 they went to work for the Dearborn Glass Company, an industrial glass manufacturer, where they refined their skills and made mass-produced tableware, including saucers, bowls, platters, paperweights and an astonishing array of ashtrays all bearing the distinctive gold ''higgins'' stamp.
        The Higginses were part of the first generation of studio glass workers to be recognized in an international exhibition, ''Glass 1959,'' organized by the Corning Museum of Glass in Corning, N.Y.
        In 1965 they began to work for Haeger Potteries with the goal of moving beyond mass production, said Donald-Brian Johnson, the co-author of ''Higgins: Adventures in Glass'' (Schiffer Books, 1997), only to find that the new company expected them to maintain their extraordinary output. One year later they bought back their equipment from Haeger and opened their own studio in Riverside, near Chicago.
        With a revived interest in the optimism and the inventiveness exhibited by American design of the 1950's and 60's has come a renewed appreciation for Higgins Glass and its upbeat style. The workshop's annual open house in Riverside, held on the first Friday of every December, attracts hundreds of buyers eager to purchase a new one-of-a-kind mobile or piece of jewelry or tableware.
        Besides Mrs. Higgins, there are no immediate survivors.
        The Higginses had a down-to-earth attitude toward their craft. ''We offer you no polysyllabic mystique, nor any fervent analysis of our approach to our work,'' they wrote in an introduction to a New York gallery exhibition of their work in 1985. ''It is just what our lives steered us into doing for our joint living, and we like it most of the time.''
      