
        Walter Decker Scott, who stepped down as chairman of NBC in 1974 after a 36-year career that spanned the heyday of network radio and TV's golden age, died on March 12 at Carmel Valley Manor, a retirement home in Carmel, Calif. He was 84.
        The cause was complications from pneumonia, NBC said.
        Mr. Scott, who joined the National Broadcasting Company as a salesman in 1937, led the network in the mid-1960's, when it committed itself to color programming. NBC had occasionally shown color programming since the 1950's, but some executives were wary of making a costly commitment to the new technology.
        Mr. Scott based his decision in part on data showing that families with color sets watched television more than did families that owned only black-and-white sets. He was credited with persuading the network hierarchy, as well as those in charge at the corporate parent, the Radio Corporation of America, and the film studios to risk the significant increases in production costs.
        His proposal led to the adoption of a color schedule at NBC in 1965. A slogan advertising the new standard, ''The Full Color Network,'' lives on in NBC's peacock logo.
        He was named chairman and chief executive in 1966. He was also elected a director of RCA, which was bought by General Electric in 1985.
        Mr. Scott was born in Kansas City, Mo. He studied at Washington University and graduated from the University of Missouri School of Journalism in 1936. He arrived at NBC television with the advent of the intercontinental coaxial cable in the early 1950's and became vice president for TV network sales in 1955.
        He was president of the network in the early 1960's, when network television grew significantly. In 1965, he succeeded Robert E. Kintner as president and chief executive of NBC. Mr. Scott became chairman the next year.
        After retiring to Carmel in 1974, he joined the board of Quail Meadows, a real estate and hotel business.
        Mr. Scott is survived by his wife of 58 years, Arline Stenz Scott; two daughters, Shelley S. Heeder of Alexandria, Va., and Valerie S. Miro-Quesada of Houston; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      