
        Harry L. Rossoll, a Forest Service illustrator whose ''Smokey Says'' newspaper cartoons helped make Smokey Bear almost as famous as Santa Claus and an almost universally recognized symbol of forest fire safety, died last Thursday at a hospital near his home in Atlanta. He was 89.
        Mr. Rossoll, an illustrator in the Forest Service's regional office in Atlanta since the mid-1930's, was in the Navy in San Francisco, drawing morale-boosting posters for the Treasure Island base when Smokey Bear was created by committee in 1944.
        At a time when lumber was critical for the war effort and the Forest Service's firefighting corps was being depleted by the military draft, Smokey grew out of a joint effort by the Forest Service and the Advertising Council to put the public in the battle to prevent forest fires.
        By the time Smokey made his first appearance, on a poster by a Saturday Evening Post illustrator, Albert Staehle, the organizers had rejected many other animals, including Bambi, whose services were offered by Walt Disney.
        Years later, Mr. Rossoll recalled that before leaving for the Navy in March 1944, he had submitted some suggestions of his own, including a friendly human ranger, a firefighting beaver and even a little bear, which, he thought, just might have been the original Smokey.
        Alas, in researching his 1994 biography, ''Smokey Bear 20252,'' (a reference to Smokey's personal ZIP code), William Clifford Lawter Jr. could find no evidence that officials at the Forest Service's Washington headquarters had ever seen Mr. Rossoll's work.
        But once he returned from the service in late 1945, Mr. Rossoll was soon on the Smokey bandwagon, turning out weekly cartoons with their familiar cautionary tales of what happens when campers are careless with matches.
        Compared with what became the official Smokey, an almost military-looking figure with his neat Forest Ranger cap and ever present shovel, the early Rossoll version was a decidedly disheveled character, with a World War I campaign hat complete with chin strap, baggy dungarees, a paunch and such a bulbous nose it appeared he had been spending more time raiding backwoods stills than hunting honey bee nests.
        In time, however, Mr. Rossoll's comic Smokey began conforming to the official image, which had been developed in 1948 by Rudolph Wendelin, a Forest Service artist who reproduced the image for the 40th-anniversary commemorative Smokey stamp issued in 1984.
        Mr. Wendelin recalled yesterday that he had produced the standard Smokey image by softening a bear produced by the artist James Hansen for an early Smokey poster.
        Whatever his role in creating Smokey, Mr. Rossoll was soon so identified with the bear that he was in demand to give talks to rangers, children and others.
        By the time he retired in 1971, Mr. Rossoll had drawn close to 1,000 Smokey cartoons, which were supplied free by the Forest Service to some 3,000 newspapers.
        For Mr. Rossoll, a native of Norwich, Conn., Smokey was just an accidental detour in a life devoted to art. The son of German immigrant factory workers who wanted him to go into chicken farming, Mr. Rossoll, who once said his earliest memories were of wanting to be an artist, got an early start. When he was a youngster, he recalled, his mother let him draw murals on the kitchen and bathroom walls.
        The family was also musical and Mr. Rossoll became such an accomplished trumpet player that he played in New York jazz clubs in the 1920's and in various Georgia groups after his retirement.
        Leaving Norwich without finishing high school, Mr. Rossoll studied commercial art in Chicago and at the Grand Central Art School in New York in 1929 before he and his wife moved to her home state, Mississippi, and settled in Jackson, where he eked out a living in the early years of the Depression painting billboards and affixing polka dots to women's shoes and other items during a 1930's polka dot craze.
        After leaving the Forest Service, Mr. Rossoll continued to work as an artist, setting up his own studio and producing among other works, a series of murals on display at a museum at the Beavers Bend State Park in Oklahoma.
        That commission led to a new bear venture. At the request of a major lumberman, he developed Tree Bear, who has appeared in magazines and trade journals with seedlings to spread the message about how much the world owes to trees.
        At Mr. Rossoll's request, his niece, Dr. June A. Bradlaw, a microbiologist from Rockville, Md., said yesterday that she had produced a children's book featuring Tree Bear, which, together with her uncle's drawings, she hoped would soon find a publisher.
        Mr. Rossoll, whose wife died several years ago, leaves no immediate survivors.
      