
        George C. S. Benson, an author of books on American politics and government who in 1946 was the founding president of what is now Claremont McKenna College, died on Monday at the Pilgrim Place nursing home in Claremont, Calif. He was 91 and lived in Claremont.
        Mr. Benson, who was also a Pentagon official in the Nixon Administration, led the college through years in which the prestige of the small liberal arts school grew, particularly in economics and government. Formerly Claremont Men's College, it became Claremont McKenna College in 1981.
        The college, which now has more than 1,000 students, is part of the cluster of colleges in the city of Claremont, 35 miles east of downtown Los Angeles. The other colleges are Harvey Mudd, Pitzer, Pomona, Scripps, the Claremont Graduate School and the Graduate Institute of Applied Life Sciences.
        Mr. Benson advocated the idea of such academic clustering and played a leading role in the founding of Harvey Mudd College and Pitzer College as well as bringing the Rancho Santa Ana Botanic Garden to Claremont.
        George Charles Sumner Benson was born on Jan. 16, 1908. He grew up in New York, where his father was an Episcopal priest.
        Mr. Benson graduated from Pomona College, which was founded in 1887 by his grandfather Charles Burt Sumner, and received a master's degree from the University of Illinois and a doctorate in government from Harvard University.
        He was research director of the Commission on Intergovernmental Relations in the Eisenhower Administration. In 1969, Mr. Benson resigned as president of Claremont to become Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for reserve affairs in the Nixon Administration.
        Returning to Claremont in 1972 as president emeritus, Mr. Benson continued to write and publish. He was the author of eight books on American government and politics including ''The New Centralization,'' published in 1941. His other books included a trilogy on ethics in American political life published after he returned to Claremont.
        As chairman of the Pentagon's advisory committee on the Reserve Officers Training Corps, Mr. Benson spoke out vigorously in defense of the R.O.T.C. when it came under attack by college protesters during the Vietnam War.
        He is survived by two sons, Brien and Sumner, both of McLean, Va., and a stepson, Jack Lowe of Lakewood, Colo. Mr. Benson's first wife, Mabel Gibberd Benson, died in 1983. His second wife, Katherine Corbett Lowe Benson, died on March 1.
      