
        Deane F. Johnson, an entertainment-industry lawyer and corporate executive prominent in nonprofit institutions, died on Feb. 28 at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 80.
        He had a long illness, according to an announcement of his death by the Los Angeles-based law firm O'Melveny & Myers, where he had been chairman.
        Mr. Johnson and his second wife, the former Anne McDonnell Ford, were familiar figures for years in Los Angeles's social and arts scene. They were married in 1968, four years after she and Henry Ford 2d divorced. She soon became the most prestigious hostess in Los Angeles and was also active in social and charitable events in New York. She died in 1996.
        Mr. Johnson was with O'Melveny & Myers from 1942 to 1981. His clients in those years included William Holden, William S. Paley, James Stewart, Bing Crosby, Shirley Temple, Dinah Shore, Gary Cooper, CBS and Paramount.
        For a dozen years beginning in 1981, he was in New York as an executive and director of Warner Communications and then of Time Warner.
        Mr. Johnson received a bachelor's degree in 1939 and a law degree in 1942, both from Stanford University. Later he became chairman of the Stanford law school's board of visitors and donated his Colorado ranch to the law school, where he had been first in his class. That is the largest gift the law school has ever received.
        He was born in Des Moines, grew up in Ione, Calif., became one of his law firm's partners in 1950 and was chairman of its management committee from 1977 to 1981.
        Mr. Johnson was president of the Pittsburgh Pirates baseball team for a time. He was a trustee of the American Film Institute and the California Institute of Technology, a member of boards at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and a director of the Los Angeles Lakers basketball team, the Boy Scouts of America, the Actors Fund and the American Museum of the Moving Image.
        His first marriage, to Jane Pendergast, ended in divorce.
        Mr. Johnson is survived by his wife, Kate Edelman Johnson, whom he married in 1996; a son, Deane F. Jr. of Ketchum, Idaho, and a twin sister, Doris Winters Johnson of Redwood City, Calif.
      