
        Stefan Schnabel, an actor known for his portrayal of Middle European characters onstage, in films and on television, died last Thursday at his home in Rogaro, Italy. He was 87.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, the actress Marion Kohler Schnabel.
        With his wavy mane of hair, German accent and Continental manners, Mr. Schnabel was expert at playing military officers, teachers and other professionals in plays by Ibsen, Chekhov, Shaw, Gorky and Schnitzler.
        He began his career with the Old Vic, frequently worked on Broadway (in musicals as well as plays) and acted in a score of films. But he achieved his most popular following as Dr. Stephen Jackson on the soap opera ''Guiding Light,'' a role he played for 17 years.
        He was born in Berlin, the second son of the celebrated pianist Artur Schnabel and Therese Behr Schnabel, a concert singer. In 1930, the family left Germany for Italy. Three years later, Mr. Schnabel moved to London, where he joined the Old Vic. In England, he worked with John Gielgud, Charles Laughton and Maurice Evans and was in ''Hamlet'' with Laurence Olivier.
        In 1938, he arrived in New York and acted in thousands of radio programs. He also appeared onstage in Orson Welles's Mercury Theater productions and portrayed Lopakhin in the 1944 revival of ''The Cherry Orchard'' by Eva LeGallienne and Margaret Webster. After serving in the United States Army with the Office of Strategic Services, he resumed his career, beginning with Welles's production of the musical version of ''Around the World in 80 Days.''
        Subsequently he was in Peter Ustinov's ''Love of Four Colonels,'' the musical ''Plain and Fancy'' and ''A Very Rich Woman'' by Ruth Gordon, and at Lincoln Center in ''In the Matter of J. Robert Oppenheimer'' and ''Enemies.''
        At the Hartford Stage Company, he played a philosophical hotel manager in Tom Stoppard's adaptation of Schnitzler's ''Undiscovered Country.'' His last principal role on Broadway was in Mike Nichols's production of Andrew Bergman's ''Social Security'' in 1986.
        His movies included ''Journey into Fear,'' ''Houdini'' and ''The Counterfeit Traitor.''
        Mr. and Mrs. Schnabel, who lived for 45 years in Rowayton, Conn., founded the Rainbow Theater in Norwalk, Conn., and appeared together in ''The Confidential Clerk'' by T. S. Eliot and ''The Physicists'' by Friedrich Durrenmatt, among other plays. In 1992 the couple moved to Rogaro.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a brother, the pianist Karl Ulrich Schnabel of New York City and Tremezzo, Italy; two sons, Peter H. Schnabel of Abbiategrasso, Italy, and David A. Schnabel of San Francisco; a daughter, Susan Schnabel Ross of Seattle, and three grandchildren.
        Mr. Schnabel accepted his television soap opera success with equanimity, pleased that his character grew from a curmudgeonly physician to a more sympathetic surgeon.
        As he said in an interview in 1981, ''As an actor, if your role on a soap opera is long-lasting, it's possibly the only financial security you know, and it enables you to more or less pick and choose what you want to do with the rest of your time.''
      