
        Robert I. Postel, a maverick Democratic New York City Councilman in the early 1970's who conducted a brief, unsuccessful campaign for mayor, died on March 6 at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 59 and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Postel died after a 15-month struggle with cancer of the esophagus, said his wife, Joan L. S. Postel.
        During his stint as a Councilman at Large in Manhattan starting in 1970, Mr. Postel gained a reputation as a political gadfly. He often embarrassed the Republican administration of Mayor John V. Lindsay with  self-publicized investigations into allegations of corruption and patronage in government institutions, including the Housing and Development Administration, the Spofford Juvenile Center and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
        His repeated assertions in 1971 that the Municipal Loan Program, intended to help rehabilitate slum housing, had produced multimillion-dollar fraud led to an investigation by the Manhattan District Attorney. Numerous officials and contractors were indicted on charges stemming from allegations that they created fictitious mortgages, offered kickbacks and paid for work not done. Only a few of those charged were convicted.
        Critics often accused Mr. Postel of making allegations that could not be substantiated with the available evidence, leading to well-publicized spats with officials from both parties. In the Municipal Loan Program investigation, for example, Mr. Postel accused the Lindsay administration of trying to hush him with the offer of a city job. But a deputy mayor shot back that Mr. Postel was ''not rational enough'' to be given a job in city government.
        On his official biography issued by the City Council, he listed his interests as ''scuba-diving and, occasionally, parachute-jumping.'' The morning after his wedding in October 1969, he and his wife left their honeymoon hotel and went to 68th Street and York Avenue to hand out pamphlets for his race for city councilman. In late 1972, Mr. Postel announced that he would run for mayor and would refuse all donations from real estate, banking or other major interests in the city. He dropped out of the race in 1973 and ran instead for comptroller, ending his career in politics when he lost.
        Born June 9, 1939, in New York City, Mr. Postel graduated from Dartmouth College in 1960 and from Harvard Law School in 1967. After he left politics, he founded the First Wall Street Company, which specialized in converting rental buildings to cooperative apartments and other real estate development in New York, Florida and St. Louis.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Darren, of Philadelphia.
      