
        It was as exotic an offer as a young college graduate could imagine. Michael Aris, freshly out of Durham University with an honors degree in modern history, was invited to become the private tutor of the children of the royal family of the remote Himalayan Kingdom of Bhutan.
        In the six years he was to spend there, he began the intense acquaintance with the languages, history, art, religion and literature of the region that was to make him a leading Western authority on Bhutanese, Tibetan and Himalayan culture.
        His death in an Oxford hospital on his 53d birthday Saturday drew much attention because he was the husband of the Nobel Prize-winning Burmese opposition leader Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. But the academic achievements of the shy and modest Oxford don over three decades earned him high regard in his own right as a scholar who combined the study of textual sources with the experience of firsthand encounters and extensive travel.
        It was during his college years that he met his future wife, who was studying philosophy, politics and economics at Oxford and staying in the home of a classmate of his whose father was Sir Paul Gore-Booth, a former British Ambassador to Burma. It was in the Gore-Booths' London home that the couple were married in a Buddhist ceremony on Jan. 1, 1972, after a courtship maintained largely by mail between Bhutan and England.
        They spent the first year of their married life in Bhutan where Mr. Aris had become in addition to the royal tutor, the head of the kingdom's translation department and its official history researcher.
        They came to England a year later for Mr. Aris to do postgraduate studies at the School of Oriental and African Studies of the University of London and in 1976 moved on to Oxford where Mr. Aris became a junior research fellow at St. John's College and a member of the university faculty. He obtained a Ph.D. in Tibetan literature in 1978 from the University of London.
        The first 16 years of their life together were spent in academic pursuits and raising their children, Alexander, born in 1973, and Kim, born in 1977. Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi studied, wrote and worked in the oriental department at the Bodleian Library.
        The daughter of her country's independence hero, Gen. Aung San, who was assassinated in 1947, she expressed a preoccupation with the future in one of the hundreds of letters she wrote to Mr. Aris before their marriage. ''Sometimes I am beset by fears that circumstances and national considerations might tear us apart just when we are so happy in each other that separation would be a torment,'' she wrote.
        That moment arrived in an understated episode that Mr. Aris recalled in a forward to ''Freedom From Fear,'' a 1991 collection of essays by and about his wife.
        ''It was a quiet evening in Oxford, like many others, the last day of March 1988,'' he wrote. ''Our sons were in bed and we were reading when the telephone rang. Suu picked up the phone to learn that her mother had suffered a severe stroke. She put the phone down at once and started to pack. I had a premonition that our lives would change for ever.''
        She returned home to care for her dying mother and became swept up in the pro-democracy protests that brought down the Government of the longtime military ruler, Gen. Ne Win. By the time the new National League for Democracy was elected to power in 1990, only to be ousted by a uniformed junta, she had become what her husband called ''an icon of popular hope and longing.''
        Thus began years of house arrest, often with all contact with the outside world cut off, for Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi and strictly controlled visits to Burma, now called Myanmar, by Mr. Aris and the couple's two sons. She refused to leave for fear of being permanently exiled by the military authorities.
        The last time Mr. Aris saw his wife was on a Christmas visit in 1995. Since he discovered two months ago that his prostate cancer was terminal, he had repeatedly asked permission to pay her a last visit, and the Burmese regime had turned down every request.
        During the years of separation Mr. Aris continued his teaching and research at Oxford while raising the couple's sons. Both are still students;  Alexander doing graduate work in the United States and his younger brother an undergraduate in Britain.  Polly Friedhoff, spokeswoman for St. Antony's College at Oxford, where Mr. Aris was a senior research fellow and member of the governing body, said that the family, in keeping with its wishes to maintain privacy, did not want to identify the schools publicly. The funeral also is private.
        When Burmese authorities blocked his wife from accepting human rights awards like the Sakharov prize of the European Parliament in 1990 and the 1991 Nobel Peace Prize a year later, Mr. Aris and the sons stood in for her.
        Mr. Aris convened numerous panels on Himalayan subjects, served in the leadership of various academic societies, supervised students doing master's and doctoral degrees and worked in his last years to set up a specialist Tibetan and Himalayan studies center on a permanent institutional basis at Oxford. From 1990 to 1992 he was a visiting professor at Harvard.
        His prodigious output of books and monographs included ''Bhutan, The Early History of a Himalayan Kingdom''(1979); ''Views of Medieval Bhutan: The Diary and Drawings of Samuel Davis''(1982); ''Sources for the History of Bhutan; Hidden Treasures and Secret Lives: A Study of Pemalingpa (1450-1521) and the Sixth Dalai Lama (1683-1706) (1989); ''The Raven Crown: The Origins of Buddhist Monarchy in Bhutan''(1994); and ''Jigs-med-gling-pa's 'Discourse on India' of 1789: A Critical Edition and Annotated Translation''(1995).
        Michael Vaillancourt Aris was born in Havana, Cuba. His mother, Josette, was French Canadian, and his English father, John, was an officer with the British Council, Britain's principal agency for cultural relations overseas. Michael Aris's identical twin, Anthony, is a publisher whose house specializes in scholarly books on Tibetan culture.
        According to close friends, Mr. Aris was unflinchingly supportive of his wife's decision and never once complained that she should abandon the mission and come home.
        In his forward to ''Freedom From Fear,'' Mr. Aris reflected his disciplined Buddhist detachment in assessing the circumstances of his life.  ''Fate and history never seem to work in orderly ways,'' he wrote. ''Timings are unpredictable and do not wait upon conveniences.''
      