
        Milton S. Gould, a classicist turned storied courtroom litigator who for years played the scholarly Mr. Inside to William A. Shea's gregarious Mr. Outside as a managing partner of one of New York City's most politically connected and ethnically balanced law firms, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 89 and since the disbanding of Shea & Gould in 1994 had continued his 65-year legal career with the firm of LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae.
        By the time he and Mr. Shea engineered the 1964 law firm merger that created what became Shea & Gould, Mr. Gould was already a prominent litigator and Mr. Shea had already developed his reputation as a master of the back-room deal.
        Over the next two decades as the firm became closely associated with the local Democratic Party and a succession of mayors, it was the backslapping Mr. Shea who emerged as its media star, especially after his successful efforts to obtain a replacement team for the defecting Brooklyn Dodgers led the city to name the Mets' stadium after him.
        But while Mr. Shea, who died in 1991, is recalled by former colleagues as having had a much sharper legal mind than he was generally given credit for, it was the largely apolitical Mr. Gould who built the firm's reputation as an effective courtroom advocate in corporate and other litigation.
        In a career in which he represented clients in major business upheavals -- involving the likes of Twentieth Century Fox, Columbia Pictures and Curtis Publishing -- Mr. Gould became famous for winning millions for the stockholders of the old Fifth Avenue Coach lines after it was taken over by the city and for restoring the reputation of Ariel Sharon, the former Israeli Defense Minister, in a libel action against Time magazine, which had written that he had encouraged a murderous Christian attack on Palestinian camps in Lebanon.
        A tall, informal man whose wardrobe tended to be more off-the-rack rumpled than courtroom chic, Mr. Gould had such a deceptively low-key manner during cross-examinations that rivals were sometimes lulled into complacency.
        There was the time, for example, when Mr. Gould, defending a client in an apparently open-and-shut municipal corruption case, asked the key witness, an informant who had spent 10 months in the Federal witness protection program, how he had been spending his time, and the man replied that he had been reviewing, embellishing and clarifying his testimony.
        The prosecutor, no doubt grateful that Mr. Gould had quickly gone on to other matters and had not underscored the implications of the statement with follow-up questions, obligingly passed up an opportunity to ask the witness to clarify what he had meant by ''embellishing'' and ''clarifying,'' questions that would no doubt have elicited an explanation that the man had certainly not meant that he had altered his testimony or deviated from the truth.
        Indeed, nothing more was heard about the statement until Mr. Gould got up to deliver his summation, one in which the word ''embellishing'' was used so often and with such effect the jury disregarded the informant's damaging testimony and found Mr. Gould's client not guilty.
        A native of Manhattan who grew up reading Latin and Greek, Mr. Gould never abandoned his love of classics, but at Cornell, where he received a bachelor's degree in 1930, he gave up his plans to become a college professor and switched his allegiance to the law, graduating from the law school there in 1933.
        At a time when the city's white-shoe law firms were notorious for shunning Jewish lawyers, Mr. Gould was surprised to receive an offer from the old-line firm of White & Case, but when he learned he was to be assigned to strictly research duties and forbidden contact with clients, he quit and joined a new and energetic Jewish firm, Kaufman, Weiztner & Celler, whose partners included a future Federal judge, Samuel H. Kaufman, and a powerful Brooklyn Congressman, Emmanuel Celler.
        As a Catholic lawyer, Mr. Shea had similarly been stung by the city's Protestant legal establishment, and when Mr. Gould's firm, by then known as Gallop, Climenko & Gould, merged with Mr. Shea's firm, Manning, Hollinger & Shea, to create what was initially known as Shea, Gallop, Climenko & Gould, it was no accident that one firm was Jewish and the other Catholic.
        Indeed, with their new firm instantly nicknamed Blarney & Chutzpah, the partners took pains to make sure the percentages of Christian and Jewish lawyers remained in the 40-60 range.
        From the beginning, Mr. Gould and Mr. Shea, who rode to and fro work together, ran the firm. As Mr. Gould once put it, ''There was only one boss, Shea and I.''
        As the firm grew, some of the younger lawyer's chafed at the managing partners' high-handed ways, and after Mr. Gould, then 74, had heart bypass surgery in 1984, the two men ceded power to a five-member executive committee. It proceeded to expand the firm so rapidly that it never recovered after a downturn in the economy and was dissolved in 1994.
        Mr. Gould, whose wife, Eleanor Greenburg Gould, died last year after 61 years of marriage, is survived by three children, Jonathan of Woodstock, N.Y., Judson, of Washington, and Patricia Booth of New York; a sister, Hinda Rosenthal, and five grandchildren.
      