
        John D. Lusk, a real-estate developer who played a major role in transforming rural Southern California into suburbs after World War II, died on Feb. 28 at his home in Laguna Beach, Calif. He was 91.
        Mr. Lusk began his career in banking, ultimately becoming vice president of a Security Pacific Bank branch in Beverly Hills. When World War II ended, he advised the bank to ease its policies on real-estate loans in anticipation that returning G.I.'s would create a surge in home buying. The bank did not take his advice, but his idea would help make him one of the wealthiest people in the nation.
        In 1946, Mr. Lusk became a developer and soon specialized in housing for first-time buyers. To keep prices low, he built on farmland that many developers considered too far from the urban center to draw clients.
        ''We were out so far that some people didn't think that anyone would come out and look at the houses,'' said Jim Johnson, director and chief executive of the Lusk Company, in Irvine, Calif. ''But he recognized the fact that people with a low income can't afford the premium of living in close, but they can afford to drive.''
        Mr. Lusk's company was especially active in Orange County, the middle-class suburban area southeast of Los Angeles that is the symbol of Southern California development, with its ubiquitous stucco ranch-style architecture. Mr. Lusk eventually oversaw the construction of nearly 40,000 houses; his company also built shopping centers, apartments, office buildings and industrial parks.
        In 1987, Mr. Lusk was on the Forbes magazine list of the 400 wealthiest Americans, with an estimated net worth of $225 million. In 1992, as the real-estate market sagged, he stepped down as chief executive of his company but remained its chairman until his death.
        Mr. Lusk was a philanthropist who founded an orphanage in Cuernavaca, Mexico, donated $4 million for a center for real estate development at the University of Southern California and contributed to several California Y.M.C.A.'s. He was president of the Los Angeles chapter of the national Building Contractors Association and was director of the Home Building Association in the Los Angeles area.
        Mr. Lusk is survived by his wife, Nancy; two sons, Robert and William; a daughter, Kristen, and seven grandchildren.
      