
        Henry V. Graham, the National Guard general who told Gov. George C. Wallace to step aside and allow the first black students to enter a University of Alabama building in 1963, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Birmingham, Ala. He was 82.
        ''He will always be known as the man who stood Governor Wallace down at the school house door,'' said E. Culpepper Clark, the dean of the School of Communications and Information Sciences at the University of Alabama who wrote ''The School House Door: Segregation's Last Stand at the University of Alabama'' (Oxford University Press, 1993).
        Square-jawed, silver-haired and soft-spoken, Mr. Graham had highly visible roles in two other episodes when the National Guard had to provide protection or enforcement during the civil rights movement of the 1960's.
        In 1961, Mr. Graham escorted a group of besieged Freedom Riders from Montgomery to the Mississippi state line. As recounted in ''Parting the Waters,'' by Taylor Branch (Simon & Schuster, 1988), Mr. Graham told the Freedom Riders: ''This may be a hazardous journey. We have taken every precaution to protect you. And I sincerely wish you all a safe journey.''
        Four years later, Mr. Graham and a group of guardsmen escorted voting-rights marchers from Selma to Montgomery, a few weeks after many of them had been tear-gassed and clubbed in Selma in what became known as Bloody Sunday.
        But Mr. Graham's most famous moment came on June 11, 1963, when Governor Wallace stood in a doorway at Foster Auditorium on the Alabama campus in Tuscaloosa and refused to allow Nicholas deB. Katzenbach, an assistant United States attorney general, and two black students, James Hood and Vivian Malone, to enter.
        A few hours later, Mr. Graham, wearing green battle attire, approached Wallace in front of the doorway. He then stood at attention and told him that it was his ''sad duty'' to order him to step aside, which the Governor did after making a statement.
        Both encounters that day, Dr. Clark said, had been scripted, although Mr. Graham did not know until 45 minutes before he approached the Governor whether physical force would be necessary.
        ''That was the real drama,'' Dr. Clark said. ''The Guard had even practiced how they would have to remove him.''
        Dr. Clark said that Mr. Graham was selected by the Kennedy Administration for this duty because of ''the potentially volatile situation.''
        ''Graham was a very cool man under fire, and he could be counted on,'' he said. ''They passed over two men above him in rank, largely because one of them had a relationship with Wallace and the other they did not feel they could trust not to put a match to the keg.''
        Dr. Clark added that Mr. Graham, who at the time sold real estate in Birmingham, put himself at risk financially, as his very public actions while serving as a guardsman invited retaliation.
        ''He was a man of considerable courage,'' Dr. Clark said.
        On Tuesday, a Birmingham Post Herald editorial said of Mr. Graham: ''While the state's political leaders stirred up the passions of the mob -- either not realizing or not caring about the harm that would result -- Graham stood true to his oath to abide by the Constitution and the law. He carried out his duties and responsibilities even as top elected officials avoided them.''
        One of his sons, Steven Graham, said that during the 1960's his father rarely talked about his involvement keeping the peace during the civil rights movement. ''In later years, though, he looked back on it as a painful process that the region had to go through to bring it into the 20th century,'' Steven Graham said.
        Mr. Graham was born on May 7, 1916, in Birmingham. He worked in several jobs as a young man, including one as a bill collector for the Sears, Roebuck & Company, and another at a local bank. In the mid-1950's he began selling real estate and started his own company, Graham & Company, in 1978.
        His career with the National Guard started in 1934, when he was 18 years old. By the time he retired in 1970, he had attained the rank of major general. He also served in the United States Army in World War II and the Korean War, earning a Legion of Merit, the Bronze Star with Oak Leaf Cluster and the Bronze Arrowhead for his role in the D-Day invasion of France.
        Besides his son Steven, Mr. Graham is survived by his wife, Jane, of Birmingham; another son, H. Michael, of Birmingham; two daughters, Dede Elliott, of Talladega, Ala., and Ann Zauber, of South Orange, N.J., and eight grandchildren.
      