
        Dr. Russell Ross, a medical researcher whose theories radically changed the understanding of why arteries harden, died on Thursday at the University of Washington Medical Center in Seattle. He was 69 and lived in Seattle.
        Dr. Ross had been suffering from cancer, his family said.
        For more than three decades Dr. Ross explored atherosclerosis, a primary cause of heart attacks and strokes, at the university's medical school. He was best known for a series of discoveries about it.
        In 1973, he advanced the proposition, now widely accepted, that atherosclerosis begins with an injury to the lining of the artery that may be caused by anything from cholesterol to bacteria. Over the years, he demonstrated the role that platelets play in forming the clots that can result from those injuries, and he later showed that the process might be halted with drugs.
        Dr. Richard A. Rifkind, chairman of the Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research in New York, said Dr. Ross had revolutionized the thinking about atherosclerosis. Dr. Rifkind, who studied with Dr. Ross at Columbia University in the 1950's, recalled that doctors at that time believed cholesterol played a role in the disease, but thought that ''it somehow got stuck in your arteries and clogged.''
        ''That was the extent of the vision of what atherosclerosis was all about,'' Dr. Rifkind said. ''What Ross contributed was a complete paradigm, a frame shift, to look at atherosclerosis as a cellular disease.''
        Dr. Ross graduated from Columbia in 1955 with a degree, not in medicine, but in dentistry. Surrounded by some of the most interesting medical research of his time, he surveyed the prospect of a dental career -- and reconsidered.
        ''He really did not want to be putting fillings in people's mouths,'' said a friend, David P. Hajjar, dean of the Graduate School of Medical Science at Cornell University. ''He really wanted to be studying heart disease.''
        Dr. Ross and his wife, the former Jean Teller -- whom he met at Columbia, where she was an occupational therapist -- moved to Seattle so he could earn a doctorate in experimental pathology at the University of Washington. After receiving his degree in 1962, he stayed on at the university, and became chairman of the pathology department.
        Dr. Ross initially studied the process by which wounds heal. But he gradually shifted his focus to atherosclerosis. Claire W. Raines, a researcher who worked with Dr. Ross at his Seattle laboratory, said she believed his early work on the healing of wounds gave him a different perspective on blockages in arteries.
        After helping to develop a technique to culture the smooth muscle cells that form the walls of the arteries, Dr. Ross examined what happened as the vessels, in response to injury, began to harden. His theory became widely known as the response-to-injury hypothesis.
        ''He was the first to try to focus attention on the blood vessel walls, rather than the contents of the blood,'' said Dr. Michael A. Gimbrone Jr., a pathology professor at Harvard University.
        Soon after that, Dr. Ross announced that he had identified a protein that seemed to play a crucial role in atherosclerosis. The protein, platelet-derived growth factor, is released by the body in response to an injury to the blood vessel, and helps the wound heal. But in patients suffering from hardening of the arteries, Dr. Ross found, something in the healing process goes amiss.
        In 1991, Dr. Ross again drew attention when he announced that administering an antibody to laboratory animals significantly reduced the blockages that often occur after angioplasty, in which a balloonlike instrument is used to clear blocked arteries. Although the surgery clears the blockages, it can also damage the blood-vessel walls.
        The antibody has not been tested in humans. But medical experts believe that drugs and other interventions will result from Dr. Ross's work.
        Russell Ross was born on May 25, 1929, in St. Augustine, Fla., the son of Samuel and Minnie Duboff Ross. He grew up in Jacksonville and graduated from Cornell University before going to Columbia.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Douglas, of San Francisco, and a daughter, Valerie, of Seattle.
        Professor Raines, Dr. Ross's research colleague for more than two decades, said the various projects in which he was involved would go forward at the University of Washington laboratory, which she said had no official name.
        ''We've always answered the phone, 'Ross Laboratory,' '' Professor Raines said. ''And I don't think I'm going to change that.''
      