
        Sir Michael Caine, a corporate chief with a love of books who was the driving force behind the Booker Prize for Fiction, Britain's most prestigious literary award, died of cancer on Saturday in London. He was 71.
        Modeled on France's Prix Goncourt, the prize was founded in 1968  when Sir Michael was an executive and board member of Booker P.L.C., an international group of companies  involved in food distribution and specialized agribusiness. He served as chief executive of the company from 1975 to 1979 and then as chairman until his retirement in 1993.
        For 23 years he was chairman of the Booker Prize Management Committee and host of the annual award dinner that is now televised live and ranks as London's greatest and most glamorous literary event. He drew admiration for his command of the evening because he had to overcome both a persistent stutter in his speech and a tendency of honorees to behave badly.
        Beryl Bainbridge once spent the entire ceremony lying on the floor because she said she was most comfortable there. Philip Larkin, a judge in 1977, threatened to throw himself out of a window if a particular book he favored was not short-listed, and a presenter once stilled the proceedings with anti-Semitic jokes.
        John Berger, the 1972 winner, used his acceptance speech at the Cafe Royal to denounce Booker's colonial past as an owner of West Indian sugar plantations and to threaten to give his prize money to the Black Panthers. The next year, J. G. Farrell used the occasion to denounce ''fat cat'' corporate officers and attack the royal family.
        A voracious reader himself, Sir Michael was not interested in creating best sellers and was oblivious to criticism that the Booker sometimes went to writers who were obscure. ''If that were all we wanted, there would be no need for judges, and the Jeffrey Archers would win,'' he remarked. His view of British literature before the creation of the prize was that it was ''a bit peaky and down.''
        ''The Booker,'' he said, ''has cheered it up, made it more vibrant.''
        Michael Harris Caine was born in Hong Kong on June 17, 1927, the son of Sir Sydney Caine, a high-ranking civil servant who was to become the head of the London School of Economics. He received his bachelor's degree from Oxford where his thesis was on slavery and secession in the United States, and he went on to obtain a master's degree at George Washington University in Washington.
        His early work for Booker in places like Guyana, Trinidad and southern Africa in the 1950's kindled  a lifelong interest in activities intended to encourage education in developing societies and foster greater understanding in Europe of third-world problems. The $35,000 Booker prize was founded to encourage writing throughout the Commonwealth as well as in Britain.
        He was knighted in 1988, and among the organizations he served as chairman were the Royal African Society, the Africa Center in London, the African Emerging Markets Fund and the United Kingdom Council for Overseas Students. Five years ago he organized Africa '95, a Britain-wide celebration of African music, art, dance and poetry.
        He divorced Janice Mercer, his first wife and mother of his son and daughter, in 1987 and the same year married Emma Nicholson, a high-profile Conservative Member of Parliament who crossed the Commons floor in 1996 to join the Liberal Democratic Party. A year later she became a member of the House of Lords.
        Asked in a telephone interview today if there were moments when people confused Sir Michael with the more famous Michael Caine, Baroness Nicholson said: ''An enormous number of times. The phone would ring in the middle of the night, and there would be these inebriated women calling from Los Angeles saying, 'I'm coming over, I'm on the next plane, get my room ready.' ''
      