
        Jaime Sabines Gutierrez, the poet whose lyrical hymns about desire and loss were embraced and recited by generations of Mexicans, died at his home here on Friday at 72.
        The cause was cancer complicated by infections after a fall in 1989, family members said.
        Although he shunned public attention, Mr. Sabines was a truly popular poet. His sometimes melancholy, often wry, occasionally brutal, but always accessible renderings of the travails of the heart had special appeal for Mexicans caught between a tradition-bound culture based on close families and the tumultuous  changes imposed by modern life.
        ''Jaime Sabines's great accomplishment was his following,'' said the culture critic Carlos Monsivais. ''In Mexico he is read, he is memorized, he is loved.''
        At one of the last of the rare readings he gave in his later years, Mr. Sabines drew an overflow crowd in 1996 to the Palacio de Bellas Artes, the national theater of Mexico. Thousands of his followers remained in the plaza outside, content simply to hear his raspy voice on loudspeakers.
        Mr. Sabines avoided conventional intellectual circles. Growing increasingly conservative, Mr. Sabines made a midlife foray into politics, which put off the largely anti-Government intelligentsia. He served two three-year terms as a federal legislator, in the mid-1970's and again from 1988 to 1991, representing the Institutional Revolutionary Party, which in practice was Mexico's Government for seven decades.
        As a result, his work was not universally extolled by the literary class. But in 1983, when Mr. Sabines was awarded the National Prize for Letters, Mexico's highest literary award, Octavio Paz, the Nobel Prize-winning poet who died last year, said, ''His intense personal opus is in my view among the most important in Latin America and the Spanish language.''
        Mr. Sabines was born on March 25, 1926, in Tuxtla Gutierrez, in the rural southern state of Chiapas. He was the son of a brusque Lebanese immigrant who became an army major. To please his father, he spent three unhappy years studying medicine.
        ''Before that, my poetry was a trinket, something superficial and full of other people's vanity,'' Mr. Sabines said in a 1998 interview. ''During those three years of medical school I found out what it was to suffer. I realized that my poetry had to become absolutely necessary, with no paper-pushing or cheap conditions.''
        His poem ''Something About the Death of Major Sabines'' (1973) was his child's cry of rage and helplessness after his father's death.
        ''Sabines's poems have been everything for everyone: a bond of union for lovers, relief for the lonely, comfort for orphans, praise of pleasure, a hail of stones against suffering,'' wrote the critic Jose Emilio Pacheco in a 1994 essay.
        Although he remained married to his first love, Mr. Sabines was never reluctant to tell stories about his unabashedly passionate life, full of the fleeting but incandescent affairs he so often wrote about.
        Probably his most repeated poem is one of his earliest, ''The Lovers,'' published in 1950. ''The lovers say nothing,'' it begins in a translation by the American poet W. S. Merwin. ''Love is the finest of silences, the one that trembles most and is hardest to bear.''
        When Mr. Sabines read this poem to Mexican audiences, they invariably chanted it word for word along with him.
        ''He was a voice completely on his own,'' Mr. Merwin said. ''His poetry is extremely intimate and plain, but powerful, sometimes shockingly powerful. It spoke to anybody.''
        After Mr. Sabines shattered a hip by tripping on a step 10 years ago, he underwent surgery more than 30 times. The accident jolted his touch for poetry. He did not write a significant poem again.
        President Ernesto Zedillo attended the wake for Mr. Sabines and offered to place his coffin in the Palacio de Bellas Artes for a homage. Mr. Sabines's family declined, saying the poet had requested a simple funeral.
        He is survived by his wife, Josefa Rodriguez Zebadua; a son, Julio, and three daughters, Julieta, Jazmin and Judith.
      