
        Max Hutchinson, an art dealer and gallery owner who was instrumental in the sale of Jackson Pollock's large, late drip painting ''Blue Poles,'' to the National Gallery of Australia in Canberra, died on Friday at Community General Hospital of Sullivan County in Harris, N.Y. He was 73 and had lived in Kenoza Lake, N.Y., since 1986.
        The cause was liver failure, said his companion, Marion Kaselle.
        At the height of his career in the late 1970's, Mr. Hutchinson had two galleries in SoHo, one in Houston and another in Melbourne. In New York he often acted as an agent for the National Gallery of Australia, whose director, James Mollison, had once worked for him.
        In this capacity he repeatedly approached the collector Ben Heller about Pollock's ''Blue Poles,'' which Mr. Heller had owned since the mid-1950's. In 1974, Mr. Heller agreed to sell the painting for $2 million. At the time, it was an astounding price commanded only by Old Master paintings.
        The expenditure required a vote by the Australian Parliament, and when it was approved, a storm of protest intensified by articles and editorials in the Australian newspapers brought down the Government of Prime Minister Gough Whitlam. Mr. Hutchinson later sued one of the newspaper owners, Rupert Murdoch, for libel, and won. ''Blue Poles'' returned to the United States for the first time last fall, for the Pollock retrospective at the Museum of Modern Art.
        Mr. Hutchinson, who was born in Melbourne in 1925, earned a degree in chemical engineering at the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology and served as a pilot in the Australian Air Force in World War II.
        A natural athlete, he was a prominent cricket player in high school. After the war he competed as a wrestler and played exhibition baseball in the 1948 Olympics in Melbourne, receiving a contract offer from the Brooklyn Dodgers.
        He established a successful exposition design company that branched out into furniture design and gained a knowledge of fabrication that proved valuable when he became involved with large-scale sculpture.
        In 1959, one of his company's designers, Clement Meadmore, who was also a sculptor, suggested that the company showroom, which was empty, might make a good gallery for Australian artists.
        Mr. Hutchinson was quickly hooked. In short order he named the showroom Gallery A, became an art dealer, and opened a second Gallery A in Sydney.
        He would later say that he was the first Australian dealer not to show paintings of koalas. He was also the first to show American artists, including James Rosenquist, Alan Shields, Jake Berthot, Harvey Quaytman and Natvar Bhavsar.
        Moving to New York in 1967, Mr. Hutchinson quickly recognized the potential affinity between large-scale artworks and the cavernous loft buildings in the neighborhood then known as the Cast Iron District, soon to be dubbed SoHo.
        When he opened a gallery at 127 Greene Street in 1968, the Paula Cooper Gallery and Ivan Karp's OK Harris Gallery were his only counterparts in SoHo. The artists he exhibited included Mr. Meadmore, Milton Resnick, Charles Ginnever, Carolee Schneemann, Michelle Stuart and Helene Valentin.
        In 1980 he mounted the first exhibition of drawings and paintings by the sculptor Louise Bourgeois, some of which dated from the late 1940's. In 1974 he opened an additional gallery, Sculpture Now, at 142 Greene Street, where he was able to exhibit large-scale sculpture. The space was subsequently taken over by Leo Castelli and is presently occupied by Pace Wildenstein. Mr. Hutchinson had his gallery in Houston from 1977 to 1981.
        Mr. Hutchinson maintained a final New York gallery at 138 Greene Street until the mid-1980's. In 1984 he bought an 88-acre farm near Kenoza Lake, where he established Sculpture Fields Inc. He reshaped the land, built three miles of road, created two ponds for water-related sculpture, and exhibited work by a long list of sculptors including Mr. Ginnever, William Tucker, Mel Chin, Christy Rupp and Jackie Ferrara.
        In addition to Ms. Kaselle, Mr. Hutchinson is survived by his estranged wife, Cherell, of Melbourne; two daughters, Simone Hutchinson Whitwell and Tanya Hutchinson Barry, of Melbourne; two sons, Rowan Hutchinson of Brisbane and Daniel Crespi of Sydney, and four grandchildren.
        Correction:  May 6, 1999, Thursday  An obituary last Thursday about Max Hutchinson, an art dealer and gallery owner who was also a prominent athlete in Australia early in his career, misstated the year of the Melbourne Olympics, in which he played exhibition baseball. It was 1956, not 1948.
      