
        Frank J. Pasquerilla, 72, a builder and philanthropist who started as a state highway clerk and became one of the richest men in Pennsylvania, died last Wednesday in a Johnstown, Pa., hospital. He made a fortune in shopping malls, department stores and hotels and gave away millions to support schools, churches and the performing arts, from western Pennsylvania to the Vatican.
        He was chairman and chief executive of the Crown American Realty Trust, a publicly traded owner of 27 shopping malls, as well as chairman and chief executive of Crown American Hotels, a family-owned chain that is operated under franchises from Holiday Inn, Comfort Inn and the Wyndham hotel chain.
        A spokeswoman for Crown American said Mr. Pasquerilla died following a stroke at the Memorial Medical Center in Johnstown, where he had been admitted on April 15 after a mild heart attack following a root canal procedure.
        A number of public buildings were named for members of the Pasquerilla family, including three at the University of Notre Dame in South Bend, Ind.; one at the Georgetown University Medical Center; a library at St. Francis College in Loretto, Pa., and the performing arts center of the University of Pittsburgh in Johnstown.
        Mr. Pasquerilla, who was born in Johnstown and never moved away, gave $6.8 million to the Johnstown arts center, and $1 million to help create a heritage discovery center in the city. He also gave $2 million to the Pittsburgh Opera. In addition, the family helped build a religious center at Penn State University.
        He was honored as a commander of the Order of St. Gregory and a steward of St. Peter by Pope John Paul II, who also appointed him to the Vatican committee on debt reduction. He was also honored by the Altoona Johnstown Roman Catholic Diocese and headed the diocesan fund drive in 1995. He received Government medals from Israel and Italy.
        Forbes magazine estimated Mr. Pasquerilla's assets at $350 million in 1988.
        He joined the Crown Construction Company in the early 1950's and was named president in 1953, the year he built his first shopping center. He bought the company in 1961 and built one of the first enclosed shopping malls two years later in Altoona, Pa. The Crown malls, which typically include several department stores, are in or near medium-sized cities in eight states.
        The company has a number of projects under way in Pennsylvania. A Kaufmann's department store opened last month in State College, and Kaufmann's stores are being expanded in Washington, Pa. and Sharon, Pa., as is a mall anchored by Hecht's in Hagerstown, Md., Kaufmann's and Hecht's are units of the May Department Stores Company.
        The Crown Construction name was changed to Crown American in 1972, and the company bought the Hess's department store chain in 1979. Crown American-Hess made an unsuccessful $1 billion bid for the Bloomingdale's stores in 1989. Crown American became a publicly traded company in 1993. It sold or closed a number of its department stores and in 1995 sold its last 30 Hess stores -- 10 to the May Company and 20 to the Bon Ton of York, Pa.
        The Crown American board yesterday elected Mr. Pasquerilla's son,  Mark E. Pasquerilla, as chairman and chief executive of the company.
        The survivors also include Sylvia, his wife of 42 years; a daughter, Leah; a brother, Nicholas, and two sisters, Pauline Speranza and Stella Diest, all of Johnstown.
      