
        Ambroise Roux, a prominent and influential figure in the French industrial and financial worlds who was a key adviser to Georges Pompidou, France's President from 1969 to 1974, died on Sunday in his home in Montfort-l'Amaury in north central France. He was 77.
        The cause was a heart attack, the newspaper Liberation reported.
        Mr. Roux's influence was legendary although it was often wielded behind the scenes. After learning of his death, President Jacques Chirac said that Mr. Roux had been ''one of the great figures of French capitalism.''
        Liberation called him ''the 'godfather' of management, the eminence grise of capitalism in France.''
        For its part, Le Monde said he was ''the former eminence grise of Georges Pompidou,'' and ''the person that Francois Mitterrand,'' another past President, ''spoke with, and listened to.''
        Until four months before Mr. Roux's death he was president of the powerful French Association of Private Enterprises, which brings together the top executives of the 60 largest private enterprises in France. He was also on the boards of various business concerns.
        Earlier, he was director general and then president and director general of Compagnie Generale d'Electricite, the French telecommunications, transport and energy conglomerate, which became Alcatel. He increased its work force to more than 175,000.
        Mr. Roux was a close confidant of Pompidou, who, as soon as he was elected President, began addressing his country's economic problems. The measures taken under him included devaluing the franc and imposing a freeze on prices.
        In the 1970's, Le Monde said, in its Tuesday issue, Mr. Roux was ''also the strong man of management, without whom nothing got done.''
        He sometimes sounded an idealistic note. In 1974, the French Government proposed an austerity program that brought expressions of anxiety from both labor and management.  Mr. Roux, then high up in Compagnie Generale, declared: ''There is one point that I see as positive. The Government has chosen to treat the problem of prices through an appeal to the social partners in asking each to make an effort, in appealing to the civic sense of us all. ''
        His nature had some very human aspects. As he put it, he had a ''horror of hard intelligence that reduces everything to equations.'' He spent three months each year in Brittany. His personal interests included parapsychology and the occult. And while he was a powerful figure at Compagnie General, he directed laboratory staff to do research on the arcane subject of thought transference.
        Mr. Roux was more conservative in his appearance. Liberation said tartly, ''Everything about Ambroise Roux exuded the past: his three-piece suit, the trousers rising up to his sternum, his finger slipped into his watch-pocket.''
        He was born in the former department of Seine-et-Oise in north central France, the son of Andre Roux and the former Cecile Marcilhacy. His higher education included training in technical subjects, among them civil engineering.
        He became an engineer specializing in bridges and roads and worked his way up to become a high aide to Jean-Marie Louvel, Minister of Industry and Commerce. He joined Compagnie Generale in 1955.
        Mr. Roux married Francoise Marion in 1946 and they had two children, a son, Christian, and a daughter, Veronique.
      