
        H. Robert Marschalk, who rose from a salesman for the Vicks Chemical Company to president and later vice chairman of its successor, the Richardson-Merrell Drug Company, died Sunday in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 83 and had prostate cancer, said a spokesman for Philip Morris, where Mr. Marschalk was a director for 20 years.
        Mr. Marschalk, who had homes in North Palm Beach, Fla., and New Canaan, Conn., was president of Richardson-Merrell when it marketed an ill-fated anti-cholesterol drug known as Triparanol, or MER/29, from 1960 through 1962. The drug was withdrawn because of reports it could cause cataracts, dermatitis, loss of hair and impotency.
        In 1963 a Federal grand jury indicted the company and three of its scientists on charges that the company had concealed evidence of the adverse side effects in reports of laboratory tests before the drug was approved for sale.
        Mr. Marschalk said at the time that a ''fair appraisal'' would vindicate the company. But in 1964 Richardson-Merrell became the first drug company to be convicted of failing to give complete information about a drug to the Food and Drug Administration. The company was fined $80,000, and the scientists received suspended sentences.
        The company was also sued by people who used the drug and blamed it for causing cataracts. One, a retired Pennsylvania furniture worker, was awarded $117,500 by a jury in 1966.
        Mr. Marschalk was born in New York and raised in New Rochelle. He graduated from Dartmouth College in 1937 with a degree in business. He was a lieutenant in the Navy during World War II and was stationed in the South Pacific.
        In 1975 Mr. Marschalk became vice chairman of the company, which, after he retired in 1981, was sold to Procter & Gamble.
        In addition to the Philip Morris board, on which he served from 1966 to 1986, he was a director of the World Wildlife Fund and the Olympic Fund in Stamford, Conn., and was an overseer of the Dartmouth Medical School.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Wynne McKay; a son, Peter McKay Marschalk of New Canaan; two daughters, Karen M. Viener of Stuart, Fla., and Andrea M. Scheyhing of Stamford; a sister, Jean Maguire of Harrison, N.Y.; a brother, Harry C. Marschalk of Sandy Hook, Conn., and six grandchildren.
      