
        Lawrence Daniel Duke Sr., a retired state judge who as a young prosecutor fought for civil rights and against the Ku Klux Klan in rigidly segregationist Georgia, died on March 24 at Fayette Community Hospital in Fayetteville, Ga. He was 86 and lived in nearby Tyrone.
        Mr. Duke successfully prosecuted several Klansmen in the early 1940's for the flogging of a black man who was found frozen to death with two whips near his body. After he won convictions against the men, Gov. Eugene Talmadge signaled that he would grant them clemency.
        An irate Mr. Duke confronted the Governor at a public hearing and waved one of the whips before his face to make a point about slavery and racism. Talmadge reconsidered and did not let the men go free until late in their prison sentences.
        As an Assistant State Attorney General in 1946, Mr. Duke passionately argued the state's case for revocation of the Georgia Klan's state charter of incorporation. The organization, he told the court, ''systematically is carrying out a policy designed to violate the rights of Georgia citizens guaranteed under the Constitution of the state and of the United States.''
        He ridiculed assertions by the Georgia Grand Dragon that his Association of Georgia Klans had nothing to do with lynchings ascribed to the Ku Klux Klan Inc. The Grand Dragon's new outfit, Mr. Duke told the court, was merely the ''ragtag and bobtail of the old order, and their claiming to be different will not interfere with the legal procedure contemplated in any way.''
        Mr. Duke's courtroom victory over the Klan paralleled his successful campaign against Columbians Inc., a small, virulently anti-black, anti-Jewish Klan offshoot with links to pro-Nazi conspirators involved with the German-American Bund. The Columbians, hatched by the Ku Klux Klan, were ''the juvenile delinquents of the K.K.K.,'' Mr. Duke said.
        His fight against the two organizations was cited in 1947 when the United States Junior Chamber of Commerce named him one of its 10 outstanding young men of the year. Others so honored with him that year included Representative John F. Kennedy.
        His stand also made Mr. Duke and his family targets of threats and physical violence from segregationists. At times he spent nights at the local sheriff's lock-up, changing cells during the night for his own safety.
        Dan Duke, as he was known, was born in Palmetto, Ga. He found his social conscience after his father, a merchant, went broke in the Depression, and he had to seek work at age 14. The experience taught him respect for all working men and women and made him an advocate of labor unions and black defendants.
        He worked his way through college and law school, graduating from Oglethorpe University and from Atlanta Law School and earning another degree in administrative law at Emory University. He pursued additional studies at Heidelberg and Oxford Universities.
        His public career began when he was named Assistant State Solicitor in 1941, followed by his stint as Assistant Attorney General. Gov. Carl Sanders appointed him to the bench of the State Court of Fulton County in 1961, and he served as its chief judge before retiring in 1981.
        Mr. Duke is survived by a daughter, Dorrie Fletcher, of Roscoe, Ga.; three sons, Lawrence Duke Barnes,  of Denver, Daniel Jr., of Alpharetta, Ga., and Tarleton C., of Tyrone; a sister, Myra D. Coulon, of Barnesville, Ga., and four grandchildren.
      