
        Charles H. Pillard, the strong-willed president of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers for two decades, died on Monday in a hospital in Buffalo. He was 80 and had lived in Orchard Park, N.Y., a suburb of Buffalo, since 1988.
        The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Pillard, a native of Buffalo, graduated from high school, worked for a time as an electrician, became an official of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers and rose steadily in its ranks. He was the union's president from 1968 until 1986, when he retired after a dispute with another union that was on strike at the time.
        At his retirement the electrical workers union was the nation's sixth largest, with 869,000 members. The only unions with more members were the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, the National Education Association, the United Food and Commercial Workers, the United Automobile Workers and the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees.
        During Mr. Pillard's presidency the membership of his union reached one million. It is now about 750,000.
        The union is the biggest of the electrical unions and represents workers in utilities and in the broadcasting, railroad and construction industries. When Mr. Pillard was president of the union, he also was a vice president and a member of the executive council of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
        Mr. Pillard could be contentious. In a letter to The Wall Street Journal in 1984 he asserted, ''Blaming labor for the rising costs of nuclear power plants is like placing the blame for the Johnstown flood on a leaky faucet in Philadelphia.''
        He was also sometimes outspoken about politics. In 1982 he declared that the Reagan Administration had ''given new life to the extremists of the right -- the very same forces that organized labor threw out of the Government 50 years ago.''
        While Mr. Pillard was president, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers won a lawsuit against the Nixon Administration about elements in the Federal wage-control system that, the union contended, penalized the working poor.
        Mr. Pillard retired after a rancorous dispute between his union and the Communications Workers of America about negotiations on new contracts with regional telephone companies and the AT&T Corporation.
        Workers from the electrical workers union continued to work at AT&T factories while the communications workers were on strike. The C.W.A.'s president, Morton Bahr, later contended that Mr. Pillard's union had committed ''fratricide'' in the labor movement. Mr. Bahr told reporters that both unions could have gained more from AT&T if they had presented a united front.
        Engineering News-Record, a McGraw-Hill publication, said in 1996 that before Mr. Pillard was succeeded as president by John J. Barry, ''few things better symbolized intransigence in the building trades than Charles H. Pillard'' and his position on a labor issue involving 10-hour work shifts.
        Mr. Pillard served in the Army in the Pacific and Europe in World War II, rising to captain. He won awards from the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith and other organizations, and served on several Federal panels, including a Presidential advisory committee for trade negotiations and a Presidential committee on employment of people with disabilities.
        He is survived by his wife of 55 years, the former Helen May Bratten; two daughters, Jane Carollo of Orchard Park and Linda Voye of Amherst, N.Y.; two brothers, Francis Bieber of Tonawanda, N.Y., and Jack Bieber of Cheektowaga, N.Y.; a sister, Gloria Cook of Houston, five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      