
        Mary Lutyens, a well-born English  biographer and novelist who was applauded by critics on both sides of the Atlantic, died on April 9 in London. She was 90 and lived in London and the English county of Dorset.
        Miss Lutyens (pronounced LUTCH-ens) was a daughter of Sir Edwin Landseer Lutyens (1869-1944), the British architect who planned New Delhi and many of its Government buildings, including the Viceroy's palace. Her mother was Lady Emily Lutyens, daughter of the First Earl of Lytton, a poet and a Viceroy of India.
        Not surprisingly, Mary Lutyens was worldly as well as literary. In London, The Independent noted,  ''She was famous for her dry martinis and her elegance and, although unmusical, danced alone to Cole Porter for exercise.'' As a writer, she won praise for the accuracy and readability of her biographies, which included ''Millais and the Ruskins'' (1968). Sir John Everett Millais (1829-96) was a handsome British painter and a founder of the Pre-Raphaelite movement in Britain. John Ruskin (1819-1900) was a British social theorist and critic whose wife, Effie, fell in love with Millais.
        Writing in The New York Times Book Review, Carolyn G. Heilbrun noted: ''Mary Lutyens has now restored to England the Davis Cup for the editing of Victorian letters -- a trophy long in American hands. In 'Millais and the Ruskins,' combining exemplary scholarship with editing that is at once tactful and informative, she uses many previously unpublished letters by eminent Victorians to tell a passionate and moving story. Her book will be equally valuable to the Victorian scholar and to what used to be called the general reader.''
        Miss Lutyens was the editor of a related book-length collection of letters, ''Young Mrs. Ruskin in Venice,'' which was described in The Times Book Review by another critic, Joan Evans, as ''admirably and discreetly edited.''
        Miss Lutyens also wrote several authoritative books about the Indian spiritual philosopher Jiddu Krishnamurt (1895-1986). They include ''Krishnamurti: The Open Door'' (1991).
        Her more than a dozen works of fiction include ''Cleo'' (1974), which Martin Levin in The Times Book Review called a ''flawless tour de force.''
        She also wrote fiction under the pseudonym Esther Wyndham.
        Miss Lutyens was born in London and educated privately before attending Queens College, London. She  became a writer in her early 20's.
        She married Anthony Sewell in 1930 and the couple were divorced in 1945. Later that year she married J. G. Links, an art expert known as Joe, who died in 1997.
        She is survived by a daughter from her first marriage, Amanda.
      