
        Harold Greenwald, a psychotherapist whose doctoral dissertation on the psychology of prostitutes evolved into a best-selling 1958 book, ''The Call Girl,'' and a Hollywood movie, ''Girl of the Night,'' died on Friday at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 88.
        Though Dr. Greenwald was best known by the public for his studies of prostitutes, his reputation among psychologists stemmed largely from his development of direct decision therapy, an offshoot of rational emotive behavior therapy.
        ''What he founded was the opposite of psychoanalysis, which is what he started in,'' said Albert Ellis, the  Manhattan psychologist who developed rational emotive behavior therapy. ''He said you make a decision to upset yourself; you don't get upset because of something that happened in your childhood.''
        Dr. Greenwald was born on July 28, 1910, in Manhattan. After graduating from the City College of New York in 1933, he worked for the city housing authority and the city planning board. During World War II, he was a civilian instructor for the Army Air Forces.
        In 1956, while in his mid-40's, Dr. Greenwald earned a doctorate from Columbia University. Despite his late start, he quickly gained prominence in psychoanalytic circles as a leading student of the Freud disciple Theodore Reik. He became president of the Freudian-leaning National Psychological Association for Psychoanalysis early in his career.
        But Dr. Greenwald's voluble, outgoing personality did not lend itself to long sessions of quiet listening, so he developed direct decision therapy. In his new view, decisions were the key to understanding personality and dysfunctional patterns. The individual, he believed, was free to change decisions throughout life. Even happiness, he argued, could be made as a decision.
        Dr. Greenwald wrote numerous books during his career, including ''Great Cases in Psychoanalysis'' (1969), ''Emotional Maturity in Love and Marriage,'' with Lucy Freeman (1961), ''The Sex-Life Letters,'' with his wife, Ruth Greenwald, (1972), ''Active Psychotherapy'' (1974), ''Direct Decision Therapy'' (1974) and ''The Happy Person'' (1984).
        In 1958, Dr. Greenwald became famous upon the publication of his first book, ''The Call Girl: A Social and Analytic Study'' (Ballentine), which began as his doctoral dissertation and was reissued as ''The Elegant Prostitute.'' The book sold more than a million copies and was translated into seven languages. In 1960, the book was also the basis for the film, ''Girl of the Night,'' starring Anne Francis and Lloyd Nolan.
        ''The book was an academic book,'' Dr. Ellis said, ''but it sold mainly because of the stories it told about prostitutes.''
        Dr. Greenwald's research, which consisted of interviews with 16 prostitutes, 6 of whom were in analysis with him and 10 who were interviewed by three of the women in analysis, humanized the women and explained why they chose to work as prostitutes. Most, he wrote, came from unhappy childhoods and felt little love from either parent.
        And, according to an article in Time magazine in 1958 about one of his books, most prostitutes also had a variety of defense mechanisms, from self-abasement (masochism) to denial (saying it was not sex they were having with clients) to projection (saying other women would barter sex for money if they were not so inhibited) and reaction formation (acting overly heterosexual when they were homosexual, or overly aggressive when they were actually passive).
        The book helped to make Dr. Greenwald a popular speaker, drawing standing-room-only crowds at the height of his career at American Psychological Association presentations and workshops.
        ''It was kind of mildly embarrassing having your father being an expert on prostitution,'' said Dr. Greenwald's son, David, who lives in Carversville, Pa.
        Dr. Greenwald taught at Hofstra University, in 1968 and 1969, and at the University of Bergen in Norway as a Visiting Fulbright Fellow. He also taught at United States International University in San Diego and became a Distinguished Professor there in 1975. He served as president of the Academy of Psychologists in Marital and Family Therapy and as president of the division of Humanistic Psychology of the American Psychological Association.
        Dr. Greenwald's wife preceded him in death.
        Besides his son David, Dr. Greenwald is survived by a brother, Michael Kidd of Los Angeles; another  son, Robert, of Los Angeles, and six grandchildren.
      