
        Sam Shaw, a film producer and photojournalist famous for his photographs of Marilyn Monroe standing over a subway grate with her skirt billowing, died on Monday at a hospital in Westwood, N.J. He was 87 and lived in Tappan, N.Y.
        Born and reared on New York's Lower East Side, Mr. Shaw's artistic talents were evident even as a young boy when, without money to buy supplies, he would gather up tar from the streets and make sculptures of  animals. By the time he finished high school, he had turned to painting and was offered either a scholarship to study at the Pratt Institute or a studio in which to work. He chose the latter, which he sometimes shared with the artist Romare Bearden.
        After a brief stint as the art director for the Brooklyn Eagle, Mr. Shaw began his career as a photojournalist with Colliers magazine in the 1940's. Alongside the journalist Harry Henderson, he traveled through the United States to create memorable photographs of West Virginian miners, Southern sharecroppers and New Orleans jazz musicians at work in their environs. His name became synonomous with the covers of Life and Look in the 1950's and 60's.
        Gradually, he moved into film. In 1951, he created the photograph of Marlon Brando in a ripped T-shirt that came to symbolize ''A Streetcar Named Desire.''
        It was while shooting Mr. Brando on the set of ''Viva Zapata!'' in 1952 that he met Monroe. A struggling contract player, she had been assigned to drive Mr. Shaw to film locations, and their friendship quickly ignited.
        Her star had risen by 1955, when Mr. Shaw was hired to shoot a poster for Billy Wilder's ''Seven Year Itch.'' Before a crowd of thousands, Monroe re-enacted the scene from Wilder's script in which she left the Trans Lux theater on Lexington Avenue and crossed a subway grate, as a rush of air from an oncoming train caused the skirt of her white dress to fly up. ''You've got to give Marilyn credit, too,'' Mr. Shaw said in an interview years later of that moment. ''She was very inventive. She loved the camera.''
        In recent years, Mr. Shaw had filed a $100 million suit againist his son, Larry Shaw of Piermont, in which he claimed that his son, then acting as his agent, made deals to illegally reproduce images of Monroe and pocketed the proceeds. His son denied the accusations, saying he had permission.
        In 1961 Mr. Shaw tried his hand at producing with ''Paris Blues,'' starring Paul Newman and Sidney Poitier. He went on to produce films for John Cassavetes, including ''Husbands,'' ''A Woman Under the Influence,'' ''Opening Night,'' ''Gloria'' and ''Love Streams.''
        His survivors include his daughters, Meta Shaw Stevens of Manhattan and Edith Shaw Marcus of Tappan, N.Y.; seven grandchildren, and a great-grandchild.
      