
        Thomas H. Davis, the founder of Piedmont Aviation, which grew to employ more than 20,000 people before it was acquired by USAir Group, died on Thursday at a hospital in Winston-Salem, N.C. He was 81 and lived in Winston-Salem.
        Mr. Davis was known for walking through his company's repair shops, asking the mechanics if all was fine. Until last year, he had gone to work at the same place he had for decades, in offices next to Smith Reynolds Airport in Winston-Salem -- only about three miles from where he was born.
        As a child, Mr. Davis was fascinated by flying. When Charles Lindbergh visited Winston-Salem after his trans-Atlantic flight in 1927, Mr. Davis built a model of Lindbergh's Spirit of St. Louis.
        By the time he was in high school, Mr. Davis had convinced his father to help pay for flying lessons. In 1934, at 16, he made his first solo flight in a Taylor E-2 Cub. The tiny plane had a canvas shell, two seats and a 37-horsepower engine.
        ''One of the main things I remember about it was the total surprise at how quickly the airplane would get off the ground and how fast it would climb without the instructor in it,'' Mr. Davis told a reporter from The Wilmington (N.C.) Star-News in 1995.
        ''Before the airplane rolled very far, it was off the ground and climbing like a scared duck,'' he said.
        After high school, he moved to Arizona, to study medicine at the University of Arizona and to help relieve the asthma from which he suffered all his life. While a college student, he gave flying lessons in his spare time.
        He quit college after spending the summer of 1939 back in Winston-Salem selling small planes for Camel City Flying Service, a company owned by L. S. McGinnis, his former flight instructor.
        A year later, Mr. Davis, then in his early 20's, became the company's principal stockholder, changed its name to Piedmont Aviation Inc. and began expanding. Over the next year, the company sold 100 planes.
        During World War II, Piedmont's sales slowed, but the company quickly found a new niche by setting up training schools for military pilots in Greensboro and Winston-Salem. With that change, the company of fewer than 10 employees quickly grew to employ more than 100.
        But with the end of the war, Mr. Davis lost most of his customers, and he worried about having to let his workers go.
        ''Just because the war was over,'' he recalled last year, ''I didn't want to turn them out in the cold.''
        So Mr. Davis decided that the company would change its focus again and start making commercial flights. In 1947, Piedmont Airlines, a division of Piedmont Aviation, was formed. And on Feb. 20, 1948, the company's first commercial flight -- Flight 41 -- taxied onto the runway in Wilmington with Mr. Davis on board. After making five stops, the Douglas DC-3 landed in Cincinnati.
        Because Piedmont was a regional airline, it had a disadvantage to overcome. In the 1960's, its average route was still less than 100 miles, which increased costs because of the frequent takeoffs and landings. To save money, the company made lightning-fast turnaround times at the terminal its specialty.
        To save time in turning a flight around after a landing, the pilot would kill one engine but keep the other running as passengers exited and others came on board. Even the co-pilot helped with luggage. When a plane did not need to be refueled, it was able to spend less than five minutes on the ground.
        In the decades that followed, Mr. Davis helped turn Piedmont into one of the nation's most profitable airlines. By the time USAir Group bought Piedmont Aviation in 1987, the company had 21,500 employees and annual revenue of $2.5 billion.
        Mr. Davis was also known for his philanthropy. He was a lifetime trustee at Wake Forest University and served on the board at Wake Forest University Baptist Medical Center. He was active at the Wake Forest Baptist Church and a supporter of the American Lung Association of North Carolina.
        In 1984, he received the Daniel Guggenheim Medal for his achievement in aeronautics, an award that had gone to such aviation pioneers as Lindbergh, Mr. Davis's childhood hero.
        Mr. Davis's wife of 41 years, Nancy Teague Davis, died in 1985. He is survived by five children: Thomas Davis Jr., George Franklin Teague Davis and Nancy Davis McGlothlin, all of Winston-Salem, and Winifred Davis Pierce of Weldon, N.C., and Juliana Davis West of Raleigh, N.C. He is also survived by a brother, Egbert L. Davis Jr., and a sister, Pauline Perry, both of Winston-Salem, and 13 grandchildren.
        Until last year, when he became ill, Mr. Davis continued to fly planes,  sometimes in the Taylor E-2, now restored, that he had flown his first solo in.
        ''I still enjoy flying around and looking at the countryside,'' he said in 1995. ''It's a lot of fun.''
      