
        Morey Bernstein, the Colorado businessman who pursued an amateur interest in hypnotism all the way back to 19th-century Ireland as he coaxed a young mother into recounting a previous life as a woman named Bridey Murphy, died on April 2 at his apartment in Pueblo, Colo. He was 79.
        His family said the cause was an irregular heart beat.
        At a time when hypnotism is old hat, the occult is fashionable and a Shirley MacLaine can blithely claim memory of a dozen incarnations, it is hard to imagine the sensation created in 1956 when Mr. Bernstein published ''The Quest for Bridey Murphy,'' an account of how he had repeatedly hypnotized a woman he called Ruth Simmons, taking her farther and farther back into her childhood until she went over the hump, as he put it, and emerged with a thick Irish brogue describing a presumably previous life in eerie and persuasive detail.
        Within months of the book's publication in January 1956, it created a cultural brush fire, elevating hypnotism into something of a national mania and laying the groundwork for a later surge in interest in reincarnation and channeling.
        Publication started with an optimistic initial press run of 10,000 copies, but sales were so brisk that by the middle of March, 200,000 copies were in print, though ''Bridey'' was not even at the halfway mark of its 26-week run on the best-seller list of The New York Times. The book, reissued in 1965, was eventually published in 30 languages in 34 countries.
        Along with the inevitable ''come as you were parties,'' and cartoons in which parents greeted newborns with ''welcome back,'' the book, bought mainly by those who rarely read books, touched off a 25-fold increase in the sale of works on hypnotism. Pretty soon a vast crop of newly minted amateur hypnotists started performing at parties all over the country, invariably getting eager subjects to recall all sorts of previous lives in chilling detail, suggesting to psychologists and other skeptics that highly impressionable subjects were so eager to please their hypnotists that the merest urging that they focus their minds on past lives led them to ransack their unconscious minds for stray childhood memories and reassemble them into a more or less convincing former life.
        By the time ''The Search for Bridey Murphy'' came out as a movie late in 1956, with Louis Hayward as Mr. Bernstein and Teresa Wright as Ruth Simmons, such skepticism was ascendant, especially after investigators in Ireland had failed to find any record of Bridey Murphy or her family and a Chicago newspaper series had found many parallels between incidents in the real Ruth Simmons's girlhood in 20th-century Chicago and those she attributed in her trances to a previous life.
        Although Bridey believers concede that the various investigations failed to prove that she had lived as she had been described, they also insist that the investigations failed to prove she had not.
        For his part, Mr. Bernstein never wavered in his belief that his subject really had a previous life in Ireland, but then he came from a family that had taken a lot on faith.
        There was, for example, his grandfather, Morris Bernstein, whose belief in America as the promised land led him to flee the pogroms of Russia and make his way to New York, where he stayed just long enough to learn, as family legend has it, that junk was the immigrant's calling, that every Jewish immigrant in New York was already a junk dealer and that he should go west to seek his fortune.
        When he heard later that the only steel mill west of the Mississippi was in Pueblo, he went there and opened a junkyard with scrap metal as a specialty in 1890. By the time his grandson entered the business some 60 years later, after graduating with honors from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania in 1941, his father and uncle had renamed it Bernstein Brothers and turned it into a thriving business dealing in heavy equipment, plumbing supplies and the like.
        Morey Bernstein made it flourish even more, developing a large mail order operation specializing in ranch equipment and supplies.
        For all Mr. Bernstein's business success, the incident that would change his life came when he went to a party in the early 1940's and saw a friend perform hypnotism as a parlor trick. Mr. Bernstein was so impressed that he soon became an amateur hypnotist himself, reading everything he could on the subject and hypnotizing his country club friends to a fare-thee-well, sometimes just for the novelty of it, sometimes in an effort to cure chronic headaches and other ailments.
        As soon as Mr. Bernstein hypnotized Ginni Tighe, as she was then known, the 27-year-old wife of a local car dealer, he knew she was the best subject he had ever worked with. After some experimenting with age regression, the two agreed to see if she could remember anything before her birth, and in a tape recorded session on Nov. 29, 1952, she obliged.
        Her recollections then and in a series of other sessions (ended the next year after she became pregnant with her third child) became the basis for the 1956 book, with Mrs. Tighe disguised as Ruth Simmons.
        Known as Virginia Morrow after a later marriage, she was never convinced that she had been Bridey Murphy but retained an open mind until 1995, when she died in a Denver suburb, perhaps for the second time.
        Mr. Bernstein, who gave up hypnotism after discovering Bridey Murphy, sold his business in 1970, prospered in the stock market using the techniques developed by Benjamin Graham and became a major Pueblo philanthropist, donating land for the city's convention center and an arts center and giving millions to the University of Southern Colorado.
        He is survived by a brother, Robert, of Bethesda, Md.
      