
        Dr. Mary D. Ainsworth, a developmental psychologist whose work revolutionized the understanding of the bond between mothers and infants, died in Charlottesville, Va., on March 21. She was 85.
        Dr. Ainsworth's research contributed significantly to attachment theory, which emphasizes the importance of intimate human relationships, or attachments, in shaping children's development.
        Dr. Ainsworth, who lived in Charlottesville, worked closely with Dr. John Bowlby, the British child psychiatrist whose work on separation, attachment and loss provided the foundation for attachment theory. She carried on his legacy in the United States, conducting systematic studies of attachments between mothers and infants.
        ''No one had ever looked at that'' before Dr. Ainsworth's work, said Jude A. Cassidy, an associate professor of psychology at the University of Maryland at College Park. ''There had been little empirical observation.''
        Dr. Ainsworth also developed methods for assessing the quality of the mother-infant bond. Attachment theory holds that infants need a ''secure'' attachment to thrive, and that ''anxious'' attachments can lead to problems later in life. ''She looked at a way of measuring which babies were securely attached and which were not,'' Dr. Cassidy said.
        Though much of Dr. Ainsworth's research was for an academic audience, it also had a practical side. She argued, on the basis of her research, that picking up a crying baby does not spoil the child; rather, it reduces crying in the future.
        ''That was a huge controversy over that,'' Dr. Cassidy said. ''It had been thought that picking up a baby spoiled it and led to more crying. Instead, it teaches the baby that the world is a responsive place and leads to less crying long term.''
        Psychologists continue to debate the issue.
        Dr. Ainsworth's research also found that feeding an infant on demand rather than on a strict schedule led to a more secure attachment between infant and mother.
        ''These findings had a big impact on how pediatricians advised mothers in the second half of the 20th century,'' said Robert S. Marvin, a professor of psychiatry at the University of Virginia.
        Mary D. Salter was born in Glendale, Ohio, on Dec. 1, 1913, and spent most of her childhood in Toronto. She received her bachelor's degree in 1935, her master's degree in 1936 and her Ph.D. in 1939, all from the University of Toronto. She then was a lecturer in the university's psychology department until 1942, when she was commissioned in the Canadian Women's Army Corps, attaining the rank of major. She returned to the university as an assistant professor in 1946.
        In 1950 she married Leonard Ainsworth, a graduate student in psychology. Shortly after their marriage she moved to London, where she began a lifelong partnership with Dr. Bowlby, who was investigating the impact on institutionalized children of prolonged separation from their mothers in early childhood. Dr. Ainsworth later moved to Kampala, Uganda, where she conducted one of the first studies of mother-infant interaction in the first year of life.
        In 1955 she moved to Baltimore, where she joined the faculty of Johns Hopkins University. She became a full professor there in 1963, a year after she began her study of infant-mother attachment. In the study, she and her researchers conducted four-hour home visits every three weeks for a year with 26 mothers and their infants. It took four years to collect the data and 10 years to analyze it.
        ''The depth has never been matched,'' Dr. Cassidy said. ''No one has done it as intensively.''
        In 1974 Dr. Ainsworth, who was divorced from her husband in 1960, moved to Charlottesville, home of the University of Virginia, where she was a professor from 1975 to 1984. She retired as professor emeritus in 1984 and remained professionally active until 1992.
        She wrote several books and many academic papers, and was a Fellow of the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford in 1966 and 1967. She also received several awards from professional organizations. Last year she was awarded the Gold Medal Award for Life Achievement in the Science of Psychology from the American Psychological Foundation.
        She is survived by a sister, Dorothy Sloan of Vancouver, British Columbia.
      