
        Raghubir Singh, who photographed the pulsating expanse of India in all its varied shades and hues, died on Sunday in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 58.
        He died after collapsing, apparently from a heart attack, said his companion, Gwen Darien.
        A retrospective exhibition of photographs taken by Mr. Singh over the last 30 years, ''River of Color: The India of Raghubir Singh,'' is on view at the Art Institute of Chicago. A large book of the same title containing pictures from nearly every corner of India, Mr. Singh's last book and 13th collection, was recently published by Phaidon Press.
        Mr. Singh was well read, intense and a man of strong opinions on a wide range of cultural subjects. A  patient artist, he once spent a year photographing the change of seasons in the Himalayas.
        He had lived and worked in London, Paris and New York, but as he made clear in his photographs and his occasional writings, his lifelong subject was India and the fundamental sensibility through which he perceived it was Indian. He had, after all, been steeped in what he called the river of color during a childhood enriched by rituals like the springtime festival Holi, in which women sprayed men with colored water. He once recalled that the gold threads in his mother's blue sari ''shone like stars.''
        ''Unlike those in the West, Indians have always intuitively seen and controlled color,'' he wrote in the introduction to his last book, adding that while Indians have come to admire the black-and-white art of the West, ''the Indian photographer cannot produce the angst and alienation rooted in the works of Western photographers such as Brassai, Bill Brandt, Robert Frank and Diane Arbus.''
        He noted that Henri Cartier-Bresson, the French photographer whom he came to know, described color photography by using ''unprintable French Army language.'' And while he acknowledged being indebted to Cartier-Bresson for his emphasis on visual surprise and the spontaneity that could be attained with small cameras, he could no more disavow color as a medium than he could reject the food and smells he had known all his life. All of his books, among them works devoted to Kashmir, Calcutta, Bombay, Varanasi (also known as Benares), the Ganges and India's Grand Trunk Road, are filled exclusively with color images.
        Beyond showing the rich palette of India's landscape and peoples, many of his pictures also reveal an Indian way of seeing, in that they simultaneously capture several equally important knots of activity in the manner of old miniatures, rather than leading the viewer's eye to some primary focal point. In a polytheistic country, most things have many levels and lots of things happen at once.  In this respect, Mr. Singh's photographs have much in common with the fury of the bazaar and the functional mayhem of Indian roads and villages.
        Mr. Singh came to his views naturally from his childhood in a family of Rajput aristocrats in Jaipur, whose wealth and power were fading as India became an independent republic.
        He wrote of the new lives his family members were fashioning: ''My father's Arab stallions were sold off, the horse carriages began to rot. Our joint family house broke up, our large haveli house became fragmented. I saw no future in staying.''
        He traveled to the other end of India, to Calcutta, intent upon becoming a tea planter like an older  brother. No one would hire him so he spent his time taking pictures, a passion he had pursued since high school  when his mother gave him a camera. At one point he showed his photographs to Satyajit Ray, the Bengali film director, whose response to them was, ''No guts.'' As the men became friends and as the filmmaker saw more of Mr. Singh's work, he  became more admiring.
        By this time Mr. Singh, who is survived by a daughter, Devika, of Paris, had begun to earn a living taking photographs for Indian and foreign publications, among them  National Geographic, Time and The New York Times.
        Mr. Ray showed Mr. Singh his diary, in which decades earlier the Bengali writer Rabindranath Tagore had written, ''I have spent a fortune traveling to distant shores and looked at lofty mountains and boundless oceans, and yet, I haven't found the time to take a few steps from my home, to look at a single dewdrop, on a single blade of grass.''
        The inscription impressed Mr. Singh greatly, he said, and he referred to it in his introduction to ''River of Color.'' The India that he set out to photograph, he wrote, ''was the India in the dewdrop that Tagore talked of.'' He wrote that he had to dive into the dewdrop and learn of India's art, morality and culture while at the same time diving into the history of photography, ''which is wholly Western.''
        Still, he concluded: ''Wherever I have dived and come up for air, the breath I take is deeply Indian because all my working life I have photographed my country. In doing so, I have been carried by the flow of the inner river of India's life and culture.''
        Correction:  April 21, 1999, Wednesday  An obituary of the Indian photographer Raghubir Singh yesterday misstated his age. He was 56, not 58.
      