
        Boxcar Willie, a country singer and songwriter who fashioned himself as a hobo, died on Monday at his home in Branson, Mo. He was 67.
        The cause was leukemia, his family said.
        With an image built through performances and television commercials, Boxcar Willie turned a lifelong fascination with trains, train songs and hobos into a career. He was a country traditionalist whose trademark was an imitation of a train whistle and whose most popular song was ''Train Medley.'' In 1986 he settled in Branson, the emerging country music center, and became a mainstay there, performing year-round at the Boxcar Willie Theater and often playing six shows a day. One of his hobo outfits now hangs in the Country Music Hall of Fame.
        Boxcar Willie was the name adopted by Lecil Travis Martin, who was born in Sterrett, Tex., in 1931. His father was a railroad man who played the fiddle, and the family home was said to be six feet from the tracks. He began performing in jamborees across Texas, and at 16 he was appearing regularly in the Big D Jamboree in Dallas. Then he enlisted in the United States Air Force, where he spent two decades.
        When he retired from the Air Force, he went into radio with the ''Cowtown Hoedown,'' which was broadcast from Fort Worth. He began performing in the 1950's as Marty Martin. In the mid-60's in Lincoln, Neb., he saw a hobo on a freight train who looked like Willie Nelson. He wrote a song about it, ''Boxcar Willie,'' and went on to adopt the name and image for himself. Onstage he wore overalls, an old jacket, a crumpled hat and two days' worth of stubble.
        He kept working as a disk jockey until the mid-70's, when he went into performing full time. Mr. Nelson made a guest appearance on an album he made in 1976. After a 1977 deal with a Scottish booking agent,  Boxcar Willie began touring Britain regularly. He became the most successful country music performer there. He also began appearing on the country circuit in the United States and in 1981 joined the Grand Ole Opry. He was named World Ambassador for the Hobos at a hobo convention in Britt, Iowa, in 1981.
        Bypassing mainstream record labels, Boxcar Willie marketed his 1982 album ''King of the Road'' (Suffolk Marketing) through television commercials. He was a regular on the television show ''Hee Haw'' in the early 80's, and appeared in ''Sweet Dreams,'' the 1985 movie based on Patsy Cline's life.
        In Branson he became one of the town's most dependable tourist attractions, operating a motel and a train museum along with the theater. The Associated Press reported that flags are to be flown at half staff in Branson until his funeral this weekend. He is survived by his wife, Lloene, and three children, Tammy, Lorri and Larry.
      