
        Arbit Blatas, a Lithuanian-born artist whose career bridged New York, Venice and the Paris of Picasso, Matisse, Braque, Dufy, Bonnard, Vlaminck, Utrillo, Soutine and Cocteau -- all of whom he rendered in paint, clay or bronze -- died yesterday at his studio home in Manhattan. He was 90.
        A stylish dresser and prolific sculptor, stage designer and vivid colorist whose works are seen in plazas, museums and galleries the world over, Mr. Blatas continued to paint until a series of hospitalizations in recent months. His last book of paintings, ''An Artist's Venice'' (Vendome Press), was published in 1997.
        Some of Mr. Blatas's portraits hang in the School of Paris halls of the new Museum of the Thirties, opened last December in Boulogne-Billancourt outside Paris. With his wife, Regina Resnik, the mezzo soprano and stage director, Mr. Blatas was to have traveled to his native city, Kaunas, this fall for a planned major retrospective.
        He is particularly known for his 1979 series of seven bronze tablets on a wall of Venice's Campo del Nuovo Ghetto commemorating the night of Dec. 5, 1943, when the first 200 of the city's Jews in the old foundry district were rounded up and marched out for deportation and death. Another casting was later mounted in New York in Dag Hammarskjold Plaza, facing the United Nations. Mr. Blatas also did the stark black and white drawings that introduced segments of the acclaimed 1978 television series ''The Holocaust.''
        With his penchant for European fashion and artist's eye for splashes of color, the debonair and polyglot Mr. Blatas (he spoke Russian, Polish, German, Yiddish, Hebrew, French, Italian and English) kept a busy social schedule with Ms. Resnik, who had a long career at the Metropolitan Opera. Over icy vodka and canapes, they also frequently entertained in their skylit atelier in the West 50's, where Mr. Blatas had settled after fleeing the Nazis in 1941 and where the floors and walls were crowded with his art and posters of her opera triumphs.
        Missing, however, was a trove of as many as 200 Blatas paintings stolen from a West Side storage space in 1994 and never recovered, despite investigations by the police and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
        Born in 1909 to Russian parents in Kaunas, Mr. Blatas, an only child, was an accomplished painter by 15. He soon left for Paris where he became the youngest member of the eminent group of French and emigre artists that became known as the School of Paris. Among his companions was Chaim Soutine, a fellow Lithuanian, whom Mr. Blatas captured in bronze a half century later for a statue in the Montparnasse square where they used to meet. He also produced a life-size bronze of the sculptor Jacques Lipchitz that stands in the garden of the Hotel de Ville in Boulogne. Lipchitz, in return, did a bust of him.
        In 1978, the French Government made him a chevalier and later officier of the Legion of Honor for his contributions to French art as a member of the School of Paris.
        After escaping the Nazis and settling in New York, Mr. Blatas returned after the war to Paris where, with Picasso's help, he found his father, a survivor of the Holocaust, languishing in a hospital. His mother had died in the German concentration camp of Stutthof in Poland.
        In New York, his gallery shows drew favorable notice for what one reviewer in The New York Times called ''his quick lyrical impressions'' and another his ''blunt realist manner ruffled by expressionist brushwork.'' He also produced a celebrated series of paintings on ''The Threepenny Opera,'' then in a long run at the Theater de Lys in Greenwich Village.
        Mr. Blatas, whose first marriage had ended many years before, met Ms. Resnik in 1971 when she directed a film version of ''Carmen'' in Hamburg. They married in 1975. In addition to Ms. Resnik, he is survived by a daughter from his first marriage, Dorothee Radji of Gouvieux, France.
        Working with Ms. Resnik, Mr. Blatas designed nine productions for the operatic stage, including ''Elektra'' for the Teatro La Fenice in Venice, ''Salome'' for the Teatro San Carlos in Lisbon, ''Falstaff'' for the Grand Theater in Warsaw and ''The Queen of Spades'' for the Sydney Opera House.
        He and Ms. Resnik usually spent part of every year in Venice, where Mr. Blatas evoked the city in paintings of bright orange, red and inky black. ''The surface of Venice is constantly metamorphosing,'' he told the writer Erica Jong in 1986. ''Painting Venice is almost like being a restorer, peeling off the layers to find the picture after picture underneath.''
      