
        Donald John Bruckmann, a New York investment banker who was the board chairman of the Animal Medical Center, a trustee and former chairman of the New York Botanical Garden and an enthusiastic gardener, sailor and conservationist, died Wednesday at his home on Manhattan's Upper East Side. He was 70 and also lived in East Hampton, N.Y.
        He had been ill with prostate cancer, said Thomas J. Hubbard, his longtime friend and successor as chairman of the Botanical Garden.
        Mr. Bruckmann retired in 1983 as president of Dean Witter Reynolds International. At his death he also was a director of the historic Garden Conservancy.
        A native of Montclair, N.J., he graduated from Lafayette College in Easton, Pa., in 1950 and served as a lieutenant in the Army during the Korean War. He graduated from Columbia University Law School in 1955 and worked at the New York firm of Simpson, Thatcher & Bartlett until 1960.
        He served as a director of the Wall Street firms of Smith Barney & Company and Dean Witter Reynolds before being named chief executive  and president of Dean Witter Reynolds International in 1974. From then until 1996 he was a director and financial adviser at Bank Audi (USA).
        He was a breeder of shelties -- Shetland sheep dogs that look like a smaller version of collies -- and his association with the Animal Medical Center dated to 1976, when he sought midwifery assistance. He felt that all life was precious and that pets deserved the same level of technology and care available to people.
        He became a supporter and joined the board of the center in 1980. Elected chairman in 1996, he led the hospital through a period of renewal.
        Mr. Bruckmann became a director of the New York Botanical Garden, in the Bronx, in 1974 and served as chairman from 1977 to 1987. Under his stewardship the Enid A. Haupt Conservatory was reborn, the Peggy Rockefeller Rose Garden was planned, a new Children's Garden was dedicated, and the Botanical Garden set up its Institute of Economic Botany.
        He created a two-acre garden of his own on Lily Pond Lane in the Hamptons, complete with a pond and stretching from the road to the dunes. The property is included in sightseeing tours by garden clubs.
        He was a former vice chairman of the Asia Society and past chairman of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Design.
        A Republican, he served as vice chairman of the Pennsylvania Avenue Corporation during the Nixon Administration.
        Mr. Bruckmann is survived by his wife of 42 years, Polly Thudium Bruckmann.
      