
        Julian David Cole, a professor at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y., and an internationally acknowledged expert on the applied-mathematics technique known as perturbation, died April 17 at Albany Medical Center Hospital. He was 74 and lived in Loudonville, N.Y.
        The cause was multiple myeloma, his family said.
        Perturbation is a powerful and widely used tool of applied mathematics that has practical applications in heat flow, elasticity, wave propagation and problems with solidification in materials processing.  Dr. Cole was an originator of singular perturbation techniques, which involve solving problems dealing with two or more scales of measurement. He also wrote ''Perturbation Methods in Applied Mathematics,'' a classic textbook first published in 1968 and translated into many languages.
        The National Academy of Science recognized his accomplishments with its Award in Applied Mathematics and Numerical Analysis in 1995. It cited his ''fundamental contributions'' in those categories, adding, ''His work is characterized by its deep physical and mathematical insights.''
        Dr. Cole's research encompassed basic theories of aerodynamics and fluid mechanics, particularly in transonic flow, which is fundamentally important in airplane and turbine design.
        Julian Cole was born in Brooklyn and graduated with a degree in mechanical engineering from Cornell University in 1944. He earned a Ph.D. in aeronautics and mathematics in 1949 at the California Institute of Technology, where he was on the faculty until 1969, rising to professor.
        Before he joined Rensselaer Polytechnic in 1982, he was chairman of the department of applied science and engineering and a professor of mathematics at the University of California at Los Angeles. At Rensselaer, he was the Margaret Darrin Distinguished Professor of Applied Mathematics.
        Survivors include his wife, Dr. Susan Cole, a professor of mathematics at Rensselaer; four sons, David, Benjamin, Thomas and Brenden; three daughters, Jennifer, Melody and Amy Rose, and a brother, Gerald Cole.
      