
        Peter Pellegrino, who became so skystruck growing up in the Lindbergh era that he devoted his life to aviation and pursued his interest back to the very dawn of manned flight, died on March 26 at a hospital near his home in Newtown, Pa. He was 82 and had been a founder of the Balloon Federation of America.
        A native of Manhattan who grew up on Long Island, Mr. Pellegrino was hardly the only child of the 1920's to be captivated by Charles A. Lindbergh's solo flight to Paris. Others managed to outgrow their fascination. Mr. Pellegrino, who haunted Roosevelt Field and thrilled to the sight of the Graf Zeppelin, did not.
        His mother, an Italian immigrant with Old World notions about careers, persuaded him to study business at New York University and get a job on Wall Street. But he soon bolted, taking a 75 percent pay cut to join the Army Air Corps in the late 1930's.
        Learning to fly in a World War I Jenny, Mr. Pellegrino earned his pilot's rating, but a ruptured eardrum kept him out of combat. He spent World War II training military air traffic controllers.
        After the war, he joined the forerunner of the Federal Aviation Administration, working as an air traffic controller in Philadelphia and eventually becoming tower chief at the North Philadelphia Airport.
        His job qualified him to fly in the cockpits of commercial aircraft, and in time he earned pilot ratings for numerous aircraft and even acquired his own small plane. But a newspaper article about ballooning took him in new directions and put him in the forefront of sports ballooning in America.
        Mr. Pellegrino took his first flight in 1952 and before long had become a mainstay of the Balloon Club of America, a grandiosely named group of Philadelphia enthusiasts who flew gas balloons very much like the one that had been used for the first manned flight, in France in 1783.
        As president of the club, Mr. Pellegrino was in the thick of the sport's development. But his stint as a technical adviser for the balloon sequences in the 1956 movie ''Around the World in 80 Days'' was a low-altitude task. For even the most spectacular scenes aloft, the balloon was suspended from a crane.
        Mr. Pellegrino eventually became a balloon pilot examiner for the F.A.A. and validated ballooning records for the National Aeronautic  Association, the American arm of the world governing body of the sport of aviation, the International Aeronautical Association, which is based in Paris.
        When the American organization sought to form a balloon division, Mr. Pellegrino played a key role in creating the Balloon Federation of America in 1961. The Philadelphia group and the Balloon Flyers of Akron, the only other such club in the country, were the federation's initial members. Mr. Pellegrino was its first president. The balloon federation is now made up of about 100 clubs across the country and more than 4,000 individual members, almost none of whom fly gas balloons.
        That is partly because: the hazards of hydrogen, a flammable gas, have led to prohibitive insurance costs; partly because the inert alternative, helium, is so expensive that a single flight can cost several thousand dollars, but mainly because of the development of hot-air balloons fueled by propane.
        When hot-air ballooning was perfected by Ed Yost in the 60's, gas-balloon purists turned up their noses. But largely through the efforts of Mr. Pellegrino, the International Aeronautical Association eventually recognized it as a legitimate competitive category. He became the first American delegate to the association's ballooning committee and, later, its first American president.
        For Mr. Pellegrino, attending annual meetings in Paris had an added attraction: the opportunity to go ballooning in Europe, something he did with great regularity after becoming the first American to pilot a balloon across the Alps, in 1966.
        Known mainly as a ballooning official, Mr. Pellegrino had his moments aloft, notably in 1959 when he and a friend, seeking a distance record, took off from Denver. High winds thwarted the record, but when their balloon knocked out the power lines to Colorado Springs, they had the satisfaction of watching from the air as the entire city went dark.
        After retiring from the F.A.A. in 1976, Mr. Pellegrino gave up ballooning, studied art in New York and turned out abstract paintings while indulging a long-time subsidiary interest in fast cars.
        Mr. Pellegrino, who was divorced, is survived by a son, Peter Jr., of Fogelsville, Pa.
      