
        Walter William Straley, who, as an American Telephone and Telegraph vice president for public relations in New York City, was a member of the city's Board of Education in the late 1960's, died in Seattle on Wednesday. Mr. Straley, who was 86, had moved to Seattle with his wife in 1976 and was prominent in civic affairs there.
        An advocate of school decentralization, he was involved in controversy while on the 13-member school board, to which he was named by Mayor John V. Lindsay in 1968.
        At a private meeting of the board in 1969, for instance, he initiated an unsuccessful effort to force the resignation of a minister, the Rev. Milton A. Galamison as vice president of the board. It was a move to censure Mr. Galamison while letting him remain as a board member. But it was opposed by 7 of the 10 board members who were at the meeting. Besides Mr. Straley, two other board members, Rose Shapiro and Morris Iushewitz, supported the move.
        Earlier, Mr. Galamison had announced that he intended to seek the resignations of the city's Superintendent of Schools, Bernard E. Donovan, and his chief deputy, Nathan Brown. He had charged that the two officials had resisted efforts to bring about school improvements.
        The board rejected Mr. Galamison's resolution to that effect, but Mr. Straley said Mr. Galamison's action in the matter made it impossible for the minister to work effectively with Dr. Donovan and Dr. Brown.
        In 1970, Mr. Straley was named chairman of the National Reading Council, formed to study problems in teaching reading and to mobilize public and private support for government efforts to cope with the problems.
        He was a member of the New York Urban Coalition and the Board of Overseers of Grinnell College. He was also a trustee of the National Council on Crime and Delinquency.
        In 1961, before he worked in New York, he became founding president of the former Pacific Northwest Bell in Seattle. After it was merged into US West, he took the A.T.&T. post in New York in 1966. He retired from the telephone company in 1971 and was a consultant to John Deere & Company for a time.
        Mr. Straley, who was born in Mount Pleasant, Iowa, graduated in 1933 from Grinnell College.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Rachel Worthington; three daughters, Mary Worthington of Santa Monica, Calif., and Jane Skrivan and Martha Straley, both of Seattle; two sons, Hugh, of Seattle, and John, of Sitka, Alaska; 10 grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      