
        Willi Stoph, a two-time Prime Minister of East Germany, who reluctantly helped reconcile the two Germanys and held office until days before the Berlin wall fell in 1989, died on April 13 in Berlin. He was 84.
        His death was reported in Berlin on Monday by the Party of Democratic Socialism, heir to the East German Communist Party.
        Mr. Stoph served largely in the shadow of East Germany's autocratic party chiefs, Walter Ulbricht and Erich Honecker. He was detained and put on trial in the reunited Berlin on charges related to official misconduct and to the shoot-to-kill orders against fugitives along the East German borders.
        As in the case of Mr. Honecker, the prosecution was halted because of failing health. Mr. Honecker died in self-imposed exile in Chile in 1994.
        Mr. Stoph gained worldwide recognition in 1970 by meeting with Chancellor Willy Brandt of West Germany in Erfurt, where a crowd of East Germans greeted the visitor like a conquering hero. The occasion was in keeping with Chancellor Brandt's so-called Ostpolitik, his policy of seeking better relations with the East.
        But it took another two-and-a-half years to negotiate initial ties between the two Germanys. Among the many snags to a semblance of real reconciliation was the embarrassment suffered by Prime Minister Stoph in 1984 when five of his own relatives sought political asylum in the West.
        A former bricklayer and longtime Communist, Mr. Stoph saw his star rise in a hierarchy dominated by men who had spent World War II in Soviet exile. He, in contrast, served in the German Army on the Russian front.
        Taken prisoner, he attended an ''anti-fascist school'' for German P.O.W.'s, soon impressing party functionaries as a trustworthy man and diligent worker. He was assigned to economic reconstruction in the Soviet zone of postwar Germany and rose to the top in 1952 as Interior Minister.
        In charge of internal security, he helped Soviet troops put down a workers' uprising in East Berlin the next year. He also joined the Communist Party's powerful Politburo in 1953.
        From 1956 to 1960 he was Defense Minister and presided over the formation of the People's Army after the creation of the German Democratic Republic. He then was named First Deputy Prime Minister and, in 1964, Prime Minister.
        At the time, he was seen as the heir apparent to Mr. Ulbricht, but was checked by Mr. Ulbricht's eventual successor, Mr. Honecker. Mr. Stoph apparently paid Mr. Honecker back by helping to engineer the latter's ouster in 1989, shortly before East Germany fell apart completely.
        By 1969, when Mr. Brandt, a Social Democrat, became Chancellor, the Russians and other East Europeans were eager to pursue better relations with Bonn. The Ostpolitik he outlined before Parliament matched that trend.
        It prescribed coexistence between the Germanys, and the Kremlin soon began to put pressure on the East Germans to pursue it. East Berlin initially responded with a chorus of vituperation, often led by Mr. Stoph.
        The reaction echoed the hatred between Communists and Socialist Democrats in the pre-Hitler era that crippled their efforts to stem the rise of Nazism. But Soviet impatience and feelers from all sides brought about the encounter in Erfurt and the unrestrained enthusiasm in the streets for Mr. Brandt.
        A follow-up meeting in West Germany made no progress toward a larger accord. Yet a faltering economy and disaffection among workers helped to keep things moving along as an ailing Mr. Ulbricht was relegated to a ceremonial post in 1971 and Mr. Honecker took over.
        Mr. Stoph, too, was sidelined for two years until Mr. Honecker was forced to shuffle the hierarchy in 1976 and reinstall him as a Prime Minister who got things done the way the Politburo decreed. But even then, he repeatedly stayed away from the office to undergo medical treatment, reportedly for ulcers.
        A handsome man of military bearing, Mr. Stoph was born in Berlin, the son of a laborer, and worked as a mason and construction foreman before serving in the artillery during the war. He joined the Communist Youth League at age 14 and the party in 1931.
        Mr. Stoph was married and had four children, but there was no information about survivors.
      