
        Arnold Francis Habig, who built a small Indiana woodworking shop into Kimball International Inc., died on March 29 at Memorial Hospital in Jasper, Ind., his birthplace and seat of the diversified billion-dollar company. He was 91.
        Growing up in Jasper as the third- oldest of 10 children, he held a variety of odd jobs in his youth, delivering newspapers and baked goods, cleaning offices, running a movie-theater projector and working in a Coca-Cola bottling plant. In 1926 he graduated from Spencerian Business College in Louisville, Ky., and worked briefly as an accountant there.
        Returning home, he went to work at Jasper Machine Works. Then in 1928 he joined the Jasper Wood Products Company as an accountant and rose to become plant manager and a director. He stayed until 1950, when he was elected a director and president of the Midwest Manufacturing Company.
        He also took over as plant manager of that company, which had some two dozen employees and a 25,000-square-foot production plant. The company, which changed its name to the Jasper Corporation, quickly grew under his guidance into a leading maker of wood cabinets for America's top manufacturers of television sets and phonographs.
        Sales more than quadrupled to $748,000 in 1950, and it had profit of $39,000. By comparison, Kimball International -- the name adopted in 1974 -- posted $1.03 billion in sales and reported net earnings of $55 million for 1998, with Mr. Habig's sons holding top positions in the company.
        In 1950, the Jasper Corporation bought the W. W. Kimball Company of Chicago, a venerable but ailing maker of pianos and organs founded in 1857. As a division of Jasper and then Kimball International it regained its position as a leading manufacturer of keyboard instruments, and in 1966 acquired Bosendorfer of Vienna, often called the Rolls-Royce of concert grands.
        At plants in eight states and four more abroad, Kimball's more than 9,000 employees manufactured a wide variety of consumer durables under its family of brand names, including furniture and audio speaker systems, as well as veneer, plywood and wood components.
        Mr. Habig introduced a profit-sharing system to provide nest eggs for company employees and scholarship programs for their children. He was active in community affairs and supported various charities, particularly in the arts and education.
        He led the company as president and then chairman from 1950 until 1990, when he formally retired from Kimball's board. But he remained active in the company, most recently in a consulting role with the title of assistant to the chief executive.
        Mr. Habig's first wife, Mary Ann Jahn Habig, died in 1972. They had been married for 44 years. That year he married Barbara T. Cukierski, who survives. Other survivors are three sons and three daughters from his first marriage: Thomas L., Douglas A., and John B., all of Jasper, and the vice chairman, chairman and chief executive, and senior vice president for electronics operations, respectively; Nancy Habig, also of Jasper; Barbara Jane Habig of Bloomington, Ind., and Marilyn Schultheis of Evansville, Ind.; three brothers, Anthony and Jerome, of Jasper, and Francis, of High Point, N.C.; 12 grandchildren, and 17 great-grandchildren.
      