
        Anthony Newley, the versatile British entertainer who achieved international stardom in 1961 with the musical ''Stop the World -- I Want to Get Off,'' died on Wednesday at his home in Jensen Beach, Fla. He was 67.
        The cause was cancer, said his former wife, Dareth Newley Dunn.
        A latter-day British Al Jolson, Mr. Newley was one of the last major entertainers to embody an extravagant heart-on-the-sleeve kind of showmanship associated with British music hall performance. ''Stop the World,'' for which he was the director, star and co-author (with his longtime collaborator, Leslie Bricusse), was his greatest showcase. After opening on Broadway in 1962, it ran for 555 performances.
        An allegory about acquiring fame and power but ending up disillusioned, ''Stop the World'' was a tour de force for the star, who portrayed a symbolic Everyman named Littlechap. The score gave Mr. Newley two of his signature songs, the ballads ''What Kind of Fool Am I? (a hit for Sammy Davis Jr.) and ''Once in a Lifetime.'' With his sobbing bray of a voice and mimelike body language that some compared to Marcel Marceau (although Mr. Newley never studied mime), he embodied the tragic clown whose heart is broken  when his dreams turn to ashes.
        Three years after ''Stop the World'' opened in New York, Mr. Newley returned to Broadway with the ''The Roar of the Greasepaint -- the Smell of the Crowd,'' a similar, more grandiose allegory (again written with Mr. Bricusse), which he also directed and starred in. The show yielded another popular standard with the pleading ballad ''Who Can I Turn To (When Nobody Needs Me)'' (addressed to God in the show), which became a hit for Tony Bennett and later for Dionne Warwick.
        With Mr. Bricusse, Mr. Newley also collaborated on the score for the 1971 movie ''Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory,'' an ingenious children's fantasy written by Roald Dahl and starring Gene Wilder, that earned comparisons to ''The Wizard of Oz.'' From the score of that movie  came ''The Candy Man,'' Sammy Davis Jr.'s last and biggest hit.
        Mr. Newley's other major hit song was the theme from the 1964 James Bond movie, ''Goldfinger'' (popularized by Shirley Bassey), which he wrote with Mr. Bricusse and the film's soundtrack composer, John Barry.
        Born on Sept. 24, 1931, in Hackney, a working-class section of London, the young Mr. Newley was evacuated to the British countryside during the German bombing of London. For a  time, he stayed with George Pescud, a retired music hall performer whom he later credited with inspiring his freedom of self-expression. After the war, he studied acting and was discovered by Geoffrey de Barkus, a British film director, who cast him in the title role of his movie, ''The Adventures of Dusty Baker.''
        Mr. Newley made several more adventure films, but it was his portrayal of the Artful Dodger in David Lean's adaptation of ''Oliver Twist''  (1948) that brought him his first popular recognition. A series of undistinguished films followed.
        While he was making movies, Mr. Newley became increasingly involved with the theater. He appeared in a hit London revue, ''Cranks,'' which flopped when it came to New York. In 1959, he made his film singing debut in ''Idols on Parade,'' playing a conscripted rock-and-roll singer. He went on to record a string of minor rock-and-roll hits that would exert a strong influence on David Bowie.
        In 1961, he teamed with Mr. Bricusse to write songs for a show the pair described as ''a simple, lighthearted satirical life cycle of the seven ages of man.'' The project, which evolved into ''Stop the World,'' opened in London that July and was a huge hit despite mixed reviews. When it opened in New York, critical response was again mixed, but the show became a popular hit. ''The Roar of the Greasepaint'' was not as successful, running 232 performances. When it closed, Mr. Newley declared he was finished writing for the theater and would concentrate on film.
        In 1967, he was a co-star with Rex Harrison in the screen musical ''Doctor Dolittle'' (with a score by Mr. Bricusse), an expensive failure that nearly bankrupted 20th Century Fox. Two years later, his original screen musical, ''Can Hieronymus Merkin Ever Forget Mercy Humppe and Find True Happiness?,'' which he wrote, directed, produced and starred in (opposite Joan Collins, who was then his wife), was a legendary failure.
        Moving to the United States in the 1970's, Mr. Newley spent the next two decades working in nightclubs and appearing in occasional films and on television. In 1983, he returned to the theater with his original musical, ''Chaplin,'' a biography of the silent clown and director that opened in Los Angeles to scathing reviews. A planned Broadway opening was canceled after the production lost $4 million on the road.
        Mr. Newley's three marriages ended in divorce. He is survived by his mother and four children.
        In 1996, he made a rare nightclub appearance in New York at Rainbow and Stars, where the emotive force of his singing was undiminished. Summing up the previous two decades, he remarked from the stage: ''I went to Vegas for 22 years, married some absolutely charming women and gave them all my money. That's why I'm here.''
      