
        Helen Aberson Mayer, who wrote the children's story that inspired the 1941 Walt Disney cartoon, ''Dumbo,'' died last Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 91.
        Helen Aberson, as she was known when she wrote the tale, was born in Syracuse and received a bachelor's degree in 1929 from Syracuse University. In the 1930's she was the host of a Syracuse talk-radio program and later did clerical work in Manhattan.
        After conceiving Dumbo and other vivid animal characters, she returned to Syracuse and wrote ''Dumbo, the Flying Elephant.'' Asked how she came to write it, her son, Andrew, said: ''She just got an inspiration about a flying elephant.'' He said she liked to create animal characters and plotting that represented, to a degree, people she knew or situations she had been in.
        ''Yes, there is trial and travail'' for Dumbo in the story, Mr. Mayer added, ''but he persevered, and in the long run he was successful.'' In the story, Dumbo the baby elephant is at first mocked because of his oversize ears but he becomes a circus star when he realizes that they allow him to fly. Mr. Mayer said that to some degree the story represented his mother's struggles. ''At times her life was difficult,'' he said.
        Harold Pearl illustrated the story, Mr. Mayer said, and the two were listed as its co-authors when it was published in 1939 by a company called Roll-a-Book.
        The story, as it is remembered by Joe Grant, who worked with Disney, was published in a distinctive format. Mr. Grant was one of the two Disney ''story men'' who adapted it  for the screen. Miss Aberson's story and about a dozen illustrations appeared on a small, short scroll that was built into a box, he said.
        Mr. Grant said he remembered seeing only one ''Dumbo'' box-and-scroll, the one that was used in making the movie. ''It was sort of a little novelty idea,'' he said. ''As you rolled the little wheels on top, the pictures would appear like they would in a film.''
        The author's family said Roll-a-Book published the story as a regular book in one printing of no more than a thousand copies. They said they had never heard about the box-and-scroll version.
        It must have been soon after the story came out that Walt Disney bought rights to it, said Dave Smith, archives director for the Walt Disney Company, in Burbank, Calif. Asked why Walt Disney decided to make a movie from the story, Mr. Smith said he had recently finished ''Pinocchio'' (1940), which was ''kind of a dark story, and I'm sure he was looking for something a little more upbeat for his next film.''
        The Disney movie makers had stuck to the story's basic plot line, while adding much more detail, Mr. Grant said.
        Mr. Mayer said the Disney people asked his mother to go to California in 1939. ''She was out there until 1941,'' he said. ''She was on the premises and they were consulting her.''
        Mr. Smith, the Disney archivist, said he could find no record of Miss Aberson's having been an employee of the company, but that she might have worked for it nonetheless. Mr. Grant said he thought he remembered meeting her and seeing her looking at preliminary drawings for the film. When ''Dumbo'' was released in October 1941, The New York Times critic Bosley Crowther called it ''a picture which touches the very heart of sentiment'' and added, ''It may not be the most impressive feature that Mr. Disney has turned out, but it certainly is the most winsome, and it is the one that leaves you with the warmest glow.''
        Miss Aberson's husband, Richard,  recalled that after Disney bought the rights to her story, it was republished in book form, at least once, almost exactly as she had written it. Her son said she kept on writing  children's stories into the 1960's, but that he knew of no others that were published.
        Besides her son, of Staten Island, and her husband, she is survived by a grandson.
        Correction:  April 13, 1999, Tuesday  An obituary on Saturday about Helen Aberson Mayer, a co-author of ''Dumbo, the Flying Elephant,'' misstated the role of Harold Pearl in creating the book. Mr. Pearl, a journalist who died in 1975, was the co-author, not the illustrator.
      