
        Donald W. Pritchard, an oceanographer and expert on the Long Island Sound and the Chesapeake Bay, died on Friday at the University of Maryland Hospital in Baltimore. He was 76 and lived in Severna Park, Md.
        The cause of death was a stroke, said his daughter Jo Anne Mitchell.
        Professor Pritchard was a teacher and administrator at State University of New York at Stony Brook from 1978 to 1988. He was a professor of oceanography and the associate director for research at the university's Marine Science Research Center from 1978 to 1986. In his last years there, he became acting dean and director, then associate dean of the center.
        Before teaching at SUNY Stony Brook, Professor Pritchard was the chairman of the department of oceanography at Johns Hopkins University from 1950 to 1968, founder of the university's Chesapeake Bay Institute, its director from 1949 to 1973 and its senior research scientist from 1973 to 1979.
        In a 1997 interview with Newsday, he said that cleaning up the Long Island Sound had lagged cleaning up the Chesapeake Bay partly because Long Islanders were less concerned about the Sound than people living near the Chesapeake Bay were about it.
        In an interview with The New York Times in 1987, he spoke about purifying the Sound. He said that improving waste processing would become more and more expensive and added, ''You have to either restrict the development of the area, and hence restrict the source of the problem, or you've got to restrict the waste.''
        Professor Pritchard was elected to the National Academy of Engineering in 1993 and received many other honors.
        He was born in Santa Ana, Calif., and received a bachelor's degree in meteorology from the University of California at Los Angeles in 1946. He received a doctorate in oceanography in 1951 from the University of California's Scripps Institution of Oceanography at La Jolla, Calif.
        Besides his daughter Jo Anne Mitchell of Severna Park, he is survived by his wife, the former Thelma Lydia Amling, whom he married in 1943; another daughter, Marian Caldwell of Severna Park; two sons, Albert, of Harwood, Md., and Donald Jr., of Severna Park, and 11 grandchildren.
      