
        William H. Armstrong, a teacher and writer best known for his 1969 children's novel ''Sounder,'' died on April 11 at his home in Kent, Conn. He was 87.
        Set among a community of black sharecroppers, ''Sounder'' told the story of a loyal dog, his ill-fated master and the boy who loved them both. The book, Mr. Armstrong's first novel, was awarded the Newbery Medal in 1970 and was made into a movie starring Cicely Tyson in 1972.
        Born in Collierstown, Va., Mr. Armstrong graduated from Hampden-Sydney College and later attended the University of Virginia. He wove the stories of his childhood in the Shenandoah Valley into ''Sounder'' and three other novels, ''Sour Land,'' ''The MacLeod Place'' and ''The Mills of God.'' The unnamed boy in ''Sounder'' and later, the teacher Moses Waters in ''Sour Land,'' grew from the tales Mr. Armstrong heard as a boy from Charles Jones, a schoolteacher who worked afternoons and summers for Mr. Armstrong's father.
        Epic in form, ''Sounder'' had neither place nor family names. ''With names they would represent one family,'' Mr. Armstrong wrote. ''Without names they become universal -- representing all people who suffer privation and injustice, but through love, self-respect, devotion and desire for improvement, make it in the world.''
        Despite the success of his books, Mr. Armstrong identified himself primarily as a teacher. He spent 52 years at the Kent School in Connecticut, where he taught general studies and ancient history to ninth graders. He wrote about his educational philosophy in several books, including ''Study Is Hard Work,'' ''Study Tips'' and ''87 Ways to Help Your Child in School.''
        Mr. Armstrong lived in Connecticut in a farmhouse he had built for his wife, Martha, on a hill above the Housatonic River. Her sudden death in 1953, three months after she moved into the house, was the subject of his 1957 nonfiction work, ''Through Troubled Waters.''
        His son David, a landscape painter who illustrated ''The Mills of God,'' died in August.
        He is survived by a son, Christopher F., of Danville, Pa.; a daughter, Mary Armstrong Conley of Newton, Mass.; three sisters, Ashley Lucas of Blacksburg, Va., Coreta Agnor of Fairfield, Va., and Glenden Scott of Clifton Forge, Va., and three grandchildren.
      