
        Dominick L. DiCarlo, a Federal judge and a former New York State Assemblyman from Brooklyn, died on Tuesday after suffering a heart attack while exercising at a gym at the Federal court complex in Manhattan. He was 71.
        Mr. DiCarlo, a conservative Republican who was also an assistant secretary of state for drug policy in the Reagan Administration in the early 1980's, was, in recent years, a senior judge on the United States Court of International Trade in New York. At his death, he was temporarily presiding on the United States District Court in New York due to a shortage of judges there.
        During his years as a member of the New York State Assembly in Albany, Mr. DiCarlo rose to become chairman of the codes committee and deputy minority leader. Sometimes called ''the burly bear,'' a reference to his size and demeanor, he was known for his debating skills and his knowledge of the criminal justice system.
        He is also remembered as the only Republican in the Assembly who voted against Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller's legislation to toughen criminal laws against drug offenders. Though Mr. DiCarlo was a staunch opponent of drug dealers, he worried that the laws lumped the offenders into one category.
        According to his son, Robert J. DiCarlo, a former state senator from Brooklyn, Mr. DiCarlo ''was concerned that with broad-stroke mandatory sentences, people who were not drug dealers would find themselves in the prison system.''
        Dominick Leonard DiCarlo was born on March 11, 1928, in Brooklyn and raised in the Bay Ridge section. He received a bachelor's degree from St. John's College and law degrees from St. John's University School of Law and the New York University Graduate School of Law. He was an assistant United States Attorney in New York and a counsel to the minority leaders of the New York City Council before being elected to the State Assembly in 1965.
        In 1980, he helped run the New York State campaign of Ronald Reagan, and when Mr. Reagan was elected President, Mr. DiCarlo left the Legislature to become assistant secretary of state for international narcotics matters. He spent much of his time in that post trying to persuade foreign leaders to supplant fields of opium poppies in their countries with crops not used for narcotics.
        Two years later, President Reagan appointed Mr. DiCarlo to the United States Court of International Trade, and President George Bush made him chief judge in 1991. He left that post in 1996, but still heard cases as a senior judge.
        Mr. DiCarlo was preceded in death by his first wife, Esther. Besides his son, Robert, he is survived by his  wife, Susan; two other sons, Vincent DiCarlo of Davis, Calif., and Carl DiCarlo of Brooklyn; a daughter, Barbara Basgaard of Brick Township, N.J.; four brothers, James DiCarlo of Commack, N.Y., Vincent DiCarlo of East Islip, N.Y., Michael DiCarlo of Melville, N.Y., and John DiCarlo of Shoreham, N.Y.; two sisters, Rose Cucci of Wantagh, N.Y., and Constance Testa of Wading River, N.Y., and eight grandchildren.
      