
        Michael Manuel, a director and writer who worked for a decade at the Metropolitan Opera, first as the company's executive stage manager and then as the co-general director of the Met's national touring company, died on Monday at the Hunterdon Medical Center in Flemington, N.J. He was 70 and lived in New Hope, Pa.
        The cause was lung cancer, his brother Julian said.
        Mr. Manuel was born in London in 1928 and attended the Royal Academy of Music for a year before joining the Royal Army Service Corps. In 1948, he joined the Royal Opera company, Covent Garden, as an assistant stage manager. In 1950, he became the stage manager of the Sadler's Wells Ballet and the next year joined the Royal Ballet in the same position. During an American tour with the Royal Ballet he was lured to the Met by Sir Rudolf Bing, its general manager.
        Mr. Manuel was the Met's executive stage manager from 1957 to 1964  and also directed productions of Gluck's ''Orfeo and Eurydice'' and ''Alcestis'' -- the latter with Eileen Farrell in her company debut -- and Strauss's ''Elektra.''
        When Sir Rudolf decided to start the Metropolitan Opera National Company, in 1964, with co-sponsorship from the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, he appointed Mr. Manuel and the mezzo-soprano Rise Stevens as its co-general managers. The company's first tour, in 1965, offered productions of Bizet's ''Carmen,'' Rossini's ''Cenerentola,'' Puccini's ''Madama Butterfly'' and Carlisle Floyd's ''Susannah.'' It played 240 performances in 72 cities.
        The company lasted only two seasons. By the end of the second tour, it had run up a deficit of about $1.9 million. Sir Rudolf, who was facing a deficit at the Met itself in late 1966, decided to cancel the third tour and scrap the National Company.
        Mr. Manuel left the Met after the touring company was folded and became a researcher and scriptwriter for the ''New Media Bible'' and other educational television and video productions. Among his projects for the New Media Bible were the films ''Genesis'' and ''Gospel of Luke.''
        Besides his brother Julian, of London, Mr. Manuel is survived by a son, Marc, of New Hope, and another brother, Lionel, of Madrid.
      