
        S. Sidney Kahn, a venture capitalist and patron of the arts, died in Osaka, Japan, last Sunday while on a tour with the International Council of the Museum of Modern Art, an art study group. He was 62 and lived in New York and Locust Valley, N.Y.
        The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Elizabeth, said.
        At the age of 30, Mr. Kahn became the youngest partner in the history of the investment bankers Lehman Brothers Kuhn Loeb.
        After 20 years there assessing business ventures throughout the United States and Europe, Mr. Kahn struck out on his own as a venture capitalist, making investments in high-technology fields like telecommunications and software companies.
        The arts were never far from his consciousness, however. He studied art history and English in college, and when his business career permitted, he served on the boards of both established cultural institutions and experimental workshops.
        After graduating from Yale University in 1959, Mr. Kahn worked briefly as a reporter for The Boston Globe and attended the Harvard Law School. He then left Harvard to join Lehman Brothers.
        He was a founding investor and board member of a number of publicly traded companies.
        Among his most rewarding ventures, he said recently, was providing the initial financing for businesses started by his son Stephen, including Delia's Inc., which operates Screeem! apparel stores for teen-agers, and Iturf Inc., an Internet retailer that Delia's recently spun off.
        Mr. Kahn served as a board member of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Museum of Modern Art, the Whitney Museum of American Art and the Yale Art Gallery, among others. The Council of MOMA, with which he was traveling at the time of his death, is a membership organization that frequently visits foreign collections.
        As an enthusiastic supporter of young and experimental artists, Mr. Kahn was president of the Kitchen, the experimental performance center in New York, where he oversaw work by artists including Philip Glass.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Kahn is survived by four children from his first marriage, to Maxine Kahn of New York, which ended in divorce. They are Jeffrey, Robin, Stephen and Anne, all of New York. He is also survived by four grandchildren; his mother, Ruth Kahn of New York, and a sister, Geraldine Karetsky of New York.
      