
        Harold Steinberg, a former co-owner and executive of the Chelsea House publishing company, died on Friday at the St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 77 and had moved to the Kateri Residence nursing home in Manhattan from East Hampton, N.Y., three years ago.
        Chelsea House Publishers was founded in 1964 and named for the Chelsea Hotel, at 222 West 23d Street in Manhattan. Mr. Steinberg was living there at the time and had been working in public relations.
        By 1986 Chelsea House was based in Greenwich Village and publishing reference works, mainly in the field of American studies, and series like  ''American Presidential Elections'' and ''World Leaders.'' Its project editors included the historian Arthur Schlesinger Jr., the literary critic Harold Bloom and Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan. For years the company's main owners were Mr. Steinberg and Andrew E. Norman. The business was sold in 1983 to Main Line Book Company of Pennsylvania, and Mr. Steinberg stayed on for some years as Chelsea House's chairman and publisher.
        Mr. Steinberg's own writings ranged from early novelty books like ''The Psychiatric Coloring Book'' and ''Animals in Love'' to pseudonymous fiction and two plays. But the work he liked best seemed to be publishing books. ''Having the privilege of making them,'' he said in a 1986 interview, ''is a very satisfying thing.''
        He was born in Manhattan and raised in Brooklyn and used to say that he studied at five colleges without staying long enough at any one of them to receive a degree. He served in the Army Air Corps in World War II and held various jobs before going into public relations.
        His marriage to Rebecca Vyorst ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary McCarthy Steinberg of Staten Island; a daughter, Katharine Steinberg Golick of Brooklyn; a son, Anthony Burgess Steinberg of Los Angeles; two brothers, Bernard of Los Angeles and Herbert of Manchester, N.H.; a sister, Joy Schwartz of Staten Island, and two grandchildren.
      