
        Judge Bernard Newman of the United States Court of International Trade, who as a former chairman of the New York County Republican Party was the counterpart and rival  of Tammany Hall's Carmine De Sapio, died Thursday at St. Vincent's Hospital. A Manhattan resident, he was 91 and still serving as a judge.
        Mr. Newman was born into Republican politics. His father, Isidore, a grocer on the Lower East Side, was known as ''the Mayor of East Sixth Street'' and was an aide to Samuel S. Koenig, the county leader for 20 years. Bernard Newman was born at 718 East Sixth Street, the same tenement in which Louis J. Lefkowitz, a Republican who would serve many terms as State Attorney General, was born three years earlier. As Judge Newman recalled, he and Louis would hand out leaflets together, he in short pants, and his friend and mentor already in long ones.
        Mr. Newman graduated from New York University and its law school,  and was admitted to the bar in 1930. He married a law school classmate, Kathryn Bereano, with whom he formed a law partnership, Newman & Newman. From 1942 to 1948 he served as law secretary to Justice  Samuel H. Hofstadter of State Supreme Court.
        During this time he met a young man named Carmine De Sapio, who had the same position with another judge. Mr. De Sapio had dropped out of law school because of an eye disease that forced him to wear the tinted glasses that would later enhance his image as a political boss.
        ''I used to urge him to return to law school,'' Judge Newman said, recalling how he told his friend, ''You won't get far in politics that way.''
        Mr. Newman had continued his association with Mr. Lefkowitz and the Republican Party organization, and was chosen to take over the New York County Republicans in 1958, when Mr. De Sapio was the powerful leader of Tammany Hall. In those years Republican prospects in the Manhattan were far from rosy, but for the next three years, Mr. Newman rallied support for Republican candidates as best he could, often  swapping charges with Mayor Robert F. Wagner.
        For example, Mr. Newman complained during the 1960 Presidential race when the Mayor welcomed John F. Kennedy at City Hall, but would not extend the same courtesy to Richard Nixon. Mayor Wagner responded by calling Mr. Newman a ''peanut politician.''
        In 1961, the Republican Party in Manhattan was restructured, and ultimate responsibility went to an executive committee. The next year, Mayor Wagner, despite his earlier dismissive comments, named Mr. Newman to the Family Court. This was quickly followed by Judge Newman's appointment to the State Supreme Court by Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller.
        In 1968, President Lyndon B. Johnson named Mr. Newman to the United States Customs Court, which was later renamed the United States  Court of International Trade. Since 1983, Judge Newman has been a senior judge, serving periodically in various Federal courts.
        His wife died in 1991. Judge Newman is survived by two daughters,  Phyllis Cechini and Helene Bernstein, both of Manhattan, five grandsons and eight great-grandchildren.
      