
        Ram Hardasmal Hingorani, a civil engineer and former member of the Norwalk Common Council, died on Friday at his home in Norwalk, Conn., after a brief illness, his wife, Kamla, said. He was 64.
        Mr. Hingorani played an important role in the construction and rehabilitation of some of New York's most important transportation projects, including the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, the Long Island Expressway and the Roosevelt Island tramway.
        At his death, he was president and chief executive of A & H Engineers of Manhattan and taught engineering courses at Norwalk State Technical College.
        In addition to building bridges, he was active in public service and politics. In 1978, he became the first Indian-American elected to the Norwalk Common Council and one of the first South Asian elected officials in the state. In 1982, he ran an unsuccessful race for State Senate as a Democrat, losing to the Republican incumbent.
        He was also active with the Boy Scouts of America and the Coalition for the Homeless of New York City and was a director of the Association of Indians in America and a member of the board of the Namaskar Indian Arts Foundation.
        Born in Bombay, Mr. Hingorani was the son of a police commissioner and the oldest of 10 children. After graduating from the University of Bombay with a Bachelor of Science degree in civil engineering, Mr. Hingorani came to New York and received a master's degree in civil engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. He subsequently received a Bachelor of Science degree in mechanical engineering at Bridgeport Engineering Institute.
        After working for several engineering concerns in New York, he began his own company in 1983 with the help of his teen-age son, who would type his letters seeking new business.
        Today, the company employs more than 50 engineers and has contracts with numerous city and state agencies to rebuild crumbling roads and bridges throughout the New York metropolitan area.
        In addition to his wife, who is the company's chief operating officer, Mr. Hingorani is survived by a son, Sunil, of Boston, and two daughters, Sangeeta, of Seattle, and Seema, of Baltimore; a grandson, five sisters and four brothers.
      