
        Ben S. Stephansky, President John F. Kennedy's Ambassador to Bolivia at a complex time in its history, died on Saturday at his home in Washington. He was 85.
        Dr. Stephansky, whose Ph.D. was in economics from the University of Wisconsin, was labor attache at the United States Embassy in Mexico City in the mid-1950's. President Adolfo Lopez Mateos later remembered him as ''the one American who really understood Mexico.''
        Dr. Stephansky became a career Foreign Service officer in 1956 and was labor adviser in the State Department's Bureau of Inter-American Affairs from 1957 to 1960.
        After Kennedy took office in 1961, ''able young career men were promoted to Ambassador, such as Stephansky in Bolivia,'' a close Kennedy aide, Theodore C. Sorensen, wrote later.
        By then Bolivia was in the 10th year of the period that has been called the Bolivian National Revolution. It followed a rebellion in 1952 touched off by the Nationalist Revolutionary Movement, the first party in the country's history to gain widespread popular backing. At that time, the party was a broad alliance and it had left and right wings.
        The 1952 rebels, including miners and national policemen, got the Bolivian Army to surrender after three days of fighting, and the Nationalist Revolutionary Movement leader Victor Paz Estenssoro became President for four years. Mr. Paz Estenssoro was at first a neutral force between his party's wings.
        An American political scientist, James M. Malloy, wrote in his book, ''Bolivia: The Uncompleted Revolution,'' (Books on Demand, 1970) that in the Kennedy Administration, there was ''a positive aim to make Bolivia a showcase of guided 'democratic revolutionary' change.' ''
        ''Previously high aid commitments were increased and broadened,'' Mr. Malloy wrote, ''and a pro-revolution Ambassador, Benjamin Stephansky, was sent to La Paz,'' Bolivia's capital.
        With that, President Paz Estenssoro, who was re-elected President in 1960, came to believe that Kennedy would be unstinting in giving aid to Bolivia. As Mr. Malloy put it, ''Paz then decided to go all the way with the United States and to shape his regime in close accordance with the expectations of the Alliance for Progress,'' the aid program for Latin America that the Kennedy Administration began in 1961.
        In May 1961, on the day before Kennedy formally nominated Dr. Stephansky to be Ambassador, the White House announced that the United States had offered, and Bolivia had accepted, nearly $10 million in immediate economic aid and relief.
        In addition, President Paz Estenssoro, Washington and Bonn approved a plan under which the Inter-American Development Bank, the United States and West Germany would make capital and technical expertise available, and Bolivia would reduce and discipline its work force.
        But in August 1963, the Bolivian Cabinet resigned in a crisis brought on by the Paz Government's inability to put into effect a plan to rehabilitate Bolivia's large and vital tin-mining industry. The plan entailed dismissing 2,000 workers. Confrontations between the Bolivian Government and tin miners continued. By late 1963 things began to get out of control.
        By then it had also been announced that Dr. Stephansky would not stay on as Ambassador past the end of 1963 and would return to Washington because of his wife's health. Then, in 1964, the Bolivian military overthrew the Bolivian Government, and a junta controlled by Gen. Rene Barrientos Ortuno took power.
        Dr. Stephansky went on to become, in 1963 and 1964, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of Inter-American Affairs. He was executive secretary of the United States-Puerto Rico Commission on the Status on Puerto Rico from 1964 to 1966 and Deputy United States Representative to the Organization of American States with the personal rank of Ambassador in 1967 and 1968. Later, he held various posts in foundations and other fields.
        Dr. Stephansky was born in what is now the Ukraine and was brought to the United States in 1915. He received a bachelor's degree from the University of Wisconsin in 1939 and his doctorate in 1950.
        He is survived by his wife, Anne; two sons, Evan of Alexandria, Va., and Tom of Denver; a daughter, Kate Stephansky of Olney, Md.; and two grandchildren.
      