
        Rolf W. Landauer, who helped solidify the slippery concept of information and bring it firmly into the mainstream of physics, died on Tuesday at his home in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. He was 72.
        He died of brain cancer, his family said.
        ''Information is inevitably physical,'' the kindly but irascible Dr. Landauer often admonished colleagues. The ones and zeroes coursing through a computer may seem abstract and ethereal, but, he told researchers at every turn, information is rooted in the real world, and must be understood by applying the no-nonsense laws of physics.
        ''Rolf Landauer did more than anyone else to establish the physics of information processing as a serious subject for scientific inquiry,'' said Dr. Charles Bennett, his colleague at I.B.M.'s Thomas J. Watson Research Center in Yorktown Heights, N.Y.
        A German-Jewish immigrant who came to the United States as an exile from Hitler's Germany, Rolf William Landauer graduated from Stuyvesant High School in New York and from Harvard University with a degree in physics. He was a pioneer in the attempt to plumb the limits of computers. In a universe ruled by the laws of quantum mechanics and relativity, how fast and powerful can these machines conceivably be?
        Engineers concern themselves with practical limitations of squeezing more and more circuitry onto tiny chips. Dr. Landauer was interested in theoretical limits: given that technology will improve indefinitely, how soon will it run into the insuperable barriers set by nature?
        Until Dr. Landauer's landmark work in the early 1960's, it was widely believed that processing a single bit of information, each 1 or 0 of binary code, inevitably consumed some energy, placing a fundamental constraint on computer power. Dr. Landauer showed, to many people's surprise, that this was not true. As computer technology becomes ever more efficient, calculations can be done with less energy per computation.
        But there is still a cost. At some point, the bits must be flushed from the computer's memory so that the machine can be reset for another computation. It is then, when the information is erased, Dr. Landauer demonstrated, that a certain irreducible amount of energy is lost. This result, now called Landauer's principle, has been described as ''the thermodynamic cost of forgetting.''
        While he initially assumed that all computers are saddled by this loss from erasure, Dr. Bennett soon convinced him that it was conceivable to design a reversible computer that would circumvent Landauer's principle and operate with unprecedented efficiency. When such a computer completed its task, one would essentially run it backward, returning it to its initial state without discarding information.
        Though reversible computing has remained mostly theoretical, some of the concepts are being used to make more energy-efficient laptops.
        ''Rolf was an old I.B.M. type who did things on the straight and narrow,'' Dr. Bennett recalled. ''I was a scruffy hippie. He endured that. Many people don't like their scientific ideas overthrown. But he was very interested and eager to discover what this all led to.''
        From his perch as an I.B.M. fellow in Yorktown Heights, Dr. Landauer became a kind of critic in residence, firing off acerbic but friendly E-mail missives when he felt a colleague or a journalist was overselling a new theory or not being vigilant enough in weeding sense from nonsense. ''Landauer had a good nose for ideas sexy enough to become fashionable but too grand and simple to be useful,'' Dr. Bennett said.
        In recent years, Dr. Landauer was especially skeptical of the new field of quantum computation, in which scientists are trying to harness the  behavior of subatomic particles to make extremely powerful computers. These devices appear to work on paper, but Dr. Landauer doubted that they would ever operate in the real world.
        Current developments in the field won his grudging respect, but he urged his colleagues to accompany their papers with the following disclaimer: ''This scheme, like all other schemes for quantum computation, relies on speculative technology, does not in its current form take into account all possible sources of noise, unreliability and manufacturing error, and probably will not work.''
        Last fall, Seth Lloyd, a professor of mechanical engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, was with Dr. Landauer at a conference on quantum computing in Helsinki, Finland. During his talk on the potential of the new technology, Dr. Lloyd projected a slide bearing that disclaimer. The audience, recognizing it as vintage Landauer, laughed appreciatively.''I haven't put it in all my papers,'' Dr. Lloyd said, ''but I use it in most of my talks. By requiring that people be honest, he's done the field a great service.''
        Dr. Landauer is survived by his wife, the former Muriel Jussim; a daughter, Karen Walsh of Dublin; two sons, Carl of Oakland, Calif., and Thomas of Columbus, Ohio, and three grandchildren.
      