
        Rory Calhoun, a heartthrob-handsome actor who starred in scores of cowboy movies and the television series ''The Texan,'' died Wednesday at St. Joseph's Medical Center in Burbank, Calif. He was 76.
        Mr. Calhoun, who lived in Morongo Valley, Calif, was being treated at the hospital for diabetes and emphysema, said A. C. Lyles, a friend.
        Although he was known mainly as a rugged leading man in B-westerns, Mr. Calhoun also played opposite such leading ladies as Marilyn Monroe in ''River of No Return,'' Susan Hayward, in ''With a Song in My Heart,'' and Betty Grable in ''Meet Me After the Show.''
        Mr. Calhoun's nickname was ''Smoky'' -- for his smoldering good looks, particularly his gray-as-smoke eyes. His screen name, Rory, was said to have been pinned on him by the producer David O. Selznick, who, depending on which story the press agents put out, either was fascinated by the actor's youthful adventures fighting roaring forest fires or thought that he should roar because his astrological sign was Leo.
        The actor was born Francis Timothy McCown on Aug. 8, 1922, in Los Angeles, and grew up in Santa Cruz, Calif. His father died when he was nine months old and he sometimes used the surname of his mother's next husband, Nathaniel Durgin. He dropped out of high school and became a car thief, eventually landing in a Federal reformatory in El Reno, Okla., where he served three years.
        After his release in the early 1940's, he worked at a variety of odd jobs, among them fisherman, truck driver, mechanic, logger, miner and ranch hand. While riding a horse in a Los Angeles park, he met the actor Alan Ladd, who persuaded him to take a screen test.
        He made his screen debut in 1944 in ''Something for the Boys,'' a musical with Carmen Miranda. After years of playing small parts, he established himself as one of Hollywood's leading cowboys in the 1952 western ''Way of a Gaucho.'' Among the westerns that followed were ''Four Guns to the Border,'' ''The Treasure of Pancho Villa,'' ''The Hired Gun,'' ''Powder River,'' ''The Silver Whip'' and ''Black Spurs.''
        His career was endangered in the mid-1950's when blackmailers threatened to expose his prison past, but he disclosed his record himself, emphasizing how he had changed.
        He may be best remembered for ''The Texan,'' which ran on network television from 1958 to 1960. He played Big Bill Longley, who ambled from town to town and fought bad guys who broke the peace.
        When the western genre faded in the early 60's, he made many low-budget films. From 1982 to 1987, he appeared on the CBS television soap opera ''Capitol.'' His last film was ''Pure Country'' in 1992.
        Mr. Calhoun's two marriages, first to the singer Lita Baron, and then to Susan Langley, a journalist, both ended in divorce. He is survived by four daughters, Cindy, of Toluca Lake, Calif., Tami, of Newcastle, Wash., Lorri, of Portland, Ore., and Rory Patricia Nagy of Wilmington, N.C.
      