
        Norman Williams, a British lawyer best known as a prolific writer about stamps and stamp collecting, died on April 9 in London. He was 85.
        Mr. Williams was best known to American collectors as the co-author with his brother Maurice of ''Fundamentals of Philately,'' an exhaustive study of the printing methods used to make stamps -- from the monochrome engraved stamps of the 19th century through the stamp issues of multicolor offset presses in the late 20th century.
        Until his death Mr. Williams also wrote a column for the weekly Linn's Stamp News, which announced his death in its issue this week.
        The Williams brothers wrote more than 30 books and thousands of articles. They also edited journals and lectured widely. Norman Williams specialized in stamps known as Cinderellas -- stamps used not to pay postage but for tax receipts, publicity, propaganda and the like, or stamps used to pay for delivering mail from remote places without routine postal service, like some small islands in British waters.
        His final work was the Encyclopaedia of Rare and Famous Stamps, published in two volumes in 1993 and 1997.
        Mr. Williams also spent 64 years as a court reporter for the Incorporated Council of Law Reporting for England and Wales. In this role, from which he retired less than two years ago, he was responsible for setting out the facts of cases in such detail that judges and lawyers could decide what precedents may have been set.
        Maurice Williams died in 1976. Norman Williams is survived by his wife, Denise, whom he married in 1943 when on leave from his duties as an artillery officer in West Africa; two sons, Marcus and Robin, and five grandchildren.
        Correction:  May 19, 1999, Wednesday  An obituary on April 25 about Norman Williams, a British lawyer and stamp expert, misstated his length of service as a court reporter and omitted a survivor. Mr. Williams's term  began in 1962 and extended 35 years, not 64. The survivor is a brother, David, of Bloomfield, N.J.
      