
        Jerold C. Hoffberger, who owned the Baltimore Orioles when they won five American League pennants and two World Series titles in the 1960's and 1970's, died last Friday at Sinai Hospital in Baltimore after collapsing during a business meeting. He had celebrated his 80th birthday two days earlier.
        Following a path established by owners like Jacob Ruppert of the Yankees and August Busch of the St. Louis Cardinals, Mr. Hoffberger, who had been president of the Baltimore-based National Brewing Company, blended the beer business with baseball ownership.
        A native of Baltimore and a major benefactor of its educational, medical and religious institutions, Mr. Hoffberger played a role in bringing major league baseball to his hometown. When the Griffith family, owners of the Washington Senators, expressed opposition to the sale of the St. Louis Browns to Baltimore investors in 1953, Mr. Hoffberger offered to have his brewery sponsor Senator games. That deal helped soften the Senators' opposition to a nearby competitor for their fan base.
        Mr. Hoffberger became chairman of the Orioles in June 1965 after purchasing the 40 percent interest owned by Joseph A. W. Iglehart. The following December, the Orioles obtained the slugger Frank Robinson from the Cincinnati Reds, a deal that helped propel Baltimore to pennants in four of the next six seasons.
        When he was inducted into the Hall of Fame in 1982, Robinson paid tribute to the Oriole owner's personal touch, saying that after a game, ''he wouldn't come over and slap you on the back and say nice game-winning home run, nice double, nice play or whatever.''
        ''The first words out of his mouth were: 'How are you? How's your family? Is there anything I can do for you?' '' Robinson said.
        But when Mr. Hoffberger was a member of the Player Relations Committee, the club owners' labor-relations unit, he drew the ire of Marvin Miller, the players union leader. Mr. Miller accused Mr. Hoffberger of being the most active owner in efforts to break the players strike of 1972, saying that he had the other owners acting as ''puppets on his string.'' Mr. Hoffberger denied that, saying that he had often been on the losing end of ownership votes, and he called Mr. Miller's remarks ''the tactics of guys who are losing ground with their constituents.''
        Despite the Orioles' success on the field, they did not draw particularly well at Memorial Stadium at a time when suburban multipurpose stadiums with better sight lines were being built. Mr. Hoffberger spent several years seeking new ownership, then sold the Orioles in August 1979 for $12 million to the Washington lawyer Edward Bennett Williams, who then owned the Washington Redskins football team.
        When he had taken control of the Orioles, Mr. Hoffberger asked Frank Cashen, a former sports columnist and advertising director for his brewery, to run the team. Mr. Cashen was the Orioles' executive vice president from 1966 to 1975, then returned to a position at the brewery. In February 1980, Nelson Doubleday, the new co-owner of the floundering Mets, received an unsolicited phone call from Mr. Hoffberger, who suggested he hire Mr. Cashen as general manager. The Mets did that, and Mr. Cashen went on to build their 1986 World Series winner.
        Jerold Charles Hoffberger, the grandson of a Baltimore ice and coal merchant, attended the University of Virginia and served in the First Armored Division in World War II. His father, Samuel, a major stockholder in the National Brewing Company, later brought him into the company.
        Mr. Hoffberger was known for his charitable contributions, which included assistance to Johns Hopkins Hospital, the University of Maryland and Goucher College. Town & Country magazine estimated in 1983 that he had donated more than $10 million to charities.
        He is survived by his wife, Alice; three sons, Peter and Richard of Baltimore and David of Arnold, Md.; a daughter, Carol McCarthy of Newark, Del.; two sisters, Lois Feinblatt of Baltimore and Rosel Schewel of Lynchburg, Va., and 10 grandchildren.
      