
        Peter Shaw Thacher, a former State Department official and a retired deputy executive director of the United Nations Environment Program, died on April 3 at a nursing home in Mystic, Conn. He was 72 and lived in Stonington Borough.
        The cause of death was a brain tumor, said his wife, Mary C. McGrath Thacher.
        As a leader of the United Nations Environment Program in the mid-1970's, Mr. Thacher helped the agency assess environmental problems in the world. Earlier in the decade, as director of the program's European operations in Geneva, he built up the agency and forged relationships with European governments and other United Nations agencies.
        ''He was a very early environmental advocate,'' said Adnan Amin, director of the United Nations Environment Program's regional office for North America.
        Mr. Thacher was born in New York on Sept. 8, 1926. He served in the Navy in World War II and was graduated from Yale College in 1948. After graduation, he went to Paris on a summer trip and stayed as a clerk-typist assigned to the Marshall Plan.
        He later served in the Korean War with the Department of the Army. In July 1954, Mr. Thacher was aboard a commercial aircraft that was shot down by Communists in China; 8 of the 18 passengers survived.
        Shortly afterward, Mr. Thacher became a Foreign Service officer and was assigned to the United States Mission to the United Nations, where he stayed for 14 years. In 1971, Mr. Thacher became program director in Stockholm for the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment. Subsequently, he became director of the United Nations Environment Program's European office in Geneva. In 1977, he went to Kenya as the organization's deputy executive director, with the rank of Assistant Secretary General of the United Nations. He worked in Nairobi until 1983, when he retired and returned to the United States.
        That year, he became a distinguished fellow at the World Resources Institute in Washington. He also advised many other organizations, including the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the World Health Organization.
        In 1992, he was named conservationist of the year by the Connecticut Association of Conservation and Inland Wetlands Commissions.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Thacher is survived by three children, Ann Thacher Tate of Stonington, Linda Thacher Visscher of Mystic and Peter Jr., of Washington, and one granddaughter.
      