
        Lila Hotz Luce Tyng, the first wife of Henry R. Luce, founder of Time Inc., died on Wednesday at her home in Gladstone, N.J., five days after her 100th birthday.
        Mrs. Tyng, the mother of Mr. Luce's children, was a leading figure in New York's social and philanthropic circles for several decades.
        Though overshadowed in history by the editor's famous second wife, the author Clare Boothe Luce, Mrs. Tyng played an important role in the life of Mr. Luce, who sought her advice even after they were divorced, said Robert E. Herzstein, a professor of history at the University of South Carolina and the author of ''Henry R. Luce'' (Scribner, 1994).
        Lila Hotz was born in Chicago in 1899, the daughter of Robert Schuttler Hotz, an inventor and financier, and Lila Ross Hotz. On New Year's Eve 1919, she met the young Luce through one of his Yale classmates, Thornton Wilder; they were married in 1923.
        The young wife hoped that Time's growing success would eventually allow her workaholic husband to join her in the kind of social whirl she loved. But they divorced in 1935, not long after Mr. Luce met Clare Boothe, whose literary and journalistic drives and interests better matched his own. ''Lila was devastated when Luce confronted her with his intention to divorce her,'' Dr. Herzstein said. ''But they maintained a closeness and were in constant contact, often discussing their children's education and careers, among other things.''
        Mrs. Tyng and Mr. Luce, who died in 1967, had two sons: Henry Luce 3d,  chairman and chief executive of the Henry Luce Foundation in New York City, and Peter Paul Luce of Englewood, Colo.
        In 1939, she married Sewell Tappan Tyng, a lawyer, author, head of a mining company and assistant to the New York City District Attorney, Thomas E. Dewey. She became a fixture in New York society, serving on the boards of several institutions,  including the Henry Street Settlement, the Berkshire Farm School, the Spence-Chapin Adoption Service  and the Grosvenor Neighborhood House. She once reported attending 36 balls in 36 weeks.
        Besides her two sons, Mrs. Tyng is survived by six grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      