
        Dr. J. John Sepkoski Jr., a professor and paleontologist at the University of Chicago who conducted important research illuminating large-scale patterns of evolution in the fossil record, died on Saturday at his home in Chicago. He was 50.
        The cause was heart failure related to high blood pressure, said Steve Koppes, news officer at the University of Chicago.
        Colleagues described Dr. Sepkoski as pivotal in changing paleontology from a science often focused on the minutiae of describing fossil species to one that employed quantitative studies to understand evolutionary change over the course of the history of life.
        He was also well known for the way he worked. In what 20 years ago was a radically new style of research, Dr. Sepkoski identified patterns of how life evolved on earth using huge compilations of data gathered from numerous studies of fossils by many researchers from around the world.
        In these databases, he recorded when groups of organisms first appeared in the fossil record and when they disappeared or became extinct. He gathered these data by searching the paleontological literature, poring over obscure foreign language journals and trying to turn a disparate collection of studies into a uniform body of information.
        Just one study took a decade, as he noted in the title of a 1993 paper in the journal Paleobiology, ''Ten Years in the Library: New Data Confirm Paleontological Patterns.'' He spent decades continuing to build the database.
        ''No one had ever done it before,'' said Dr. Stephen Jay Gould, a paleontologist at Harvard University who was Dr. Sepkoski's graduate school adviser. ''He compiled a completely consistent data set on all groups, terrestrial, marine, single-celled, multicelled, animals and plants, everything.''
        Dr. Sepkoski's most important finding, researchers say, was the discovery of what appears to have been three distinct faunas, each dominating hundreds of millions of years in the fossil record, patterns never before documented or even proposed by others.
        ''Jack was the first one to recognize those,'' said Dr. Douglas Erwin, a paleobiologist at the National Museum of Natural History at the Smithsonian Institution. The effort, Dr. Erwin added, prompted considerable follow-up research by others.
        ''In the 80's, when I was in graduate school,'' he said, ''his work influenced what most people did, what most people were thinking about.''
        In one of Dr. Sepkoski's most famous papers, done with a close colleague, Dr. David Raup, professor emeritus at the University of Chicago, Dr. Sepkoski also reported evidence that mass extinctions appeared to strike with regularity every 26 million years or so. The findings, still the subject of heated debate, have provided years of work for statisticians still studying the patterns of extinctions and for paleontologists seeking possible causes for such cycles
        Colleagues say Dr. Sepkoski helped develop not only new ways of thinking about the fossil record but also new statistical methods to deal with the enormous and unwieldy data required to answer the field's new, broad-scale questions about the evolution of life.
        ''Jack had remarkable mathematical skills,'' Dr. Gould said.
        Dr. Sepkoski is also credited with pushing the field of paleontology toward greater quantitative rigor in what some describe as ''the quantitative revolution.'' Because of Dr. Sepkoski and others at the University of Chicago, in particular Dr. Raup, this new number-crunching style of  paleontology, also called analytical paleontology, became known as the Chicago School.
        While other paleontologists earned reputations searching for data with rock hammers in hand, Dr. Sepkoski was known for his countless hours in the library, which he referred to as his ''field site.'' But close colleagues said most researchers did not recognize that Dr. Sepkoski was also an experienced field geologist.
        His son, David Sepkoski, a graduate student in history of science at University of Minnesota, often accompanied his father in the field. He said his father's love of field geology was lifelong, as Dr. Sepkoski had been a rock and fossil enthusiast as a child and kept large collections of rocks he had amassed as a boy.
        But Dr. Sepkoski also was described by colleagues as a man with a quirky sense of humor working in an office filled with little plastic dinosaurs and the blaring sounds of musical groups like the Sex Pistols and Spinal Tap.
        And in addition to his rock collections, he also favored more unusual collections, including memorabilia of Elizabeth, the Queen Mother, said his wife, Dr. Christine M. Janis, a paleobiologist at Brown University.
        Dr. Sepkoski studied geology as an undergraduate at the University of Notre Dame and received his doctorate at Harvard in geology and paleontology, studying with Dr. Gould.
        Dr. Sepkoski then taught at the University of Rochester for four years before moving to the University of Chicago in 1978. While there, he was appointed a research associate at the Field Museum of Natural History, and, at different times, held visiting professorships at California Institute of Technology and Harvard.
        Dr. Sepkoski was co-editor of the journal Paleobiology from 1983 to 1986. He was the Paleontological Society's president in 1995 and 1996. In 1983, the society recognized his contributions with the Charles Schuchert Award.
        In addition to his wife and son, he is survived by his father, Joseph J. Sepkoski of Sparta, N.J.; two sisters, Carol Sepkoski of Cambridge, Mass., and Diane Karl of Cedar Brook, N.J., and his first wife, Maureen Meter of Chicago.
        ''Most of us aren't going to be remembered in a hundred years' time,'' said Dr. Erwin, the Smithsonian paleobiologist, ''but Jack will, because he changed the way we think about the fossil record and the history of life.''
      