
        Neal J. Hardy, who headed the Federal Housing Administration in the Kennedy Administration, died on April 15 at My Country Home Adult Congregate Living Facility in Osteen, Fla. He was 84 and had previously lived in Orange City, Fla.
        Mr. Hardy was an executive of the National Association of Home Builders when President John F. Kennedy nominated him to head the Federal Housing Administration in 1961. The agency was a predecessor of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
        Mr. Hardy became known as a progressive administrator, shifting the emphasis of Federal housing to the cities from the suburbs, promoting low-income housing and helping to plan an executive order, issued in November 1961, that barred discrimination in Federally subsidized housing.
        The housing agency and the Veterans Administration both issued rules against racial and religious discrimination in housing. At that time, the two agencies together were insuring or guaranteeing mortgages on about a quarter of the private housing built in the United States each year.
        Mr. Hardy also began a program providing mortgage insurance to nonprofit and limited-profit organizations for the construction and rehabilitation of homes for low-  and moderate-income families.
        He resigned in January 1963 and moved to New York City, where he worked in the public affairs program of the Ford Foundation. In 1964, he was named deputy administrator for rehabilitation in the city's Rent and Rehabilitation Administration, which was mounting a drive to rehabilitate slums.
        Mr. Hardy was an assistant administrator in the city's Housing and Development Administration from 1968 to 1972. He was executive director of the New York City Rehabilitation Mortgage Insurance Corporation, a government concern, from 1972 until he retired in 1985.
        He was born in Ottawa, Kan., the son of Cleo C. Hardy and the former Irene Johnson. In 1936, he received a bachelor's degree from the University of Kansas. He served in the Army in World War II, did intelligence work and became assistant military attache at the United States Embassy in London.
        In 1946, Mr. Hardy began working for the Housing and Home Finance Agency, the parent of the Federal Housing Administration, in Washington. He stayed there until he moved to the home builders' association in 1954.
        His 1938 marriage to Dorothy Margaret Cortelyou ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his wife of 38 years, Sallee, of De Land, Fla.; two sons, Neal Jr., of Marina Del Ray, Calif., and Van, of Redmond, Wash.; a stepson, Scott Lee Bashaw of St. Louis; a sister, Polly Roehm of Weston, Conn., and five grandchildren.
      