
        Sir William Hunter McCrea, a British astronomer and mathematician who as a young researcher advanced the knowledge of the Sun's composition and more recently set forth his own theories on the formation of planetary systems and galaxies, died April 25. He was 94 and lived in Lewes, Sussex.
        In the 1920's, astrophysicists succeeded in debunking an ancient proposition that the Sun was made up mostly of iron. The scientists theorized that the Sun held many of the same gases and materials as the earth.
        Later spectroscopy hinted at the presence of hydrogen in the Sun's atmosphere, and the German astronomer Albrecht Unsold suggested in 1928 that hydrogen, in fact, was the most common element. William McCrea, a brilliant mathematician and research student at Cambridge University, worked out the calculations to confirm the hypothesis a year later.
        Cosmologists eventually established that all stars were composed chiefly of hydrogen, a realization that turned their science into a new direction. It also pointed toward the Big Bang theory of the origin of the universe.
        In the late 1960's, Professor McCrea distanced himself from that theory of a single Big Bang. He advanced his own interpretations that indicated instead a series of bangs at different times and places in the cosmos.
        A native of Dublin, William McCrea was educated at Cambridge and the University of Gottingen. He returned to Cambridge and received his Ph.D. there in 1929, then became a lecturer in mathematics at Edinburgh University.
        He next moved to the University of London and the Imperial College of Science. He remained associated with the University of London until 1966, when he was appointed research professor of theoretical astronomy at the University of Sussex. He took emeritus status in 1972.
        He contributed papers to mathematical and astronomical journals and translated Unsold's ''The New Cosmos'' (1969). His own books included ''Relativity Physics'' (1935), ''Analytical Geometry of Three Dimensions'' (1942), ''Physics of Sun and Stars'' (1950), ''The Royal Greenwich Observatory'' (1975), and ''History of the Royal Astronomical Society, 1920 to 1980'' (1987).
        Professor McCrea's wife, Marian Nicol Cole Webster McCrea, died in 1995 after 62 years of marriage. They had two daughters and a son.
      