
        Robert P. Bergman, director of the Cleveland Museum of Art since 1993 and a nationally recognized spokesman for arts institutions, died yesterday at University Hospitals in Cleveland. He would have been 54 on May 17.
        Mr. Bergman died after a two-week illness with a rare blood disorder, said William Prenevost, a spokesman for the museum. He was admitted to University Hospitals on April 26.
        Though not as well known as Sherman E. Lee, who directed the museum from 1958 to 1983 and built it into one of the world's leading showplaces of Asian art, Mr. Bergman participated widely in national cultural affairs and published and lectured widely on subjects ranging from medieval art and architecture to the role of museums in contemporary society.
        And he was an enthusiast. ''This is a good time for museums,'' he told Judith H. Dobrzynski of The New York Times in 1997. When he had left a promising academic career at Harvard 16 years previously, he recalled, ''I got a lot of pats on my shoulder from my colleagues -- a lot of 'Poor Bob, there he goes to dust off the sarcophagi.' Museums were on a trajectory to be marginalized.''
        But the 90's were shaping up to be a golden age of art museums.
        Asked whether that popularity could be a corrupting influence, Mr. Bergman acknowledged the problem. ''We'll be under pressure to increase revenues,'' he said.
        But he added that he was more concerned about the shrinking and graying of the art-literate audience. ''Kids are not getting exposed to music and art,'' he said.
        Mr. Bergman was immediate past chairman of the board of the American Association of Museums, the largest national association of museums and museum professionals, which held its annual meeting in Cleveland last week. He served as president of the Association of Art Museum Directors and was immediate past-chairman of the board of the American Arts Alliance, the lobbying group for a wide variety of art organizations.
        While director of the Cleveland Museum, Mr. Bergman saw annual attendance rise from more than 400,000 to more than 600,000.
        The major shows at the museum that he oversaw included ''Pharaohs: Treasures of Egyptian Art from the Louvre,'' ''Faberge in America,'' and ''Vatican Treasures: Early Christian, Renaissance and Baroque Art from the Papal Collections.'' Mr. Bergman served as co-curator of the last of these.
        In addition, he guided the renovation or reinstallation of 30 of the museum's 70 galleries, changed the annual financial deficits into surpluses, and completed a new mission statement.
        He also helped to arrange for acquisitions in all areas, including masterpieces like Annibale Carracci's painting ''Boy Drinking,'' a 13th-century Pisan altar cross, Constantinian gold jewelry, a pair of fourth-century Maya ceramic figures, Renaissance armor by Pompeo della Cesa and Andy Warhol's ''Marilyn x 100.''
        Mr. Bergman served as chairman of the Cleveland Cultural Coalition and on the board of trustees of the Greater Cleveland Growth Association. He was adjunct professor of art at Case Western Reserve University.
        Born in Bayonne, N.J., in 1945, Mr. Bergman received a bachelor's degree from Rutgers University and a master's degree and Ph.D. from Princeton University. A specialist in medieval art and architecture, he received Fulbright and Guggenheim fellowships.
        From 1971 to 1981, he pursued an academic career, most notably as associate professor of fine arts at Harvard University.
        He served as director of the Walters Art Gallery in Baltimore from 1981 to 1993 when he was recruited by the Cleveland Museum.
        Mr. Bergman is survived by his wife, Marcelle, and a daughter, Margaret, both of Cleveland Heights; a brother, Edward, and his mother, Ethel, both of Princeton, N.J.
        A memorial service will be held at the museum at 2 P.M. on May 15.
      