
        Roderick Thorp, a former private investigator whose best-selling crime novels became successful films, was found dead on Wednesday  at his home in Oxnard, Calif. He was 62.
        He appeared to have died three days earlier after a heart attack, said a son, Roderick Thorp 3d of Camarillo, Calif.
        Mr. Thorp was best known for his suspense novels ''The Detective'' (1966), which was made into a 1968 movie with Frank Sinatra and Lee Remick, and ''Nothing Lasts Forever'' (1979), which became the 1988 film ''Die Hard,'' starring Bruce Willis.
        Mr. Thorp was born on Sept. 1, 1936, in the Bronx. He graduated in 1957 from City College of New York, where he won a Theodore Goodman Short Story Award. After graduation he sold cars, worked in a haberdashery, founded a catering company and worked in insurance. In his 20's, he also worked in his father's private detective agency, where he once spent a week lying under a bus spying on a mechanic selling stolen gasoline.
        Mr. Thorp stopped being a detective when ''The Detective'' was published. The novel, a gritty look at the lives of big-city police detectives, earned him hundreds of thousands of dollars and some degree of fame. He was not quite an overnight sensation, though. ''The Detective'' was his second novel; his first novel, ''Into the Forest'' (1961), did not sell well.
        His other best seller was ''Nothing Lasts Forever,'' about Joe Leland, a burned-out ex-cop turned security consultant who is caught in a terrorist siege of an office building.
        He also wrote ''Wives,'' with Robert Blake (1971), ''Circle of Love'' (1974), ''Westfield'' (1977), ''Rainbow Drive (1986) and ''River: A Novel of the Green River Killings'' (1995). His articles also appeared in many magazines and newspapers.
        Before moving to California, Mr. Thorp taught literature at Ramapo College in Mahwah, N.J., from 1971 to 1976. He also lectured on creative writing at schools, colleges and writers' conferences in Southern California.
        Besides his son Roderick, Mr. Thorp is survived by his wife, Claudia; another son, Stephen, of Woodland Hills, Calif.; two sisters, Sandra Kuch of Tampa, Fla., and Patricia Kerrigan Roth of Oldsmar, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      