
        Teodoro Garcia, a reluctant Mexican lieutenant who battled the rebel Pancho Villa in the Mexican Revolution and is believed to be the last soldier in the army of the dictator Porfirio Diaz, died last Saturday in a retirement home in Texas City, Tex. He was 110.
        ''He was the last Federal,'' said Manuel Urbina 2d, a professor of Latin American history at the College of the Mainland in Texas City, and an expert on the survivors of the Mexican Revolution. ''There are a few, very few, who fought with Villa and others, and who are still alive because they were 11-, 12-, 13-year-old boys, or they fought with later factional governments during the revolution. But Garcia was the last who fought with Diaz.''
        Mr. Garcia was born into a family of prosperous landowners on Jan. 7, 1889, in Sacramento, in the Mexican state of Coahuila, about 100 miles southwest of Laredo, Tex. Although he sympathized with the poor, he made an offhand promise to a friend that he would join the Federales, a name for Diaz's army, if they ever passed through town. When they did, a few weeks later, the young Garcia felt that as a matter of honor, he had to enlist.
        Joining the Federales -- the name now refers to the Mexican federal police -- was also somewhat expected of Mr. Garcia. His family, after all, had about 40 peones on its hacienda, and President Diaz was battling civil insurrection. As it turned out, Mr. Garcia fought on the losing side. Diaz, in power since 1876, was overthrown in 1911 by Francisco Madero, with the help of Villa, the revolutionary leader in the north of Mexico, and Emiliano Zapata, the leader in the south.
        Factional fighting continued until 1917, when the revolution ended and a constitution was accepted. During this period, Mr. Garcia's family was stripped of much of its land and possessions, and, as the political winds shifted, the family drifted back and forth over the United States-Mexican border.
        Finally, in 1920, feeling increasing pressure, Mr. Garcia, with his wife, children and parents, fled permanently to the United States.
        They settled first in San Antonio, where he was a building contractor.
        Twenty years later, Mr. Garcia and his family moved to Texas City, an oil refinery town near Galveston, on the Gulf of Mexico. His house was one of many destroyed in April 1947 when an explosion of a ship at a nearby pier killed more than 500 Texas City residents. He rebuilt his house, and houses for two of his sons and several neighbors.
        As Mr. Garcia grew older, he became something of a minor celebrity, rousted by reporters and academics every 5 or 10 years or so, when it was time to mark an anniversary of the start of the Mexican Revolution.
        In 1988, at a reunion of survivors of the revolution, he said he bore no grudge against Villa and those who  had uprooted his family. In fact, at the reunion, he dined with Villa's bookkeeper.
        ''How beautiful it is to be friends and sit together for dinner,'' Mr. Garcia told The Washington Post.
        More recently, the questions focused less on the revolution and more on Mr. Garcia's longevity, which he attributed to hard work, low stress and clean, healthful living.
        ''He was proud of the fact that he quit smoking -- at 95,'' Professor Urbina said. ''And quit drinking -- at 100.''
        Mr. Garcia's wife, Ignacia Zertuche, preceded him in death, as did his sons, Joe Garcia, Mario Garcia, Lee Garcia, Ramirio Garcia, a daughter, Olivia Valdez and two grandchildren.
        He is survived by a daughter, Lucy Robles of Texas City; 13 grandchildren; 29 great-grandchildren; 28 great-great-grandchildren, and 9 great-great-great-grandchildren.
      