
        T. Justin Moore Jr., a retired chief executive of the Virginia Power Company and a founder of an economic development group that sought to break down racial barriers in Richmond, died of cancer on April 24 at his home in Richmond, a family spokesman said. He was 74.
        Mr. Moore was as well known in Richmond for his attempts to ease racial tensions in the city in the 1980's as he was for his career at the utility. He had a knack for dealing with different groups, including politicians, consumers, state agencies and his own employees.
        He founded the development group Richmond Renaissance in 1982 along with Henry L. Marsh 3d, a Democratic state senator who also served as Mayor of Richmond.
        The group, which is still active, was a biracial partnership that brought together public and private groups to spur economic development. It succeeded in attracting new business into the area.
        Mr. Moore served as the first chairman of Richmond Renaissance, helping to develop the Sixth Street Marketplace, a pedestrian mall area. Acting on Mr. Moore's idea, the group built a bridge over Broad Street as a symbolic as well as practical way of bringing the black and white areas of the city together. Before it was built, Mr. Marsh said, Broad Street had separated the two communities like a Berlin wall.
        Concerning the increasing demand for energy, Mr. Moore expressed faith that technology like solar power would eventually meet the challenge. ''I'm a great believer that new technology is going to keep on saving our necks,'' he said.
        Mr. Moore served as an officer in the Navy in the Pacific during World War II. After graduating from Princeton University in 1947, he attended Virginia Law School, graduating in 1950. He then joined the firm of Hunton & Williams.
        He was named assistant general counsel for the Virginia Electric and Power Company in 1956 and joined the company as senior vice president and principal financial officer in 1967.
        He was promoted to president in 1970 and was named chairman and chief executive in 1978. He retired from Virginia Power in 1985 but continued to serve on the board of Dominion Resources Inc., the parent company, until 1994. He also served as a director of the Philip Morris Companies, the GTE Corporation and the Conference Board.
        His first wife, Mary Elizabeth Pearson Moore, died in 1983. He is survived by his wife, Jeanette Bray; a son, T. Justin Moore 3d, and a daughter, Mary Moore Wilkinson, all of Richmond.
      