
        Mark D. Weiser, a computer scientist and the chief technology officer of the Xerox Corporation's legendary Palo Alto Research Center, died on Tuesday at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 46.
        He died of liver failure resulting from cancer, his wife, Vicky Reich, said.
        In Silicon Valley, the nation's high- technology heartland, Mr. Weiser was widely viewed as a genuine visionary and computer pioneer, and his ideas have influenced many of the world's best computer scientists.
        In 1988 he coined the term ''ubiquitous computing'' as an alternative to hulking mainframe computers in rooms of their own and then the personal desktop models that have prevailed in the first two generations of the computer era. At the time, the personal computer, which had been explored at the research center, known as PARC, during the 1970's was in its ascendancy. But Mr. Weiser's vision was a radical departure. Computers, in his view, should disappear into all the objects that surround people in daily life in both home and office.
        Thus, the computer user should be unchained from the so-called desktop metaphor that characterizes people's interactions with nearly all personal computers, Mr. Weiser asserted. This came from an idea he had while chatting with other researchers around a coffee pot in a hallway of the research center.
        As unlikely as Mr. Weiser's idea seemed in the late 1980's and early 1990's, it came to frame a new generation of experimentation at a revitalized PARC in the 1990's.
        And now, his idea of ubiquitous computing has in many ways taken hold, what with so-called smart devices such as coffee pots, printers and copy machines that can display whether they are full or empty via an office network. In the research projects that Mr. Weiser pursued at Xerox, office workers would be surrounded by an invisible computational web.
        He also challenged the computer industry to look at performance in new ways long before it was fashionable. Rather than the traditional performance measurement of millions of instructions per second, or MIPS, Mr. Weiser focused on the greatest number of instructions per joule of energy, pushing toward low-powered portable computing.
        His approach to computer science was a blend of technology, art and philosophy. The German philosopher Martin Heidegger's notion of the cane as a transparent extension of the blind man's hand defined Mr. Weiser's views on computers as tools that should disappear.
        But at the time Mr. Weiser was developing his philosophy of tiny computers in devices surrounding people in the real world, the computing world was becoming captivated by ideas like virtual reality, whichsubmerges computer users into synthetic environments created by powerful computers.
        ''Just when the world was being seduced by virtual reality, Mark had this idea of embodied physicality,'' said John Seeley Brown, PARC's director and a Xerox vice president.
        There are significant parallels between the impact of the research that Alan Kay led at PARC in the 1970's and the research Mr. Weiser guided two decades later. In each case it took the computer industry more than a decade to catch up and adopt many of the ideas.
        In the case of ubiquitous computing, there has been an explosion of activity. For example, a next-generation Internet protocol has been designed to support billions and billions of connected smart devices. Research in the area is also under way at universities around the country.
        Mark David Weiser was born in Chicago and grew up in Stony Brook, N.Y., where his father was a professor of chemistry at the State University of New York there. His love of computing began because a girl he had a crush on in junior high school was taking a programming class. Nothing came of his crush, but his romance with computers lasted a lifetime.
        He met Ms. Reich, his future wife, while in high school, and she remembers that many of their early dates ended in computer labs with Mr. Weiser working with the punch cards that were the currency of mainframe systems.
        He entered the New College in Florida, where he studied philosophy. But his money ran out in his second year and he left school, moving to Ann Arbor, Mich., where he got a job as a computer programmer. He began taking computer science classes and excelled to the point that he was admitted directly into a master's program at the University of Michigan. He received his master's degree in 1976 and his doctorate in 1979.
        Mr. Weiser taught computer science at the University of Maryland, College Park, and became associate chairman of the department in 1986. His early work was in ''program slicing,'' a method of debugging computer programs by using the organization of information in a program to look at only a subset of instructions and data.
        In 1987 he joined PARC's research staff and the next year became manager of the center's computer science laboratory. In 1996 he became PARC's chief technology officer.
        During his career Mr. Weiser formed several companies. One, called Tacit, was started in 1994 to commercialize some of his ubiquitous computing ideas. But it failed in part because Silicon Valley's venture capitalists had become obsessed with Internet start-ups. Mr. Weiser returned to Xerox in 1996.
        An active participant in the San Francisco Bay Area's eclectic culture, Mr. Weiser was a drummer in an avant-garde rock band, Severe Tire Damage. Among the group's claims to fame is that it was the first band to broadcast live over the Internet. The band ''opened'' for the Rolling Stones by inserting its broadcast onto the World Wide Web immediately before the Stones were to begin. As the band notes on its Web site, ''the press was generous'' in its reviews.
        A sister of Mr. Weiser's, Mona Vill'neuve, of Bud Lake, N.J., also died this month from cancer. In addition to his wife, he is survived by his mother, Audra Weiser, of Port Jefferson Station, N.Y.; another sister, Ann , of Oakland, Calif., and two daughters, Corinne Reich-Weiser and Nicole Reich-Weiser.
      