
        James W. Nance, a retired Navy rear admiral who took on a late-career job as the chief aide to his old boyhood friend Senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina, died on Tuesday at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md. He was 77 and lived in McLean, Va.
        Marc A. Thiessen, the spokesman for the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, where Admiral Nance was staff director, said the cause was complications of myelodysplasia, a pre-leukemia condition.
        On Capitol Hill, Admiral Nance was known for having brought order to the committee's Republican staff, which Senator Helms, the senior Republican, and others on the panel had found disorganized and riven by ideological differences.
        ''When I came over here, I couldn't understand the organization,'' Admiral Nance said in a 1992 interview with The National Journal after agreeing to come out of retirement a year earlier to help his old friend. ''It was a zoo to me. My military mind has got to have all the men and women in line.''
        Admiral Nance's role was important then, when Senator Helms was the committee's ranking minority member, and it became more important later, when, after the 1994 elections, the Republicans took control of the Senate and Mr. Helms became chairman.
        Before Admiral Nance was brought in, The National Journal said in its 1992 article, there had been a movement among the committee's  Republicans to remove Mr. Helms as their leader because of the minority staff's disarray.
        Mr. Helms accepted Admiral Nance's recommendation that eight members of the staff be fired, and, although there was an angry reaction at first, Republican leaders later said the Nance replacements had brought order to the panel.
        Admiral Nance was born in Monroe, N.C., where he and Mr. Helms grew up two blocks from each other. He graduated from the United States Naval Academy in 1944 and went on to serve as a naval aviator in World War II, the Korean War and the Vietnam War. By the time he retired from the Navy in 1979, he had held several commands, including that of  the aircraft carrier Forrestal.
        He became a humorous if caustic reflection of the dour Senator Helms, who seems to enjoy saying no to State Department requests. Once, when questioning the benefits given to ambassadors abroad, including hardship pay at some posts, Admiral Nance said: ''I fought at Iwo Jima. That's hardship.''
        He had many Navy decorations, including two Distinguished Service Medals and the Legion of Merit.
        After his Navy service, Admiral Nance served for two years on the White House staff of President Ronald Reagan and later worked for  Boeing in its naval systems department.
        Besides the Naval Academy, he  graduated from the Naval War College and the National War College, and received a master's degree in international relations from George Washington University.
        Admiral Nance, who was known as Bud to his friends, is survived by his wife of 51 years, the former Mary Lyda Faulk; two sons, James Lee Nance of Richmond and Andrew Monroe Nance of McLean; two daughters, Mary Catherine Worth of Atlanta and Susan Elizabeth Nance of McLean, and seven grandchildren.
        When Admiral Nance agreed to go to work for Senator Helms, The Washington Times reported in an obituary on Wednesday, he asked that he not be paid, but the Senator pointed out that a Federal law required that Senate staff members be paid a minimum of $153 a year.
        Once he went to work for the $153, Admiral Nance said, ''Nobody can ever say Jesse gave his old buddy a job.''
        Senator Helms, noting that his friend's pay came out to $2.94 a week, said, ''Bud's worth every penny.''
      