
        Jerome Jay Wolken, a biophysicist at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh who delved into the mysteries of sight and light and invented a lens system that gave sight to some legally blind people, died on May 10 at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 82.
        Dr. Wolken's Light Concentrating Lens System, developed in the 1980's and used in eyeglasses, opened new vistas on medical science, photography, astronomy and the collection of sunlight. One of the patents for the system involves a pear-shaped lens 10 times more sensitive to light than a standard camera lens.
        The system reproduced the lenses that deep-sea creatures adapted over millions of years to see objects at depths of up to 1,500 feet in almost total darkness. The key was a special geometric relationship between the curvature of the top and the curvature of the bottom of the lens.
        Made of glass or plastic for an eyeglass frame, the system increased the light-gathering ability of eyes that could not send enough light to their retinas. It was used primarily by people with cataracts.
        In researching deep-sea optics, Dr. Wolken worked with the Marine Biological Laboratory and the Oceanographic Research Institute at Woods Hole on Cape Cod, Mass., and with similar institutions in Miami, Bermuda, the Bahamas, Europe and Japan. He applied his findings to lenses of enhanced photosensitivity.
        Jerome Jay Wolken was born in Pittsburgh and received a bachelor's degree in chemistry from the University of Pittsburgh in 1946. He received a master's degree in biological sciences in 1948 and a Ph.D. in biophysics in 1949, both from Pittsburgh, where he taught in the 1950's and was named a professor of biophysics physiology in 1962.
        Two years later, Carnegie Mellon appointed Dr. Wolken a professor and head of the biological sciences department at Morrison Carnegie College. He wrote nine books in his field, edited two more and contributed some 120 papers to scientific journals. He retired in 1982, but he continued his work until recently.
        Dr. Wolken is survived by his wife of 43 years, Tobey Holstein Wolken; their daughter and son, Johanna Zorn of Chicago and Erik A., of Chapel Hill, N.C.; a daughter and son by an earlier marriage, Ann Wolken of Los Angeles, and Jonathan, of Washington Depot, Conn., and five grandchildren. His first wife, Dorothy Mallinger Wolken, died in 1954.
      