
        P. Scott Makela, a graphic and multimedia designer whose audacious experiments helped create the esthetic of new computer-age media, died on May 7 at St. Joseph's Mercy Hospital in Pontiac, Mich. He was 39 and lived in Bloomfield Hills, Mich.
        The cause was a rare infection of the epiglottis, said his wife, Laurie Haycock Makela.
        With his wife Mr. Makela was a chairman of the 2-D design department at the Cranbrook Academy of Art in Bloomfield.
        They were also founders of a design studio called Makela (originally Words + Pictures for Business + Culture), specializing in print and advanced technology projects for corporate and cultural clients.
        In recent years Mr. Makela was working on integrating traditional print design and typography with motion and sound for videos, CD-ROM's and Web sites.
        ''Scott was a leading figure in the creation of a new 90's electronic esthetic,'' said Rick Poynor, former editor of Eye, an international design magazine.
        His graphic visions ''gave an intoxicating foretaste of what total immersion in digital media might someday be like,'' Mr. Poynor added.
        One of Mr. Makela's proudest accomplishments was the Connections Theater at the Cranbrook Institute of Science, a ''graphic film project''that gave audiences a way to experience how the earth and its species were created.
        The installation is a wood and metal shell that houses a cloud of translucent fabric against which the viewer is exposed to more than 2,000 images, 30 pieces of live-action film, custom typography and original music.
        Mr. Makela also designed and produced animated type sequences for film titles, including those for David Fincher's forthcoming movie ''Flight Club.''
        The title sequence depicts a journey through the brain, the synapses, the frontal lobe and sweat glands and finally down the barrel of a gun aimed at the actor Edward Norton. The credits, featuring a unique typeface designed by Mr. Makela and his associates, flash maniacally throughout the visual journey.
        In 1990 Mr. Makela designed a ground-breaking digital typeface for the Emigre fonts he called ''dead history'' because it was a mixture of historical and contemporary forms that explored new computer software for making fonts. It represented a major shift from age-old type-founding traditions to the techniques and esthetic of the new computer age.
        He pushed the boundaries of page design in magazines, catalogues and books by rejecting conventions of legibility and readability in favor of a cacophony of layered text and visual effects.
        Mr. Makela was born in St. Paul in 1960. He received degrees from the University of Minnesota, the Minneapolis College of Art and Design and the Cranbrook Academy of Art. In 1996 he and wife were appointed as  leaders of the school's graphic design graduate program, which was known as a hothouse for new ideas in print and computer design.
        In addition to teaching classes and mentoring students, he did work for Sony Music, Warner Brothers Records, Propaganda Films, Amnesty International and Nike. Last year he was an author with his wife and Lewis Blackwell of ''Whereishere,'' a book and Web site that survey contemporary digital design.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Carmela; a son, Nikolai; his father, Martin, of Bloomfield Hills; a brother, Eric, and a sister, Anne Snyder, both of Minneapolis.
        For most designers precision is a paramount virtue, but for Mr. Makela, who said that as a child he was dyslexic and had a hard time making himself understood, chaos was a tool and code. Using type and image to construct various levels of information, he wove ideas and feelings together for viewers and readers to decipher at their own pace.
        ''I come from a background where emotion and passion are everything,'' Mr. Makela said.
        Correction:  May 18, 1999, Tuesday  An obituary of the graphic designer P. Scott Makela on Saturday referred incorrectly to a digital typeface he designed. The name, Dead History, should have been capitalized as a trademark.
      