
        Ernest A. Gross, a diplomat and an international lawyer who was closely involved in issues of war and peace from the Korean War to decolonization and disarmament, died on Sunday at his home in New York City. He was 92.
        Mr. Gross, whose life as a diplomat began in 1931, when he joined the State Department as legal adviser, went on to serve as a delegate to the United Nations during a particularly tense period in 1950. Later, he was legal counsel to Ralph Bunche, then Assistant Secretary General of the United Nations, who was called before panels investigating his loyalty during the McCarthy period, and to the United Nations Secretary General, Dag Hammarskjold. In 1948, Mr. Gross was among those who introduced a convention against genocide to the United Nations, and in the 1960's, while in private practice, he brought a suit in the World Court against the South African Government for its policies of apartheid.
        But the most dramatic period in Mr. Gross's long public career took place soon after he was appointed by Secretary of State Dean Acheson to be America's deputy delegate to the United Nations on Oct. 11, 1949. Two months later, Warren Austin, the chief delegate, took a leave of absence and Mr. Gross, a soft-spoken and scholarly professional, took over the effort to parry Soviet attempts to transfer China's United Nations seat to the Communists, who had just won the civil war, from Chiang Kai-shek's Nationalists, who had just fled the mainland for Taiwan.
        It was on Jan. 13, 1950, when Mr. Gross was attending his first meeting of the Security Council, that Jacov Malik, the Soviet delegate, walked out of a discussion over China's representation. For reasons that have generated wonder and debate ever since, Mr. Malik stayed away from the Council in protest for months. He was still absent on June 25, when North Korea invaded the South. By the end of that day, the Security Council, unrestrained by the threat of a Soviet veto, condemned the North Korean attack and called for the withdrawal of Kim Il Sung's forces.
        Many years later, Mr. Gross discussed what seemed to be Mr. Malik's extraordinary blunder, which allowed the United Nations not merely to vote for a peacekeeping force, but to brand one warring party as the initiator of conflict and commit unequivocal support to the other side.
        ''I think the Soviets felt they had very little, if anything, to worry about,'' Mr. Gross said in 1975. ''They did not anticipate that the Security Council would take action.''
        In the fall, Mr. Austin returned to take over the American delegation again and Mr. Gross resumed work as his deputy, leaving in 1953 to enter private practice as a partner in the law firm Curtis, Mallet-Prevost, Colt & Mosle. He remained affiliated with the firm until his death.
        Mr. Gross was born in Brooklyn on Sept. 23, 1906. He attended De Witt Clinton High School in the Bronx and went on to Harvard College, where he graduated in 1927. After studying and rowing at Oxford University, he returned to Harvard for Law School and met Kathryn Watson, the daughter of Senator James Watson, Republican of Indiana. They were married in 1933.
        That same year, Mr. Gross left the State Department and signed on as a division counsel for the National Recovery Administration, the agency coordinating President Franklin D. Roosevelt's anti-Depression strategies. A year later, Mr. Gross left Government service and served as counsel for the National Association of Manufacturers. In 1940, he returned to public life, as associate counsel for the National Labor Relations Board.
        ''I was the only living man who ever went from the N.A.M. to the N.L.R.B.,'' said Mr. Gross, speaking of the two organizations, the first of which scorned labor unions while the other empowered them.
        In 1943, he was commissioned as a captain in the Army, and then promoted to lieutenant colonel when he served the chief of the economic section of the Civil Affairs Division of the War Department General Staff. With peace he returned to the State Department, serving as deputy to the Assistant Secretary of State for Occupied Areas. From 1948 until 1953, he was with the United Nations.
        But some of that involvement with the world body spanned a much longer time. For example, it was Mr. Gross who, representing the United States, signed the United Nations Genocide convention in 1948. On the eve of the General Assembly vote, he had urged approval for the treaty ''before the memory of recent horrifying genocidal acts has faded from the minds and conscience of man.''
        The vote passed but it would take another four decades years before the United States would ratify the convention. In 1985, Mr. Gross, a prolific and lifelong writer of letters to editors, felt impelled to write a letter to The New York Times rejecting the reservations to ratification that had been raised in an Op-Ed article by Senator Orrin G. Hatch. ''The convention should have been ratified long ago,'' Mr. Gross wrote.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by three children, Suzanne Wolff of Baltimore, Peter W. Gross of San Francisco and Catherine Gross of New York, and 10 grandchildren.
      