
        Judge Walter J. Cummings, who at 36 became the youngest Solicitor General of the United States and went on to be one of the longest-serving Federal appellate court judges in the nation's history, died on April 24 at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 82 and lived in Chicago.
        In July 1966, Judge Cummings was named by President Lyndon B. Johnson to the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, in Chicago, and served until his death. In his nearly 33 years on the bench, Judge Cummings wrote more than 2,700 opinions.
        Among the judge's more notable opinions was one in 1972 reversing an action by Judge Julius J. Hoffman of Federal District Court in the ''Chicago Seven'' case. Judge Hoffman had cited some defendants in the case for contempt of court in the tumultuous trial that came to symbolize the domestic disruptions that erupted during the Vietnam War.
        In 1970, all the defendants were found not guilty of charges of conspiring to incite a riot two years earlier, during the Democratic National Convention in Chicago. But five of them were found guilty on a lesser charge of crossing state lines with the intent of inciting a riot.
        Judge Hoffman's courtroom became a raucous setting in which the defendants and their lawyers were repeatedly excoriated from the bench while the defendants, among them Abbie Hoffman, David Dellinger and Jerry Rubin, sneeringly referred to Judge Hoffman as ''Mr. Magoo.''
        The judge ordered another defendant, Bobby G. Seale, a leader of the Black Panthers, to be bound and gagged after Mr. Seale called him a ''pig'' and a ''racist.''
        Reviewing the trial, Judge Cummings found that Judge Hoffman's conduct was ''deprecatory and often antagonistic'' toward the defense, and ordered a new trial before a different judge. Although some counts of contempt were eventually upheld against the defendants, no fines or sentences were ever imposed.
        Judge Cummings also participated in important decisions requiring steel companies to stop polluting Lake Michigan.
        In writing judicial opinions, the judge was concerned about matters of tone and style. Dissenting from the majority opinion in a 1993 case holding that the Boy Scouts of America may exclude applicants who refuse to swear that they will carry out their ''duty to God,'' Judge Cummings declared that although the majority might have reached ''the correct result,'' it had done so ''in a most unfortunate fashion by imparting a stingy and narrow reading'' to the applicable statute.
        Walter Joseph Cummings was born in Chicago on Sept. 29, 1916, to wealth and social position. His father, Walter J. Cummings Sr., was a railroad-car manufacturer, the first head of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and chairman of the Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company, now part of BankAmerica.
        The younger Mr. Cummings attended the St. Albans School in Washington and the Chicago Latin School, and received his bachelor's degree from Yale University in 1937 and his law degree from Harvard University in 1940.
        Rejected by the armed services in World War II because of poor eyesight, he became an assistant to the United States Solicitor General in 1940, and later was a special assistant to the Attorney General.
        After the war, he practiced law in Chicago until 1952, when he was chosen by President Harry S. Truman to be Solicitor General, making him the youngest to hold that post. In 1953, after Truman left office, Mr. Cummings returned to private practice in Chicago until he was named to the appellate court. He served as chief judge of the Seventh Circuit from 1981 to 1986.
        In 1946, he married Therese Murray, who died in 1968. Judge Cummings is survived by three sons, Walter J. Cummings 3d of Chestnut Hill, Mass., Keith Murray Cummings of West Palm Beach, Fla., and Mark Farrell Cummings of Chicago; a brother, Edward, of Washington, and two grandchildren.
      