
        Edwin L. Dale Jr., a former economics reporter in the Washington bureau of The New York Times who later explained the intricacies of supply-side economics as a budget spokesman in the Reagan Administration, died today at the Washington Hospice.
        He was 75 and was visiting in Washington when he died. He had homes in Delray Beach, Fla., and Osterville, Mass., on Cape Cod.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Meredith.
        Mr. Dale worked for The Times from 1955 to 1976. In his journalistic work, economists often found him as knowledgeable as they were. For example, Mr. Dale was credited by economists with being one of the first to establish that the roots of inflation lay as much in the service sector as in the pricing of goods. He came to this insight in the 1950's and helped bring it to public awareness.
        Joseph Laitin, a spokesman for Government agencies including the Treasury Department, said, ''One budget director commented to me after an interview that this man Dale was qualified to be budget director.''
        The economist Paul A. Volcker said, ''It was pretty wild and woolly when I was Chairman of the Federal Reserve, and he was a voice of calm, common sense during that period.''
        Mr. Volcker said that when Mr. Dale became the spokesman for David A. Stockman, director of the Office of Management and Budget under President Ronald Reagan, ''I thought that was a waste of a good journalist, going to the budget bureau.''
        Mr. Dale was born in Philadelphia and went to Yale University, where he was managing editor of The Yale Daily News and graduated in 1944, in time to serve as a naval officer in the Pacific in World War II.
        His first newspaper job was with The Worcester Evening Gazette in Massachusetts in 1947 and he was an economics reporter for The New York Herald Tribune before joining The Times.
        In 1968 Mr. Dale assisted on an important scoop on the escalation of the war in Vietnam.
        Stanley Karnow, in his 1983 book ''Vietnam: A History,'' wrote that Representative William Moorhead of Pennsylvania held a party at his home in Washington that was attended by Mr. Dale and Townsend Hoopes, the Under Secretary of the Air Force. Mr. Hoopes, Mr. Karnow said, had turned against the war and ''hinted to Dale that a faction of the Pentagon was forming to resist a troop buildup in Vietnam.''
        Acting on Mr. Dale's hint, The Times was able to report on March 10 that President Lyndon B. Johnson was considering a Pentagon request to call up 206,000 more men at a time when the Administration was proclaiming that Communist forces had been crippled by losses suffered in their recent Tet offensive.
        Mr. Dale was the author of ''Conservatives in Power'' (1960, Doubleday) and the principal author of ''The People's Budget'' (1995, Regency). He was co-editor, with his Times colleague Richard E. Mooney, of ''Inflation and Recession?'' (1958, Doubleday).
        Mr. Dale was married to Mary Todd Hastings from 1950 until her death in 1983. In addition to Mrs. Dale, he is survived by a stepdaughter, Rosalind C. Dujardin of Bermuda; a stepson, Daniel C. Cross of Washington, and six step-grandchildren.
      