
        Charles Gordon, a son of immigrants who became the general counsel of the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the founding author of the 20-volume treatise Immigration Law and Procedure, died on Wednesday at Bay Medical Center in Panama City, Fla. He was 93 and lived in Potomac, Md., and Panama City.
        Mr. Gordon was a seminal figure in modern immigration law. ''Immigration Law and Procedure,'' which he published starting in 1959, is the principal reference in the field, widely cited in court opinions and scholarly articles. He continued to publish supplements and updates to it until he was 88.
        ''Before him, there was really no complete guide,'' said a longtime friend, Maurice A. Roberts, retired chairman of the Board of Immigration Appeals at the Justice Department.
        Mr. Gordon was born on Oct. 12, 1905, in New York City, the son of immigrants from Eastern Europe. He attended the City College of New York and graduated from New York University Law School in 1927.
        He spent several years in private practice before joining the Immigration and Naturalization Service in 1939. He stayed for 35 years, rising to general counsel in 1966.
        While at the immigration agency, Mr. Gordon argued eight cases before the Supreme Court. ''He was known as a liberal and someone in favor of a more open, fairer immigration policy,'' Mr. Roberts said, but sometimes he had to argue positions with which he disagreed.
        In one such instance, three decades ago, Mr. Gordon lost the case of Afroyim v. Rusk, in which the Supreme Court ruled that a naturalized citizen cannot lose his citizenship against his will by voting in a foreign election.
        After leaving the agency in 1974, Mr. Gordon went into private practice and founded a Washington law firm, Gordon & Bryant. During those years, he filed lawsuits challenging the interdiction of Haitian refugees at sea and restrictions on Iranian citizens during the Iran hostage crisis. He retired in 1993.
        He is survived by his wife, Anne; a son, Michael Gordon of Potomac; a daughter, Ellen Gittel Gordon of Los Angeles, and two grandchildren.
      