
        Irving (Fishbones) Stevens, who became a folk hero in Maine for his tales of hobo life in the 1930's and his success developing a foul-smelling insect repellent called Irving's Fly Dope, died at the home of his sister Dorothy Glazier in Pittsfield, Me., on Tuesday. He was 88 years old.
        Mr. Stevens, who was born on June 21, 1910, in Surry, Me., and lived in Corinna, Me., picked up the nickname Fishbones as a youth, when he was poor and hungry.
        ''He was as thin as a rail,'' Ms. Glazier said. ''So, everyone called him Fishbones. You could see every bone in his body.''
        As many down-and-out men did during the Great Depression, Mr. Stevens hit the road, becoming what was then known as a hobo. When World War II started, he joined the Air Force and served as a private. After the war, he never returned to the hobo life. Instead, he became a machinist in Maine and Connecticut.
        In the early 60's, Mr. Stevens, always a tinkerer, developed Irving's Fly Dope by heating pine tar and adding a few secret ingredients. The concoction, which he bottled himself and sold throughout New England, from a car, was as effective as it was rank and it remained a staple of campers and fishermen during black-fly season until 1991, when environmental licensing fees made it too expensive to produce.
        For some men, being the creator of Irving's Fly Dope might have been enough fame for one life, but in the 1980's Mr. Stevens self-published ''Fishbones: Hoboing in the 1930's,'' a collection of stories about his hobo years. The book became something of a local sensation.
        Mr. Stevens wrote two more books, ''Mandy's Washtub and Other Stories'' in 1992 and ''National King of the Hobos'' in 1997. He was given the ceremonial title King of the Hobos in 1988, at the annual National Hobo Convention in Britt, Iowa. Five years later, he crowned one of his daughters, Constance Hall of Dexter, Me., as Queen of the Hobos.
        In addition to Ms. Glazier and Ms. Hall, survivors include three sons, James Stevens of Stetons, Me., Richard Russell of Worcester, Mass., and Philip Batchelder of Abbot, Me.; two other daughters, Brenda Hall of St. Albans, Me., and Marybeth Cribbs of Waterville, Me.; another sister, Sidney Hanscom of West Palm Beach, Fla., and 13 grandchildren.
      