
        Frank A. Gunther, a radio pioneer  who helped create shortwave, two-way and FM systems, died on Monday at Bon Securos Hospital in Venice, Fla. He was 91 and lived in New York and Nokomis, Fla.
        Mr. Gunther often worked with the military, as well as with police and fire departments, devising some of the first radio communications devices. In 1932, for example, he built  for the police department in Bayonne, N.J., what is believed to be the  first two-way mobile police radio system.
        In 1928, Mr. Gunther also installed one of the first one-way radios used on an aircraft and, in 1931, he took part in the first public broadcast from an aircraft. A year later, he installed the first two-way radio system on an airplane.
        Frank A. Gunther was born on February 3, 1908, in Manhattan. He attended Wagner College, on Staten Island, and Columbia University. In 1925, he joined the REL Radio Engineering Laboratories, based in  Queens, and helped construct and operate an experimental station that was one of the first shortwave broadcasting systems.
        In 1935, Mr. Gunther, along with Edwin H. Armstrong, gave the first public demonstration of frequency modulation, or FM transmission, a signal much superior in clarity to AM or shortwave. The next year, he designed and manufactured the early transmitter components for FM radio, and from 1939 to 1942, he designed and built more than 25 FM stations nationwide.
        In 1939, Mr. Gunther demonstrated the first FM mobile transmitter to the United States military, and during World War II, in which he served as a major in the Army Air Force, he began designing the first Loran navigational systems for the United States Coast Guard.
        Mr. Gunther, who was also a commercial pilot, became president of REL in 1960 and retired in 1982. Most recently, he worked as a consultant with his son, Robert, president of Highpoint Development of Staten Island, a developer of wireless communication towers.
        He was a former president of the Radio Club of America, which established the Frank A. Gunther Award in 1996. The award is given annually to people who make major contributions to the advancement of wireless military electronic communications systems. In 1992, he was featured in a Public Broadcasting Service documentary, ''Empire of the Air: The Men Who Made Radio.''
        Mr. Gunther's wife, Lillian Madden, died in 1997. In addition to his son Robert C. of Shrewsbury, N.J., he is survived by a son, Frank M., of Staten Island; five grandchildren; six great-grandchildren, and five step-grandchildren.
      