
        Sir Robert Rhodes James, a British historian and biographer who had been a Conservative member of Parliament and an investigator of Kurt Waldheim's war record, died on May 20. He was 66 and lived near Sandy, in Bedfordshire, England.
        Sir Robert had been sick for some time, a Conservative Party spokesman said..
        Sir Robert, who was knighted in 1991 for political service, will be best remembered for his historical work as a writer who focused largely on British politics in the 19th and 20th centuries.
        ''Anthony Eden,'' his biography of the Conservative who served as Prime Minister from 1955 to 1957, was called ''splendid'' by Gaddis Smith, the Larned Professor of History at Yale, in The New York Times Book Review in 1987. His book ''Gallipoli'' (1965) has been called the definitive account of the unsuccessful Allied expedition in World War I whose goals included seizing what is now Istanbul.
        In the early 1970's, Sir Robert was described in the Times Literary Supplement as ''an accomplished contemporary historian and biographer who wants to vindicate an older method of interpreting and analyzing politics, in which literary style and human and political insight are at least as important as the priestly laying-on of slide-rules.''
        On a loftier note, Sir Robert once commented, ''The task of the historian or the biographer is the pursuit of truth, motivated by a love of learning for its own sake.''
        He was Member of Parliament for Cambridge from 1976 to 1992.
        From 1973 to 1976 he was principal officer in the executive office of the Secretary General of the United Nations, who was then Kurt Waldheim of Austria. Later, when it was alleged that Mr. Waldheim had been guilty of brutality during the Nazi era, Sir Robert said in a 1988 interview that he ''realized we were dealing with a liar who must have something very substantial to hide.''
        Sir Robert then played a key role in the British investigation of Mr. Waldheim's record.
        Sir Robert was born in Murree, India, the son of an army officer. He studied modern history at Oxford, then held posts at the House of Commons and in academia.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Angela Margaret Robertson, and four daughters.
      