
        Jerome L. Greene, a lawyer, real estate investor and benefactor of Columbia Law School, Montefiore Medical Center and the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, died on Thursday at his residence in the Carlyle Hotel in Manhattan. He was 93.
        Mr. Greene, who was a founding member of the Manhattan law firm  Marshall, Bratter, Greene, Allison & Tucker, was a noted benefactor of Columbia Law School, from which he graduated in 1928.
        A gift of more than $5 million from Mr. Greene this year enabled the law school to complete renovations to its main building at West 116th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, as part of a $50 million construction campaign.
        The building, Greene Hall, was named for Mr. Greene. The renovations, scheduled for completion on Aug. 1, include the creation of new faculty and administrative offices and a new faculty library, lounge and conference rooms.
        Mr. Greene was chairman of the board of the Hirshhorn Museum at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington and was a supporter of many of New York's medical and cultural institutions. His gifts to Montefiore Medical Center helped pay for the construction of the Jerome L. and Dawn Greene Medical Arts Pavilion and the Children's Hospital of Montefiore Medical Center.
        The nine-story Medical Arts Pavilion in the Norwood section of the Bronx is the centerpiece of Montefiore's ambulatory care network.  ''This is a hospital with a social conscience, caring for the poor and the underprivileged,'' Mr. Greene said at dedication ceremonies on Oct. 3, 1997.
        His many philanthropic interests embraced the arts and included the Vivian Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center, Channel 13 and the Juilliard School.
        ''His favorite composer was Mozart, so he underwrote the Mostly Mozart Festival at Lincoln Center,'' his wife, Dawn Greene, said. ''He loved those concerts.''
        Mr. Greene was a longtime resident of the Carlyle Hotel and a principal owner. He and his wife also had homes in Greenwich, Conn., and Palm Beach, Fla.
        Mr. Greene was a recipient of the Judge Learned G. Hand Human Relations Award and a Doctor of Laws degree from Columbia Law School and a Doctor of Humanities degree from the Juilliard School. He also received the Citizens Committee's Oscar S. Straus Award for Philanthropy on Behalf of New York City.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Patricia Humphrey of Concord, N.H.; a stepdaughter, Christina McInerney of Manhattan, and two grandchildren. Mr. Greene had another daughter, Cynthia-Sue Greene, who is deceased.
        A memorial service will be held at Temple Emanu-El on Fifth Avenue at 65th Street on June 15 at 4 P.M.
      