
        James H. Whittam, the president and chief executive of the Shaklee Companies, died April 15 at Stanford University Hospital in Palo Alto, Calif. Dr. Whittam, a resident of Hillsborough, Calif., was 49.
        The cause of death was cancer, said his wife, Sibylle.
        Dr. Whittam rejoined Shaklee in 1987 -- he started there in 1978 and stayed until 1984 -- as a senior vice president responsible for research and development of new products. Shaklee, which makes nutritional, household and personal-care products, is a unit of Yamanouchi Pharmaceutical Inc. of Japan. Dr. Whittam was named president and chief executive of the Shaklee Companies, which included the North American and international divisions, in 1989 when the company was acquired by Yamanouchi.
        During his tenure, Dr. Whittam introduced several products and started Yamanouchi Shaklee Pharma, which is known as YSPharma, a research company that designs drug-delivery systems.
        When he was with Shaklee from 1978 to 1984, Dr. Whittam served as manager of several research divisions. He was appointed director of research in 1980.
        After leaving the company, Dr. Whittam joined Procter & Gamble, where he managed the transition of the Vidal Sassoon personal products line into a separate division.
        Dr. Whittam graduated from City College of New York with a bachelor's degree in chemistry in 1972, and was an instructor at the City University of New York while he earned his doctorate in chemistry in 1975. Prior to joining Shaklee in 1978, he worked for the personal care division of Gillette. He also received an M.B.A. from the School of Business Management of Boston University in 1977.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Whittam is survived by a daughter, Lauren, and two sons, Christopher and Alexandre, all of Hillsborough; his mother, Barbara, of New York; two sisters, Denise Whittam of New York and Barbara Schechter of Manalapan, N.J., and a brother, Dennis, of Port Jefferson, N.Y.
      