
        Leon Barzin, musical director of the New York City Ballet in the 1940's and 50's and the head of the National Orchestra Association for 36 years, died April 29 at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 98.
        Mr. Barzin played ''a quiet but prominent part in the musical life of the country,'' Harold C. Schonberg of The New York Times wrote in 1976, when Mr. Barzin retired from conducting.
        Mr. Barzin helped train several generations of conductors and symphony musicians, pushed for hiring of American conductors and women and black musicians. He also supported new music, particularly by American composers. Mr. Barzin helped to establish the New York City Ballet as one of the most musically sophisticated ballet companies in the United States.
        Mr. Barzin had a distinctive podium style. ''He was one of the first of America's choreographic conductors,'' Mr. Schonberg wrote in 1976. ''As a conductor, he was of the crouch and tiptoe school. We all looked forward to his entrances. A slim and aristocratic-looking man, he would glide through the orchestra like an eel around pilings in a dock, arriving at the podium in a sort of uninterrupted streak of motion.'' During performances, Mr. Schonberg added, ''he would not only crouch for pianissimos and get on tiptoe for fortes. He also would dance to the music -- his beat was all curves. He was fluidity itself.''
        Born in Brussels, Leon Barzin and his family moved to the United States when he was 2 years old. Mr. Barzin, an early proponent of linking music and dance programs, may have absorbed the idea during his childhood as the son of a father who played viola at the Brussels Opera and later in the Metropolitan Opera orchestra and a mother who was a professional ballet dancer. He studied violin and viola with his father and later with Eugene Ysaye in Belgium.
        Mr. Barzin began his professional career playing in the salon orchestra at the Hotel Astor in New York in 1917. He joined the National Symphony Orchestra as second violinist in 1919, the year before it merged with the New York Philharmonic Symphony Orchestra. Mr. Barzin was principal violist at the Philharmonic from 1925 to 1929, playing for conductors including Willem Mengelberg, Wilhelm Furtwangler and Arturo Toscanini.
        Mr. Barzin's conducting career began when Toscanini asked him to conduct a Philharmonic rehearsal so he could listen from the back of the theater. ''Put your instrument away, Leon,'' Toscanini told him at the end of the rehearsal. ''You are going to be a conductor.''
        Mr. Barzin joined the American Orchestral Society in 1929 as assistant conductor, and became principal conductor and music director in 1930, when the group reorganized and was renamed the National Orchestral Association. In 1958 he resigned from the association, a training orchestra for musicians and conductors, but returned to it from 1970 to 1976.
        Mr. Barzin participated in many projects to develop audiences in schools and at the free summer Lewisohn Stadium concerts and programs at college theaters throughout the nation. His one obsession, he told John Battison in an interview in The Christian Science Monitor in 1941, was to see ''every city of 100,000 population or more with an opera house and a symphony orchestra.''
        He also developed formats for children's concerts that were designed to communicate that music is fun. ''You can't take a child into a tremendous hall, throw a hundred men at him and expect him, with no previous preparation, to concentrate on the music,'' Mr. Barzin said in a 1950 interview in The Times, adding that in such instances, the ''big thrill of the occasion'' is usually ''launching paper airplanes from the balconies.''
        Mr. Barzin was a founder of the New York City Ballet and of its precursor, Ballet Society, with Lincoln Kirstein and George Balanchine. In The Times in 1951, John Martin wrote that Mr. Barzin and his musicians were among the ''unsung heroes'' responsible for the company's popularity. Mr. Barzin felt that ballet conductors needed to develop special abilities. A ballet conductor's duties ranged, he said, from pushing dancers toward a greater musical sensitivity to knowing instinctively whether a dancer has had steak or lobster for dinner that night.
        He served as music director of the ballet company until 1958, when he went to Paris to conduct and teach. He returned to Paris in the late 1970's, and taught conducting in France and in videotaped sessions in Fribourg, Switzerland.
        Mr. Barzin received the French  Legion of Honor in 1960. He was a frequent judge in conducting competitions, a guest conductor of orchestras in the United States and Europe and a guest teacher at many American festivals and workshops. He also conducted the WQXR and Symphony of the Air radio orchestras.
        Mr. Barzin is survived by his wife, Eleanor Post Close Barzin of Paris and Vaux-sur-Seine, France, and Fribourg; two sons, Richard, of Marco, Fla., and Leon Q., of Westwood, Mass.; a daughter, Lora Childs of Spring Island, S.C.; a stepson, Brewster Q. Morgan of Sacramento, Calif.,  and nine grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
        On his retirement from conducting in 1976, Mr. Barzin spoke grimly of the state of the arts in the United States. He said there needed to be more places where young musicians could train and get experience, more ways for professional musicians to relate to their communities, and more general education in the arts.
        Without such education, he said in an interview at the time, ''people will become drooling morons in front of TV sets.''
      