
        Sheik Abdelaziz bin Baz, the pillar of Saudi Arabia's religious establishment and a crucial ally of the royal family, died today in Taif. He was believed to be in his late 80's.
        The cause was cancer, Saudi religious officials said.
        Blind since his teens, and frail in his declining years, Sheik bin Baz remained a figure of extraordinary influence. In a country ruled by kings but also by Islamic teachings, he was the senior cleric, which meant that his rulings often had the force of law.
        Over the years, he issued thousands of fatwas, or religious decrees, to insure that the kingdom hewed to the traditional Wahabi interpretation of Islam, which gives Saudi Arabia its deeply conservative cast.
        He was regarded with reverence by millions of Saudis, to whom faith in Islam comes more naturally than fealty to monarchy. But as Grand Mufti and head of the Council of Senior Islamic Clerics, or ulema, he owed his post to the royal Saud family, and his rulings rarely contradicted their favored course.
        Among his edicts, the best known may have been one issued in 1990, which upheld a prohibition on women driving cars.
        But more important to the history of Saudi Arabia were two other edicts that Sheik bin Baz issued around the same time. The first, in August 1990, after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, approved the stationing of large numbers of non-Muslim soldiers, many of them Americans, in Saudi Arabia. The second, in January 1991, approved of the Persian Gulf war, waged by an international coalition against Iraq, an Islamic country, as a jihad, or holy war.
        In both cases, Sheik bin Baz and  other members of the ulema overruled more radical clerics in passionate disputes over whether the step was religiously permissible. The radicals challenged the idea that non-Muslims, as ''infidels,'' should be permitted in Saudi Arabia, home to Mecca and Medina, Islam's two holiest sites, and that non-Muslims should be allowed to attack a Muslim country.
        At the time, the rulings brought to a halt rumblings in Saudi mosques and streets that might have undermined the war effort. But they also made Sheik bin Baz a target of criticism from the radicals, including the dissident Osama bin Laden, and stoked anger in some circles against the royal family and its decision to accept non-Muslim forces.
        As such criticism grew, in 1991 Sheik bin Baz condemned those who ''whisper secretly in their meetings and record their poison over cassettes distributed to the people.''
        The anger exploded in two bombings, in 1995 and 1996, that killed a total of 24 Americans, but Sheik bin Baz remained a fierce critic of the radicals, issuing rulings that called the attacks a sin against Islam.
        In general, however, Sheik bin Baz was known and sometimes mocked around the Muslim world for rulings that leaned toward the traditional. He ruled that consulting fortune tellers and practicing witchcraft were forbidden by religious law. And he persuaded the Saudi Government two years ago to forbid the import and production of veils that failed to cover faces completely.
        Sheik bin Baz was blinded by disease as an adolescent, but little else is known about his early life. Estimates of his birth year vary from 1909 to 1912.
        He was Saudi Arabia's leading cleric for 25 years, and since 1993 held the additional rank of minister after King Fahd appointed him Grand Mufti of Saudi Arabia.
        He is to be buried on Friday in Mecca, Saudi officials said.
      