
        Sir Edward Penley Abraham, a British biochemist and Oxford University professor who contributed greatly to the development of today's medical arsenal of antibiotics, died on Sunday at his home in Oxford. He was 85.
        He left his mark on biology, chemistry and medicine. Worldwide patents brought him wealth, some of which he used for trust funds to support research and education, particularly at Oxford.
        Professor Abraham came to international prominence while associated with the William Dunn School of Pathology at Oxford in the late 1930's and 40's. With Ernest Chain and Howard Florey, he investigated the therapeutic potential of penicillin and played an important role in purifying it and decoding its chemical structure.
        Although his interest in such matters was mostly academic, the fruits of his work had important practical applications. The penicillin research spawned a new generation of synthetic penicillins.
        With his colleagues, he also discovered penicillinase, a penicillin-destroying enzyme that disclosed much about resistance to penicillin.
        After the war, Dr. Abraham turned his attention to cephalosporins, a category of broad-spectrum antibiotics derived from a fungus that offered an alternative for people allergic to penicillin.
        Such medicines are in wide use today, treating respiratory infections like bronchitis and pneumonia, infections of the urinary tract and certain toxic blood disorders. They also heal wounds infected after surgery and shield the patient on the operating table from such infections in the first place.
        Dr. Abraham wrote ''Biochemistry of Some Peptide and Steroid Antibiotics'' (1957) and ''Biosynthesis and Enzymic Hydrolysis of Penicillins and Cephalosporins'' (1974), and contributed to the textbook ''General Pathology'' and to scientific journals.
        He was born in Southampton and educated at Queen's College, Oxford, where he earned a Ph.D. in 1941. He also studied a year at the University of Stockholm as a Rockefeller Foundation Traveling Fellow in the late 1930's.
        Professor Abraham held a chair in chemical pathology at Oxford University's Lincoln College from 1964 to 1980, when he became a professor emeritus. He had been a fellow at the college since 1948.
        He received many awards, including honors from Britain's Royal Society and the Swedish Academy of Pharmaceutical Sciences. He was knighted in 1980.
        Dr. Abraham's survivors include his wife of 60 years, Asbjorg Harung Abraham, and their son, Michael.
      