
        Stewart Klein, a music, film and theater critic for Channel 5 in New York since 1967, died on Sunday at his home in Fort Lee, N.J. He was 66.
        The cause was colon cancer, his wife, Barbara, said.
        Mr. Klein won three local Emmy awards for his work, including one for a review in 1978 in which he skewered ''Sebastian,'' a film that had been made entirely in Latin, by reciting his review in Latin. Like the film, his review carried subtitles.
        Charles Osgood, the anchor of ''CBS News Sunday Morning,'' said Mr. Klein's special quality lay in being ''very down to earth and at the same time very well read.'' When the two worked together at ABC Radio in the early 1960's, Mr. Klein introduced him to the writing of A. J. Liebling and I. F. Stone, Mr. Osgood said, ''to give me some sense of what journalism was really about.''
        Mr. Klein, whose last broadcast was in February, was widely considered the dean of the critics on New York television stations, although at the start of his career he confided to a fellow critic, Judith Crist, that he had no idea how to review a film. He became, she said yesterday, ''the ultimate critic.''
        Born and reared in Philadelphia and a graduate of Temple University, Mr. Klein came to New York as a radio reporter in 1961. He was at WNEW-AM when its sister station WNEW-TV decided to start a 10 P.M. news broadcast, and he was on the original team. He remained as the station later became a Fox affiliate; it is now WYNY. He also did theater and movie reviews for ''Good Day New York,'' the station's morning news program, and ''Fox 5 Live.''
        Mr. Klein, an enthusiastic fan of both jazz and Latin music, met his wife of 16 years at the jazz club Michael's Pub, where she was a lighting designer who sat down at his table one evening to chat. She and their son Matthew survive him, as do three children from a previous marriage, Marjorie Klein of New York; Joseph, of Miami Beach, and Joann Cueva of Danbury, Conn., and two grandchildren.
        Although some critics on television confined themselves to reviewing  high-profile Broadway productions, Mr. Klein often reviewed Off Broadway shows and sometimes foreign films. And if he really disliked a movie, he enjoyed giving it a curt review, said Bob O'Brien, a Channel 5 reporter who worked with Mr. Klein for 31 years. He recalled that Mr. Klein reviewed the expensive 1987 flop ''Ishtar'' with these words: '' 'Ishtar.' Stinkar.''
      