
        Christos G. Bastis, a restaurateur and art collector whose Sea Fare restaurants brought a sophisticated Mediterranean understanding of seafood to New York, died Friday night at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 95 and lived in Manhattan and Palm Beach.
        At a time when the typical American seafood restaurant was a lobster shanty decorated with nets and cork, Mr. Bastis saw an opportunity to serve traditional Mediterranean seafood dishes in elegant surroundings and to broaden the taste of his customers by presenting them with new kinds of fish.
        A courtly, urbane man, with charm to spare, Mr. Bastis lent an air of sophistication to his restaurants simply by standing in them. Little did his customers know that he personally scoured the Fulton Fish Market before dawn every day, poking and probing his way through the stalls to bring the cream of the catch back to his restaurants.
        Christos George Bastis was born in Trikala, Greece, and grew up in Volos, the principal port of Thessaly, where his father traded in commodities.
        Seeking his fortune, Mr. Bastis left for the United States in 1922. After being processed at Ellis Island, he boarded a train at Pennsylvania Station with $8 in his pocket, and headed to Cedar Rapids, Iowa, where his cousin owned the Paradise Candy Company. He was put to work as a soda jerk.
        After less than a year, Mr. Bastis returned to New York. ''Cedar Rapids was too much like Volos to suit me,'' he later told an interviewer. ''In America, I expected tall buildings, excitement and big cars.''
        After settling into a furnished room on West 110th Street, Mr. Bastis found work as a waiter at the Cadillac, a French restaurant, where his career was brief. At his first table, a party of four ordered in French. An uncomprehending Mr. Bastis smiled, nodded and went through the motions of writing on his pad. ''I lifted their menus from their hands, pocketed my pencil and walked into the kitchen and out the back door,'' he recalled. ''I never went back, and I've often wondered what they ate that night and how long it took them to get it.''
        Mr. Bastis next found a job waiting tables at a small seafood restaurant on Eighth Street in Greenwich Village. Soon he moved to a better-paying counter job at the Fortis-Fisher cafeteria on West 49th Street, where he rose to the position of district manager. After 10 years, he had saved enough to open his own restaurant, Fougmar, at 43d Street and Third Avenue. Two years later he opened the Riviera, at 58th Street and Sixth Avenue.
        After learning that his mother had fallen ill, Mr. Bastis sold the Riviera in 1937 and returned to Volos, where he contracted pleurisy. While recuperating, he found that his re-entry visa had expired, and that he could not return to the United States.
        He remained in Greece, spending much of his time visiting art museums, developing a passion that would eventually lead him to to become a collector of ancient sculpture.
        He also studied the seafood recipes in local restaurants and along the Riviera, with an eye to opening a restaurant in New York that would reflect the style and traditions of the Mediterranean.
        In 1941, Mr. Bastis returned to New York, where he reaped a windfall when 300 barrels of olives that he had imported leapt in price after war broke out between Italy and Greece. He used his profits to open Sea Fare restaurant, at 41 West Eighth Street in Greenwich Village (in 1957 it moved across the street to 44 West Eighth Street).
        Although spare and simply furnished, the restaurant projected a seriousness and sense of style that set it apart from what Mr. Bastis called ''sawdust-on-the-floor places.'' Oysters were not just oysters. They were identified as blue points, malpeques or lynnhavens. Fish and only fish could be ordered as a main course. Cooked to order, this ''good Neptunian provender,'' as the critic Lawton Mackall put it, came with french fries and salad. Some diners lingered for the Nesselrode pie, which became one of the restaurant's signatures.
        In 1944, Mr. Bastis opened a second and grander Sea Fare, on First Avenue near 57th Street. In 1963, he followed up with Sea Fare of the Aegean, at 25 West 56th Street, which, as the name suggested, featured dishes from Mr. Bastis' native region, like a bouillabaisse-style soup from the island of Rhodes, and a casserole of striped bass with clams. ''Nowhere in New York are the basic products fresher, nowhere is fish so consistently boiled, poached or fried to the right degree of doneness,'' wrote Mimi Sheraton of The New York Times in a review in 1976.
        Mr. Bastis sold the first two Sea Fare restaurants in 1974, focusing his attention on Sea Fare of the Aegean, which he owned until retiring in 1982. The opulently decorated restaurant, with its Minoan columns and abstract paintings by Chen Chi, a Chinese artist, had become the showpiece of Mr. Bastis' little chain. It also served as an informal gallery for exhibiting sculptures from his growing art collection, which would eventually consist of more than 200 objects, most of them works from ancient Greece, but also including Etruscan, Cycladic, Egyptian, and Roman objects.
        He donated several of the works in his collection to the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Brooklyn Museum. More than 20 works are on permanent loan to the Met, and about 50 are on permanent loan to the Brooklyn Museum. In 1987, 166 pieces from his collection were presented by the Met in the exhibition ''Antiquities from the Collection of Christos G. Bastis.''
        He is survived by his second wife, Josephine; a daughter, Betty Peter, of Hartsdale, N.Y.; three sons: George, of Scarborough, N.Y., Christopher, of Old Greenwich, Conn., and Jason, of Lloyd Harbor, N.Y., seven grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
        Mr. Bastis was an honorary trustee of the Metropolitan Museum, a member of the advisory committee to the board of trustees of the Brooklyn Museum. He served as a trustee of the Onassis Foundation and the Atlantic Bank of New York. He was an honorary chairman of the board of the Foundation for Hellenic Culture.
      