
        Robert L. Turner, who pushed Eastern Air Lines to create its shuttle between Boston and New York in 1961, died on Saturday in Columbus, N.C. He was 89.
        He had suffered a series of strokes in recent months, according to his son.
        Mr. Turner had a lifelong fascination with flying that included stints as a pilot, airport owner and airline executive. A native of Torquay, England, he moved to North Carolina as a teen-ager and by his mid-20's was operating Turner Flying Services, a hangar and a runway in Asheville, N.C., that constituted the first airport in that mountainous resort area. In his spare time, he could be found in the cockpit of his Waco biplane, barnstorming the countryside.
        When the Depression arrived, Mr. Turner had to give up flying. He took a job in 1934 with Eastern, working as a ticket agent on the night shift in Atlanta. He joined the Air Transport Command during World War II, helping to coordinate transportation for troops and world leaders in the Middle East and Europe.
        In 1950, he joined Northeast Airlines, rising to vice president. In 1957, he left to become an executive with the Air Transport Association, where he battled on behalf of airlines, favoring a $3 fine for people who were ''no shows'' and eventually was named president.
        He rejoined Eastern in 1959, said his son, Robert L. Turner Jr. of Milton, Mass. Two years later, Eastern introduced its shuttle service, which was radical in several ways. Passengers were guaranteed seats, and no reservations were required. Anyone who showed up for a flight was to be given one, even if it meant wheeling out an extra plane.
        ''He was fascinated with that route because it was so heavily traveled, and he kept saying, 'Let's see what's best for the customer,' '' his son said.
        Another aspect of the shuttle was its low fare, which Mr. Turner and Eastern's president, Malcolm A. MacIntyre, hoped would encourage more people to fly to expand the market for air travel, his son said. ''In those days, there was a great portion of the population who had never flown at all,'' he said, ''and his feeling was that if you run a service like this and get a lot of people flying on short hops, then they'll fly to Los Angeles or Miami.'' Within a year, the shuttle was considered a success.
        Mr. Turner retired from Eastern in 1969 but was soon busy leasing jets in an arrangement he conceived, his son said. ''He knew that Eastern had this tremendous crush of demand in the wintertime because of the Florida routes, and not so much demand in the summertime,'' his son said. ''He thought it was silly for airlines to spend all this money on airplanes they weren't using all the time. So he and this financial partner got two insurance companies to put up the money, and they bought two Lockheed L-1011's. They were used by Eastern in the winter and Air Canada in the summer. For 15 years, these two airplanes got a new paint job every six months and went to work for the other airline.'' Such arrangements subsequently became commonplace in the industry.
        Mr. Turner, a former resident of Darien, Conn., moved to Tryon, N.C., several years ago and spent winters on Sanibel Island, Fla. In Sanibel, an area famous for beachcombing, he listened to old-timers complaining that many of the best seashells were gone for good, and came up with another idea that has yet to be realized, his son said. ''He said: 'Why not have the Chamber of Commerce put up a few bucks and grow some junonias and some lemon pectins and some Chinese alphabet cones? You could grow them in a colony in captivity and toss them out into the gulf and it'd be great for tourism.' ''
        In addition to his son, he is survived by his wife, Margaret; a daughter, Louisa Turner of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      