
        Stanley D. Canter, who advised many of the world's best-known corporations on marketing and advertising matters during a career that spanned more than 40 years, died April 24 at the Jacob Perlow Hospice at Beth Israel Hospital in New York City, according to a longtime business associate. The cause was cancer. He was 75.
        Until his retirement in 1989, Mr. Canter was president and treasurer of Canter Achenbaum Associates, Inc., a consulting firm that specialized in advertising and marketing. He and his partner, Alvin Achenbaum, created the agency in 1974, and it became known for being instrumental in changing the way client companies select and compensate agencies. During Mr. Canter's tenure, the firm conducted more than 40 agency searches for many of America's blue-chip manufacturers, as well as for the largest Japanese and Korean automobile companies.
        Canter Achenbaum, now called Achenbaum Bogda Associates, was included in a recent issue of Advertising Age, the trade publication, commemorating 100 executives who had a significant impact on advertising during the last century. Mr. Canter was mentioned for his contribution along with Mr. Achenbaum for changing the relationship between clients and agencies.
        While working for the Toyota Motor Company's United States division in 1974, Canter Achenbaum helped develop a systematic competitive process for choosing its advertising agency and agreeing on compensation. The approach was a departure from the industry practice in which agencies received 15 percent commissions on media billings. This helped lead to the present practice of companies' using a variety of compensation structures for agencies, including pay-for-performance fees.
        Mr. Canter began his career in 1945 at Econometric Institute, a firm, now defunct, that conducted economic forecasting using statistical models. He moved into advertising two years later when he became head of the media research department and later led the marketing research division of McCann-Erickson, now part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
        In 1957, Mr. Canter joined Ogilvy & Mather as head of the research department for what was then a fledgling operation. He once said of his work there that it involved research that often employed ''a statistical technique for classifying individuals into subcategories depending on their response patterns to a series of questions.''
        He remained at Ogilvy & Mather for 13 years, rising to senior vice president and director of marketing services. He had also been a senior account officer responsible for the Shell Oil and Sears, Roebuck accounts.
        Mr. Canter left the agency in 1974 when he and Mr. Achenbaum started their business. In addition to its work in advertising agency search and compensation, the firm provided strategic marketing counsel to many  marketers, including Hallmark Cards, the American Express Company and Citicorp.
        In an article announcing his retirement in 1989, Mr. Cantor reflected on the industry and said that agencies were groping for a ''new type of marketing specialist -- a person familiar with several different kinds of media.''
        Mr. Cantor was born in New York City, where he lived his entire life. He is survived by his wife, Florence Sanoff of New York City; two sons from a previous marriage, Leonard, of Redding, Conn., and Robert, of Santa Monica, Calif., and two grandchildren, both of Redding.
      