
        Porter Warrington Heaps, an organist and composer whose work on the popular Hammond organ transformed a crude-sounding electronic keyboard instrument into one that could approximate the sounds and colors of larger pipe organs, died on May 3 at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 92.
        Mr. Heaps was born in Cicero, Ill., in 1906. He showed an early aptitude for the piano and organ, and was hired for his first job as a church organist when he was still in grammar school. In the 1920's he received bachelor's and master's degrees in music from Northwestern University. He also studied with the organist and composer Marcel Dupre in Paris during the summers.
        During the 1930's Mr. Heaps taught the organ at Northwestern University, where he was also the chapel organist, and at the Cosmopolitan School of Music and Dramatic Art, in Chicago. He also began a 40-year association with the Hammond organ company. By the mid-1930's he had found ways to make the instrument's registrations -- the timbres created when an organist uses different stops and combinations of stops -- sound richer and more realistic.
        He demonstrated his achievement in a competition, held over the initial protests of the American Guild of Organists, in which his reconfigured Hammond organ performed side by side with a pipe organ at a large chapel. A panel of three judges was unable to agree on which instrument was the Hammond.
        Thereafter, Mr. Heaps toured the country for Hammond, giving seminars and demonstration concerts. He was intent on popularizing the instrument and set up his own company, Keyboard Publications, which published his compositions, arrangements and teaching materials.
        After his retirement from Hammond in 1970, Mr. Heaps moved to Palo Alto, where he continued to give recitals and demonstrations on both electronic and pipe organs, and annual performances at the Home Organ Festival in Asilomar, Calif. He was also the organist and music director of the Palo Alto Community Church.
        Mr. Heaps is survived by two daughters, Barbara Van Slyke of Stanford, Calif., and Portia Leet of Palo Alto; five grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      