
        Lyndon Waldo Lyon, a horticulturist who was turned into an African violet fanatic by a single leaf and who played a major role in making the African violet one of the country's favorite houseplants, died last Wednesday at Little Falls Hospital in Little Falls, N.Y. He was 94.
        Mr. Lyon's passion for the exotic and hardy purple-flowering plant, which was introduced to the United States around the turn of the century, led him to develop about 800 varieties, including the spectacular double-pink and star flowers.
        Professional botanists say his cross-breeding, or hybridization, established him as the world's most important breeder of African violets. He also built a thriving international mail-order business, and his greenhouses in Dolgeville, N.Y., 25 miles east of Utica, became a mecca for thousands of plant fanciers.
        Robert Bartolomei, an official at the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx, who knew Mr. Lyon in the late 1970's and early 1980's, said that most of the African violets seen today are varieties bred by Mr. Lyon.
        ''He created the ideal houseplant,'' Mr. Bartolomei said. ''They will flower most of the year. They're small in size, only about 6 inches tall, so you can fit several on a windowsill. Unlike orchids, they don't require much humidity. And they can suffer abuse. If you forget to water them and they wilt, you can usually bring them back.''
        Mr. Lyon's devotion to the African violets, species of the genus Saintpaulia, began in 1949 with the gift of a single African violet leaf from his niece. An African violet leaf placed in water or damp soil soon sprouts roots and becomes a full-fledged plant.
        Soon after, he set up an African violet nursery under artificial lights in his home; there he studied the plant and experimented with hybridization through cross-pollination. When the seeds of a plant that has received the pollen of another variety are grown, the offspring may share the characteristics of the parent plants.
        By the mid-1950's, Mr. Lyon was operating a greenhouse with 5,000 plants, including the double-pink, a flower with multiple layers of petals, which created a sensation at the 1954 national convention of the African Violet Society of America in St. Louis.
        Next, in 1956, came the star, an African violet with all five points about equal in size. Previously, African violets had three lower petals larger than the upper two. Two years later, Mr. Lyon developed stars in many colors, some of which were frilled. Later came miniatures.
        By 1982, Mr. Lyon was selling more 100,000 plants a year, both retail and wholesale. That same year he sold the business to his grandson Paul Sorano, who continues to operate the Lyndon Lyon Greenhouses in Dolgeville.
        Mr. Lyon made an important breakthrough by breeding the single pure-red star-shaped African violet, Mr. Bartolomei said.
        ''It became a basic plant we use as a breeding stock,'' he said. ''The red is recessive, so when we breed it with blue we get a very good, a very pure, blue.''
        When his family moved to Dolgeville in 1921, Mr. Lyon completed the 9th and 10th grades at the Dolgeville High School but then dropped out of school to work on the family farm.
        Later, he became a machinist and held a number of odd jobs, but soon began breeding African violets in his home.
        In recognition of his ingenuity and constant search for new and different colors and forms, Mr. Lyon was showered with awards, trophies, ribbons and plaques. In 1984, he was awarded honorary life membership in the African Violet Society of America. Last month he was inducted into the society's hall of fame in Houston.
        Mr. Lyon's wife of 70 years, the former Ruth Adelaide Pierce, died in 1995. Mr. Lyon is survived by a daughter, Betty Sorano of Dolgeville; a son, Robert of Arlington, Va.; two brothers, Murray of Dolgeville and Theodore of Cobleskill; a sister, Rosalyn Lein of Dolgeville; seven grandchildren; 12 great-grandchildren, and four great-great-grandchildren.
      