
        Ruth Whitney, the editor who steered Glamour magazine for 31 years and influenced several generations of women during three important decades in American feminism, died yesterday at her home in Irvington, N.Y. She was 71.
        The cause was Lou Gehrig's disease, or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, said her daughter-in-law, Christina Ferrari.
        Mrs. Whitney was the editor in chief of Glamour, a magazine owned by Conde Nast Publications that now has a circulation of 2.1 million readers, from 1967 until last September. Part of her mission, she said, was to make feminism accessible, not intimidating, to American women.
        Her reputation for frankness reached into the pages of Glamour, where -- along with the standard fare of women's magazines, like frothy fashion spreads and light service articles -- she published articles about sexuality, politics and women's health issues that other women's magazines had generally avoided. And her editorial decisions -- like putting a black model on the cover of Glamour in 1968, a first in the women's magazine industry -- sometimes caused a stir in magazine circles.
        In an interview a week before she retired last September, Mrs. Whitney explained her goal as editor in chief of Glamour: ''I always felt that I had a mission. I wanted to broaden the scope of a magazine to go with women's lives. I never wanted to appeal to everyone. That's not what we were about, and that's not the secret of our success. But I really wanted to make women feel good about themselves, not just about what they wore.''
        Mrs. Whitney's origins were more humble than glamorous. She was born Ruth Reinke is Oshkosh, Wis., on July 23, 1928. Her mother, Helen, was a housewife, and her father, Leonard, was a designer of gravestones and mausoleums, but the only effect her father's choice of career had on her, she said last year, was that she learned to drive in a cemetery.
        She was awarded a scholarship to Northwestern University, where she met Daniel Whitney, a journalism student; they married shortly after her 21st birthday. Unlike her husband, who attended journalism school but eventually ran his own advertising agency, Mrs. Whitney decided against professional journalism training and went straight to work for Time Inc. as a promotional copywriter. She didn't last long in the job.
        ''It was an election year and I was madly for Adlai,'' she said. ''And the company was not madly for Adlai. So I got more and more sullen and eventually they fired me.'' To her dismay, the young Mrs. Whitney found that she could not get a job writing for Newsweek or Fortune.
        ''What I always say next,'' she said, ''was that if you had a uterus, you couldn't write for those magazines.'' She found a job in women's magazines and, at 28, became editor in chief of a now-defunct magazine called Better Living, then of Seventeen. She arrived at Glamour in 1967.
        During her tenure the magazine won four National Magazine Awards, including two for general excellence, in 1981 and 1991, and one in the public interest category in 1992, for a series conceived by Mrs. Whitney on the availability and safety of abortions in America. Until her death, she served on the board of the NOW Legal Defense Fund.
        While she was editor, she kept a low profile. She never ran an editor's note at the front of the magazine and refused parties for her 20th, 25th and 30th anniversaries as editor in chief. When S. I. Newhouse Jr., the chairman of Advance Publications, the parent company of Conde Nast, asked her what she would like for her 25th anniversary, she asked that he establish two scholarships in her name at the Newhouse School of Journalism at Syracuse University.
        Despite her low-key manner, she was fond of controversy. When she wanted to feature the black model on the cover of Glamour in 1968, the issue was debated at every level of the company, all the way up to the president. ''I never shied away from controversy,'' Mrs. Whitney said last year. ''It's always good for you.''
        And she was a champion of women who confronted authority. In October  1991, just as Anita Hill began testifying on Capitol Hill against the nomination of Clarence Thomas to the Supreme Court, Mrs. Whitney closed the December issue of the magazine -- with its special feature on notable women of the year -- and went home to watch the hearings. On Sunday she called her production manager and said that she wanted to reconfigure the issue to include Ms. Hill as one of the notable women, which she did, beating most monthly magazines to an interview with Ms. Hill.
        Gloria Steinem, a former contributing editor to Glamour, said that decisions like those defined the magazine under Mrs. Whitney. ''She was always trying to get as much real information into the pages of a fashion and beauty magazine as she possibly could,'' Ms. Steinem said.
        The combination of fashion and service with strong editorial articles worked especially well on the newsstand. Glamour is second in circulation in its field only to Cosmopolitan. Conde Nast is a privately held company and does not disclose the earnings of its magazines, but in 1997 Steven T. Florio, the chief executive officer, said that Glamour's annual profits were in the ''tens of millions of dollars.''
        Richard B. Stolley, the first managing editor of People and now the senior editorial adviser at Time Inc., said that Mrs. Whitney's rare longevity in the magazine industry could be attributed to her forward thinking.
        ''She truly tried to turn her readers into not only capable women,'' he said, ''but functioning citizens of America, with all the knowledge and concerns that she felt young women ought to have. And of course she was right.''
        The magazine business was long a family enterprise. Mrs. Whitney's husband served as her sounding board on all editorial matters until his death in 1995. Her son, Philip, who survives her, was until last year an executive at Money magazine; his wife, Christina Ferrari, is the managing editor of Teen People magazine. She is also survived by a brother, Leonard Reinke, of Oshkosh.
      