
        George E. Keck, an industrial engineer who briefly headed United Airlines during some of the airline's most turbulent years, died in his sleep at his home in Milwaukie, Ore., a suburb of Portland, on Tuesday, The Associated Press reported. He was 87 years old.
        Mr. Keck joined the airline in 1946 and rose to the chairman's job in 1966. But his relations with the pilots' union were notoriously poor. Airline experts at the time said that as a result, United was saddled with expensive work rules when it needed every penny to buy jumbo jets and convert its reservations systems to automation. American Airlines and other companies pulled ahead in both those areas, and United was soon swimming in red ink.
        The United board blamed Mr. Keck for most of the problems and asked him to leave in December 1970. He went on to run the Columbia Corporation, a diversified company in Portland that was liquidated in 1977.
        United Airlines did not issue a formal statement about Mr. Keck's death. James E. Goodwin, the president of the airline and one of the few executives whose careers with the company overlapped Mr. Keck's, said only, ''George served United's customers, employees and shareholders for many years, and we extend our sympathies to his family.''
        Mr. Keck was born Feb. 26, 1912, in Chicago. He graduated from the University of Illinois with an engineering degree in 1932, at the height of the Depression, and took a job driving tractors around the stockyards for Swift & Company.
        He finally got to practice his profession in 1937, when he joined Owens-Illinois Glass in its new metal container division. Five years later he was a plant manager, but his career was interrupted when he was called to duty in the Army. He served as captain of engineers in New Guinea, the Dutch East Indies and the Philippines.
        By the time he left the Army in 1945, Owens-Illinois had sold the metals division. Mr. Keck went job hunting again, and in 1946 he landed a position as a United Airlines industrial engineer, working out of San Francisco. He rose to head the engineering department in 1952 and became a vice president in 1959.
        In the process, he developed a reputation as a good administrator. Two years later, in 1961, William A. Patterson, then United's chairman, asked him to come to Chicago headquarters and help smooth the bumpy path United was traveling in integrating Capital Air Lines, with which it had just merged. That merger made United the nation's largest airline, and Mr. Keck's role in making it work led to his being named an executive vice president and director.
        During those years, Mr. Keck made a high science out of the low profile. While other up-and-coming executives had widely publicized and career-killing clashes with the famously volatile Mr. Patterson, Mr. Keck treated him with diffidence. So, when Mr. Patterson retired in 1966, he picked Mr. Keck to succeed him.
        ''Until I became vice president for operations and a member of the board,'' Mr. Keck once told a reporter, ''I never presumed to call Mr. Patterson by his nickname, Pat.''
        Mr. Keck is survived by his wife, Evelyn; two daughters, Leslie A. Herzog of Alexandria, Va., and Georgia Witherspoon of New Orleans; a brother, Harold, of DeMotte, Ind.; three grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      