
        Peter Abeles, a Hungarian who fled to Australia after World War II and as a transport executive became one of his adopted country's most powerful business leaders, died on Friday at his home in Sydney. He was 75.
        The cause of death was cancer, said the Australian Consul General in New York, Michael E. Baume, who was also a friend.
        ''He was the Australian version of the American dream -- the Australian dream,'' Mr. Baume said. ''He migrated and gained his fortune through hard work, intelligence and opportunity.''
        Sir Peter, who was knighted in 1972, was the former managing director of the global transportation company TNT Ltd., as well known in some countries as Federal Express and United Parcel Service are known in the United States.
        As joint chief executive with Rupert Murdoch, the multinational media magnate, Sir Peter helped lead Ansett Transport Industries Ltd., one of the two main airlines in Australia.
        Sir Peter was also a political powerbroker in Australia and a close friend of former Prime Minister Bob Hawke. Indeed, Sir Peter witnessed the highly publicized Kirribilli agreement between Mr. Hawke and Paul Keating, who was then Treasurer, in 1988.
        The agreement between the two Labor Party rivals concerned when Mr. Hawke would step down as Prime Minister to make way for Mr. Keating.
        Mr. Hawke also backed Sir Peter's tough negotiating stance during a 1989 pilots' strike, which crippled Australia for six months.
        The former Prime Minister was one of the last close friends to see Sir Peter on Thursday night. ''He was not conscious, but I was able to put a kiss on his forehead,'' he told reporters in Australia.
        Born on April 25, 1924, in Vienna, Peter Emil Herbert Abeles grew up and was educated in Budapest. He was a university student in 1944 when the Germans invaded Hungary and sent him to a Nazi work camp.
        He survived and, in 1949, with no money, he and his first wife, Claire Dan, an actress who became an arts patron, arrived in Australia, part of a large postwar exodus from Eastern Europe. The marriage later ended in  divorce.
        Once in Australia, Sir Peter, described often as both charming and ruthless, was a struggling salesman of textiles and used books.
        In the late 1950's, he teamed up with another Hungarian, George Rockey, and bought two trucks, with which they started a transport company called Alltrans. In 1967, Alltrans merged with another trucking company, Thomas Nationwide Transport, and became TNT Ltd. The company grew rapidly, expanding into 180 countries by the 1980's.
        In 1979, Sir Peter joined with Mr. Murdoch to take over Ansett Transport; TNT also took a 50 percent ownership. He stayed at Ansett from 1980 to 1992 and resigned from TNT in 1993.
        Sir Peter was a skilled bridge and poker player. One of his regular poker partners was Robert Askin, the premier of New South Wales and the official who recommended Sir Peter for knighthood.
        Besides his knighthood, Sir Peter became a companion in the General Division of the Order of Australia in 1991. He was named Australian of the Year in 1987 by The Australian, a national newspaper. He served as a Reserve Bank board member and was chairman of the Australian Cancer Research Foundation.
        He is survived by his second wife, Kitty; two daughters, Michelle Johnston and Roberta Warren, and a stepdaughter, Yvonne Mueller.
        The portly Sir Peter inspired fear at times, with some critics saying his business tactics bordered on the unscrupulous. Sir Peter, who spoke with a lisp as well as a thick Hungarian accent, found this amusing. In an episode recounted in The Australian, an adviser once urged Sir Peter to be more sympathetic with his minority shareholders. He replied, ''I'm a common horse thief, and you are trying to turn me into a custodian of a public company.''
      