
        John J. McKeithen, Louisiana's first Governor to serve two consecutive terms, who practiced moderation at a time of intense racial conflict in the Deep South and gave New Orleans the Superdome, died yesterday at a hospital in Columbia, La. He was 81 and lived in Columbia.
        He had been in declining health since undergoing heart surgery two years ago, said his friend Dave Dixon.
        Mr. McKeithen was Governor from 1964 to 1972.
        A staunch Democrat and protege of Earl K. Long, who was a multi-term Governor, Mr. McKeithen was so popular in his first administration that the Legislature passed a law allowing a governor to succeed himself. A ban on serving two consecutive terms as governor was instituted at the turn of the century but was lifted for Mr. McKeithen, who was known for his oratory.
        But in his second term, Mr.  McKeithen was drawn into controversy over accusations of Mafia influence in his administration, although the scandal was never linked to him personally.
        Edward F. Renwick, director of the Loyola University Institute of Politics who followed Mr. McKeithen's career, credited him with four major accomplishments: the beginning of the end of segregation in Louisiana, the decision to build the Superdome, leadership in the passage of a state constitutional amendment that permits state governors to run for two four-year terms, and the emergence of consensus politics.
        John Martzell, a New Orleans lawyer who was executive secretary of the State Human Relations Commission from 1966 to 1972, said yesterday that Governor McKeithen's efforts to promote racial harmony are little known even today.
        ''The most important thing he did came in a speech he delivered to the A.F.L.-C.I.O. convention in Baton Rouge in the summer of 1966,'' Mr. Martzell said.
        ''He pointed to some blacks in the audience and said, 'I know I'm not leaving this state, and I don't think you're leaving either. So we've got to solve our problem.' It was giving the imprimatur of the state Governor to solving racial differences. Previous governors had always proclaimed massive resistance to integration. He had a huge impact.''
        He also appointed black Louisianans to state offices in a time of racial unrest in his state.
        The idea for the Louisiana Superdome, which has 75,000 seats, came from his friend Mr. Dixon, a successful plywood manufacturer who now runs an art and antiques gallery in New Orleans.
        ''I visited him in 1965 and suggested the stadium would have a great economic impact on the state,'' Mr. Dixon recalled yesterday. ''The Governor listened very carefully to what I had to say and then jumped up, pounded his fist on the table and said 'That could be the greatest building in the world.''
        The Superdome's cost, estimated  at $22 million, wound up being $130 million and the stadium was not completed until 1975 after he had been out of office for three years.
        John Julian McKeithen was born  in rural Grayson on May 28, 1918, the son of a farmer. His parents wanted him to become a Methodist minister, but he went on to obtain a law degree at Louisiana State University and set up a practice in Columbia, a small town in the Red Hills of northern Louisiana.
        He was an unknown country lawyer when Governor Long picked him in 1948 as a floor leader.
        ''He told me not to worry -- I'd get on all right, and I guess I did,'' Mr.  McKeithen later recalled.
        Mr. McKeithen is survived by his wife, Marjorie, of Columbia; a son, Walter Fox McKeithen, who is Louisiana's Secretary of State and lives in Baton Rouge; four daughters, Rebecca M. Hamilton, who lives in China; Melissa M. Cummings of Columbia; Pamela M. Plummer of Ruston, La.; and Jenny M. Borders of St. Francisville, La., and 15 grandchildren. His oldest son, Jesse Jay McKeithen, died last year.
      