
        Bruno Balke, a sports medicine innovator who preached a regimen of sensible exercise as an antidote to heart ailments, died on June 7 at St. Mary's Hospital in Grand Junction, Colo. He was 91 and had lived in Grand Junction in retirement.
        Dr. Balke was credited with being the first exercise physiologist to chart the precise relationship among oxygen consumption, exercise and cardiovascular health. At a time when bed rest was the general prescription for heart patients, he was an early advocate of heart-strengthening exercises of the kind that became popular in the 1970's with the growth of aerobics and fitness salons.
        Dr. Balke was a professor emeritus of physiology and kinesiology at the University of Wisconsin in Madison. Earlier in his career he accompanied a German expedition in the Himalayas, tested the stamina of German Alpine troops in World War II and helped the United States Air Force determine how the human body could adapt to space flight.
        A native of Braunschweig, Germany, he graduated from the German Academy of Physical Education in 1931. He earned his medical degree at the University of Berlin in 1936 and added a doctorate in medical rehabilitation at the University of Leipzig in 1945.
        From 1936 to 1942, Dr. Balke was affiliated with the department of sports medicine at the University of Berlin. As the team physician for German climbers in the Himalayas in 1938, he found an interest that would last the rest of his life: high-altitude conditioning and human endurance under extreme stress.
        He served in the German medical corps in World War II but contracted infectious hepatitis on the Russian front. After that, he was posted to the medical school of the German Army Mountain Corps to lead its department of performance physiology.
        The United States Air Force recruited him for its School of Aviation Medicine in 1950. That allowed him to continue his research in San Antonio, where in 1958 he subjected himself to 10 grueling days in a simulated space capsule.
        Later he became chief of the biodynamics branch at the Civil Aeromedical Research Institute of the Federal Aviation Administration,  joined the faculty of the University of Wisconsin, worked with the Green Bay Packers football team, helped American athletes prepare for the high altitude of the Mexico City Olympics in 1968 and led a committee that created Medicine and Science in Sports, which became the journal of the American College of Sports Medicine.
        Dr. Balke's wife, Annemarie, died in 1996. He is survived by three sons, Horst, of Basalt, Colo.; Frank, of Salem, Ore., and Per-Olof, of Grand Junction; a daughter, Hedda Marg of Alzey, Germany; 11 grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      