
        Robert Sobel, a prolific historian of American business life whose topics ranged from the economic philosophy of President Calvin Coolidge to the influence of the junk-bond financier Michael Milken, died on Wednesday at his home in Long Beach, N.Y. He was 68.
        The cause of death was brain cancer, said a spokeswoman for Hofstra University, where Professor Sobel taught for 43 years.
        Professor Sobel's first book, ''The Origins of Intervention,'' was published in 1961, when he was a 30-year-old history instructor at Hofstra, in Hempstead, N.Y. His latest, completed as he underwent unsuccessful cancer treatments, is a study of business blunders called ''When Giants Stumble,'' just released by Prentice-Hall Press.
        Besides teaching, Professor Sobel was the author, co-author or editor of more than 50 books and hundreds of articles and corporate profiles.
        Most of his books were written for a general audience, but he never bristled when some scholarly writers dismissed him as a ''popularizer,'' said his colleague and friend George David Smith, a professor of economic history at New York University. ''Quite the contrary -- he saw that as his mission in life.''
        Still, that did not stop Professor Sobel from taking a gentle revenge on his ivory-tower critics in 1973, with publication of ''For Want of a Nail,'' his mock textbook recounting the history of North America had General Burgoyne won the Revolutionary War battle at Saratoga. His spoof included pompous footnotes about petty disputes among imaginary scholars and a wholly invented bibliography of ludicrously boring and arcane references -- as well as an appendix featuring a list of the ''leaders of the United States of Mexico,'' starting with its first president, Andrew Jackson.
        But his dominant passion was Wall Street, a metaphysical neighborhood that had fascinated him since childhood. ''It is as though you are walking through a historical theme park, with this engaging man at your side pointing out the sights,'' said Andrew Tobias, the author and investment guide, in a review in The New York Times of ''The Last Bull Market: Wall Street in the 1960's'' (W. W. Norton, 1978).
        Professor Sobel wrote two studies of the New York Stock Exchange and two books on the American Stock Exchange. Friends said he considered ''The Life and Times of Dillon Read'' (Dutton, 1991) to be his finest book, but he produced other notable profiles of Wall Street characters, including ''Dangerous Dreamers: The Financial Innovators from Charles Merrill to Michael Milken'' (John Wiley & Sons, 1993).
        To that he added a history of financial panics, a history of speculative bubbles and an account of the frenzied market of the 1920's.
        Richard Sylla, an economic historian at New York University, acknowledged that Mr. Sobel's ''pot-boiler style'' sometimes drew criticism in academic circles. ''But specialized scholars could learn a lot from him -- and you are talking to one who did,'' Professor Sylla added.
        While in graduate school, friends say, Mr. Sobel found that he loved to write. ''He was a compulsive writer,'' Professor Smith said. ''He was miserable when he was not writing.''
        Indeed, in an academic realm where publishing is often considered the grim alternative to perishing, Mr. Sobel's published works were only one tributary of the broad river of words he produced. Unlike most academic writers, he was happy to ghost-write business books bearing other people's names. And he collaborated on a host of biographical projects that never reached a public audience, including the privately published memoirs of Joseph Cullman, the legendary leader of Philip Morris, and an authorized biography of Louis E. Wolfson, an early pioneer in corporate takeovers who ran afoul of Federal securities regulators.
        Professor Sobel was clearly less enthralled by the corporate world, but that only slightly affected his output. His corporate histories included studies of RCA, ITT, the Penn Central Railroad, the automotive industry, the tobacco industry, the Trammell Crow construction empire and two books on I.B.M.
        Rounding out his bookcase were economic assessments of Herbert Hoover and Calvin Coolidge and studies of the American Revolution, the French Revolution and the Industrial Revolution.
        Robert Sobel was born and raised in the Bronx, the son of a commercial draftsman who drew promotional posters for the Loews chain of movie theaters. He was educated at James Monroe High School and the City College of New York, and earned his master's degree in history at New York University in 1952 before enlisting in the armed forces during the Korean War.
        He later told family members that he had hoped to be a military intelligence officer but was turned down because of unfounded suspicions that he was related to Morton Sobell, another City College graduate who was a figure in the spy case involving Julius and Ethel Rosenberg. Instead, he served as an administrative clerk in the Army.
        He returned to New York University after his discharge in 1955. He worked as a history instructor there and, starting in 1956, at Hofstra while working on his doctorate at N.Y.U. After his degree was conferred in 1957, he joined the faculty at Hofstra, where he remained for four decades.
        In 1990, he was awarded the university's Lawrence Stetson Distinguished Professorship in business history, which he held until his retirement in May 1998. A memorial service will be held for Professor Sobel in September at the Hofstra campus, where flags have been lowered to half-staff in his honor.
        For all the years he spent in the classroom, friends say that teaching history did not satisfy him as much as writing history -- or, indeed, writing anything.
        Besides producing books, articles, book reviews, and scripts for television and audiotapes, he was a weekly columnist for Newsday from 1972 to 1988. At the time of his death he was a contributing editor to Barron's magazine. He also worked as a consultant for the Winthrop Group in Cambridge, Mass. His family says that two completed book manuscripts are scheduled for publication posthumously.
        Professor Sobel is survived by his wife, Carole Ritter Sobel of Long Beach; his mother, Blanche Sobel of Riverdale; a brother, Alan Sobel of Brooklyn; two children, Barbara Sobel of Queens and David Sobel of Alexandria, La., and two grandchildren.
      