
        Crocker Snow, a pilot and aviation official whose aerial adventures spanned more than seven decades, from the biplane era to the jet age, died on Tuesday at his home in Ipswich, Mass. He was 94.
        Mr. Snow, who had flown more than 15,000 hours in 140 types of planes, helped inaugurate commercial air travel in New England, oversaw civil aviation in Massachusetts and served as head of a Federal advisory panel on air traffic. As an officer in the Army Air Forces in World War II, he directed the ferrying of aircraft from the United States to Britain. And he flew more than 20 bombing missions in the Pacific.
        Mr. Snow flew solo until last year, operating a single-engine North American Navion he bought in 1947. He logged more than 900,000 miles in the plane. Its base was a grassy airstrip alongside his home; the Federal Aviation Administration informally referred to it as the Ipswich International Airport.
        Crocker Snow, the son of a lawyer, was born in Boston on Feb. 26, 1905, 14 months after Orville and Wilbur Wright made the first successful flights of a heavier-than-air machine in Kitty Hawk, N.C. As a boy, Mr. Snow was captivated by the exploits of the World War I air aces and the achievements of his oldest brother, Bill, a naval aviator who flew antisubmarine patrols off the French and English coasts.
        In October 1922, while a freshman at Harvard, Mr. Snow rode in an open-cockpit Avro biplane flown by another brother, Kick, a pilot in the Massachusetts Air National Guard.
        ''My first flight was all I had dreamed of: sailing effortlessly over the trees at the end of the field, watching the houses shrink and the landscape expand as we climbed,'' Mr. Snow recalled in ''Log Book: A Pilot's Life'' (Brassey's, 1997).
        Kick Snow was killed in an air crash in 1923, but Crocker Snow was determined to fly. He received Massachusetts pilot license No. 5 in February 1927, during his freshman year at Harvard Law School, and by May was giving rides in an OX-5 Travel Air biplane.
        One of his first passengers was a social worker at Denison House, a haven for the poor in Boston.
        ''Our Denison House friend approached to ask if I could possibly fly her over the city to drop leaflets advertising a charity fund-raiser,'' Mr. Snow said in his book. ''It was drizzling, with a low ceiling, and most pilots probably wouldn't have gone up. However, I was always ready for a good excuse to fly, especially if it involved an attractive young lady passenger, so I said, 'Sure.' She loaded up her 'flyers' and we were off.''
        A newspaper headline the next day reported on his flight with Amelia Earhart, with a slight misspelling: ''Miss Amelia Earheart Flies in a Plane Over Boston.''
        Mr. Snow dropped out of Harvard Law School after one year, and in March 1928 became a founder of Skyways, one of the first commercial airlines in Boston. He was named the first director of aeronautics for Massachusetts in 1939.
        Soon after the United States entered World War II in 1941, Mr. Snow, although only a lieutenant, took control of the ferrying operation that moved aircraft over the North Atlantic to Britain by using airfields he helped develop in Maine, Newfoundland, Iceland and Greenland.
        After leaving the Army Air Forces as a lieutenant colonel, Mr. Snow returned to his post overseeing civilian air traffic in Massachusetts. In the early 1970's, he was chairman of the Federal Aviation Advisory Commission, a panel created by Congress to study the long-range needs of commercial and private aviation.
        Mr. Snow is survived by his wife, Janice Vaughan; a son, Crocker Jr., and a stepson, Donald Vaughan Little, both of Ipswich; a stepdaughter, Janice Patricia Moseley of Hamilton, Mass., nine grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      