
        Angelo Bertelli, the first of Notre Dame's seven Heisman Trophy winners and its first T-formation quarterback, died Saturday at his home in Clifton, N.J. He was 78.
        The cause was brain cancer, his son Michael said.
        When Bertelli entered Notre Dame in 1940, he was 6 feet 1 inch and 173 pounds, a skinny but highly regarded tailback in the single-wing formation used by most college teams. Elmer Layden, Notre Dame's coach, used the box offense perfected by his coach, the legendary Knute Rockne.
        But when Layden left to become commissioner of the National Football League, Notre Dame's new coach, Frank Leahy, was impressed by Bertelli's passing talents and made major changes.
        ''I was a fourth-string tailback on the freshman team and a terrible runner,'' Bertelli recalled, ''and there were three varsity tailbacks coming back the next year. Then Leahy became our coach. He remembered what he had had at Boston College, a passing quarterback in Charlie O'Rourke, and I went from seventh string to first string overnight.''
        As a sophomore, Bertelli, still a single-wing tailback, led the nation with a 56.9 percent passing average, completing 70 of 123 attempts.
        In 1942, Leahy switched to a modified T-formation, in which Bertelli would play under the center and take every snap. As he told his budding star, ''Bert, you're the finest passer and the worst runner I've ever coached.''
        That summer, preparing for his new role, Bertelli said he took ''a thousand snaps, maybe a million.'' He and the T-formation were an immediate success. He passed that year for 1,039 yards and 10 touchdowns, and Grantland Rice, the celebrated sportswriter, called him ''the T-formation magician.''
        As a senior in 1943, after six of Notre Dame's 10 games, Bertelli was activated by the Marine Corps and his college career ended. In those six games, he threw only 36 passes, completing 25 with 10 going for touchdowns, and he won the Heisman Trophy. Notre Dame won the six games by an average score of 43-5 and lost only three games in his three seasons.
        Bertelli became a Marine captain, fought on Iwo Jima and Guam and won the Bronze Star and the Purple Heart. He was succeeded as the Notre Dame quarterback by Johnny Lujack, an 18-year-old sophomore, who would win a Heisman Trophy in 1947.
        Bertelli was voted to all-America teams in 1942 and 1943. In the Heisman voting for America's outstanding college football player, he finished second in 1941 and sixth in 1942 before capturing the trophy. In 1972, he was elected to the College Football Hall of Fame.
        Angelo Bortolo Bertelli was born on June 18, 1921, in West Springfield, Mass., to Italian immigrant parents. At Cathedral High School in Springfield, he won all-state honors in football, baseball and hockey and was senior class president.
        After World War II, he obtained his college degree and played for the Los Angeles Dons and Chicago Rockets in the All-America Football Conference. His professional career ended in 1949 after three seasons and three knee operations.
        He lived the last 48 years in Clifton, where he operated several businesses, including a chain of liquor stores. He sponsored midget football teams that produced, among others, Nick Buoniconti and Joe Scibelli, who became outstanding Notre Dame and professional players.
        In 1944, Bertelli married Gilda Passerini, his childhood sweetheart. He is survived by his wife; two sons, Michael of Allendale, N.J., and Robert of Hoboken, N.J.; two daughters, Lauren Bertelli of Waldwick, N.J., and Judith Wry of Manchester, Conn.; two sisters, Josephine Tesini and Rose Enright, both of Holyoke, Mass., and five grandsons.
        He always seemed surprised at his celebrity. He told of the time his older daughter, Lauren, brought a boyfriend home and unintentionally took him past the Heisman sitting in a corner of the parlor.
        ''What's that?'' the boyfriend asked.
        ''My father's Heisman,'' the daughter replied.
        The rest of the night, Bertelli said with a chuckle, the boyfriend ignored the daughter and talked only to him.
        Winning the Heisman, he said, required more than ability.
        ''You've got to be in the right place with the right team at the right time,'' he said. ''It doesn't hurt playing for Notre Dame.''
      