
        Ralph E. Chamberlain, a philanthropist and businessman who raised the profile of the Salvation Army with national television and magazine campaigns in the 1970's, died on Wednesday of pancreatic cancer at his home in Fly Creek, N.Y., a spokesman for the Salvation Army said yesterday. He was 72.
        Mr. Chamberlain founded several businesses, including Precise Kit Promotions, a manufacturer of disaster aid kits for private and government agencies, and Sportsman Tavern, a restaurant in Fly Creek.
        Mr. Chamberlain was born in the Bronx and graduated from high school in Syracuse. After serving in the Navy for three years, he attended the Salvation Army School for Officer Training in Suffern, N.Y., in 1946. He rose to the rank of captain and later served as director of its National Information Service.
        As a benefactor of Bassett Hospital in Cooperstown, N.Y., Mr. Chamberlain was chairman of a campaign to build a new primary care clinic. When he closed his restaurant, he donated the building to Bassett Healthcare, the operator of the hospital. The building, now known as the Chamberlain Center, houses the New York Center for Agricultural Medicine and Health.
        From 1994 until his death, Mr. Chamberlain served as president of the board of trustees of the Glimmerglass Opera in Cooperstown. He also served on the board of trustees of Hartwick College in Oneonta, N.Y., which awarded him an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree in 1988.
        Mr. Chamberlain is survived by his wife, Ellen; three daughters, Sharon Wagner of Pompton Lakes, N.J., Elizabeth Richards of Seabrook Island, S.C., and Samantha Chamberlain of Fly Creek; two sons, Ralph E. Chamberlain Jr. of Westwood, N.J., and Richard Chamberlain of Fly Creek; a stepdaughter, Elisabeth Smith of Northampton, Mass; a stepson, Peter Smith of Burlington Flats, N.Y.; two brothers, Robert Chamberlain of Depew, N.Y., and the Rev. Charles Chamberlain of Thomasville, N.C., and 11 grandchildren.
      