
        The Rev. Dr. Canon H. Boone Porter, an Episcopal theologian and liturgical scholar who played a leading role in modernizing the church's Book of Common Prayer in 1979, died on Saturday at Bridgeport Hospital in Connecticut. He was 76 and lived in Southport, Conn.
        The cause was pneumonia, his family said.
        Dr. Porter was an influential member of the Standing Liturgical Commission, the panel of church experts who worked from 1960 to 1976 to revise the wording of the holy communion service into plain, common, modern English. He became a principal architect of the revision, writing most of Eucharistic Prayer A and part of Prayer B, alternative versions of a major part of the ritual of consecrating bread and wine.
        At his death Dr. Porter was senior editor of The Living Church, a weekly magazine, to which he contributed articles until this year. He was the magazine's editor and general manager in Milwaukee from 1977 until 1990.
        Earlier, Dr. Porter taught at the Episcopal Church's General Theological Seminary in New York. He was named a professor of liturgy in 1960, when he established the first doctoral program in liturgical studies in the United States.
        In 1970 he joined with former students, many of whom had become church leaders, to explore the possibilities of liturgical renewal that they hoped would reach out to minorities and rural Americans. The group worked on redefining the Episcopal Church's relationships with its members, an effort reflected in the wording of the new Book of Common Prayer.
        The work of Dr. Porter and his committee was extensive and sometimes controversial because of how much the 1979 revision differed from centuries-old forms.
        The revised prayer book offers two alternative versions of the communion service, Rite I and Rite II, and the Eucharistic Prayer in four versions is in Rite II; the prayer is also called the Great Thanksgiving.
        In the 1923 version of the Book of Common Prayer, in language essentially unchanged since 1662, the celebrant of the Holy Eucharist prayed, in part:
        ''All Glory be to thee, Almighty God, our heavenly Father, for that thou, of thy tender mercy, didst give thine only Son Jesus Christ to suffer death upon the cross for our redemption; who made there, by his one oblation of himself once offered, a full perfect, and sufficient sacrifice, oblation, and satisfaction, for the sins of the whole world.''
        As rephrased by Dr. Porter, that passage in Eucharistic Prayer A now reads:
        ''Holy and gracious Father: In your infinite love you made us for yourself; and, when we had fallen into sin and become subject to evil and death, you, in your mercy, sent Jesus Christ, your only and eternal Son, to share our human nature, to live and die as one of us, to reconcile us to you, the God and Father of all.
        ''He stretched his arms upon the cross, and offered himself, in obedience to your will, a perfect sacrifice for the whole world.''
        After leaving Milwaukee, Dr. Porter, who was over 70 at the time, became a part-time student at the Yale Forestry School and received a master's degree in environmental studies in 1995.
        Harry Boone Porter was born in Louisville, Ky., to a prosperous family that founded the Porter Paint Company. He graduated from Yale in 1947 and entered Berkeley Divinity School in New Haven to start his studies of liturgy, graduating in 1950. He received a master's degree in theology from the General Theological Seminary in 1952 and a doctorate from Oxford University in 1954.
        Dr. Porter began his teaching career at Nashotah House Episcopal Seminary in Wisconsin, where he taught church history, before returning to General Theological as its first tenured professor of liturgy. His courses attracted members of the next generation of church leadership, and while in New York he also sat on committees of his church's national headquarters in Manhattan.
        He is survived by his wife of 52 years, Violet Monser Porter; three daughters, Charlotte Porter of Island Grove, Fla., Gabrielle Dennison of Southport , and Clarissa Porter of Fairfield, Conn.; three sons, H. Boone 3d, of Prairie Village, Kan., Michael T., of Summit N.J., and the Rev. Canon Nicholas T. Porter of Paris; a stepbrother, William Wood of Captiva Island, Fla.; a stepsister, Doris Spaulding of Louisville, and eight grandchildren.
      