
        Vere C. Bird, a child of the slums and a Salvation Army drummer who carried the Caribbean island of Antigua to independence and then sired the family dynasty that has led and dominated the country ever since, died on Monday in the capital, St. Johns. He was 89.
        At his death after a long illness, the Caribbean News Agency quoted his son, Lester Bird, who is also his successor as Prime Minister, as saying, ''He raised us and produced us to continue in his footsteps.''
        It was unclear from the context if he meant Antiguans generally, or himself and his brothers. In fact Vere Bird had done both, changing the political and social destiny of the island and becoming what the writer Jamaica Kincaid, a native Antiguan, described as a family patriarch ''who thinks that the Government is his own business.''
        Despite drug and gun-running scandals that touched his family and Government, Mr. Bird was regularly returned to office until he retired in 1994, paving the way for his son. At his death, his oldest son, Vere Bird Jr., was the Agriculture Minister while a younger one, Ivor, a former Cabinet member who has been tainted by scandal, directed the family-owned radio station.
        Vere Cornwall Bird Sr., who was born in a ramshackle shanty and never went beyond grammar school, was a large, athletic and powerful man with a preacher's voice and a sharp tongue. As in the case of so many who were to become leaders of independent Caribbean states, he first tasted power and attained prominence as a labor leader.
        The basis of his popularity among the 65,000 citizens on the islands of Antigua and Barbuda was established in the early 1940's, when these dots in the leeward chain were sugar-producing colonies ruled from London and dominated by planters.
        Like Norman Manley and Alexander Bustamante in Jamaica, Eric Gairy in Grenada and Dr. Eric Williams in Trinidad, he used organized labor to confront both the planters and the colonial ties that maintained their power. As president of the Antigua Trades and Labor Union, he led sugar cane workers in strikes for higher wages during World War II. He also pressured plantation owners to turn over plots and home sites to the sugar harvesters who had been their tenants.
        The union soon branched off into the Antigua Labor Party and in the late 1940's, Mr. Bird won his first election to what was then still a colonial legislature. In 1951, when universal suffrage was introduced, the party led by Mr. Bird won every seat in Parliament, a feat it would regularly repeat. In 1981, when Antigua became fully independent, he became Prime Minister.
        Then, as tourism replaced the sugar production as Antigua's economic mainstay, Mr. Bird's record of nationalism and populism seemed to pay increasing dividends to his person and to his family. According to Franklin W. Knight, a historian at Johns Hopkins and the author of ''The Caribbean,'' Mr. Bird became one of the ''unusual number of charismatic, caudillo-style politicians'' produced in the region.
        The Antiguan political opposition charged that under the rule of the Birds, the island became a haven for international con men and in recent years American Government agencies have identified Antigua as a key transit point for South American cocaine bound for Europe and a money laundering center. Ms. Kincaid, whose memoir ''A Small Place'' dealt with growing up in Antigua, described the place in this later period as ''a monument to rottenness.''
        Several scandalous revelations lay behind the criticisms. In May 1990, a court in Tel Aviv indicted an Israeli officer on charges of illegally shipping assault weapons to Vere Bird Jr. in order to have them forwarded to the members of the Gacha drug cartel in Columbia. When islanders responded with protests and signs proclaiming ''The Birds Must Go,'' the younger Bird resigned his Cabinet post as Minister of Public Works, but no charges were filed against him.
        Thirteen years earlier, a Canadian Company called Space Research owned by Gerald V. Bull was permitted to test howitzers on the island. After a newspaper that was later shut down by the Government reported that the company was shipping arms to the white minority Government of South Africa, Space Research quietly withdrew. In 1990 Mr. Bull was in the news again when he was shot to death in Belgium, where he was reported to be working on a gigantic bomb-launching cannon for Saddam Hussein of Iraq.
        In 1995 Ivor Bird was fined $75,000 after being caught with a 25 pound shipment of cocaine as he boarded a plane at the airport named for his father. The following year American officials expressed concern about the arrival on the island of what they described as organized crime groups from Russia, reportedly involved in money laundering, drugs, arms sales and extortion. Another scandal involved efforts by the ruling family to sell off the sands of a highly unusual pink beach.
        In the face of such embarrassments, Mr. Bird countered with speeches reminding residents of the time when the only work available was backbreaking labor of cutting cane and when drinking water came from dirty ponds. He would make these speeches into his 80's, accompanied by his wife, Lydia, his daughter Lisette, and his sons, who also included Curtis, a lawyer, and Roswald, a teacher. His household also included a mistress named Cutie Francis.
        His body will lie in state at Antigua's Parliament.
      