
        Louis J. Glickman, a widely known real estate investor and philanthropist, died on Friday at New York Hospital. He was 94 and lived on the Upper East Side.
        Mr. Glickman formed a Manhattan-based real estate investment company in 1942 and was widely active in real estate investments in the United States and Canada.
        One of his best-known deals was not completed. In 1956, he made it known that he had arranged to buy Carnegie Hall and planned to tear it down and replace it with a 40-story office building. Demolition was to begin when the Philharmonic-Symphony Society's lease expired in 1959.
        But Mr. Glickman later dropped his option to buy the building, and it was unclear whether a Save Carnegie Hall campaign or an inability to finance the project on profitable terms led to his backing out. The building was eventually preserved.
        Mr. Glickman's son Adam said that his father ''never had any intention of demolishing Carnegie Hall; he basically got involved with that to get some publicity.''
        In 1960, Mr. Glickman offered $4.6 million for the Dakota apartments on West 72d Street and for an adjoining lot. Soon after acquiring the properties, he sold the Dakota to its tenants and the lot to other developers, who built an apartment house, the Mayfair Tower, there.
        Mr. Glickman was born and raised in Brooklyn, attended Brown University and the University of Virginia, and entered the New York-based real estate and construction firm of his father, Pincus Glickman, in 1928.
        Louis Glickman founded his real-estate investment company in 1942 and was its chairman after it became a corporation, his son said. But in 1962 he was forced out of the corporation. His son said he ''was overextended in some personal investments at that time,'' and the corporation was acquired by a group of investors.
        In later years, Adam Glickman said, Louis Glickman was an independent real-estate investor. He was dictating letters to his secretary an hour before his death.
        The objects of his philanthropy included the United Jewish Appeal, nonprofit organizations concerned with cerebral palsy and epilepsy, the Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Yeshiva and Brandeis Universities.
        Besides his son Adam J., of Millburn, N.J., he is survived by his wife of 67 years, the former Helene Hauptmann; another son, Warren J., who lives in Israel; four grandsons and a sister, Ruth Gleen, who lives near Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
      