
        Hugh Alton Carter Sr., a former Georgia state legislator and businessman who had a central role in the campaigns of his first cousin Jimmy Carter and turned his store into a center of Jimmy Carter lore, died Thursday at a hospital in Americus, Ga. He was 78 and lived in nearby Plains.
        The cause was complications of pneumonia and heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Carter, a large-scale worm farmer and antiques dealer, succeeded his cousin Jimmy in the State Senate and held on to the seat for 14 years until he stepped down in 1981.
        Representing eight Georgia counties, he served as chairman of the Senate Education Committee and was a senior member of the Appropriations, Rules and Fiscal Affairs Committees.
        He graduated from two-year Georgia Southwestern College and in 1941 from the University of Georgia. As an Army lieutenant in World War II, he saw combat in Europe, then remained in the reserves and retired as a lieutenant colonel in 1964.
        After the war he opened a business, Hugh Carter's Worm Farm, growing crickets and worms for fish bait. The company shipped bait nationwide and advertised itself as the largest worm farm in the world before he closed it three years ago.
        Mr. Carter also turned the family's general merchandise store into Hugh Carter's Antique Shop, a tourist mecca during the Carter Presidency. Along with Carter trinkets and memorabilia, he dispensed local lore and political philosophy to visiting reporters. He retired from the business in 1996.
        As a state senator, Mr. Carter was active in his cousin's early political campaigns. He raised some hackles in his immediate family with the publication of his memoir, ''Cousin Beedie and Cousin Hot'' (Prentice-Hall, 1978).
        It contained some unkind asides about the President's mother. But over all it told of a warm and continuing relationship between the cousins of the title, himself and Jimmy Carter.
        A key factor in Mr. Carter's life was his Baptist faith. He served for many years in the Plains Baptist Church and, later, Maranatha Baptist Church of Plains, as a song leader, church clerk and deacon.
        Mr. Carter is survived by his wife of 57 years, Ruth Godwin Carter; a son, Hugh A. Jr. of Atlanta; two daughters, Dr. Laurie C. Tharpe of Macon, Ga., and Connie C. Collins of Byron, Ga.; a brother, Donnel, of Sea Island, Ga., and seven grandchildren.
        When Gov. Jimmy Carter became a serious Presidential contender in 1975, the Secret Service and the press corps discovered Plains, a small farming community of a few hundred souls. The agents went native, changing from knit suits into bib overalls.
        From his gift shop, cousin Hugh, unfooled, explained to members of the press how he spotted G-men ''sauntering'' about town: their ''new and unbleached'' denims made them stick out like the proverbial sore thumb.
        After Jimmy Carter lost his bid for re-election, Mr. Carter condensed his analysis for the press to one word, ''Inflation.''
      