
        Joe Redington, who died Thursday at the age of 82 at his homestead in Knik, Alaska, near Anchorage, did not get to mush until he was in his late 30's, but when he did, he realized something that no one else had thought of: if you organize a 1,100-mile dog sled race, even if you don't have any sort of grubstake at all, interesting things could happen.
        And indeed, things got very interesting over the next 26 years as the Iditarod race from Anchorage to Nome, which Mr. Redington helped to conceive and promote, grew to be such a compelling contest of grit and gumption and such a major event for Alaska that this week Governor Tony Knowles ordered flags flown at half-staff for three days in Mr. Redington's honor.
        From the 160-acre spread in Knik, where sled-dogs share the landscape with dead refrigerators and car parts, Jo Wood, a family spokeswoman, said that Mr. Redington, who started life as a Dust Bowl pilgrim from Oklahoma, would be buried in a dog sled. She said that Mr. Redington died after fighting cancer of the esophagus for 18 months.
        Mr. Redington was born on Feb. 1, 1917, on the Chisholm Trail in Oklahoma. Fleeing the dust storms of the Depression, he and his family settled in eastern Pennsylvania in the 30's. During the war, he spent four years in the Army, including a stint on Okinawa. Afterward he came back and worked as salesman trying to sell Jeeps to farmers.
        In 1948 he decided to head for Alaska with his family, where he discovered sled dogs and competitive racing.
        By 1973, Mr. Redington, who had done some welding and some car repair and some mining and fishing, was lamenting that the sleds and dogs he had come to love were threatened by snowmobiles. Six years earlier, he and Dorothy Page, a local historian, organized a 50-mile sled race, and for some time after that, Mr. Redington kept talking about a big sled race from Anchorage to the ghost town of Iditarod and back, a distance of about 1,000 miles. The race would cover part of the trail taken by relays of dog sleds carrying diphtheria serum to Nome to fight a 1925 epidemic.
        The talk led newspapers and neighbors to call him the Don Quixote of Alaska. Then he announced the race and a $50,000 prize, which he did not have. All but two of his race committee members walked away.
        ''They said, 'We don't want anything to do with it, we're out of it,' '' he once said in an interview, retelling the story with all the pleasure of the vindicated.
        Skepticism then spread throughout Alaska as to whether Mr. Redington could come up with the money and whether enough mushers would race through below-zero days and nights for prize money that might prove only theoretical.
        A short, thin man long on spunk, Mr. Redington countered with optimism. As he used to say, ''if you don't have a plan, that's one less thing that can go wrong.''
        Realizing that a race from point A to point B would be more dramatic than a round trip over a shorter span, he altered the course so that mushers would not turn back at Iditarod but instead would drive their teams all the way up to Nome. It was an itinerary that many thought would prove impossible. In fact it took 20 days for the first of 22 mushers to cross the finish line.
        This gave Mr. Redington the time to visit banks, some of which eventually lent him all but $3,000 of the prize money, and Mr. Redington was able to talk the third-place finisher into taking an I.O.U. for half his purse to make up this deficit.
        As sleds and camping equipment improved and became lighter, speed increased, and the record dropped steadily with subsequent runnings. In 1986, Susan Butcher, the second woman to triumph in the Iditarod and a mushing superstar with three consecutive victories, arrived in Nome in 11 days 15 hours and 6 minutes for her first victory. Ms. Butcher had trained for several years with Mr. Redington. By 1995 the winning time had dropped to below 10 days.
        Mr. Redington, who raced in 19 Iditarods, led for portions of several races and finished fifth four times, most recently in 1988, when he was 71. In his last race in 1997, at 80, Mr. Redington finished back in the pack though registering a still respectable time of 13 days and 4 hours.
        By then, the annual race, held in March, had long been a great success, drawing competitors and tourists and signaling Alaskans that they had endured another winter. Enthusiasts who partied at the race's last start in Anchorage and those who flew up to Nome for the celebrations at the finish compared the event to the Boston Marathon, the Kentucky Derby and the Indianapolis 500. One man in Nome called it ''the Mardi Gras of the Arctic.''
        Stan Hooley, the executive director of the race, noted that the race, which operates on a budget of $1.5 million, ''couldn't get any bigger.'' The Iditarod is currently a $3.8 million business that attracts national companies as paying sponsors as well as 1,500 volunteers who clear and patrol the trail.
        There were snags along the road to success, including periods of indebtedness and the complaints from animal lovers, which reached their peak in the early 90's, contending that money was being made from the sufferings of sled dogs. Indeed, more than a dozen dogs died during the early races; last year, five animals perished. But the race authorities have steadily demanded better veterinary care and imposed tougher penalties on mushers whose dogs die. In the years of the race, no driver has been lost, though snow blindness, illness, broken bones and cases of frostbite have not been uncommon.
        After 1997, Mr. Redington stayed involved in the Iditarod in other ways. He produced and sold Iditarod cards, which coupled photographs of the mushers and their dogs with statistics. In 1993 he started to take tenderfoot mushers on month-long excursions up the Iditarod trail at $15,000 a head. At the time of his death, he was still raising and trading dogs and dog teams.
      