
        Judge Giles S. Rich, the oldest active Federal judge in the country's history, who helped draft the nation's patent laws and later, as a patent judge, became a powerful advocate for the rights of inventors, died Wednesday night at a hospital in Washington. He was 95.
        The cause was lymphoma, said Federal Judge Raymond C. Clevenger 3d, who served with Judge Rich on the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington.
        Judge Rich was a towering figure in patent and intellectual-property law for a half-century, playing a leading role in the transformation from a time when patents were enforced unevenly and held in suspicion by many jurists, to a time when not only devices and inventions but also theories and concepts came under protection of the Federal courts.
        Among other important decisions, Judge Rich wrote opinions protecting mathematical algorithms. One such decision, which the Supreme Court declined to review this year, held that formulations used in computer programs were patentable. But perhaps his most well-known opinion was a 1979 decision that held that genetically engineered bacteria could be protected by patents.
        That decision, which was upheld by the Supreme Court, ''basically opened the doors to patent protection in the biotech industry,'' said Donald Dunner, a longtime patent lawyer in the Washington firm of Finnegan, Henderson, Farabow, Garrett & Dunner and a close friend of Judge Rich. ''Without that holding, we might not have the biotech industry that we have today.''
        His opinions ''were bellwethers, opinions that mark the boundaries, while lesser judges, like me, fill in the holes,'' Judge Clevenger said.
        Judge Rich also had an enormous impact on his fellow jurists during his 43 years on the bench, friends and colleagues said, by serving as a mentor for newer judges who usually had relatively little expertise in patent law when appointed.
        Giles Sutherland Rich was born on May 30, 1904, in Rochester, where his lifelong fascination with patents began. His father, Giles W. Rich, was a patent lawyer for George Eastman, who founded the Eastman Kodak Company, and the young Mr. Rich would often accompany his father to work and watch him draft patents for Eastman.
        During high school, his family moved to Manhattan. He graduated from the Horace Mann School for Boys in 1922, Harvard College in 1926 and Columbia University School of Law in 1929. He joined his father's law firm, Williams Rich & Morse, and by the early 1940's he had begun lecturing on patent law at Columbia and had become a well-known member of the patent bar.
        In the early 1950's, his summer home in Newtown, Conn., occasionally became a second office for him and a handful of other patent-law experts as they drafted much of the Patent Act of 1952, which is still the core of United States patent law.
        In 1956, President Dwight D. Eisenhower appointed him to the United States Court of Customs and Patent Appeals, as the court was then known. His stature, and that of his court, grew significantly in 1982 when Congress merged the court with the United States Court of Claims and made it the sole place of appeal, prior to reaching the Supreme Court, for essentially all Federal district court cases arising from patent law.
        Judge Rich was still carrying a full caseload as late as last month, and he took pride in his length of service on the bench. Two years ago, when Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist wrote him a letter likening his longevity to the consecutive-game streak of the famed Baltimore Orioles shortstop, ''he got a big kick out of it,'' Judge Clevenger recalled, quoting Judge Rich as having said, ''The Chief Justice thinks I'm in the same league with Cal Ripken.''
        An accomplished photographer, Judge Rich was also renowned among patent lawyers and judges for his curiosity and ease with gadgets and the mechanics of everyday appliances.
        Mr. Dunner, whose father-in-law had constructed a treasured if sometimes unreliable grandfather clock, recalled that Judge Rich would come to his home, oil squirt can in hand, to fix it. ''He was fascinated by how things work,'' he said. ''If he had a case involving the workings of a receiver or a transmitter or whatever, he'd go out and buy a little kit and put it together to see how it would work so he could learn about it.''
        The oldest member of the patent court, Judge Rich nonetheless became the first judge there to use E-mail regularly, Judge Clevenger said. Until early this week, he added, Judge Rich lay on his hospital bed reading E-mail messages from friends around the country between visits and telephone calls.
        Judge Rich's first wife, Gertrude Verity Rich, died in 1953. He is survived by his second wife, Helen, of Washington; a daughter, Verity Hallinan of Australia, and a granddaughter, niece and nephew.
      