
        Leonard Price Stavisky of Queens, a longtime Democratic legislator in Albany and an outspoken advocate of state support for public education, died Saturday in a hospital in Queens. He was 73 and lived in Whitestone, Queens.
        The cause was complications from a cerebral hemorrhage, said Senator  Martin Connor, the leader of the Democratic minority in the State Senate.
        A former professor of history and government who held administrative office at various colleges for decades, Senator Stavisky made education the keynote of his 34 years in the New York State Assembly and Senate.
        ''He was an expert in the field of education,'' Senator Connor said, ''and fought tirelessly throughout his entire legislative career to insure that all of New York's children are provided with the opportunity to succeed.''
        Among his peers, Senator Stavisky, who represented Flushing, Queens, was respected as an expert on educational affairs and policies. In the Assembly, he served as chairman of the Education Committee for eight years and was a sponsor of the Stavisky-Goodman bill of 1975, which sought to prevent New York City's public schools from facing steep budget cuts in the wake of the city's fiscal crisis.
        As a member of the minority in the Senate, he was far less influential, but he continued to speak out about education. He was a champion of bilingual education, and conducted hearings on matters like tuitions, student-aid programs and the fiscal autonomy of the State University of New York.
        In the Senate, his committee assignments included memberships on the education, higher education, civil service and pensions committees.
        Leonard Stavisky was born in the Bronx and graduated from City College of New York in 1945. He received a Master of Arts degree from Columbia University in 1946 and topped off his studies with a Columbia doctorate in political science in 1958.
        From 1945 to 1979 he taught history and political science and worked as an administrator at Colgate University, Long Island University, State University of New York, City University of New York, and Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University at Blacksburg, Va., among others. After that, until 1990, he was an adjunct professor of political science at Columbia's School of International and Public Affairs.
        Mr. Stavisky earned his political spurs on the New York City Council from 1954 to 1960.
        He was elected to the State Assembly in 1966 and advanced to the Senate in 1983, first representing the old 12th District and, since 1994, the 16th as a Democrat-Liberal. In the 1970's he was a commissioner of the New York State Charter Revision Commission for New York City.
        He was a past commissioner of the Education Commission of the States, formed as an interstate liaison among governors, state legislators and educators. As such, he had a role in programs to improve educational practices in the United States and conduct training seminars for lawmakers and the makers of educational policies.
        Senator Stavisky is survived by his wife of 35 years, Toby Goldhaar Stavisky; and a son, Evan M., of Flushing.
      