
        Dr. Louis Robert Wasserman, an authority on the diagnosis and treatment of blood diseases and the founder of one of the nation's foremost hematology training programs, died on Monday at Danbury Hospital in Connecticut. He was 88 and lived in Sandy Hook, Conn.
        Dr. Wasserman's association with Mount Sinai Medical Center and School of Medicine as a physician, teacher and researcher spanned nearly 60 years, and the hematology program he established there has attracted specialists from around the world.
        He wrote or collaborated on some 200 papers on the red blood cell, iron metabolism and the remediation of blood disorders through radiation, antibiotics and nutrition.
        One of Dr. Wasserman's most important contributions was his research into polycythemias, a class of disorders that occur when the bone marrow oversupplies the blood with red cells, resulting in a wide array of abnormalities.
        Dr. Wasserman led an international study group that established the standards for the treatment of polycythemia vera, to the benefit of thousands of patients. The American Society of Hematology gave his name to a lectureship.
        A native New Yorker, Dr. Wasserman graduated from Harvard College in 1931 and received his medical degree at Rush Medical College of the University of Chicago in 1935. Two years later he joined the staff of Mount Sinai Hospital as a research fellow in hematology.
        He directed its division of hematology from 1953 to 1972 and was named to the faculty of the medical school when it was organized in the 1960's. He was chairman of its department of clinical science from 1967 to 1972, when he became the school's second Distinguished Service Professor. He was appointed to the Albert A. and Vera G. List Professorship of Medicine in 1977, and was named its emeritus professor when he retired in 1979. He continued his investigations, writings and editing well into the 1990's.
        Dr. Wasserman was a member of many professional organizations, and held such leadership positions as president of the American Society of Hematology and vice president of its international affiliate.
        He is survived by his wife of 42 years, Julia Wheeler Wasserman, and a sister, Natalie W. Wolf of Newbury, N.H.
      