
        Mario Soldati, a prolific Italian writer and film director, died on Saturday at his home in Tellaro, near La Spezia. He was 92.
        Although Mr. Soldati became a household name in Italy as the director of 29 films from 1931 to 1960, writing was thought to be his stronger talent.
        In a career spanning nearly 70 years, he successfully tried his hand at journalism, short stories, poetry, novels and screenplays, many of which celebrated the quirkiness of human nature.
        Born into an aristocratic family in Turin and educated by the Jesuits, Mr. Soldati spent his youth rebelling against his controlling mother, his narrow-minded upbringing and a severe church school.
        He wrote his first theater work -- a farce about Pontius Pilate -- while studying art history at Turin University and gained critical recognition with the 1929 publication of ''Salmace,'' a collection of short stories. But it wasn't until ''America Primo Amore,'' an amusing account of his two-year stay in New York on a fellowship, that he came into prominence.
        New York, and Times Square in particular, provided Mr. Soldati with colorful material for his writing. When his money ran out, he accepted a teaching position at Columbia University and contemplated seeking  United States citizenship.
        Upon returning to Italy with an American wife, he found that he was unable to get work as a journalist because of his refusal to join the Fascist Party. Instead, he began working as a screenwriter in Rome  and soon was directing his own pictures.
        His films, which included ''La Provinciale'' (1952), starring Gina Lollobrigida and based on a novel by Alberto Moravia; ''Piccolo Mondo Antico'' (1940) and ''Malombra'' (1942), were widely popular.
        He also directed light operas.
        When his first marriage ended, he married an actress named Jucci Kellerman, with whom he had three sons. He eventually left Rome to work as a full-time writer, settling in a villa on the Ligurian coast. In 40 years of writing he produced a string of novels and short stories, among them ''The Emerald,'' ''The Capri Letters,'' a study of two Americans in post-World War II Italy, and ''La Confessione.'' His ''L'Attore'' (''The Actor''), a study of psychological evil, won Venice's Campiello Prize in 1970.
        In the early 1950's, he decided to explore the new medium of television and started making documentaries, including ''Travels Along the Po Searching for Genuine Food.'''
        He was also considered the father of Italian television criticism.
        Until his death, he continued to contribute short stories, at the rate of two a month, to the Milan newspaper Il Giorno.
        His last book, ''Un Viaggio a Lourdes,'' in which he contrasted religious skepticism and faith, was published earlier this month.
      