
        Ron Link, a director known for his work off Off Broadway in the 1970's and 80's and later in experimental theater in Los Angeles, died on Monday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 58 and lived in Los Angeles.
        The cause was cardiac failure after abdominal surgery, said Dan Gerrity, his companion.
        Born in Columbus, Ohio, Mr. Link began his theater career in his early 20's as a stage manager in New York, working on the original productions of ''The Fantasticks'' and ''Little Mary Sunshine'' before becoming a director.
        He became one of the first innovators of experimental Off Broadway theater, creating some 22 productions at Caffe Cino and La Mama E.T.C.
        He was also noted for his ability to discover new talent, including a young Robert De Niro, who played 10 roles in Mr. Link's production of ''Glamour, Glory and Gold,'' and Sylvester Stallone, who performed in a revival of Somerset Maugham's ''Rain.''
        Among Mr. Link's better-known productions was the prison spoof ''Women Behind Bars'' (1974), which he produced with its author, Tom Eyen. The play ran for more than a year at the Astor Place Theater and was later revived with the actor Divine before touring the United States, Europe and Australia.
        Mr. Link moved to Los Angeles in 1983, when the play moved to the Roxy Theater there.
        His West Coast productions included Eyen's ''Why Hanna's Skirt Won't Stay Down,'' with Susan Tyrrell, and ''Bouncers,'' with Mr. Gerrity and Andrew Stevens.
        Mr. Link also directed works by more conventional playwrights, including Neil Simon, Herb Gardner and C. P. Taylor at theaters like the Hartford Stage, the Globe Theater in San Diego and the Coconut Grove Playhouse in Miami.
        In addition to Mr. Gerrity, he is survived by his mother, Rita, and a sister, Elizabeth, both of Columbus, and a brother, Carson, of New York.
        Correction:  June 19, 1999, Saturday  An obituary last Saturday about Ron Link, a theater director, referred incorrectly to his involvement with the 1974 Off Broadway production of ''Women Behind Bars.'' Mr. Link directed the play and served as a co-producer with Craig Baumgarten and Alan Eichler. Tom Eyen, who wrote the play, was not a co-producer.
      