
        Cecil Morgan, a leader of the group of Louisiana state legislators that impeached but failed to convict the popular and populist demagogue Gov. Huey P. Long in 1929, died last Monday at his home in New Orleans. He was 100.
        Representative Morgan and other state legislators who were alarmed by Long's attacks against the Standard Oil Company and other major corporations first began to consider the possibility of impeachment after Long tried to impose a tax of 5 cents a barrel on oil refined in Louisiana.
        The group, called The Dynamite Squad because it sought to explode Long's legislative proposals, accused him of trying to arrange the murder of a political opponent, bribing lawmakers, carrying concealed weapons and demolishing the Governor's Mansion without authorization.
        When the Governor's defenders learned that his enemies were about to bring a motion to impeach before the House, they prepared to defeat it by calling for adjournment.
        Advised of this strategy, the pro-impeachment faction developed a counterattack. Representative Morgan would give the House an affidavit in which one of Long's former bodyguards would swear that the Governor had asked him to kill J. Y. Sanders, a leader of the opposition. The accusation would be so scandalous, they thought, that the House could not simply sweep it under the rug and adjourn.
        It was a tense moment when the two sides came face to face in the chamber. All but 3 of the 100 members were present.
        Just as a Long supporter rose to move for adjournment, Representative Morgan leaped to his feet and began waving the affidavit. ''Governor Long offered him money and immunity if he would assassinate Representative J. Y. Sanders!'' Representative Morgan shouted.
        Almost simultaneously, a Long supporter moved to adjourn.
        The pro-Long Speaker recognized only the member who moved to adjourn, but Representative Morgan kept demanding an investigation of the charges.
        The Speaker ordered Representative Morgan to be seated, but Mr. Morgan refused and kept talking.
        The Speaker then called to the sergeant at arms: ''Put Mr. Morgan in his seat!'' But the sergeant's way was blocked by members of the Dynamite Squad.
        Representative Morgan, his face pale with emotion, started down the center aisle toward the podium. The House was in an uproar.
        When Representative Morgan reached the podium, supporters surrounded him and locked arms to shield him from the sergeant.
        The Speaker called for an immediate vote on the motion to adjourn, and when the lights on the mechanical voting machine indicated that it had passed, the Speaker slammed down his gavel and hurriedly left the chamber.
        This prompted outrage. Almost everyone was shouting, and several members climbed on their desks. Others hurled insults and were soon throwing punches.
        After a few minutes of brawling, order was restored and the members agreed that since the voting machine was probably defective they would reconvene the next morning. At that time, Representative Morgan again called for an investigation while others formally demanded impeachment proceedings.
        A trial was held and eventually the House voted to impeach Long on eight counts. The Governor, however, persuaded the necessary number of members of the state Senate to vow that they would never convict him. That ended the matter.
        Representative Morgan left the Legislature in 1934 after being elected a judge in Shreveport. Two years later, he went to work for Standard Oil as general counsel.
        He left Standard Oil in 1963 to become dean of the Tulane University law school, a position he held for five years.
        Mr. Morgan is survived by a son, Cecil Jr., of Birmingham, Ala.; a daughter, Margaret Morgan Harbison of New York City; six grandchildren; five great-grandchildren, and one great-great-grandchild.
      