
        Philip H. Reisman Jr., a versatile screenwriter who worked in early television and motion pictures, specializing in dramas and documentaries, died on Tuesday at a hospital in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 82 and  lived in Larchmont, N.Y.
        Mr. Reisman's best-known work was ''All the Way Home'' (1963), a film adaptation of Tad Mosel's theatrical adaptation of James Agee's novel, ''A Death in the Family,'' which starred Robert Preston and Jean Simmons.
        Mr. Reisman was born on Nov. 12, 1916, in St. Paul and grew up in New Rochelle. After attending Brown University, he worked at RKO-Pathe News, writing the narration for newsreels and documentaries like ''This is America,'' a series about American life. He also wrote ''Jungle Cavalcade'' (1941), a feature-length  documentary starring the explorer and adventurer Frank Buck.
        After serving in the Marines as a photographer during World War II, he rejoined RKO-Pathe, but in 1952 he decided to strike out on his own. He produced scripts for an early television private-eye series called ''Man Against Crime,'' starring Ralph Bellamy, which ran from 1949 to 1956, and for numerous other television dramas.
        During those years he worked on television documentaries, too, writing scripts for the NBC series ''Project 20'' and, for CBS, ''Twentieth Century'' and ''You Are There,'' a historical series with Walter Cronkite as host. He also wrote documentary films like ''The Real West'' (1961), which featured Gary Cooper, and ''The End of the Trail'' (1965), with Walter Brennan.
        Later in his career he wrote scripts for several small European-produced movies and, in 1976, an episode of the NBC miniseries ''Sandburg's Lincoln.'' He also adapted two Mark Twain stories, ''Life on the Mississippi'' (1980) and ''Pudd'nhead Wilson'' (1984) for PBS.
        He is survived by his wife, Anna; three sons, Christopher, of Manhattan, Peter, of Valley Stream, N.Y., and Philip 3d, of Yonkers, N.Y.; two daughters, the Rev. Catherine T. R. MacDonald of Burlington, Mass., and Irene M. Biada of Staten Island, and four grandchildren.
      