
        Bob Bullock, among the last of the earthy, string-pulling, hard-living political giants who used to sprout in Texas as thick as bluebonnets, died early yesterday at his home in Austin from what aides said was congestive heart failure. He was 69.
        Blunt, mercurial and often fearsome, Mr. Bullock, a Democrat, was an iron spine wrapped in a drawl. He had been at the center of Texas politics for 40 years and dominated many of them, particularly in his two terms as Lieutenant Governor beginning in 1990 and ending in January.
        Under the Texas constitution, the lieutenant governor presides over the State Senate, makes all committee appointments, sits on every important state board and controls the flow of legislation, making him in practice often more powerful than the governor.
        Mr. Bullock relished that power, and he used it.
        Coming from an era before sound bites and media events, Mr. Bullock excelled at back-room arm-twisting and long, gaudy stories that dragged through the afternoon and into the evening. In the 1970's and 80's, when he held various state offices, Mr. Bullock was notorious both for long workdays and for hard-drinking sessions with co-workers and the capital press corps. Though calmer times and failing health forced him to slow down in recent years, he maintained his hard edge and spoke with fondness of the old, rowdy days.
        ''There are no words big enough to capture Bob Bullock,'' Gov. George W. Bush said yesterday in a statement. Mr. Bush had forged such a close working relationship with him that Mr. Bullock endorsed Mr. Bush for re-election last year, even though Mr. Bush is a Republican and Mr. Bullock was godfather to a child of Mr. Bush's Democratic opponent.
        ''Bob Bullock was the largest Texan of our time,'' Mr. Bush said.
        Alternately confiding and intimidating, Mr. Bullock relished a profane punch line. Once, on a hunting trip, a gun accidentally went off inside a car carrying him and his mentor, former Gov. Preston Smith. ''I thought I'd shot the Governor,'' Mr. Bullock remarked. ''That would have been like shooting the only whore in Waxahachie.''
        Another time, after he had had hemorrhoid surgery, Mr. Bullock sent a jar of chopped oysters to an Austin reporter with whom he had been feuding, claiming they were the results of his operation.
        Paul Hobby, Mr. Bullock's chief of staff in the 1991 legislative session, wrote in a tribute last year that after Mr. Bullock announced his retirement, another state official turned and said, ''He's the last of them, isn't he?''
        There was no need to explain what the remark meant, Mr. Hobby said.
        ''There was a time when giant political personalities roamed the state Capitol,'' Mr. Hobby said. ''In a white-male dominated, trading-floor atmosphere, Jurassic behavior was widely accepted. Money, bluff, intimidation and superior information were the trump cards, and no one played them better than Bob Bullock.''
        Before becoming Lieutenant Governor, Mr. Bullock served 16 years as state comptroller, taking what was considered a backwater in Austin politics and transforming it into one of the most powerful positions in state government.
        He did it by availing himself of every ounce of power that the office possessed, including ones that he had discovered. Shortly after taking office, he found that the comptroller had the authority to close down businesses that failed to pay their state taxes. So Mr. Bullock staged a series of raids.
        ''Reporters were tipped off in advance and arrived at the same time as the comptroller and his agents,'' remembered Bill Collier, a former press spokesman for Mr. Bullock, in a 1980 Texas Monthly article. ''Bullock would stroll into the targeted businesses, followed by the media, and while cameras rolled and pencils scribbled, he would demand payment. If it was not made, the place closed down on the spot. It was the best show in town wherever it went.''
        As Lieutenant Governor, colleagues remembered, Mr. Bullock played the legislature like a steel guitar, threatening, cajoling, keeping encyclopedic track of every important piece of legislation, handing out  favors, withholding others and generally presiding over the whole messy affair like a circus ringmaster.
        Born in the small town of Hillsboro, about 60 miles south of Dallas,  Robert D. Bullock was elected to the state legislature in 1957 while still a law student at Baylor University. Later, he practiced law, was an assistant state attorney general and an aide to Governor Smith who, in 1971, appointed him secretary of state.
        But it was his terms as state comptroller that transformed Mr. Bullock into a popular statewide figure. And for years he dreamed of becoming governor.
        But in the late 1970's, complaints  about his drinking and accusations of misuse of state airplanes and public funds -- later investigated by a grand jury that decided not to indict him -- tarnished Mr. Bullock's glow and resigned him to the fact that he would never be governor.
        Meanwhile, the long hours and hard living were playing havoc with his health.
        In 1972, he lost about a third of a lung in surgery to remove a tumor, yet continued to be a chain smoker. In 1977, depression led him to the brink of shooting himself. ''The steel was ice-cold in my mouth,'' he later recalled. He was treated and urged to quit drinking, which he did, for a while.
        In 1978, an Austin police officer arrested him for drunken driving and he pleaded guilty. In 1979, he had a heart attack. In 1981, he underwent treatment for alcoholism and began to slow down.
        But his health was irrevocably affected.
        Mr. Bullock's political life also played havoc with his personal life. He was divorced four times and is survived by his fifth wife, Jan Bullock of Austin; a son, Robert D. Bullock Jr. of Austin; a daughter, Lindy Ward of Austin; a step-daughter, Kimberly Ader of Houston, and a brother, Tom Bullock of Brenham, Tex.
        ''On and off for 40 years, I have walked through the halls of this magnificent Capitol building in partnership with the people of Texas,'' Mr. Bullock said when announcing his retirement last year.
        ''Only death will end my love affair with Texas.''
      