
        Randolph Bullock, a curator emeritus of arms and armor at the Metropolitan Museum of Art who helped build its collection into one of the world's finest, died on May 28 at a hospital in Oceanside, N.Y. He was 96 and lived in Wickford, R.I.
        Perhaps Mr. Bullock's most important contribution in his 40 years at the Metropolitan was the design of the arms and armor installation that opened in its J. P. Morgan Wing in 1956. Previously arms and armor had been shifted around the museum.
        The armor installation was redesigned in 1991 but remains in the Morgan wing and retains such glories as the group of four equestrian knights in shining armor who appear to have sighted the enemy, leveled their lances and are preparing to thunder down the field.
        Mr. Bullock supervised the installation of the four knights in the 1920's and their popularity eventually led to his appointment as curator of the department in 1964.
        As a curator, Mr. Bullock was frequently involved in acquisitions. One of the most extraordinary of these was the museum's long effort to acquire the fowling piece of Louis XIII of France. That legendary long gun was then owned by William G. Renwick, a reclusive gun collector who kept his prizes hidden from sight in his home in Tucson, Ariz.
        The Louis XIII hunting weapon is not only considered the most elegant 17th-century long gun in existence, but it is also one of only three flintlocks known to have been made in the workshop of Pierre and Marin Le Bourgeoys of Lisieux, the gunsmiths who invented the flintlock ignition mechanism.
        Mr. Bullock was one of three Metropolitan curators beginning in the 1920's who tried to acquire the weapon, which they called ''the most beautiful gun in the world,'' before it could be snatched away by the Smithsonian Institution, another museum or a private collector.
        Several times it appeared that Renwick had been wooed and won, but he always backed off at the last minute. Then, after his death in 1972, his collection came up for auction at Sotheby's in London. Mr. Bullock pounced, and an agent for the Metropolitan bid $300,000 and gained the prize.
        Randolph Bullock was born in Newport, R.I. He was a direct descendant of the Goddard family of Newport, whose members were renowned furniture and cabinet makers. He attended the Rhode Island School of Design in Providence, graduating in 1924.
        Two years later he was employed by the Metropolitan Museum as an illustrator. His job was to make measured drawings of objects in the arms and armor collection. These drawings could show cutaway views and depict, for example, how a man's head would fit into a helmet.
        In the early 1930's Mr. Bullock supervised Works Progress Administration artists assigned to similar work at the museum. In 1937 he was named assistant curator of the arms and armor department, specializing in Asian objects.
        During World War II he served in the Army Air Corps and interpreted aerial reconnaissance photographs. His first task when he returned to the Metropolitan was to supervise the resettlement of the collections in the museum removed for safekeeping during the war.
        Mr. Bullock is survived by a daughter, Barbara Stern of Oceanside, and three grandchildren.
        He could trace his professional lineage back to Ludwig Klein, the armorer to Napoleon III. Klein had fashioned the breastplate and backplate that the Emperor wore in 1870 when he marched against the Prussians. As it turned out, Napoleon III was defeated, a result more of Alfred Nobel's newly devised dynamite shells than any defect in his armor.
        When Klein died, his armorer's tools were inherited by an apprentice, Daniel Tachaux, who became the Metropolitan's first full-time armorer. Tachaux, who died in the 1920's, trained Mr. Bullock and also willed his royal armorer's tools to the museum. The tools were an important asset to Mr. Bullock in combating the acrid air of New York City. Stephen Grancsay, the curator who succeeded Mr. Bullock, used the Tachaux collection of picks, hammers, stakes and anvils to create the helmet, or ''tin pot,'' worn by United States soldiers in World War II.
      