
        Karl Z. Morgan, a founder of the field of health physics, the science of human health and radiation exposure, died on Tuesday in Oak Ridge, Tenn., after years as a top official at the national laboratory there. He was 91.
        Dr. Morgan was a member of the metallurgical laboratory staff at the University of Chicago in 1943 when Enrico Fermi and other physicists in the Manhattan Project were developing the world's first atomic bomb there. After joining the project, Dr. Morgan was sent to a then-secret location in Tennessee where uranium was processed for the bombs that were dropped two years later on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Japan, in the closing days of World War II.
        After the war he remained for 29 years at the plant, which became the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, and was director of health physics at the plant until his retirement.
        Dr. Morgan founded the Health Physics Society and was its first president, from 1955 to 1957. He also founded the Journal of the Health Physics Society and was its first editor, serving from 1958 to 1977.
        In an article in the June issue of the journal, Dr. Morgan was described as ''one of a group of six persons who developed and established the new science known as health physics, which today employs thousands of persons in countries throughout the world.''
        At midcentury, Dr. Morgan was a proponent of the near-Messianic view of nuclear science that then prevailed.
        ''We believe that the nuclear age is here to stay and that its future rests in large measure on the successful control of radiation exposure,'' he wrote in an editorial in the first issue of Health Physics.
        ''We must understand the full and ultimate consequences of this exposure and limit it at a level where we, and those that come after us, can reap the maximum benefits of this new age,'' he wrote. The purpose of the journal, he wrote, was to help ''guide us in the best means of measuring, and controlling it to the greatest good of mankind.
        But after decades as a pillar of the nuclear establishment, Dr. Morgan offered court testimony friendly to people who said they had been harmed by nuclear weapons and the nuclear power industry.
        In October 1982, he testified in a lawsuit brought by nearly 1,200 people who accused the Federal Government of negligence in atomic weapons testing in Nevada in the 1950's, which they said had caused leukemia and other cancers.
        Dr. Morgan, then 75, testified that radiation protection measures in the tests were substandard and ''not in the spirit'' of what was known at the time about the health hazards of radiation.
        He said that the Atomic Energy Commission, the forerunner of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission,  had set radiation safeguards and other standards by selectively using information that would support conclusions that had already been reached.
        Dr. Morgan also testified in behalf of Navajo uranium miners and their survivors, saying Federal officials had known about mine radiation dangers but had failed to protect the miners. And he testified in the case of Karen Silkwood against Kerr-McGee. Ms. Silkwood was a laboratory technician who reported health and safety violations before being killed in a car crash as she was on the way to meet with a reporter from The New York Times about her accusations.
        Dr. Morgan was also influential in the campaign for a Federal 1968 law that regulated medical X-rays.
        His autobiography, ''The Angry Genie: One Man's Walk Through the Nuclear Age,'' written with Ken M. Peterson, a trial lawyer, was published earlier this year by the University of Oklahoma Press.
        ''He went through a progression,'' Mr. Peterson said in a telephone interview. ''In the '70's, he had a change of heart'' about nuclear weapons production and nuclear power, he said.
        As a result, Mr. Peterson said, Mr. Morgan ''became quite unpopular with certain elements in the health physics profession, and certainly within the nuclear power industry.''
        Dr. Morgan is survived by his wife, Helen Lee McCoy Morgan, also of Oak Ridge, two sons Karl Jr., a retired mechanical engineer from the Oak Ridge plant, and Dr. Eric Lee Morgan of Cookeville, Tenn.; two daughters, Joan Elen Morgan of Indian Rocks Beach, Fla., and Diana Morgan Matthews of Cookeville; a sister, Lois Morgan Johnson of West End, N.C.; four grandsons, and a great-grandson.
      