
       John Clellon Holmes, a writer and a poet who was regarded as a spokesman for the Beat Generation, died of cancer yesterday at Middlesex Memorial Hospital in Middletown, Conn. He was 62 years old and lived in Old Saybrook, Conn.
        John Clellon Holmes, a writer and a poet who was regarded as a spokesman for the Beat Generation, died of cancer yesterday at Middlesex Memorial Hospital in Middletown, Conn. He was 62 years old and lived in Old Saybrook, Conn.
        He became a spokesman of the Beat Generation by dint of two articles on the phenomenon, as well as with his novel, ''Go,'' published in 1952, in which the phrase first appeared.
        Mr. Holmes was himself one of the Beats in the generation that grew up in the decade or so after World War II. In ''Go,'' he wrote of a spiritual crisis in which his protagonist ''was paralyzed by the vision of unending lovelessness.''
        Mr. Holmes lectured at Yale University in 1959, at the writers workshop at the State University of Iowa in 1963, and at Brown University in 1971.
        From 1976 until he became ill a year ago, he was a professor at the University of Arkansas where he established a creative writing program. 'A Pacifist by Nature'
        Mr. Holmes, who was born in Holyoke, Mass., on March 12, 1926, wrote that ''as a sometime teacher, I have found that young people, even in these disruptive times, unfailingly respond to candor and encouragement, and will excel themselves when the uniqueness of their personalities is acknowledged.''
        ''As a man, I am a pacifist by nature, who views violence and fanaticism of any stripe as the enemies of life,'' he said. ''As I have gotten older, I have found that a warm-hearted skepticism towards existence is the surest road to maturity.''
        In addition to his novel ''Go,'' he wrote ''The Horn'' in 1958, ''Get Home Free'' in 1964, ''Nothing More to Declare'' in 1967 and ''The Bowling Green Poems'' in 1977. His most recent works, ''Displaced Person'' and ''Dire Coasts,'' were published last year.
        He is survived by his wife, Shirley; two sisters, Elizabeth Von Vogt of Waldoboro, Maine, and Lila DiZefalo of Old Saybrook, and his mother, Elizabeth Holmes, also of Waldoboro.
      