
       Murray C. Weiss, who was editor of The International Herald Tribune for 13 years, died yesterday from complications after a stroke at Arlington Hospital in Arlington, Va. He was 64 years old and lived in Falls Church, Va.
        Murray C. Weiss, who was editor of The International Herald Tribune for 13 years, died yesterday from complications after a stroke at Arlington Hospital in Arlington, Va. He was 64 years old and lived in Falls Church, Va.
        Overseeing the Paris-based International Herald Tribune from 1966 to 1979, Mr. Weiss - known as Buddy -helped move the paper from a provincial publication geared toward traveling Americans and the expatriate community to a true world newspaper.
        From 1964 to 1966, he was managing editor of The New York Herald Tribune, where he had begun as a copyboy in 1946. His positions there included metropolitan editor, from 1961 to 1963, and before that, night editor on the city desk, rewrite reporter and New York correspondent for the paper's European edition.
        ''He could pull the very best out of anyone,'' said Robert A. Poteete, a former city editor at The New York Herald Tribune who worked under Mr. Weiss. ''He was masterful at weighing news, at helping a young reporter who was confused see the story. He had a superb editorial mind.''
        Mr. Weiss, who was born in Far Rockaway, Queens, and who graduated from New York University, left The International Herald Tribune in 1979 to become editor of The Stamford (Conn.) Advocate, where he stayed until 1981. In early 1982, he became managing editor of Parade magazine, which is distributed nationally in Sunday newspapers. From 1983 until his death, he was a features editor at the United States Information Agency.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Margaret Sunde; a daughter and a son by his first marriage, Brenna, of Manhattan, and Deiter, of Marietta, Ga.; two sisters, Phyllis Weiss Golden of East Orange, N.J., and Natalie Weiss Davis of Remsenburg, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      