
       Lawrence Hill, a book publisher and book salesman for 46 years, died of emphysema Monday in Norwalk (Conn.) Hospital. He was 75 years old. A resident of Westport, he had been hospitalized for six weeks.
        Lawrence Hill, a book publisher and book salesman for 46 years, died of emphysema Monday in Norwalk (Conn.) Hospital. He was 75 years old. A resident of Westport, he had been hospitalized for six weeks.
        Mr. Hill was president of Lawrence Hill & Co. Publishers of Westport, which he founded soon after selling his share of Hill & Wang publishers to Farrar, Straus & Giroux in December 1971.
        Among the many authors he published was B. Traven, the mysterious author of ''The Treasure of the Sierra Madre.'' That book and three other Traven novels were published by Alfred Knopf, but Mr. Hill negotiated an agreement with Traven's wife, Rosa Elena Lujan, to publish 10 other Traven novels that had not been published here previously. ''The Treasure of the Sierra Madre'' is still on the Hill & Wang list and five other Traven novels are on the Lawrence Hill list, including ''The Death Ship.'' Commitment to Third World
        Two months ago Mr. Hill published ''Assata: An Autobiography'' by Assata Shakur. It is the autobiography of Joanne Chesimard, a leader of the black radical movement who escaped in 1979 from a New Jersey prison where she was serving a life term for the murder of a state trooper. She is now living in Cuba under her new name.
        ''He was very committed to third world and generally leftist books,'' said Arthur Wang, Mr. Hill's former partner. ''He was deeply interested in social and political problems.''
        Among his major interests were Afro-American subjects and the Middle East. At his current company he published ''The African Origin of Civilization'' by Cheikh Anta Diop of Senegal, and ''They Dare to Speak Out: People and Institutions Confront Israel's Lobby'' by Paul Findley, a former United States Congressman from Illinois.
        Mr. Hill and Mr. Wang formed their partnership in 1956, after having been colleagues at A. A. Wyn, a small New York book publisher. Mr. Wang was the editor and Mr. Hill was the sales manager.
        Born May 26, 1912 in New York City, Mr. Hill grew up in Norwalk and graduated from Yale University in 1934. He entered book publishing in 1942, when he joined Knopf's sales department.
        He is survived by his wife, Gertrude, of Westport; a son, Richard, of New Haven, and a daughter, Patricia Gordon of Red Hook, N.Y.
      