
       Ivo D. Duchacek, a member of Czechoslovakia's Parliament who fled in 1948 when the Communists took power and later became a professor of political science at City College, died of cancer of the pharynx Tuesday at his home in Kent, Conn. He was 75 years old.
        Ivo D. Duchacek, a member of Czechoslovakia's Parliament who fled in 1948 when the Communists took power and later became a professor of political science at City College, died of cancer of the pharynx Tuesday at his home in Kent, Conn. He was 75 years old.
        For 38 years until his death, Mr. Duchacek delivered a weekly commentary over the Voice of America, beamed to Czechoslovakia under his nom de plume, ''Martin Cermak.'' The Sunday Notebook, as it was called, drew considerable mail over the decades.
        Next Sunday, in the 1,990th commentary, prepared for broadcast after Mr. Duchacek's death, Martin Cermak's true name is to be revealed to listeners.
        In 1939, when the Nazis marched into Czechoslovakia, Mr. Duchacek, who held a law degree from Masaryk University in Brno, was in Paris serving as political correspondent for Lidove Noviny, a leading Czech journal. Unwilling to return home, he worked for the Czech diplomatic mission and then went to London to join the Czech government in exile and to broadcast for the BBC. Fled Through the Forests
        Toward the end of World War II he served as a liaison officer with the American forces when they reached Czechoslovakia. In the postwar Government he was elected as a Christian Democrat to Parliament and became chairman of its foreign relations committee.
        After the Soviet-sponsored takeover by Czech Communists in February 1948, Mr. Duchacek fled through the forests of Bavaria and to London, coming to the United States in 1949.
        He joined the Voice of America as editor of the Czech desk and lectured at Yale and at City College. In 1954 he became a full-time faculty member at City College, advancing in 1963 to a full professorship in political science.
        In 1975 he was named executive officer in charge of the doctoral program in political science at the City University. He retired in 1980 but continued to teach, most recently as a visiting scholar at the University of California at Berkeley, and to lecture and write.
        He was the author of eight books dealing with international relations and other political subjects, and two children's books.
        Surviving are his wife, Helena Kolda; two children from his previous marriage, Sylvia Imbert and Ivo Duchacek, both of Paris, and a grandson.
      