
       Rear Adm. Charles C. Kirkpatrick, a highly decorated submarine and surface combat commander who later became Superintendent of the United States Naval Academy, died of emphysema Saturday at Sid Peterson Hospital in Kerrville, Tex. He was 80 years old and lived in Kerrville.
        Rear Adm. Charles C. Kirkpatrick, a highly decorated submarine and surface combat commander who later became Superintendent of the United States Naval Academy, died of emphysema Saturday at Sid Peterson Hospital in Kerrville, Tex. He was 80 years old and lived in Kerrville.
        Admiral Kirkpatrick earned the Navy Cross three times for daring exploits against Japanese merchant shipping and warships in World War II. He commanded the submarine Triton on a series of spectacular raids in 1942 and 1943, the first of which resulted in the sinking of an enemy submarine and six merchant ships. On a subsequent partol the Triton sunk two destroyers.
        He also won a Distinguished Service Cross from the Army for successfully breaking up a Japanese convoy that was reinforcing enemy positions on New Guinea. Present at Yalta
        He was a naval staff officer at the summit meeting in Yalta in the Soviet Union at which the Allied leaders President Franklin D. Roosevelt, Winston Churchill and Josef Stalin made vital decisions on postwar security. After the war, he commanded the Atlantic Fleet, then served as the Navy's chief information officer.
        After other seagoing commands he became Superintendent of the Naval Academy in 1962.
        Admiral Kirkpatrick's naval career ended abruptly in 1964 on the day he was to relinquish command of the academy to become Chief of Naval Peronnel and be elevated to vice admiral. He suffered a heart attack and retired later that year.
        Born in San Angelo, Tex., he enlisted in the Navy in 1926 and was appointed to the Naval Academy a year later.
        Admiral Kirkpatrick is survived by his wife, the former Lalla Branch; two daughters, the Rev. Petty Woerner of Chicago and Shelley Petersen of Springfield, Va., and five grandchildren.
      