
       Lee Guber, who helped produce nearly a dozen shows on Broadway and was part of an entertainment chain that brought such performers as Judy Garland, Jack Benny, Sammy Davis Jr., Perry Como and Liberace to suburban theaters and concert halls around the country, died of brain cancer yesterday at his home on the East Side of Manhattan.
        Lee Guber, who helped produce nearly a dozen shows on Broadway and was part of an entertainment chain that brought such performers as Judy Garland, Jack Benny, Sammy Davis Jr., Perry Como and Liberace to suburban theaters and concert halls around the country, died of brain cancer yesterday at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 67 years old.
        Mr. Guber, with his partner Shelly Gross, was for many years among the biggest buyers of live entertainment in the country. He headed a lucrative suburban entertainment chain that included the Westbury Music Fair on Long Island, the Valley Forge Music Fair outside of Philadelphia, the Shady Grove Music Theater outside of Washington and the Painters Mill Music Fair in suburban Baltimore.
        For more than 30 years, Mr. Guber and his associates booked such entertainers as Maurice Chevalier, Bobby Vinton, Dionne Warwick, Stevie Wonder and Andy Williams. They also brought productions of Broadway musicals to theaters in the suburbs.
        Such musicals as ''Fiddler on the Roof'' with Zero Mostel, ''Gypsy'' with Angela Lansbury, ''Cabaret'' with Leslie Uggams, ''Man of La Mancha'' with Howard Keel, ''I Do! I Do!'' with Carol Lawrence and Robert Goulet, ''Irma la Douce'' with Elke Sommer, ''How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying'' with Rudy Vallee and Robert Morse and ''George M.'' with Mickey Rooney all appeared in the Guber-Gross theaters. Brynner Show the Biggest Hit
        Their biggest Broadway hit was the 1977 production of ''The King and I'' starring Yul Brynner, which played 696 performances, paid back its investors in 14 weeks and grossed more than $200,000 a week for nearly two years. A 1974 revival of ''Lorelei'' starring Carol Channing also played nearly a year.
        But they also had their disappointments, including ''Catch Me if You Can'' (1965), which closed after 103 performances; ''Sherry!'' (1967), 71 performances, and ''Bring Back Birdie'' (1981), 4 performances.
        Mr. Guber's last major Broadway undertaking, ''Rags,'' a $5.25 million musical about immigrants, starring Teresa Stratas, opened on Aug. 21, 1986, and closed after four performances.
        ''Where's Long Island?'' Mr. Guber is quoted as having said in 1956 when he and his partners were advised to build a theater in Westbury. But they followed that advice, and what began as a circuslike tent in the middle of an abandoned lime pit became a million-dollar, 3,000-seat theater. Strategy for Success
        The Guber-Gross formula was to book diversified entertainment to lure mass audiences.
        ''We don't know what makes us a success, only what makes us a success this year,'' said Mr. Guber, who was also fond of saying that being a producer was like being a gambler.
        Mr. Guber was born Nov. 20, 1920, in Philadelphia. He met Mr. Gross when they attended Central High School in Philadelphia. Mr. Guber received a bachelor's degree and a master's degree in sociology from Temple University, then went into the nightclub business. Eventually he and Mr. Gross renewed their friendship, and in 1955, with a third partner, Frank Ford, they started a musical theater in Devon, Pa., the Valley Forge.
        Mr. Guber's chain also operated the Deauville Star Theater at the Deauville Hotel in Miami Beach, the American Wax Museum in Philadelphia, a concert division that booked acts in theaters throughout the country and a Philadelphia-based advertising agency.
        Married three times - he was divorced after a 13-year marriage to Barbara Walters in 1976 - Mr. Guber was an accomplished cook and an avid squash and tennis player, and served on the New York State Council on the Arts.
        Mr. Guber is survived by his third wife, Lois Wyse, whom he married in 1982. Also surviving are two children from his first marriage to Edna Shanis, which also had ended in divorce, Zev, of New York, and Carol, of Philadelphia; one daughter from his marriage to Miss Walters, Jacqueline, of Portland, Ore.; two stepchildren, Robert Wyse of Cleveland, and Katherine Goldman of Philadelphia; a sister, Mrs. Ben Cossrow of Philadelphia; a brother, Philip, of Atlantic City, and eight grandchildren.
        A service is being arranged for Wednesday at Temple Emanu-El, 1 East 65th Street.
      