
       Kurt Georg Kiesinger, the third Chancellor of West Germany, died of heart failure yesterday in the university hospital in Tubingen. He was 83 years old.
        Kurt Georg Kiesinger, the third Chancellor of West Germany, died of heart failure yesterday in the university hospital in Tubingen. He was 83 years old.
        As Chancellor from 1966 to 1969, Mr. Kiesinger led West Germany during an interval that separated the founding era of Konrad Adenauer from the era of Willy Brandt.
        During the maneuvering that led to his taking office, there was an outcry when it was reported that Mr. Kiesinger had joined the Nazi Party in 1933 as a young lawyer and worked in the Nazi Foreign Ministry's radio propaganda division during the war.
        His answer was that disillusionment turned him into an inactive party member from 1934 on. Documentary evidence was produced to show that he had been denounced to the Nazi secret police because of his dissident views. He was never charged with any war crimes.
        Mr. Kiesinger was no mere caretaker in a transition period. When he was chosen for the Chancellorship, his country was going through economic difficulties serious enough to necessitate a partnership between his moderately conservative Christian Democrats and Mr. Brandt's moderately left-wing Social Democrats. Coalition Was a Success
        Kurt Georg Kiesinger was born April 6, 1904, in the small town of Ebingen, south of Tubingen, the son of a clerk. He studied at both Tubingen and Berlin universities and earned his law degree. He married Marie-Luise Schneider in 1932, and they had a son and a daughter.
        A dazzling orator in his prime, elegant and silver-haired, Mr. Kiesinger managed to hold his coalition together for three years. The relationship became abrasive in the end, but West Germany's prosperity was restored by the next parliamentary election in the fall of 1969.
        It was the very success of his coalition that led to his relegation to the opposition benches after that election. The Social Democrats, notably Mr. Brandt, who was Foreign Minister in the coalition Government, and Economics Minister Karl Schiller, had proved themselves to be problem-solvers rather than the collectivist nationalizers and ''Reds'' many fearful voters had seen in them.
        Mr. Kiesinger, a Swabian who was trained as a lawyer, was first elected to Parliament in 1949 and soon became one of Chancellor Adenauer's most loyal lieutenants. He was rewarded with important political posts, including the chairmanship of the legislature's foreign relations committee. The Moscow-Bonn Accord
        In 1955, the Russians gave a signal they wanted talks right after West Germany had its sovereignty granted in full by the Western Allies. Mr. Kiesinger accompanied Chancellor Adenauer to Moscow on the historic journey that led to the establishment of diplomatic relations between Moscow and Bonn.
        With his experience as a foreign policy expert and spokesman, Mr. Kiesinger expected to be rewarded by Chancellor Adenauer with a key ministerial post or at least the ambassadorship in Washington. But the call never came.
        Snubbed in Bonn, he returned to the mountainous forests of his homeland south of Stuttgart. In 1958, he became Premier of Baden-Wurttemberg and soon emerged as a leader of the West German federalists, who sought to enhance the powers of the state governments.
        The year 1966 was a time of economic and political crisis for West Germany. Chancellor Ludwig Erhard, engineer of the German ''economic miracle'' and successor to Chancellor Adenauer, was governing along with the small Free Democratic Party. Erhard's Coalition Dies
        But Dr. Erhard's coalition ran into trouble. He was deserted first by the Free Democrats and, with the coalition now dead, by his own party as well. In a surprise move, the Christian Democrats turned to Mr. Kiesinger, who had the backing of the party's powerful, right-wing Bavarian branch led by Franz Josef Strauss.
        Some delicate maneuvering followed as the party approached the only alternative it had for restoring the Government's parliamentary majority: a grand coalition with the Social Democrats and thus enough muscle to bring West Germany's economic house back in order.
        As Chancellor, Mr. Kiesinger was a conservative on domestic matters and a champion of firm friendship particularly with France and the United States. Under his stewardship, Mr. Strauss, as Finance Minister, and Mr. Schiller worked in tandem to bring the federal budget into balance and restore the economy to booming health. Mr. Brandt, meanwhile, laid the foundations for West Germany's approach to the East and his own approach to the Chancellorship.
        When the votes in the 1969 election were counted, Mr. Kiesinger's Christian Democrats held a small plurality, but the Social Democrats had gained on them. Neither could govern alone, and the conditions for governing together no longer existed. Mr. Brandt worked out an agreement with the Free Democrats, and the Christian Democrats found themselves in opposition for the first time since the end of the war.
        Mr. Kiesinger continued to serve as party chairman and parliamentary leader until 1971. He held his seat in Parliament until 1980, when he retired to the home he had built in Tubingen to work on his memoirs, read poetry and go on long hikes through the woods he loved.
      