
       Bill Britt, a homeless man who gained national attention for his refusal to leave his lean-to on state-owned land here, was found dead Monday, the police said. He was 52.
        Bill Britt, a homeless man who gained national attention for his refusal to leave his lean-to on state-owned land here, was found dead Monday, the police said. He was 52.
        Mr. Britt's badly decomposed body was found by his son and daughter in his hut about 30 feet from the fence surrounding Evergreen Cemetery in Boston's Brighton district, said a police spokesman, Scott Gillis.
        Dr. Stanton Kessler of the Suffolk County Medical Examiner's office said today that autopsy results showed Mr. Britt had died of hypothermia about two weeks ago.
        Mr. Kessler said Mr. Britt was clothed and wrapped in several blankets.
        Born Britton William Boughner in the affluent Chestnut Hill neighborhood, Mr. Britt had lived since 1969 on five acres of nearby land controlled by the Metropolitan District Commission. The land was adjacent to Boston College and the Chestnut Hill Reservoir.
        ''In his case, he felt that this was where he wanted to live, this was his estate,'' said Clyde Raymond, a friend. ''He died free, so to speak. He had his own drummer, and he stuck with it.'' Huts Were Rebuilt Twice
        Mr. Britt did not attract much attention until 1985 when city officials started trying to oust him from the land on the Boston-Brookline border. When a court order protecting his lean-to expired in July 1987, the authorities removed his belongings. Mr. Britt returned and built a new hut.
        Mr. Britt, who was legally blind, lived on money he earned redeeming can and bottle deposits. He refused welfare and several attempts to relocate him to public or subsidized housing.
        In May, Mr. Britt's plastic and wood lean-to was destroyed in a fire while he was in New York to appear on the ''Late Night with David Letterman'' television show. He rebuilt the lean-to, despite deteriorating health. Doctors said Mr. Britt, who was nearly toothless, had ulcers and needed a corneal transplant.
        Mr. Britt was a onetime insurance agent who also had worked in Procter & Gamble's marketing division in New York 30 years ago. He also had been married with a family. It was not known what fueled his change in life style.
        Mr. Britt's children recently were in fairly regular contact with him. His daughter, Ingrid Boughner of Belmont, learned only last year that her father was the man whom the media had dubbed ''the hermit of Chestnut Hill.''
        Ms. Boughner said she had visited her father several times in the last few weeks, leaving him sandwiches and notes that were never touched. She and her brother, Britton Steven Bougher of Medford, found Mr. Britt's body.
      