
       Representative James J. Howard, a New Jersey Democrat who served more than two decades in Congress, died this afternoon at the Washington Hospital Center, a day after suffering a heart attack. He was 60 years old.
        Representative James J. Howard, a New Jersey Democrat who served more than two decades in Congress, died this afternoon at the Washington Hospital Center, a day after suffering a heart attack. He was 60 years old.
        Mr. Howard was stricken while playing golf in suburban Maryland before the day's proceedings on the House floor began. He never regained consciousness.
        He suffered previous heart attacks in 1974 and 1978.
        Mr. Howard, who represented the Third Congressional District, including parts of Monmouth, Ocean and Middlesex Counties, served since 1981 as chairman of the House Public Works and Transportation Committee. He was considered an authority on the highway system, mass transit and other areas of public transportation. Role in Environmental Issues
        He also played an active role on environmental issues, particularly in efforts to clean up New Jersey's beaches and coastal waters.
        After the retirement of Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., Democrat of Newark, N.J., this fall, Mr. Howard would have been the senior member of the state's delegation to Congress.
        Under New Jersey law, Governor Kean must order a special election to fill Mr. Howard's seat. However, it could be scheduled for as late as November, to be held at the same time as the general election.
        Although he never achieved widespread national recognition, Mr. Howard was known on Capitol Hill for his mastery of the strategies of the Congressional power game. In 1985, for example, when Massachusetts was considering dumping sludge from Boston at an ocean site off New Jersey, a rumor spread that he would use his power as committee chairman to try to cut off funds for a long-planned Boston highway project.
        The Congressman called The Boston Globe to assure everyone that he would do no such a thing. Instead, he said, he would move to cut off $100 million for Boston's sewage treatment plant.
        ''If they're going to dump that stuff off New Jersey,'' he said, ''they don't need the money. We'll need it in New Jersey to clean up the beaches.''
        More recently, Mr. Howard fought for legislation to prohibit all ocean dumping off New Jersey and New York. 'Devoted Public Servant'
        Senator Frank R. Lautenberg today praised Mr. Howard as ''a leader and a devoted public servant.'' The New Jersey Democrat said that Mr. Howard ''fought to protect our state's environment'' and ''tirelessly led efforts to rebuild our nation's infrastructure - our highways, bridges and roads.''
        The state's other Democratic Senator, Bill Bradley, said Mr. Howard was responsible for ''some of the most far-reaching legislation affecting our cities and states.''
        Governor Kean said, ''He served with dedication and always placed New Jersey's interests first.''
        Mr. Howard was born July 24, 1927, in Irvington, N.J., and grew up in Belmar on the Jersey shore. In World War II he served with the Navy in the South Pacific.
        From 1952 until 1964 Mr. Howard was a teacher and then acting principal of the West Belmar Elementary School in Wall Township. He also served in that period as a member of the delegate assembly of the New Jersey Education Association and as president of the Monmouth County Education Association.
        He first ran for the House in 1964, in New Jersey's Third Congressional District, then considered a Republican stronghold. But President Johnson's overwhelming victory over Senator Barry Goldwater that year was seen as helping Mr. Howard overcome his opponent.
        In 1973 and 1974, Mr. Howard served as chairman of the Subcommittee on Energy of the House Public Works Committee where he introduced the 55-mile-an-hour speed limit, a concept that subsequently became law. Mr. Howard advocated the change in the belief that not only would it save oil but also it would save 2,000 to 4,000 lives annually.
        Mr. Howard lived in Spring Lake Heights, N.J., and in Washington.
        He leaves his wife, the former Marlene Vetrano, and three daughters, Lenore Buchanan, Marie Howard and Kathy Tjunin.
        A funeral for Mr. Howard will be held at 10 A.M. Tuesday at St. Catherine's Roman Catholic Church in Spring Lake, N.J. Contributions may be made to the Jim Howard Scholarship Fund.
      