
       William J. Porter, a diplomat and former Under Secretary of State, died of cancer Tuesday at the Rose Hawthorne Lathrop Home in Fall River, Mass. He was 73 years old and lived in Westport Point, Mass.
        William J. Porter, a diplomat and former Under Secretary of State, died of cancer Tuesday at the Rose Hawthorne Lathrop Home in Fall River, Mass. He was 73 years old and lived in Westport Point, Mass.
        In 40 years in the Foreign Service, Mr. Porter, a naturalized American who never earned a college degree, held the rank of ambassador in five countries, was the chief American delegate to the Vietnam peace talks in Paris in 1971 and 1972 and rose to the third-ranking post in the State Department, as Under Secretary for Political Affairs in 1973 and 1974.
        Although considered a top specialist in Middle Eastern and North African affairs, two of Mr. Porter's most sensitive and difficult diplomatic assignments involved Vietnam.
        The first came in 1965 when, apparently having attracted the attention of Ambassador Henry Cabot Lodge in Saigon, Mr. Porter was named deputy ambassador with the rank of ambassador under Mr. Lodge. Tough, Funny and Shrewd
        Mr. Porter, whose skills included toughness and shrewdness leavened by a sense of humor, operated the American-sponsored rural pacification program in South Vietnam for 18 months, until 1967, when the program was turned over to the military to run, a move that he opposed.
        Four years later, Mr. Porter, again with the rank of ambassador, was chosen by President Richard M. Nixon to replace David K. E. Bruce as the head of the American delegation to the Vietnam peace talks in 1971 because Mr. Bruce was ailing.
        On emerging from his first meeting with the North Vietnamese, Mr. Porter told reporters: ''Today you may say I sniffed the atmosphere a little bit and found it a little complicated.''
        The talks, which began in Paris in 1968, did not produce an agreement until 1973. By then, Mr. Porter was back in Washington as Under Secretary of State.
        In earlier years, other Washington assignments had included Palestine desk officer late in 1946, officer in charge of Greek Affairs in 1951 and director of North African Affairs from 1957 to 1960. He was fluent in Arabic and French and later became proficient in Korean as ambassador to South Korea from 1967 to 1971.
        His last diplomatic posts, before his retirement in 1977, were as ambassador to Canada in 1974 and 1975 and ambassador to Saudi Arabia in 1976 and 1977. Born in England
        William James Porter was born Sept. 1, 1914, in Cheshire, England. After his father, an officer in the Royal Navy, was killed in World War I, his mother moved from England to Fall River to join American relatives there.
        He went to school in Fall River and attended the Thibodeau College of Business Administration there, completing a secretarial course in 1933. He became an American citizen in 1936.
        The secretarial course and a chance acquaintanceship with John F. Montgomery, then the United States Minister to Hungary, took him into diplomacy. He became private secretary to Mr. Montgomery in Budapest.
        The next year, 1937, he joined the Foreign Service and obtained an appointment to the American Embassy in Baghdad, Iraq, where he was a clerk for four years. From 1941 to early 1946, he was a vice consul in Beirut, Lebanon and Damascus, Syria.
        While serving in Syria in 1944, Mr. Porter met and married Eleanore Henry, an American Army nurse from Philadelphia, who was based in Cairo. Postings in North Africa
        After World War II, Mr. Porter began developing his North African expertise by holding consular and then embassy posts in Rabat as Morocco moved from a French protectorate to independence between 1953 and 1957. His promotion to ambassador came in Algeria in 1962 and followed months of service as consul general in Algiers in the uneasy months before the French colony won independence from France.
        It was Mr. Porter's skill in dealing with both Algeria's old French masters and its new Algerian leaders between 1961 and 1965 that reportedly led Ambassador Lodge to ask to have him assigned to Saigon.
        Among his honors were the Distinguished Honor Award of the State Department in 1966, the President's Award for Distinguished Federal Civilian Service in 1967 and the Vietnam Service Medal in 1968.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by twin children, a son, William Jr. of Fairfax, Va., and a daughter, Eleanor Clark of East Bridgewater, Mass., and six grandchildren.
        A funeral is to be held Friday at 10 A.M. at the St. John the Baptist Roman Catholic Church in Westport, Mass.
      