
       Arthur Francis Sampson, who led the General Services Administration for three years in the Nixon and Ford Administrations, died Sunday. He was 61 years old and lived in Falls Chuurch, Va.
        Arthur Francis Sampson, who led the General Services Administration for three years in the Nixon and Ford Administrations, died Sunday. He was 61 years old and lived in Falls Chuurch, Va.
        He collapsed on a tennis court and was taken to Shady Grove Adventist Hospital in Rockville, Md., a Washington suburb, where he was pronounced dead.
        Mr. Sampson, who spent much of his professional life in government service, joined the General Services Administration in 1969 and became acting head of the agency in mid-1972. President Nixon nominated him as Administrator in May 1973 and he was confirmed by the Senate the following month. Mr. Sampson held the post until October 1975. Defended Work on Nixon Home
        The agency constructs and manages Federal buildings, provides services and supplies to Federal agencies, looks after the national stockpile of critical and strategic materials, and keeps important records through the National Archives and Records Service While in charge of the agency, he had to defend the outlay of tax money by the Administration for improvements on Mr. Nixon's home in San Clemente, Calif., and attempts by the Ford Administration to allocate funds for assorted expenses of the Nixon family after the President's resignation.
        More recently, he held corporate offices in private companies in Massachusetts and Connecticut and worked as a Government consultant in Washington. He also lectured on business and government administration at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Princeton University and the University of Michigan.
        Mr. Sampson held a degree in business administration from the University of Rhode Island. He spent 12 years with the General Electric Company in Erie, Pa., before becoming a Pennsylvania state employee in Harrisburg in 1963.
        Mr. Sampson is survived by his wife, the former Blanche Bouffard; four sons, Arthur F. 3d of Fairfax Station, Va.; Philip R. of Omaha, Neb.; Jason E. of Washington and Matthew S. of Falls Church, Va.; a sister, Jacqueline Theall of Palos Verde, Calif., and two grandchildren.
      