
       The Rev. Milton A. Galamison, a Brooklyn pastor for four decades who was a major figure in the dispute over decentralizing the New York City schools in the 1960's, died of cancer Wednesday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 65 years old. Mr. Galamison, who wore a dashiki as he picketed construction sites to obtain more jobs for his fellow blacks and who led school boycotts to urge better education for minority-group children, served briefly as vice president of the New York City Board of
        The Rev. Milton A. Galamison, a Brooklyn pastor for four decades who was a major figure in the dispute over decentralizing the New York City schools in the 1960's, died of cancer Wednesday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 65 years old. Mr. Galamison, who wore a dashiki as he picketed construction sites to obtain more jobs for his fellow blacks and who led school boycotts to urge better education for minority-group children, served briefly as vice president of the New York City Board of Education.
        As pastor since 1949 of the Siloam Presbyterian Church in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn, Mr. Galamison presided over one of the largest Presbyterian congregations in the city. He established services for the elderly, vocational guidance programs, and many other social programs.
        He burst into public attention during civil-rights demonstrations and was arrested nine times for various forms of civil disobedience. In 1964 and 1965, as chairman of the Citywide Committee for School Integration, he organized two school boycotts.
        In August 1968 Mayor John V. Lindsay appointed Mr. Galamison to the Board of Education, and two months later he became the board's vice president. But the board was replaced in the spring of 1969 by an interim board as decentralization of the school system went into effect.
        Mr. Galamison figured prominently in a teachers strike in 1968, denouncing what he called union domination of the schools. A few months later he was designated chairman of a Board of Education committee charged with overseeing negotiation of a new contract with the teachers union.
        Although he favored decentralization, he was sharply critical of the law that created elected community school boards to run the local districts, contending that black and other minority groups would not be properly represented.
        Mr. Galamison was a native of Philadelphia and the son of a postal clerk. He received bachelor's degrees in arts and theology from Lincoln University and a master's degree in theology from the Princeton Theological Seminary.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Gladys Hunt; his brother, Joseph, of Philadelphia; a son, Milton Jr., of Hartford, and one grandchild.
        A funeral will be held tomorrow at 9:30 A.M. at the Siloam Church.
      