
       Sewall Wright, a geneticist who was widely regarded as the foremost American evolutionary theorist of the 20th century, died of complications yesterday after suffering a hip fracture Sunday in Madison, Wis., where he lived. He was 98 years old.  Dr. Wright, an avid walker, suffered the injury when he slipped on the ice near his apartment.
        Sewall Wright, a geneticist who was widely regarded as the foremost American evolutionary theorist of the 20th century, died of complications yesterday after suffering a hip fracture Sunday in Madison, Wis., where he lived. He was 98 years old.  Dr. Wright, an avid walker, suffered the injury when he slipped on the ice near his apartment. He died at Meriter-Madison General Hospital.
        Although he retired from his last formal academic post as Leon J. Cole professor of genetics at the University of Wisconsin in 1960, he continued his investigations in the field, publishing more than 200 scientific papers since then.
        His principal contribution to scientific thought was the establishment of a mathematical basis for evolution. Starting about 1915 and continuing until the 1960's, Dr. Wright, along with the British scientists R. A. Fisher and J. B. S. Haldane, were the main builders of the quantitive body of theory and observation, population genetics. Heredity Importance Cited
        Dr. Wright made contributions of first importance to both theoretical and experimental genetics. His extensive investigation of the breeding of guinea pigs produced a critical study of the effects of inbreeding in animals and led to further studies on the relative importance of heredity and environment as causes of variation among individuals.
        In the theoretical realm, he is credited with using mathematical tools to synthesize the 19th century theories of Charles Darwin, the giant of evolution, and Gregor Mendel, the founder of genetic investigation. Dr. Wright developed a statistical technique, ''path analysis,'' which gained wide application in sociology and econometrics, and more recently in behavioral genetics. He also formulated the theory of ''genetic drift,'' which holds that in small populations an important role in evolution is played by random fluctuations of gene frequencies.
        He was born on Dec. 21, 1889 in Melrose, Mass. When he was 7 years old he wrote a pamphlet he called ''The Wonders of Nature.'' After graduating from Lombard College in Galesburg, Ill., and the University of Illinois, where he took his master's degree, he received a doctorate in science from Harvard in 1915. He Worked at Agriculture Dept.  His early experimental work was done in animals genetics the United States Department of Agriculture. In 1926 he was named associate professor of zoology at the University of Chicago, where he remained until 1954 and did much of his fundamental theoretical work. From 1955 until his retirement in 1960 he was at the University of Wisconsin, continuing as professor emeritus until his death.
        Among his many scientific honors were the National Medal of Science for 1966, presented by President Johnson; the Darwin Medal of the Royal Society of London, in 1980, and the 1984 Balzan Prize, accompanied by $100,000, voted him by the Italy's Academia Lincel, the world's oldest scientific body.
        The fourth and last volume of his major book, ''Evolution and the Genetics of Populatiions,'' was published in 1968, when he was 79 years old.
        Dr. Wright is survived by two sons, Richard of Sacramento and Robert of San Jose, Calif.; a daughter, Elizabeth Rose of Garrison, N.Y.; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      