
       Reyner Banham, a British architectural historian whose work traced the rise and fall of modernism and society's attitudes toward it, died of cancer Saturday in London. He was 66 years old.
        Reyner Banham, a British architectural historian whose work traced the rise and fall of modernism and society's attitudes toward it, died of cancer Saturday in London. He was 66 years old.
        Mr. Banham, who had lived in the United States since 1976, was recently appointed the Sheldon H. Solow Professor of the History of Architecture at the Institute of Fine Arts of New York University. He was to have taken up his duties last month, but his illness prevented him from beginning his teaching in New York.
        Mr. Banham's subjects ranged from the celebrated masters of modern architecture to the grain elevators of the American Midwest to the entire city of Los Angeles. He was among the first architectural historians to give the same degree of attention to the architecture of the everyday landscape that scholars give to monuments and cathedrals, and he was particularly entranced with the American cityscape. Los Angeles as America
        His 1971 book, ''Los Angeles: The Architecture of Four Ecologies'' celebrated that city as the quintessential American environment, and gave equal attention to its cultural ambiance and its architectural monuments. Los Angeles, Mr. Banham wrote, ''is the Middle West raised to flashpoint, the authoritarian dogmas of the Bible Belt and the perennial revolt against them colliding at critical mass under the palm trees. Out of it comes a cultural situation where only the extreme is normal.''
        The architect Philip Johnson yesterday called Mr. Banham ''that rare new bird, a journalist, a historian, a writer, a man of breadth, all rolled up into one.''
        ''He was really one of the founders of architecture criticism, which has now become a worldwide profession,'' Mr. Johnson said.
        Peter Reyner Banham was born on March 2, 1922, in England. He received a doctorate from the Courtauld Institute of Art in London in 1958, and from 1952 to 1964 was a member of the editorial staff of Architectural Review magazine. First Taught in London
        He taught at University College in London from 1964 to 1976, when he moved to the United States to be the chairman of the department of design studies at the State University at Buffalo. In 1980, he became professor of art history at the University of California at Santa Cruz.
        Mr. Banham's books were notable for their combination of personal experience with scholarship. Out of his time at Buffalo, for example, came his final book, ''The Concrete Atlantis,'' a comparison of American industrial architecture and European modernism published in 1986, which he explained that he was inspired to write when he arrived in Buffalo and saw a huge factory building ''that appeared to have escaped from the pages of . . . Le Corbusier's best-known book,'' ''Vers une Architecture.''
        Similarly, his move to the West yielded ''Scenes in American Deserta'' in 1982, a personal odyssey through the desert that was only partly a work of architectural history. Advised Getty Museum
        Mr. Banham was a member of the panel that advised the J. Paul Getty Museum in Malibu, Calif., in its widely publicized international search for an architect for its new museum complex, which ended with the selection of Richard Meier in 1984. He also served as an architectural adviser to the Brooklyn Museum, which recently selected the team of Arata Isozaki and James Stewart Polshek to design a new master plan.
        Mr. Banham's first book, ''Theory and Design in the First Machine Age,'' an analysis of the ideas of the generation of modern architects who practiced in the 1920's, was published in 1960. Among his other books were ''The New Brutalism,'' published in 1966; ''The Architecture of the Well-Tempered Environment,'' published in 1969, and ''The Age of the Masters,'' published in 1975.
        Mr. Banham is survived by his wife, Mary, and one son.
      