
       Aladar Szegedy-Maszak, a Hungarian diplomat who resigned as Ambassador to Washington in 1947 in a rejection of Communist rule in his country, died Friday at his home in Washington after a long illness. He was 84 years old.
        Aladar Szegedy-Maszak, a Hungarian diplomat who resigned as Ambassador to Washington in 1947 in a rejection of Communist rule in his country, died Friday at his home in Washington after a long illness. He was 84 years old.
        Mr. Szegedy-Maszak joined the Hungarian Foreign Service in 1927. He was sent to the Dachau concentration camp in 1944 as Germany tried to block the Hungarian surrender to advancing Soviet forces. He resigned his Washington post rather than pledge allegiance to the Communist regime that took over the country in 1947.
        He worked briefly for Radio Free Europe. According to his family, he left upon learning of hidden links to the Central Intelligence Agency. In 1953, he joined the staff of the Voice of America. He worked as a commentator and assistant head of the Hungarian Desk. He retired in 1968.  He made his first return to Hungary after a general amnesty in 1963 and became a regular visitor, seeing friends and doing research for his memoirs, which are expected next year..
        Mr. Szegedy-Maszak was born in Budapest. He studied history and politics at the University of Budapest and graduated from the Ecole des Sciences Politiques in Paris the year he entered the diplomatic service in the capital.
        Hungary joined the Axis in 1941 and German troops invaded in 1944. Mr. Szegedy-Maszak, a vocal opponent of Hungary's Arrow Cross fascists, was imprisoned in Budapest before being transported to Dachau.
        American forces freed him and put him in charge of Hungarian prisoners of war awaiting repatriation. His record as an anti-fascist permitted him to return to work for Hungary's postwar coalition government, which made him its envoy to Washington in 1945.
        Mr. Szegedy-Maszak is survived by his wife, the former Hanna de Kornfeld; two sons, Andrew, of Middletown, Conn., and Peter, of Washington; a daughter, Marianne, of Washington and Manhattan, and a sister, Palma Zimanyi, of Budapest.
        A Mass will be said at the Blessed Sacrament Church in Washington at 11 A.M. Monday.
      