
       Ed Roman, who led the 1949-50 City College basketball team to victory in two championship tournaments and was later involved in a conspiracy to fix games, died of leukemia Tuesday at the Westchester Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 57 years old.
        Ed Roman, who led the 1949-50 City College basketball team to victory in two championship tournaments and was later involved in a conspiracy to fix games, died of leukemia Tuesday at the Westchester Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 57 years old.
        Almost a year after the double tournament victories, Mr. Roman pleaded guilty to charges of conspiring to fix the outcome of games at Madison Square Garden.
        Mr. Roman was a 6-foot-6-inch, 220-pound center from Taft High School in the Bronx. He joined with Ed Warner, Alvin Roth, Floyd Layne, Irwin Dambrot, Norman Mager and Herbert Cohen to achieve an unprecedented and unmatched double in college basketball: victory in both the National Invitation Tournament and the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament.
        Mr. Roman, a sophomore who led the team in scoring that season with an average of 16.4 points a game, was named to the N.C.A.A. all-tournament team, to most all-East teams and to several all-America squads. 'Great Knowledge of Basketball'
        ''Ed had a great knowledge of basketball and was a very smart, very intense player,'' Mr. Layne, now the basketball coach at City College, said yesterday. ''He made everything seem very easy out on the court.''
        The sweetness and exhilaration of the double tournament triumph disappeared less than a year later, however, when City College was implicated in a point-fixing scandal that the Manhattan District Attorney, Frank S. Hogan, said involved 30 players from six colleges.
        City College had strangely won only 11 of its 18 games in the 1950-51 season when Mr. Roman, Mr. Warner and Mr. Roth were arrested when they returned to New York after a victory over Temple at Philadelphia. Not long after, Mr. Layne, Mr. Dambrot, Mr. Mager and Mr. Cohen were also arrested and indicted.
        The players had been paid a total of $26,500 to shave points in six games by a jewelry manufacturer and former convict named Salvatore Sollazzo and Eddie Gard, a former Long Island University basketball player. In the three games involving Mr. Roman's point-shaving participation - for which he was paid $3,500 - the Beavers were 8- to-12-point favorites in games at the Garden over Missouri, Arizona and Boston College. They lost each game.
        When the players changed their pleas from not guilty to guilty, they received suspended sentences for misdemeanor violations. The players were suspended from City College.
        After serving two years in the Army, Mr. Roman earned his undergraduate degree in physical education at Seattle University. He returned to New York to do work at City College and New York University toward a master's degree and a doctorate in psychology, which he received in 1986.
        He worked in the city public school system in Queens as a teacher of physical education and, after the mid-1970's, as a psychological consultant.
        He is survived by two daughters, Tammy Cantatore of Flushing, Queens, and Joanne of Manhattan; a son, Mark of San Diego, and two brothers, Melvin of Manhattan and Richard of Toronto.
      