
       Romare Bearden, a painter who artistically manipulated pieces of photographs and colored paper and became the nation's foremost collagist, died Saturday after suffering a stroke in New York Hospital. He was 75 years old and lived in lower Manhattan and St. Martin.
        Romare Bearden, a painter who artistically manipulated pieces of photographs and colored paper and became the nation's foremost collagist, died Saturday after suffering a stroke in New York Hospital. He was 75 years old and lived in lower Manhattan and St. Martin.
        He had been ill with bone cancer for a year and a half.
        Romare Howard Bearden was one of America's pre-eminent artists. Success, in the form of artistic recognition and financial reward, came early and, subsequently, the art establishment chose him as its favorite black artist and gave him influence and power, which he used to help younger artists.
        President Carter honored Mr. Bearden and nine other visual artists in 1980 and President Reagan awarded him the National Medal of Arts in 1987. His works are in the collections of every major museum in New York City as well as more than a dozen across the country. He was a member of the American Institute of Arts and Letters and was on the board of the New York State Council of the Arts. Raised the Medium of Collage
        June Kelly, his manager, said a mural by Mr. Bearden would be unveiled later this year at the Social Security Administration office in Jamaica, Queens.
        In the catalogue for a 1986 show at the Bronx Museum of the Arts, ''Romare Bearden: Origins and Progressions,'' Lowery S. Sims of the Metropolitan Museum wrote: ''Romare Bearden has gained prominence in the last two decades through his artistic achievements as a collagist. He has raised the medium of collage to a mode of expression so intensely personal that it is difficult to think of another artist so closely associated with it.''
        Arne Ekstrom, of the Cordier and Ekstrom Gallery in Manhattan, said Mr. Bearden was the first artist exhibited when the gallery opened in 1960. Mr. Ekstrom called Mr. Bearden ''the pictorial historian of the black world, especially in the South'' and he said Mr. Bearden put his ''childhood and his whole life'' in his artworks.
        Mr. Bearden began, according to Ms. Sims, as a ''cubist in the strict sense of the word, breaking forms, using color to complement rather than to describe the forms.''
        ''In the mid- to early 1930's, when he was studying with George Grosz at the Art Students League, his work was more figurative,'' she said. ''But he had an acute sense of the underlying abstractness.''
        By the 1960's, Romare Bearden was one of two black artists who regularly showed their work in the increasing number of art galleries in New York City. The other was Jacob Lawrence.
        Mr. Bearden was born on Sept. 2, 1912, in Charlotte, N.C., to Howard and Bessye J. Bearden. He grew up in Harlem and in Pittsburgh.
        His exhibitions started in 1940. A Harlem wood craftsman, Ad Bates, gave him what he called, ''my very first'' one-man exhibition in his workshop. Later, Caresse Crosby came across Bearden paintings when she was putting together a show of black artists in 1943 in Washington. Mrs. Crosby and her husband, Harry, had lived abroad and had published expatriate writers, including Ernest Hemingway and Kay Boyle, and they introduced Salvador Dali to America. First Downtown Exhibtion
        In 1945, after Mr. Bearden was discharged from the Army, Mrs. Crosby introduced him to Samuel Kootz, an art dealer who represented Adolph Gottlieb, Robert Motherwell and other early abstract expressionists. That year, Mr. Kootz brought Mr. Bearden to Madison Avenue for his first one-man show downtown. Mr. Bearden had, in all, three solo exhibitions that year.
        Mr. Bearden's prominence drew younger artists to him, and he willingly accepted the role of mentor. In the late 1960's, responding to young artists' needs for exhibition spaces, he, Norman Lewis and Ernest Crichlow founded the Cinque Gallery, which has since given hundreds of young artists their first exhibitions. He said he hoped to provide a starting push to good, younger artists ''before they are engulfed, before life takes over.''
        A gregarious man, Mr. Bearden was frequently involved in projects with other artists. He organized the Harlem exhibition, ''Art of the American Negro,'' in 1966. And a year later he and Carroll Greene, an art collector, organized the landmark show in the Great Hall of City College, ''The Evolution of Afro-American Artists: 1800-1950,'' a display of 150 works by 50 artists.
        In 1963 he helped found the Spiral Group. The membership included Mr. Alston, Mr. Lewis, Merton Simpson, Emma Amos, Al Hollingsworth and Hale Woodruff. Mr. Woodruff gave the group its name; the spiral meant up and out for black artists.
        It was the Spiral Group that gave rise to Mr. Bearden's interest in collage. He thought of a collage as a work in which all the artists could take part. He cut pictures out of magazines and brought the pictures to a group meeting but no one was interested. However, he began to experiment with bits of photographs and colored paper and, in essence, never stopped.
        However, he did not make collages exclusively. For his 1981 retrospective exhibition at the Brooklyn Museum, the catalogue noted that from 1970 to 1980, Mr. Bearden made 342 collages, 128 oils on paper, 24 drawings, 25 prints, 5 tapestries, 4 murals and mosaics and illustrations for film and theater, magazine covers, book jackets, banners and quilts. He also created one of his larger works, ''The Block,'' a piece that is 48 inches high and 216 inches long and owned by the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
        ''I wasn't an abstract expressionist or a pop artist,'' he once said in an interview. ''I believe that it was because I had something unique to say about the life that I knew best. I took an art form that was different. What I had to say took a little different form than most of the paintings around; I used the collage. Especially in some of the earlier collages that I did, I chose some of the photographic materials for a certain reason. I wanted to give an immediacy, like a documentary movie.''
        Although black life and culture are an integral part of much of his work, he never considered his creations ''black art.'' He said: ''Except for the American Indian, everybody who came here or was brought here becomes, starting with the second generation, four things: Part Anglo-Saxon, part Indian, part frontiersman and part black. These are the roots that form American culture. I knew a lot of painters, abstract expressionists, who used to paint to jazz music. They even called it action painting. It wasn't done in Europe. Everything is American that comes out of America.''
        Despite his early and continued success, Mr. Bearden lived modestly in a fifth-floor walkup on Canal Street, having moved into his loft when the location was neither SoHo nor TriBeCa nor fashionable. Mr. Bearden's other home was in St. Martin, the Caribbean birthplace of his wife, Nanette.
        A multitalented man, Mr. Bearden tried his hand at songwriting and baseball. Twenty Bearden compositions were recorded, including ''Seabreeze,'' by Billy Eckstine and Oscar Pettiford. In college at Boston University, where he spent two years before transferring to New York University, he was a pitcher on the varsity baseball team.
        He also pitched summers for the Boston Tigers, an all-black team. He was told that because he was light-complexioned enough to pass for white he could play in the major leagues. (Elton Fax, in his book, ''Seventeen Black Artists,'' described Mr. Bearden as ''black by choice.'') In college, he majored in mathematics, preparing for medical school to fulfill his mother's hopes that he become a doctor. He started drawing in college, made cartoons for the Afro-American, a black weekly newspaper, and the attraction of art triumphed. Mr. Bearden is survived by his wife.  A memorial service will be held at a later date.
      