
       Andy Gibb, a teen-idol pop singer in the late 1970's and the younger brother of the three members of the Bee Gees, died Friday in Oxfordshire, England, after being hospitalized for stomach pains. Spokesmen at John Radcliffe Hospital declined to give the cause of death. He was 30 years old.
        Andy Gibb, a teen-idol pop singer in the late 1970's and the younger brother of the three members of the Bee Gees, died Friday in Oxfordshire, England, after being hospitalized for stomach pains. Spokesmen at John Radcliffe Hospital declined to give the cause of death. He was 30 years old.
        Mr. Gibb was born in Brisbane, Australia, and while his brothers Barry, Robin and Maurice Gibb - the Bee Gees - were building an international following in the 1960's, Andy Gibb began performing in Australia.
        At the height of the disco era in the late 1970's, Mr. Gibb followed the Bee Gees into the pop charts; Barry and Maurice Gibb each produced an album for him in the Miami-disco style that made the soundtrack album to ''Saturday Night Fever,'' featuring songs by the Bee Gees, one of the most popular albums of all time. Mr. Gibb had two No. 1 singles, ''I Just Want to Be Your Everything'' (1977) and ''Shadow Dancing'' (1978). A Host on 'Solid Gold'
        In 1981-82, Mr. Gibb was a host on the syndicated television show ''Solid Gold.'' He joined the Broadway cast of ''Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat'' in 1982 but was dismissed in 1983.
        Three years ago, Mr. Gibb entered the Betty Ford Clinic in Rancho Mirage, Calif., for treatment of a cocaine problem. He said in interviews in 1982 that he had turned to using the drug after he and the actress Victoria Principal ended a long relationship.
        In September 1987, according to his lawyer, John Kozyak, he filed for bankruptcy in Miami, where he was a resident at the time of his death. But in January 1988, Mr. Gibb signed a recording contract with Island Records, and he was scheduled to begin recording in the spring.
        He is survived by his parents, Barbara and Hugh Gibb of Oxfordshire, England, and his siblings, Barry, Robin, Maurice and Bernice.
      