
       Hoyt Ammidon, retired chairman of the United States Trust Company and a leader in civic, cultural and philanthropic organizations, died of cancer Sunday at Huntington (L.I.) Hospital. He was 78 years old and lived in Glen Head, L.I., and Hobe Sound, Fla.
        Hoyt Ammidon, retired chairman of the United States Trust Company and a leader in civic, cultural and philanthropic organizations, died of cancer Sunday at Huntington (L.I.) Hospital. He was 78 years old and lived in Glen Head, L.I., and Hobe Sound, Fla.
        In the 1960's, Mr. Ammidon was in charge of fund-raising for the building of Lincoln Center.
        He was president of United States Trust for four years begining in 1958, and then was elected chairman, a post he held until his retirement in 1974.
        He was appointed a commissioner of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey by Governor Rockefeller in 1968 and served as vice chairman and the ranking New York State commissioner from 1970 until 1972.
        His philanthropic work was extensive. He was a director of Lincoln Center for two decades, beginning in the early 1960s. As chairman of the consolidated Lincoln Center Fund from 1964 to 1970, he led the drive that raised the money to complete the center's principal halls. He was also chairman of the Music Theater of Lincoln Center. Headed Astor Organization
        Mr. Ammidon was a native of Baltimore and a 1932 graduate of Yale. He entered the banking business upon graduation, joining the Central Hanover Bank, now Manufacturers Hanover, and rising to vice president in 1950. From 1952 to 1957 he served as the salaried chief executive officer for the Vincent Astor Organization and as a trustee of the Vincent Astor Foundation.
        Over the years he served as a director of a number of corporations, including the American Express Company, Howard Johnson, the Perkin-Elmer Corporation and the Great Northern Nekoosa Corporation. He was a former member of the New York State Banking Board.
        His philanthropic interests were wide. He was a director of the Boys' Club of America, a trustee of the American Academy of Rome and of Cooper Union here, president of the American Friends of Canada, president of the Business Committee for the Arts, a director of the American Red Cross of Greater New York and chairman of its building fund, a director of the Memorial Hospital for Cancer and Allied Diseases, and a board member of the English Speaking Union and of the American Cancer Society's New York division.
        Mr. Ammidon is survived by his wife, the former Elizabeth Callaway; a sister, Frances S. Walker of Providence, R.I.; a son, Hoyt Jr., of Princeton; a daughter, Lee Sutton of Venice, Calif.; five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
        A memorial service will be held April 28 at 3 P.M. at St. John's Church in Cold Spring Harbor, L.I.
      