
       I. L. Kenen, founder of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the largest pro-Israel lobby in the United States, died of a heart attack Wednesday at his home here. He was 83 years old.
        I. L. Kenen, founder of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the largest pro-Israel lobby in the United States, died of a heart attack Wednesday at his home here. He was 83 years old.
        Mr. Kenen, a soft-spoken man who wore tailored clothes, relied upon a long association with Jewish political organizations to found the committee in 1954.
        The committee has been instrumental in assuring that Israel receives more military and economic aid from the United States than any other country. When Mr. Kenen retired in 1974, United States aid to Israel exceeded $1 billion for the first time; in 1987, outlays reached $3 billion.
        Mr. Kenen was born in St. Stephens, New Brunswick. He was an actor in Toronto before moving to Cleveland, as a journalist. While there he helped found Local One of the American Newspaper Guild. Early Efforts for Israel
        He began his efforts on behalf of Israel in earnest when he moved to New York in 1943 and became the director of the American Emergency Committee on Zionist Affairs and later was a member of the first Israeli delegation to the United Nations.
        In 1951 he moved to Washington and established the American Zionist Committee to lobby Congress for aid to Israel. Three years later, the American Zionist Committee became the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, with the immediate goal of gaining $150 million in United States aid for the fledgling state of Israel.
        At the time, the State Department opposed the proposal as a potential barrier in relations with the Arab states, but the committee did succeed in persuading Congress to grant a fraction of its initial request, $15 million, to Israel.
        Beatrice Bain Kenen, Mr. Kenen's first wife, died in 1969 after 42 years of marriage, and his second wife, Bernice Taube Kenen, died in 1976.
        Mr. Kenen is survived by Peter Bain Kenen, his son by his first wife.
      