
       Henryk Szeryng, one of the more elegant representatives of a now fading school of Romantic violin playing, died of a cerebral hemorrhage yesterday in Kassel, West Germany. Mr. Szeryng was en route to Brussels for a concert celebrating the current NATO conference and for an appearance at an AIDS benefit.
        Henryk Szeryng, one of the more elegant representatives of a now fading school of Romantic violin playing, died of a cerebral hemorrhage yesterday in Kassel, West Germany. Mr. Szeryng was en route to Brussels for a concert celebrating the current NATO conference and for an appearance at an AIDS benefit. He was 69 years old.
        Mr. Szeryng was known for the purity of his playing - exact intonation, well-organized phrasing and a broad, sweet, vibrato-filled tone that nevertheless did not sound oppressive. In the Romantic tradition, Mr. Szeryng applied his long, lyrical style to Mozart, Bach and Vivaldi as well as to Brahms and Tchaikovsky. The various schools of interpretation, in other words, were filtered through the single 19th-century Central European tradition that was his heritage.
        He was born in Poland, in Chopin's birthplace, Zelazowa Wola. His father was a well-to-do industrialist who started his son playing the violin at the age of 5 but had him educated in diplomacy as well as music. Mr. Szeryng's musical training was as international as his later life style. Among his teachers were Carl Flesch in Berlin and Jacques Thibaud and Nadia Boulanger in Paris.
        Mr. Szeryng began his concert career in 1933 and spent World War II as liaison officer to the exiled Polish Premier. His musical life continued its close contact with politics and diplomacy when the Mexican Government invited him in 1943 to teach at the National University in Mexico City. He became a Mexican citizen and later traveled on a diplomatic passport as the country's Culture and Good Will Ambassador. Mr. Szeryng spoke seven languages. Recorded 250 Works
        After 10 relatively quiet years of teaching and occasional concerts, Mr. Szeryng met Arthur Rubinstein after a recital in Mexico City. With the help of his fellow pianist and Polish compatriot, Mr. Szerying developed an international career that was still flourishing at his death. While retaining his home and teaching responsibilities in Mexico City, he also kept apartments in Paris and Monte Carlo.
        Mr. Szeryng also became a busy recording artist, with a discography of about 250 works. Philips has recently offered on compact disk Szeryng recordings of the Brahms, Beethoven and Mendelssohn concertos along with the six Brandenburg Concertos by Bach.
        Mr. Szeryng's tastes ran to the standard literature. He was especially fond of Paganini, yet 20th-century composers like Carlos Chavez, Benjamin Lees and Michael Ponce wrote music for him. Mr. Szeryng also liked to play music by the contemporary Polish composer Karol Szymanowski. He exercised his diplomatic responsibilities in part by championing the music of Mexican composers, and he expressed his belief in the humanistic powers of music as an adviser to Unesco.
        He was also said to donate large portions of his income to charities. From Mr. Szeryng's collection of violins, 12 have been given away since 1975 - one a Stradivarius presented to the city of Jerusalem, another a gift to the young violinist Shlomo Mintz. Mr. Szeryng retained for himself the 1743 Guarnerius named ''Le Duc.''
        He is survived by his wife, Waltraud.
      