
       Bishop J. Brooke Mosley Jr., a former president of the Union Theological Seminary, died of a heart attack Friday in Pennsylvania Station in Manhattan as he was preparing to board a train to his home in Philadelphia. He was 72 years old.
        Bishop J. Brooke Mosley Jr., a former president of the Union Theological Seminary, died of a heart attack Friday in Pennsylvania Station in Manhattan as he was preparing to board a train to his home in Philadelphia. He was 72 years old.
        Bishop Mosley, who was consecrated an Episcopal bishop in 1953, became the 12th president of Union Theological, a renowned interdenominational Protestant seminary, in 1970. The seminary was founded in 1836 in Manhattan.
        A liberal Episcopalian who once described himself as a Christian who was ''more interested in what God is doing in the world than in what is happening in religious institutions,'' Bishop Mosley was the first president of the seminary to come from outside the Calvinist tradition.
        Bishop Mosley's tenure at Union Theological proved stormy. In 1974 he was forced to resign from a seminary troubled by deficit problems, degree of minority representation among students and faculty, the direction of academic priorities and the manner in which decisions were made.
        From 1975 to 1982, when he retired from active church duties, he was assistant bishop of the diocese of Pennsylvania. After his retirement, he became active in Planned Parenthood, serving as chairman of Planned Parenthood in Southeastern Pennsylvania from 1984 to 1987.
        Bishop Mosley, who was born Oct. 18, 1915, in Philadelphia, was a graduate of Temple University and the Episcopal Theological School in Cambridge, Mass. He was ordained a priest in 1941.
        After serving as a pastor in an inner-city parish in Cincinnati, Bishop Mosley became director of the department of social relations of the Episcopal diocese of Washington, a post he held from 1944 to 1948.
        In 1955, after five years as dean of St. John's Cathedral in Wilmington, Del., he was named the Bishop of the diocese of Delaware, a post he held until 1968, when he became the Episcopal Executive Council's deputy for overseas relations.
        One of his objectives as deputy, he said at the time, was to ''try to avoid the patronizing and colonialist style that has characterized so much of our church work in the past.''
        Bishop Mosley was an early supporter of the civil rights movement in the 1950's and an early critic of the war in Vietnam in the 1960's.
        Among his honors were the 1959 national human relations award of the National Council of Christians and Jews and doctorates, both in 1971, from Colgate University and the Jewish Theological Seminary of America, which belongs to the Conservative branch of Judaism.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Betty Wall; two daughters, Miriam Mosley Wood of Manhattan and Sarah Sandor of Los Angeles; a son, Peter, of Alexandria, Va., and five granddaughters.
        A funeral is to be held Tuesday at 11 A.M. at the Church of St. Luke and the Epiphany in Philadelphia.
      