
       Dr. Robert S. Liebert, a psychiatrist and author, died Wednesday at New York Hospital. He was 58 years old and lived and practiced in Manhattan.
        Dr. Robert S. Liebert, a psychiatrist and author, died Wednesday at New York Hospital. He was 58 years old and lived and practiced in Manhattan.
        Dr. Liebert, who was trained as a Freudian psychoanalyst, was clinical professor of psychiatry at Columbia University's College of Physicians and Surgeons; adjunct professor of psychiatry at Cornell University Medical College, and training and supervising psychoanalyst at the Columbia University Psychoanalytic Center.
        Dr. Liebert also taught art history at Columbia University. He wrote ''Michelangelo: A Psychoanalytic Study of His Life and Images,'' published in 1983 by Yale University Press.
        He is a past president of the Association for Psychoanalytic Medicine, which named him recipient of its George Daniels Award for 1988. Studied Student Riots
        His work as psychiatric consultant at Columbia College provided the basis for Dr. Liebert's first book, ''Radical and Militant Youth,'' a psychoanalytic inquiry into the causes of the 1968 student rebellion at Columbia University. The book was issued by Praeger Publishers in 1971. Dr. Liebert wrote that although some student behavior was unquestionably ''manipulative, destructive, bizarre and inhumane,'' the riots could not be written off as a mere expression of psychopathology.
        He found the student rebels emotionally diverse and among the most intelligent, sensitive and idealistic members of their generation. They were responding to deep societal problems, he said, and he urged psychoanalytic colleagues to confront ''the complex questions of the relationship of man's psyche to the political and social realities of the times.''
        Dr. Liebert is survived by his his wife, Dr. Katherine Kamen Dalsimer; two daughters, Dana and Emily; a son, Eric, all of Manhattan; his father, Louis, of Forest Hills, Queens, and a brother, Peter, of Mamaroneck, N.Y. .
        A funeral will be held Sunday at 2 P.M. at the Riverside, 180 West 76th Street.
      