
       Gen. Bruce C. Clarke, a 44-year veteran of the Army who was its commander in Europe during the Berlin crisis of the 1960's, died Thursday at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Bethesda, Md., after suffering a stroke. He was 86 years old and lived in McLean, Va.
        Gen. Bruce C. Clarke, a 44-year veteran of the Army who was its commander in Europe during the Berlin crisis of the 1960's, died Thursday at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Bethesda, Md., after suffering a stroke. He was 86 years old and lived in McLean, Va.
        The four-star general was a defender of the importance of ground forces in the space age, believing that conventional forces have a major role in modern warfare.
        As commander of the Seventh Army in Germany from 1956 to 1958, he built it into what he called ''the first 'pentomic' army,'' one ''designed and organized and equipped to fight on an atomic or nonatomic battlefield.''
        General Clarke believed it would be impossible for the armed forces of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to defend Europe without atomic weapons. He said that because the defense of Europe was based on using minimum forces, ''it is absolutely essential that these forces have the most modern weapons available, including weapons with atomic capability.'' Silver Star Recipient
        He was commander in chief of the Army in Europe from 1960 to 1962, and supervised air and ground routes to Berlin when it was the focus of increased tensions between East and West because of the building of the Berlin Wall.
        General Clarke was known to have little patience with mediocrity and was considered remarkably successful in getting the best out of his men.
        In World War II, he won the Silver Star three times, personally leading tanks of the Fourth Armored Division of the Third Army into battle or flying over the battle area, yelling orders over the radio.
        ''Warfare is mental, not physical,'' Colonel Clarke explained in an interview in Alsace-Lorraine, in October 1944. ''Tanks are weapons of terror, and when they get behind German lines they create chaos and the Germans take to the woods. If you upset the other fellow, you have won.'' Received Law Degree
        Bruce Cooper Clarke, born in Adams, N.Y., graduated from the United States Military Academy and was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers in 1925. Subsequently, he received a master's degree in civil engineering from Cornell University and a law degree from LaSalle Extension University.
        In December 1943, he was sent to Europe, serving as a commanding officer in both the Fourth and the Seventh Armored Divisions. He was wounded in the Battle of the Bulge and, after hospitalization, he returned to the Fourth Armored Division in June 1945 as its commander.
        The next month, he was sent to the Pacific Theater as chief engineer with the Army Service Command C in Manila.
        He was named commanding general of the First Corps in Korea in April 1953, then commander of ground forces in the Pacific in 1955.
        In March 1956, General Clarke was appointed commander of the Seventh Army in Europe, and, in 1958, of the Continental Army Command, at Fort Monroe, Va.
        After his retirement in May 1962, General Clarke continued to write on military questions.
        General Clarke's wife, Bessie, died in 1956.
        He is survived by three sons, Bruce C. Jr., of St. Anton Jefsnitz, Austria, Dr. David A., of Colorado Springs, and Col. Gordon M., of San Antonio, Tex.; a daughter, Elizabeth Clark of Leesburg, Va., and two sisters, Mary Griffin of Adams, and Frances Saternow of Oswego, N.Y.
      