
       Dr. Louis I. Grossman, a longtime professor of dentistry at the University of Pennsylvania and an authority on root canal therapy, died Thursday at Pennswood Village, a retirement home in Newtown, Pa. He was 86 years old.
        Dr. Louis I. Grossman, a longtime professor of dentistry at the University of Pennsylvania and an authority on root canal therapy, died Thursday at Pennswood Village, a retirement home in Newtown, Pa. He was 86 years old.
        Dr. Grossman was known as the father of endodontics, a branch of dentistry that deals largely with dental pulp, the sensitive, soft tissue that fills the central cavity of teeth.
        The portion of that cavity that is inside the root of a tooth is called the root canal. Root canal therapy entails removing infected pulp from the root canal and replacing it with an inert material.
        Dr. Leif Tronstad, chairman of the university's department of endodontics and holder of an endowed professorship named after Dr. Grossman, said yesterday: ''The major contribution that he made was to make this type of treatment acceptable. Before this, teeth were commonly extracted. It is not many years since half the American population at the age of 50 had dentures.'' Author of 1940 Textbook
        Dr. Grossman's many writings include a standard textbook, ''Endodontic Practice,'' which was first published in 1940 and has been translated into many foreign languages.
        Dr. Grossman joined the faculty of the university's School of Dental Medicine in 1926 and was the head of the endodontics department there for many years. He became professor emeritus of oral medicine in 1968, and continued to lecture at the school until last year.
        He was born in a Ukranian village near Odessa and was brought to the United States by his family as a boy.
        He grew up in Philadelphia, and earned a doctorate in dental surgery at the University of Pennsylvania in 1923 and a doctorate in medical dentristy at the University of Rostock in Germany in 1928.
        Dr. Grossman is survived by his wife, the former Emma May MacIntyre, whom he married in 1928; a daughter, Clara Pierre of Manhattan; a son, Richard Grossman, of Durango, Colo., and two grandchildren.
      