
       Bernard Rudofsky, the provocative architect and social commentator whose books and museum exhibitions influenced not only his profession but fashion, interior design, urban planning and food, died of cancer yesterday at New York University Hospital. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Bernard Rudofsky, the provocative architect and social commentator whose books and museum exhibitions influenced not only his profession but fashion, interior design, urban planning and food, died of cancer yesterday at New York University Hospital. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        ''He was our most perceptive and outspoken critic of human habits and habitations,'' said the chief editor of Interior Design magazine, Stanley Abercrombie.
        Mr. Rudofsky first made waves in 1944 with an exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art entitled ''Are Clothes Modern?'' The exhibition was an examination of the incompatibility of the human body and clothing. One of his contributions to fashion was called the ''Bernardo Sandal,'' a curved leather with straps. For formal wear, he suggested that the straps be gold-colored.
        In 1964 Mr. Rudofsky's exhibit, ''Architecture Without Architects,'' at the Museum of Modern Art portrayed what he termed ''vernacular'' architecture - the design of buildings built in societies, sometimes ancient or primitive, that he felt were without pretensions.
        Mr. Rudofsky, who was born and educated in Vienna, entered architecture after friends talked him into signing up for some courses at the Technical University, the New Yorker magazine wrote in 1944. At age 26, he had received master's degrees in architecture and engineering and a doctorate in technical sciences. He practiced architecture for several years in Italy.
        Mr. Rudofsky lived in New York since 1935, in between stints in places like Vienna, Tokyo, Italy, Spain and Sao Paulo, Brazil.
        In 1969 he published a book, ''Streets for People,'' in which he examined how streets are used in cities around the world and he criticized the increasing dominance of automobiles.
        In ''The Unfashionable Human Body,'' published in 1971, Mr. Rudofsky promoted the idea that human beings both dislike their bodies and conceive of them as alluring. As a result, clothing needs to be continually changed or repackaged in an effort to keep the body interesting and attractive.
        More recently Mr. Rudofsky wrote a book, ''Now I Lay Me Down to Eat.'' In chapters with titles including ''Table Manners at the Last Supper,'' ''The Convivial Bath'' and ''The Obsolete Bedroom,'' Mr. Rudofsky compared and critiqued social habits in different cultures.
        Mr. Rudofsky had received Ford, Fulbright and Guggenheim Foundation Fellowships and had taught at Yale University, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the Royal Academy of Fine Arts in Copenhagen and Waseda University in Tokyo.
        A retrospective of Mr. Rudofsky's work entitled ''Sparta/Sybaris,'' was shown in Vienna last year and published in book form.
        He is survived by his wife, Berta.
      