
       Hundreds of people lined up outside the Shubert Theater yesterday to bid farewell to the composer Frederick (Fritz) Loewe, who died on Feb. 14 at the age of 86. Drawn by stars - among them Julie Andrews and Richard Kiley - and the promise of a free ticket, they began gathering outside the theater before 9 A.M.; by the time the doors opened at 12:45, the line wound west on 44th Street to Eighth Avenue and then north to 45th
        Hundreds of people lined up outside the Shubert Theater yesterday to bid farewell to the composer Frederick (Fritz) Loewe, who died on Feb. 14 at the age of 86. Drawn by stars - among them Julie Andrews and Richard Kiley - and the promise of a free ticket, they began gathering outside the theater before 9 A.M.; by the time the doors opened at 12:45, the line wound west on 44th Street to Eighth Avenue and then north to 45th Street.
        The scene was, for many, the resolution of an act begun two years earlier in the same place, where they had come to say goodbye to Alan Jay Lerner, the lyricist with whom Mr. Loewe wrote the scores for ''Paint Your Wagon,'' ''Brigadoon,'' ''Camelot,'' ''Gigi'' and, of course, ''My Fair Lady.'' They were an audience devoted enough to reserve their warmest applause for Miss Andrews and keen enough to get the joke when she said: ''Hello, everyone. I'm Marni Nixon,'' naming the singer who dubbed Audrey Hepburn's voice for the songs in the film version of ''My Fair Lady.''
        ''Frederick Loewe combined the sentimental gemutlichkeit of his Viennese heritage with the sound of Broadway and Hollywood,'' said Morton Gould, the composer and president of the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers, which sponsored the tribute. Then Betty Buckley set a dauntingly high standard for the event with a torchy version of ''Almost Like Being in Love,'' from ''Brigadoon.''
        After Mr. Kiley sang ''They Call the Wind Maria,'' from ''Paint Your Wagon,'' Agnes de Mille said, ''I adore that song!'' Miss de Mille, who choreographed ''Brigadoon,'' called Mr. Loewe ''one of the great melodists of our time - not this time, but our time.''
        ''I don't think Fritz knew a thing about Gaelic or Celtic tunes; he despised them,'' she continued. ''But he liked their smell.''
        By the time ''Brigadoon'' got to Edinburgh, Miss de Mille said, ''They took him to their hairy bosoms.'' Viennese Roots Recalled
        Kitty Carlisle Hart, whose husband, Moss Hart, directed ''My Fair Lady'' and ''Camelot,'' remembered first meeting the composer when he was playing the piano in the orchestra of ''Champagne Sec,'' an adaptation of ''Die Fledermaus'' that marked her Broadway debut. Mr. Loewe's Viennese roots were recalled also by Skitch Henderson, who sat at the piano and played a spindly, music-box arrangement of ''I Could Have Danced All Night,'' from ''My Fair Lady.''
        There were contributions from Robert Goulet, who sang ''If Ever I Would Leave You,'' from ''Camelot,'' and Jack Jones, who sang ''On the Street Where You Live,'' from ''My Fair Lady.'' Rex Harrison sent a brief, videotaped message from London. Herman Levin, who produced ''My Fair Lady,'' called Mr. Loewe ''one of the last romantics,'' and the audience seemed to agree.
        The moments most felt were the last. Miss Andrews described Mr. Lerner, Mr. Loewe and Mr. Hart as ''my three giants,'' all now gone. Then she sang ''Say a Prayer for Me Tonight,'' originally written for her Liza Doolittle, but cut from ''My Fair Lady.'' ''To my amazement,'' she said, ''that song turned up on Leslie Caron's lips in 'Gigi.' '' Richard Harris explained that his journey to the Shubert had commenced 24 arduous hours earlier in England with a tribute to Mr. Lerner. Looking much the worse for wear but sounding fine, he closed the tribute with the title song from ''Camelot.''
      