
       James J. Comerford, a former Criminal Court judge who served as the chairman of the New York City St. Patrick's Day parade for 19 years, died of complications from diabetes yesterday at Our Lady of Mercy Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        James J. Comerford, a former Criminal Court judge who served as the chairman of the New York City St. Patrick's Day parade for 19 years, died of complications from diabetes yesterday at Our Lady of Mercy Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        An outspoken Irish nationalist and prominent in New York's Irish community, Judge Comerford served in New York City's Criminal Court of Special Sessions from 1960 until he retired in 1971. He was best known as the chairman of the city's St. Patrick's Day parade, which he ruled with a firm hand from 1965 through 1984.
        Although gregarious and jovial in private, friends described Judge Comerford as an iron-fisted administrator. ''He had another side to him, but it very seldom came out,'' said John Concannon, who worked with Judge Comerford on the parade committee. ''For most people this was a stern, tough man.'' Born on Family Farm
        Judge Comerford was born on New Year's Day, 1901, on his family's ancestral farm in Coolraheen, County Kilkenny, Ireland. He joined the Irish Republican Army in 1917, rose to the rank of captain and fought in 1920 and 1921 uprisings against the Black and Tans and British troops.
        In 1925, he emigrated to New York and worked at various jobs, including grocery clerk, window cleaner and shipping clerk, until 1934. Enrolling at Columbia University, he went to school during the day and worked at night as a change-maker for six years in the IND subway, eventually earning bachelor of science and master of arts degrees. He went on to receive a law degree from Fordham University.
        Mr. Comerford was appointed an assistant district attorney in Manhattan in 1947 and a justice in the Domestic Relations Court in 1953. Two years later, Mayor Robert F. Wagner named him to the Magistrates Court.
        The judge was also a member of the Ancient Order of Hibernians for 52 years and past president of the United Irish Counties Association.
        Judge Comerford is survived by two sisters and a brother in Ireland: Bridget Morrissey of Kilkenny City, Helen Brady of Leighlin and John Comerford of County Kilkenny. His wife of 44 years, Vera Carr Comerford, died in January 1984. The couple had no children.
        The funeral will be tomorrow at 10 A.M. at St. Philip Neri Roman Catholic Church at 3025 Grand Concourse, near 202d Street in the Bronx. Visiting hours will be from 2 to 5 P.M. and 7 to 10 P.M. today at John J. Fox & Sons Inc., at 203 East 201st Street in the Bronx.
      