
       Edgar Faure, one of the best-known French postwar politicians, died today, hospital officials said. He was 79 years old.
        Edgar Faure, one of the best-known French postwar politicians, died today, hospital officials said. He was 79 years old.
        Mr. Faure, who was twice Prime Minister and held eleven Cabinet posts in a political career that spanned more than 30 years, was hospitalized Feb. 22 because of intestinal disorders and underwent two operations.
        When he fell ill, Mr. Faure was in charge of the commission organizing official celebrations for next year to commemorate the 200th anniversary of the French Revolution.
        President Francois Mitterrand, describing Mr. Faure as one of the most powerful figures of the Fifth Republic, said, ''He was one of the most lucid in seeing the necessity of decolonization, encouraging disarmament and with installing better East-West relations.'' ---- Style of the Left Edgar Faure, a centrist whose social policies were in the style of the left, was one of the few prominent French politicians to serve in both the Fourth and Fifth Republics He was was born Aug. 18, 1908, in Beziers in southern France, where his father, a French Army physician, was stationed. As a boy, Edgar Faure studied hard to become a concert pianist like his sister.
        Mr. Faure took high honors at the Paris law school, from which he obtained a degree at 19. Beginning his career in Paris, he specialized in cases involving oil companies and soon had a lucrative practice. Early in World War II, he was a censor in the Havas news agency office and was in officer's training school when France capitulated. He was removed from training and resumed his law practice.
        When Germany threatened to overrun France in 1942, Mr. Faure and his family caught the last boat to Algiers, where he became director of legislative service in the provisional Government of Gen. Charles de Gaulle. After the Liberation, Mr. Faure was named an assistant to Champtier de Ribes, the French jurist representing his country at the trials of the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg. Elected to National Assembly
        After unsuccessfully seeking a seat in the Constitutent Assembly in 1946, Mr. Faure was elected to the first regular National Assembly later that year, and in 1947 he was named vice president of a legislative committee charged with determining war guilt in France between 1933 and 1945. Few results were obtained from the investigation because individual culpability was diluted in the mass of information. It was widely asserted that the committee had been formed to ''drown the fishes.''
        Mr. Faure attained full Cabinet rank in 1950 as Budget Minister. By 1954, he served either as Finance Minister or Minister of Justice in several moderate Governments.
        In January 1952, he put together a Government to replace the second Cabinet of Rene Pleven. Mr. Faure's Cabinet was derisively named by his opponents ''the Government of 40'' because it lasted 40 days, had 40 ministers and supposedly cost the treasury 40 billion francs.''
        Mr. Faure became Prime Minister for the second time when the Government of his friend Pierre Mendes-France fell in February 1955. The immediate priority of his second Government, the 21st of the Fourth Republic, was to push through the French Parliament accords providing for West German rearmament. This was an effort to ease a dispute with the Bonn Government over the Saar, which had been under French control since 1945, and to cut inflation. His Government lasted until 1956.  Among his policies in various Governments were efforts to lower interest levels and raise the lowest wage scales, and raise the standard of living by expanding the economy.
        In November 1958, Mr. Faure was defeated for re-election to the National Assembly. Contacts With China
        In the 1960's he undertook several diplomatic missions for President de Gaulle, including setting up diplomatic relations with China, which he had visited in 1946 at the invitation of Mao. He rejoined the Gaullist Government in the Fifth Republic as Minister of Agriculture between 1966 and 1968. His most challenging ministerial post, however, was when de Gaulle named him Education Minister after student riots that swept France in 1968 and nearly toppled the Government. He is credited with introducing the education reforms that eased the tensions.
        Since then, he had been active in dozens of groups and associations monitoring the environment, the development of various regions of France, international relations, and national study groups. He was elected member of the French Academy in June 1978.
        He refused to serve under Mr. Mitterrand after the Socialists took power in 1981, saying that the alliance of the Socialists with the Communists was unacceptable. But he accepted the job of organizing the celebrations of the revolution's 200th anniversary.
        He was a prolific writer of books on law, energy, history, politics and international relations. He also wrote thrillers under the pseudonym of Edgar Sanday.
        His first wife, Lucie Meyers, died. They had two daughters, Sylvie and Agnes. In 1980, Mr. Faure married Marie-Jeanne Vuez.
      