
        Kelvin J. Lancaster, whose theoretical writings reshaped the economics profession's ideas about trade, industrial structure and regulation, died on Friday at his home in New York City. He was 74.
        The cause was cancer, his son, Clifton, said.
        Mr. Lancaster made two powerful contributions to economic theory, and they were felt far beyond the world of theoreticians. He and R. G. Lipsey wrote an article for Review of Economic Studies (1956-57) that outlined ''The General Theory of Second Best.'' Before Mr. Lancaster, economists generally agreed that society's best option for consumers would be unregulated, perfect competitive markets -- which would drive prices to their bare minimum. That is why economists used to reflexively call for lifting tariffs or other barriers to free trade.
        But Mr. Lancaster asked a simple, if intellectually shattering, question: Is free trade for all goods still best in the face of market flaws somewhere in the economy? For example, what if strong unions drove up wages and prices in the domestic auto industry, causing production to fall below its ideal level?
        Mr. Lancaster's work showed that under these circumstances, a tariff on foreign cars could raise consumer demand for domestic cars, offsetting the depressive impact of unions on domestic production. Mr. Lancaster's point is that economists ought not jump to conclusions: when the best option -- perfect competition everywhere -- is impossible, society's second-best option might run counter to the economists' clarion calls for free trade and unfettered competition.
        Mr. Lancaster's elegantly analyzed proposition was that economists forever after needed to carefully determine what policies worked best in a world where some markets work well, but others work poorly. A colleague, Prof. Jagdish Bhagwati of Columbia University, said after Mr. Lancaster's death ''that economists constantly pay homage to Mr. Lancaster's insight, often prefacing a policy pronouncement with the reminder, 'In the world of the second best. . .' ''
        Mr. Lancaster's second major contribution was to revise the economic tool for analyzing consumer demand. Before him, economists studied the demand for a whole product -- how much consumers were willing to pay for bananas compared with apples. But Mr. Lancaster developed the theory for analyzing more basic preferences -- for something's underlying characteristics. For cars, that might require analyzing consumer demand for horsepower versus weight and fuel economy. That might seem an obvious way to analyze demand, but  Mr. Lancaster's theory paved the way for economists to tackle a surprising array of new problems.
        For example, classical theory held that countries would ordinarily trade with countries that looked like their opposites: The high-tech United States would export computers to the Third World in exchange for commodities like copper. But in fact the bulk of United States trade takes place with similarly industrialized places like Canada, Japan and Western Europe. Mr. Lancaster provided the ingredients for a potent explanation. Europe and the United States shipped cars back and forth because they specialized in cars with different characteristics.
        Only by breaking down the analysis of consumer demand into constituent characteristics, economists came to realize, could they understand something as basic as trade flows. Prof. James Heckman of the University of Chicago said ''Mr. Lancaster's theories have had a wide variety of applications, for example, giving companies a tool to analyze how consumers will react to the introduction of new goods -- goods that do not yet exist but that offer consumers bundles of characteristics whose demand can be studied on the basis of past purchasing patterns.''
        Mr. Lancaster was born in Sydney, Australia, and volunteered for the Royal Australian Air Force during World War II. He earned undergraduate degrees in English literature, geology and mathematics at Sydney University, and received his Ph.D. in economics from the University of London in 1958.
        Mr. Lancaster was the John Bates Clark Professor of Economics at Columbia University and served twice as the department's chairman. He was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and elected as a Distinguished Fellow of the American Economic Association.
        He is survived by his wife, Deborah Grunfeld Lancaster; two sons, Clifton, of Avon, Conn. and Gilead, of Redding, Conn., and five grandchildren.
        ''He was widely regarded as a potential recipient of the Nobel Prize,'' said Professor Bhagwati. ''He joins the list of extraordinary economists whom death deprived of this singular honor.''
      