
        Clarence L. Harris, whose contribution to the civil rights struggle of the 1960's was that he did nothing at all when four black college students held the first successful sit-in demonstration at a dime store lunch counter he managed, died on Monday in Greensboro, N.C. He was 94 and spent most of his life in Greensboro.
        By not serving the students at F. W. Woolworth & Company's store in Greensboro 39 years ago, but also by not calling the police to evict them, Mr. Harris, inadvertently presided at the start of a wave of newly effective protest. It quickly spread throughout the South, reinvigorating a movement that had temporarily stalled in its campaign against racial discrimination.
        The new strategy came about spontaneously when four freshmen at North Carolina Agricultural and Technical College in Greensboro held a campus bull session on Feb. 1, 1960, a Monday, and debated the usefulness of several types of protests.
        The four -- David Richmond, Franklin McCain, Ezell Blair Jr., and Joseph McNeil -- hit upon the idea of a lunch counter protest and goaded each other to act.
        ''We might as well go now,'' said one of the four, according to Taylor Branch's history, ''Parting of Waters, America in the King Years, 1954-63'' (Simon & Schuster, 1988).
        The four took up stools at the Woolworth's lunch counter, a popular eating place at the main crossroads in town, where blacks could order food to take out but were not permitted to sit down and eat alongside whites.
        A black waitress refused to take the students' order, but at Mr. Harris's instruction, no other action was taken. The students sat at the counter until the store closed, promising they would be back the next day. They returned with students from several black colleges in the area. The men and women spelled each other on the seats.
        By Wednesday, there were more than 80 participants, and by the end of the first week there were 200. National news organizations began to notice.
        Meanwhile, the Greensboro sit-in was being copied in many communities. With business owners hesitant to press charges in the hope of avoiding embarrassing publicity, the concept moved across state lines. By the end of February, protests were under way more than 30 other cities.
        The demonstration at the Greensboro Woolworth's continued for six months, until Mr. Harris and the store managers gave in and integrated the lunch counter.
        On the first anniversary of the Greensboro sit-in, The New York Times described the period that had had been touched off by the demonstration as a time of ''stand-ins at theaters, kneel-ins at churches and wade-ins at public beaches'' and declared that taken together, these activities assumed ''the proportions of a national movement.''
        In his history of the period, Mr. Branch noted that the success of the Greensboro sit-in and those that followed had been assured by the unanticipated response ''of Woolworth's white managers, who instead of threatening to have them arrested, foundered in confusion and embarrassment.
        ''For the black civil rights leadership, the surprise discovery of defensiveness within the segregated white world turned their fear into elation,'' he wrote.''
        Mr. Harris's view of the event was ambivalent. In an interview with a North Carolina newspaper last year, he said of the protesters, ''I was on their side.''
        On the other hand he also spoke of his bitterness about the incident.
        ''They cost me $150,000 in lost business,'' he said. ''Wound up I lost one-third of my profits, and I lost one-third of my salary. I resented it because I got no help from my company, I got no help from the city. I got no help from anybody.''
        Mr. Harris is survived by three daughters, Nancy Carlson of Concord, N.C., Carolyn Harris of New York City and Patty Barr of West End, N.C, and a sister, Laura Lupton of Raleigh.
      