
        Ronny Graham, an actor and writer who worked in theater and films and who was known for his frenetic pacing and ear-to-ear leer, died on Sunday at Century City Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 79 and lived in Los Angeles.
        The cause was complications from liver disease, his son Ronald Stringer said.
        Mr. Graham was a longtime associate of the writer and director Mel Brooks, whom he met while performing in Leonard Sillman's Broadway musical-comedy revue ''New Faces of 1952,'' for which they both wrote sketches.
        The show, which earned Mr. Graham a Tony Award, was adapted for the screen with much of its stellar cast in tow, among them Robert Clary, Paul Lynde, Alice Ghostley, Eartha Kitt and June Carroll. Mr. Graham later collaborated on several of Mr. Brooks's films, including ''The Inquisition'' and ''History of the World, Part I,'' as well as ''Spaceballs'' and ''To Be or Not to Be.''
        Born Ronald Montcrief Stringer in Philadelphia, Mr. Graham learned his craft by accompanying his parents, Florence Sweeney and Thomas Stringer, on the vaudeville circuit,  where they played as the comedy team Steve and Flo. As a boy, he developed an interest in jazz by listening to Fats Waller records, and by the time he left high school he had picked up enough piano by ear to play in several nonunion bands.
        In 1947 he began performing as a comedian in nightclubs in the Philadelphia area, using original material rich with innuendo and double-entendre. He made his New York debut two years later at Cafe Society Downtown in Greenwich Village.
        Tall, with saucer-shaped eyes, curly black hair and a gravel-edged voice, Mr. Graham preferred his humor pointed and topical. His act parodied subjects ranging from the titles of 1950's movies (''Quo Vadis/ That's what I said the night we met/ Quo Vadis/Means whither goest thou, my pet?'') to Freudian psychoanalysis to Truman Capote.
        In 1954 he appeared on Broadway  in ''The Tender Trap,'' with Kim Hunter and Robert Preston. He later turned to directing for the stage, including ''Grin and Bare It,'' a 1969 Broadway comedy about a family of nudists.
        Mr. Graham wrote episodes of the television series ''M*A*S*H,'' in which he sometimes appeared, and was a consulting writer on ''The Mary Tyler Moore Show.'' In the 1970's he was a guest on the ''Tonight'' show more than 60 times, usually performing updated renditions of his original routines.
        In addition to Mr. Stringer, of Los Angeles, he is survived by his wife, Pamela Gill; two other sons, Julian Graham of Bridgewater, Conn., and Hilmer Graham of Manhattan; two daughters, Nora Graham of East Norwalk, Conn., and Timothi Graham of Manhattan; two sisters, Edna Pastman of Burlington, N.J., and Annabelle McKenna of Philadelphia, and a granddaughter.
      