
        Dr. Edmund Klein, whose pioneering work on skin cancer was honored with a Clinical Research Award from the Albert and Mary Lasker Foundation in 1972, died on Saturday at Millard Fillmore Hospital in Buffalo. He was 77 and lived in Williamsville, N.Y., a Buffalo suburb.
        The causes were complications of  diabetes and congestive heart failure, his family said.
        One of Dr. Klein's early insights, that skin cancer could be treated externally, led him to cancer research in dermatology. With the advancing age of the population, he saw an increasing need for nonsurgical therapies of skin cancer arising commonly from long exposure to sunlight, and he became recognized for his work in applying drugs directly to  cancers and precancerous lesions.
        He also advanced the use of immunotherapy, in which the body's own defenses are alerted to fend off tumors. This involved the application of agents to stimulate the immune system and pointed the way toward the use of interferon and interleukins in today's cancer therapy.
        The Lasker Foundation honored him for developing the means of treating superficial cancers with a topical ointment containing potent anticancer chemicals. That type of treatment remains in use today, especially for premalignant growths.
        Dr. Klein found himself amid controversy in 1977, when he was interviewed by a Reader's Digest writer for an article about skin cancer in general and stated ''authoritatively'' that President Lyndon B. Johnson had been treated for it.
        Although President Johnson had died four years earlier, the report was considered significant, not so much because of the seriousness of the illness as because of the implication of secrecy previously surrounding the President's condition.
        But the Johnson family and White House doctors denied the report of skin cancer, although the removal of less serious spots from the President's skin was confirmed by his personal physician. Dr. Klein said he had based his remark on a phone call he had received from the Johnson White House, which, he said, had made a general inquiry about a possible treatment for skin cancer. He also said he had been authorized to disclose the condition by a Johnson family representative, whom he declined to identify.
        Dr. Klein was long associated with the School of Medicine at the State University of New York at Buffalo, where he was research professor of medical dermatology and experimental pathology, and with the Roswell Park Memorial Institute in Buffalo. He stepped down as the institute's chief of dermatology in 1982 to enter private practice but continued his association as a researcher.
        Edmund Klein was born in Vienna and, as a refugee from the Nazis, graduated in 1941 from the University of Toronto, where he received his M.D. in 1951. He became a Canadian citizen and finished his training at the Harvard University Laboratory for Physical Chemistry and at the Children's Cancer Research Foundation at Children's Hospital in Boston.
        After a time at Tufts University, he joined the staff at Roswell Park Memorial as chief of dermatology in 1961. SUNY Buffalo appointed him  an associate professor of experimental pathology the next year.
        Dr. Klein is survived by his wife of 48 years, Martha Doble Klein; two sons, Lawrence, of Columbia, S.C., and Peter, of Philadelphia; three daughters, Judith Augustino, Rene Rubino and Amy Szymoniak, all of Williamsville; a sister, Ruth Klein of London, and nine grandchildren.
      