
        Leslie Alexis Marchand, considered the leading authority on the poet Lord Byron, died on Sunday at his home in Englewood, Fla. He was 99.
        Mr. Marchand's lifelong pursuit of Byron, an elusive figure who described himself as ''being everything by turns and nothing long,'' began in 1935 while he researched his dissertation, ''The Athenaeum: A Mirror of Victorian Culture,'' a historical study of the British independent literary magazine for which he received a Ph.D. from Columbia University in 1940.
        While teaching a course in Romanticism at Rutgers University, whose faculty he had joined in 1937, Mr. Marchand recognized the need for a first-rate biography of Byron. In 1947, he embarked on what he called his ''Byron pilgrimage,'' journeying from the London offices of Sir John Murray, a descendant of Byron's publisher to Missolonghi in Greece, where Byron died in 1824, to Jannina, on the Albanian frontier, where Byron and his friend J. C. Hobhouse had visited the Turkish ruler Ali Pasha.
        ''Byron: A Biography'' was published in three volumes by Alfred A. Knopf in 1957. The result of more than a decade of research, the work totaled 1,264 pages, exclusive of notes and index.
        Louis Simpson of the Hudson Review called the work ''a triumph of scholarship, thorough, intelligent and impartial.'' W. H. Auden also praised it, writing in The New Yorker, ''the meticulous scholarship is there, all right, but Mr. Marchand has digested it, and despite an occasional ponderous phrase like ''his natatorial skill,'' his three volumes . . . are as fascinating to read as they are informative, and, as a biography of the poet, as nearly definitive as any such book can be.''
        The son of a French-speaking homesteader and his wife, Mr. Marchand was born in the small town of Bridgeport, Wash., near the Columbia River. He attended the University of Washington in Seattle, where he studied journalism. He enrolled at Columbia University in 1929.
        After retiring from Rutgers in 1966, Mr. Marchand set out to create a comprehensive collection of Byron's personal writings, to ''reproduce Byron's letters as they were written,'' he later wrote. This endeavor occupied him from 1968 to 1982 and resulted in the 12-volume ''Byron's Letters and Journals.''
        His collection included about 1,700 previously unpublished letters by Byron -- some 100 of which Mr. Marchand discovered -- and whenever possible supplied the passages that previous collections had deleted and corrected countless errors in dating. Moreover, after comparing more than 80 percent of the letters against their original manuscript versions, Mr. Marchand restored Byron's often idiosyncratic punctuation, spelling and capitalization.
        Mr. Marchand received two significant awards for his work, the James Russell Lowell Prize of the Modern Language Association in 1973 and the Ivan Sandrof Award of the National Book Critics Circle in 1982. The latter had been awarded only once before, to Flannery O'Connor.
        In 1994, Mr. Marchand published ''What Comes Uppermost,'' a supplemental volume of ''Byron's Letters and Journals'' that contained letters discovered since the completion of the original 12 volumes in 1982.
        He is survived by his wife, Marion, of Englewood, Fla.
        Asked in the 1980's what had aroused his interest in Byron and  sustained his studies for more than 40 years, Mr. Marchand replied: ''Byron is a fascinating character and I have never found him dull. I can read over his 'Don Juan' and his letters dozens of times without yawning. He was a superb letter writer, spontaneous, frank, self-honest and witty, and his sane and humane and tolerant view of the world is refreshing, when contrasted with so much cant and dishonesty and pretension. Byron speaks with the voice of the disillusioned modern world more than with that of the 19th century.''
      