
        Martin Agronsky, a veteran broadcast news correspondent who worked for all three major networks and PBS, died on Sunday at his home in Washington. He was 84.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son Jonathan.
        Mr. Agronsky helped develop one of the first news programs featuring  reporters talking among themselves rather than interviewing news makers, the ''talking heads'' format. The program, ''Agronsky & Company,'' nationally syndicated from 1969 to 1987, was consistently one of the top-rated weekend news programs and frequently attracted comments and complaints from Presidents and other top officials.
        Presidents Richard M. Nixon, Ronald Reagan and Jimmy Carter or their news secretaries often called Mr. Agronsky during the program.
        One notable exchange, Jonathan Agronsky said, took place during the Iran hostage crisis. The commentator George Will, a guest on the program, said ''the Iranians want to go back to the Dark Ages,'' adding, ''President Carter ought to help them by bombing out all their hydroelectric facilities.''
        President Carter later called Mr. Agronsky from Camp David, asking him -- and emphasizing with a four-letter word -- to tell Mr. Will that he would bomb the Iranians into submission as soon as Mr. Will exchanged places with the hostages.
        Martin Zama Agronsky was born in Philadelphia on Jan. 12, 1915, the son of immigrants from Minsk, Russia. He graduated from Rutgers University in 1936 and began his career as a reporter on The Palestine Post, an English-language daily newspaper published in Jerusalem and owned by his uncle. Shortly afterward, he started freelance writing in Europe, covering the final days of the Spanish Civil War for British and American newspapers.
        In 1940, Mr. Agronsky joined NBC as its Balkans correspondent, reporting on the British Army fighting the Wehrmacht in Libya.
        He rode along as Royal Air Force bombers flew missions over Italy. In the Far East, he took the last plane out of Singapore before the Japanese arrived.
        In 1943, Mr. Agronsky joined ABC as its Washington correspondent, a job he held until he rejoined NBC in 1957. In the early 1960's, preparing to be the first news team to submerge in a Polaris submarine, he and his camera crew had to make practice ascents in a 60-foot water tower in preparation for possible emergencies.
        Mr. Agronsky worked for CBS from 1964, first in Washington and then in Paris, until 1968.
        In 1952, he won a George Foster Peabody Award for his radio coverage of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy. In 1961, he received the Alfred I. duPont Award for his coverage of what he considered his most important story, the trial in Jerusalem of the Nazi war criminal Adolf Eichmann.
        Mr. Agronsky's first wife, the former Helen Smathers, died in 1969. His second marriage, to Sharon Agronsky, ended in divorce.
        In addition to his son Jonathan, of Washington, he is survived by his children from his first marriage, Marcia Agronsky of Fort Worth, David Agronsky of Alexandria and Julie Romansky of Lexington, Mass.; a daughter from his second marriage, Rachel Agronsky of New York, and four grandchildren.
      