
        Benedict Wolf, a New York lawyer and veteran mediator who served on the original Federal labor board, died on Friday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 94.
        Mr. Wolf was summoned to Washington from his private New York practice in 1933 to become executive officer of a newly formed National Labor Board. Under the chairmanship of Senator Robert F. Wagner, it brought together representatives of business and labor unions to settle disputes, and Mr. Wolf acted as Mr. Wagner's legal assistant.
        Mr. Wolf, a Democrat, was a principal architect of President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal legislation. His interest in protecting working people from unfair labor practices during the Depression led to the formation in 1935 of a more structured National Labor Relations Board with branches around the country.
        One of Mr. Wolf's final tasks with the earlier board took him back to New York, where 200,000 elevator operators and building-service employees were preparing to strike in February 1935. Foreseeing health hazards and a crippled economy, Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia marshaled the Police and Fire Departments to keep the city moving, but negotiators, including Mr. Wolf, narrowly averted the walkout in a long night of contract bargaining.
        Mr. Wolf became the executive secretary and chief trial examiner of the new labor board. He oversaw the board's administrative and field staffs and kept close contact with its 22 regional boards.
        The system was functioning in the uncharted territory of a new law, the Labor Relations Act, and Mr. Wolf traveled coast to coast to see that the board was working as intended. He organized and oversaw a staff of trial examiners who fanned out across the country to conduct hearings when violations of the act were alleged. He regularly reported to the members of the board about its operations and the affairs of the regional branches.
        He returned to private practice in 1937 but kept up his role as an independent labor mediator and arbitrator for several more years and later served on the New York State Mediation Board.
        Benedict Wolf, a native of Wood ridge, N. Y., was a 1925 graduate of City College, where he played football and contributed to its literary magazine. While at Columbia Law School, he also pursued a master of arts program and received degrees in law and English literature in 1928.
        In 1945 he was a founder of what is now the Manhattan firm of Wolf Popper, to which he remained of counsel.
        Mr. Wolf's wife, Miriam Jacobi Wolf, died in 1995 after 67 years of marriage. He is survived by his daughter, Dr. Deborah W. Tanzer, and three grandsons.
      