
        Frank M. Johnson Jr., the legendary Federal jurist from Alabama whose historic civil rights decisions led to ostracism, cross-burnings and death threats but helped to change the face of the segregationist South in the 1950's and 1960's, died yesterday. He was 80.
        Judge Johnson fell last week and was hospitalized in Montgomery, Ala., but had returned home. He developed pneumonia, and died at home, said Wayne Greenhaw, a former reporter and a friend of the family. Burial will be on Tuesday in Haleyville, Ala.
        The judge set standards in the South and often in the nation on voting rights, employment discrimination, affirmative action, the rights of mental patients to adequate care, and prison inmates to protection from inhuman conditions. But it was his knell for Jim Crow that was revered and reviled.
        For anyone old enough to remember, the terrible images are indelible: the lynched black men, the firebombed churches, crowds shrieking hatred, a skirmish line of deputies on the Pettus Bridge in Selma, Ala., peaceful marchers attacked with cattle prods and snarling police dogs in Birmingham, and a defiant Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama vowing to stand in the schoolhouse door to bar black children.
        In that turbulent era, with the national conscience tottering and a few courageous men and women asking Americans to decide what kind of people they wanted to be, Judge Johnson loomed as a towering figure -- an uncompromising defender of civil liberties who came to be known as the Federal judiciary's most influential, innovative and controversial trial jurist.
        He was appointed by President Dwight D. Eisenhower a year after the Supreme Court's school-desegregation decision, Brown v. Board of Education. Judge Johnson, a Republican in the Democratic South, arrived on the bench in Montgomery, Ala., on Nov. 7, 1955, just as the storm of the civil rights movement was about to break.
        Three weeks later, on Dec. 1, Rosa Parks, a black seamstress, refused to give up her seat on a Montgomery bus to a white rider, as required by city law. Her arrest prompted a bus boycott led by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., a 26-year-old minister who had just moved to Montgomery for his first pastorate.
        Judge Johnson's first major ruling was to join the majority on a three-judge panel that struck down the Montgomery bus-segregation law as unconstitutional, applying the principle of Brown v. Board of Education: that separate but equal facilities were inherent violations of the due process and equal-protection clauses of the 14th Amendment. He would use that reasoning again and again to create a broad mandate for racial justice in Alabama and across the South.
        Many Crucial Decisions In Career on Two Courts
        In a career that spanned almost four decades -- 24 years in Federal District Court in Alabama and 13 years on an appeals court with wide jurisdiction in the South -- Judge Johnson ordered the desegregation of public schools and colleges, parks, libraries, museums, depots, airports, restaurants, restrooms and other public places, as well as the Alabama State Police.
        In 1965 he issued another historic order that allowed Dr. King to lead a 52-mile march from Selma to Montgomery to protest the denial of black voting rights. He did so after Alabama troopers clubbed marchers and used tear gas in a spectacle witnessed on television by a horrified nation, and after President Lyndon B. Johnson federalized the Alabama National Guard to protect the marchers.
        When state courts failed to act forcefully to end racial violence -- as in the case of Viola Liuzzo, a white civil rights worker from Detroit who was shot to death while riding in a car with a black man -- Judge Johnson sent the killers to jail on Federal civil rights charges.
        His justice was often innovative, even in minor cases. In one case, theft charges were brought against a white man and four black men that he had hired to help him steal peanuts from a Federal warehouse. The jury acquitted the white man but convicted the blacks. Judge Johnson, poker faced, sentenced the black men to 30 minutes in custody.
        The judge's decisions were legion: He cleared the way for registering black voters, outlawed poll taxes, struck down state laws barring blacks and women from jury service, expanded the right of the poor to court-appointed lawyers, and issued the first court order for legislative reapportionment in the nation's history, anticipating the Supreme Court's one-man, one-vote rule.
        In a landmark decision, Judge Johnson ordered Alabama to overhaul its crowded, understaffed mental hospitals, and detailed the rights of patients to decent care. Later, he found barbarous conditions in Alabama's prisons and threatened to close them unless they were made habitable and safe for inmates.
        The judge's voluminous, well-researched opinions often spelled out detailed standards for his reforms, and in some desegregation and discrimination cases laid out specific quotas, timetables and goals that he called ''affirmative action.'' He also appointed overseers to enforce such orders.
        To many fellow white Alabama residents, he was a traitor. To segregationists, he became a despised symbol of Federal usurpation of states' rights. There were mountains of hate mail and scores of threatening telephone calls. Crosses were burned on his lawn twice. His mother's home was firebombed, although she was not hurt. For nearly two decades, Federal marshals protected the judge and his family.
        Upstaged and outmaneuvered, Governor Wallace, who had been a law school classmate of Judge Johnson's at the University of Alabama, called him an ''integratin', carpetbaggin', scalawaggin', baldfaced liar,'' and charged that he was trying to take over the executive powers of the Governor.
        Name-calling aside, a national debate developed on whether unelected Federal judges were intruding too much in state affairs and assuming too many state and local powers. With Johnson appointees overseeing Alabama schools, prisons, mental hospitals and elections, the news media began calling the judge the real governor; some even said his rule was preferable to that of Mr. Wallace.
        Judge Johnson insisted that he had intervened only when state and local officials failed to perform their constitutional duties. ''My basic philosophy as a trial judge and as an appellate judge is to follow the law and the facts without regard to the consequences,'' he said once in a rare interview.
        And to many, Judge Johnson was a hero. Dr. King called him a jurist who had ''given true meaning to the word 'justice.' '' Time magazine put his portrait on its cover in 1967 and called him ''one of the most important men in America.'' In 1980, Bill Moyers devoted two installments of his television program ''Bill Moyers' Journal'' to the judge, and said he had ''altered forever the face of the South,'' and ''earned an enduring place in our history for his courage and wisdom.''
        In 1977, President Jimmy Carter nominated Judge Johnson to be Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The move was widely acclaimed, but the judge withdrew after undergoing heart surgery and facing a long recuperation. Two years later, Mr. Carter named him to a seat on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.
        In 1995, three years after Judge Johnson shifted to senior judge status, President Clinton awarded him the Presidential Medal of Freedom, saying that his ''unwavering commitment to equality under law helped dismantle segregation and bring our nation closer to the ideals upon which it was founded.''
        A Fierce Independence Traced to Country Roots
        A stern, forbidding figure on the bench, Judge Johnson -- tall, gaunt, with chiseled Lincolnesque features -- never raised his voice in court, and resisted wearing a black robe and did not use a gavel, saying he did not need such symbols of authority. He usually worked 11-hour days. Peering over half-spectacles, the judge, as one lawyer put it, ''looked at you like he was aiming down a rifle barrel.'' But almost every lawyer who tried a case before him attested to his fairness.
        Away from court the judge drank bourbon, chewed tobacco, went fishing and played golf, usually at an Air Force base rather than a country club where he had been shunned. Invitations to dinner were rare; there were snubs in church and on the street. But he seemed untroubled by Montgomery's ostracism. He retained a few close friends, including law clerks, and with a mischievous grin and a gravely drawl, he regaled them with the down-home wit of a back-country storyteller.
        Frank Minis Johnson Jr. was a back-country boy, and it explained a great deal about his fierce independence and stoicism. He was born in the small town of Haleyville on Oct. 30, 1918, the oldest of seven children of Frank and Alabama Long Johnson, who were farmers and teachers. His father later was a probate judge and became the only Republican in the Alabama Legislature.
        The Johnson roots were in Winston County, in the remote hills of northwest Alabama. Long a Republican stronghold, the county rejected slavery and tried to secede from the state after Alabama left the Union in 1861. Styling itself the ''Free State of Winston,'' it tried to remain neutral in the Civil War, and eventually sent more men to fight for the Union than for the Confederacy.
        Judge Johnson went to grade school and his first years of high school in Haleyville, but helped by his parents' suggestion, he entered the Gulf Coast Military Academy in Gulfport, Miss. After graduating in 1936, he worked for a year as a surveyor and married Ruth Jenkins of Winston County. He then attended a state college and a business school in Birmingham, studying accounting and bookkeeping, before enrolling at the University of Alabama as a junior in a pre-law program.
        His wife also was a student at the university, and after graduating she helped to put him through the university's law school by teaching speech therapy in a high school. One of her students was Lurleen Burns, who later married George Wallace and served as Governor when term limits barred him from seeking re-election. Judge Johnson, who recalled Mr. Wallace as the most politically ambitious of his classmates, graduated at the top of his law school class in 1943.
        He joined the Army as a private later that year, was commissioned as an infantry lieutenant and won a Bronze Star in the Normandy invasion as a platoon leader in Gen. George S. Patton's Third Army. Wounded twice in battle, he finished the war as a legal officer in England and was mustered out as a captain.
        Back home in Alabama, he settled in Jasper, went into law practice and soon had a reputation as an excellent criminal defense lawyer. He also got involved in Republican politics. By 1952, he headed the Alabama Veterans for Eisenhower and became a state campaign manager in General Eisenhower's winning Presidential race.
        His reward was an appointment in 1953 as the United States Attorney for Northern Alabama. He quickly established an impressive record, winning a peonage conviction, for example, against two white planters who had bribed Mississippi jailers to bind over black prisoners to work for them.
        Two years later he was appointed Federal District Judge for Middle Alabama, a lifetime post. At the age of 37 he was the youngest member of the Federal judiciary and one of a small group of Southern judges -- Elbert P. Tuttle, John Minor Wisdom and J. Skelly Wright, among them -- who had been backed by Eisenhower's campaign manager and Attorney General, Herbert Brownell. Fair, strong-willed, independent and sensitive to civil rights issues, these men played major roles in the social and political transformation of the segregationist South.
        Judge Johnson moved into a Spartan courtroom on the second floor of the post office in Montgomery, a Federal outpost that flew the Stars and Stripes rather than the Stars and Bars that topped the Statehouse seven blocks away. It was to be his court for the next 24 years.
        Unlike higher court colleagues, Federal district judges are usually part of the local scene: their appointments traceable to community involvement and local politics, their professional and social lives intertwined with the local power structure. But to Montgomery, Judge Johnson was an outsider, a Republican from upstate Alabama who was out of step with old-boy traditions. And he was to remain so.
        His first big case was the challenge to Montgomery's bus segregation law, set off by Rosa Parks. Joining Judge Richard T. Rives in a majority opinion, Judge Johnson struck down the law as a violation of constitutional rights to due process and equal protection, and cited the Supreme Court's 1954 ban on school segregation.
        More than a vindication of Dr. King's bus boycott, it was the first time that the Brown ruling had been applied to a nonschool case, and it cleared the way for the eventual desegregation of public services across the South. It also became a key to Judge Johnson's judicial development: if a right applied in one area, he could apply it in another.
        Over the next 20 years, as the civil rights struggle unfolded, Judge Johnson -- alone or as part of three-judge panels -- desegregated schools, parks, depots, airports, museums, libraries, restaurants, restrooms and other public places and services. In many of the decisions, his chief opponent was Mr. Wallace, who became an Alabama state judge in 1958 and Governor in 1962.
        They collided first in 1959, when Mr. Wallace impounded records to impede black voter registration. The records had been subpoenaed by the Federal Civil Rights Commission, and Judge Johnson threatened to hold the Governor in contempt unless he released them. Mr. Wallace complied, but in a roundabout way that enabled him to remain publicly defiant.
        In 1961, Judge Johnson found a pattern of deliberate discrimination -- trick tests and acts of intimidation -- against blacks in Alabama voter registration. His remedy was to order the registration of any black who measured up to the ''least qualified white.'' The formula became standard in voting cases in the South and was incorporated by Congress into the Voting Rights Act of 1965.
        Removing other barriers to voting by blacks, Judge Johnson abolished Alabama's poll tax, and in 1962 was one of three judges who ordered the state Legislature reapportioned on a population rather than geographic basis. It was the first order of its kind.
        Wallace Bans a March, But the Judge Acts Again
        In 1965, Judge Johnson and Governor Wallace faced off again as thousands of civil rights marchers led by Dr. King descended on Selma for a protest march to Montgomery. Mr. Wallace banned the march as a peril to public safety and, in scenes televised to the nation, deputies at the Pettus Bridge attacked marchers with clubs, tear gas and electric-shock cattle prods.
        The judge ordered both sides to stand down, then pondered whether to let the march proceed. The risks were high; Mr. Wallace would not guarantee protection. But after the National Guard was federalized, Judge Johnson gave the go-ahead, calling the right to march ''commensurate with the enormity of the wrongs that are being protested.'' He added, ''In this case, the wrongs are enormous.''
        It was a peaceful march, but the next day one participant, Viola Liuzzo, was shot and killed. In the ensuing criminal trial, a Lowndes County jury acquitted three Ku Klux Klansmen, even though an F.B.I. informer testified that he saw one defendant commit the murder.
        The men were later tried on Federal charges of violating the slain woman's civil rights. When the jury declared itself deadlocked, Judge Johnson, speaking carefully to avoid a mistrial, exhorted it to try again, saying the evidence could not be clearer nor the jurors more intelligent and impartial. The men were then convicted and the judge sentenced them to the maximum term of 10 years in prison.
        The Alabama State Police never had a black trooper until 1972, when Judge Johnson ordered an end to ''blatant and continuous discrimination'' and told the state to hire equal numbers of blacks and whites until blacks made up a quarter of the 650-member force.
        But some of Judge Johnson's most important decisions did not involve race. In 1971, he found horrific conditions in Alabama's mental hospitals: thousands of warehoused, tranquilized patients, poorly fed, unbathed for days, living in reeking, overcrowded quarters, and no semblance of treatment. His sweeping changes detailed precise goals for care and treatment, including staff-patient ratios, and over the next six years he forced mental health budget increases, from $16 million to $86 million.
        In 1974, he ruled that 14 residents of an Alabama school for the mentally ill had been sterilized in violation of their constitutional rights in the previous decade. He issued strict guidelines for such sterilizations, including court approval after hearings in which incompetent people were represented by lawyers.
        In 1976, Judge Johnson found Alabama's prisons unfit for habitation, with inmates packed into unventilated cells, exposed to filth and rampant violence and deprived of adequate food, sanitation and medical care. ''The state has a right to convict people for criminal offenses and send them to the penitentiary, but they were not sent there to be killed through starvation,'' he said.
        The judge ordered broad changes that included ''three wholesome and nutritious meals a day,'' ''a bed off the floor,'' and ''one toilet per 15 inmates.'' Mr. Wallace complained that the reforms were creating a ''hotel atmosphere'' in the prisons, but the judge retorted: ''The elimination of conditions that will permit maggots in a patient's wounds for over a month before his death does not constitute the creation of a hotel atmosphere.''
        When Alabama officials failed to carry out the changes, Judge Johnson appointed a receiver to operate the prisons, and by the 1980's visitors reported dramatic improvements in sanitation, inmate education and professional standards.
        After recovering from the heart surgery that forced him to withdraw as the nominee to head the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Judge Johnson returned to the bench. In a widely noted 1978 case, he ruled that Alabama State University had discriminated against whites in its hiring practices. It was the first time a Federal court had found a black institution guilty of bias against whites.
        When he was elevated by Mr. Carter to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in Atlanta, he had jurisdiction in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. After a court reorganization, he later sat on the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, which comprised Alabama, Florida and Georgia.
        As an appellate jurist, he placed Alabama's mental health system under a receivership after concluding that the state had failed to comply with his orders. He also joined a decision that extended constitutional protections to illegal aliens, overturning $1,000 tuition fees imposed on each undocumented child by the school board in Tyler, Tex.
        Judge Johnson also joined in reversing a lower court that had banned 44 textbooks from Alabama public schools in a suit by fundamentalist Christians, who contended that they promoted a godless, secular humanism. The textbooks -- in history, social studies and even home economics -- endorsed no views but tolerance, self-respect, maturity and self-reliance, he found.
        First Person to Win Thurgood Marshall Honor
        The judge, who stepped down in 1992, received the American Bar Association's first Thurgood Marshall Award in 1993, as the person ''who most exemplifies Justice Marshall's spirit on behalf of protecting civil rights.'' In Montgomery, where Judge Johnson was once a pariah, the Federal courthouse was named in his honor.
        In a 1989 address, Judge Johnson reflected on an era that had changed the South. ''The civilizing function of a judge has been defined, I think, as 'the removal of a sense of injustice,' '' he said. ''I have come to the firm conclusion that the American people revere the concept of justice, and their conscience tells them to obey the law once they understand what it is.''
        The judge is survived by his wife, whom he married in 1938; a brother, James Noel Johnson, of Montgomery, and two sisters, Ellen Ruth Harvill of Montgomery and Mary Ann Bates of York, Ala.
        He was the subject of three biographies. They are ''Taming the Storm: The Life and Times of Frank M. Johnson Jr. and the South's Fight Over Civil Rights,'' by Jack Bass (Doubleday, 1993); ''Judge Frank Johnson and Human Rights in Alabama,'' by Tinsley E. Yarbrough (University of Alabama Press, 1981), and ''Judge Frank M. Johnson Jr.: A Biography,'' by Robert F. Kennedy Jr. (Putnam, 1978).
        Mr. Kennedy, whose father was assassinated in 1968, went to Montgomery in 1977 to write about Mr. Wallace, but switched subjects and during a year in Alabama developed a close relationship with Frank and Ruth Johnson, whose adopted son, Johnny, had died in 1975 at the age of 28.
        ''I was awestruck,'' Mr. Kennedy said. ''Here was a man who utterly vindicated my family's central notion that a single man can make a difference.''
        Correction:  August 28, 1999, Saturday  An obituary on July 24 about Judge Frank M. Johnson Jr. of Alabama, whose decisions helped to desegregate the South, misstated the sequence of events in a face-off with Governor George C. Wallace in 1965. Judge Johnson's order permitting a civil rights march came before President Lyndon B. Johnson federalized the National Guard, not afterward.
        The article also referred incorrectly to Birmingham-Southern College, which Judge Johnson attended before the University of Alabama. It is private, not a state college.
        The obituary also misstated the source of J. Skelly Wright's judicial appointment. A Democrat, he was a Truman appointee, not one of several judges backed by Herbert Brownell, who was President Eisenhower's Attorney General.
      