
        Daniel H. H. Ingalls, an impassioned scholar of the ancient Indian language Sanskrit and a longtime professor at Harvard University, died on Saturday at Bath County Community Hospital in Hot Springs, Va. He was 83 and lived in Hot Springs.
        Professor Ingalls, an expert on Sanskrit literature and Indian history and philosophy, retired as the Wales Professor of Sanskrit in 1983 after 35 years as a professor at Harvard.
        He was also chairman of the department of Sanskrit and Indian studies and president of the American Oriental Society.
        He won praise for his translation and commentary in ''An Anthology of Sanskrit Court Poetry'' (Harvard University Press, 1965). The book contains some 1,700 Sanskrit verses collected by a Buddhist abbot, Vidyakara, in Bengal around A.D. 1050.
        In the book Professor Ingalls compares the impersonality of Sanskrit poetry with the predominantly personal poetry of the West. He cites these lines:
        They lay upon the bed each turned aside and suffering in silence;
        though love still dwelt within their hearts each feared a loss of pride.
        But then from out the corner of their eyes the sidelong glances met
        and the quarrel broke in laughter as they turned and clasped each other's neck.
        Professor Ingalls wrote that ''Half the charm of the verse lies in the anonymity of the lovers,'' and that Vidyakara had furnished him with ''the happiest hours of labor that I have yet known.''
        He served as chairman of Virginia Hot Springs Inc. from 1963 until his death. Its holdings formerly included the Homestead resort in Hot Springs, which had been bought in the 1890's by Mr. Ingalls's grandfather Melville Ezra Ingalls, president of the Chesapeake & Ohio Railroad.
        A native New Yorker, he received bachelor's and master's degrees from Harvard and was an Army officer in World War II.
        He married Phyllis Sarah Day in 1936 and she died in 1982.
        Surviving are his wife, Joanne; two daughters, Sarah Daughn of Providence, R.I., and Rachel Holmes Ingalls of London; a son, Daniel H. H. Jr. of Truckee, Calif.; five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      