
        Abelardo Diaz Alfaro, whose short stories gave voice to Puerto Ricans' quest for identity, died on Thursday at his home in Guaynabo, a suburb of San Juan. He was 81.
        The cause was complications from repeated strokes, said his wife, Gladys Meaux de Diaz Alfaro.
        ''He was an extraordinarily important writer because he did not seek international fame but concentrated on the rural people of Puerto Rico,'' said Edgar Correa, a spokesman for the Institute of Puerto Rican Culture.
        ''He celebrated the jibaro, or country folk, in his work,'' Mr. Correa  added.
        Throughout his life, Mr. Diaz published thousands of short stories and radio and television scripts, first winning international recognition in 1947 with ''Terraza'' (''Terrace''), a collection of stories based on popular tradition and culture.
        In one of his best known tales, ''El Josco'' (''The Swarthy One''), two neighbors acquire an American bull to displace a Puerto Rican bull on their pasture. The two bulls start to fight. The Puerto Rican bull injures the American one, but ultimately the American bull triumphs and the Puerto Rican bull dejectedly plunges from a mountaintop to its death. The conflict was seen as a metaphor for the territory's often painful relationship with the United States.
        Other stories examined the relationship with humor. In ''Santa Clo' Va a la Cuchilla'' (''Santa Claus Comes to Cuchilla''), a teacher at a rural Puerto Rican school decides to introduce his students to the American Christmas tradition. When he appears dressed in red and bellowing ''Ho! Ho!'' the children run away screaming, thinking they have seen the devil.
        In 1998 Mr. Diaz published an article in Cultura, the magazine of the Institute of Puerto Rican Culture, about why he, like many Latin Americans, cared more deeply for the Three Kings (who are celebrated on Jan. 6 on Three Kings Day) than for Santa Claus.
        ''I love them because they are in my tradition, in my blood and, above all, because I was a poor child,'' he wrote.
        He added that he could more readily identify with a king, one of whom was Moorish and dark-skinned, than with Santa Claus, who was usually represented as white, dressed in heavy winter clothes and with a bright white cotton beard.
        Some of Mr. Diaz's stories are required reading in Puerto Rican schools, and ''Terrazo'' has been translated into 10 languages.
        Mr. Diaz was born on July 24, 1917,  in Caguas, P.R., the son of a local minister and journalist and a schoolteacher. He dropped out of two grade schools before graduating from a third. The criticism he received from his teachers about his poor academic performance, Mr. Diaz told interviewers, gave rise to a rebellious nature.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Diaz is survived by two daughters, Dalia, of Levittown, San Juan, and Nannette, of Gurabo, P.R., and a son, Abelardo, of Guaynabo.
        Over 37 years Mr. Diaz wrote thousands of skits and stories for Puerto Rico's Government-supported radio and television. His television program ''Stories of Don Abelardo'' won many awards, including the Puerto Rican Government's Medal for Cultural Achievement in 1997.
      