
        Sola Sierra, who campaigned to bring to justice those responsible for the death of her husband and hundreds of other Chilean dissidents during the dictatorship of Gen. Augusto Pinochet, died on July 1 at a hospital in Santiago, Chile, where she lived. She was 63.
        She died of a heart attack during surgery for a back injury suffered in a fall several months ago, according to Jim Foster, a spokesman with the United States Embassy in Santiago.
        Mrs. Sierra spent 23 years doing human rights work in Chile after her husband disappeared in 1976. Carlos Salinas, a spokesman for Amnesty International in Washington, said,  ''Anyone who was involved in human rights work at that time in Chile, especially taking the lead, was courageous.''
        In 1984 she became president of the Association of Relatives of the Detained-Disappeared, an organization that seeks an accounting of those who vanished under General Pinochet and prosecution of those involved in their deaths.
        In the past year, she led protests in London in support of General Pinochet's house arrest there on a Spanish extradition warrant. An extradition hearing is scheduled for Sept. 27. The general, now 83, is charged with ordering torture and other crimes during his years in power, from 1973 to 1990.
        ''The most important thing, the most crucial thing, was her perseverance, her unwavering dedication to this cause,'' said Apolonia Ramirez Caballero, who from 1976 to 1981 was one of the coordinators of the Association of Relatives of the Detained-Disappeared.
        Mrs. Sierra was born on Dec. 1, 1935, in Santiago and grew up in poverty, leaving school in her teens to help support her family. She worked for several years as a community worker for the Ministry of Social Development and Planning. She married Waldo Pizarro in 1962 and settled into a life as a working-class wife and, later, mother of three children.
        In 1973, in a right-wing coup backed by the American Government, General Pinochet overthrew the Government of Salvador Allende Gossens, a democratically elected Marxist. And on Dec. 15, 1976, Mr. Pizarro, a Communist and labor activist, disappeared. It is presumed that he was taken prisoner and killed by agents from the DINA, a secret police run by the Chilean armed forces.
        More than 1,100 Chileans who disappeared under General Pinochet are still unaccounted for.
        Two days after Mr. Pizarro vanished, Mrs. Sierra and her children moved in with a sister, Adrina Sierra, whose support allowed her the time to search for her husband and work with the Association for the Relatives of the Detained-Disappeared.
        In addition to her sister, Mrs. Sierra is survived by her son, Waldo Pizarro Jr. of Santiago; two daughters, Lenia Pizarro and Lorena Pizarro, both of Santiago, and eight other brothers and sisters.
        Mrs. Sierra was often seen at human rights demonstrations in Chile, a black-and-white photograph of Mr. Pizarro hanging around her neck.
        Over the years, the group she led discovered about 180 bodies of Pinochet prisoners, but no one has been convicted in connection with the deaths and disappearances. Since 1978, an amnesty has given members of the DINA and military leaders immunity from prosecution .
        Mrs. Sierra was uncompromising in seeking not only the fate and bodies of the disappeared but also the revocation of the amnesty.
        Mrs. Sierra was both a sympathetic and controversial figure in Chile, where many would prefer to forget about the dark side of General Pinochet's rule. Prominent foreign visitors, however, eagerly met with her. The rock star Sting wrote a song about her organization called ''They Dance Alone.''
        The current democratic Government in Chile issued a statement mourning Ms. Sierra's death.
        Secretary General Carlos Mladinic, who represented the Government at her funeral, said he understood the pain she must have felt. ''Unfortunately, people continue dying in Chile without knowing the truth,'' Mr. Mladinic said. 'I hope that in the near future this pain will end.''
      