
        Ronald N. Yurcak, a pioneering junk bond trader at Salomon Brothers who later worked closely with Michael R. Milken during Drexel Burnham Lambert's heyday in the late 1980's, died Tuesday. He was 57.
        Mr. Yurcak suffered a heart attack in his car after jogging near his home in Far Hills, N.J., his wife, Marilyn Chin, said.
        Mr. Yurcak attended Rutgers University on an athletic scholarship and was an all-American lacrosse player; he graduated in 1965. He was an Air Force captain and a navigator in the Vietnam War and won the Silver Star, the Distinguished Flying Cross and other medals.
        Impressed with his military background, Ross Perot, the founder of the Electronic Data Systems Corporation, the computer-services company in Dallas, hired Mr. Yurcak in 1971 as a systems engineer. Mr. Yurcak also worked as Mr. Perot's personal assistant and in the brokerage subsidiary of E.D.S. He later moved to Kidder Peabody & Company and to Merrill Lynch & Company.
        In 1977, Mr. Yurcak went to Salomon Brothers, where he started and managed the high-yield bond trading and sales department.
        ''He was instrumental in moving Salomon into this area,'' Mr. Milken said, ''and this was a significant achievement because Salomon was known for its high-quality bonds, and it was a big culture change.''
        In 1985, Mr. Yurcak moved to Drexel Burnham Lambert in Beverly Hills, Calif., where Mr. Milken had moved the firm's junk bond operations, which he headed.
        There Mr. Yurcak was one of eight traders who sat at the office's X-shaped desks, buying and selling billions in junk bonds, which are debt securities issued by corporations with poor credit ratings.
        After the collapse of Drexel Burnham Lambert, Mr. Yurcak went to work for a succession of financial companies in the United States and in Hong Kong: Greenwich Capital Markets, Paine Webber, NJP Services and most recently Miller Tabak Hirsch.
        An active alumnus of Rutgers, he was named two weeks ago to the Rutgers University Foundation Board of Overseers. He also helped build its soccer and lacrosse field, which was named the Ronald N. Yurcak Field in 1994.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Yurcak is survived by his mother, Pauline Yurcak of Edison, N.J., and two daughters, Jennifer Yurcak and Patricia Jessica Yurcak, who uses the name P. J., both of Far Hills.
      