
        Guy Mitchell, the jocular pop crooner of lightweight songs who epitomized the clean-cut boy next door in the early 1950's, died on Thursday at Desert Springs Hospital in Las Vegas, Nev. He was 72 and lived in Las Vegas.
        The cause was complications following surgery, said his wife, Betty Mitchell.
        Between 1950 and 1960 Mr. Mitchell had nearly 40 hit records, most of them novelties, folk tunes and country songs, all under the aegis of the Columbia Records producer Mitch Miller. In 1956 Mr. Mitchell's cover version of Marty Robbins's country hit ''Singing the Blues'' was the No. 1 pop single for a near record-breaking 10 weeks.
        The son of immigrants from Yugoslavia, Mr. Mitchell was born Al Cernick in Detroit. When he was 11, his family moved to Los Angeles where he auditioned for Warner Brothers; the company groomed him to be a child star. But his film career was delayed when the family moved to San Francisco, where Mitchell appeared regularly on the radio shows of Dude Martin, a country singer.
        In 1947 he became a vocalist with Carmen Cavallero's orchestra with which he made his first recordings for Decca. In 1949 he won ''Arthur Godfrey's Talent Scouts'' as a soloist. When Frank Sinatra refused to record two songs for Columbia Records while the band was waiting in the studio, Mr. Miller, who had heard Mitchell sing on demonstration records, called him in as a last-minute substitute. Those two songs, ''My Heart Cries for You'' (a soupy adaptation of an 18-century French ballad, ''Chanson de Marie-Antoinette'') and ''The Roving Kind'' (an adaptation of an English folk song, ''The Pirate Ship,'' that had previously been recorded by the Weavers) became back-to-back Top 5 hits.
        He went on to enjoy a succession of jaunty hits, including ''Sparrow in the Treetop,'' ''My Truly, Truly Fair,'' ''Belle, Belle, My Liberty Belle,'' ''Pittsburgh, Pa.,'' and ''Feet Up (Pat Him on the Po-Po''), clever pseudo-folk novelties by Bob Merrill, who had invented the sub-genre with the Patti Page hit ''(How Much Is  That) Doggie in the Window?''
        As rock-and-roll stampeded onto the charts in the mid-1950's, Mr. Mitchell's moment seemed to be over. But by shifting the emphasis from novelties to country songs, Mr. Mitchell enjoyed a second wind with ''Singing the Blues,'' ''Rock-a-Billy'' (a stiff tribute to the Memphis country-rock sound), and a second and final No. 1 hit, ''Heartaches by the  Number,'' a cover version of Ray Price's country hit.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Joseph Stanzak of Twin Falls, Idaho, and David Stanzak of Spokane, Wash., and five grandchildren.
        Mr. Mitchell also worked as a movie actor. He starred with Rhonda Fleming, Gene Barry, Agnes Moorehead and Teresa Brewer in ''Those Redheads From Seattle'' (1953), a  comedy about the Gold Rush, and with Rosemary Clooney and Jack Carson in ''Red Garters'' (1954), a musical western spoof, and appeared in ''The Wild Westerners'' (1962).  For three months in 1957 he was the host of a variety series, ''The Guy Mitchell Show'' on ABC. In the early 1960's he played a detective, George Romack, in a short-lived NBC series, ''Whispering Smith,'' starring Audie Murphy.
        After being dropped from Columbia Records in 1962, Mitchell recorded sporadically for several labels and was a regular performer on the nostalgia circuit.
      