
        William M. B. Berger, who started one of the first mutual funds in Colorado and later sold his fund company and used the proceeds to establish a vast collection of British art, died Tuesday at University Hospital in Denver. He was 73.
        The cause was complications from heart and kidney disease, said Timothy Standring, a spokesman for the Berger family.
        The great-grandson of one of the founders of the Colorado National Bank, Mr. Berger began managing equity portfolios for the bank's trust department in 1950. Over the next 40 years, he helped establish Denver as one of the largest mutual fund centers outside of New York and Boston and had a hand in the growth of at least three families of mutual funds.
        As a portfolio manager, Mr. Berger specialized in buying the stocks of small, fast-growing companies in which profits were rising at a faster pace than that of the overall market. But a big part of his skill was knowing when to sell as well, watching for signs that growth was slowing or the outlook for a particular business was dimming.
        In that vein, Mr. Berger demonstrated his prowess well in 1994 when he sold Berger Associates, which managed the Berger Funds, to Kansas City Southern Industries, the railroad and financial-services company. The $47 million sale was completed just before the small growth stocks that Mr. Berger favored went out of fashion, resulting in a performance downturn for many of the Berger funds.
        Mr. Berger's influence was felt across the major mutual fund companies based in Denver. In 1960 he started the Centennial Fund and in 1963 he began the Gryphon Fund. The two funds later merged and are now part of the Founders Growth Fund, managed by the Denver-based Founders Funds family.
        In 1963, he became a vice president and portfolio manager for the Financial Programs asset-management company, which later evolved into the Invesco Funds family of mutual funds. Invesco is now part of Amvescap P.L.C., a global money manager.
        In 1974 Mr. Berger founded Berger Associates to manage two portfolios, the Berger 100 fund, which invested in small companies, and the Berger 101 fund, which was named for a tax maneuver that is now obsolete. As portfolio manager, Mr. Berger led the Berger 100 fund to a gain of more than 88 percent in 1991, putting it among the top five diversified mutual funds in the country.
        With the sale of the fund-management company, Mr. Berger turned his attention to art collecting, a passion that began, he later said, as a decorating project for a new home.
        A lifelong Anglophile, Mr. Berger soon concentrated on buying British art, amassing in three years a collection of about 200 paintings and objects that span 600 years of British history. Although Mr. Berger declined to disclose the cost of assembling the collection, art experts estimated that he spent $25 million, driving up the prices of British works available for sale.
        The Berger Collection, on loan to the Denver Art Museum, where it went on display last year, can also be viewed on the Internet at www.thebergercollection.org.
        ''Why British art?,'' the Bergers asked in a preface to the collection's catalogue. ''Because it represents a heritage that belongs to all of us today, no matter where our forebears came from. And because the British people and their culture did more to advance our material well-being than did any other country in the world.''
        William Merriam Bart Berger was born Nov. 3, 1925, in Denver. He attended the Hotchkiss School in Lakeville, Conn., and Yale University, interrupting his studies to serve as a volunteer ambulance driver with the British Eighth Army in Italy in 1944 and 1945. He graduated from Yale with a bachelor's degree in 1948.
        Mr. Berger served on the board of the Denver Art Museum Foundation and was a member of the investment committee of the Denver Foundation. He also served as chairman of the Urban League of Colorado. Following the sale of Berger Associates, he formed two charitable foundations, one for art education and another offering opportunities for young people to experience outdoor activities.
        Mr. Berger's first wife, Claire McMenamy Berger, died in 1989. He is survived by his second wife, Bernadette J. J. Berger, of Denver; a brother, W. Bart Berger, of Denver; four children, William B. Berger of Paris, George B. Berger of Denver, M. Merriam Berger-Johnson of London and Katherine M. B. Berger of Virginia; three stepdaughters, Susan Tweedy, Sheri McPhail, and Cynthia Hayes, all of Denver; and five grandchildren.
      