
        Dr. Wallace E. Howell, a meteorologist whose celebrated rainmaking efforts during a water shortage 50 years ago were admired by parched New Yorkers and detested by drenched Catskill farmers, died on June 12 at Thornton Medical Center in San Diego, Calif., where he lived. He was 84.
        For more than two decades, Dr. Howell traveled the world, seeding clouds with dry ice and silver iodide, trying to make rain for agriculture and hydroelectric power in countries like Canada, Cuba, Peru and the Philippines. In the 1960's, he developed one of the first snow-making machines for ski resorts. He was a president of the weather observatory on Mount Washington in New Hampshire, and spent 15 years with the Federal Bureau of Reclamation, studying ways to increase the snowpack in the Rockies.
        But in terms of publicity, both good and bad, nothing rivaled his work in New York during the water shortage of 1949-50.
        Those were desperate times, with reservoirs in the Catskill watershed getting lower every day and newspapers filled with dire forecasts of when they might be empty. Pools were closed, lawn sprinkling and car washing banned. ''Shaveless Fridays'' were the norm. The Roman Catholic Archdiocese urged parishioners to pray for rain.
        Dr. Howell had become interested in meteorology as an undergraduate at Harvard in the 1930's, and had been a weatherman with the Army Air Corps during World War II. In 1948 he received a doctorate from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he studied the physics of clouds and cloud seeding, particularly the use of ground-based smoke generators to provide the silver iodide crystals around which water droplets could form.
        New York City hired him in early 1950 ''for the magnificent sum of $100 a day,'' said Charles Wetterer, who was later a partner with Dr. Howell. ''For a meteorologist, that was big, big money.''
        Dr. Howell planned his campaign like an army general, scouting out a headquarters for his operation, settling on a hilltop field in Calicoon, N.Y., that afforded a commanding view of the approaching weather over the watershed. He obtained a surplus military radar system. For aerial seeding, police planes and pilots were at his disposal.
        His first flight, on March 28, 1950, was a failure, and rain was to blame. When Dr. Howell arrived at Floyd Bennet Airport in Brooklyn, rain and fog kept the plane on the ground. When it finally took off four hours late with 100 pounds of dry ice aboard, promising clouds over the Catskills had dissipated. The only dry ice that was tossed overboard was a small amount thrown by the pilot to make sure it would clear the plane's stabilizer struts.
        He had better luck with later sorties, however, and with his ground-based generators. Dr. Howell was in the newspapers every day, his movements tracked as regularly as storm clouds over the Catskills. He was even profiled in The New Yorker. ''I didn't know I was going to be a celebrity,'' he told the magazine. ''And I don't want to be one.'
        Rains came, and the reservoirs began to fill again. There was even a freak snowstorm in mid-April; ''Howell's snow,'' it was called. Water restrictions were eventually lifted, and in February 1951, with the reservoirs at more than 99 percent of capacity, Dr. Howell's contract ended.
        In the Catskills, the rains had made farmers and resort owners furious. Charging that crops had been harmed and vacationers scared off, they filed suit against the city and its rainmaker. ''I know some people up there that would shoot Dr. Howell on sight,'' one farm official was quoted as saying.
        The question of just how much credit for the rains should go to Dr. Howell and how much to nature was always an open one. The city had been pleased with the rainmaking efforts, but with the filing of the  lawsuits (which were eventually thrown out), officials were forced to take a more skeptical attitude.
        Dr. Howell had always been modest in his claims. After refusing to take credit for months, he finally acknowledged in August 1950 that ''I have made rain.'' But he hedged by saying his work probably had produced ''very little rain that would not have fallen anyway.'' Later, he estimated that he had increased rainfall that year by 14 percent.
        He had his defenders, however. One letter writer to The New York Times noted that the total rainfall during July 1950 was only about six  inches, far less than in some other years when no one had complained.
        ''In those years was the resort business ruined?'' the writer asked. ''No. Were all crops destroyed by too much rain? No. One could not sue nature. But one can sue Dr. Howell.''
        Dr. Howell is survived by his wife of 58 years, Christine G. Howell; two daughters, Jane, of San Diego, and Holly, of Del Mar, Calif.; three sons, Stephen, of Del Mar, Jeremy, of North Bend, Ore., and James, of Idaho Springs, Colo., and 13 grandchildren.
        His caution about taking credit for the rain helped his reputation and his business in later years. Rainmaking was a controversial subject, with little empirical proof that it worked and plenty of unsavory characters offering their services.
        ''There were a lot of people who were just selling snake oil,'' said Manuel Lopez, who was hired by Dr. Howell when he came to Cuba in the 1950's, and who worked with him over three decades.
        Dr. Howell was a scientist, Dr. Lopez said, and above all was honest with his potential clients. ''He'd say, 'I think this works, but I can't prove it,' '' Dr. Lopez said. ''But you should weigh the cost of action versus inaction.' ''
      