
        Malcolm Breckenridge Carpenter, a retired neuroanatomist who helped map the pathways of the brain that coordinate movement and equilibrium, died on June 25 at Hershey Medical Center in Pennsylvania. He was 77 and lived in Hershey.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Dr. Carpenter's work shed new light on motor disorders, particularly those caused by diseases of the basal ganglia, the interconnected groups of masses of gray substance deep in the cerebral hemispheres and in the upper brain stem. His contributions furthered research into defects in the neural networks responsible for ailments like Parkinson's disease.
        Dr. Carpenter was the author of a standard textbook, ''Human Neuroanatomy,'' which went into its eighth edition in 1983. It was translated into a score of languages and remains in use in some 200 medical schools worldwide.
        He also wrote ''Core Text of Neuroanatomy'' (fourth ed., 1991), and, with J. C. Madigan, ''Cerebellum of the Rhesus Monkey,'' (1971). He was a past president of the International Basal Ganglia Society, consultant to the National Institutes of Health, associate editor of the American Journal of Anatomy, and a member of the editorial boards of Neurology, Neurobiology and the Journal of Comparative Neurology.
        Dr. Carpenter, who was born in Montrose, Colo., graduated from Columbia College in 1943 and received his medical degree at the Long Island College of Medicine in 1947. He completed his residency at Columbia University, joined the Department of Anatomy in 1953 and rose to full professor in 1962.
        In 1976 he became chairman of the department of anatomy at the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences in Bethesda, Md. He was chairman until 1987 and retired as professor of anatomy in 1991.
        His wife, Carolyn Sloan Carpenter, died in February, after nearly 50 years of marriage. He is survived by three sons, Dr. Duncan B., of Saddle River, N.J., Gregory S., of Glencoe, Ill., and Rustin I., of Acton, Mass.; a sister, Patria Barbary of Taos, N.M., and eight grandchildren.
      