
        Donal McCann, whose often understated but emotive, transfixing style won him widespread recognition as Ireland's best actor, died on Saturday at Our Lady's Hospice here. He was 56.
        The cause was cancer of the pancreas, which he had had since 1997, Irish national radio reported.
        Although he spent most of his career at the Abbey and Gate theaters here, his reputation grew in England and the United States in the last decade. In 1997 he won praise for his performance at the Brooklyn Academy of Music in Sebastian Barry's ''Steward of Christendom'' as a Lear-like, senile Roman Catholic Dublin police chief torn between loyalty to Britain and the emerging independent Irish Free State.
        Mr. Barry said today that since Mr. McCann became ill, he ''had a sense of completion of his work on the stage.''
        Critics said he was probably never better than as Gabriel Conroy, the kind but unloved and unloving husband in John Huston's film adaptation of James Joyce's story ''The Dead'' (1987). He performed to wide acclaim in several plays by his friend Brian Friel, widely considered Ireland's best living playwright.
        While Mr. McCann appeared in many films, he considered himself primarily a stage actor, particularly a character actor. But his roles were large in plays like Mr. Friel's ''Faith Healer'' and Samuel Beckett's ''Waiting for Godot,'' in which he was Estragon.
        His work included a film of the Royal Shakespeare Company's production of Strindberg's ''Miss Julie.'' He also had the lead role in Hugh Leonard's ''Da'' and in 1988 began to win recognition in New York as Captain Boyle, the comic-tragic drunkard coward in Sean O'Casey's ''Juno and the Paycock.''
        Many were moved at the end of the play, as described by Frank Rich in The New York Times in 1988: ''Mr. McCann passes out on the floor, a grimy sack of a man tossed into the night, an unnerving double for the men we'll step around in the street as we make our way home from Sean O'Casey's play to the safety of home.''
        After one performance of ''Juno,'' Katharine Hepburn went backstage in tears and said, ''How did you learn to do that?'' Mr. McCann, as quick-tongued offstage as on, said, ''By watching you.''
        Michael Colgan, the artistic director of the Gate, said: ''Donal's genius  is that he always proves the writer right, proves the director right and proves the audience right just for being there. That is why he's the greatest actor we've ever had. He is both a devil and a saint, and he has suffered for it. But that's also where he gets his great power.''
        Mr. Barry, the author of ''Steward,'' said Mr. McCann's style was ''extravagant minimalism.''
        Max Stafford-Clark, who directed him in ''Steward,'' said, ''He has a huge emotional range, not only access to emotions that English actors find very hard, but enormous technique as well.''
        In an interview on Irish television in 1998, shown again this month as a national farewell, Mr. McCann said: ''I always took myself for a character actor. An actor's job is to serve writing. It's not self-advertisement.''
        In an interview with The Guardian in Britain he said: ''There is a suggestion that everyone would like to be a Hollywood actor, that doing well-paid rubbish is what we all aspire to. It's ludicrous. I'm not going to hire a soapbox to denounce the whole thing, but this desire to be known, I just don't understand it.''
        In another interview he said: ''My method? Read. Read. Read. Trust the play. In the 'Steward' I found myself discovering new things the 20th time I read it.''
        Donal McCann was born in Dublin on May 7, 1943. His father, John, was a member of the Irish Parliament, Lord Mayor of Dublin and a minor playwright.
        Donal studied architecture, then changed his mind and began thinking of himself as an actor. ''If you don't do anything else,'' he said in 1998, ''you can say you're anything you like.'' In an amateur production he tried out for Hamlet, but was given Polonius. In a production of ''King Lear'' he was Cordelia.
        He worked as a copy boy at a newspaper, The Irish Press, run by his father's political party, Fianna Fail, until he began to play noticeable roles, including that of an Irish swashbuckler in the film ''The Fighting Prince of Donegal.''
        His work was interrupted by depressions and by his alcoholism until he stopped drinking in the late 1980's. He could joke wryly about it. ''It was worth having something to get away from,'' he said in 1998, ''but nobody made me drink.''
        He said that he was a devout Christian but did not consider himself Roman Catholic, the predominate religion of his countrymen. ''God takes my life forward,'' he said, after his cancer was diagnosed. ''I would like to leave the theater for a while. I'm not in a panic to do anything. I'm not ambitious for anything.''
        He was particularly compelling in plays by Mr. Friel. After he played the role of Frank, the traveling charlatan-miracle worker in ''Faith Healer,'' Mr. McCann recalled, as he left the stage half-blinded by the lights and entered the wings, that he felt something hot on one cheek and something cold on the other: Mr. Friel was kissing him on one cheek and holding a gin and tonic against the other.
        Mr. McCann's greatest critical success in recent years was in ''Steward.'' Stalking his room in a mental hospital in dirty long johns, the actor gripped audiences when he told himself, ''I must not talk to shadows.''
        Michael Billington, the English critic, wrote in 1995: ''McCann, never off the stage and rarely silent, gives an astonishing performance. The cropped head, the stubbly beard, the staring eyes evoke the bewildered pathos of solitary confinement. There is no more moving piece of acting in London.''
        He also played the lead in an adaptation of Patrick Kavanagh's comic novel ''Tarry Flynn.'' His films, some made for television, included ''Illuminata,'' produced by John Turturro in 1997; ''Hedda Gabler''; ''The Miracle''; ''Out of Africa,'' and ''Cal,'' produced by David Puttnam, recognized as possibly the best film ever made about the sectarian warfare in Northern Ireland.
        Many of his friends agree with critics that Mr. McCann's greatest achievement was his acting in ''The Dead.'' Mr. McCann, who never married although he was engaged several times, played a husband, Gabriel Conroy, who learns that his wife, Gretta, played by Angelica Huston, still yearns for a young suitor who died decades earlier. Conroy admits to himself that he has never known such strong love.
        The film ends with Mr. McCann, looking out a window of the Gresham Hotel on O'Connell Street at a swirling Dublin snowstorm, reciting Joyce's words softly in a voice-over:  ''His soul swooned slowly, as he heard the snow falling faintly through the universe and faintly falling, like the descent of their last end, upon all the living and the dead.''
      