
        Dr. C. Walton Lillehei, a pioneer in open-heart surgery, valve replacements and the electronic pacemaker, died on Monday at his home in St. Paul. He was 80.
        The cause was cancer, said St. Jude Medical Inc., the medical equipment manufacturer in St. Paul where Dr. Lillehei had worked as a division medical director since 1979.
        Among his peers, Dr. Lillehei (pronounced LILY-high) was often referred to as the ''father of open heart surgery,'' responsible for many implements used in the operation. At the University of Minnesota, where he was a medical school professor, he was a leader in developing techniques that first made surgery within the human heart possible.
        His work was instrumental in making almost commonplace critical operations on the heart that had been considered impossible.
        As late as 1950, there was no workable substitute for the natural process that places oxygen into the bloodstream and circulates blood throughout the body. Heart surgery was thus limited to disorders that could be remedied without entering the heart itself.
        Dr. Lillehei cleared that obstacle, initially trying ''cross circulation,'' in which the bloodstream of the patient undergoing surgery was linked by tubes to that of a healthy donor. It worked, but only at some risk to the donor, and the process was later abandoned.
        The turning point came in 1955 when Dr. Lillehei and a colleague, Dr. Richard A. Wall, succeeded with a heart-lung machine, called a helix reservoir bubble oxygenator, which  bubbled oxygen through the blood during an operation.
        Dr. Lillehei played a prominent role in other breakthroughs that made possible treatments of once-fatal heart conditions, including a heart block, in which the body fails to produce the small electrical signals that regulate the heartbeat.
        By 1957, Dr. Lillehei and his colleagues in Minnesota had worked out a method of hooking wires directly into the living heart, supplying the electrical signals from outside the chest and taking the place of the missing natural ones.
        The signals were generated by a battery-powered electronic device, a pacemaker, small enough to be worn under the clothing and providing electrical pulses for a firm, steady heartbeat. Dr. Lillehei introduced it at a conference on cardiovascular surgery, sponsored by the New York Heart Association, the following January.
        In May 1960, he reported in The Journal of the American Medical Association on the condition of 66 patients who by then carried their pacemakers in shoulder holsters. The device, the size of a pack of cigarettes, proved effective not merely as a temporary aid after surgery, but also for long-term maintenance of nonsurgical heart patients.
        In 1967, he introduced a new type of compact artificial heart device without valves or other interior moving parts. It consisted of a multilayer sandwich of plastic sheets and silicone rubber membranes and was intended as a booster pump to assist disease-weakened hearts.
        Dr. Lillehei and his associates contributed to the design of four prosthetic heart valves, including the widely used St. Jude Medical Mechanical Heart Valve.
        Dr. Lillehei, as chief surgeon at New York Hospital in 1969, led the team that did the first transplant of the heart and both lungs to be performed there. In that procedure the organs of a 50-year-old woman were transplanted into a 43-year-old man suffering terminal lung and heart failure from chronic emphysema. It was the second such operation, and the patient survived for one week.
        Dr. Lillehei trained some 1,000 doctors in heart surgery and contributed hundreds of papers and articles. Among his students at Minnesota were Dr. Christiaan N. Barnard, the South African who in 1967 performed the first heart transplant, and Dr. Norman E. Shumway, who devised the technique for such transplants.
        Clarence Walton Lillehei was born in Minneapolis and graduated from the University of Minnesota in 1939. He received his medical degree there in 1942 as well as a master's in physiology and a doctorate in surgery in 1951, by which time he had already built a reputation as a surgeon-researcher of great promise.
        He went into private practice as a general, thoracic and cardiovascular surgeon in 1945 after wartime service in the Army Medical Corps in Europe, where he rose to the rank of lieutenant colonel and won a Bronze Star. He joined the department of surgery at the University of Minnesota Medical School as a full-time instructor in 1949 and steadily rose through the academic ranks.
        He was a clinical professor of surgery in 1967 when he was named Stimson Professor of Surgery and chairman of the department of surgery at Cornell University Medical Center and surgeon in chief at New York Hospital.
        He returned to the University of Minnesota Medical Center in 1975 after being found guilty of tax evasion two years earlier. He was fined $50,000 and sentenced to perform six months of community service.
        Dr. Lillehei was a past chairman of the American College of Cardiology and lectured on heart surgery at international meetings until last year. Among his many honors was an Albert Lasker Award in medical research in 1955.
        Dr. Lillehei is survived by his wife of 52 years, Kay Lindberg Lillehei; a daughter, Kimberle Loken of Duluth, Minn.; two sons, Craig W., of Boston, and Kevin O., of Denver; a brother, James P., of Mendota Heights, Minn.; seven grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      