
        Raul S. Manglapus, the former Philippine Foreign Secretary who embodied his country's mixture of defiance and love for the United States, died on Sunday. He was 80.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        A former World War II guerrilla, Mr. Manglapus was both a senator and Foreign Secretary before and after the 20-year rule of President Ferdinand E. Marcos.
        From Mr. Marcos's declaration of martial law in 1972 until his ouster in 1986, Mr. Manglapus was a political exile in the United States, where he organized overseas opposition to Mr. Marcos.
        After his return, Mr. Manglapus, with his crew cut, American education and American slang, coined the catch phrase of the final chapter in his country's ''special relationship'' with its former colonial master, before it evicted American military bases in 1992.
        ''We must slay the American father image,'' Mr. Manglapus said, ''and cut him down to brotherly size.''
        Until that occurred, he said, the Philippines could not be truly mature and independent of the nation that had ruled it, with a mixture of benevolence and exploitation, from 1898 to 1946.
        ''There is a certain amount of thinking that if all goes wrong we can go running to Uncle Sam to fix it, and this is something that is not useful,'' he said.
        Despite those words, as Foreign Secretary under President Corazon C. Aquino he reached an agreement with Washington to extend the lease on the bases. But the Philippine Senate rejected the pact, and the bases closed.
        Since then, America's ''father image'' in the Philippines has indeed faded. Externally, Manila has begun to strengthen ties with its regional neighbors, moving away from its single-minded focus on the United States. At home it has worked to build a more independent national identity.
        But the Philippines is still the largest source of legal immigrants to the United States, and the waiting list for some visa categories is years long.
        Mr. Manglapus expressed those mixed feelings about the United States when he returned from exile on Feb. 28, 1986, two days after Mr. Marcos had been forced to flee to Hawaii by Mrs. Aquino's ''people power'' uprising. He noted that the United States had been instrumental in giving one last ''shove'' to Mr. Marcos, but that for the previous 20 years it had supported his repressive Government.
        ''While I suppose we should thank them,'' Mr. Manglapus said, ''we could also ask, 'What took so long?' ''
        Mr. Manglapus's family said he would be cremated on Saturday. Surviving are his wife, Pacita La'O, and five children.
        In addition to being a politician, Mr. Manglapus was a writer, a playwright, a linguist and a musician, playing piano and drums.
        As a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II, he wrote songs to cheer up his fellow inmates. In recent years, he led a jazz band called the Executive Combo that jammed with President Clinton, on saxophone, at a summit meeting in 1996 in Manila.
        While doing postgraduate work at Harvard and Cornell, he decided to write his thesis, about the American role in the Philippines, in the form of a musical comedy, ''Manifest Destiny: An Evening of Yanky Panky.''
        In 16 songs, Mr. Manglapus roasted the United States for its swagger, condescension and bullying in the Philippines. But as his political opponents pointed out gleefully, its music was American in style, rather than indigenous, and its lyrics were not in Tagalog, but in English.
      