
        H. Smith Richardson Jr. grew up in a household in which Vicks Vaporub, the cold remedy, meant more than relief from a hacking cough.
        He was the grandson of the man who developed that product, and he eventually led the family business, Richardson-Vicks Inc. Mr. Richardson died on Tuesday at New York Presbyterian Hospital after surgery for pancreatic cancer, his family said. He was 79.
        Mr. Richardson's business life centered on the family company, which was founded in 1905 by his grandfather, Lunsford Richardson. The younger Mr. Richardson joined the company in 1938, working at Vicks production plants and later in the sales department.
        Beginning in 1948, Mr. Richardson assumed various management positions at what was then the Vick Chemical Company. He became president in 1957 and chairman in 1961. Under his leadership, the company grew into one of the nation's 250 largest companies, with revenue of $1.2 billion by 1985, the year he retired as chairman. Several months after his retirement, the company was sold to Procter & Gamble.
        One of Mr. Richardson's life goals, he once said, was to build upon the successes of previous generations of Richardsons. To that end, he positioned the company to seize opportunities in the rapidly expanding global marketplace by overseeing the development of an international marketing and distribution system.
        By the early 1980's, Richardson-Vicks products, which include Vicks Nyquil cold syrup, Clearasil acne medication and Oil of Olay beauty cream, were sold in more than 144 countries, with foreign markets accounting for 60 percent of revenue. Mr. Richardson moved to Wilmington, N.C., from Fairfield, Conn., after his retirement.
        Throughout his life, Mr. Richardson was involved in philanthropic and nonprofit organizations, and from 1972 until his death he was chairman of the Smith Richardson Foundation, which his father had created to provide support for charitable work as well as for research and analysis of public policy issues.
        In addition, Mr. Richardson had a life-long interest in leadership development, particularly in management and corporate governance. He was instrumental in creating the Center for Creative Leadership, an institute that trains executives, military officers and politicians in business and government. Mr. Richardson was chairman of the center's board from 1972 until 1994.
        Born in Greensboro, N.C., Mr. Richardson lived in Irving Park, N.C., until the family business moved to New York in 1933 and the family itself to Connecticut. He attended the Buckley School in New York and St. Paul's School in Concord, N.H. In 1944 Mr. Richardson earned a bachelor's degree in chemistry from Yale University, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. After college he served for four years as a Naval officer during World War II.
        He is survived by his wife of 54 years, Adele, of Wilmington; three daughters, Adele Richardson Ray and Page Richardson, both of Chapel Hill, N.C., and Cary Paynter of Wilmington; three sons, Stuart of Easton, Conn., Peter of Southport, Conn., and H. Smith Richardson 3d of Santa Barbara, Calif.; a brother, Randolph Richardson, of Amagansett, N.Y.; a sister, Grace Stetson, of Bridgeport, Conn.; 12 grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      