
        Malachi Brendan Martin, an Irish-born former Jesuit priest and Vatican scholar who went on to write thrillers about the Roman Catholic Church, died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was a head injury resulting from a fall, said his companion, Kakia Livanos.
        A staunch traditionalist, Mr. Martin was a close associate of Pope John XXIII and Augustin Cardinal Bea during the tumultuous era of the Second Vatican Council, when the Church of the early 1960's adopted more liberal policies in hopes of broadening its appeal, replacing Latin rites with masses in local languages and expanding the role of lay people.
        Disillusioned by the reforms taking place among the Jesuits, the Church's largest religious order, Mr. Martin requested a release from his vows in 1964. He moved in 1965 to New York, where he wrote full time after brief stints as a dishwasher and cabby, and he eventually became an American citizen.
        Reviewing ''The Encounter,'' Mr. Martin's 1970 study of Judaism, Christianity and Islam, in The New York Times, Christopher Lehmann-Haupt characterized the author as ''a lapsed Irish cleric half in love and half in hate with God.''
        In ''The Jesuits,'' published in 1987, Mr. Martin wrote about how the once spiritually elite corps founded by St. Ignatius of Loyola had become  supporters of liberation theology, with its emphasis on leftist political change. Paul Hoffmann, reviewing the work in The Times, summed up Mr. Martin's view of the Church as ''pluralistic, permissive, ecumenical and evolutionary, with a rebellious, decadent clergy, an ignorant and recalcitrant body of bishops and a confused and divided assembly of believers.''
        A native of County Kerry, Mr. Martin received doctorates from the universities of Louvain and Oxford and from Hebrew University in Jerusalem, where he concentrated on knowledge of Jesus as transmitted in Islamic and Jewish sources. He was ordained into the priesthood in 1954.
        He was twice a Guggenheim Fellow. His writings ranged from a seminal work on the Dead Sea Scrolls to the best-selling ''Hostage to the Devil,'' published in 1976 shortly after the release of the film ''The Exorcist'' and billed as a real-life account of the possession and exorcism of five Americans, depicted in lurid detail.
        Mr. Martin's writings were enlivened by an atmosphere reminiscent of John le Carre and by his unwavering conviction that there was corruption within the walls of St. Peter's. In ''The Pilgrim,'' written under the pseudonym Michael Serafian in 1964, he divulged Vatican efforts to renounce Pope John's ''Jewish document,'' which retracted the Church's doctrine blaming Jews for Christ's death.
        ''There are 'moles' in the Vatican informing Moscow,'' he said in a 1978 interview in The Times on the release of ''The Final Conclave,'' adding that he had written the book to alert the world to Marxist influences in the church that could affect the choice of the next pope.
        ''I see these two great institutions in danger -- the Roman Catholic Church and the United States,'' Mr. Martin said. ''A pope cannot be impeached. . . . It was my duty as a Catholic and an American to reveal the secret negotiations now going on. Silence would have been the highest treason.''
        Mr. Martin summarized his view of Christianity in ''The Encounter'':  ''History teaches that Christians are capable of behaving like people without any religious principles precisely in order to further Christianity. The words remain Christian; the actions are un-Christian. The total result is catastrophic.''
        In addition to Ms. Livanos, he is survived by a brother, the Rev. Francis Xavier Martin, and by four sisters, Netta Kelly, Maura Feutren, Kay Doyle and Jossett O'Dowd, all of Ireland.
      