
        Beveridge Webster, a pianist and teacher who was best known for his elegant performances of the French repertory and his commanding accounts of contemporary American scores, died on June 30 at Kendal-at-Hanover, a retirement community in Hanover, N.H. He was 91.
        Mr. Webster was a particularly authoritative interpreter of the music of Ravel, whom he had met in the 1920's when he was a student in Paris. Mr. Webster gave the first performance of Ravel's ''Tzigane'' in Paris in 1924. In 1975, he celebrated the Ravel centenary by performing all of the composer's solo works at the Juilliard School and by touring with the Ravel Piano Concerto.
        Debussy was also among his specialties. Mr. Webster's three-concert series at Town Hall in 1968, to commemorate the 50th anniversary of Debussy's death, was the first complete survey of Debussy's piano works in New York. Reviewing the first concert in The New York Times, Harold C. Schonberg wrote admiringly of the variety of color Mr. Webster brought to the works, his clarity of line in the ''Suite Bergamasque'' and his virtuosic accounts of ''L'Isle Joyeuse'' and ''Feux d'Artifice.''
        He gave premieres or made first recordings of many contemporary works, including pieces by Louise Talma, Roger Sessions, Roy Harris, Aaron Copland and Elliott Carter. He also championed works by Schoenberg, Berg, Bartok and Stravinsky.  And he taught for five decades, at the New England Conservatory from 1940 to 1946 and at the Juilliard School from 1946 to 1990.
        Mr. Webster was born on May 13, 1908, in Pittsburgh. His first teacher was his father, who was also named Beveridge Webster and who founded and directed the Pittsburgh Conservatory. In 1921, at 14, he began five years of study in Europe, principally with Isidor Philipp and Nadia Boulanger at the Paris Conservatory. He was the first American to win the school's first prize in piano. He studied with Artur Schnabel in Berlin and  toured Europe as a soloist in the late 20's and early 30's.
        Mr. Webster's American debut was a performance of the MacDowell Second Concerto with the New York Philharmonic in November  1934, followed by a recital at Carnegie Hall. By the end of the 30's, he had performed with many major American orchestras. He had a reputation as a sensitive chamber music performer and collaborated with the Juilliard, Kolisch, Fine Arts and Concord Quartets.
        On several occasions, Mr. Webster shared the recital stage with his son, the clarinetist Michael Webster.
        Mr. Webster is survived by his wife, Frances Brown Webster; his son, of Houston; a daughter, Wendy Webster Ardizzone of Worcester, Mass., and six grandchildren.
      