
        Morris D. Crawford Jr., who headed the Bowery Savings Bank from 1965 until 1980, died of congestive heart failure, according to his wife, Dorothy, on Wednesday at his home in Riverside, Conn. He was 83.
        During his 40 years as a lawyer and banker in New York, Mr. Crawford served as a member or officer of dozens of professional, political and civic boards, including the Harlem School for the Performing Arts, the Salvation Army and the U.S.O. of New York City.
        In 1979, the Regional Plan Association, a research and planning agency for promoting the coordinated development of the metropolitan region of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, honored Mr. Crawford, a former chairman of the association, for his efforts to rebuild central cities through corporate, civic and government partnerships. Under his chairmanship, the association's leaders noted, the Bowery Savings Bank -- then the nation's biggest mutual savings bank -- initiated programs for brownstone renewal, sweat equity and the financing of housing in economically depressed neighborhoods.
        They also credited him with playing a leading role in helping establish the Aaron Davis Center for the Performing Arts at City University and the Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law at Yeshiva University.
        Born in Nyack, N.Y., in 1915, the son of a newspaperman with Fairchild Publications in New York, Rusty (as he was called because of his red hair) graduated from Harvard College in 1937 with a degree in anthropology.
        Shortly before his graduation, he was accepted at Harvard Law School and offered a post at Harvard College as an instructor in anthropology. Undecided which offer to take, ''About two weeks before graduation I flipped a mental coin,'' he recalled almost 30 years later. ''I went to law school.''
        He graduated from law school in 1940 and joined the New York law firm of Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft. He enlisted in the United States Army in February 1942 and served on General Douglas MacArthur's staff in Manila before being discharged as a major in April 1946. He returned to his old law firm, but left in 1953 when he was named vice president and office counsel of the Bowery. During the next dozen years he rose steadily through the ranks to executive vice president, president and then chief executive, heading the bank for the next 15 years until his retirement in 1980.
        Mr. Crawford is survived by his wife, the former Dorothy Duncan Babcock, of Riverside; two sons, Duncan, of Brookfield, Conn., and Gordon, of Los Angeles; a daughter, Linda Wolfgruber, of New Canaan, Conn., and 12 grandchildren.
      