
        Geoff Lawson, an Englishman whose designs of recent Jaguar automobiles displayed sensuous, feline grace and elegant British refinement, but whose personal style reflected his rebellious nature and a love of American hot rods and handguns, died on June 24 in Coventry, England. He was 54.
        Mr. Lawson was styling director of Jaguar Cars, the British luxury auto maker owned by the Ford Motor Company. He had just finished a presentation at Jaguar's Whitley Engineering Center when he said that he did not feel well. He was taken to a Coventry hospital where he died of a stroke, the company said.
        As the designer responsible for several of Jaguar's recent, successful models, including the soft, sultry XJ8 sedan, the sexy XK8 coupe and convertible, the evocative new S-Type sedan and a still-unseen small car, the X400, Mr. Lawson played a significant role in the commercial revival of the company, which in the last decade went from basket case to record sales and a newfound reputation for good quality.
        Mr. Lawson became styling director in 1984, at a time when Jaguar was hemorrhaging money. Its reputation for excellence in design and manufacturing was fading after decades of neglect. The company was humbled into accepting a rescue by Ford in 1989.
        Through these turbulent times, Mr. Lawson was the keeper of the Jaguar flame, colleagues said, making improvements in designs inherited from a period when British Leyland owned Jaguar, and then under the Ford umbrella, introducing new designs, all with panache, skill and not a little rebelliousness.
        ''His great gift was the ability to recognize the importance of classic styling cues from the great Jaguars of the past and then translate them into modern Jaguars in a new and contemporary fashion,'' said Wolfgang Reitzle, the chairman of Jaguar.
        Indeed, he famously referred to his cars' look as Jaguar's ''DNA,'' a term that other auto makers quickly borrowed and turned into a cliche to sum up the more mundane characteristics of their brands.
        Although Mr. Lawson spent his entire career in the auto industry, his training was as a furniture designer. He was born in Leicester, a red-brick industrial town in the East Midlands of England, and studied at the local art school. His subsequent master's degree in furniture design at London's Royal College of Art included a thesis on American cars.
        He joined Vauxhall Motors, the General Motors Corporation's British subsidiary, in 1969, and later worked on G.M. car and truck programs in Europe and the United States before joining Jaguar.
        Mr. Lawson is survived by his wife, Jill; a son, Adam; a daughter, Verity, and his father, Harry.
        Mr. Lawson was an unreconstructed car enthusiast, though it seems odd that the man who created quintessentially British products was an unashamed lover of the rougher-edged cars and trucks of North America. That included ownership of a flame-red 1969 Chevrolet Corvette -- complete with a 427-cubic-inch engine -- in which he regularly commuted to Whitley from his home in Napton-on-the-Hill, Warwickshire.
        Indeed, his admiration of Americana included not only hot rods, but a  collection of Fender Stratocaster and Gibson Les Paul electric guitars -- reflecting his love of rock-and-roll and blues music -- and handguns.
        Bob Dover, now chairman of Aston Martin and a former chief program engineer at Jaguar, said Mr. Lawson had an extensive collection of real and fake guns in his office. ''There's a red exit sign in his studios which bears the marks of some target practice with an air pistol,'' he said.
        At Mr. Lawson's funeral on Thursday in the small English town of Southam, his Jaguar colleagues wore loud, garish ties -- the kind, they said, that Mr. Lawson always wore, and that reflected his ebullient personality.
      