
        John R. Steelman, a onetime hobo from Arkansas who later earned a Ph.D. in economics and became one of President Harry S. Truman's closest aides, particularly on labor matters, died on July 14 at a retirement home in Naples, Fla. He was 99.
        With the official title of the assistant to the President, Dr. Steelman was, in his words, ''the President's chief chore boy,'' according to a 1951 article in The New York Times that listed him as among President Truman's top 10 friends and advisers.
        His biggest job in the Truman Administration, according to David McCullough, the author of ''Truman'' (Simon & Schuster, 1992), was probably negotiating a settlement in a 52-day strike by steel workers in 1952, the longest and costliest in United States history.
        Dr. Steelman, a cheerful, buoyant man, was appointed to the new post of the assistant to the President on Dec. 12, 1946. Historians believe he is the only person ever to hold that title.
        His appointment came about when President Truman dissolved various wartime boards and agencies and made Dr. Steelman the assistant to the President with the specific function of coordinating Federal agency programs and policies. Many believed that the appointment was a way of marginalizing Dr. Steelman, who had become a focus of controversy because of his role in labor negotiations. Instead, Dr. Steelman became an even more powerful adviser.
        Arthur Krock of The New York Times later noted that Dr. Steelman's title meant exactly what it implied. ''When the President went away on his election campaign in 1948, he left Steelman in the White House to keep the wheels of government rolling,'' Mr. Krock wrote.
        John Roy Steelman was born on a farm in Thornton, Ark., on June 23, 1900. He graduated from high school and served in World War I. Needing money for college tuition, he had jobs that included bookkeeping and logging. He also rode the rails to Wichita, Kan., to work in the wheat fields. He was a ''blanket stiff,'' in hobo argot -- a roving laborer who carried his blanket with him.
        Dr. Steelman eventually earned a bachelor's degree from Henderson-Brown College in Arkadelphia, Ark. He also studied at Vanderbilt University and Harvard University and received his doctorate in economics and sociology from the University of North Carolina in 1928.
        He was a professor of sociology at Alabama College when the Secretary of Labor, Frances Perkins, delivered the commencement address in 1934. She was impressed by Dr. Steelman's recent settlement of a labor dispute in Mobile, Ala., and she asked him to join the Government as a member of the United States Conciliation Service, which helped settle labor disputes. Three years later, he became director of the service.
        He left the conciliation service post after President Franklin D. Roosevelt was elected to a fourth term in 1944 and briefly worked as a public relations consultant in New York City.
        When Vice President Truman became President on the death of Roosevelt in 1945, Dr. Steelman returned to Washington as an adviser to the Secretary of Labor and later became a special assistant to the President, director of the Office of War Mobilization and Reconversion and director of Economic Stabilization.
        In 1946, he became the assistant to the President. In 1948, he was offered the post of Secretary of Labor but turned it down, saying he preferred to work in the White House, where he helped in establishing policies on science and higher education.
        Dr. Steelman also acted as a de facto labor secretary. He helped avert a nationwide strike by railroad workers in 1950. In 1952, President Truman appointed his ''right-hand man,'' as he called Dr. Steelman, to the head of the Office of Defense Mobilization, replacing Charles E. Wilson, who had resigned to protest the White House's support of a Wage Stabilization Board recommendation  to grant raises for steel workers without giving steel companies the right to raise prices.
        When no agreement was reached, the Administration seized the steel companies under emergency Presidential powers that were later declared unconstitutional. When the companies were returned to the operators, however, members of the United Steel Workers of American went on a strike that lasted 52 days before Dr. Steelman brokered an agreement that gave the workers their raises and the steel companies a price increase.
        After President Truman left office, Dr. Steelman stayed on for several weeks to help President Dwight D. Eisenhower with the transition. He later became a director of the Audio-Dynamics Corporation in Washington and a trustee of the Nationwide Investing Foundation.
        His daughter, Doris Frakes, died earlier this year. He is survived by his wife, Ellen; two brothers, P. C. Steelman of Little Rock, Ark., and Horace Steelman of Camden, Ark.; a stepson, Robert Hart of Woodbridge, Va., six grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
        Reflecting on his career, Dr. Steelman once told colleagues in Washington about his hobo days. ''I've been written up in Hobo Journal as one of 'our boys who made good,' '' he said.
        Correction:  July 26, 1999, Monday  An obituary on Thursday about John R. Steelman, one of President Harry S. Truman's closest aides, referred imprecisely to the uniqueness of his title. While Mr. Steelman is believed to be the only aide whose title was ''the'' assistant to the President, many people since have had the rank of assistant to the President.
      