
        John T. Mullin, who brought broadcasting and the record industry together with the magnetic audiotape technology that revolutionized them in the late 1940's, died on June 24 at his home in Camarillo, Calif. He was 85.
        An electrical engineer, Mr. Mullin became interested in magnetic audiotape when he was a lieutenant with the United States Army Signal Corps in England in 1943. He heard, inexplicably, what sounded like live classical music, free of clicks and scratches, coming 24 hours a day from a German radio station.
        After the war ended, Mr. Mullin was sent to Paris, where he discovered two German magnetophones, high-fidelity magnetic audiotape recorders.
        He then brought the machines to the United States, where he and a colleague, William A. Palmer, improved them.
        In 1946, their creation was the first machine in the United States to produce a master tape that was turned into a commercial recording, ''Songs by Merv Griffin.''
        The masters from which records were produced had until then been made by recording directly onto an acetate disk, which made editing almost impossible.
        Bing Crosby was so impressed with the quality of the tape's sound and, especially, the ability to edit recordings that he backed Mr. Mullin and Mr. Palmer financially.
        In 1947, Crosby, who hated live performances, used the technology to record his show on the ABC network, ''Philco Radio Time.''
        It was the first coast-to-coast commercial broadcast using magnetic tape instead of a live performance.
        Mr. Mullin and Mr. Palmer also used the ability to edit audiotape for less artistic purposes. For Crosby's show, at the singer's behest, they made some of the first laugh tracks.
        Using scissors and tape, the pair added applause and laughter to tapes of live performances that didn't inspire enough audience reaction or that weren't really live at all.
        About the same time, Mr. Mullin and Mr. Palmer, working with the Ampex Corporation, made the first commercial audiotape recorder, called Model 200. And in 1951, Mr. Mullin and another engineer, Wayne R. Johnson, working again with Crosby Enterprises, also developed a prototype of the video camera, which they called ''the filmless camera.''
        Mr. Mullin, known as Jack, was born on Oct. 5, 1913, in San Francisco. He graduated from Santa Clara University with an engineering degree.
        Besides working with Crosby Enterprises and Ampex, Mr. Mullin spent 28 years at the 3M Company, which bought Crosby's electronics company in 1956, as the head of its Mincom division. He retired in 1975.
        He is survived by a daughter, Eve Collier of Camarillo; two sons, John C., of Los Osos, Calif., and Peter B., of Huntington Beach, Calif., and three grandchildren.
      