
        Joe Hyman, a British magnate who took a brand name associated with cozy pajamas and turned it into one of the great textile empires of the 1960's, died July 6 at the age of 77.
        At the height of his success, he was seen as a swashbuckling, impatient autocrat and as a pioneering proponent of corporate growth by bold acquisition. But, after a tense board room coup in 1969 that ended his control of Viyella International -- the company he had built into one of Britain's best-known conglomerates -- he was unable to repeat his success in subsequent ventures.
        Mr. Hyman was born in Manchester, in the industrial north of England, on Oct. 14, 1921, into a family that had made a living in textiles dating back to a great-grandfather in Russia. But when he left the North Manchester Grammar School at age 16 he was reluctant to work in the family business and struck out on his own. Working from a small office in Manchester, he bought clearance garments from manufacturers and sold them to wholesalers.
        In the postwar era, Britain's textiles industry was dominated by two giant groups -- Imperial Chemical Industries and Courtaulds Ltd. -- that commanded the technology for synthetic materials at a time when nylon was widely seen as a miracle ingredient for the garment business.
        But while the companies produced the synthetic materials, Mr. Hyman was widely seen as the entrepreneur who grasped the commercial implications of brushed nylon and polyester-cotton mixes for the 1960's market. I.C.I., although often uneasy, invested in Mr. Hyman's Gainsborough-Cornard company as an ally in its battle with rival Courtaulds, helping him realize his vision of a textiles giant that controlled every step, from spinning and weaving to finishing and marketing.
        Mr. Hyman's breakthrough came in 1961 when, after a bumpy start, his company bought out a business called William Hollins of Nottingham, which owned the Viyella trademark for a pajama fabric made by blending wool and cotton.
        At that time, the brand was associated by many people with nightclothes worn by the very young and the very old. But Mr. Hyman's ambition at that time, as he once remarked, was to get Viyella associated with ''color, sex, romance, fast cars, that sort of thing.'' He succeeded, proclaiming later, ''I got Viyella worn by the jet set.''
        In 1963, I.C.I. committed $:13 million to Mr. Hyman's business ventures, and he went on a spree of acquisitions, including Van Heusen shirts in Britain and leading businesses in spinning, dyeing, finishing and weaving. By 1967, the 40 companies under the Viyella International umbrella controlled great pieces of the British textiles industry.
        Mr. Hyman's fall was even more rapid than his rise. In December 1969, board room resentment of his imperious management peaked, and, at a late-night meeting his fellow directors ended his chairmanship of Viyella International. The company was bought soon afterwards by I.C.I. After a series of mergers, it has traded since 1986 as Coats Viyella.
        Mr. Hyman's subsequent career was less stellar. In the 1970's, as recession deepened, he struggled with the woolens and worsteds business, heading a Yorkshire company called John Crowther until 1980, when he retired to build a country estate in Surrey.
        For all his buccaneering reputation, he had never fitted the cliche image of a bare-knuckled Lancashire textiles magnate. Friends remembered him as polished and cultured with a love of music and concerts. He was a trustee of the Pestalozzi Children's Village Trust and a governor of the London School of Economics.
        Mr. Hyman first married in 1948 but the marriage ended in divorce. In 1963, he married Simone Duke, who survives him. He is also survived by four children, Howard, Penelope, Spencer and Daphne.
      