
        Arthur Katz, whose Corgi brand of miniature cars thrilled a generation of children, many of whom became collectors as adults, died on June 25 near his home in London. He was 91.
        Before Mr. Katz introduced the Corgi line in 1956, most die-cast metal toy cars were fairly crude. Many companies simply painted the zinc-alloy forms that were pressed from molds and added wheels. But Mr. Katz's engineers and designers added details like plastic windshields and diamond-crystal headlights as well as gadgets and gimmicks like spring-mounted wheels and doors and hoods and trunks that opened.
        Corgi's best seller was a model of the Aston Martin DB5 sports car, the auto driven by James Bond in the 1964 film ''Goldfinger.'' As in the movie, the Corgi model had rotating license plates, a steel screen that sprang up to protect the back windshield from bullets fired by hostile pursuers, hub caps with Ben Hur-style tire slashers, machine gun turrets that popped out from behind the headlights, and best of all, an ejection seat that sent a tiny plastic passenger hurtling skyward through the car's roof.
        At its peak in the early 1970's, Mr. Katz's company, Mettoy Ltd., employed 3,500 workers.
        ''I remember going to the factory in Swansea in South Wales,'' said Eugene McKeown, the director of sales at Reeves International Inc. in Pequannock, N.J., which is the United States distributor for Corgi. ''It was like General Motors. There were people creating thousands and thousands of cars.''
        Mr. Katz retired in the mid-1970's. By the end of the decade, Mettoy was in trouble. Britain's high inflation and the soaring value of its currency had made the company's toys much more expensive than those of Asian rivals. ''There was no way you could cut your costs fast enough,'' said Peter Katz, Arthur Katz's son, who was Mettoy's managing director.
        Mettoy declared bankruptcy in 1983, as had several other famous British toy makers, including a rival, Matchbox. A group of its managers tried to resurrect the company, moving production to China. They later sold the company to Mattel Inc., which, in turn, sold it to another management group in 1995. It is now a private company based in Britain called Corgi Classics.
        Since the 1970's, the demand for toy cars has shrunk, as children's tastes have switched to action figures and video games. Corgi cars are now sold primarily in specialty shops. But there has been a resurgence in demand among baby boomers the last five years.
        Corgi cars that sold for $5 and $6 in the 1970's now retail for $30 to $40 new, while originals from the 1960's and 70's in mint condition can sell for several hundred dollars. ''Die cast is among the hottest categories of collectibles right now,'' said Chris Byrne, editor of Toy Report, a weekly newsletter.
        Mr. Katz was born in Johannesburg to German parents in 1908. When he was 12, he and his mother moved to Nuremberg, then the center of the German toy industry, after his father's death.
        Upon completing his schooling and serving an apprenticeship at one of the city's toy export companies, Mr. Katz joined Tipp & Company, a maker of pressed-tin toys that was owned by Philip Ullmann, who was his mother's cousin.
        In 1933, after Hitler came to power, Mr. Katz, who was Jewish and held a British passport, having been born in South Africa, emigrated to England. Mr. Ullmann joined him there, and together they founded Mettoy.
        The company had a quick start but was soon diverted to war production. After World War II, Mr. Katz began focusing on the export market. ''He was an extremely good negotiator,'' Peter Katz said, ''which means that he was good at reaching agreements with people whereby they felt comfortable with it, and the company felt comfortable with it.''
        Besides his son, Mr. Katz is survived by his third wife, Agnes, and a daughter, Susan Wolff, all of London.
        Although Mettoy was never the largest British toy manufacturer, Mr. Katz became the industry's leader, serving as head of the British Toy Manufacturers' Association in the 1950's and 1970's.
        He showed his devotion to his adopted country by naming the Corgi brand after the breed of dog most favored by the British royal family. In turn, he was awarded the Order of the British Empire in 1961 and was made a Commander of the British Empire in 1973.
        In one of the more curious episodes in Mr. Katz's life, he was appointed a colonel in the British Army in 1946 and dispatched to Germany to see if there was anything that Britain could salvage from what remained of the German toy industry.
        He found little of value but did get the chance to return to Tipp, which had been expropriated by the Nazis after Mr. Ullmann fled.
        ''He had the pleasure,'' his son recalled, ''of dismissing the man appointed by the Nazis to run it.''
      