
        Michael K. Hooker, the chancellor of the University of North Carolina who took a high-technology, community-oriented approach to higher education, died on June 29 at U.N.C. Hospitals. He was 53 and lived in Chapel Hill, N.C.
        The cause was complications from non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, the university said.
        Taking up the reins at his alma mater in 1995 as its eighth chancellor, Dr. Hooker made computer literacy and close ties to North Carolina's citizenry the hallmarks of his administration. He promoted an initiative to require all freshmen to have laptop computers for their academic work next year, as well as a pledge to insure that the university serve the public.
        ''There is only one reason to have a public university, and that is to serve the people of the state,'' Dr. Hooker stated as his creed. ''That should be the touchstone of everything we do: whether it's in the interest of North Carolina and our citizens.''
        Under Dr. Hooker, the school of education's Web site offered free links to public school systems in the state. Teachers and educators from all of North Carolina's 117 school districts were trained on the site to use its database of lesson plans.
        Under his guidance, Internet-based courses were introduced at the undergraduate and graduate levels to make the university more accessible to state residents.
        Michael Kenneth Hooker was born in Richlands, Va., the son of a coal miner, and was the first of his family to graduate from college. He received a master's degree in 1972 and a doctorate in philosophy in 1973 from the University of Massachusetts, and then started teaching at Harvard University.
        Dr. Hooker went to Johns Hopkins University as an assistant professor in philosophy in 1975 and successively served as assistant dean, associate dean and dean until 1982, when he was named president of Bennington College.
        He was president of the University of Maryland at Baltimore County from 1986 to 1992, and president of the University of Massachusetts system from 1992 until his return to Chapel Hill three years later.
        He wrote scholarly articles on medical ethics and edited ''Descartes: Critical and Interpretive Essays'' (1978) and ''Leibniz: Critical and Interpretive Essays'' (1982).
        Dr. Hooker's marriage to Anna Hostettler Burns of Baltimore ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Carmen; a daughter from his earlier marriage, Alexandra Hooker of Baltimore; his mother, Christine Hooker of Roanoke, Va., and his wife's two daughters, Jennifer and Cyndi Buell of Charlotte, N.C.
      