
        Donald E. Degnan, an advertising executive who helped guide the sport of competitive croquet through a period of extraordinary growth in the late 1980's and early 1990's, died on Aug. 7 while on a business trip to New Orleans. He was 76 and lived in Palm Beach, Fla., and Westhampton Beach, N.Y.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Connie Merlino.
        Before Mr. Degnan promoted the sport, there were only dozens of clubs in America where competitive croquet -- as opposed to recreational croquet -- could be played. But after his tenure as a leader of the United States Croquet Association and the United States Croquet Foundation, there are now about 250 croquet clubs and about 5,000 players registered with the association.
        The competitive sport is distinguished by strict adherence to rules, handicapping, national ranking and standardized equipment including a 105-foot-by-84-foot court. The prizes are slim -- rarely more than $5,000 for winning a major tournament.
        The game was avidly played on the East Coast in the 1920's by members of the Algonquin Round Table such as George S. Kaufman and Alexander Woollcott and on the West Coast by entertainment celebrities like Harpo Marx and Samuel Goldwyn -- all of whom are in the Croquet Hall of Fame in Newport, R.I.
        ''Now, after a spurt in the 1980's, the number of clubs is on the increase again,'' said Anne Robinson, secretary of the association.
        In drumming up interest in the sport, Mr. Degnan, a World War II fighter pilot, would tell beginners that he had nerves of steel on flying missions with the Flying Tigers over Burma, China and India, but that he could be a nervous wreck when faced with a hard-to-reach wicket.
        He also compared croquet with the dog-eat-dog world of advertising in which he earned his living. ''It's me against you,'' he would say. ''You have to work out your strategy and decide whether to play offensively or defensively.''
        Although he was a fine golfer, Degnan described croquet as more challenging because it ''involves less distance and more precision.''
        Mr. Degnan became attracted to the game in the mid-1970's. Ten years later, he was ranked as the sixth top player in the nation. In 1992,  Mr. Degnan was inducted into the Croquet Hall of Fame in recognition of both his skill as a player and as a promoter and planner of tournaments.
        Mr. Degnan was a member of the Palm Beach Croquet Club and the Westhampton Beach Mallet Club. From 1994 to 1995, he was president of the foundation, a fund-raising organization he also served for 20 years as vice president and board member. And from 1984 to 1991, he was a vice president of the U.S.C.A., which arranges tournaments, membership, rules and other aspects of the game.
        Most of the croquet clubs in the United States are in warm-climate states like Florida, Texas and Arizona. The association says the average age of competitive players is 45.
        Croquet is one of the few competitive sports that does not separate players based on their age and sex. The United States National Croquet Championship to be held at the Meadow Club in Southampton, N.Y., from Sept. 27 to Oct. 3, has registered players from teen-agers to those in their 70's.
        The game is not cheap. A regulation court, or putting green, on which the game is played may cost between $30,000 and $50,000 to build.
        Donald Eugene Degnan was born in New York City on Nov. 18, 1922. He was attending Notre Dame when World War II began. He left college and joined the Flying Tigers, the band of daring volunteer American aviators who scored victories against the Japanese.
        After the war, Mr. Degnan returned to Notre Dame and graduated in 1946. In 1955, he founded the advertising firm of Donald Degnan Associates. In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Lissa Degnan of Denville, N.J., and Diana Degnan Thorson of Miami.
        Croquet wasn't Mr. Degnan's only passion. He worked hard to keep the memories of the Flying Tigers alive as vice president of the P-40 Pilots Association and as a member of the P-51 Pilots Association and the Hump Pilots Association.
      