
        Earle M. Jorgensen, who built one of the nation's largest steel distribution companies and helped persuade Ronald Reagan to go into politics, died Wednesday at his home in Los Angeles.
        He was 101 and until weeks before his death went to work nearly every day at the business he founded, the Earle M. Jorgensen Company in Brea, Calif., which has annual sales of about $1 billion.
        Mr. Jorgensen served on Mr. Reagan's ''kitchen cabinet,'' an informal network of businessmen who advised Mr. Reagan and urged him to run for governor of California in 1966 and later for President. But Mr. Jorgensen declined to take any job in Washington, saying that he wanted to stick with his business.
        William A. Wilson, a California businessman who served as Ambassador to the Vatican in the Reagan Administration, said Mr. Jorgensen's personal success story ''had a lot to do with influencing'' Mr. Reagan's economic policies in support of free enterprise. ''Everyone had appreciated the fact that Earle had started with nothing and built himself a nice fortune,'' Mr. Wilson said.
        In a statement issued today, Mr. Reagan and his wife, Nancy, said: ''Earle Jorgensen was one of our oldest and dearest friends, and we will miss him terribly. However, he has left us with many wonderful memories.''
        Mr. Jorgensen was a former chairman of the Los Angeles chapter of the American Red Cross and was the largest individual contributor to the chapter over the years. He donated to many universities and was a trustee of the California Institute of Technology for 42 years, despite having never gone to college, or even finishing high school. He was also a founder of the Los Angeles Music Center and the Los Angeles Art Museum and involved in many other civic organizations.
        Mr. Jorgensen was born in San Francisco on June 22, 1898, the son of Danish immigrants. His father, a sea captain, died when Mr. Jorgensen was in high school, forcing him to drop out and get a job, according to Mr. Wilson, a friend who has known him since 1936.
        After serving in the Army Tank Corps in World War I, Mr. Jorgensen came to Los Angeles in 1920 and, the next year, began trudging over sand dunes to sell steel to oilmen working on the beach. The business eventually prospered as a supplier to California's growing aerospace and construction industries.
        In 1989, Mr. Jorgensen's son John, who had become president of the steel company, died of cancer at the age of 64, forcing Mr. Jorgensen, at age 91, to resume a more active role in the business. Mr. Jorgensen sold the company to Kelso & Company, a New York leveraged buyout firm, in 1990 for $264 million, with his 32 percent stake worth $84 million. He remained chairman until 1994, when he became chairman emeritus.
        His slogan, written on a sign on his office wall, was ''Hustle! -- That's All.'' In his desk he kept stacks of a book called ''The Go-Getter: A Story That Tells You How to Be One,'' about a scrappy kid who becomes a successful salesman. Mr. Jorgensen had stumbled upon the book, written by Peter B. Kyne in 1921, in a bookstore and liked it so much he bought the publishing rights and gave away signed copies to visitors.
        The friendship with Mr. Reagan came after Mr. Jorgensen was introduced to the Hollywood scene, apparently through his wife of 47 years, Marion, who had previously been married to Milton Bren, a Hollywood producer. Mr. Jorgensen became the stepfather of his wife's two sons, Donald and Peter Bren. Donald Bren is now a billionaire real estate developer as owner of the Irvine Company, outside of Los Angeles.
        In addition to his wife and stepsons, Mr. Jorgensen is survived by two children from his first marriage, Maren Long of Ojai, Calif., and Earle M. Jorgensen Jr. of Mariposa, Calif. His son John and a daughter from that marriage, which ended in divorce, predeceased him. He also had 17 grandchildren, 21 great-grandchildren and one great-great-grandchild.
        Mr. Jorgensen did not take up sports until learning to ski at age 59, according to Mr. Wilson. He then moved to tennis and golf. Even in his 100th year, he was getting up at 5 A.M. three days a week to work with a personal trainer. But work was always paramount and it seems he credited it for his longevity.
        ''I've always worked,'' he told Forbes magazine last year. ''I'm too busy to die.''
      