
        Archbishop Helder Pessoa Camara of Brazil, an early proponent of liberation theology and an outspoken critic of his country's military dictatorship, died late on Friday in his home in Olinda, Brazil. He was 90.
        He served as Archbishop of Olinda and Recife, in the parched and impoverished northeast of Brazil, the world's largest Roman Catholic nation. He pushed the Catholic church to move beyond mere charity for the poor and to advocate fundamental social changes like land redistribution and access to education.
        Articulated by leaders like Archbishop Camara, liberation theology swept through Latin America in the 1970's and 1980's. Some accused it of lending philosophical legitimacy to the armed revolutionary movements then under way.
        Archbishop Camara was denounced as ''the Red Bishop'' and ''Fidel Castro in a cassock.'' To that, he once retorted: ''When I fed the poor, they called me a saint. When I asked, 'Why are they poor?' they called me a Communist.''
        He was born in Fortaleza, a port city in northeast Brazil. He told an interviewer he was one of 13 children, only 4 of whom survived childhood.
        He entered a seminary at 14 and was ordained at 22. He soon became an active member of the Integralist movement, a Brazilian outgrowth of fascism. He later said he left it after several years because he came to see the faults in its authoritarian message.
        He rose through the church's ranks to become auxiliary bishop of Rio de Janeiro in 1952. He soon befriended an official in the Vatican  Secretariat of State named Giovanni Battista Montini, who allowed him to organize the National Conference of the Brazilian Bishops. His Vatican contact went on to become Pope Paul VI.
        Bishop Camara served as secretary general of the national conference for 12 years, a position that put him in regular contact with Brazil's political bureaucracy and three Presidents.
        When the Second Vatican Council was meeting in Rome in 1963, Archbishop Camara called on his fellow bishops to drop such titles as ''excellency'' and ''eminence'' and to exchange their silver and gold pectoral crosses for bronze or wooden ones.
        ''Let us end once and for all the impression of a Bishop-Prince, residing in a palace, isolated from his clergy whom he treats distantly and coldly,'' he wrote in a paper to the bishops.
        When he arrived in Recife as Archbishop in 1964, he put the archbishop's traditional gilded throne in storage and replaced it with a simple wooden chair. He chose not to live in the palatial official residence. He lived instead in a sparsely furnished room behind a church.
        Clerics like Archbishop Camara helped create a radical transition in the Roman Catholic Church in Latin America, from ally of the military and wealthy landowning elite to advocate for the poor and landless. Thousands of peasants met in small Bible study groups in which they were urged to abandon their traditional fatalism and read the Gospel as a blueprint for social action.
        Archbishop Camara was among the leaders who guided a pivotal meeting of Latin America's bishops in Medellin, Colombia, in 1968 that produced a set of documents calling for the church to stand in solidarity with the poor.
        When Brazil's military regime began a campaign of repression, many church lay leaders and clerics were among the victims. Archbishop Camara traveled abroad denouncing the torture and killing of priests, nuns and seminary students. His phone was tapped, he received death threats by phone and mail, and, in 1969, a hail of bullets pierced the walls of his living quarters. He was out of the country at the time.
        He became an international hero of the Catholic left and was nominated for a Nobel Peace Prize. But in his own country, the military Government banned news media coverage of him.
        In 1980, Pope John Paul II went to Recife and met with Archbishop Camara, then considered a ''non person'' by the military Government. On live television broadcast nationally and internationally, the Pope embraced him and said: ''This man is a friend of the poor. He is my friend.''
        He retired as Archbishop in 1985 but continued to criticize the role of multinational corporations and industrialized nations in the third world. He also criticized Communist powers for imposing their will on smaller countries, and said that although he found humanism in Marxism, he was not a Marxist.
        ''Let none try to confine me to one group or link me to any one party, insist that his friends be my friends and his enemies mine,'' he wrote.
        Pope John Paul II has steadily curbed the influence of liberation theologians, appointing conservatives to replace them. Archbishop Camara was replaced by a man who moved into the official archbishop's palace and began emphasizing saving souls over social action. Many critics have blamed liberation theology for alienating Brazil's Catholics, who have converted by the tens of thousands to evangelical Protestant and Pentecostal churches.
        After his retirement, Archbishop Camara still took part in services at his church, Igreja das Fronteiras, where he lived until his death. Thousands of Brazilians flocked to the city of Olinda on Saturday for a daylong wake and citywide procession.
        On Sunday, President Fernando Henrique Cardoso called Archbishop Camara ''a blessed man who dedicated his life to ecumenical human rights,'' and declared three days of national mourning beginning today.
      