
        Willie Morris, the writer and editor whose life and work reveled in the endless contradictions of the South and the region's ghostlike hold on its native sons and daughters, died on Monday at St. Dominic Hospital in Jackson, Miss., at 64.
        The cause was heart failure, said a hospital official.
        Mr. Morris, who turned his childhood in Yazoo City, Miss., into a place almost as complex and resonant as William Faulkner's Yoknapatawpha County, went from a country boy to a Rhodes Scholar to a literary Wunderkind, becoming editor in chief of Harper's Magazine at  age 32.
        But just as Truman Capote famously said that all Southerners eventually come home, if only in a box, Mr. Morris returned to Mississippi in 1980 and never stopped exploring what he once described as ''the old warring impulses of one's sensibility to be both Southern and American.''
        He wrote on subjects ranging from his childhood English fox terrier in ''My Dog Skip'' to the intersection of football and race in ''The Courting of Marcus Dupree''; hunkered down in his favorite Mississippi haunts like Doe's in Greenville, Lusko's in Greenwood and Bill's Greek Tavern in Jackson, and delved into the interplay of past and present that defines Southern life.
        Still, rather than being merely a vivid interpreter of Southern life, Mr. Morris was someone ahead of his time in exploring the confluence of region and nation, and how the South's distinctive experience of race, family and history was so deeply a part of the nation's experience as well.
        ''Willie said that Mississippi is America writ large,'' said Richard Howorth, owner of Square Books, the  literary haunt in Oxford, Miss. ''And to understand Willie you have to know that he had this amazing knowledge of American history. And I think his understanding of the South and curiosity about the South was very much a part of his understanding and curiosity about America. He understood the South as only a Southerner could, but his perspective was so much broader than just thinking and writing about the South.''
        Willie Morris was born on Nov. 29, 1934, in Jackson. When he was 6 his family moved to Yazoo City, a town on the edge of the Mississippi Delta, which at roughly the same time nurtured figures as diverse as Mike Espy, later to become Mississippi's first black Congressman since Reconstruction and then Secretary of Agriculture; Haley Barbour, former national chairman of the Republican Party, and Zig Ziglar, the motivational speaker.
        His father, Henry, ran a gas station, and Mr. Morris grew up in the teeth of the segregation era, in an environment he came to see as wondrous and horrific, where blacks and whites lived together in parallel universes that were utterly apart and intimately entwined. He played taps for the American Legion at military funerals, became a part-time sports writer for The Yazoo Herald and dreamed of ascending to the landed gentry who defined the social and economic overclass of the Delta.
        But rather than send Mr. Morris to the University of Mississippi, his father had him go to the distant and alien environs of the University of Texas in Austin. He had, he later observed, no sense that ''there were ideas, much less ideas to arouse one from oneself.'' But after two years of pranks and fraternity hi-jinks, he came to see that books could be, as he later put it, ''as subversive as Socrates.''
        He became editor of the student newspaper, The Daily Texan, where he was asked to resign after the newspaper accused the Governor and state Legislators of colluding with oil and gas interests. After graduating, he went to Britain as a a Rhodes Scholar. Then he returned to Texas to edit The Texas Observer, a feisty gadfly publication.
        He moved to California and then to New York, where he was hired at Harper's Magazine in 1963. In 1967 he became its youngest editor in chief ever and a major literary figure in a city he came to call ''the Big Cave.'' He presided over one of the legendary eras in magazine journalism, hiring David Halberstam to write about Vietnam, Larry L. King to write about Washington, and printing a 45,000-word excerpt of William Styron's ''Confessions of Nat Turner'' and 90,000 words of Norman Mailer's ''Steps of the Pentagon,'' about a Vietnam War protest march, which took up the entire March 1968 issue. Six months after becoming editor in chief he also published his autobiography, ''North Toward Home,'' which was a memoir as social history that tried to make sense of the epic changes rattling through the South and what they said about the nation.
        But after new ownership took over the magazine, Mr. Morris found himself at war with the management and resigned in 1971, and most of his staff members followed.
        Mr. Morris lived and wrote for several years from Bridgehampton, N.Y.
        In ''North Toward Home'' he wrote about how he felt as if ''someone had taken some terrible weight off my shoulders'' whenever he left the South.
        Despite that, he decided to return home. He moved to Oxford as writer in residence at the University of Mississippi. He moved 10 years later to Jackson and spent his time evoking the clattering cacophony of warring emotions -- love, hate, chauvinism, despair and, above all, a sense of something unshakable -- that so many Southerners feel toward the region.
        Mr. Morris is survived by his wife, JoAnne Prichard of Jackson, and his son, David Rae of New Orleans.
        Not all of his work was critically praised. A 1973 novel, ''The Last of the Southern Girls,'' received tepid reviews. And his memoir of his days at Harper's, ''New York Days,'' struck some reviewers as conventional and nostalgic. But few doubt that he captured the South's transition from the days of segregation and the complexities of the Southern experience like few, if any, writers of his time.
        ''His work in 'North Toward Home' became a mantra for Southerners who fled the South seeking worlds where they could be free and open in their thought but could never escape the love-hate relationship all Southerners carry within them about the place of birth,'' said William R. Ferris, chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities, and a longtime friend from Mississippi.
        Mr. Morris drank too much bourbon and red wine, smoked too many Viceroys, stayed up too late and caroused too much. Indeed, friends  have marveled at his ability to defy most of the conventions of good health. But, like his writing, his life style betrayed a singular personality, given to long, rambling evocative conversation, and the indelible stamp of his early days in Yazoo City. And friends and admirers say that whatever barbs he could fling at the South's failings were leavened by the degree to which he was, in the end, such a quintessential Southerner.
        ''Willie was such an honest voice, clear, vivid, never ambiguous,'' said David Sansing, a retired University of Mississippi historian. ''I think people were willing to accept a lot of things from Willie because he didn't fuss at us or belittle us or demean us, because essentially he was one of us. The great thing about 'North Toward Home' is how well it showed how sometimes you have to leave a place to really see it. He had to leave the South to really confirm his own Southernness. But, of course, he came back. Richard Wright once said, 'I got out of the South. But I never got the South out of me.' Willie knew the same thing.''
      