
        Whitney Darrow Jr., a witty, gently satiric cartoonist for The New Yorker for 50 years, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Burlington, Vt. He was 89 and lived with his wife, Mildred, in Shelburne, Vt.
        Mr. Darrow, one of the last of the early New Yorker cartoonists -- a group that included Charles Addams, James Thurber, Peter Arno, George Price and Mary Petty -- published more than 1,500 cartoons in the magazine from 1933 to 1982. He was considered a master draftsman and, in contrast to some of his colleagues, he wrote his own captions.
        ''He was a great creator of comic ideas, and he avoided most of the standard cartoon cliches,'' Lee Lorenz, the former art editor of The New Yorker, said yesterday. Even away from the drawing board, Mr. Darrow was known for his sense of humor and for being shrewdly observant of the contradictions of human behavior.
        In the book ''The Art of the New Yorker, 1925-1995,'' Mr. Lorenz said that with the death of Charles Saxon and the retirement of Mr. Darrow, very few current contributors to the magazine ''could produce the elegant full-page tour de force that was a hallmark of these masters of the 30's and 40's.'' He added, ''Whitney Darrow's wit is as sharp as his pen.''  Often he drew upper-middle-class suburban couples he knew close-up from his many years living in Wilton, Conn., the kind of people who might  appear in the comic stories of Peter De Vries, but Mr. Darrow depicted them without any sense of malice.
        He was also expert at depicting  children, finding a universality in their demands. (A young boy in a turban says to his fakir father, ''Dad, can I have the carpet tonight?'') Judges and politicians populate his pictures, as well as characters of various degrees of inebriation and windbags in all professions.
        He was equally adept with lecherous septuagenarians and sexy women with low bodices, one subject in which he was evidently influenced by Arno. Dining at an elegant restaurant a young woman says to her escort, ''Goodness, Mr. Harrison, 78 isn't old!''
        In his humor he specialized in everyday absurdities, but always with an artful Darrow twist. In one of Mr. Darrow's cartoons from the 50's, a man wearing rabbit ears at a New Year's Eve party is embracing a pert young blonde in a party hat as his formidable wife appears at the door. ''Good heavens, Emma!'' he says. ''I thought this was you.'' He could also be carried away by a streak of the fanciful. In a time-trip comedy, a spaceship lands on the moon and an astronaut discovers the Garden of Eden, with Eve about to take a bite of the apple. The astronaut rushes up and says: 'Miss! Oh, Miss! For God's sake, stop!''
        One favorite object of his satire was art. Standing before Manet's ''Dejeuner sur l'Herbe,'' a schoolteacher explains to the tots in her charge, ''Well, it was sort of like a cookout.'' A sharp-sighted hunting dog points to an abstraction titled ''Bird in Flight.'' Two club ladies who could have escaped from a Helen Hokinson cartoon stand before a large sculpture of a voluptuous nude, and one says, ''Why doesn't he pick on his own sex for a change?'' Facing his latest painting, a tick-tack-toe of stark white squares, a bearded artist with palette in hand proudly announces : ''There! A message of good will for all mankind.''
        Although Mr. Darrow considered himself to be apolitical, occasionally he touched on more topical subjects. Woman to travel agent: ''I'm confused. Tell me again. Which countries have dictators we like?''
        Reviewing a Darrow exhibition at a Manhattan gallery in 1978, John Russell wrote in The New York Times: ''Whitney Darrow has been one of the best cartoonists around for as long as anyone can remember. He is an environmental cartoonist, in that he goes on setting the scene in that misleadingly easygoing style of his until he is ready for a one-liner. And what a one-liner!''
        Mr. Darrow was born in Princeton, N.J., where his father was one of the founders of the Princeton University Press. Growing up in Greenwich, Conn., he wrote parodies for his school paper. In 1931 he graduated from Princeton, where he wrote a humorous column for The Daily Princetonian and was art editor of The Princeton Tiger. He thought about being a writer but seemed to move naturally into drawing. He studied with Thomas Hart Benton and other artists at the Art Students League and in his early 20's began selling cartoons to Judge, Life and College Humor. In 1933, at 24, he made his breakthrough to The New Yorker at a time when, in Mr. Lorenz's words, the cartoon, at least as The New Yorker was to popularize it, ''was still being born.''
        Mr. Darrow helped move the cartoon many steps away from a vaudeville-style gag line to a commentary on character. He quickly became a regular at the magazine, one of the most prolific contributors under the editorship of Harold Ross and, later, William Shawn. During his heyday, Mr. Darrow published 50 cartoons a year and also drew occasional covers. He always carried his notebook, listening and looking for ideas.
        He published four collections, ''You're Sitting on My Eyelashes,'' ''Give Up?'' (in the title cartoon, a woman tries to figure out the identity of an exotic bird, which says, ''Give Up?''), ''Stop, Miss'' and ''Please Pass the Hostess.'' He illustrated books by Nathaniel Benchley, Jean Kerr and Johnny Carson, among others, and did children's books.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his son, Barton, of Northampton, Mass., his daughter, Linda, of Charlotte, Vt., and two grandsons, Jesse Ricciarelli of Barre, Vt. and John Ricciarelli of Charlotte.
        In an interview in The Times in 1984, Mr. Darrow said: ''I'm definitely a pessimist. I'm convinced we're all going to be blown up any minute!'' One would never have known that from his cartoons, which were marked by their cheerfulness and their natural exuberance.
      