
        Sir Hugh Casson, a British architect who served as president of the Royal Academy of Arts, designed the interiors of royal family residences and in later years taught Prince Charles the techniques of watercolor painting,  died on Sunday in London. He was 89.
        A man with a winning personality and buoyant sense of humor, he managed to become a favorite of the establishment while earning a reputation during his tenure from 1976 to  1984 at the Royal Academy for opening up the august institution to the British public. He also gave it financial stability through his personal fund-raising and the creation of corporate memberships and the Friends of the Royal Academy, an association of supporters that today numbers 85,000 members.
        He was an early proponent of the blockbuster show, and he was known to appear outside the academy's Burlington House building on Piccadilly on weekends to count the people waiting in line to see such exhibitions as a sellout show on Pompeii in 1977, ''Post-Impressionism'' in 1979, ''The Great Japan Exhibition'' in 1981 and ''The Genius of Venice'' in 1983.
        He became a public figure in London in 1951 when he was named the director of architecture of the Festival of Britain, the urban fair that  gave a boost to national morale after the war and produced the first major postwar public buildings in the heavily bombed city, the Royal Festival Hall and the cultural complex on the south bank of the Thames.
        Overseeing 40 architects and designers, he demonstrated a talent for organizing and motivating colleagues while fostering a degree of cooperative calm unusual for creative projects. ''I'm quite good at getting a lot of people, particularly artists, working together, '' he said, ''without quarreling, that is.''
        His achievement and his social skills brought him to the attention of the royal family, and he was knighted in 1952. He created the street decorations for the coronation of Queen Elizabeth in 1953 and took on commissions to remodel and furnish five rooms at Windsor Castle, decorate several more at Buckingham Palace and design the interiors for the royal yacht Britannia. ''The overall idea was to create the idea of a country house at sea,'' he said. ''I think we succeeded.''
        He took up illustration and watercolor later in life and became an informal artistic tutor to Prince Charles, often setting up his own easel next to the Prince's in the gardens at the heir to the throne's Highgrove estate in Gloucestershire.  In an introduction the Prince wrote for a collection of watercolors shown at Hampton Court Palace last year, he said, ''I have been lucky enough to obtain wonderfully useful hints from such accomplished artists as Sir Hugh Casson who, on his own admission, sketches with pen and watercolor in the same way that other people hum tunes.''
        The two shared a dedication to architectural conservatism, and Sir Hugh's design for the Ismaili Center opposite the Victoria and Albert Museum was among the few contemporary buildings that the Prince admired.
        Hugh Maxwell Casson was born on May 23, 1910, in London, the son of Randall Casson of the Indian civil service and the nephew of Sir Lewis Casson, a theatrical producer who was the husband of the actress Dame Sybil Thorndike. He went to Eastbourne College boarding school and St. John's College, Cambridge, where he studied architecture and won a fellowship for a postgraduate year at the British school in Athens.
        In London he and a partner set up a private architecture and interior design practice. During World War II he helped camouflage Royal Air Force hangars and served in the Ministry of Town and Country Planning. In 1948 he was named to the Festival of Britain post.
        He was an avid conservationist, but he puzzled admirers by remaining architectural adviser to Bath City Council while much of the city's Georgian heritage was being destroyed and to Brighton while that city was allowing its Regency buildings to fall to the wrecking ball. Friends attributed the lapses to Sir Hugh's desire to please, which made tough decisions unpalatable.
        His partnership produced buildings at Cambridge and Birmingham Universities, civic and bank structures elsewhere in England and the Elephant House at London Zoo, the work of which he was most proud. He was not an outstanding architect and  did not claim to be, once calling his buildings ''unmemorable.''
        He taught at the Royal College of Art for many years, assisted by his wife, the former Margaret MacDonald Troup, a South African architect and interior designer he married in 1938. She and three daughters survive him.
        He spoke often in public and in broadcast conversations and debates, and he wrote columns for newspapers and a well-received book on Victorian architecture.
        An elfin figure compact enough to have served as a coxswain for the rowing team at Cambridge, Sir Hugh was often seen around London, a scarf thrown about his neck, perched on walls sketching one of his familiar pen and wash impressions of the city's streets and parks. As Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher chose one he did of 10 Downing Street for her official Christmas card in 1984.
        A man constantly on the run, he served on scores of committees and boards and professed to be unbothered by criticism that he spread himself too thin. He once compared himself to ''a sort of water beetle who skims very fast over the surface but doesn't go very deep.''
        To those who questioned his comfort with the establishment and reverence for tradition, he had a characteristically propitiating response.  ''To have an avant-garde,'' he said, ''you have to have a garde.''
      