
        Stanley Stahl, a New York real estate and banking magnate, who prosecutors say was the target of a failed murder-for-hire scheme devised by Abe Hirschfeld, another prominent businessman, died yesterday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 75 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was a stroke, said Richard Czaja, an executive vice president at the Stahl Real Estate Company in Manhattan.
        Mr. Stahl was the sole stockholder of Apple Bank for Savings, a bank with more than 30 branches, which he acquired for $174 million in a hostile takeover in 1990.
        His real estate investments include about four million square feet of office space, residential buildings with more than 3,000 apartments and numerous retail buildings.
        Among his commercial real estate holdings is 277 Park Avenue, at 48th Street, also known as the Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette Building, a 1.74-million-square-foot, 50-story tower. He started the building in 1957 and finished it in 1964. Chemical Bank was a longtime tenant.
        Mr. Stahl also owns an interest in the landmark Ansonia building, on Broadway at 74th Street.
        Last year, Mr. Hirschfeld, who made a fortune in garages and has become well known for various publicity stunts, was indicted on charges of paying a hit man $75,000 to kill Mr. Stahl in 1996. Prosecutors say the plot fell apart. Mr. Hirschfeld is scheduled to be tried later this year.
        Mr. Hirschfeld has denied the allegation, attributing it to a conspiracy mounted against him by Mr. Stahl and others. The two men had been feuding bitterly since 1993 and, prosecutors say, were business partners on some real estate properties that had ''survivor take all'' clauses.
        Mr. Stahl was born on June 16, 1924, the son of a Brooklyn butcher.  He graduated from New York University with an accounting degree and served in the United States Army. He began as a Manhattan real estate broker and parlayed his commissions into properties bought with his father, Max.
        Known as a ferociously tough negotiator, Mr. Stahl bought several Broadway theaters. He also once owned the original Lindy's restaurant in the theater district in Manhattan and kept his office above it.
        He was an intensely private man who rarely allowed photographs to be taken, an unusual trait in a profession crowded with skyscraper-size egos. He went through a messy divorce in the early 1960's and faced bad publicity over a 1977 indictment on charges of bribing an Internal Revenue Service official. He was found guilty, but the verdict was thrown out on appeal.
        The appellate court said that prosecutors had made prejudicial remarks to the jury about Mr. Stahl's wealth; a 1990 Newsday article estimated that he had a net worth of $430 million.
        Mr. Stahl is survived by his wife, Cherie; a son, Gregory; a stepson, Peter Neger; a stepdaughter, Simi Matera, and a sister, Beatrice Marans, all of Manhattan.
      