
        Altina Schinasi Miranda, who is credited with designing the flared-frame Harlequin eyeglasses, which first came into vogue in the late 1930's and which have made kitschy comebacks from time to time, died on Thursday at her home in Santa Fe, N.M. She was 92.
        Mrs. Miranda came up with the idea for the pointy glasses while working as a window display designer on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan. In an optician's window nearby, she noticed the humdrum round eyeglasses for women and decided to design something different.
        Her new glasses were initially rejected by the major manufacturers, but Mrs. Miranda allied herself with a stylish optical shop, Lugene, on Madison Avenue, where one of the first pairs was sold to the writer Clare Boothe Luce. Other New York trendsetters followed Mrs. Luce's lead, and by the late 1930's, Harlequin glasses were the rage.
        Mrs. Miranda's glasses were hailed by magazines like Vogue and Life, and she decided to establish her own company to distribute them. In 1939 she received an American Design Award from Lord & Taylor for the Harlequins, which remained fashionable through the 1950's and enjoyed a resurgence of hip popularity in the early 1990's.
        ''If you look at any 'I Love Lucy' rerun, if Lucille Ball is wearing glasses, they are Harlequin glasses,'' said David Mayhew of Maplewood, N.J., a friend of Mrs. Miranda's family.
        Mrs. Miranda was born on Aug. 4, 1907, in a Manhattan mansion to Moussa and Laurette Schinasi. Mr. Schinasi, once a poor Turkish immigrant, had become a millionaire through his patented cigarette-rolling machine, which led to the establishment of a company that manufactured ''ready rolled'' cigarettes.
        In the mid-1940's Mrs. Miranda sold her eyeglass interests and moved to Los Angeles. She later became a filmmaker, producing a film about George Grosz, the Weimar artist, with whom she had once studied.
        In 1981 she relocated to Santa Fe  and continued work as a visual artist until her health began to decline in recent years.
        She is survived by her husband, Celestino Miranda; a son, Terry Sanders of Los Angeles, five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      