
        Richard Olney, one of the first food writers to introduce the simple joys of French country cooking to American readers, was found dead yesterday at his home at Sollies-Toucas in Provence. He was 71.
        Kermit Lynch, a California wine merchant who spends part of the year in a house near Mr. Olney's, said in a telephone interview that the writer's gardner found him in bed yesterday morning. Mr. Lynch said Mr. Olney had a bout of Lyme disease two years ago but had appeared ''in wonderful shape'' when the two of them last met about a week ago.
        Mr. Olney lived alone in a simple hillside house in Sollies-Toucas,  northeast of the French port city of Toulon on the Mediterranean. Surrounded by olive trees, the house centered on a kitchen with a large fireplace, a stone sink and collections of books and terrines. Mr. Olney slept in an ascetic little bed in an alcove off the kitchen and ate in fair weather on a table set under a grape arbor outdoors.
        His reputation was based on a pair of early books -- the ''French Menu Cookbook'' and ''Simple French Food,'' which appeared in the early 1970's -- and on the Time-Life cookbook series, which he helped to edit. He wrote more than 35 books on food and wine in all, including an autobiography called ''Reflexions,'' which was in the final editing process when he died.
        John T. Colby Jr., the publisher of Brick House Press, which is producing the memoir, said it would be published in October.
        Mr. Olney's influence in the culinary profession was profound, although he was not as well-known to the public as Julia Child or Elizabeth David, the English cookery writer with whom he is often compared. Yet his recipes, set out with clinical precision, were within the capacity of any careful cook; they were simple and direct, the polar opposites of the dauntingly complex formulas typical of French nouvelle cuisine.
        He gave step-by-step instructions for time-consuming preparations, like a boned, stuffed saddle of rabbit, but also for everyday dishes like braised celery and mixed salads.  Some of his favorites passed into the repertories of thousands of home cooks, like his unctuous potato gratin and his improbable-sounding chicken cooked with 40 cloves of garlic.
        Rowley Leigh, one of the leading young chefs in London, said recently, ''No other writer combines so well technical expertise and advice with good taste and discretion.'' Mr. Olney's prose was elegant if sometimes convoluted, and as Mr. Lynch said, ''You could read his books as literature.''
        Mr. Olney's most important disciple was Alice Waters, who keeps a jacketless, food-stained copy of ''Simple French Food'' in the kitchen of her celebrated restaurant, Chez Panisse, in Berkeley, Calif. But many others also came under his influence, including Deborah Madison, perhaps the country's leading vegetarian chef, and Melissa Kelly, the chef at the Old Chatham Sheepherding Company Inn at Old Chatham, N.Y., who often cooks his leg of lamb larded with anchovies.
        It was Mr. Olney who introduced Ms. Waters to Ms. David, over a three-hour lunch of white truffles, an extravaganza that neither soon forgot.
        ''He lived his life so consciously and purposefully,'' Ms. Waters said yesterday in an interview. ''When some people build a stone wall, they think about it for weeks beforehand.  Richard spoke that way, wrote that way and cooked that way -- strict, demanding but unpretentious. There are hundreds of great cooks, but not many with his talent and aesthetic sense.''
        Trained as a painter at the Brooklyn Museum Art School, Mr. Olney once spoke of working toward ''a sort of convergence of all the senses, an awareness of food not only through touching but also through smelling, hearing, seeing and tasting.''
        He was as interested in wine as in food, and he wrote books about two of France's greatest viticultural treasures, Chateau d'Yquem and the Domaine de la Romanee Conti. He introduced Mr. Lynch to choice Rhone wines like the Bandol of Domaine Tempier, the Cornas of Clape and the Hermitage of Chave, which Mr. Lynch, in turn, helped popularize in the United States.
        Born in Marathon, Iowa, Mr. Olney attended the University of Iowa for a time, then spent some time in Paris, financed by his father, before heading for New York. While studying in Brooklyn, he waited on tables at 17 Barrow Street, a small restaurant in Greenwich Village. In 1951, at the age of 24, he left the United States for France, and he never moved back.
        He ate his first meal in Paris at ''a glum little dining room'' in the Sixth Arrondissement. The rabbit was ordinary, but the mashed potatoes, he recalled years later, were ''the best I had ever eaten, pushed through a sieve, buttered and moistened with enough of their hot cooking water to bring them to a supple, not quite pourable consistency -- no milk, no cream, no beating. I had never dreamed of mashing potatoes without milk, and, in Iowa, everyone believed that the more you beat them, the better they were.''
        Mr. Olney had a notably prickly personality that grated on some people, like Mrs. Child.
        ''I think he enjoyed being difficult,'' she said. ''But on the other hand, he could be absolutely charming if you treated him like the genius he considered himself to be.''
        Many saw Mr. Olney as a hermit, but Mr. Colby, the publisher, said he kept in constant touch with friends and family in the United States by fax. His was an old Puritan family, Mr. Colby said, that included another Richard Olney who served as Secretary of State under Grover Cleveland.
        Among his survivors were a brother, Byron, a doctor at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., as well as two sisters and three other brothers. To his great delight, one of Mr. Olney's nephews, John, went into the wine business in California, working at Ridge Vineyards in Cupertino.
      