
        John S. Gottschalk, a director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service in the 1960's who oversaw developments like the first endangered species act, the banning of the pesticide DDT and the comeback of the whooping crane, died on Aug. 13 at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 86.
        During his tenure, from 1964 to 1970, Mr. Gottschalk helped to start several urban wildlife programs and add more than 500,000 acres to the national wildlife refuge system.
        Earlier in his career, when he was a regional director in the service, Mr. Gottschalk played an important role in the Interior Department's takeover of the Great Swamp in Morris County, N.J. In the early 1960's, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey had considered using the area, now called the Great Swamp Wildlife Preserve, for an airport.
        After leaving the service, Mr. Gottschalk was assistant to the director of the National Marine Fisheries Service and then was an executive vice president and counsel of the International Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies. He retired in 1986.
        John Simison Gottschalk was born on Sept. 27, 1912, in Berne, Ind. He  graduated from Earlham College, in Richmond, Ind., and received a master's degree from Indiana University.
        He began his career in the 1930's and early 40's as a park ranger, park naturalist and fisheries superintendent with the Indiana Conservation Department. He joined the Fish and Wildlife Service in Montana, and in 1951 he became the first director of the sport fisheries division of the agency. In 1959, he went to Boston as  director of the service's 11-state northeast region.
        He also served as president of the American Fisheries Society and as a board member of the National Wildlife Federation and the Audubon Naturalist Society, a conservation group for the Washington metropolitan region.
        Mr. Gottschalk is survived by his wife of 62 years, Edith Gottschalk of Arlington; a son, Thomas, of Washington; a daughter, Sara Nell Davis of Seabeck, Wash.; five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      