
        Wallace Rosenwach, a master builder of the rooftop water tanks that decorate the skyline of New York City, died last Monday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 77 and lived on Long Island.
        He died after a brief illness, said his son, Andrew.
        The Rosenwach Tank Company was founded in 1896 by Wallace Rosenwach's grandfather, and has been building water tanks that look like the Tin Man's hat ever since.
        Andrew Rosenwach said that one of his father's achievements was in devising a way to construct a rooftop water tank in just 10 hours. Previously, Mr. Rosenwach explained, it would take weeks to replace a water tank, and to go without water for that long was not just an inconvenience affecting things like drinking water and toilets, but also a serious fire hazard.
        ''He had 15 or 20 competitors when he reduced the time to 10 hours, and pretty soon he had almost none,'' Andrew Rosenwach added.
        But the Rosenwach company, which has its headquarters in Long Island City, Queens, does not have the field to itself; its main competition, Isseks Brothers in Manhattan, has been in business since the 1890's and the two are the Hatfields and McCoys of the business.
        However, Scott Hochhauser, a co-owner of Isseks Brothers, said the elder Mr. Rosenwach had been ''an honorable competitor,'' and praised him as having helped to transform the industry ''from just answering calls to urging customers to do preventive maintenance rather than wait for their tank to break and flood their building.''
        Water tanks are not cheap. A standard tank for a residential building six or more stories tall must hold at least 8,500 gallons and may cost about $25,000.
        But they are often long lived. In an interview in 1975, Mr. Rosenwach said, ''Half the tanks put up by my father in the 1920's are still there.'' More recently, he told another interviewer that he had ''probably walked into every building in New York at one time or another so I feel very much a part of the city.''
        Mr. Rosenwach explained that the material of choice for water tanks is wood rather than metal because the wooden tanks are more durable and substantially cheaper to build and maintain.
        ''You put up a wooden tank and forget about it,'' he said. ''Put on a steel tank and there's continual costly maintenance.''
        Rooftop water tanks are necessary in taller buildings to provide water for hallway standpipe reserves, emergency sprinkler systems and a regular water supply.
        ''The Croton reservoir can't pump water with enough pressure to these high buildings,'' Mr. Rosenwach continued. ''So you store water on the roof and release it down from there.''
        The standpipe reserve and sprinkler systems of a building are designed to provide water during emergencies, like fires or water main breaks.
        Born on Oct. 17, 1921, Mr. Rosenwach grew up in Brooklyn, earned a degree from New York University's School of Engineering and attended the Small Business Program of the  Harvard Business School.
        In addition to his son, Andrew, Mr. Rosenwach is survived by his wife, Alice; his daughter, Barbara, and two grandchildren.
        While most of Mr. Rosenwach's customers were in the market for rooftop water tanks, he liked to recall that over the years there had been some interesting exceptions. At one time, New York State winemakers used his tanks for wine storage. One client bought several tanks for storing lipstick pigments. Others used them for keeping photo-processing chemicals.
        Some years ago, a customer asked Mr. Rosenwach to build a tank he could live in. The result was a huge two-story tank, 34 feet in diameter and 18 feet high, with a spiral staircase in its center. Three men assembled it in three days. It still stands, his family says.
      