
        Jennifer Paterson, the over-the-top co-star of the quirky television cooking show ''Two Fat Ladies,'' died yesterday at a hospital in London, where she lived. She was 71.
        Lung cancer had been diagnosed last month after Ms. Paterson fell ill while filming installments of the cooking series with her partner, Clarissa Dickson Wright.
        The show, featuring the two unashamedly corpulent and opinionated eccentrics, is a hit in Britain and the United States and has been syndicated in other countries following its debut on the British Broadcasting Corporation in 1996.
        Ms. Paterson and Ms. Dickson Wright were unknown to each other until they were brought together by a BBC producer in what was described as a match made in ratings heaven. One fan who apparently contributed to the ratings was Prince Charles, who sent a gift of homemade organic tomato soup and vanilla ice cream to Ms. Paterson after she disclosed her illness last month.
        Ms. Paterson and Ms. Dickson Wright offered their viewers cholesterol-soaked dishes that they favored in their own homes. One show, called ''Meat,'' featured meatloaf draped with strips of bacon, lamb stew, fillet of beef and, perhaps as a nod to health fanatics, a pan-fried chicken dish.
        ''I blame Americans for this fear of red meat and fat that's spread all over England,'' Ms. Paterson told an interviewer last year while taking a sip of vodka in a restaurant before heading to the sidewalk for a pre-lunch cigarette.
        Ms. Dickson Wright agreed, although she credited the success of the show to a backlash against what she called the health police. ''Our show seems to say to Americans that it's O.K. to eat red meat and cook with butter,'' she said in the same article. ''I don't know why they feel they need permission.''
        Each episode of ''The Two Fat Ladies'' was recorded at a different location. Every show began with Ms. Paterson astride a motorcycle with her partner squeezed into a sidecar, zooming toward their destination. When they did their ''Meat'' show, for example, they cooked for a girls' lacrosse team in the kitchen of a boarding school.
        They each cooked two dishes per show, working in tandem and punctuating their culinary advice with a raucous sense of humor on any subject that took their fancy. They delighted in skewering the pretensions of haute cuisine.
        Last year Ms. Paterson said she was in fine shape for her age. ''Lots of meat, drink and cigarettes and not giving in to things,'' she said in an interview.
        She was born into an army family and was unconventional even as a child. At 15 she was expelled from convent school for being disruptive; she later became a matron at a girls' boarding school near Reading.
        Ms. Paterson went on from there to become a professional chef. She was the cook for the Ugandan legation in London and later provided weekly lunches for celebrities, including Prince Charles. She was a food columnist for The Spectator when she met Ms. Dickson Wright, a former barrister who wrote a column for Decanter magazine and owned a cookbook store in Edinburgh, where she lives.
        The pair was characterized by Suzanne Hamlin in a 1998 article in The New York Times as being ''as appealing as someone else's dotty aunts.'' But Ms. Hamlin, in reviewing their cookbook ''Cooking With the Two Fat Ladies'' (Clarkson Potter),  reported that all six of six recipes she tested did not work as described and that eccentricities and farce failed to be compelling in a cookbook that purported to be useful.
        Following its instructions, she said, one dish ended up looking as though ''it had barely survived a brush fire'' and a pudding that was touted as thick and creamy turned out ''wan and thin as a sauce.''
        ''It is their rapid rise here, of course, that makes this careless effort at a cookbook so regrettable,'' she wrote.
        The Food Network began broadcasting the shows in the United States in 1997 and, as Ms. Hamlin noted, ''in the blink of an eye, they developed a cult following among those who have an innate fondness for British eccentrics.'' American Public Television also distributes ''Two Fat Women'' to stations all over the country.
        The Food Network is planning a two-hour tribute to Ms. Paterson, who is survived by an uncle and two brothers, on Sunday night at 9.
        Ms. Dickson Wright told the BBC that she had last seen Ms. Paterson 10 days ago, although they had spoken each day on the telephone. She had intended to visit her today to drop off a tin of caviar, she said.
        ''She didn't see the point of flowers,'' Ms. Dickson Wright said. ''She'd rather have caviar.''
      