
        Edward L. Palmer, a media consultant who fused education with entertainment, and helped in the early development of ''Sesame Street,'' died on Aug. 1 at a hospice in Ithaca, N.Y.. He was 66.
        The cause was complications from prostate cancer, said his wife, Vera B. Bauer-Palmer.
        Mr. Palmer was among the first people hired in 1968 by Children's Television Workshop, the parent company of ''Sesame Street.'' The workshop was impressed by his research at the University of Michigan into the responses of preschool children to television.
        Mr. Palmer's findings indicated that children took delight in watching other children and animals, that they liked music and slapstick, wanted characters to be kind to one another and were bored by talking adults.
        These insights contributed to the development of characters like Big Bird and Grover when ''Sesame Street'' made its debut in 1969.
        ''He was, to a great degree, the one who figured out how to build educational content into television for young children in a way that's beneficial and entertaining,'' said Shalom Fisch, vice president for program research at the workshop.
        Mr. Palmer served as Children's Television Workshop's vice president for research for 16 years and was senior research fellow for three years afterward.
        He helped develop several adult programs and three other well-known children's shows, including ''Electric Company,'' ''3-2-1 Contact'' and ''Ghostwriter.''
        After leaving the workshop in 1987,  Mr. Palmer formed World Media Partners, a company that helped develop educational and health-care  televisions program for use in developing countries. His clients included Unicef, the Johns Hopkins University School of Public Health and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
        Edward Leon Palmer was born in John Day, Ore., on Jan. 20, 1933. He earned a bachelor's degree in English at Western Oregon University in Monmouth, and a doctorate in educational measurement and research design at Michigan State University in East Lansing in 1964. Later, he taught communications and education at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania and Florida State University.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Palmer is survived by three daughters, Meredith Alberta of Ithaca, Linda Morrison of Fort Collins, Col., and Patti Bosomworth of Vancouver, Canada.
      