
        Rabbi David J. Seligson, a nationally known Reform rabbi and an eloquent orator who held the pulpit at Central Synagogue in Manhattan for 20 years, died on Tuesday on the way to a hospital in Manhattan. He was 92 and had lived for the last two years at the Jewish Home and Hospital in Manhattan.
        Central Synagogue is in some senses a national pulpit. The memorial service Rabbi Seligson led there after the assassination of President John F. Kennedy was broadcast on network television. He was also regularly heard on radio as host of the syndicated ''Message of Israel'' program.
        Rabbi Seligson was among the first Jewish chaplains to volunteer to serve overseas during World War II. As an Army chaplain, he held Passover seders for hundreds of soldiers in Calcutta, India, and comforted those hospitalized with jungle fever in Burma. He traveled the old Burma Road in a jeep with Christian chaplains, holding Sabbath services before sundown to avoid the malaria-bearing mosquitoes that emerged at nightfall.
        Although Rabbi Seligson went on to achieve national prominence, his chaplaincy to soldiers in wartime was his touchstone. ''I feel that it was the greatest work that I have done in my entire ministry,'' he wrote in his memoir, ''Rabbi, Chaplain and Burra Sahib.''
        He was born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan on May 10, 1907, and was brought up in the traditions of Orthodox Judaism.
        He graduated in 1929 from both Teachers College of Columbia University and the Teachers' Institute of the Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary and Yeshiva College. But he decided that the future of Judaism in America lay in the modern and adaptable Reform movement, and he enrolled in the Reform-affiliated Hebrew Union College in Cincinnati. He graduated and was ordained a rabbi in 1933.
        With pulpits scarce during the Depression, he moved to Birmingham, England, to help a group of liberal Jews organize a Reform synagogue. There he met and married an Englishwoman, Minnie Cohen. He returned to the United States to enlist in the military chaplains corps.
        On his homecoming in 1945 after 32 months overseas, he was invited to assist the rabbi at Central Synagogue in Manhattan, an East Side landmark that is the oldest temple in New York State in continuous use by one congregation. He was made senior rabbi in 1950 and held that position until he was named rabbi emeritus in 1972.
        In the temple's magnificent Moorish-style sanctuary, which was burned in a fire last year, Rabbi Seligson delivered sermons about the path to God, the likely success of the civil rights movement and Ethel and Julius Rosenberg. In one sermon, he said God was not ''a great heavenly bellhop who will satisfy our needs if we press the button.''
        Rabbi Seligson helped to expand interfaith relations between synagogues and churches in New York, speaking in churches and inviting them to join an annual Thanksgiving interfaith worship service.
        Rabbi Seligson was president of the New York Board of rabbis from 1952 to 1954 and president of the New York Association of Reform Rabbis in 1954 and 1955.
        He never really retired from pastoral work, serving as interim rabbi for congregations in Lawrence, N.Y., Westport, Conn., and Tenafly, N.J., in the 1970's. For 10 years, until he was 75, he flew to Dublin each year to lead High Holy Days services at the Progressive Synagogue there.
        His wife died in 1994.
        Rabbi Seligson is survived by his daughters, Michelle Seligson of Boston and Jill Seligson Braver of Brooklyn, and three grandchildren.
      