
        Richard W. Jennings, who helped popularize the study of securities law in United States law schools and helped export concepts of market regulation to the postwar societies of Japan and Germany, died at his home in Piedmont, Calif., on Aug. 9 after a brief illness. He was 91.
        At his death, he was a professor emeritus of Boalt Hall, the law school at the University of California at Berkeley. He received his law degree there in 1939, joined the faculty in 1947 and continued to teach there well after his retirement in 1975.
        Beyond the students who studied directly with Professor Jennings over the years, countless others encountered his passion for securities law by using the pioneering casebook that he wrote with Harold Marsh Jr., who taught at the University of California at Los Angeles.
        A casebook is a collection of statutes, state and Federal court decisions and administrative and regulatory rules, the essential elements of any study of a particular field of law. His securities law casebook -- officially called ''Securities Regulation: Cases and Materials'' but known to students simply as ''Jennings and Marsh'' -- was first published in 1961 and is now in its eighth edition.
        The fledgling field of securities law had been brought into focus a decade earlier, in 1951, by the publication of the first securities law textbook, by Louis Loss, a professor at Harvard. But it was the Jennings and Marsh casebook that allowed securities law to become a standard element of legal education.
        ''It was one of the most influential casebooks of all time,'' said Joel Seligman, dean of the Washington University School of Law in St. Louis. ''After four decades, it remains the leading casebook in the field.'' Mr. Seligman wrote the recent editions of the study guide along with John C. Coffee Jr., a law professor at Columbia University.
        Richard Wormington Jennings was born on Oct. 19, 1907, the son of a banker in Bois D'Arc, Mo. A 1927 graduate of Park College in Parkville, Mo., he briefly taught high school algebra before beginning graduate studies in political science at the University of Pennsylvania. But by 1937, his imagination had been caught by the marked changes in business law that were ushered in with the New Deal and he enrolled at the Berkeley law school in 1937.
        After a period of private practice and government service during World War II, he joined the law school faculty. He and his longtime co-author, Mr. Marsh, were described by friends and colleagues as ''The Odd Couple.'' In contrast to Mr. Marsh's tough, blunt-spoken demeanor, Professor Jennings was ''sweetness and light,'' said Richard Buxbaum, a law professor at Berkeley. As each wrote half of the casebook, ''the personality of the early editions was utterly schizophrenic.''
        Professor Jennings's influence on securities regulation extended well beyond the classroom. In the early 1960's, William L. Cary, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission under President John F. Kennedy, recruited him as a consultant to the commission's first full-scale investigation of the securities markets in 25 years. Through his work on the study and his testimony at various Congressional hearings, he contributed to the public debate that led in 1975 to the elimination of fixed brokerage commissions on Wall Street. That change led to the collapse of many securities firms and radically altered the competitive forces in the securities industry.
        ''There was a time, from the 1950's through the 1970's, when there were three people who towered over the field of securities law,'' Mr. Seligman said. ''They were Louis Loss, Bill Cary and Dick Jennings.''
        Professor Jennings was invited in 1961 to serve as a Fulbright professor at Tokyo University and helped introduce modern securities regulation theory to the Japanese academic community. He was also a mentor, along with Professor Loss, to an influential group of young law professors in Germany in the mid-1950's who helped add securities regulation to the academic agenda there as Germany developed into an economic power.
        Indeed, it was as a mentor to young lawyers that he is most fondly remembered among his students, said Lawrence Sonsini, a partner in Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati in Palo Alto, Calif., who was his research assistant in the mid-1960's and later took over some of Professor Jennings's classes.
        ''He was the one who encouraged me to develop a securities law practice at the firm when this was just beginning to be called Silicon Valley,'' Mr. Sonsini said. ''He had a vision of what it could be.
        Professor Jennings, formal and gracious, was one of the last law professors at Berkeley to abandon jacket and tie for ''business casual.'' But other trappings of legal power did not impress him. ''We shared the same office for 13 years -- books, a steel desk, some pictures -- and I don't think it had changed since he first moved in,'' Mr. Sonsini said.
        On campus, he is best known beyond the law school for his service as chairman of the faculty senate at the height of the Free Speech Movement in the mid-1960's, a cultural collision between campus liberals and the conservative establishment in Sacramento that developed against the backdrop of the Vietnam War.
        Herma Hill Kay, dean of the law school, said that his patient but authoritative leadership of a sharply divided faculty was a calming influence during those turbulent years.
        In 1987, law school alumni expressed their affection for Professor Jennings and two colleagues -- Stefan A. Riesenfeld, who died earlier this year, and Adrian A. Kragen -- by raising an endowment for three faculty positions to be named in their honor.
        Professor Jennings is survived by his wife of 64 years, Elizabeth Robison Jennings, of Piedmont; two daughters, Susan J. Stangeland and M. Anne Jennings, both of Berkeley; a son, W. Thomas Jennings of Sacramento; four grandchildren, and a great-grandson.
      