
        The Rev. Mario Zicarelli, a Roman Catholic priest whose parishioners protested his transfer out of the Bronx in 1972 after he publicly supported secular education, died Aug. 25 in a hospital in Nyack, N.Y. He was 78.
        The cause was complications of a stroke. He had most recently been pastor of St. Mary's Church in Haverstraw, N.Y.
        Father Zicarelli had been an associate pastor of Our Lady of Mount Carmel Church in the Belmont section of the Bronx for the 14 years when he was ordered to Poughkeepsie, N.Y., to become pastor of a church with the same name, and his Bronx parishioners held a large and vociferous rally to protest his transfer. Father Zicarelli, who was chairman of the local school board, was outspoken in favoring public rather than parochial schools and said that spending taxpayer dollars for parochial schools violated the constitutional principle of separation of church and state.
        The Archdiocese of New York declined to comment on the reasons for the transfer, which Father Zicarelli had resisted.
        In Poughkeepsie, he continued to speak out on education, warning parishioners from the pulpit not to regard parochial schools as a refuge from integration.
        ''I don't rule out the possibility of saying controversial things in politics and religion,'' he said later. ''I think that is the great gift God gave all free souls.''
        He also took issue with the church on family planning and abortion. ''I don't think the Catholic Church has any business meddling in sex,'' he said in 1974. When Catholics asked him for advice on sexual matters, he urged them to consult their consciences and make up their own minds.
        In 1975, he came to the defense of some Vietnamese refugees who, he said, were being exploited by an employer. ''First we level their country and then we do this,'' he said.
        Father Zicarelli was born in Rimini, Italy, the son of Alfredo and Antonia Nardi Zicarelli. He was educated at public schools in Italy and at P.S. 147 in Brooklyn.
        After his graduation from Xavier High School, he attended Cathedral College and St. Joseph's Seminary and was ordained in 1947, then studied theology at the University of San Anselmo in Rome and Italian literature at Columbia University.
        He served many parishes, including some in Long Island, Manhattan and Yonkers. In his final post, at St. Mary's, he was credited with rebuilding the church, attracting new members and putting the small parish on a sound financial footing.
        He had no immediate survivors.
      