
        Fritz Shurmur, one of pro football's most innovative and successful assistant coaches never to become a head coach, died yesterday in Suamico, Wis., near Green Bay. He was 67 and was found in May 1999 to have liver cancer that had spread.
        From 1975 to 1998, Shurmur was a defensive coach (and, for 19 years, defensive coordinator) for the Detroit Lions, the New England Patriots, the Los Angeles Rams, the Arizona Cardinals and the Green Bay Packers. Last January, when the Packers' head coach, Mike Holmgren, took over the Seattle Seahawks, Shurmur went with him, only to become ill four months later.
        With his white hair and wire-rimmed glasses, Shurmur looked like a mild-mannered, retired grandfather. But he ran, lifted weights and had huge energy, and his players liked him because they could joke with him. When it was time for business, they also liked him because they knew he would have something new to confuse the opposition.
        In 1989 with the Rams, when both outside linebackers were injured, he improvised a 2-5 defense using one or two down linemen and filling in with ever-changing alignments of linebackers and defensive backs. In 1992 with the Cardinals, when two linebackers were hurt, he created a Big Nickel defense, with five defensive backs close enough to the line of scrimmage to rush the quarterback or drop back.
        In the Packers' 1994 playoff game against the Detroit Lions, Shurmur's creative defense held Barry Sanders, probably the National Football League's best running back, to minus-1 yard on 13 carries. As LeRoy Butler, the Packers' safety, said of Shurmur, ''His level of thinking is to win three times as much as any coach.''
        Shurmur, who wrote four books on defense, laughed off his failure to become an N.F.L. head coach despite coaching in the league for 24 seasons.
        ''At one time,'' he said, ''I was too young and then I was too old. I wonder what happened to the just-right years.''
        John Robinson, the Rams' head coach when Shurmur was their defensive coordinator, was an admirer.
        ''Some of the guys who get into these coordinator positions, their level of genius obscures all else, including winning and losing and the best overall interest of the team,'' Robinson said. ''Those kinds of things don't get in the way with Fritz.''
        Leonard Frank Shurmur, nicknamed Fritz as a baby after his grandfather's cocker spaniel, was born on July 15, 1932, in Wyandotte, Mich., an industrial suburb of Detroit. He became a Little All-America center at Albion College in Michigan and coached at Albion and the University of Wyoming (he was Wyoming's head coach from 1971 to 1974) before moving to the pros.
        He is survived by his wife, Peggy, and three children, Sally Ann Michalov, Scott and Susie Plumb.
        Soon after he reached the pros, Shurmur established himself as a defensive creator. His scouting reports and game plans were occasionally 75 pages long, but his philosophy was simple.
        ''This game is played so fast,'' he said. ''I really believe there's a wire that goes from the brain to the feet, and the more the brain's involved, the slower the feet are. Our job is to help players respond instinctively, to recognize tendencies and pounce on them.''
        Shurmur once told The Milwaukee Journal-Sentinel:
        ''You realize there's more than one good answer, one solution to every program. And it's out there someplace. And there's always a better one. By God, if you can be the guy who finds the better one just once in a while, then you've got a little bit of an advantage and your player's got a little bit of an advantage.
        ''Defense always is reaction. We react to what the offense does. But I have found if we come up with something different, something a little more creative, something they have not had a chance to look at, then we get them responding to us.''
      