
        Donald E. Johnson, who headed the Veterans Administration under President Richard M. Nixon but resigned under pressure from Congress and veterans' groups, died on Aug. 10 at a hospital in Fredericksburg, Va., where he lived. He was 75.
        The cause of death was cancer, said his son, Robert Johnson of North Myrtle Beach, S.C.
        During his five-year tenure at the Veterans Administration, from 1969 to 1974, Mr. Johnson, a World War II veteran, was forced to grapple with budget tightening while the number of veterans was increasing because of the Vietnam War.
        In April 1974, several members of Congress met at the White House and urged President Nixon to ask for Mr. Johnson's resignation. They said he had mismanaged veterans' health, education and other benefits, cut payments imprudently to appease the Federal Office of Management and Budget, encouraged employees to contribute to the President's re-election campaign and loaded his staff with Nixon campaign workers.
        Mr. Johnson defended his record, and some in Congress felt that he had been made a scapegoat for retrenchment policies imposed by the White House.
        Even so, he resigned shortly after the White House meeting and shortly before the grievances were to be aired at a Senate hearing.
        He later served as a deputy assistant secretary at the Commerce Department and as chief of staff to Senator Roger W. Jepsen, a Republican from Iowa. He was executive director of the National Credit Union Administration from 1985 until he retired in 1993.
        Donald Edward Johnson was born in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, on June 5, 1924. He attended Iowa State University. During World War II, he was a sergeant in the 89th Division of Gen. George S. Patton's Third Army in Europe. He was awarded the Bronze Star and the Purple Heart.
        Before he was appointed administrator of the Veterans Administration in 1969, Mr. Johnson was a seed and fertilizer dealer in West Branch, Iowa, and a national commander of the American Legion.
        Besides his son, Robert, Mr. Johnson is survived by his wife, Mary Jean Johnson; five other sons, Alan, of Portland, Ore., David, of Ocheyedan, Iowa, Brian, of Adel, Iowa, Kevin, of Des Moines and Kurt, of Rochester; four daughters, Julie Johnson of Alexandria, Joan Johnson of Ouray, Colo., Beth Johnson Buck of Fort Collins, Colo., and Susan Johnson Vega of Milwaukee; 16 grandchildren, and a great-grandson.
      