
        Solomon Dutka, who started a marketing research firm in a one-room office in New York City in 1953 that grew into one of the largest companies in the industry, died on Saturday at his home in Riverdale, the Bronx.
        Mr. Dutka, who was 75, was the chairman of Audits and Surveys Worldwide, with operations in more than 90 countries. His death was caused by complications from a stroke, the company said.
        Mr. Dutka was born in the Bronx on Nov. 5, 1923, the son of a tailor. He graduated from City College with degrees in mathematical statistics and physics before joining the United States Army during World War II. While in the armed forces, Mr. Dutka worked as a nuclear physicist on the Manhattan Project, which earned him a citation from the Secretary of War for his efforts.
        He began his career in marketing research with a teaching position at Columbia University. He became the chief statistician at Dun & Bradstreet and Elmo Roper Associates before leaving to start a business first called Audits and Surveys Inc.
        The company eventually grew into one of the most respected firms of its type, representing clients like the Coca-Cola Company and the Xerox Corporation.
        Audits and Surveys became a publicly traded company in 1994 and was acquired by the London-based United News Media earlier this year. Mr. Dutka continued to serve as the chairman after the acquisition.
        He wrote books and articles on research methodologies and their practical applications. In a 1996 commencement address to the graduate school of Baruch College, he warned the new graduates of the dangers of conventional thinking.
        Mr. Dutka served as an American statistical associate delegate to the United Nations subcommittee on statistical sampling and was a member of the United States Census Advisory Committee. He was a fellow of the American Statistical Association and of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
        He was also a past president of the Market Research Council, a trade group, which presented him with its 1984 Hall of Fame Award for his contributions to the practice of market research.
        Mr. Dutka also served on the boards of Daytop Village, a narcotics treatment center; the Neurosciences Institute, and numerous other social, scientific, academic and cultural organizations.
        He is survived by his wife, Joyce; two sons, James of Santa Monica, Calif., and Michael of Doylestown, Pa., and three stepsons, David Fried of Montpelier, Vt.; Barry Fried of Makawao, Hawaii, and Stephen Fried of New York.
      