
        Eva Shain, the first woman to serve as a judge at a heavyweight championship boxing match when she was assigned to the Muhammad Ali-Earnie Shavers bout at Madison Square Garden in 1977, died Thursday at Englewood (N.J.) Hospital and Medical Center. Mrs. Shain, who lived in Fort Lee, N.J., was 81.
        The cause was cancer, said her husband, Frank, a longtime ring announcer.
        Mrs. Shain, who was among the first female judges in New York State, judged some 50 title bouts. She worked at fights in New York, New Jersey, Nevada, Canada and Europe for over a quarter of a century.
        ''It wasn't the idea of being a trailblazer,'' Mrs. Shain said of her pioneering role. ''It was something I wanted to do. It was a challenge.''
        Mrs. Shain, a native of Jersey City who worked as an interior decorator and bookkeeper after attending New York University, agreed reluctantly to accompany her husband to a Golden Gloves bout at Madison Square Garden one night in the late 1960's.
        ''I didn't want to watch two men beating each other up in the ring,'' she recalled. ''Besides, there were never any women at the fights.''
        But she remembered how she ''totally fell in love with boxing.''
        ''It was such a precise science,'' she said. ''After that, I went to every fight with him.''
        Mrs. Shain went on to judge amateur bouts for eight years. In July 1974, the New York State Athletic Commission named Carol Polis, the wife of a former boxer and referee, Bob Polis, as the first woman to be a professional boxing judge in the state. Mrs. Shain and Carol Castellano, whose husband, Tony, was a judge, were the next female judges, gaining their licenses in March 1975.
        Mrs. Shain received word that she would judge the Ali-Shavers bout, on Sept. 29, 1977, only hours before the fight. ''I really did not expect it,'' she recalled. ''That morning I had gone to the doctor, and he told me to stay home because I had a cold.''
        Ali won the bout on a unanimous decision, Mrs. Shain giving him 9 of the 15 rounds and feeling elated that she had reached the pinnacle of her calling, ''like when an opera singer sings at the Met.''
        Mrs. Shain, who worked with her husband in promotions and sales at a toy company when she was not involved in boxing, remained active as a judge until last December.
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Harvey Shultz, of Hackensack, N.J., and a daughter, Barbara Brocklehurst, of Franklin Lakes, N.J., both from a previous marriage; a brother, Jack Inwood, of Paramus, N.J.; a sister, Florence Schiffman, of Tamarac, Fla., and three grandchildren.
        Frank Shain, the ring announcer at seven title fights for which Eva Shain was a judge, recalled that the first time they worked together, ''As I announced the judges, there was about a three-second pause -- it was so emotional I couldn't get her name out.''
        Later, he said, his wife quipped, ''We're married, and he forgot my name.''
        In October 1984, a tempest of sorts arose when John Branca, the chairman of the New York State Athletic Commission, announced plans to name three female judges to the Marvelous Marvin Hagler-Mustafa Hamsho middleweight championship bout at the Garden, saying, ''This fight needs some publicity.''
        One of Hagler's handlers, Pat Petronelli, complained that ''it's a man's game'' and ''there's going to be a lot of blood and I don't want the three judges throwing up.''
        Mrs. Shain did work the bout -- a third-round knockout by Hagler -- but the other two female judges were assigned to a title fight on the undercard.
        Hagler's corner man need not have worried about Mrs. Shain being squeamish amid boxing violence, as her husband noted in remembering a conversation Ali once had with her.
        ''Ali said to her, 'Eva, if you're wearing a blouse or a skirt and blood got on it, would it bother you?'
        ''She replied, 'Well, it's not my blood.'
        ''Ali laughed. He said, 'I didn't expect that answer.' ''
      