
        Gilbert Barclay Mustin, who led the Fleer Corporation, creators of Dubble Bubble gum, in successfully challenging the dominance of Topps Chewing Gum Inc. in the multimillion dollar baseball card business, died Wednesday at a hospital in Bryn Mawr, Penn. He was 78 years old and lived in Haverford, Penn., and Westport Point, Mass.
        The cause was pneumonia, his wife, Rachel, said.
        Mr. Mustin was the grandson of Frank Fleer, who founded Fleer in Philadelphia in the 1880's. It produced a variety of flavorings and confections, including Chiclets.
        Fleer is also widely believed to have invented bubble gum in 1928,  when the company produced what it named Dubble Bubble; a company accountant, Walter E. Diemer, is often credited with having made it  accidentally.
        Dubble Bubble became a household name, not only because chewers could blow bubbles with it but also because it had cartoons, featuring the adventures of a pudgy youth named Pud, folded inside the wax paper wrappers.
        Mr. Mustin started at Fleer in 1949 and became its president in 1959. By then, the company was in tough competition with Topps, which made Bazooka bubble gum. Topps had a lock on the lucrative baseball trading card business, because the Federal Trade Commission had upheld its exclusive contracts with major league baseball players for the use of their pictures on cards included with the gum.
        Fleer had long sold trading cards of movie stars and other personalities with its gum, and it occasionally attempted to enter the baseball card business, too, but with little success. In 1975, however, Fleer began a long antitrust case against Topps. Fleer won in Federal District Court in 1980 and began offering the player cards with its bubble gum in 1981. But Topps appealed successfully that same year.
        But Fleer contended that the exclusive Topps contracts covered only cards packaged with gum or candy, not cards sold with other items, like stickers carrying the logos of major-league ball teams. More lawsuits ensued.
        In 1983, Fleer and Topps settled out of court; Fleer could continue to sell cards, but not with gum. The settlement opened the door to several other companies, including the Donruss Company of Memphis, to enter the business. Today, Topps and Fleer are among the largest baseball card companies in the country.
        Mr. Mustin retired in 1989, the year Fleer was sold to Marvel Entertainment. It was sold again earlier this year to a group of private investors and renamed Fleer Skybox of Mount Laurel, N.J. The company no longer sells Dubble Bubble gum; Marvel sold the gum division off separately.
        Mr. Mustin was born on July 17, 1921, in Lansdowne, Penn., and graduated from Swarthmore College in 1942. During World War II, he led a team at the DeLavall Corporation in Trenton, N.J., that built and tested a turbo supercharger for Navy fighter planes. He later taught engineering for several years at Swarthmore.
        He was also active in numerous Quaker and community organizations and was a member of the board of the American Civil Liberties Union of Pennsylvania.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Mustin is survived by five children, Henry Mustin of Seattle, Barclay Mustin of Chimacum, Wash., Walter Mustin of Grand Cayman, British West Indies, Margery M. Howe of West Chester, Penn., and Laura M. Burn of Port Townsend, Wash.; four stepchildren, Sharon Hare of Los Angeles, Diana Hare of Philadelphia, Mally Hare of Amherst, Mass., and Christopher Hare of Albuquerque, N.M.; a brother, Frank Mustin of Lansdowne; a sister, Alice M. Carll of Hopkins, S.C., and seven grandchildren.
      