
        Henry W. Sawyer 3d, who successfully argued two landmark Supreme Court cases that helped define today's boundaries between church and state, died on Saturday at a hospital in Philadelphia, where he lived. He was 80.
        The cause was lung cancer, said a close friend and colleague, David P. Bruton.
        In 1963, in Schempp v. Abington School District, the Courtheld in an 8-to-1 decision that state-ordered recitation of the Lord's Prayer and Bible readings in public school classrooms were unconstitutional but that religion could be taught as an academic subject. Mr. Sawyer represented the Schempp family in the case.
        Eight years later, in Lemon v. Kurtzman, in which Mr. Sawyer represented several nonprofit groups and individuals in Pennsylvania, the Court, in an 8-to-0 decision, set forth a three-part test for deciding whether a law or government program that conferred a benefit on religion passed muster under the First Amendment to the Constitution, which says that there can be no state-established religion.
        The three criteria are that the law or program must have a secular legislative purpose, that its principal or primary effect must be one that neither advances nor inhibits religion and that it must not foster an excessive government entanglement with religion.
        ''They are both terribly important cases, and to be an attorney in both of them is to be someone who has helped shape the debate over religion in schools over the last third of the 20th century, and, more important, into the 21st century,'' said James W. Fraser, dean of the school of education at Northeastern University in Boston and the author of ''Between Church and State: Religion and Public Education in a Multicultural America (St. Martin's Press, 1990).
        Mr. Sawyer also won a court battle in Philadelphia in 1979 representing citizens who opposed Mayor Frank L. Rizzo's decision to use city money to pay for an altar and platform used for a Mass celebrated by Pope John Paul II in a visit to the city.
        Mr. Sawyer was born on Dec. 23, 1918, in Philadelphia. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and the University of Pennsylvania Law School.
        He also served five years in the Navy as a lieutenant commander during World War II and as a commander with the United States Naval Arctic Expedition for the Korean War in 1951. He then served in the United States Department of State from 1951 to 1953, first on the Political Staff of the United States Delegation to NATO and later as the Assistant General Counsel to the United States Special Representative in Europe.
        He joined the law firm of Drinker Biddle & Reath in 1948. He later became a managing partner and head of the firm's litigation department. He retired from the firm in 1988.
        In the 1950's and early 1960's, Mr. Sawyer was known for his representation of several people who were investigated and prosecuted by the Government because of political activities.
        In another Supreme Court case, U.S. v. Deutch, in 1960, Mr. Sawyer obtained a reversal of a contempt of Congress conviction for a physicist, Bernhard Deutch, who testified before a Congressional committee about Communist affiliations but refused to inform on others.
        In a 5-to-4 decision, the Court held that there was a limit on the kind of questions that a Congressional committee could require a witness who had not claimed the Fifth Amendment privilege against compelled self-incrimination to answer.
        He argued that the questions were not relevant to any legislative or investigative purpose and therefore did not have to be answered,'' Mr. Bruton said.
        Mr. Sawyer traveled to Mississippi in 1965 to defend the right of blacks to register to vote. In 1969, he started a Federal case that exposed racial discrimination in hiring for the Philadelphia Police Department, and resulted in a significant increase in minority hiring by the department.
        He was a councilman-at-large in Philadelphia in the 1950's.
        Mr. Sawyer's wife, Grace, died in May. He is survived by a daughter, Rebecca Sawyer of California; two sons, Jonathan and Hal, both of Philadelphia, and three grandchildren.
      