
        Carl Toms, a set and costume designer for the theater, opera, ballet and film, died on Aug. 4 at his home in Hertfordshire, England. He was 72.
        The cause was emphysema, The Guardian reported.
        Mr. Toms trained at the Mansfield College of Art in Mansfield, Nottingham, and in London at the Royal College of Art and the influential Old Vic Theater School. He apprenticed at the English Stage Company, moving on in 1952 to work as an assistant to Oliver Messel for six years.
        Mr. Messel's designs, known for their delicate opulence and romanticism, were a far cry from the kind of grittily naturalistic productions for which the English Stage Company became known. Mr. Toms absorbed it all. Throughout his 40-year career, he was admired not so much for a distinctive style as for a range of styles, always rooted in practicality, that included the exotic and the naturalistic, the chichi and the coolly stylized.
        He was also admired for the thoroughness of his conceptions, particularly for theater and opera. In a review in The New York Times of a Young Vic production of Terence Rattigan's ''French Without Tears'' in 1974 at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, Clive Barnes wrote: ''As ever the company had original and beautiful settings by Carl Toms, the resident designer. There are few British stage designers who can compare with the new young Americans -- but Mr. Toms is his own kind of miracle worker. He designs a play from the word up -- the playwright's style seems to be his guideline.''
        Mr. Toms worked with Mr. Messel on productions at Covent Garden and Glyndebourne and in the London commercial theater and assisted him on the designs for the American musical ''House of Flowers'' in 1954.
        Mr. Toms was first known for his work in opera, beginning with a Glyndebourne production of the Wolf-Ferrari opera ''Susanna's Secret'' in 1958. His first theater commission after he left Mr. Messel in 1958 was Girardoux's ''Apollo of Bellac'' at the Royal Court, followed by several West End theater productions and an assignment to decorate the royal box for a celebration at Covent Garden.
        Mr. Toms worked with the major English nonprofit companies, including the Old Vic, the National Theater, the Royal Shakespeare Company, the Chichester Festival and the English Stage Company. His designs for the National Theater included productions of ''Love's Labour's Lost,'' Marlowe's ''Edward II,'' Sir John Vanbrugh's ''Provoked Wife,'' Neil Simon's ''Brighton Beach Memoirs'' and Brian Friel's adaptation of Turgenev's ''Fathers and Sons.''
        He designed many Noel Coward revivals. He worked frequently with Tom Stoppard, on his adaptations at the National and on productions in London and New York of plays including ''Travesties,'' ''Night and Day,'' ''The Real Thing,'' ''Jumpers'' and ''Hapgood.''
        Other assignments included Robert Bolt's ''Vivat! Vivat Regina!,'' Coward's ''Look After Lulu'' and the Chichester Festival production of John Osborne's ''Patriot for Me.''
        In 1989, Mr. Toms designed the Royal Shakespeare Company's production of the George S. Kaufman-Moss Hart comedy ''The Man Who Came to Dinner'' and Ben Travers's ''Thark.'' Mr. Toms began to work in New York theater in 1970 and won a Tony Award and Drama Desk Award in 1974 for his designs for the musical ''Sherlock Holmes.''
        His opera work included designs for the Welsh National Opera, the Royal Opera and the English National Opera and, in the United States, for the Chicago, New York City, San Diego and San Francisco Operas and the Metropolitan Opera. These included productions of Bellini's ''I Puritani'' and ''Norma,'' Wagner's ''Meistersinger,'' Britten's ''Midsummer Night's Dream'' and ''Peter Grimes,'' Donizetti's ''Lucia di Lammermoor,'' and Rossini's ''Barber of Seville'' and ''Cenerentola.'' His dance designs included productions of ''Swan Lake'' for the Royal Ballet and the London Festival Ballet and George Balanchine's ''Ballet Imperial'' for the Royal. He was also active at the Vienna Burgtheater, the Vienna National Theater and the Vienna State Opera.
        Mr. Toms worked on nine films, including the 1966 ''One Million Years B.C.,'' for which he had to create a prehistoric bikini for Raquel Welch made of a few strategically placed animal skins. His latest assignments included the English productions of two Edward Albee plays, ''Three Tall Women'' in 1994 and ''A Delicate Balance'' in 1997, and Peter Hall's production of Oscar Wilde's ''Ideal Husband'' in 1996 in London.
        Mr. Toms received the Order of the British Empire in 1969 after serving as the design consultant to the investiture of the Prince of Wales at Caernarvon. He redecorated theaters in the West End and the Theater Royal in Windsor. He was known for his restoration of the Theater Royal in Bath in 1982. He also decorated restaurants, hotels and houses and designed exhibitions, theater programs and cards.
      