
        Charles F. Hall, an engineer who supervised some of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's early scientific penetrations into deep space, died on Thursday in a hospital in Mountain View, Calif. He was 79 and lived in Los Altos, Calif.
        The cause was cancer, said John W. Dyer, a longtime colleague of Mr. Hall's at NASA.
        Mr. Hall was widely known for having overseen the flawless fly-bys of the planets Jupiter and Saturn by the unmanned spacecraft Pioneer 10 and Pioneer 11 in the 1970's.
        ''Such exploration,'' Mr. Dyer said, ''quickly and at low cost, was then essential to establish the feasibility of future in situ exploration of the outer planets and deeper space.''
        The two spacecraft flew on for billions of miles, and instruments on board gathered data until the early 1990's concerning the influence of the sun on its part of the galaxy. The data proved to be precious for scientific research.
        Mr. Hall was the man in charge of building and operating Pioneer 10, a dish-shaped, 570-pound spacecraft, which was launched in 1972 from Cape Kennedy, Fla. It was the first spacecraft to travel beyond Mars and the first to traverse the Asteroid Belt between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter.
        ''Pioneer 10's trip through the Asteroid Belt was the first demonstration that that journey could be accomplished by a spacecraft without destroying itself by colliding with particles of asteroids,'' Mr. Dyer said.
        Pioneer 10's rendezvous with Jupiter in 1973 was the first close examination of the solar system's largest planet. The data gathered by Pioneer 10 have been used by scientists to design equipment like the Galileo spacecraft, which is orbiting Jupiter and photographing its moons.
        From Jupiter, Pioneer 10 traveled out of the solar system and into interstellar space. Data it gathered have  taught scientists about the workings of the sun's magnetic field and the movement of gases it emits.
        Pioneer 10 is now billions of miles  from the sun, and it is still sending back data to scientists at NASA.
        In an interview in 1973, Mr. Hall, an amiable, white-haired man with dark eyebrows and a ruddy complexion, said: ''It's great fun, the space business. If I had it to do over again, I'd do exactly the same thing.''
        His relaxed, old-shoe manner, associates said then, belied an inner toughness necessary to get a spacecraft built, launched and tracked to its destination.
        Mr. Hall founded NASA's Pioneer Project Office at the agency's Ames Research Center at Moffett Field, Calif., and managed it from 1963 until his retirement from NASA in 1980. The office directed the development and the operations of Pioneer 10 and  Pioneer 11, which was the first spacecraft to reach Saturn, and other spacecraft.
        Commenting after Mr. Hall's death, NASA's Administrator, Daniel S. Goldin, lauded his intelligence and persistence. ''Charlie Hall's Pioneer 10 craft may be over 6.8 billion miles from Earth,'' Mr. Goldin said, ''but his spirit will always be with us at NASA.''
        The honors Mr. Hall received included two of NASA's Distinguished Service Medals and the Achievement Award of the American Astronautic Society Inc.
        Mr. Hall was born in San Francisco, grew up in the Bay Area and received a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering in 1942 from the University of California at Berkeley.
        From 1942 to 1960 he was with the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, NASA'S predecessor, at Moffett Field, working as an aeronautical research scientist and later on space projects.
        He is survived by his wife, Connie, whom he married in 1942; three sons, Dr. Steven R., of Sonora, Calif., Charles F. 3d, known as Frederick, of Pine Grove, Calif., and Frank A., of Portola, Calif., and 12 grandchildren.
      