
        Dr. Michael Sveda, a chemist who invented cyclamates, a noncaloric sweetener that became widely popular and then was banned by the Government as a possible carcinogen, died on Aug. 10 at his home in Stamford, Conn. He was 87.
        The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Martha Gaeth Sveda.
        Dr. Sveda (SVAY-dah) was born on Feb. 3, 1912, in West Ashford, Conn., the son of immigrants from Czechoslovakia.
        Dr. Sveda, who once told The New York Times in an interview that ''God looks after damn fools, children and chemists,'' credited providence for his discovery of cyclamates. In 1937, while doing lab work for his doctorate at the University of Illinois, he brushed his lips without having washed his hands and found that his fingers tasted sweet. Intrigued, he tasted chemicals from all the beakers in front of him and discovered the compound that he eventually refined into the sweetener.
        By the time Dr. Sveda completed that process, he was an employee of the DuPont Company. He received the patent in 1939, but it was not until 1951 that the Federal Government approved cyclamates as a food additive. Previously, only saccharin had been available as an artificial sweetener, and soon a huge market developed for the alternative product.
        By the 1960's cyclamates had become the basis of a $1 billion business in diet soft drinks and desserts. It was an ingredient of the one-calorie soda Tab, for example. Many diabetics wrote Dr. Sveda to thank him for the growth of options in sweets available to them.
        In his 20 years at DuPont, Dr. Sveda worked on several other patents, making contributions to such diverse compounds as the pesticide DDT, nylon and mustard gas, but it was the sweetener that held the broadest public interest.
        In 1969, however, the Department of Health, Education and Welfare banned cyclamates from the market on the risk that the substance caused cancer. The decision was based on experiments that showed that some rats that were fed large quantities over their life spans developed bladder tumors. Although Dr. Sveda said he was not embittered by the Government's decision, he contended that the experiments had not been rigorous enough to warrant the ban. In subsequent interviews, he even suggested that the sugar industry had used its political muscle to squelch a competitor.
        ''My father would have been the first person to say, 'If this is harmful don't use it,' '' said his daughter, Sally Sveda, of Newton Falls, Mass. ''But he felt that it was important to be accurate in the science since there were many people who might benefit from it, especially diabetics.''
        After the Government acted, Dr. Sveda received phone calls from people worried that they had been poisoned by the cyclamates, a development he found frightening.
        In fact, further Government studies contradicted the findings behind the ban. In one, by the National Cancer Institute, a group of monkeys were fed doses of the chemical equivalent to drinking 30 cans of artificially sweetened soda a day for 17 years, with no unusual sign of illness.
        To this day, however, the Food and Drug Administration has not cleared the substance for consumption in this country again, even though it is used in products in other nations.
        In 1981, the Government classified saccharin as a suspected carcinogen but did not ban it. An advisory group recommended last year that it be given a clean bill of health.
        After he left DuPont, Dr. Sveda worked as a consultant on management techniques. In addition to his wife and daughter, he is survived by a son, Michael, of Washington, and a granddaughter.
      