
        Ignatz Bubis, who survived the Holocaust and led Germany's small post-war Jewish community for nearly two decades, died in a hospital here today. He was 72.
        Mr. Bubis's death was announced in a brief statement by the Central Council for German Jews, which did not give the cause of death.
        A former businessman with a knack for getting along with many kinds of people, Mr. Bubis became revered as voice of reconciliation as well as one who campaigned passionately for Germany's surviving Jewish community.
        In recent years, as a new generation of more confident and less angst-ridden Germans came to maturity, he became alarmed that the country was sliding into forgetfulness and even nationalism.
        Mr. Bubis became outraged last year when one of Germany's most prominent writers, Martin Walser, argued that shame about the Holocaust should not be ''exploited for present purposes'' and that Auschwitz should not become a ''moral cudgel.''
        Though Mr. Walser's comments were nuanced, Mr. Bubis pounced on them as ''moral arson'' and as the most dramatic example yet of Germany's drift toward what he saw as an ominous ''intellectual nationalism.''
        Born in 1927 in Breslau, Germany, now Wroclaw, Poland, Mr. Bubis fled from advancing Germans with his family when he was 8. They were later captured and sent to camps as forced laborers. His father, brother and sister all died in the camps. His mother died of cancer in 1940.
        Mr. Bubis later described his survival as essentially a matter of chance, and he remained devout to the memories of that time for the rest of his life.
        In a rare move among surviving Jews, Mr. Bubis decided to live in Germany, and he settled in Frankfurt in 1956. Asked recently why he had returned to Germany after his release from the camp in Poland, he remarked that Germany was the closest thing to a home that he had.
        As West Germany began to enjoy a sustained economic boom in the 1950's, Mr. Bubis started businesses trading jewelry and precious metals in Frankfurt. He then went into the real estate business in the 1970's, developing high-rise office buildings.
        As a real estate developer in Frankfurt, Mr. Bubis clashed repeatedly with Germany's left-wing and environmental groups, who wanted more land preserved for ordinary housing and denounced him as an unscrupulous speculator.
        Among Mr. Bubis's critics at the time was Joschka Fischer, a founding member of the German Green Party who is now Foreign Minister.
        Mr. Bubis, who became president of the Central Council of Jews in Germany in 1983, later achieved more amicable relations with Mr. Fischer and other erstwhile activists who became less hostile to business over the years.
        With his background as a businessman and his political clashes as a real estate developer, Mr. Bubis became a politician in the small, right-of-center Free Democratic Party.
        The Free Democrats campaigned against Government regulation and in favor of greater freedom for business, but they also supported stronger citizenship rights for immigrant workers -- both themes that appealed to Mr. Bubis.
        A member of the Free Democrats, he became a locally elected representative in the Frankfurt city government.
        As head of the German Jewish community, he spoke out repeatedly for the need to remember the horror of the Holocaust and fought any tendencies to dismiss it as mere history.
        He became popular in Germany as a moderate figure who sought to bridge the divide between Jews and non-Jews, but was also discouraged at his progress. In an interview with Stern magazine last month, Mr. Bubis said he felt he had accomplished ''nearly nothing'' in his years at the Central Council of Jews in Germany. ''I wanted to do away with these divisions -- here Germans, there Jews,'' he said.
        At one point during the years-long political debate about building a Holocaust memorial in Berlin, Mr. Bubis remarked that a memorial in Berlin as such was perhaps less important than preserving and expanding memorials at actual sites of the Holocaust.
        Mr. Bubis was a central player in the recent battles over forcing German banks and industrial corporations to compensate Holocaust victims whose property was stolen or who were forced into slave labor during the war.
        At the same time, he heaped scorn on American lawyers who began filing class-action suits in the United States on behalf of survivors. Accusing the lawyers of using the Holocaust to generate big legal fees, he vowed at one point last year that he would never sit down with them.
        Today, Mr. Bubis's death evoked sadness from a remarkable swath of German leaders.
        ''It is a great loss not just for the Jewish community, but for all of Germany,'' said Wolfgang Gerhardt, head of the Free Democratic Party.
        Gregor Gysi, head of the Party of Democratic Socialism, the successor to East Germany's old Communist Party, praised Mr. Bubis as singular voice for tolerance and pluralism.
        ''His efforts against every form of racism and hostility to foreigners must become a requirement for us,'' Mr. Gysi said. ''He had the capacity for integration, for principled argument and for tolerance.''
        Mr. Bubis is survived by his wife, Ida, and daughter, Naomi.
        In the Stern interview, he said he had decided to be buried in Israel, because he feared that his grave would be desecrated, like the gravestone of his predecessor at the Central Council, Heinz Galinski, which was destroyed by a bomb in December.
      