
        Sir John Hale, a British historian who specialized in the Renaissance and was a former chairman of the National Gallery in London, died on  Aug. 12. He was 75.
        The cause was not announced, The Associated Press reported, but he had been partly incapacitated by a stroke in 1992.
        Sir John's crowning achievement was ''The Civilization of Europe in the Renaissance,'' published in 1993. Calling it ''one of the great history books of all time,'' Terence Mullaly, a British art historian and critic, predicted in The Guardian that it would be ''the book for which he will always be remembered.''
        Reviewing it in The New York Times Book Review, Theodore K. Rabb, a professor of history at Princeton University, said Sir John was ''one of Britain's most distinguished students of the period.''
        Professor Rabb called Sir John's work ''a sweeping and learned traversal of the age, full of choice details'' and added, ''He reveals how the very idea of 'Europe' and its sense of worldwide mission crystallized, despite local rivalries and new forms of self-consciousness.''
        ''Given Sir John's ecumenical and expansive approach,'' he observed,  ''and his elegance in bringing to life dozens of subjects, from gardens to greed, one could not ask for a more vivid evocation of the sights and sounds of the period.''
        Sir John was also the author of ''England and the Italian Renaissance'' (1954), ''Renaissance War Studies'' (1982) and ''Artists and Warfare in the Renaissance'' (1990).
        ''The Renaissance is the period and Italy the place I feel most at home in imaginatively, and the topic I keep coming back to as the greatest stimulus to thinking about the past is warfare,'' he said in an interview.
        ''Extracurricularly, my greatest pleasure is derived from looking at works of art.''
        Sir John had just finished writing ''The Civilization of Europe in the Renaissance'' when a stroke left him unable to speak and write.
        Sir John's wife, the former Sheila Haynes MacIvor, along with another Renaissance expert, Nicolai Rubinstein, and others, saw the book through to publication.
        Sir John, who was knighted in 1984, retired in 1988 after seven years as a professor at the University of London, where he taught Italian history and then Italian. Earlier he taught at Oxford University and at the University of Warwick in Coventry, England. He was chairman of the National Gallery from 1974 to 1980.
        He was born in Ashford, Kent, and  received bachelor's and master's degrees in 1948 and 1950 from Oxford, which awarded him a doctorate in literature in 1986.
        He was at various times a visiting fellow at the Harvard Center for Renaissance Studies at I Tatti, the villa outside Florence that was once occupied by the art historian Bernard Berenson; a visiting professor at Cornell and Berkeley Universities, and a member of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons and two daughters.
      