
        Frederic Hsieh, the entrepreneur who used enticements of a ''Chinese Beverly Hills'' to turn a Los Angeles suburb into the first American city with an Asian majority , died on Aug. 8 while on vacation in Las Vegas, Nev. He was 54 and lived mostly in Hong Kong.
        The cause was a stroke, according to the Echo News Agency of Monterey Park, Calif.
        As the owner of the Mandarin Realty Company, which bought land in the Los Angeles suburb of Monterey Park and sold it to newly arrived immigrants, Mr. Hsieh (pronounced shay) placed advertisements in Chinese-language newspapers with overseas readers describing Monterey Park's rolling hills as similar to those in Taipei, Taiwan. He also used the city's area code, then 818, as an enticement; in Chinese numerology, the number 8 is believed to bestow prosperity and good luck.
        Mr. Hsieh's efforts put Monterey Park on the radar screen of tens of thousands of mostly affluent Chinese and Taiwanese and residents of Hong Kong in the 1970's and 80's. Before long, the city was among such favorite destinations for Asian immigrants as Vancouver and Toronto in Canada, Sydney, Australia and the San Francisco Bay Area.
        In the 1990 census, Monterey Park had 60,738 residents, with Asians making up 57 percent of them, making it the first Asian-majority city in the United States. The city's population today is more than 62,000, about two-thirds Asian.
        Monterey Park, which is in the San Gabriel Valley, east of Los Angeles, already had a large population of Japanese-Americans and Chinese-Americans. But Mr. Hsieh is credited with recognizing that changes in United States immigration policies in the 1960's would open the door for more immigrants from the Far East, and that tensions between China and Taiwan and the impending return of Hong Kong to China in 1997 would  motivate affluent Asians to seek a home and a place to invest abroad.
        ''Without Fred Hsieh, I think many of the Chinese would have relocated to many more traditional areas, like the San Francisco Bay Area or New York, and may have bypassed Los Angeles or the San Gabriel Valley completely,'' said Timothy P. Fong, the author of the 1994 book ''The First American Chinatown: The Remaking of Monterey Park'' (Temple University Press). ''Moving to Monterey Park was a sign of making it in America.''
        Frederic Hsieh was born in Guilin, in southern China, in 1945, and attended schools in Shanghai and Hong Kong. He came to the United States in 1963 and received a bachelor's degree and a master's degree in civil engineering from Oregon State University. In 1970, he worked for the City of Los Angeles as a civil engineer.
        He bought his first property, a four-unit building in the Echo Park neighborhood of Los Angeles, when he could not find a landlord who was willing to rent to him and his pregnant wife. Living in one of the units, he rented the other three and then began buying property in Monterey Park, finding potential in the city's nearness to downtown Los Angeles, its easy freeway access and its reasonable real estate prices.
        Eventually, Mr. Hsieh began selling real estate there.
        As Asians and investment money began to arrive in great numbers in the late 1970's and the 80's, there was considerable discord as some longtime white residents and even some Asian homeowners resented the large numbers of new immigrants. There was a drive to pass an ordinance barring Chinese-language business signs and to make English the city's official language. Both efforts failed, though a watered-down measure requiring Chinese shop signs to be in English as well was approved.
        As Monterey Park grew to become  Los Angeles's new Chinatown and Little Taipei, Mr. Hsieh became involved in the development of the city's first Chinese housing complex for the elderly, the Golden Age Village. He also built a Sheraton hotel in his native Guilin in 1986.
        Mr. Hsieh's marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by a son, Eric, and a daughter, Sophia.
      