
        Chester Brooks Kerr, a leading figure in both commercial and noncommercial book publishing, died on  Sunday in an extended-care facility in New London, N.H. He was 86.
        Mr. Kerr had previously lived in New Haven, said his son John.
        In a career spanning 30 years, Mr. Kerr worked as the top editor or editorial director of Harcourt, Brace & Company, Atlantic Monthly Press, Yale University Press, Reynal & Hitchcock and Ticknor & Fields, a division of the Houghton Mifflin Company.
        As a commercial publisher, he counted among his prize acquisitions Eugene O'Neill's bleak drama ''Long Day's Journey Into Night,'' Calvin Trillin's frolicsome ''Third Helpings'' and Sir John Masterman's grim tale of espionage ''The Double-Cross System in the War of 1939 to 1945.''
        The books he published in his 20 years at Yale reaped a number of Pulitzer Prizes, National Book Awards and Bancroft Prizes, but Mr. Kerr was best known in the industry for his report on the status of scholarly publishing, which became known as ''the Kerr report.''
        In 1948, invited by the Association of American University Presses to analyze their industry, Mr. Kerr studied each of the 35 university presses then in existence. He concluded that noncommercial publishers were becoming increasingly like their commercial counterparts, adopting their distribution and marketing methods. But he added that the university presses would never become self-supporting if they maintained their primary goal, the scholarly quality of their publications.
        Soon after the report came, Mr. Kerr was interviewed by Publishers Weekly, the trade magazine.
        ''Scholarly publishing is the third function of the university, without which it is incomplete,'' he said. ''There is the faculty, for teaching and research; the library, as a storehouse of knowledge, and, to complete the act, you have to have the publishing house.'' Mr. Kerr added that when the well-known bibliophile and author Wilmarth Lewis had once tried to make the same point to the physicist J. Robert Oppenheimer, he got nowhere until he wrote on a blackboard: ''Faculty + Library = Publication.''
        Mr. Kerr also defended the practice of some university presses of publishing ''works of scholarship with commercial potential.
        ''It's our way,'' he said, ''of trying to place the university press in the mainstream of contributions to society. If -- within the boundaries of scholarship always -- we can make a contribution to culture, to politics, to the environment, then we shouldn't stand aside.''
        Mr. Kerr went on to say that he had managed to keep Yale University Press solvent while others failed by ''the stained-glass approach,'' persuading wealthy alumni to memorialize distinguished relatives by donating a publication fund in their memory to the university press.
        Mr. Kerr was not reticent about his mistakes. In 1976 he jokingly told a reporter for The New York Times that he had rejected a manuscript called ''God and Golem Inc.'' by Norbert Wiener, considered the father of cybernetics, because no one on his staff could make head or tail of it. The manuscript was then submitted to the M.I.T. Press and immediately accepted, although, Mr. Kerr said, he had been told that no one at M.I.T. had even opened the book. ''God and Golem Inc.'' won a National Book Award.
        Born on Aug. 5, 1913, in Norwalk, Conn., Mr. Kerr graduated from Yale in 1936. He left Atlantic Monthly Press in 1942 to serve during World War II as chief of the Book Division of the Office of War Information. From 1965 to 1967, he served as president of the Association of American University Presses, and from 1975 to 1978 he was a consultant to the Ford Foundation's publishing programs.
        Mr. Kerr's wife, the former Joan Paterson, died in 1995. In addition to his son John, of Lincoln, Mass., Mr. Kerr is survived by three other sons, Philip, of Ann Arbor, Mich., Alexander, of Philadelphia, and Brooks, of New York City; a daughter, Claudia Kerr Grose of Cambridge, Mass.; three step-children, and 13 grandchildren.
      