
        Bernard E. Simon, the last of a group of American plastic surgeons who donated their services to help the ''Hiroshima Maidens,'' 25 disfigured and maimed survivors of the American bombing of Hiroshima, died on Aug. 1 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan, where he had worked for more than 40 years. He was 87.
        The idea of bringing the 25 badly scarred young women to the United States for treatment originated in 1955 with Norman Cousins, the editor of The Saturday Review.
        Dr. Simon, then clinical professor of surgery at Mount Sinai Hospital, and two of his colleagues were deeply moved when Mr. Cousins showed them photographs of the women's injuries and told them that some of the women habitually wore masks while others were afraid to be seen in public.
        Once the Mount Sinai surgical staff members agreed to donate their services, Mr. Cousins raised the money to bring the women to New York. Some of them stayed for only a few months, but the more seriously injured underwent a series of operations over a period of 18 months.
        All told, the surgeons performed 140 operations, rebuilding lips, noses, hands, eyelids and other damaged tissues.
        At a reunion in 1996 with some of the women, one of them, Michiko Yamaoka, said of Dr. Simon: ''He hasn't changed a bit. He's still the loving and caring man that operated on me years ago.''
        Shigeko Sasamori, another of the women, who flew to New York last month when she learned Dr. Simon was in failing health, said she could not imagine what her life would have been like had it not been for Norman Cousins and Dr. Simon.
        ''One third of my body was burned, especially my neck and hands,'' she recalled Tuesday. ''Dr. Simon and his colleagues operated on me more than a dozen times. I was then able to marry and give birth to a son.''
        The surgeons made a difference not only by healing the women but also by instructing Japanese surgeons in plastic surgery, a field virtually unknown in Japan in the years just after World War II.
        The success of the program inspired some similar efforts to heal the wounds of war. Mr. Cousins later brought a number of Polish survivors of Nazi medical experiments at the Ravensbruck concentration camp to the United States for treatment. Another effort, chiefly organized by a Mount Sinai colleague of Dr. Simon's, Arthur Joseph Barsky, was the Children's Medical Relief International, which treated 1,200 injured Vietnamese children a year from 1969 to 1975.
        Dr. Simon received his medical degree from Johns Hopkins Medical School in 1937.
        Bernard Everett Simon was born in Brooklyn on Feb. 9, 1912, the son of immigrant parents who had lived near Kiev in Russia. He graduated from Columbia College in 1932 and then entered Columbia University's College of Physicians and Surgeons. After graduating from Johns Hopkins, he did his residency at Mount Sinai and remained on its staff throughout his career. He retired as chief of the division of plastic surgery at Mount Sinai in 1979, but continued to teach and write until the year of his death.
        Dr. Simon's wife, Bitten H. Simon, died in 1995. Dr. Simon is survived by  his daughter, Cathy Simon of San Francisco; his son, John Robert Simon of Salt Lake City, and one granddaughter.
      