
        Gen. Sunthorn Kongsompong, who led a bloodless military coup in 1991 that overthrew Thailand's democratically elected Government and set the stage for a year of military rule, died on Monday in a hospital in Bangkok. He was 68.
        He had been under treatment for several weeks for lung cancer, hospital staff members said, according to The Associated Press. He was a heavy smoker.
        The Bangkok Post reported in May that after ''Black May, 1992,'' when  dozens of demonstrators for democracy were killed or wounded in a military crackdown, leading to the end of his Government, General Sunthorn had ''divided his time between Thailand and France, where he ran a restaurant.'' He avoided the limelight in his later years.
        In the coup, General Sunthorn, who was supreme commander of the armed forces, and other high-ranking officers ousted the Prime Minister, Gen. Chatichai Choonhavan, after public concern about inflation, corruption and other issues had set the stage for their action.
        General Chatichai, who was seen as more of a political figure than a military man, had become Prime Minister in 1988, after a long succession of military rulers had ended when Gen. Prem Tinsulanonda stepped down and allowed elections. General Chatichai was the first elected leader to be in charge of the Government since 1976.
        After the coup, the Chatichai Government was replaced by a junta known as the National Peacekeeping Council. The council was headed by General Sunthorn, who was its chairman. But Gen. Suchinda Kraprayoon, the commander of the army, emerged as the most powerful figure of that era.
        The military Government was widely seen as corrupt. In 1992, when General Suchinda became Prime Minister, members of Thailand's middle class rose up against the junta with demonstrations that led to a military crackdown. Troops shot at pro-democracy demonstrators in Bangkok, killing dozens and wounding others.
        That crisis led King Bhumibol Adulyadej to intervene to bring about a settlement. General Suchinda resigned and was succeeded as Prime Minister by a civilian, Anand Panyarachun.
        Since the new civilian Government was put in place, there has been a succession of elected Governments.
        General Sunthorn is survived by his second wife and two children from a previous marriage.
      