
        Milton Brumer, an engineer who managed the construction of such mighty bridges as the Verrazano-Narrows over New York Bay, the Throgs Neck over the East River, and the Walt Whitman over the Delaware, died Thursday at a hospital in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 97 and lived in Boca Raton.
        In a career that spanned half a century, Mr. Brumer had prime responsibility for major engineering projects all over the world. He supervised construction of portions of the Garden State Parkway, the New Jersey Turnpike, the Connecticut Turnpike, the Long Island Expressway,  the Palisades Interstate Parkway in New York and New Jersey and the Ohio Turnpike. He was the engineer in charge of numerous bridges of reinforced concrete and steel for the Victoria Mines Railroad in Brazil.
        He brought his expertise to projects like the Outerbridge Crossing, Goethals Bridge, George Washington Bridge, Bayonne Bridge and the Lincoln Tunnel.
        Mr. Brumer started his career as an assistant engineer in 1923 with the Interborough Rapid Transit Company and later worked for the Pennsylvania Turnpike Commission as a tunnel designer.
        In 1940, Mr. Brumer joined the engineering consulting firm of O. H. Ammann, the firm of Othmar H. Ammann, the fabled builder of the George Washington Bridge, the Triborough Bridge and other projects. By 1949, he had become a partner in the firm, which was then known as Ammann and Whitney.
        Mr. Brumer became president of the company in 1965, retiring in 1977. He was chief engineer and consultant on highway projects, harbor improvements and tunnel construction throughout the Northeast. When he was chief engineer of the building of the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, which links Brooklyn and Staten Island, it was at the time of its completion, in 1964, the longest suspension bridge in the world. Its size was surpassed by the Humber Bridge in England in 1981.
        Milton Brumer was born in Philadelphia on Jan. 21, 1902, raised in Brooklyn, and was a longtime resident of Riverdale, in the Bronx. He was recently nominated to the Hall of Fame of the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, from which he received a mechanical engineering degree and an honorary doctorate of engineering. He also received a master's degree from the University of Alabama.
        He was named Engineer of the Year in 1965 by the American Society of Civil Engineers Metropolitan Section.
        Mr. Brumer's wife died in 1996. He is survived by two daughters, Barbara Lee Brumer of Boca Raton and Carolyn Faith Graham of Hartsdale, N.Y.; two granddaughters and four great-grandsons.
      