
        Hanoch Levin, Israel's leading playwright, who spent more than three decades trying to strip the nation of self-congratulatory armor and force it to examine what he considered its hypocrisy and self-delusion, died on Wednesday of bone cancer. He was 56.
        Although his first plays caused enormous controversy when they were performed in the 1960's and 70's, Mr. Levin's death was greeted here with profound dismay at the highest cultural and political levels.
        Prime Minister Ehud Barak called him ''one of the greatest playwrights that Israel has ever had.''
        The Education Minister, Yossi Sarid, said he ''showed us what we really looked like when we were still saying, 'Surely, that can't be us.' '' He added, ''Levin saved us because without him we wouldn't have known that the social and political ulcer was about to explode.''
        Mr. Levin came to prominence in 1968 with his play, ''You, Me and the Next War,'' staged in a tiny club in south Tel Aviv. It was a fierce critique of the euphoria that swept the country after its victory in the 1967 Six-Day War when Israel captured East Jerusalem, the West Bank, the Gaza Strip and the Sinai Peninsula and found itself the military ruler of hundreds of thousands of Palestinians.
        For many Israelis, the play was the first clear statement that the occupation would bring dire consequences. Those who agreed with Mr. Levin felt that his point was borne out by the 1973 Yom Kippur War as well as by the ongoing conflict with the Palestinians.
        His next play, however, created an even bigger storm. Staged in 1970 and called ''The Queen of the Bathtub,'' it made merciless fun of Prime Minister Golda Meir and her ministers as well as the war of attrition in which they were engaged against Egypt and Syria.
        Staged at Tel Aviv's Cameri Theater, the play engendered nightly protest demonstrations. The Government threatened to withdraw the Cameri's state subsidy. The theater's management closed the play after 18 performances. Mr. Levin was so upset by the developments that he withdrew from the public and never gave another interview.
        He did not stop writing, however. In 1982 his satirical revue, ''The Patriot,'' was banned by Israel's Film and Theater Censorship Board as harmful ''to the basic values of the nation, the state and Judaism.'' The ban was defied in Tel Aviv and the revue, which dealt bitingly with such issues as the occupation of the West Bank and Israeli-Arab relations, was a smash hit.
        In total, Mr. Levin wrote 50 plays, although not all of them were produced. Of the 34 that were, he directed many himself and was throughout his life the most esteemed playwright in the Hebrew language.
        A reclusive celebrity at home, he was far less well known abroad. But he did win an award at the Edinburgh Festival and several of his plays were translated and performed in London, Berlin and New York.
        In recent years, there has hardly been a theater season without a new Levin play on one of Israel's main stages.
        A 1997 work, ''Murder,'' examined the Palestinian-Israeli violence that was sparked by Israel's 1996 opening of an archeological tunnel near Al Aksa Mosque in Jerusalem. The play blamed all sides equally for the violence and won Mr. Levin top honors in the Israel Theater Prize awards.
        Born in Palestine in 1943 to parents who immigrated from Poland, Mr. Levin is survived by a wife and four sons from his three marriages.
        Mr. Levin kept working until the very end, holding auditions for his newest play, ''Whiners,'' from his hospital bed in Tel Aviv. The play deals with terminally ill patients in a hospital ward.
      