
        Donald Louis Mason, an F.B.I. agent whose fascination with art inspired him to create a loosely organized unit within the bureau's major theft squad in New York that became the scourge of art thieves in the 1970's, died on Aug. 10 at his home in Haworth, N.J. He was 74.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Eleanor.
        Although Mr. Mason had no formal training in art, he was an enthusiastic museumgoer and, his wife said, ''was fascinated by all forms of art.''
        Much of his work was undercover, said Margot Dennedy, an agent who was drawn into the art-theft unit by Mr. Mason and who is now a vice president of Sotheby's, the auction house. ''I can remember a time when I went to Connecticut with him. We were posing as prospective clients to buy a stolen Arshile Gorky painting. The guy went to jail. Mason knew what he was doing.''
        Among Mr. Mason's achievements was recovering a Fantin-Latour painting stolen from John F. Kennedy International Airport. ''You seem O.K., but you could be an F.B.I. agent,'' said one of the thieves in trying to sell the work to Mr. Mason, who had posed as an art appraiser.
        On another case, again posing as an art appraiser, he went to a hotel room to inspect a stolen painting. Outside fellow agents waited for the opening of the draperies in the hotel room windows: the signal for them to rush in.
        Studying the painting, Mr. Mason complained to the thieves that he needed more light. Obligingly, one of them threw open the drapes, bringing on the Federal agents.
        In a widely publicized case in 1976 the film director Otto Preminger reported to the New York City police that a Kandinsky painting, ''Leise Deutung'' (''Soft Interpretations''), had been stolen from his New York office.
        Mr. Mason became involved in the case and traced the painting from New York to Philadelphia, back to New York and finally to Basel, Switzerland, where it was seized and returned to a jubilant Mr. Preminger. An advertising salesman was charged in connection with the theft.
        Mr. Mason, then 51, was jubilant, too. ''Today is my last day before I retire,'' he said, winding up a 25-year career in the F.B.I. ''And I can't think of a more satisfying way to go out.''
        Mr. Mason then became a private consultant on art security. His clients included the Philadelphia Museum of Art, the Newberry Library in Chicago and the Art Institute of Chicago. He was also a consultant for the Central Archive for Stolen Art, established by the International Foundation for Art Research, a scholarly organization focused on authentication and attribution.
        Mr. Mason was born in Bristol, Conn. He earned a bachelor's degree in physical education from Arnold College in Hartford in 1950 and a master's in education from New York University. In World War II he  was a radio operator in the Navy.
        He wrote ''The Fine Art of Art Security'' (Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1979) and contributed a chapter, ''Purloining the World's Art,'' to Joseph Grau's ''Civil and Criminal Investigation Handbook'' (McGraw-Hill, 1993).
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Donna Albert of Bergenfield, N.J., and Sherill Garvey of St. Petersburg Beach, Fla.
      