
        Carlos Cachaca, one of Brazil's most prolific and beloved songwriters and a founder of the samba troupe whose creativity made Rio de Janeiro's annual pre-Lenten Carnival an international attraction, died here on Monday. He was 97.
        Mr. Cachaca, whose real name was Carlos Moreira de Castro, grew up in a poor hillside neighborhood in Rio that is today the slum Mangueira. His stage name, which refers to a fiery sugar cane liquor popular among Brazil's poor, was given to him at jam sessions with the same friends who joined him in founding the Mangueira Samba School and Recreational Society in 1928.
        The troupe soon became renowned for the clever and propulsive songs it sang every year during Carnival celebrations. Many of the songs were written by Mr. Cachaca and his brother-in-law Cartola, who died in 1980, and gained a huge popular following. Mr. Cachaca received few royalties from his efforts, taking a job as a railway worker to earn a living, but compositions like  ''Dawn,'' the lilting waltz ''Clotilde'' he wrote for his wife and ''I Don't Want to Love Anyone'' remain popular even today.
        ''He wrote sambas that will be eternally modern,'' Alcione, one of the most popular of the current generation of samba singers, said. ''I'm glad to have have had the chance to work with and learn from him.''
        Over the years, more than a score of other samba schools were founded, each trying to emulate the style Mangueira created and to duplicate Mr. Cachaca's sardonic lyrics. Their annual competition, initially frowned upon by Rio's high society as a vulgar manifestation of the country's African roots, eventually grew into a multimillion-dollar industry and an internationally admired expression of Brazilian culture.
        ''He was the roots and trunk of Mangueira,'' which means mango tree in Portuguese, said Elmo Jose dos Santos, the president of the society, which has thousands of members and millions of fans in Brazil. ''If Mangueira is what it is today, we owe it all to him and Cartola.''
        Two years ago, Mr. Cachaca was publicly honored for his role as an originator of the samba and Rio's modern Carnival, parading in the competition in a wheelchair atop a float decorated with Mangueira's green and pink colors as thousands of onlookers applauded from box seats. Fittingly, his group won top honors that year.
        After a wake at Mangueira's rehearsal hall, Mr. Cachaca, who was the troupe's honorary president, was buried late Monday. He is survived by three daughters and several hundred songs.
      