
        Anita Carter, a member of country music's pioneering Carter Family and a star in her own right, died in her home in Goodlettsville, Tenn.,  near Nashville, on Thursday. She was 66.
        The cause was not yet known, Lou Robin, her manager, told the Associated Press. Ms. Carter had rheumatoid arthritis for the last few years.
        Ms. Carter was one of three daughters of Ezra and Maybelle Carter, who formed the country singing group the Carter Family along with her cousin, Sara, and A. P. Carter (Sara's husband and Ezra's brother).
        In 1927 the Carter Family drove from their Virginia mountain home to Tennessee and during the next 16 years recorded some 250 songs, one of the most important and influential bodies of work in country and folk music.
        As a child, Anita (born Ina Anita Carter in Maces Springs, Va.) hated to be separated from her mother when the Carter Family left to perform at radio stations, so she was brought along. When she was 4, she made her radio debut with a singsong child's rhyme. The performance was such a success that soon she and her sisters were regularly singing with the Carter Family on the Texas station XERA, a powerful radio broadcast set up mainly so that a quack doctor could advertise his unusual remedies for impotence.
        When the Carter Family split up in 1943, Maybelle and her three daughters -- June, Helen and Anita -- formed Mother Maybelle and the Carter Singers, performing such Carter Family standards as ''Wildwood Flower,'' ''Will the Circle Be Unbroken'' and ''Keep on the Sunny Side.''
        In the late 40's, Chet Atkins played guitar with them before establishing himself in Nashville. In the 50's and early 60's, the group joined the Grand Ole Opry and performed on bills with Elvis Presley and Johnny Cash, recording the hit ''Busted'' with Mr. Cash. Presley was said to have had an unrequited crush on Anita.
        An accomplished stand-up bassist with a beautiful soprano voice, Anita Carter also appeared on television shows like ''The Kate Smith Evening Hour,'' where she could be seen singing with (and being wooed by) Hank Williams in one of the legendary country singer's few television appearances. Her sister June married Mr. Cash in 1968 after the family helped bring him back to stability after a period of drug abuse.
        Anita Carter's first significant solo work was the 1951 single ''Bluebird,'' a duet with Hank Snow that topped the country charts along with its B-side, ''Down the Trail of Achin' Hearts.'' She also sang with another group on the side, a trio called 'Nita, Rita and Ruby. In the 60's, she recorded a hit duet with Waylon Jennings, ''I Got on You,'' and recorded singles and albums for the labels RCA, United Artists and, in the 70's, Capitol. She also appeared on records by Merle Haggard, Porter Wagoner and the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band.
        Mother Maybelle and the Carter Sisters, who renamed themselves the Carter Family after A. P. died in 1960, broke up officially in 1969, though they continued to record together until near the time of Maybelle's death in 1978. Anita's sister Helen died last summer, and June recently released an intimate, homemade solo album, ''Press On.''
        In addition to June Carter Cash, of Hendersonville, Tenn., Ms. Carter is survived by a daughter, Lorrie Bennett, and a son, Jay, both of Goodlettsville.
      