
        Alexandre Lagoya, a guitarist  known for the elegance and textural clarity of his performances, both as part of a duet with his first wife, Ida Presti, and later as a soloist, died in Paris on Tuesday after what the Agence France-Presse reported was a long illness. He was 70 and lived in Paris.
        Mr. Lagoya had a wide repertory that ranged from Baroque works he transcribed for the guitar, through the standard 19th- and 20th-century Spanish guitar literature, to such crossover endeavors as Claude Bolling's jazzy ''Picnic Suite.'' In the 1980's he performed frequently with the flutist Jean-Pierre Rampal. The two made several recordings together, including a live album recorded on one of several American tours in which they were recital partners.
        Mr. Lagoya was born in 1929 in Alexandria, Egypt, of Greek and Italian parents. He began playing the guitar when he was 8 and gave his first public recital when he was 13. He was also an amateur boxer at the time, and when he played his debut concert, he had a black eye that he had received in a match a few hours earlier.
        By the time he was 19, he had given about 500 concerts throughout the Middle East, and decided to move to Paris to continue his studies. He became a student of Jean Saudry, and studied harmony and counterpoint with the Brazilian composer Villa-Lobos. Shortly after his arrival in Paris, he was invited to perform for a classical guitar society, and it was at that concert that he met Ms. Presti, who was already a celebrity, having made her first recording in 1934, when she was 10.
        On the spot, Ms. Presti declared Mr. Lagoya the best guitarist she had ever heard. They were soon married, and from 1950 until her death in 1967, they each gave up their solo work and performed exclusively as a duo. At the time, Andres Segovia and other guitarists were fighting to establish solo careers in a classical musical world that still regarded the guitar as a folk instrument; duos were comparatively rare. But by transcribing keyboard works -- pieces by Bach, Scarlatti, Debussy, Falla and Granados were among their staples -- the couple assembled a repertory that they later expanded through commissioning.
        One of the first new works composed for them, a set of 24 Preludes and Fugues by Mario Castelnuovo-Tedesco, was undertaken at the urging of Segovia, who attended the New York debut of the Presti and Lagoya duo in the early 1950's, and was so taken with their performance that he wrote to the composer and asked him to consider writing for two guitars. Castelnuovo-Tedesco also wrote them a Concerto for Two Guitars. Andre Jolivet, Pierre Petit, Federico Moreno Torroba and Joaquin Rodrigo wrote music for Ms. Presti and Mr. Lagoya as well.
        Besides commissioning new works, Mr. Lagoya and Ms. Presti reconsidered the technique of the guitar. One of their innovations involved using the right side of the fingernail instead of the left side, which most guitarists use. Mr. Lagoya said he believed that this allowed for greater projection of sound. This technique has not been widely adopted, but another technique that he and Ms. Presti developed -- the cross-string trill -- is now an important element of modern guitar technique. Instead of playing a trill on a single string, Mr. Lagoya and Ms. Presti played it across two strings, so that each note could ring out clearly. The effect was a trill that had the clarity listeners associated with keyboards rather than stringed instruments.
        When Ms. Presti died, during a tour of the United States, Mr. Lagoya took a yearlong hiatus to reconsider his career and relearn some of the solo works that he had neglected during his 17 years as part of a duo.
        ''It was very difficult,'' he later said of his return as a soloist, ''not so much to play, but to play alone.''
        Mr. Lagoya remarried; his second wife, Monelle, survives him, as do a daughter, Elisabeth, and a son, Sylvain.
        By the mid-1970's he was again touring regularly and making frequent recordings, mostly for CBS Masterworks (now Sony Classical). His recording of Mr. Bolling's Concerto for Guitar and Jazz Piano gave his career a boost by attracting a crossover audience that had already been charmed by the Suite for Flute and Jazz Piano that Mr. Bolling had composed for Mr. Rampal. Mr. Bolling composed the ''Picnic Suite'' for Mr. Lagoya and Mr. Rampal. Mr. Rampal is also the conductor on one of Mr. Lagoya's concerto recordings.
        Mr. Lagoya taught for many years at the National Conservatory in Paris and at the International Academy of Music in Nice.
      