
        Harry Litwack, the Hall of Fame basketball coach at Temple University and a popular figure on the Philadelphia sports scene for half a century, died Saturday at his home in Huntingdon Valley, Pa. He was 91.
        Litwack had few high-profile players, but the coach known as Chief produced perennial winners, emphasizing zone defenses taught through the haze of his ever present cigar smoke. Relying on players recruited from the Philadelphia neighborhoods, Litwack had a record of 373-193 from 1952 to 1973. His Temple teams had only one losing season and made 13 post-season appearances, winning the National Invitation Tournament in 1969 and twice going to the Final Four of the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament.
        Arriving in Philadelphia from Poland at age 5, Harry Litwack grew up in a home where only Yiddish was spoken, and his father, a shoemaker, never understood basketball. But the game was a huge attraction for immigrant youngsters. ''When I was a kid, every phone pole had a peach basket on it,'' Litwack remembered, and ''every Jewish boy played basketball.''
        Litwack starred at Southern High School in Philadelphia, then played guard for Temple from 1927 to 1929, serving as co-captain his last two seasons. In the 1930's he played for the Philadelphia Sphas, a powerful pro team spawned by the South Philadelphia Hebrew Association and run by Eddie Gottlieb, another renowned figure in Philadelphia basketball.
        While with the Sphas, Litwack served as the freshman coach and assistant varsity coach at Temple. He developed a box-and-one zone defense in the 1937-38 season that held Stanford's Hank Luisetti, an all-American and pioneer of one-handed shooting, to 11 points in Temple's 35-31 victory. That Temple team defeated Colorado and Byron (Whizzer) White, the future United States Supreme Court Justice, in the first N.I.T. championship game.
        Litwack served as an assistant to Gottlieb when he was the owner-coach of the Philadelphia Warriors, in the early years of the National Basketball Association, before being named Temple's head coach.
        His 1955-56 team, led by a pair of star guards, the brilliant ball-handler Guy Rodgers, a sophomore, and Hal Lear, a senior, went 23-3 in the regular season before losing to Iowa in the N.C.A.A. semifinals.
        Litwack's 1957-58 squad, featuring Rodgers and guard Bill (Pickles) Kennedy, won the then prestigious Holiday Festival tournament at Madison Square Garden, went 24-2 in the regular season and was ranked No. 5 nationally. But Temple lost by a point to Kentucky, the eventual national champion, in the N.C.A.A. tournament's semifinals.
        Litwack's 1968-69 team was the last squad selected for that season's N.I.T., but it won the tournament with an 89-76 victory over Boston College in Bob Cousy's final game as coach of the Eagles, snapping their 19-game winning streak.
        ''Something magical happened,'' Litwack said after being carried around the Madison Square Garden court on Temple fans' shoulders. ''The boys all of a sudden came together and played above their talent.''
        That was Litwack's last N.I.T. team. He retired after the 1972-73 season and was elected to the Basketball Hall of Fame in Springfield, Mass., in 1975.
        Litwack is survived by his wife, Estelle; two daughters, Lois Kieserman and Shelley Smoger, both of Huntingdon Valley; three grandsons, and two great-grandchildren.
        The nickname Chief was supposedly bestowed on Litwack by Rodgers, later a star with the Warriors, who, after leaving a huddle when the coach dispensed strategy one night, is said to have remarked, ''O.K., Chief.'' But Litwack's wife said he was called Chief because that was what he had called people he did not know when meeting them for the first time.
        Litwack was known as a low-key recruiter. ''Harry Litwack didn't dazzle recruits with a fancy meal,'' recalled Bill Kelley, who played three seasons for Temple in the early 1960's. ''The Chief didn't promise his recruits anything -- not playing time, playgirls, cars or money. They were offered only a solid education and a chance, if they worked hard, to play in a nationally respected basketball program.''
        On Feb. 24, 1973, when Temple faced Villanova in Philadelphia at the Palestra, the public-address announcer told the crowd that it was Litwack's last coaching appearance there. The fans roared, but Litwack seemed oblivious to the tribute.
        ''I guess I got fooled,'' he would recall. ''I didn't think I was that popular.''
      