
        Constantine S. Nicandros, a former chairman of Conoco Inc., the multinational oil and gas company, and a leading patron of the arts in his adopted hometown, Houston, died Monday at a hospital in Houston. He was 66.
        The cause was cancer, according to a statement released by his son, Steve C. Nicandros of Houston.
        Mr. Nicandros spent 39 years at Conoco, eventually becoming president and chief executive from 1985 to 1995 and then chairman for a year.
        Mr. Nicandros also served as an executive vice president and later a vice chairman of E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, which merged with Conoco in 1981; Conoco became a separate company again in 1998.
        In the arts, Mr. Nicandros served on the boards of the Houston Grand Opera, the Houston Symphony, Houston Ballet Foundation and the Museum of Fine Arts. He was also a former chairman of the symphony and the opera.
        Constantine Stavros Nicandros was born to Greek parents in Port Said, Egypt, on Aug. 2, 1933. He graduated from the Ecole des Hautes Etudes Commerciales in Paris and got a law degree and a doctorate in economics from the University of Paris and an M.B.A. from Harvard.
        Fluent in seven languages, Mr. Nicandros joined Conoco in 1957 in Houston as a research associate in the planning department. By 1966, he had advanced to the post of director of economic planning and by 1978 was executive vice president for worldwide supply and distribution. When Conoco merged with Du Pont in 1981, Nicandros was co-chairman of the merger committee.
        Mr. Nicandros was thought to be the first foreign-born chief executive of a major American oil company. He was also chairman of the American Petroleum Institute. After he left Conoco, he ran CSN & Company, a private investment firm. He also served on several corporate boards, as well as on the board of trustees of Baylor College of Medicine and at Rice University.
        In addition to his son, Mr. Nicandros is survived by his wife, Tassie; a daughter, Vicky Elliot of Houston, and four grandchildren.
      