
        Porfirio Delgado, a luthier whose guitars were used by several generations of classical, Latin and pop performers, died on Wednesday at his home in East Los Angeles. He was 85.
        Although he had retired and left his Candelas Guitars shop in the hands of two of his grandsons, Tomas and Manuel, he was still regarded by many as the guiding spirit of the family-owned company.
        Mr. Delgado was born in 1913 in Torreon, Mexico. He began his professional life as a cabinetmaker but he also played the guitar, as did his older brother, Candelario. In the mid-1920's they formed a performing duo, Los Hermanos Candelas (the Candelas Brothers), and when they began making their own guitars in 1928 they used Candelas as their brand name.
        The Delgado brothers continued to perform, even after they started their guitar business. When they formed a larger band, called Son Torreon, they made all of the group's instruments, including some that used a cutaway design: an indentation in the upper body of the guitar that allows the player's hand to move easily along the higher reaches of the fretboard.
        Candelas guitars were among the first to use the cutaway design, and some credit the innovation to the Delgados.
        The brothers ran several guitar shops in Mexico until 1946 and had several Hispanic popular music and flamenco stars as clients, including Mario Moreno, who was known as Cantinflas, Los Tres Cahelleros, an ensemble that played in several Walt Disney films, and Eduardo Ruiz, the lead guitarist for Desi Arnaz's band.
        In 1946 they opened shops in El Paso and Los Angeles, eventually making Los Angeles their headquarters. In 1955 Porfirio Delgado's son Candelario -- called Candelitas, to distinguish him from his uncle -- began working in the Los Angeles shop and Candelitas's son Tomas joined the staff in 1990, followed by Manuel in 1995.
        Mr. Delgado is survived by three daughters, Lupe, Herminia Hipolito and Belia Marquez; a sister; 12 grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren, all of Los Angeles.
        Early on, Candelas guitars were favored by Hispanic musicians, and the company has maintained its prominence in that part of the field. When the company opened a new shop, in February, it gave a party at which Los Lobos and Ozomatli were among the bands that performed.
        But the instruments were also taken up by folk singers like Theodore Bikel, Burl Ives, Arlo Guthrie and the Kingston Trio, as well as the country guitarist Hoyt Axton and crossover musicians like Jose Feliciano and Charo.
        Candelas also made instruments for several classical guitarists, among them Andres Segovia, Vicente Gomez and Pepe Romero.
      