
        Catfish Hunter, the Hall of Fame right-hander who helped pitch the Oakland A's and the Yankees to six pennants in the 1970's, hurled a perfect game and was part of an economic revolution in sports, died yesterday at his home at Hertford, N.C. He was 53.
        He had been struggling for the last year with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, the progressive and ultimately fatal neurological condition also known as Lou Gehrig's disease. He had also been hospitalized after falling and hitting his head on concrete steps outside his home Aug. 8. He was sent home Saturday.
        Hunter was a premier pitcher of his era, a 6-foot, 190-pounder who did not have overpowering speed but possessed outstanding control, an assortment of superb pitches and a winner's poise.
        He won 224 games in 15 major league seasons from 1965 to 1979 and won at least 21 games over five consecutive seasons, from 1971 to 1974 with Oakland and in 1975 with the Yankees. He won the Cy Young Award as the American League's top pitcher in 1974 and was an eight-time All-Star. In compiling a record of 224-166, he had an outstanding career earned run average of 3.26.
        Although an unassuming ballplayer who rarely took himself seriously, Hunter was wise enough to become the first big-money free agent.
        An arbitrator freed him from his contract with Charlie Finley's Athletics after the 1974 season, and the Yankees signed him to a five-year, $3.35 million contract that was the largest in baseball history at that time.
        While his case did not directly lead to free agency for other players -- a ruling in an unrelated case the next year led to that -- it showed the players what they, too, might command from the baseball owners.
        ''He paved the way for me,'' said Roger Clemens, who will earn $16.1 million with the Yankees over 1999 and 2000.
        Relying on Control, Not Simply Power
        James Augustus Hunter was born on April 8, 1946, on a farm near Hertford in Perquimans County. He said he was taught to pitch by his older brothers.
        ''My three brothers taught me to throw strikes,'' he said when inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1987, ''and thanks to them I gave up 379 home runs in the big leagues.''
        Hunter was overstating things a bit, having given up 374 homers. And the control he developed by throwing baseballs at a hole in the barn door -- the last brother to hit the hole had to do the chores -- would pay off.
        A Yankee teammate, pitcher Pat Dobson, once said about Hunter: ''He can put the ball where he wants it -- or within an inch or two, which is just about as good. From that one capacity stems everything else.''
        On occasion, Hunter's family would travel to Baltimore to watch major league baseball. ''I remember once we were watching Robin Roberts there,'' Hunter said, ''and my father said, 'Hell, I could hit him; he's not throwing that hard.' We were sitting behind the plate, and Roberts really did look as though you could murder him. But nobody seemed to do it. I admired the heck out of Roberts. I just naturally patterned myself after him, and eventually I learned to do it, too.''
        Major league hitters would feel the same way about Hunter as Hunter's father had felt about Roberts. ''I could never understand why I couldn't hit Hunter,'' said Ed Herrmann, an opponent who later became a teammate on the Yankees. ''Even when you're up at the plate, you think, just give me one more of those and I'll clout it out of here. But I rarely did.''
        Hunter was known all his life as Jimmy in his home area. Finley, the A's flamboyant owner, gave him the nickname Catfish and apparently manufactured a story to go with it. ''Around here, we never call him Catfish,'' Ray Ward, editor of The Perquimans Weekly, once said. ''We call him Jimmy. Jimmy's mother has been upset about the nickname.'' The story created to go with the name: Hunter had once run away from home and come back with two catfish. ''His mother was irritated that somebody would believe her little boy ran off,'' Ward said.
        During Hunter's senior year at Perquimans High School in Hertford, he was wounded in his right foot when his brother Pete's shotgun misfired, destroying the little toe and leaving the foot full of pellets. The Kansas City Athletics signed him anyway, for a $50,000 bonus, and sent him to the Mayo Clinic for surgery. He spent the 1964 season on the disabled list, but the foot did not bother him after the operation even though about 15 shotgun pellets remained.
        Hunter never pitched in the minor leagues, starting the 1965 season with a cellar-bound Kansas City team that had eight rookies. He had an 8-8 record that year and was 55-64 in his first five seasons, never finishing above .500. Despite his mediocre won-lost records with mostly mediocre A's teams, Hunter was named an American League All-Star in 1966 and 1967.
        In 1968 Finley moved the A's to Oakland, and on May 8 of that year Hunter retired all 27 Minnesota Twins he faced, the first regular-season perfect game in the American League since 1922.
        The fortunes of the A's improved dramatically after their move to Oakland, and they quickly developed into a powerhouse that won three straight World Series from 1972 to 1974. Hunter also improved, in part because of a slight modification to his pitching motion, and he became the steady center of a swaggering, squabbling club that featured larger-than-life characters like Reggie Jackson, Vida Blue and Rollie Fingers. In his last five seasons with Oakland he compiled a record of 106-49, and he was 4-0 in seven World Series appearances.
        Jackson, a teammate of Hunter's with both the A's and the Yankees, would recall, ''When we started winning in Oakland, Cat was the father of those teams.'' Hunter was only 26 when the A's won their first World Series championship.
        Lou Piniella was another teammate on the Yankees. ''The main thing about Cat is that statistics didn't mean much to him,'' Piniella said. ''The only thing that mattered was victories. He didn't have overpowering stuff, but he knew how to pitch and how to beat you. If there was a game you had to win, he's the guy you wanted on the mound.''
        After he won the Cy Young Award in 1974 with a record of 25-12 and a league-leading 2.49 e.r.a., Hunter uncovered a violation of his contract with Finley and the A's that allowed him to become a free agent. The A's were to send half of Hunter's $100,000 annual salary to a North Carolina bank as payment on an annuity, but Finley did not comply.
        Showing Players Their Value
        At season's end, with the guidance of the players' association, Hunter took a grievance to arbitration. He won and was declared a free agent, unfamiliar words in baseball in 1974. When he learned of the decision by telephone, Hunter hung up and, shaken, turned to his wife, Helen. ''We don't belong to anybody,'' he told her.
        ''I was scared,'' Hunter recalled. ''I didn't have a job. I didn't realize the implications.''
        His case was an anomaly; it was the next year before Andy Messer smith and Dave McNally would challenge baseball's reserve clause and win, establishing the players union's power and spurring a tremendous escalation in athletes' salaries. But Hunter was about to show baseball players what their services were worth on the open market.
        Hunter was the most accomplished veteran player ever to become a free agent, and soon teams were clamoring for his services in an unprecedented bidding war.
        Among those who sought to sign him was Gene Autry, the singing cowboy of the movies who was the owner of the California Angels. Autry was so eager that he traveled across the country to meet Hunter in Ahoskie, N.C., 60 miles from Hertford.
        ''Gene Autry came down here handing out records of 'Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer,' '' Hunter once recalled. ''That was the biggest thing that ever came to Ahoskie.''
        Twenty-three of the 24 teams in the major leagues -- all but the San Francisco Giants -- bid for Hunter's services. George Steinbrenner's $3.35 million offer to pitch for the Yankees for five years, which included a $1 million signing bonus and various insurance policies and annuities, was the most appealing, and the Yankees announced the signing of Hunter on New Year's Eve 1974.
        The $150,000 annual salary Hunter received from the Yankees did not even rank among the top 10 in baseball -- Dick Allen of the Chicago White Sox had received $250,000 in 1974. But the total package was the largest in baseball's history, and it made Hunter, at age 28, one of the three or four highest-paid American athletes at a time when rival leagues in hockey and football had already begun to drive up salaries.
        But it was not just the money that brought Hunter to New York. ''We'd had better offers, but New York was closer to home and they played on regular grass,'' he said. Coming to the Yankees also meant rejoining Clyde Kluttz, the scout who had signed Hunter to his first contract with Kansas City.
        Hunter again led the league in victories in his first season with the Yankees, winning 23 games. He was 17-15 the following season, when the team won its first pennant in 12 years, and he compiled records of 9-9 and 12-6 for the Yankees' World Series winning teams of 1977 and 1978, despite spending time on the disabled list during both seasons.
        He was a humorous and a stabilizing force in the clubhouse for the Yankees, as he had been for the A's. While his jokes to teammates could be pointed, they were usually taken well. When Jackson had a candy bar named for him, Hunter said, ''When you unwrap one, it tells you how good it is.''
        When Hunter was elected to the Hall of Fame, Steinbrenner, the Yankees' principal owner, said: ''You started our success. You were the first to teach us how to win. Other Yankees continued that leadership role, but you were the one who first showed us what it means to be a winner.''
        Home on the Farm, Out of the Limelight
        Hunter retired from baseball at age 33 when his contract expired after the 1979 season, having suffered problems with his pitching arm. But he found it no hardship to leave the limelight and return to his roots. Shortly after he joined the Yankees he had said: ''I don't like New York much, either. I had to live in a hotel downtown for a couple of months until my wife got here. Hated it. Now I got this nice home in Norwood, N.J., and I just drive straight from there to the ball park. Never go downtown. Nothing for me to do down there.''
        Hunter and his wife, Helen, his high school sweetheart, lived in the same house outside tiny Hertford for more than 20 years. But their 100 acres had increased to 1,000. He was a full-time farmer in his corn, soybean and peanut fields for 10 years after he retired from baseball, and then he turned it over to a friend who leased the land.
        He was an avid fisherman and hunter, keeping a kennel of deer hounds and bird dogs and shooting quail, pheasant, rabbit and deer in the winter.
        The financial package from the Yankees in 1974 included $25,000 payments for annuities for college tuition for his two children, Todd, then 5, and Kimberly, 2. His son Paul was born five years later. ''I forgot I might have one more after baseball,'' Hunter said. ''I have to pay for him myself.''
        In addition to his wife and three children, Hunter is survived by three brothers, three sisters and a grandson.
        Hunter was a fierce competitor, but he kept his perspective and his unruffled disposition, understanding that baseball was just a game. ''Golf's the only thing that makes me mad,'' he once said, with a smile.
        Hunter entered a hospital in Baltimore last September after experiencing difficulties with motor skills, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis was diagnosed. He did not appear in public outside his hometown again until March, when he attended the Yankees' first spring training game in Tampa, Fla. He joked with reporters but had difficulty shaking hands.
        ''I've got no strength in my arms and my hands,'' he said last fall. ''I can't do the routine things like button a shirt anymore.''
        Helen Hunter helped him with cutting his food and tying his shoes. ''I'm putting a lot of work on her and she's strong,'' Catfish Hunter said. ''But once in a while we sit here and cry together.''
        For many of his friends and family and teammates, Hunter's charm was memorable. After he lost a game with the Yankees in the 1977 World Series, for example, he was unhappy but not distraught. He understood that there are good days and bad.
        ''The sun,'' he said, ''don't shine on the same dog all the time.''
      