
        Bert MacLeech, an associate professor emeritus at the University of Southern California and a leader in the 1950's movement to provide community-based services for handicapped young people, died on Aug. 26 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 90.
        With his wife, the former Pearl Raza, Dr. MacLeech founded the Young Adult Institute in New York in 1957. It initially helped seven young people, ages 16 to 20, with learning difficulties make the transition from school to jobs and acquire the social skills to cope with the responsibilities of adult life.
        From this modest beginning grew what is now known as the YAI/National Institute for People with Disabilities, one of the country's largest providers of such services. Based in Manhattan, it daily helps more than 15,000 individuals with developmental disabilities.
        Dr. MacLeech was an early advocate of keeping young adults with developmental and emotional troubles out of institutions and helping them grow into productive members of the community. He served as executive director of the institute from its beginning until 1967.
        After directing YAI in New York, Dr. MacLeech accepted an appointment as associate professor of special education at the Southern California Graduate School of Education. He took emeritus status in 1975 but continued his advocacy for mentally retarded people until his death.
        A strong believer in home-care options, he was named to the Governing Board of In Home Support Services Public Authority in 1998. The board sets policies for an agency that provides in-home, long-term care for 86,000 seniors and people with disabilities in Los Angeles County.
        Born in Kansas in 1909, he grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from Occidental College with a bachelor's degree in philosophy and psychology in 1930. He earned a master's degree in comparative education in 1949 and a doctorate in the history and philosophy of education in 1951 from Harvard University.
        After post-doctoral work at Oxford University, he completed courses in teaching the mentally retarded at Columbia University Teachers College, Hunter College and City College of New York. At that time, in the late 1950's, he also worked as a coordinator and teacher of brain-injured children in the Bronx and retarded youngsters at Southbury Training School in Connecticut.
        Dr. MacLeech's wife died in 1997, and he leaves no immediate survivors.
      