
        Anneli Cahn Lax, a professor and editor who was a leader in the publishing of mathematical literature, died on Friday at her home on Manhattan's Upper West Side. She was 77.
        Professor Lax had pancreatic cancer, said her husband, Peter Lax.
        She retired in 1992 from New York University, where she had been a professor for 31 years after holding other posts there for 18 years.
        In her dissertation at N.Y.U. and in later publications, she made significant contributions to the theory of hyperbolic equations, a complex mathematical theory about aspects of the behavior of many kinds of waves.
        She may be best known, however,  for her contributions to the understanding of mathematics by both students and lay people, especially as the editor of the Mathematical Association of America's New Mathematical Library Series.
        The series, started in 1961, included 36 published volumes by 1995. It was planned, by Professor Lax and others, to make mathematics accessible to the general reader without stinting on technical accuracy. Its first two books, ''Numbers: Rational and Irrational'' by Ivan Niven and ''What Is Calculus About?'' by W. W. Sawyer, are still in print after a third of a century.
        In addition, Professor Lax ''led the way in changing mathematical pedagogy, in exploring the connections of mathematics to the larger curriculum, in understanding the interplay between language and mathematics,'' Joanne V. Creighton, president of Mount Holyoke College, said in awarding her an honorary degree in 1997.
        President Creighton said Professor Lax's experiences in mathematics and family life had endowed her with a special awareness of the challenges confronting young women interested in mathematics.
        Professor Lax was a longtime active member of the New York Academy of Sciences and was instrumental in shaping its program of science education for children.
        ''There is a misconception among people and schoolchildren about the nature of mathematics,'' she said in a 1979 interview. ''They consider it a matter of rules and regulations instead of thinking.'' The pressure, she said, was for pupils to come up with the right answer quickly, without time to analyze.
        The honors she won included an award for ''distinguished service to mathematics'' from the mathematical association.
        Professor Lax was born in Kattowitz, Germany. She and her family fled Hitler's Germany in 1935 and settled in New York. She received a bachelor's degree in 1942 from Adelphi College and her doctorate in 1956.
        Besides her husband of 51 years, who is also a professor of mathematics at N.Y.U., she is survived by a son, Dr. James D. Lax of Manhattan,  and three grandsons.
      