
        Vincent T. Wasilewski, who was president of the National Association of Broadcasters for 17 years, died on Sept. 9 at Washington Hospital Center. He was 76.
        The cause was heart failure, according to the association.
        Mr. Wasilewski's degree was in law, but his first love was broadcasting. He joined the broadcasters association in 1949 after graduating from the University of Illinois Law School. He served as chief counsel and executive vice president before becoming president in 1965, and led the group until 1982. He spent the next seven years as a partner in the Washington law firm of Dow, Lohnes & Albertson, retiring in 1989.
        Mr. Wasilewski, one of the television industry's most gregarious lobbyists, never shied from controversy. He almost always opposed any Congressional or regulatory action that threatened to hamstring the industry's freedoms.
        For example, he fought against Federal proposals to limit advertising aimed at children. When the Supreme Court ruled that the Government could prohibit ''patently offensive'' words on radio, Mr. Wasilewski called the decision a ''harsh blow to the freedom of expression of every person in this country.''
        He argued strongly against a Congressional move to allow the Federal Communications Commission to suspend and fine radio and television stations for taking payola. He lobbied vociferously against proposed rules requiring that stations that broadcast cigarette commercials give equal time to antismoking interests, saying that the Fairness Doctrine must not be applied to product advertising.
        At one point, he was a center of controversy himself, when he was accused of giving the House Commerce Committee misinformation about cigarette advertising. Nothing came of the accusations.
        He was particularly incensed at the idea that television needed to be enlightening as well as entertaining. ''Broadcasting should not be criticized for failing to function as father, mother, educator, clergyman, baby-sitter, psychiatrist, sociologist and elevator of tastes,'' he said in 1965.
        But he was a firm believer in the need for broadcasters to police themselves. That same year he told the Broadcast Executives Club of New England that the radio, television and advertising industries must ''develop rules of behavior which reflect the prevailing morality of our times.''
        Mr. Wasilewski was born in Athens, Ill., on Dec. 17, 1922. His college education was interrupted by service in the Army Air Force. He served in India and China, and was a crew member on the first B-29 bombing mission over Japan. He received the Distinguished Flying Cross with cluster, and the Air Medal with clusters.
        He also received numerous industry awards during his career. A scholarship in his name is given annually to communications graduate students by the Broadcast Education Association.
        Mr. Wasilewski is survived by his second wife, Marjorie Nohowel Wasilewski, whom he married in 1992, three years after his first wife, the former Patricia Callery, died. He is also survived by six children from his first marriage, five brothers and sisters, three stepchildren and 11 grandchildren.
      