
        Cleveland (Big Cat) Williams, who fought Muhammad Ali for the world heavyweight boxing championship in November 1966, two years after a shooting by a policeman left Williams with one kidney and a bullet lodged near his hip, died last Friday in Houston. He was 66.
        Williams, who lived in Houston, died at Ben Taub Hospital of injuries sustained when he was struck by a car while crossing a street on Sept. 3.
        When Williams entered the ring against Ali at the Astrodome in Houston on Nov. 14, 1966, he was facing a brilliant fighter who was nine years younger, undefeated in 26 bouts and making his fifth title defense of the year. It was no surprise that Williams was a 5 to 1 underdog. Truly remarkable was his mere presence in a boxing ring.
        On the night of Nov. 29, 1964, Williams's car was stopped near Houston by a highway patrolman who said he was speeding. According to the police, Williams resisted arrest, and the officer's .357 magnum revolver went off in a struggle. The bullet moved across Williams's intestines and lodged against his right hip.
        Williams underwent four operations over the next seven months for colon damage and an injured right kidney, which was removed in June 1965. Doctors did not take out a bullet that had broken his right hip joint and caused partial paralysis of some hip muscles.
        ''It is a miracle that he is not in braces,'' his surgeon, Dr. Don Quast, said two years later.
        Williams lost almost 60 pounds off his 6-foot-4-inch, 220-pound frame, but he regained strength by tossing 80-pound hay bales on a cattle ranch in Yoakum, Tex., owned by his manager, Hugh Benbow. He returned to the ring on Feb. 8, 1966, in Houston, receiving a 10-minute ovation from his hometown fans that began when he walked down the aisle and didn't conclude until he appealed for quiet with a finger to his lips.
        The Houston Post said it was ''the greatest single ovation ever paid one man in Houston athletics.''
        Williams scored a one-round knockout that night against Ben Black, then won three more bouts before challenging Ali for the heavyweight championship. A crowd of 35,460 watched the bout at the Astrodome, at the time the largest turnout ever for an indoor boxing match.
        By the time he fought Ali, Williams had been in the ring for almost two decades. A native of Griffin, Ga., he worked in a pulpwood mill at age 13 and began boxing professionally in Georgia a year later. He reported having won four of six fights, ''but then the boxing commisisioner found out my age and I was barred until I was 18.''
        Williams came into the Ali fight having knocked out 51 opponents with a record of 65-5-1 in a professional career that formally began in 1951. His most notable knockout victim was Ernie Terrell, but he had twice been knocked out by Sonny Liston.
        Williams never had a chance against Ali, who showed off his shuffle for the first time and knocked him down four times before the fight was stopped at 1 minute 8 seconds of the third round. Williams was never a contender again. He said soon afterward that he would retire, but six years later he fought his 91st fight. By then he was traveling with a cardboard suitcase kept together by a frayed electrical cord.
        Williams is survived by his wife, Irene, and a son, Reuben.
        Shortly before he faced Ali, Williams recalled how he had never lost faith during his long struggle to recover from his gunshot wounds.
        ''God wanted me to fight and he wants me to fight again,'' Williams said then. ''I died three times on that operating table. If he didn't want me to fight, he'd have let me stay dead, because fighting's the only thing I know.''
      