
        Earnest Hoberecht, an American who became a major literary figure in Japan just after World War II on the strength of some romance novels he wrote in a matter of weeks, died Wednesday at an Oklahoma City hospital. He was 81.
        He died of heart failure, his wife said.
        Mr. Hoberecht (pronounced HO-bright), turned a Tokyo assignment as a correspondent and news executive for United Press International into an improbable literary success story by filling a void created by a ban on American books.
        The ban was imposed by the United States Army out of fear that books like Sinclair Lewis's ''Main Street'' that were critical of American society might lead to Japanese derision of Americans, with possible political repercussions back home.
        But by writing novels in English and having them immediately translated into Japanese, Mr. Hoberecht became, for a little over two years, the best-known, and virtually the only, American writer available in Japan as it rebuilt itself and its society under the Allied occupation.
        Mr. Hoberecht was so popular that he had a fan club -- unusual by itself in postwar Japan -- with hundreds of thousands of members, many of them young women eager to learn how an American man might address matters of the heart.
        In a long magazine article about Mr. Hoberecht, the author James Michener said Japanese students often asked whether Mr. Hoberecht was better than Hemingway. He said one scholar had asked him to compare Mr. Hoberecht's writing with that of Jean-Paul Sartre.
        By day, Mr. Hoberecht wrote news articles and tried to recruit Asian subscribers for the wire service, United Press International. He wrote his novels after 5:30 P.M., generally by dictating to a secretary. A translator who had won considerable local attention with a Japanese version of ''Gone With the Wind'' then put it into Japanese. Mr. Hoberecht many times suggested that his success was partly due to the graceful style of the translation.
        Mr. Hoberecht first caught the attention of the Japanese reading public with a well-publicized kiss. As retold later in Collier's magazine, Mr. Hoberecht had visited a movie set with the intention of kissing Hideko Mimura, a highly regarded actress. He told her that Gen. Douglas MacArthur had suggested that kissing in movies would be ''a step toward democratization.'' When he kissed her on the set, she immediately fainted. It was sensational national news.
        He wrote his first great success soon afterward. That novel, ''Tokyo Diary,'' was published in 1946 and told of an American correspondent based in Japan falling in love with a Japanese movie star. The affair had to be secret because her studio forbade such fraternization. There was a murder and other complications, but the most popular part of the book was the description of a kiss, which Time magazine said at the time went into ''great quivering detail.'' Kissing, if done at all at that time in Japan, was a very private thing.
        The Collier's article suggested that the success of ''Tokyo Diary'' resulted from the publicity. The book quickly sold 300,000 copies and would have sold more except for a paper shortage, contemporary reports said. ''The Japanese women were crazy to find out how American men made love,'' Mr. Hoberecht told Mr. Michener.
        When the book was published in America, however, the response was disappointing, from reviewers to buyers. Life magazine called it ''the worst novel of modern times.''
        Nor was all the Japanese response favorable. One reviewer compared the novel unfavorably to modern Russian works and concluded, ''The people of America must be intellectual midgets.''
        Still, Mr. Hoberecht went on to write ''Tokyo Romance,'' which in many ways resembled ''Tokyo Diary,'' in just 27 days. Mr. Michener wrote that Mr. Hoberecht then wrote to his parents in Oklahoma for writing he had done in his boyhood and college years. This resulted in ''Unpublished Short Stories of Earnest Hoberecht.''
        Then came ''Shears of Destiny,'' a novel he had written before the war and could not publish in the United States. His last book before the ban on American books was rescinded was ''Democratic Etiquette,'' which included some suggestions about how to kiss.
        Mr. Hoberecht was born on Jan. 1, 1918, in Watonga, Okla., where he grew up. He earned a journalism degree from Oklahoma University, then worked as a reporter for The Memphis Press-Scimitar. He quit to go to Hawaii to work as a laborer at Pearl Harbor, and from there wound up covering the occupation of Japan.
        He returned to his hometown in 1966. There he ran a number of family businesses, including an insurance company and a title company. His writing was restricted to occasional letters to the editor complaining about low wheat prices.
        In 1969, he found himself sitting at a local lunch counter next to Mary Ann Shaklee Karns. They each had four children from a previous marriage, and they were married seven months later. She remembers contemplating having a home with eight children and telling him, ''We should get the Medal of Honor for this.''
        Mr. Hoberecht is survived by his wife; his four children, Tony Hoberecht of Tulsa; Trevar Hoberecht 3d of Las Vegas, Nev.; Nathalie Kitson of Edmond, Okla., and Shelley Hoberecht Spaeth of Watonga; his stepchildren, Mona Loudon of Oklahoma City; Anita Cowan of Watonga; Brett Karns of Watonga and Bruce Karns of Yukon, Okla.; a sister, Jeanne Hoberecht Mills of Lafayette, La., and 17 grandchildren.
      