
        Walter O. Wells, a former chairman of the Schult Homes Corporation, who helped start mobile homes on the road to what became the manufactured housing industry in the United States, died Monday at his home in Elkhart, Ind. He was 87.
        Mr. Wells's career in mobile homes began as a clerk in the W. J. Schult & Sons Clothing Store in Elkhart in 1933, said John P. Guequierre, vice president for manufacturing at Schult Homes, a maker of both mobile and modular homes that is now part of the Oakwood Homes Corporation in Greensboro, N.C.
        About the same time, Mr. Guequierre said, the clothing store's owner, Wilbur Schult, had begun selling out of the rear of his store a contraption called Covered Wagon car-trailers. He had spotted them at the Chicago World's Fair hauling carnival workers. Mr. Schult decided they would be ideal for campers and fishermen, too.
        The next year, Mr. Schult rented a lot to sell his Covered Wagon trailers. He also became a distributor for Sportsman trailers produced in Michigan. Thus, the Wilbur J. Schult Trailer Mart was born, with Mr. Wells as the manager.
        In 1936, Mr. Wells suggested that the company make its own trailers. Instead, Mr. Schult bought the Sportsman company and renamed it the Schult Trailer Company. One of its first models, the Sport, was revolutionary in that it contained a coal heating stove, a portable water tank, a sofa bed and dinette chairs.
        By the end of the decade, the company, which later became known as the Schult Homes Corporation and moved to Middlebury, Ind., was the largest maker of mobile homes in the nation. It was known for innovations like forced-air heating, steel fames, built-in electrical appliances and interior plumbing. The company even made a special 50-foot mobile home for King Farouk of Egypt.
        ''There were trailer builders about 20 years before them in many places in the country, but they built the first fully successful company and the oldest company that exists today,'' said Al Hesselbart, vice president of the RV/MH Heritage Foundation in Ekhart, referring to Mr. Schult and Mr. Wells.
        ''Wilbur was a better builder than a salesman,'' Mr. Hesselbart said. ''Walter was the businessman and salesman par excellence.''
        Walter Oscar Wells was born in Huntington, Ind., on Nov. 9, 1911, and over the years he worked at Schult Homes in several positions including chairman and chief executive. He retired in 1997; Mr. Schult died in the 1970's.
        Mr. Wells was also president of the Mobile Home Manufacturers Association in 1952 and 1953. He was a trustee of DePauw University and was president of the Elkhart City Planning Commission for 10 years.
        He is survived by his wife, Madelon; a son, Walter E. Wells of Constantine, Mich., a daughter, Sara Elkin of Elkhart, eight grandchildren and one great-granddaughter.
      