
        Barry Shipp, a perfume salesman who discovered an aromatic oil being sold in a drug paraphernalia shop and developed it into a multimillion-dollar business called Jovan Musk, died Monday at his home in Chicago. He was 62.
        He died of a heart attack, said his daughter, Lara Shipp.
        In the late 1960's, Ms. Shipp said, her father, then a sales representative with Revlon, was on a business trip in Manhattan. He saw a line outside a Greenwich Village ''head shop,'' one of the small stores that commonly sold incense and fragrances, hashish pipes, hookahs and other accouterments of the psychedelic set.
        Her father learned that the crowd had been attracted by a very sweet fragrance called musk oil, which was being touted by word of mouth among the countercultural set as having unusual powers of sexual attraction.
        ''He took home a vial and went to a fragrance house and developed the musk,'' Ms. Shipp said.
        Mr. Shipp left Revlon and, along with an entrepreneur, Bernard Mitchell, founded a corporation to market an inexpensive synthetic musk that he patented and called Jovan Musk.
        In an interview with Illinois Racing News last year, Mr. Shipp, who was prominent in horse circles in the last two decades of his life, recalled: ''We put copy on the package with a lot of inferences but nothing really concrete. And the thing just took off.''
        The company's annual sales surged from $1 million at the beginning of the 1970's to more than $85 million by the end of the decade.
        After selling the operation, buying it back and then selling it again, Mr. Shipp stayed in the fragrance business, supplying scents to Walgreen's, Wal-Mart and other stores.
        Jovan Musk is now made by Coty Inc., which is part of Joh. K. Benckiser G.m.b.H., the European conglomerate better known for Calgon and other laundry and household cleaning products.
        In his later years, Mr. Shipp was linked to thoroughbred horse racing and breeding more than to fragrances. His love for racing came about when he was recovering from a heart attack that he suffered just after turning 40.
        ''Among the reading matter my wife would buy me was The Daily Racing Form,'' Mr. Shipp said in the interview. ''I started to dope out the races, and the next day I would get to see how I did.''
        Over the years, Mr. Shipp bred and raced numerous horses, winning hundreds of thousands of dollars in prize money. ''I would say I am behind in the game,'' he said. ''But I can't put a figure on the enjoyment I've gotten out of the game.''
        Mr. Shipp was born May 1, 1937, in Paterson, N.J. He graduated from the University of Illinois and joined Revlon as a sales trainee. Eventually, he became the company's Midwest sales representative.
        In addition to his daughter, Mr. Shipp is survived by his wife, Mary Ellen, and two sons, Gregg Shipp and Drew Shipp, all of Chicago.
      