
        Herbert Stein, a free-market economist who used careful analysis and sharp wit to persuade the business community in the 1940's to rally behind the ''unnatural'' idea of using Federal budget deficits to regulate the economy, died yesterday at a hospital in Washington. He was 83.
        The cause was heart failure, said his daughter, Rachel Epstein of New York City.
        Most famous as a member and later chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under Presidents Nixon and Ford, Mr. Stein seldom let ideological purity stand in the way of what he thought was economic common sense.
        He made news in the 1960's and 70's, but he made economic history in the 1940's. Mr. Stein served as an economist for the Committee for Economic Development for 22 years, starting in 1945. The committee, formed during World War II by executives and educators to study economic issues, adopted early on the idea, associated with John Maynard Keynes, of running deficits to moderate economic downturns.
        Robert Solow, a Nobel Laureate from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, applauded Mr. Stein's role in bringing the business community, a potentially hostile audience, behind the strategic use of deficits, a linchpin of economic thinking in the Kennedy, Johnson and Nixon Administrations.
        ''He convinced a powerful business lobby that there was no ideological reason not to pursue Keynesian fiscal policy,'' Mr. Solow said yesterday. Mr. Stein argued that while Government spending and revenue could be matched over the long run, it could be economically destructive during recessions to raise taxes or cut spending to eliminate deficits in the short run.
        By now, this idea is commonplace. But it was an uncomfortable, heretical notion in the 1940's.
        Mr. Stein, at the suggestion of Milton Friedman of the University of Chicago, served on President Nixon's Council of Economic Advisers from 1969 to 1972 and as chairman of the council until 1974. During that time, he helped design Mr. Nixon's 90-day freeze of wages and prices and its aftermath -- an uncomfortable position for a conservative who preached the benefits of unfettered markets.
        After he left Government, he became a professor at the University of Virginia and joined the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative research group. He gained more fame by writing pointed, often humorous columns for The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times and other large newspapers.
        Because his writing often defended surprisingly liberal positions, he became known as the liberals' favorite conservative -- a tag line, Mr. Solow says, that made Mr. Stein cringe because he wanted his ideas to be applauded for their sensible, pragmatic underpinnings.
        Mr. Stein came to what others perceived as contradictory positions because he followed the nonideological logic of the economist's tool box. He argued against those, including fellow Republicans, who focused on a relatively small number, the Federal deficit, when what they should be analyzing, in his view, was the entire composition of national spending.  With that figure in mind, Mr. Stein argued that the nation could afford to spend not only more on the military, which he often favored, but also more to combat poverty.
        Charles Schultze of the Brookings Institution praised Mr. Stein for refusing to give into fads. He understood that taxes depress economic activity, but he refused to follow those who fell in love with extreme versions of supply-side economics -- the notion, popular in the 1980's, that tax cuts would unleash waves of more work and investment. Mr. Schultze recalled a conference at which Mr. Stein punctured a speaker's faddish claims about the revolutionary effect of computers and the Internet by simply observing that the effect of those technological changes were not as great as that of the steam engine.
        Mr. Stein was born in Detroit, received a bachelor's degree from Williams College in 1935 and a doctorate in economics from the University of Chicago in 1958. His most important academic work was ''The Fiscal Revolution in America,'' published in 1969, which examined decades of American fiscal policy and its effect on the economy.
        In addition to his daughter, Mr. Stein is survived by a son, Ben of Los Angeles, the host of the Comedy Central television quiz program ''Win Ben Stein's Money''; a sister, Pearl Weiss, of Sarasota, Fla., and three grandchildren.
        Mr. Stein was famous for making sensible economic points with wit and style. He frequently reminded Jeremiahs that ''if a thing cannot go on forever, it will stop.'' His point was that economies adjust to growing trade deficits, accelerating prices and ballooning deficits and that to project that bad things will continue indefinitely makes no sense.
        Cautioning against attaching religious significance to the deficit, Mr. Stein wrote: ''I have consulted a concordance on the Bible. Apparently the world 'budget' does not appear in either the Old or the New Testament. The world 'balance' does appear about eight times, but never in connection with fiscal policy.''
      