
        Philip N. Brownstein, a top Federal housing administrator in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations who fought discrimination by builders and landlords and who expanded Depression-era housing laws to widen home ownership among minority groups, died on Friday in a hospital in Silver Spring, Md. He was 82.
        In 1963, Mr. Brownstein was named commissioner of the Federal Housing Administration, which became part of the Department of Housing and Urban Development when the department was created in 1965. He continued to serve as F.H.A. commissioner and as Assistant Secretary for Housing in the new agency. Under his leadership, Federal housing policy broadened its reach to include previously forgotten groups.
        Mr. Brownstein's influence persisted for 25 years after he left office for a private law practice.
        At the Federal Housing Administration from 1963 to early 1969, Mr. Brownstein administered an agency created during the Depression to cope with bank foreclosures on homes. The agency insured mortgages, thus giving banks the confidence to buy them. The cost of the insurance, which was passed on to individual home buyers, ended up being a very small part of their monthly payments.
        As a result of the original law, longer mortgages, of 30 and 40 years, began to be written, and the concept of home ownership was saved. But as the principal author of amendments to the original law, Mr. Brownstein strove to extend these benefits to blacks and other minority groups.
        The new programs involved subsidized loans to minority members moving into white suburbs and urban slum areas. In such areas, Mr. Brownstein argued, lending institutions should abandon the ''excessive caution'' that he said had thwarted ''restoration of the inner cities.''
        At his swearing in ceremony, William C. Apgar, the current housing commissioner, called Mr. Brownstein his model. ''I said that I was honored to have a job he once held,'' Mr. Apgar said.
        Richard Ravitch, who worked as a private developer with Mr. Brownstein in 1965 to develop a block in Harlem before holding several high positions in New York's state government, said one of Mr. Brownstein's major accomplishments was making sure insured home loans were more widely available ''at probably the most prolific period for the creation of new housing.''
        Mr. Ravitch said Mr. Brownstein was also an indefatigable champion of New York City during its 1970's fiscal crisis when he worked to rewrite mortgages on which the city had defaulted. ''It was worth hundreds of millions of dollars to the city as that time,'' Mr. Ravitch said.
        Mr. Brownstein was born in the farming town of Ober, Ind., where his father was a shop owner.
        While in high school, Mr. Brownstein was forced to put aside his law school ambitions after his father became ill. In 1934, he moved to Washington, D.C., and worked as an assistant truck driver at the Federal Housing Administration.
        He graduated from George Washington University and received his law degree from Columbus University, which later became part of Catholic University. He also received a master's degree in law from Columbus.
        During the Korean War, Mr. Brownstein served in the Marines in South Carolina. After the war, he joined the Veterans Administration, where he worked until 1963, administering the agency's housing loan program. In that job, he first urged financial institutions to consider human needs in lending decisions, saying this was the basic intention of the veterans' home loan program.
        ''The notice of intention to foreclose should not be given until it is determined that no amicable solution exists,'' he said in a speech to the Mortgage Bankers Association in 1949.
        President John F. Kennedy appointed Mr. Brownstein commissioner of the Federal Housing Administration in 1963, and President Lyndon B. Johnson added the title of Assistant Secretary for Housing when HUD was created.
        In those posts, in addition to pushing housing for the needy, Mr. Brownstein worked to prevent the waste of Federal money. In 1965, for example, he sent auditors to 100 low-rent projects after suspicions were raised that families earning more than the maximum were living there.
        Although President Richard M. Nixon asked him to continue in his housing posts, Mr. Brownstein left the Government in 1969 to become a private lawyer. He specialized in housing cases for developers and others, but continued to be active in promoting affordable housing for the poor and middle-class. From 1969 to 1996, he was director of the National Housing Conference and was a director of the Center for Housing Policy from 1993 until his death.
        ''There wasn't a committee or working group he didn't volunteer to serve on,'' Mr. Apgar said.
        In addition to his wife, Esther, Mr. Brownstein is survived by a son, Michael, of Rockville, Md., who is a research scientist and Laboratory Chief at the National Institutes of Health. Like his father, he has spent his career in the Federal Government. Three granddaughters also survive him.
      