
        Jascha Zayde, a pianist, composer and conductor who for more than three decades gave weekly performances on WQXR, the radio station owned by The New York Times, died on Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Zayde was the first staff musician hired by WQXR, soon after the station was founded in 1936. At first he was the host of a weekly radio program called ''The Development of Piano Music.'' When the station hired a second pianist, Clifford Herzer, Mr. Zayde and Mr. Herzer formed a two-piano team. Their weekly performances quickly became one of the station's most popular programs. When Mr. Herzer went into the Navy, the station hired another pianist, Leonid Hambro, to take his place in the duo. Mr. Zayde and Mr. Hambro were a popular team, on the radio and in concert, through the 1960's. They also made a highly regarded recording of the Poulenc Sonata for Two Pianos.
        Mr. Zayde was born to Russian parents living in Mercedes, Argentina, on Oct. 25, 1911. His family moved to the United States when he was 6 months old. He began studying the piano when he was 3, and when he was 7 he played a debut recital for which he was praised in The Musical Courier for his ''assurance, technical development, as well as repose.''
        Mr. Zayde studied with Clarence Adler and then won a fellowship to the Juilliard School, where Carl Friedberg was his principal piano teacher. He also studied composition with Rubin Goldmark and Bernard Wagenaar, and orchestration with Michael Fevesky. Among his compositions are string quartets, trios, songs and a set of variations on Paganini's Caprice No. 24 that he recorded in the 1960's. He also transcribed many works for two pianos for his performances with Mr. Hambro.
        In addition to his work as a radio recitalist and duo pianist, Mr. Zayde was the staff keyboard player of the New York City Ballet. In 1979, when he had been with the company for 25 years, he calculated that he had played the celesta part in 1,000 performances of ''The Nutcracker.'' As a conductor, he led the Broadway premieres of two operas by Gian Carlo Menotti, ''The Medium'' and ''The Telephone.'' Opera was long a passion of Mr. Zayde's. His wife, Leah Bolivar, had been an opera singer. She survives him, as does a daughter, Caren Moncher of Manhattan.
        In the 1960's, after he stopped giving live performances on WQXR, Mr. Zayde directed the station's educational activities and was a judge for its annual competitions. He also taught  piano. One of his best-known students was Andre-Michel Schub, who won the Van Cliburn Competition in 1981.
      