
        Charles Crichton, one of the brightest lights in the golden age of British film comedy in the late 1940's and 50's, and whose directing career faded and then blazed anew with his last film, ''A Fish Called Wanda,'' died on Tuesday in London. He was 89.
        It was after the war that Mr. Crichton's talent for comedy came into bloom when he made classics like ''The Lavender Hill Mob'' (1951), in which Alec Guinness plays a timid bank clerk who plans and executes a daring bank robbery.
        Another classic, ''The Titfield Thunderbolt'' (1953) concerned an attempt by villagers to save a branch railway line.
        By 1986, Mr. Crichton was 75 and had not directed a feature film for nearly a quarter of a century when he was invited by John Cleese of ''Monty Python's Flying Circus,'' the British television comedy series, to help develop and eventually direct ''Wanda.''
        Mr. Cleese had written an early draft for the film and was planning to play a major role in it. He sought a director with just the right touch.
        The two men had worked together earlier when Mr. Crichton directed more than a dozen lucrative and often funny management-training films for Video Arts, a film company owned by Mr. Cleese.
        Impressed by Mr. Crichton's skill and dedication to detail in even such minor films, and mindful that Mr. Crichton had directed ''The Lavender Hill Mob,'' Mr. Cleese decided on Mr. Crichton to direct ''Wanda.''
        Faced with considerable industry opposition to his choice, Mr. Cleese used both his reputation and personal wealth (Video Arts had made him a millionaire) to overcome doubts about Mr. Crichton's stamina, health and unfamiliarity with changes in the world of feature films.
        Once the deal was struck, the two men spent a couple of weeks together in the south of France working on the plot of ''Wanda'' and some daring comic touches, like a death in wet cement and a steamroller-driven denouement.
        The two labored off and on over the script for two more years. Even while the movie was in production, Mr. Crichton encouraged the actors -- Jamie Lee Curtis, Kevin Kline and the others -- to rethink the characters they were to play and suggest changes.
        In the end, the film featured Ms. Curtis as a schemer named Wanda who seduces several men to get a cache of $20 million worth of diamonds. Mr. Kline plays a sinister but excruciatingly stupid bandit who makes a meal of pet goldfish.
        The satire has unmistakable parallels to ''The Lavender Hill Mob,'' which starred Alec Guinness. Like ''Wanda,'' it concerned a monster of a London robbery.
        Once filming started, Mr. Cleese and Mr. Crichton got along famously. ''He's a dear man who's terrified of showing off,'' Mr. Cleese said in an interview soon after the film was released. ''If he says anything shrewd or insightful, he'll apologize for a minute so he won't be considered pompous.''
        They developed a unique division of their labor. ''Charlie takes total charge of the cameras and I do quite a lot of direction of the actors,'' Mr. Cleese said. ''He sets up the camera angles and when he's ready he calls me in. And then I interfere a bit and and make suggestions.''
        ''Wanda,'' the most successful British film of its time to play in the United States, was a personal triumph for Mr. Crichton, who was nominated for an Academy Award.
        Charles Ainslie Crichton was born in Cheshire, England, on Aug. 6, 1910, one of six children of a shipping official. He was educated at the Oundle School and New College at Oxford University, where he studied history.
        He entered the film industry in 1931 as a film editor, apprenticing himself to Alexander Korda.
        In 1940 he moved to Ealing Studios,  whose name would soon become synonymous with whimsical comedy, but his first opportunity to direct a feature-length film came in 1943 with ''For Those in Peril,'' a semi-documentary about the British air-sea rescue service.
        Ealing Studios went into decline in the late 1950's, and by 1960 Mr. Crichton had retreated to television.
        In 1961 he went to Hollywood, but there his career as a director of feature films suffered a near-fatal blow. He came to direct ''Birdman of Alcatraz'' with Burt Lancaster, but there were disagreements and the star fired him after just a week on the job. Soon after, the sudden death of a producer brought a premature end to a film Mr. Crichton was planning with Sammy Davis Jr.
        His subsequent films, which include two thrillers -- ''The Third Secret'' (1964) and ''He Who Rides a Tiger'' (1965) -- were disappointing.
        Back in England, Mr. Crichton could not find work.
        ''Everybody was looking for young audiences and felt they needed young directors, and I was in my 50's,'' he said in 1988. ''And then I used a whole year trying to make a film about the Irish Troubles that never got off the floor. I was out, and once you're out you're out.''
        Mr. Crichton is survived by his wife, Nadine Haze, of London; and two sons from a former marriage.
        When Mr. Cleese and Mr. Crichton started work on ''A Fish Called Wanda,'' they had no idea what the film would be about. Mr. Cleese had always wanted to write a scene in which a man with a stutter wants to give information and cannot. Mr. Crichton had always wanted to show somebody getting run over by a steamroller. Both scenes are in ''Wanda.''
        Despite the similarities between ''Wanda'' and ''The Lavender Hill Mob,'' Mr. Crichton said in 1989, there was one big difference. In the 1950's, the filmmakers weren't allowed to show villains getting away with it, and Alec Guinness ends up under arrest. At the end of ''Wanda,'' one of the thieves is headed for a life of luxury. ''Hooray!'' Mr. Crichton exclaimed.
      