
        Beau Jocque, whose deep, bluesy voice and muscular zydeco band made him the top draw in the zydeco dance halls of the Louisiana bayou, died on Friday at his home in Kinder, La. He was 45.
        The cause was apparently a heart attack, reported The Daily Advertiser of Lafayette, La.
        Beau Jocque was the stage name of Andrus Espre, who was born in Duralde, La. He was 6 feet 6 inches tall and weighed 270 pounds, an imposing presence made even stronger by his hefty growl of a voice. He played a traditional three-row Cajun button accordion, but his repertory moved beyond Acadian waltzes and two-steps to embrace blues, funk, reggae and rapping, and he sang primarily in English, not Creole. His music kept a young audience coming to the zydeco dance halls of Louisiana and East Texas and quickly earned him a national reputation.
        Early in his life he dabbled in music, playing guitar and tuba, but he left it behind when he enlisted in the Air Force as a teen-ager. In 1987, while working as an electrician and welder, he was attaching a monitor to a chemical container when his pipe wrench slipped and he fell 20 feet to a concrete floor. He was partly paralyzed, and during his 10 months of recuperation he began to play his father's button accordion and decided to change careers.
        With his wife, Michelle, he studied the mainstays of the zydeco circuit, particularly the stark, propulsive playing of Boozoo Chavis. ''We checked out C. J. Chenier, Buckwheat Zydeco, Boozoo Chavis, John Delafose, and I'd watch the crowd,'' he told an interviewer. ''When they got real excited, I'd try to feel what was happening. I realized that when you get the whole thing just right, it's going to move the crowd.''
        He had grown up listening to rock, soul and blues, and when he started his band, the Zydeco Hi-Rollers, in 1991, it used brawny bass lines and brash rock lead guitar solos. One of the band's theme songs was a rewritten version of War's ''Low Rider.'' Beau Jocque's song ''Give Him Cornbread,'' a revved-up two-step with a rap section, became a 1990's zydeco standard. Onstage the band was single-mindedly geared toward dancers, with Beau Jocque shouting ''K-k-k-kick it!'' and ''Pump it up!'' between verses.
        Beau Jocque, with the Zydeco Hi-Rollers, released six albums nationally on Rounder Records and others on Louisiana labels including his own label, Beau Jocque Music. He and Mr. Chavis performed in occasional showdowns, trading insults onstage while remaining friends. One battle was captured in Robert Mugge's 1994 documentary ''The Kingdom of Zydeco.'' In recent years Beau Jocque toured the United States regularly, but he never left behind the bayou dance-hall circuit where he reigned; he was scheduled to perform in Lafayette last weekend.
        He is survived by his wife and their  sons, Andrus Adrian and Justin Travis, of Kinder.
      