
        Stanley Alexander Weigel, a retired Federal judge who had ordered California to improve living conditions in prisons and, earlier in his career, had defended professors dismissed for refusing to take a loyalty oath, died on Wednesday at his home in San Francisco. He was 93.
        Mr. Weigel was considered a tough judge with a short fuse, but he was also known for his independence and his courage to render decisions regardless of their popularity.
        He began his career in 1928 in San Francisco, handling antitrust cases. But in 1949 he took on a civil liberties case that many other lawyers had shunned because of its political implications.
        Thirty-one professors had been dismissed by the University of California for refusing to sign a loyalty pledge. Mr. Weigel sued the university on behalf of the professors and won their reinstatement with back pay in 1952 when the California Supreme Court declared that a loyalty oath violated the State Constitution.
        About that time, Mr. Weigel became friends with Pierre Salinger, the journalist and confidant of the Kennedy family. After Senator John F. Kennedy was elected President in 1960, Mr. Salinger took Mr. Weigel to meet Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy, who was screening candidates for judicial appointments.
        Mr. Weigel, who had served on the national committee of the American Civil Liberties Union. was a registered Republican.
        In 1962, President Kennedy appointed Mr. Weigel to the United States District Court for the Northern District of California.
        One case over which Judge Weigel presided began in the early 1970's when inmates in the maximum-security units at the aging San Quentin and Folsom prisons sued, claiming that living conditions were inhumane. The case would continue until 1984 when Judge Weigel ordered the State of California to make improvements.
        The judge was also known for his leniency in sentencing draft resisters during the Vietnam War. While other judges would often send those convicted of dodging the draft to prison, Judge Weigel would routinely sentence them to community service or probation.
        Stanley Weigel was born in Helena, Mont. He graduated from Stanford University in 1926 and from Stanford Law School two years later. He practiced law for two years before becoming a partner in the firm of Landels, Weigel & Ripley, now Landels Ripley & Diamond, representing corporations in antitrust issues.
        Mr. Weigel also served two years as a lieutenant in the Navy in World War II.
        Another highly charged issue before Judge Weigel grew out of the eviction of tenants whose homes stood in the way of the Yerba Buena urban renewal project proposed by the San Francisco Redevelopment Agency.
        In 1970, Judge Weigel blocked the replacement of the low-income apartments with hotels and tourist attractions.
        He ruled that the developers had not done enough to find replacement housing for the displaced tenants, a decision that dismayed much of San Francisco's political and business community. In 1973, Judge Weigel worked out a settlement in which the tenants were provided new homes.
        Judge Weigel reached senior status in 1982 but continued to hear cases until two years ago.
        He is survived by his wife of 60 years, Anne Kauffman Weigel; a daughter, Susan Weigel Pasternak, of Cambridge, Mass., and four grandchildren.
        In a 1995 interview with The Recorder, a legal newspaper in San Francisco, Judge Weigel related how the Salinger-Kennedy connection landed him in Robert Kennedy's office and on the bench.
        ''Robert Kennedy was wearing a turtleneck sweater and had a football and threw it at me as I walked in the door, and I caught it,'' he recalled. ''That's how I became a Federal judge.''
      