
        Karl H. Menges, an authority on the strategically important languages of Central Asian peoples in the former Soviet Union, died on Monday in Vienna. He was 91.
        Dr. Menges, who picked up new languages almost as casually as most people buy groceries, had been active conducting research at the University of Vienna until a few months before his death, his son, Constantine, said.
        In 1960, Dr. Menges told a reporter that he handled ''over 50 languages.'' On another occasion, he said the number was 41. His son remembers his having said that he spoke, read and wrote ''about 24 languages.''
        Apart from English and his native German, Dr. Menges said he felt most comfortable speaking any of the Altaic languages; the group includes 30 Turkic, 5 Mongol and 6 Tungusic subgroups.
        Although generally unknown in the United States, the Altaic languages are, next to Russian, the most important languages spoken in the former Soviet Union. For that reason, Federal grants became available during the cold war for scholars doing research in them.
        Dr. Menges taught for 36 years at Columbia University. When the program in Altaic languages there was expanded to include Uralic languages in 1954, Grayson Kirk, then  Columbia's president, said that because of the Soviet Union's domination it was ''even more imperative that we develop the maximum understanding of the various languages and cultures throughout the area as soon as possible.''
        Uli Schamiloglu, a professor of Turkic language and culture at the University of Wisconsin, explained: ''The area in which these languages are spoken was thought to be the soft underbelly of the Soviet Union. If there was going to be a revolt, it was supposed to start there, so we were being told to get to know the area. No one had as much knowledge of it as Professor Menges. Speaking all those languages, he was a rare bird.''
        So unfamiliar were many of the  languages that in 1940 Columbia University invited Dr. Menges to teach Slavic languages. It was only after he arrived that Columbia officials discovered he was teaching the Altaic languages.
        Living in Germany in the early 1930's, Dr. Menges, who called himself a Catholic centrist, joined the anti-Nazi resistance, distributing literature, organizing meetings and speaking out in public forums.
        In 1936, he was arrested by the Gestapo, interrogated for five hours, charged with treason and temporarily released pending a trial.
        As he was leaving Gestapo headquarters, a friendly former fellow student who had joined the Gestapo  told Dr. Menges secretly, ''If I were you, I wouldn't come back.''
        Dr. Menges promptly made his escape over the Czech border. After  part of Czechoslovakia was annexed by the Nazis, he fled to Turkey, where he continued to teach and pick up additional languages.
        He published 15 books and hundreds of articles. He retired from Columbia in 1976 and started a second teaching career at the University of Vienna. A revised edition of his book ''The Turkic Languages and Peoples'' was reissued a couple of years ago by a German publisher.
        Karl Heinrich Menges was born on April 22, 1908, in Frankfurt. He received a degree from the Lessing Gymnasium and then pursued graduate studies at the Universities of Frankfurt and Munich. He earned a Ph.D. from Berlin University in 1932.
        Dr. Menges is survived by his son, Constantine C. Menges of Washington, and one grandson.
        Early in his career at Columbia, Dr. Menges said that when he arrived in the United States he was the only person in this country who could read and speak Uzbek, the language of Uzbekistan, then a Soviet republic in Central Asia.
        ''Now,'' he added, ''a colleague of mine also knows it.''
      