
        Charles Trinkaus, a leading scholar of the Renaissance and a longtime history professor at Sarah Lawrence College in Bronxville, N.Y., died on  Sept. 15 at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Bronxville.
        Mr. Trinkaus was one of the scholars who in the 1940's and 50's  ''launched the wonderful flowering of Renaissance historical scholarship in North America,'' said John O'Malley, president of the Renaissance Society of America.
        He was especially influential, Mr. O'Malley said, in re-evaluating the religious aspects of the Italian Renaissance in his two-volume work, ''In Our Image and Likeness: Humanity and Divinity in Italian Humanist Thought'' (1970).
        Earlier, Mr. Trinkaus's doctoral dissertation, which became his first book, ''Adversity's Noblemen: The Italian Humanists on Happiness'' (1940), was acclaimed by scholars for deftly criticizing past academic views of Renaissance humanism.
        Mr. Trinkaus was also noted for examining Erasmus and the 16th-century religious conflict between humanism and the Reformation in his book ''Collected Works of Erasmus: Controversies'' (1999).
        A former colleague, Nicholas Steneck, a professor of history at the University of Michigan, said: ''What set him and the tradition of Renaissance studies he represented apart from the scholarly tradition that followed was a deep belief that past writers and their texts could not be understood without careful historical study.''
        ''He, therefore,'' Mr. Steneck added, ''had little patience for the post-modernists and deconstructionists who preached that texts had to be separated from their pasts.''
        Mr. Trinkaus was born in Brooklyn on Oct. 25, 1911, and received a bachelor's degree from Wesleyan University and a Ph.D. from Columbia University.
        He began teaching at Sarah Lawrence College in 1936 and stayed until 1970. He spent the next 12 years at the University of Michigan.
        Mr. Trinkaus was a past president of the Renaissance Society of America and a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        He is survived by his wife, Pauline Moffitt Watts; a son, Dr. Peter M. Trinkaus of Irvington, N.Y.; a brother, John, of Guilford, Conn., and three grandchildren.
      