
        Dr. William Eckert, a forensic pathologist who worked on major and often bizarre murder cases including the assassination of Senator Robert F. Kennedy and the re-examination of Jack the Ripper's killings, died on Friday at a hospital in New Orleans. He was 73 and lived in Terrytown, a suburb of New Orleans.
        A world-renowned authority on the application of clinical medicine and pathology to the investigation of sudden, suspicious or violent death, Dr. Eckert founded the International Organizations of Forensic Medicine and the American Journal of Forensic Medicine and Pathology.
        ''Founding an international organization and a journal lent stature to the profession,'' said Edmund Donoghue, president of the National Association of Medical Examiners.
        On hearing that Senator Kennedy had been assassinated in Los Angeles, the coroner of Los Angeles County, Thomas Noguchi, immediately summoned Dr. Eckert to serve as a consultant.
        ''I knew Dr. Eckert had handled a number of difficult cases, and I knew that the Warren Commission had raised questions about the handling of the assassination of President Kennedy five years before,'' Dr. Noguchi said. ''So I wanted to make sure that every aspect of this case would be handled properly.''
        Dr. Eckert's fascination with history, which was his major at New York University, led him to become involved in a number of unusual cases. In the 1980's, he speculated that criminal profiling, a discipline that was then new, might be helpful in discovering the identity of Jack the Ripper, the serial killer of London prostitutes from August to November in 1888.
        Others also became captivated by the challenge, and eventually Dr. Eckert became a consultant to a group that studied the evidence and concluded that a butcher with criminal leanings was the culprit. The investigation was the subject of a television program in the late 1980's.
        In 1985, Dr. Eckert served as a consultant to the multinational team that traveled to Sao Paulo, Brazil, to identify the remains of Josef Mengele, the chief doctor at the Nazi death camp at Auschwitz. The remains had been buried under another name.
        Born on July 23, 1926, in Union City, N.J., William Eckert graduated from New York University and served in the Army during World War II.
        He then earned a medical degree from New York University-Bellevue Medical School, completed a residency at Tulane Medical School and worked at the Public Health Hospital in New Orleans and the New Orleans Parish coroner's office.
        He spent most of his career in Wichita, Kan., first as a deputy coroner in Sedgwick County and later as an independent consultant, before retiring to Terrytown.
        Dr. Eckert and his wife, Haroldine Laugel Eckert, founded the Helpern Center for Forensic Sciences, a library and research center that was started in Wichita and later moved to the Jefferson Parish Forensic Center in Harvey, La.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Eckert is survived by a son, William H., of New Orleans; a daughter, Mary Ellen Potucek of Simi Valley, Calif.; a brother, Frederick Eckert of Pennsylvania, and four grandchildren.
      