
        Dr. Henry M. Wisniewski, an Alzheimer's disease researcher and the director of the New York State Institute for Basic Research in Developmental Disabilities, died on Sept. 5 at his home on Staten Island. He was 68.
        The cause was heart failure, said Donald A. Snider, a friend and colleague.
        Early in his career, Dr. Wisniewski, working closely with Dr. Robert Terry, observed that the neuropathological changes in presenile dementia, as Alzheimer's disease was known, were similar if not identical to those found in the senility of old age.
        His work did much to lay to rest the hypothesis that the use of aluminum products like pots, cans and foil and the use of aluminum in water purification caused Alzheimer's disease.
        ''He was one of the grandfathers of modern Alzheimer's research,'' said Dr. Mony de Leon, a professor of psychiatry at New York University Medical Center, who worked with Dr. Wisniewski. ''He taught us what the lesions for Alzheimer's looked like, what they were made of and how they worked.''
        Henryk Miraslaw Wisniewski was born in Luszkowko, Poland, on Feb. 27, 1931.
        He was a graduate of Gdansk Medical School in Poland and completed a Ph.D. at the Warsaw Medical School. After working in Poland and Canada, he came to the United States in 1966.
        He taught at Albert Einstein College of Medicine in New York. In 1976, he took over the New York State Institute for Basic Research on Staten Island and expanded it into a leading center for neuroscience research studying the causes of mental retardation, Alzheimer's disease and other diseases.
        Dr. Wisniewski was a professor of pathology at the State University of New York Health Science Center in Brooklyn and an adjunct professor in the department of psychiatry at New York University Medical Center. He was also a former president of the American Association of Neuropathologists.
        He is survived by his wife, Dr. Krystyna Wisniewski, a son, Dr. Thomas Wisniewski of Staten Island; a brother, Leszek Wisniewski of Poznan, Poland; a sister, Jadwiga Kowalski of Wroclaw, Poland; and four grandchildren. Another son, Dr. Alexander Wisniewski, died in 1989.
      