
        David A. Huffman, who developed a fundamental mathematical technique in the early years of computer science that remains vital to data storage and transmission, died on Thursday in a hospital in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 74 and lived in Santa Cruz.
        He died after a 10-month battle with cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Huffman developed the Huffman Coding Procedure, the result of a term paper he wrote while a graduate student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the 1950's.  The procedure assigns strings of 0's and 1's to each character in a file so that the length of the string depends on the frequency with which the character appears in the file. It provides a way to compress data files so they occupy a smaller amount of electronic memory.
        Referred to by computer scientists as Huffman Codes, the method is a fundamental component of an undergraduate computer science curriculum and is widely used, not only for the compression of text, image and audio files, but also for the management of files in large computer systems and for the compression of data for transmission by fax machines, modems and high-definition television broadcast.
        A native of Ohio, Dr. Huffman earned a B.S. in electrical engineering from Ohio State University at the age of 18. After serving in the Navy, he earned his master's degree from Ohio State and his Ph.D. from M.I.T.
        In 1967, after 14 years on the M.I.T. faculty, he moved to the University of California at Santa Cruz as the founding faculty member of the computer science department. He played a pivotal role in the development of the department's academic programs and the hiring of its faculty, and served as chairman from 1970 to 1973.
        ''David Huffman alone gave the place credibility,'' said Patrick Mantey, dean of engineering at the Santa Cruz campus.
        Dr. Huffman was also an outdoor enthusiast who enjoyed hiking and traveling and kept poisonous snakes as pets. He qualified as a scuba diver when he was close to 70 years old.
        He retired in 1994 but as a professor emeritus continued to teach and meet with students until recently.
        This year, Mr. Huffman received the Richard W. Hamming Medal from the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers in recognition of his exceptional contributions to information sciences, but he was too ill to accept the award in person.
        Mr. Huffman is survived by his wife, Marilyn, of Santa Cruz; his brother, Donald Huffman of Westerville, Ohio; two daughters, Elise and Linda Huffman, both of Santa Cruz; a son, Stephen, of Santa Cruz; a stepdaughter, Marti Homer Kehlet of Sacramento, Calif.; a stepson, Darin Homer of Prunedale, Calif., and two stepgrandchildren.
        Over his career, Dr. Huffman did seminal work in many areas of computer science. After studying the properties of certain mathematical surfaces, he began a longtime hobby of bending paper and vinyl into convoluted forms considered by many to be works of art. His work was exhibited several times, most recently at the Xerox Palo Alto Research Center in October 1998.
        ''The essence of Huffman was to take the complex and make it gorgeous,'' said Peter Neumann, a computer scientist at SRI International in Menlo Park, Calif.
      