
        James Sterling Moran, who became a legend in the publicity business with stunts like selling a refrigerator to an Alaskan Eskimo, died on Monday at a retirement home in Englewood, N.J. He was 91.
        His life might be described by two symbols: the exclamation point and the dollar sign.
        He pushed outrageousness to the outer limits to seize the attention of the buying public. He once searched for a needle in a haystack for 10 days to publicize a piece of real estate that was for sale. In 1946, he sat on an ostrich egg for 19 days, 4 hours and 32 minutes before finally hatching it, all to publicize ''The Egg and I,'' a best-selling book that was soon to become a film comedy starring Claudette Colbert.
        During the 1944 Presidential campaign, he changed horses in midstream -- literally -- in a Nevada river to make a now forgotten political point.
        He got the attention he desired. In 1989, Time magazine called him ''the supreme master of that most singular marketing device -- the publicity stunt.'' Bob Thomas, who has covered Hollywood for 55 years for The Associated Press, called him ''the last of the great, flamboyant press agents.''
        Even his colleagues in the publicity business, a species not given to promoting much of anything without being paid, gave him respect.
        ''Jim Moran is a folk hero in the P.R. business,'' said Howard J. Rubenstein, the Manhattan public relations executive. Mr. Rubenstein said that earlier in his career he tried to imitate Mr. Moran, citing the time he took live alligators to City Hall during a political campaign.
        The son of a chimney maker, Mr. Moran was born in 1907 in Woodstock, Va., according to Mimi Brace, a longtime friend. He was married several times and had no children. His only survivor is a brother, Paul, of Alexandria, Va.
        Mr. Moran's idiosyncratic course was set early, Ms. Brace said. At 12, he was hit by a car while riding a bicycle. The driver, ecstatic that the boy was alive, was said to have given him a $100 bill. He immediately took a train to New Orleans, the story goes, not reappearing in his family's kitchen until two weeks later.
        Mr. Moran did not attend college. Among his early jobs was working as a tour guide in Washington. He later became an airline executive there and then operated a studio where members of Congress recorded speeches for local radio stations.
        Nobody seems to remember exactly how Mr. Moran got into public relations. But his clients were a diverse lot: Washington politicians, Hollywood studios, New York City department stores.
        He opened an ''embassy'' in Washington for a mythical country to publicize the premiere of the 1959 film ''The Mouse That Roared,'' which was about a mythical country. To promote a Broadway show in the late 1940's, he rigged a cab so that a chimpanzee appeared to be driving it -- as Mr. Moran secretly drove from the back seat. He once walked a bull through Ovington's, a Fifth Avenue china shop.
        A tall, rotund prankster with a flowing white beard, he played classical guitar, liked Champagne and read two or three books a week. His friends included show business figures like Burl Ives, Lee J. Cobb and John Henry Faulk.
        Some think the day for his sort of publicity stunt is past. ''He did all the weird stunts that would never work today,'' said Cy Preston, a publicist who is quick to tell of the time he himself took a giant to a Missouri cavern he was promoting.
        Mr. Rubenstein begs to differ. He says the proliferation of television outlets, not to mention the Internet, makes visual stories all the more compelling. ''His stunts would now go worldwide through multiple media,'' he said.
        One of Mr. Moran's cleverest schemes went nowhere in its own time. An avid kite flier, he hit upon the notion of using kites to fly midgets over Central Park. The police refused to grant him a permit and nipped the scheme in the bud.
        Mr. Moran was outraged. ''It's a sad day for American capitalism when a man can't fly a midget on a kite over Central Park,'' he declared.
        Correction:  October 25, 1999, Monday  An obituary yesterday about James S. Moran, a press agent known for publicity stunts, misspelled the name of another publicist, who said the era of such stunts was over. He is Sy Presten, not Cy Preston.
      