
        Abraham Polonsky, a director and screenwriter who was an early Hollywood master of film noir and who worked under many disguises after being blacklisted in the McCarthy era, died on Tuesday at his home in Beverly Hills. He was 88.
        His movies included ''Force of Evil,'' a 1948 film about racketeering in which he directed the actor John Garfield. In 1996 Stephen Holden, the New York Times film critic, describing that performance and others, wrote that ''you can still feel the dangerous urban-realist kick'' although the work came from ''a time when Hollywood films still aspired to a genteel, upper-middle-class sense of values.''
        The previous year, Mr. Polonsky had won an Oscar nomination for writing the screenplay for ''Body and Soul,'' in which Garfield played a money-mad boxer.
        In the early 1950's, Mr. Polonsky refused to testify about his Communist Party affiliations or name party members. His refusal prompted 20th Century Fox to fire him.
        He was then unable to find work under his own name for nearly two decades; he had only nine films to his credit.
        ''If you said you were sorry you were a radical and had seen the errors of your ways, you were let off,'' Mr. Polonsky said in an interview in 1968.
        ''That's like saying you have no right to make political experiments in your mind,'' he continued. ''That's the kind of thing they do in Communist countries, but we're supposed to be a free country. We need to be a genuinely free country and not merely pretend to be one.''
        While he was blacklisted, Mr. Polonsky never completely abandoned Hollywood. His best known work as an outcast scribe was the 1959 crime thriller ''Odds Against Tomorrow,'' which he co-wrote under the name John O. Killens. In 1996, the Writers Guild of America restored his real name to the credits.
        Mr. Polonsky also used other writers' names as disguises to write for television shows like ''You Are There,'' a history series. With such jobs, he reported, his income while he was on the blacklist was actually higher than it had been before.
        It was not until 1969 that he would direct his second film, ''Tell Them Willie Boy Is Here,'' a film about a murder and a manhunt starring Robert Redford.
        Earlier this year, Mr. Polonsky became a leader of the protest against the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences when it announced that it would present an honorary Oscar to the director Elia Kazan. In 1952, testifying before the House Un-American Activities Committee, Mr. Kazan had named eight old friends, along with himself, as having once belonged to the Communist Party.
        ''He's a creep,'' Mr. Polonsky said in an interview last winter. ''I wouldn't say hello to him if he came across the street.''
        Abraham Lincoln Polonsky was born on Dec. 10, 1910, in New York City, the son of immigrant parents. He graduated from the City College of New York and Columbia University Law School.
        For a while, he taught English at City College, but he once told a longtime friend, Mike Kaplan, that he was lured into the entertainment business by the actress Gertrude Berg, who needed a script for a courtroom scene in her radio show ''The Goldbergs.''
        In World War II, Mr. Polonsky was assigned to the Office of Strategic Studies, a forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency. Before turning to films, he wrote five novels as well as radio and television scripts.
        Most recently, he taught at the University of Southern California and California State University at Northridge.
        Mr. Polonsky's wife, Sylvia, died in 1993. He is survived by a son, Hank, of Los Angeles; a daughter, Susan Epstein of New Jersey, and two granddaughters.
      