
        Gorilla Monsoon, one of the most famous athlete-entertainers ever to don tights and climb into the professional wrestling ring, died on Wednesday at his home in Willingboro, N.J. He was 62.
        He had long suffered from diabetes and heart ailments, said a close friend, Bill Apter, the editor in chief of WOW magazine.
        Monsoon, whose seldom-mentioned birth name was Robert Marella, played a growling, sometimes-bearded villain in more than 8,000 matches from the 1960's to the early 80's -- an era of small purses and smoke-filled rings in towns like Toledo, Ohio, a spectacle quite different from the glitzy rock-'n'-roll-and-wrestling phenomenon of the 90's.
        Often, Monsoon's nemesis was the equally legendary Bruno Sammartino, then the matinee idol of televised wrestling. Bobo Brazil and Haystack Calhoun were also among his contemporaries.
        More recently, the 6-foot-6, 400-pound Monsoon, known to his friends as Gino, was an occasional guest referee, an interim president of the World Wrestling Federation in Stamford, Conn., and a television announcer, sometimes teaming with Jesse Ventura, a former wrestler known as the Body, who is now the Governor of Minnesota.
        ''The loss of Gorilla Monsoon saddens me deeply,'' Governor Ventura said in a statement released yesterday. ''He was both a friend and a colleague, and I have many fond memories of the time we spent together.''
        Monsoon's career highlights included world tag-team titles with Killer Kowalski in 1963 and Cowboy Bill Watts in 1965. He also once, in an exhibition in 1976, lifted up the boxer Muhammad Ali, spun him over his head, and slammed him to the mat. Monsoon was elected to the World Wrestling Hall of Fame in 1994.
        ''He was one of the best heels -- what wrestlers call a bad guy -- in the business,'' Mr. Apter said. ''But in real life he was very polite and a real businesslike person. He almost always wore a suit and tie and was a great p.r. man for wrestling.''
        Monsoon grew up in western New York State and began wrestling as a child. In high school, he was a shot putter and discus thrower. After attending Ithaca College, where he received a degree in physical education, he worked as a teacher before a wrestling promoter offered him $500 in 1960.
        ''Unlike the heels of today, the Gorilla Monsoon image was genuinely frightening,'' Mr. Apter said. ''No one in the audience laughed at his gimmick. They were actually both afraid and respectful.''
        During his 20-plus-year career in the ring, Monsoon spent some time as the wrestling columnist for the Philadelphia Bulletin, a newspaper that is defunct. After his retirement from the ring, he also worked as an agent and a coordinator for the World Wrestling Federation.
        In 1994, one of his sons, Joey Marella, a former wrestling referee, died in an auto accident, and Monsoon seemed to lose some of the enthusiasm he had for what he once proudly called a sport. It had become too funny, too carefully scripted.
        ''He probably didn't like the direction the wrestling business had taken,'' Mr. Apter said in a reminiscence he wrote for his magazine's Web site, www.wrestleline.com. ''He longed for the old days.''
        Gorilla Monsoon is survived by his wife, Maureen Marella; two daughters, Sharon Byrne of Marlton, N.J., and Valerie Marella of Willingboro; a son, Victor Quiones of San Juan, P.R.; his mother, Connie Marella of Las Vegas, Nev.; three sisters, and four grandchildren.
      