
        Julio Martinez, a former drug addict who helped found the Phoenix House and Project Return programs for addicts and who eventually became the director of New York State's drug treatment programs, died on Thursday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 55 and lived in the Bronx.
        The cause was cancer, said his cousin Ray Colon.
        Although Mr. Martinez was forced to give up his state post in 1989 because of questions about his financial practices, he was a key figure in the restoration and expansion of drug treatment programs both in New York State and around the nation, and in the shift from state-operated rehabilitation to community-based treatment.
        Today, largely as a result of his policies, instead of about 20 state-run treatment centers there are almost 1,000 community-based centers in New York, treating addicts near their homes.
        Mitchell S. Rosenthal, the president of Phoenix House, said yesterday that Mr. Martinez had been responsible for building in New York State ''the nation's strongest network of substance abuse treatment programs.''
        These programs had been severely cut after Governor Nelson Rockefeller's decision in 1973 to combat the drug epidemic chiefly with incarceration rather than treatment, which he thought was both costly and ineffective.
        Mr. Martinez was one of those who vigorously protested. When hundreds of lobbyists opposing the cut went to Albany for a rally called ''The City of the Forgotten,'' Mr. Martinez was so prominent that he was called ''the Mayor of the City of the Forgotten'' by the protesters.
        ''The event helped bring about a raising of consciousness in the state about the effectiveness of community-based services,'' said Lee Sharp, an addiction program specialist at the New York State Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services, the state agency created in 1993.
        In a budget crisis in the early 1980's, when Gov. Hugh L. Carey asked all state agencies to prepare plans for drastic cuts -- including a list of staff members whose jobs would be eliminated -- Mr. Martinez, who was then director of the New York State Drug and Substance Abuse Services, complied by submitting a list with his own name at the top.
        ''None of the other commissioners had thought of suggesting the elimination of their own jobs,'' recalled Norwig Debye-Saxinger, a Phoenix House executive who worked for Mr. Martinez at the time.
        Born on Jan. 20, 1944, in Gurabo, Puerto Rico, Mr. Martinez was brought by his parents to New York City at the age of 2. He attended public schools in Manhattan and graduated from Benjamin Franklin High School.
        Mr. Martinez became a heroin addict who from his teen-age years to his early 20's roamed the streets of Spanish Harlem and the South Bronx, selling drugs and stealing to support his habit.
        Both Mr. Colon and Mr. Martinez went through the detoxification program at the Morris Bernstein Institute of Beth Israel Hospital about 15 times before the treatment was successful.
        In 1966 Mr. Martinez and five other people helped to establish Phoenix House, the treatment facility operated by former addicts, which is now the largest private drug treatment agency in the country.
        Several months later Mr. Martinez founded Project Return, which developed a variety of programs to help addicts and former addicts. The projects included one providing food delivery to the elderly, another offering psychiatric counseling for adolescents in jail on Rikers Island and one treating gay and lesbian addicts.
        In 1979, Mr. Martinez became nationally known when Governor Carey named him to head the state drug-free agency.
        A decade later, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo forced Mr. Martinez to resign after state investigators reported that he had steered money for drug treatment to programs run by his friends that failed to treat addicts. He was never accused of taking any money for himself.
        Mr. Martinez denied the charges and deplored that he had never been given a public forum in which to reply to them.
        In 1990, Mr. Martinez returned to the Bronx, where he set up a consulting firm. In 1998, he became executive director of Basics, a drug treatment program in the Bronx.
        Mr. Martinez is survived by his wife, Judy, of the Bronx; a daughter Delia, of Manhattan; a brother, Manny, of the Bronx; and a sister, Delia Jimenez of Florida.
        Before he assumed his state job, Mr. Martinez announced that he would spend one-third of his time in Albany, one-third at the agency's office in the World Trade Center and ''one-third in the streets.''
        ''I don't ever want to forget where I came from,'' he explained.
      