
        Van Arsdale France, the man who wrote the manual for teaching Disneyland employees precisely how to smile, died on Oct. 13 at a hospital in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 87 and a resident of Santa Ana, Calif.
        Mr. France brought a background in industrial relations to Disneyland, which opened in 1955 in Anaheim, Calif. He spent more than a quarter-century developing training programs for what came to be called Disney University. After retiring in 1978, he was a consultant to Disney  until his death.
        ''He was able to put into effect the way Walt wanted the staff to relate to guests,'' said Jack Linquist, who worked for the Disney Company for 38 years, the last five as president of Disneyland. He called Mr. France ''a real Jiminy Cricket,'' who acted as the conscience of Disneyland when he saw cost-cutters as threatening the integrity of Walt Disney's vision.
        The Disney vision involved a formula in which all staff members, not just the people who portrayed Snow White and Mickey Mouse, were told to think of themselves as characters playing to an audience. Among graduates of Mr. France's Disney University are the comedian Steve Martin and Ronald L. Ziegler, Richard Nixon's press secretary.
        Mr. France's basic idea was something he called ''the looking-glass self,'' meaning that if staff members smiled, customers would smile, too. No honorifics were permitted in Disneyland. ''The only Mr. here is Mr. Toad,'' Mr. France's manual commanded. Most people called him Van.
        The vision was egalitarian. As the manual said: ''Every guest receives the V.I.P. treatment. We roll out the red carpet for the Jones family from Joliet just as we would (with a few embellishments) for the Eisenhowers from Palm Springs.''
        But the cast members were expected to know their roles and stay in character. Women were to wear scant makeup and men were to be clean-shaven.
        Some saw such commandments as rather harsh social control, and some were even more critical.
        In his 1968 book, ''The Disney Version,'' Richard Schickel wrote that Disney University trained people ''in the modern American art forms -- pioneered by the airlines -- of the frozen smile and the canned answer delivered with enough spontaneity to seem unprogrammed.''
        Terrie Richards Alden, a jazz singer who worked at Disney parks on and off from 1986 to 1993, said she found it oppressive. ''Everything about you had to be Alice in Wonderland,'' she said, ''even if you were a garbage collector making the minimum wage.''
        Mr. France was born in the Seattle area and moved to San Diego at age 12, said Estelle Webb, his companion of 33 years. He graduated from San Diego State University, where he was a cheerleader, and worked in labor relations before being asked to set up the Disney employment-training program.
        Dick Nunis, who was hired by Mr. France around the time of Disneyland's opening and went on to become his boss as head of Disney Attractions, said Mr. France always showed a willingness to learn and adapt. In the late 1960's, Mr. France enrolled at the University of Colorado at Boulder to gain exposure to the thinking of the next generation.
        Mr. Nunis said that whenever Mr. France thought Disneyland was beginning to slip a bit after Walt Disney's death in 1966, not following the policy of putting quality ahead of costs, he would complain, often successfully. (Walt Disney had refused to post signs asking visitors not to step on gardens, resulting in the loss of tens of thousands of plants a year.)
        In his later years, Mr. France wrote articles and pamphlets for older people.
        Ms. Webb said that Mr. France jogged decades before it became popular and that he was an avid body surfer because his small size had made it difficult to control the heavy surfboards of his youth. Until several months ago, Mr. France ''ralked'' daily; ralking is the word he coined for his combination of running and walking.
        Mr. France was married twice and is survived by two daughters, Cheryl France of Portland, Ore., and Sandy Steen of Albuquerque, N.M.
        Ms. Webb said she and Mr. France had lived around the corner from each other for 33 years.
        ''We believed in long engagements,'' she said.
      