
        Gustavo Leigh Guzman, who was a key figure in Chile's four-man military junta led by Gen. Augusto Pinochet but who later broke with the junta, died Wednesday at the air force hospital in Santiago, Chile. He was 79.
        General Leigh, as head of the Chilean Air Force, ordered the bombing of the presidential palace in the September 1973 coup that overthrew Salvador Allende, the socialist President.
        He was admitted to the air force hospital in the Chilean capital five days ago.
        ''He died because of a vascular problem,'' a spokesman for the Chilean Air Force told Reuters.
        General Pinochet, 83, is currently under house arrest in London, fighting extradition to Spain where he is sought on charges that he encouraged the practice of torture during his 17 years in power.
        General Leigh often had differences with General Pinochet, who was the army commander, but they agreed that their coup was necessary because Dr. Allende, although democratically elected, was leaning toward Marxism and Soviet influence.
        ''The Marxist cancer must be eradicated from our fatherland,'' was one of General Leigh's famous  statements in the days after the military takeover, which led to many human-rights abuses.
        More than 3,000 people died or disappeared during the Pinochet regime, which lasted from 1973 to 1990. Tens of thousands more Chileans fled the country.
        In 1978, when a plebiscite in favor of the military regime allowed General Pinochet to proclaim himself President, General Leigh broke with the junta and became one of General Pinochet's most outspoken opponents.
        General Leigh, who said he was in favor of returning Chile to democratic rule, objected to General Pinochet's holding onto power.
        ''Pinochet always felt that I was interested in taking over from him, something that never even entered my mind,'' General Leigh said recently in one of his last television interviews.
        ''I was in favor of putting the house in order,'' he said, ''sweeping up, giving it a new coat of paint and handing it back over, calling elections and going home calmly with a sense of job accomplished. Not carrying on indefinitely.''
        In 1990, a leftist rebel group tried  to assassinate General Leigh. He was hit by five bullets and lost an eye, but survived.
        General Leigh was born in Santiago on Sept. 19, 1920. He had six children from two marriages.
        He also had two brothers, one an air force general and the other a doctor and politician.
        Two other members of the junta -- Adm. Jose Toribio Merino and Gen. Cesar Mendoza -- died earlier.
        General Leigh's death leaves General Pinochet as the only surviving member of the original junta.
      