
        Sir Nigel Broackes, a real estate developer who controlled the Ritz Hotel in London as chairman of Trafalgar House and was one of Britain's most successful young entrepreneurs during the 1960's and 1970's, died on Sept. 28. He was 65 and lived in Oxfordshire.
        His relatives described the cause of death only as a short illness.
        At the age of 24, Sir Nigel, the son of a Russian lawyer who died when Sir Nigel was 8, became the managing director of Trafalgar House, a small holding company that at the time had little more than an assortment of investment properties. But Sir Nigel, depicted in the company's prospectus as ''almost 29'' when Trafalgar House first sold shares of the company to the public in 1963, had grand ambitions. In short order, he managed to acquire several construction and engineering companies, giving him a reputation as a shrewd businessman and spirited entrepreneur.
        In 1964, Sir Nigel brought in Victor Mathews, who would later become instrumental in turning Trafalgar House into a well-known diversified conglomerate. By age 35, Sir Nigel had become the chairman of Trafalgar House and with the advice of Mr. Mathews began acquiring some of Britain's most prized properties. In 1975, Sir Nigel bought the Ritz Hotel in central London for $:2.7 million. He also bought the Cunard shipping fleet, giving him control of the QE2.
        In 1977, Sir Nigel made a bid for the troubled Beaverbrook Newspaper group, which owned some of Britain's most well-read newspapers: The Daily Express, The Sunday Express and The Evening Standard.
        The move to buy the newspaper company was the brainchild of Mr. Mathews, who became chief executive of Trafalgar House and was 14 years older than Sir Nigel. While Mr. Mathews was instrumental in the company's growth, the relationship between Sir Nigel and Mr. Mathews soon became strained.
        Soon after Sir Nigel published an autobiography in 1981 with critical references to Mr. Mathews, the newspaper interests were spun off and Mr. Mathews left Trafalgar House to head them.
        However, his departure also signaled the beginning of a downturn for Trafalgar House. Sir Nigel made an unsuccessful and embarrassing hostile takeover bid for Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation Company, the British cruise-line operator. In 1981, Sir Nigel became the chairman of London Docklands Development Corporation redeveloping the Docklands area, which had become run-down after the docks were closed. He then gave up active management of Trafalgar House.
        In 1984, Sir Nigel returned to Trafalgar House, but the company had already lost focus and had begun a steady decline. By 1992 the company reported pretax losses of $:30.3 million. Toward the end of the 1980's the company had been embarrassed by reports of eccentric accounting practices. Sir Nigel was forced into early retirement in 1992 when Hong Kong Land bought 15 percent of Trafalgar House as part of a reorganization of the management. Trafalgar House has subsequently been acquired by Kvaerner.
        Sir Nigel was knighted in 1984 for his work redeveloping the Docklands.
        His wife, Joyce, died in 1993. He is survived by two sons, Justin and Simon, and a daughter, Vicky.
      