
        J. Franklin Hyde, a chemist who decades ago turned a useless sticky goo into a common family of industrial raw materials called silicones and who also invented a process for making an almost-pure glass used today in fiber optic technology, died Monday at his home on Marco Island, Fla. He was 96.
        Dr. Hyde was working at Corning Glass Works, now Corning Inc., in Corning, N.Y., in the 1930's when he created a chemical process and material called fumed silica; silica is a mineral found in sand that is used to make glass. That process led to a high-quality glass, fused silica, that was used initially in specialty mirrors and telescopes and later in advanced telecommunications.
        Around the same time, Dr. Hyde also transformed a group of compounds containing the element silicon, which were created around the turn of the century, into a wide variety of industrially important materials that are used in products ranging from sealants in engines and around windows to the rubber coating on cables to medical devices like catheters. They were also used for many years in breast implants.
        His work helped lead to the formation of the Dow Corning Corporation in Midland, Mich., in 1943. The company is an alliance between Corning and the Dow Chemical Corporation in Midland.
        ''He is the father of silicones, the father of Dow Corning, basically,'' said Dr. William Armistead, a former vice chairman for technology at Corning Inc., who worked with Dr. Hyde from 1941 to 1951.
        Dr. Hyde's other project, ultra-pure glass, was slower to catch on than silicones, although it was used, to some degree, in radar during World War II and later in spacecraft windows. But in 1970, researchers at Corning used it when they invented optical fiber, which is fast replacing copper wires for high-speed data transmission.
        Born in Solvay, N.Y., on March 11, 1903, Dr. Hyde received a bachelor's and a master's degree from Syracuse University and a doctorate from the University of Illinois.
        Dr. Hyde joined Corning in 1930 and became manager of the organic chemistry research laboratory in 1938. Later, at Dow Chemical, he was senior research scientist for basic organosilicon chemistry.
        Dr. Hyde, who held more than 100 patients, retired in 1969.
        His wife, Hildegard, died in 1991. He is survived by three children, James F. Hyde of Ripon, Wis.; Ann H. Hyde of Washington; Sylvia Hyde Schuster of Ridgefield, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      