
        Benno C. Schmidt, the right-hand man of the financier John Hay Whitney and a pioneering venture capitalist who became an important backer of biotechnology ventures, a New York civic leader and the head of the Federal Government's war on cancer, died yesterday at his home in New York. He was 86.
        The cause was heart failure, said his son, Benno C. Schmidt Jr., the former president of Yale University who is now chairman of the for-profit Edison Schools Inc.
        Mr. Schmidt came to national prominence in the 1970's, when he was appointed by President Richard M. Nixon to serve as chairman of the President's Cancer Panel. He was also a longtime chairman of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York and served as an informal health-policy adviser to several Presidents.
        But he had a larger impact as an early venture capitalist, a forerunner of a relatively new breed of investor who provided much of the seed money for technology and biotechnology industries by financing risky start-up companies with the knowledge that most would fail but that some would be big successes.
        Mr. Schmidt's successful record at Mr. Whitney's firm, J. H. Whitney & Company of New York, including an early deal to stake Minute Maid orange juice, encouraged other investors to back similar investments. According to several accounts, Mr. Schmidt and Mr. Whitney, who later became editor in chief and publisher of The New York Herald Tribune, even coined the term venture capital by shortening ''adventure'' to describe their business.
        Late in life, Benno Charles Schmidt spoke of a privileged childhood made possible by his mother and aunt, who emphasized the importance of education. But by the standards of most, his was a hardscrabble upbringing in Abilene, Tex. He was born Jan. 10, 1913, and his father died when he was 12. His mother worked as a secretary at the county welfare association to support the family. Growing up, Mr. Schmidt attended church three or four times a week and spent his free time building bridges and oil derricks.
        At the University of Texas, where he also attended law school, he was quickly marked for greatness, capturing the attention of professors and administrators. In a recent publication by the law school, he was described as ''one of our legendary graduates.'' It said that his academic achievements ''have never been excelled.'' When Mr. Schmidt received his first-year grades, he called his mother to say that he was not only first in his class but had also scored the highest academic average in the school's history. As he read off his numerical averages, including his lowest, in criminal law, his mother asked her exasperated son, ''What was the matter with criminal law?''
        After graduating, Mr. Schmidt joined the Texas law school faculty, and then spent a year teaching at Harvard Law School. Before World War II broke out, he was recruited to the War Production Board to help increase the nation's industrial capacity. After Pearl Harbor, he joined the Army, where he quickly rose to colonel and won a number of medals, including the Legion of Merit and Bronze Star. After the war, he spent a year as general counsel to the State Department's economics division, helping oversee economic relations with Britain and other allies.
        Then one day he got a call from Mr. Whitney, one of the wealthiest men in the country. Mr. Whitney wanted to stake a new firm with $10 million to finance young companies in new industries.
        Mr. Schmidt informed Mr. Whitney that he had no business experience whatsoever. According to Walter Curley, a longtime friend of Mr. Schmidt, Mr. Whitney replied: ''I'm not looking for somebody who has a lot of business experience. I'm looking for someone who has had a lot of experience with life.'' With that, Mr. Schmidt signed on, serving as a partner for 52 years, and as managing partner from 1960 to 1992.
        The firm's early investments included sums to finance the Spencer Chemical Company, a fertilizer and agricultural chemicals concern that returned a more than twentyfold profit, and Minute Maid, an investment that Mr. Schmidt encouraged despite Mr. Whitney's initial observation that the juice concentrate tasted ''tinny.''
        ''That life of venture capital fitted Benno Schmidt like a glove, because it embodied all the things he had: curiosity, compassion, love of life, and intelligence,'' said Mr. Curley, who worked with Mr. Schmidt at J. H. Whitney and later served as Ambassador to Ireland and France.
        In the 60's, Mr. Schmidt became heavily involved in New York civic affairs, as a trustee of the Whitney Museum of American Art, chairman of the Fund for the City of New York, chairman of the Bedford-Stuyvesant Development and Services Corporation, and later, chairman of Memorial Hospital and the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
        Franklin A. Thomas, the former chief executive of the Ford Foundation, said Mr. Schmidt was the ''animating spirit'' of the Bedford-Stuyvesant effort, which sought to improve the Brooklyn community.
        In addition to the cancer panel, Mr. Schmidt also served in the mid-70's as a member of the President's Biomedical Research Panel, and later, at J. H. Whitney, he pushed the firm to invest in new biotechnology ventures. As an acknowledged leader in both the private and public sector efforts, he had such a huge influence on the course of medical research and investment that the writer Barry Werth described him in 1994 as ''the senior gatekeeper of biomedical innovation in the United States.''
        Mr. Schmidt's survivors include four sons, Benno Jr., Ralph and John, all of New York, and William, of Sarasota, Fla.; three stepchildren, Ruth Fleischmann and Stephen Fleischmann, both of New York, and James, of Philadelphia; 15 grandchildren; and one great-grandchild. A fifth son, Thomas, died in 1966. His second wife, Nancy Montgomery Fleischmann, died earlier this year. His first wife, Martha Chastain, also died this year; their marriage ended in 1962.
      