
        Dr. Robert L. Mills, a physicist who made major contributions to the study of subatomic particles, died on Wednesday at his summer home in East Charleston, Vt. He was 72.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said a statement from Ohio State University, where Dr. Mills taught for 39 years.
        For most of his career, Dr. Mills toiled as a respected but little-known teacher and researcher. In 1953, however, as a 27-year-old graduate student, he was a co-writer of what has been called one of the landmark scientific articles of the century, putting forth the Yang-Mills theory, which later made possible major advances in subatomic physics.
        The theory, according to The Scientist, provided ''the foundation for current understanding of how subatomic particles interact, a contribution which has restructured modern physics and mathematics.''
        At the time, Dr. Mills was a research associate at Brookhaven National Laboratory in Upton, N.Y., working with a 31-year-old physicist from the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., Chen Ning Yang. Mr. Yang, the senior member of the research team, went on to share the Nobel Prize in physics in 1957 for other research.
        In an interview published in The Columbus (Ohio) Dispatch in 1995, Dr. Mills described the Yang-Mills theory as ''a theory of forces between nuclear particles analogous to the electromagnetic theory of forces between electrically charged particles.''
        He further explained that the theory extended Einstein's idea ''that the fundamental symmetries of nature could actually dictate the character of the force fields of nature.''
        ''It exploited the symmetry relating protons and neutrons, which were widely regarded at that time as two different forms of the same particle, with different electrical charges,'' Dr. Mills said.
        Robert Laurence Mills, who lived in Columbus, was born on April 15, 1927, in Englewood, N.J. From 1944 to 1947, he served in the United States merchant marine. He later received a bachelor's degree from Columbia University, a master's degree from Cambridge University and a Ph.D. from Columbia.
        He was a research associate at the Brookhaven National Laboratory from 1953 to 1955 and a member of the Institute of Advanced Study for the next two years. In 1956, Dr. Mills joined the department of physics at Ohio State as an assistant professor and became a full professor in 1962.
        He retired in 1995 but lectured afterward as a Fulbright scholar at St. Patrick's College near Dublin. He also wrote two books, ''Propagators for Many-Particle Systems'' (Gordon & Breach, 1969) and ''Space, Time and Quantra'' (W. H. Freeman & Sons, 1994).
        Dr. Mills is survived by his wife, Elise Mills; a brother, William H., of Kendall Park, N.J.; five children, Katherine Anderson of Silver Spring, Md., Edward A., of Pittsburgh, Jonathan C., of New Brunswick, N.J., Susan Warner-Mills of Lewisburg, Pa., and Dorothy H. Mills of Columbus, and four grandchildren.
      