
        Sam Cohen, who for decades occupied the No. 1 position at Zabar's salmon-slicing counter on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, becoming a star of the trade and a beloved neighborhood fixture, died Saturday of lymphoma in a hospital in Ridgewood, N.J., his daughter said. He was believed to be 86, but was orphaned as a young child so his precise age is not known.
        Perhaps the dean of lox slicers in the American capital of smoked salmon, and an acclaimed master of the skill, he worked at the store for 46 years, creating a joyous life behind the counter after a sorrowful past in which he barely escaped the Holocaust and lost most of his family.
        For days, Zabar's staff members and customers have been getting teary-eyed as they remembered Mr. Cohen, a short man with ramrod posture who flirted shamelessly with the women and habitually used tovarish, the Russian word for friend, with the men. He spoke Russian, Polish, Hebrew, Spanish and English,  and said things that others laughed at without completely understanding, like, ''If you're nice, I'm twice.''
        When practicing his art, he could slice salmon razor thin, as is fashionable today, or a little thicker, in what he called ''the old-fashioned way.''
        ''He was my teacher, he taught me everything,'' said Tomas Rodriguez,  who worked with Mr. Cohen for 12 years. Wordlessly, he pointed to the ''Sam the Man'' label on the scale where Mr. Cohen weighed salmon, sturgeon, gefilte fish, pickled lox and other delicacies.
        Stephanie Ross, who lives in the neighborhood, remembered how Mr. Cohen ''would explain the difference between the Irish and the Scottish and the lox and not make you feel ignorant.''
        Mr. Cohen was born in Poland and before World War II was a bookkeeper, the secretary of a small bank, a dealer in animal feed and president of a Zionist group.
        Then came Hitler. First, he was consigned to a Jewish ghetto, then to a concentration camp. The next step seemed to be Auschwitz, but he escaped with a friend, bullets zinging just overhead. He came to the United States in 1952 with $3 in his pocket. All eight of his brothers and sisters had died during the war.
        He took a correspondence course in television repair, but was hopeless at repairing an actual TV set, according to a Zabar's official.
        So, after a brief period at an appetizing store on Long Island, he went to work at the store, on Broadway between 80th and 81st Streets. By working 60-hour weeks behind a porcelain counter, he put his daughter, Patrice Schoenbaum of Fairlawn, N.J., through dental school, and his son, Harris Cohen of Cedarhurst, N.Y., through medical school.
        They are his only survivors. His wife died many years ago, according to Andrea Watman, a Zabar's bookkeeper.
        At Zabar's this week, James Bynum, 23, who shared a cutting board with Mr. Cohen, called him ''the most joyful'' man he had ever known, and remembered that Mr. Cohen had tried to fix him up with every woman who came into the store to pass out free samples.
        A customer at the counter also remembered Mr. Cohen. She said that her name was Esther Caspi, that she was also a Holocaust survivor and that she had come to America on the same boat as Mr. Cohen. She remembered him as very serious about his work.
        ''All he cared about was doing the best he could,'' she said.
      