
        Frank Frost, one of the foremost Delta blues harmonica players of his generation, died on Tuesday at his home on the street named in his honor in Helena, Ark. He was 63.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, said Otha Bush, deputy coroner of Phillips County, Ark.
        Born Frank Otis Frost in Auvergne, Ark., Mr. Frost moved to St. Louis when he was 15 and began his musical career as a guitarist. He toured in 1954 with the drummer Sam Carr and Mr. Carr's father, Robert Nighthawk. Soon after, he spent several years touring with Sonny Boy Williamson, who helped teach him to play harmonica. After a hand injury, Mr. Frost turned his attention to the harmonica and piano.
        He moved with Mr. Carr to the Mississippi Delta around 1960, and after he played a show with the guitarist Big Jack Johnson, they added him to their group. Together they attracted the interest of the producer Sam Phillips, who years earlier had overseen Elvis Presley's first recording sessions. He produced ''Hey Boss Man'' for Phillips International  in 1962, with blues hybrids like ''Frank's Jump'' showing off Mr. Frost's diverse, intensely melodic harmonica solos. Presley's guitarist, Scotty Moore, produced Frost's next album in Nashville.
        In the late 70's Mr. Frost was rediscovered by a blues enthusiast, Michael Frank, who began releasing albums on his Earwig label by the trio, now called the Jelly Roll Kings after a song from ''Hey Boss Man.''
        Cigarettes and alcohol wore Mr. Frost down over the years, but he continued to record, tour and diversify his repertory, appearing in the films ''Deep Blues'' and ''Crossroads.'' Most recently he released an album titled ''The Jelly Roll Kings'' with Mr. Carr on Hightone.
        He made an appearance on Friday at the King Biscuit Blues Festival in Helena, where he was brought onstage in a wheelchair during a set by Mr. Carr and given a harmonica, which he had trouble playing. Mr. Carr, said one of his bandmates, had tears in his eyes as he performed.
        Mr. Frost is survived by a brother, Theo, and a sister, Francis, of St. Louis, and several children.
      