
        Jean Shepherd, the New York radio raconteur whose rambling jazzlike monologues on the air puzzled many but delighted fans over two decades, died yesterday. He was believed to be at least 70.
        The Associated Press quoted his friend and business adviser, Irwin Zwilling, as saying he died of ''natural causes'' at 3:20 A.M. in Lee Memorial Hospital near his home in Sanibel Island, Fla.
        Mr. Shepherd, who went on to write books and appear as an actor on Broadway, spent 21 years on radio station WOR-AM in New York City beginning in 1956. In recent years, he  performed infrequently on radio, the last time in September 1996 on WFAN-AM in New York.
        His style was elusive. Mr. Shepherd was once described by a magazine writer as a ''philosopher without portfolio'' and a wit who never told a joke. He described himself as a humorist rather than a comic. ''A humorist looks outward and sees the world,'' Mr. Shepherd said. ''A comic looks inward and see himself.''
        He developed a wide following, which a reviewer writing in 1970 in The New York Times described as a ''cult of intense proportions.'' The reviewer went on to describe the cult's typical rituals: ''the suburban college student, with the bottle of Chianti, a girl, a pizza, parked by the edge of Long Island Sound, listening to Jean Shepherd's nightly WOR radio program.''
        Accounts differ on when Jean Shepherd was born. It was either July 21 or July 26, from 1921 to 1929, in Hammond, Indiana, within commuting distance of Chicago.
        Over the years, Jean Shepherd told interviewers that he had had many colorful odd jobs, like mail boy in a steel mill. He also worked in the  United States Army Signal Corps and studied at Indiana Uniersity, though he did not graduate. Later, he started working in radio at WSAI in Cincinnati.
        His reflections were often mordant. In a 1975 radio appearance, Mr. Shepherd closed his show with this observation: 'Can you imagine 4,000 years passing, and you're not even a memory ? Think about it, friends. It's not just a possibility. It is a certainty.''
        In a move that likely inspired the climactic scene in the movie ''Network,'' Mr. Shepherd would tell his listeners to crank up the volume on their radios and scream along with him, according to the Associated Press. ''Drop the tools, we've got you covered!'' was one of his favorite shout-along phrases.
        The Associated Press reported that Mr. Shepherd served in World War II in the United States Army Signal Corps, developing a healthy distaste for authority that later cropped up in his stories.
        The Associated Press quoted Mr. Zwilling as saying that Mr. Shepherd's third wife, Leigh Brown, his agent and producer, died last year after 21 years of marriage, that they had no children and that ''there were no survivors.''
        But Randall Shepherd, 48, the son of Mr. Shepherd and his first wife, the former Joan Laverne Warner, who lives in Princeton, N.J., telephoned The Times last night. He said that Mr. Shepherd left him and his mother shortly before they divorced in 1957. A daughter by the couple, Adrian Shepherd, is now 42, he said.
        The younger Mr. Shepherd, a film editor, said he was not aware of his father's second marriage to the actress Lois Nettleton in 1961, which ended six years later.
      