
        Calvin Griffith, who in his three decades as owner of the Washington Senators and their successor, the Minnesota Twins, personified a lost age when baseball teams were run as tight-spending family businesses, died yesterday at a hospital in Melbourne, Fla. He was 87.
        ''Calvin was one of the dinosaurs in the game,'' said Tom Kelly, the Twins' manager.
        In the decades after World War II, baseball was becoming a huge corporate enterprise. But Griffith, whose family baseball roots dated to the 19th century, ran his teams in a manner befitting those simpler days. His Twins won one pennant and two division titles, but he usually refused to pay competitive salaries, shunned modern marketing methods and loaded the front office with relatives.
        ''People said he threw around nickels like manhole covers,'' said pitcher Jim (Mudcat) Grant, who won 21 games for the pennant-winning Twins in 1965, then was offered a $3,000 raise. ''He protected his money.''
        But Griffith pointed out he was one of the only club owners remaining who made a living solely from baseball.
        ''People who call me cheap never had to make a payroll,'' he said in the early 1980's, his last years in Minnesota. ''This is one club that always pays its bills. We owe nobody.''
        Calvin Griffith, a native of Montreal, was a nephew of Clark Griffith, a National League pitching star of the 1890's, a founder of the American League, a manager and then the owner of the Washington Senators.
        After Calvin's father, Jimmy Robertson, died when Calvin was a youngster, Clark Griffith adopted him and a sister, Thelma.
        Calvin, who then took the Griffith name, became the Senators' batboy, and he watched Walter Johnson win the seventh game of the 1924 World Series against the New York Giants. After attending George Washington University, and catching for its baseball team, he became an executive, manager and part-time player in the Senators' minor league organization, then returned to Washington in 1941 to run the concession operation at Griffith Stadium.
        When Clark Griffith died in October 1955, Calvin and his sister Thelma gained control of the team, and Calvin was named club president.
        By then, the Senators had gone without a pennant for more than two decades. The opening-day ceremony when the President threw out the first ball was the high point of the season. The ball park was small, the parking inadequate and the broadcast revenue relatively meager.
        Although plans were in the works to build a new stadium with Federal funds -- the future Robert F. Kennedy Stadium -- Griffith left after the 1960 season, taking the team to the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, where it became the Minnesota Twins. An expansion club, taking the name Washington Senators (now the Texas Rangers), arrived in the capital.
        Griffith finally began spending money and saw success on the field in 1965, when the Twins, led by Harmon Killebrew, Bob Allison, Tony Oliva, Zoilo Versalles, Jim Kaat and Grant, won the American League pennant, then lost the World Series to the Dodgers in seven games.
        The team captured divisional titles in 1969 and 1970, but by the early 70's, attendance began to fall off. After free agency arrived in 1976, the Twins lost several top players because Griffith declined to meet mounting salary demands.
        Griffith seemed happy, however, to be in Minnesota. But in September 1978, telling a civic group in the town of Waseca that he had no regrets about having left Washington, he created a storm.
        He was quoted as saying that ''we came here because you've got good, hard-working white people here,'' and that ''black people don't go to ball games, but they'll fill up a rassling ring and put up such a chant it'll scare you to death.''
        In a front-page editorial, The Minneapolis Star called for Griffith to sell the team. He said his remarks had been taken out of context, but civil rights groups advocated a boycott of Twins games and the future Hall of Famer Rod Carew said he did not want to keep playing for Griffith's ''plantation.'' Carew left for the California Angels as a free agent in 1979.
        In 1982, the Twins moved from Metropolitan Stadium in suburban Bloomington to the Metrodome in downtown Minneapolis, but the payroll was only one-third the major league average and the team lost 102 games.
        Griffith nonetheless disdained marketing efforts. In early 1984, when it was feared he might sell the team to interests who would move it, a business task force drew up a marketing plan to win back the fans, then asked for $125,000 from Griffith to implement it. He refused to spend the money.
        In August 1984, Griffith gave up. He and Thelma Griffith Haynes sold their 52 percent interest in the Twins for $32 million to Carl Pohlad, a Minneapolis banking executive, under whose ownership the Twins won World Series titles in 1987 and 1991.
        Griffith, who had homes in Melbourne and Edina, Minn., is survived by his wife, Belva Block; a son, Clark, of Minneapolis; two daughters, Corinne Pillsbury of Wayzata, Minn., and Clare Griffith of Berkeley, Calif; a sister, Mildred Cronin, of Osterville, Mass., the widow of Joe Cronin, the Hall of Famer and onetime Senator shortstop and manager who became the president of the American League; a brother, Billy Robertson, of Melbourne, and three grandchildren.
        When Griffith sold the Twins, he gave up a family ownership that went back to 1919, when Johnson won 20 games for the Senators and Babe Ruth was in his final year with the Red Sox. But he seemed to have few regrets. The day the sale was approved by his fellow owners, Griffith, at age 72, said, ''I feel a lot younger already.''
      