
        Sigmund Diamond, a Columbia professor of sociology and history who studied American business titans, female industrial workers and Federal Bureau of Investigation information gathering, died on Oct. 14 in Norwich, Conn. He was 79 and lived in Salem, Conn.
        The cause was esophageal cancer, said his wife, Shirley.
        Dr. Diamond retired in 1986 as Giddings Professor of Sociology and History at Columbia, where he had taught since 1955.
        In his book, ''Compromised Campus: The Collaboration of Universities With the Intelligence Community, 1945-1955,'' Dr. Diamond wrote about the F.B.I.'s attempt to gather information from university employees. In The New York Times Book Review, Herbert Mitgang wrote that the book asserted that for at least 10 years after World War II, J. Edgar Hoover's agents ''enlisted administrators and professors and planted them as subagents in place.'' Dr. Diamond said in the book that those university officials and teachers were prepared to give the F.B.I. information on coworkers they thought were disloyal to the United States.
        In his earlier book, ''Reputation of the American Businessman,'' published in 1955, Dr. Diamond chronicled titans like John Jacob Astor, Cornelius Vanderbilt, J. P. Morgan and John D. Rockefeller.
        Dr. Diamond worked for the United Auto Workers during the 1940's, compiling reports about women who worked during the war and what happened to them after it ended. The report found that by early 1945, women who had been laid off were having trouble returning to work, partly because of prejudice. While he was a U.A.W. staff member, Dr. Diamond advocated that women get equal pay for equal work.
        During his time at Columbia, Dr. Diamond founded and headed the history department's social history program and was a consultant for an American Jewish Committee oral history project about the Holocaust.
        Dr. Diamond was born in Baltimore and received a bachelor's degree from Johns Hopkins University in 1940 and a doctorate in American history from Harvard in 1953.
        Dr. Diamond said that he suffered for his political beliefs before teaching at Columbia. According to a 1977 article in Newsweek, he said he had been a Communist Party member from 1941 to 1950. After leaving the party, he said, he was turned down for a job as a part-time lecturer in history at Harvard because he had refused, under pressure from McGeorge Bundy, who was then a Harvard dean, to identify other former party members.
        Mr. Bundy said in 1977 that he had opposed hiring Dr. Diamond partly because he thought that Harvard's governing board ''would not want an ex-Communist with these attitudes in any administrative job.''
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Diamond is survived by a daughter, Dr. Betty Ann Diamond of the Bronx, ; a son, Stephen, of Coral Gables, Fla.; four granddaughters, and two brothers, William, of Washington and Alvin, of Baltimore.
      