
        Former Prime Minister Jack Lynch, who declined to send Irish troops to fight the British police in Northern Ireland at the start of the sectarian violence there 30 years ago, died today at a hospital in Dublin. He was 82 and lived in Cork, his native city, south of Dublin.
        His restraint is now widely seen as the beginning of a more tolerant Irish attitude toward British sovereignty in the Protestant-dominated North, leading ultimately to the peace effort in 1993 that produced the peace agreement of 1998. The accord gives Roman Catholics more political power while keeping the province British, and though implementation is stalled, it is still alive.
        Mr. Lynch, a tall, pipe-smoking former star athlete in hurling and Gaelic football, also moved Ireland into the European Economic Community in 1973, when the country was suffering a depressed economy and losing tens of thousands of emigrants. Billions of dollars of European aid gradually helped Ireland become one of the world's 25 richest nations, with an unemployment rate half the European Union average.
        Mr. Lynch was Prime Minister, or Taoiseach (TEE-shuck), from 1966 to 1973 and from 1977 to 1979.
        In 1969 he resisted pressure from his party, Fianna Fail, and from many people in Ireland to send troops across the northern border to protect Catholics in Londonderry who were under attack by the police and Protestant paramilitaries.
        Hopes of militant nationalists had been raised when he said, ''It is clear the Irish Government can no longer stand by and see innocent people being injured, or worse.''
        British officials found the remark inflammatory, but Mr. Lynch never did order troops to invade the northern province. He also established field hospitals along the border for Catholics coming south to avoid violence in the north.
        In 1990, after he had retired from politics, Mr. Lynch said sending in the troops, a tactic that he considered to persuade the United Nations to send a peacekeeping mission, could have killed 250,000 civilians and soldiers in an Irish-British war.
        When Mr. Lynch had traveled to Belfast earlier to discuss peace with British officials, the flamboyant Protestant leader and self-professed anti-Catholic, the Rev. Ian Paisley, led a group of Protestant politicians in pelting Mr. Lynch's car with snowballs. But by the late 70's Mr. Lynch was talking about peace and tolerance with Margaret Thatcher, then the British Prime Minister.
        He had also assuaged British misgivings -- while provoking Irish Republican anger -- when he dismissed Charles J. Haughey from his Cabinet in 1970. Mr. Haughey, who succeeded Mr. Lynch as Prime Minister in 1979, was accused and acquitted in an Irish court of plotting to send guns to northern Catholics.
        Mr. Haughey, whose finances are now under scrutiny by two special tribunals and who is alleged to have taken millions of dollars in gifts from business executives and loan write-offs from banks, declined today to discuss their differences, saying only that Mr. Lynch ''had a capacity to reassure the public.''
        The current Prime Minister, Bertie Ahern, said of Mr. Lynch, ''His firm leadership saw the nation through a period of great political tension and turbulence, and his outstanding work to gain Irish membership in the E.E.C. changed forever the way we see ourselves as a nation.''
        Mr. Lynch is survived by his wife, Mairin, The Associated Press reported.
      