
        Otto Storch, a magazine art director and advertising photographer who introduced an expressive typographic style to women's magazines as part of a revolution in editorial design, died on Sept. 29 at a hospital in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 86.
        In the late 1950's Mr. Storch was one of a handful of graphic designers who helped transform and modernize the visual content of American magazines. He belonged to what the graphic design historian Philip Meggs calls the New York School, a group of editorial and advertising designers who based layouts on unified visual ideas rather than merely embellishing the page with ornamentation.
        As art director of McCall's, the woman's magazine, for 14 years starting in 1955, Mr. Storch wed stylish typefaces and studio photography into word-pictures, so that a headline or text type was an integrated component of the illustration rather than separated from it, as was the common practice. Typical of this approach was a 1961 layout in McCall's for ''The Forty-Winks Reducing Plan,'' in which a picture of a sleeping woman lying on top of the text distorts the text to simulate a sagging mattress.
        Mr. Storch used a variety of photographic processes to make type twist, turn and vibrate in the days before computers made such special effects commonplace in magazine layout. For an article in McCall's titled ''Why Mommy Can't Read,'' he placed the headline over a pair of glasses and photographed it to appear warped and bent, as if seen through the lenses.
        He also helped revive late 19th-century Victorian wood typefaces, which had been passe for decades, to add graphic impact and contrast to the printed page. Although he later rejected this approach because it had become a cliche, the style is in use to this day.
        Mr. Storch, who is survived by his wife, Dolores, and a son, Neil,
        was born in 1913 in Brooklyn. He studied at New York University, the Art Students League and the New School for Social Research and graduated from Pratt Institute. He began his career as a photographic retoucher at Dell Publishing and eventually became its art director, designing book covers, magazines and comics.
        Dissatisfied with the subject matter at Dell, however, he took evening classes during the 1950's with Alexey Brodovitch, the legendary art director of Harper's Bazaar who taught a course at the New School that emphasized conceptual thinking and pictorial storytelling. Mr. Brodovitch encouraged Mr. Storch to seek a good magazine job and he was eventually hired as assistant art director for Better Living, published by the McCall Corporation.
        From there he moved to McCall's, which was then foundering, to work first with the editor Herbert Mayes and later with John Mack Carter.
        He was given a free hand to redesign the magazine. Mr. Storch once said, ''It was a time when I looked forward to the excitement and accomplishments of each day.'' In 1962 he was the first art director to be appointed a vice president of the McCall Corporation.
        Around this time Mr. Storch became interested in the art direction of photography: ''I became addicted to the medium,'' he said. He took his own still lifes and portraits of celebrities, including the Beatles and Julie Christie, and his work appeared in McCall's and elsewhere.
        After leaving McCall's in 1969 he opened his own photography studio where he worked on assignments for many commercial clients, including American Express, Celanese, Golden Books, Sunbeam and Volkswagen.
      