
        Leo Lionni, who introduced an introspective sensibility to children's literature through the metaphorical characters Frederick, Swimmy and Little Blue and Little Yellow, died on Monday at his home near Radda in the Chianti district of Italy. He was 89.
        Mr. Lionni was an artist, magazine art director, graphic designer, children's book illustrator and author. He had many careers, including Futurist painter, architectural critic for the Italian magazine Casabella, advertising designer for the N. W. Ayer agency in Philadelphia, graphic design consultant to Olivetti in Milan and the Museum of Modern Art in Manhattan, art director for Fortune, Print and Panorama magazines and professor of design at Cooper Union.
        But he earned worldwide popularity as the author and illustrator of more than 30 children's books, many of which were translated into numerous languages and are still in print.
        He turned to creating children's books at 50, and, even after he began to suffer from Parkinson's disease 15 years ago, he was extraordinarily productive.
        ''Little Blue and Little Yellow,'' Mr. Lionni's first children's book, began as a desperate effort to calm his two rambunctious grandchildren on an hourlong train ride from Manhattan to Greenwich, Conn. It was 1959, and Mr. Lionni, then the art director of Fortune magazine, was taking the two to his suburban home. Unable to quiet them, he took a copy of Life magazine from his briefcase and turned to a page dominated by blue, yellow and green. He tore the paper into small circles, then improvised a story that captured their attention.
        His story was about two circles, Little Blue and Little Yellow, the best of friends, who go on a hike. While playing hide-and-seek in a forest, they lose sight of each other. They search everywhere to no avail. Suddenly, behind a large tree, they are reunited and hug; doing so, they become Little Green.
        ''The children were transfixed,'' Mr. Lionni recalled in his memoir, ''Between Worlds'' (Alfred A. Knopf, 1997). ''And I noticed that the passengers who were sitting within hearing distance had put down their papers and were listening, too. So for their benefit, I had Little Green go to the Stock Exchange, where he lost all his money. He broke out in yellow and blue tears, and when he was all tears, he was Little Blue and Little Yellow again and their stock rose 12 points.''
        Mr. Lionni eventually presented a refined version of the story to Fabio Coen, the children's editor for MacDowell Obolensky in New York, who agreed to publish it.
        ''It would take more than one evening with Fabio before I could fully understand how much the simple little tale of two blobs of color would affect my soul, my mind and my way of life,'' Mr. Lionni wrote.
        Leonard Lionni was born in the Netherlands in 1910. His father was a diamond cutter and his mother was a  singer. His Uncle Piet, an architect, gave the boy his first set of drafting tools; two other uncles, both collectors of modern art, fed his artistic inclinations. One uncle hung a Chagall painting outside the boy's room.
        Mr. Lionni studied arts and crafts in primary school and was permitted to draw at the Rijksmuseum, where he copied plaster casts; he later recalled feeling that Rembrandt, van Gogh, Mondrian, architecture and music were ''one big mood to me.''
        When he was 14, he lived in Philadelphia, where his father worked for the Atlantic Richfield Company. A year later, he moved to Genoa, Italy, where he attended a commercial high school, learned Italian and became conversant in Italian art, literature and poetry. At 16, he met Nora Maffi, who a few years later became his wife. The marriage endured for 69 years.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Louis Manny; four grandchildren, Pippo Lionni and Annie Lionni (for whom ''Little Blue and Little Yellow'' was conceived) Gina Zucker and Sylvan Lionni, and six great-grandchildren.
        His wife's father was a founder of the Italian Communist Party and was placed under house arrest by the Fascists after their rise to power in 1922. This had a strong effect on Mr. Lionni's own political consciousness.
        By the late 1920's, he had become interested in commercial art and produced his own advertisement proposals for Campari, which had a progressive graphic policy. Inspired by Futurist art, he found himself painting turbulent abstractions in 1931. His work caught the eye of F. T. Marinetti, leader of the faded Futurist movement.
        Mr. Lionni was ambivalent about such recognition: Futurism celebrated Fascism, and its chaotic esthetic conflicted with his own rationalism. ''I am really Dutch,'' he wrote. ''I felt closer to de Stijl, and respond to the patterns and symmetry of the tulip fields.''
        While designing advertisements for a living, he attended classes at the University of Genoa, earning a doctoral degree in economics. He returned to Philadelphia to work as a designer for N. W. Ayer.
        Mr. Lionni's other early jobs included art direction for advertisements for Ladies' Home Journal, the Ford Motor Company and the Container Corporation of America, for which he commissioned illustrations from Willem de Kooning, Alexander Calder and Fernand Leger for a celebrated series of ads based on great ideas. He also worked with a young Andy Warhol on the Regal Shoes account.
        In 1947, Mr. Lionni moved to New York, and one of his first assignments was for Fortune magazine.
        ''Once Henry Luce asked me,'' he  said, '' 'Why can't Fortune be as good looking as Harper's Bazaar?' My answer was obvious: 'Because businessmen are not as good looking as fashion models.' ''
        He accepted the challenge nonetheless, changing the magazine's format and typography and giving unparalleled exposure to illustrators and fine artists who created pictorial essays.
        He was a consultant to Luce on the prototype for Sports Illustrated. He designed the Museum of Modern Art's catalogue for Edward Steichen's milestone photography exhibition ''The Family of Man,'' which is still in print, and the American Pavilion for the 1958 Brussels World's Fair.
        At 50, Mr. Lionni decided to resettle in Tuscany, where he painted and created huge fantasy plants in brass and iron. Seeking a way to combine his applied and fine art work, he hit upon children's books as the perfect means. There he found the key to unlocking decades of personal fears, joys, insecurities and loves, by presenting them through animal metaphors. The books offer windows onto what he called ''the soul.'' ''Little Blue and Little Yellow,'' ''Swimmy,'' ''Frederick,'' ''Nicolas, Where Have You Been?'' and ''Matthew's Dream,'' among his most popular and introspective books, are, on one level, autobiographies.
        For his second book, Mr. Lionni did not resort to, as he said, ''Little Blue Goes to the Zoo.'' Instead, he wrote and illustrated ''On My Beach There Are Many Pebbles,'' a collection of drawings of fish pebbles, people pebbles and so on, hidden among the real pebbles, realistically rendered in pencil.
        In his third book, ''Inch by Inch,'' he developed the first of his animal fables. ''Although it doesn't have an explicit moral, it invites a search for meaning,'' he said.
        In ''Inch by Inch,'' a helpless inchworm uses ingenuity to outwit a  powerful bird. The story carries a recurring messages: that the imagination can transcend all obstacles.
        His best-known book, ''Swimmy,'' is about a diminutive fish bamboozling its predator, a giant tuna, by organizing other smaller fish into the shape of a large one. When Swimmy says, ''I will be the eye,'' it is clear that this is also a portrait of the artist as seer.
        Frances Foster, his editor for many years, said, ''I think that's certainly the way Leo saw his role as an artist, seeing for people.''
        ''Tillie and the Wall,'' from 1989, a book about seeing beyond impenetrable barriers, was published in Germany around the time that the Berlin wall fell, and it sold well there. Mr. Lionni was so excited by the potential of this book to impart more worldly ideas that he decided that from then on, everything he did would have some sort of social message.
        ''He felt that the world was in such a state that he really couldn't afford not to use the picture book as a kind of soapbox,'' Ms. Foster said.
        In 1997, his critically praised memoir was published. Bruce McCall wrote in The New York Times Book Review that it was the story of ''a man with exquisitely fine-tuned creative imagination, a clear mind, perfect taste and mercilessly high standards.''
        A year later, Parkinson's disease left him unable to type or sketch, but he kept conceiving ideas for more stories and fables.
        Mr. Lionni once confessed in an interview that he had trouble with children, even grandchildren, in small groups. ''I don't know how to get to them,'' he said, ''and so I do banal things,'' like making noises.
        ''I wish I could just read them something.''
      