
        Milt Jackson, the jazz vibraphonist who was a member of the Modern Jazz Quartet for 40 years and was one of the premier improvisers in jazz with a special brilliance at playing blues, died on Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Teaneck, N.J.
        The cause was liver cancer, said his daughter, Chyrise Jackson.
        All the best jazz musicians know how to take their time, and Mr. Jackson was no different. Originally a singer in a Detroit gospel quartet, he created a new sound in the 1940's by slowing down the motor on his Deagan Vibraharp's oscillator to a third of the speed of Lionel Hampton's; a  result, when he chose to let a sustained note ring, was a rich, warm, smoky sound, with a vibrato that approximated his own singing.
        ''He came closer than anyone else on the instrument to making it sound like the human voice,'' said the young vibraphonist Stefon Harris yesterday. ''It's a collection of metal and iron, and we don't have the ability to bend notes and make vocal inflections like a saxophone. But Milt played the instrument in the most organic way possible -- with a warm, rich sound. He set a precedent that this instrument can speak beautiful things, and that it's not just percussive.''
        Mr. Jackson, who was born in Detroit, had become an impressively broad musician by the middle of his teen-age years. He had perfect pitch, and he began teaching himself guitar at the age of 7, started piano lessons at 11 and in high school played five instruments: drums, tympani, violin, guitar and xylophone; he also sang in the choir. By the age of 16, he had picked up the vibraphone as well, encouraged by a music teacher, and sang tenor in a popular gospel quartet called the Evangelist Singers as well as beginning his jazz career, playing vibraphone with Clarence Ringo and the George E. Lee band.
        Out of high school, he almost joined Earl Hines's big band, but his draft notice intervened. In 1944, back in Detroit after two years of overseas military service, he set up a jazz quartet called the Four Sharps. (He admitted that he got his nickname, Bags, from the temporary furrows under his eyes incurred by a drinking binge after his release from the Army.) Dizzy Gillespie saw the quartet at a Detroit bar on a swing through the Midwest, and called upon Mr. Jackson in 1945 to join his band in New York.
        Mr. Jackson's style, then and later, came from Charlie Parker, rather than Mr. Hampton, his most prominent precursor on the instrument; he not only tried to achieve a hornlike legato with his mallets, but he adopted many of Parker's rhythmic traits as well. He was the first bona fide bebop musician on the vibraphone, and became one of the prides of Gillespie's own band. Gillespie also brought him to Los Angeles to fill out his sextet at Billy Berg's club, hedging against the probability that Parker, who was in the band and at the low point of his heroin addiction, would fail to show up.
        Back in New York in 1946, Mr. Jackson recorded some of bebop's classics with Gillespie's orchestra -- ''A Night in Tunisia,'' ''Anthropology'' and ''Two Bass Hit.'' Mr. Jackson, the pianist John Lewis, the bassist Ray Brown and the drummer Kenny Clarke were the rhythm section of Gillespie's band. ''Dizzy had a lot of high parts for the brass in that group,'' remembered Mr. Brown. ''So he said, 'I have to give these guys' lips a little rest during concerts, and while they're resting, you should play something.' '' The development of this rhythm section's relationship led to some recordings for Gillespie's own label, Dee Gee, by a new band known as the Milt Jackson Quartet.
        Mr. Jackson left Gillespie and came back to him again for a period in the early 1950's. And in 1951, with Thelonious Monk, he made recordings that would further the idiom again, weaving his linear improvisations around Monk's abrupt, jagged gestures on pieces including ''Criss Cross'' and ''Straight, No Chaser.''
        Mr. Lewis, the pianist, began to have ideas about forming a new group, one that would go beyond the notion of soloists with a rhythm section. He had an extensive knowledge of classical music, had been involved in the sessions with Miles Davis and Gerry Mulligan that would become known as ''Birth of the Cool,'' and he envisioned a more deliberately formal feeling for a small band. In 1952 the Modern Jazz Quartet began, with  Clarke as drummer and Percy Heath as bassist. Connie Kay replaced Clarke in 1955. After a while, Mr. Lewis became the group's musical director.
        The group wore tailored suits and practiced every aspect of their public presentation, from walking on stage to making introductions to the powerfully subdued arrangements in their playing. They wanted to bring back to jazz the sense of high bearing it had been losing as the popularity of the big bands was slipping and jazz became more of a music predicated on the casual jam-session. Through two decades of immaculately conceived and recorded albums on Atlantic Records, beginning in 1956, their vision was borne out. Initially, they found that audiences were somewhat startled by the authority of their quietness; eventually the group would be one of the few jazz bands embraced by an audience much wider than jazz fans.
        Mr. Lewis economized, playing small chords and creating a light but sturdy framework for the music, and Mr. Jackson was the expansive foil, letting his tempos crest and fall, luxuriating in the passing tones and quick, curled runs of bebop. It was often supposed that he grew frustrated with his role in the band; in a recent interview Mr. Jackson said he felt that Mr. Lewis suppressed the group's sense of swing. In 1974 he left, dissolving the band until it reunited for the first of several tours in the 1980's. Mr. Kay died in 1994, and the Modern Jazz Quartet, with Mickey Roker sitting in for him, gave its last performance the following year.
        Besides being widely acknowledged as one of the music's greatest improvisers, Mr. Jackson wrote a lot of music -- most famously the blues pieces ''Bags' Groove,'' ''Bluesology'' and ''The Cylinder.'' He recorded widely. He made small-group and orchestral records in the early 1960's, collaboration albums with John Coltrane and Ray Charles, and a large number of records on the Pablo label during the 1970's and 1980's with Mr. Brown on bass, as well as Gillespie, Count Basie, Oscar Peterson and others. In 1992 he began a series of albums produced by Quincy Jones for the Qwest label; the most recent, from this year, was ''Explosive!,'' recorded with the Clayton-Hamilton Jazz Orchestra. The last collaboration with Mr. Brown and Mr. Peterson, ''The Very Tall Band,'' was issued this year by Telarc.
        In addition to his daughter, of Fort Lee, N.J., he is survived by his wife, Sandra, of Teaneck, and three brothers: Alvin, of Queens, and Wilbur and James, both of Detroit.
      