
        Marie-Madeleine Durufle, an internationally renowned organist and teacher and the widow of the French composer and organist Maurice Durufle, died on Oct. 5 in Paris, where she lived. She was 78.
        Mrs. Durufle, a technically formidable organist, was generally considered the last great exponent of the French Romantic school of organ playing, which valued elegant grandeur, textural clarity and rhythmic freedom. She gave incomparable performances of works by the French organ masters, including Charles-Marie Widor, Louis Vierne, Jean Langlais, Marcel Dupre and her husband, who died 13 years ago. She was a tireless champion of his organ works, which were harmonically conservative yet mystical, finely crafted and often brilliant.
        She was born Marie-Madeleine Chevalier in Marseilles on May 8, 1921, and her prodigious gifts were soon apparent. At 11 she was named an organist of the Cathedral of St. Veran de Cavaillon, and at 12 she entered the conservatory at Avignon. Her desire to pursue advanced studies was delayed by the outbreak of World War II. Finally, in 1946, at 25, she became a pupil of Dupre at the Paris Conservatory, where she won the first prize in organ. In 1953 she was awarded the Gran Prix International Charles-Marie Widor for organ and improvisation.
        She met her future husband at the conservatory when he substituted as a teacher one year for Dupre. The introverted and serious Maurice Durufle was drawn to the extroverted, bubbly Ms. Chevalier, who was nearly 20 years younger than he. They were married in 1953. Mrs. Durufle became the co-organist with her husband at St. Etienne-du-Mont in Paris, a post he had held himself since 1930. They gave joint concert tours frequently, their first visit to the United States coming in 1964.
        In 1975, as they drove one evening in southeastern France in heavy rain, a speeding car traveling in the opposite direction crashed into their vehicle. Mrs. Durufle suffered severe pelvic and rib injuries and both of her husband's legs were broken. Years of surgery and physical therapy followed, but neither she nor her husband ever completely recovered.
        Mrs. Durufle is survived by her sister, Elaine Chevalier, a solfege teacher and choral conductor in Paris.
        In 1989, three years after her husband's death, not having performed in concert for 15 years, Mrs. Durufle agreed to participate in a Durufle Festival in New York organized by her former student, Dennis Keene, the organist, conductor and artistic director of Voices of Ascension.
        ''All of the musicians and singers involved in the festival were overwhelmed by Madame's positive glow,'' Mr. Keene said, recalling that event. Her last public concert, he said, was in New York at the Church of the Ascension in 1993.
        During her joint tours with her husband, before the accident, Mrs. Durufle tended to play the flashier pieces. In an interview with The New York Times in 1989 she conceded that this was intentional. ''My husband was a very great virtuoso at the organ,'' she said, ''but once he became my husband, I worked at it more than he did. Often he would say to me, 'You play the most difficult pieces, and I play the 'interpretation' pieces.' ''
      