
        Luciano Soprani, a proponent of the slouchy, tailored look that dominated Italian fashion in the early 1980's, died on Saturday at a hospital in Milan. He was 53.
        Beppe Modenese, head of the Camera Nazaionale, which organizes Italy's fashion shows, said Mr. Soprani had been ill with throat cancer for several months. Mr. Modenese said he last saw Mr. Soprani in September, when the designer presented his spring collection at the Italian ready-to-wear shows.
        Like nearly every designer in the hurly-burly fashion business, Mr. Soprani had his moment, and it came  during the wide-shouldered 80's, when Giorgio Armani and Gianni Versace were building their empires, and Mr. Soprani was often mentioned alongside these older peers.
        In a review on Oct. 8, 1982, Bernadine Morris of The New York Times described Mr. Soprani's ''triumphal progress'' through the collections, with enthusiastic applause for both his own line and Basile, another sportswear label designed by Mr. Soprani.
        ''In those years, when Versace, Armani and Krizia were the big names, Luciano was the young Turk,'' said Kal Ruttenstein, fashion director of Bloomingdale's, which carried the Soprani and Basile labels. ''He made a nice contribution to fine tailoring and the Milan look.''
        Mr. Soprani was born in Reggiolo, a small town in central Italy. From a family of farmers, he studied agriculture in school, Mr. Modenese said, ''but when he graduated, he decided he didn't want to be an expert in farming; he wanted to be a fashion designer.''
        Mr. Soprani went to work for Max Mara, where he remained for about eight years. As someone who obviously favored strong, commercial clothes over flamboyant theatrics, Mr. Soprani seemed to know how to dress the young, career-minded women who emerged in the 80's.
        He started his own label in 1982, while continuing to design for other houses, including Gucci. Joan Kaner, who was then fashion director of Bergdorf Goodman, recalled some tweed coats that Mr. Soprani designed, with raccoon pelts on the sleeves.
        ''They were really wonderful looking,'' said Ms. Kaner.
        Although Mr. Soprani continued to be a popular purveyor of colorful, classic sportswear, his name gradually faded from international prominence, and Mr. Modenese said the designer had business difficulties with a Japanese partner.
        ''He was a very quiet person,'' said Mr. Modenese. ''Lately, he started to have some success again.''
        He is survived by a son, Lorenzo.
      