
        Marvin Wood, who coached a tiny high school's basketball team to the Indiana state championship, portrayed in the 1986 movie ''Hoosiers,'' died on Wednesday in South Bend., Ind. He was 71.
        Woods's wife, Mary Lou, said the cause was lymphoma.
        The team's feat was legendary in the basketball-crazed state well before it was celebrated in the movie.
        At the storied 1954 title game, all but a handful of the 1,150 citizens of Milan, Ind., were on hand to see their Indians take on Muncie Central High School, whose team had won four state championships. Tickets were being scalped for $50 and it was estimated that 90 percent of Indiana's residents were watching or listening to broadcasts of the contest.
        The final 18 seconds of the game were so exquisitely tense that the movie reproduced them almost exactly. The denouement came with just five seconds left when Bobby Plump faked left and fired a shot cleanly through the net, winning the game, 32-30. The Indianapolis Star recently called the game the top sports story in Indiana history.
        ''It proved that dreams can come true,'' said Plump, who is now 63 and owns a restaurant in Indianapolis called Plump's Last Shot.
        Plump and others said that Wood was far more mild-mannered than the irascible movie character played by Gene Hackman. He would never scream, instead raising the level of his voice ever so slightly. ''You knew he meant business,'' Plump said. ''He coached with quiet confidence and dignity.''
        Wood was born in Morristown, Ind., and grew up on a farm there. He attended Butler University, playing basketball under Tony Hinkle, a coach who favored a controlled, structured style of play of the sort Wood would later adopt.
        Wood began his coaching career in French Lick, Ind., later well known as the hometown of the Hall of Fame player Larry Bird, leading to a lifelong joke that Larry Birds were in short supply there during Wood's tenure. He moved to Milan in 1952 to take over from a coach who had just been dismissed, so his first challenge was to win the confidence of players upset by the dismissal, a situation recalled in the movie. He immediately annoyed townspeople by barring them from attending practices, a favorite local activity.
        Though he did not subscribe to the fast-break style of the former coach, he favored such imaginative tactics as the type of fast-switching press later popularized by U.C.L.A. and the four-corners offense later used by the University of North Carolina.
        Still in his mid-20's at the time, Wood liked to suit up and play with the team in practices. ''We kind of grew up with him, because he's only eight years older,'' Plump said.
        Milan reached the state tournament in his first year, a level the school had never reached before. The next year the Indians went all the way, and Wood is remembered for one unusual coaching move in the championship game almost as much as for his game-ending strategy. He held up both palms, signaling a stall. Bobby Plump then proceeded to stand stock still, holding the ball for 4 minutes 13 seconds.
        ''Nobody on the court is moving,'' said Plump, as if the moment were yesterday. ''The crescendo of noise just continued to increase the longer I stood there. What we were trying to do was shorten the game. We were trying to get it down to the last couple of minutes.''
        The ''Miracle of Milan'' headed off a plan to break up the Indiana basketball tournament into divisions based on school size. Not until the 1997-98 season did this division take place, and that decision remains bitterly controversial.
        After the title season, Wood left Milan, where his record was 52-7, moving on to New Castle, then North Central in Indianapolis and finally to Mishawaka, where he also served as guidance counselor. His overall high school record was 329-279.
        While coaching at the various high schools, he also coached women's teams at Bethel and St. Mary's Colleges. He coached his granddaughter's seventh-grade team in Kirtland, Ohio, until last December, when his illness no longer permitted it. He had been active in counseling others with cancer.
        Besides his wife, Wood is survived by a daughter, Deidra Juday of Kirtland, and three grandchildren.
        Proud as he was of his famous victory, Wood was even prouder that 9 of his 10 players that year went on to college. His wife said he turned down an invitation to the premiere of ''Hoosiers.''
        ''I had a front-row seat the first time,'' he explained.
      