
        John McLendon, a Hall of Fame basketball coach at the college and professional levels who studied under the sport's founder, Dr. James Naismith, died early yesterday morning at his home in Cleveland Heights, Ohio. He was 84.
        McLendon died of cancer of the pancreas, his wife, Joanna, said.
        In a coaching career that spanned almost seven decades, McLendon became one of the most respected figures in the sport. He was praised for an ability to teach fundamentals, maintain his composure and devise strategy on the court as if his players and the opposition were pieces in chess (one of his favorite games).
        ''The thing I remember about Coach McLendon was that he never cursed, he never shouted,'' Dick Barnett, a player for McLendon at Tennessee State University who went on to a successful career in the National Basketball Association, said in a 1993 interview. ''You could just feel the resolution in his personality.''
        At a time when few predominantly black schools had achieved prominence at the national level and black coaches were almost nonexistent, McLendon's teams at North Carolina Central, Tennessee State and Kentucky State were recognized for their excellence. One of the tales surrounding McLendon was the time on March 12, 1944, when his once-beaten, all-black North Carolina Central team, in the era of Jim Crow laws, defeated an all-white Duke University medical team in a game staged in a locked gym, without spectators, in Durham, N.C.
        McLendon's Tennessee State team, unable to join the National Collegiate Athletic Association, became the first school to win three consecutive National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics titles, from 1957 to 1959. Most of the starters on those teams -- Barnett, John Barnhill, Ben Warley, Porter Meriwether, Joe Buckhalter and Ron Hamilton -- played professionally.
        Tennessee State's achievement vindicated McLendon's faith in his system. In 1951, he and four other representatives from black institutions were invited to address an N.C.A.A. convention but were told they could not attend the convention banquet or use the elevators at the hotel.
        McLendon coached in the National Industrial League, for the Cleveland Pipers of the American Basketball League in 1961-62 and for the Denver Rockets of the American Basketball Association.
        ''He was an outstanding basketball technician,'' the Yankees' owner, George Steinbrenner, who as a 31-year-old owner of the Pipers hired McLendon, said yesterday. ''He had the respect of all his players and produced nothing but winners.''
        Tennessee State's relentless all-court pressure and fast-break tactics were the result of McLendon's intense conditioning program, which included having his athletes run three miles every day before the season and three miles every day before the tournament.
        ''Championship miles,'' McLendon called them.
        John B. McLendon Jr. was born on April 5, 1915, in Kansas City, Kan., and went with his brother to live in Colorado with grandparents after his mother died.
        When his father remarried, he returned to Kansas, saw his first basketball court in junior high school, and became so impressed that he ran home and told his stepmother, ''I'm going to be a basketball coach.''
        She said: ''No you're not. You're going to be a doctor.''
        But McLendon's future was sealed once he enrolled at the University of Kansas and asked Dr. Naismith, who was retired but still a member of the faculty at the school, to be his adviser.
        ''Dr. Naismith taught me far more than was found in textbooks,'' McLendon wrote three years ago. ''Very often he would put aside his books and teach us lessons in life from his world experiences. And that always included how he happened to invent the game of basketball in 1891.''
        As the first black physical education student in the school, McLendon was also a practice teacher at some segregated and integrated schools in the area, and he used those experiences, as well as Dr. Naismith's life lessons, to forge his philosophy.
        ''There's no question that my life would not have been anywhere near what it has become if I had not had Dr. Naismith as my adviser,'' McLendon said.
        After he left coaching, McLendon served as an athletic adviser at Cleveland State University and was a frequent guest at basketball clinics.
        In addition to his second wife, Joanna, he is survived by a daughter, Querida Banks of Silver Spring, Md.; two stepchildren, Nanette Adams and David Bryant of Shaker Heights, Ohio; a brother; two sisters; three grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren. A son, John McLendon 3d, died two years ago.
      