
        Josef Locke, a tenor whose singing of traditional sentimental Irish songs brought tears to the eyes of audiences in Ireland and Britain in the 1940's and  50's and whose career was portrayed in the 1992 film ''Hear My Song,'' died today in a hospital in Clane in County Kildare, where he lived south of Dublin. He was 82.
        Mr. Locke's popularity derived from the emotional style in which he sang lachrymose ballads about the problems of love and life in Ireland.
        Maureen Grant, a friend who runs the bar at the Olympia Theater in Dublin, said today that women particularly were moved by his voice. ''They threw flowers on the stage,'' she said. ''And they brought along extra pairs of underpants and threw them as well.''
        His best-known songs were ''Hear My Song, Violetta,'' ''Dear Old Donegal'' and the imperishable ''Danny Boy.'' He also sang and recorded operatic arias and traditional Irish pieces.
        In her review in The New York Times, Janet Maslin wrote that the film ''Hear My Song'' had ''blithe,  fanciful magic that can't be achieved through skill alone.''
        Mr. Locke was the highest-paid singer in Britain in the 1950's and performed in 19 consecutive annual shows in Blackpool, the English seaside resort. In 1958 British revenue officials said he owed $50,000 in back taxes. Mr. Locke returned to Ireland and retired, admittedly to evade the tax.
        But in 1992 ''Hear My Song,'' directed by Peter Chelsom, put him back in the spotlight. It starred Ned Beatty as Mr. Locke.
        Nigel Andrews wrote in The Financial Times of London that ''Hear My Song'' was a ''sly, imaginative, off-the wall delight.'' The film depicted, more or less accurately, how another singer, calling himself Mr. X, impersonated Mr. Locke, seeking to titillate audiences by giving the impression that he was Mr. Locke trying to evade the tax collectors with a false name.
        The original Mr. X, Eric Ellison, now 74, is still performing in England, Mr. Locke's friends said. The film returned him to the footlights.
        After settling his tax account Mr. Locke returned to London, where he sang ''Danny Boy'' and other songs at the film's premiere before an audience that included Diana, Princess of Wales. Today his voice was heard again in Irish living rooms as national radio and television reported his death.
        Mr. Locke, whose original name was Joseph McLaughlin, was born on March 23, 1917, in Londonderry in the British province of Northern Ireland, the son of a butcher and cattle dealer. He sang in churches and schools and aspired to be an operatic tenor. In 1933 he joined the Irish Guards of the British Army and later served with the Palestine Police, a force controlling what was then a British mandate territory.
        Returning to Northern Ireland, he joined the Royal Ulster Constabulary, and called himself the Singing Bobby. He met John McCormack, the Irish tenor, who advised him to build his career on traditional songs and music hall appearances rather than on opera. A theater impresario, Jack Hylton, said the name Joseph McLaughlin did not fit on the billboard, so his name became Josef Locke.
        ''He would finish singing 'The Holy City,' and then come down the aisle shouting 'Maureen!','' asking for his ''holy water,'' said Ms. Grant, the bar manager. ''His holy water was a pint of Guinness.''
        She said that among his favorite songs was ''My Way,'' usually associated with Frank Sinatra. ''But it was Joe's song, too,'' she said. ''He did it his way.''
      