
        Charles A. Federer Jr., who six decades ago combined two money-losing journals, The Sky and The Telescope, into what became a successful and influential magazine for amateur astronomers, died on Tuesday in Mystic, Conn. He was 90 and lived in the nearby town of Stonington.
        Mr. Federer ran the resulting magazine, Sky and Telescope, with a firm hand for 33 years. It was a business but also a passion for him. As editor in chief, he was seldom out of the magazine's offices in Cambridge, Mass., and even when he was, he was usually not far away (he lived next door).
        Then, as now, Sky and Telescope offered news about discoveries and trends in astronomy, how-to articles and regular features like sky maps and equipment reviews. It was not the slickest of magazines, but it soon became a bible for amateur astronomers, serving to unify people engaged in the largely solitary pursuit of stargazing.
        ''He wanted to build as large a community of amateur astronomers in the United States as possible,'' said Leif J. Robinson, the current editor in chief of the magazine, which now has a circulation of about 125,000. ''Sky and Telescope was the vehicle to connect them.''
        Mr. Federer had a good grasp of business, said Dennis di Cicco, who was one of the last staff members Mr. Federer hired before his retirement, in 1974. ''But he never attempted to maximize the money gain from the magazine,'' Mr. di Cicco said. ''He never ran it with the idea, 'This is how I'm going to make my fortune.' He ran it for the readers.''
        Mr. Federer taught himself astronomy as a child, observing the stars from the family's home in Redding, Conn. In the 1930's he earned a degree in physics from the City College of New York, taking classes at night while working as an insurance underwriter.
        By the middle of the decade he had quit his insurance job and become a staff assistant and lecturer at the new Hayden Planetarium at the American Museum of Natural History, and secretary of the Amateur Astronomers Association of New York, which he had helped found.
        The museum approached him and his wife, Helen Spence Federer, who also worked at the planetarium, about taking over The Sky, a publication of the museum that it could no longer afford to support. The Federers agreed, and were provided an office in the planetarium's basement, a mailing list of 4,200, and $1,980 from prepaid subscriptions.
        Several years later, at the suggestion of Harlow Shapley, director of the Harvard Observatory, they also took over The Telescope, a journal being produced in Cambridge. They moved to Massachusetts and produced the first issue of Sky and Telescope in 1941. It was essentially a mom-and-pop operation at first, and even as the magazine grew, Mr. Federer's management style remained very much hands-on.
        ''He was something of a taskmaster,'' said Bill Shawcross, a former president and publisher of the magazine. ''He always strove for perfection. He and the rest of the staff were able to read the astronomical literature, talk to astronomers and pretty much get it right.''
        Mr. Federer's first marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Marion Wilcox Korab Federer; a son, C. Anthony Federer of Durham, N.H.; a daughter, Barbara Meredith of London; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      