
        The guitarist Sal Salvador, a  warm-toned be-bop improviser who performed with Stan Kenton, Bill Evans, Phil Woods and other canonical jazz figures, died at a medical rehabilitation center in Stamford, Conn., on Sept. 22. He was 73 and lived in Stamford.
        He died of cancer, said his daughter, Lorinda.
        Mr. Salvador, who was also an instructor and the author of many jazz instruction books, was born in Monson, Mass. At the age of 18, Mr. Salvador, whose name was originally Silvio Smiraglia, heard Charlie Christian on a record and taught himself to play the guitar. With his friends the saxophonist Phil Woods and the drummer Joe Morello, he performed in Springfield, Mass., and was eventually hired by the vibraphonist Terry Gibbs and the guitarist Mundell Lowe.
        In 1950 he became a staff musician at the Columbia label and two years later went to work with Kenton in his breakthrough job. He left the band 18 months later but Kenton enabled Mr. Salvador to make an LP for Capitol records under his own name, ''Kenton Presents Sal Salvador,'' in 1954.
        Kenton spotlighted him in the work ''Invention for Guitar and Trumpet'' on the ''New Concepts of Artistry in Rhythm'' album, and the piece was later included in the 1955 film ''Blackboard Jungle.''
        In 1960 Mr. Salvador started his own big band, the Colors in Sound Orchestra, which toured and recorded for five years.
        From 1970 until recently Mr. Salvador taught jazz at the University of Bridgeport and Western Connecticut State University; he also taught privately in New York City. In the 1990's he began recording again with a small group for the Stash and Jazzmania, and he performed in several recent JVC Jazz Festival concerts, usually in duets with Mr. Lowe.
        In addition to his daughter, who lives in Stamford, he is survived by his wife, Catherine D. Smiraglia; his sons, Daniel B. Smiraglia of Stamford and Barry S. Smiraglia of Pepperill, Mass., and two grandchildren.
      