
        Pierre Moulin, who with his business partner, Pierre LeVec, created the Pierre Deux fabric shops and the charming Provencal mix of colorful cotton, glazed tile and antique armoires known as the Pierre Deux look, died Sunday at his Greenwich Village apartment. He was 73.
        He died after a long battle with prostate cancer, said Jack Bermingham, manager of Pierre Deux Antiques.
        Mr. Moulin was born into a prosperous bourgeois family in Maisons-Laffitte, a suburb of Paris. His father, who died when he was 5, owned a rug factory that employed 800 people, and his grandmother was  friends with Coco Chanel and Jean Lanvin.
        During the Depression, the family lost most of its money, along with its castle in Normandy. His mother took a job in the south of France at Pierre's boarding school, from which  Mr. Moulin graduated. After World War II, he went to England and got a job on a farm in Somerset, where he ran the dairy.
        ''It was there I found my first serious love, farming,'' he said. ''I knew I'd never be happy until I had a cow.''
        ''I was raised in two different worlds,'' he said, ''one sophisticated, Parisian. My aunt had a fashion house. And on the other side, I fancied myself as a farmer.''
        In 1949, he returned to France and began work for the Marshall Plan, where he met Mr. LeVec. Later, when Mr. LeVec worked in Washington, Mr. Moulin set up a farm in  Winchester, Va., where he raised 25,000 broiling chickens and won prizes for doing so.
        When Mr. LeVec retired, the two men carried out a long-held dream. In 1967, they opened an antiques shop on the ground floor of a mid-19th-century brick town house on Bleecker Street in Greenwich Village.
        Three years later, Mr. Moulin had some pillows made from gaily decorated French peasant fabrics and scattered them around their upholstered furniture. The two Pierres began importing the fabric, made by Soleidado in the south of France, and customers came in droves. Before long, there were 22 Pierre Deux shops around the world.
        In the mid-1970's, Mr. Moulin found something else so old it was new: Toile de Jouy fabric, the fine-lined historical-document prints that had captured the imagination of the 18th-century French. With its depictions of American Indians, balloon flights and Lafayette's battles, the material was by then passe; most of the printing rollers had been turned into lamp stands. But Mr. Moulin unearthed some in the basements of French factories, and he and Mr. LeVec invested heavily into putting the patterns back into production. Decorators pounced on the toiles, using them for pillows, wall coverings and bed skirts.
        In 1989, the men retired, selling all but one of the shops and the fabric line and keeping only the original Bleecker Street antiques shop.
        That year, they bought Callendar House in Tivoli, N.Y. The house, built in 1794 and remodeled by McKim, Mead & White around 1910, was already a showplace. In the hands of  Mr. Moulin, the decorator, it was further polished into a hospitable establishment run with old-fashioned magnificence.
        Even after Mr. LeVec's death a year and a half ago, Mr. Moulin kept a staff: a live-in cook, a groundskeeper, a gardener and a housekeeper. Callendar House was the scene of frequent parties and charity events, notably baroque music concerts to benefit local music groups.
        In May, Mr. Moulin reluctantly put Callendar House on the market, saying it had become too big for him.
        He is survived by a half-sister, Dominique Delmedico of Florida.
      