
        Louis F. Claiborne, a deputy solicitor general who argued more than 60 cases on behalf of the Government before the Supreme Court and was noted for the elegance of his legal briefs, died on Wednesday at his home in Wivenhoe, Essex, England. He was 72 and also had a home in Nerja, Spain.
        John Briscoe, a partner in his law firm in San Francisco, said the cause was lung cancer.
        A major environmental case for which Mr. Claiborne wrote his last brief will be heard by the Supreme Court today. The brief argues that private citizens should not be permitted to bring lawsuits under the Clean Water Act because any penalties imposed on a polluter would go not to the plaintiffs but to the Government.
        In the brief, Mr. Claiborne wrote:
        '' 'How's that again?' is the likely reaction of the untutored ear when asked whether a private citizen may properly bring suit to compel a violator of a Federal environmental law to pay a fine to the Government.''
        Jeffrey P. Minear, an assistant solicitor general who will be arguing in the case on behalf of the Government and opposing his old colleague's position, said the passage was typical and added: ''Louis will always have a presence that will remain even when he has left the courtroom.''
        Mr. Claiborne first served in the Solicitor General's office from 1962 to 1970, when he moved to Britain to teach at the University of Sussex and to please his Welsh-born wife, Jacqueline. While there, he became one of the few American lawyers to be admitted to practice as a barrister in England.
        Mr. Claiborne returned to the Solicitor General's office in 1978 and remained there as a deputy until 1985, when he joined the San Francisco law firm of Washburn, Briscoe & McCarthy.
        A fellow deputy solicitor general, Lawrence G. Wallace, said Mr. Claiborne argued many important civil rights cases before the Supreme Court, including Green v. County School Board in 1968, in which the Court upheld the Government position that school desegregation should go forward in New Kent County, Virginia.
        Mr. Claiborne was born in Brussels, where his father was a bank executive with the Guaranty Trust Company of New York (now Morgan Guaranty Trust) and he left with his family for the United States when the Nazis invaded Belgium in 1939.
        He went to high school in Mountain Lakes, N.J., and to college at the University of Louvain in Belgium,  the Ecole de Sciences Politiques in Paris and the Tulane University Law School in New Orleans.
        One result of that multicultural schooling was an accent that to Americans sounded British, to the English Continental. With the veneer of the Louisiana bayous, he pronounced his first name in the French manner, Louie.
        Besides his wife, to whom he was married for 40 years, Mr. Claiborne is survived by his son, Andrew, and his daughter, Michele, both of Wivenhoe; a brother, Omer, of Santa Fe, N.M.; a sister, Liz Claiborne, the designer and apparel maker, of Manhattan, and six grandchildren.
        Once, while Mr. Claiborne was arguing against segregation in Louisiana, Justice Arthur Goldberg asked him about Claiborne Parish, which was on the Government's list of problems, according to ''The Tenth Justice: The Solicitor General and the Rule of Law'' (Alfred A. Knopf, 1987) by Lincoln Caplan.
        ''I regret to say Claiborne Parish is one of the worst,'' Mr. Claiborne said, and he added that it was named after his great-great-great-grandfather, who was the first American Governor of Louisiana.
      