
        Alex Lowe, an American climber whose versatility and tenacity in pushing the limits earned him a reputation as perhaps the country's finest all-around mountaineer, was presumed killed on Tuesday after vanishing in a massive avalanche on Shisha Pangma in Tibet. He was 40 and lived in Bozeman, Mont.
        Mr. Lowe had reached an altitude of about 19,000 feet on Shisha Pangma, the world's 14th highest mountain -- also known as Gosainthan -- when he was swept away, along with David Bridges, 29, a high-altitude cameraman, who also remains missing.
        They had planned to make the first descent by skis of the Himalayan peak's southwest face after reaching the 26,291-feet summit.
        A third climber, Conrad Anker, who last May discovered the long-missing body of George Mallory on Mount Everest, was tossed 100 feet and was ''pretty beat up'' by the crashing snow, but escaped serious injury, the expedition's leader, Andrew McLean, said.
        Mr. McLean reported the accident by satellite phone to a Web site,  MountainZone.com, that features outdoor adventures. Hazardous conditions forced other expedition members to abandon their search for Mr. Lowe and Mr. Bridges.
        Stewart Alexander Lowe was born on Dec. 24, 1958, into a Montana family that started him hiking soon after he learned to walk; he began his rock-climbing career wearing tennis shoes. His academic training was in mathematics, but his forte was climbing.
        He was widely admired for excelling in every aspect of mountaineering, from rock- and ice-climbing to ski descents. Galen Rowell, another climber, described Mr. Lowe as ''a renaissance mountain man in all regards.''
        Unlike many other serious climbers, Mr. Lowe also resolved to put his wife and children first. He acknowledged that mountaineering entailed risks, but said that experience increased the margin of safety.
        ''There's only one way to gain mountain sense, and that's to be in the mountains a lot,'' Mr. Lowe said. ''Unfortunately, when you're a young climber, you have none. You're out there and your risk level is high.''
        Climbing light, fast and often alone, Mr. Lowe pulled off feats that left other climbers in awe. ''We're all at this one level,'' Mr. Anker said once, ''and then there's Alex.''
        In late July, Mr. Lowe, at an age when most climbers are slowing down, led the first ascent of the northwest face of the Great Trango Tower, a 6,000-feet-high wall in the Karakorum range of Pakistan that no one else had even attempted. He was ill at the time, fell 50 feet and injured his elbow, but pushed on to the west summit at 20,410 feet.
        Previously, he achieved a solo ascent of the north face of the Matterhorn, the first solo ascent in winter of the north face of the Grand Teton in Wyoming, and no fewer than 16 routes up the sheer granite of El Capitan in Yosemite. Mr. Lowe scaled the nose of El Capitan, a climb that once took days, in 10 hours.
        Mr. Lowe climbed Mount Everest twice. A fascination with remote places also took him to Antarctica, Baffin Island in the Canadian Arctic, the Carstenz Pyramid in Indonesia and the Cordillera Blanca in Peru.
        His recent climbs, including those of Shisha Pangma and the Trango Tower, were sponsored by North Face, the clothing and equipment outfitter.
        In March, Outside Magazine called Mr. Lowe the world's best climber. He shrugged off the accolade, saying that there was no such thing because climbing was a way of life, not a sport. The best climbers, he said, distinguished themselves through persistence.
        ''And those are the ones that sort of go on and do lots of climbs, and harder climbs,'' Mr. Lowe said in a MountainZone interview. ''Those are the people that just can't shake it off. That's what I am.''
        In the same interview, Mr. Lowe said his biggest challenge was balancing the passion to climb with his love for his family, whom he described as life's greatest reward.
        ''I would let climbing slide away if I had to to maintain my relationship with my family,'' he said. ''Because it really is the big adventure.''
        Mr. Lowe is survived by his wife, Jennifer, and three sons, Max, 10, Sam, 6, and Isaac, 3.
      