
        Roscoe L. Egger Jr., a commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service in the Reagan Administration, died on Oct. 14 at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. He was 79 and lived in Green Valley, Ariz.
        He died after angioplasty to open  arteries in his heart, said his wife, Betty.
        Mr. Egger headed the I.R.S. from 1981 to 1986, a period of tumult at the service. Its computers were dated; its budget was under fire; the tax code was constantly being changed, and the number of returns being filed was increasing.
        In 1985, Mr. Egger issued a rare apology to taxpayers after the service lost hundreds of thousands of returns, some of which were found in trash cans, and refunds were delayed because of computer problems.
        In his last year in office, Mr. Egger  secured money to upgrade the agency's computer system. He also helped develop a sweeping tax law  that simplified the Federal tax code  and closed some loopholes.
        Roscoe Lynn Egger Jr. was born on Sept. 19, 1920, in Jackson, Mich. He graduated from Indiana University and served in the Army in World War II, receiving a Bronze Star and a Purple Heart. He then earned a law degree from George Washington University.
        Mr. Egger went to work for the  General Accounting Office and later was a private tax accountant. He also practiced law for several years before joining Price Waterhouse in 1956. He was head of the firm's office of Government services when he was nominated by President Ronald Reagan to be commissioner. Mr. Egger was the second certified public accountant to head the service.
        He returned to Price Waterhouse as a consultant after retiring from the I.R.S. in 1990.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Egger is survived by two daughters, Gabrielle Shaykin of Westport, Conn., and Antoinette Taylor of Chevy Chase, Md.; two stepdaughters, Cathe Schultz of Alexandria, Va., and Martha Coutts of Burlingame, Calif.; a stepson, Steven Spear of Centreville, Va.; two sisters, Gertrude Rigle of Jackson, and Beatrice Luce of Bowling Green, Ohio, and seven grandchildren.
        A story Mr. Egger often used to tell, about what he thought was widespread noncompliance with the tax laws, became well known.
        Once, Mr. Egger said, while he was awaiting confirmation as tax commissioner, he was in a taxi on his way to a make a speech, and the driver began talking about the sagging economy, his rising costs and byzantine taxi regulations.
        When Mr. Egger asked how he coped, the cabby confided that the only way to make enough money was to cheat on his taxes.
        Mr. Egger said nothing; the poor cab driver, the commissioner figured, would never have believed who his passenger was.
      