
        Vernon de Tar, the organist and choirmaster at the Episcopal Church of the Ascension in Greenwich Village for 42 years and a teacher at the Union Theological Seminary, Yale University and the Juilliard School, died on Oct. 7 in Kennett Square, Pa., where he lived. He was 94.
        Mr. de Tar was an important figure in American church music, having taught several generations of organists and having made a forceful case for replacing lugubrious 19th-century hymns with more contemporary settings as well as works from the 16th century that had fallen out of use. While at the Church of the Ascension he commissioned and performed several new works.
        At his retirement concert in 1981 he led a program of works for choir, brass, timpani, harp and organ that included the premieres of Louie White's ''Sursum cofrda'' and Alan Fletcher's setting of Psalm 26. Mr. de Tar's ''O'er the Cradle'' is occasionally heard in Christmas programs.
        Mr. de Tar was born in Detroit and studied the piano and organ at Syracuse University, from which he graduated in 1927. He continued his studies in New York with Franklin Cannon, David McK. Williams and Fernando Germani before returning to Michigan to earn his doctorate in music at Albion College. He also received a doctorate in sacred music at the Church Divinity School of the Pacific in Berkeley, Calif.
        In 1932, soon after he returned to New York, Mr. de Tar was appointed organist and choirmaster at the Calvary Episcopal Church, where he worked until taking up the same positions at the Church of the Ascension in 1939. While there he oversaw the design and installation of a Holtkamp organ and established a performance program that brought the church its reputation as a place for varied programs of sacred music from the Renaissance to the present.
        He also established a series of art-song recitals at the church. During the Iranian hostage crisis Mr. de Tar played a daily program on the church's carillon.
        Mr. de Tar taught organ and church music at the Juilliard School from 1947 to 1982, the School of Sacred Music at the Union Theological Seminary from 1945 to 1972 and the Institute of Sacred Music at Yale University from 1975 to 1978. He was also a member of the National Council of the American Guild of Organists, the Association of Anglican Musicians, the Hymn Society of America and of the boards of several church music organizations.
        After his retirement from the Church of the Ascension, Mr. de Tar worked as a substitute organist at several churches in Pennsylvania and continued to teach privately.
        He is survived by a daughter, Nina A. Fuller of Riverside, Tex., three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      