
        Richard Hough, a historian and novelist whose prolific career included books on Captain Bligh and a biography of the British war hero Earl Mountbatten, died on Oct. 7. He was 77 and had homes in London and Gloucestershire, England.
        Mr. Hough, the author of more than 90 books, built his reputation on vivid retellings of naval incidents, among them the mutiny on the Bounty, the death of Capt. James Cook and the Battle of Tsushima, a pivotal triumph by the Japanese over the Russian fleet in 1905. ''Captain Bligh and Mr. Christian,'' his 1972 account of the Bounty revolt, was the basis of the 1984 film ''The Bounty,'' starring Anthony Hopkins and Mel Gibson.
        His best-known work, however, was probably the 1980 biography ''Mountbatten: Hero of Our Time,'' based on the many conversations between Mr. Hough and Lord Mountbatten in the years before the earl  was killed in 1979 in a bombing attributed to the Irish Republican Army.
        While researching his book on Captain Bligh, Mr. Hough traveled to Pitcairn Island, where he met Lord Mountbatten, the beloved great-uncle of Charles, Prince of Wales. The men became friends, which led Lord Mountbatten to commission Mr. Hough to write an authorized biography of the lord's parents, a minor German prince, Louis of Battenberg, and Princess Victoria, a granddaughter of Queen Victoria. Eventually Mr. Hough asked to be considered as Lord Mountbatten's biographer and was given his subject's approval, although unofficially.
        A critical and popular success, the book was nonetheless condemned by Lord Mountbatten's heirs, who took exception to the author's declaration that his account was the book that Lord Mountbatten ''had wanted him to write.'' Particularly unsettling to the family, which sued to enjoin the book's publication, was Mr. Hough's assertion that Lord Mountbatten, Britain's last viceroy of India, knew of and condoned a ''serious relationship'' between his wife, Edwina, and Jawaharlal Nehru, who was to become India's first Prime Minister.
        Mr. Hough, the son of a banker,  was born in Brighton and educated at Frensham Heights, a progressive coeducational school. His plans for a naval career were thwarted by colorblindness; in 1941, he joined the Royal Air Force and was assigned for  training as a pilot. Stationed in Los Angeles, he was given flying lessons by Mary Pickford's brother, and he was soon spending weekends in the Hollywood Hills with Ronald Colman, Joan Fontaine, Charles Boyer and other celebrities.
        As a 21-year-old pilot, in 1943, he shot down two German fighter bombers over the North Sea. In the autumn after the invasion of Normandy, he flew Typhoon bombers on low-level maneuvers over the Netherlands and Germany.
        Mr. Hough began his career in publishing in 1947, writing numerous books for boys under the pen name Bruce Carter. He also worked in journalism, covering car racing for The Manchester Guardian and reviewing books for The Daily Telegraph.
        He is survived by his wife, Judy Taylor, and four daughters.
      