
        John E. Sanders, a geologist and a longtime professor at Barnard College who was also a major figure 20 years ago in a plan to clean up the Hudson River, died Wednesday at a hospital in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y. He was 73.
        The cause of death has not been determined, said his daughter, Stephanie Sullivan.
        Dr. Sanders, who lived in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., was a specialist in sedimentary geology, and much of his research was on the geology of the New York region.
        In the 1970's, as chairman of the Hudson River PCB Settlement Advisory Committee of the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation, Dr. Sanders was also influential in working out the details of a $200 million plan, with money from the state, the Federal Government and General Electric, to clean up 30 to 40 so-called hot spots in the Hudson River that were contaminated with PCB's, polychlorinated biphenyls, chemicals that have been associated with birth defects, skin disorders and cancer.
        Dr. Sanders was born on May 5, 1926, in Des Moines. He earned a bachelor's degree from Ohio Wesleyan University and a doctorate from Yale University. He taught at Yale from 1954 until 1964, and also served as a visiting assistant professor at Wesleyan University from 1956 until 1957.
        From 1969 to 1989, he taught at Barnard; he also taught at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and was a senior research associate at Columbia University's Hudson Laboratories. In 1990, he became professor emeritus at Barnard. He also taught at Hofstra University. He worked as a consultant at a law firm, specializing in environmental law, for several years after he retired from teaching.
        Dr. Sanders wrote ''Physical Geology'' (Harpers College Press, 1976) and, with G. M. Friedman, ''Principles of Sedimentology'' (John Wiley & Sons, 1978).
        Besides his daughter, Stephanie, of Silver Spring, Md., he is survived by his wife, Barbara Sanders; two sons, Philip, of Poquoson, Va., and Thomas, of Hawthorne, N.Y.; three sisters, Mary McBride of Napa, Calif., Alice Grant of Plainwell, Mich., and Pat Webb of Sarasota, Fla., and four grandchildren.
      