
        Yosef Burg, a seminal Israeli political figure who was a Cabinet Minister for 35 years as a head of the religious Zionist movement, died early today at Shaare Tsedek Hospital in Jerusalem. He was 90.
        Dr. Burg, a doctor of philosophy and an ordained rabbi, was last in public in July, when, in a wheelchair, he beamed with pride while his son, Avraham, was sworn in as the Speaker of the Parliament.
        Born in Dresden and educated in Germany, Dr. Burg left a few months before World War II broke out in 1939. He emigrated to Palestine, witnessing the birth of the State of Israel. He served under every Prime Minister until his retirement in 1986.
        Witty and grandiloquent with a thick German accent, Dr. Burg stood for tolerance in relations between religious and secular Jews. Though his movement, originally centrist, grew increasingly right-wing, he was seen as a moderate.
        Dr. Burg, with his chubby cheeks, thick glasses and ever-present skullcap, belonged to the first generation of religious Zionists, who formed the National Religious Party in 1956. The only Orthodox Jewish party that believed that Israel should be guided both by secular and religious laws, the party was the political arm of the Jewish settlers' movement.
        Eventually, critics attacked Dr. Burg over not asserting a more moderating influence over the party before it grew hawkish.
        A polyglot who spoke nine languages, Dr. Burg was elected to the first Israeli Parliament, in 1949. He went on to head a wide assortment of agencies, the Police, Interior and Health Ministries and religious affairs under eight Prime Ministers. He forged a particularly close relationship with Menachem Begin, although he opposed the war in Lebanon.
        ''Politics is not a choice between good and evil,'' Dr. Burg said last year in an interview with The Jerusalem Post. ''In politics, you have to decide between evil and less evil, and that can be a cruel choice.''
        In Germany, Dr. Burg studied at the University of Berlin and received his doctorate from the University of Leipzig. He received his rabbinical certification in Germany at 24 and was active in the Zionist youth movement there.
        Funeral services will be held on Sunday.
        Surviving are his wife, Rivkah; his son; his daughter, Dr. Ada Ben-Sasson, and several grandchildren.
      