
        Wayne E. Oates, the tireless writer of 57 books dealing with the relationship between theology and psychiatry, and the man who thought up the word ''workaholic,'' died on Thursday at a Louisville hospital. He was 82.
        In 1971, Dr. Oates wrote ''Confessions of a Workaholic: The Facts about Work Addiction,'' adding a word to the American lexicon; the Oxford English Dictionary credits him with inventing it.
        His concept was that work can become an addiction, akin to alcoholism. Mr. Oates said in an interview at the time the book was published that the work addict ''drops out of the human community'' in a drive for peak performance.
        Dr. Oates's interest perhaps reflected an appreciation of his own personality.
        ''My father was just an absolute, bustling dynamo of energy,'' said his son, Dr. Charles E. Oates, a neurologist. Other survivors of the senior Dr. Oates are his wife, Pauline, and a grandson.
        Mr. Oates devoted much of his time to combining Christian theology with psychiatric insights to improve pastoral counseling. He had retired as professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences at the University of Louisville School of Medicine and at other schools in the South after serving in several academic and pastoral posts.
        ''He was one of the fathers of the psychiatry of religion,'' said Dr. James Hyde, an associate professor of psychiatry at the Louisville medical school.
        Dr. Hyde said Dr. Oates built a bridge between religion and psychiatry in the 1940's and 1950's when a chasm separated the approaches to human problems. For example, Dr. Oates strove to help people who would try to pluck their own eyeballs out in accordance with what he argued was a misguided literal interpretation of a scriptural passage that reads in the Book of Matthew, ''And if thine eye offend thee, pluck it out . . .''
        His first book was ''The Christian Pastor,'' which was published in 1951 and is now in its third edition. His other books dealt with subjects ranging from grief to alcoholism to premarital counseling.
        As suggested by one title, ''When Religion Gets Sick'' (1971), Mr. Oates did not shrink from controversy. When his second book, ''The Bible in Pastoral Care,'' was published, five professors went to the president of the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in Louisville to object.
        ''They complained that I didn't have any right to write on the Bible,'' Mr. Oates told The Louisville Courier-Journal in an interview last year.
        The president of the seminary, Duke McCall, told the professors that they should write their own books about the Bible instead of criticizing Dr. Oates.
        Dr. Oates was born in Greenville, S.C., in 1917. He graduated from Mars Hill College and received his master's degree in theology from Wake Forest University. He earned his doctorate at the Louisville seminary, where he wrote his thesis on Sigmund Freud. He taught at the seminary and the University of Louisville while writing profusely, mainly on pastoral counseling.
        Mr. Oates said he never published his thesis because of concern that he would be labeled a Freudian. In fact, he said his purpose was to provide a critique of Freud and those who blindly subscribed to his theories.
        The limits of the psychological approach -- as well as its possibilities -- remained a concern to him.
        Associates and relatives noted that one of Dr. Oates's core beliefs was that even questionable motives could be channeled in useful directions. For example, they pointed to his second look at workaholics. The title of this 1978 book: ''Workaholics: Make Laziness Work for You.''
      