
        Clayton Williams, who used his experience as a criminal and a convict to help others like himself rejoin society, died on Oct. 14 in a Bronx hospital. He was 65.
        He died of complications from emphysema, kidney failure and heart disease, his sister Rosalie Knight said.
        Mr. Williams, who lived in the Bronx, played a prominent managerial role in programs begun by the Vera Institute of Justice, a nonprofit group that works to improve the criminal justice system. One program, called Project Wildcat, helps released convicts readjust to society through work programs. It was a path Mr. Williams knew well.
        He grew up in Harlem, and once said that he began to take heroin at 11. He bounced from juvenile homes to correctional centers for youths, and, as his crimes became more serious, ended up in state prison by his early 20's. His picture was on a wanted poster for a charge of murder in 1964 when he jumped parole on a robbery sentence he was serving in New York State.
        Mr. Williams was captured in Houston in 1969 on the murder charge. There was not enough evidence against him to proceed with a trial, but he was sent back to prison as a parole violator. He was released in 1973, and the next year, he participated in Vera's Wildcat program. By 1975, he was hired to be foreman of a Wildcat work crew, doing demolition and light construction.
        Mr. Williams later worked for Vera's Community Service Sentencing Project, which began in 1979 to help provide nonviolent offenders with alternatives to prison. This organization, like Wildcat, later became independent.
        When the community sentencing program was absorbed by the Center for Alternative Sentencing and Employment Services, a nonprofit organization independent of Vera, Mr. Williams served as a deputy director until 1995.
        Mr. Williams developed a reputation for tenacity, said Michael Smith, a former president of Vera who is now a law professor at the University of Wisconsin. In one notable incident in 1979, he helped give the Wildcat program credibility with judges by combing the Bronx to find a man who did not show up for his community sentencing work obligation.
        Mr. Williams strove to combine his devotion to helping people with his love for the Bronx. David Anderson wrote in ''Sensible Justice'' (The New Press, 1998), ''He roamed the neighborhoods of New York City looking for promising patches of urban decay: a vacant lot in need of greening, a dilapidated building intended to house the homeless mentally ill, a parochial school's leaf-strewn play yard.''
        Mr. Williams is survived by his sisters, Ms. Knight and Dorothy Kearney, both of Manhattan; his daughter, Roslyn Brown, and one grandson in the Bronx.
        As a 19-year-old with a wife and two children, William Rodriguez was hired as an intern by Mr. Williams. ''He was tough, but at the same time, he really cared,'' Mr. Rodriguez recalled. Today, Mr. Rodriguez is executive director of the Crime and Justice Foundation, a group in Boston modeled on Vera.
      