
        Leonard S. Shoen, who created the multibillion-dollar do-it-yourself moving industry in 1945 when he welded together a trailer, painted it an attention-grabbing orange and called his little company U-Haul, died on Monday morning after he drove his car into a utility pole near Las Vegas, Nev., his hometown for the last 20 years. He was 83.
        His death was a suicide, said a spokeswoman for the Clark County, Nev., coroner's office.
        Mr. Shoen was known for stunts like tossing $1,000 out of an office window in Phoenix, creating a traffic jam on the street below, to show how easy it was to waste money.
        In his later years, a vicious family feud erupted over control of his company. He successfully sued several of his 13 children after some of them took over U-Haul International Inc. in 1987.
        Known as Sam or L. S., Mr. Shoen was born on Feb. 29, 1916, in McGrath, Minn. He earned a bachelor's degree and a law degree from Oregon State University, and after World War II naval service, he and his wife, Anna Mary Shoen, moved to her family ranch in rural Washington State. At the age of 29, he created the first U-Haul trailers on the ranch. He rented them for $2 a day.
        Later, dealerships were established, and by 1949, it was possible to rent a trailer for a one-way trip from city to city in most of the country. Today, U-Haul rents trucks and trailers through independent dealers and company-owned centers.
        In the mid-1980's, Mr. Shoen gave most of his stock to his children. Several of them, principally Joseph Shoen and Mark Shoen, then ousted him as president and chairman in 1986 and stripped him of his retirement benefits after differing on corporate strategy. Mr. Shoen and other family members then sued and won a $1.5 billion settlement that was later reduced to $461 million.
        Joseph Shoen and Mark Shoen now head the company. Efforts to reach them directly were not successful; they did not return messages left yesterday with their public relations officials and at U-Haul's headquarters in Phoenix.
        Mr. Shoen was married five times; he was widowed once and divorced three times. He is survived by his wife, Carol, and her daughter, Shana Coupland of La Mesa, Calif., whom he adopted. He is also survived by six children from his marriage to his first wife, Anna Mary, who died in 1957. They are Dr. Samuel Shoen of Port Townsend, Wash., Michael Shoen of Vancouver, Wash., Edward Joseph Shoen of Phoenix, Mark Shoen of Phoenix, Mary Anna Eaton of Boyton Beach, Fla., and Paul Shoen of Phoenix.
        He is also survived by five children from his second marriage, Sophia Shoen of Phoenix, Cecilia Hanlon of Southampton, N.Y., Theresa Romero of Phoenix, Katrina Carlson of Los Angeles, and James Shoen of Reno; a son, Scott Shoen of Chagrin Falls, Ohio, from his third marriage; a brother, Ramon Shoen of Las Vegas; three sisters, Paula Martinson of Portland, Ore., Audrey Shaner of Los Angeles, and Bernice Doyle of Denver, and numerous grandchildren.
      