
        Dr. Nicholas C. Metropolis, a mathematician who was one of the initial team of scientists involved with the Manhattan Project and who later became a pioneer in computer science, died last Sunday at a nursing home in Los Alamos, N.M. He was 84.
        Dr. Metropolis was best known for his contributions to the Monte Carlo mathematical method, which applies the laws of probability to scientific research. From 1948 to 1952, he also used the stored program -- a principle that outlines the internal organization of a computer -- to develop one of the first high-speed electronic digital computers, which he named Maniac, for mathematical and numerical integrator and computer. The principle was developed by a colleague, the mathematician John von Neumann.
        ''Nick's work in mathematics and the beginnings of computer science forms the basis for nearly everything the laboratory has done in computing and simulation science,'' said John C. Browne, director of the Los Alamos National Laboratory, where Dr. Metropolis was a senior fellow emeritus.
        Dr. Metropolis was born on June 11, 1915, in Chicago. He earned a bachelor's degree and a doctorate in experimental physics from the University of Chicago, where he collaborated with Enrico Fermi and Edward Teller on the earliest nuclear reactors.
        In 1943, J. Robert Oppenheimer recruited him to Los Alamos for the Manhattan Project, the United States' wartime effort to build the first atomic bomb. His first assignment was to develop equations for the state of materials at high temperatures, pressures and densities. He sometimes joked that he spent much of his time repairing electromechanical calculators with Richard Feynman, a physicist who later shared a Nobel Prize for research in quantum electrodynamics.
        After the war, Dr. Metropolis taught at the University of Chicago. In 1948, he returned to Los Alamos to lead the group that built Maniac and Maniac II. He went back to the University of Chicago in 1957 and founded the Institute for Computer Research. In 1965, he returned to Los Alamos once again.
        Dr. Metropolis became a senior fellow of the laboratory in 1980, and in 1987 became the first Los Alamos employee given emeritus status by the University of California, which had operated the laboratory since its creation in 1943. He was also a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        He is survived by a son, Christopher, of Berkeley, Calif.; two daughters, Penelope Metropolis of Brookline, Mass., and Katharine Metropolis of Goleta, Calif., and two sisters, Joan Kent of Boulder, Colo., and Helen Yannias of Westchester, Ill.
      