
        Frederick Christopher Belen, a Washington lawyer who helped speed the work of the country's growing post office through the establishment of regional distribution centers and the five-digit ZIP code,  died on Wednesday at Arlington Hospital in Virginia. An Arlington resident, he was 95.
        Mr. Belen had a long engagement with the United States Post Office,  before it became the Postal Service, at a time when its work load increased many times.
        A former Congressional aide, Mr. Belen served as counsel, chief counsel and staff director of the House Post Office and Civil Service Committee from 1946 to 1961, when he was appointed assistant postmaster general for operations.
        He served as deputy postmaster general, the second in command, from 1964 to 1969. In addition, he was a former director of special studies for the department.
        He helped to design, start and oversee the automation of mail processing and delivery. The innovations of the 1960's included a network of regional distribution centers and the Zone Improvement Plan inaugurated in 1963, familiarly known as the ZIP code.
        The code's first three digits denote the section of the country to which an item is destined, while the next two signal a certain local post office or zone of the addressee. For being the chief architect who put the system in place, the Post Office Department gave him its first Benjamin Franklin Award ''for exceptional leadership'' in 1962.
        A native of Lansing, Mich., Mr. Belen graduated from Michigan State University in 1937 and earned a doctor of law degree at George Washington University in 1942. He then served as an officer in World War II and helped organize the domestic intelligence and security operations of the Army Transportation Corps.
        After retiring from the post office,  he practiced law, handling legislative and postal affairs for clients like the United Parcel Service.
        He was president of the National Democratic Club, a political and social gathering place in Washington, in 1974-75.
        Mr. Belen's survivors include his wife of 56 years, Opal Marie Sheets Belen; a son, Frederick C. Jr., of Herndon, Va.; a sister, and three grandchildren.
      