
        Jerald C. Brauer, who as dean of the University of Chicago's Divinity School helped build the institution into an internationally known center for the study of theology, died on Sept. 26 at his home in Chicago.
        He was 78. The cause was leukemia, the divinity school said.
        Dr. Brauer, an authority on Puritanism and the history of Christianity in America, served on the school's faculty for 49 years, from 1950 until his death, and wrote and edited numerous books. Although he officially retired in 1991, he said he could not imagine life without teaching, and continued to teach a seminar on Christian history each semester.
        But it was in his role as dean, from 1955 to 1970, that he may be best remembered. Dr. Brauer recruited a group of famous scholars to Chicago, including the theologian Paul Tillich, the comparative religion specialist Mircea Eliade, the philosopher Paul Ricouer, the church historian Martin Marty and others.
        W. Clark Gilpin, the divinity school's current dean, said Dr. Brauer had thoroughly enjoyed the job, ''primarily because he loved the University of Chicago.''
        ''He was a citizen of the University of Chicago and the Lutheran Church, not necessarily in that order,'' Dr. Gilpin said.
        Dr. Brauer initially served as dean of the university's Federated Theological Faculty, which included the divinity school and three other institutions, a union that dissolved in 1960. He received the appointment in April 1955, when he was just 33. With his youth and his buzz-cut hair, he appeared, Time magazine said, ''more like a football coach'' than a theologian. (As analogies go, it was not too far off base: Dr. Brauer, a Wisconsin native, was a great fan of the Green Bay Packers.)
        In a Time interview, he made it clear that he had a vision for the school, saying he expected it to articulate a moderate theological liberalism, one asserting ''the creativeness and potentiality of the human spirit,'' while also recognizing ''the limitations of the human spirit.''
        Still, Dr. Brauer's concerns led him to speak out on issues in the wider world. In May 1970, he and other professors nationwide signed a ''declaration in solidarity with Soviet Jews,'' deploring evidence of anti-Semitism in the Soviet Union.
        At a news conference, he urged closer attention to what he called ''the tragedy of repression'' of Jews by the Soviet Government. ''It is a human issue that should be of concern to all people interested in freedom and justice,'' he said.
        In July 1967, he was among a handful of leading Protestant and Roman Catholic scholars to sign a declaration, a month after the Arab-Israeli Six-Day War, saying that Jerusalem should remain a united city.
        Jerald C. Brauer was born in Fond du Lac, Wis., in 1921. After receiving bachelor's and ministerial degrees, he completed his doctorate in the history of Christianity at the University of Chicago divinity school in 1948. From 1948 to 1950, he taught at Union Theological Seminary in New York, where he was an assistant to Mr. Tillich. For more than three decades, he was a co-editor of the quarterly journal Church History.
        Ordained as a pastor in the Lutheran Church in America, which merged with two other denominations a decade ago to create the Evangelical Lutheran Church, he retained a lifelong interest in issues affecting Lutheranism.
        He is survived by his wife, Muriel Nelson Brauer; two sons, Christopher Nelson Brauer of Chicago and Thomas Carl Brauer of Oshkosh, Wis.; a daughter, Marian Ruth Wieting of Chicago; and four grandchildren.
      