
        Barbara Wolff, a veteran New York City official who was instrumental in setting up the city's business improvement districts program and in the commercial revitalization program that followed the blackout of 1977, died Oct. 15 at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She was 58.
        The cause was ovarian cancer, said George Glatter, a friend and colleague, who said Ms. Wolff had kept coming to her office until several weeks ago.
        Ms. Wolff was assistant commissioner in charge of the neighborhood development division of the New York City Department of Business Services, a job she had held for more than a decade. The division develops and oversees economic programs designed to benefit neighborhood commercial streets, industrial areas and other economic centers in the city.
        In that post and for some years earlier she played a leading role in creating the business improvement districts known as B.I.D.'s, which now number more than 40. They are self-financing organizations directed by local property owners and businesses. The districts offer a variety of services, including sanitation, security, promotion and marketing. The services are tailored to each district's needs and supplement the services the city provides.
        The biggest districts include those for the Lower Manhattan, Grand Central and Times Square areas. The smallest are strips of commercial establishments in neighborhoods like the Brighton Beach section of Brooklyn and the Steinway Street area of Queens.
        The program has been credited with strengthening many commercial areas and some industrial ones by helping attract new businesses and persuading others to stay.
        From 1977 to 1983, Ms. Wolff was with the city's Office for Economic Development as its director of commercial revitalization. Mr. Glatter, a deputy assistant commissioner in the business services department, said Ms. Wolff had directed the program, begun as a response to the damage inflicted on stores around the city in the looting that took place during the 1977 blackout.
        The program has made use of Federal and city funds over the years to provide various kinds of aid to local businesses and groups.
        Ms. Wolff was born in Manhattan and graduated from Hunter High School. She received a bachelor's degree from Simmons College in Boston and a master's degree in political science from the University of California at Berkeley.
        She also worked for the International Labor Organization in Geneva, the United States Agency for International Development in Washington, the Parks and City Planning departments in New York and the City's Public Development Corporation, where she was a vice president.
        She is survived by a brother, William Wolff of Los Angeles.
        Correction:  October 27, 1999, Wednesday  An obituary yesterday about Barbara Wolff, a New York City official who was instrumental in setting up the city's business improvement districts, misstated the date of her death. It was this past Friday, not Oct. 15.
      