
        Richard Marius, a scholar of the Reformation, novelist and speechwriter who ran the Harvard Expository Writing Program for 16 years, died Nov. 5 at his home in Belmont, Mass. He was 66.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Lanier Smythe.
        Dr. Marius's scholarly works on Thomas More and Martin Luther and his four novels were well received, but he became embroiled in a dispute in 1995 when he was accused of displaying an anti-Semitic bias that prompted Vice President Al Gore to withdraw an offer to hire him as a speechwriter.
        Dr. Marius had served as an unpaid speechwriter for Mr. Gore for several years, and had just accepted a full-time position as his speechwriter when Martin Peretz, editor in chief of The New Republic, complained that Dr. Marius had exhibited bias in a book review published in The Harvard Magazine in 1992.
        In the review, Dr. Marius said that the manner in which Israel was treating Palestinians was ''eerily similar to the stories of the Gestapo'' during World War II.
        Dr. Marius denied any anti-Semitic beliefs and later called the reaction to his review ''a little bit extreme.''
        Richard Curry Marius was born in London County, Tenn., on July 29, 1933. After graduating in 1954 from the University of Tennessee with a degree in journalism, he earned a bachelor of divinity degree from the Southern Baptist Seminary in Louisville, Ky., in 1958, and then a master's degree and a doctorate in the history of the Reformation from Yale University.
        Dr. Marius's 1985 biography, ''Thomas More,'' which stripped More of the sanctity attributed to him by many admirers, was nominated for a National Book Award. His best-known novel, ''The Coming of Rain'' (1969), was given a generally favorable review in The New York Times Book Review by Joyce Carol Oates. She called it ''a slender, tragic, perhaps beautiful story of the ruins of dreams'' that is weakened occasionally by ''melodramatic complications.'' Dr. Marius recast the novel as a play, which was produced by the Alabama Shakespeare Festival in 1998.
        In 1994 Dr. Marius left the Expository Writing Program, which he had led since 1978, but remained at Harvard as a senior lecturer until he retired in 1998.
        In addition to his wife, the chairwoman of humanities at Suffolk University in Boston, Dr. Marius is survived by two sons from a previous marriage, Richard Henri Marius of Murfreesboro, Tenn., and Frederick Stewart Marius of Winchester, Mass.; a son from his marriage to Dr. Smythe, John Bartlett Marius of New York; a brother, John, of Lenoir City, Tenn.; and two grandchildren.
      