
        George Arthur Stinson, who managed two highly successful careers as a tax lawyer on Wall Street and as a steel magnate in Pittsburgh, died on Nov. 19 at his home in Tryon, N.C., where he had retired in 1983. He was 84.
        The cause was complications from cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Stinson spent the 1950's as a partner dealing with tax laws in what is now Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton, a prominent international law firm based in Manhattan. In 1961, at age 46, he abruptly changed course to become secretary and a vice president with the National Steel Corporation in Pittsburgh.
        He rose rapidly, becoming president in 1963 and chief executive the next year. He held the chief executive post until 1980, concurrently serving as chairman from 1972 to 1981 and helping to diversify the company.
        National Steel, the country's fourth-largest producer of steel, became a subsidiary of the Japanese steelmaker NKK in the early 1980's, and its headquarters now is in Mishawaka, Ind. Mr. Stinson remained a board member of National Steel until 1986.
        George Stinson was born in Camden, Ark., and graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Northwestern University in 1936. He earned an L.L.D. degree at Columbia University Law School in 1939 and was admitted to the New York bar that year.
        In World War II he rose to lieutenant colonel as an intelligence officer in the Army Air Forces and was decorated with the Legion of Merit. After the war he joined the United States attorney general's office.
        He was an assistant attorney general in the tax division when he was recruited by the Wall Street law firm, which made him a partner in 1951.
        He was a past chairman of the American Iron and Steel Institute and the International Iron and Steel Institute, and a director of the Mutual Life Insurance Company and the Ralston-Purina Company. He was a trustee of the University of Pittsburgh and the George C. Marshall Foundation.
        In 1976 he served President Gerald Ford as national chairman of the Bicentennial Savings Bond Drive. Just before that he sat on the Presidential Commission on International Trade and Investment Policy.
        Mr. Stinson is survived by his wife of 52 years, Betty Millsop Stinson; three sons, Thomas M., of Atlanta, Peter T., of Pittsburgh and Joel M., of Tryon; a daughter, Lauretta Stinson-Williams of Bethesda, Md.; and eight grandchildren.
      