
        Hank Messick, an author and investigative journalist who wrote extensively about organized crime, died on Nov. 6 at his home in Cocoa, Fla., after a long illness.
        He was 77 and suffered from Sjogren's syndrome, an autoimmune disease, said his wife, Faye.
        Mr. Messick wrote 19 books and was best known for ''Lansky,'' a 1971 biography of Meyer Lansky that depicted him as something of a financial wizard of organized crime and famously quoted a disputed estimate of Lansky's worth, $300 million. His first book, ''The Silent Syndicate'' (1967), traced the rise to power, and even social prominence, of a group of gangsters who got their start in Cleveland during Prohibition.
        He was also the author of ''Syndicate in the Sun'' and the co-author of an autobiography of Joseph Barboza, a prolific killer in the Boston gang wars of the 1960's who later became a Federal witness.
        Mrs. Messick said one of the men  described in ''The Silent Syndicate'' cordially invited Mr. Messick into his home in Miami -- and asked if he wanted money.
        ''They tried threats, bribes, anything,'' she recalled.
        Although his illness robbed him of most of his sight, Mr. Messick wrote his final book, ''Razzle-Dazzle'' (1995), largely from memory and dictated it to his wife.
        ''Razzle-Dazzle'' recounts his investigation for The Louisville Courier-Journal into the powerful gambling rings that operated out of Newport, Ky., in the late 50's and his role in efforts by community leaders to run them out of town.
        Hank Messick was born in Happy Valley, N.C., in 1922. After earning a master's degree from the University of Iowa, he taught journalism at what was then called Colorado A & M College in Fort Collins. But after a few years of teaching Mr. Messick wanted ''to get out and get some real experience,'' Mrs. Messick said. He began his career as a reporter at The Waynesville Mountaineer, a weekly in North Carolina.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Marda Messick; two sons, Hank and Jon; a sister, Mildred Messick, and two grandchildren.
      