
        Robert D. Van Kampen, a millionaire investor who built one of the world's largest private collections of biblical manuscripts and early printed Bibles, died on Friday at Loyola University Medical Center outside of Chicago while awaiting a heart transplant. He was 60.
        Mr. Van Kampen, who lived in Grand Haven, Mich., suffered from a viral condition that resulted in the deterioration of his heart, said David Allen, a longtime friend and business associate.
        After 1984, when he could count his fortune in the tens if not hundreds of millions, Mr. Van Kampen devoted himself to writing books about Christian eschatology, a branch of theology dealing with the study of the end of the world, and to his collection of biblical materials. His first book was ''The Sign'' (1992).
        His collection of nearly 5,000 items, ranging from clay tablets to a legendary blood-stained Bible, are housed in the Scriptorium, a nonsectarian research center, library and museum in Grand Haven open to the public by appointment. The Scriptorium was founded by Mr. Van Kampen in 1994.
        ''It's the country's outstanding collection of manuscript and early printed Bibles,'' said Paul Saenger, the curator of rare books at the Newberry Library in Chicago who has worked at the Scriptorium.
        ''As a Christian fundamentalist Mr. Van Kampen believed literally in the Bible, and saw that if you got all of the different versions together, it would help scholars to recover the uncorrupted text,'' said Mr. Saenger. ''Scholars like myself may not share those beliefs, but we can benefit from the zeal of collectors like Mr. Van Kampen.''
        Mr. Saenger said that the British Library in London would soon publish an article of his about the practice of verse numbering in early Bibles that could not have been written without access to the materials gathered at the Scriptorium.
        ''The Oxford Dictionary of the Bible says that this graphic device started in the 16th century,'' Mr. Saenger said, ''but working at the Scriptorium a few years ago I found that's wrong. They were doing it in the Middle Ages. That's important because it helps you understand how people used the Bible. It made the Bible far more accessible.''
        John Sharpe, curator emeritus of rare books at Duke University, said of the Scriptorium: ''It is a fine collection which because of its great resources has the potential of becoming one of the world's best private research libraries for biblical scholarship.''
        Bastiaan Van Elderen, executive director of the Scriptorium, said the collection had many unique pieces, among them a 16th-century Hebrew Bible that he believed was the only one in the United States.
        Mr. Van Kampen began collecting rare biblical and ancient manuscripts 17 years ago when he purchased a 1537 English-language Bible said to be stained by the blood of its martyred owner.
        ''That seemed to fascinate him,'' said Mr. Van Elderen. ''The stain is only the claim, only the story that comes to us with this book.''
        Mr. Van Kampen later acquired papyrus and clay tablets, some of which date from 2,000 B.C.; a Coptic translation from the fourth century A.D. of a portion of the Old Testament from Egypt, the Book of Daniel from the Gutenberg Bible of 1455, Hebrew Torah scrolls and translations by the 14th-century reformer John Wycliffe.
        As a businessman Mr. Van Kampen made his reputation as a young bond salesman. In 1975 he founded an investment banking firm later called Van Kampen Merritt (now Van Kampen Funds).
        The firm pioneered the packaging of municipal bonds into unit trusts sold to individual investors with insurance against default.
        In 1984, he sold the company to the Xerox Corporation for about $200 million. Today, Van Kampen Funds has more than $79 billion in assets.
        In 1989 Mr. Van Kampen acquired a controlling interest in Fitch Investors Service, a diminutive version of Moody's or Standard & Poor's, with about $2 million in gross revenues, and sold it in 1997 when it had about $80 million in revenues.
        Born on Dec. 16, 1938, at Evergreen Park, Ill., Mr. Van Kampen attended schools in Wheaton, Ill., and graduated from Wheaton College in 1960. His career in investments and finance began when he joined the John Nuveen company in Chicago after graduation.
        Mr. Van Kampen also was a partner in VMS Realty from 1980 to 1992 and established the Van Kampen Asset Management Company with offices in Grand Haven and Wheaton.
        He moved to southwest Michigan in 1993, building a $3.3 million mansion there, and founded two churches in the area.
        Mr. Van Kampen is survived by his wife, Judith; three daughters, Kimberly Van Kampen of Chicago, Kristen Wisen of Grand Haven and Karla Van Kampen Pierre of Grand Haven, and 11 grandchildren.
      