
        Donald Mills, the last surviving member of the singing group the Mills Brothers, whose serene harmony and playful wit in songs like ''Up a Lazy River'' and ''Glow Worm'' entertained audiences over six decades, died Saturday. He was 84.
        Mr. Mills had been performing as recently as April, with his son John Mills II in Palm Springs, Calif., when he underwent brain surgery for cerebral swelling. He fought pneumonia on and off after the brain surgery, and died of complications from pneumonia at Cedars Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles, said Bernard J. Roswig, their publicist and a family friend.
        The Mills Brothers' popularity, versatility and influence were unusual in an era when black performers, like themselves, were segregated from whites. Yet their affability and musicianship made them one of the most influential singing groups in the country, winning admirers like Bing Crosby, Mel Torme and Dean Martin.
        With 2,246 recordings made by 1981, their last year performing together, the Mills Brothers may have recorded more songs than anyone else. They have been awarded 36 gold records, for million sellers, and sold more than 50 million records. Their songs, with their smooth and tight harmony, are favorites of barbershop quartets.
        Mills Brothers songs constitute a virtual time capsule of the pre-rock era. Their first big hit was ''Tiger Rag'' in 1932, in which they imitated instruments like the trombone and trumpet, and was followed by such standards as ''Goodbye Blues,'' ''You're Nobody's Sweetheart Now,'' ''Sweet Sue,'' ''Bye, Bye Blackbird,'' ''You Always Hurt the One You Love,'' ''Yellow Bird,'' ''Cab Driver'' ''Up a Lazy River,'' as well as ''Paper Doll,'' a song that led to a string of Top 10 hits in the 1950's.
        For much of their time together, they weren't all brothers. Their father, John Sr., replaced his son John Charles, who died in 1936. Donald continued to perform with his brothers as a trio after their father died. Harry Mills died in 1982, and his brother Herbert died in 1988.
        Harry Mills, often the spokesman for the group, once described the group's beginnings: ''When we started out in 1925, we were billed as Four Boys and a Guitar. We were a novelty quartet whose forte was to imitate instruments with our voices.'' The boys ranged in age from 11 to 15.
        Donald Mills was born April 29, 1915, in Piquea, Ohio, to John Sr., a professional singer, and Eathel, a music teacher and light-opera singer.
        Donald Mills's wife, Sylvia, died in 1988. In addition to his son John of Los Angeles, he is survived by five other children: Naola Summers of Colton, Calif.; Deidra M. Raney of Bellefontaine, Ohio; Donald F. Mills Jr., Alan H. Mills and Melody M. Mills of Los Angeles; 21 grandchildren and 18 great-grandchildren.
      