
        Paul Bowles, the novelist, composer, poet and quintessential outsider of American literature, died of a heart attack yesterday in a hospital in Tangier, Morocco. He was 88, and throughout his extraordinary career evoked a world of dark Moroccan streets and scorching deserts, a haze of hashish and drug-induced visions.
        Mr. Bowles was taken to the hospital on Nov. 7 from his home in Tangier, where he has lived since 1947.
        A man of diverse talents, he was most famous for his stories and his novels, especially ''The Sheltering Sky.'' He was also known for his songs, concertos, incidental music and operas; for his marriage to Jane Bowles; and, simply, for being Paul Bowles. Together with his wife, a novelist and playwright who died in 1973, he became an icon of individualism. Although he remained elusive to his biographers as well as his critics, his life as an expatriate was as fascinating as his own experiments in art.
        One of the last of his cultural generation, what might be called the post-Lost Generation, he knew and occasionally collaborated with many of the major artistic figures of his time, among them Orson Welles, Tennessee Williams and Gertrude Stein. He put a stamp of sui generis on whatever he chose to do, or not to do. In many ways, his career was one of avoidance.
        In an interview with The New York Times in 1995, the last time he visited New York, he said that a typical Bowles fictional character ''slips through life, if possible without touching anything, without touching other people.'' Asked if that was how he lived his own life, he admitted: ''I've tried. It's hard. If you discover you're affecting other people, you have to stop doing whatever you doing.''
        A Place of Wisdom, Ecstasy, Even Death
        Mr. Bowles's fiction deals with civilization overcome by savagery, a world in which innocence is corrupted and delirium thrives. At the core is a feeling of isolation, of self-contained compartments in which people live alone and fear communication. As he said in an interview in The Paris Review in 1981, ''Everyone is isolated from everyone else.''
        Although Mr. Bowles's 1972 autobiography was titled ''Without Stopping,'' his career was filled with stops and restarts. At various points he turned away from music and took up fiction, gave up writing novels, retreated to Tangier and became a collector of Arabian stories and songs, and moved farther away from the worlds of publishing and society toward an unknown destination.
        As he said in his autobiography, ''Like any Romantic, I had always been vaguely certain that sometime during my life I should come into a magic place which, in disclosing its secrets, would give me wisdom and ecstasy -- perhaps even death.''
        In contrast to other writers who chose to keep their names in the spotlight, Mr. Bowles steadfastly preferred not to, avoiding commitments and rejecting offers. ''I'm not ambitious,'' he said. ''If I had been, I'd have stayed in New York.''
        Instinctively, he did what he thought he was most suited to do. For example, he rejected an offer from the producer Lawrence Langner to write the score for the Broadway show that later became ''Oklahoma!'' He did this before Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein 2nd came into the project. ''They're lucky I turned it down,'' he later said, adding that his version ''would have been a terrible flop.''
        He also rejected an offer from Jerome Robbins to write the music for the ballet ''Fancy Free'' before the assignment went to Leonard Bernstein.
        He insisted that he did not plan things; he had no itinerary for his life. ''I've never been a thinking person,'' he said. ''A lot seems to happen without my conscious knowledge.'' Or, as he once said, he preferred ''to leave imagination free to wander in the unconscious, where it can select whatever elements seem propitious to the elaboration of a tale.''
        Mr. Bowles became a magnet for all those envisioning the artist's life away from the mainstream. It is not surprising that he was idolized by writers of the Beat Generation, many of whom visited him in Tangier. Allen Ginsberg called him ''a caviar writer.''
        Sweet Songs, Light in Texture
        There were two sides to Mr. Bowles's art, as Ned Rorem explained in his memoir ''Knowing When to Stop.'' Mr. Rorem said that his stories were ''icy, cruel, objective'' and his music was ''warm, wistful, witty.'' When that criticism was repeated to Mr. Bowles, he laughed and said, ''He has a lot of chutzpah to use the word cruel.'' He said he would have substituted the word realistic.
        It was his feeling that of his 50 stories only two were marked by violence. In one of the most brutal -- and most admired -- stories, ''A Distant Thunder,'' a professor is captured by nomads who cut out his tongue and treat him as their slave.
        Virgil Thomson said about Mr. Bowles's work as a composer: ''Paul Bowles's songs are enchanting for their sweetness of mood, their lightness of texture, for in general their way of being wholly alive and right. . . . The texts fit their tunes like a peach in its skin.''
        One of the oddities of Mr. Bowles's life is that this international traveler, who was marked by his rootlessness and who was seemingly a wanderer in the desert of his own choice, was the son of a dentist, born into a middle-class environment in Jamaica, Queens. During his childhood, Jamaica was still a bucolic environment with sheep grazing on the main street.
        In one family legend, Claude Bowles, Paul's father, tried to kill his son in infancy by stripping off the baby's clothes and placing him in a basket on a windowsill during a snowstorm. According to the story, he was rescued by his grandmother. Although the incident might not have happened, Mr. Bowles thought it was true -- and it haunted him.
        Perhaps sparked by such fears of abandonment, he had a sense of wanderlust even as a small child. In his autobiography he said: ''Very early I understood that I would always be kept from doing what I enjoyed and forced to that which I did not. The Bowles family took it for granted that pleasure was destructive, whereas engaging in an unappealing activity aided in character formation.''
        He could read by the time he was 3 and within the year was writing stories. Soon, he wrote surrealistic poetry and music. When he was 16, he published poetry in Transition magazine.
        Until he was 18, he followed a rigidly formalized life. Then, in his first semester at the University of Virginia, he suddenly quit school. He left the United States without telling his parents, expecting never to see them again. For the first of several times, he changed his life.
        In characteristic Bowles fashion, he fled to Paris. He once said that he was not running away but was ''running toward something, although I didn't know what at the time.'' In Paris, he met Gertrude Stein, Jean Cocteau and Andre Gide, among others, but he retained a cool air of indifference about his meetings with such famous people. ''I took it for granted,'' he said. ''You go to Paris and you meet all the people you admire.''
        Instant Rapport And Countless Affairs
        A year later, he returned to the United States, where he met Aaron Copland and began to study composition with him. For four months he lived in Berlin, where one of his friends was Christopher Isherwood, who was gathering material for what would later become his book ''Goodbye to Berlin.'' Isherwood named his leading character Sally Bowles after Paul Bowles.
        In 1931, at the suggestion of Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas, Mr. Bowles went to Morocco, where he and Copland shared a house in Tangier.
        By the mid-1930's, he was back in New York. He wrote musical scores for Orson Welles, beginning with ''Horse Eats Hat'' at the Federal Theater Project, and later for works by William Saroyan, Tennessee Williams and others. In 1937 he met Jane Auer. She was a lesbian, and he was bisexual; there was an immediate rapport and an intimacy. Within a year they were married. Through countless affairs on both sides, they remained married and permanently attached to each other. Looking back on their marriage, Mr. Bowles said: ''We played everything by ear. Each one did what he pleased.''
        At first, he focused on his music while she began writing a novel. When she gave a draft of it to him in Mexico in 1945, he read it carefully and, acting as editor, suggested changes. The book, ''Two Serious Ladies,'' received mixed reviews, but it was the beginning of Jane Bowles's literary reputation, and it acted as an inspiration to her husband. ''It was the excitement of participating in that that got me interested in writing,'' he said to Millicent Dillon, author of biographies of both Bowleses. ''There were so many interactions and interinfluences.''
        In contrast to his wife, who apparently found no pleasure in writing, Mr. Bowles savored the experience and the experimentation. As he said, ''I enjoyed shaping the lives of nonexistent people.'' He also said that he wrote ''for the pleasure of seeing one's thoughts in front of one, on paper.''
        In New York, the Bowleses were immersed in a literary world. In the early 1940's they lived with other artists in a house on Middagh Street in Brooklyn Heights. The residents included W. H. Auden, Benjamin Britten and Oliver Smith, the scenic designer. For two years in the late 1940's the couple lived on West 10th Street in Manhattan. Mr. Smith rented three floors of a brownstone. Mr. Bowles lived on the top floor, putting a Steinway piano under the skylight. Smith was on the floor below, and another flight down lived Jane Bowles and her friend Helvetia Perkins. The four shared a cook and lived communally.
        In this period, Mr. Bowles wrote scores for seven plays (including ''The Glass Menagerie'') and collaborated with Tennessee Williams on the song fragments ''Blue Mountain Ballads.'' He also returned to writing short stories and translated Jean-Paul Sartre's play ''Huis-Clos,'' retitling it ''No Exit.''
        Mr. Bowles also reviewed music for The New York Herald Tribune. During this time, Jane Bowles wrote her play, ''In the Summer House.''
        The Dream City Of Tangier
        To others, this would have been considered a highly productive period, but Mr. Bowles ''always seemed to find myself doing what someone else wanted done.'' Because he continued to accept theatrical commissions, he was unable to attain the freedom he wanted.
        One night in 1947 Mr. Bowles had a dream about ''the magic city'' of Tangier, one of his homes during the 1930's, and he decided to return there. Before departing, he had an idea for a novel that would take place in the Sahara, and he thought of a title, ''The Sheltering Sky,'' borrowing it from the popular song, ''Down Among the Sheltering Palms.'' Later his wife joined him in Tangier.
        ''I could have gone to some other part of the world,'' he said. ''But Morocco was a magnet.''
        Published in 1949, ''The Sheltering Sky'' quickly became the foundation of his estimable career as an author, and it is still at the core of his literary legacy. Mr. Bowles described the book as ''an adventure story in which the adventures take place on two planes simultaneously: in the actual desert and in the inner desert of the spirit.''
        The central characters are Port and Kit Moresby, a married couple who are generally considered to be surrogates for Paul and Jane Bowles. But in his Paris Review interview, Mr. Bowles denied that possibility: ''The tale is entirely imaginary. Kit is not Jane, although I used some of Jane's characteristics in determining Kit's reactions to such a voyage. Obviously I thought of Port as a fictional extension of myself. But Port is certainly not Paul Bowles, any more than Kit is Jane.''
        Reviewing the book in The New York Times Book Review, Tennessee Williams proclaimed the author ''a talent of true maturity and sophistication.'' Williams said it was one of the few books by an American writer ''to bear the spiritual imprint of recent history in the Western world.''
        In a review in The Times of a subsequent Bowles novel, Conrad Knickerbocker ranked ''The Sheltering Sky'' ''with the dozen or so most important American novels published since World War II.''
        A Best Seller And a Film
        The book became a best seller and was sold to the movies, but it was to be 40 years before it was filmed. In 1990 Bernardo Bertolucci's lavish movie, starring John Malkovich and Debra Winger and with Mr. Bowles himself playing a cameo role, received mixed reviews.
        The author was disappointed. His one-word criticism of the film: ''Awful.''
        The novel was followed, in 1952, by ''Let It Come Down,'' about an American bank clerk who journeys to Tangier and is caught up in a world of intrigue and corruption. In his review in The New York Times Book Review, Robert Gorham Davis said the novel ''drives its central character relentlessly toward doom, toward the final orgastic shudder, with the nightmare clarity, the hallucinative exoticism, of the best of Bowles's short stories.''
        ''The Spider's House'' (1955) deals with an American novelist living in Fez during a Nationalist revolt. It was 11 years before Mr. Bowles published his next novel, ''Up Above the World.'' At the center of that book are an American doctor and his wife, adrift in Central America and held captive by a charming man of mystery. Neither novel measured up to Mr. Bowles's first success.
        His other books include ''The Delicate Prey and Other Stories,'' ''Days: Tangier Journal: 1987-1989,'' ''Points in Time,'' ''Too Far From Home: The Selected Writings of Paul Bowles'' and ''Next to Nothing: Collected Poems, 1926-1977.'' His musical works included ''Concerto for Two Pianos, Winds and Percussion,'' ''A Picnic Cantata,'' an operatic version of Garcia Lorca's ''Yerma'' and ''The Wind Remains,'' a zarzuela for piano and orchestra based on a text by Garcia Lorca.
        In Morocco Mr. Bowles began translating the stories of Arab writers, particularly Mohammed Mrabet. Because Mr. Bowles seldom traveled, friends (and journalists and potential biographers) came to see him as if on a pilgrimage.
        Mr. Bowles leaves no survivors.
        Eventually his dream city of Tangier was invaded by tourists and became something of a nightmare. Still he stayed on. ''I haven't the energy to move out,'' he said in 1995 when he returned to New York for a festival of his music at Lincoln Center. He added, ''I wouldn't know where to go.''
        He was unhappy about the long journey from Tangier, and he seemed frail, but at 84 he was still a striking figure and retained his handsome, ethereal looks. ''The marbles are still there, believe it or not, but the body's a mess,'' he said. Mr. Bowles had not heard most of the music for 50 years, but, as ever, he expressed his reluctance to be nostalgic.
        If There's a Point It's to Have Fun
        ''I live in the present,'' Mr. Bowles said, and added about the past: ''I remember it as one remembers a landscape, an unchanging landscape. That which has happened is finished. I suppose you could say that a man can learn how to avoid taking the same actions which he's discovered were errors. I would recommend not thinking about it.''
        For Mr. Bowles, the point of life is to have fun, ''if there is any point at all.'' Enjoyment, he said firmly, ''is what life should provide.''
        When it was suggested to him that others might say that life should provide a greater moral purpose, he said: ''What is moral purpose? The word 'moral' sets nothing ringing in my head. Who decides what's moral and what isn't? Right behavior, is that moral? Well, what's right behavior?''
        Keeping in character, Mr. Bowles refused to be introspective. ''That would be like looking in the mirror and wondering why you had grayish-green eyes or blond hair. You can find genetic reasons, but that's of no interest if you're trying to find out something about yourself, which I don't think you ever should do. I think it's a very harmful, disruptive thing to ask, 'Why am I, I?','' he said. To Paul Bowles, the supreme individualist, ''there isn't any why.''
        Asked if he had made any mistakes, he said: ''I must have made a lot, but I wasn't aware of them. Maybe my whole life has been a mistake. This is no time to find out, and even if I did, what would I do? Regret something? I don't regret anything.''
        Years before, in the interview in The Paris Review, he had said, ''If I knew I were going to die tomorrow, I'd think, so soon?'' He added, ''Still, if a man has spent his life doing what he wanted to do, he ought to be able to say goodbye without regrets.''
        In his strange, exotic life, Mr. Bowles apparently did exactly what he wanted to do, writing fiction and music and continually searching for that magic place where he would find his twinned goals of wisdom and ecstasy.
        THE BOWLES VISION -- Cruel Desert
        ''During the middle of the day it was no longer the sun alone that persecuted from above -- the entire sky was like a metal dome grown white with heat. The merciless light pushed down from all directions; the sun was the whole sky. They took to traveling only at night, setting out shortly after twilight and halting at the first sign of the rising sun. The sand had been left far behind, and so had the great dead stony plains. Now there was a gray, insectlike vegetation everywhere, a tortured scrub of hard shells and stiff hairy spines that covered the earth like an excrescence of hatred.''  -- From ''The Sheltering Sky'' (1949)
      