
        Lee C. Shaw, who helped draw much of the road map for modern labor law and then used it to help corporations negotiate with unions, died of a heart attack on Nov. 15 at his home in San Diego. He was 86.
        Mr. Shaw helped draft the nation's guide to employer-employee negotiations, the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, also known as the Taft-Hartley Act. He was named to the drafting panel after serving on the National War Labor Board, which was responsible for monitoring labor issues in World War II.
        He went on to become an advocate in the new field of labor law, an area previously handled almost entirely by lawyers within corporations. As such, he represented Las Vegas casinos in negotiations with workers in the buoyant 1960's. He also represented California fruit and vegetable growers in their dealings with the United Farmworkers Union led by Cesar Chavez.
        His expertise was such that several labor unions offered to hire him after facing him in negotiations.
        ''His word was his word,'' said Andrew R. Laidlaw, the managing partner in the law firm that Mr. Shaw helped found in 1945, Seyfarth, Shaw, Fairweather & Geraldson. ''He was respected. He was a giant in the labor relations world.''
        Mr. Shaw was born in Red Wing, Minn., and played football with Gerald R. Ford, the future president, at the University of Michigan. He graduated from the University of Chicago Law School in 1938 and went to work for a Chicago law firm, Pope & Ballard, which is now defunct.
        With the passage in 1935 of the Wagner Act, which established the rights of workers to bargain collectively and became the matrix of American labor law, the firm set out to create a specialty in the field, concentrating on representing management interests in labor relations.
        In 1945, Mr. Shaw and two colleagues, Henry Seyfarth and Owen Fairweather, left Pope & Ballard to start their own firm.
        The new firm eventually represented more than 200 of the nation's 500 largest corporations. Mr. Shaw was particularly influential in expanding Seyfarth, Shaw beyond Chicago to Los Angeles, Washington and New York; it now also has offices in Atlanta, Boston, Houston, Sacramento, San Francisco and Brussels.
        Mr. Shaw is survived by his wife, Lorraine; a son, Charles; two daughters, Linda Lee Smith and Candace Peterson; and six grandchildren.
      