
        Sir Vivian Fuchs, the British leader of an international expedition that in 1957 and 1958 made the first surface crossing of Antarctica -- a journey then regarded as the last great challenge of exploration -- died on Thursday in his home in Cambridge, England, his family said Friday. He was 91.
        Sir Vivian, whose surname is pronounced to rhyme with books, represented an era of gritty explorers -- mythologized in British schoolroom literature of the time -- who cloaked their achievements in a self-effacing disregard for setting records or baring their souls in public. He is credited with discovering that a single land mass lies under Antarctica.
        ''The value of exploration lies in the gaining of knowledge, not in establishing a record,'' Sir Vivian said in a published interview in 1996. After the expedition that made him a household name in England, he was criticized for failing to divulge his deepest thoughts and feelings about the 2,158-mile, 99-day journey across Antarctica.
        ''Why should I do so?'' he said in the same interview. ''I regard the influence of emotion as dangerous. It confuses your thinking, makes you react in ways which are not practical, puts you and your companions in danger. Allow your emotions to control what you do and you are taking risks.''
        He encapsulated his philosophy in the remark, ''Nothing is as bad as you think it is going to be.''
        Risks, though, seemed to have been second nature. Almost to the end of his life he enjoyed driving powerful cars. And for much of his adult life, he was associated with expeditions to Africa and the Antarctic. Even at 75, during a journey to Kenya, he was reported to have wrestled with a crocodile entangled in a fishing net.
        Younger explorers hailed his legacy on Friday. ''Without his knowledge and influence, we wouldn't have got anywhere,'' said Sir Ranulph Fiennes, who reached both North and South Poles overland in an expedition from 1979 to 1982, which Sir Vivian helped organize.
        What seized the imagination of postwar Britain, though, was the Commonwealth Trans-Antarctic Expedition, in which Sir Vivian and his team crossed the crevasses and glaciers of the Antarctic using Sno-Cat tractors. The expedition had serious scientific and mapping purposes, but the main event was the great adventure.
        At one point, the three-ton Sno-Cat in which he was traveling hung suspended over a 60-foot chasm for five hours. At the South Pole, his team linked up with another group of explorers led by Sir Edmund Hillary, the New Zealand mountaineer who, with his sherpa guide Tenzing, had conquered Mount Everest.
        When the two met, according to a contemporary newspaper account, their exchange of greetings typified the laconic spirit of the times. ''Hello, Bunny,'' Sir Edmund said, using Sir Vivian's nickname. ''Damn glad to see you, Ed,'' came the reply.
        The expedition won Sir Vivian a knighthood -- an award that, in his childhood years, might have seemed unlikely.
        He was born of an English mother and a German father on the Isle of Wight in 1908, and his father was interned as an enemy alien during  World War I. At a time when Britain was seized with anti-German sentiment, his family refused to change its name. Thereafter, however, his life followed a familiar path of academic success followed by public achievement.
        He studied geology at Cambridge University, where he earned a doctorate and met both Antarctic and African explorers, including Louis Leakey, the anthropologist, who offered him a place on an expedition to the East African lakes. After one African journey in the 1930's, Sir Vivian and his first wife, Joyce Connell, a traveler in her own right, kept one of the expedition vehicles, a 1929 Chevrolet, and drove it 7,500 miles back to England across the Sahara desert and what was then French West Africa, according to his autobiography, ''A Time to Speak,'' published in 1990 (Anthony Nelson).
        Sir Vivian served in the British Army in World War II and afterward began a long association with the southern polar region, traveling to islands off Antarctica in the late 1940's as field commander for the Falkland Islands Dependencies Service, a British agency initially set up to thwart Germany's wartime plans in the south Atlantic and Antarctic. From 1958 to 1973, he headed the British Antarctic Survey, a research and exploration group, calling his return visits to Antarctica a ''homecoming.''
        In later years, he courted publicity only rarely, criticizing an early 1990's ban on the use of husky dogs in Antarctica and publicly defending early Antarctic explorers during a controversy in the mid-1980's.
        He is survived by his second wife, Eleanor, and by two children from his first marriage, Peter and Hilary. His first wife died in 1990.
      