
        William E. Nickerson, who made millions of dollars from real estate investments and millions more writing books telling others how to do the same thing, died on Oct. 19 at his home in Capitola, Calif. He was 91.
        Reflecting his strong religious beliefs as a lifelong Congregationalist, he gave away his entire estate to pay for student scholarships and professorships to divinity and religiously oriented schools that he considered ''ecumenically and pluralistically minded.''
        These included Harvard Divinity School, Yale Divinity School, Piedmont College, Andover Newton Theological School, Union Theological Seminary, Chicago Theological Seminary, Colgate Rochester Divinity School and Pacific School of Religion.
        ''How I Turned $1,000 Into a Million in Real Estate -- in My Spare Time'' became a famous book and a catchphrase in the 1960's and 1970's. It came out in 1959. In later editions the $1 million return became $5 million. The book was full of practical advice, typified by its first line, ''The road to riches is paved with borrowed money.''
        Though the book, published by Simon & Schuster, has been out of print for decades, its influence persists, with reviews still posted by readers on the Amazon.com Web site.
        ''I used this book to make several million dollars for myself, and taught two friends to use the book, and they also made substantial money,'' a man who identified himself as a Houston reader wrote this July. ''It shows you how real estate wealth is made, and shows you step by step how to do it yourself.''
        Last December, Richard Pennant of Seattle, who said his hobby was reading real estate books, wrote, ''This is easily the most concise and informative tome on the subject of acquiring wealth through investing in real estate that I have ever read.''
        Mr. Nickerson was born in Grants Pass, Ore., and graduated from high school in Fresno, Calif. He was captivated with the idea of adventure, partly to collect ideas for the books he planned to write, and he hiked from Fresno to Mount Ayr, Iowa, and back the summer after high school.
        He enrolled at Fresno State College, but left the next spring to work and hike his way around the world. He visited countries from Peru to Holland to Singapore, often traveling as a seaman on merchant ships. After three years of this itinerant life, he returned to Fresno State, where he graduated with a major in English and psychology.
        He then worked as a sales supervisor for a hosiery company for three years. He left to join the Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company, where he worked for 17 years in sales, staff development and other areas. He bought a succession of houses starting in 1936.
        The first real estate book, the one aimed at only $1 million, was based largely on his own experience. In all, he wrote five books on real estate investment and two other books, ''My Odyssey Around Three Worlds'' and ''Did Jesus Die on the Cross?''
        Mr. Nickerson was married for 61 years to the former Lucille Willis, who died in 1993. The next year, he married Margaret Noah, a longtime friend of the family. She, his son Robert, who lives in Antioch, Calif., and five grandchildren survive him.
      