
        Leon Stukelj of Slovenia, a gymnast who was born only two years after the first modern Olympics and became the oldest living Olympic gold medalist, died yesterday in Ljubljana, Slovenia. He was four days short of his 101st birthday.
        Stukelj (pronounced SHTOO-kel) competed in three Olympics for Yugoslavia, of which Slovenia was then a part. He won two gold medals in 1924, a gold and two bronzes in 1928 and a silver in 1936. Then, at 37, after 6 Olympic and 14 world championship medals, he retired from gymnastics. He became a judge and in time an Olympic hero for the ages.
        He was born Nov. 12, 1898, in Novo Mesto. He remembered watching in person as Johnny Weissmuller (1924 and 1928) and Jesse Owens (1936) made Olympic history, and he treasured a 1936 photograph with Owens.
        He opposed the Communist regime in Yugoslavia, and after World War II he was imprisoned for a month and could not get a job for two years. But when Yugoslavia broke up in 1991, Slovenia was born as a nation and he became a national idol. He was pictured on Slovenia's first postage stamp and 5-tolar (about 30-cent) coin.
        His first Olympics, in 1924 in Paris, came a few weeks after he graduated from law school. He won gold medals in the all-around and the horizontal bar, the first Olympic titles for Yugoslavia, then a new nation itself. When he returned home, a national holiday was declared.
        ''We were all amateurs then,'' he once recalled. ''No one was paid. Even at the Olympic Games, we had to look for hotels ourselves.''
        In the 1928 Olympics in Amsterdam, he won a gold medal in the rings and bronzes in the team and all-around competitions. He missed the 1932 Los Angeles Olympics because Yugoslavia had no money to send a team. In the 1936 Berlin Olympics, an old man by gymnastics standards, he won a silver medal in the rings.
        At 65, he retired as a judge and started working for a lawyer. As he approached 100, he became more of a celebrity and enjoyed it, but there were never enough hours. ''I have no time for correspondence and barely any for reading newspapers, literature and philosophy,'' he said.
        He did make time to take care of himself. When he was competing, each day included a 30-minute workout and a glass of red wine. Approaching 100, he slept eight or nine hours a day, ate little and listened to classical music. To others hoping to live long, he advised, ''Don't smoke, drink little, walk a lot and don't be in a hurry.''
        At 5 feet 3 inches and 108 pounds, he remained trim and energetic. He walked an hour a day, and twice a week he climbed a nearby hill. He often swung on the gymnastics rings he installed at home more than 50 years earlier. ''I only exercise on the rings a couple of times a week,'' he said. ''My muscles are 100 years old, and too much pressure could strain them.''
        At 99, the Old World gentleman who bowed stiffly from the waist visited a Westchester County (N.Y.) gymnastics school. He demonstrated the use of the parallel bars by pressing up from the arms of a chair.
        For his 100th birthday, the Slovene government staged a huge party with the national symphony orchestra, exhibitions by Olympic gymnasts and a visit from Juan Antonio Samaranch, the president of the International Olympic Committee.
        ''When I woke up this morning,'' Stukelj said then, ''I realized that I'm 100 now, and I thought about it for a while. Then I realized I'm doing just fine and I'm glad I could come here to be with you. I had many struggles in my life, but also a lot of happiness. I look forward to each new day.''
        He said the physical and mental discipline of gymnastics had helped keep him young. He also said two sisters lived into their 90's, so ''the basis is probably in the genes.''
        ''There's also the fact that I was always intellectually active,'' he said. ''And it was essential for me to stay in shape, and if I wanted to be in shape I had to live healthy.''
        He is survived by his wife of 66 years, Lidija, and a daughter, also named Lidija.
        In 1997, when he was inducted into the International Gymnastics Hall of Fame in Oklahoma City, he was especially honored because his class included such modern stars as Nadia Comaneci, Olga Korbut and Mary Lou Retton. Unlike old-timers in many sports, he thought athletes were much better now. ''Today,'' he said, ''the level of the events is higher and you can't compare the difficulty of what they do. But there was a beauty in the exercises before.''
        In 1996, he was a guest at the Atlanta Olympics. In 1998, when Samaranch invited him to the 2000 Olympics in Sydney, Australia, Stukelj said he would see how he felt.
        Invited to a prospective 2012 Olympics in New York, he said with a laugh, ''I accept, but I may come round trip from heaven.''
      