
        Gene Levitt, a television writer, director and producer who created ''Fantasy Island,'' a popular show in the late 1970's, died on Nov. 15 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 79.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Diana.
        Born in Brooklyn on May 28, 1920, Mr. Levitt hitchhiked to Wyoming on a whim after seeing a billboard about the west. A few years later, he received a degree from the University of Wyoming.
        He then went to work for City News Service in Chicago. His career in journalism was interrupted by World War II; he joined the Marines and served as a bomb disposal officer in the South Pacific.
        After the war, he renewed a friendship with Robert Mitchell, whom he had met at the University of Wyoming, and they started working together. Their first joint project was the 1947 radio drama ''The Adventures of Philip Marlowe.'' The series ran until 1949, with Gerald Mohr playing Raymond Chandler's detective. Mr. Mitchell, who went on to write for various television shows including ''Charlie's Angels'' and ''CHiPs,'' died on Oct. 13 in a car crash.
        Mr. Levitt wrote, directed and produced numerous television features and series. His best known credits include ''Barnaby Jones,'' ''Hawaii Five-O'' and ''Alias Smith and Jones.''
        His big hit, however, came in 1978, when he created ''Fantasy Island,'' a romance about a faraway resort where guests' wishes were fulfilled by the suave Ricardo Montalban.
        The phrase ''Da plane! Da plane!'' with which Mr. Montalban's diminutive assistant, played by Herve Villechaize, greeted the guests, has become part of the American lexicon.
        The enormous success of the show, as well as others he produced, gave Mr. Levitt the freedom to pursue other interests; he lived on a sailboat in Hawaii for three years. He was also an avid poker player.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Levitt is survived by three sons, Chris, of Seattle, Jon, of Cleveland, and Doug, of Santa Monica, Calif.; a daughter, Lisa Levitt of Pasadena, Calif.; two stepsons, Randy and Tony Markes, both of Los Angeles; two stepdaughters, Julie Markes Schine of Brooklyn, N.Y.,  and Jennifer Markes of Los Angeles, and four grandchildren.
      