
        George V. Higgins, who turned a prosecutor's knowledge of lowlife crooks into gritty Boston crime novels that unfolded in the gamy dialect of the city's hoodlums and cops, was found dead on Saturday at his home in Milton, Mass. He was 59.
        The police said he appeared to have died of natural causes.
        A longtime Boston fixture who could -- and would -- tell you the number of steps between the Suffolk County courthouse on Beacon Hill and what used to be called the Men's Bar at Locke-Ober near the Common, Mr. Higgins had his first, and greatest, success with ''The Friends of Eddie Coyle'' (1972, Alfred A. Knopf).
        Told in the colorful, jagged, sometimes convoluted street dialogue that would become his hallmark, the book was a sordid tale of a small-time criminal selling both guns to stick-up men and information to federal investigators. There is a bank robbery and betrayals all around, and finally one of Eddie Coyle's fellow hoods -- the ''friends'' of the title -- shoots him in the back of the head after they watch a Bruins game and leaves him in a Ford parked at a bowling alley.
        The book was an instant success and was made into a movie the next year starring Robert Mitchum as Eddie Coyle and directed by Peter Yates. The book was named one of the top 20 postwar American novels by the Book Marketing Council, and was soon followed by the ''The Digger's Game'' (1973) and ''Cogan's Trade'' (1974), which mined the same seedy underworld.
        Mr. Higgins was prolific, producing 30 books, 26 of them novels, at a pace of a little better than one a year. They were, for the most part, favorably reviewed, although none claimed quite the success of ''The Friends of Eddie Coyle.'' Some professionals considered Mr. Higgins underrated; his critics sometimes pigeonholed him as a genre writer, a designation that made Mr. Higgins bristle with indignation.
        The novelist Elmore Leonard and the playwright David Mamet -- themselves masters of the dialogue form -- praised his idiomatic, masculine dialogue and said it had influenced their work. Mr. Higgins's world was largely a rough male one, in which women figured only occasionally as annoyances, nags, betrayers or the occasional object of temptation.
        ''I'm not doing dialogue because I like doing dialogue,'' he once told an interviewer. ''The characters are telling you the story. I'm not telling you the story, 'they're' going to do it.  If I do it right, you will get the whole story.''
        Mr. Higgins told entire stretches of his stories, sometimes most of a  book, in dialogue that often seemed to have more profanity than punctuation. While this renders the style difficult to reproduce in a newspaper, a taste can be gleaned from a passage in ''The Friends of Eddie Coyle.'' The protagonist has already been introduced telling a gun runner how his hand was methodically smashed in a drawer because a gun he sold was traced and landed someone in jail. Then he promptly sneaks out to a waiting van to shop his new partner to the feds for help in a pending sentencing in New Hampshire.
        A chapter then begins with this exchange between two federal agents: ''You remember Eddie Fingers,'' Dave said. ''Eddie Coyle? Fellow that got his hand busted up after they put Billy Wallace away for a long time on a gun he got from somebody. Got himself in a whole mess of trouble up in New Hampshire trucking a little booze that didn't belong to him about this time last year.''
        ''He the bank robber?'' Waters asked. ''The one from Natik?''
        ''That's his sidekick,'' Dave said.  ''Artie Van. Arthur Valantropo. Eddie doesn't rob banks. He's a thief.  Doesn't go in for that kind of rough stuff, although I suppose he was down on his luck, he might take a crack at almost anything.''
        ''I was thinking of another guy,'' Waters said. ''Hangs around Artie Van too. Van went in on a carrying charge and this guy was up to see him all the time. Looked like he had smallpox or something.''
        ''Doesn't mean anything to me,'' Dave said.
        ''Italian name,'' Waters said. ''It'll come to me. All I can think of right now is Scanlon and that sure isn't it.''
        ''Yeah,'' Dave said. ''Well, I had this call from Coyle the other day, so I went out to see him.''
        Mr. Higgins was born in Brockton, Mass., in 1939, the only son of two schoolteachers who read a lot and read to their young son. Perhaps this enhanced his uncanny ear for dialogue, along with his habit of eavesdropping in bars and restaurants. In his later years spent teaching writing at Boston University, he would have his students read their work aloud to help them understand the rhythm of their words. He graduated from Boston College, the citadel of the area's Irish, where he was editor of the literary magazine.
        ''The disability of much American literature,'' Mr. Higgins once told a British interviewer, ''is that it's written by college professors sitting on their big fat rusty-dusties who don't know anything about law, politics or any subject in which real people make real livings.''
        This was not so for Mr. Higgins. He was a newspaperman first, working in Rhode Island for the Providence Journal in a town, he said, where you could hardly not learn about the Mafia. Then he went to The Associated Press, where he covered Mafia trials and learned to write faster than the teletype machines then in use could punch tape. He finally noticed, he said, that lawyers dressed better than newspapermen and went back to Boston College to attend law school. From there he became a Massachusetts and then a federal prosecutor, working in organized crime units, a gray world of ''exchanging favors'' between the investigators and hoodlums who would become his subjects.
        Along the way he had been writing novels -- since age 15. When Knopf bought ''Eddie Coyle'' for $2,000, he ceremoniously burned the 14 unpublished novels he had accumulated in a dump.
        He was a passionate Red Sox fan and devoted one of his nonfiction works, ''The Progress of the Seasons: 40 Years of Baseball in Our Town'' (1989), to his beloved Sox. In another nonfiction work, ''On Writing: Advice for Those Who Write to Publish (Or Would Like To),'' he paid particular tribute to his literary hero, John O'Hara. He also wrote columns for The Boston Herald American, The Boston Globe and The Wall Street Journal. His last novel, ''The Agent,'' about the murder of a loathsome sports agent, was published this year.
        His marriage to Elizabeth Mulkerin ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Loretta, and two children from his first marriage.
      