
        Biagio DiLieto, a former New Haven mayor and police chief who helped breathe new life into the city during his 10 years in office, died Monday at a hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 76.
        The cause was cancer, a funeral home spokesman said.
        Yesterday, Mr. DiLieto, a Democrat who was known as Ben, lay in state at City Hall, the first mayor to be honored in such a way, a city spokeswoman said. As a crowd of about 750 filed by in the afternoon, people remembered him as a true neighborhood politician and one of the last legs of the city's ethnic political machine.
        ''Ben will always be remembered for the friendships he made doing the two toughest jobs -- police chief and mayor,'' said Richard Lee, a former mayor.
        Mr. DiLieto worked to improve the sometimes tense relations between the city and Yale University and fought the development of suburban malls, seeing them as a threat to the merchants of downtown New Haven.
        His administration took the lead in the renovation of the Shubert Theater, Union Station and the downtown Chapel Square Mall. It promoted the New Haven Jazz Festival, the Artspace gallery and the Audubon Arts District, and saw the seedy environs of Yale turn into a fashionable area of bistros and bookstores.
        ''He'll be remembered for the walls he broke down, with all aspects of the inner city and the college,''  said Jennifer Daddio of North Branford, who came to City Hall yesterday to pay her respects.
        John Sawyer, who worked in the DiLieto administration as a development administrator, remembered the mayor's friendship with A. Bartlett Giamatti, the former Yale president, and how they would amicably test each other on the meaning of words. ''The only one who knew more words than Bart Giamatti was Ben DiLieto,'' he said.
        Mr. DiLieto was born in New Haven and graduated from the University of New Haven and Yale Law School. He also attended the F.B.I.  Academy. He joined the New Haven Police Department in 1948 as a patrolman.
        He served 29 years on the police force and was criticized for his role in the department's illegal telephone tapping operations in the 1960's. Mr. DiLieto admitted to authorizing one of the illegal taps when he was police chief.
        Mr. DiLieto was a defendant in a suit in which the city agreed to pay $1.75 million to 1,238 people whose phones were tapped by the police between 1964 and 1971. The operation was most active in 1971, when Vietnam War protesters converged on New Haven to support the Black Panthers, eight of whom were on trial there in a murder case.
        In 1989, after five two-year terms as mayor, he stepped down, saying he wanted to spend more time with his family.
        He is survived by his wife, Rose Greco DiLieto; four sons, Biagio Jr., of Tryon, N.C.; Robert, of Branford; Edward, of East Haven, Conn.; and Anthony, of Bridgeport, Conn; three sisters, Fortunata Cicarrelli, Jennie Fiorillo and Eleanor DiLieto, all of New Haven; two brothers, Anthony, of New Haven, and Thomas, of Guilford, Conn.; and seven grandchildren. His funeral is planned for 10 a.m. today at St. Bernadette's Church in New Haven.
        Juanita Williams, a West Haven resident who works at the salad bar at a Stop and Shop near City Hall, said she remembered the mayor's sincerity. She looked at the crowd at City Hall yesterday and said, ''They say your turnout when you die shows the way you live.''
        Correction:  November 26, 1999, Friday  An obituary on Nov. 12 about Biagio DiLieto, a former mayor of New Haven, included an erroneous educational reference from Who's Who in American Politics. He did not graduate from Yale Law School and did not have a law degree.
      