
        Amintore Fanfani, who was prime minister of Italy six times and President of the United Nations General Assembly in the 1960's, died today after a long illness. He was 91.
        Mr. Fanfani, a senator for life, had returned home this morning after a month's hospitalization for treatment of heart and breathing problems brought on by the flu.
        A major force in the Christian Democratic party that dominated Italian politics for half a century, Mr. Fanfani held almost every important political office in Italy except the presidency -- a post that eluded him twice. In Italy, he was widely respected as a farsighted politician who was the first Christian Democrat to attempt an alliance with the noncommunist left.
        But it was his appointment as president of the United Nations General Assembly in 1965 that made him known internationally.
        Between 1965 and 1968, he worked to improve relations between East and West, proposing that Mao's China be admitted into the United Nations and meeting with a delegation from Hanoi to push the Vietnam peace effort.
        Mr. Fanfani often spoke of his friendship with John F. Kennedy, whom he first met in 1956 in Chicago. He cited with pride a flattering story told him by President Kennedy's colleagues -- that it was Mr. Fanfani's book ''Catholicism, Protestantism and Capitalism'' that persuaded Kennedy to dedicate his life to politics.
        Born in Tuscany, in central Italy, Mr. Fanfani was an economics history lecturer before entering politics. A short man, he was nicknamed ''professorino,'' or little professor. His political life started at the end of World War II. In 1946, Prime Minister Alcide De Gasperi invited him to Rome to become involved in the nascent Christian Democrats, the party that would lead Italy until the 1990's.
        In Mr. De Gasperi's government, Mr. Fanfani began to build a reputation when, as labor minister, he pushed through laws for workers' housing. In the early 1950's, he served as agriculture minister, interior minister and foreign minister, introducing liberalizing reforms.
        In 1960 he tried to form the first center-left government with the support of the Socialist Party. He defended his measures with characteristic forcefulness: ''We didn't want to make love with the Socialists. But we had to reinforce the base of support for the government.''
        Luciano Violante, the president of Italy's lower house of Parliament, was one of many Italian political leaders who praised Mr. Fanfani's legacy, saying that Mr. Fanfani's ''strong social measures helped to free Italy from the weight of backwardness.''
        Mr. Fanfani had seven children with his first wife, Bianca Rosa Provaroli, who died in 1968. He remarried in 1975. His wife, Maria Pia Tavazzani, a writer, survives him.
      