
        Alfred Gwynne Vanderbilt, the elegant symbol of the sportsman in high society when he was the impresario of horse racing and the pillar of one of the most aristocratic families in America, died yesterday at his home in Mill Neck, N.Y. He was 87.
        He was born in London and educated at St. Paul's School and Yale, and his grandfather, Cornelius Vanderbilt II, was reputed to be the world's richest man. His mother, Margaret Emerson, came from Bromo-Seltzer wealth, and his father, Alfred Gwynne Vanderbilt, died after giving his life jacket to a woman on the Lusitania when the ship was sunk by German U-boats in the Atlantic in 1915.
        Yet surrounded by family history, wealth and opportunity, Alfred Gwynne Vanderbilt took a direct route to the racetrack and spent his life breeding, owning and racing his horses.
        Even at 80, tall and richly groomed, he remained the very model of the racing blueblood. He ran Pimlico Race Course and Belmont Park while in his 20's; he pioneered the use of the starting gate and the photo finish; he skippered a PT boat in the Navy; and he shot lions with Ernest Hemingway in Africa.
        But his shining moments came through the brilliance of one gray colt, Native Dancer, who won 21 of his 22 races and lost the other one, the 1953 Kentucky Derby, by the length of his head.
        ''Since the first time I went to the races at Pimlico at the age of 9,'' Mr. Vanderbilt once said, ''I have had this wonderful feeling about racing. I don't go to the races because I just love horses. It's like the person who goes to the circus and falls in love with the whole show, not just the elephants.''
        He stayed in love with the whole show for the rest of his life, amusing people by inventing witty and salty names for his horses and appearing constantly on the backstretch at the Belmont and Aqueduct racetracks. Rain or shine, winter or summer, he was there, a well-dressed and graceful man in his 80's with failing eyesight and an informal manner. He would walk through the staff offices for morning conversations and eventually wind up in his box for several races before being driven home again to Mill Neck on the North Shore of Long Island.
        ''My father went to the racetrack today,'' his son Alfred said yesterday. ''He came back and was changing clothes when his secretary said he keeled over.''
        Mr. Vanderbilt was the legendary link to the days when racing was a way of life. It became his way of life when he turned 21 and his mother gave him the 600-acre Sagamore farm in Maryland as a gift. For the next 40 years he bred horses there, his line of stars beginning with Discovery, who won six stakes races in 1934, won 27 of his 63 races over all and later sired 25 horses who won stakes. And racing was still his passion when he was 84 and his 2-year-old colt Traitor came out of nowhere to win the Belmont Futurity.
        In the six decades in between, Mr. Vanderbilt made a landmark impact on horse racing.
        He became president of Pimlico in Baltimore in 1932 when he was 20 years old, and he revived interest in the Preakness, the second race in the Triple Crown series. He again became president of Pimlico in 1938 and promptly brought together Seabiscuit and War Admiral for the inaugural running of the Pimlico Special. He was the leading money-winning owner in America in 1935 and 1953.
        He was president of the Westchester Racing Association, which operated Belmont Park before the New York Racing Association was incorporated in 1955, and for four years starting in 1971 served as chairman of the board of the N.Y.R.A. and the chief executive of the Belmont, Aqueduct and Saratoga racetracks.
        Mr. Vanderbilt also became a member of the Jockey Club in 1935, and four times he was voted by New York's turf writers as ''the man who did the most for racing.''
        But his greatest achievement in racing was undoubtedly a horse: Native Dancer. He was sired by Polynesian and foaled by the mare Geisha, a daughter of Discovery, leading Vanderbilt to postulate this formula for success in breeding racers: ''Breed something to a Discovery mare.'' And Native Dancer, whose name was one of the lineage puns for which Vanderbilt was famous, was the prime example. He reigned as the champion 2-year-old colt in 1952, champion 3-year-old colt in 1953 and Horse of the Year in 1954.
        In the 1953 Kentucky Derby, now considered one of the dramatic upsets in racing history, Native Dancer was bumped at the first turn, lost several lengths, made a gallant stretch drive under Eric Guerin and was beaten by a head by Cain Hoy Stable's Dark Star. He returned to win the Preakness and the Belmont Stakes and six other stakes that year, ended his career with earnings of $785,240, scored 17 of his 21 victories in stakes races and retired with that one galling loss.
        In addition to Discovery and Native Dancer, other national champions who carried the cerise-and-white Vanderbilt silks were Next Move, the champion 3-year-old filly in 1950, and Bed o'Roses, the champion 2-year-old filly in 1949 and the champion handicap mare in 1951.
        When generations of Vanderbilts gathered in New York in 1994 to celebrate the 200th anniversary of the birth of Commodore Cornelius Vanderbilt, great-great-grandfather of Alfred Vanderbilt, he had already passed his 80th birthday but was still a calm, cool, handsome man surrounded by two centuries of history and by his children from three marriages: Wendy, Heidi, Alfred Jr., Victoria and Michael. Another son, Nicholas Harvey Vanderbilt, died in a climbing accident in Canada in 1984; his other children survive him, as do seven grandchildren.
        His courtships and marriages were regular staples of the newspaper society pages in those days, when the terms ''playboy'' and ''sportsman'' were in vogue. In 1938, when he was 25, he married Manuela Hudson. In 1946, when he was 32, he married Jeanne Murray of Southampton. And in 1957, at 44, he married Jean Harvey, heiress to the Harvey restaurant chain and Cudahy meat-packing empire. The marriages ended in divorce.
        Alfred Gwynne Vanderbilt was among the last of his generation of Vanderbilts -- great-great-grandchildren of Commodore Cornelius Vanderbilt (1794-1877), who founded the Vanderbilt fortune with investments in real estate and transportation and whose descendants have had a large influence on American society ever since. The announcement of his birth on Sept. 22, 1912, was printed in the center of The New York Times's front page the next day.
        One aunt, Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney (1875-1942), was an artist and a founder of the Museum of Modern Art; his uncles included Cornelius Vanderbilt III (1873-1942), who was a brigadier general. Another aunt, Gladys Moore Vanderbilt (1886-1965), inherited the Breakers, the famous family summer cottage in Newport, R.I.; her daughter, Countess Szapary, died in March 1998.
        His older half-brother, William Henry Vanderbilt III (1901-1981), was governor of Rhode Island from 1938 to 1940. His younger brother George Washington Vanderbilt III (1914-1961) was a yachtsman and explorer.
        Another prominent member of his generation, his first cousin Gloria Vanderbilt (born in 1924), is still living. The daughter of another uncle, Reginald Claypool Vanderbilt (1880-1925), she was the object of a furious custody battle when she was a child; as an adult she became most famous as a clothing designer.
        Though Alfred Vanderbilt enjoyed both the life and the reputation of a millionaire playboy, he had wide-ranging artistic interests, initially acquired through his mother's circle of artistic and theatrical friends; his own intimate friends included George Abbott, Hal Prince and Fred Astaire.
        Mr. Vanderbilt was once asked what his most exciting personal moment in racing had been, and he replied, ''I guess it was the last race I won.''
        But his zest for thoroughbred racing became diluted by his distress at the direction the sport was taking.
        ''Where is racing today?'' he reflected as tracks began to lose significant attendance in the 1990's. ''Racing's going downhill, that's where it is today.
        ''Horse racing once was a contest, a sport. The only thing that's important now is the betting, the revenue. They even open the track for betting now when the horses are running someplace else. If they keep doing that, they'll skip the horses entirely.
        ''The main reason for smaller crowds today is off-track betting. You also have casino gambling, and you create multiple gambling opportunities. It's all very well to say you'll attract money if you offer casino gambling. But when the money goes, the first thing that'll go with it is horse racing.''
        Still, he grasped changes that seemed likely to improve racing. One of the first things he did as president of Pimlico was to introduce the Western starting gate to Maryland, ending the era of confused or delayed starts. He also introduced the photo-finish camera, ending the era when close races often resulted in incorrect calls or dead heats. When he came to New York in 1940 as president of Belmont, he promptly gave priority to installing the new parimutuel system, which replaced bookmakers at tracks the following spring.
        But on farm and backstretch, where he remained a familiar figure even in the late years of his life, he clung to one theory as a horseman: ''Breed the best to the best, and hope for the best.''
      