
        Jack Hooke, who managed some of the biggest names in jazz, rock 'n' roll and Latin music during 51 years  in entertainment, died on Saturday at North Shore University Medical Center in Queens. He lived in Bayside, Queens, and was 83.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Hooke was with RMM Records in Manhattan, managing artists including Tito Puente, Hilton Ruiz, Mongo Santamaria and Giovanni Hidalgo.
        Trained, like his four older brothers, as a tool-and-die maker, Mr. Hooke decided in the late 1940's that he couldn't stand that line of work, his widow, Helen Horowitz, recalled. Mr. Hooke was born Jacob Horowitz, but adopted a childhood nickname.
        He and a partner bought Royal Roost Records, a tiny jazz label that recorded the likes of Stan Getz, Erroll Garner, Dizzy Gillespie and Charlie Parker. Mr. Hooke became a plugger, traveling to radio stations around the country to promote Royal Roost's records.
        In 1952 he and a friend, the pop music plugger Juggy Gayles, paid a call to WJW in Cleveland where a young D.J., Alan Freed, was playing the latest rhythm 'n' blues for a loyal following of black listeners and a growing number of white fans. Freed and Mr. Hooke hit it off immediately, and soon Mr. Hook became the D.J.'s manager.
        Mr. Hooke was known as Freed's right-hand man throughout the well-chronicled highs and lows of the broadcaster's career. At first Mr. Hooke hired performers for Freed's ''Big Rhythm 'n' Blues Show'' in the Midwest. In the 1950's he auditioned countless rock 'n' roll artists for the frenzied, sold-out stage shows for which Freed was the host at the Paramount in Manhattan, the Fox in Brooklyn and at other concert halls from Los Angeles to Boston.
        When Freed left New York broadcasting in the wake of the scandal in which the record industry bribed radio stations to get air time, he and Mr. Hooke remained friends until Freed's death in 1965.
        Mr. Hooke went on to join Dick Clark Productions, where he worked with the top bands and vocalists of the 60's and 70's, including the Rolling Stones, Led Zeppelin, the Jackson Five, Diana Ross and Tom Jones.
        In the early 80's Mr. Hooke organized ''Salsa Meets Jazz'' at the Village Gate in Greenwich Village. The Monday night shows became a staple of New York's Latin and jazz scene for the rest of the decade.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Hooke is survived by two daughters, Shelley Rudinsky of Valley Stream, N.Y., and Rudy Goldblatt of Ronkonkoma, N.Y.; a son, Scott Horowitz, of Millburn, N.J., five grandchildren and a great-grandson.
      