
        Joseph DiMona, a professional author and screen and stage writer who collaborated on the Watergate memoir of the imprisoned former White House chief of staff, H. R. Haldeman, died on Saturday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 76.
        He had been battling liver cancer for two years, said his wife, Barbara.
        The 1978 Haldeman book, ''The Ends of Power,'' spent nine weeks on the New York Times best-seller list, including two weeks at No. 1. Mr. DiMona was also a credited co-writer of ''Frank Costello: Prime Minister of the Underworld'' (1974) by Costello's lawyer George Wolf, and of ''Coroner'' (1983) and the sequel, ''Coroner at Large'' (1986) by Thomas T. Noguchi, the flamboyant former Los Angeles medical examiner.  He also wrote ''Great Court-Martial Cases'' (1972).
        A jovial socializer and longtime New Yorker who held court at P. J. Clarke's and Elaine's and entertained frequently at his Sutton Place apartment, Mr. DiMona also wrote four novels, ''70 Sutton Place'' (1972), and the thrillers ''Last Man at Arlington'' (1973), ''The Benedict Arnold Connection'' (1977) and ''To the Eagle's Nest'' (1978). ''Last Man at Arlington,'' about an ex-Green Beret stalking former members of the Kennedy Administration, was optioned for the movies but never made it to the screen. His first book was a collection of short stories, ''Husbands Who Love Their Wives Are the Best'' (1955).
        Mr. DiMona earned large fees writing documentary films and wrote the screen adaptation for ''The Incredible Mr. Limpet,'' a partly animated 1964 feature starring Don Knotts as a man who turns into a fish and helps win World War II. In the 1960's he teamed up with the burlesque star Ann Corio to write material for the long-running show ''This Was Burlesque,'' which moved from off Broadway to Broadway and toured widely. The pair also collaborated on a photo book, ''The History of Burlesque in the U.S.'' (1968).
        Born in Haddonfield, N.J., Mr. DiMona attended Duke University,  where he wrote for campus publications and became the head cheerleader, earning the nickname ''Jumping Joe.'' He interrupted his education to enlist in the Navy in 1942, seeing action on Okinawa and throughout the Pacific. After the war, he returned to Duke to graduate and received a law degree at George Washington University Law School. While there he worked as a radio announcer for the Washington Senators and Washington Redskins and as a copy boy at The Washington Post. He passed the bar but never practiced law, preferring to write.
        In addition to his wife, whom he married in 1956 after his first marriage ended in divorce, Mr. DiMona is survived by a son, Joseph, of New York; a daughter, Darcy Mander of Rome, and four grandchildren.
      