
        Keizo Saji, the chairman of Suntory Ltd., one of the world's largest alcoholic beverage companies, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Osaka, Japan. He was 80.
        The cause of death was pneumonia, according to a report in The Asahi Evening News.
        Mr. Saji, as president of Suntory for 29 years, was instrumental in changing Japan's drinking habits.
        As a young executive at Suntory, which was then called Kotobukiya, in postwar Japan, Mr. Saji began selling an inexpensive whiskey called Torys that became immensely popular with the emerging nation of salaried workers.
        The company also became well known in advertising circles through what was then considered its relentless marketing techniques, especially its catchy slogans and flashy ads.
        Mr. Saji is also widely credited with helping establish Japan's Nihonbashi culture, the culinary concept of drinking whiskey with foods that need chopsticks.
        The second of three sons of the founder of Suntory, Shinjiro Torii, Mr. Saji was born on Nov. 1, 1919, in Osaka and graduated from the department of science at Osaka University. In 1945, he joined Suntory, which is also based in Osaka.
        In the postwar years, Suntory benefited greatly from the thirst of the occupying American military forces, who preferred whiskey and beer to sake. Suntory -- the name is a corruption of san, a Japanese word for three, and Torii, Mr. Saji's father's name -- continued to grow long after the occupation ended, however.
        By the mid-1990's, the company, now 100 years old, had become a global multibillion-dollar conglomerate with interests in restaurants, taverns, bottled water companies, golf resorts, vineyards, movie studios and baseball teams as well as alcoholic beverages.
        And Mr. Saji had become the 48th-richest person in the world, with an estimated net worth of $6.7 billion, according to Forbes magazine.
        Mr. Saji, whose survivors were not immediately known, was something of a Renaissance man, too. He wrote books about wine, established the Suntory Museum of Art in Tokyo and was an ardent food lover and golfer. Like many wealthy executives, he was also a philanthropist of note.
        As a manager, Mr. Saji was regarded as temperamental as well as effective.
        Once, an investment banker found a wine company ripe for acquisition. The deal had been approved by everyone at Suntory, including Mr. Saji. On the day the papers were to be signed, the sellers and the Suntory executives gathered and waited for Mr. Saji to appear. He never did. He never explained why. The deal died.
        And sometimes Mr. Saji would put executives through a Zen-like ordeal of the five whys.
        ''At a meeting someone will suggest something,'' Mr. Saji said in an interview in Fortune magazine in 1984. ''I ask, 'Why?' I want more detail.
        ''He will answer, and then I ask, 'Why?' '' Mr. Saji said.
        ''I ask 'why' five times,'' he said.  ''And then I stop.''
      