
        Alain Peyrefitte, a French journalist, best-selling author, former cabinet minister and confidant of de Gaulle, died on Saturday in Paris. He was 74.
        The cause was cancer, said the staff of Le Figaro, the conservative daily paper where he was editorial director.
        A member of the French Academy since 1977, Mr. Peyrefitte was close to three French presidents: de Gaulle, Valery Giscard d'Estaing and Georges Pompidou. He served for many years in the National Assembly and later, the Senate.
        As minister of information from 1962 to 1966, he alienated parts of the public by strictly enforcing de Gaulle's wish to keep voices critical of the government off the air waves. ''Press freedom cannot take precedence over truth or the general interest,'' he said.
        He was minister of education during the violent student demonstrations in 1968. His police beat students at the Sorbonne, even some who were not demonstrating.
        A car bomb blew apart his car in 1986, killing the driver, who was to take him to Provins, the town east of Paris of which he became mayor in 1965. A shadowy extreme-left terror group was suspected.
        ''I am the symbol of the simple idea that there is no liberty without order in a society,'' he said at the time. He had been a law-and-order Justice Minister from 1977 to 1981 and sponsored legislation to strengthen police powers.
        Alain Peyrefitte was born in Najac, in the Aveyron department, and graduated from the Sorbonne and the elite Ecole Normale Superieure and the Ecole Nationale d'Administration. He joined the Foreign Ministry in 1947; his first posting was as an embassy secretary in Bonn.
        He held other diplomatic positions before being elected to Parliament for the first time in 1958. He received his initial cabinet appointment in 1962.
        His writings included French and Chinese histories, and ''The Adventure of the 20th Century,'' which he illustrated and updated regularly with newspaper clippings and photographs. He became chairman of Le Figaro's editorial board in 1983.
        Mr. Peyrefitte was married to Monique Luton in 1948, and they had five children.
      