
        George V. Higgins, a crime novelist best known for his first published work, the best seller ''Friends of Eddie Coyle,'' was found dead on Saturday at his home in Milton, Mass. He was 59. He apparently died of natural causes, The Associated Press reported.
        The writing skills that Mr. Higgins showed in ''Eddie Coyle'' (1972) prompted an enthusiastic review by Christopher Lehmann-Haupt in The New York Times.
        ''In deference to the oblique speaking styles of Eddie Coyle and his friends, and because I find myself so utterly in thrall to the mood of George V. Higgins's first novel, let me approach the book's merits somewhat deviously,'' the review began.
        Mr. Lehmann-Haupt went on to applaud ''the deftness that is evident everywhere in this ultra-realistic little slice of criminal life, written by an Assistant United States Attorney for the District of Massachusetts, and one of the best of its genre I have read since Hemingway's 'The Killers.' ''
        The 183-page work, about a hoodlum who becomes an informer for the police, has settings in Mr. Higgins's native Massachusetts and includes a bank robbery and earthy dialogue that, Mr. Lehmann-Haupt wrote, ''eats at one's nerve endings.'' The book's ironies, including ''a world in which hoods and cops depend on one another to eke out their mean livings,'' are ''corrosive enough,'' he added, and ''the ending is as hard as a set of metal knuckles in the face.''
        Adapted by Paul Monash, the book became a 1973 movie that starred Robert Mitchum as Eddie Coyle. Vincent Canby, writing in The Times, called it ''a good, tough, unsentimental movie,'' and praised Mitchum's performance in the title role as conveying ''wit and a certain dignity'' on its less-than-tragic hero.
        Mr. Higgins's other novels include ''The Digger's Game,'' ''Cogan's Trade'' and ''A City on a Hill.'' His last work was ''The Agent'' (1999), about an unpopular sports agent. He also wrote columns for The Boston Herald American, The Boston Globe, and The Wall Street Journal from 1977 to 1985.
        In an interview in the mid-1980's Mr. Higgins said he had been influenced by John O'Hara, particularly by his short stories.
        Mr. Higgins was born in Brockton, Mass., and received a bachelor's degree from Boston College in 1961 and a law degree from Boston College in 1967. He was an assistant attorney general and then an assistant United States attorney in Boston from 1969 to 1973.
        His marriage to Elizabeth Mulkerin ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Loretta, a daughter and a son.
      