
        Walter Francis Skees, who as the United States Army's chief vocalist sang for seven presidents and millions of people around the world, died on Oct. 23 at his home in Carmel, Calif. He was 64.
        The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Patricia, said.
        Mr. Skees, who was with the Army Band from 1955 to 1983 and retired with the rank of sergeant major, sang for Presidents Eisenhower, Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon, Ford, Carter and Reagan. He also performed for Harry S. Truman after he left office and for George Bush when he was vice president.
        He brought a resonant baritone voice to a repertory that varied with the audience and atmosphere, and enjoyed a job that gave him one of the longest careers of any top big-band vocalist.
        He sang patriotic songs to 1.4 million people on the Washington Mall during the nation's bicentennial celebration in 1976, played Radio City Music Hall and Carnegie Hall and appeared on television with Bob Hope, Steve Allen and Merv Griffin. In addition to carrying out his duties with the main Army Band, he sang with an 18-piece jazz band called The Army Blues.
        A colleague in the band, Sgt. Maj. Bob Smith, said Mr. Skees was ''comfortable in all settings,'' from the halls of Congress to the State Department to nightclubs in Aruba. Mr. Smith said his Sinatra repertory was particularly polished. ''He was an absolute consummate entertainer,'' he said.
        He was following in famous footsteps. Others who held the job as top Army vocalist included Eddie Fisher and Steve Lawrence.
        One fan was President Nixon, who would often ask Mr. Skees to perform for guests on the presidential yacht, his wife said. ''After the guests left, Nixon liked to play the piano,'' she said. ''Nixon would play and Walter would sing until 3 or 4 in the morning.''
        Some others were less admiring, among them a Washington Post reviewer, Octavio Roca, who suggested after a concert on the Mall in 1980 that Mr. Skees had made ''easy listening'' something less than easy.
        Mr. Skees was born in Providence, R.I., and began singing at age 7 on radio stations there. After graduating from high school he sang in nightclubs in Europe until he was drafted by the Army in 1955. He was named top vocalist the next year. Though the Marine Band is considered the president's official band, the bands of other branches of the military services are invited to play at the White House for occasions like Christmas-tree lightings.
        Mr. Skees sang in 38 countries, appeared at Radio City 224 times and recorded three albums, including ''A Little Tenderness,'' with the jazz guitarist Charlie Byrd. After he retired, he was a cruise director for the Holland America line.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by five children from an earlier marriage. They are Walter Skees Jr. of San Francisco; Melanie Harrison of Fairfax Station, Va.; Laurie Kightlinger of Purcellville, Va., Christopher Skees of Campbell, Calif., and Kelly Katz of Elk Grove, Calif. He is also survived by three stepchildren, Sherry O'Donnell of San Francisco; Mark Balestra of Atherton, Calif., and Katie Walter of Tiburon, Calif., and 13 grandchildren.
        Mrs. Skees said her husband never envied the success of Mr. Fisher and Mr. Lawrence, who deserted the Army for much greener pastures. ''His career in its own way was a very special thing,'' she said.
      