
        Faubion Bowers, an American linguist, critic and writer on the arts who helped preserve Kabuki, the popular drama of Japan, when occupation authorities sought to ban it as a relic of a feudal society after World War II, died on Tuesday at his Manhattan home. He was 82.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Edith Finton Rieber, a friend who shared his interest in the Russian composer and pianist Aleksandr Scriabin (1872-1915).
        Among the many writings by Mr. Bowers, whose languages included Russian, Japanese, French and Indonesian, is the two-volume biography ''Scriabin'' (1969, Dover), which Robert Craft, another writer on music, called ''skillful'' and Bernard Holland, a music critic for The New York Times, called ''distinguished.''
        Mr. Bowers also wrote widely on Asian culture, and he has been credited with increasing the interest of Americans in Asian theater and dance.
        In a 1959 article on Mr. Bowers, who has been called the dean of Western authorities on Kabuki, the journal Current Biography said that the survival of Kabuki and its postwar renaissance during the American occupation of Japan ''owed a great deal to the efforts of Bowers, who served first as military aide, then as civilian censor under the administration of General Douglas MacArthur.''
        Mr. Bowers described himself later as both censor and sponsor of Japanese theater in 1948 and 1949, when he was the official theater censor for the occupation government, after serving as MacArthur's military secretary, aide-de-camp and interpreter from 1946 to 1948 during the occupation.
        Kabuki dates mainly from the 17th century. It is derived from popular themes and has highly ornamented costumes and stylized music, dancing and acting, with both male and female roles played by men.
        Mr. Bowers went to Asia after giving up training as a concert pianist in the United States. He taught at Hosei University in Tokyo from 1940-41 and and lectured in 1941 in Java, which later became part of Indonesia.
        During World War II he was a Japanese language interpreter in the United States Army and rose to major.
        Among his other writings are the books ''Japanese Theater'' (1952), ''Dance in India'' (1954, AMS Press), ''Theater in the East'' (1957, Ayer) and ''Broadway, U.S.S.R.'' (1963).
        He also wrote articles and reviews for The Times and other American publications. And he appeared in,  wrote or produced over 50 television programs having to do with arts and travel in Europe and Asia.
        In addition, he provided simultaneous translations for Japanese performing-arts works, including the Japanese-language musical ''Gen,'' built around the atomic bombing of Hiroshima, a work performed at the  Kaye Playhouse at Hunter College in January.
        He also taught at the New School for Social Research, New York University and elsewhere.
        The honors he received included a Japanese decoration, the Order of the Sacred Treasure, which was presented to him by the emperor of Japan in 1984; the United States' Bronze Star with Oak Leaf Cluster; and a grant from the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities.
        He was born in Miami, Okla., and in the 1930's attended the University of Oklahoma, Columbia, the University of Poitiers in France and the Juilliard School of Music.
        His marriage in 1951 to Santha Rama Rau, a writer, ended in divorce in 1966.
        He is survived by a son, Jai, of Scottsdale, Ariz.; and three grandchildren.
      