
        Jacobo Timerman, the distinguished Argentine journalist whose imprisonment and torture by his country's military forces in the 1970's created an international human rights furor, died yesterday at his home in Buenos Aires. He was 76.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, his second this year, The Associated Press reported, quoting his son Hector.
        After he was driven into exile in 1979, Mr. Timerman wrote eloquently of his 30-month ordeal in secret prisons and under house arrest in ''Prisoner Without a Name, Cell Without a Number,'' a book published in 1981.
        A searing indictment of man's inhumanity to man, as well as a vivid testament to man's ability to face brutality with nobility and courage, Mr. Timerman's best-selling book aroused outrage around the world.
        It was written in Israel, where Mr. Timerman, a lifelong committed Zionist, lived in exile after his release, which had coincided with the Argentine government's expropriation of his liberal newspaper, La Opinion, and all his other property.
        Eventually, in 1986, three years after the Argentine military dictatorship was overthrown, Mr. Timerman testified at the trial of some of his chief tormentors, notably Gen. Ramon Camps, who was convicted on 73 counts of torture and sentenced to 25 years' imprisonment.
        Despite his usual impulse toward the humane, Mr. Timerman reserved the right to be selectively unforgiving, and described General Camps, who had been chief of police in Buenos Aires province during the journalist's imprisonment, as ''a lunatic, paranoid assassin.''
        Never a stranger to controversy, Mr. Timerman, in his famous book and in newspaper and magazine articles and television interviews, repeatedly criticized prominent Argentine Jews as having been timid in their response to the dictatorship's systematic suppression of dissent and human rights. He compared them to members of the Judenrat, or Jewish councils, of the sort that cooperated with the Nazis in World War II.
        And in the early 1980's he was vocal in his condemnation of the Reagan administration's low-keyed human rights policy toward what it called ''authoritarian'' right-wing regimes like those in Argentina and Chile, which the administration tolerated, as distinguished from ''totalitarian'' leftist governments as exemplified by Cuba and Nicaragua, which it loudly condemned.
        Mr. Timerman was of the opinion that all extremist regimes, left and right, were totalitarian.
        He was a voluble and dedicated patriot, although Argentina was not his native country. ''The Timermans,'' he wrote, ''by way of those strange, biforked paths of Judaism, escaped the Spanish occupation of the Netherlands, and the Inquisition, and wound up in a small town of Vinnitsia Oblast in the Ukraine, called Bar. Family accounts, rather imprecise and often colored by vanity, claim that the Timermans were prominent in the community and fought for Jewish rights.''
        Mr. Timerman was born in Bar on Jan. 6, 1923, the son of Nathan and Eva Berman Timerman. When he was 5, the family fled Ukraine to escape the pogroms widespread there and settled in the 11th District of Buenos Aires, the heart of the Jewish quarter.
        When he was 12, his father died, leaving his mother to support her two sons. They lived in a one-room apartment rent-free in exchange for serving as janitors of the tenement building. Mr. Timerman also worked as a jeweler's messenger.
        His mother, Mr. Timerman said, was a ''neurotic obsessive'' on the subject of the suffering of world Jewry, and when he was 14 she urged him to join Avuca, a student group that studied Jewish history and Zionism. Two young friends in the group, who called themselves Socialist Zionists, were to have a lifelong influence on him, he said.
        ''When I heard them speak,'' he wrote, ''I became destined for that world I would never abandon -- a world that at times took the form of Zionism, at times the struggle for human rights, at times the fight for freedom of expression and at other times again the solidarity with dissidents against all totalitarianisms.''
        In his teens Mr. Timerman liked to read the works of what he called ''progressive, socially committed'' writers like Upton Sinclair, John Dos Passos, Jack London, Erich Maria Remarque and Henri Barbusse. He took part in Socialist May Day demonstrations and supported the Hashomer Hatzair, the Zionist organization that sent troops to fight Franco in the Spanish Civil War.
        During World War II Mr. Timerman joined the Youth League for Freedom, which backed the Allied cause at the time when the Argentine government was openly pro-German. Ultimately, the police banned the league as a Communist front. Mr. Timerman was to maintain throughout his life that he was never a Communist.
        Although he often said, ''I did not become a journalist, I was born one,'' Mr. Timerman studied engineering in La Plata for a time. He started writing in 1947, for several literary magazines. In 1950 he joined La Razon, a leading Buenos Aires newspaper, and soon won a reputation as a resourceful reporter with keen political insights.
        A restless workaholic, Mr. Timerman also worked in radio and television, and, finally, with a group of other young journalists, founded a Time-like weekly news magazine called Primera Plana. He sold it in 1969 and founded Confirmidado, which also won popularity as a newsweekly, then sold it and founded La Opinion in May 1971.
        The newspaper, modeled on the liberal La Monde of Paris, was greeted with glee by politically minded intellectuals, many of whom welcomed its left-of-center stance, its profuse coverage of the arts and its pro-Israel politics.
        La Opinion prospered, and when it reached a circulation of 150,000 in 1974, Mr. Timerman sold a 45 percent interest in it to David Graiver, a young Jewish financier, who helped him build a modern printing plant and start a small book-publishing company, Timerman Editores.
        Argentine politics have always been complex, and in the early 1970's little that Mr. Timerman did, in any way, simplified his own political actions. When Juan Domingo Peron returned from exile in 1973 and was re-elected president, the anti-fascist Mr. Timerman supported him. But his Peronist allegiance ended in 1974 after the death of Peron and the assumption of his office by his third wife, Isabel Martinez de Peron.
        Mr. Timerman continued to champion democratic institutions and human rights, irrespective of ideologies, taking positions that were to confound his interrogators later on.
        He condemned right-wing tendencies in the government of his beloved Israel as well as the terrorist acts of the Palestine Liberation Organization, while excoriating the Soviet Union's persecution of dissidents and Cuba's treatment of political prisoners. He also supported the Marxist government of Salvador Allende Gossens in Chile. After Allende's overthrow by the military, Mr.Timerman's denunciation of human rights violations was so intense that the Chilean press referred to him as ''public enemy No. 1.''
        Events leading to Mr. Timerman's imprisonment and torture began with the 1976 overthrow of President Isabel Peron by a military junta led by Lt. Gen. Jorge Rafael Videla.
        He backed the junta's pledges of economic reconstruction, national unity and the eventual return to constitutional processes. But it soon became clear the military was to remain entrenched in power. Right-wing elements of the army embarked on a wave of terrorism, taking scores of dissenters into custody and killing thousands of desaparecidos -- the disappeared ones -- whose names Mr. Timerman regularly printed in his newspaper.
        Gradually, the government began exerting pressure on La Opinion, withholding official advertising, harassing its reporters and even kidnapping some. Mr. Timerman regularly received death threats from the right and the terrorist left, often brazenly publishing responses to the threats on his front page. His answer to friends who urged him to flee Argentina was, ''I am one who belongs to the Masada,'' a reference to the first-century Jewish community whose citizens chose to die rather than surrender to the Romans.
        Early on April 15, 1977, 20 armed men broke into Mr. Timerman's home on orders of an army brigade commander. He was held in three clandestine houses of confinement and two regular prisons for more than a year, during which he was beaten, given electric shocks to his genitals, put in solitary confinement under humiliating circumstances and interrogated endlessly.
        During that time, and the 17 months of house arrest that followed, the reasons for Mr. Timerman's treatment were never made clear. There was vague talk by the military of ''subversive acts,'' of a Jewish plot to expropriate a southern area of Argentina and set up a second Jewish state, and of ''economic crimes.''
        This was an allusion to the government's charge that Mr. Timerman's partner, Mr. Gravier, had used his international banking connections to help a left-wing terrorist faction called the Montoneros invest millions of dollars extorted through ransom. The military further alleged that Mr. Timerman and Mr. Gravier were part of a Jewish-Marxist-Montonero conspiracy. (Actually, Mr. Gravier's financial empire had collapsed after his death in a mysterious plane crash in Mexico in 1976.)
        During a period in which three separate judicial bodies cleared Mr. Timerman of all charges against him, his incarceration drew worldwide attention, with various people and institutions protesting the violation of his human rights. These included Henry A. Kissinger, President Jimmy Carter, Cyrus R. Vance, Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, the Vatican, Amnesty International and the human rights commission of the Organization of American States.
        After the Supreme Court for the second time ordered Mr. Timerman's release, on Sept. 25, the ruling generals summarily and illegally stripped him of his citizenship, confiscated his newspaper and other properties and put him on a plane for Israel, where he claimed his Jewish  right to citizenship.
        He lived In Israel, in Manhattan  and in Spain until 1983, when the military dictatorship was replaced by a democratically elected government. In addition to testifying against his tormentors, he took legal action to regain control of his newspaper, which had been sold after his expulsion for $5 million. Eventually, the government reimbursed him for that amount and he established homes in Buenos Aires and in Punta del Este, the Uruguayan resort.
        Mr. Timerman's wife, Riche, died in 1991, and he acknowledged in an interview last March in Punta del Este that her death had led to a deep depression and writer's block and a reliance on drink.
        But he was beginning to come round, he added, and had begun work on his memoirs, writing in longhand for an hour or two each morning and afternoon. When he weakened, his son Javier said yesterday, he tape-recorded his remembrances with a co-author, Carlos Gabetta of Buenos Aires.
        Mr. Timerman maintained his reputation for being an admirable but egoistic individualist, disinclined to mince words or shy from controversy. He continued to accuse the Jewish leadership of Argentina, which has a Jewish population of about 300,000, of looking the other way during the military regime as, he maintained, some 1,500 Jews joined the ranks of the 15,000 or more Argentines who ''disappeared'' because of their political beliefs.
        In addition to ''Prisoner Without a Name, Cell Without a Number,'' Mr. Timerman was the author of ''The Longest War: Israel in Lebanon,'' published in 1982, and ''Chile: Death in the South,'' released in 1988. He also wrote dozens of magazine and newspaper articles.
        He is survived by three sons, Daniel, Hector and Javier, and eight grandchildren.
      