
        Alan Heimert, a longtime Harvard professor whose scholarship about 18th-century America was influential and controversial, died on Monday in Washington. He was 70 and lived in Winchester, Mass.
        Professor Heimert had cardiovascular problems, said his son, Andrew, whom the professor and his wife were visiting in Washington. He was pronounced dead at Georgetown University Hospital.
        At his death, Professor Heimert (pronounced HIGH-mert) had been for 30 years the Powell M. Cabot Professor of American Literature at Harvard, where he had been on the faculty since 1959.
        In its announcement of his death, the Harvard news office noted, ''His major work, 'Religion and the American Mind: From the Great Awakening to the Revolution' (1966), has had a significant, and ongoing, impact on historical understanding of American culture in the 18th century.''
        Reached at Yale University, Harry S. Stout, the Jonathan Edwards Professor of American Christianity and an authority on American religious history, said yesterday that in his opinion ''Religion and the American Mind'' is ''the most significant and provocative book on American religious history.''
        In the book, Professor Heimert ''took all of the existing categories for understanding religion, the American Revolution and what he called 'the meaning of America' and stood them on their heads,'' Professor Stout said. ''Conventional wisdom up until Heimert's book suggested that the only connection between religion and the American Revolution was to be found among a handful of Unitarians and deists that we associate with the Founding Fathers.''
        What was most notably new in the book, Professor Stout said, was the greater importance that Professor Heimert ascribed to the impact of evangelical preaching as a cause of the American Revolution. That thesis ''shattered the consensus'' that prevailed at the time the book was published, Professor Stout said.
        The initial response to the book was almost universally negative. Eminent historians of both religion and the American Revolution were quite uncomfortable and even angry at Professor Heimert's bold view. It was not until the late 1970's that a group of his own students and other admirers, including Professor Stout, ''rescued his reputation,'' according to Professor Stout, ''and showed through careful empirical work the many ways in which his view is deeply true.''
        Professor Heimert was also founding director of the Harvard South Africa Fellowship Program, which began in 1981 and has brought more than 100 young, nonwhite South African professional people to Harvard for a year's study. He was an honorary life member of the South African Institute for Race Relations.
        The administrative posts he held at Harvard included the chairmanships of the Department of English and American Literature and Language and also of the Committee on Higher Degrees in the History of American Civilization. He was master of Harvard's Eliot House for 23 years.
        For more than three decades Professor Heimert taught a popular survey course in which thousands of Harvard undergraduates were introduced to American literature.
        The honors he received included a lifetime achievement award from the Modern Language Association for his scholarship and teaching in the field of colonial literature.
        He was born in Oak Park, Ill., and received a bachelor's degree in 1949 from Harvard, a master's degree from Columbia and a doctorate in the history of American civilization from Harvard. He served in the United States Army from 1952 to 1955 in Japan and Korea.
        In addition to his son, he is survived by his wife, Arline; a daughter, Lara, of New Haven, Conn., and a sister, Marian Rees of Los Altos, Calif.
      