
        Lauson Harvey Stone, a lawyer and civic leader who was assigned by the War Department to be a defense lawyer for eight Nazi saboteurs who were tried in Washington in 1942, died on Sunday at a Brooklyn hospital. He was 94 and lived in Brooklyn.
        Mr. Stone, a son of Harlan Fiske Stone, the chief justice of the United States from 1941 to 1946, retired in 1980 after practicing corporate law  in Manhattan for five decades.
        He was a member of New York City's Board of Higher Education, a trustee of the Brooklyn Public Library, and chairman of the boards of trustees of Long Island College of Medicine in Brooklyn and Columbia University's Parker School of Foreign and Comparative Law.
        Mr. Stone was an Army major when he was added to the saboteurs' defense staff in 1942.
        Not long before, the German-born eight had landed by night from German submarines, some near Amagansett, N.Y., on Long Island, and some near Jacksonville, Fla. They had orders, and equipment, to blow up production and transportation targets. The Long Island group soon ran into the Coast Guard, became rattled and gave the whole plot away. All eight were in hands of the Federal Bureau of Investigation within two weeks of their arrival, and without doing damage.
        In July, their largely secret trial began before a military commission, at President Franklin Delano Roosevelt's behest. They were charged with being agents of the German Reich. During a recess, the United States Supreme Court held a special session, at the defense's insistence, to determine whether Roosevelt was within his rights in keeping the case out of civil courts and whether the trial was constitutional.
        During the session, the defense argued that the eight had made their submarine trips simply to escape Nazi Germany and had never intended to carry out the sabotage.
        The Supreme Court affirmed that Roosevelt had the power to order the military trial, and the military commission found all defendants guilty. Six were electrocuted, and  two were given prison sentences.
        Mr. Stone, a native of Manhattan,  received a bachelor's degree in 1925 from Harvard and a law degree in 1928 from Columbia.
        Surviving are his wife, Jane; two sons, Harlan II, and Peter; and two grandchildren.
      