
        Serge Lang, a French sportswriter who helped create skiing's biggest and most successful tour, the World Cup, died Sunday in Sternenberg, in the Alsace region of France. He was 79.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Tom Kelly, a spokesman for the United States Ski and Snowboard Association in Park City, Utah.
        Lang began working as a journalist in 1940. During much of his career, he was a reporter and columnist at L'Equipe, the French daily newspaper, and Blick, the Swiss tabloid. By the late 1940's, he had become an authority on cycling, his personal passion, and skiing.
        In the mid-1960's, Lang decided  that skiing could become as popular as cycling and its Tour de France, if marketed properly.
        Along with Bob Beattie, a television sports commentator and a former head of the United States ski team, and a French skier, Honore Bonnet, Lang brought together a few scattered ski races that were only known by die-hards and called the circuit the World Cup. The first season was the winter of 1966-67.
        ''The World Cup is today one of the best-known sporting events in the world because of him,'' Kelly said of Lang. ''He was a great visionary and had a lot of passion. The sport also grew tremendously after he started the World Cup.''
        The three founders of the World Cup reportedly dreamed up the idea late one night over a bottle of wine while waiting for avalanche warnings to end and blizzards to clear. ''Actually, it was over a lot of bottles of wine -- over a period of time,  Beattie said.
        Beattie said that the World Cup ''was a particularly large factor in helping to popularize ski racing in the United States; it brought the Europeans over here.''
        Lang was president of the International Ski Federation's World Cup committee from 1973 to 1986. He also wrote an annual book of skiing biographies and World Cup statistics, the Biorama, and founded the Association of International Ski Journalists in 1973. He was president of the organization until his death. In the past few years, Lang also started a circuit, called Legends, for former ski racing stars and older skiers.
        He is survived by his wife, Jocelyn, and a son, Patrick.
      