
        Eric Neisser, a civil liberties lawyer who was the dean of Franklin Pierce Law Center in Concord, N.H., and the former acting dean at Rutgers School of Law in Newark, died last Monday at a hospital in Concord. He was 52.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Irene O'Brien, a spokeswoman for the Rutgers-Newark campus.
        Mr. Neisser was named president and dean of Franklin Pierce Law Center in July. Before that, he had been acting dean of the Rutgers School of Law for a year. He had spent 20 years there as a teacher and associate dean, helping run the school's Constitutional Litigation Clinic.
        Mr. Neisser recently moved to Bow, N.H., after living for 20 years in Montclair, N.J. He was also a former legal director of the New Jersey chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union.
        In New Jersey, he was involved in Hennessey v. Coastal Eagle Point Oil Company, a case that limited random drug testing of employees, and State of New Jersey v. Donis, which restricted the authority of the police to look up personal information through license plate searches.
        Mr. Neisser assisted Neil M. Mullin, a lawyer from Montclair, who won the release of Vincent James Landano, who served 13 years in prison before he was acquitted last year in a second trial on charges of murdering a Newark police officer.
        He was also co-counsel with the Delaware public defender in the 1979 United States Supreme Court case, Prouse v. Delaware, that established the principle that the police cannot stop cars without reasonable suspicion.
        Mr. Neisser, who was born on Oct. 17, 1947, in Manhattan, graduated from the University of Chicago and the Yale Law School. Early in his career, he worked for the Massachusetts Defenders Committee in Boston and was later a staff attorney for the Prisoners Rights Project of the New York Legal Aid Society.
        He also founded the Special Educational Clinic at the Rutgers Law School to help disabled children with legal needs.
        Mr. Neisser wrote a monthly column for The New Jersey Law Journal for several years and was a commentator for Court TV and the host of a public television series on legal issues. His book, ''Recapturing the Spirit: Essays on the Bill of Rights at 200'' was published by Madison House in 1991.
        He is survived by his wife, Joan; two daughters, Yvette Neisser of Chapel Hill, N.C., and Michelle Neisser of Sommerville, Mass., and a granddaughter.
      