
        John Hadfield, an editor of literary anthologies and the author of ''Love on a Branch Line,'' a fanciful tale of British rural life in 1950's East Anglia that became a successful television series, died the last week of October, The Daily Telegraph of London reported. He was 92 and lived in Woodbridge in the English county of Suffolk.
        Mr. Hadfield's bond with East Anglia, the easternmost peninsula of England, was formed during World War II when the ship in which he was traveling was torpedoed in the mid-Atlantic and he was sent to recuperate in a sanatorium in the county of Norfolk.
        As an invalid he compiled an anthology of poetry, ''The Book of Beauty'' (1952), the first of nearly a dozen. The work was so popular that it allowed Mr. Hadfield to buy Barham Manor, a beautiful but decrepit 16th-century house north of Ipswich where he designed gardens and kept peacocks.
        His move to the region also coincided with the closing of the Mid-Suffolk Light Railway, which ran from Haughley Junction to Laxfield, or ''from nowhere to nowhere,'' as the locals liked to put it.
        Out of this incident grew ''Love on a Branch Line,'' about a staid civil servant, Jasper Pye, who is sent to set up an office in East Anglia, where he encounters the flamboyant Lord Flamborough, a double amputee who lives in splendor on his private railroad train, and his three uninhibited daughters.
        The book, first published in 1959, was an immediate success; it was reissued in 1988 and adapted for television in 1994 as a four-part series for the BBC.
        Born on the outskirts of Birmingham, where his father practiced law, Mr. Hadfield was educated at Bradfield. After graduation he joined the London publishing firm of J. M. Dent, where his authors included Field Marshal Montgomery, for whom he edited a book on the history of warfare.
        In 1942 he was sent to the Middle East as books officer for the British Council, where he formed a committee to translate English books into Arabic. The translations varied wildly; Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's ''Sign of Four'' became, in Arabic, ''Where Is the Treasure, O Sherlock Holmes?,'' while ''Gone With the Wind'' was whittled down to a mere 60 pages.
        After returning to England, Mr. Hadfield set up his own publishing company, Cupid Press, which specialized in beautifully bound anthologies of poetry and engravings published as limited editions.
        In 1952 he became editor of ''The Saturday Book,'' an illustrated anthology of literature, poetry and curiosities published every Christmas and touted as a ''gift book to please every taste.'' He remained editor for 21 years, introducing such poets as John Betjeman.
        He is survived by his second wife, Joy Westendarp, and a daughter by his first marriage.
      