
        Savumiamoorthy Thondaman, a Sri Lankan trade unionist and political figure who was a leader of the minority Tamils of Indian origin, died on Saturday in a hospital in the Colombo area. He was reported to be 86 or 87.
        The cause was heart failure, said a Sri Lankan legislator, The Associated Press reported.
        The Tamils whom Mr. Thondaman represented went to the Indian Ocean island that is now Sri Lanka when it was the British colony of Ceylon. They were taken from southern India in the 19th century to clear jungles and work in plantations opened by the British to grow crops including tea, an important export.
        The Tamils are Tamil-speaking Hindus who live mainly in southern India and in Sri Lanka. The largest group of Tamils in Sri Lanka, called Jaffna, or ''Sri Lankan'' Tamils, have been a part of the country's history for centuries and make up 12 percent of the population. The more recent migrants from India constitute 6 percent.
        ''We transformed this country,'' Mr. Thondaman, president of the powerful Ceylon Workers' Congress, a political, as well as a labor organization, said in 1973, when it represented nearly 400,000 workers. ''Plantation labor opened the roads and railways, built up communications and began the flourishing export trade.''
        Nonetheless, he said, a large number of ''people who have been born here and know no other motherland are considered stateless.'' But he succeeded in securing Sri Lankan citizenship for many Tamils.
        He was also a kingmaker in politics for decades. One important achievement was keeping the Tamils of Indian origin in the tea country away from the Tamil separatist movement in the north. If not, Sri Lanka might have been badly wounded economically.
        But last year, in 1998, as head of the Workers' Congress, he oversaw a nine-day strike, for higher pay, by half a million workers on tea and rubber plantations. The wage increase was won, but the walkout led to $60 million in lost export revenues.
        Accounts about Mr. Thondaman's parents differ. The Associated Press reported that he was born into a prominent southern Indian family that had a tea estate in Ceylon, which became independent in 1948 and was renamed Sri Lanka in 1972.
        When he was 11, he went to Ceylon and attended school there for five years. He dropped out to learn about tea production and, in the process, formed a close relationship with tea workers.
        Mr. Thondaman had been a member of Parliament for years. At his death, he was minister of estate infrastructure and livestock development. He had previously held other cabinet posts.
      