
        H. Clay Earles, who 53 years ago carved a hardscrabble racetrack out of the red clay of southern Virginia and then painstakingly turned it into a cash-spewing shrine to the cult of the stock car, died Tuesday at his home in Martinsville, Va. He was 86.
        Earles's Martinsville Speedway, famed and feared for its cramped, dangerous track, is striking testament to the growth of an industry. At the first race in 1947, the year after Earles starting building the track, Red Byron won a purse of $500; winners' purses in recent years have surpassed $170,000. The track now has 81,000 seats, 26 corporate suites and a helicopter for the speedy evacuation of anyone seriously injured.
        The speedway was almost as renowned for its springtime azaleas as its growling 750-horsepower engines. Earles made special efforts to keep things nice, such as repainting the white walls after each race, although some in attendance could not help suspecting the consummate showman might have been more interested in a fresh canvas for new scrawls of automotive violence. He raffled off diamond rings and new cars.
        Instead of trophies, he gave winners grandfather clocks. Richard Petty, the king of stock car racing and the record winner at Martinsville, got 12. (He would have gotten three more, but the practice did not start until 1964.)
        Not that success and wealth appear to have gone to Earles's head. His home was a trailer parked next to the track. On a wall plaque were his old brass knuckles, a reminder of the gritty sprouting of the sport from the souped-up cars that operators of illegal stills used to elude the law during Prohibition.
        Earles is credited with being an instrumental figure in taking a county fair competition among daredevil good ol' boys and turning it into one of America's richest sporting spectacles. An early partner in his new Martinsville Speedway was Bill France, who provided a field of drivers and paid for advertising in exchange for 25 percent of the profits. The next year the National Association of Stock Car Auto Racing was incorporated, with France as its first president. Martinsville is the only one of Nascar's original tracks still in operation.
        ''Clay Earles was one of the original pioneers of stock car auto racing,'' said Mike Helton, chief operating officer of Nascar. ''Clay and Martinsville Speedway played an integral role in the early years of Nascar's development.''
        Earles was one of four children born on a tobacco farm near Axton, Va. He was educated in a one-room school and earned his first money at the age of 5 by selling unwanted leaves from his father's crop. He dropped out of high school at 16 to help his family by making 25 cents an hour in a furniture factory.
        He soon went into business for himself. A pool hall he opened failed in six months. He then bought a gas station, which turned a profit. He was able to qualify for a loan to buy the first drive-in restaurant in Martinsville. The restaurant also succeeded. He sold that to buy another gas station, which he kept until 1954 and sold because the track was taking so much of his time.
        In 1946, after seeing the crowds that races in nearby North Carolina attracted, he bought 30 acres to build the track. At the time, stock car races were mainly held at fairgrounds, and free-standing tracks were rare.
        To promote the first race in 1947, he and France proclaimed that it would be dust-free because of the oil and other materials they spread on the track. More than 6,000 fans, most dressed in their Sunday best, showed up for the race, where only 750 seats were ready.
        ''It turned out to be the dustiest race I've ever seen,'' Earles recalled in a 1998 interview. ''When the race started, it looked like someone had dropped the atomic bomb.''
        The 0.526-mile track was paved in 1955 and since then has expanded to cover 300 acres, including a chalet village for tent entertainment. But it is the track itself, half the size of some of the giants on the prestigious Winston Cup circuit, that captivates aficionados. It has 800-foot straightaways and short, tight turns banked at only 12 degrees. It has been called two drag strips with short turns.
        This shorter course created a different sort of racing game.
        ''Unlike the superspeedways where the big-dollar cars and their horsepower advantage over the smaller teams and independents made the big teams clear favorites,'' said an article by Matt McLaughlin in the magazine Speedworld, ''Martinsville was a driver's track where strategy and luck often won out over brute horsepower.''
        But this has meant that races almost always leave cars with smudges of other cars' paint. ''No car completes 500 laps without damage,'' proclaimed the speedway's own press release.
        Despite the numerous wrecks and flips, the track maintains that there have been few serious injuries. Two racers have died at the track: Richie Evans in 1985 and Charlie Jarzombeck in 1987.
        ''Those were the two worst days in my life,'' Earles said.
        Earles got numerous industry and local civic awards, and he appeared in the 1973 movie, ''The Last American Hero,'' as himself. The film was later retitled ''Hard Charger.''
        Colleagues remembered him as congenial but determined, a hard driver who last took a vacation in 1959. ''He knew what he wanted to do and how he wanted to do it,'' said Junie Donlavey, a Richmond, Va., car owner. ''If you wanted to try to lead him in another direction, that's when he got tough.''
        He is survived by two daughters, Dorothy E. Campbell and Mary E. Weatherford, both of Martinsville; two grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren. His grandson Clay Campbell has been serving as president of the speedway board.
        His sympathies were always with the little guy, with people who had to strain to pay the cost of a Nascar ticket. In 1987, he battled unsuccessfully against a decision to reschedule a rained-out weekend race for the following Monday. He said people had jobs to go to and were entitled to see the makeup race in off hours.
        ''If I sell a man something, I want him to have his money's worth,'' he said. ''How would you like to put out $35 for a ticket and not get anything for it? I know I wouldn't.''
      