
        Jacob Glick, a violist admired for his championship of new music and his performances on the Baroque viola d'amore, died on Nov. 1 at the Southwestern Vermont Medical Center in Bennington. He was 73 and lived in New York and Bennington.
        Deborah Borda, the executive director of the New York Philharmonic and a former student of Mr. Glick's, said the cause was cancer.
        Mr. Glick performed with several New York new-music groups, including the Group for Contemporary Music and the Contemporary Chamber Players. He was also a member of the Penn Contemporary Players at the University of Pennsylvania, the Jennings String Quartet and the Silvermine String Quartet. He toured regularly in the United States, Europe, Asia and Australia.
        Mr. Glick was born in Philadelphia in 1926 and studied the viola at the New School of Music there, as well as at the Peabody Conservatory in Baltimore and the Yale School of Music. From the start of his performing career, and particularly in the 1950's and 60's, he was an advocate for living composers. He took part in several important premieres, including the first American performances of Pierre Boulez's ''Marteau sans Maitre'' and the world premiere of George Crumb's ''Ancient Voices of Children,'' in which he played a musical saw.
        He also gave first performances of works by Otto Luening, Ursula Mamlok, George Rochberg, John Harbison and others. Several of his recordings of contemporary works remain available and are regarded as classic performances.
        Mr. Glick was also a teacher and chamber music coach. He was on the faculty of Bennington College for more than 20 years, and in the mid-1980's he spent a year at the Shanghai Conservatory as a visiting professor of viola and chamber music, and as a conductor of the school's string orchestra.
        He is survived by his wife, Lilo Kantorowicz-Glick; two daughters, Judith Bettina of Princeton, N.J., and Byaela Bodenheim of Brooklyn; and two grandchildren.
      