
        Stanley Frankel, a journalist, corporate executive and speechwriter for Democratic presidential candidates, including Adlai E. Stevenson, Robert F. Kennedy, Hubert H. Humphrey, George McGovern and Walter F. Mondale, died on Nov. 12 in a New York City hospital. He was 80.
        Mr. Frankel, who lived in Scarsdale, died from complications from a cerebral aneurysm, said his son Stephen Frankel.
        Long active in the Democratic Party, Mr. Frankel started by working in Stevenson's campaign for Illinois governor in 1948, and later  worked on his unsuccessful presidential campaigns in 1952 and 1956.
        In 1962, Mr. Frankel won a Peabody Award as executive producer of the television series ''Adlai Stevenson Reports,'' a network television program.
        He then wrote speeches and recruited leading scholars to help write speeches for other Democratic presidential candidates.
        Born on Dec. 8, 1918 in Dayton, Ohio, Mr. Frankel attended Northwestern University, graduating in 1940 as valedictorian.
        Serving with the 37th Infantry Division in the Pacific in World War II, Mr. Frankel took part in the liberation of Manila and about 2,000 American prisoners of war.
        Returning to civilian life, Mr. Frankel worked for Esquire, Coronet and This Week magazines before becoming a vice president of McCall's magazine. He later spent 27 years as vice president for the Ogden Corporation, an industrial conglomerate.
        In addition to his son Stephen of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., Mr. Frankel is survived by his wife, Irene Baskin Frankel; two other children, Thomas, of Manhattan, and Nancy Joselson of Mamaroneck, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
        Mr. Frankel gleefully took credit for a stroke of political gamesmanship at the Democratic National Convention in Atlantic City in 1964. After a team of Republicans set up a billboard outside the convention hall picturing their candidate, Barry Goldwater, with the legend ''In your heart, you know he's right,'' Mr. Frankel and a few fellow Democrats put up a huge sign directly under it reading, ''Yes -- extreme right.''
      