
        Horst P. Horst, a master of light and deep shadow whose photographs of fashion and fashionable creatures like Coco Chanel, Marlene Dietrich and Noel Coward evoked the glamorous 1930's as well as his own chic circle in Paris, died yesterday at his home in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. He was 93.
        The photographer, who was known from the beginning of his expansive career as, simply, Horst, had been in failing health since suffering from pneumonia last year, said Richard J. Horst, his manager and archivist, who also became his adopted son.
        Best known for his classical images of models and society figures posed in dramatic, often Greek-inspired settings, Horst started taking pictures in 1931 as a protege of the aristocratic photographer George Hoyningen-Huene and continued to work until 1991, photographing subjects as diverse as Jean Cocteau, Harry S. Truman, Maria Callas, Gertrude Stein and Andy Warhol, as well as settings like the Iranian deserts and interiors of Irish castles.
        ''He really was the 20th century,'' said the photographer Eric Boman, who met Horst in 1978, when both were assigned to photograph the French fashion collections, and who subsequently became a regular visitor to Horst's home in Oyster Bay. Many of the furnishings there were from his friend Chanel, and a portrait of Jacqueline Kennedy, leaning against a White House pillar, hung in a bathroom.
        The people he knew, the clothes he photographed, conjure up a world where elegance and manners still mattered, and indeed Horst was himself a specimen of prewar savoir-faire, with blond hair and a trim, muscular body. His settings were often highly stylized, and he preferred to work in a studio, where he could use artificial light to impose an unreality on his subjects, elevating them to a glamorous ideal.
        In a 1984 biography by Valentine Lawford, a former British foreign service officer who became Horst's companion, Horst recalled a photo session in 1935 with the Comtesse de la Falaise for French Vogue: ''To get this shot, it took two days. It was the idea that counted then, not the sort of nervous rush they work in today.''
        Horst also had an exquisite, if slightly eccentric, eye for detail, and in his early years as a photographer for French Vogue he would shoo away overly fastidious fashion editors who tried to make immaculate his settings -- fussing with a stray flower, for instance. ''My best pictures always have a little mess -- a dirty ashtray, something,'' he said. And when he was asked by Diana Vreeland, the editor in chief of American Vogue, to photograph interiors, he was equally adept at recognizing the details that brought out the inhabitants' personalities.
        ''The cravats around the carafes of wine at the Rothschilds' house in Mouton,'' mused Mrs. Vreeland in 1984. ''The Duke of Windsor's red leather dispatch box marked 'The King.' When those pictures came in, I went berserk. I'd be intoxicated for hours.''
        The younger of two sons of a well-to-do hardware merchant, Horst Paul Albert Bohrmann was born Aug. 14, 1906, in the eastern German town of Weiseenfels-an-der-Saale. Although he seldom bothered to use his surname even as a fledgling photographer among an expatriate crowd in Paris in the early 30's, he formally dropped it in 1943, after he had become an American citizen, so as not to be confused with the Nazi official Martin Bormann. He legally changed his name to Horst P. Horst.
        A somewhat indolent youth who gravitated toward artists and actors, Horst initially wanted to be an architect, and was accepted by Le Corbusier as an apprentice in the Bauhaus architect's studio in Paris. But in Paris he soon met Hoyningen-Huene, whose father had been chief equerry to Czar Nicholas II, and his life took a different course. Through Hoyningen-Huene, Horst met Cecil Beaton, who in turned introduced him to Charles James, the Chicago-born dressmaker. Horst was to spend a productive decade in the glittering orbit of the interior designer Jean-Michel Frank, the writer Janet Flanner, the set designer Bebe Berard and, of course, Chanel, whom Horst called ''the queen of the whole thing.''
        He left for America in the late summer of 1939, shortly after taking what would be one of his most enduring images -- of a model, bathed in deep shadows, wearing an unraveling corset. He said the picture summed up his feelings about an era's end. ''While I was taking it,'' he said, ''I was thinking of all that I was leaving behind.''
        He went on to have a successful career as a photographer for American Vogue, though, in the 1960's, when editors demanded more lifelike shots of models running and skipping, he fell out of favor. Still, he continued to find work, shooting interiors as well as portraits and advertising images for Seventh Avenue designers like Bill Blass and Calvin Klein, for whom he used his sense of drama and elegance to light mere socks.
        Aside from his son, Horst had no survivors.
      