
        Sir John Foster Wilson, who was blinded by a Bunsen burner exploding in his face as a 12-year-old schoolboy and went on to lead campaigns to save millions from blindness, died in his home in Brighton, England on Nov. 24. He was 80.
        Sir John's principal vehicle was Sight Savers International, which he originally called the Royal Commonwealth Society for the Blind. Since the early 1980's, he had expanded his personal crusade to help people with all types of disabilities. His work extended from Africa to India to the Caribbean.
        In the 1950's, in West Africa, Sir John organized a worldwide campaign against a sight-destroying illness he called ''river blindness,'' virtually eradicating the insect-borne scourge.
        In the 1960's, he set up teams of surgeons in India to perform more than 200,000 cataract operations a year. At his instigation, the World Health Organization established an International Agency for the Prevention of Blindness in 1976.
        He was born in Nottingham, the son of a Methodist minister. The accident that blinded him happened in a high school in Scarborough. ''It did not strike me even then as a tragedy,'' he once told the Times of London.
        Following the accident he attended Worcester College for the Blind, and was given a scholarship to St. Catherine's College at Oxford. There, he achieved highest honors in both law and social administration and competed on the rowing team.
        After graduating, he declined the offer of an academic appointment. Instead, he became Assistant Secretary of the National Institute for the Blind. He was assigned to take a government-sponsored tour of Africa and the Middle East.
        His report led to the formation in 1950 of the organization that would later become Sight Savers. He traveled extensively through the 30 countries of the British Commonwealth initiating programs for the prevention of blindness.
        In 1950, during a tour of West Africa, he and his wife, Jean, lived for a time in a mud hut in an area of Ghana known as the ''Country of the Blind.'' There, a disease called ocular onchocerciasis, caused by the bite of the buffalo gnat that breeds on the Volta River, blinded one of 10 people. The blind used ropes to guide themselves from place to place.
        The Wilsons set about treating the disease as a preventable one, principally through use of the drug Mectizan. Few children in the seven afflicted countries have been born with the disease since the early 1960's.
        The charity distributed Braille study packs, brought teams of ophthalmic surgeons to remote regions of India and Pakistan, and helped saved the sight of infants in Bangladesh by distributing Vitamin A tablets to prevent malnutritional blindness.
        At Sir John's urging, the World Health Organization in 1976 launched a blindness prevention program with the goal of using new technology to aid as many as 30 million visually impaired people. Sir John served as president until 1982, the year he also retired as head of the charity.
        The Wilsons then devoted their energies to Impact, an initiative of the World Health Organization to prevent the causes of all sorts of disabilities. This work has involved such varied efforts as a hospital train in India and a floating hospital in Bangladesh. Despite two hip operations, Sir John continued to travel around the world to further this work.
        Sir John was knighted in 1975. Among the many awards he has won were the Helen Keller International Award and the Albert Schweitzer International Prize and the World Humanity Award.
        He wrote or edited several books on blindness and disability, among them ''Ghana's Handicapped Citizens,'' published in 1961; ''Traveling Blind,'' 1963, and ''World Blindness and Its Prevention,'' 1980.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Jane and Claire, who is now chief executive of the British branch of Impact.
        Earlier this year, in an address to mark the 50th anniversary of the Royal Commonwealth Society for the Blind, he quoted a passage from St. Paul's Letter to the Romans: ''All things work together for good to them that love God.''
        The same words had formed the text for a sermon by his father three days after 12-year-old John Foster Wilson was blinded.
      