
        Richard M. Eakin, a professor of zoology at the University of California at Berkeley who captured the attention of his pre-med students by appearing at his lectures dressed as  Charles Darwin, Louis Pasteur, William Harvey, Gregor Mendel and other greats of science, died Nov. 25 at his home in Danville, Calif. He was 89.
        Dr. Eakin's decision in 1971 to wear costumes, makeup, wigs, beards and moustaches to enliven his Zoology 10 course attracted wide attention. He was a great success on campus, attracting huge audiences, and was the subject of a profile in Life magazine. His costumed lectures were filmed and made available to other schools. He published a book, which included his scripts and photographs of himself in costume, called ''Great Scientists Speak Again'' (University of California Press, 1975).
        He maintained that his playacting was meant not to overshadow serious academic instruction, but to enhance it.
        ''Students either weren't coming or weren't paying attention,'' he told an interviewer. ''The impersonations have helped to maintain an element of excitement.''
        Dr. Eakin labored mightily over his preparations. To play Charles Darwin, he would spend three hours putting on a flowing white beard and wig, plus elaborate makeup. The script he recited, based in part on Darwin's scientific journals, took him two years to develop fully.
        To impersonate William Harvey, who first described the circulation of blood 300 years ago, Dr. Eakin not only wore a costume and a wig but also spoke in carefully practiced Elizabethan English. For Gregor Mendel, the German priest who developed the principle of heredity in 1865, Dr. Eakin donned a long black gown and a borrowed crucifix.
        Richard Marshall Eakin was born  on May 5, 1910, in Florence, Colo. He  entered Berkeley in 1929, received his doctorate in zoology there in 1935 and joined the faculty the next year. His research included studies of amphibian embryology and transplants of animal tissue and organs, and he published more than 200 scientific papers and several books. He was a former president of the American Society of Zoologists.
        At a retirement party in 1977 attended by 600 cheering students, Dr. Eakin summed up his 40 years of teaching this way: ''If I have any advice to give you, it is just this: Love science, but do not worship it.''
        Dr. Eakin is survived by his wife, Barbara, of Danville, Calif.; a son, David, of Richmond, Calif. ; a daughter, Dottie Eakin, of College Station, Tex.; and two stepdaughters, Janet Harris of Sebastopol, Calif., and Jeannie Lamb of Bozeman, Mont.
        Dr. Eakin was not always the only performer in his classroom. On one occasion when he was playing Darwin in a lecture hall, someone wearing an ape costume took a seat in the front row.
        ''The ape was obviously a student,'' Dr. Eakin recalled, ''because he took notes on the lecture.''
      