
        George H. Eversman, an advertising executive in New York and Detroit who helped the United States Marine Corps with its recruitment efforts, died in a Denver hospital on Wednesday after contracting a bone-marrow disorder. He was 72.
        Mr. Eversman suffered an infection after receiving chemotherapy treatment for myelodisplasia, a failure of the bone marrow to produce enough blood cells, said his wife, Elizabeth. A passionate golfer and skier, Mr. Eversman had bounced back from previous chemotherapy sessions to play golf again last summer, before the fungal infection.
        In a career that spanned 35 years on Madison Avenue, Mr. Eversman rose from the mail room of the J. Walter Thompson Company's Detroit office to executive positions with that agency and, later, with N. W. Ayer Inc. He managed the accounts of a long list of advertisers, including the Ford Motor Company, Eastman Kodak and the United States Army.
        The Army assignment, which Mr. Eversman took on at N. W. Ayer in New York, was somewhat ironic because ''he was a steadfast Marine himself,'' said his eldest son, Mark.
        Mr. Eversman, who enlisted in the Marines at 17, was in boot camp at Parris Island, S.C., when Japan surrendered in World War II. He was discharged and enrolled at Purdue University before the corps called him back up during the Korean War.
        He returned to Purdue in West Lafayette, Ind., where his father had been a star athlete and basketball coach before embarking on his own advertising career in Detroit. After graduation from Purdue, Mr. Eversman joined J. Walter Thompson, where one of the accounts he managed was that of the Marine Corps.
        In 1974, Thompson named him manager of New York advertising and promoted him to executive vice president. A year later, he returned to Detroit as general manager of Thompson's office there. He left Thompson in 1977 to join N. W. Ayer, where he remained for more than 10 years.
        When he retired from N. W. Ayer, he and his wife packed their five-year-old son, Matthew, into a motor home and, she said, they ''zigzagged'' across the country for five months until they came to rest near Seattle, in Issaquah, Wash. Mr. Eversman taught courses in advertising at the University of Washington for three years before moving again to Edwards, Colo., about 12 miles from the Vail ski resort. Six years ago, at the age of 66, Mr. Eversman became a ski instructor.
        Mr. Eversman is survived by his wife, Elizabeth, of Edwards, Colo.; a brother, Walter, of Rolla, Mo.; a daughter, Jane Smithers, of Denver; three sons, Mark and David, both of Manhattan Beach, Calif., and Matthew, of Edwards, Colo.
      