
        Reggie Carter, an outstanding guard for the unheralded St. John's University basketball team that came within one game of the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament's Final Four in 1979, died last Friday at Huntington (N.Y.) Hospital. Carter, who lived in Huntington Station, was 42.
        The cause was complications of sarcoidosis, a disease of unknown origin that results in lesions and had affected his heart, his family said.
        St. John's got off to a 9-8 start in the 1978-79 season, Carter's junior year, and was the last team selected for the N.C.A.A. tournament. But Carter teamed up with Wayne McKoy, a center who had been his high school teammate at Long Island Lutheran in Brookville, to provide exciting moments in the post-season.
        After St. John's defeated Temple in the first round, Carter's jump shot with five seconds left brought 10th-seeded St. John's an 80-78 victory over second-seeded Duke in Raleigh, N.C. The following weekend, in Greensboro, N.C., McKoy scored, also with five seconds remaining, for a 67-65 victory over Rutgers. But St. John's was beaten by Penn, 64-62, in the East Regional final.
        Carter, 6 feet 3 inches, averaged 15 points a game as both a junior and a senior and scored 1,061 points over two and a half seasons at St. John's.
        Carter was a high school all-American and then starred as a freshman at the University of Hawaii. He transferred to St. John's after the N.C.A.A. found that Hawaii had engaged in recruiting violations.
        A second-round draft choice of the Knicks, Carter saw limited action in the 1980-81 and '81-82 seasons.
        ''He was so coachable,'' recalled Lou Carnesecca, his St. John's coach.
        Carter received a master's degree from the City University of New York and was an assistant principal at Mineola High School on Long Island.
        He is survived by his wife, Alicia; three sons, Reggie Jr., Nicholas and Nigel; two brothers and three sisters; his mother, Mary, and a granddaughter.
      