
        Paul Cadmus, an American artist noted for a virtuosic figurative style that he applied to subjects ranging from biting social satire to moralizing allegories to sensual, sometimes sentimental male nudes, died on Sunday at his home in Weston, Conn. He was 94.
        Mr. Cadmus found his inspiration in the art of Italian Renaissance painters like Mantegna and Luca Signorelli. His career was remarkable for its unruffled stylistic consistency over 70 years, from his days as a precocious student in New York in the 1920's through his incendiary  stint in the 30's with the federal Public Works of Art Project, later folded into the Works Progress Administration, and up to the present. Although he stopped painting a few years ago, he continued to sketch.
        Because he was a slow, meticulous worker who favored the complicated, time-consuming medium of egg tempera, he finished an average of only two paintings a year. He was, however, more prolific in other forms, including drawing, printmaking and, early on, photography.
        His narrative subject matter -- he proudly referred to himself as a ''literary painter'' -- and his near-illustrational style, which often veered between grotesque caricature and high-pitched melodrama, fell out of favor with the art establishment during and after the rise of Abstract Expressionism in the 1940's. But by that time Mr. Cadmus had already achieved more than one widely publicized succes de scandale.
        In 1934, when he was employed by the Public Works of Art Project, his painting ''The Fleet's In,'' depicting uniformed sailors, prostitutes and a homosexual pickup in progress, was included in an exhibition at the Corcoran Gallery in Washington. Outraged Navy officials saw a newspaper reproduction of the painting and pulled the work from the show. It was kept from public view until 1981 and is now temporarily displayed at the Wolfsonian Museum in Miami.
        More agitation followed. When Mr. Cadmus's cartoonish, Bruegelian ''Coney Island'' appeared at the Whitney Museum of American Art in 1935, Brooklyn realtors threatened to file a civil suit to protest what they saw as a slur on the neighborhood. And the sardonic suburban scenes he sketched out for post office murals in Port Washington, N.Y., in 1936 resulted in the cancellation of the original commission. (It was carried out in easel painting format.)
        Mr. Cadmus, who was personally unconfrontational, went into retreat  after these controversies. But the  public was fascinated: his first one-man show in New York, at Midtown Galleries in Manhattan in 1937, attracted more than 7,000 visitors.
        Paul Cadmus was born on the Upper West Side of Manhattan on Dec.  17, 1904. His father, who had little money, was a commercial lithographer who had studied with Robert Henri; his mother was an illustrator of children's books. At 15, before he finished high school, he was enrolled in art classes at the National Academy of Design. Within two years he was admitted to the life drawing classes and by 1926 had completed his course work, having won numerous prizes and scholarships.
        He did advertising jobs until 1931  and studied at the Art Students League; there he met the painter Jared French, who urged him to quit commercial art. They became lovers and went to Europe, staying on the island of Majorca, where Mr. Cadmus painted two of his best-known early works, ''Shore Leave'' and ''YMCA Locker Room,'' raucous, mock-classical tableaux vivants that anticipate ''The Fleet's In.''
        He returned to the United States in 1933 and was hired by the Public Works of Art Project. After the furor that met his work in the 30's, interest in him quieted down and his conservative, antimodernist style -- ''I have never been part of any avant-garde,'' he said -- left him all but invisible in the postwar art world.
        Yet he continued to produce work at a steady pace and was part of a circle of writers, artists, musicians and choreographers whom he considered colleagues and friends. They included Christopher Isherwood, W. H. Auden, George Balanchine, George Platt Lynes, George Tooker, Lincoln Kirstein (the husband of Mr. Cadmus's sister Fidelma) and E. M. Forster, who, the story goes, read his homoerotic novel ''Maurice'' aloud while Mr. Cadmus was painting his portrait.
        Although Mr. Cadmus's work is in the collections of most major American museums, he has received scant institutional attention in terms of solo exhibitions. He was included in a handful of important group shows, among them ''American Realists and Magic Realists'' at the Museum of Modern Art in 1943. His cycle of paintings titled ''Seven Deadly Sins'' was exhibited at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1995; his ''Sailor'' series at the Whitney Museum of American Art in 1996.
        A career retrospective was organized in 1981 by the Miami University Art Museum in Ohio; it traveled to the Hudson River Museum in Yonkers, N.Y. A show titled ''Men Without Women: Paul Cadmus as Curator'' appeared at the National Academy of Design last summer. He was elected an academician of the National Academy in 1980 and a member of the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters in 1974. This year he received the first annual international arts award from Pridefest America, an annual gay cultural festival, in Philadelphia. His work is represented by D. C. Moore Gallery in Manhattan.
        Mr. Cadmus was, at the time of his death, a senior exemplar of a vital if submerged academic realist tradition in American painting, one that  has meandered in various guises from Thomas Eakins to Ivan Albright and Reginald Marsh and has resurfaced, again transformed, in the work of younger painters today.
        But Mr. Cadmus, with his cordial personality and handsome features, wore his Old Master status with aplomb. When he was photographed for Italian Vogue a few years ago -- his eyes bright, his skin clear and his silver hair long -- he easily held his own among the youthful models who surrounded him. Complimented on his well-preserved appearance, he gave full credit ''to Mother Nature and Father Time.'' He is survived by his companion, Jon Anderson, who was the model for many of his most serene figurative studies.
      