
        Keith Wylie, who brought the intellect of a chess master and the cunning of a pool champion to the game of croquet, died Nov. 1 at his home near Southampton, England. He was 54.
        A coroner's inquest into the cause of death is continuing.
        Wylie was regarded as one of croquet's most innovative players, treating the game as a cerebral challenge of tactics and finesse, always thinking many moves ahead. In a sport in which applause is appropriate only when distinctly muted, he rocketed to the top of the game like a young Bobby Fischer, in five years winning all the major British titles and several international ones. Then, in essence, he walked away from the game.
        Wylie helped bring the game of croquet from a simple pastime for the vicarage garden to a competitive sport, albeit one in which contestants plod around methodically during two-hour matches, occasionally lying down to line up difficult shots.
        Wearing the traditional white croquet garb, a pith helmet and an ascot, Wylie, a tall, angular man, became a legend in the minds of many who watched or played against him -- a ''shooting star,'' in the phrase of one contemporary chronicler. He cemented his reputation with the publication of his 1985 book, ''Expert Croquet Tactics,'' which the American magazine Croquet World called ''without question the most significant croquet book published in the last 20 years.''
        The current world croquet champion, Robert Fulford of Britain, said Wylie's book ''strongly influences current thinking.'' Fulford said, ''Many of the developments now being put into practice were first expounded by Wylie.''
        Graeme Roberts, a leading player from New Zealand, said Wylie combined ''a superb touch on the lawn with genius in thinking about the game.''
        Wylie is remembered as a quintessentially British sort, a member of an increasingly rare group of upper-middle-class academics who now seem to belong to a previous era. The son of an academic family, he studied mathematics at Kings College, Cambridge. He became one of a long series of players who took up the game while undergraduates, learning to play in the mid-1960's on private lawns.
        In only his second season, in 1965, he was selected for the prestigious President's Cup competition, finishing last. The next year, he won. In 1968, he won the Men's Championship, and in 1970 and 1971 he won the Open Championship, beating Nigel Aspinall, his great rival, on both occasions. During the 1971 Open, he completed a maneuver called ''the sextuple peel,'' something never before accomplished in a British tournament.
        But he was already distancing himself from the game. In 1969, even as he was surging to the top of the sport, he turned down the chance to try out for Britain's national team. Martin Murray, a British croquet player, said this demonstrated either that Wylie did not take croquet too seriously, or that he did not take it seriously enough.
        When congratulated on a performance, Wylie typically remarked, ''It was only another game of croquet.''
        After leaving Cambridge, he studied law in London and joined a firm in Southampton, where he spent the rest of his life. While establishing himself as a barrister, he played less and less croquet, although he did participate in several national competitions in the 1970's. Wylie is survived by his wife, Helen, and two sons, Thomas, 10, and Peter, 8.
        When Wylie did play, he played with spirit. Murray recalled the first time he saw Wylie in a game. He was jumping with joy and running across the lawn after hitting a critical long shot. His opponent, an elderly woman, was horrified and insisted that he be banned for his bad manners.
        Wylie, who was given to making witty comments in Greek and Latin, loved fine wine. For one celebratory dinner, he came up with the idea of selecting wines from all the years the British won the MacRobertson Shield, the competition among croquet teams from Britain, New Zealand, Australia and the United States. ''We had plenty of choice,'' Murray said.
      