
        Jeanne S. Chall, a leading expert on how children learn to read and a vociferous antagonist in at least two of the major educational controversies of the last quarter-century, died on Nov. 27 at her home in Cambridge, Mass. She was 78.
        The cause was heart failure, said Ariadne Valsamis, a spokeswoman for the Harvard Graduate School of Education, where Dr. Chall taught for 26 years, until retiring in 1991.
        Dr. Chall championed both challenging reading material for children and the use of phonics in basic reading instruction, as against limited-vocabulary texts and the so-called whole-language approach.
        With the argument that easy is not necessarily good, she was a rigorous opponent of the prevailing view of reading specialists in the mid-1970's that if assigned reading was too difficult, children would become frustrated and give up trying to master it.
        That view, Dr. Chall said, was responsible for a rash of ''cute kiddie books'' with lavish four-color illustrations, limited vocabulary and rudimentary syntax that made few demands on early readers.
        Dr. Chall (pronounced shawl) attacked that orthodoxy with scores of books and articles in which she called for challenging primers.
        Dr. Chall pressed her beliefs in a 1977 study that was commissioned by the College Board as part of a project to learn the reasons for a sharp decline since 1962 in average scores on the reading-comprehension part of the SAT. Although her report pointed to a number of possible explanations, it found that the scores tended to rise with the level of difficulty of the material students had been given to read from their earliest days in school.
        Dr. Chall engaged in renewed combat in 1983, when, in the spring issue of Contemporary Education Review, she wrote a blistering review of a scholarly book, ''On Learning to Read'' (Knopf, 1982), by the psychologists  Bruno Bettelheim and Karen Zelan.
        The Bettelheim-Zelan book, which had been almost universally praised by other professional educators, argued that the ability to decode words need not be taught but instead was intuitive, resulting without effort from the reading of imaginative, interesting stories. Accordingly, the authors said, the cure for the decline in reading scores was more entertaining and engaging primers.
        Dr. Chall scorned that argument, maintaining that ''comparisons of different beginning-reading methods over the past 70 years have found that methods that teach decoding earlier and more systematically produce better word recognition as well as better reading comprehension.''
        Dr. Chall also vigorously supported phonics, the method of teaching beginners to read by having them associate certain letters with the sounds those letters represent.
        Many experts have de-emphasized phonics over the last two decades and instead adopted the whole-language approach, in which reading is taught through context rather than recognition of the alphabet. But Dr. Chall said her research showed that knowledge of the alphabet and familiarity with the sounds that make up words were crucial.
        She expressed her view in ''Learning to Read: The Great Debate'' (Harcourt Brace, 1967), recognized as a definitive analysis of reading research.
        Jeanne Stemlicht Chall was born in Poland on Jan. 1, 1921, and moved with her family to New York City when she was 7. She became the first member of her family to go to college, graduating cum laude from City College in 1941. She earned both a master's degree (1947) and a Ph.D. (1952) from Ohio State University, and taught at Ohio State, Teachers College of Columbia University and City College before joining the Harvard faculty.
        Dr. Chall is survived by three sisters, Sylvia Rauch of East Brunswick, N.J., and Miriam Warmbrand and Shirley Decker, both of Rego Park, Queens, and seven nieces and nephews.
      