
        Madeline Kahn, the Oscar-nominated comedian best known for her work in the films ''Paper Moon'' and ''Blazing Saddles'' and in the Broadway revival of ''Born Yesterday,'' died yesterday in a Manhattan hospital. She was 57 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was ovarian cancer,  said Jeff Schneider, a spokesman for the William Morris agency, which represented her.
        Ms. Kahn acknowledged the illness publicly last month, saying she was undergoing ''aggressive treatment.'' She had been fighting the disease for the last year, Mr. Schneider said.
        Once described as a Botticelli angel cracking a malicious grin, Ms. Kahn was one of the nation's queens of comedy on a par with Goldie Hawn, Bette Midler and Lily Tomlin.
        Ms. Kahn was nominated for Academy Awards for best supporting actress two years in a row, for her portrayal of a floozy named Trixie Delight in ''Paper Moon'' in 1973 and her role as a saloon singer in ''Blazing Saddles'' in 1974.
        She was also nominated for Tony Awards for ''In the Boom Boom Room'' in 1973; ''On the 20th Century'' in 1978, and the revival of ''Born Yesterday'' in 1989.
        Ms. Kahn made her debut in the  chorus line of the 1965 City Center revival of ''Kiss Me Kate,'' the show that is now on Broadway. Her Broadway break was in Leonard Stillman's ''New Faces of 1968,'' for which she received glowing reviews.
        She won a Tony Award for best actress in 1993 with her role as a ditsy matron in the Broadway production of ''The Sisters Rosensweig.''
        Ms. Kahn was also known for her roles in the Mel Brooks movies ''Young Frankenstein'' and ''High Anxiety.'' She had most recently taken on the part of Pauline, a neighbor on the CBS sitcom ''Cosby.''
        Discussing comic technique and audience reaction in an interview in 1989 just before she opened on Broadway in the Judy Holliday role in ''Born Yesterday,'' Ms. Kahn remarked: ''Laughter is a strange response. I mean, what is it? It's a spasm of some kind! Is that always joy? It's very often discomfort. It's some sort of explosive reaction.''
        Flashing a devilish smile, she added musically, ''It's very complex.''
        Critics and fellow actors said her intuitive comic technique derived partly from the daffy, cartoonish way she spoke, savoring some words and flinging out others as if to pop soap bubbles.
        One interviewer called her ''a kind of toy person: diminutive, delightful, sexy, impish, cute and capable of squirting vinegar in your eye.''
        In ''Blazing Saddles,'' Ms. Kahn used her classically trained voice in an amusing portrayal of a saloon singer who helps Gene Wilder foil Mel Brooks's evil plan to do in the new sheriff in town.
        ''She is one of the most talented people that ever lived,'' Mr. Brooks once said. ''I mean, either in stand-up comedy, or acting, or whatever you want, you can't beat Madeline Kahn.''
        Madeline Gail Kahn was born in Boston and grew up there and in New York, the child of divorced middle-class parents. She is survived by her husband, John Hansbury, and a brother, Jeffrey.
        Ms. Kahn took an early interest in acting. She continued to perform while a student at Hofstra University on Long Island. She was cautioned by a teacher that her baby-talk way of speaking -- which has been described as if ''filtered through a ceramic nose'' -- would be a handicap. But she turned this trait to her advantage. After flirting with a singing career, she made many movies in which she used her voice for comic effect and people remembered it.
        In ''Blazing Saddles,'' for example, she played an all-fluff-and-garters loose woman of the Wild West -- a Dietrich sendup -- who makes cowpokes beg for her favors.
        When she is bored she tells them to go away, and when one timorous soul presents her with a flower she exclaims memorably: ''Oh, one wed wose! How wovely!''
      