
        Leo P. Carlin, Democratic mayor of Newark from 1953 to 1962 who was the city's first mayor in modern times to be chosen by its electorate, died on Friday. He was 91.
        He died at his home in Avon-by-the-Sea, N.J., where he had lived year-round since the late 1960's.
        Mr. Carlin became Newark's mayor after serving as a New Jersey state assemblyman, as president of Newark's Board of Education and as the longtime president of Local 478 of what was then called the Brotherhood of Teamsters and Chauffeurs.
        He originally became mayor under Newark's old city commission government system, which was organized in 1917 under the terms of a piece of legislation known as the Walsh Act. But he was a prominent advocate of changing to a system with a stronger mayor and a nine-member municipal council.
        In May 1953, he and four other candidates were elected to the City Commission, then the city's governing body. He led a field of 26 candidates seeking the five commission posts. Then, he began serving his second four-year term as a commissioner and was unanimously chosen as mayor by fellow commissioners.
        Subsequently, he served as the board's chairman, but under the rules of the old city commission system, his mayoral post that has been called that of a figurehead, with no more authority than the other members of the governing body.
        By late October 1953, he, one other city commissioner and many business, labor and civic groups had taken stands in favor of replacing the old form of city government with a mayor and nine Council members. A citizens committee on municipal government and the Newark Charter Commission had recommended the change. But leaders of three of Newark's strongest political machines were arrayed against the innovation.
        By then, speakers favoring the proposed strong-mayor system had criticized the old commission form as ''outmoded, creating five political units and departments, which are often in conflict.'' Opponents had asserted that the proposed new system would ''expose the city to the worst form of ward and racial politics.''
        In a referendum in November 1953, Newark's voters authorized the change in the city's form of government from the old system to the new one. Referendum returns showed that 53,739 voters were for the Charter amendment embodying the change, and 28,142 were against it.
        In May 1954, in a special transitional election to choose the new system's nine City Council members and the strong mayor, Mr. Carlin was re-elected as mayor by a majority of the votes of his fellow Newark residents. On July 1, 1954, when Mr. Carlin and the nine newly elected Council members took their oaths of office.
        As mayor, his influence extended beyond the politics of his home state. His son, Leo P. Jr., recalled yesterday that during President John F. Kennedy's inaugural festivities in 1961, Mayor Carlin was standing by himself in a Washington hotel lobby when ''the president, coming down a staircase, spotted my father in a crowd 6 or 10 feet deep and shook my father's hand and said, 'Thank you, mayor,' '' for his political support.
        Mr. Carlin was re-elected mayor in 1958 and held office for four more years. But in 1962, he was defeated by a vote of nearly two to one by another Democrat, Representative Hugh J. Addonizio.
        One of 22 children whom his father had with two wives, the future mayor was born in Newark and grew up there. He attended St. Benedict's, a Roman Catholic preparatory school in Newark, but he had to leave it, without graduating, to go to work to help support his family.
        His wife of 55 years, Margaret Gallagher Carlin, died earlier this year.
        Besides his son, Leo P. Jr., of Manhattan, he is survived by another son, Clark, of Bayonne, N.J.; two daughters, Eileen Carlin of Avon-by-the-Sea and Claire Renwick of West Deptford, N.J.; a brother, Hugh, of Kent, Conn.; eight grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      