
        Robert Bresson, the acclaimed French movie director whose best-known films, among them ''Diary of a Country Priest'' and ''Pickpocket,'' reflected a strongly aesthetic and spiritual approach to cinema, died on Saturday at his home in Droue-sur-Drouette southwest of Paris. He was 98. He made his last film in 1983 and had been unwell for some time.
        Mr. Bresson, a slim man with a shock of white hair that made him immediately recognizable, was very much a loner, keeping aloof from both fellow directors and journalists, interested neither in becoming a celebrity nor in following cinematic fashion. Rather, he pursued his own vision slowly and meticulously, making just 13 films in a 40-year career. But they earned him a special place in cinema history.
        In visual terms, his films were often described as purist because he tried to reduce his images to almost abstract simplicity, stripping them of all sentimentality. When possible, he avoided using professional actors, or at least those whose stage work had made them, in his view, too theatrical. ''His cinema is closer to painting than photography,'' Francois Truffaut once said.
        Mr. Bresson nonetheless posed complex emotional and spiritual problems in his movies, some of which he wrote himself, often by confronting tragic lives and situations with a distant hope of redemption. At times seemingly struggling with his own faith he was known to some French critics as ''a dark Catholic.'' But he rarely favored them with an explanation: once he had completed a movie, he preferred it to speak for itself.
        ''Have you see my film?'' he asked an interviewer in 1983. The journalist answered affirmatively. ''Then you know as much as I do,'' he replied. ''What do we have to talk about?''
        In truth, he published ''Notes sur le Cinematographe'' in 1975 -- published in English as ''Notes on the Cinematographer'' -- but they were neither memoir nor primer. Rather, they contained a series of maxims that served as his guides, like ''It is not a question of directing someone else, but directing yourself'' and ''There can be no marriage between theater and cinema without mutual destruction.''
        Perhaps his most quoted ''note'' reflected his obsession with internalizing his dramas: ''A film is not made for you to promenade your eyes, but for you to enter it and become entirely absorbed by it.'' This effect was achieved principally in the editing room. ''To edit a film is to link people to each other and objects through their looks,'' he wrote.
        Mr. Bresson's films reflect a deep stoicism preoccupied with redemption and atonement, predestination and spiritual favor, like the triumph of love over hate and of grace over sin. They are marked by an austerity that the critic Andre Bazin described as ''almost unbearable.''
        Robert Bresson was born in Bromont-Lamothe, a small town in central France, on Sept. 25, 1901 (although some records show he was born on the same day in 1907). His father was an army officer, and the family moved frequently while he was young. Drawn to the arts at an early age, he worked first as a painter and then as a photographer before testing his hand as a screenwriter.
        In 1934, he made his first film, a satirical short, ''Les Affaires Publiques'' (''Public Affairs''). It includes a ship-launching scene in which a Champagne bottle remains intact and the ship's prow splits in two. He became a co-writer of several scripts. When Germany invaded France in 1940, he was among the tens of thousands of French soldiers who were captured and was held in a German prison for more than a year.
        Mr. Bresson's first feature film, ''Les Anges du Peche'' (''Angels of the Streets''), did not come until 1943. Made during the German occupation, it tells of a secluded order of nuns who dedicate themselves to rehabilitating women from prison. Hailed as a remarkable debut, the film already announced Mr. Bresson's theme of salvation.
        In ''Les Dames du Bois de Boulogne'' (''Ladies of the Bois de Boulogne'') in 1945, revenge and sexuality replace salvation. The critic and film historian David Thomson called the film ''a landmark in cinema history.'' It was ''taken from Diderot's 'Jacques le Fataliste,' with dialogue by Jean Cocteau,'' Mr. Thomson said. ''The literary transposition was less important to Bresson than the first, triumphant use of abstraction in photographing people.'' He added, ''Here, plainly, outward appearance was a formal shell for emotional and intellectual identity.''
        In 1950 Mr. Bresson returned to spirituality in ''Journal d'un Cure de Campagne (''Diary of a Country Priest''), in which a young priest dying of cancer suffers even more from his failure to save souls until he mysteriously assumes a state of grace that releases him from his torment. Adapted from a novel by Georges Bernanos, the film won the Grand Prix at the Venice Film Festival in 1951. Truffaut, calling it Mr. Bresson's best, said that ''every shot is as true as a handful of earth.''
        His next film, ''Un Condamne a Mort s'est Echappe'' (''A Man Escaped''), a story of a Resistance fighter's escape from the Gestapo, was not made until 1956 (winning him the award for best director at the 1957 Cannes International Film Festival). Critics have remarked on his focus on the prisoner's face in his cell, the prisoner's growth of faith and the way the ritual of prison life subtly fades into religious ceremony.
        Then, in 1959, Mr. Bresson made ''Pickpocket,'' one of his most celebrated works, in which he follows a young man's erotic obsession with pickpocketing as it alienates him from those who want to help him. In the final minutes, the pickpocket is redeemed by love. Paul Schrader, an American director and writer influenced by Mr. Bresson, echoes these minutes in ''American Gigolo.''
        Remarkably, Mr. Bresson's work seems to have been unaffected by the New Wave that was sweeping French cinema in the late 1950's and early 60's. The spiritual undertone of his work evidently irritated some critics, but he continued to make the films he wanted to make, including  ''Le Proces de Jeanne d'Arc'' (''The Trial of Joan of Arc'') (1962), in which he contrasts the serene transcript of her testimony with the brutal way she was treated.
        ''Anyone who detests Christianity cannot be interested in 'Les Anges du Peche,' 'Diary of a Country Priest' and 'The Trial of Joan of Arc,' '' Roger Boussinot wrote in his French-language ''Encyclopedia of Cinema.'' ''Anti-clerics, rationalists and surrealists have not missed a chance to ridicule the commonplaces of Bresson's admirers.''
        In ''Au Hasard Balthazar'' (''Balthazar,'') in 1966, Mr. Bresson uses the story of a brutalized donkey as an allegory for human cruelty and love. In the same year, in ''Mouchette,'' another adaptation of a Bernanos novel, a teenage peasant girl driven to suicide epitomizes human suffering. Three years later, in his first color film, ''Une Femme Douce'' (''A Gentle Creature''), starring Dominique Sanda, then a 17-year-old model, he again tackles suicide, this time through the angry and guilt-ridden eyes of a surviving husband.
        His final four films were ''Quatre Nuits d'un Reveur'' (''Four Nights of a Dreamer'') of 1971, ''Lancelot du Lac'' (''Lancelot of the Lake'') of 1974, ''Le Diable Probablement'' (''The Devil, Probably'') of 1977 and ''L'Argent'' (''Money'') of 1983. In the last one, an expression of his  distaste for materialism, the forgery of a 500-franc note begins as a schoolboy prank and ends up a catalyst for murder. Mr. Bresson, then 77, had difficulty raising financing for ''L'Argent'' and was helped by the French Culture Minister, Jack Lang. The film won the best-film award in Cannes in 1983.
        Mr. Bresson's first marriage, to Leidia van der Zee, ended in divorce. He is survived by his second wife, Marie-Madeleine van der Mersch. They also had a home in Paris.
        To the end, Mr. Bresson remained a true auteur who controlled every facet of his work, who worked independent of commercial considerations and who made films that are instantly recognizable as his. Although he was too iconoclastic to inspire a school of filmmakers to follow him, he had a legion of admirers, becoming, as Jean-Luc Godard put it, ''to French cinema what Mozart is to German music and Dostoyevsky is to Russian literature.''
      