
        Henry Helstoski, a former New Jersey congressman whose bright career in government all but ended in 1976 when he was indicted -- but never tried or found guilty -- on charges of accepting a bribe, died on Thursday at a hospice in Wayne, N.J. He was 75.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said his son, Henry Helstoski Jr. of Boonton, N.J.
        In 1976, Mr. Helstoski, a Democrat who served six terms in the House of Representatives representing the Ninth Congressional District in Bergen County, was charged with taking more than $8,000 for introducing legislation allowing several Chileans to immigrate to the United States.
        Mr. Helstoski long said he was framed by political opponents. The charges, which included obstruction of justice, led to defeat in his bid for a seventh term in Congress in 1976. But the charges were dropped in 1980, when the United States Supreme Court ruled that legislation could not be used as evidence.
        ''The wheels of justice grind slowly,'' Mr. Helstoski said in 1980. ''When all this nonsense started, I said it was without merit, but it has taken all this time to set the record straight.''
        Despite the vindication, by 1980 Mr. Helstoski's political career was permanently damaged; he failed to regain his seat in 1978 and in 1980. In an interview in 1991 with The Record in Hackensack, N.J., he expressed bitterness toward Washington and the prosecutorial system.
        ''I got a dim view of politics, what people do to advance themselves,'' Mr. Helstoski said. ''You certainly get a good perspective of what human nature is; the extent of greed, ambition, the standards and morality of the people.''
        Mr. Helstoski was born on March 21, 1924, in Wallington, N.J. He received a bachelor's degree from Paterson College and a master's degree from Montclair State College. He also served in the Army Air Forces during World War II.
        His first civilian jobs were in education; he worked as a teacher, principal and school superintendent in East Rutherford, Cedar Grove and Wallington before serving as a councilman and then mayor of East Rutherford between 1956 and 1964.
        He was elected to Congress in 1964 and was a member of the House Ways and Means Committee. He was considered a supporter of anti-pollution laws before they became popular in Washington. He also sponsored legislation that increased life insurance and pensions for veterans.
        In 1969 he ran unsuccessfully for the Democratic nomination for governor in New Jersey.
        Mr. Helstoski was an early critic of American military involvement in Vietnam. And he was one of the first congressmen to call for the impeachment of President Richard Nixon.
        After his final unsuccessful bid in 1980 to win back his seat in Congress, Mr. Helstoski became a grants administrator in Bergen County. In 1988, he was a substitute English teacher in Passaic, N.J., and later a full-time teacher in Irvington.
        He was also the publisher of The Passaic Citizen, a weekly newspaper, and an accountant. For the last decade he had been mostly retired.
        In addition to his son, he is survived by his wife, Victoria; two daughters, Andrea Cahill of Woodridge and Renata Helstoski of Rutherford; a stepson, Kenneth Baldanza of Wayne; a brother, Robert J. Helstoski of Saddle Brook; a sister, Lillian Helling of Denver; and two grandchildren.
      