
        Leonard P. Zakim, executive director of the New England region of the Anti-Defamation League who was a leader in tolerance education, ethnic reconciliation and inner-city youth programs, died on Thursday of bone marrow cancer. He was 46.
        Mr. Zakim had used his political connections and friendships with black ministers, Roman Catholic leaders and sports celebrities to establish community organizations and public-service events, including the 12,000-member Team Harmony antiracism rally for teenagers and the nation's largest black-Jewish Passover seder.
        In the past five years, he had turned his personal struggle with myeloma into a public one, speaking about health, grief and suffering, and accepting donations in his honor to establish the Lenny Fund, which he used to support projects to fight poverty and bigotry in the Boston area.
        About 2,000 people attended his funeral at Temple Emanuel in Newton, Mass., on Friday, including Senators Edward M. Kennedy and John Kerry, both of Massachusetts.
        Last month, as part of a pilgrimage to Rome that he had planned with Cardinal Bernard Law of Boston, Mr. Zakim met Pope John Paul II, who named him a Knight of St. Gregory, a high honor bestowed on lay people by the Catholic Church.
        After the trip, he remarked, ''I've had my picture taken with the pope, Bruce Springsteen and the Dalai Lama. Now I've got to get the three of them together.''
        Mr. Zakim, a native of Clifton, N.J., said his strong Jewish identity began to develop when he was about 13 and his family had moved to Wayne, N.J., where he experienced anti-Semitism.  He also became interested in civil rights and national politics.
        He earned a bachelor's degree in political science at American University in Washington.
        Mr. Zakim then attended the New England School of Law and after graduating in 1978, he joined the re-election campaign of Governor Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts, where he began to build his political network. The next year he joined the Anti-Defamation League as its civil rights director. In 1984, he was named director, a position he held until his death.
        Mr. Zakim started a black-Jewish Passover seder in the early 1980's as  relations between the two groups deteriorated. Six people showed up. The next year, there were 12. But the following year, with the help of the Rev. Charles Stith of Union United Methodist Church of Boston -- now the United States ambassador to Tanzania -- 100 attended the seder. This year, 650 attended.
        Mr. Zakim also had worked to improve Jewish-Catholic relations, joining Cardinal Law on visits to Poland and the Auschwitz concentration camp.
        He is survived by his wife, Joyce; a son, Joshua; twin daughters, Deena and Shari; his parents, Gerald and Phyllis Zakim of Wayne; a sister, Elayna R. Kirschel of New York City; and a brother, Stuart I., of Edison, N.J.
      