
        Fritz Fischer, the German historian who rankled his peers and Germans in general with the thesis that Imperial Germany was squarely responsible for World War I and its consequences, died on Dec. 1 in Hamburg. He was 91.
        Dr. Fischer, a Hamburg resident, had been a professor emeritus at the University of Hamburg since 1973.
        He stirred a hornet's nest in 1961 with the proposition that Germany's naked ambition to spread its political and economic domination across Europe and beyond, to Africa, caused the war. What nettled his critics even more was the moderate language and obvious scholarship with which he made his points.
        The controversy initially simmered in Hamburg. Then the news magazine Der Spiegel reviewed his book and capsulized its conclusions in 1964. Heated arguments continued for years, although younger German historians later agreed that many of his inferences from contemporary documents had some merit.
        Outside his country, Dr. Fischer  became Germany's best-known living historian. The book that had caused such commotion was published in the United States as ''Germany's Aims in the First World War'' (Norton, 1967). Its title was a neutralized version of the German original ''The Grasp for World Power,'' which gave a clearer idea of the author's judgment.
        It challenged the traditional view that Germany, like the other great powers, stumbled into the war, and that there were those on all sides who tried to avert it or halt it before it grew into the catastrophe it became. Some modern British historians have also taken the middle view that there was enough blame to go around and that Britain had its share.
        Fritz Fischer was born in Ludwigsstadt in Imperial Germany, the son of a railroad inspector. He graduated from the University of Berlin with a doctorate in theology in 1934 and a doctorate in philosophy in 1937. He taught church history in Berlin until 1939, when he joined the history faculty in Hamburg.
        In World War II he served with air force ground personnel and was held prisoner two years at the war's end.
        He was the author of several more books on World War I and German history and society. Over the years he was a visiting professor at universities throughout Europe, as well as the University of Notre Dame. He was a honorary member of the British Academy and the American Historical Association.
        In 1942 he married Margarete Lauth-Volkmann; there was no immediate word on survivors.
      