
        C. Rodney Smith, a retired major general in the Army Corps of Engineers and later the director of Radio Free Europe, died Nov. 28 at his home in Annandale, Va. He was 97.
        General Smith spent 31 years in the Army Corps of Engineers, retiring as a deputy chief of engineers, the number two position in the corps, in 1957; he had been promoted to major general in 1956.
        He then worked for three years with the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation in Paris and Chicago before taking a position as a vice president of Free Europe Inc. in New York City, the parent company of Radio Free Europe, in 1960.
        Shortly afterward, General Smith became the director of Radio Free Europe in Munich, a post he held for seven years. At the time, Radio Free Europe was in turmoil in the wake of the Hungarian uprising in 1956.
        Many believed that the radio system, which was then financed by the Central Intelligence Agency, helped incite the revolt against a hard-line Communist government and led Hungarian freedom-fighters to believe that the United States would intervene. No such assistance arrived, and the revolution was quickly crushed by the Soviet Union.
        ''Rodney Smith restored morale at Radio Free Europe after the Soviet crackdown triggered by the 1956 revolt in Hungary and helped Radio Free Europe build up the democracy movements of the late 1960's,'' said Paul Gobel, a spokesman for the radio service.
        After leaving Radio Free Europe in 1967, General Smith spent a decade as an arbitrator with the International Court of Arbitration. He also worked as a consultant to the Board for International Broadcasting.
        Clerin Rodney Smith graduated from the United States Military Academy at West Point in 1926. He taught military history and engineering at West Point from 1936 to 1940. After serving in World War II in Europe and the Far East, he graduated from the Army Industrial College.
        General Smith was awarded the Legion of Merit three times by the United States and the Cavalier Cross of the Order of Merit by Poland.
        His first wife, Ethel, died in 1967. His son Rodney was killed in the Vietnam War the same year his mother died.
        General Smith is survived by his wife, Katherine de Dory Smith; a son, Brig. Gen. Anthony A. Smith of Alexandria, Va., who is retired from the Army; a sister, Faye Eggert of Casper, Wyo.; six grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      