
        George M. Jaffin, a retired Manhattan lawyer and art patron who started one of the nation's first large-scale law school loan forgiveness programs for public-interest lawyers, died Thursday at a White Plains hospital. He was 94.
        Mr. Jaffin, a native New Yorker who lived in Scarsdale, N.Y., for the last 59 years, spent nearly his entire adult life working as a real estate investor and lawyer, founding a firm now known as Jaffin, Conrad & Finkelstein. But it was his role as a contributor to and fund-raiser for Columbia University, the Hospital for Joint Diseases, the Julliard School and the Museum of Modern Art, among other New York institutions, that gained him the most recognition.
        Mr. Jaffin is considered the financial architect of the Hospital for Joint Diseases, said its board chairman, William A. Perlmuth, contributing or convincing others to donate tens of millions of dollars over the last 30 years, money that allowed the hospital to enhance its medical research and to move in 1978 from East Harlem to its current location at 17th Street and Second Avenue.
        Mr. Jaffin served for many years as chairman of the hospital's development committee. On his 80th birthday, when an affluent friend asked what he wanted as a gift, Mr. Jaffin suggested a $1 million donation to the hospital, which was promptly made, said Mr. Jaffin's daughter, Lois Levine.
        ''The hospital would not have the range of services or facilities it offers today without the fund-raising George Jaffin accomplished,'' Mr. Perlmuth said.
        The oldest of three children whose  parents immigrated from Eastern Europe to the United States at the turn of the century, Mr. Jaffin spent his youth in Harlem. He started his professional career while still a law student at Columbia by working with his father as an apartment building developer in the Bronx. He set up his own law firm a year after his graduation, but gradually became disillusioned with the emphasis so many young lawyers in New York place on pursuing high-paying careers, Ms. Levine said.
        In the early 1980's, after consulting with the Columbia Law School dean, Mr. Jaffin contributed $1.5 million to establish the loan repayment program, which covers most of a graduate's debt if the lawyer remains in a public-interest job for a decade. It was considered one of the first such programs in the nation, said Albert J. Rosenthal, who was the law school's dean at the time.
        ''The financial pressure on law students pushes many of them into private practice, with large law firms, working for large amounts of money,'' Mr. Rosenthal said. ''George Jaffin wanted to give them another choice.''
        Mr. Jaffin later endowed a chair at the law school dedicated to the instruction of public interest law, known as the George M. Jaffin professor of law and social responsibility. He also raised money to finance the Meyer Shapiro chair in art history at Columbia, primarily by selling art he solicited from more than 60 artists.
        Harriet S. Rabb, who held the first Jaffin chair, recalled Mr. Jaffin's pleasure upon learning that she and her students, as part of their training, were representing disadvantaged New York City clients in immigration, fair housing and employment matters.
        ''It was not only that students did something that was good,'' said Ms. Rabb, who is now general counsel at the United States Department of Health and Human Services. ''George wanted them to see that it was really rewarding, satisfying and pleasurable.''
        Mr. Jaffin developed friendships with several prominent artists, in part through his work representing them as a lawyer. He was a regular patron of the Israeli artist Yaacov Agam, donating work by Mr. Agam to the Museum of Modern Art, Hebrew Union College and, most prominently, to the Juilliard School, which displays the zigzag-shaped stainless steel sculpture outside its Lincoln Center headquarters.
        Mr. Jaffin is survived by his wife of 70 years, Janet; a son, David of Germany; and two daughters, Doris Greenberg, of Chappaqua, N.Y., and Ms. Levine of Brooklyn.
      