
        Ken W. Clawson, one of President Richard M. Nixon's staunch defenders as director of White House communications during the Watergate era, died on Friday at a hospital in New Orleans. He was 63.
        Mr. Clawson suffered a heart attack, his wife, Carol, said. He had been in poor health since a stroke in 1975, the year after he left the White House, and had lived in New Orleans in recent years.
        A former newspaper reporter, Mr. Clawson joined the White House in February 1972 as deputy director of communications for the executive branch. He became White House communications director on Jan. 30, 1974, as the Watergate scandals were consuming the Nixon Presidency.
        ''I'm just one of Richard Nixon's spear-carriers,'' he said in a February 1974 interview, ''and proud of it.''
        Mr. Clawson could be partisan and pugnacious, especially in dealing with journalists. In 1973, he told three reporters at a dinner in San Clemente, Calif., that he would get them in trouble with their editors if they wrote inaccurate stories. Be careful, he warned them: ''I only take on the fights that I'm sure I can win.''
        But he had a more cheerful side. Several afternoons a week, he convened small gatherings of government officials and reporters, not all of them deemed friendly to the administration. Drinks were accompanied by napkins labeled ''Cocktails with Clawson,'' and the sessions quickly took on that title.
        Mr. Clawson's name was associated with the notorious ''Canuck letter'' that was sent to The Manchester Union-Leader in New Hampshire early in 1972 and claimed that Senator Edmund S. Muskie of Maine had spoken disparagingly of French-Canadians.
        Americans of French-Canadian ancestry are a big voting bloc in New Hampshire, and a furious Senator Muskie denounced the letter in a tirade outside the newspaper building. Many political analysts thought the temper display helped to derail his quest for the Democratic presidential nomination.
        The letter was of doubtful origin. A Washington Post reporter later wrote that Mr. Clawson had bragged to her about being its author, but Mr. Clawson subsequently denied writing it.
        Ken Clawson was born to a working-class family in Monroe, Mich., on Aug. 16, 1936. He attended the University of Michigan, became advertising manager for his hometown newspaper, then became labor reporter for The Toledo Blade in Ohio in 1963.
        His labor reporting won him a Nieman Fellowship to study at Harvard in 1966, then a job on The Washington Post, where he covered the Justice Department before joining the White House. He left the White House in November 1974, three months after Mr. Nixon resigned.
        Mr. Clawson is survived by his wife, who is director of corporate communications for Entergy, a global energy corporation based in New Orleans; his mother, Lilaf Clawson of Monroe; a sister, Ann Smith of Jackson, Mich.; two sons, Ken David 2d of Berryville, Va., and Geoffrey of McLean, Va.; a daughter, Karen Kelchak of Cumberland, Md.; and six grandchildren.
      