
        Victor Perlo, a Marxist economist whose career was damaged by accusations during the Red scare of the late 1940's and early 1950's that he spied for the Soviet Union in Washington during World War II, died Dec. 1 at his home in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 87.
        Mr. Perlo had difficulty finding work after his loyalty was first challenged in 1947 and then in hearings before the House Un-American Activities Committee in 1948 and the Senate Committee on Internal Security in 1953.
        But he later developed a business as an economic consultant and university lecturer and wrote 13 books. He was known for his analysis of the political economy of American capitalism, comparative economic systems and what he called the economics of racism in the United States.
        In one job after the initial accusations, Mr. Perlo worked on the campaign of Henry A. Wallace, the Progressive Party's presidential candidate in 1948.
        From the 1960's until his death, Mr. Perlo, who had a master's degree in mathematics from Columbia University, served as the chief economist of the Communist Party in the United States. He was also a board member of the party.
        Mr. Perlo, who worked as an economist in government agencies during the Roosevelt and Truman administrations, denied at the Washington hearings that he had spied for the Soviet Union. But like many who were questioned then by Congressional committees, he invoked the Fifth Amendment and refused to provide some answers.
        During one hearing in which he sparred with Senator William E. Jenner, the Indiana Republican who led the Internal Security Committee, Mr. Perlo said he did not want to discuss his reasons for invoking his constitutional privilege. But his wife Ellen said last week that her husband had not wanted to begin a line of response that might lead to his being required to testify against others.
        At the time of the hearings, Mr. Perlo said in a statement that ''the dragging of my name through the mud is part of a big Roman circus.''
        Mr. Perlo discovered he had a security problem in 1947 when he was denied a passport he needed to become treasurer of the Intergovernmental Committee on Refugees in Europe. He had resigned a post at the Treasury Department and suddenly found himself unemployed. The next year, he was called before the House Un-American Activities Committee on the basis of a 1945  memorandum from a federal agency in which a woman who said she had been a courier between Communist espionage groups named Mr. Perlo as the head of one of the groups.
        Mr. Perlo published his first book, ''American Imperialism,'' in 1951; his most recent, ''Economics of Racism II'' (International Publishers), came three years ago. He taught at the New School and at the College of New Rochelle and lectured at Harvard and other universities.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Perlo is survived by a daughter, Kathy, of Dundee, Scotland; two sons, Stanley of Ithaca, N.Y., and Arthur of New Haven; three grandchildren; and a great-granddaughter.
      