
        Sir Rupert Hart-Davis, a highly energetic Englishman of letters whose rich careers in publishing, editing and writing spanned nearly six decades, died on  Wednesday in North Yorkshire, England, his family said. He was 92.
        In the late 1940's and early 50's, Sir Rupert was the owner of his own publishing company, which he named after himself. He was known as much for the care he took in publishing books as for his almost complete lack of business acumen. Under his stewardship, the company published books like Gerald Durrell's ''My Family and Other Animals,'' Ray Bradbury's ''Fahrenheit 451,'' which was dedicated to Sir Rupert, and Heinrich Harrer's ''Seven Years in Tibet.'' The books were always more of a literary than a financial success.
        Sir Rupert had a second and even more prolific career as an editor and writer. Meticulously and thoroughly, he edited a number of volumes of letters, diaries and poems by Max Beerbohm, Oscar Wilde and Siegfried Sassoon, among others. He earned particular praise from reviewers for his witty and illuminating footnotes. He also published six volumes of his own correspondence with George Lyttleton, his former housemaster at Eton, to considerable success.
        Born to genteel respectability in 1907, Rupert Charles Hart-Davis was never sure that the man his mother was married to -- Richard Hart-Davis -- was in fact his father, who was rumored instead to be a Yorkshire baronet. But Mr. Hart-Davis raised him and paid for his education at Eton. Rupert began college at Balliol, Oxford, but dropped out to pursue what was then his greatest love, acting.
        He had a short acting career, spending a year as a student at the Old Vic and a year as an actor at the Lyric Theater in Hammersmith, London. He gained some experience, several good reviews and a wife, the actress Peggy Ashcroft. They married young and divorced young, but remained close friends until Dame Peggy's death some 60 years later.
        In 1929 he began his publishing career, as a lowly office boy at the publishing firm William Heinemann. He moved to Jonathan Cape and, after serving in the Coldstream Guards in World War II, decided to start his own publishing house.
        He found the job exhilarating but fraught with financial uncertainty. Almost every year, it seemed, the company was facing bankruptcy, and almost every year someone emerged to save it at the last minute. Finally, the company became part of Heinemann and, as the London publishing landscape changed, was sold and sold again to other firms. Sir Rupert finally left it in 1968.
        In the 1950's he began a weekly correspondence with Mr. Lyttleton, and he published it later in six volumes. The books were praised by critics as funny, knowing accounts of the men's life and times, although detractors ridiculed them as pretentious anachronisms.
        Sir Rupert was the author of a number of nonfiction books, including ''Hugh Walpole: A Biography'' (1952). He was a voracious collector of books as well, amassing more than 17,000 volumes in his study.
        Knighted in 1967, Sir Rupert was married four times. His second marriage, to the former Catherine Comfort Borden-Turner, ended in divorce. His third wife, Winifred Ruth, died in 1967. He is survived by his fourth wife, June, and by two sons and a daughter.
      