
        Harrison Sanford, a coach revered by his Cornell oarsmen, died last Saturday in Gulfport, Miss. He was 96.
        Until recently, Sanford had lived in San Marcos, Calif., before moving to Gulfport, where his son, John, lives.
        Sanford, who was known as Stork and who coached the men's heavyweight varsity crews at Cornell for 34 years until retiring in 1970, preferred to encourage rather than disparage. Clayton Chapman, captain of the unbeaten eight of 1957 and later commissioner of the ECAC, said of the practice times on Cayuga Lake: ''We knew we're going well when we heard Stork yell, 'Ya, ya.' When he yelled, 'Ya, ya, ya,' we knew we're doing fantastically well.''
        He never recruited off the Cornell campus in Ithaca, N.Y., and most of his athletes had never rowed before enrolling at the university. Yet his varsity eight won the Intercollegiate Rowing Association regatta's main event, tantamount to the sport's national championship, six times within a period of eight seasons, from 1955 to 1962. His crews had an overall record of 164-64.
        Sanford stood 6 feet 6 inches, and his nickname, bestowed on him as a youth in his native Seattle, came about because he was tall, lean and had a long neck. He was an outstanding oarsman at the University of Washington before going into business. One of his tasks, he recalled, was as a real-estate agent collecting rents in Seattle's redlight district.
        He had never coached when Cornell hired him in 1937 on the strong recommendation of Tom Bolles, his Washington teammate and the newly appointed Harvard head coach. Bill Stowe, an Olympic gold-medal winner who rowed for Sanford, said of his coach's style: ''We would just wear the opposition down with superior conditioning, a long and exact stroke, and no trickery. His very presence was commanding, fair and comforting.''
        Sanford's wife of 63 years, Marian Barteau Sanford, died in 1997. In addition to his son, John, he is survived by two daughters, Claire Perrault of Jersey City and Maryann Johnson of Norfolk, England, two grandsons and two granddaughters.
      