
        Hank Snow, one of the most popular and prolific country stars of the 1950's, died yesterday at his home in Madison, Tenn. He was 85.
        In nearly a half century Mr. Snow released some 140 albums with more than 85 songs reaching the country charts. He was a masterly songwriter with a clear, expressive baritone, and his biggest hits extolled freedom, specifically the lure of traveling and the release from torturous love affairs, both often intertwined in the same song. As a composer he was a country and folk traditionalist with a broad palette, able to incorporate everything from mambo to jazz without straying far from his roots.
        Mr. Snow's career was a classic case of music triumphing over extreme hardship. He was born Clarence Eugene Snow in a small town in Nova Scotia called Brooklyn. His parents separated when he was 8, sending two of his siblings to an orphanage and subjecting him to the physical abuse of his grandmother, whose house he ran away from to live with his mother. There his stepfather also abused him, eventually kicking the boy out of the house when he was 12. Later Mr. Snow would record moving songs of abused children, like ''The Drunkard's Son.''  The 12-year-old found work on fishing boats, where he entertained the rest of the crew by singing. After a shipwreck four years later, he decided to stick to jobs on land.
        Inspired to become a singer by the yodeling country blues of Jimmie Rodgers, Mr. Snow saved up money for a guitar. When he was 19 he was booked to sing on a weekly show on the radio station CHNS in Halifax, Nova Scotia, and soon began performing in local clubs, earning the nickname the Yodeling Ranger and, later as his voice deepened and he developed his own style, the Singing Ranger. It was at CHNS that Mr. Snow changed his first name after a radio announcer suggested that Hank sounded more country than Clarence.
        In 1936 Mr. Snow married Minnie Aalders and signed his first record deal, with the Canadian arm of RCA. The next year he had a son, whom he named Jimmie Rodgers Snow. Both his son and his wife survive him.
        For the next 10 years he recorded some 90 songs, scoring hit after hit in Canada. But he had yet to conquer the United States.
        In the mid-1940's he moved briefly to Hollywood, where he sang of rambling and performed with his trick pony, trying to make it as a movie cowboy. In 1948 he got his first break in the United States when he met the country singer Ernest Tubb. Mr. Tubb helped put Mr. Snow on the Grand Ole Opry, where he was introduced by Hank Williams.
        But Mr. Snow's first Opry performance and recordings met with a lukewarm response. As he was considering heading home to Canada, his single ''I'm Movin' On,'' a rolling fiddle-heavy song of failed love and hitting the road, began climbing the country charts until it reached No. 1. It stayed there for 21 weeks, and Mr. Snow's American career was off. His follow-up songs, the similarly themed ''Golden Rocket'' and the hybrid ''Rhumba Boogie,'' also went to No. 1. Soon Mr. Snow was living in Nashville as an American citizen.
        In 1954 Mr. Snow, a sharp businessman, met Col. Tom Parker, who later became Elvis Presley's manager, and formed a booking company with him. Just as Mr. Tubb had done for him, Mr. Snow convinced the Grand Ole Opry to book Presley in 1954. Presley later recorded music by Mr. Snow, as did artists as diverse as Ray Charles, Les Paul and the Rolling Stones.
        For most of the 50's and 60's Mr. Snow cut his own path through country, mixing it with Hawaiian sounds, Latin music, rockabilly and boogie without ever alienating his past work or influences like Rodgers and Sons of the Pioneers. In 1966 he spent 18 days touring in Vietnam. But as Nashville slicked up its sound with strings and heavy production, Mr. Snow's career began to falter. In the 70's he formed the Hank Snow Foundation for the Prevention of Child Abuse to provide children with the assistance he never received. In 1979, he was inducted into the Country Music Hall of Fame.
        After recording for RCA Records for some 45 years, the label unceremoniously dropped him in 1981. Angry at his treatment by the record label and the roots-revoking sound of new Nashville, he nonetheless continued to perform and published an autobiography, ''The Hank Snow Story,'' in 1994. After battling respiratory illness in 1995 he returned to perform at the Grand Ole Opry the next year, receiving a standing ovation.
      