
        Early Wright, who became a legend in the blues-drenched Mississippi Delta as one of the South's first black disc jockeys, died in a Memphis hospital on Dec. 10. He was 84.
        For more than half a century, Mr. Wright broadcast blues and gospel to the people of the Delta on radio station WROX, seldom identifying artists or song titles on the assumption that listeners should already know them. The giants of the blues -- B. B. King, Muddy Waters, Sonny Boy Williamson, Robert Nighthawk and Pinetop Perkins among them -- played live on his shows. In the early 1950's, he provided Ike Turner with one of his earliest steady gigs; Mr. Turner's band sometimes played for an hour.
        ''That was a beautiful record I dropped on you for your listening pleasure,'' Mr. Wright would say, often as cars honked in appreciation outside the WROX studio at the corner of Third and Yazoo in Clarksdale, Miss., where he also lived. One night an obscure Mississippi country boy showed up. His name was Elvis Presley, and he impressed Mr. Wright with his politeness and showmanship. ''He always had a motion, you know,'' the disc jockey said.
        But it was a folksy, countrified style that most characterized Mr. Wright's broadcasting approach. In 1988 Living Blues Magazine told of the time he plunged into a five-minute rap about an infestation of snakes in black neighborhoods. ''I want to let you know that some snakes has been seen in the Roundyard neighborhood,'' he began. ''The grass has grown up around the sidewalk and the snakes has been seen, looking for water.''
        He ignored prepared advertising copy, preferring to extemporize. ''At the M & F Grocery and Market, the aisles are so big that two shopping carts can pass each other and never bump into each other,'' he once said. ''And everything in the store has a price on it. You don't have to worry about what it costs because the price is right there on it.''
        The result was that ''everybody in Clarksdale thought he was talking directly to them,'' said Jim O'Neal, a writer and record producer who was the founding editor of Living Blues. He said Mr. Wright ''represented radio as close to the center of the community as you can get.''
        Guy Malvezzi of Connerly's Shoe Store in Clarksdale agreed. ''You got your money's worth with Early,'' he said.
        About a decade ago, Mr. Wright began to be given honors unimaginable in 1947 when he became Mississippi's first black disc jockey. Clarksdale named the road that went past his neat brick house, the one with two pink flamingos in the front yard, Early Wright Drive. The Center for Southern Culture at the University of Mississippi established a scholarship in his name.
        Mr. Wright once said he was born on a farm at 3 a.m. on a Monday in 1915 in Jefferson, Miss. In 1937, he moved to Clarksdale and used his expertise as a mechanic to open an auto repair business. He was part-time manager of a gospel group, the Four Star Quartet, when his announcement for the group caught the ears of WROX. The white-owned station offered him a job in 1947.
        After consulting his preacher to make sure there was nothing sinful about playing blues records on the radio, Mr. Wright decided to give it a try. He did it six days a week almost until his death, on what became one of America's longest-running radio programs. From 6 o'clock to 9, he was the ''Soul Man,'' playing the blues. For the last two hours, he was ''Brother Early,'' playing gospel music.
        In 1997, Mr. Wright survived multiple bypass heart surgery. Three months later his daughter, Barbara, died of lung cancer at 41. Between his surgery and his daughter's funeral, the station was sold. Mr. Wright decided to retire. He had a heart attack on Nov. 8.
        Another daughter, Patricia, died of a brain tumor in 1981 at age 29. Mr. Wright is survived by his wife, Ella; two sisters, Annie Lott of Youngstown, Ohio, and Genell Haggan of St. Louis; two brothers, Julius Johnson of Chicago and J. T. Johnson of Casper, Wyo.; and seven grandchildren.
        Mr. Wright, who was seldom seen without a coat and tie, once said he ''grew up on the hard part of the highway.'' He is remembered for his personalized stream of patter. In a typical program, as reported in The New York Times in 1989, he would introduce ''an extinguished guest,'' then play the blues of Bobby Rush or the gospel of the Mighty Sons of Glory, then rhapsodize about Dip's Drive-in Laundromat. Community news -- for instance, who was about to be ''funeralized'' -- might follow.
        He always had time for a commercial, like this one for a local store:
        ''They have a full-figured dry goods store specializing in large sizes with stockings up to size 200. Wow!'' he said. ''Under the same roof is Miss Louise's Typing Service. She can do letterheads, obituaries, funeral directories, term papers.
        ''She's a wonderful person. Go tell her you heard about her on the radio.''
      