
        Charlie Byrd, a virtuoso jazz guitarist who was among the first to popularize bossa nova in North America, died on Wednesday at his home in Annapolis, Md. He was 74.
        The cause was cancer, said Audrey Faine, director of publicity at Concord Records.
        Although most jazz guitarists play with a pick, Mr. Byrd preferred to use his fingers, and he put a precise, classical technique to versatile use. Controlled, fluid and melodious, his sound brought Latin music into American living rooms.
        Born in Chuckatuck, Va., on Sept. 16, 1925, Mr. Byrd learned guitar from his father, and while stationed in Paris in the mid-40's in a traveling G.I. orchestra he began to study jazz seriously, emboldened by a meeting with the pioneering Belgian-born gypsy guitarist Django Reinhardt.  After World War II Mr. Byrd lived in New York, studying jazz at Hartnett National Music Studios. In the 1950's, faced with a lack of work opportunities, he began to study the classical guitar, first at the Columbia School of Music in Washington, with Sophocles Pappas, and then in 1954 in Siena, Italy, with Andres Segovia.
        He began to find ways to reconcile his jazz and classical interests in his work, and even added other influences, including samba and flamenco. ''I eked out a living,'' he remarked about that period, ''but I vowed not to play in the jazz clubs until I had my technique worked out.''
        By 1957 he was working frequently  at the Showboat Lounge, a Washington club that belonged to his family, and he would divide his sets into two parts: small-band jazz and solo pieces by Frescobaldi, Villa-Lobos and Bach. In the late 1950's he worked with Woody Herman, and his recordings with Herman's band included a few samba songs.
        In 1961 Mr. Byrd went on a 12-week tour of South America, sponsored by the United States State Department, and he collected regional music wherever he went. Bossa nova, the new, intricate, introspective music that had been developing in Rio de Janeiro, particularly interested him, and he saw in its rhythm and mood material on which jazz musicians could improvise.
        When he returned to the United States Mr. Byrd convinced the saxophonist Stan Getz to listen to the music he brought back, on tapes and what he could play on guitar. Six months later a Byrd-Getz session was convened, produced by Creed Taylor and recorded in a church in Washington.
        Including works by Antonio Carlos Jobim and others, the recording became ''Jazz Samba,'' and in March 1963 it out-sold similar records riding the bossa-nova bandwagon by Herbie Mann, Cannonball Adderley and Paul Winter. It sparked a short craze for bossa nova and reached No. 1 on the pop charts. A track from the album, ''Desafinado,'' won a Grammy for best jazz solo performance, but the edited version of the song excised Mr. Byrd's solo, and Getz was the sole recipient of the award.
        There were other complications regarding the album. In 1967 Mr. Byrd sued Getz and MGM Records for a share of the royalties that Getz had collected on the 1.6 million copies of the album that had been sold by then; he was awarded $50,000. All the while, Mr. Byrd continued to build a regular audience by playing at the Showboat Lounge, eventually becoming one of its owners.
        He occasionally played classical music as well, and teamed up with Barney Kessel and Herb Ellis in 1973 to form the Great Guitars, a group that made five recordings together.
        Mr. Byrd recorded 20 albums for Concord from the 1970's through the 90's, collaborating often with the clarinetist Ken Peplowski, and with his longtime accompanists, the drummer Chuck Redd, and his brother, Joe Byrd, a bassist. His last recording was a tribute to Louis Armstrong, to be released in March.
        In addition to his brother Joe, of Edgewater, Md., Mr. Byrd is survived by his wife, Rebecca; two daughters, Carol M. Rose of Charlotte, N.C. and Charlotte E. Byrd of Santa Cruz, Calif; another brother, Jack R. Byrd, of Suffolk, Va., and a granddaughter.
        John S. Wilson, writing about Mr. Byrd's artistry in The New York Times, praised the guitarist's versatility: ''Mr. Byrd's ability to move with authority and an unpretentious charm through a variety of musical fields sets him apart from guitarists who specialize in any one style and gives his performances a strikingly fresh and stimulating quality.''
      