
        Israel Myers, the originator of the London Fog raincoat, died on Sunday at the North Oaks retirement community in Pikesville, Md. He was 93.
        After making raincoats for the Army in World War II, Mr. Myers's Londontown Manufacturing Company was the first to popularize the military trench coat for civilian wear. The design and pioneering use of polyester blends helped Londontown become the dominant maker of men's coats in the United States in the 1960's and 70's.
        Mr. Myers, the son of a tailor, was born in Lynchburg, Va., but moved as a boy to Baltimore. He became a statewide champion in shorthand while attending Baltimore City College. Just before graduating at 17, Mr. Myers was hired as a stenographer with the Makover, Roten Company, a maker of naval officers clothing.
        Mr. Myers worked for that company, with increasingly more responsible jobs, while earning a law degree at the University of Maryland at night. By 1927, the company changed its name to Londontown Clothes and began to focus on expensive men's suits and coats.
        The company collapsed during the Depression, and Mr. Myers obtained the rights to the Londontown name by agreeing to help the creditors liquidate its assets. Mr. Myers started his own men's clothing company under the name Londontown Manufacturing.
        The company's big break came during the war, when the Army ordered 10,000 raincoats. After the war, Londontown found a receptive market for its trench coats at leading retailers like Sears, Roebuck & Company and the J. C. Penney Company.
        In 1951, Mr. Myers started experimenting with a fabric that was 50 percent cotton and 50 percent Dacron polyester, a blend that was both lightweight and waterproof. After working with DuPont to perfect the fabric so that it could be used in automated manufacturing equipment, the company introduced the London Fog Maincoat in 1954. It quickly became the company's signature product.
        The $29.95 coat, introduced by Saks Fifth Avenue with an ad in Look magazine featuring a model in front of a foggy background, was an immediate hit. Rather than the double-breasted and belted trench coat, the new model was a more streamlined single-breasted design called a balmacaan. Mr. Myers called it a maincoat because he intended it to be worn year round in all weather.
        Mr. Myers's experiments with polyester allowed the company to introduce other innovations, including a wash-and-wear coat and a zip-out lining.
        Londontown soon introduced a version of the maincoat for women, which became popular in the late 1950's and early 60's as women's fashion emulated men's clothing. Later in the 1960's, the company began to expand into other styles and colors and eventually began to make a range of outerwear from golfing jackets to heavy car coats.
        In 1969, Londontown became the first clothing manufacturer to advertise directly on television rather than relying on retailers for promotion. Its atmospheric advertisements, filmed in London, featured what would become its long-running slogan: ''London Fog lets you laugh at the weather.''
        By the late 70's, the company dominated the men's raincoat business, selling six of every eight men's raincoats bought in the United States. Indeed, its position was so dominant that it was accused by the Federal Trade Commission of fixing prices, a case it settled without acknowledging wrongdoing.
        In 1968, Mr. Myers's son, Jonathan, of Owings Mills, Md., became the company's president and was promoted to chief executive in 1973. Mr. Myers became the chairman emeritus, and he continued to go to his office almost every day until his health deteriorated in 1990.
        In 1976, the company was bought by Interco, a conglomerate based in St. Louis that owned other brands  like Florsheim Shoes. But Jonathan Myers and his brother-in-law, Herschel Langenthal, continued to run the Londontown division for several more years.
        Since then, Londontown has become a pawn in a series of Wall Street deals. In 1988, Interco fought off a hostile takeover bid through a leveraged buyout that ultimately forced it into Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in 1991. The company, renamed London Fog Inc., passed through the hands of several investment groups. Along the way, it opened a chain of 140 stores, but that strategy offended its traditional department store outlets. In September, London Fog itself filed for bankruptcy protection.
        Mr. Myers's wife, Mollie, died in 1968. In addition to his son, he is survived by a daughter, Judith Langenthal, of Pikesville, Md.; a brother, Dr. Philip Myers, of Annapolis, Md.; and six grandchildren.
      