
        Milton A. Rudin, an entertainment lawyer who represented celebrities from Marilyn Monroe to Liza Minnelli and who for more than 30 years was Frank Sinatra's chief counsel, defender, investment partner and friend, died Monday of pneumonia at a rehabilitation center near his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 79.
        In a career of more than 50 years, Mr. Rudin, who was known as Mickey, stood in the thick of the Hollywood swirl. He was often called on to answer questions about Sinatra's gambling interests and the singer's acquaintances with underworld figures, and repeatedly filed lawsuits over accounts in the news media that he saw as unflattering, unfair or infuriating. As Marilyn Monroe's lawyer and the brother-in-law of her analyst, Ralph Greenson, he was among the first on the scene when the star died of a drug overdose in 1962.
        Thickset and jowly, Mr. Rudin had cameo roles in four movies, twice portraying a judge, leading his clients to give him the nickname ''The Judge.'' His other clients included Lucille Ball and Desilu Studios, for 25 years; Warner Brothers, for 30 years; the moguls Marvin Davis, Steve Ross and Stephen A. Wynn; plus Elizabeth Taylor, Norman Lear, the Jackson Five and the Aga Khan. He represented Ms. Minnelli from the beginning of her career until he effectively retired last summer.
        ''He was a one-of-a-kind good friend, great lawyer and also a very funny guy in a kind of an ominous way,'' said the veteran television producer and director George Schlatter, a friend for 35 years and a client for 15.
        Mr. Rudin, a New York City native, was a graduate of the University of California at Los Angeles, and of Harvard Law School. He cut his teeth in entertainment law here in the 1950's in the firm of Martin Gang, a pioneer in the field, who became well known in the era of Senator Joseph McCarthy for helping arrange testimony before the House Un-American Activities Committee by ''friendly'' entertainers seeking to avoid the blacklist.
        But it was Mr. Rudin's association with Sinatra that brought him the most prominence, as a public spokesman and private adviser, responsible for some of the most delicate tasks. According to ''Sinatra, Behind the Legend,'' J. Randy Taraborrelli's 1997 biography, it was Mr. Rudin who handled Sinatra's divorce from Mia Farrow, told the singer's disapproving mother, Dolly, that Sinatra was marrying his fourth wife, Barbara Marx, and informed Sinatra of the death of his second wife, Ava Gardner.
        Mr. Rudin also advised Mr. Sinatra on business matters, and the two once joined in an unsuccessful bid to take over the Del E. Webb Corporation, which owned several hotel-casinos in Nevada. In later years, Mr. Rudin's focus shifted to libel and copyright actions defending the star's reputation.
        A particular nemesis was the author Kitty Kelley, whom Mr. Rudin twice sued unsuccessfully, first seeking to halt publication of ''My Way,'' her unauthorized 1986 biography of Sinatra. That suit was eventually dropped, but Mr. Rudin later filed a libel suit accusing Ms. Kelley of ruining his practice by thanking him as a source for her 1991 biography of Nancy Reagan, which suggested an affair between the First Lady and Sinatra. In 1995, a Federal appeals court upheld dismissal of the suit, saying that Mr. Rudin could not prove he had been harmed.
        Mr. Rudin also sued Barron's for defamation because it once referred to him as Sinatra's mouthpiece, but a judge dismissed that suit, too, ruling that ''the average Barron's reader'' would not consider the term defamatory.
        In 1987, he and Sinatra ended their lawyer-client relationship for reasons that were never made clear, but they remained friendly, and Mr. Rudin attended the singer's funeral in 1998.
        ''It was like a divorce,'' said Lee Solters, a longtime publicist for both men. ''More friendly afterwards.''
        Mr. Rudin was active in many philanthropic causes and had served as a trustee of Reed College and as past regional board chairman of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary Carol; a son, Michael, of Santa Barbara, Calif.; and two daughters, Pamela, of Irvine, Calif., and Lisa McGrady of Reno.
      