
        Donald J. Lloyd-Jones, president of the American Geographical Society and a former airline executive, died of lung cancer on Monday at Stamford Hospital in Stamford, Conn., his daughter Anne Calder said. He was 68 and lived in Stamford.
        A native New Yorker, Mr. Lloyd-Jones received his early education at the Horace Mann School for Boys. For a quarter of a century, from 1957 until 1982, he held a number of senior posts in finance, planning and operations at American Airlines and was elected to the company's board in 1971.
        In May 1982, Mr. Lloyd-Jones left American to become president of Air Florida. He subsequently added the titles of chairman and chief executive. In May 1984, he abruptly resigned, citing unspecified ''policy differences.''
        For the next two years he worked as a consultant to a number of airlines. In August 1986, Western Airlines, one of his clients, hired Mr. Lloyd-Jones as president and chief operating officer. Less than two months later, Western agreed to an $860 million cash and stock merger with Delta Air Lines.
        Mr. Lloyd-Jones then returned to New York, becoming executive director of the American Express Bank's aircraft finance group and president of its Aviation Services Inc. subsidiary. He held both posts until his retirement in 1995.
        A year later he was named chief financial officer of Air-TV, a private company based in New York that plans by 2002 to provide regular television programming to airline passengers by satellite.
        Mr. Lloyd-Jones was a graduate of Swarthmore College and earned master's and doctoral degrees with specializations in economics, transportation and marketing from Columbia University. From 1954 to 1961 he was an instructor and lecturer at the Columbia Business School, where he taught economic geography. In 1956 and 1957 he worked as a research assistant for the National Academy of Sciences.
        A longtime fellow of the American Geographical Society, the nation's oldest geographical organization, Mr. Lloyd-Jones was named president in 1996. He served actively in that position until his death.
        Mr. Lloyd-Jones was a member of the National Research Council's Aeronautics and Space Engineering Board. For many years he served on the Swarthmore College Board of Managers.
        Mr. Lloyd-Jones is survived by his wife, the former Beverly Louise Miller; three daughters, Anne Calder of Pelham, N.Y., Lisa Weggeman of Norwalk, Conn., and Susan Dickinson of Norristown, Pa.; a son, Donald Lloyd-Jones of Sudbury, Mass., and six grandchildren.
        Correction:  December 10, 1999, Friday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Wednesday about Donald J. Lloyd-Jones, president of the American Geographical Society and a former airline executive, misstated the date of his death. It was Nov. 29, not this past Monday.
      