
        Elizabeth Gray Vining, a Quaker schoolteacher who was tutor to the shy, lonely boy who became Emperor Akihito of Japan, died on Saturday at Kendal-at-Longwood, a retirement community in Kennett Square, Pa. She was 97.
        The story of Elizabeth Vining's stay in the rigidly enclosed world of the Japanese Imperial Court has some of the romance of Margaret Landon's novel, ''Anna and the King of Siam,'' the tale of Anna Leonowens, who in the 1860's tutored the Crown Prince Chulalongkorn of Siam, as Thailand was known. It was Mrs. Vining who introduced the future ruler of Japan to the English language, and to the ways of Western democracy.
        Mrs. Vining wrote her own book about her experience, ''Windows for the Crown Prince'' (1952), which became a best seller. She was only one of several tutors to the prince, but she and the young Akihito became deeply fond of one another, and long after he grew to manhood, the prince kept in touch with his former teacher. ''If ever anything I did has been a success,'' the Emperor Hirohito said, according to The Japan Times, ''it was asking Mrs. Vining to come here.''
        Elizabeth Gray Vining was born into an old Quaker family in Philadelphia where her father, John Gray, made surveying instruments used by Admiral Robert E. Peary in his exploration of the North Pole and in the building of the Trans-Siberian railroad. She attended the Germantown Friends school and Bryn Mawr College and received a degree in library science from Drexel University. She went on to teach at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
        Mrs. Vining had a tall, angular beauty, and in 1929, she married Morgan Vining, associate director of the university's extension division. But in 1933, he was killed in a car accident. ''Morgan Vining, my husband, swept my little boat out of the shallows into the sunlit depths of life's stream,'' Mrs. Vining once wrote, and ''and we had almost five years together before, in a single moment, he was gone.'' The couple had no children, and Mrs. Vining leaves no immediate survivors.
        After her husband's death, Mrs. Vining discovered in Quakerism ''depths and reaches which became available to me only as I grew into it,'' she wrote. She went on to write more than two dozen books for both children and adults, under her maiden and married names.
        In 1946, after the Japanese surrender, Emperor Hirohito decided that his heir should have an American tutor. He approached George G. Stoddard, head of the educational advisory mission to Japan and asked for a recommendation. A woman was wanted, and a Christian though not a ''fanatic,'' and she should not be familiar with Japan.
        On an October day in 1946, Mrs. Vining met her 12-year-old charge. He was shy and listless, his head shaved in the custom of Japanese schoolboys. He lived separately from his parents and his siblings. And he saw his parents only once a week. His closest relationships seemed to be with fish, Mrs. Vining observed. Today Emperor Akihito is a noted ichthyologist. Even when he went for a walk on the beach, he was accompanied by as many as 17 courtiers.  ''Poor little boy!,'' Mrs. Vining wrote. ''I thought that he led a very dull and restricted life, and I longed to set him free.''
        When Mrs. Vining asked the boy what he was doing after school, he replied, she wrote, that ''It is not decided.''
        ''Who decides?'' Mrs. Vining asked the prince.
        ''The chamberlains,'' he said.
        ''Why don't you decide?'' she said.
        But one day, she asked the prince again what he was going to do after school. ''I decide,'' he replied, to her immense satisfaction.
        Mrs. Vining taught Akihito privately for one hour a week and then conducted one of his classes at the Peers School, which he attended with other royal and well-to-do children. It was a damp, cold place, she wrote.
        But Mrs. Vining persevered. She gave the prince the nickname ''Jimmy'' and gradually drew him out.  She began by teaching him from the ''Book of Knowledge.'' She played tennis with him and arranged for him to spend his leisure time with other children. She taught him about Abraham Lincoln and William Penn.
        She attended poetry parties with the royal family and went duck netting with them, slowly winning their confidence. The emperor and empress asked her to tutor the prince's siblings. And then, Empress Nagako herself asked to take English lessons from her. As Mrs. Vining met with the empress, an English-speaking lady-in-waiting hid discreetly behind a screen for etiquette's sake, she said. Mrs. Vining held parent-teacher conferences with the emperor and empress, played cards with them and taught the children how to play Monopoly.
        Mrs. Vining intended to stay in Japan only one year but stayed for four. In 1950, it was time to say goodbye. By then, Akihito's English was so good that he was translating for her. His farewell present to her was a poem, written in his best calligraphy, about the birds returning to the Akasaka Palace gardens after the war. ''I had been asked to open windows onto a wider world for the Crown Prince,'' Mrs. Vining wrote.  ''but who can say to what extent I had succeeded.''
        Soon after she returned to the United States, the crown prince's court chamberlain, Shiro Sumikura, came to see Mrs. Vining with messages from the royal family. He had translated them and written them down. ''1. Her Majesty feels lonesome that she has no longer your lessons of English which she has been very much enjoying,'' Mr. Sumikura wrote. ''2. She gets your picture on her desk and thinks as if she were seeing you every day. 3. She is now reading your book 'William Penn' with much interest. 4. Last year she recollected that you taught a Christmas carol to her and her daughters and they sang it after the dinner at the Kaintei on December 20. At that time you said that you would teach it again the next year but, to her sorry, you have gone 'the next year.' ''
        But Mrs. Vining was to retain a nearly life-long relationship with the royal family. Akihito stayed at her house in Philadelphia when he came to the United States. And in 1959, Mrs. Vining was the only foreign guest at his wedding to Empress Michiko. In 1987, just before the crown prince became emperor, he visited Mrs. Vining during a trip to the United States. In 1994, she was invited to a dinner reception for Akihito at the White House with President Clinton, but she said she could not attend because of her advanced years. Still, the emperor phoned her.  ''She sounds like she was doing very well,'' the emperor said to an aide as he hung up the phone.
      