
        Leonard H. Goldenson, the self-contained man who bought the American Broadcasting Company in 1953 and made it an incubator of television innovations while he pushed it from also-ran status to parity with its more senior rivals, died at his home in Sarasota, Fla., yesterday. He was 94.
        Along with William S. Paley of the Columbia Broadcasting System and David Sarnoff of the National Broadcasting Company, Mr. Goldenson was one of the postwar entrepreneurs who made the dominant three broadcast networks into pillars around which the television industry constructed itself in the 1950's and 1960's. Mr. Goldenson, the least  known of the three, was the last survivor of them.
        As head of the network he bought for $24.5 million in 1953, Mr. Goldenson gambled on ideas that others in the industry rejected. He gave crucial financial backing to both the original Disneyland theme park in 1954 and, a quarter-century later, to the ESPN cable sports network -- both investments that paid off handsomely for the company.
        Before engineering ABC's merger with Capital Cities in 1985, Mr. Goldenson fought off a takeover effort by Howard Hughes and Harold Geneen.
        Over the years, he also helped convince Hollywood studios that television could be an ally; he gathered executive talent like Roone Arledge, Michael D. Eisner and Barry Diller; and he presided over the creation of television staples like ''Monday Night Football,'' the mini-series and the late-night news program ''Nightline.''
        But he remained the least known of the network chiefs, a modest man whose training was in the law and whose talent was not in programming or technological wizardry, but in the unglamourous art of stitching diffuse enterprises together, expanding them and making them work.
        When he engineered the merger of ABC and Capital Cities in 1985, the network was valued at $3.5 billion.
        Mr. Arledge, the chairman of ABC News, said in an interview yesterday that for most of its two decades, ABC ''was a very modest operation up against two giants.''
        ''I didn't think Leonard ever quite got the credit he deserved, because ABC was so far behind,'' he added. ''You looked at Bill Paley and Sarnoff and they were both giants, deservedly so. It took a long time for people to put Leonard in that same category.''
        Rupert Murdoch, the chief executive of the News Corporation, who would eventually found the Fox network and play the same underdog game that Mr. Goldenson mastered, contributed a commentary to Mr. Goldenson's 1991 autobiography, ''Beating the Odds.'' He wrote that  ABC's chief was ''in many ways a role model.''
        Mr. Goldenson was born in 1905 in Scottdale, a rural town outside Pittsburgh. According to a biography provided by ABC, Mr. Goldenson was a high school athlete who enrolled in Harvard University at the age of 16, eventually graduating from Harvard Law School.
        Working during the summer for a securities broker in Pittsburgh, he built up significant investments that he liquidated a month before the market crashed in October 1929, giving him the cash he needed to finish law school.
        In the early 1930's, he was hired to reorganize the New England theaters of the bankrupt Paramount Pictures, and rose to run all 1,800 Paramount theaters by 1938.
        In 1951, when the federal government brought antitrust pressure on the company and its movie production unit split from the theater unit, Mr. Goldenson became president of United Paramount Theaters.
        His background as a theater owner who needed the pictures Hollywood produced gave him a unique perspective on television when he bought the ABC network, a deal approved by the federal government in 1953. The network had five owned-and-operated stations and eight affiliates and reached 35 percent of the households in the country.
        Shows like ''Hollywood Screen Test,'' ''Treasury Men in Action'' and ''Dick Tracy,'' the fare of his first couple of years with the network, gave way, within the decade, to shows like ''The Untouchables,'' ''Leave It to Beaver'' and ''77 Sunset Strip,'' largely because Mr. Goldenson persuaded Hollywood studios that filming material for the small screen could supplement, not detract from, their theater business.
        In later years, Mr. Goldenson blessed unorthodox concepts like ''Movie of the Week,'' ''Monday Night Football'' and the first television mini-series, Alex Haley's ''Roots.''
        As Ken Auletta, who wrote ''Three Blind Mice'' about the takeover of the three major broadcast networks in 1985 and 1986, said in an interview yesterday: ''Guys in third place are perennially willing to take risks. They're the guys who throw the hail mary pass on third down. He saw himself as the challenger not only because ABC was in third place, with the weakest group of stations and the weakest ratings in prime time and the weakest news,'' but also because of his understated personality.
        ''He couldn't compete on the same stage as Paley and Sarnoff,'' Mr. Auletta added. ''All those things combined to make him bolder.''
        Ted Koppel of ABC, describing the network's lowly status and the musical-chairs programming that resulted, recalled a 1960's joke of Milton Berle: ''The way to end the Vietnam war is to book it on ABC. It would be canceled in 13 weeks.''
        But Mr. Koppel, whose ''Nightline'' broadcast was born in 1979 on Mr. Goldenson's watch, also noted: ''You make a mistake if you focus too much on the individual programming. Leonard was a man who gave his executives the leeway to be as good as they possibly could be.''
        The father of three daughters, the oldest of whom died of cerebral palsy, Mr. Goldenson also became the founder of United Cerebral Palsy. He and his wife, Isabelle, gave $60 million to Harvard Medical School in 1994 for research on neurological diseases.
        His wife and two daughters, Loreen Arbus and Maxine Goldenson, both of whom became television producers, survive him, as does one grandson.
        For all his power, Mr. Goldenson seldom stood on ceremony; Mr. Arledge remembers seeing him at a party in about 1960, surrounded by advertisers and clad in blue jeans.
        And Mr. Koppel said, ''I don't think he ever drove a late-model car,''  adding: ''Leonard would fly tourist. Leonard was the guy who rode in the back of the bus. The other executives would fly first class -- until they found out Leonard was flying tourist.''
      