
        Joey Adams, a classic borscht-belt comedian who spent six decades in the joke-telling business, died yesterday at St. Vincents Hospital in Manhattan. He was 88.
        Mr. Adams, who in addition to his years of stand-up comedy also wrote joke books and made films, had a syndicated joke column in The New York Post, ''Strictly for Laughs,'' for at least 20 years, said Marcee Layne, his longtime personal assistant. His second wife, Cindy Heller, whom he married in 1952, became that newspaper's celebrity gossip columnist, Cindy Adams. Mr. Adams once said, ''One condition of the marriage was that I get custody of all her material.''
        One of Mr. Adams's best-known jokes came from the 80th birthday party that Ms. Adams threw for him in 1991 at the New York Helmsley Hotel. The guest list included Leona Helmsley, who was later convicted of tax evasion; Bess Myerson, the New York City cultural affairs commissioner, who was once engulfed in an influence-peddling scandal; and Imelda Marcos, who sang ''Happy Birthday'' to Mr. Adams. Mr. Adams remarked then, in a line that was widely reported, ''If you're indicted, you're invited.''
        The son of a Brooklyn tailor, Mr. Adams was born Joe Abromowitz on Jan. 6, 1911, changing his name in 1930. He attended City College, but he frequently cut class to make vaudeville appearances.
        Some three months shy of graduation in 1931, he left permanently. Twenty years later, he was given an honorary ''Doctor of Comedy'' degree by the college.
        As a budding comedian, he first supported himself by selling hats at Namm's department store. While performing in the Catskills, he also took dishwashing and bookkeeping jobs. His first real break came in 1941, when he performed at Leon & Eddie's nightclub on 52nd Street.
        He began taking movie roles in 1945 and appeared in films including ''Ringside'' and ''Singing in the Dark,'' in which he essentially played himself -- a nightclub comedian. He opened the film with the words: ''All of us clowns would like to play Hamlet. I didn't think it would actually happen to me.''
        He was in an Off Broadway production of ''Guys and Dolls'' with Vivian Blaine.
        Mr. Adams also served as president of the American Guild of Variety Artists.
        He was very close to the former mayor of New York, Fiorello H. La Guardia, and described himself as his adopted son, protege and mascot. As he once said, ''I have always lived by his words to me when I was 6 years old: 'Don't worry about people knowing you, make yourself worth knowing.' ''
        Ms. Layne said that La Guardia took Mr. Adams under his wing from a young age and ''taught him a lot of philosophies that he followed in life.''
        Mr. Adams wrote more than 40 books, Ms. Layne said, including ''From Gags to Riches'' and ''The Joey Adams Encyclopedia of Humor.'' He also had a show on WEVD radio in the 1970's and 80's, ''The Joey Adams Show,'' on which he interviewed celebrities, politicians, world leaders and entertainers.
        As a goodwill ambassador for five presidents, he became an internationally known comedian and conducted more than 30 foreign tours, many of them in Asia. ''In Indonesia, Cambodia, Thailand, he had to show audiences how to clap, putting one hand against the other,'' Ms. Layne said, adding that there is a Joey Adams library in China.
        Mr. Adams once related that President John F. Kennedy told him as he sent him off on a goodwill mission: ''Joey, everybody's sending troops, guns and ammunition. I'm sending you. Use a joke instead of a stick.''
        Mr. Adams is survived by his wife, who lives in Manhattan. They have no children.
      