
        Roger Frison-Roche, a French mountaineer, explorer and popular writer who carried out the first live radio broadcast from the summit of Mont Blanc, died on Dec. 17 in Chamonix in the French Alps. He was 93.
        Mr. Frison-Roche's books were widely translated and sold in the millions. His first mountaineering novel, ''First on the Rope,'' has sold more than three million copies since its publication a half-century ago.
        Many of his novels were set on Mont Blanc, Europe's highest peak. In addition to ''First on the Rope,'' his books included ''The Big Crevice'' (1952), about a dying guide listening to calls from members of a search party who cannot hear his cries for help. He also wrote nonfiction books about his Alpine travels.
        Mr. Frison-Roche (pronounced free-ZOHN-RUSH) was known, too, for his works set in the North African desert, like ''The Lost Trail of the Sahara'' (1952), which was translated into English by Paul Bowles, and ''Lights of the Arctic'' (1957).
        Mr. Frison-Roche was born in Paris on Feb. 10, 1906. He left school early and in 1923 moved to Chamonix, where his parents had lived, to work in a travel agency and then as a mountain and ski guide. He later founded a rock-climbing and mountaineering school, and became known for organizing and winning races to the tops of mountains.
        In 1932 he produced the first live radio program from the summit of Mont Blanc for Radio Lyon. He also wrote for newspapers about mountaineering, and in 1935 was sent to Algiers as a correspondent for La Depeche d'Alger. The assignment, and 17 expeditions into the Sahara, gave him material for his first book, ''The Call of the Hoggar.''
        He was then asked to write a series for young people. The installments became ''First on the Rope.''
        In 1942 he was a war correspondent in Tunisia, but the next year he left to join the Resistance. This experience gave him material for another novel, ''The Mountain Soldiers of the Night''(1968).
        Mr. Frison-Roche's wife died in 1994. He is survived by a daughter who lives in Chamonix.
      