
        Gene Rayburn, who became a mainstay on television from the 1960's to the 80's as the amiable host of ''The Match Game,'' died on Monday at his home in Beverly, Mass. He was 81.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his daughter and only immediate survivor, Lynne Rayburn, said on Thursday.
        A performer on many game shows over the years, Mr. Rayburn received five nominations for Daytime Emmy Awards for his work as host of the popular ''Match Game,'' in which contestants would try to match answers to silly questions with a panel of show business celebrities.
        Earlier in his career he was a ''second banana'' on the old ''Tonight'' show when it starred Steve Allen on NBC television in the mid-1950's. Possessed of a rich voice and nimble delivery, Mr. Rayburn appeared in many ''Tonight'' show skits with the comedians Louis Nye and Buddy Hackett.
        He was also a mainstay on radio station WNEW in the 1940's, teamed up first with Jack Lescoulie and later with Dee Finch. His association with Mr. Finch was especially productive. Their show, ''Rayburn and Finch,''  was on during the morning commuter hours and the partners talked about anything that occurred to them and played records. The program helped popularize the morning drive-time formula used since by legions of disk jockeys. They boosted the career of the singer Teresa Brewer and also wrote some novelty tunes, the most successful of which was ''The Hopscotch Polka.'' Dee Finch died in 1983.
        Mr. Rayburn left WNEW to join NBC Radio in 1952, where he had an early-morning program, replacing one that had featured Bob and Ray  (Bob Elliott and Ray Goulding). His NBC show also included the pianist Stan Freeman.
        Later, Mr. Rayburn was a senior host of NBC's ''Monitor,'' a radio news program broadcast on weekends. He also appeared as a guest host on ''Today,'' whose regular host was then John Chancellor. He moved into television with a game show called ''The Sky's the Limit'' and later served as host of ''Saturday  Morning Live.''
        He also appeared as host on game  shows like ''Play Your Hunch'' and ''Tic Tac Dough'' before ''The Match Game'' began its run in 1962. The program was on NBC until 1969, then was revived on CBS from 1973 to 1979 and again in 1983-84. An evening version ran during the 1970's. Fans can still see reruns of ''Match Game'' episodes on the Game Show Network.
        Mr. Rayburn, born in Chicago on Dec. 22, 1917, was the son of Milan Rubessa and Mary Hivec Rubessa, who came to the United States from Croatia. His father was a master machinist and carpenter. When Gene Rayburn broke into show business, he picked the name ''Rayburn'' by opening a telephone book and pointing his finger at a random name, his daughter said.
        He attended Knox College in Galesburg, Ill., for a year, then went to New York, where he succeeded in getting a job as a page and tour guide at NBC. After World War II began, he enlisted in the Army Air Corps and became a pilot, bombardier and instructor. After the war ended, he got his first broadcasting job at WGNY, a radio station in Newburgh, N.Y., some 60 miles north of New York.
        For many years Mr. Rayburn lived in New York. Even after most of the television industry had moved to California, he remained on the East Coast, commuting to Los Angeles to appear on ''The Match Game.'' He recently received a lifetime achievement award from the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences.
        For many years Mr. Rayburn also maintained a busy schedule of acting, both in television dramas like ''Robert Montgomery Presents'' and  in summer stock. He toured with the national company of ''Come Blow Your Horn'' and in 1961 replaced Dick Van Dyke for six months as the lead in the Broadway musical ''Bye Bye Birdie.''
        In addition to his acting, Mr. Rayburn also served as the New York Local president of Aftra, the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists, and worked to improve the pensions of performers.
        Mr. Rayburn married Helen Ticknor, a hat model, in 1940. She died in 1996.
      