
        Bernard Smith, who edited authors like Raymond Chandler, Dashiell Hammett and Langston Hughes at Alfred A. Knopf, wrote well-regarded books and produced such Hollywood films as ''Elmer Gantry'' and ''How the West Was Won,'' died on Dec. 21 at the Beverly Hills Rehabilitation Center in Los Angeles. He was 92.
        Mr. Smith joined Knopf in 1928, rising rapidly to editor in chief and managing editor, posts that he held simultaneously for about 20 years.
        ''He was obviously on the cutting edge of certain genres,'' said Ashbel Green, a vice president and senior editor at Knopf, who has been at the publishing house for 35 years but said he had met Mr. Smith only once.
        Mr. Smith's record in publishing writers at Knopf was not perfect; he rejected Malcolm Lowry's ''Under the Volcano,'' a decision he always regretted.
        Perhaps most intriguing, Mr. Smith made Knopf the first American house to publish novels by the elusive B. Traven, whose best-known novels are ''The Treasure of the Sierra Madre'' and ''The Death Ship'' and whose identity long remained a literary mystery. In addition to acting as Traven's editor, Mr. Smith helped guard his identity and wrote about this sensitive role years later.
        ''A minor part of my responsibility was to prevent the issuance of any publicity about him,'' Mr. Smith wrote in The New York Times Book Review in 1970. ''Over and over again he instructed me that not one word was ever to be uttered by his publisher or his editor as to his whereabouts, his life, his business or his personal observations. He would supply no biographical information of any kind to anyone, and to any inquiries we might receive about him we were to reply that we knew nothing.''
        Because Traven had done a rough job of translating his novels from their original German, Mr. Smith wrote, they were deemed unsuitable for publication. So Mr. Smith came to the rescue. ''It was no wonder that a young editor like myself would offer to provide a service far outside his normal duties,'' he wrote. ''I offered, in short, to rewrite his books to the degree required to make them publishable.'' Mr. Smith added that Traven approved these rewrites, which became the Knopf versions.
        Mr. Smith also wrote and edited his own books, among them ''Forces in American Criticism: A Study in the History of American Literary Thought'' (1939) and ''The Democratic Spirit: A Collection of American Writings From the Earliest Times to the Present Day,'' which he edited in 1941. He also edited a symposium titled ''Books That Changed Our Minds,'' about 13 books that helped shape modern American thought, and, with Philip Van Doren Stern, edited ''The Holiday Reader,'' a collection of short pieces by authors from Shakespeare to Ernest Hemingway. In 1994 he published his memoir, ''A World Remembered.''
        Mr. Smith's son, Frederic, said his father also wrote monographs in the early 1940's about the painters Moses Soyer and David Burliuk.
        Born in New York on Sept. 20, 1907, the son of a businessman and a homemaker, Mr. Smith attended the City University of New York.
        In the late 1940's Mr. Smith left publishing for film production and held executive positions at Samuel Goldwyn Studios, Paramount Pictures and MGM.
        ''I think he wanted the challenge of a new industry,'' his son said. ''It was a fairly sudden interest.''
        In the 1950's Mr. Smith turned to independent filmmaking. He produced ''Elmer Gantry'' (1960), an adaptation of the Sinclair Lewis novel for which Burt Lancaster received an Academy Award as best actor, and ''How the West Was Won,'' the 1962 Cinerama spectacle that made news by costing more than $14 million. Both films were nominated for best-picture Oscars.
        Mr. Smith also teamed up with the director John Ford to produce ''Cheyenne Autumn'' (1964) and ''7 Women'' (1966).
        Writing in The Times, Bosley Crowther called ''Cheyenne Autumn'' ''a beautiful and powerful motion picture that stunningly combines a profound and passionate story of mistreatment of American Indians with some of the most magnificent and energetic cavalry-and-Indian lore ever put upon the screen.''
        In addition to his son, of Pasadena, Calif., Mr. Smith is survived by a brother, E. L. Smith of Los Angeles, and two grandchildren.
      