
        Pop Gates, a member of the Basketball Hall of Fame who starred for the renowned all-black Renaissance Big Five team in the late 1930's and 40's and helped pioneer the integration of the postwar professional game, died Wednesday at his home in Harlem. He was 82.
        The cause was heart failure, according to his wife, Cleo Pennington Gates.
        When he was voted into the basketball hall at Springfield, Mass., in 1989, Gates looked back on the days when the two-handed set shot was in vogue and recalled how ''I participated in over 1,500 games'' and ''I averaged 14 points a game when 14 were a lot of points.''
        Gates, a 6-foot-3-inch forward and guard, played in the old National Basketball League against the likes of Red Holzman. ''Pop was smooth,'' Holzman once recalled. ''He had great all-around ability. He could really move.''
        William (Pop) Gates was born in Decatur, Ala., but grew up in Harlem, playing basketball at the Harlem Y.M.C.A. and stickball on West 132nd Street. ''I played stickball with older guys,'' he remembered, ''and guys my age started calling me Pop because they thought I was older than I was.''
        He led an integrated Benjamin Franklin High School team to the New York City basketball championship in 1938, attended Clark College in Atlanta briefly, then joined the Renaissance Big Five, a squad known as the Rens that was based at Harlem's Renaissance Casino ballroom but traveled through the East, Midwest and South as the premier pro basketball attraction of the Depression years.
        With most hotels and restaurants segregated, the players often stayed in private homes and ate, Gates recalled, ''out of a grocery-store bag.''
        A few blacks played briefly in the National Basketball League, the major pro circuit, during World War II, to little notice. While Jackie Robinson was breaking baseball's color barrier, Gates played a role in integrating professional basketball. In the 1946-47 season, Gates made his debut with the National Basketball League's Tri-Cities Blackhawks, one of four blacks who played in the league that season.
        Gates was embroiled in a nasty episode in a game against Syracuse that season, engaging in a fight with a Nationals player, Chick Meehan, who Gates contended had twice thrown him to the floor. The four black players -- Gates, Dolly King, Willie King and Bill Farrow, who played for four different teams -- were all gone from the league by the following season.
        Gates returned to the league in 1948-49 as player-coach of the Rens.
        He joined the Harlem Globetrotters the next season and was a player-coach for five years, appearing with Goose Tatum, Marques Haynes and Sweetwater Clifton.
        After retiring from basketball in 1955, Gates worked as a security supervisor for the New York City Department of Social Services. His wife is his only survivor.
        Gates gave modern-day players their due but remained proud of his era's hard-nosed game. ''What they play now is a zone,'' he said. ''Nobody guards nobody now. Guys actually get out of the way when a man's driving to the basket. When we played, you had to earn your grits.''
      