
        Tito Guizar, the limpid-eyed singer and actor who brought Mexican cowboy music to New York and opened the way for Mexican performers in Hollywood, died on Friday in San Antonio. He was 91.
        Mr. Guizar was the first and most enduring of Mexico's singing charros, as the cowboys in broad-brimmed sombreros and bolero jackets are known. His career, which ranged from performing and composing music for films, theater and television, spanned more than 70 years.
        Federico Arturo Guizar Tolentino, who went by his stage name, Tito, was born on April 8, 1908, in Guadalajara. He began to train as a singer over the objections of a stern Catholic father and soon caught the eye of Emilio Azcarraga Vidaurreta, the founder of Mexico's largest media empire. To entice him away from a competing record company, Mr. Azcarraga sent Mr. Guizar to New York in 1929 to record songs written by Agustin Lara, a beginning songwriter who would go on to become one of Mexico's most prominent composers.
        Mr. Guizar lived in New York for six years, singing in private clubs and performing on his own radio show, in Spanish, called ''Tito Guizar y Su Guitarra'' (''Tito Guizar and His Guitar''). He studied with several opera teachers but took greater delight in crooning and yodeling the melancholy tunes originating in the Mexican cattle state of Jalisco that are known as ranchera music.
        In 1932 he was married in New York to Carmen Noriega, also a Mexican singer. He later described their life together as ''an idyll'' that ended only with his wife's death 58 years later.
        In the mid-1930's Mr. Guizar, a tenor, performed several times in Carnegie Hall. Invited to sing opera, he insisted on dressing for the second half of his show in a sombrero and tight pants with silver buttons cascading down the sides, to sing ranchera ballads.
        In 1936 he returned to Mexico to play the lead in the film that would inaugurate a new genre of singing charro movies: ''Alla en el Rancho Grande'' (''Out There on the Big Ranch''). The film was an immediate classic in Mexico and was also the first Mexican film to transcend the country's borders, playing well in the United States.
        After that Mr. Guizar learned English and became one of the first Mexican actors invited to appear in Hollywood movies. He starred alongside Roy Rogers, Dorothy Lamour, Ray Milland and Mae West. Recently he estimated that he had made more than 50 movies in either Mexico or the United States. In 1995 he played a grandfather in a nighttime soap opera on Mexican television.
        Mr. Guizar is survived by a son, Tito; two daughters, Nina and Lilia, and five grandchildren.
        Vigorously cheerful and in strong voice until the end of his life, Mr. Guizar is remembered for his trademark philosophy: ''The past is dust and the future a passing breeze. If you want to be happy, live for the moment.''
      