
        Dr. Lewis Hastings Sarett, an organic chemist who received the National Medal of Science for his work with cortisone and other substances as the senior vice president for science and technology of Merck & Company, died on Nov. 29 at his home in Viola, Idaho. He was 81 and lived in Princeton and Skillman, N.J., before he retired in 1982.
        The cause was advanced colitis, his family said.
        Dr. Sarett was one of 15 scientists to receive the medal, the nation's highest award for scientific achievement, from President Gerald R. Ford in 1975. He was cited for his contributions to the chemical synthesis of various chemotherapeutic agents, including cortisone, used in the treatment of inflammatory, allergic and neoplastic diseases.
        The synthesis of cortisone was Dr. Sarett's first assignment at Merck, which he joined as a research scientist in 1942.
        Two years later, the synthesis of cortisone was completed in principle, but it took two more years before the compound could be produced in quantities large enough for the Mayo Clinic to conduct tests. Those later proved it to be effective in controlling rheumatoid arthritis and similar inflammatory disorders.
        In 1980 Dr. Sarett was elected to the National Inventors Hall of Fame, created by the National Council of Patent Law Associations and the Patent and Trademark Office in 1973. Among his other honors were the Wallace H. Carothers Award of the American Chemical Society (1986), the James Madison Medal of Princeton University (1983).
        He was born in Champaign, Ill., and was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Northwestern University in 1939. He received a Ph.D. in chemistry from Princeton in 1942, then joined Merck in Rahway, N.J.
        Dr. Sarett was named director of the company's department of medical research in 1952, director of the department of organic chemistry in 1956, vice president for basic research in 1966 and president of the Merck Sharp & Dohme Research Laboratories in 1969. He became senior vice president in 1975.
        He is survived by his wife of 30 years, Pamela Thorp Sarett; their son, Will H., of Bonney Lake, Wash., and daughter, Renee M. Sarett of Denver; two daughters from an earlier marriage, Mary N. Sarett of Skillman and Wendy Young of Devon, Pa.; a sister, Helen Stockdale of Sacramento; and five grandchildren. His previous marriage, to Mary Adams Barrie, ended in divorce.
      