
        Joseph Heller, the author of ''Catch-22,'' the darkly comic 1961 novel whose title became a universal metaphor not only for the insanity of war but also for the madness of life itself, died on Sunday night at his home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 76.
        The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Valerie, said.
        After ''Catch-22'' Mr. Heller would go on to write such well-regarded novels as ''Something Happened,'' ''Good as Gold'' and ''God Knows,'' as well as two memoirs and several  plays. But as acclaimed as his other works were, they were always viewed less favorably than ''Catch-22,'' which became an American classic, selling more than 10 million copies in the United States, read in many of the world's languages and turned into a 1970 film by Mike Nichols.
        The novelist E. L. Doctorow told The Associated Press yesterday, ''When 'Catch-22' came out, people were saying, 'Well, World War II wasn't like this.' But when we got tangled up in Vietnam, it became a sort of text for the consciousness of that time. They say fiction can't change anything, but it can certainly organize a generation's consciousness.''
        ''Catch-22'' was based on Mr. Heller's experiences as a bombardier with the 12th Air Force in the Mediterranean in World War II. The novel is about a bombardier named John Yossarian, a mock-Assyrian who believes his ambitious, mean-spirited commanding officers are more dangerous than the Germans. To avoid flying more missions, Yossarian concocts a mysterious liver ailment, sabotages his plane and tries to get himself declared insane.
        Yossarian discovers that in the military rule book anyone who is declared insane must be excused from flying death-defying missions. The catch is that one must ask to be excused. But anyone who is smart enough to show ''rational fear in the face of clear and present danger'' obviously is sane and must continue to fly.
        In the book Mr. Heller went beyond a simple antimilitary stance. Some critics found a condemnation of capitalistic practices in the character of Milo Minderbinder, a money-grubbing former mess-hall officer whose pursuit of profits causes suffering and death.
        Interpreting the meaning of ''Catch-22'' in his book ''Bright Book of Life: American Novelists and Storytellers From Hemingway to Mailer,'' the critic Alfred Kazin said that Mr. Heller's novel ''is really about the Next War, and thus about a war which will be without limits and without meaning, a war that will end when no one is alive to fight it.'' He added, ''The theme of 'Catch-22' is the total craziness of war, the craziness of all those who submit to it, and the struggle of one man, Yossarian, who knows the difference between his sanity and the insanity of the system.''
        Mixed Reviews For 'Catch-22'
        ''Catch-22'' was not an instant success, although the novelist Nelson Algren, writing about it in The Nation, called it ''the best American novel to come out of World War II'' and ''the best American novel to come out of anywhere in years.''
        Many other reviewers shared the view of  Richard G. Stern, the author of ''Golk,'' who wrote a short review that was published on Page 50 of The New York Times Book Review on Oct. 22, 1961, under the headline ''Bombers Away.'' Mr. Stern said the book had ''much passion, comic and fervent, but it gasps for want of craft and sensibility.''
        With poor reviews from some of the most influential publications, ''Catch-22'' had  such a slow start that it might have faded away completely had it not been for strong recommendations by people who had read it and passed it along to friends.
        Originally the book and the rule were both to be called ''Catch-18,'' but that came close to the title of a book by Leon Uris. So Mr. Heller changed both to ''Catch-22'' and it is by that tag that the term has entered the dictionaries and the language. Yossarian became everybody's favorite survivor; by the mid-1960's Newsweek was referring to the ''Heller cult,'' most of its members  young people addicted to his black humor.
        A number of college students who didn't want to be drafted into the Vietnam War  started wearing Army field jackets around campus with Yossarian name tags. John Chancellor, then an NBC anchorman, recalled having bumper stickers printed with  ''Yossarian Lives,'' which he gave to anyone who would take them. Mr. Heller spent the 60's touring college campuses, speaking out against the Vietnam War.
        Mr. Heller reintroduced Yossarian in ''Closing Time,'' a 1994 novel that its publisher, Simon & Schuster, called the sequel to ''Catch-22,'' although Mr. Heller preferred to call it a complement to his first novel. Along with Yossarian were many of the old favorites from the original work, particularly Milo Minderbinder, the ultimate manipulator of people and institutions, now a billionaire arms merchant; Milo's foulmouthed sidekick, ex-Private Wintergreen; and the meek chaplain, renamed Tappman, who becomes a sequestered secret weapon when he is discovered by his physicians to be urinating heavy water. ('' 'Chaplain, Tappman, Chaplain Tappman, Albert Tappman, Chaplain?' chattered Chaplain Albert Tappman garrulously.'')  Yossarian, now twice divorced and living uneasily in Manhattan, is working for Minderbinder as an Establishment lobbyist.
        When an interviewer told Mr. Heller that  he had never written anything as good as ''Catch-22,'' the author shot back, ''Who has?''
        Joseph Heller was born in the Coney Island section of Brooklyn on May 1, 1923, the son of Isaac Donald Heller, who drove a delivery truck for a wholesale baker, and Lena Heller. It was the elder Mr. Heller's second marriage and young Joseph had a half-brother, Lee, 14 years his senior, and a half-sister, Sylvia, seven years older. After the elder Heller died, Lee became a surrogate father to Joey, as the younger brother  was called, and Sylvia.
        His father died of complications from a bleeding ulcer; Joey was 5 at the time. Of his father Mr. Heller wrote in his 1998 memoir, ''Now and Then: From Coney Island to Here'' (Alfred A. Knopf): ''I simply lost interest in him after he was gone.'' Mr. Heller continued, ''I've never grappled much with the idea of trying to find out more about him,'' and added, ''I know him by his absence.''
        He said that for 30 years he made no attempt to learn the cause of his father's death until he was seeing a psychiatrist because of the breakup of his first marriage.
        Lena Heller raised her family as best she could, taking in boarders. Joey gained a reputation as a smart aleck adept at delivering acerbic one-liners and a great believer in playing practical jokes on his friends. His mother used to tell him, ''Joey, you got a twisted brain.''
        He engaged in the time-honored Brooklyn shenanigans on Surf Avenue and attended P.S. 188. He also read and enjoyed ''Tom Swift'' and the Rover Boys series. But when he was about 10 an older cousin got him to read a child's version of Homer's ''Iliad.'' Later in life he said that after he read it, he decided that if he ever grew up he would become a writer.
        ''A fan of Mr. Heller's fiction will see how the sense of loss animating novels like 'Something Happened' and 'Closing Time' grew out of his own nostalgia for the vanished world of his youth, and understand how his heroes' preoccupation with mortality had roots in his father's premature death and his own close encounters with death during World War II,'' Michiko Kakutani wrote in her review of ''Now and Then'' for The New York Times. ''We see how Mr. Heller drew upon his own Coney Island childhood for sections of 'Good as Gold' and 'Closing Time.' ''
        War Experiences As Fodder for Fiction
        In June 1941 Mr. Heller graduated from Abraham Lincoln High School. He had worked a bit during his school years, delivering telegrams. But he continued to want to be a writer. He wrote some short stories that were published and well received, but soon he was caught up in the war.
        He first got a job as a blacksmith's helper at the Norfolk Navy Yard in Virginia. After the United States entered World War II he enlisted in the Army Air Corps. He did this  with some of his Brooklyn friends, who made a grand gesture of taking the oath of enlistment in Grand Central Terminal.
        He was sent to armorer's school and would have been happy to remain there;  people who made armor and affixed it to war machines did not usually go into combat. But he heard a rumor that armorers were being turned into gunners and gunners' lives were ''worth no more than three days.'' So he went to cadet school and became a bombardier.
        He was commissioned a second lieutenant and, like Yossarian in ''Catch-22,'' was sent on bombing runs over France and Italy. Yossarian was stationed on Pianosa, an imaginary island off the Italian coast in the Tyrrhenian Sea. Mr. Heller was stationed on Corsica, which happened to be in just about the same place.
        Mr. Heller knew no fear until he flew his 37th mission. ''Until then, it was all play, all games, it was being in a Hollywood movie,'' he wrote in The New York Times Magazine in May 1995. ''I was too stupid to be afraid.''  But then he saw planes flown by his friends destroyed in combat, and his own B-25 was hit by flak, wounding the top-turret gunner. After that, he said, ''I was scared even on the milk runs.''
        Mr. Heller used that incident for the disturbing scene in ''Catch 22'' in which Yossarian tries to save the fatally wounded radio gunner, Snowden, bandaging the wrong wound as Snowden dies. (''I'm cold,'' Snowden whimpers. ''I'm cold.'' ''There, there,'' Yossarian says. ''There, there.'')
        Mr. Heller later wrote: ''On another mission to Ferrara, one I don't think I was on, a radio gunner I didn't know was pierced through the middle by a wallop of flak -- it was always flak that destroyed, for there were no German fighter planes attacking us the whole time I was there -- and he died, moaning, I was told, that he was cold. For my episodes of Snowden in the novel, I fused the knowledge of that tragedy with the panicked co-pilot and the thigh wound to the top-turret gunner in my own plane on our second mission to Avignon. The rest of the details are pretty much as I related, except that I did not, like Yossarian, discard my uniform or sit naked in a tree, and I was not given a medal while undressed.''
        In June 1945 he was discharged after having flown on 60 missions. Using the benefits of the G.I. Bill of Rights he studied first at the University of California, then transferred to New York University, where he earned a Phi Beta Kappa key and graduated in 1948 with a major in English. He earned a master's in literature from Columbia University, won a Fulbright scholarship and studied at Oxford University in England in 1950.
        Returning to the United States, he taught  freshman writing at Pennsylvania State University. He then worked for Time magazine's advertising department from 1952 to 1956 and did the same thing for Look magazine from 1956 to 1958. He was a promotion manager for McCall's magazine from 1958 to 1961 and also worked briefly for Remington Rand, the typewriter manufacturer, in the advertising department.
        Through these years he kept writing, and his stories were published in Esquire, the Atlantic Monthly and Cosmopolitan. During the 1950's he wrote a short story that was evocative of his experiences in the Air Force and in his spare time he expanded it, slowly building it into ''Catch-22.''
        Mr. Heller said that it took him eight years to write ''Catch-22.'' He acknowledged the influence of Celine, Nathanael West, Nabokov, Faulkner and, in particular,  Kafka.
        But even after the book was published he  could not sustain himself with what he earned as a writer. He lectured at colleges and taught English at the City College of New York. In the 1960's he taught fiction and dramatic writing at Yale University. He also wrote a few television plays and, later in the 60's and early 70's, worked on movie scripts. Among those in which he had a hand were ''Casino Royale'' (1967) and ''Dirty Dingus Magee'' (1970), both spoofs.
        Mr. Heller used dialogue from his novel in several adaptations for the theater. A two-act play, ''We Bombed in New Haven,'' was produced at the Yale Repertory Theater in 1967 and reached Broadway a year later for a brief run. ''Catch-22,'' a one-act play, was produced at the John Drew Theater in East Hampton, N.Y., in 1971. ''Clevinger's Trial,'' based on Chapter 8 of ''Catch-22,'' was produced in London in 1974.
        Not until 1974, 13 years after publication of ''Catch-22,'' did he produce another novel, ''Something Happened.'' It was about alienation in the American business community and it focused on Bob Slocum, a sad, lackluster careerist with no true friends, dogged by a feeling of always being trapped.
        John W. Aldredge, writing in the Saturday Review, said Slocum ''is haunted by the sense that at some time in the past something happened to him, something that he cannot remember but that changed him from a person who had aspirations for the future, who believed in himself and his work, who trusted others and was able to love, into the person he has since unaccountably become, a man who aspires to nothing, believes in nothing and no one, least of all himself, who no longer knows if he loves or is loved.''
        Five years after ''Something Happened,'' Mr. Heller's third novel, ''Good as Gold,'' was published. It was a cynical look at the workings of the federal government. ''Just tell the truth,'' an aide to the president says in the book, ''even if you have to lie,'' and the president spends most of his first year in office writing ''My Year in the White House.'' Into the maw of public service comes Bruce Gold, an English professor who wants to become the first real Jewish secretary of state. The fact that Henry A. Kissinger has already served in that capacity does not deter him because he feels that Mr. Kissinger could not possibly be Jewish because he was a party to the Vietnam War.
        R. Z. Sheppard, writing in Time magazine, called the book ''a savage, intemperately funny satire on the assimilation of the Jewish tradition of liberalism'' into the American mainstream. ''It is a delicate subject,'' Mr. Sheppard wrote, ''off limits to non-Jews fearful of being thought anti-Semitic and unsettling to successful Jewish intellectuals whose views may have drifted to the right in middle age.''
        ''God Knows,'' published in 1984, made some of the best-seller lists. It was basically the story of King David told in the voice of Mel Brooks. Richard Cohen, writing in The Washington Post, said the book was ''more of a nightclub shtick than a novel.''
        Mr. Heller said, ''I tend to see my people as living in a vacuum, not anarchy, but living in a void of meaning -- even my King David, who despairs because God doesn't talk to anyone.''
        In 1986, while trying to cope with the dissolution of his 1945 marriage to the former Shirley Held, Mr. Heller noticed that he had trouble swallowing, then found he could not pull a sweater over his head. The mysterious malady turned out to be Guillain-Barre syndrome, a life-threatening neurological disease involving partial paralysis.
        Certain he was near death, he spent two months in Mount Sinai Hospital and four months of rehabilitation at the Rusk Institute at the New York University Medical Center. The next year he married Valerie Humphries, the nurse who had helped restore him fully to health at Mount Sinai. He also got through his illness with the help of his friends, especially Speed Vogel, a retired textiles executive and former herring taster at Zabar's, and Mario Puzo, the novelist, who lent him money after it became known that Mr. Heller had let his health insurance lapse. After his illness Mr. Heller wrote ''No Laughing Matter'' (1986) with Mr. Vogel.
        In 1988 Mr. Heller published ''Picture This,'' in which he reflected on such historical figures as Rembrandt, Socrates, Plato and 20th-century American presidents.  Richard Rayner of The Times of London said that Mr. Heller attacked his main themes -- that power and intellect are incompatible, that politicians wage disastrous wars for no good reason and that humanity learns nothing from its mistakes -- and got  away with it most of the time because he was funny. ''He refuses to take institutions seriously; or rather,'' Mr. Rayner writes, ''he takes them so seriously they become hilarious.''
        A Grumpy Wit With a Skewed Outlook
        Mr. Heller, a handsome man with a great shock of curly white hair, was a tummler who enjoyed sampling Chinese food around Manhattan with friends like Mr. Brooks and Mr. Puzo, who were used to his barbed wit and crotchety ways.
        Barbara Gelb once described her friend  for The New York Times Book Review: ''For 20 years now I have managed to overlook his frequent sulkiness, his gluttonous table manners and his tendency to growl 'no' before he even knows what the question is. I have stayed on good terms with him largely because I relish his aberrant sense of humor and his skewed way of looking at life -- an outlook he insists has changed little since he wrote 'Catch-22.' ''
        Said Mr. Heller, ''In all my novels, there's concern with the way people use and misuse language to obscure and confuse and build barriers, the way that words are corrupted or the way words contradict themselves.''
        In addition to his wife, Valerie, he is survived by a daughter, Erica Heller of Manhattan; a son, Theodore M. of Manhattan; and a sister, Sylvia Heller of Florida.
        Mr. Heller's agent, Deborah Karl, said he had completed a novel called ''A Portrait of an Artist, as an Old Man,'' to be published next fall by Simon & Schuster.
        Asked once what his biggest fears were, Joseph Heller replied, ''I fear death, nursing homes and vaccinations.'' But he came to grips with death, he said, explaining, ''Everyone else seems to get through it all right so it couldn't be too difficult for me.''
        A Phrase Is Born Summing Up the Absurdity of War in an Insane World
        ''You mean there's a catch?''
        ''Sure there's a catch,'' Doc Daneeka replied. ''Catch-22. Anyone who wants to get out of combat duty isn't really crazy.''
        There was only one catch and that was Catch-22, which specified that a concern for one's own safety in the face of dangers that were real and immediate was the process of a rational mind.
        Orr was crazy and could be grounded. All he had to do was ask; and as soon as he did, he would no longer be crazy and would have to fly more missions. Orr would be crazy to fly more missions and sane if he didn't, but if he was sane he had to fly them. If he flew them he was crazy and didn't have to; but if he didn't want to he was sane and had to. Yossarian was moved very deeply by the absolute simplicity of this clause of Catch-22 and let out a respectful whistle.
        ''That's some catch, that Catch-22,'' he observed.
        ''It's the best there is,'' Doc Daneeka agreed.
        From ''Catch-22'' (1961)
        ''Do you know how long a year takes when it's going away?'' Dunbar repeated to Clevinger. ''This long.'' He snapped his fingers. ''A second ago you were stepping into college with your lungs full of fresh air. Today you're an old man.''
        ''Old?'' asked Clevinger with surprise. ''What are you talking about?''
        ''Old.''
        ''I'm not old.''
        ''You're inches away from death every time you go on a mission. How much older can you be at your age? A half minute before that you were stepping into high school, and an unhooked brassiere was as close as you ever hoped to get to Paradise. Only a fifth of a second before that you were a small kid with a ten-week summer vacation that lasted a hundred thousand years and still ended too soon. Zip! They go rocketing by so fast. How the hell else are you ever going to slow time down?'' Dunbar was almost angry when he finished.
        ''Well, maybe it is true,'' Clevinger conceded unwillingly in a subdued tone. ''Maybe a long life does have to be filled with many unpleasant conditions if it's to seem long. But in that event, who wants one?''
        ''I do,'' Dunbar told him.
        ''Why?'' Clevinger asked.
        ''What else is there?''
        ''Catch-22''
        ''I'm nuts. Cuckoo. Don't you understand? I'm off my rocker. They sent someone else home in my place by mistake. They've got a licensed psychiatrist up at the hospital who examined me, and that was his verdict. I'm really insane.''
        ''So?''
        ''So?'' Yossarian was puzzled by Doc Daneeka's inability to comprehend. ''Don't you see what that means? Now you can take me off combat duty and send me home. They're not going to send a crazy man out to be killed, are they?''
        ''Who else will go?''
        ''Catch-22''
        ''Old truths are the best truths, Mr. Finegold. I think you'll always find that so.''
        ''My name, sir, is Gold,'' Gold corrected a little less tolerantly.
        ''Fine.'' Conover nodded weightily and looked up at him with a smile. He resumed after a moment in his quiet mellow voice in which the rounded vowels of the South were euphoniously interblended with the distinct consonants of the best English tutors and preparatory schools. ''I hope you will not allow an occasional extra syllable from an aging mind to be the cause of any serious misunderstanding between us.''
        ''Certainly not, sir!'' Gold assured him with candid fervor and stepped back a pace to feast his eyes again upon his host. More than ever, Pugh Biddle Conover appeared the quintessential gentleman-statesman of his maudlin ideal. Pomposity was absent. A keen and cultivated intelligence presided. He was good as gold.
        Conover asked, ''Would you like to geld some horses?''
        ''Good as Gold'' (1979)
        In those 20 more years we will all look pretty bad in the newspaper pictures and television clips, kind of strange, like people in a different world, ancient and doddering, balding, seeming perhaps a little bit idiotic, shrunken, with toothless smiles in collapsed, wrinkled cheeks. People I know are already dying and others I've known are already dead. We don't look that beautiful now. We wear glasses and are growing hard of hearing, we sometimes talk too much, repeat ourselves, things grow on us, even the most minor bruises take longer to heal and leave telltale traces.
        ''Closing Time'' (1994)
      