
        Everett Carll Ladd Jr., a widely published polling expert who was executive director of the Roper Center for Public Opinion Research at the University of Connecticut, died on Dec. 8 at a hospital in Willimantic, Conn. He was 62.
        He died of heart failure, said Karen A. Grava, a spokeswoman for the university.
        Dr. Ladd, who lived in Storrs, Conn., was a longtime professor of political science at the university. The Roper Center is one of the world's largest archives of polling data, with records on more than 14,000 national and foreign surveys.
        Under Dr. Ladd's leadership, the Roper Center, which was founded in 1946, started a series of publications, including Public Perspective and America at the Polls.
        Burns Roper, son of the founder of the Roper Center, Elmo Roper, said the recognition the polling center had received in the last 20 years ''is due almost entirely to Everett and the staff he assembled.''
        Dr. Ladd was also the director of the Institute for Social Inquiry, a polling group that is affiliated with the Roper Center and is part of the university.
        In recent years, Dr. Ladd became well known as a critic of some trends in polling. He said polls often concentrated too much on the horse race aspect of elections. In 1996, he said that other polltakers had overstated President Clinton's strength in the presidential election and unfairly labeled the Republican candidate, Bob Dole, as destined to lose.
        Dr. Ladd was born on Sept. 24, 1937, in Saco, Me. He graduated from Bates College and earned a Ph.D. from Cornell University. He began teaching at the University of Connecticut in 1964 and retired a few months ago.
        He also taught at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research in Washington and held fellowships from the Ford, Guggenheim and Rockefeller Foundations, as well as the Center for International Studies at Harvard, the Hoover Institution at Stanford and the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences in Palo Alto, Calif.
        Dr. Ladd wrote 20 books, including ''The American Polity,'' a textbook now in its sixth edition. He was also a frequent contributor to newspapers and magazines. From 1987 through 1995, he was a columnist for The Christian Science Monitor. He spent 10 years as senior editor of Public Opinion magazine and six years as opinion-sampling editor at The American Enterprise magazine.
        Dr. Ladd is survived by his wife, Cynthia; two sons, Everett Carll Ladd III of Hebron, Conn., and Benjamin Ladd of Savannah, Ga.; two daughters, Corina Ladd of Willimantic and Melissa Teed of Midland, Mich.; a sister, Mary Tucker of Biddeford, Me., and five grandchildren.
      