
        Gen. Joao Baptista de Figueiredo, who restored democratic government to Brazil in the face of economic turmoil and sabotage attempts by hard-line officers and political right-wingers, died yesterday at his house in Rio de Janeiro. He was 81.
        He had been repeatedly hospitalized in recent years for kidney disorders and died of a heart attack, local press reports said.
        General Figueiredo was the last of the military leaders who presided over the dictatorship that ran Brazil from 1964 to 1985. His predecessor, Gen. Ernesto Geisel, had begun a gradual relaxation of military rule, and General Figueiredo considered it his mission to complete the revival of democracy in the country.
        The return of the presidency to civilian hands was put to a final test at the very moment of its fulfillment in March 1985. An immensely popular President-elect, Tancredo Neves, underwent a bewildering series of operations and died days before he was to have taken the oath of office.
        Brazilians, who had noisily greeted his election in the streets, watched with some apprehension as his compromise running mate, Jose Sarney, was installed. Lacking a mandate, Mr. Sarney had to tread cautiously, whereas Mr. Neves had promised vigorous pursuit of overdue economic initiatives.
        Mr. Sarney soon won a measure of public sympathy as head of an uneasy coalition between his conservative backers and those of Mr. Neves. He decided to serve out his term as Mr. Neves would have, and a constitutional amendment, sought by Mr. Neves and General Figueiredo, abolished the electoral college and restored direct presidential balloting for the next election, in 1989.
        Surrounded by confusion, the general left Brasilia, the capital, for his home in Rio without handing over the sash of office or attending Mr. Sarney's formal inauguration. General Figueiredo was reportedly glad to  return to his horses, for which he had a legendary passion, and to look after his own fitful health.
        A cavalryman, he said he preferred the smell of horses to that of people. Leaving office, the general said, ''I want them to forget me.''
        The fifth military president since the armed forces seized power in 1964, General Figueiredo was a former intelligence chief handpicked for the top job by General Geisel. It was General Geisel who first moved away from the harsh military regime that had inflicted prison, torture and exile in the name of economic and social renewal.
        Having put an end to the more egregious violations of human rights, General Geisel left his successor with the task of reviving the electoral process and coaxing the military back to the barracks. Under President Figueiredo, Latin America's most populous country took a long stride toward that goal in November 1982, when Brazilians voted in their first free elections -- local, state and national -- since the coup.
        It was a remarkable event, with a zestful campaign in which newly resurrected parties vied for ballots. Many of the thousands of candidates returned from exile only under an amnesty declared by Mr. Figueiredo months after he took office in 1979.
        The blunt-spoken president, whose job was not on the line, barnstormed the country like a born politician. His personal appeal helped the Social Democratic Party to make a respectable showing, although it lost a number of important governorships and state houses along with its majority in the lower house of Congress.
        General Figueiredo at first looked like an odd choice for trustee of President Geisel's program of aberatura, Portuguese for ''opening,'' a deliberate liberalization of military rule and return to civilian leaders.
        A shadowy figure in uniform and tinted glasses, General Figueiredo had since 1974 headed the deceptively named National Information Service, the internal security agency deeply implicated in the ruthless repression not so long before. To those who knew of him, he was the ''Minister of Silence,'' and he once put off an interviewer by saying, ''Soldiers are supposed to keep quiet.''
        In mid-1977, his was one of 10 names mentioned as a possible successor at the end of President Geisel's term in 1979. But suddenly, a publicity blitz started to set him apart from the other generals in that ''primary,'' most of them austere believers in military rule.
        Press reports told of his love of horses. His hobbies and thoughts on all subjects went public. The assumption at the time was that associates of General Geisel were polishing General Figueiredo's image because the president had decided that he was the most likely man to carry on with the opening. And President Geisel, commentators wrote, seemed determined to achieve what his predecessors had been unable to do -- choose his own successor.
        General Figueiredo's supporters embarked on an unofficial but highly active campaign, courting the people as if the decision was theirs. They kept reminding Brazilians that his late father, Gen. Euclydes Figueiredo, helped lead an uprising in 1932 against a dictator and went into exile rather than live in a tyranny.
        By January 1978, President Geisel was ready to tell the chieftains of the National Renewal Alliance, the political arm of the military government, that he wanted General Figueiredo to succeed him. The alliance dutifully endorsed the candidate in April, just days after he had joined it.
        The leaders of the armed forces then gave their somewhat grudging consent to the new four-star general. The decision won formal acceptance by the electoral college, and President Figueiredo was sworn in for his six-year term on March 15, 1979.
        The gradual restoration of democracy had to overcome a number of scary moments after that. With the economy turning sour and inflation worsening, strikes and sporadic urban violence had people wondering whether the armed forces would step in again.
        An outbreak of bombings was blamed on leftists by the military. But with censorship largely gone, the press unearthed evidence of a campaign by hard-liners in the military who balked at the ''return to the barracks,'' even though their commanders publicly supported it.
        Joao Baptista de Oliveira Figueiredo was born on Jan. 15, 1918, in Rio de Janeiro and raised in the southern state of Rio Grande do Sul. He was 10 when he entered a military school in Porto Allegre. Mr. Figueiredo spent part of his youth in Argentina, where he father had gone into exile.
        President Figueiredo was one of the few officers to earn the ''triple crown,'' a medal for those who finish first in the military academy, the junior officers' school and the army command and general staff school. He taught for much of his early career, first in the cavalry and then in intelligence, and he served with the Brazilian military mission in Paraguay, the general staff of the armed forces and the National Security Council.
        He became a colonel just after the 1964 coup and was put in charge of the National Information Service bureau in Rio. General Figueiredo headed the military police in Sao Paulo before moving to the staff of Gen. Emilio Medici in Porto Allegre. General Medici became president in 1969 and chose General Figueiredo to head his military staff. It was under President Medici that the intelligence agency acquired its notoriety. President Geisel, taking office in 1974, proceeded to relax the prevailing repression and placed General Figueiredo in charge of the agency.
        General Figueiredo married the former Dulce Maria Guimaraes de Castro in 1942. She survives, as do their two sons, Joao Jr. and Paulo, and seven grandchildren.
      