
        James Ryan, the manager of the Olana State Historic Site near Hudson, N.Y., who oversaw most of the restoration of the Persian-style Victorian mansion that the 19th-century painter Frederic Edwin Church built high above the Hudson, died on Nov. 29 at Albany Medical Center. He was 57 and lived in Catskill, N.Y.
        The cause was renal failure, said Karen Zukowski, curator at Olana. Mr. Ryan received a kidney transplant 20 years ago.
        When Mr. Ryan became manager of Olana in 1979, it had been owned by the state for 12 years, and much of the work had already been done to make its extraordinary hilltop location publicly accessible. But the house was in dire need of repair and restoration, even though its ground-floor rooms had been maintained much as Church had left them when he died in 1900. (The home's last occupant had been Church's daughter-in-law, who died in 1963.)
        Church made his fortune as a painter of the New World, but the house, which many consider an artwork equal to his paintings, reflects his later interest in ancient cultures and was stimulated by trips to the Middle East in the late 1860's, just as he was beginning to build Olana.
        The house's interior was accented with Persian and Persian-style tiles and, like its exterior cornices, was elaborately stenciled with patterns that Church borrowed from books about Persian culture.
        The decor represented an eclectic sensibility and a lifetime of collecting, mixing Aesthetic Movement furniture and paintings by Church and his contemporaries with old master paintings and objects from all over the world, among them Mexican folk art, painted chairs from India, Middle Eastern armor and Far Eastern ceramics.
        Mr. Ryan knew Olana's elaborate history inside out. He gave fascinatingly comprehensive house tours  that chronicled the restoration process, provided detailed origins of individual objects and their roles in Church's vision of each room, and he explained how the house was a carefully constructed reflection of Church's ideas about art, religion and nature.
        For some visitors Mr. Ryan might end the tour with a clamber through the attic, up the ladder on Olana's fourth-story porch and into the crow's nest, with its stupendous view of the Hudson stretching north and south against the green shoulders of the Catskills.
        Mr. Ryan was involved with history and its objects for most of his career. He was born in Kansas City, Mo., in 1942, and graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1966 with a degree in American intellectual history. In the late 60's he worked at the Kansas State Historical Society in Topeka, and from 1970 to 1975 he was the curator of the Kansas City Museum of History and Science in Missouri, where he was also a researcher for the landmarks commission from 1972 to 1974.
        He worked briefly for the Society of the Preservation of New England Antiquities and came to the Hudson River Valley in 1977, first as site manager for the Senate House State Historic Site in Kingston, N.Y. That year he also earned a master's degree in museum administration from the Cooperstown Graduate Program, part of the State University of New York.
        Mr. Ryan also applied his preservationist instincts to the landscape surrounding Olana, becoming deeply involved with land management issues in the Hudson Valley. In the early 80's he was part of a legal effort that blocked the construction of a nuclear power plant near Olana, the first case that brought a denial on aesthetic grounds for the preservation of a historic site's view.
        He was a proponent of scenic easements, in which landowners are compensated for clauses in their deeds that prohibit development, and he served on the boards of the Columbia County Historical Society, the Catskill Public Library, the Greene County Historical Society and Hudson River Heritage. His house in Catskill was perched above the river and had a direct view of Olana.
        Mr. Ryan is survived by his companion, David Seamon, a professor of architecture and environmental psychology at Kansas State University in Manhattan, Kan.; his sister, Esther, and his brother, John, both of Kansas City.
      