
        Harold L. Fisher, a lawyer who played a prominent role in Democratic politics in New York for several decades and also served as a chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, died Sunday at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 89.
        Mr. Fisher, sometimes called ''Mr. Brooklyn,'' was appointed to the board of the authority when it was created by Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller in 1968. He became vice chairman in 1975, acting chairman in January 1977 and chairman that April, serving in that post through 1979.
        As head of the authority, Mr. Fisher may be best known for negotiating two labor agreements without a strike or a fare increase during the fiscal crisis of the 1970's.
        Mr. Fisher was also a crucial behind the scenes adviser in the fiscal crisis, thanks to friendships he formed years earlier with Gov. Hugh L. Carey, Mayor Abraham D. Beame and Democratic Party leaders like Carmine DeSapio and Meade Esposito, as well as Republicans like Assemblyman Perry B. Duryea.
        ''He was indispensable,'' said Edward I. Koch, who was mayor during the late 70's. ''Without him we wouldn't have actually been able to do all these things we did, namely prevent strikes. People respected him.''
        Although his political career overshadowed his law practice, Mr. Fisher was known for his legal skills, too, particularly his knowledge of the state's election laws. He once ordered a car driven into the freight elevator at the Board of Elections building, taken to the Board of Election's floor and clocked in -- all because the filing petitions for party candidates were locked in the trunk, the lock would not open and the filing deadline was minutes away.
        Mr. Fisher also made a name for himself in commercial law. Once, acting as the lawyer for creditors of sugar companies and an airline expropriated by the Cuban government after the Communist revolution, he seized the airplane that brought Fidel Castro to New York for his first United Nations session. Only after the United States State Department intervened was the plane released.
        Asked what his secret for success was, Mr. Fisher said in an interview with The New York Times in 1978: ''I don't have a great ego, but I'm smart. I know the personalities around town. I don't lie. I keep my word and I keep my mouth shut.''
        Harold Leonard Fisher was born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan on Dec. 10, 1910. He attended New York University for a year before entering St. John's University College of Law, where he graduated in 1932. After a law firm clerkship, he opened a law practice in 1935 in Manhattan.
        During World War II, he served on a local draft board. After the war, he traveled to Europe on behalf of Jewish refugee organizations to resettle Jewish orphans. He was also active in raising funds and supplies for the Irgun, the militant underground organization fighting for Israeli independence.
        In 1948, Mr. Fisher returned to the United States and moved his office to downtown Brooklyn, where he was to practice law for more than 40 years. In 1992, he returned his practice, now known as Fisher, Fisher & Berger, to Manhattan.
        In 1959, he became assistant counsel to the minority leader of the New York State Assembly, Anthony J. Travia. Mr. Fisher then helped Mr. Travia become Assembly speaker after the 1964 elections. For the next five years, Mr. Fisher served as counsel to the speaker, helping to shape the revision of New York's divorce law and other legislation.
        Mr. Fisher also served from 1971 to 1976 on the board of Centro, the mass transit authority for the Syracuse area, and as chairman of the American Public Transit Association. He was chairman of the Convention Center Development Corporation, which built the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in Manhattan.
        In 1979, President Carter asked him to join the United States delegation, invited by President Anwar Sadat of Egypt, to witness the transfer of control of Mount Sinai under the Camp David Accords.
        Mr. Fisher's wife, Betty Kahn, to whom he was married for almost 63 years, died in 1998.
        He is survived by five children, H. Leonard Fisher Jr., of Danville, Calif.; Alice Fisher Rubin of Brooklyn, Stephanie Cooper Harrison of Asheville, N.C., Andrew S. Fisher of Staten Island, and Kenneth K. Fisher of Brooklyn; 11 grandchildren and 5 great-grandchildren.
      