
        John W. R. Taylor, the longtime editor of ''Jane's All the World's Aircraft,'' the authoritative guide to aviation, died on Dec. 12 in a hospital in Surbiton, a suburb of London, where he lived. He was 77.
        The cause of death was not disclosed , but Mr. Taylor was hospitalized with angina two days before his death, said Paul Beaver, a spokesman for Jane's in London.
        Mr. Taylor spent 30 years, from 1959 to 1989, editing ''Jane's All the World's Aircraft,'' the annual compendium of technical and engineering data, photographs and historical information about virtually all the airplanes in the world. The blue-covered book, part of the venerable Jane's Information Group, which also publishes ''Jane's Fighting Ships,'' is regarded as the bible of the industry. It is known for its accuracy and comprehensiveness and is read by military personnel, aircraft manufacturers and intelligence agencies.
        Mr. Taylor was particularly respected for his ability to obtain information about military aircraft. His reputation was such that during the Falklands War in 1982, Argentina provided him with details about its airplanes even though it was fighting Britain. ''They felt that he was above politics,'' Mr. Beaver said.
        Mr. Taylor was also adept at gathering data about aircraft from the Soviet Union, which, like Argentina, rated Jane's highly and provided relatively accurate information on its planes even during the cold war.
        Sometimes, however, Mr. Taylor had to rely on photographs taken during parades and air shows to judge the capabilities of aircraft.
        In 1983, for example, Mr. Taylor did an analysis of the Soviet MIG-29 fighter. Seven years later, a group from Jane's visited the Soviet Union and found that his physical measurements of the plane came within an inch of his earlier projections.
        And in 1961, the Soviet Union introduced the Tupolev Tu22 supersonic bomber, and many analysts in the West estimated that it could reach a speed of Mach 2.5. Mr. Taylor, by gauging the air intakes, made a lower estimate -- Mach 1.4, which was found to be closer to the actual speed.
        John William Ransom Taylor was born on June 8, 1922. He became a draftsman and joined Hawker Aircraft in 1941, where he was a designer on the Hawker Hurricane 2-D fighter that destroyed German tanks in World War II. He later specialized in fixing design defects.
        In 1955, he joined Jane's as an editorial assistant; four years later he became editor. Until the late 1960's, Mr. Taylor was almost the entire editorial staff of the publication. ''It is seldom appreciated how much is involved in producing an edition of Jane's,'' he wrote dryly in 1989.
        Mr. Taylor wrote numerous books, among them ''Spitfire'' (with M. F. Allward, 1946) and ''Passenger Aircraft and Airlines'' (with S. H. H. Young, 1975).
        He is survived by his wife, Doris; a son, Michael, of Ewell, Surrey, and a daughter, Susan, of Ampthill, Bedfordshire.
      