
        Curtis Mayfield, one of the most important soul singers and songwriters of the 1960's and 70's, who brought themes of civil rights to the pop charts, died yesterday at the North Fulton Regional Hospital in Roswell, Ga. He was 57.
        The cause was not available on Sunday. In 1990 Mr. Mayfield was paralyzed from the neck down after a lighting scaffold fell on him on a  concert stage in Brooklyn. Though he continued to compose and play music, his health deteriorated. Last year his right leg was amputated because of diabetes related to the injury.
        In an interview with The New York Times in 1996, Mr. Mayfield said, ''Being a quadriplegic, it's a life-or-death situation almost every minute of the day.''
        Though never a superstar to the extent of many of his peers, Mr. Mayfield captured the spirit of his time in songs that have endured as classics beyond their context. These compositions range from his inspirational anthem ''People Get Ready'' to his lowdown funk classic, ''Super fly,'' from the blaxploitation movie of the same name.
        As a member of the group the Impressions in the 50's and 60's and as a solo act in the 70's, Mr. Mayfield imbued his songs with messages of love, optimism, unity, faith and self-awareness. He stood out from his contemporaries by bravely, intelligently and passionately delving into racial and political issues in powerful and prophetic songs like ''We People Who Are Darker Than Blue'' and ''Mighty Mighty (Spade and Whitey).''
        Beyond lyrics, Mr. Mayfield was a funk and rap pioneer, laying down grooves full of bongos, bass, horns and wah-wah guitar that took on a new life when acts in the 80's and 90's, like Ice-T, Mary J. Blige and Digable Planets, began sampling his music.
        Mr. Mayfield was born in Chicago on June 3, 1942. Before his teenage years he was already deep into soul and gospel, leading his own group, the Alphatones. At 14 his family moved to the North Side of Chicago, where he met Jerry Butler in the gospel group Northern Jubilee Singers. Mr. Butler urged Mr. Mayfield to join his soul group, the Roosters. The group renamed itself the Impressions, and quickly had its first pop hit, ''For Your Precious Love,'' which reached No. 11 on the pop charts.
        Ego clashes led Mr. Butler to leave the group for a solo career, though Mr. Mayfield continued to write songs for him, including Mr. Butler's  Top 10 pop hit ''He Will Break Your Heart.''
        After a few years the Impressions re-established themselves with Mr. Mayfield as their leader, fusing gospel, soul and doo-wop into powerful hits like ''Gypsy Woman'' and ''It's All Right.'' With the Impressions's 1964 hit ''Keep on Pushing,'' Mr. Mayfield became one of the first rhythm-and-blues singers to take the civil rights movement to the pop charts. Themes of black pride and equality between the sexes, mixed with more gospel-based messages of devotion, began to populate his songs with the Impressions until he left the group to begin a solo career.
        In 1971 Mr. Mayfield began releasing solo albums, each one a musical or lyrical revelation. He also acted as a producer, working with Aretha Franklin, the Staple Singers and Gladys Knight and the Pips.
        ''Superfly,'' his classic groove and falsetto-filled workout, cemented his legacy by topping the pop-album charts for four weeks in 1972. On albums like ''There's No Place Like America Today,'' from 1975, his songs seemed to penetrate the minds of the urban hopeless and despondent, telling them to remain strong in times of poverty, unemployment and black-on-black violence.
        This message of strength under adversity was one Mr. Mayfield followed all his life. His career began to falter as disco hedonism became popular and his material grew more salacious and less original. Despite his paralysis Mr. Mayfield said that his spirit was soaring and he believed in mankind even more after seeing people of all races and creeds rally to his support.
        In the 90's there were three boxed sets released of his music, two tribute albums with other acts recording his songs, and, in 1996, an album from Mr. Mayfield with spirited songs like ''Back to Living Again.'' Mr. Mayfield was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame twice, in 1991 as a member of the Impressions and this year as a solo artist.
        When asked by The New York Times in 1996 how he felt about this flood of recognition since his accident, he replied with characteristic optimism, ''I'm a great believer in the saying, 'It might not come when you want it to, but it's right on time.' ''
        Mr. Mayfield is survived by his wife, Altheida, of Atlanta; his mother; 10 children; two sisters; a brother; and seven grandchildren.
      