
        Lloyd Rodwin, an internationally influential authority on urban studies and planning, died on Tuesday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 80 and lived in Cambridge, Mass.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Professor Rodwin retired in 1988 as Ford International Professor of urban studies at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he taught for four decades and was chairman of the department of urban studies and planning for several years.
        At the M.I.T.-Harvard Joint Center for Urban Studies, which he co-founded in 1959, he worked with Daniel Patrick Moynihan before Mr. Moynihan became a Democratic senator from New York.
        Professor Rodwin ''was hugely influential,'' the senator recalled on Thursday, and his chief impact on his field was that ''he redefined the study of cities, defined them in terms of the people who lived there rather than the buildings in which they lived.''
        ''He was a great teacher of professors,'' Mr. Moynihan said, who ''broke the iron hold of urban studies,'' as it had been defined, in terms of ''laying out a grand city, or a grand suburb.''
        The main impetus for that earlier way of thinking came from the Columbian Exposition of 1893 in Chicago, the senator said. The great fair's splendid grounds featured grand vistas and buildings reminiscent of ancient Rome. It embodied the style of urban design called the City Beautiful movement.
        But ''by the time we had the joint center going, the cities weren't all that beautiful, and never had been,'' Mr. Moynihan said, and the subject of urban planning ''was still abstract and quite removed from any of the realities of urban life in the second half of the 20th century.''
        Another M.I.T. urbanist, Bernard Frieden, said: ''Lloyd really changed the field from city planning to urban studies. He emphasized research on how cities work. Lloyd made the field much broader and extended it to the third world.''
        Professor Rodwin and Professor Kevin Lynch, also of M.I.T., wrote in a 1961 essay: ''Men are attracted to the metropolis by real values -- choice, freedom, privacy, opportunity, culture, entertainment. How can we ensure the realization of these ends? More importantly, what are the possibilities for metropolitan life that are as yet undreamed of? And what kind of power, knowledge or guidance must be applied to achieve them? The spirit of hopeful intervention should prove at least as effective as the desire to escape present discomfort.''
        Professor Rodwin was known for his studies of regional and urban quandaries in the developing world. According to the journal Planning, an entire city in Venezuela, the port complex Ciudad Guayana, ''was planned with the assistance of a group of North Americans led by Lloyd Rodwin'' in 1961.
        He was also an adviser to the United Nations and the author, co-author, editor or co-editor of 10 books.
        Born in Brooklyn, he received a bachelor's degree from City College in Manhattan and a doctorate in regional planning from Harvard.
        He is survived by his wife, Nadine Posniak Rodwin; two sons, Victor, of Manhattan, and Marc Andre, of Bloomington, Ind.; a daughter, Julie Anne Rodwin, of Groton, Mass.; a brother, Ted Rosenbaum; a sister, Claire Levy, of Laguna Hills, Calif., and six grandchildren.
      