
        Pearl Resnick, the matriarch of a prominent New York real estate family and a philanthropist, died yesterday at a hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. She was 87 and lived in Manhattan and Palm Beach.
        Mrs. Resnick, whose maiden name was Ezaak, was born on Jan. 3, 1912, in Okna, Ukraine. She came to the United States with her family in 1923.
        Nine years later, she married Jack Resnick, who had started a small real estate business in 1928. It grew into one of New York's largest development and construction companies, Jack Resnick & Sons. Mr. Resnick died in 1991.
        Mrs. Resnick was a member of the board of overseers of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University, in the Bronx.
        In addition, she was also a trustee at Yeshiva and a major contributor to both institutions.
        Together, the Resnicks established the Jack and Pearl Resnick Gerontology Center and the Jack and Pearl Resnick Fellowship in Geriatrics at Albert Einstein. Mrs. Resnick also endowed an academic chair in brain tumor research in memory of her daughter, Susan Resnick Fisher, who died in 1993.
        In recognition of Mr. and Mrs. Resnick's support, the campus of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine was named in their honor in 1990.
        Gershon Kekst, president of Kekst & Company, a New York public relations firm, said that Mrs. Resnick's character and charm were as important as her ability to raise money. Mr. Kekst, who is chairman of the Jewish Theological Seminary, recalled that about eight years ago, when the seminary was in financial straits, Mrs. Resnick joined the board and put everyone at ease. Mr. Kekst said that after a board meeting, Mrs. Resnick told him: ''That was a very good meeting. Things are going to be all right.''
        Mrs. Resnick was a board member of Bar-Ilan University near Tel Aviv. She and her husband also helped finance the Jack and Pearl Resnick Film Division of the Simon Wiesenthal Center in Los Angeles.
        She is survived by two sons, Burton P. Resnick of Rye, N.Y., and Ira Resnick of Manhattan; a daughter, Marilyn Katz of Purchase, N.Y.; a sister, Anna Sherman of Yonkers; 10 grandchildren; and 5 great-grandchildren.
      