
        Dr. James C. Parkes II, the orthopedic surgeon who mended Willis Reed's strained thigh well enough for the Knicks to win the 1970 National Basketball Association championship, died on Monday in his Manhattan home. He was 64.
        His two daughters said he had been suffering from a progressive neurological illness.
        Dr. Parkes was the team physician for the Mets from 1974 to 1991 and the Knicks for the second half of the 1969-70 season. In 1970, Reed injured his thigh during the N.B.A. playoff finals against the Los Angeles Lakers and it was obvious the Knicks could not win without their center and captain. As Dr. Parkes recalled in a New York Times interview in 1980:
        ''I felt that the only way to help this man was to establish confidence. So I flew to L.A. and even sat on the bench. Every time he came out, I'd ask how he felt and reminded him that no harm could come to him.
        ''On the plane going back to New York for the deciding game, Willis came to me and said: 'Doc, you've got to get me out there. This is the pinnacle of my life.' ''
        With the series tied at three games each, the deciding game was played in Madison Square Garden. When the teams warmed up, Reed was in the locker room, still getting treatment. The crowd was hushed, not knowing if Reed could play. His teammates did not know, either.
        Seconds before the game began, the crowd erupted as Reed limped onto the court, Dr. Parkes at his side. Reed started and made the first two shots of the game, and though he played little after that, his presence lifted the Knicks and demoralized a Lakers team with the future Hall of Fame players Wilt Chamberlain, Elgin Baylor and Jerry West. When the Knicks won, Reed threw his arms around Dr. Parkes.
        ''He was the guy who got me out there, a very good man,'' Reed said yesterday. ''But I almost missed the start of the game.''
        As Reed, now an executive with the New Jersey Nets, recalled, Dr. Parkes told Red Holzman, the Knicks' coach, he would give Reed a painkilling injection just before the game. ''Red asked him how long the injection would take,'' Reed said. ''The doctor told him and said I would be ready, but it took longer than that. When the injection was done, we walked out and found that somehow the tipoff had been delayed until I got there.''
        James Creighton Parkes II was born March 2, 1935, in Red Bank, N.J. He graduated with honors from Dartmouth in 1957 and Harvard Medical School in 1961. He later became an associate professor of orthopedic surgery at Columbia, president of the Major League Baseball Physicians Association and a consultant to the United States Tennis Association, treating such players as John McEnroe and Bjorn Borg during the United States Open.
        He is survived by his wife of 36 years, the former Margaret Barrera; his daughters, Susan Cirignano of Far Hills, N.J., and Jacqueline Hendrix of Westfield, N.J.; and five grandchildren.
      