
        Judge Harold H. Greene, a drafter of landmark civil rights and voting rights legislation but best known for presiding over the dismemberment in 1984 of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, died on Saturday at his home in Washington. He was 76.
        The cause of his death was a cerebral hemorrhage, his son, Dr. Michael D. Greene, said. Judge Greene had undergone a series of brain operations.
        His 45-year career as government lawyer and federal judge -- he never set up a private practice -- helped shape profound changes in American life and earned for the soft-spoken native of Germany a reputation as having one of the most acute legal minds of his generation and a practical one as well.
        He strongly opposed sentencing guidelines, for example, saying they were unconstitutional because they forced judges to order prison time for defendants who did not deserve it. He also managed to impose tight administrative rein on the AT&T proceedings, which a Justice Department lawyer described as ''history's biggest case'' and which had languished for years before he inherited it.
        At the time, a presidential panel had just concluded that the government was mishandling complex antitrust cases to such an extent that unless ways were found to control and expedite them, corporate America might come to regard the laws as unenforceable. Judge Greene's success may have emboldened those who in the 1990's brought such a case against Microsoft, the company with the nation's highest stock valuation.
        ''His management of the case was able to demonstrate that the legal system was up to the task,'' said Morgan Frankel, a clerk to Judge Greene at the time.
        As refugees from the Nazis, Judge Greene's family was forced into circuitous escape and Anne Frank-like hiding, ultimately arriving in the United States early in 1943. He was soon drafted into the Army and sent back to Europe to interrogate German prisoners of war.
        Upon discharge, he breezed through two years of night school at George Washington University, working at the same time as an interpreter and translator at the Office of Alien Property, a unit of the Justice Department.
        Law school beckoned, though largely by default. As a teenager, he had learned something of the jewelry business from his father but had no interest in the field. He found as well that he had no scientific bent, nor was he drawn, as friends had been, into the Foreign Service or intelligence work.
        ''Law was the alternative that came along,'' he said.
        While attending George Washington's law school, he was a clerk for former Senator Bennett Champ Clark at the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia.
        After graduation, Judge Greene went to the Justice Department. His work there was dominated by civil rights issues, which gained prominence in the late 1950's and early 60's.
        He was soon heavily involved in drafting what would become the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965, and he helped lobby for them in Congress. The unit he led also contributed to the department's day-to-day handling of racial confrontations.
        ''The attorney general,'' Judge Greene later recalled, ''would call at 5 o'clock in the evening and say: 'Tomorrow morning we're going to try to integrate the University of Mississippi. Get us a memo on what we're likely to do, what we can do if the governor sends the National Guard there -- and I want to have it on my desk at 8 o'clock tomorrow morning.' That's the kind of thing that I did and my people did.''
        In drafting the 1964 legislation, Judge Greene and his colleagues had to choose whether to base it on the 14th Amendment, which bars discrimination, or on the commerce clause of the Constitution. The latter, though less the stuff of idealism, was chosen as able to better stand up to legal challenges.
        Judge Greene marveled at how quickly the new law had its intended effect. ''Within days,'' he once observed, ''it was everybody all over the South -- restaurants, hotels, motels -- just gave up their previous opposition.''
        After 12 years, Judge Greene moved to the Court of General Sessions, a local court now called the Superior Court for the District of Columbia, where he brought order to a demoralized institution in near chaos from an overload of cases. He was also deeply engaged in planning for a new courthouse building, successfully arguing that it should not contain a jail. His position was in accord with his longstanding belief that courts should not be regarded as portals to prison.
        It was this part of his career, not the civil rights work or the telephone case, that he was most proud of, his son, Dr. Greene, said recently.
        In 1978, President Carter appointed him to the United States District Court for the District of Columbia.
        There, among the 140 to 150 cases he was assigned, was the one that would transfix the telecommunications world for the better part of a decade, the antitrust case of United States v. AT&T.
        The government contended essentially that the telephone colossus -- which then provided both local and long-distance service -- was illegally stifling competition, using regulator-sanctioned profits from the telephone business to subsidize unregulated businesses, like manufacturing equipment.
        The government's position was not widely popular, with much of the public wondering why Washington seemed to be putting in jeopardy what was generally acknowledged to be the world's best telephone system.
        Eventually, the settlement that followed an 11-month trial won acceptance -- even if complaints are still heard.
        Without the breakup, Stanley Sporkin, a federal district judge and colleague of Judge Greene's, said recently, the United States would now probably have a ''rudimentary'' telephone system without cellular phones, caller I.D. and a host of other options, and competition that has brought long-distance rates for millions down to pennies a minute.
        He called Judge Greene's work ''one of the great decisions of all time, an important part of the technological revolution we're now in.''
        Looking back at the case in an interview for the court's oral history project, Judge Greene said his main contribution was to require the parties to submit statements of contentions and proof -- their assertions and the evidence they had to support them -- that he insisted be progressively whittled down.
        The judge then forced the two sides to stipulate points of agreement, reducing to one year a trial that he said might have dragged on as long as five years. With the clock running down, the government and the company reached a settlement over the Christmas holidays and announced it in January 1982.
        Although Judge Greene was out of town and knew nothing of the proposed deal, many said he brought the company to the negotiating table because of a lengthy opinion he wrote halfway through the trial in which, responding to a motion to dismiss the case, he rejected most of AT&T's contentions.
        ''It has been said that that was responsible, at least in part, for the settlement because they felt I gave them an in as to what I would do,'' should he need to make a ruling, Judge Greene recalled. ''But that wasn't my purpose. My purpose was to deal with the motions that had been filed.''
        According to his son, ''he always said he didn't know for sure'' how he would have ruled.
        After wrangling with a court in New Jersey over who should decide whether the settlement, splitting AT&T into seven regional companies, was in the public interest, Judge Greene approved it subject to various conditions. The breakup of AT&T -- the old ''Ma Bell'' -- was completed on Jan. 1, 1984.
        Years later, when asked about his response to criticism of the breakup -- customers' complaining about things like complicated bills and the need to choose from a confusing array of long-distance companies and to buy telephones that would no longer be fixed free -- Judge Greene said he was convinced that the right outcome had been achieved.
        ''Most of the time I don't react at all because you cannot possibly persuade people that what they have firmly in mind is not so,'' he said. ''I am perfectly content in my own view that the breakup was a good thing. It brought competition into a field where there hadn't been any competition and that's the American way. Competition brings down price and brings up quality.
        ''It had exactly that effect. The rates, particularly long-distance rates, are way down. Even the local rates, although initially they were up, have since decreased. So far as quality is concerned, many, many things that have come in since then were not there when AT&T had a monopoly.''
        Another prominent case he handled involved John M. Poindexter, national security adviser to President Ronald Reagan, who was charged with lying to Congress about the Iran-contra dealings, in which his subordinate, Lt. Col. Oliver L. North, diverted proceeds from arms sales to aid American-supported rebels against the Sandinista government in Nicaragua's civil war.
        With the defense arguing that Mr. Poindexter acted under instruction, Judge Greene ordered Mr. Reagan, by then out of office, to be a witness, the first time a president was compelled to testify on matters involving his own administration.
        In another instance, Judge Greene ruled in the landmark case Edwards v. Habib that a tenant could not be evicted for requesting enforcement of the housing code.
        Aides and colleagues described Judge Greene as extraordinarily diligent, often volunteering to relieve the caseload of fellow judges and sometimes rising in the middle of the night to commit his views to paper. But while other judges would need to spend hours preparing written instructions to juries, Judge Greene would charge them with scarcely a note.
        ''When you went into the Greene court, you knew he was the smartest person in the room,'' Judge Sporkin said.
        Still, he suffered defeats, one of them when as an assistant attorney general, he was given the rare chance to argue a case before the Supreme Court, which at the time included the venerable Felix Frankfurter.
        His task was to argue that the government had the right to appeal a motion. Judge Greene recalled decades later that the court rejected the idea, 9 to 0, after Justice Frankfurter first raised his hopes by accurately summarizing his presentation, then deflated him by declaring, ''If that's your argument, there's no need to go on.''
        ''Everybody knew -- I knew -- that if it was a winnable case, the solicitor general would have argued it most likely, or people close to that seat of power,'' Judge Greene said. ''But it was still a great emotional high.''
        He also admitted to a professional disappointment because the AT&T case was settled before he could issue a final ruling. ''I felt it would have been kind of nice to write a major antitrust opinion,'' he said.
        In addition to his son, Dr. Greene, of McLean, Va., Judge Greene is survived by his wife, Evelyn; a daughter, Stephanie Cavagrotti, of Los Angeles, and three grandchildren.
      