
        Patrick O'Brian, the Anglo-Irish novelist whose stirring tales of the British Navy in the Napoleonic Wars made him a literary celebrity at an age when most writers have long ceased to ply their trade, died in Dublin Sunday. He was 85.
        In recent months Mr. O'Brian had acknowledged that he was in ill health and unlikely to continue his writing much longer. His biographer, Dean King, said Mr. O'Brian's body was being flown back to Collioure, the village near the Spanish border in the south of France where he had lived for almost half a century.
        Mr. O'Brian achieved international fame with his series of novels featuring Jack Aubrey, a British naval officer, and Stephen Maturin, an Irish-Catalan physician, naturalist and accomplished spy who was Aubrey's friend and constant shipmate. The first of the series, ''Master and Commander,'' appeared in 1969; the 20th, ''Blue at the Mizzen,'' was published late last year. Like most of the Aubrey-Maturin novels, it appeared on the New York Times best-seller list.
        When it first appeared, ''Master and Commander'' had modest success in England and Ireland. A dozen more books in the series were produced over the next decade. But it wasn't until 1989, when Starling Lawrence, who was to become his American editor, read one of the series , ''The Reverse of the Medal'' (No. 11), on a flight from London to New York that they were taken up by serious critics. Mr. Lawrence's company, W. W. Norton, began to publish the books in the United States, and within two years some 400,000 copies had been sold here.
        To date, more than two million copies of the Aubrey-Maturin novels have been sold. Mr. O'Brian was compared to Melville and Conrad and even to Proust. Iris Murdoch, the English novelist and scholar, was one of his first champions, and his admirers included Eudora Welty and Tom Stoppard.
        Critics likened the O'Brian books to the sequential novels of Trollope and Anthony Powell, but Mr. O'Brian was particularly eager to be compared to Jane Austen. He revered her as the finest of all English novelists and kept first editions of her works near him while wrote, along with first editions of Gibbon and Samuel Johnson and a battered but still serviceable 1810 edition of the Encyclopedia Britannica.
        The second book in the series, ''Post Captain,'' set mostly in country houses and as much a novel of manners as a sea story, was said to be Mr. O'Brian's homage to Ms. Austen.
        Mr. O'Brian was something of a recluse. Interviewers were warned away from personal questions, and while he was a paragon of politeness and 18th-century courtliness, he never hesitated to cut short any conversation he felt was edging toward his private life.
        ''I very much dislike being interviewed by the kind of journalist who tries to dig into your private life,'' he once told a New York Times reporter. Interviews were granted rarely and only on the understanding that his hometown, Collioure, would not be disclosed.
        The residents of Collioure, a fishing village turned tourist destination, respected his privacy and protected him from the occasional visitor who came to the Roussillon coast to find him. ''They say they've never heard of me,'' he said, ''or that I've moved away.''
        In fact, Patrick O'Brian had his reasons for being an unusually private person. On those occasions when he chose to speak about his life, he claimed that had been born in Galway and grew up a Roman Catholic in genteel but often straightened circumstances. He had been a sickly child, he said, and was educated mostly at home. A voracious reader, he eventually mastered French, Italian, Spanish and Catalan. He knew some Irish, he said, and read easily in Latin.
        After serving as an ambulance driver in London during World War II and serving in some unspecified branch of military intelligence, he and his wife, Mary, moved to Wales. ''Dear people, splendid mountains, but a terrible climate,'' he said. So, in 1949, the pair came to Collioure, and they stayed.
        Or so his story went.
        Beginning in 1998, British journalists began to unravel the O'Brian saga. He was not Irish, as it turned out, and not a Catholic. He was born in London, and his name was Richard Patrick Russ. He was the son of an English mother and a physician of German descent. According to Mr. King, who has written extensively about Mr. O'Brian and who recently completed a biography of him for Henry Holt, Richard Patrick Russ was born on Dec. 12, 1914, in Walden Chalfont St. Peter, a village near London. He was the eighth of nine children born to Charles Russ, a London physician, and his wife, Jessie, who died of tuberculosis in 1918. At that point the family began to disperse and, according to Mr. King, Patrick may have spent some time in Ireland with relatives.
        He began writing as a teenager, including, when he was 15, a novel about a leopard that was published to considerable acclaim. He married at 21 and had a son and a daughter, Jane, who died in childhood. The marriage ended in divorce.
        Richard Russ did drive ambulances in London during the war, according to Mr. King, and worked for the Political Intelligence Division of the Foreign Office. During the war he met Mary Wicksteed Tolstoy, an Englishwoman who was married to Count Dmitri Tolstoy. She divorced the count and in July 1945 married Mr. Russ. A month later he formally changed his name to O'Brian and, said Mr. King, completely cut himself off from his brothers and sisters.
        After a brief time in Wales, in 1949 the O'Brians moved to Collioure, where Mr. O'Brian once again took up his writing career. His novel ''Testimonies,'' published in 1952, was highly praised by the American critic Delmore Schwartz. But most of his output in the 1950's and 1960's was ignored by the critics and public alike. He survived by translating into English Simone de Beauvoir and other French writers.
        It was not until 1969, when he was 54 years old, that one of his books was widely praised. That was ''Master and Commander,'' the first of the Aubrey-Maturin saga. In 1973 he produced a biography of Pablo Picasso that was lauded by Sir Kenneth Clark, the English critic. But it wasn't until he was well into his 60's that he became an international success.
        He once said that at first, serious writers dismissed his sea novels as adventure stories and lovers of adventure stories dismissed them as serious, even difficult books to read.
        That was all to change. So popular were his books by the late 1980's that he became something of a cult figure. Fans followed him from appearance to appearance on book tours, and he became the subject of endless Internet chat rooms. His own Web site was called ''The Gunroom'' after the officers' wardroom on an 18th-century man-of-war.
        Aubrey and Maturin were both musicians -- violin and cello -- and two CD's have been issued of the music they play at sea. A cookbook, called ''Lobscouse and Spotted Dog,'' appeared, filled with recipes of the dishes, including rats, eaten aboard the H.M.S. Surprise and other ships Aubrey commands. In due course an atlas and geographical guide, ''Harbors and High Seas,'' appeared, as did a lexicon of nautical terms used in the books, ''A Sea of Words.'' Mr. King shared authorship of both books. There was for several years an O'Brian newsletter. A collection of critical essays and a bibliography were snapped up by the O'Brian faithful. There were -- and still are -- O'Brian calendars and posters.
        In recent years, critics were less kind to the Aubrey-Maturin books, citing looser writing and unexplained characters who appeared and just as quickly disappeared. And the books were said to appear more like chapters in a long narrative than as separate novels.
        But few commentators on Mr. O'Brian's long chronicle have ever doubted its overall quality. For his many enthusiastic readers, it may seem as if England has lost its last fine 18th-century writer.
        Mr. O'Brian's wife died in 1998. His son from his first marriage is said to still live in London, and other survivors include a sister, two granddaughters and a stepson, Nikolai Tolstoy, also of London.
      