
        Marc Davis, one of the top cartoon animators who have worked on Walt Disney films, died Wednesday. He was 86 and lived in Los Angeles.
        Mr. Davis, who was also a designer, worked for Disney from 1935 until his retirement in 1978. He was one of a core group of animators whom Walt Disney, borrowing a phrase used to describe United States Supreme Court justices, called ''the nine old men.''
        Roy E. Disney, vice chairman of The Walt Disney Company, said Mr. Davis ''helped to define the art of animation'' and raised it to new heights. ''His abilities as a draftsman were second to none,'' Mr. Disney added, ''and as a result, he often took on the most complicated assignments of drawing heroines and villainesses.''
        Mr. Davis was so highly praised for his work on female characters that he was called Disney's ''ladies' man.'' He worked on the design of characters like Cinderella and Maleficient, the evil fairy in ''Sleeping Beauty,'' and imbued them with vitality.
        Another veteran animator who was one of the ''nine old men,'' Frank Thomas, said that a number of Disney people had a hand in creating the appearance of Snow White, of ''Seven Dwarfs'' fame. Mr. Davis then worked on her movements to make her look like a graceful young woman, realistic and appealing. Mr. Thomas said that Mr. Davis ''did the same for Cinderella.''
        Mr. Davis also worked his magic on Cruella DeVil, the eccentric villainess in ''101 Dalmatians'' who wanted to make coats from Dalmatian puppy fur.
        What has been called Mr. Davis's talent for ''personality animation'' has also been lauded for enhancing the appeal of cartoon animals like Bambi.
        Mr. Davis was born in Bakersfield, Calif. He received art training at the California School of Fine Arts in San Francisco, the Otis Art Institute of Los Angeles and elsewhere.
        He is survived by his wife, Alice.
        In later years, Mr. Davis worked on the Disney theme parks Disneyland and Walt Disney World.
        ''A number of the rides for both parks have been designed by Marc Davis,'' Christopher Finch wrote in his 1973 book ''The Art of Walt Disney.''
        ''He begins each of them as if he were planning a cartoon. His first task is to establish the atmosphere and chief features of the ride, including all the characters who will contribute to it. Then he prepares a story board, which gives the project a structure and a sequence.'' Mr. Davis also worked on other Disney recreational sites.
        Since 1994, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences has held an annual ''Marc Davis Lecture on Animation.''
      