
        Carl Rachlin, a New York labor and civil rights lawyer who rallied to the defense of Freedom Riders and sit-in demonstrators during the 1960's, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        At the time of the most intense struggle against segregation, Mr. Rachlin was general counsel to the Congress of Racial Equality (1960-67), and he worked closely with civil rights leaders, including James Farmer and Bayard Rustin. Over the years, he also represented the National Welfare Rights Organization and sat on the board of the New York Civil Liberties Union.
        He was also legal director of the Scholarship, Education and Defense Fund for Racial Unity from 1963 to 1969. In 1964, he helped form and lead the Lawyers Constitutional Defense Committee, which enlisted lawyers to defend civil rights campaigners in the Deep South.
        Mr. Rachlin fought such cases all the way to the United States Supreme Court. He filed a review that prompted the court in June 1961 to overturn the conviction of six Freedom Riders who had entered a ''whites only'' waiting room at a Louisiana bus terminal.
        In 1964 he was a leading lawyer in an action that led the Supreme Court to throw out the convictions of thousands of young people, black and white, who struggled to desegregate public accommodations in the South.
        He also spoke for welfare recipients. In one class action in the federal courts in 1969, he challenged a state's right to reduce benefits without a clear constitutional mandate.
        Carl Rachlin was born in Brooklyn. He graduated from New York University and from Harvard Law School. He practiced labor law as a member of the Midtown firm of O'Donnell, Schwartz, Glanstein & Rosen until last May, when he helped form the labor law firm of Koehler & Isaacs, whose principal clients include the New York City Correction Officers' Benevolent Association.
        Mr. Rachlin is survived by his wife of 57 years, Helen Raebeck Rachlin; two daughters, Margaret Pine and Ruth Menard, both of Manhattan; a sister, Vita Citron of Lawrence, in Nassau County; and three grandchildren.
      