
        Bishop James Stuart Wetmore, the longest serving suffragan bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of New York and a staunch advocate of ecumenism, died Dec. 28 at the Lutheran Care Center in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. A resident of Millbrook, N.Y., he was 84.
        He suffered a lengthy illness, the diocesan office at the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine on Morningside Heights reported.
        Elected by a diocesan convention of priests and laity, he served as the bishop's principal aide from 1960 until his retirement in 1987. His duties as suffragan were whatever the head of the New York diocese assigned him, and Bishop Wetmore's most visible presence was in the Episcopal efforts toward cooperation with other churches and faiths.
        Thus, in 1968, he became the first non-Catholic to preach from the pulpit of St. Patrick's Cathedral, seat of the Roman Catholic archbishop of New York. He served as chairman of the diocesan Ecumenical Commission from 1969 to 1988.
        He headed the group that founded the Council of the Churches of the City of New York in 1960 and served as a council director from 1962 until his death. He was a past president of the Episcopal Housing Corporation,  vice president of the Seamen's Church Institute and at his death remained president of St. Peter's School in Poughkeepsie.
        Born in Hampton, New Brunswick, Canada, he graduated in 1938 from Kings College in Halifax, Nova Scotia, where he received a licentiate in theology the following year. He was ordained a deacon in 1938 and a priest in 1939.
        He came to New York in 1953 to direct the Department of Christian Education of the Diocese of New York. He held the director's post until his election as bishop suffragan.
        He served in the North American section of Christian education for the World Council of Churches from 1954 to 1964. In the 1960's he also was a trustee of St. Hilda and St. Hugh's School on Morningside Heights.
        Bishop Wetmore is survived by his wife of 59 years, Francis Howard Robinson Wetmore; 3 daughters, Nancy Faulds of Putnam Valley, N.Y., Mary Bohun of Cortland Manor, N.Y., and Jane Robin Gulotta of New Paltz, N.Y.; 2 sons, Charles E. of Bethlehem, Pa., and Stuart A. of Warwick, R.I.; 11 grandchildren, and 2 great-grandchildren.
      