
        Bruno Zevi, editor of the Italian magazine L'Architettura and one of Europe's most prominent architecture critics for five decades, died on Sunday at his home in Rome. He was 81.
        Trained as an architect, Mr. Zevi was strongly influenced by Frank Lloyd Wright's concept of organic architecture. He designed a few structures, like the Italian pavilion at the 1967 World's Fair in Montreal, and championed the commission of others, including Stazione Termini, Rome's railway terminal.
        But Mr. Zevi was best known as a writer. His most influential books were ''Toward an Organic Architecture,'' published in 1945, and ''Architecture as Space: How to Look at Architecture,'' first published in English in 1957. Building on Wright's belief that the essence of architecture resides in voids rather than the solid forms that enclose them, the book reinterprets great buildings of the past in light of this modern idea.
        Mr. Zevi did not pretend to be a neutral observer. He dedicated ''Architecture as Space'' to ''all my friends in the organic architecture movement.'' In a 1974 edition of the book, he took critical aim at other architects and writers. With its acerbic and sometimes appreciative comments on Mr. Zevi's contemporaries, the book remains a valuable guide to architectural thought in the postwar decades.
        In the 1960's and 70's Mr. Zevi found himself cast in a factional split that still affects Italian architecture. A humanist in the ancient tradition that dates from the Renaissance, he was rejected by a new guard led by Manfredo Tafuri. Mr. Tafuri, who died in 1994, was a Marxist historian and theorist who taught at the Istituto Universitario di Architettura in Venice.
        His writings, particularly ''Theories and History of Architecture,'' helped transform the Venetian school into one of the world's leading architecture academies. They also provided the intellectual inspiration for the theory and history programs that have since proliferated in schools around the world.
        Mr. Zevi, meanwhile, took on a more populist role as a public intellectual whose columns for the weekly news magazine L'Espresso attracted a broad readership. His columns varied in length but were invariably outspoken. He declined to subject buildings to rigorous ideological scrutiny. Mr. Tafuri captured minds while Mr. Zevi won hearts.
        Bruno Zevi was born in Rome in 1918 to an aristocratic Jewish family. He left Italy in 1939 to escape persecution by the Fascists. He briefly studied at the Architectural Association in London and then transferred to the Graduate School of Design at Harvard University. While at Harvard Mr. Zevi distinguished himself as an iconoclast by writing a paper attacking the ideas of Walter Gropius, the Bauhaus founder who was then directing the Graduate School of Design.
        After graduating from Harvard in 1942 Mr. Zevi returned to London and joined Justice and Liberty, an underground anti-Fascist group. When the group's radio station was shut down, Mr. Zevi began work on ''Toward an Organic Architecture.'' He returned to Italy in 1944.
        Mr. Zevi believed that architecture had a role to play in reconstructing postwar Europe along more democratic lines. He regarded the organic approach, which began with the Arts and Crafts movement and culminated with the work of Wright, as the best means for achieving this goal. The Bauhaus-inspired International Style left him cold. He thought that buildings should seek an integrated relationship with nature instead of expressing the power of technology.
        Mr. Zevi founded the monthly magazine L'Architettura in 1955. The same year, he began a weekly column in L'Espresso. He closely tracked developments in American as well as European architecture and was an outspoken opponent of the postmodern movement that flourished in the 1970's and 80's. In the late 1980's Mr. Zevi briefly served in the Italian Chamber of Deputies as a member of the Radical Party.
        He is survived by his wife, Tullia; a son, Luca; a daughter, Ariadna; and a companion, whose name was given only as Ingne, all of Rome.
      