
        John Newland, an actor and director best remembered as the dignified host on the ''Alcoa Presents'' television series, an early venture into programming about the paranormal, died Jan. 10 in Los Angeles. He was 82 and lived in Los Angeles.
        Mr. Newland directed and was the host of all 99 segments of ''Alcoa Presents,'' which ran from 1959 to 1961.
        A precursor of Rod Serling's ''Twilight Zone'' and later, ''The X-Files,'' the show dramatized case histories of occult phenomena like premonition, possession and ghosts. Tall and handsome, with a mellifluous voice, Mr. Newland lent an air of authority to the series as its host and as an actor.
        Mr. Newland, who was born in Cincinnati, began his career in Chicago as a teenager.
        He was an apprentice with the Stuart Walker Stock Company and performed with the Vikings, a vaudeville song-and-dance troupe decked out in gold capes.
        Soon after he moved to New York  to study acting, he won a job with Milton Berle, appearing at the Roxy, Loew's State and Capitol theaters before touring vaudeville houses across the country.
        After serving in the Army Air Forces in World War II, he made his film debut in 1946 in ''Adventures of Dusty Bates.'' He had small parts in other movies, but described his short Hollywood film career as ''an immediate failure.''
        Instead, he took to television, appearing in dramatic anthologies like ''Robert Montgomery Presents,'' ''Philco Playhouse,'' ''Studio One'' and ''Kraft Theater.''
        After trying his hand as the director of several of those plays, he moved to Los Angeles to direct ''The Loretta Young Show,'' the first of many television episodes and movies he directed over three decades. Among his credits were ''Bachelor Father,'' ''Night Gallery,'' ''Alfred Hitchcock Presents,'' ''Police Woman,'' ''Wonder Woman'' and ''Fantasy Island.''
        Mr. Newland was 51 when he directed his first film, ''My Lover, My Son,'' a 1969 British feature about incest, starring Romy Schneider.
        He is survived by his wife, Areta; two daughters, Hillary Alexander of Los Angeles and Karen Kissler of Larkspur, Calif.; and a granddaughter.
      