
        Lee Robert Bobker, a documentary filmmaker whose work won three Academy Award nominations and an Emmy nomination, died on Dec. 28 at Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut. He was 74 and lived in Greenwich.
        Mr. Bobker did his best-known movie work in the 1960's, directing three films that became candidates for Oscars: ''Psychiatric Nursing''; ''The Odds Against,'' about the correctional system; and ''The Revolving Door.'' He also made a film about censorship, ''The First Amendment,'' for the American Library Association.
        His Emmy nomination came for ''I, Leonardo,'' a PBS series about the life of Leonardo da Vinci. In the early 1990's he turned to cable television and made the critically acclaimed biographical film ''Isaac Stern, a Life.'' Altogether, his work garnered about 300 honors at national and international film festivals.
        Mr. Bobker also had a career as a writer. He contributed to professional and general periodicals and wrote two textbooks about filmmaking and its aesthetics. The first, ''Elements of Film'' (1971), went through four editions and remains in print. The other was ''Making Movies: From Script to Screen'' (1973).
        He wrote 500 scripts and served as associate producer of ''David and Lisa,'' a 1962 drama about two disturbed adolescents. Starting in 1956 he also taught at New York University's Film School, where he gave an introductory course on filmmaking for many years.
        Mr. Bobker was born in Belle Harbor, Queens. He served as a combat infantryman in World War II and earned a Bronze Star for bravery during the Omaha Beach landing in Normandy.
        After the war he enrolled at New York University as a pre-med student but switched to film and graduated in 1949 to join a production company as a writer and director of documentaries.
        In 1959 he formed his own company, Vision Associates, and served as its president until he dissolved it in 1998.
        In the 1960's Mr. Bobker, who styled himself a liberal Democrat, bucked the loyalty oath requirement of the Directors Guild of America. He and a handful of colleagues took the guild to court after it denied them membership because they had declined to take the oath. A federal appeals panel unanimously knocked out the guild's requirement, ruling that it was ''inherently vague.'' The plaintiffs won the case when the United States Supreme Court in December 1966 refused to review that unanimous lower court ruling.
        Mr. Bobker is survived by his wife, the former Kate Gene Russell; two daughters, Gene Ellen Spieler of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., and Laurie Beth Mahler of Bedford, N.Y.; a son, Dr. Daniel H. Bobker of Brunswick, Me.; and seven grandchildren.
      