
        Henry H. Fowler, who as Treasury Secretary in the Johnson administration helped raise the money to meet the soaring costs of the Vietnam War and who proposed what turned out to be the last Federal budget surplus in a generation, died on Monday at a nursing home in Alexandria, Va. He was 91.
        A cherubic and courtly Virginian, Mr. Fowler, commonly called by his nickname, Joe, alternated a distinguished private law career with numerous influential Government posts over four decades.
        He presided over fiscal policy at a time of major expansion of the Vietnam War, eventually lobbying vigorously in 1968 for a 10 percent tax increase that many analysts said should have been imposed sooner. President Lyndon B. Johnson's long insistence that the nation could afford both guns and butter is widely thought to have been a catalyst, along with the rise of OPEC, for much of the inflation that subsequently bedeviled the country.
        His unwavering support of President Johnson, who contended that a tax increase could not be won in Congress, accounted for Mr. Fowler's delay in publicly favoring the higher taxes for which he is said to have pressed within the administration.
        ''He was a great loyalist,'' said Paul A. Volcker, then a Treasury official and later chairman of the Federal Reserve. ''He wasn't going to get out of step with Johnson.''
        With the surcharge and spending cuts, the 1969 budget, which Mr. Fowler helped assemble, turned out to be the last one without a deficit until 1998.
        In early 1968, the financially strapped administration became so alarmed about the country's trade imbalance that Mr. Fowler proposed a detailed plan to Congress to curb foreign travel by imposing a tax on spending outside the Western Hemisphere at rates of 15 or 30 percent, exempting only the first $7 a day. The levy was never adopted.
        But with the dollar under attack and the nation's gold reserves dwindling, Mr. Fowler put forward a drastic plan to create a new reserve currency, later called special drawing rights, managed by the International Monetary Fund. S.D.R.'s, sometimes called paper gold, still exist, though their importance has waned since currencies were unhooked from the pegged system adopted toward the end of War World II that linked the major world currencies to the dollar and the dollar, in turn, to gold.
        ''He was always proudest of his being creator of the S.D.R.'s,'' said Roy C. Smith, a son-in-law, who teaches at New York University's Stern School of Business.
        Another legacy was co-founding a precursor to what has become the annual economic summit meeting attended by top officials of the biggest Western countries plus Japan and, more recently, Russia. Mr. Fowler's 1967 suggestion for a ''seminar'' of five finance ministers to harmonize policies was promptly taken up by James Callaghan, then Britain's Chancellor of the Exchequer.
        Mr. Fowler's tenure as Treasury Secretary also saw the replacement of America's largely silver coinage with the cupronickel ''sandwiches'' that still prevail. This action was forced when the market price of silver climbed enough to make it profitable to melt coins down.
        Mr. Fowler resigned a month before Richard Nixon's inauguration as president in 1969 to give his deputy, Joseph W. Barr, a chance to serve briefly as Treasury Secretary.
        Born in Roanoke, Va., the son of a railroad engineer, Mr. Fowler graduated from Roanoke College, earned law degrees at Yale University and in the years leading up to America's entry into World War II took a job as an apprentice with the noted Washington law firm of Covington & Burling. In 1934, he joined the legal staff of the Tennessee Valley Authority, where he helped in a long and ultimately successful defense of a constitutional challenge to the agency's electric power program. He met his future wife, Trudye Hathcote, from Amory, Miss., who was also working at T.V.A. headquarters in Knoxville, Tenn. They married in 1938.
        Mr. Fowler served later as special counsel to the Federal Power Commission, negotiating arrangements with Canada and New York State for the St. Lawrence Seaway project.
        During World War II, Mr. Fowler was assistant general counsel for the War Production Board and economic adviser to the American economic mission in London, which helped coordinate production and supply activities of the United States, Britain and Canada before and after the D-Day invasion.
        At the end of the war, Mr. Fowler founded the Washington law firm of Fowler, Leva, Hawes & Symington, composed initially of former War Production Board colleagues.
        His 14-year stint there was interrupted when he took a leave during the Korean War to head the Defense Production Administration and to serve as a member of the National Security Council and of President Truman's cabinet.
        In 1961 he became Under Secretary of the Treasury, then the department's No. 2 post, before briefly rejoining his law firm in 1964 only to leave again when President Johnson named him Treasury Secretary in 1965 to succeed C. Douglas Dillon. Mr. Fowler is said to have been recommended by his longtime friend Sidney J. Weinberg, senior partner at the Wall Street investment company Goldman Sachs and an adviser to presidents since the 1930's.
        Though he lacked banking credentials, Mr. Fowler held generally conservative views acceptable to the business community and was regarded as an effective politician, notably in helping win Congressional passage of tax-cut legislation in 1962 and 1964 as well as the 1968 increase.
        A staunch Democrat long active in the politics of his home state, Mr. Fowler turned aside suggestions that he run for governor of Virginia against candidates supported by the state machine of Senator Harry F. Byrd, whom he strongly opposed. He was a delegate and alternate, respectively, to the Democratic National Conventions of 1956 and 1960.
        At the state's 1956 Democratic convention, 9 of the 10 Congressional districts had supported a move to withdraw the state's support from the party's national ticket, headed by Adlai E. Stevenson, when delegates from Mr. Fowler's 10th District in northern Virginia cast their lone dissenting vote. This brought shouts of ''Yankee go home'' from supporters.
        After Mr. Fowler left Washington in 1969, Mr. Weinberg recruited him to a partnership at Goldman Sachs, where he worked mainly to expand the firm's international operations and its dealings in government securities. He headed the Goldman Sachs International Corporation until 1984 and remained a limited partner until Goldman went public in May 1999.
        Mr. Fowler is survived by his wife, two daughters, Marianne Fowler Smith of Montclair, N.J., and Susan Fowler-Gallagher of Staatsburg, N.Y., four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
        How Mr. Fowler got his nickname, Joe, which he used to sign letters but declined to explain, is uncertain. According to one version, it was conferred on him as a teenager by a Greek-immigrant restaurant owner in his hometown who had difficulty pronouncing other American names. But Mr. Smith, his son-in-law, says it came about because Mr. Fowler was called ''Gentleman Joe'' or ''Joe College'' by Yale classmates.
      