
        Betty Macdonald Batcheller, the last surviving member of Martha Graham's first dance company, died on Jan. 15 at the Greenwich Laurelton Nursing Home in Greenwich, Conn. She was 92.
        Ms. Batcheller, who danced as Betty Macdonald, met Graham at the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, where she studied with the choreographer in the mid-1920's. In 1926 Graham selected her, Evelyn Sabin and Thelma Biracree to perform with her at the 48th Street Theater in Manhattan on April 18 in her first independent program as a choreographer.
        All three were under 21 at the time. The atmosphere of preparation for that first concert was heady with poverty and an intense devotion to Graham and her ideals, with Ms. Batcheller and Sabin saving the threads that unraveled from Graham's teaching clothes.
        A few days before the performance the three dancers gave Graham a costly carnelian necklace inscribed ''To Miss Martha with Love.'' Graham wore the necklace under her costume in one of the 18 dances on the program.
        The three performed in pieces that included the melting ''Arabesque No. 1,'' set to Debussy, and ''The Three Gopi Maidens.'' Little critical attention was paid to the program, whose dances Don McDonagh describes as ''impressionism but with muscles'' in his book ''Martha Graham, A Biography.'' But a large audience attended, and a second program was given on May 27 in Rochester.
        Ms. Batcheller danced with Graham until 1930, when she left to perform on her own in New York, Cleveland, Pittsburgh and Rochester.
        She shifted to theater in the 1930's, studying at the Pittsburgh Playhouse and in New York at the Neighborhood Playhouse before joining Clare Tree Major's Children's Theater in 1934. She also performed in summer stock in Putney, Vt., and with Bob Elwyn's Maverick Theater in Woodstock, N.Y.
        Ms. Macdonald married C. Robin Batcheller, a fellow actor, in 1935. The two performed together for several years with the Major and Elwyn companies. Her last performance was in 1939 on Broadway in ''The American Way.''
        Mr. Batcheller died in 1983. Ms. Batcheller is survived by a brother, Donald Macdonald, of Webster, N.Y., and a son, Michael, of Greenwich.
      