
        Herb Graff, who devoted most of his life to collecting, preserving and showing movies, especially early talkies of the 1930's, and a cinephile whose calling card read simply but accurately ''Film Resource,'' died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 74.
        The cause was heart failure, said John Cocchi, a friend.
        Mr. Graff -- always Herb, never Herbert -- was not a critic or an author and he never expressed a desire to be a director, but he made a significant contribution to the art of movies. He knew more about them than most historians or archivists. For him, film was a passion and a valuable cultural heritage.
        When he lectured, which he often did at universities, for arts organizations and at the Players club, he did it the old-fashioned way. In a time of VCR's and DVD, he showed his movies on a 16-millimeter projector, often with a scratchy soundtrack, accompanied by his knowing and witty commentary. An evening with Mr. Graff had an improvisatory air, but was actually artful in the way he would trace the genesis of a genre, exploring the difficult path of black artists in early cinema or the growth of the American movie musical.
        In Douglas Watt's 1989 profile of Mr. Graff in The New Yorker, Mr. Graff said: ''Everybody loves old films -- everybody. But we're the only country that never gave film the respect it deserves.'' He said that 70 percent of all silent films had been lost. His mission -- a word he would never use -- was to rescue celluloid before it disintegrated into cinematic dust. As Mr. Watt wrote, Mr. Graff saw his first Chaplin movie at the age of 10, and it changed his life. He began collecting movies as a teenager, buying one-reelers and even scraps of film discarded by film companies. His collection grew and eventually he had his own private cinematheque of several hundred features and more than 1,000 shorts.
        While working as a salesman in the garment industry (for Charles Greenberg & Sons, which made Lucky Girl and Boy shirts), he began offering a series of public screenings and was soon showing films on PBS and at Town Hall in Manhattan.
        Although his principal interest was in early talkies, especially musicals, his collection included silent films and also works from the 1940's. When asked to name his favorite films, he began his list with Chaplin's ''City Lights,'' Keaton's ''Our Hospitality'' and ''any Paramount Marx Brothers film (before they had love stories).''
        In 1967, hearing that Walter Kerr, then the drama critic of The New York Herald Tribune, collected old movies, he got in touch with him and offered to lend him some of his own. When Mr. Kerr was working on his book ''The Silent Clowns,'' Mr. Graff became his guide and film sleuth. After the book was published, the author thanked him as a man ''who searched and searched and found and found and never blinked an eye at the most impossible request.''
        The friendship led to Mr. Graff's alternative pastime as theatergoer. Whenever Mr. Kerr's wife, Jean, was unable or unwilling to attend a play, Mr. Graff would go in her stead. The frequency of these appearances next to the critic on the aisle led to the theatrical joke that Mr. Graff was actually Jean Kerr because the two of them had never been seen together.
        Mr. Graff was born in Boston and grew up in Brooklyn. He served in the Navy during World War II. He is survived by two sons, Michael, of Bedford, N.Y., and Bennett, of New Haven; a daughter, Emily Gersten  of Yonkers, and two grandchildren.
        Although Mr. Graff was active for many years as a lecturer and consultant, it was not until 1983 that he finally gave up his day job in the garment industry. As he told Mr. Watt, he had been in London and passed a building with a plaque commemorating Ivor Novello as ''Actor, Manager and Composer -- 1893-1951.'' He recalled saying to himself, ''Were I to die my tombstone would read, 'Here Lies Herb Graff, Sold Shirts in White, Pink, Beige and Blue, and Every Five Years Lilac.' '' When he returned to New York he went to work for the Castle Hill film company and remained a movie professional the rest of his life.
        Even after suffering a stroke in 1991, he continued to compile his film collages and to screen them, giving his talks from a wheelchair while never losing his enthusiasm. His epitaph might read, ''Preserved Early Movies for Future Generations.''
      