
        Gerald Patrick Murphy, a urologist whose research led to the P.S.A. test, widely used to help in the early detection of prostate cancer, died on Friday in Tel Aviv while attending a conference on cancer. He was 65 and lived in Seattle.
        The cause was a heart attack, reports from Israel said. Dr. Murphy had undergone several heart bypass operations.
        Dr. Murphy was a longtime secretary general of the International Union of Cancer, the coalition of health professionals that held the conference. He was also a former president of the American Cancer Society.
        Over the years, Dr. Murphy was affiliated with a long roster of research centers, foundations and other institutions dealing with cancer. From 1970 to 1985 he directed the Roswell Park Memorial Institute for cancer research and therapy in Buffalo and helped build it into an internationally recognized center.
        He worked in Buffalo in the urology laboratory of the State University of New York Medical School, leading the researchers who established that cancer tumors of the prostate generate prostate specific antigens, or P.S.A.'s. Antigens are substances to which the body responds with antibodies in an effort to protect itself.
        That discovery eventually led to the development of the P.S.A. test; high levels of the substance can point to the presence of prostate cancer at an early stage. The test is now widely used as a diagnostic tool in combination with a rectal exam.
        Since the 1980's, the P.S.A. test has been used on millions of men worldwide to help look for early prostate cancer and can often show its presence before it would otherwise be detected, permitting early treatment. But it does not distinguish between fast-growing, life-threatening cancers and others, and like any test it fails to detect cancer in some men who have it, while other men receive false-positive results.
        Gerald Murphy was born to a railroad worker in Havre, Mont., and graduated summa cum laude from Seattle University in 1955. He received an M.D. at the University of Washington in 1959. He conducted research at Walter Reed Army Hospital before joining the staff of Roswell Park Memorial in 1968.
        He helped lobby Congress for passage of the National Cancer Act of 1971, which created cancer research centers across the country. He wrote more than 1,000 papers and was an editor of scientific journals; he also taught at institutions in the United States and overseas.
        After leaving Roswell Park, he became the chief medical officer of the American Cancer Society, directing its programs in clinical education, service and patient care. He moved to Seattle in 1993 and at his death was clinical professor of urology at the University of Washington and research director of the Pacific Northwest Cancer Foundation.
        Dr. Murphy is survived by his wife of 40 years, Mary Bridget Cunningham Murphy; four daughters, Anne Marie Banner, of Seattle, Margaret Olivares of Santa Monica, Calif., Maureen Anderson of Seattle and Bridget Neill of Washington, D.C.; two sons, George, of Issaquah, Wash., and Gerald, of Austin, Tex.; a sister, Lois Spellman, of Seattle, and six grandchildren.
      