
        Dennis Severs, an American whose youthful passion for storytelling led him to London, where he turned a five-story 18th-century house into a musty, magical time machine for paying visitors, died of cancer on Dec. 27. He was 51.
        The house, which existed in space at 18 Folgate Street in the part of East London where Jack the Ripper prowled, occupied a time somewhere in the past. It was best viewed as the fabulous fantasy of a nimble imagination. To be sure, it was also Mr. Severs's home, one that by intention lacked modern conveniences.
        Visitors, who paid $50 each for evening tours in groups of eight, were treated to a surreal trip through the nearly 200-year history of a made-up family, minutely orchestrated by Mr. Severs. The visitors could smell scones warming on the fire and hear the clip-clop of horses outside. All too suddenly, it would dawn on them that the contents of the chamber pots were real.
        For three hours, they were immersed in rooms that resembled Hogarth paintings, Dickens stage sets and a three-dimensional Beatrix Potter drawing. All were arranged to appear as though somebody had just left.
        ''I'm going to bombard your senses,'' Mr. Severs said in an interview in 1995. ''I will get the 20th century out of your eyes, ears and everything. With every age we visit, we'll be governed by a spirit.''
        Historical accuracy was no more important to his presentation than it would be in a lowbrow historical novel. The feeling of being in a different century was what mattered to him. ''If you want to learn, read a book!'' Mr. Severs often shouted, usually as he physically threw out a paying customer, along with his admission fee.
        Mr. Severs was an English eccentric by choice, not by birth. He grew up with palm trees and sunshine in Escondido, Calif. But his heart was captured early by the ghost towns where his father took him. Curiosity was everything. If he came across something unusual like a bottle of ink spilled over an Oriental carpet, he would invent a story to explain it.
        He was a son of Earl and Helen Severs, who between them had four older sons. Two brothers survive, Lee, of Honolulu, and Duane, of Prescott, Ariz.
        In an unpublished guide to his house called ''The Space Between,'' Mr. Severs recalled that as a dreamy and artistic child, he was regarded at various schools he attended as ''exceptional'' or ''mentally retarded,'' but seldom in between.
        California could not satisfy him. ''I wanted a house with ghosts,'' he said in 1991. ''But I'd look out the window and all I'd see were swimming pools.''
        In his book, he described how the answer materialized. ''Down deep, I always believed that one day I would travel past picture frames and into the glow of a warmer, more mellow and more romantic light,'' Mr. Severs wrote. ''There was one light in particular, one that I saw in old varnish and paint, and that appealed to me as my ideal. By the age of 11, it was identified as English.''
        He began building Tudor playhouses and saved money from his newspaper route to make his first visit to London in 1965. He moved there two years later, after having graduated from high school. Mr. Severs began collecting antiques, not as objects, but as ''signposts to the thinking and feelings of other times.''
        Believing that English law might offer suitably quaint employment, he set out to train as a barrister in the Dickensian chambers of Lincoln's Inn, supporting himself on income from a California service station that he had inherited. He gave up law school when he learned that the gasoline station would not cover his bills.
        He decided to supplement his income by conducting horse-drawn tours through the back streets of West London. He acquired carriage and horse and found stable and lodgings in a mews on Gloucester Road.
        ''The atmosphere of these backwaters -- along with the clip-clop of the horse -- worked as a time machine,'' he wrote, ''and I was soon beginning to speak in the 'dramatic present,' as if things in the past were happening right now.''
        By the late 70's, a developer had bought the stable, and Mr. Severs and his horse were evicted. According to The Daily Telegraph, the Queen responded to the publicity and offered Mr. Severs a stable in the Royal Mews. For several months, he accepted the offer and then moved on to other things.
        In 1979, he found his 1724 house in Spitalfields, not far from the Tower of London, and paid $42,000 for it. His intent was not to restore the building, but to ''bring it back to life.'' He began by sleeping in each of the 10 rooms, to ''arouse my intuition in the quest for each room's soul.''
        He then had a vision, that ''the material things I had been collecting all my life were really a cast of characters, and the house was destined to be their stage.''
        Ralph Samuel, the social historian, agreed, calling the house ''a magical mystery tour which dazzles the visitor with a succession of scenes more crowded with memorable incident than the mere facsimile of what passes for a period room.'' Curators of historical sites, including Kensington Palace and Williamsburg, Va., consulted with Mr. Severs on his methods.
        Mr. Severs refrained from wearing period costumes. He called himself a child of the 1960's and favored blue jeans rather than blazers. He never picked up much of an English accent.
        Simon Pettet, a noted designer and potter, lived with Mr. Severs in the house from 1983 until he died of AIDS in 1994. Before Mr. Severs died, he sold the house to the Spitalfields Trust, a historical preservation group, which hopes to continue the show, using extensive tape recordings that Mr. Severs made.
        It may be difficult, given the highly personalized presentation of the chunky, balding, gap-toothed and, yes, eccentric man.
        ''You either get it or you don't,'' he said.
      