
        The Rev. James Francis Maguire, chancellor emeritus and the president of Loyola University Chicago during 15 years of robust growth, died on Jan. 10 at the Colombiere Jesuit Community in Clarkston, Mich. He was 95.
        Father Maguire's leadership was credited with bolstering the university's academic standing among Roman Catholic institutions of higher learning and greatly expanding its size and offerings. He was president from 1955 to 1970, then was chancellor to 1976.
        Under his guidance, Loyola Chicago added a medical center in suburban Maywood at the cost of $50 million, which exceeded the university's assets at the time. It was his decision to build the center, complete with a hospital, medical school, dental school and out-patient services.
        During his tenure, the university, which was established in 1870, became one of the country's largest Jesuit universities. It doubled enrollment to more than 14,500, more than doubled the faculty, raised the operating budget to $37 million from $4 million, expanded its Lake Shore and Water Tower campuses, and added laymen to its governing board.
        Father Maguire started academic programs and departments, including a school of education, a department of anthropology, an institute of pastoral studies, a center for research in urban government and Loyola's Rome Center for the Liberal Arts. He started an M.B.A. program as well as graduate programs in biology, nursing and classical studies.
        Later, as chancellor, he began Loyola's first fund-raising campaign. And as chancellor emeritus he was in charge of fund-raising and public relations for the university and its hospital until 1998, when he retired to the Colombiere community in Michigan.
        James Maguire was born in Chicago, received B.A. and M.A. degrees at St. Louis University as well as a Licentiate in Sacred Theology from St. Mary's College in Kansas. He entered the Jesuit order in 1922 and was ordained a priest in 1935.
        He taught religion, Latin and English and served as an assistant athletic director in Detroit and Cincinnati schools. He was president of West Baden College, a seminary in Indiana, from 1943 to 1949, and president of Xavier University in Cincinnati from then until 1955.
        He leaves no immediate survivors.
      