
        Walter Galenson, a labor economist who studied the history of American and Scandinavian unions and made the first serious attempt by a Westerner to measure labor productivity in the former Soviet Union, has died in Washington. He was 85.
        Professor Galenson, who died on Dec. 30, explored the tensions within the American union movement in his book, ''The C.I.O. Challenge to the A.F.L.,'' (Harvard University Press, 1968).
        John T. Dunlop, the secretary of labor during the Ford administration, said Professor Galenson managed, in a series of books, to detail the battles between union factions without alienating the people he wrote about.
        In 1954, he published a study comparing labor productivity in the Soviet Union and the United States, an issue of vital importance during the cold war.
        In 1964, Professor Galenson made a pioneering study of how living conditions of Third World workers affected economic development.
        Professor Galenson, who wrote or edited 28 books, earned bachelor's, master's and doctor of philosophy degrees at Columbia University in 1934, 1935 and 1940.
        During World War II, he was the principal economist for the War Department and later the Office of Strategic Services, the forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency. He served briefly as the State Department labor attache in Oslo and Copenhagen before becoming an assistant professor of economics at Harvard University in 1946. Five years later, he left for the University of California at Berkeley, where he spent 15 years.
        Clark Kerr, who was president of the University of California system in the 1960's, said yesterday that Professor Galenson adopted the views of Scandinavian social democrats, ''which meant that by the standards of American politics he was a liberal, but in the protest politics of Berkeley he was seen as conservative.''
        Professor Galenson retired in 1990. His last book, ''The World's Strongest Trade Unions,'' about Scandinavian unions, was published in 1998 by Quorum Books.
        He is survived by his wife, Marjorie, who is also a retired economics professor, of Washington; a son, David, of Chicago; daughters Alice Galenson of Washington and Emily Schneider of Hastings on Hudson, N.Y.,; a sister, Eleanor Galenson of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      