
        Robert H. Craft, a prominent international investment banker in the 1950's and 60's, died on Dec. 26 at his home in Carefree, Ariz., near Phoenix. He was 93.
        In a 50-year career that began a month before the stock market crash of October 1929, Mr. Craft held executive and consulting positions in international finance, including the presidency of the Paribas Corporation in New York and of Chase Manhattan Bank's overseas subsidiary.
        Mr. Craft was born on Feb. 9, 1906, in Cedarhurst, N.Y. He began his career with the Guaranty Trust Company of New York, a predecessor of the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, after graduation from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania in 1929.
        He rose from bond analyst to vice president and treasurer at the company. In 1953, he took a leave of absence to accept an appointment as a technical consultant to the Federal Reserve's rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee.
        There, Mr. Craft was instrumental in developing the ''bills only'' policy, which holds that the Fed should try to influence only short-term interest rates, those paid on Treasury bills, letting market forces decide long-term rates, paid on bonds.
        Mr. Craft did not return to Guaranty Trust after the Fed appointment ended. Instead, from 1953 to 1956, he was executive vice president of the American Securities Corporation, an investment bank. In 1956, he became president and later vice chairman of the Chase International Investment Corporation, the overseas financing unit of Chase Manhattan.
        In October 1960, Mr. Craft was named president and chairman of the executive committee of the Paribas Corporation, then the United States investment banking subsidiary of the Banque de Paris et des Pays-Bas, the largest financial institution in France not owned by the government. He served in those posts until 1964.
        In 1965, he became chairman of the finance committee of the Missouri Pacific Railroad. He stayed with the railroad until 1975, also serving as chairman of its parent company, the Mississippi River Corporation, from 1971 to 1978.
        Mr. Craft was also a consultant to the World Bank, served on the boards of numerous corporations and, in 1956-57 was president of the Investment Bankers Association, the predecessor of the Securities Industry Association of America.
        Before moving to Arizona in the mid-70's, Mr. Craft was a longtime resident of Scarsdale, N.Y.
        He is survived by his wife, Janet; two sons, Robert Jr., of Washington and George, of Houston; a daughter, Carol Schaefer, of Greenwich, Conn.; and seven grandchildren.
      