
        Devereux Milburn Jr., a sportsman and Wall Street lawyer who was a skilled performer both on polo fields and in courtrooms, died on Monday at his home in Narragansett, R.I. He was 82.
        He had cancer, his son Frank said.
        Mr. Milburn was a grandson of Charles Steele, a senior partner at J. P. Morgan & Company, the investment banking firm, and of John G. Milburn, who in 1904 joined the Manhattan-based law firm that is now Carter, Ledyard & Milburn, where Devereux Milburn Jr. became a senior partner.
        Born in Old Westbury, N.Y., he graduated from St. Paul's School in Concord, Mass., received a bachelor's degree in 1938 from Oxford and his law degree in 1941 from Harvard. He served in North Africa as a navigator on American warplanes during World War II.
        In the late 1940's and in the 1950's, Mr. Milburn, the son and namesake of a noted polo player who was a pioneer of the game on Long Island, made a name for himself in polo there. He rose to have a handicap of six goals, meaning he was a fine player. Like his father, he played as a back and was regarded as steady in that defensive position. He was considered an excellent horseman and an accurate shot with his long polo mallet.
        In those postwar years, he played with Long Islanders who were also prominent polo players and wanted to keep the sport alive on the East Coast. In 1950 he played with a team made up mostly of fellow Long Islanders -- he lived most of his life in Old Westbury -- that won the United States Open championship.
        In 1960 Mr. Milburn suffered a polo-related elbow injury. He retired from the game, but in later years he kept riding, took up fox-hunting and was master of the Meadow Brook Foxhounds on Long Island for almost a decade. For four decades he was president of the sprawling Meadow Brook Club in Jericho, N.Y., with sports facilities that for some years included three polo fields.
        He was a trustee of the New York Racing Association, a governor of the Racquet Club in Manhattan and president of the Coaching Club and of the Sportsmanship Brotherhood.
        In the legal world, as the longtime chairman of Carter, Ledyard's litigation department, Mr. Milburn argued and won two significant cases before the United States Supreme Court.
        In the first, Eisen v. Carlisle & Jacquelin (73-203), he represented the defense in a class-action lawsuit against the way Wall Street brokerage firms charged for small transactions. In a seminal decision, the court, wanting to tighten the rules for class-action suits, held that when a plaintiff files a class action, every member of the class must be notified within a given period of time, and that a United States district court must certify that it is a proper class.
        The second case was United States Trust Company v. New Jersey (75-1687). The United States Trust Company of New York, the trustee of Port Authority bonds, filed suit, contending that the State of New Jersey was trying to violate the United States Constitution's clause about contracts by planning certain new uses for funds that served, or might serve, as security for the bondholders.
        Mr. Milburn represented the plaintiff, and the Supreme Court, in a rare interpretation of the contract clause (Article I, Section 10), ruled that if the Port Authority did put those funds to the new uses, the Constitution would indeed be violated. Chief Justice Warren E. Burger is said to have told a New Jersey judge at the time that Mr. Milburn's argument in the case was extremely impressive.
        Mr. Milburn was also an expert in trust and estates law.
        Long active in the Democratic Party, he was co-chairman of Citizens for Kennedy in Nassau County in 1960. He was also a governor of New York Hospital in Manhattan.
        Besides Frank Milburn, of Manhattan, he is survived by his wife of 61 years, Elizabeth Hinckley Milburn; three other sons, Devereux III of Los Angeles, John of Williamsburg, Va., and Michael of Woodbridge, Conn.; two daughters, Elizabeth Morris of Boxford, Mass., and Nancy Milburn of Manhattan; and nine grandchildren.
      