
        James H. Ottaway Sr., the founder and former chief executive of Ottaway Newspapers Inc., a chain of newspapers based in Middletown, N.Y., that is now owned by Dow Jones & Company, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Goshen, N.Y. He was 88.
        In 1976, he stepped down as chief executive of Ottaway and gave the job to one of his sons, James H. Ottaway Jr., who is now chairman of the company and a senior vice president of Dow Jones.
        The Ottaway group includes 19 daily newspapers, 16 weeklies, and several shoppers and other publications in 11 states, with a total circulation of 555,587.
        Mr. Ottaway also merged The Times Herald in Middletown and The Middletown Record into The Times Herald-Record in 1959. The newspaper became the flagship of the chain and now has a daily circulation of 85,297 and a Sunday circulation of 98,558.
        James Haller Ottaway Sr. was born July 8, 1911, in St. Clair, Mich. He attended the University of Michigan and Rollins College. He worked briefly at his father's newspaper in Port Huron, Mich., and then at newspapers in St. Petersburg, Fla., and Grand Rapids, Mich. He served in the Navy as a lieutenant during World War II.
        Mr. Ottaway bought his first newspaper, The Endicott Bulletin, in upstate New York, in 1936 for $56,000. After buying several other dailies, he sold the chain to Dow Jones in 1970 for stock then valued at $36 million. As part of the deal, he received a seat on the board of Dow Jones, which he held until 1984.
        Mr. Ottaway was a director of The Associated Press in the 1970's. He was a founder of the American Press Institute, an industry education center in Reston, Va., and received its first lifetime achievement award in 1996.
        Besides his son, who lives in New Paltz, N.Y., Mr. Ottaway is survived by his wife, Ruth; a daughter, Ruth Ottaway Sherer of Mountain View, Calif.; another son, David Blackburne Ottaway of Washington; eight grandchildren; and seven great-grandchildren.
      