
        Juggy Gayles, whose career in the music business stretched from the Lindy Hop to hip-hop, died in his sleep on Monday at the Parker Geriatric Nursing Home in New Hyde Park, N.Y. He was 86.
        Mr. Gayles promoted hit songs as a song plugger bringing material to big bands and crooners, as a music publisher, as a promotion man getting songs played on the radio and as a partner at a hip-hop record label. ''My creative power has always been in publicizing great geniuses,'' he said in a 1994 interview in Rolling Stone magazine. ''I didn't make hits. All I did was help make a hit.''
        Mr. Gayles was born George Resnick in the Brownsville section of Brooklyn; Juggy was a younger brother's mispronunciation of ''Georgie.'' He danced the Lindy Hop at the big midtown ballrooms in the 1930's, and his friendship with big-band leaders led to a job plugging songs for Remick Music, a publisher.
        Most song pluggers performed new tunes for band leaders, but Mr. Gayles's main method was to wine and dine the band leaders or join them in betting on horses. Among the songs he plugged was Irving Berlin's ''White Christmas,'' which became the second best-selling single in the history of recording.
        He placed songs with Nat King Cole and Frank Sinatra, and in the 1940's he started a publishing company, United Music, which had a major hit with ''The Hucklebuck.'' But much of his publishing profits disappeared at the track.
        In the 1950's he promoted singles for companies including Carlton Records. His job, he said in 1994, often included giving cash or marijuana to disc jockeys as payola. From 1965 to 1969, he was a promotion man for Atlantic Records, helping to gain exposure for performers from Otis Redding to Led Zeppelin. He became an independent promotion man in the 1970's, freelancing to promote hits including Silver Convention's ''Fly, Robin, Fly'' and Herb Alpert's ''Rise.''
        In 1983, when he was 70, Mr. Gayles began promoting singles for Sleeping Bag Records, an independent company that put out dance music and singles in an emerging genre: rap. Seeing potential, Mr. Gayles invested in the company and became a partner in Sleeping Bag and its subsidiary, Fresh, until the late 1980's. Sleeping Bag discovered the hip-hop group EPMD, which included Mr. Gayles's name in the rap ''Listen to My Demo.''
        Failing health made Mr. Gayles leave the business. But in the 1990's, after decades behind the scenes, he was heard on the air himself. A phone conversation with the comedy team the Jerky Boys appeared on their album ''Stop Staring at Me!'' and has been played frequently on Howard Stern's radio show.
        Mr. Gayles is survived by a son, Ronald Resnick of Queens; a daughter, Jacqueline Cowit of Boca Raton, Fla.; five grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      