
        Agis Salpukas, a reporter for The New York Times who covered business news for much of his career, died yesterday. He was 60 and lived in Tenafly, N.J.
        His body was found in the Hudson River off Manhattan, said Ellen Borakove, a spokeswoman for the New York City medical examiner. He was pronounced dead at 5:50 a.m. by the Emergency Medical Service.
        Detective Vincent M. Gravelli, a spokesman for the Police Department, said the medical examiner's office was investigating Mr. Salpukas's death, but he added, ''Foul play is not suspected.''
        Mr. Salpukas was being treated for depression at the New York Psychiatric Institute, said his wife, the former Mary Carrington.
        Mr. Salpukas began working at The Times in 1963, and most recently was a financial reporter. He was also a professional painter, known for the vivid expression and intense colors of his canvases.
        His approach when he traveled to Youngstown, Ohio, to cover developments in the steel industry was indicative of his twin passions. After his reporting was done, he would return to the steel mills with brush and easel to create dramatic scenes of industrial inferno.
        Agis Francis Salpukas was born in Kaunas, Lithuania, on June 4, 1939. After his mother was killed in an explosion on a train, he and his father, a bookkeeper, went to Germany, where they stayed until he was 9. After that, they came to the United States and lived in the Bronx and Queens, where Mr. Salpukas attended public schools.
        After graduating from Long Island University, he studied at Columbia and received a master's degree in history. He joined The Times as a news clerk in September 1963. In 1967, during a three-week tryout as a reporter, he wrote a front-page article and was assigned to work in the suburbs. He joined the national staff in 1970 and became Detroit bureau chief in 1973, later returning to New York to cover business topics.
        He began to paint during a 12-week newspaper strike in 1978 after his wife noticed that he was becoming restless and urged him to sign up for a painting course. His teacher was Vincent Capraro, an artist who now lives in Piermont, N.Y. In recent years, Mr. Salpukas's art has been displayed and sold in galleries, including the Jadite gallery in Manhattan.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Stephen, of Richmond, Va., and Michael, of Somerville, Mass.; a daughter, Margaret Lesser of Tenafly, and a grandson.
        Trained as a restorer as well as a painter, he painstakingly restored a portrait of the heavyweight champion John L. Sullivan in Gough's, a gritty saloon that used to be across West 43rd Street from The Times.
        Once almost invisible because of generations of darkness and smoke, it eventually gleamed brightly. Mr. Salpukas charged nothing.
      