
        Perry Monroe Shoemaker, who started as a summer laborer for the Pennsylvania Railroad for 7 cents an hour and rose to become the president of two large railroads and the chairman of a third, died on Dec. 25 in Tampa, Fla. He was 93.
        Mr. Shoemaker was 46 in 1952 when he became president of the Delaware, Lackawanna & Western Railroad after 12 years with the Erie Lackawanna Railroad and the New York, New Haven & Hartford. At the time he was said to be the nation's youngest president of a major railroad. Eight years later, he became one of the earliest railroad executives to fashion a large merger, that of Delaware, Lackawanna and the Erie Lackawanna.
        Although he was named chairman of the merged company, Mr. Shoemaker took a sizable salary cut in 1962 to become president and chief executive of the ailing Central Railroad Company of New Jersey. After he resigned in 1968, he remained a trustee of the railroad, then moved to Tampa, where he was a transportation consultant.
        A staunch believer in rail transportation, he believed just as strongly that the main source of the railroads' problems was what he described as ''bungling and mismanagement of promotional and regulatory activities of the federal government'' and heavy taxes imposed by state governments. ''The State of New Jersey does not tax the right-of-way of buses, trucks or airplanes,'' he said in the mid-1950's, ''but it does tax railroads. Why?''
        Born in Elmira, N.Y., on July 15, 1906, the young Mr. Shoemaker asked for and received toy trains for Christmas, and during his high school days he cut chemistry class so that he could watch the trains come in. That early fascination led him to work as a track laborer for the Pennsylvania Railroad after he graduated from high school in Elmira. After graduation in 1928 from the University of Michigan, where he majored in mechanical engineering, he worked as a freight house laborer, a yardmaster, terminal yardmaster, general manager and superintendent.
        Mr. Shoemaker headed the task force on transportation for the Commission on Organization of the Executive Branch of the Government, whose chairman was former President Herbert Hoover. Mr. Shoemaker was also a past president of the New York State Chamber of Commerce and was a director of several companies, including the National Biscuit Company and the Railway Express Company.
        He is survived by his wife, Iva Brown Shoemaker; four children by his first wife, Emily Hane Shoemaker, who died in 1964: Linda S. Wolfberg, of Canandaigua, N.Y.; Kent P. Shoemaker, of Minneapolis; Karen S. Fitzgerald, of Washington; and Craig M. Shoemaker, of Jamestown, N.C.; three brothers, Richard, of Chicago, David, of Montour Falls, N.Y., and Donald, of Charlotte, N.C.; seven grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
      