
        Ella Goldberg Wolfe, who witnessed the rise and ebb of the historic tide of Communism with her husband, Bertram, one of the founders of the American party and later one of Moscow's severest critics, died on Saturday at her Spanish-style home in Palo Alto, Calif. She was 103.
        Mrs. Wolfe's life was lived in three centuries, but it is emblematic of the searing ideological debates surrounding the rise of Communism, the holy war of the 20th century.
        In 1919, her husband, Bertram D. Wolfe, wrote the manifesto that created the Communist Party of the United States, and the couple worked determinedly to build what they envisioned would be a workers' paradise. By the 1970's both had become staunch Reaganites, with Mr. Wolfe having become a prominent historian of why the Russian Revolution had failed.
        Mrs. Wolfe, who was barely five feet tall and had arresting blue eyes, tended to work behind the scenes. When Mr. Wolfe, who was well over six feet, served in Moscow on the Comintern, the Communism's international governing body, she was a Comintern secretary. When he wrote a dozen books and scores of articles, she helped edit and polish them.
        But she was not a shrinking violet, and she never seemed too timid to contradict her brilliant husband in public. ''She lived in primary colors,'' said Dean Crawford, an English professor at Vassar who spent endless hours listening to the Wolfes tell stories when he was a graduate student at Stanford. ''She was an extraordinarily intelligent, passionate and committed person.''
        The Wolfes were part of what was known before World War I as ''the lyrical left,'' that portion of the socialist movement that combined the aspirations of radical labor with the passions of Greenwich Village cultural rebels. Mr. Wolfe collaborated  with John Reed to write ''The Left Wing Manifesto,'' the document that created the American Communist Party in 1919.
        If their life sounds like the movie ''Reds,'' that is perhaps because researchers for the movie interviewed Mrs. Wolfe extensively. During the Red scare of the 1920's in the United States, they fled surreptitiously from city to city.
        In Mexico they were friends of the artist Diego Rivera. In Moscow they dealt personally with Stalin and the leaders of the Bolshevik Revolution. During the Spanish Civil War, Mrs. Wolfe became close to the poet Leon Felipe. Later in life Mrs. Wolfe became friendly with Edward Teller, the physicist and anti-Communist. ''She had quite an interesting life and knew a great many interesting people,'' the author Ted Morgan said in an understatement. His ''Covert Life: Jay Lovestone'' was published last year by Random House.
        Ella Goldberg was born near Kherson, Ukraine, on May 10, 1896, and as a child emigrated to Brooklyn, where she grew up among intellectuals and idealists who gravitated toward socialism. At 14 she met Bert Wolfe on a Prospect Park tennis court. The conversation developed quickly. ''If you were my girl I'd take you to the Black Forest for our honeymoon,'' Ted Morgan wrote that Mr. Wolfe said.
        She soon became his girl, and in 1917, when Bert was 20 and Ella 18, they were married. The municipal judge who performed the ceremony admired Mr. Wolfe's kiss -- ''Kissed like a pro,'' he said, according to the book. Instead of taking a Black Forest honeymoon, they put their money into a small Brooklyn apartment.
        In those early years, Mrs. Wolfe's activities were mainly as an unpaid aide, editor and secretary to her husband in his activities as a street-corner labor organizer and pamphleteer. To dedicate themselves wholeheartedly to Communism, the couple decided to have no children, a decision Mrs. Wolfe later told confidants she regretted.
        But they were a devoted couple, as suggested by Mr. Wolfe's pseudonym in the anxious years after the passage of the Sedition Act of 1918, when he could not write under his own name. It was ''Elbert Lovell,'' from Ella plus Bert and love plus Ella. When Mr. Wolfe wrote perhaps his most influential critique of Communism, ''Three Who Made a Revolution,'' published by Dial Press in 1948, the dedication read, ''For Ella.''
        The days after their marriage were a dizzy intellectual and political whirl. Vladimir Mayakovsky, the mercurial Soviet poet, came naturally to their circle. Just as naturally, Mrs. Wolfe lent him $200, which he never paid back. In fact, he began spreading the rumor that she was his lover. ''She denied that with great amusement,'' Mr. Crawford said.
        The Wolfes fled repeatedly as state and federal crackdowns against Communists intensified. They lived underground in New York, San Francisco and Washington. They used false identities and secret residences, and several times were just a step ahead of the authorities in midnight chases through the countryside.
        They also lived in Mexico City on several occasions. In addition to Diego Rivera, they became friends with  the photographers Edward Weston and Tina Modotti and the exiled Bolshevik leader Trotsky.
        Mrs. Wolfe became particularly close to Frida Kahlo, the surrealist painter, who had had an affair with Trotsky. As Soviet agents closed in on Trotsky, the painter gave love letters he had written her to Mrs. Wolfe and asked her to burn them if anything ever happened to him.
        Mrs. Wolfe always asserted that she did, saying friendship is stronger than history. But others suspect that the letters may be found in her possessions. ''She was a squirrel,'' Mr. Morgan said. ''She kept everything.''
        In 1929 the couple went to Moscow so that Mr. Wolfe could serve on the Comintern. Responding to requests from friends, they took along a suitcase filled with toilet paper. According to Mr. Morgan's book, Russian customs officials opened the suitcases, took out the rolls one by one and unrolled them on the floor, looking for hidden messages. The toilet paper was then unusable, so like everyone else the Wolfes used Pravda.
        At a meeting attended by Stalin, Mr. Wolfe defied party orthodoxy by arguing in favor of ''American exceptionalism,'' the doctrine that conditions in the United States require different approaches from those used in Russia. That angered Stalin, who Mrs. Wolfe described 65 years later as fearsome.
        ''Stalin was dressed in a tan tunic with leather boots,'' she told Mr. Morgan. ''He was smaller than I expected, with a pockmarked face, a brutal mouth and the yellow eyes of a mountain lion.''
        Arnold Beichman, a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace and an expert on Russia, said: ''It's a miracle they didn't have an accident happen to them. Vehicular accidents, particularly ones involving the K.G.B., were quite common in those days.''
        The two were kept under house arrest for six months, released only after the intervention of Dr. Julius Hammer, the father of Armand Hammer. Mr. Wolfe was expelled from the party. Mrs. Wolfe left two years later after the party demanded that she denounce her husband as a traitor.
        The two did not renounce Communism, but instead allied themselves with the branch of the American party identified with Jay Lovestone, its Zelig-like leader who went on to be an anti-Communist and finally an American spy. Adherents called its ideology ''the thinking man's Communism.'' Stalin considered it heretical in part because it embraced greater internal democracy.
        In the early 1940's, Mrs. Wolfe earned a master's degree in Spanish literature at Columbia University. She then taught for many years in public schools and Hunter College. Though the Wolfes had been critical of Stalin's show trials in 1938, they finally left the Lovestone party after the Soviet Union allied with Nazi Germany on the eve of World War II.
        In the mid-1960's, Mr. Wolfe accepted an appointment at the Hoover Institution in Palo Alto, where the couple became famous for their vibrant dinner parties, attended by people who had known the luminaries of the 20th century. But the Wolfes were the real stars of the show.
        Mr. Wolfe died in 1977 at 81. Mrs. Wolfe did not slow down, continuing to drive until she was 96. Many remember, and admire, her razor-sharp tongue. ''You've been ill since the Spanish-American War,'' she once said to her husband after he had complained about one physical ailment or another.
        Correction:  January 14, 2000, Friday  An obituary yesterday about Ella Goldberg Wolfe, a prominent American Communist who was later critical of the Soviet Union, misstated the title of Arnold Beichman, an expert on Russia at the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace who commented on her. He is a research fellow, not a senior fellow.
      