
        Anne Devenney, the spark plug of community organization who helped keep the tidy, solid neighborhoods of the northwest Bronx from turning into another burned-out urban slum, died Jan. 9 in the Bronx. She was 79.
        The cause was cancer, her family said.
        A former resident of Norwood, the Bronx, she recently lived with her daughters in Yonkers.
        Mrs. Devenney was a founder, president emeritus and living legend of the Northwest Bronx Community and Clergy Coalition, which started in the mid-1970's. An umbrella organization for nine community groups, it champions home ownership, tenant-controlled housing, street safety and local investment.
        ''She was a no-nonsense Bronx grandmother who took leadership of a whole part of the Bronx in some of its darkest times as the head of the Northwest Bronx Community and Clergy Coalition,'' said the Bronx borough president, Fernando Ferrer, who had known her for some 20 years. ''She led the charge against arson for profit, housing deterioration and unresponsive politicians. She was a real original.''
        At times, it seemed that her coalition was fighting sluggish bureaucracies and corporate obtuseness as much as the obvious symptoms of urban blight. It took on the problems of drug dealing, street crime, vacant buildings and the flight of residents that those things would set off, but it also attacked mortgage redlining and the deterioration of city services.
        Anne O'Hanlon was a child of the Depression, the youngest of seven children born to Irish immigrant parents in Hell's Kitchen, on the West Side of Manhattan. She lived in tenements there, in Harlem and in Morningside Heights. As a teenager, she washed and ironed and scrubbed floors for the well-to-do on Riverside Drive for $1.25 a day.
        She dropped out of high school and got a $12-a-week dime-store job, but returned to night classes to earn a high school diploma. A defining experience of her youth was the eviction of her family from their apartment house, which was demolished to make room for a ramp to the George Washington Bridge.
        In 1941, she married John Devenney, and in 1956, the couple moved to Putnam Valley, N.Y., from which Mr. Devenney commuted to his draftsman's job in New York City. But the suburbs were not her natural habitat, and Mrs. Devenney later said that she hated being dependent on a car and that all the rain and snow and hard mud for months on end made her long for the swept pavements of the city.
        In 1962, the family moved back to the Bronx into a fifth-floor five-room apartment on Perry Avenue, but in a few years, the ailments of the inner city moved into the neighborhood. Black and Hispanic refugees from the South Bronx moved in, with the causes of their flight in pursuit.
        Landlords, frightened by the wave of arson sweeping the borough, began to neglect their buildings and even abandon them. Many white working-class families started to think of moving to other places for a haven. But Mrs. Devenney's upbringing among people of different races and creeds had taught her that the struggle against community destruction knew no color.
        Banding together with members of the clergy and young community organizers, she began to haunt hallways and community centers, trying to shake people out of their complacency and into partnerships with residents of surrounding areas where the blight was setting in.
        The result was the Northwest Bronx Community and Clergy Coalition. It and its affiliated groups badgered city officials for decent sanitation services and the money to keep streets, parks and other public places in good repair. They trooped to City Hall, demanding action against landlords who burned their buildings for the insurance money.
        They homed in on redlining by insurers that refused to write policies in their neighborhoods for fear of losses and by banks that denied mortgages in the community despite the large amounts of deposits that they held from its residents.
        Coalition members picketed corporate headquarters, invaded annual meetings with proxies from stock-owning churches, and met personally with politicians and executives who knew little of the people living in those communities.
        Mrs. Devenney's husband died in 1993.
        She is survived by two daughters, Betty Devenney and Carol Gibney, both of Yonkers; two sons, John, of Macon, Ga., and Joseph, of Mahopac, N.Y.; 14 grandchildren; and seven great-grandchildren.
        Mrs. Devenney stayed in the forefront of the campaign for neighborhood survival until the late 1980's, negotiating with commissioners, mayors and banking and insurance executives for a fair share of city services and private-sector investment.
        She described herself as ''conservative-liberal-radical,'' explaining, ''I have to be conservative because I want to conserve my neighborhood, liberal to keep my mind open and radical to carry a picket sign.''
      