
        Alfred Nzo, who helped lead some of the earliest battles against South Africa's apartheid regime and decades later became the country's first black foreign minister, died on Thursday in a clinic here. He was 74.
        A leading figure in the African National Congress for more than 30 years, many of them spent in exile, Mr. Nzo was a key figure in the negotiations that led to country's first all-race vote in 1994 and became one of the country's most important ambassadors to the world after the election of Nelson Mandela.
        Mr. Nzo, who suffered a stroke last month, had been hospitalized since then at the Olivedale Clinic, the African National Congress spokesman, Smuts Ngonyama, said today.
        President Thabo Mbeki, part of a younger generation of liberation fighters, praised Mr. Nzo, who retired from government last year after the election of Mr. Mbeki. ''To his last day, he was an unwavering champion of nonracialism and nonsexism,'' President Mbeki said in a statement. ''He stood for a united country and people.''
        Like many other leaders of the struggle against apartheid, Mr. Nzo found his calling at the University of Fort Hare, where he joined the A.N.C.'s Youth League. It was the beginning of an allegiance that would last his lifetime, eventually making him the party's secretary general.
        He left Fort Hare in 1946, after his second year. Back in Johannesburg, he studied part time at a technical college, and in 1951 he was licensed as a health inspector and assigned to work in Alexandra, one of the area's impoverished townships.
        The poverty and deprivation he observed heightened his political consciousness.
        Determined to play a part in the incipient struggle, he helped organize the defiance campaigns of the 1950's. In 1956, his activism cost him his job as health inspector, and he then thrust himself headlong into the activities of the A.N.C. Without his job, he lost his right to reside in Alexandra, but he did not leave, and that made him a frequent target of the security forces. He was arrested repeatedly, ordered banned, and on more than one occasion imprisoned. In 1963 and 1964, he was detained for a total of 238 days.
        Eventually, he went into exile, becoming an diplomat for the African National Congress, first in Cairo, later in New Delhi.
        In 1969, he was elected the movement's secretary general and moved to its headquarters in Tanzania. He remained secretary general, overseeing much of the African National Congress's day-to-day operations,  until 1991.
        He remained part of the inner circle that negotiated with the government and laid the groundwork for the country's change in power.
        Mr. Nzo is survived by his wife, Regina, and their son.
      