
        Jack Gerson, 53, an antiwar activist in the 1960's, finds himself part of a very different subculture today: the world of genetic technology, where a booming market could turn his intellectual pursuits into wealth he never expected.
        The second time I was suspended from Stanford, it was indefinitely, so I spent more than a decade doing political work. Then in the late 70's, I switched to computer programming.
        I came to Silicon Valley in the early 80's to work at Hewlett-Packard. I had done some talks about what I thought were the dangers of the microelectronics revolution, with the weakening of the labor movement. So, I thought it was a good opportunity to see this phenomenon firsthand. But I ended up being swallowed by it!
        Was I wrong, or did I sell out? I don't know.
        I came to the conclusion that there is a struggle between people's cooperative and competitive sides. In the last several decades, the competitive, individualistic side has been dominant.
        In November, I was offered stock options at Gene Logic, a biotechnology company where I had been a short-term contract consultant for a while. I can walk to work from home, which is about 100 yards into Oakland.
        I have a Ph.D. in biostatistics from Berkeley, and I have worked as a biostatistician and as a software engineer for 20 years.
        There are a few different components to my job. I do bioinformatics, which is a broad term for people who work with the vast amount of data being generated now by the revolution in genetics.
        During a typical day I spend time doing ''gene expression,'' analyzing what distinguishes the genetic signature of a normal person from a diseased person. It's a bit like being the Red Queen in ''Alice in Wonderland'' -- the faster you run, the faster you have to go, because the technology is changing so much.
        Before November, I was paid straight by the hour. With stock options, it's much better.
        The stock is currently selling at more than four times the option price. It has quadrupled in the four weeks since I signed up.
        Biotechnology has suddenly got hot. The biotechnology industry is smaller and newer than the computer industry. Here, there is a tremendous optimism among colleagues that there will be a lot of breakthroughs during the next decade, that we are breaking through barriers. That is very exciting.
        Before I signed up I got a call from a recruiter. I told her I wouldn't consider anything unless it was well above $100,000. She didn't think that would be any problem at all.
        People tend to attribute some special things to themselves when they're suddenly making more money or are really successful in business.
        But in fact, I think when I was younger I could probably think better. I just happen to be lucky now.
        Ninety percent of it is being in the right place at the right time.
        MY JOB
      