
        George Foerstner, an Iowa entrepreneur who founded Amana Appliances during the Depression and led it for 48 years while introducing the microwave oven and the side-by-side refrigerator to American homes, died Monday in Miami, near his winter home in Bal Harbour, Fla. He was 91 years old.
        After leaving school at 13 to work in his father's auto parts business, Mr. Foerstner proved a natural salesman and promoter, founding in 1934 what became Amana when he was challenged by a local businessman to build a reliable commercial beverage cooler. Over the years he built Amana into an internationally recognized brand with the help of such Hollywood stars as Groucho Marx, Cecil B. deMille and Gary Cooper hired to appear in its advertisements.
        Mr. Foerstner started with two employees in a corner of a small furniture shop, with production of beer coolers leading to the making of refrigerators for butchers and then to frozen-food lockers that farmers could use to store foods outside their homes.
        Its reputation for high quality drew on the meticulous work of craftsmen and cabinetmakers in the Amana Colonies, a communitarian German settlement founded in east central Iowa in the mid-1850's.
        Mr. Foerstner's original Electrical Equipment Company was renamed Amana Refrigeration when it was sold to the Amana Society in 1936 but he remained as principal manager. In 1950 Mr. Foerstner and a group of investors that included Howard Hall, an industrialist, bought Amana back from the society. They in turn sold it in 1965 to the Raytheon Company, which had developed the microwave oven and needed an established appliance company to manufacture and market it.
        When Amana's Radarange came under inevitable attack as unsafe, Mr. Foerstner ''took the media head on,'' an official said, in a fervent defense that included bringing in a scientist from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration who said he would be willing to sit on a Radarange for a year.
        He continued to lead the company, which had long been the world's leading producer of home freezers, until 1982, when he retired as chairman.
        In 1997, Raytheon sold the company to Houston-based Goodman Manufacturing, but refrigerators continue to be made at the plant in Middle Amana, Iowa, across the street from the house where Mr. Foerstner spent most of the year. On one occasion, he was the first person on the scene when the plant caught fire.
        Mr. Foerstner was a demanding but generous man, paying the highest wages in the area, the company official said, and was often found at the plant in off-hours, dressed like a farmer. One of his innovations was to sponsor a sales competition among dealers that offered as prizes shares in a mutual fund, which Mr. Foerstner described as ''an investment rather than a one-shot reward.''
        Besides the Hollywood stars he enlisted to promote Amana products, Mr. Foerstner, who lived modestly, had associations with Vince Lombardi, the football coach, as well as with Dwight D. Eisenhower and other Washington notables, on at least one occasion leading an Iowa contingent to the White House.
        Mr. Foerstner is survived by a daughter, Joanne Meyer, of Middle Amana and a son, Richard, of Iowa City. His wife, Nora, died in 1990.
      