
        Perry T. Rathbone, an internationally known art authority and the director of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston from 1955 until 1972, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 88.
        Mr. Rathbone, who joined Christie's, the auction house, after leaving the museum and worked there until 1993, had been ill for the last few years, said his son, Peter.
        During his long career Mr. Rathbone was an enthusiastic art evangelist and a pace-setting museum director who was twice president of the Association of Art Museum Directors. He was awarded many honorary degrees, and the French government made him a chevalier of the Legion of Honor. But he was also linked with scandal. In 1969, while he was director, the Boston museum purchased a portrait attributed to Raphael that had been illegally smuggled out of Italy. The United States Customs Service impounded the painting and eventually returned it to Italy.
        Three years later, Mr. Rathbone, then 61, stepped down from his post, prompting speculation that the scandal had precipitated his early retirement. Museum trustees, however, said that no such inference should be drawn and retained him as a consultant. Mr. Rathbone, who had been a museum director for 32 years, simply said that the job was meant for a younger man.
        Curators at the museum paid tribute to Mr. Rathbone, who had always been most proud of his acquisitions, by organizing an exhibition of them in the unheard-of period of eight weeks. Called ''The Rathbone Years,'' it showcased 170 acquisitions made during his 17-year tenure as director and included a pair of portraits by Rembrandt, a Greek youth on horseback (circa 500 B.C.),  a German Gothic tapestry titled ''Wild Men and Moors'' and ''La Japonaise'' by Monet.
        Mr. Rathbone did not go long without a job: David Rockefeller asked him to advise the Chase Manhattan Bank on its art purchases, and he did so for about a year until he joined Christie's.
        Mr. Rathbone's love of art was clearly infectious. All three of his children followed him into the art world: his son, Peter, of New Canaan, Conn., is the director of American paintings at Sotheby's; a daughter, Eliza Rathbone, of Washington, is chief curator at the Phillips Collection, and another daughter, Belinda Rathbone, of Cambridge, Mass., and Arbroath, Scotland, is a photography historian.
        They survive him, as do his wife, Euretta, and seven grandchildren.
        Perry Townsend Rathbone was born in Germantown, Pa., in 1911, the son of a photographer and a nurse, and grew up in New Rochelle, N.Y. After graduating from Harvard College in 1933, he did graduate work at the Fogg Museum of Fine Arts at Harvard and then took a job at the Detroit Institute of Arts, where the director, William Valentiner, an expert in German Expressionism, exposed him to that school of artists.
        Mr. Rathbone directed the ''Masterpieces of Art'' exhibit at the New York World's Fair in 1939, and the next year he was appointed director of the St. Louis Art Museum. While there he was instrumental in arranging for Max Beckmann, the Expressionist painter who was labeled a ''degenerate artist'' in his native Germany, and his wife to move to St. Louis. As a thank you, Beckmann made Mr. Rathbone's wife the subject of his first portrait in the United States; in 1948 he also painted a  portrait of Mr. Rathbone, cigarette in hand, that Mr. Rathbone later gave to the Museum of Fine Arts.
        Mr. Rathbone organized and wrote the catalog for the 1948 Beckmann retrospective. He also introduced Beckmann to Morton D. May, of the May Department Stores, who became a collector of Beckmann, eventually bequeathing many of the works to the St. Louis museum. When Beckmann died in 1950, Mr. Rathbone gave the eulogy.
        In 1955 Mr. Rathbone moved to the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, where he expanded the museum by 80,000 square feet, doubled its staff and directed the renovation of 57 of its 189 galleries. He staged exhibitions of Rembrandt, Matisse, Modigliani, Cezanne, van Gogh and Courbet. He also started the departments of pre-Columbian and Primitive art and contemporary art, which under him made the museum's first acquisitions of works by Picasso, Calder, Brancusi, Klee, Giacometti and many others. For much of his tenure, Mr. Rathbone served as his own curator of paintings, and he wrote articles and essays on many artists.
        He joined Christie's in 1973 as director of its New York office, then a small outpost of the London-based auction house. When Christie's opened its salesroom in New York in 1977, he became a senior vice president and director of museum services. He reduced his activities in 1987, becoming a consultant.
      