
        Jester Hairston, a veteran character actor and a conductor and arranger who was praised as one of the leading authorities on black choral music, died Jan. 18 in Los Angeles. He was 98.
        Mr. Hairston came to Hollywood in 1935 as the assistant conductor for the Hall Johnson choir, which had been hired to sing in the black-cast film ''The Green Pastures.'' His musical break came when he met the composer Dimitri Tiomkin while conducting the Johnson choir as it recorded the background score for the movie ''Lost Horizon'' (1937).  When a producer questioned the ability of black singers to perform in Russian, Mr. Tiomkin reportedly said, ''I don't see color. I hear music,'' and assured Mr. Hairston, ''If I come back to Hollywood, you are my choral conductor and arranger.''
        Mr. Tiomkin did return, and during the next 20 years, Mr. Hairston worked with him on films including ''Red River,'' ''She Wore a Yellow Ribbon,'' ''Duel in the Sun'' and ''Land of the Pharaohs.'' He established himself as one of Hollywood's most respected choral directors.
        He continued working as a musical arranger after the partnership with Mr. Tiomkin ended. He was best known for his work in ''Lilies of the Field,'' for which he composed and arranged the song ''Amen'' and dubbed the singing for Sidney Poitier. He composed or arranged more than 300 choral spirituals.
        Mr. Hairston supplemented his income as a conductor by accepting bit parts in Hollywood films and appearing in several Tarzan movies as an African.
        ''They always picked me for the Tarzan films because my skin was so black,'' he told an interviewer. He was harshly criticized for accepting stereotypical roles like that of Jethro, the slave of Jim Bowie in the 1960 film ''The Alamo,'' who, when freed by his master, insisted on remaining at his side.
        And although he played the part of Henry Van Porter, a well-dressed, self-styled socialite who ridiculed the other characters on the ''Amos 'n' Andy'' television show, he and other members of the cast were excoriated for demeaning depictions of blacks. Civil rights groups forced the show off the air after the 1953 season.
        ''We had a hard time then fighting for dignity,'' he said later. ''We had no power. We had to take it, and because we took it, the young people today have greater opportunities.''
        Mr. Hairston's wife, Isabelle Margaret Swanigan, died in 1986. He is survived by a stepdaughter, Jeanne-Marie Swann; three grandchildren; and nine great-grandchildren.
        Mr. Hairston was born on a plantation in Belews Creek, N.C., in 1901. The family moved to Homestead, Pa., where his father was a steelworker. After graduating from high school in 1921, Mr. Hairston went to the Massachusetts Agricultural College to study landscape design. When his church scholarship ran out, he had to leave. Later, he enrolled at Tufts University, where he studied music and graduated in 1928.
        ''I decided that I wanted to make my mark in folk songs because my grandparents were slaves,'' he said. ''I wanted to keep that music alive.'' Mr. Hairston received an honorary doctorate in music from Tufts in 1977.
        Like his mentor, Hall Johnson, he was dedicated to preserving the authenticity of the rural black voice: the way black people sang in church or while in the fields. Their collaboration affected all of his later work.
        In working with the Johnson choir, Mr. Hairston said, ''I got a very good break.'' He explained, ''My job was to teach the choir Mr. Johnson's arrangements as assistant conductor and prepare the choir -- that is, his choir.''
        Mr. Hairston's acting career extended into his 90's. He gained the attention of a new generation of fans with his role as Rolly, the wisecracking deacon on the television situation comedy ''Amen,'' from 1986 to 1991.
        During his later years, he was a prime mover behind the national Hairston clan, a family organization that traces its lineage to pre-Civil War America and sponsors reunions for both black and white family members throughout the country.
        ''Jester Hairston was a great believer in family and reconciliation,'' said Henry Wiencek, author of ''The Hairstons: An American Family in Black and White'' (1999).
        ''He never let go of his anger over slavery, but he also forgave. Still, he insisted that you should never forget your history.''
      