
        James W. Walter, the former chairman of Walter Industries who built a billion-dollar housing business  and oversaw its subsequent bankruptcy in the face of complaints by people who said they had been injured by asbestos produced by a Walter subsidiary, died on Thursday at his home in Tampa, Fla. He was 77.
        The cause was complications from lung cancer, said David L. Townsend, a spokesman for the corporation.
        In 1946, when Mr. Walter was a recently discharged sailor earning a living in Tampa as a truck driver, he read a newspaper advertisement for something described as a shell home, a factory-built unfinished house, for $1,195.
        Believing he had found a bargain, he borrowed the money from a local bank and bought one.
        So delighted was Mr. Walter with his purchase that he borrowed more money from the bank to go into partnership with the shell-home builder. In 1948, he bought out his partner. In 1955, he formed the Jim Walter Corporation.
        Soon, the company offered 45 styles of shell homes and employed 530 three-  to five-person crews of subcontractors who set up the shell on the buyer's property.
        From that beginning, Mr. Walter guided the corporation to more than $2.4 billion in annual revenue and 25,000 employees at its peak.
        The Jim Walter Corporation was acquired by an investment group led by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company for $2.4 billion in the 1980's. Two years later the company became swamped with litigation from people who said they had been injured by asbestos produced by a Walter subsidiary, the Celotex Corporation.
        ''This asbestos was never used in Walter homes,'' Mr. Townsend said. ''Mr. Walter acquired the Celotex Corporation, and several other building-related companies, as a means of growing the Jim Walter Corporation.''
        In December 1989, the company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, and Kohlberg Kravis lost control of it.
        The company emerged from bankruptcy protection in March 1995 as a new public company, Walter Industries, with 7,700 employees and revenue of $1.3 billion. Mr. Walter retired seven months later.
        James Willis Walter was born on Sept. 18, 1922, in Lewes, Del. As an infant he moved with his family to Florida, and he grew up around Tampa.
        Mr. Walter is survived by his wife,  Connie Spoto Walter; two sons, James W. Jr. and Robert A., both of Tampa; a stepdaughter; and a grandson.
      