
        Dr. Harald Hermann Rossi, a biophysicist who improved the ability to measure minute amounts of ionizing radiation and their effects on living things, died Jan. 1 at his home in Upper Nyack, N.Y. He was 82.
        While he was active professionally until his death, he had been suffering from heart disease, his family said.
        Dr. Rossi formally retired as a professor of radiation oncology at the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University in 1987 and took emeritus status. He had joined the department of radiological research at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital as a research scientist in 1946.
        Dr. Rossi left his mark by developing what became known as microdosimetry, a technique he explained in 1959 in the Journal of Radiation Research with his paper ''Specification of Radiation Quality.'' It provided the scientific underpinnings for the measurement of radiation, a topic that continues to generate international conferences and intense research the world over.
        Microdosimetry measures the microscopic distributions of energy for different types of radiation. Those measurements are important factors in radiation therapy and radiation protection. Dr. Rossi refined the field while working as a physicist and as the radiation-protection officer at Presbyterian from 1954 to 1960.
        In a later paper, ''Theory of Dual Radiation Action,'' written with Dr. Albrecht M. Kellerer, Dr. Rossi advanced the understanding of the biological impact of different types of densely ionizing radiation, particularly neutrons. The paper also brought about stricter regulations for protection against such radiation and an international effort, completed in 1986, to reassess the amounts of radiation absorbed by survivors of the atomic bombs dropped on Japan in 1945.
        Dr. Rossi designed many instruments now used in radiation measurement. Among them was a proportional counter, known as the Rossi counter, which measures the energy deposited by radiation in microscopic sites like cells.
        Harald Rossi, a native of Vienna, studied at the University of Vienna and the University of Bristol, England, before coming to the United States in 1939. He completed his doctorate in physics at Johns Hopkins in 1942.
        He remained on the faculty there until 1945, but during World War II he was assigned to the Manhattan Project. Working for the Army Corps of Engineers, he began to devise new  measurements of radiation.
        Dr. Rossi is survived by his wife of 53 years, Ruth Marguerite Gregg Rossi; their son, Gerald, of Ridgewood, N.J.; two daughters, Dr. Gwendolyn R. Gladstone of Exeter, N.H., and Harriet R. Furey of Wappingers Falls, N.Y.; and seven grandchildren.
      