
        Jervis Anderson, a staff writer for The New Yorker for 30 years and a leading chronicler of African-American life best known for his biographies of A. Philip Randolph and Bayard Rustin, died sometime over the Christmas and New Year holidays at his home in New York City. He was 67.
        He apparently died of natural causes, according to Ellen Borakove, a spokeswoman for the New York City medical examiner. His body was found on Jan. 7 after neighbors noticed newspapers and mail piling up.
        Mr. Anderson's most recent book,  ''Bayard Rustin: Troubles I've Seen,'' a biography of the civil rights advocate who played a leading role in organizing the 1963 March on Washington, made the New York Times best-seller list in 1997. In reviewing the biography in The Times Book Review, Alan Brinkley, a professor of history at Columbia University, wrote of Mr. Anderson: ''He provides the first thorough account of Rustin's life and career, and he suggests how Rustin became so eminent a figure without ever becoming a genuine leader.''
        Mr. Anderson was born in Jamaica, then a British colony, on Oct. 1, 1932. He attended the Kingston Technical School at Kingston's University of the West Indies. He worked as a reporter for The Daily Gleaner, the island's leading newspaper, and as a young man became part of the circle around the independence leader Michael Manley. He wrote frequently for Public Opinion, a weekly magazine edited by Manley's father, N. W. Manley.
        Mr. Anderson moved to New York in 1958 to attend New York University, where he studied with the philosopher Sidney Hook. In the early 1960's he began to write for publications associated with New York intellectual life, including Commentary and Dissent.
        In 1968, Mr. Anderson became a staff writer for The New Yorker, where he remained until his retirement in 1998. For most of that time he was the magazine's only black staff writer.
        Hendrik Hertzberg, senior editor at The New Yorker, who was a friend and colleague of Mr. Anderson for 31 years, said that Mr. Anderson was one of the last of a breed, ''the independent intellectual and a man of letters.'' Mr. Hertzberg added, ''Without academic or university affiliation, and with very little financial reward, he followed his nose, his heart and his mind wherever they took him.''
        In 1972, Mr. Anderson made a splash when his profile of A. Philip Randolph, the labor and civil rights leader and Harlem Renaissance figure, ran in three successive issues of The New Yorker. Published as a book the following year, ''A. Philip Randolph: A Biographical Portrait'' remains in print and is considered the definitive work to date on Randolph, the founder and longtime president of the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters.
        In discussing an exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1969 about Harlem's cultural history, Mr. Anderson wrote: ''To the majority of blacks who are attracted by it, a yearning for Harlem is akin to the call of home: where struggling, hoping, speaking, loving, laughing, dancing, singing and sharing in the rich fund of black American myth produce a sense of common experience, style and cause; a place, too, where eyes and faces and gestures speak a language so familiar that it registers not so much in the brains as in the bones.''
        At The New Yorker, Mr. Anderson also wrote a four-part series of articles on the cultural history of Harlem, published in book form in 1982 as ''This Was Harlem: A Cultural Portrait, 1900-1950,'' In the 90's, his articles for the magazine included profiles of Derek Walcott, the Nobel Prize-winning poet; Cornel West, the scholar and writer, and Wynton Marsalis, the jazz musician.
        David Remnick, editor of The New Yorker, said, ''One of the most unforgettable pieces he ever published here was a long profile of Ralph Ellison in which he went back to Oklahoma with Ellison and painted the deepest portrait of an extremely private man.''
        In addition to his books on Randolph, Rustin and Harlem, Mr. Anderson was the author of ''Guns in American Life,'' a journalistic study of America's fascination with firearms.
        After Mr. Anderson's retirement from The New Yorker in 1998, he remained active as a writer and scholar. At the time of his death he was working on a book about the young manhood of the novelist Ralph Ellison and a memoir of his own youth in Jamaica.
      