
        Dr. Nelson Shaulis, whose grape-growing experiments in the Finger Lakes region of New York State revolutionized vineyard practices worldwide, died on Saturday in Newark, N.Y. He was 86 and lived in Geneva, N.Y.
        Before Dr. Shaulis retired in 1978 as professor of viticulture -- the science and methods of grape growing -- at Cornell University's New York State Agricultural Experiment Station in Geneva, he developed a vine-training system known as the Geneva Double Curtain. He also worked at Cornell's Vineyard Laboratory, a station branch in Fredonia, N.Y.
        Dr. Shaulis's trellising concepts ''have been applied in every major grape-producing region in the world, and served as the knowledge base that allowed New World winegrowing to emerge as a major factor in international trade in the last 20 years,'' said Prof. Robert Pool, who succeeded him as chief viticulturist at the experimental station.
        The concepts have been most widely applied in the United States -- especially California -- Australia and New Zealand.
        Dr. Shaulis also worked with Cornell's department of agricultural engineering to develop the mechanical grape harvester, especially for use with the Double Curtain. Today, harvesters modeled after the Cornell machine bring in grapes everywhere.
        Experts in modern viticulture consider Dr. Shaulis the father of canopy management, a term used in the industry for a spectrum of techniques to control vine diseases and improve grape yields and wine quality. The canopy consists of all vine growth above the soil, including trunks, canes, stems, leaves and fruit. The core principle of leading-edge management is to broaden the exposure of leaves and grapes on trellises to the sunshine.
        While working with vines that produce Concord grapes, a red variety that once dominated upstate winegrowing and is still most familiar to consumers in sweet kosher wines, Dr. Shaulis observed that excessive shade inside canopies reduced grape yield and ripeness.
        He discovered that by separating one thick canopy into two less thick ones, more sunlight (and thus more photosynthesis) could be introduced on leaf surfaces, improving vine maturation and increasing not only grape yields, sometimes by 90 percent, but also quality.
        The Double Curtain technique was first tried at Geneva in 1960, and four years later field trials with growers began. Although Concord belongs to a species of native North American grape known as labrusca, Dr. Shaulis's discovery was quickly applied to vinifera grapes, the classical European variety that produces today's premium wines. Bordeaux was quick to see its merits.
        Late-summer visitors to grape farms who look straight down a Geneva Double Curtain row will see that the vine wood and luxuriant vegetation are trained both to the left and right over wires, supported by cross arms that are four feet apart and five or six feet above the ground.
        Seemingly nothing escaped Dr. Shaulis's investigations. He looked, too, into proper siting of vineyards, the physiology of grapevines, mineral nutrition, root stocks and microclimates.
        Virtually every properly educated and trained winegrower in the English-speaking world has a copy of ''Sunlight Into Wine: A Handbook of Wine Grape Canopy Management,'' a 1991 book whose principal author is Dr. Richard E. Smart, a renowned Australian viticulturist. Dr. Smart was a student of Dr. Shaulis, and the book's content owes a significant debt to Dr. Shaulis's findings.
        Dr. Shaulis received a bachelor's degree in horticulture in 1935 and a master's degree in agronomy in 1937, both from Pennsylvania State University. He received his doctorate in soils from Cornell in 1941.
        Dr. Shaulis's wife of 55 years, Lillian, died in 1996. He is survived by two daughters, Catherine Shaulis-Santomartino of Scotia, N.Y., and Margaret Harty of Sodus, N.Y.; three grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      