
        Adam Yarmolinsky, a native New Yorker and liberal member of the Eastern establishment who helped reorganize the Pentagon and was the intellectual architect of many of the poverty programs under Presidents Kennedy and Johnson died on Wednesday in Washington.
        He was 77 and died at Georgetown University Hospital after battling leukemia, his children said today.
        He held a variety of positions in Washington and established himself as a brilliant behind-the-scenes aide, someone who was bristling with ideas and whose interests ranged far and wide throughout the government. As one of Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara's ''whiz kids,'' he put in place modern management systems in the Pentagon and devised complicated domestic programs, one of which was to expand the construction of fallout shelters in American homes.
        Mr. Yarmolinsky also was Mr. McNamara's unofficial liaison to the nation's liberal, intellectual community, explaining and defending the Defense Department. He was an apostle of modernizing the government, and, after World War II, he advocated that military bases be located only near communities that were desegregated and once proposed using military bases to train poverty-stricken youths in job skills.
        But he was also sometimes brusque in the manner of the confident, take-charge soldiers of President John F. Kennedy's New Frontier, and his friends sometimes said the only quarter of the government in which he might not rise to the top was diplomacy.
        Mr. Yarmolinsky served first as a talent recruiter for the President-elect Kennedy and, inside the administration, as a special assistant to Mr. McNamara. In that role, he was a principal force in bringing modern management to the Pentagon.
        Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said today that Mr. Yarmolinsky was a trusted adviser to him and his brothers. ''All of us who had the good fortune to know him,'' Mr. Kennedy said, ''admired the brilliance of his mind and his commitment to excellence. His wisdom and dedication to improving the quality of life for all Americans will be greatly missed.''
        From his post at the Pentagon, Mr. Yarmolinsky was seconded to help draft the legislation for President Lyndon B. Johnson's vaunted effort to eradicate poverty. He was named deputy director of Mr. Johnson's task force for the War on Poverty.
        In his government career, Mr. Yarmolinsky had many high moments and a few deep disappointments, notably when President Johnson sacrificed him in an effort to appease a bloc of Southern members of Congress to pass his poverty bill.
        That occurred in 1964 when it was assumed that Mr. Yarmolinsky would become the deputy to Sargent Shriver in administering the program authorized by the legislation he had helped draft and that was hurriedly put before Congress.
        But a group of Southern Democrats pressed Mr. Johnson to jettison Mr. Yarmolinsky as the price for passage of the bill which the president dearly wanted.
        Mary McGrory, the columnist, attributed the dislike of Mr. Yarmolinsky to his efforts at integration, jealousy over his brilliance and the fact that he was anathema to Southern Congressmen. ''He is an egghead, a New Yorker, and the son of liberal intellectual parents,'' Ms. McGrory wrote. ''Barely concealed anti-Semitism contributed to his downfall as well.''
        In the end, Mr. Yarmolinsky did not get the post he coveted and years later acknowledged his disappointment in an interview with The Washington Post. He left government in 1966 to embark on a new career as an academic, teaching at the Harvard Law School, pioneering courses in urban law. By that time, friends recalled, he had shed the sharp manners of his youth and had become more courtly and courteous.
        Adam Yarmolinsky was born in New York City on Nov. 17, 1922, to upper middle-class Russian immigrants who were active in liberal political causes. His father, Avrahm Yarmolinsky, a scholar of Russian literature, was chief of the Slavonic Division of the New York Public Library. His mother, Babette Deutsch, was a poet and critic who taught at Columbia University. It was his mother's political activism and association with peace movements that some of Mr. Yarmolinsky's opponents frequently cited in their criticisms of him.
        Mr. Yarmolinsky attended the Fieldston School in Riverdale and then was graduated from Harvard College where he was editorial director of the Harvard Crimson. He enlisted in the Army Air Corps during World War II and rose to the rank of sergeant.
        After the war, he received a law degree from Yale University. He served as a law clerk to Chief Judge Charles E. Clark of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, based in New York, and later as a clerk to Supreme Court Justice Stanley E. Reed.
        After his government career appeared thwarted, Mr. Yarmolinsky not only flourished in academic life, but also wrote an acclaimed analysis of the effect of the military on American life.
        He re-entered the government in 1977 as counselor to the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, a position to which he had been recruited by his longtime friend, Paul C. Warnke.
        His survivors include his wife of 10 years, Sarah A. Ellis of Washington, his first wife, Harriet Yarmolinsky of Brooklyn; four children, Sally of Brooklyn, Tobias of Boston, Benjamin of Manhattan and Matthew of Boston.
      