
        Mary Cantwell, who wrote essays, books and editorials for The New York Times, many about the changing public and private lives of women in America, died yesterday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 69.
        The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Margaret Lescher of Riverdale, the Bronx.
        As a member of The Times editorial board for 16 years, Ms. Cantwell wrote often about issues affecting women. A notable one concerned ''the squeal rule,'' the label she coined for a 1982 Reagan administration proposal to forbid giving contraceptives to teenagers unless their parents were informed. Such a rule, she wrote, would discourage effective contraception and increase teenage pregnancies.
        ''Thanks to the coinage,'' the columnist William Safire later wrote, ''the battle is being won by the anti-squeal forces.''
        Apart from unsigned editorials, Ms. Cantwell wrote personal observations for The Times and elsewhere about the pride and pain brought by three decades of transformation in the lives of women, particularly in the spheres of work, marriage and divorce, and parenthood.
        Why could she not cry about a sick calico cat, she wondered in a ''Close to Home'' column in 1990. One reason, she realized, is that ''Women were reputed to weep on the job.''
        ''Not this woman. No way I was going to let somebody know I'd been gotten at; no way I was going to give somebody that satisfaction.''
        On divorce, she gave voice to many readers' feelings in a ''Hers'' column in The Times in 1980, describing the day she and her former husband watched their older daughter's high school graduation: ''There on stage is someone who is half he, half she; their blood, their genes. They created somebody: the woman is awed. As long as there is a she, the woman thinks, there is an us.''
        Starting in her childhood in Bristol, R.I., Ms. Cantwell was an acute observer of the era in which she lived.
        ''I never wanted to be anything but a writer,'' she once said, ''but I saw no hope, had no expectations. I feel, perhaps wrongly, that I grew up in an era when writing was very much a boys' club. It took a brave woman, braver than I, to write books.''
        Still, she wrote three. The first, ''American Girl'' (Random House, 1992), was a love letter to Bristol. A Times reader ''wrote in and said there is a small town in the background of everything I ever wrote, so why didn't I write about that small town,'' she said. And so she did, about a three-generation household in a town where the oldest resident carried a gold-headed cane to lead the Fourth of July parade.
        After ''American Girl,'' her readers wrote in again. Now they wanted to know what happened to that girl. ''New York was what happened to that girl,'' Ms. Cantwell said, explaining how she came to write ''Manhattan, When I Was Young'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1995). It described her life in the prosperous postwar years, the heyday of the Stork Club and Bonwit Teller.
        In her third book, ''Speaking With Strangers'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1998), she talked about pushing herself to travel, after the end of her marriage to Robert Lescher, a literary agent.  She also described an on-again-off-again affair with a celebrated Southern writer she identified only as ''the balding man,'' a womanizer who dropped her for someone younger.
        She said that she had not wanted to distract readers by naming him. Later, after many critics and some readers had guessed, she acknowledged him to be James Dickey.
        After Ms. Cantwell graduated from Connecticut College in 1953, she landed a job in New York as a copywriter at Mademoiselle magazine, where she worked during the next 23 years, including 9 as managing editor and features editor.
        In 1980, she was invited to be one of the early guest writers of the Hers column in The Times. Later that year, she joined the Times editorial board, commenting on social policy issues like smoking, abortion and assisted suicide, and on whimsical topics such as the world as seen from the M10 bus.
        In 1981, she wrote ''Dear Abby,'' a widely quoted editorial about Evangeline Gouletas-Carey, the new wife of Hugh L. Carey, the governor of New York. Before the wedding, Mrs. Gouletas-Carey described herself as a widow. But her former husband turned up alive and well, and so did two other former husbands she had not mentioned.
        ''Dear Abby'' read as if it were a letter to the advice columnist from Mrs. Gouletas-Carey. ''What I want to know is, Abby, can you think of a way I might have avoided all this fuss?'' It was signed, ''Wondering.''
        She matured as a writer, she said, after she discovered the novelist Jean Rhys. ''That was a writer I could best emulate,'' she said last year. ''That was a life and sensibility I understood.''
        She was struck by one Rhys observation: ''If I stop writing my life will have been an abject failure,'' Rhys wrote in ''Smile, Please,'' an autobiographical memoir. ''I will not have earned death.''
        Ms. Cantwell reflected on that in a 1980 ''Hers'' column. ''To earn one's death,'' she wrote, ''I think of it as a kind of parlor game. How, I shall ask my friends, would you like to earn your deaths? And how would I like to earn mine? The question is strangely liberating, implying as it does action, energy, choice. In fact, it has an unexpectedly American ring: death as First Prize. I like it -- it makes the nights less frightening.''
        Besides Margaret Lescher, she is survived by another daughter, Katherine Lescher of Sydney, Australia;  her mother, Mary G. Cantwell of Bristol; a sister, Diana Nickerson of Pittsburgh; and a granddaughter.
      