
        The Rev. Richard A. McCormick, for many years the dominant American voice in Roman Catholic moral theology, especially on the daunting questions of medical ethics that have emerged in recent times, died on Saturday. He was 77 and lived at the Colombiere Center in Clarkston, Mich., a residence of the Society of Jesus.
        The cause was pneumonia, said the Rev. Richard McBrien, a close friend and colleague at the University of Notre Dame.
        Father McCormick, who was the John A. O'Brien professor of Christian ethics at Notre Dame until last year, influenced the public and several generations of Catholic theologians with his magisterial grasp of the fine distinctions and painstaking arguments that Catholic moral theology developed over the centuries.
        He demonstrated the relevance of this tradition to biomedical problems like in vitro fertilization, surrogate motherhood, abortion, euthanasia, gene therapy, access to medical care and patients' rights.
        While vigorously representing Catholic moral teachings in public debates, where he was viewed as a conservative on abortion and euthanasia, Father McCormick questioned some of the tradition's absolute norms -- particularly in regard to contraception, sterilization and other sexual and reproductive issues -- in ways that drew opposition from some conservative Catholic theologians and Vatican officials.
        A section of Pope John Paul II's 1993 encyclical ''Veritatis Splendor'' (''The Splendor of Truth'') rejected an approach to moral reasoning known as ''proportionalism,'' with which Father McCormick was associated.
        Father McCormick contended that the document had misrepresented proportionalists, none of whom would recognize themselves, he said, in the encyclical's description.
        He defended the place of ''conscientious dissent'' in the church, provided it followed an effort to assimilate official teachings, a process he said ''must be prayerful, arduous, reflective, informed.''
        Last June, the annual convention of the Catholic Theological Society of America featured a debate about theological dissent between Father McCormick and the Rev. Avery Dulles, a fellow Jesuit and an elder statesman of American Catholic theology.
        Although Father McCormick had a minor stroke while traveling to Lourdes, France, he postponed an operation on an occluded artery to participate in the debate. When the surgery did take place, in late June, it resulted in another stroke that left Father McCormick paralyzed and unable to read or write but clear of mind and able to speak.
        The Jesuit weekly, America, once described Father McCormick as almost ''genetically destined for a career in medical ethics.'' He was born in Toledo, Ohio, in October 1922, the son of a physician who served a term as president of the American Medical Association. Ordained a priest in 1953, Father McCormick completed his doctoral studies four years later in Rome. He had joined the Jesuit order in 1940.
        ''He had an enormous influence on Catholic moral theology in the whole world,'' said the Rev. Charles E. Curran, who co-edited 11 volumes of readings in moral theology with Father McCormick.
        That influence began with the ''Notes on Moral Theology,'' a regular survey tracking publications in English, German, French, Spanish and Italian, which Father McCormick wrote from 1965 to 1984 for the scholarly journal Theological Studies. He described and evaluated an enormous body of current thinking on issues that included divorce and remarriage and nuclear deterrence, as well as bioethical topics like experimentation on humans.
        In 1973, after 16 years of teaching moral theology to Jesuit seminarians, he became the Rose F. Kennedy professor of Christian ethics at the Kennedy Center for Bioethics at Georgetown University. He joined the faculty at Notre Dame in 1986. He was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and president of the Catholic Theological Society of America in 1969-70.
        Besides his scholarly books and articles, Father McCormick wrote for a general readership in Catholic journals like America and Commonweal, on the op-ed pages of The New York Times and The Washington Post, and even in Sports Illustrated.
        ''He was one of the few public theologians in the Catholic church,'' Father McBrien said. ''He made himself available to the press and television, he lectured before all kinds of audiences, he mediated the conclusions of scholarship to a wider public.''
        By all accounts, Father McCormick never tried to construct a major theological synthesis.
        ''He was not a large-scale systems builder,'' said Daniel Callahan, the co-founder and former president of the Hastings Center, a research center on biomedical problems where Father McCormick had been a fellow. ''Instead, he did a lot of very careful, very specific articles pushing forward the frontiers of ethics in a methodical way.''
        Father McCormick was known for his unpretentiousness and his pastoral instincts. Sidney Callahan, a clinical psychologist and author who is married to Daniel Callahan, recalled being stunned by a lecture the priest gave and telling him afterwards, ''You know, Dick, you're such a nice guy that I forget how smart you are.''
        Father McCormick is survived by three sisters, Carol Sala of Pepper Pike, Ohio, and Kathleen Brooks and Mary Jo Anderson of Toledo.
      