
        John Hayter MacFadyen, an architect who designed several of the nation's premier performing arts centers and was the founding executive director of the New York State Council on the Arts, died on Feb. 18 at a hospital near his home in Damariscotta, Me. He was 76.
        The cause was complications from pneumonia, his family said.
        From 1964 until 1986 Mr. MacFadyen maintained a private practice in architecture, specializing in performing arts centers and residential projects. Among his most notable public buildings were the Saratoga Center for the Performing Arts in Saratoga Springs, N.Y.; the Mann Music Center in Philadelphia, and the Wolf Trap Center for the Arts outside Washington.
        Born in Duluth, Minn., Mr. MacFadyen earned his undergraduate and master of architecture degrees from Princeton University. After World War II he served with the Army in Japan.
        While on the staff of the New York architecture firm of Harrison & Abramowitz, Mr. MacFadyen received the Rome Prize in Architecture and was a fellow in residence at the American Academy in Rome from 1952 to 1953.
        In 1960 Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller appointed Mr. MacFadyen the executive director of the new New York State Council on the Arts, the country's first state arts council and one of Rockefeller's pet projects. He held the position until 1964, when he became executive director of the Associated Councils on the Arts, a national organization of state and local arts councils.
        As the council's ''pioneer architect,'' Mr. MacFadyen played a central role in shaping the movement toward public support of the arts in the United States, creating the blueprint for what Rockefeller described, a year after the organization's formation, as ''a symbol of what we should all be doing in this country.''
        In his 1966 keynote address to a conference of state arts agencies, Mr. MacFadyen called the directors and members of the burgeoning state arts councils a new breed, ''managers of opportunity'' rather than managers of the arts.
        ''It is not incumbent on you to establish or represent an official taste,'' he said. ''Look for and explore all possible avenues of opportunity.''
        Under his tenure, opportunities abounded. With no preliminary experience, a staff of four and a budget of $450,000, the council dispatched professional theater, opera, ballet and art into more than 50 communities throughout the state. Admission prices were kept down through council subsidies, and programs were introduced to provide technical assistance to museums and historical societies. Community theaters received financing to take participate in workshops organized by the council; smaller orchestras sat in rehearsal with their colleagues in the Buffalo and Rochester Symphonies.
        He is survived by a daughter, Camilla MacFadyen Lewis of Lanesville, Mass.; three sons, Luke, of Portland, Me., William, of Providence, R.I, and John, of Belmont, Mass.; and three grandchildren.
      