
        William Eckart, a scenic designer whose innovative sets and costumes enlivened many Broadway productions during the 1950's and 60's, died on Jan. 24 in Dallas, where he lived. He was 79.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Working with his wife, Jean, Mr. Eckart was a near-constant presence on Broadway in an era when there were dozens of big-budget productions a year, all in need of elaborate backdrops and bangles. The Eckarts, who also designed stage lighting, found a special niche with musicals, including the sets of ''Li'l Abner,'' ''The Golden Apple,'' ''Damn Yankees'' and ''Tenderloin.'' Their sets for ''Fiorello!'' in 1960 and ''Mame'' in 1966 were both nominated for Tony awards.
        In every effort the Eckarts tried to give their work a certain sense of whimsy. ''We tried to do things that were light and airy and that suited the character of each show,'' Mr. Eckart said in 1993. In the 1964 musical ''Anyone Can Whistle,'' for example, the set pieces did not merely move; they pirouetted and flew on and off the stage.
        A Louisiana native, Mr. Eckart met his future wife and future collaborator in New Orleans, where he studied architecture at Tulane University. He drifted into theater, he said later, because his fraternity wanted him to be active in something.
        After they both served in the Army, the young couple headed north to attend the Yale School of Drama. In 1951 they broke onto Broadway with their setting (the terrace of a Connecticut beach house) for the play ''Glad Tidings.'' It was the first of three shows they designed that season.
        The Eckarts quickly became favorites of the Broadway elite, working with the likes of the director Harold Prince and the producer George Abbott. The couple also dabbled in producing; their first effort was ''Once Upon a Mattress,'' an Off Broadway hit, with Carol Burnett in 1959. (They also did the sets, costumes and lights for the show.)
        The Eckarts designed for film and television, including the 1957 CBS broadcast of ''Cinderella,'' the movie versions of ''The Pajama Game'' and ''Damn Yankees'' and the film ''The Night They Raided Minsky's.''
        In 1971 they moved to Dallas, where they both taught design at Southern Methodist University. Mr. Eckart was named professor emeritus in 1991.
        Mrs. Eckart died in 1993, but her husband continued to work in theatrical design. Last fall, he designed a production of ''The Illusion,'' by Pierre Corneille, at Southern Methodist, and at the time of his death he was advising another designer for a production of ''Macbeth,'' at a Dallas community college.
        He is survived by a sister, Rosemary Bernard of New Iberia, La.; a son, Peter, of San Francisco; a daughter, Julie Johnson of Dallas, and two grandchildren.
      