
        A milk carton made Dr. Gad Rausing, who died on Jan. 28 at the age of 77 in Montreux, Switzerland, one of the wealthiest men in the world.
        The Swedish-born Dr. Rausing, along with his younger brother, Hans, helped develop their father's idea for a new type of paper carton that extended the shelf life of milk into a global packaging empire, the privately held Tetra Laval Group in Lausanne, Switzerland.
        The secretive billionaire died after a brief illness, said a company spokesman, Jorgen Haglind, who did not disclose the cause of death.
        Gad Rausing's personal fortune -- an estimated net worth of $9 billion, according to Forbes magazine -- grew from the 1952 invention of a tetrahedron-shaped milk carton by his father, Dr. Ruben Rausing.
        The Swedish-born Ruben Rausing studied economics at Columbia University and while there took note of the advanced food packaging methods he saw in the United States. Company legend has it that in the 1940's he was watching his wife, Elizabeth, make sausages by tying off the ends, and he wondered if a similar system could be applied to milk.
        His attempts, aided by an engineer, Erik Wallenberg, led to a Tetra Pak, a carton made of paper, plastic and aluminum, that eliminated the need for refrigerating milk.
        The cartons, now usually shaped more like a small brick and called Tetra Brik, are ubiquitous in Europe. In the United States, the packages are better known simply as the small rectangular juice containers, usually with a built-in plastic straw, that children often take to school.
        Dr. Gad Rausing and his brother joined their father's company shortly after the Tetra Pak was invented. Over the next 10 years, they helped the company grow into a conglomerate, selling water purifiers, bank-note dispensers and other products, as well as other types of containers, like Tetra Rex, the gable-topped carton for refrigerated milk that is common in the United States.
        In 1965, the family sold every part of the company except for the Tetra Pak. Then, in 1991, the Rausing brothers bought Alfa-Laval, a large packaging group in Sweden, and created Tetra-Laval.
        Today, the company, which moved to Switzerland in 1981 to escape Sweden's high inheritance taxes, produces about 85 billion Tetra Paks, Tetra Briks and Tetra Rexes a year, collects about $6.5 billion in sales and has operations in 170 countries.
        Gad Rausing was born on May 12, 1922, in Stockholm. At the University of Lund, he earned college degrees in economics and statistics, as well as a doctorate in archaeology.
        Dr. Rausing had a lifelong interest in archaeology; his doctoral dissertation was on bows and arrows. He was an expert on prehistoric boats and he financed research and frequent excavations in Sweden, where he was a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Letters, History and Antiquities. He also supported a variety of institutions, among them a chair at Oxford for Icelandic studies.
        His wealth made him a target for terrorists and blackmailers, too. In 1969, he received death threats and ransom demands by carrier pigeon. Later, Middle Eastern terrorists in Copenhagen were found guilty of plotting to kidnap his son, Jorn, and hold him for a $25 million ransom.
        Besides his son Jorn and his brother Hans, who both live in London, Dr. Rausing is survived by his wife, Birgit; another son, Finn Rausing, of Stockholm; and a daughter, Kirsten Rausing, of England.
      