
        Miles White, the imaginative costume designer for Rodgers and Hammerstein's first two Broadway hits, ''Oklahoma!'' and ''Carousel,'' and dozens of other musicals as well as movies, ballets, ice shows and circuses, died on Thursday. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan.
        In a career that extended through seven decades, Mr. White showed extraordinary diversity, moving freely among periods, places and modes of dress, working equally well with cowboys and showgirls, circus roustabouts and rock stars (in ''Bye Bye Birdie'') and both the gentlemen and the blondes in ''Gentlemen Prefer Blondes.''
        His greatest early challenge was ''Oklahoma!'' in 1943. Faced with the prospect of designing costumes for cowhands and farmers at the turn of the century, he said: ''I simply didn't know how to do it. I didn't want to do it. I tried to say no.''
        With the help of a mail-order catalog of the period, he found the kind of outfits people in Oklahoma might have ordered. To that he added a certain stylization and a measure of satire, ''pointing up what Agnes de Mille was doing with the dances,'' and complementing Lemuel Ayers's scenery to create ''an American primitive style.''
        Theresa Helburn, a producer of the show for the Theater Guild, cited the costume highlights: ''Laurey's wedding gown, Ado Annie's gay pink flounces, the checkerboard suit of Ali Hakim, the peddler: all those warm blends of color and grace, which would cause such gasps of delight comment when the ballet swept onstage.''
        Mr. White was born in Oakland, Calif., and attended the University of California at Berkeley. When he could not find work in Hollywood he came to New York, and his theatricality led him naturally to Broadway. He made his debut in 1938 with the costumes for ''Right This Way,'' a show with music by Sammy Fain, immediately followed by uncredited designs for the Cole Porter musical  ''You Never Know.''
        While Mr. White was designing costumes at the Copacabana, George Abbott hired him for ''Best Foot Forward.'' Diversifying his palette, he also did ice shows for Sonja Henie,  Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey and ''The Pirate'' for Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne. In 1943 he did four shows, including the ''Ziegfeld Follies'' (with Milton Berle) and ''Oklahoma!'' Two years later he again worked with Rodgers and Hammerstein, creating the New England costumes for ''Carousel.''
        His work with the circus led to the Cecil B. de Mille movie ''The Greatest Show on Earth,'' for which he received the first of three Academy Award nominations. The others were for ''There's No Business Like Show Business'' and Mike Todd's ''Around the World in 80 Days.''
        Leading ladies wearing White costumes included Tallulah Bankhead, Carol Channing, Bette Davis and Lena Horne. He won Tony awards for the Harold Rome revue ''Bless You All'' in 1950 and Jule Styne's ''Hazel Flagg'' in 1953. Among his other shows were ''Bloomer Girl,'' ''The Day Before Spring,'' ''Jamaica,'' ''Take Me Along'' and ''The Unsinkable Molly Brown.''
        His last Broadway show was ''Tricks'' in 1973, but as musicals were revived, the productions occasionally reproduced his costumes. This was also the case with ''Fall River Legend'' for the American Ballet Theater. In 1989 he redesigned the ''High Button Shoes'' number for ''Jerome Robbins' Broadway.''
        Mr. White's costume sketches are in many museums, including the Museum of Modern Art, the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Museum of the City of New York.
        No immediate family members survive.
        In her book, ''Theater in America,'' Mary C. Henderson commented on how Mr. White's designs were molded by both dance and the circus. ''His costumes are constructed to move with the performer's body,  not an easy feat,'' she said. After ''Oklahoma!,'' she noted, he ''dominated musical comedy costuming for more than 25 years.''
      