
        Walter Fletcher, who covered dog shows for The New York Times for more than 60 years and became something of a celebrity in the sport, died yesterday at a hospital in Niceville, Fla., where he lived in a retirement community. He was 93.
        Mr. Fletcher, who covered more than 40 editions of the Westminster Kennel Club Show -- the sport's blue-ribbon event -- for The Times, died hours before the 124th annual show ended at Madison Square Garden. He was spotlighted on Monday in a taped television segment recounting the show's history.
        Mr. Fletcher was on the staff of The Times from 1927 to 1976, working as sportswriter, copy editor, picture editor and makeup editor. After retiring, he continued to cover major dog shows for The Times.
        In 1995, when he announced he was about to retire from all his writing activities, the Garden spotlight at the Westminster show picked him out and Roger Caras, the public-address announcer, told the spectators of Mr. Fletcher's long association with dog shows. He received a standing ovation and called it ''the most touching moment of my life.''
        By then, his aching knees did not allow him to stand too long at one time, so he covered Westminster's two-day show from a wheelchair. He fought off laptop technology, writing his stories on a battered portable typewriter.
        Mr. Fletcher had a keen knowledge of the sport's history. Covering the 1983 Westminster show, he wrote how ''the clock was turned back 26 years in Madison Square Garden last night when a black and tan Afghan, Ch. Kabik's The Challenger'' was named best in show. He noted that it was the first time an Afghan had won since 1957, when Ch. Shirkhan of Gradeur triumphed, and he told his readers how an Afghan is ''an aristocrat, dignified and aloof.''
        Although Mr. Fletcher's tall frame bent to advancing years, his expertise did not. Each year, after the Westminster field of 2,500 champions had been reduced to seven, he telephoned his office and told the editors to look for photos of a certain dog because he thought that dog would win best in show. For his last seven Westminsters, he picked the winner.
        Walter Ralph Fletcher was born May 20, 1906, in New York City. He received a bachelor's degree from City College, where he was the campus correspondent for The Times and The New York Post, then worked briefly as a copy editor for The Post before joining The Times.
        In the 1960's, he started spending most of his work time covering the dog-show world, with columns in the Thursday and Sunday papers and shows every weekend.
        He won frequent writing awards from the Dog Writers of America, in 1965 sweeping the prizes for reporting, columns and magazine articles.
        He received more mail than any other Times sports-department colleague. He advised generations of readers which breed of dog to buy and how to train a dog.
        When he lived on Long Island, he owned many dogs. They included a Dalmatian who won her championship as an 11-month-old puppy, a dachshund, a Boston Terrier and a golden retriever. When he moved to an apartment in Forest Hills, Queens, his dog-owning days ended because, he said, ''The city is no place for a dog.''
        Mr. Fletcher is survived by two sons, Winston, of Niceville, and Carey, of Honolulu, from his marriage to the former Rita Beers, and 11 grandchildren.
        ''He cared about the sport and knew about it,'' said Mr. Caras, the president of the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. ''He had a sense of humor. I once called him the Walter Lippmann of the hydrant set, and he loved it.''
      