
        Eva Julia Neer, a biochemist and heart researcher at Harvard University and Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, died on Sunday at her home in Cambridge, Mass. She was 62.
        The cause was complications from breast cancer, her family said.
        Dr. Neer was widely known for her investigations into the ways a certain class of proteins helps people see and smell, lets brain cells communicate and makes the body respond to hormones and most prescription drugs. In more than 30 years of research, she combined the tools of chemistry, biology, physics and molecular biology to explain how cells interpret the messages they get from light, hormones and neurotransmitters.
        Dr. Neer spent most of her professional life in the cardiovascular unit at the hospital and last went to her laboratory the week before she died, working on the last of her many scientific papers. She was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, its Institute of Medicine and the National Academy of Sciences.
        Born Eva Augenblick in Warsaw, she arrived in New York at age 8 and grew up in Queens and Scarsdale. She attended Radcliffe College, graduated from Barnard College in 1957 and received her medical degree at Columbia University in 1963.
        After finishing her internship and residencies, she joined the staff at Harvard as a researcher in biology in 1966. She was appointed an assistant professor in biochemistry at the medical school in 1976 and became a full professor in 1991.
        She joined what was then Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in 1976 as an associate in medicine and was named a biochemist at Brigham and Women's six years later. She also was associated with the American Heart Association as an investigator and with the biochemistry section of the National Institutes of Health, which gave her its N.I.H. Merit Award in 1989.
        Dr. Neer is survived by her husband, Dr. Robert Neer, and their two sons, Robert Jr. and Richard, all of Cambridge.
      