
        Richard G. Kleindienst, who was President Richard M. Nixon's attorney general for less than a year in the Watergate era and who pleaded guilty to a crime in a peripheral scandal, died today at his home in Prescott, Ariz. He was 76.
        The cause was lung cancer, his wife, Margaret, said.
        Mr. Kleindienst came to Washington in 1969 with the kind of conservative Republican credentials the new president loved. Mr. Kleindienst had a small-town background, he had been elected to the Arizona House of Representatives before he was 30, and he had worked on Barry Goldwater's presidential campaign in 1964.
        As deputy attorney general, Mr. Kleindienst took a hard line on law-and-order issues. He favored wiretaps in organized-crime cases or in threats to national security. He supported mass arrests of Vietnam War protesters.
        But even some of his critics credited him with pushing hard to recruit more black lawyers for the Justice Department, and Mr. Kleindienst made a point of sending his children to integrated public schools.
        He traced his concern for minorities to his childhood in Winslow, Ariz., which had many Mexican-Americans and Indians. As a child, he was cared for by a Navajo woman after his mother died, and he grew up fluent in Navajo.
        Mr. Kleindienst served in the Army Air Forces in Italy in World War II, then graduated magna cum laude from Harvard, where he also got his law degree.
        His undoing began when he was picked to succeed John N. Mitchell as attorney general after Mr. Mitchell resigned early in 1972 to lead the  Nixon re-election campaign. On March 8, 1972, Mr. Kleindienst was asked during his Senate confirmation hearings whether the White House had interfered with a Justice Department antitrust action against the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation.
        ''I was not interfered with by anybody at the White House,'' the nominee replied, repeatedly emphasizing his statement.
        He was confirmed on June 8, 1972, and sworn in on June 12, five days before the break-in at the Democratic headquarters in the Watergate office and apartment complex in Washington, a crime that eventually brought down the president.
        But Mr. Kleindienst's downfall came from his own words.
        The Justice Department had begun proceedings against ITT in 1969 over the corporation's acquisition of three companies. The department agreed to a settlement in 1971, and accusations arose that ITT got what it wanted in return for a pledge to help finance the Republican National Convention in San Diego in 1972.
        And as a White House tape later revealed, Nixon telephoned Mr. Kleindienst on April 19, 1971, and told him between expletives to drop the ITT case.
        ''Is that clear?'' the president asked.
        ''Yeah, I understand that,'' Mr. Kleindienst replied. Later, he acknowledged that John D. Ehrlichman, who was then Nixon's chief domestic affairs adviser, called a short time later to reiterate the president's order.
        On April 30, 1973, Mr. Kleindienst resigned as attorney general, saying too many of his close associates had been implicated in scandal for him to stay on. At that time, many high administration officials were under investigation.
        On May 16, 1974, Mr. Kleindienst pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge of refusing to testify accurately before the Senate. A few weeks later, he was fined $100 and given a 30-day suspended sentence by a judge who called Mr. Kleindienst a man of ''highest integrity'' but one who had ''a heart that is too loyal.''
        Mr. Kleindienst returned to Arizona to practice law. In 1981 he was acquitted of charges that he had perjured himself before the State Bar of Arizona about his knowledge of the crimes of a client who was convicted of an insurance swindle.
        He had been ill for about four years. Besides his wife, he is survived by two sons and two daughters.
        Though Mr. Kleindienst's name is loosely linked with the Watergate scandals, he actually thwarted efforts by Nixon aides to cover up their role in the break-in, according to E. Howard Hunt Jr., who helped organize the Watergate break-in and was later convicted of conspiracy.
        In a 1975 prison interview, Mr. Hunt recalled that another conspirator, G. Gordon Liddy, frantically tracked down Mr. Kleindienst at a Maryland golf club within hours of the Watergate break-in to tell him that people working for the president's re-election had been involved.
        Instead of calling the Federal Bureau of Investigation off the case, Mr. Kleindienst immediately called a top Justice Department official and decreed that any presidential campaign aides who were involved should be treated like anyone else, it was disclosed months later.
        And that, Mr. Hunt said, ended the Nixon camp's last best chance for a successful cover-up.
      