
        Carroll B. Cline, a lighting designer whose clients included the Santa Fe Opera Theater in Santa Fe, N.M., the Norman Rockwell Museum in Stockbridge, Mass., and the lobby of 1251 Avenue of the Americas, died Thursday at his home on the Upper West Side in Manhattan. He was 72.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Katherine D. Cline.
        Mr. Cline made glass walls glow, lighted floors from above so people would want to walk from one place to another, and knew not to use green translucent shades in people's homes. Green glass shades, he said, made the rosiest complexion look sickly. Neither did he use fluorescent light in kitchens because the light changed the color of food, making liver, for example, look inedible.
        In restaurants, he recommended candles on the tables, so people could see each other's faces. When people see each other only in silhouette, he said, they feel alienated.
        Mr. Cline, who was born in Richmond, Ind., was trained as an architect at the Institute of Design of the Illinois Institute of Technology, and worked for Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, the Manhattan architectural firm. In 1962, Skidmore loaned Mr. Cline to one of its clients, Edison Price, a lighting fixture manufacturer, where Mr. Cline became not only a vice president but also a lighting designer. Because of his architectural training, however, he was an empathetic, although occasionally devious, collaborator with other architects.
        When Mr. Cline worked with Robert A. M. Stern, the Manhattan architect who is now dean of the Yale School of Architecture, in designing the Ohrstrom Library at St. Paul's School in Concord, N.H., in the late 1980's, Mr. Stern wanted the lighting to be hanging pendants and table lamps. ''It was to evoke an old Ivy League school library, but had to be energy efficient,'' said Francesca Bettridge, a partner at Cline Bettridge Bernstein Lighting Design, which Mr. Cline founded in 1985.
        Mr. Cline wanted to use a new compact fluorescent bulb, but knew Mr. Stern didn't like fluorescent light. So Mr. Cline and Ms. Bettridge made two glass lamps, putting an incandescent bulb in one and a fluorescent one in the other. But with the latter, they also inserted a theatrical gel to alter the color. Asked to choose, Mr. Stern picked the fluorescent one -- disguised as incandescent.
        ''He was very endearing, he was a curmudgeon, and he was the most brilliant and creative lighting designer,'' said Paul Rosen, a Manhattan architect who worked with Mr. Cline on renovating the lobby at 1251 Avenue of the Americas in 1990. When different lighting designers were asked how to light the stained glass frieze -- magentas, yellows and blues -- that runs 200 feet just inside the glass exterior, 20 feet above the lobby floor, most of the designers had elaborate solutions. Mr. Cline did not. He suggested lighting the neutral white ceiling uniformly.
        ''When people are outside, the ceiling will illuminate the glass art,'' Mr. Rosen said. ''That to me was a sign of utter brilliance.'' He added, ''His solution was sort of underwhelming.''
        Mr. Cline was a tinkerer who took apart new sample light fixtures to see how they worked. Once when a fixture arrived without any explanation of how it was assembled, ''Carroll just sawed the fixture in half,'' Ms. Bettridge said.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Cline is survived by two children, Rachel K. Cline of Brooklyn and Henry L. Cline of Manhattan, from his first marriage, to Barbara Lovett. Other survivors include a twin sister, Dorothy Yunghans of Pittman, N.J., and a brother, Alan Cline of Sarasota, Fla.
      