
        Claude Autant-Lara, the director who made his name with films like ''Devil in the Flesh'' and ''The Red and the Black'' and who made an infamous foray into far-right politics late in his life, died on Saturday in a clinic in Antibes in the south of France. He was 98.
        One of France's most prolific directors, Mr. Autant-Lara made more than 30 films, many of which are classics of 1940's and 50's French cinema. His work, characterized by emphasis on plotting and dialogue and often based on literary adaptations, frequently attacked or ridiculed social institutions and made provocative jabs at bourgeois society. But in his lifetime, his politics veered 180 degrees. As a young man he was an avant-garde left-wing atheist. By the time he left politics in 1989 he was a member of France's far-right National Front party.
        Mr. Autant-Lara's career as a filmmaker reached its height in the 1950's with films like ''Le Diable au Corps'' (''Devil in the Flesh''), which scandalized France with its steamy account of an adolescent's affair with a young woman whose husband was away at war. The sensation of its day, the film condemned those who glorified adultery and tacitly criticized the war. The British banned it for six years, finally releasing it with an X rating. But the movie, starring Micheline Presle and Gerard Philipe, was also seen as capturing the cynical mood of the post-war generation and won several awards.
        Mr. Autant-Lara's best-known films also include ''Le Rouge et le Noir'' (''The Red and the Black''), based on Stendahl's novel, and ''La Traversee de Paris'' (its English title was ''Four Bags Full''), a black comedy about two men stealthily crossing Paris at night during the German occupation, trying to sell suitcases full of meat on the black market. He also directed ''Le Comte de Monte Cristo'' and ''En Cas de Malheur'' (''Love Is My Profession''), in which a young Brigitte Bardot lifts her skirt while flirting with a lawyer played by Jean Gabin.
        Born Claude Autant on Aug. 5, 1901, as an adult he combined his mother's and father's surnames. His architect father and actress mother both adored the theater. His mother held strong pacifist views, so unpopular in France during World War I that she took refuge in England with her son. As a teenager Mr. Autant-Lara returned to France, where he got his first film job painting sets for Marcel L'Herbier's film ''Carnaval des Verites.'' He made his first short films in the 1920's before heading to Hollywood in the 30's to supervise the French versions of Buster Keaton films, among others.
        Back in France in 1932, Mr. Autant-Lara directed his first feature-length film, ''Ciboulette,'' with Jacques Prevert, only to have the producers cut a half-hour out of it without telling him. The critics lambasted the film, and it was three years before he made another. But during World War II his career really took off with the witty and refined ''Le Mariage de Chiffon.''
        By the 1960's, Mr. Autant-Lara and his contemporaries in the French ''tradition of quality'' films came under sharp attack, notably from Francois Truffaut, who argued that their films were ''stale'' and relied too much on adaptation of old material. Though Mr. Autant-Lara continued making films into the 1970's, he was effectively eclipsed by the more vital French New Wave filmmakers. His last film, ''Gloria'' in 1977, was largely ignored by critics.
        Active in the 1950's as a spokesman for the film industry and later as the head of several film trade unions, he emerged on the national political scene in the late 80's. He was elected to the European Parliament in 1989 as a member of the National Front, though he soon resigned after the monthly magazine Globe quoted him as saying that a French politician who survived a concentration camp had been ''missed'' by the Nazis. He also cast doubt on the existence of Auschwitz and said he was glad the Israelis had a home and that he wished they would stay put there.
        Mr. Autant-Lara, who spent much of his life in the south of France, was married to Ghislaine Auboin, who died several years ago. They had no children.
      