
        A. E. van Vogt, a writer who smuggled raw emotion into modern science fiction, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 87 and lived in Los Angeles.
        Mr. van Vogt's most memorable stories were published from 1939 to 1951, a period often called science fiction's golden age. Like Isaac Asimov, Robert A. Heinlein and Arthur C. Clarke, he made his name in the monthly magazines known as pulps because of the inferior quality of their paper. The best science fiction of the 1940's and 50's celebrated the rational mind while evoking a sense of wonder about the vast universe revealed by modern science. In his own work Mr. van Vogt paid lip service to science and reason, but his heart was elsewhere.
        Alfred Elton van Vogt was born in 1912 on a farm in Manitoba, Canada. He was an avid reader who taught himself to write by studying how-to manuals from libraries. At 21 he began selling fictional ''confession'' pieces to pulp magazines like True Story.
        His first published science-fiction story, ''Black Destroyer,'' appeared in the July 1939 issue of Astounding Science Fiction. It began with the sentence, ''On and on Coeurl prowled.'' Coeurl turned out to be a catlike alien who preyed on other life forms by sucking out their ''id'' energy. In the alien's confrontation with a team of human explorers, reason won in the end, as it always did in Mr. van Vogt's stories. But what readers remembered was the way he plunged them directly into the center of Coeurl's ravening need. ''Black Destroyer'' has been cited as the inspiration for the movie ''Alien'' and its many sequels and imitations.
        After moving to the United States in 1944, Mr. van Vogt published ''Slan'' (1946), the story of a confrontation between the telepathic mutants known as slans and normal humans fearful of being displaced by their superhuman offspring. Among his other well-known works are ''The World of Null-A'' (1948) and ''The Weapon Shops of Isher'' (1951).
        Following his own dictum that a story should unfold in a sequence of 800-word scenes with one new idea per scene, Mr. van Vogt complicated his fast-moving narratives beyond comprehension. But even critics who mocked the absurdities of his plots and the awkwardness of his prose paid tribute to the emotional power of his dreamlike tales.
        He is survived by his wife, Lydia.
      