
        Walter H. Zinn, a nuclear physicist who oversaw construction of the world's first nuclear reactor as part of the Manhattan Project, pioneered the development of commercial atomic reactors and was the first director of the Argonne National Laboratory, died on Feb. 14 at a hospital in Clearwater, Fla. A former resident of Connecticut, he was 93.
        Dr. Zinn's career in nuclear engineering began in 1939 when Niels Bohr, the Danish physicist, told American colleagues that he thought the uranium atom could be split into roughly equal halves, with a great release of energy. He based his belief on experiments reported by German scientists the year before.
        The experiments were promptly confirmed by American scientists working at the cyclotron laboratory at Columbia University. Dr. Zinn worked there with Leo Szilard on another experiment that showed the possibility of chain reaction.
        But when the government decided in 1941 to proceed at full speed with the development of an atomic bomb, the Columbia laboratory proved too small for what was codenamed the Manhattan Project. The project was moved to a larger laboratory at the University of Chicago, where Dr. Zinn worked in utmost secrecy as a principal assistant to Enrico Fermi.
        Dr. Zinn oversaw the construction of the project's nuclear reactor, and the team achieved the first chain reaction in December 1942. He stayed with the Manhattan Project until 1946, when the Atomic Energy Commission created the Argonne center near Chicago to study and develop nuclear power for peaceful use. He was director of the laboratory from 1946 to 1956.
        At Argonne, Dr. Zinn focused on the production of electrical power with breeder reactors, which produce more nuclear fuel than they consume, and boiling-water reactors. His laboratory's boiling-water designs served as prototypes for General Electric power plants still in operation in this country and Japan.
        He was the author of books and articles on his field. His work earned him an Atoms-for-Peace Award in 1960 and the energy commission's Enrico Fermi Award in 1969.
        After he left Argonne, he remained a White House adviser, formed his own consulting firm and kept working on reactor designs. He retired in 1970 as vice president for the nuclear energy division of what is now the Swiss-owned ABB Combustion Engineering of Windsor, Conn., but served as a director until 1986.
        Walter Zinn was born in Kitchener, Ontario, and graduated from Queens University in Ontario in 1927. He received an M.A. there in 1930 and a Ph.D. at Columbia in 1934. From 1932 until his move to Chicago with the Manhattan Project, he taught at City College.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary Pratt Zinn, two sons, a stepson and eight grandchildren. His first wife, Jennie Smith Zinn, died in 1964.
      