
        Anatoly A. Sobchak, the former mayor of St. Petersburg and democratic reformer who gave Acting President Vladimir V. Putin his start in public life, died of a heart attack this morning, officials said. He was 62.
        Mr. Sobchak, who underwent treatment for heart problems for several years, died while in Kaliningrad, Russia's Baltic Sea enclave, where he had been sent as a personal representative of Mr. Putin.
        A television report this evening said Mr. Putin, who had been Mr. Sobchak's student in law school and his deputy mayor in St. Petersburg, had sent a special plane to Kaliningrad to bring the former mayor's body back to St. Petersburg for burial.
        Mr. Sobchak emerged as a leading member of Russia's democratic movement in the late 1980's, together with Boris N. Yeltsin, who became Russia's first elected president in 1991.
        In that same year Mr. Sobchak became the first elected mayor of Leningrad, Russia's second-largest city. After the collapse of a Communist-backed coup that summer, Mr. Sobchak renamed his native city St. Petersburg, the name it bore when it was Russia's imperial capital.
        With his legal knowledge and lucid, eloquent speeches, Mr. Sobchak was one of the best-known spokesmen for the democratic movement, at home and abroad.
        After Mr. Yeltsin's violent showdown with his opponents in Parliament in October 1993, Mr. Sobchak was called on to help draft a new Constitution, which provided Mr. Yeltsin with the system of strong presidential power that Mr. Putin has now inherited.
        In a condolence message to Mr. Sobchak's wife, Lyudmila Narusova, and their daughter, Ksenya, Mr. Yeltsin praised the former mayor as ''an extraordiary personality, a highly educated person who firmly upheld his positions.''
        ''His special service was his participation in the work on the Constitution that laid the foundation of Russia's new statehood,'' Mr. Yeltsin said.
        As mayor of St. Petersburg, Mr. Sobchak traveled abroad extensively, promoting his city as a future financial capital of Russia and drumming up sponsors to save its graceful palaces and cultural legacy from further decay and collapse.
        But while Moscow, St. Petersburg's historic rival, thrived during the early years of Russia's economic transformation, with new high-rises clogging its skyline and luxury shops and restaurants opening in its downtown streets, St. Petersburg lagged behind, looking ever more bedraggled and forlorn.
        In 1996 the city's voters turned in their verdict on Mr. Sobchak's term as mayor and voted him out of office, electing his archrival and former deputy, Vladimir Yakovlev, in his place.
        In that period Mr. Sobchak came under heavy attack in the press and by investigators, mainly on charges that he arranged for friends and relatives to acquired city-owned apartments on preferential terms.
        Although the charges were relatively minor compared with the compromising material that has since surfaced against other Russian public figures, they tarnished not only Mr. Sobchak's reputation, but also that of the democratic movement generally.
        In November 1997, Mr. Sobcak left Russia for Paris after falling ill while being questioned by federal prosecutors. His wife, then a member of Parliament, said he had left the country to seek adequate medical treatment. He spent a year and a half in voluntary exile in France, returning to Russia only last summer, a month before Mr. Putin was appointed prime minister.
        Greeted by more than 100 journalists at the St. Petersburg airport, the former mayor, as exuberant as ever, said he would never go away again. ''You don't need to rush,'' he said, ''because I have returned forever. I have arrived in my city, and I am happy to be home.''
        By late last year the criminal charges against him were dropped, and Mr. Sobchak appeared ready for a return to national politics, helped by his former protege and law student, Mr. Putin. But the former mayor and his wife lost separate bids for Parliament in elections last December, and he instead accepted a position as legal adviser to the Kremlin.
        In eulogies broadcast tonight on Russian television, several leading Russian political figures, including former Prime Minister Sergei V. Stepashin and Anatoly B. Chubais, author of Russia's privatization program, both natives of St. Petersburg, said the corruption charges had taken their toll on Mr. Sobchak and weakened his health.
        Both pointedly mentioned his accusers by name, including a former national prosecutor general, Yuri I. Skuratov.
        ''Sobchak was unlike most politicians,'' Mr. Stepashin said. ''Most politicians sometimes choose to remain quiet, or to pretend. Sobchak said what he thought. ''
        His supporters said Mr. Sobchak had keenly felt the betrayal of many of his old allies, which made him all the more grateful for the loyalty of others -- like Mr. Putin, who stood by the former mayor after his defeat in 1996.
        The two men had first met at Leningrad State University in the 1970s, where Mr. Sobchak, a law professor, taught Mr. Putin in a course on economic law as the younger man prepared himself for a career in the K.G.B., the Soviet state security agency.
        They became better acquainted in the late 1980's, when Mr. Putin, returning from a K.G.B. tour in East Germany, took a top administrative job at the university. He was later recommended to the city's new mayor, who chose him to run his international affairs office.
      