
        Dr. Clifford H. Keene, a health care executive who helped build the Kaiser Permanente system of staff doctors, hospitals and clinics into the nation's largest nonprofit provider of health care, died Jan. 25 at the Hospice of the Central Coast Counties in Monterey, Calif. He was 89.
        Dr. Keene, a surgeon, was president and chief executive of the Kaiser Foundation Hospitals and Health Plan from 1968 to 1975. The health maintenance organization was one of the models for federal legislation, starting in 1974, that encouraged the eventual national shift from the traditional fee-for-service practice of doctors and hospitals to prepaid care in managed health plans.
        Dr. Keene was also an adviser to medical and business schools. He served on visiting committees to the medical schools of Harvard, Stanford and the University of Michigan and advisory councils of the Harvard and Stanford business schools. He was also one of the initial 110 members of the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences.
        Born in Buffalo on Jan. 28, 1910, he became a journeyman iron worker after high school and liked to display his union card in the Bridge and Structural Iron Workers. He was a dues-paying member until he finished his medical studies. He graduated from the University of Michigan in 1931 and the University of Michigan Medical School in 1934.
        In World War II, he was the surgeon and medical administrator for the 24th Corps of the United States Army in the Pacific. After the war, he was medical director for the Kaiser-Frazer automobile company in Willow Run, Mich.
        In 1954, the industrialist Henry Kaiser asked him to head the northern California region of the Kaiser health care system. In 1960, he became vice president and general manager of Kaiser Foundation Hospitals and the Kaiser Foundation Health Plan and a vice president of Kaiser Industries. He supervised expansion of Kaiser units in San Diego, Los Angeles, Honolulu and Portland, Ore. He retired from the Kaiser board in 1980.
        Jean Kramer Keene, his wife of 60 years, died in 1994.
        Survivors include his second wife, Mary Oliver Dixon, of Monterey; a sister, Harriet Krueger, of Sarasota, Fla.; three daughters, Patricia Ann Kneedler of Fort Worth, Martha Jane Sproule of Palos Park, Ill., and Diane Eve Simonds of St. Helena, Calif.; seven grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
      