
        Roger Vadim, the French film director who turned Brigitte Bardot into an overnight star and potent sex symbol in his first movie, ''And God Created Woman,'' died today in a Paris hospital. He was 72.
        Friends said he had died of cancer.
        During a 40-year career in which he directed some 25 movies, Mr. Vadim never became an art house favorite. But his 1956 debut earned him a permanent place in postwar French cinema because of Ms. Bardot's daring performance as a young married woman in search of sexual freedom and the protests over the film's explicit sensuality.
        One scene in which Ms. Bardot danced barefoot on a table like a wild Carmen is often cited as a breakthrough in what was considered permissible to show on screen. ''There was really nothing shocking in what Brigitte did,'' the director said three decades later. ''What was provocative was her natural sensuality.''
        Many of Mr. Vadim's subsequent films were also erotic, but he remained in the limelight as much because of his amorous ties to a succession of beautiful young actresses whose careers he promoted and whose lives he temporarily shared, among them Annette Stroyberg, Catherine Deneuve and Jane Fonda  as well as Ms. Bardot. Angie Dickinson, Jeanne Moreau and Susan Sarandon also appeared in his films.
        Among his best-known films are ''No Sun in Venice'' (1958) with Francoise Arnoul and an original score by the Modern Jazz Quartet;  ''Les Liaisons Dangereuses'' (1961) starring Ms. Stroyberg; ''Blood and Roses'' (1960) with Ms. Stroyberg; ''Vice and Virtue'' (1962) with Ms. Deneuve; and ''Barbarella'' (1968) with Ms. Fonda. In 1972 he made ''Don Juan 73,'' in which a woman (Ms. Bardot) played the famous seducer. His last feature film, in 1988, was a remake of ''And God Created Woman'' starring Rebecca DeMornay.
        President Jacques Chirac of France said today of Mr. Vadim:  ''Apart from an original and important body of work, which sometimes rocked minds, he was more than anyone else, the filmmaker of life, of passion for life, of liberty. He hatched new talents and knew how to create myths, aided by some of the greatest actresses of the past few decades.''
        Born in Paris on Jan. 26, 1928, Roger Vladimir Plemiannikov first aspired to become an actor, entering drama school alongside Marcel Marceau. He then tried his hand as a journalist before working as an assistant director on several movies. At the age of 21, he met Ms. Bardot, a schoolgirl of striking beauty who was six years his junior. In 1952 when he was 24 and Ms. Bardot was 18, they married.
        Ms. Bardot had already appeared in several small films when Mr. Vadim directed her in ''And God Created Woman,'' in which she played a woman who marries to escape life in an orphanage only to fall for her husband's younger brother, played by Jean-Louis Trintignant. ''I wanted to show a normal young girl whose only difference was that she behaved in the way a boy might, without any sense of guilt on a moral or sexual level,'' Mr. Vadim said.
        After his marrige to Ms. Bardot fell apart in 1957, he married Ms. Stroyberg, with whom he had his first child, Nathalie. After that marriage failed, Mr. Vadim lived with Ms. Deneuve, with whom he had a son, Christian, now also an actor. In 1967 the director married Ms. Fonda, for whom he made the avant-garde science-fiction movie ''Barbarella.'' They had a daughter, Vanessa. Mr. Vadim's fourth marriage, to Catherine Schneider, came eight years later; they had a daughter, Vania. In 1990 he married the actress Marie-Christine Barrault, who survives him along with his four children.
        In the 1990's Mr. Vadim dedicated himself principally to made-for-television mini-series. He also wrote a book of memoirs, ''D'une Etoile a  l'Autre,'' or ''From One Star to the Next,'' in which he recounted his playboy life and his marriages and spoke of his difficulty remaining faithful to his partners.
        Indeed, it is perhaps as much for his gossip-magazine lifestyle as his discovery of Ms. Bardot that he may be remembered.
        ''Because of the laziness of this otherwise intelligent director, Vadim's life's work creates an impression of superficiality, if not actual mediocrity,'' a French cinema dictionary noted. But, it added, his talent in discovering women stars cannot be denied.
      