
        Samuel S. Schreiber, an urban traffic engineer who became a major force in the conversion of the old trolley lines to modern bus systems in New York, Yonkers and other cities across the country, died Tuesday in Stamford, Conn., after a long illness. He was 91.
        ''He was a pioneer,'' said Arthur Bernacchia, an owner of Liberty Lines, the transit company that bought out Mr. Schreiber's interest in the Yonkers Transit Corporation in the early 1970's. There were others who operated bus systems, but Mr. Schreiber ''was the first to have them properly financed, equipped, managed and maintained,'' he said. ''Most people look back while he looked ahead.''
        Mr. Schreiber's breakthrough, Mr. Bernacchia explained, was his recognation in the late 1940's that mass transportation was at the threshold of a revolution. Electric trolleys had become overly expensive not just because of the high cost of tracks, power lines and electrical generating plants, but as fixed-route vehicles that could not adjust with the growth of the city as cheaply as could buses.
        In 1948, Mr. Schreiber, already a nationally known authority on mass transit, was appointed general manager of the Third Avenue Transit Corporation which was bankrupt and carried 1.8 million riders a day in Manhattan, the Bronx and lower Westchester. Mr. Schreiber sucessfully converted the trolley company into a profitable bus system.
        In 1952, he and other investors founded the Yonkers Railroad Company to take over and convert the Third Avenue Transit branch in Yonkers into a bus operation. He ran the company, later known as the Yonkers Transit Corporation, until 1972, when it was consolidated with other bus operations in lower Westchester County.
        Samuel Sol Schreiber was born in Butler, Pa., on May 23, 1908, and grew up in Pasadena, Calif., and Cleveland. He was trained as a civil engineer at Case Western Reserve.
        Between 1938 and 1943, he was in charge of the trolley system in Cleveland. He then moved to New York,  where he was a consulting engineer at Gilman & Company. There, he developed the financial model used to convert trolley systems into bus systems in many cities throughout the United States.
        Mr. Schreiber is survived by his wife, Phyllis; 2 sons, James of Greenwich, Conn., and Dale of Rye, N.Y.; 12 grandchildren; and 2 great-grandchildren.
      