
        Filomen D'Agostino Greenberg, a self-taught stock trader who used her good fortune to help her alma mater, New York University Law School, grow into an academic leader, died Friday. She was 101 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        Arriving from Coney Island one morning in 1917 to start classes, Fil D'Agostino -- as she was called by friends -- found five small rooms crammed into a single building east of Washington Square Park in Greenwich Village. Fresh out of high school, she got a $3-a-week clerk's job and received her law degree in 1920.
        While she was practicing negligence and criminal law, she married Max Greenberg, a 1919 New York University law graduate who became a highly successful expert in contract law; he died in 1980.
        In World War II, Mrs. Greenberg worked as a government censor. One day she came across a letter filled with arcane abbreviations and fractions that read like code. She realized that she was looking at stock-market quotations. Her interest piqued, she reached for the daily paper, and a new carer opened up.
        Since her husband showed no interest in the market, she pursued it on her own, but they both began many years of strong financial support for the law school. She continued her investments, and her donations, after her husband's death.
        By 1990, her gifts totaled more than $6 million, which made her the school's biggest benefactor at the time. Her help made possible the Filomen D'Agostino Residence Hall for about 370 students; its inspiration was her difficult trip back and forth from Brooklyn every day when she was a student. Her help also financed the Greenberg Lounge on the campus, the Greenberg Faculty Research Fund and the Greenberg Professorship in Contract Law.
        She is survived by a sister, Deborah Johnston.
        Law, Mrs. Greenberg once said, was not her first career choice. ''I wanted to study medicine,'' she said, ''but no school in New York would admit a woman, and my family was too poor to send me away to study.''
      