
        Beau Jack, a one-time Georgia shoeshine boy who became the world lightweight champion and Madison Square Garden's biggest boxing draw of the 1940's, then toiled again at a bootblack's stand when the cheering stopped, died Wednesday at a nursing home in Miami. He was 78.
        The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, his family said.
        In the years when the old Garden at Eighth Avenue and 50th Street was boxing's mecca, crowds of 18,000 and more roared for a young man from Augusta, Ga., who wasn't especially powerful or superbly skillful. What enthralled the fight fans was his sheer energy, the flurries of punches he threw from the opening bell to the final round.
        He was born Sidney Walker in Augusta, but a grandmother who raised him called him Beau Jack, and he found fame -- if not fortune -- fighting all the great lightweights of his era. He was a main-event attraction at the Garden 21 times, more than any other fighter, he won and lost the lightweight (135-pound) title twice, and he drew what is evidently the biggest gate in boxing history -- almost $35.9 million in War Bond purchases -- fighting at the Garden as an Army private in 1944.
        ''People have to want to see you fight,'' Beau Jack said years later. ''When they learned about this little boy from Georgia named Beau Jack, they loved me, because they found out that I would fight every second of every round and never give up.''
        During the 1930's, wealthy white men in the South amused themselves by placing a group of perhaps 6 to 10 young men, usually blacks, blindfolded inside a ring for a battle royal. The youngsters would slug away until only one was standing, and then the coins would shower down. After Beau Jack, who had shined shoes at the Augusta National Golf Club, showed his prowess in one such battle, club members -- including the renowned golfer Bobby Jones -- bankrolled his entry into pro boxing.
        Beau Jack made his pro debut in May 1940 and fought most of his early bouts in Holyoke, Mass., while managed by Chick Wergeles, a New York City publicity man, who would take him to the Garden.
        He captured the vacant lightweight title in December 1942 when he knocked out Tippy Larkin in three rounds at the Garden, the site of all his title bouts. He lost the title to Bob Montgomery in May 1943, won it back the following November, then lost it in March 1944, all three bouts with Montgomery going 15 rounds.
        Beau Jack fought in bouts drawing the five largest crowds of 1943 at the Garden, among them victories over the former champions Henry Armstrong, who had once tutored him, and Fritzie Zivic.
        On Aug. 4, 1944, two days after Beau Jack and Montgomery were inducted into the Army, they fought at the Garden -- without purses -- to raise money for the war effort. The admission fee was the purchase of War Bonds from $25 to $100,000, bringing the record receipts, as Beau Jack won a nontitle decision.
        Beau Jack returned to the ring in December 1945 and had one more shot at the lightweight title, losing to the champion, Ike Williams, on a sixth-round knockout in July 1948. By then, he was hampered by a bad knee, having broken his left kneecap when his foot caught in the canvas and he went down for the first time in his career in his fight with Tony Janiro in February 1947. Beau Jack had kept fighting, though he could hardly stand, until the bout was stopped in the fourth round.
        He retired in 1951, then came back for four fights in 1955 before leaving professional boxing for good. He won 83 fights (40 by knockouts) and lost 24 with 5 draws. And he showed remarkable stamina, fighting three main events in one month -- a 15-round loss to Montgomery and 10-round decisions over Al Davis and Juan Zurita in March 1944.
        It is unclear how much money Beau Jack made and lost. When he left the ring, he was said to have had 15 children to support. Five survive him -- his sons Michael Walker and Gregory Walker and three daughters, Chonita Walker, Chauneille Sykes and Georgiana McCartney.
        Beau Jack returned to Georgia when he left the ring, tended to a small farm, then went back to shining shoes. For more than 25 years, he had a stand at the Fontainebleau and Doral hotels in Miami Beach, and he also washed dishes there. But he reprised his ring years at the old Fifth Street gymnasium in Miami Beach, where he tutored fighters.
        ''Don't be having no pity for me,'' he once said. ''I've been to the top of the mountain. I was champion of the world. I've worked hard all my life, and I'm happy doing what I'm doing. It's an honest job and a good living -- and I met a lot of nice people.''
        The sports columnist Jimmy Cannon visited Beau Jack one day in 1964 at the Fontainebleau and would recall the courage Beau Jack showed fighting Janiro with a broken kneecap. ''Some of his customers still call him the Champ,'' Cannon wrote in The New York Journal-American. ''But many address him as boy. They couldn't have seen him fight because there was never more of a man.''
      