
        Daniel T. Scannell, a former police officer who worked his way up to become head of New York City's subway and bus system and later held nearly every important executive job at the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, died Tuesday at the Mary Manning Walsh nursing home in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Jamaica Estates, Queens.
        More than any other official in recent history, Mr. Scannell was the institutional memory of the city's sprawling transportation system, where he had a hand in changes as diverse as the first color coding of subway lines, installing air-conditioning in trains and creating the MetroCard fare system.
        He was also one of the transportation agency's main labor negotiators through many years of rocky relations between unions and the city, including 1966, when workers walked out for 12 days, creating what was then the costliest transportation strike in the nation's history.
        At various times toward the end of his 45-year transit career, Mr. Scannell (whose name rhymes with channel) threatened to retire. But he did not step down as first vice chairman of the transportation authority's board until November.
        And until suffering a stroke in July, he worked every day in his Madison Avenue office next door to E. Virgil Conway, the authority's chairman, who described him as ''the dean of urban transit, a great personal friend and an invaluable leader of the M.T.A.''
        Mr. Scannell's transportation career began in 1955, two years after the Transit Authority was created and the first subway tokens were minted. He left the New York City corporation counsel's office to become general counsel for the authority. He then became one of the three commissioners who ran the authority until it was absorbed by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority in 1968.
        From 1971 to 1975, when the city's fiscal crisis began, he was in charge of the subways and buses. He left that job in frustration, one of his colleagues said at the time, because of the ''continuing grinding financial plight'' that made keeping trains and buses running at all a daily struggle.
        But he did not stay away long. After a brief stint in private legal practice, he returned to transportation when he was appointed a member of the M.T.A. board by Gov. Hugh L. Carey in the fall of 1975. In 1980, he was named first vice chairman of the board, a position created for him and the one he held until his retirement.
        In the course of numerous personnel changes at the agencies controlled by the M.T.A., Mr. Scannell became what he described as the ultimate ''utility infielder'' on the board, stepping in briefly as acting president of the Long Island Rail Road in 1981 and then acting president of the Transit Authority in 1983.
        That same year, when Richard Ravitch stepped down as M.T.A. chairman, Mr. Scannell also became acting chairman -- holding the three positions simultaneously and becoming, in essence, his own boss in two of them. He was acting president of the Metro-North Railroad from 1998 until last year.
        Daniel Thomas Scannell was born and raised in the Bronx, the son of a city police lieutenant who immigrated from County Kerry in Ireland. His mother, the former Eleanor Walsh, from County Cork, was known among friends and the family's neighbors along the Grand Concourse as the duchess because of her regal bearing and the informal intellectual salons she presided over in the family's apartment when Mr. Scannell was young.
        Mr. Scannell studied accounting at Fordham University, but then left a job as an accountant after college to join the police force, where the salary was higher, about $3,000 a year. He attended Fordham Law School at night while on the force.
        In 1947, he joined the corporation counsel's office, where he worked for eight years and argued four cases before the United States Supreme Court.
        But he found his calling when he  joined the Transit Authority, now known as New York City Transit.
        ''It was his life, actually,'' said his daughter, Maureen Scannell Bateman, who recalled that he would often accompany repair crews onto the subway tracks to get a firsthand look at problems.
        His other obsessions, though they paled in comparison, she said, were the opera, reading and physical fitness.
        Besides Ms. Bateman, of Manhattan, Mr. Scannell is survived by his wife, the former Gertrude Lally; another daughter, Joan McMurry of Short Hills, N.J.; a son, Danny, of Jamaica Estates; and five grandchildren. Another son, Robert, of Montclair, N.J., died in 1994.
      