
        Barney Childs, a composer and teacher, died on Jan. 11 at his home in Redlands, Calif. He was 73.
        The cause was Parkinson's disease, said his friend and colleague, Phillip Rehfeldt.
        Born in Spokane, Wash., Mr. Childs grew up there and in Palo Alto, Calif. He studied at the University of Nevada and at Oxford and Stanford Universities, taking courses in English as well as music. Later he taught in both fields. In composition, though, he was self-taught until he was in his late 20's when he studied with Aaron Copland and Carlos Chavez at Tanglewood and Elliott Carter in New York. By the late 1950's his music was gaining national recognition.
        Meanwhile he had begun teaching  at the University of Arizona, where he worked from 1956 to 1965. He became the dean of Deep Springs College in California, and composer in residence at the Wisconsin College Conservatory before taking a post at  Redlands University in California. In 1989 he was a visiting lecturer at Goldsmiths College at the University of London.
        His musical enthusiasms were broad, and they all left a mark on his compositions, which embraced the mainstream masters of his early years, like Hindemith, along with Ives, Cage and jazz. Cage's influence was a particular liberation, leading Mr. Childs to engage the performer in more or less free music making. Among Mr. Childs's many works are two symphonies, concertos for clarinet and timpani, quintets for wind and brass, string quartets and other chamber pieces.
        He wrote numerous articles and was a co-editor, with the composer Elliott Schwartz, of one of the central sourcebooks for music of the late 20th century, ''Contemporary Composers on Contemporary Music.'' Between 1964 and 1982 he also ran Advance Recordings, which provided an outlet to experimental composers like Richard Maxfield, Harold Budd and Robert Ashley.
        He is survived by two daughters, Dirje Smith of Flint, Tex., and Margaret Childs of Las Vegas.
      