
        Pablo Elvira, a Puerto Rican-born baritone who became a regular member of the New York City Opera in the 1970's and 80's and sang frequently with the Metropolitan Opera, died on Saturday at his home in Bozeman, Mont. He was 62.
        A coroner's report said that he died of natural causes.
        Born on Sept. 24, 1937, in San Juan, Mr. Elvira was the son of a dance orchestra leader and began his musical life playing trumpet in his father's group. Later he formed his own jazz band.
        A meeting with the Puerto Rican cellist and conductor Pablo Casals led to his pursuing a career as an opera singer. In 1960 Casals finished work on a biblical oratorio, ''El Pessebre,'' one of the cellist's small body of compositions. Needing five soloists for a recording and tour of the work, Casals heard Mr. Elvira audition and asked him to sing the baritone part.
        One of Mr. Elvira's most memorable performances of ''El Pessebre'' came in 1969, when Casals, by then 92, conducted it in Jerusalem before an audience of 3,000.
        In 1966, while participating in the Metropolitan Opera Auditions in New York, Mr. Elvira was heard by the dean of the Indiana University School of Music in Bloomington, who asked the young baritone to join the voice faculty. Mr. Elivra remained there for eight years teaching and performing. In 1972 he sang the title role in the world premiere of John Eaton's opera ''Heracles,'' which inaugurated the university's 1,460-seat Musical Arts Center.
        He left Bloomington in 1974, toured and performed in Europe and then moved to New York, where he made his debut that year with City Opera as Germont in Verdi's ''Traviata.'' He performed often with the company, notably as Enrico in Donizetti's ''Lucia di Lammermoor'' in a production that starred Beverly Sills. He won praise for his robust though not large voice, focused tone, solid technique and generally lively acting.
        His Met debut came in 1979 as Tonio. There he was heard as Lescaut in Puccini's ''Manon Lescaut'' with Renata Scotto and Placido Domingo in 1980 and as Rossini's Figaro opposite Marilyn Horne in 1982, among other roles. His final Met performance was as Figaro in 1990.
        His last appearance at City Opera was in 1989 as the title character in Verdi's ''Rigoletto.'' Mr. Elvira is survived by his wife, Signe; a son, Pablo; and two brothers.
        Correction:  February 16, 2000, Wednesday  An obituary of the baritone Pablo Elvira on Friday misstated the nationality of the cellist and conductor Pablo Casals, who invited him to sing an early Casals composition. Although Casals lived for many years in Puerto Rico, he was Spanish.
      