
        Retired Lt. Gen. Claude Raymond, a feared chief of staff of the Haitian Army and minister of the interior and defense during the successive dictatorships of Francois (Papa Doc) Duvalier and his son, Jean-Claude (Baby Doc), died in the Haitian capital, Port-au-Prince, either Sunday or Wednesday, according to reports from Haiti. His age was given as 70.
        General Raymond had been imprisoned without trial by the current Haitian authorities since July 1996, although courts had called three times for his release, citing lack of evidence.
        His lawyer, Constantin Mayard-Paul, described him as a political prisoner. The International Civilian Mission, whose task is to watch over the respect of human rights in Haiti, protested against his continued detention.
        He died from a kidney ailment, Agence France-Presse reported. He was transferred to St. Francois de Sales Hospital in Port-au-Prince from the national penitentiary shortly before his death.
        General Raymond, trained in Mexico, was appointed chief of the Haitian Army late in the elder Duvalier's life, when he was seeking to reinforce the transfer of power to his son.
        The general became defense and interior minister under the younger Duvalier, 19 when he came to power in 1971 after the death of his father,  who had ruled Haiti for more than a decade.
        But General Raymond held his posts only briefly. Jean-Claude Duvalier who was forced into exile in France after a popular uprising in 1986.
        The general tried to run for president in 1987, 1988 and 1990. But each time he was barred by Haiti's electoral authorities. They declared, in disqualifying him in 1987, that he had been a key figure in Jean-Claude Duvalier's tyrannical government. Haiti's 1987 Constitution bars criminal supporters of past dictators from running for office until 1997.
        In 1996 General Raymond, who still enjoyed some prestige among the ranks, was arrested while attending a voodoo festival in Haiti's Central Plateau area. He was accused of committing ''terrorist acts in the framework of a process to destabilize public authority and order.''
        His imprisonment ensued. Many Haitians suspected that he had overseen the fatal shooting and hacking of a number of voters by what has been called a death squad at Argentine Bellegarde High School in Port-au-Prince at election time in 1987. He denied the accusations.
        The general's son, Claude Raymond Jr., contended on the radio at the time that his father's arrest was ''a vast joke,'' and declared that his father was ''retired from political life.''
        At that point General Raymond was considered one of the main ''neo-Duvalierist'' political figures. But in an interview in 1990 he described himself as just one of several democratically inclined candidates who were pinning their hopes for an end to chaos in Haiti on the elections in November 1990.
        During the interview the general seemed to take umbrage at questions about his involvement in political violence, including the 1987 high school killings.
        ''I don't want arms at all in my camp,'' he said, speaking in Port-au-Prince at a former hotel, where he lived. While two dozen rough-hewn, bored-looking men sat in the lobby area outside, he said, ''I have been attacked too many times to tolerate the presence of arms in my entourage.''
        Information about survivors was not immediately available.
      