
        Gus Johnson, a drummer for some of the great jazz bands from the 1930's to the 50's, including those led by Count Basie and Benny Goodman, died on Sunday at Clear Creek Care Center in Westminster, Colo. He was 86 and lived in North Glen, Colo.
        Mr. Johnson was one of the most highly rated swing drummers of his day. Born in Tyler, Tex., he moved to Kansas City, Mo., after high school, worked in a vocal quartet and then became an itinerant musician. He worked with Jo Jones in Omaha and the pianist Ernest (Speck) Redd in Iowa, then returned to Kansas City in 1938 to join Jay McShann's group during the period when Charlie Parker was its star alto player, staying until 1943. After two years of Army service, he played with Eddie (Cleanhead) Vinson in Chicago and with the last edition of Earl Hines's big band in New York.
        The trombonist and singer Clyde E. B. Bernhardt, who appeared with Mr. Johnson and the McShann band at the Savoy Ballroom in New York, recalled in his memoirs that Mr. Johnson ''was exciting to see'' and ''had a way of soaking his slick hair with a wet towel before one of his wild solos'' so that the water would ''come spraying off like sweat.''
        In 1948 Mr. Johnson joined the Basie organization, replacing Jo Jones, one of the original builders of the band's signature rhythmic drive. Basie was Mr. Johnson's steady employer until Mr. Johnson was stricken with appendicitis in December 1954, at which point he was replaced by Sonny Payne.
        After that, Mr. Johnson became a freelancer, keeping a few extended jobs with singers like Ella Fitzgerald and Lena Horne. He recorded with Woody Herman, Charlie Byrd and Gerry Mulligan, among others. In the early 70's he played with the World's Greatest Jazz Band, a classic-jazz repertory group founded by Yank Lawson and Bob Haggart. In the 60's and 70's, when he wasn't playing, he served as an auxiliary police officer in the Bronx.
        In 1973 Mr. Johnson moved to Colorado, where he performed in many of the Colorado Jazz Parties organized by the producer Dick Gibson.
        He is survived by his wife, Mildred E. Johnson of North Glen; three daughters, Michelle Braxton of Aurora, Colo., Amelia von Hauer of Los Angeles and Marcia E. Johnson of North Glen; a son, Gus III, of Los Angeles, and four grandchildren.
      