
        Sam Osman, who emerged from the throng of pushcart peddlers on the Lower East Side of Manhattan to become the founder of Job Lot Trading, a legendary emporium with a staggeringly unpredictable mix of ultracheap merchandise, died Tuesday at a Manhattan hospital, his son Robby said. He was 88.
        Mr. Osman made Job Lot a pioneer, one imitated by Odd Job and Odd Lot, among others, in the idiosyncratic, competitive business of feeding off capitalism's castoffs. Job Lot's merchandise included thousands upon thousands of items from unsuccessful sales promotions, salvage merchandise from ships and goods bought from bankrupt companies and United States Customs Service auctions.
        ''Our business is other people's mistakes,'' Mr. Osman once said.
        All the mistakes were magically transformed into potentially attractive merchandise by tagging them with low prices. Like the times Mr. Osman was able to snag 50,000 or so name-brand handballs. He would offer them for a dime at a time when more conventional stores wanted $1.50.
        ''You'd start making up reasons to buy handballs,'' said his son Robby, who lives in Oakland, Calif. ''Or you'd kick yourself for having missed it.''
        It was impulse shopping at its most impulsive, with nobody being sure whether the lure was the rock-bottom prices or never knowing what would be on sale. On any given day, bargains might range from fishing poles to perfume, toboggan wax to musical piggy banks. An employee once said the only items Job Lot had not sold were houses, cars and airplanes.
        Mr. Osman was born on June 18, 1911, to immigrant parents, and found his first job at 15 in a sweatshop. He had been held back in school for two years and dropped out in eighth grade. ''Teachers then did not understand learning disabilities,'' he once wrote in a letter to a newspaper.
        Soon he was peddling from a pushcart on Orchard Street on the Lower East Side.
        ''What did people like me do -- people who had limited opportunity for employment?'' he wrote. ''Some resorted to selling drugs, others to grinding out a living with a pushcart. So off I went with mine.''
        He breathed a sigh of relief when he finally got a license and was able to peddle legally. He always called the certificate his Harvard diploma.
        ''You have no idea what a thrill it was to get that license,'' he told The New York Times Magazine in 1980. ''Before then I was a 'floater.' I'd go out every morning like a gladiator, with my heart throbbing, wondering where I was going to stay, who I was going to have to fight to move over, whether the cops would chase me. But that license entitled me to two and a half yards of designated space on Orchard Street. I could earn maybe $4 or $5 a day. I had it made.''
        Mr. Osman opened a small basement store on Allen Street on the Lower East Side in the 1930's, and in about 1950, he opened the Job Lot Trading Company at 41 Vesey Street, near City Hall, and later another store, The Pushcart, next door.
        In 1967, construction of the World Trade Center forced him to move the stores to the corner of Warren and Church Streets, where he connected four buildings and splashed the facade with eye-catching painted squares. The names of the two stores were combined, Job Lot Trading Company/The Pushcart.
        The crowds at his stores would include clerks from City Hall, secretaries from Wall Street law firms, families from Chinatown and area office workers. During the December holidays, Mr. Osman would hire security guards to keep the crowds in line as they waited to enter.
        ''A good store will do $200 to $300 of business in a square foot of selling space in a year,'' Mr. Osman said in the 1980 magazine interview with New York Times reporter Edwin McDowell. ''We do better than $1,200 a square foot -- or close to $16 million a year.''
        Mr. Osman and his wife, Eve, who survives him, were active in civil rights and civil liberties causes. He is also survived by another son, Donny, of Plainfield, Vt., and one grandson.
        In 1993, Mr. Osman wrote an impassioned letter to Newsday to protest a city crackdown on peddlers. ''Here is a city plagued by 2,000 murders a year, tens of thousands of guns on the streets and insufficient housing for our homeless; a city stricken with AIDS, drugs, incidents of ethnic and racial violence almost daily, yet essential resources and money are being directed to go after . . . peddlers? This is absurd.''
        Mr. Osman sold his business in the early 1980's. The downtown store was closed in 1993; successors to his business, for whom he worked as a consultant, opened and closed another, on Fifth Avenue.
        Unlike many businessmen who resent peddlers for congesting sidewalks and not paying taxes, Mr. Osman said he was thrilled when a hot dog vendor showed up in front of his Warren and Church Streets store the day it opened.
        ''Here I was like a big horse with a big bag of oats and little sparrows eating off my crumbs,'' he said.
      