
        Ioanna, the Bulgarian queen whose marriage was blessed by Mussolini and whose husband, King Boris III,  may have been poisoned by Hitler, died Saturday in her home in Estoril, Portugal. She was 92.
        Though her husband made a reluctant alliance with Hitler, she is remembered for efforts to save Bulgarian Jews from the Nazis. She and her two children, including Simeon, who became king at 6 when his father died in 1943, were kept under house arrest by the Gestapo.
        When the Communists came to power they held a mock referendum calling for an end to the monarchy, and Ioanna fled into exile with her children.
        The slender, cheerful woman, often called the ''country's memory,'' represented an elegant thread between the days the world watched the meaningful glances, dalliances and marriages of European royalty like a sport, and the 20th-century specters of war and revolution. Her roots reflected a breathtakingly exclusive royal society, in which kings as often as not were cousins and romance might serve political purposes, or vice versa.
        The queen was born Giovanna Elisabetta Antonio Romana Maria, princess of Italy. Ioanna is the Bulgarian translation of her name.
        She was the third of four daughters of King Victor Emmanuel III, who reigned from 1900 to 1946, and Queen Elena, one of the daughters of King Nicholas of Montenegro. King Nicholas was known for planting his daughters in the courts of Europe for use as ambassadors and spies.
        Princess Giovanna's early life was spent at the Villa Savoia, home of the Italian royal family, where she was strictly raised by a governess. She learned literature, history and Latin. She learned to play the piano and spoke English and French.
        When she and her sister Princess Mafalda were battling typhoid fever in 1923, there were almost daily reports on their condition in the American newspapers.
        Princess Giovanna's marital future became the subject of frequent speculation. Possibilities included Prince Wilhelm, son of the former crown prince of Germany; Prince Albrecht, son of the former Crown Prince Ruprecht of Bavaria; Archduke Albrecht of Hapsburg, who contended he should be king of Hungary, and Zog I, king of Albania.
        Another frequently mentioned possibility was the Marquis de Pinedo, a daring Italian aviator. The princess led off two court balls of the 1927 season with the pilot, and he was her guest in the royal box at the Davis Cup tennis matches later that year.
        Adding weight to that theory was her eldest sister's surprising marriage to a fairly obscure cavalry captain, Count Calvi di Bergola, six years earlier, for reasons of love alone. But the marquis died in a fiery crash while taking off from Floyd Bennett Field in Brooklyn in 1933.
        The most persistent rumor -- for more than five years -- coupled her name with that of Boris III, the Bulgarian king. Some accounts say they were secretly engaged for as long as three years. The king was also the subject of intense marital speculation, with possibilities ranging from a Chicago heiress to Princesses Maria and Ileana of Romania.
        Boris ascended the throne at 24 in 1918 after the abdication of his father, King Ferdinand, known as ''Foxy Ferdy,'' who was forced into exile in Germany because of his support for that country in World War I. Ferdinand cultivated the acquaintance of Goering and other Nazis in the 1930's.
        King Boris, who was born a Roman Catholic but became Eastern Orthodox early in life, met with Pope Pius XI to ask for permission to marry the Roman Catholic princess. The king's father had been excommunicated for allowing him to leave the church, but Boris promised bring up any children as Roman Catholics. The pope approved the marriage.
        The wedding, in the Basilica of Saint Francis of Assisi, was a joyous occasion. Peasants lit bonfires and danced. The ladies of the court wore simple costumes: dresses with high necks, long sleeves, ankle-length skirts and no jewelry. There were 50 royal princes. Mussolini also attended.
        After the wedding breakfast, the party made their way by train and then yacht to Bulgaria. King Boris reported by radio that all the ladies in waiting, though not the queen, had been seasick.
        Reaching Sofia by another train, the newlyweds descended to a railway platform strewn with chrysanthemums. A roar of welcome greeted them, and they proceded to the city's cathedral for an Orthodox ceremony in the presence of 50 bishops. The next day, the couple stood for seven hours accepting congratulations.
        They traveled widely within Bulgaria and abroad. Boris was known for his interest in science and technology, and he loved driving railway engines. In 1934 Ioanna startled the world when she divulged that she could cook.
        ''Boris is very fond of home-cooked meals,'' she said in an article in The New York American. ''The secret of domestic happiness is to be found in the kitchen.''
        The first of the couple's two children, Marie-Louise, was born in 1933, and to the consternation of the Vatican was baptized in the Orthodox Church. The second, Simeon, was born in 1937, an event celebrated in torchlight parades because only a man could rise to the throne.
        He was also baptized in an Orthodox rite. Ioanna was not excommunicated for snubbing the Vatican, although the Pope denounced ''Balkan tricks.''
        King Boris tried to remain neutral as World War II broke out. He said his wife was pro-Italian, his ministers pro-German and his people pro-Russian, while he was neutral. But he met with Hitler in 1940, and in 1941 became part of the pact allying Germany, Italy and Japan.
        The king has long been described as having been appalled at Hitler's massacres of Jews, and on two occasions he refused orders to deport Bulgarian Jews. Queen Ioanna invervened to obtain transit visas to enable a number of Jews to escape to Argentina.
        In 1943 the king became ill during his second visit to Hitler. At the time, many thought Hitler had pressed him, apparently unsuccessfully, to join the second front against the Soviet Union, but many historians now view such a plan as unlikely. The king fell mortally ill soon after the visit and died at 49; there is lingering suspicion that he was poisoned.
        But this was never proved. ''Such a conspiracy theory must remain a mere conjecture, attractive only because alternative explanations are so unsatisfactory,'' Marshall Lee Miller said in his book ''Bulgaria During the Second World War'' (Stanford University Press, 1975).
        Ioanna's son thus became King Simeon II at age 6. He ruled under three adult regents. After the Communists took control of Bulgaria in 1945, the regents were killed and three others appointed. Then, on Sept. 8, 1946, the monarchy was voted out of existence, with 92 percent of the Bulgarian electorate said to have rejected it.
        Ioanna and her children were given 24 hours to leave, and they fled to Egypt and later to Spain. Later, Ioanna moved to Portugual to be near her exiled brother, King Umberto II of Italy. She is survived by her son, a businessman in Madrid, and her daughter, who lives in New Jersey.
        She returned to Bulgaria in 1993 to reinter the heart of her husband, which had been found in the garden of a royal palace. His grave was destroyed by the Communists in 1954, but his heart had apparently been buried separately.
      