
        Maria Paasche, who helped Jews escape from Nazi Germany on the back of her motorcycle and whose father and brothers conspired to kill Hitler, died Jan. 21 in a San Francisco nursing home. She was 90.
        Mrs. Paasche was the daughter of General Kurt von Hammerstein, who was commander in chief of the German Army from 1930 to the winter of 1934. He was known as the ''Red General'' for his friendliness with trade unions and Russian generals during the years Germany and the Soviet Union were allies.
        The general plotted unsuccessfully in 1939 to lure Hitler to his headquarters on the Western front and kill him. Chancellor Heinrich Brening called the general ''the only man who could remove Hitler -- a man without nerves.''
        Two of Mrs. Paasche's brothers, Ludwig and Kunrat, were part of another conspiracy to kill Hitler, in 1944. Unlike many plotters, both escaped. From growing up in military headquarters, they knew a secret passage to reach the subway in Berlin. Ludwig died two years ago, and Kunrat lives near Bonn.
        Maria Therese von Hammerstein  was born in Magdeburg, just outside of Berlin, and grew up in an Army family. Her grandfather, General Walther von Luttwitz, was involved in the 1920 putsch against the Weimar Republic. But young Maria and her six brothers and sisters were allowed freedom to prowl a broader intellectual and political landscape. They made many Jewish friends, and though a Christian, Maria planned to join her Zionist friends in Palestine, said her son, Gottfried Paasche, a sociology professor at York University in Toronto.
        She left the convent where she began her education to attend a public school, where she studied agriculture to prepare for life in the Middle East. She attended the University of Berlin.
        Dr. Paasche only learned about his mother's past in recent years when he applied to have her admitted to the Jewish Home for the Aged in San Francisco. She had previously talked little about her past, and now memory loss was setting in. Still, he was able to compile compelling evidence of her wartime aid to Jews.
        In the process, he realized that his mother represented part of a largely missing history. ''The work of women in the early years of Nazi power had been forgotten'' he said.
        Some of that history is contained in a documentary about Mrs. Paasche completed last year. The still unreleased film, ''Silent Courage: Maria Therese von Hammerstein and her Battle Against Nazism,'' was sponsored by B'nai B'rith and the German government. Last week, Mr. Paasche returned to Germany to continue research about his mother.
        Mr. Paasche spoke of great political activism of the three older von Hammerstein sisters, of which Maria was the middle one. In the 1930's, after the meaning of Hitler's rise was becoming clear, she began riding her motorcycle to Prague, still a free city not under Nazi domination.
        She would transport Jews and intellectuals out of Germany into Prague and also bring newspapers and other materials to the anti-Nazi community there. She would also warn Jews they were in danger, on the basis of intelligence information from her father.
        The von Hammersteins lived in military housing under constant supervision, as Hitler tightened his grip on Germany. This meant that when Maria married married in 1935, the ceremony was held in a rented apartment. Her father did not attend.
        Her new husband was John H. Paasche, who was of Jewish ancestry. He did not at first seem a perfect fit for a German military family: his father, Hans, a Navy captain who became a pacifist and was a pallbearer at the funeral for Rosa Luxemborg, the socialist leader, was assassinated by right-wing German naval officers in the 1920's.
        But Maria's father, General von Hammerstein, only wanted one answer: did his future son-in-law's father have an honorable discharge from the Navy? The answer was yes, and so the general blessed the union.
        The newlyweds moved to Palestine to join Zionist friends there, but a typhoid epidemic forced them to return to Germany. Mr. Paasche, as a Jew, was not allowed to study law, and studied oriental languages instead. They decided to emigrate to Japan after being interrogated several times by the Gestapo about the activities of friends and relatives.
        General von Hammerstein died of cancer in 1943, and after his sons' participation in the failed coup attempt, Maria's mother and her youngest siblings, a brother and sister, were placed in concentration camps in an attempt to force them to disclose their brothers' whereabouts. They never did. The three were freed by Allies at the end of the war.
        In Japan, Gottfried Paasche said, his parents lived in fear their politics would become known by the heavily Nazi German exile community. His mother tried to prepare the family for being taken away to camps, urging them to memorize poems. ''You've got to learn things by heart,'' she said. ''You may need it when you go to prison.''
        Mr. Paasche said the Japanese police would sit in front of the house spying on the family, but the children were never told why.
        ''We were brought up to be loyal Japanese,'' Mr. Paasche said. ''My parents never told me as a child what side we were on.''
        After the war, the elder Mr. Paasche worked as a translator for the American occupiers until 1948, when the family emigrated by ship, to San Francisco. At first, he worked in a tomato canning factory and his wife cleaned houses. After the father earned his master's degree from Berkeley, he worked for the Library of Congress in the Chinese section.
        Mrs. Paasche read avidly in German, Russian, French and English. She worked as a literary researcher.
        Mr. Paasche died in 1994. In addition to her son Gottfried, Mrs. Paasche, is survived by three daughters, Joan Briegleb of Hannoverisch-Munden, Germany, Michaela Grudin of Portland, Ore. and Virginia Dakin of San Francisco, 12 grandchildren and 11 great-grandchildren.
        Family members regret that they may never know her complete story. ''She never lost her fear of naming names,'' Gottfried Paasche said.
        Correction:  February 17, 2000, Thursday  An obituary on Sunday about Maria Paasche, who helped Jews flee Nazi Germany, misspelled the surname of the former German chancellor who praised her father, Gen. Kurt von Hammerstein, for his part in a plot to kill Hitler. The chancellor was Heinrich Bruning, not Brening.
      