
        Justice Isaac Rubin, a former New York State appeals court judge from Westchester County, died Saturday in a hospice in the Bronx. He was 86 and lived in Rye, N.Y.
        After retiring from the bench in 1990 after 20 years, Justice Rubin continued to work in the court system as a judicial hearing officer for the State Supreme Court and its Appellate Division in Westchester.
        Until mid-January, when pancreatic cancer incapacitated him, Justice Rubin drove to work in White Plains.
        When Justice Rubin stepped down as an appeals judge at age 77, it was only after having unsuccessfully challenged a provision of the New York State Constitution that requires state judges to retire at 76.
        At the time, he said, ''A judge should be judged based on his own physical condition and his competence, not solely on his age.''
        Justice Rubin began his judicial career in 1970 as a City Court judge in Rye. He was appointed to the County Court of Westchester in 1973 and was elected to a full term as a County Court Judge in 1974 and then to the New York State Supreme Court in Westchester in 1976.
        From 1978 to 1981, he was the supervising judge for the criminal division of the Ninth District, which includes Westchester, Dutchess, Orange, Rockland and Putnam Counties. He developed procedures that helped reduce court backlogs in the five counties.
        He was appointed to the Appellate Division in 1982 by Gov. Hugh L. Carey and reappointed by Mario M. Cuomo in 1984.
        He was president of the Westchester County Bar Association from 1971 to 1973. Justice Rubin was also a member of the New York State Commission on Judicial Conduct for 11 years.
        Born and raised in Mount Vernon, he served in the Army Air Corps in World War II. Before becoming a judge, he was a partner in his own law firm in Mount Vernon for 30 years.
        He graduated from New York University, where he also earned his law degree. He also had a doctorate in law from St. John's University Law School. Justice Rubin is survived by his wife, Lucille; his son, Charlie, of Manhattan; his daughter, Carol Rubin Kahn of Chappaqua, N.Y.; and one granddaughter.
      