
        Rear Adm. Frederick B. Warder, a submariner whose exploits in World War II won him a Navy Cross and a nickname he detested, died on Tuesday at his home in Ocala, Fla. He was 95.
        As a lieutenant commander, he was skipper of the Seawolf from 1939 to 1943. The submarine resupplied the besieged island fortress of Corregidor in the Philippines in spring 1942 and sank a Japanese destroyer, cruiser, transport ship and several other vessels on seven missions in the following months.
        The 38-year-old officer was awarded the Navy Cross, one of the service's highest honors, for his work. The citation noted that, after firing its torpedoes, the Seawolf was often the target of prolonged depth-charge attacks by Japanese destroyers.
        But Lieutenant Commander Warder kept a veneer of calm for his men and brought the Seawolf home unscathed each time. Soon, he learned that his crew and sailors from other ships were calling him Fearless Freddie, though never within his earshot.
        His daughter, Grace Harde of Woodstock, Vt., said today that the nickname actually had its genesis just before Pearl Harbor, when several Seawolf sailors overimbibed one night and gave the Shore Patrol that name for their commanding officer.
        The sobriquet might have faded away except for the seven missions that made it stick, his daughter said. Mrs. Harde said her father hated the nickname because he was afraid just like everyone else under enemy fire, and he believed that the real heroes were those who had died.
        Promoted to commander, he was in charge of several submarines operating in the Mariana Islands. In addition to the Navy Cross, his wartime decorations included a Bronze Star, Legion of Merit and several other medals.
        Frederick Burdett Warder was born on March 19, 1904, in Grafton, W. Va., and graduated from the Naval Academy in 1925. He earned a master's degree in science from the University of California at Berkeley and held several submarine posts before World War II.
        He was promoted to captain and, from 1944 to 1946, headed the Navy's submarine school at New London, Conn. After several other assignments, he became a rear admiral in 1952. From 1957 to 1960, he was commander of the Atlantic submarine force; his flagship was a nuclear submarine bearing the name of his World War II craft, the Seawolf.
        In 1960, he became commandant of the Eighth Naval District, with headquarters in New Orleans. He retired in 1962.
        His first two wives, Mary Brydon and Eleanor Modisette, died. He is survived by his wife of 15 years, Gladys; two daughters from his first marriage, Mrs. Harde and Susan Savard of Ottawa; a brother, Thomas, of Millsboro, Del.; a sister, Margaret Byrd of Grafton; 10 grandchildren, and 8 great-grandchildren. Two children from his first marriage, Frederick Jr. and Mary Smith, have died.
        Mrs. Harde said today that, not only was her father not fearless, he was also anything but an underwater predator. In his later years, he would occasionally reminisce about sinking a Japanese ship, then surfacing to see enemy survivors in the water, his daughter said.
        If the Japanese sailors refused to come aboard, the Seawolf skipper ordered his men to toss them life jackets. Mrs. Harde said her father believed that ''your enemy is also your brother, in a sense.''
      