
        William S. Heckscher, a German-born art historian who fled Hitler's Germany and became a professor at Duke University and the director of its art museum, died on Nov. 27 at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 94.
        Professor Heckscher's wide-ranging scholarship included Rembrandt and ancient Rome. He was one of nine influential foreign-born art historians, most of them refugees from the Nazi Reich, who, as Art Journal put it, ''made 'art history' and 'Germanic' interchangeable terms in universities throughout the United States and struggled to reconcile the new culture with the old.''
        A native of Hamburg, Professor Heckscher studied under the art historian Erwin Panofsky at the University of Hamburg and received his doctorate in art history there in 1935, two years after the Nazi era began. A friend of Professor Heckscher's, Egon Verheyen, who is the Clarence J. Robinson Professor of Humanities at George Mason University in Fairfax, Va., said that, through Panofsky, Professor Heckscher became ''a disciple of the Warburg School, whose aim it was to widen the concept of a style-oriented art-historical discourse by placing the study of art in a cultural context.''
        Professor Heckscher left Germany in 1936, spent a year as a visiting scholar at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., was interned as an enemy alien in Britain after World War II began and spent part of the war in a detention camp in Canada. There he helped prepare young foreign internees to pass Canadian universities' entrance examinations. Later he was awarded an honorary degree from McGill University in Montreal for that work.
        After the war he taught at universities in the United States and the Netherlands before joining the faculty of Duke, where he was chairman of the art department from 1966 to 1969 and then was concurrently the Benjamin N. Duke professor and director of the Museum of Art from 1970 until he retired from teaching in 1974.
        In later years Professor Heckscher was a consultant to the Princeton University library and held other posts.
        He is survived by his wife, Roxanne; three daughters, Diana Mitchell and Katherine Heckscher, both of whom live in Europe, and Charlotte Heckscher of Princeton; and five grandchildren.
      