
        Pat Cetta, who with his brother, Mike, owned Sparks, a renowned New York steakhouse, died on Jan. 24. He was 66.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, Mike Cetta said.
        Sparks, at 210 East 46th Street, is the kind of clubby place where pinstriped executives can unburden themselves by removing their jackets and sticking their ties into their shirts before tucking into enormous char-broiled cuts of meat. Pat Cetta was a ubiquitous presence, overseeing the dining room, while his brother took care of administration and finances.
        ''Our policy was, two yeses to make a yes, one no to make a no,'' Mike Cetta said.
        Night after night, Mr. Cetta could be seen prowling the room, greeting, embracing and joking with his regular customers, steering even the most hidebound martini swillers toward the legendary wine list. Both Cettas adored wine and took particular pleasure in offering a deep selection of wines from California, Bordeaux and Italy at reasonable prices, especially for hard-to-find aged wines.
        Sparks sells wines like a 1982 Chateau Gruaud-Larose for $190 a bottle, about what you would pay retail, if you could find it. This is because Mr. Cetta bought wine with the idea of selling it perhaps 10 years down the road, a policy rare in New York, where storage space is scarce and holding wine is seen as tying up an investment without an immediate return. When an older wine finally made it to the list, Mr. Cetta priced it according to what he had paid, rather than the market rate, which rarity and age would make considerably higher.
        ''He taught an important lesson: longevity,'' said Drew Nieporent, whose restaurants include Montrachet, TriBeCa Grill and Icon. ''Maintaining a standard is not easy in this day and age.''
        As reknowned as Sparks is for aged beef and fine wine, it has also been a beacon for the curious because of its association with a gangland killing. On Dec. 17, 1985, Paul Castellano, the mob boss, was gunned down outside the restaurant as he stepped from his car on his way to dinner. The Incident, as it was referred to by the Cettas, never seemed to hurt business, and in fact may even have attracted it.
        Pasquale Cetta was born in 1933 in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, shortly after his parents, Rocco, a butcher, and Maria, had emigrated from Sant'Angelo dei Lombardi in southern Italy. With Mike, his elder by five years, Pat Cetta joined his father in the meat business. Likewise, the brothers came to wine early, crushing grapes in their cellar to make their own vintage, which was the custom among many Italian immigrants. Besides his brother, Mr. Cetta is survived by his wife, Kathleen, and a sister, Angela Strelkoff.
        Mike Cetta said that his brother had always wanted to get into the restaurant business, and in 1966 they bought Sparks, a little English pub on East 18th Street owned by a man named Don Sparks, and turned it into a steakhouse. In 1977, they moved the restaurant to its current site on East 46th Street, which, after a renovation in 1997, now occupies 27,000 square feet and seats 684.
        ''We started out as the smallest steakhouse in New York, and now we're the biggest,'' Mike Cetta said.
      