
        Samuel J. Silberman, a philanthropist and former cigar manufacturing executive, died on Jan. 29 in Manhattan. He was 84 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        Mr. Silberman was born in Manhattan, grew up in West Hartford, Conn., and attended Harvard College. In 1934, he went to work for the Consolidated Cigar Corporation, which had been founded by his maternal grandfather, Julius Lichtenstein. Mr. Silberman's father, Alfred, who was a tobacco grower, became Consolidated's president later.
        Samuel Silberman rose to be the chief executive and chairman of the corporation, based in Manhattan, and by 1964, had headed many charity campaigns in the cigar industry.
        In that year, he donated $4 million to New York City for social work education and research. His largess led to, among other things, the construction of the Hunter College School of Social Work building, on East 79th Street between Park and Lexington Avenues, and the creation of awards for educators and scholarships for students.
        He was president of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of New York from 1966 to 1969 after serving the federation as a campaign chairman in 1957 and 1958.
        In 1968, another beneficiary of his support, Fairleigh Dickinson University's Samuel J. Silberman College of Business Administration, was named in his honor. It has its headquarters in Teaneck, N.J.
        Mr. Silberman was on the national board of trustees of the Conference of Christians and Jews and a chairman of the Association of Governing Boards of Universities and Colleges. In addition, he was co-chairman of the Lois and Samuel Silberman Fund, which is now a supporting organization of the New York Community Trust. His daughter, Dr. Jayne Silberman, a social worker, is now the fund's vice chairwoman.
        Mr. Silberman was also on a number of other boards in the worlds of philanthropy, education and business
        The honors he received included the Hunter College President's Medal and a Brotherhood Award of the National Conference of Christians and Jews.
        An early marriage ended in divorce.
        In addition to his daughter, Jayne, Mr. Silberman is survived by his wife of 39 years, the former Lois Voltter; four sons, Douglas, Allen, Alfred and Peter; another daughter, Rita Rothenberg; and six grandchildren.
      