
        Frederick I. Herzberg, a psychologist who became one of the most influential management teachers and consultants of the post-World War II era, died in Salt Lake City Jan. 19 from a heart attack and injuries sustained in a related fall, according to Mark Herzberg, his son. He was 76.
        Mr. Herzberg challenged assumptions that workers are motivated primarily by money and other tangible benefits. He argued that while low pay and uncomfortable working conditions could make employees so dissatisfied that they would perform poorly, fixing those problems was not enough to create effective labor forces. He called such factors in worker satisfaction ''hygiene.''
        To truly motivate workers, Mr. Herzberg said, companies needed not only to achieve acceptable hygiene levels but also to institute practices that made people happy. His research pointed to elements including work that lets employees feel they are achieving something; makes workers responsible for particular tasks; and allows them to work with minimal supervision. Recognition beyond pay and advancement opportunities are also powerful motivators, he said.
        ''What he started out calling job enrichment led to many of today's theories about multiskill jobs and teamwork,'' said Jerome Rosow, director of the Work in America Institute, a Scarsdale, N.Y., research group. ''He was a major influence in the re-evaluation of the importance of human resources.''
        That influence began to spread rapidly after publication in 1966 of Mr. Herzberg's best-selling book, ''Work and the Nature of Man.''
        He also frequently wrote articles in scholarly and popular publications. ''One More Time, How Do You Motivate Workers,'' an essay published in the Harvard Business Review in 1975, is the most frequently reprinted article from that journal.
        Frederick Irving Herzberg was born April 18, 1923, in Lynn, Mass., the son of Gertrude and Lewis Herzberg, who had emigrated from Lithuania. His father supported the family, which soon moved to New York, by painting houses.
        Mr. Herzberg entered City College of New York in 1939, but interrupted his studies to enlist in the Army. A patrol sergeant, he was among the first American soldiers to arrive at the Dachau concentration camp; he later said that the experience, as well as his talks with ordinary Germans who lived near the camp, led to his focus on motivation.
        Mr. Herzberg graduated from City College in 1946. He and his wife, the former Shirley Bedell, whom he had married in 1944, moved to the University of Pittsburgh where he gained master's degrees in science and public health and a Ph.D. based on studies of electric-shock therapy.
        Mr. Herzberg began focusing on workplace research in the 1950's while teaching at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland. He moved to the University of Utah in 1972, where he taught until his retirement three years ago.
        Mr. Herzberg consulted widely throughout his career, for multinational corporate giants like AT&T as well as for both the United States and foreign governments. He was among the first American consultants to study workers in the Soviet Union and worked extensively in Israel and Japan.
        Mr. Herzberg's wife, Shirley, died in 1997. In addition to his son, who resides in West New York, N.J., Mr. Herzberg is survived by his sisters, Miriam Bernard and Pearl Zucker, both of Miami.
      