
        William A. Andres, who led the Dayton Hudson Corporation's expansion from a regional department store chain to a national retailing powerhouse, died Wednesday of lymphoma in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 73.
        Under the leadership of Mr. Andres from 1976 through the sharp recession of the early 1980's, Dayton Hudson grew from 400 stores to more than 1,000, and its revenues tripled to $5.6 billion.
        In 1978, a Forbes cover article said Mr. Andres was ''analytical and has a reputation for getting to the heart of matters quickly and decisively.'' He was the company's first chief executive who was not a member of the Dayton family.
        In his boldest bet, Mr. Andres quickly expanded Dayton Hudson's Target chain, correctly predicting that the future of retailing lay in large discount retailers situated mostly outside cities rather than full-priced urban department stores.
        Target now provides most of the company's more than $30 billion in annual sales, and on Jan. 30, Dayton Hudson changed its name to the Target Corporation.
        Mr. Andres rose rapidly through the ranks at Dayton Hudson. After joining the company as a management trainee selling robes in August 1958, he became a department manager in three months and a vice president less than five years later. By 1968 he was chairman and chief executive of Dayton. He gave up that post when the company bought the J. L. Hudson department store chain one year later.
        But his move aside was only temporary. He became president of the combined company in 1974, chief executive in 1976 and chairman in 1977.
        Outside the office, Mr. Andres was an avid golfer and gardener, his son Richard said. He was also an accomplished amateur magician.
        ''He actually put himself through undergraduate school doing magic'' in Fayette, Iowa, Richard Andres said. ''Magic ran through his whole life.'' His most memorable trick involved chopping the head off a volunteer with a mock guillotine.
        Mr. Andres graduated from Upper Iowa University in 1948 and earned a master's degree at the University of Pittsburgh one year later.
        He is survived by Betty, his wife of 52 years; three sons, Robert, of San Diego; Charles, of Brainerd, Minn.; and Richard, of Minnetonka, Minn.; and five grandchildren.
        ''They had a very strong partnership. It was always, 'Betty and Bill did this. Betty and Bill did that,' '' Richard said of his mother and father.
      