
        John Nichol Irwin II, a Manhattan lawyer and diplomat who served under General Douglas MacArthur during World War II and later became ambassador to France, died yesterday at a hospital in New Haven, Conn. He was 86.
        Mr. Irwin, who lived in New Canaan, Conn., held numerous government positions starting in 1947, when he was appointed a member of the staff of the joint Philippine-American Finance Commission during the Truman Administration.
        From 1958 to 1961, Mr. Irwin was deputy assistant secretary of defense for international security affairs under President Eisenhower. President Johnson appointed him as the United States representative for Panama Canal negotiations from 1965 to 1968. President Nixon appointed him as his envoy to Peru in a nationalization dispute in 1969.
        Mr. Irwin was under secretary of state from 1970 to 1972 and deputy secretary of state from 1972 to 1973. In 1973, he was appointed ambassador to France, a position he held until the following year.
        He was awarded the Medal of Freedom by President Nixon, and the Legion d'Honneur by the French Government.
        Mr. Irwin was born in Keokuk, Iowa, on Dec. 31, 1913 and graduated from the Lawrenceville School and Princeton University. He received a master's degree from Oxford University and a law degree from Fordham University in 1941.
        During World War II, he served in the Army in the Pacific as a member of General MacArthur's staff and reached the rank of lieutenant colonel. After the war, Mr. Irwin practiced law at two Manhattan firms.
        Mr. Irwin spent many years on the boards of directors of IBM and of the U.S. Trust Company. He also was a trustee of the Lawrenceville School, Princeton, the Wildlife Conservation Society, The Metropolitan Museum of Art, The American Museum of Natural History, Union Theological Seminary, the National Gallery of Art, and the French American Foundation.
        His first wife, Jane, died in 1970. He is survived by his second wife, also named Jane; a daughter, Jane W. I. Droppa of Ellicott City, Md.; a son, John N. Irwin III of Greenwich, Conn.; three stepsons: Watkins W. Reynolds III and Thomas B. Reynolds of Fort Worth, Tex., and Carl D. Reimers III of Greenwich, Conn., and 12 grandchildren.
      