
        Karsten Solheim, one of the world's leading innovators in golf club design, died on Wednesday at his home in Phoenix. He was 88.
        The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, his family said.
        Mr. Solheim was the founder of Karsten Manufacturing and the creator of Ping golf clubs. He was the first to develop perimeter-weight irons, a design that distributes the weight of the irons to the outer edges, increasing the sweet spot and allowing more room for error. He was the first to use investment casting, aimed at improving the consistency of irons. And he was also the first to put the letter ''L'' on a high-lofted club that has become part of golf vernacular -- the lob wedge.
        A great supporter of women's golf, Mr. Solheim sponsored the Solheim Cup, a biennial competition between golfers from the United States and Europe that is the women's version of the Ryder Cup. He stepped down as president and chief executive of Karsten Manufacturing in 1995; Ping golf clubs remain among the most popular in the world.
        Described as a gentle genius by many in the golf industry, Mr. Solheim could be tough when necessary. In 1989, he sued the United States Golf Association and the P.G.A. Tour over his use of square grooves in irons. The case was eventually settled out of court, and the tour backed off its threat to ban his clubs in competition.
        Mr. Solheim was a self-made millionaire who started his business in his garage. Born on Sept. 15, 1911, in Bergen, Norway, he moved to the United States at age 2 with his family. He grew up in Seattle, where his father was a shoemaker, but Mr. Solheim eventually decided to become an engineer. In 1953, he joined General Electric as a mechanical engineer and helped design the rabbit ears antenna that clamped onto General Electric's first portable television.
        At 42, he started to play golf and immediately became enamored of the sport. Frustrated that he could never improve his 5 handicap, he consistently looked for ways to enhance the game, and began to use his engineering skills to design clubs. The model for his first putter was two Popsicle sticks glued to two sugar cubes with a shaft in the middle. That putter, designed in his garage in Redwood City, Calif., made a distinctive ''ping'' sound when it made contact with the ball, Therefore, Ping became the name for his putters and clubs.
        Not long after leaving General Electric in 1959, Mr. Solheim founded his company and began to concentrate full time on golf club manufacturing and design. One of his first goals was to alter the blade putter that Arnold Palmer made so popular during the 1960's. Mr. Solheim eventually found the answer to improving the putter, a cavity-back, offset design that created heel-toe balance.
        Mr. Solheim wrote the answer for his new putter design on the sleeve of a 78 revolutions-per-minute record jacket. Looking for a name to call his new putter, Mr. Solheim's wife, Louise, suggested dropping the letter ''W'' from the word answer so it would fit onto the club. The ''Anser'' putter is still one of the most popular in the game.
        In 1972, Mr. Solheim moved his growing business to Phoenix, where it continued to flourish. His Ping Eye2 irons were the dominant irons on tour during the 1980's. Karsten Manufacturing celebrated its 40th anniversary last year, and the company is run by Mr. Solheim's son, John, who took over in 1995.
        Mr. Solheim had been confined to a wheelchair in recent years, but he often sat in his backyard in Phoenix and looked out over Moon Valley Country Club, which his family has owned since 1984. Twice a guest at the White House, Mr. Solheim received numerous awards and honors. In 1991, he received the Patty Berg Award for contributions to women's golf. In 1996, he received the Ernie Sabayrac Award from the P.G.A. of America for lifetime contributions to the golf industry. And in 1999, he received the Ford Achievement Award.
        Besides his wife, whom he married in 1936, he is survived by three sons, John, Allan and Karsten Louis, who all work for Mr. Solheim's company, and a daughter, Sandra, who is a Ping sales representative in South Dakota.
      