
        Friedensreich Hundertwasser, an Austrian painter and architect famous for his undulating forms and color wizardry a s well as for his  visceral loathing of symmetry and the straight line, died on Saturday on board the Queen Elizabeth 2, Joram Harel, his manager and friend, told The Associated Press. He was 71 and had boarded the ship in Auckland, New Zealand.
        The cause was a heart attack, Mr. Harel said.
        A painter at heart, Mr. Hundertwasser rose to international prominence through his architectural designs, whose wavy lines, bright primary colors and ornamental baubles bucked modern trends in favor of the decorative tradition of fin de siecle Vienna.
        His mission, as he saw it, was to ''improve the world and make it more beautiful.'' He despised the geometrical, disdained symmetry and defined the straight line as ''the tool of the devil.'' To that end, he created a uniquely personal style, weaving labyrinthine spirals of vibrant, exotic color around fantasy images that stared out through blank, almond-shaped eyes.
        Born Friedrich Stowasser in Vienna on Dec. 15, 1928, he and his mother, who was Jewish, survived World War II. In 1948, he began studies at the Vienna Academy of Art but left three months later.
        In 1949 he adopted the name Friedensreich Hundertwasser -- ''kingdom of peace, hundred waters'' in German -- and four years later painted his first spiral, which became his signature symbol.
        But even his acceptance into the esteemed Art Club of Vienna could not buffer him from the criticism of his colleagues, who found his work, with its swirls, luminous color and naif inhabitants, decadent. Nonetheless, it quickly became popular in the Far East, South Africa and South America. By 1965, his paintings, which a decade earlier had been snapped up by collectors like Peggy Guggenheim for between $10 and $50, were now selling for upward of $17,000.
        In 1981 he was awarded the Austrian State Prize, the country's highest cultural award, and he used his prestige to campaign against nuclear power as well as what he called degenerate modern art.
        Soon after, Mr. Hundertwasser persuaded the Vienna City Council to allow him to design the residential block that was opened in 1985 as the Hundertwasserhaus. With its variegated bands of color, odd window shapes and onion-dome cupolas, it conjured images of ''Hansel and Gretel'' run amok and became a hit with tourists. Mr. Hundertwasser adhered to his own rule that no building should be higher than a tree by crowning its rooftop with a forest.
        In recent years Mr. Hundertwasser divided his time between Austria and his farm in New Zealand. Last year his first architectural creation in that country opened: a public toilet. The structure, made of colorful tiles and wine bottles, has no straight lines. Its roof, topped with golden globes, sprouts vegetation including marijuana plants.
        No immediate family members survive.
      