
        Tony Lee Bettenhausen, a member of a prominent auto racing family who owned a racing team and drove Indy Cars for more than a decade, died yesterday in the crash of a small plane on a farm near Leesburg, Ky. He was 48.
        The crash, which occurred in midday about 30 miles from Lexington, Ky., also killed Bettenhausen's wife, Shirley, the daughter of the longtime Indy Car driver Jim McElreath; Russ Roberts, a partner in Bettenhausen's racing team; and Larry Rangel, a businessman from Indiana, according to Brad Stevens, a spokesman for the Indianapolis-based Bettenhausen Motorsports.
        The plane was on its way from Blountville, Tenn., to Indianapolis, the Federal Aviation Administration said. Bettenhausen was returning home from Homestead, Fla., where he had been involved in testing for the Championship Auto Racing Teams circuit.
        A National Transportation Safety Board investigator, David Muzio, said the plane, a twin-engine Beech Baron, had been in contact with an air-traffic control center, but he was unaware of whether the pilot reported problems. The crash occurred in a light rain, according to Reuters.
        The plane belonged to Bettenhausen, who had a pilot's license, according to the Speedvision cable television network. The safety board did not say who was flying the plane.
        The Bettenhausen family, a presence on the American auto-racing scene for more than half a century, has experienced grief as well as triumph.
        Tony Lee Bettenhausen's father, Melvin Eugene (Tony) Bettenhausen, a two-time national champion, was killed during practice for the Indianapolis 500 in 1961. Tony Lee's brother Merle lost his right arm when he crashed in a race.
        Tony Lee Bettenhausen earned $2.4 million in a driving career that extended from 1969 to 1993, and his CART team earned nearly $6 million in prize money with 13 different drivers.
        Bettenhausen began his career racing stock cars, joined the Winston Cup circuit in 1974 and competed in the United States Auto Club stock and midget divisions in 1975 and 1976.
        He was the United States Auto Club rookie of the year in 1979, drove Indy Cars from that year until 1993 and raced 11 times in the Indy 500. He had 103 career starts in Indy Cars with a best finish of second place.
        While racing in the Indy 500 in 1987, Bettenhausen was involved in an accident that resulted in a spectator's death. A tire that came loose from Bettenhausen's car as he approached the home straightaway was hit by the car of Roberto Guerrero. The tire flew into the top row of the grandstand, striking and killing Lyle Kurtenbach, 41, of Rothschild, Wis.
        The elder Tony Bettenhausen raced in the Indianapolis 500 from 1946 to 1960 and finished in the top four on three occasions. He was killed while taking a practice run at Indy as a favor to another driver, Paul Russo, who felt that something was wrong with his car and asked if Bettenhausen could discover the problem. While Bettenhausen was driving that car on the main straightaway, a 5-cent pin in the steering system came loose. The car hit a wall, soared high in the air, crashed and burned, killing Bettenhausen instantly.
        Tony Lee Bettenhausen's brother Merle lost his right arm in a wreck in July 1972 at Michigan International Speedway, racing in the Michigan 200.
        Gary Bettenhausen, the oldest of the brothers, made his Indy Car debut at Phoenix in 1966 and made the first of 21 starts at the Indy 500 in 1968.
        Tony Lee was 9 years old when his father died. He once said his mother had neither encouraged nor discouraged his aspirations as a race driver, and ''my father -- I don't remember a whole lot.''
        Two years after his father died, his brother Gary began to race stock cars.
        ''That kind of pulled us back together,'' Tony said.
        Bettenhausen bought a CART team in 1988 and made his last start at the Indy 500 in 1993. As an owner in CART, he had two rookies of the year, Patrick Carpentier (1997) and Stefan Johansson (1992).
        He had been expected to run a car for Michel Jourdain in the 2000 CART FedEx Championship series.
        Bettenhausen is survived by two daughters, Bryn, 18, and Taryn, 13.
      