
        Des Renford, who began marathon swimming at the age of 39 and went on to swim the English Channel in each of his 19 attempts, died of a heart attack on Dec. 31 while swimming in his local pool in Sydney, Australia. He was 72.
        Renford was a butcher, a barkeeper, a bookmaker and a minor local politician, but he is remembered for his duels with the Channel. The challenge transcends the 20 miles separating the Shakespeare Cliff of Dover and the Cap Gris Nez beach in France. It is also the cold, foul weather and the sheer, unremitting loneliness.
        Channel swimmers never forget the words of the first successful Channel swimmer, Matthew Webb, who completed the ordeal in 1875. ''Nothing great is easy,'' he said.
        ''Des Renford lived by that,'' said Kevin Murphy, himself a veteran of 30 crossings and one of Renford's great rivals.
        For a time in the 1970's, Renford wore the title King of the Channel, which is accorded the swimmer with the most crossings. One of his swims ended in gale-force winds. On another, he was run over by a Hovercraft but survived to reach France.
        His rivalry with two Britons, Murphy and Mike Read, became part of the folklore of the sport. In 1977, Renford and Murphy agreed to three races against one another. Murphy won the first, 10 miles in shark cages in Sydney Harbor. Renford won the second, a Channel crossing.
        On the last race, the length of Loch Ness, where the temperature was at times near freezing, Renford was pulled unconscious from the water after six and a half hours and put in intensive care. Although Murphy went on another two and a half hours, he also failed to complete the course.
        ''We agreed on an honorable draw,'' Murphy recalled.
        Murphy was born in 1927 in Waverley in the Australian state of New South Wales, and won a state swimming championship before his 10th birthday. In his teens, he gave up swimming in races to work as a lifeguard.
        He pursued his other careers until at the age of 39 he became interested in swimming distances. At 41, with very little training, he entered a 24-mile race across Port Phillip Bay in Melbourne. He failed to finish, but there was no one else left in the race, either. He was awarded third place.
        While in his hospital bed, he decided to challenge the Channel. He first succeeded in 1970, when he dived back in after reaching the French shore and started to swim back to Dover. However, he dislocated a shoulder when an escort boat hit him and was pulled from the water.
        In 1975, Renford set out to beat the seven Channel crossings of Mervyn Sharpe of Britain. He succeeded and became the first holder of the Matthew Webb trophy. This stoked Read's competitive flames: every time Renford swam what he called ''the old ditch,'' Read would drive to Ipswich and do the same.
        In 1979, Read surpassed Renford with an unprecedented six Channel crossings in a single year. Now, it was Renford's turn to respond. He was determined to retire as King of the Channel. The rivals swam again and again throughout the summer of 1980.
        Renford, who was so supple he could touch his toes with his elbows, completed his 19th and final attempt without Read's being warned it had happened. He then retired as King. Read later regained the title, which he still holds.
        Renford, who is survived by his wife and three sons, sustained two heart attacks while swimming before the third killed him. The first was in 1985 and the second in 1987. He drastically changed his diet.
        In its recent obituary for Renford, The Independent, a London newspaper, told a story that suggests the surreal quality of swimming back and forth across the English Channel. It happened on a cold, foggy night in 1973. Renford was swimming furiously against the tide and hypothermia had set in. Finally, he stumbled to shore and collapsed.
        His crew scurried around with blankets and hot tea, trying to raise his body temperature, which had fallen dangerously low. Unfazed by the activity, a dog walker asked, ''Been swimming, then?''
        The blue-lipped Renford managed to nod yes. ''Jolly good show,'' the man said as he and his dog disappeared in the fog.
      