
        Artie Aidala, a New York boxing judge for almost four decades who was at ringside for the Muhammad Ali-Joe Frazier ''fight of the century'' in 1971, died Tuesday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 91.
        From the early 1940's until the late 1970's, Mr. Aidala was a familiar presence at championship bouts at  Madison Square Garden and Yankee Stadium as well as at the almost-nightly cards in long-gone fight clubs. In judging bouts, he would rest his elbows on the ring apron and put his fingers in his ears to block out the crowd noise, lest his judgment be clouded by fan reaction to a punch that did not land.
        Among the title bouts he judged were Rocky Marciano's unanimous decision over Ezzard Charles in Marciano's heavyweight title defense at Yankee Stadium in June 1954 and the Ali-Frazier fight at Madison Square Garden in March 1971, a battle of unbeaten fighters in which Frazier retained his heavyweight title on a unanimous decision. Mr. Aidala  scored it nine rounds to six.
        Marciano would not have retired undefeated if Mr. Aidala's view had prevailed in Marciano's nontitle bout with Roland LaStarza in March 1950. Marciano won a 10-round split decision, with Mr. Aidala having scored the fight for LaStarza. Some time afterward, as Mr. Aidala's son, Louis, recalled it, Marciano encountered Mr. Aidala at a function and quipped, ''Artie, you're lucky I never caught you in a back alley.'' When the two boxers fought in a title bout in September 1953, Marciano knocked out LaStarza in the 11th round.
        Mr. Aidala grew up on Manhattan's Lower East Side, the youngest of 11 children of Sicilian immigrants. He sold newspapers as a youngster, then boxed in community programs for newsboys.
        Mr. Aidala's duties as a fight judge and occasionally as a referee were his part-time jobs. He was a full-time photographer for The New York Herald Tribune and later for The New York Daily Mirror.
        In addition to his son, Louis, of Brooklyn, Mr. Aidala is survived by a daughter, Lorraine Ambrosio, of Syosset, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
      