
        Nicolas Hardy Walter, a one-time choirboy who became an influential and indefatigable anarchist, atheist and humanist, died on March 7 in Milton Keynes in central England. He was 65.
        Mr. Walter, who lived in London, died of long-dormant testicular cancer, which he developed in 1973. Often arrested as he demonstrated in his wheelchair, he publicly blamed the high doses of radiation he received for the cancer for paralyzing him below the waist. But in a 1994 interview with The Independent, a London newspaper, he said he did not consider suing.
        ''Why should I?'' he asked. ''If I sued for negligence and won, it would mean there was less money for other people.''
        Mr. Walter, who called himself a journalist and lecturer, lived his life at the barricades, fighting against nuclear weapons, the Vietnam War and what he perceived as the hypocrisy of organized religion. Arrested many times for demonstrating his beliefs, he once went to jail. He fired off fusillades of letters to editors, and estimated that 2,000 had been published. At the time of his final illness, he staged a sit-in at the hospital to demand admission.
        A fierce opponent of British involvement in Northern Ireland, he once harbored a deserter from the British Army in his home. In 1963, he was a member of a group called Spies for Peace, which stole and publicized the plans of the British government to continue governing the country in the event of nuclear war.
        One of Mr. Walter's grandfathers was an anarchist, the other a leading figure in the humanist movement. His father, William Grey Walter, a neurophysiologist, was also an atheist and a socialist.
        ''Nicolas was glad to have descended from this fine tradition of free thinkers,'' his daughter Natasha wrote in an obituary in The Independent.
        Other survivors are his wife Christine Morris, daughter Susannah and three grandchildren.
        After serving in the Royal Air Force, he studied at Exeter College at Oxford University where he was a member of the Labor Party. His idealism was pure and strident. ''In the 60's,'' he said, ''I did think everything could be changed for the better.''
        In 1968, he interrupted a church service in Brighton where Prime Minister Harold Wilson was speaking and received a two-month jail sentence. The next year, he wrote a  pamphlet entitled ''About Anarchism,'' a clear and incisive introduction to the subject, which was translated into a dozen languages. In it, he argued that ends not only do not justify means, but that ''the means are ends in most cases.''
        He advised, ''We can be sure of our own actions, but not of the consequences.''
        He wrote for mainstream publications including The London Review of Books and The New Statesman, as well as for more ideological publications like Freedom and Solidarity. He was also a staff writer for The Good Food Guide, worked as a press aide for the British Standards Institution and served for six years as an editor of The Times Literary Supplement. He did commentaries for radio and television programs, and his obituaries for a variety of newspapers won respect for their grace and completeness.
        His books included ''Nonviolent Resistance: Men Against War,'' published in 1963; ''Blasphemy Ancient and Modern,'' 1990, and ''Humanism: What's in the Word,'' 1997.
        From 1975 until his retirement last year, Mr. Walter worked for the Rational Press Association, first as editor of its publication, The New Humanist, and later as managing director. He continued to write and comment on the issues of the day, winning praise for his austere style and attention to detail.
        His letters to editors persistently demonstrated his independent spirit. In one to The Guardian, he argued that he would be glad to lose his own government allowance as a paraplegic, but only in exchange for proper access to streets and buildings, transport and entertainment, shops and restaurants, he wrote.
        In a letter to The Independent, he took issue with a writer who had suggested that ''no sensible atheist will reject the possibility that an intelligence directs the universe.''
        He replied, ''On the contrary, a sensible atheist may well reject the possibilities either that an intelligence on its own can direct anything, or that anything can direct anything.''
        In the last years of his life, he wrote several letters about the millennium, proposing that counting time backward to Christ's birth is inconvenient, at best. But he was willing to let the silliness pass.
        ''After all, we are humans as well as humanists,'' he wrote, ''and we agree with the rest of humanity that even a nonsensical excuse for a party makes sense.''
      