
        Paul Rudolph Jolles, a Swiss diplomat who played a key role in promoting the peaceful use of atomic energy through the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna and later became chairman of Nestle, the Swiss food-products group, died on March 11 in Bern. He was 80.
        At the end of his life, Mr. Jolles had the unusual experience of seeing the fruits of his earliest diplomatic labor blow up into a major political storm when the United States forced Switzerland's banks to return unclaimed Holocaust-era assets to descendants of the victims of Nazism.
        In 1946, on his first foreign posting in Washington, Mr. Jolles served as secretary to the chief of the Swiss delegation that negotiated the so-called Washington Accord, in which the Swiss agreed to turn over much of the Nazi gold and other German assets Switzerland had amassed in its vaults.
        The agreement was supposed to have settled Switzerland's postwar obligations toward the victorious Allies for good.
        In a 1997 interview with the Swiss-German newspaper Der Bund, Mr.  Jolles strongly defended Switzerland's economic conduct during the war, saying: ''Switzerland never enriched itself, it simply traded according to market criteria. During the war Switzerland's national income increased only marginally -- by less than 1 percent a year.''
        Mr. Jolles had a lifelong passion for contemporary art and acquired a sizable personal collection. As chairman of Nestle from 1984 to 1990, he was particularly proud of his success in creating the Nestle Art Foundation, which has become a major force on the Swiss artistic scene.
        After holding a number of positions in the Swiss administration, mainly concerned with foreign economic relations, Mr. Jolles became deeply involved in President Eisenhower's Atoms for Peace initiative, begun in December 1953. He served in 1957 as executive secretary of the preparatory commission planning the International Atomic Energy Agency.
        After the creation of the agency later that year, Mr. Jolles was appointed a deputy directors general, with responsibility for administration, by the first director general, W. Sterling Cole, a former New York State Republican Congressman who had served as chairman of the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy. The three other deputies came from France, the Soviet Union and Britain. Mr. Jolly left the atomic energy agency in 1961, returning to the Swiss administration.
        ''It was an important job and he did it well,'' said Sir Brian Urquhart, a former United Nations under secretary general for special political affairs, who worked with him on setting up the agency.
        Born in Bern on Dec. 25, 1919, Mr. Jolles studied law at the Universities of Bern and Lausanne and in 1943 obtained a doctorate in political science at Harvard University.
        In 1956 he married the former Erna Ryffel. He is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter.
      