
        Joseph Goldstein, a longtime law professor at Yale who was widely known for his interdisciplinary approach to family law and other legal fields, died on Sunday at a hospital in New Haven. He was 76 and lived in Woodbridge, Conn.
        The cause was a heart attack, the Yale Law School's director of public affairs, Elizabeth Stauderman, said.
        Dr. Goldstein, who was also a psychoanalyst, was a co-author of three books that, as Martin Guggenheim, a professor of law at New York University, put it, became ''required reading for judges and practitioners in the field of child custody and other legal issues relating to judicial decisions concerning a child's future.''
        The books are ''Beyond the Best Interests of the Child'' (1973), ''Before the Best Interests of the Child'' (1979) and ''In the Best Interests of the Child'' (1986). Dr. Goldstein wrote them with Anna Freud, the psychoanalyst and daughter of Sigmund Freud, and Albert J. Solnit, the director of the Yale Child Study Center. The 1986 book was also written with Dr. Goldstein's wife, Sonja.
        Dr. Goldstein joined the law school's faculty in 1956 and retired in 1993. Then he became a professorial lecturer at the law school, and held that post at his death.
        Alan M. Dershowitz, the Felix Frankfurter Professor of Law at Harvard Law School and a former student of Dr. Goldstein's, said Dr. Goldstein ''introduced, probably more than anyone else, real interdisciplinary thinking in the law school and thus the legal world in general.'' His influence was widely felt, Professor Dershowitz said, through both his writing and his influential students.
        Central to Dr. Goldstein's and his co-authors' thinking, Dr. Guggenheim said, was the idea ''that courts should choose the alternative that was the least detrimental to the interest of the child.''
        That principle, in the authors' view, followed from an even more basic one: They were highly distrustful of the capacity of judges to make intelligent decisions about custody arrangements. And so, Dr. Guggenheim said, ''they wanted courts to have very limited authority to intervene in a family.''
        The books also expressed the view that custody disputes should be looked at from the point of view of children, especially their perspective on time. For example, for very young children, six months might be 100 percent of their life, not six months in the life a 40-year-old.
        In the foster-care side of family law, Dr. Guggenheim said, Dr. Goldstein's and his co-authors' views encouraged the acceleration of termination of parents rights in cases where children were in foster care.
        ''As a result of their work,'' Dr. Guggenheim said, ''statutes were rewritten to shorten the length of time children should be in foster care before courts would terminate the right of the natural parents, freeing the children to become eligible to be adopted.''
        Dr. Goldstein's work involving family law, Professor Dershowitz said, was an application of his thinking about the interface between psychiatry and the law. Early in his career he began studying issues related to the insanity defense.
        Dr. Goldstein went on to write ''The Family and the Law'' (1965) with Jay Katz, a Yale Law School professor and psychiatrist, and ''Psychoanalysis, Psychiatry and the Law'' (1966) with Professors Katz and Dershowitz. He finished his own psychoanalytic training in 1968 at the Western New England Psychoanalytic Institute.
        ''He changed both law and psychoanalysis'' by bringing them together, Professor Dershowitz said. ''In the world of law, he made us all think about the role of law as superego, how we internalize law, how we make it part of our personality. And then, I think, he used the concept of law to help broaden and make more meaningful concepts like the superego and psychoanalysis.''
        Joseph Goldstein was born in Springfield, Mass. He received a bachelor's degree from Dartmouth, a doctorate from the London School of Economics and a law degree from Yale. He was a law clerk for Judge David L. Bazelon of the United States Court of Appeals in Washington and taught briefly at Stanford Law School before returning to Yale as an associate professor of law.
        He also was an author, co-author or editor of books on criminal law, on the My Lai massacre and on constitutional law.
        He was an Army code-breaker in World War II.
        Dr. Goldstein is survived by his wife and co-author, the former Sonja Lambek; three sons, Joshua, of Cambridge, Mass., Jeremiah, of Philadelphia, and Daniel, of Davis, Calif.; a daughter, Anne Goldstein of Hartford, Conn.; eight grandchildren; a brother, E. Ernest Goldstein, who lives in Texas, and a sister, Mariam Sommer of New Haven.
      