
        THERE was a time, back in the fiscally straitened 1970's, that the city was so desperate it turned to known members of the media for help. Thus did Osborn Elliott, departing editor of Newsweek, become a deputy mayor, largely on the strength of his side job as chairman of the Citizens Committee for New York City, which had recruited several thousand volunteers to fill city jobs left vacant by layoffs.
        Mr. Elliott's tenure as deputy mayor for economic development lasted 14 months -- ''I was among the rascals thrown out by the rascals who came in with Ed Koch'' -- even though he only charged $1 a year for his services and the city stopped hemorrhaging jobs on his watch.
        But the Citizens Committee has flourished, through Mr. Elliott's sometimes stormy eight-year tenure as dean of Columbia University's journalism school, through his hatching and leading a nationwide march on Washington in 1992 to demand more federal money for cities and various other episodes in a career spent exploring the boundary of journalism and activism.
        The Citizens Committee, which has morphed into a teach-a-man-to-fish organization that has trained tens of thousands of people to be neighborhood activists and gives hundreds of grants a year to neighborhood groups, turned 25 a few weeks ago, not long after Mr. Elliott himself turned 75.
        It was in the committee's offices in a former fur-industry stronghold on Seventh Avenue that Chairman Elliott was spotted this week, polka dot bowtie in place, old-money-New-York voice huskier and quieter after a successful battle with cancer of the larynx -- ''They removed half of my voice box and there are those who say that was a 50 percent improvement right there'' -- still arguing the merits of a more civic-minded press, government and citizenry.
        Not only does the now-largely-solvent city need its volunteers more than ever, Mr. Elliott said -- to ease the transition from welfare to work, to help new immigrants navigate the winding corridors of city bureaucracy -- but much of the recent turnaround can be traced to them.
        This is why a career big-picture guy, a big shot long past the traditional retirement age, continues to spend four days a week guiding an organization that counts among its proudest accomplishments of 1999 a $1,000 grant to the Garden of Happiness City Farms project in the Bronx, an $800 gift to a job-mentoring program in Queens and a $2,000 check to GLOBE -- Gays and Lesbians of Bushwick Empowered.
        ''When we started,'' he said, ''there were about 3,000 block and neighborhood associations in the city. Now there are 12,000 groups, they're all on our mailing list, and we figure they enlist an army of about a million volunteers who are working in their neighborhoods, cleaning up the parks, indulging in community policing, running after-school programs for kids, taking care of the homeless and the homebound. It's almost like an underground movement that people don't really see.''
        Mr. Elliott, who with his high forehead and straight-line mouth closely resembles the portrait of Osborn-Elliott-as-George-Washington that hangs on his wall (not far from a subpoena he received in a libel suit from the vice president for the Newsweek article ''The Scandals of '73: Enter Agnew''), does not seem the most natural of advocates for the newly arrived and the downtrodden.
        A descendant of Steven Coerte van Voorhees, who came to New Amsterdam from Holland in the early 17th century, he grew up in the East 60's, the son of a Wall Street father and a mother who got her real estate license after Daddy lost a bundle in the Depression and became a powerhouse of the brownstone world. After the Navy and Harvard, he went to work at The Journal of Commerce, where he was, among other things, the nonferrous-metals reporter.
        Mr. Elliott's resume as a neighborhood activist is, in fact, a bit spotty. ''I don't think there even is a block association at 72nd and Madison,'' he said. After maintaining at least a pied-a-terre on the East Side for his entire life, Mr. Elliott, along with his wife, Inger McCabe Elliott, is preparing to move to Central Park West, or, as he refers to it, ''Pittsburgh,'' but don't expect him to plant any trees.
        ''I think there are plenty of trees in Central Park,'' he said.
        BUT at Newsweek, which he ran from 1961 to 1976, he kept a focus on the nation's underside, and he counts as the most interesting week of his life a 1970 field trip with other white journalists into the heart of America's black ghettos. ''It was a tremendous eye opener,'' he said. ''I got to know some people pretty well even though we were only spending a night or two in each place. It kind of changed my life in a way.''
        Nothing in Mr. Elliott's post-Newsweek life has matched the thrill of journalism, he said, but years of struggling to awaken the news media to the magic wrought by volunteers have soured him somewhat on his former colleagues.
        ''I've come to view journalism with a little bit less adoration than I used to have,'' he said. ''I think it should be much more engaged, engage its readers more, engage them more in their community life.'' In big cities like New York, he said, newspapers, particularly this one, have an attitude that says: ''We're journalists. We don't get involved.''
        All right, Mr. Elliott, if you were editor of this newspaper, what kinds of stories would you do?
        ''I'd say we want a real puff job on Elliott tomorrow.''
        PUBLIC LIVES
      