
        Fred Kelly, a producer, director, choreographer and dance instructor who taught his brother Gene to tap-dance -- not to mention polishing young John Travolta's early moves -- died of cancer on Wednesday in Tucson. He was 83.
        Mr. Kelly, who appeared on Broadway and in movies and was one of the first directors and performers in the new medium of television, had a major advantage and a major disadvantage. Both were named Gene Kelly, a legend of dance and his older brother. Gene, to put it mildly, cast a big shadow.
        Gene's earthy, graceful masculinity was the perfect counterpoint to Fred Astaire's studied elegance in lavish Hollywood musicals. Fred Kelly's style and personal presence were remarkably similar to his brother's, and the effect was exhilarating the one time they danced together in a movie, the ''I Love to Go Swimmin' With Wimmen'' scene in the 1954 film ''Deep in My Heart.''
        But Fred resisted Gene's entreaties to follow him to Hollywood, preferring the stage, whether on Broadway or in a high school auditorium, and family life in suburban Closter, N.J., where he could be active in groups like the Knights of Columbus and serve on the First Aid Squad.
        ''Everybody knew who Gene was, but everybody knew Fred,'' Michael Kelly, Fred's son, said.
        The two brothers were always close, with Gene often calling Fred to consult on a dance problem. But Fred never tired of teasing Gene about the special screening of ''An American in Paris'' in London in 1951, by command of Her Majesty, Queen Elizabeth II. The queen jumped the receiving line and rushed up to Gene, the film's star.
        ''Oh, Mr. Kelly, is it true you are the brother of Fred Kelly?'' she asked breathlessly.
        It turned out that Fred, as an Army sergeant assigned to a traveling dance unit, had given Princesses Elizabeth and Margaret ballroom dancing lessons. At their insistence, he also sneaked in some cancan instruction. When the princesses later performed in costumes deemed too revealing, Mr. Kelly was almost busted to private.
        The story suggests the level of celebrity with which Mr. Kelly was comfortable, as well as his record of accomplishment. He had been referred to the royal family by Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, who considered taking tap-dance lessons from him. Then the general decided painting would be a better recreational activity, in part because it would be easier to disguise the fact that he was taking time off from running the war to relax.
        No matter. Mr. Kelly's dance shoes hung on the Wall of Fame at Manhattan's Roseland Ballroom, which gave him credit for introducing the cha-cha to America and popularizing the mambo here. His imprint as a young instructor in Pittsburgh, and in his later life in New Jersey, is still visible in the rhythms of thousands, including Mr. Travolta, who studied at Mr. Kelly's dance studio in Oradell, N.J., as a child. The studio operated for 25 years.
        Fredric N. Kelly was born in Pittsburgh on June 29, 1916, the youngest of five children: Joan, the oldest, James, Eugene, Louise and Fred. His father, James Patrick Kelly, was a sales executive with the Columbia Phonograph Company. According to Fred's reminiscences, his father, as the personal representative of Thomas Edison, sent hundreds of rail cars to the Midwest with the first phonographs and records to reach that part of the country.
        His mother, Harriet, performed as a hobby with a local stock company and insisted that all her children take music and dance lessons. Fred began performing at the age of 4.
        ''I played Baby New Year,'' he said. ''When everybody started hollering and throwing confetti, I thought it was for me.''
        The children began performing around 1921 as the Five Dancing Kellys, and they filled in in Pittsburgh for the Seven Little Foys, the popular dancing children of the vaudevillian Eddie Foy, when the Foys were trapped in Ohio by a snowstorm.
        In a signature routine, each Kelly child said a letter of the family name. ''I remember the orchestra cracked up, laughing even at rehearsals,'' Fred recalled. ''My big sister had the K, my brother James had the E, Gene had the L, my other sister had the other L and then I came in with the Y whenever I felt like it. It wasn't at all with the music; I just took a big breath and yelled Y.''
        Not only was Fred perceived as the family ''cutie pie,'' but he was also the family's natural tap dancer. By the time he was 8 he was earning as much as $50 a month as a performer, good money even for an adult in 1924. It was Fred who taught Gene tap so Gene could earn extra money for college.
        When a dance school where the Kelly children were enrolled failed, their mother scraped together money to pay its bills and took it over. Soon Gene and Fred were the main teachers, pushing hundreds of students through 20-minute assembly-line lessons. Shirley Temple's popularity fueled the business.
        In addition to performing in Pittsburgh, Fred performed every summer from the 8th through 12th grades on a showboat that played Mississippi and Ohio River ports from Pittsburgh to New Orleans. Corny comedy was a specialty.
        ''Can't you see I'm singing?'' asked the male singer when Fred started to hammer a nail into a plank.
        ''That's all right, it won't bother me,'' Fred replied.
        Fred graduated from the University of Pittsburgh, where he became the first member of the family to appear in films, as the panther mascot to Pitt's football team. He then joined Gene in New York. When Gene had to give up his part in the Theater Guild's production of ''The Time of Your Life'' to take the title role in the Broadway stage production of ''Pal Joey,'' he recommended that Fred replace him.
        With the permission of the play's author, William Saroyan, Fred increased his character's dance scenes to 11 from 6. His performance earned three Donaldson Awards, precursors of the Tony. One was presented by Helen Hayes, one by Charlie Chaplin and one by Antoinette Perry, for whom the Tony was named.
        During World War II he performed in Irving Berlin's ''This Is the Army,'' which began on Broadway with a cast of 300 American servicemen and toured the world. When the show played Washington, President Franklin D. Roosevelt invited the whole company to dinner at the White House.
        Fred ended up staying late into the evening to talk with the president and his wife, Eleanor, according to a biography prepared by Andy McGowan for the Lamb's Club, a theatrical club in which Fred was active. When the show played the Mariana Islands in the Pacific, Fred joined other entertainers standing at attention as the Enola Gay took off to drop an atomic bomb on Japan, Mr. McGowan wrote.
        Fred Kelly married Dorothy Greenwalt during rehearsals for the Broadway opening of the Army show. He took her around the corner and introduced her to the company of ''Best Foot Forward.'' The writers, Hugh Martin and Ralph Blaine, quizzed her on how the couple met.
        ''I just adored the boy next door,'' she said, explaining that they were neighbors on Kensington Street in Pittsburgh.
        The conversation was immortalized in the Martin and Blaine song ''The Boy Next Door,'' which Judy Garland sang in ''Meet Me in St. Louis.'' The lyrics include their actual addresses, 7514 and 7520 Kensington Street, but each has the other's in the song, for the purposes of rhyme.
        The woman everyone called Dottie died in 1995, a year before Gene. In addition to his son, Michael, of Valencia, Calif., Mr. Kelly is survived by two sisters, Harriet Joan Radvansky of Pittsburgh and Louise Bailey of Dothan, Ala.; a daughter, Colleen Beaman of Tucson; and eight grandchildren.
        After the war Mr. Kelly was hired by NBC to direct television shows, including ''The Steve Allen Show'' and ''The Colgate Comedy Hour.'' He choreographed and directed the Ice Capades for three years and choreographed at the Latin Quarter nightclub for star acts.
        While still working for the Latin Quarter, he choreographed a show for a competing club, Havana Madrid. Working with the great Latin band leader Tito Puente, or so the very plausible story goes, he put together a Latin number based on the Lindy, except that the dancers moved sideways. They threw in a cry for the orchestra: ''cha cha cha!''
        Thus, it is said, on Aug. 2, 1948, the cha-cha was introduced to America. But its prophet was identified as Frederico Calais (allegedly Gaelic for Kelly), to disguise Mr. Kelly's moonlighting. Years later, as Mr. McGowan tells it, the Smithsonian Institution called Mr. Kelly asking for help in finding Mr. Calais to record the achievement properly.
        Correction:  April 3, 2000, Monday  An obituary of the choreographer and dance instructor Fred Kelly on March 17 misstated two street addresses in a remark by his wife, Dorothy Greenwalt, that inspired a song lyric about how the couple had met. The addresses, used in ''The Boy Next Door,'' were 5133 and 5135 Kensington Avenue in St. Louis; 7514 and 7520, on Kensington Street in Pittsburgh, were the real addresses of the future couple.
      