
        Warren Egbert Magee, a lawyer who represented Nazi war criminals, corrupt politicians and Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, died on Feb. 25 in Washington. He was 91.
        Mr. Magee represented the last seven Nazi war criminals condemned to death at the Nuremberg trials and then hanged after World War II. He also defended Baron Ernst von Weizsacker, state secretary to the German Foreign Office and the Nazis' Ambassador to the Vatican.
        In 1949 Mr. Magee failed to save Representative Andrew J. May, the Kentucky Democrat who was chairman of the House Military Affairs Committee during World War II, from a prison sentence for bribery and corruption, though President Harry S. Truman later pardoned him.
        Mr. Magee acted for the anti-communist crusader Senator McCarthy, a Wisconsin Republican, in the $2 million libel suit that Mr. McCarthy brought against Senator William Benton, Democrat of Connecticut. The suit asserted that Mr. Benton had slandered his rival by calling for his removal from the Senate.
        Mr. Magee's willingness to represent unpopular defendants stemmed from his enjoyment of testing the law's limits, his daughter, Dianne M. Nordyke, told The Washington Post. ''He was a lawyer first,'' Ms. Nordyke said.
        A native of Washington, Mr. Magee graduated in 1929 from what is now American University's Law School and was admitted to the District of Columbia bar in 1930. After working at the Justice Department, he entered private practice in 1938, forming what later became the firm of Magee & Bulow. He retired in the late 1980's.
        In 1946 and 1947, he tried to save the last major Nazi war criminals from death for crimes against humanity, sentences imposed by the International Military Tribunal.  Those condemned to die, all former senior officers in the SS, included Oswald Pohl, blamed for the destruction of the Warsaw Ghetto and the killing or deportation of more than 56,000 Jews; Otto Ohlendorf, responsible for the murder of some 90,000 people; and Paul Blobel, convicted of ordering the deaths of 60,000 Jews.
        Mr. Magee delayed their executions until 1951 with a barrage of appeals in the American courts. In one instance, by arguing that the United States was bound to respect the new West German Constitution, which banned the death penalty, he won a reprieve after the condemned men's wives had paid what they were told would be their last visit.
        On June 6, 1951, the United States Supreme Court refused to grant any further stays of execution. The next day the seven prisoners were hanged in the courtyard of Landsberg prison in Bavaria. They were the last of the 275 World War II criminals executed by the United States.
        In 1948 Mr. Magee was back in Nuremberg to represent Baron von Weizsacker, one of 21 Nazi diplomats and officials accused of lesser war crimes. Mr. Magee argued that his client had sought to brake the excesses of his Nazi superiors.
        Baron von Weizsacker was sentenced to seven years' imprisonment, but Mr. Magee later succeeded in getting this reduced to five years.
        In his book ''Hitler's Pope: The Secret History of Pius XII'' (Viking, 1999), the British historian John Cornwell paints a reasonably creditable picture of the baron, saying his great fear was that moves against the Italian Jews would be an unbearable strain on the pope's promise of impartiality toward the war.
        Mr. Magee's propensity for representing unpopular and difficult clients made him a natural choice to represent Senator McCarthy in his 1953 libel suit against Senator Benton, who had called Mr. McCarthy a corrupt liar who deserved to be expelled from the Senate.
        In his 1976 book ''Men Against McCarthy,'' Richard M. Fried of Illinois University, paraphrasing von Clausewitz, said that the two senators regarded the court case as ''politics carried on by other means'' and sought to politicize the hearings. Mr.  Benton even suggested calling Winston Churchill to testify.
        As that year's presidential election campaign heated up, Judge Matthew McGuire of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia decided to delay his ruling on disputed points in the case ''for some little time,'' which meant until after the election. When Mr. Benton lost his Senate seat that November, Mr. McCarthy decided there was no point in pursuing the litigation, which risked doing him more harm than good.
        Mr. Magee appeared in several other unusual cases.
        In 1947 he represented the publisher Douglas MacCollum Stewart on perjury charges arising from an accusation that he had accepted money from the German charge d'affairs in Washington in the early days of World War II to finance a magazine urging the United States to keep out of the war.
        In 1950 he represented Louis P. Lochner and Frank E. Mason, who had compiled the book ''The Goebbels Diaries,'' based on the presumed papers of the Nazi leader Joseph Goebbels, papers that Russian troops in Berlin had ordered a junk book dealer to remove from the ruins of the Propaganda Ministry in 1946. The United States government contended that the papers were war loot and that any profits made from a book based on them should go toward war reparations.
        Mr. Magee is survived by his second wife, Leslie Magee, and two children from his marriage to Sue Mayfield Wren, who died in 1946.
        Correction:  March 29, 2000, Wednesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Saturday about Warren Magee, a lawyer who represented unpopular clients, misstated his place of death. It was Tampa, Fla.; he had practiced in Washington.
      