
        William Colvig, an instrument builder who collaborated with the composer Lou Harrison on gamelans and other percussion instruments and who was Mr. Harrison's companion for 33 years, died on March 2 in Capitola, Calif. He was 82 and lived in Aptos, Calif.
        Mr. Colvig was born in Medford, Ore., in 1917. Although he sometimes described himself as an amateur musician, he studied the piano, trombone, baritone horn and tuba while he was growing up in Weed, Calif., and he won a scholarship to study music at the University of the Pacific in 1934. But he soon decided to study electrical engineering instead, and in 1937 he transferred to the University of California at Berkeley. He continued his studies at Berkeley for two years before joining an expedition of naturalists traveling in the Yukon.
        During World War II, he served in the United States Army on radar installations in Alaska. He returned to California after the war and worked as an electrician in San Francisco.
        He also became involved at the time in the Sierra Club, and later became a guide and a leader of backpacking expeditions for the organization.
        Leta E. Miller, the co-author, with Fredric Lieberman, of ''Lou Harrison: Composing a World,'' has written that Mr. Colvig and Mr. Harrison met after a concert of Mr. Harrison's works in 1967 and that they quickly discovered they had common interests in music, acoustics and politics. They had both been early supporters of KPFA Radio, the nonprofit pacifist radio station in Berkeley, Calif., and they were both members of the Society for Individual Rights, a San Francisco group that promoted gay rights. A few weeks after they met, Mr. Colvig moved into Mr. Harrison's woodland cabin in Aptos.
        Mr. Harrison had by then become interested in the sound of the Indonesian gamelan orchestra -- an ensemble of pitched percussion instruments -- but had found that importing an authentic gamelan was prohibitively expensive.
        Together, Mr. Colvig and Mr. Harrison began building a gamelan of their own, based partly on traditional Indonesian designs and partly using found objects. Aluminum slabs, tin cans, electrical conduit and empty oxygen tanks, cut to various sizes and struck with sawed-off baseball bats, replaced the gongs of the Asian gamelan.
        Mr. Colvig and Mr. Harrison called their instrument the American gamelan. It was first used in Mr. Harrison's work ''La Koro Sutro'' in 1972.
        Mr. Colvig and Mr. Harrison built several other gamelans, as well as harps, bowed stringed instruments and percussion instruments. Besides being used in performances of Mr. Harrison's music, they have been shown in several exhibitions. Two of their gamelans were purchased by San Jose State University and Mills College.
        In addition to Mr. Harrison, Mr. Colvig is survived by two sisters, Donna Straight of Auburn, Calif., and Claire Oberon of Paso Robles, Calif.; and three brothers, David, of San Francisco; Richard, of Oakland, Calif.; and Ray, of Berkeley.
      