
        Ross Russell, who recorded Charlie Parker on his small independent jazz label, Dial Records, and wrote a biography of Parker as well as a book on the history of Kansas City jazz, died on Jan. 31 at a hospital in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 90.
        Mr. Russell was born and raised in Los Angeles and spent his early adult years as a telegram deliveryman, a cub reporter and a writer of detective stories for pulp magazines. He began collecting records in the 1930's, and spent some time touring with the bandleader Luis Russell.
        His professional involvement with jazz was brief but controversial. In 1945, with $5,000 back pay after leaving the Merchant Marine, he opened a jazz record shop in Los Angeles, the Tempo Music Store. Independent labels were flourishing, and that fall Mr. Russell took it upon himself to record Charlie Parker when the saxophonist came to Los Angeles to play an engagement at Billy Berg's nightclub as a member of Dizzy Gillespie's sextet.
        That period yielded a series of 78-rpm records, released on Dial, Mr. Russell's label. Mr. Russell supervised the recordings. The first batch, done in February 1946, were among Parker's greatest work. But in July Mr. Russell brought Parker back to the studio, at a time when the saxophonist was at his most tortured: his Los Angeles heroin source had been arrested, and he was deep into alcohol binges.
        During a version of the ballad ''Lover Man,'' Parker's withdrawal symptoms altered the control in his playing, giving him involuntary muscle spasms, making him sound sick and adrift. Elliott Grennard, a Billboard writer who witnessed the recording, wrote a short story about it for Harper's magazine called ''Sparrow's Last Jump.'' The evening of the ''Lover Man'' sessions, Parker experienced a full emotional collapse: he set his bed on fire with a  cigarette and was subsequently jailed and sent to Camarillo State Hospital, a psychiatric institution near Los Angeles, for six months.
        Mr. Russell released ''Lover Man,'' and it became a symbolic tale of cultural exploitation -- of artists who don't own their work set against businessmen who do. Mr. Russell remained an ally of Parker's for the rest of the time Parker stayed in Los Angeles, becoming his legal guardian after Parker's release from Camarillo. But Parker later made no secret of his anger about the release of ''Lover Man.''
        Mr. Russell moved to New York in the late 1940's and by the 50's had  abandoned the record business. He wrote a biography of Parker, ''Bird Lives! The High Life and Hard Times of Charlie (Yardbird) Parker,'' published in 1973; it was a vivid, well-written book, although it has since been criticized for inaccuracies. He also wrote ''Jazz Style in Kansas City and the Southwest'' and a novel, ''The Sound,'' about a fictional jazz musician based on Parker.
        In later years he ran a golf club in Massachusetts and lived at various times in South Africa, England, Germany and Austria. He sold Dial's catalog to Spotlite Records in England in 1990.
        He is survived by a son, David, of San Jose, Calif.
      