
        Roy Henderson, a Scottish baritone who sang in the first performances at Glyndebourne and became a distinguished teacher with Kathleen Ferrier and John Shirley-Quirk among his students, died on Thursday at a home run by the British Musicians' Benevolent Fund in Bromley, Kent, near London. He was 100.
        Mr. Henderson was born in Edinburgh on July 4, 1899. After infantry service during World War I he enrolled at the Royal Academy of Music in London, where he won several prizes for performance, including the Worshipful Company of Musicians' Medal. His career began in 1925 when he was hired as a last-minute substitute to sing Zarathustra in a Royal Philharmonic performance of Delius's ''Mass of Life.''
        Delius quickly became one of Mr. Henderson's specialties. He sang on the first recording of Delius's ''Sea Drift,'' and gave the premiere of the composer's Idyll. He also sang in the first performances of Vaughan Williams's ''Dona Nobis Pacem,'' ''Five Tudor Portraits'' and ''Serenade to Music.''
        As a recitalist he was regarded as a superb interpreter of English art songs, and made recordings of works by Butterworth, Vaughan Williams, Stanford, Warlock and Dyson. He was also renowned for his performances of the title role in Mendelssohn's ''Elijah.''
        Mr. Henderson made his operatic debut in 1926 in a British National Opera Company production of Verdi's ''Falstaff.'' His first appearance at Covent Garden was as Donner in Wagner's ''Rheingold.'' He later sang two other Wagner roles at the house, Kothner in ''Die Meistersinger von Nurnberg'' and the Herald in ''Lohengrin.''
        The roles for which he was best known, however, were those in the Mozart operas he sang at Glyndebourne. When the festival opened in 1934 Mr. Henderson sang Almaviva in ''The Marriage of Figaro'' on opening night, and Guglielmo in ''Cosi Fan Tutte'' later the first season. By the late 1930's he had added Masetto in ''Don Giovanni'' and Papageno in ''The Magic Flute'' to his Glyndebourne repertory, as well as Mr. Peachum in a touring production of Gay's ''Beggar's Opera.''
        Mr. Henderson also conducted. From 1932 to '39 he led the Huddersfield Glee and Madrigal Society and in 1936 he founded the Oriana Choir, in Nottingham, which he directed until retiring in 1952. Mr. Henderson became a professor at the Royal Academy of Music in 1940. In 1970 he was made a Commander of the British Empire.
        He is survived by a son and a daughter.
      