
        Herman B Wells, the president of Indiana University during 25 years of steady growth and social change, died on Saturday at age 97 at his home in Bloomington, Ind., not far off the campus of the university that was the center of his life for more than 70 years.
        Under Mr. Wells's leadership, Indiana University's student body grew from 11,000 to more than 30,000 (it now stands at 90,000 students, spread across eight campuses).
        Mr. Wells was quietly devoted to progressive causes. He ended a host of segregationist practices at the university and urged the basketball coach, Branch McCracken, to recruit Bill Garrett, who in 1948 became the first black to play a varsity sport in the Big Ten.
        He defended Dr. Alfred C. Kinsey, the head of the Institute for Sex Research at the university, against calls for his dismissal, and argued for the right of scholars to pursue their quest for truth without harassment.
        Mr. Wells, a stout, jolly man who loved to cook and entertain, was also determined to make the university a cultural center for the Midwest.
        When the Metropolitan Opera Company first performed on a college campus, it was at Indiana University in 1942, performing ''Aida'' to a capacity crowd of 3,800 from 108 cities and towns in 5 states. Mr. Wells called the concert ''an event without precedent in the cultural life of Indiana.''
        Herman B Wells -- the B was his entire middle name -- was born in Jamestown, Ind., on June 7, 1902, the only son of a banker, Joseph Granville Wells, and a former teacher, Anna Bernice Harting Wells. His parents gave him his extremely brief middle name because they wanted to keep a tradition in his mother's family of middle names beginning with the letter B but could not agree on which name to give Herman.
        Mr. Wells enrolled in the University of Illinois but transferred to Indiana after one year and, he said, fell in love with the place. After graduating in 1924, he worked in a bank, then obtained his master's degree at the University of Wisconsin. He returned to Indiana as an economics instructor in 1930.
        In 1935, he was appointed dean of the university's business school, and in 1937 he was named president.
        After retiring from the presidency in 1962, Mr. Wells taught business administration, was named the university's first chancellor -- a largely honorary title that he kept until his death -- and served as president of the Indiana University Foundation, which oversaw fund-raising for the university.
        Mr. Wells was also active in affairs of state. Near the end of World War II, he was a special adviser on liberated areas for the State Department, and he served as an observer for the Greek elections in 1946. He was a delegate to the United Nations General Assembly in 1957.
        In 1958, Mr. Wells was the head of a national commission that produced a report, ''The Contemporary Challenge to American Education,'' urging the United States to double its spending on education over the next 10 years. In 1964, he led a group that studied New York's state university system and advised the state Legislature to cut red tape and give educators a freer hand.
        Mr. Wells, who did not marry, left no immediate survivors.
        Correction:  March 23, 2000, Thursday  An obituary on Tuesday about Herman B Wells, former president of Indiana University, referred incorrectly to an athlete he had urged the university to recruit. Bill Garrett, who played basketball for Indiana in 1948, was not the first black player of a varsity sport at a Big Ten college. Conference records give that distinction to Julian Ware, who played basketball for the University of Wisconsin from 1900 to 1902.
      