
        Hayward Cirker, the founder and president of Dover Publications, the eclectic paperback publisher of everything from ancient tragedy to ''Build Your Own Inexpensive Dollhouse,'' died on Wednesday at St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn, N.Y. He was 82 and had homes in Manhattan  and Hewlett Bay Park, N.Y.
        A consummate bookworm with an inexhaustible curiosity, Mr. Cirker built Dover into a paperback powerhouse by delving deep into the public domain and reprinting thousands of out-of-print novels, illustrations, manuals and scientific texts.
        It was a simple concept, artfully done. Dover books almost always had attractive covers, low prices and intriguing titles like ''The Egyptian Book of the Dead'' or ''Three Prophetic Novels of H. G. Wells.'' The rare-and-forgotten route also often had the added advantage of long-dead authors, which meant minimal royalties and little editorial squabbling.
        ''I'm no renaissance man,'' said Mr. Cirker in a 1978 profile in Time magazine. ''I'm just curious.''
        Mr. Cirker, a City College graduate, began his life in publishing as a stock boy and later a salesman at Crown Publishing. In 1941 he and his wife, Blanche, started Dover as a mail order business for remaindered books.
        Their original operating budget was under $200; the imprint's name came from the name of the building in Forest Hills, Queens, in which they lived.
        After four years Mr. Cirker decided to try publishing his own titles. The first was a German scientific text, ''Tables of Functions,'' an out-of-print treatise suggested by a physicist friend of the Cirkers. The $4 book sold out its 2,000-copy press run in just six months.
        In the 1950's Dover grew rapidly, riding the public's appetite for cheap paperbacks. But unlike the pulp romances and detective novels favored by other imprints, Dover continued to find quirky classics and practical fare.
        The company expanded into music scores, art and architecture and children's books, hiring experts in each field to oversee the choice and production of the books.
        In many cases, Mr. Cirker's tastes proved more astute than those of his authors. When Mr. Cirker published a little-known theoretical work of Albert Einstein, Einstein commented  that he thought it did not merit a reprint. It proved to be one of Dover's best sellers.
        In addition to scientific works -- some 60 Nobel Prize winners are in Dover's catalog -- the imprint also issued some high-end publications, including cloth-bound editions of the writings of Henry David Thoreau.
        By the 1980's Dover had grown into a $15 million-a-year publishing house, with more than 200 employees working out of its offices in Mineola, N.Y., and on Varick Street in TriBeCa. Its current catalog includes over 7,000 titles.
        Despite its big catalog, Dover's operation remained relatively homespun. Unlike many publishing houses, it remained privately held. Mr. Cirker still visited the Dover offices three days a week until his death; Mrs. Cirker went there the other two.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a brother, Stanley; a sister, Beulah; a son, Steven, of Delray Beach, Fla.; and a daughter, Victoria Fremont of Brookline, Mass.
      