
        Glenn Exum, a mountain climber who conquered the summits of the Alps and the Rockies and shared his experience with hundreds of others through his guide service, died on March 17 at his home in Littleton, Colo. He was 88.
        A tall, debonair man, Mr. Exum established one of the routes to the peak of Grand Teton in 1931. He climbed what came to be known as the Exum Ridge of that Wyoming mountain in a pair of leather-cleated football shoes. His path had required jumping a chasm, which later climbers learned how to climb around.
        Jeb Williamson, a former president of the American Alpine Club, said Mr. Exum had studied European methods of guiding climbers in the 1930's and had worked to change them. Those methods, Mr. Williamson said, essentially involved tying a rope around the climbers and pulling them up the mountain whenever they encountered difficulty. Then, rather than rappelling down on their own, they would often be lowered.
        ''Glenn's idea was that people ought to be responsible,'' Mr. Williamson said.
        Glenn Exum was born in Topaz, Idaho, on June 24, 1911. He had taught music at a high school in Pocatello, Idaho. Building on his passion for the outdoors, he climbed extensively in both the Rockies and the Alps.
        He began working with Paul Petzoldt, the legendary mountaineer and climbing instructor, in Mr. Petzoldt's guide service in Grand Teton National Park, and took over the service in 1955. Now called the Exum Mountain Guide Service, it has the concession from the National Park Service for climbing instruction in the park.
        Al Read, the president of the guide service, said Mr. Exum had introduced courses to teach students technical skills. ''People can now feel proud of what they're doing, instead of just being dragged up something,'' Mr. Read said.
        Mr. Exum is survived by his wife, the former Beth Pauline Noben; his son, Edward, of Denver; and his daughter, Glenda of Wyoming.
        In 1976, colon cancer was diagnosed in Mr. Exum. He had several operations and largely withdrew from guiding and climbing.
        But in 1981 he climbed Grand Teton to observe the 50th anniversary of scaling his ridge. He said it was a privilege to climb the peak.
        ''The Grand Teton is endlessly different, with its changing moods and attitudes, its eternal beauty,'' he said.
      