
        Joe Mullaney, the basketball coach who built Providence College into a national power in the 1950's and 1960's, and won more games than any other coach in the college's history, died on Wednesday at his home in North Providence, R.I. He was 75.
        The cause was complications of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, a spokesman for the college said.
        Mullaney grew up in Queens and would often go to the old Madison Square Garden to watch the basketball games for their strategy, not necessarily their stars.
        After serving in the Air Force, Mullaney attended Holy Cross. In 1947, as captain and point guard, he led the college to the National Collegiate Athletic Association championship at the Garden. Holy Cross was the first East Coast college to win the title. His backup that season, Bob Cousy, became one of the sport's most celebrated playmakers.
        Mullaney served two stints as coach of the Friars, compiling a 319-164 record in 18 seasons. He took over the program in 1955 and led his team to 12 straight winning seasons, including National Invitation Tournament championships in 1961 and in 1963, and three appearances in the N.C.A.A. tournament.
        Mullaney recruited future stars like Lenny Wilkens, John Thompson, Mike Riordan, Johnny Egan and Jimmy Walker to play for him.
        ''You had to listen to Joe because he taught Bob Cousy how to be tricky,'' said Thompson, who coached Georgetown University for 27 years before retiring in January 1999.
        Mullaney left Providence in 1969 to coach the Los Angeles Lakers of the National Basketball Association. In his first season he led the Lakers to the N.B.A. finals, where they lost to the New York Knicks. In his two seasons with the Lakers the team was 94-70.
        After leaving Los Angeles, Mullaney spent the next eight years coaching professional teams -- Buffalo in the N.B.A. and Utah, Kentucky and Memphis in the old American Basketball Association -- and three years coaching at Brown University.
        When he returned to Providence in 1981, the team had moved from its old 3,000-seat gym, where tickets were hard to get, to the new 12,000-seat Providence Civic Center; the Big East had grown into one of the N.C.A.A.'s top conferences; and college basketball had, in Mullaney's words, ''become a big business.''
        During his final four years at Providence, the Friars posted only one winning season. In his final year, 1985, things were so bad that Mullaney asked school officials to stop introducing him and his staff before home games because of the boos from the fans. In the Big East tournament that year, Providence defeated Seton Hall in the first round before losing to St. John's.
        Following the game, it was announced that Mullaney was retiring, and the capacity crowd of 19,591 gave the coach a standing ovation as he reluctantly walked to midcourt for a brief ceremony. Rick Pitino, an assistant coach for the Knicks at the time, replaced Mullaney at Providence.
        Mullaney is survived by his wife, Jane (Washburn) Cuddy-Mullaney; four sons, Joseph Jr., John, Paul and Thomas; a daughter, Mary Ellen; 3 brothers; 3 stepsons; and 14 grandchildren.
      