
        Jeremy Ingalls, an acclaimed poet during the 1940's and 50's, died on March 16 in Tucson, where she lived. She was 88.
        In 1941 Ms. Ingalls won the Yale Series of Younger Poets prize for ''The Metaphysical Sword,'' a collection that used classical, mythological, biblical and Oriental allusions. These influences weighed heavily in her most ambitious work, the epic ''Tahl'' (1945). The poem tells the story of a contemporary young musician who transcends time.
        ''Tahl'' earned mixed reviews from critics who hailed it for its use of anthropological, historical, religious, literary and musical lore or criticized its writer for showing off her erudition.
        In ''Tahl,'' she wrote:
        The spice conjoint of human ironies
        Palled on him more insipid than my game
        Of cards, my maundering on fate. He stood
        Groping Trophonian caves for Gygian rings
        Visions and apologues, ladders to beautiful good,
        And farmer's common saws could only prick him.
        Mildred Dodge Jeremy Ingalls grew up in Gloucester, Mass. At 12 she was reading Dante and by 14 she took in Balzac, Goethe, Confucius, Sun Yat-sen and Nietzsche. She earned her bachelor's and master's degrees from Tufts College and studied Chinese at the University of Chicago Oriental Institute. In 1948 she joined the faculty at Rockford College in Illinois, where she taught Chinese history, English literature and creative writing before retiring  in 1960.
        Ms. Ingalls's first published work, ''A Book of Legends'' (1941), was prose. It was followed in 1953 by ''The Galilean Way,'' a study of comparative religions. Her poetry collections included ''The Woman From the Island'' (1958), ''These Islands Also'' (1959) and ''This Stubborn Quantum'' (1983). In 1989 she published ''The Epic Tradition and Related Essays.''
        She is survived by a foster son, Yong-ho Ch'oe of Honolulu.
        In recent years several of Ms. Ingalls's poems were published in an anthology from the Yale University Press and she was honored by the University of Chicago as ''a poet of the ages.''
      