
        Jack Sanford, a hard-throwing right-hander who won 16 consecutive games in propelling the San Francisco Giants to the 1962 National League pennant, died last Tuesday at a hospital in Beckley, W.Va. He was 70.
        The cause was brain cancer, his family said.
        Sanford pitched in the minors for seven seasons, then found instant success in the major leagues, winning rookie of the year honors with the Philadelphia Phillies in 1957, when he was 19-8 and led the majors in strikeouts with 188.
        After falling to a 10-13 record the following season, he was traded to the Giants for pitcher Ruben Gomez and catcher Valmy Thomas in what the Phillies' president, Bob Carpenter, would rue as ''the worst trade I ever made.''
        Sanford won 40 games over the following three seasons, and then, at 33, achieved acclaim he could hardly have envisioned when, as a teenager out of Wellesley Hills, Mass., he was spurned by the Boston Red Sox at a tryout camp. In 1962, Sanford won 16 straight starts from mid-June to mid-September en route to a 24-7 record for a Giants team that won the pennant in a three-game playoff against the Dodgers.
        Only Rube Marquard, who won 19 straight for the New York Giants in 1912, and Roy Face, who won 17 straight for the Pittsburgh Pirates in 1959, have won more consecutive games in a single year during the modern era. Six pitchers have matched Sanford's 16-game streak.
        Sanford started against the Yankees' Ralph Terry three times in a rain-plagued 1962 World Series that stretched over 13 days.
        He threw a three-hit shutout in Game 2 at Candlestick Park, a 2-0 victory that Sanford said was ''the best game I ever pitched.''
        ''I can remember almost every pitch,'' he said in an interview more than three decades later. ''I tried to pitch inside on Mantle and low and away on Maris.''
        Sanford was beaten in Game 5 at Yankee Stadium, where he struck out 10 but yielded a three-run homer to Tom Tresh in the eighth inning that sent the Yankees to a 5-3 victory. He pitched into the eighth inning in Game 7, leaving with the Yankees leading by 1-0. The Giants had runners on second and third with two outs in the ninth when Willie McCovey drilled a liner toward right field off Terry. Second baseman Bobby Richardson stuck up his glove and snared the ball to end the Series.
        Sanford had a record of 137-101 for 12 seasons, with the Phillies, the Giants, the California Angels and the Kansas City Athletics. He was a golf director at country clubs after retiring from baseball.
        He is survived by his wife, Ileta, of Daniels, W.Va., and West Palm Beach, Fla.; a son, John, of Jupiter, Fla.; and three daughters, Laura Sanford of Lexington, Mass., Nancy Blagg of San Antonio and Susan Sanford of Boulder, Colo., all from his marriage to the former Patricia Reynolds, which ended in divorce; a brother, Frederick, of Natick, Mass.; a sister, Nancy Rafter, of Dover, Mass.; and three grandchildren.
        Although he lost two of his three starts in the 1962 World Series, Sanford had a 1.93 earned run average against the Yankees and even had three hits in seven at-bats, equaling Mickey Mantle's total (3 for 25). He could not forget the disappointment of Game 7. ''I dream about it every night,'' he said long afterward of the McCovey liner that became the final out. ''It never goes away.''
      