
        Ernest Lough, whose pure, silvery treble voice when he was 15 is preserved on one of history's most memorable classical recordings, died on Feb. 22 at his home in Watford, England. He was 88.
        His achievement came on March 27, 1927, when he recorded ''O, for the Wings of a Dove,'' from Mendelssohn's ''Hear My Prayer'' with the Temple Church Choir, the choir of the Church of the Inner Temple, in London. It was one of the first electric recordings (older records were made by the acoustic process), and one of the first made in a church, not a studio.
        The record sold 650,000 copies in the first six months, according to EMI Records, and eventually sold more than five million. Recorded by the Gramophone Company, which became HMV, it has the rare distinction of never being out of the catalog of available recordings. Most of the proceeds went to the church where the recording was made; Mr. Lough earned $:200.
        Compton Mackenzie, reviewing the recording in the magazine Gramophone, wrote, ''Master Lough, after his first performance, goes straight into the classic shelves and the company of singers like Caruso.''
        The opera singer Dame Nellie Melba complained, ''That wretched boy has achieved overnight what has taken me years.''
        Many remarked upon the youngster's unusually rich, even tone, his control, his complete security of intonation and the truth of his emotional feeling. The admiration grew as the remarkable rendition exemplified the new miracle of records: that an instant of sound might capture listeners' souls forever.
        Even as the young Mr. Lough's voice changed and he went beyond music to adulthood and a career in advertising, bundles of comics and sweets would be sent to him, usually by elderly ladies. There seemed a need to view him as an eternal Peter Pan, and, 40 years later, he was sometimes accused of lying when he introduced himself.
        Others clung to a bizarre legend that he died while singing the words ''and remain there forever at rest'' while making the celebrated recording. Two elderly ladies at the Temple Church happened to meet him a short while after he made the recording and asked where they could contribute to his memorial fund. ''He died, didn't you know?'' asked one.
        ''No, he didn't,'' the boy replied. ''I'm Ernest Lough.''
        They, too, refused to believe him.
        Invariably known as Fluff, with which his last name rhymed, Mr. Lough was born in London on Nov. 17, 1911. He sang in his local parish church, but failed his audition for Southwark Cathedral. But Dr. George Thalben-Ball, organist and choir director at Temple Church, accepted him in 1924.
        ''I don't think my voice had any special quality,'' Mr. Lough said later, contradicting music lovers around the world.
        At the time of the recording, Ernest was head boy, or lead singer, of the choir. He made the recording because of three treble soloists, ''it was judged that my voice was in the best condition on the day of the recording,'' he said 60 years later.
        ''We did four or five takes,'' he continued. ''One was discarded because a child was whistling outside; another because the Temple clock chimed. I wasn't aware I was making history. I was so small I had to stand on a couple of Bibles so the single microphone could pick up my voice.
        ''I was nerve-racked. The trouble with wax is that, unlike a modern recording, you cannot play it back and change bits.''
        The youth's first reaction was that it sounded ''rather nice,'' but he hoped that he would do better the next time. In fact, he had to make another version six months after the record was issued because the master copy wore out. Later there was a third recording. Mr. Lough always liked the first one best.
        For the next two years that Mr. Lough sang in the choir, lines were so long for Sunday services that tickets had to be issued. Some in the congregation stood on their seats to catch a glimpse of the angelic soloist.
        Working with Dr. Thalben-Ball and the rest of the Temple Choir, the young Mr. Lough made more than a dozen recordings during the next two years. His favorite was Mendelssohn's ''Elijah,'' which he made early in 1928.
        This performance was done in extraordinary circumstances. After the choir had finished recording another piece, engineers found they had two unused 10-inch waxes left to record on. As the choir had to go, Dr. Thalben-Ball turned to Ernest and asked if he knew ''Hear Ye Israel.'' He did not, but was able to learn it in a half-hour.
        At 20, Mr. Lough took a job making tea and doing packaging in the advertising department of HMV, which had made all his recordings. In the marketing department there he met Ethel Charlton, whom he married in 1938. She survives him.
        During World War II Mr. Lough served in the Fire Service, fighting fires sparked by bombings. One night he was called out to his beloved Temple Church, where, because of a water shortage, he had to watch it burn to a charred skeleton.
        After the war he worked in advertising for Mather & Crowther, which later became Ogilvy & Mather. His accounts included the London Zoo.
        His three sons all became choristers and all survive him. He sang with his oldest son, Peter, at the 1953 coronation of Queen Elizabeth II. His other sons, Robin and Graham, sang at Temple Church under the direction of Dr. Thalben-Ball. The younger sons sang with their father at the rededication of Temple Church by the Archbishop of Canterbury in the presence of the queen in 1958.
        Mr. Lough made several recordings as a baritone, but they neither pleased him nor captured the imagination of others. But he always insisted that he was glad when his voice changed, or ''just slid down,'' in his own phrase.
        ''Thank God,'' he remembered thinking. ''The pressure is off.''
      