
        Kazimierz Brandys, a prolific novelist and diarist who began his career as a promoter of Socialist Realism in Poland and ended it in exile in Paris, died here on March 11. He was 83.
        Already well known in his homeland, Mr. Brandys came to the attention of American readers in 1984 with  his moving descriptions of everyday life in a Communist police state in ''A Warsaw Diary: 1978-1981.'' In the book, he grippingly portrayed ordinary people coping with everyday political and moral quandaries.
        His other books include ''Sons and Comrades,'' a novel in which he broke with Communism after Khruschev's denunciation of Stalin and sought to lay bare its hypocrisy; ''A Question of Reality,'' which was the first Polish novel published in the anti-Communist underground; and ''Rondo,'' a novel that reflects on classical Polish themes like the dramatization of history, the conspiratorial nature of politics and the Romantic cult of women.
        In 1977 Mr. Brandys helped establish the dissident literary journal Zapis, or Notations, which began a vigorous tradition of underground literary activity lasting until the downfall of Communism in 1989.
        Kazimierz Brandys was born in Lodz on Oct. 27, 1916, the son of a homemaker and a banker whose family members had participated in the 19th-century efforts to recreate a Polish state. He earned a law degree at Warsaw University just before  World War II began.
        Mr. Brandys, who was Jewish, escaped death in the Warsaw ghetto by hiding elsewhere in the city during the German occupation.
        After the war, like many European writers and intellectuals, he joined the Communist Party in Poland out of devotion to its professed causes. With his first novels he became a prominent representative of Socialist Realism, in which he showed such considerable narrative talent that in 1948 his novel of wartime Warsaw, ''The Rebellious City,'' received the government's highest literary award.
        Mr. Brandys's critical attitude toward Communism surfaced only after the death of Stalin in 1953. During the brief thaw in Communist literary policy in the mid-1950's he explored  in his writings the role of the European left in the Spanish Civil War and that of the Russian literary establishment in the 1920's. But it was not until 1966, when the Communist Party ejected a friend, the philosopher Leszek Kolakowski, a critic of the authorities, that he surrendered his party membership.
        After the clandestine publication in 1977 of ''A Question of Reality,'' Mr. Brandys was banned from publishing by the Communist authorities. He became increasingly involved in dissident literary activity until the rise in 1980 of the independent trade union movement Solidarity, which he passionately supported.
        When Solidarity was crushed by the imposition of martial law in 1981, Mr. Brandys was lecturing in the United States. He decided not to return to Poland, but to settle in Paris,  where he had traveled frequently as a pampered young favorite of the Communist regime and had many friends among leftist intellectuals.
        In Paris he drew on experiences recorded in his journals during the Solidarity years to write ''A Warsaw Diary'' and gathered further reflections on Poland, the West and life in exile for ''Paris/New York: 1982-1984.''
        Mr. Brandys produced little fiction in exile. He said it was difficult to write novels outside Poland because his books were always intertwined with a social reality that he had to experience firsthand.
        He suffered from the separation from friends and family, including an older brother, Marian, a noted Polish writer who died in 1998.
        He is survived by his wife, Marja.
      