
        Walter Dana, who propelled polka music to a new prominence in postwar America after a varied career in popular music in Poland, died on March 4 in Miami Beach. He was 96.
        Having exposed the Poles to American jazz before the war, Mr. Dana took polkas to new audiences when he founded Dana Records in New York in 1945. It became the top Polish music label, introducing artists well known in the field like Frank Wojnarowski, Ray Henry, Gene Wisniewski and Johnnie Bomba.
        ''He started what is known today as polka music, it's as simple as that,'' said Jimmy Sturr, who has won a Grammy for polkas 10 times.
        Mr. Sturr said that Mr. Dana saw the market niche represented by Poles and other Eastern Europeans nostalgic for Old World music. As a recording executive, publisher, composer and performer, he helped provide livelier fare for new and traditional audiences. He accelerated the trend of adding trumpets and saxophones to polka bands, turning what had been five-piece combos into small eight- or nine-member orchestras. The accordion, of course, remained at center stage.
        ''It was big-band polka-style music,'' Mr. Sturr said.
        Bill Shibilski, who for 35 years has been the host of a Saturday evening polka show on the public radio station of Fordham University, WFUV-FM, said that Mr. Dana assembled a stable of the best polka musicians, then promoted them with flair. In particular his cooperation with Cosmat Distributors, which handled popular rock acts like the Cadillacs and the Orioles, paid rich dividends.
        ''There's no question that Dana had the biggest sellers,'' Mr. Shibilski said. ''He was really responsible for national exposure to the music from the late 1940's to the early 1970's.''
        Mr. Dana grew up in Warsaw, receiving a degree in music from the University of Warsaw and then working as a press attache in the Polish Foreign Office while continuing his musical studies at the Warsaw Conservatory. He began his professional career as a ''musical illustrator'' for the Quid Pro Quo review theater in Warsaw. He changed his name to Dan to avoid capitalizing on the name of his well-known father. Because the Polish possessive is formed by adding an A, his name was pronounced Dana by English-speaking audiences, and it stuck.
        While continuing his studies in Paris, Mr. Dana heard jazz, as played by the Revelers and others. He returned to the Quid Pro Quo to form a vocal jazz quintet. He was arranger and vocal coach to four singers he recruited from the choir of the Cathedral of St. John in Warsaw and he accompanied them on the piano and accordion. The group, Chor Dana, was still on the bill when the Luftwaffe bombed and destroyed the theater about 11 years later.
        Mr. Dana wrote the score for Poland's first talkie and for 14 subsequent films. Chor Dana toured Europe, and the impresario Sol Hurok sent the group on two North American tours. Bound for the first of those tours, the group played aboard the Ile de France, along with the Mills Brothers, the Ballet Russe and others. Chor Dana stole the show.
        In the Netherlands the group played before Prince Bernhard and Princess Juliana. In Germany the group members were treated as stars. In Poland they gave a private concert for Marshal Jozef Pilsudski, leader of the Polish revolution. Pilsudski was godfather to Mr. Dana's only son, Gustave, who, like Mr. Dana's wife, Niusia Nobisowna, a comedian, preceded him in death.  There are no immediate survivors.
        In 1939 Mr. Dana became director of light music for the Federal Radio Network and director of the Tip-Top Theater in Warsaw. He had complete charge of popular music on the radio and increasingly played American fare like ''Rhapsody in Blue.''
        When the Nazi armies rolled into Poland and bombs began to fall in September 1939, Mr. Dana and his family escaped to Romania and then to Italy. They fled Mussolini's Italy, going to Detroit, where they worked in Polish-language radio.
        When the war ended in 1945, Mr. Dana moved to New York and was accepted in the musicians' union, the American Federation of Musicians. He recorded for RCA Victor and Harmonia and then founded Dana Records, which he sold some years ago to Fiesta Records. He wrote many of the hits recorded by Dana artists, including ''Who Stole the Kishka?'' His hit song ''Longing for You'' was recorded by Vic Damone and Sammy Kaye, among others.
        After retiring from recording he turned his attention to classical composition. He wrote ''Florida Sketches,'' a symphonic suite given its premiere by the Miami Beach Symphony in 1970. He is a member of the Polka Hall of Fame.
      