
        Alfred C. Neal, an economist whose interest in developing the global economy influenced United States trade policy in the 1950's and 1960's, died Wednesday. He was 87 years old and lived in Sarasota, Fla.
        Dr. Neal, who was one of 11 children, got early exposure to free-enterprise realities when he was 10 years old and began delivering milk, using a pony and a cart, to other families in his hometown of Kentfield, Calif.
        As a college student, he arrived at the University of California's Berkeley campus in 1929, just weeks before the stock market crash that led to the Great Depression. As a result, Dr. Neal's career became focused around the prevention of similar catastrophes.
        While much of the economic theory at the time contended that peacetime economies were doomed to failure, Dr. Neal worked to find alternatives to war that would permit businesses to flourish. Among those was the concept of a controlled recession that would affect some people, but not all, for a brief period of time, and prevent deeper economic problems.
        After Berkeley, he studied at the London School of Economics, where Harold Laski, the political theorist and socialist, was one of his professors. Dr. Neal earned his doctorate from Brown University.
        During World War II he worked at the Office of Price Administration, moving on to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston.
        Shortly after the war he became the first president of the Committee for Economic Development, a nonprofit organization of economists and company executives that tried to foster progress around the world. He worked with many prominent economists, including Alan Greenspan.
        Dr. Neal's sister, Carolyn N. Hedley, said: ''The Depression left deep impressions on Al. When he graduated from Berkeley, all of the graduation speakers just spoke in despair and said we couldn't live without wars, that if you didn't have a war raging the economy would go to hell.''
        With Arthur Burns and Donald Watson, Dr. Neal wrote ''Modern Economics,'' which became widely used in the 1940's as a basic textbook. He retired in 1976 from the Committee on Economic Development, and is credited with influencing the creation of the European Economic Community; helping to rebuild the German and Japanese economies after World War II; and getting the United States off the gold standard. He advised President Dwight D. Eisenhower, President John F. Kennedy and President Lyndon B. Johnson on trade as a member of several commissions.
        As head of the Committee on Economic Development, ''he was unique in his ability to bridge the gap between the ivory tower and the marketplace,'' said Sol Hurwitz, who worked with Dr. Neal on the committee. ''He brought business leaders together with economists, and the two sides actually developed a healthy respect for one another -- and they learned from one another,'' Mr. Hurwitz said.
        He took pride in the committee's counterparts in Japan, Germany, and Sweden, among other countries, and worked to strengthen them. He also had a knack for persuading the committee's trustees to come to an agreement on something. ''He didn't simply wait for a consensus to unfold,'' Mr. Hurwitz said. ''With a twinkle in his eye, he would tell them what the consensus ought to be and would bring them around to his way of thinking.''
        Outside the office, Dr. Neal, who had no children, loved to entertain with clambakes held in his backyard in Harrison, N.Y., where he lived for many years before moving to Sarasota in 1997. He was also knowledgeable about wine, and shared his insights with his siblings. ''After a while, we knew a good Margaux,'' Dr. Hedley said.
        In addition to Dr. Hedley, of Sarasota, he is survived by three sisters, Stella Hadley, of Petaluma, Calif.; Rose Nelson of Azalea, Ore.; and Jeanne Doellstedt of Richmond, Calif.; and two brothers, William, of Novato, Calif., and James, of Santa Rosa, Calif.
      