
        Ramon Mitra, who rose from rural poverty to become a leading politician and democratic foe of the Marcos dictatorship in the Philippines, died on Monday in Manila. He was 72.
        Local news reports, citing family sources, said the cause was liver cancer.
        During his career, Mr. Mitra was a journalist, a diplomat, a senator, a member and speaker of his country's House of Representatives and minister of agriculture. He was a prisoner of President Ferdinand E. Marcos's martial-law regime of the 1970's, then was appointed by Mr. Marcos's successor, Corazon C. Aquino, to negotiate with the Communists during their festering insurgence.
        He lost his own bid for the presidency in a seven-way race in 1992 to Fidel V. Ramos. But six years later, his support of the winning candidate, President Joseph E. Estrada, gained him the presidency of the state-owned Philippine National Oil Corporation, a post he retained after his cancer was diagnosed last year.
        Ramon Mitra was the illegitimate child of a penal colony administrator and a woman who died while he was an infant. He was raised in poverty by a grandmother, worked his way through school and was a journalist before going to law school.
        He joined the diplomatic service in 1951 and held posts in Washington and the United Nations. Entering politics, he served in the House of Representatives in the 1960's.
        His wide following among young people helped him win the largest vote for senator in 1971. But it was a time of discontent and violence, with Muslim rebels fighting the army in the southern Philippines and rashes of political terrorism.
        In 1972 President Marcos imposed martial law throughout the country for the first time since the Philippines won independence from the United States in 1946. Senator Mitra and other opposition figures, including their leader, Senator Benigno S. Aquino Jr., were rounded up, jailed by the military and sidelined politically.
        Returning from exile, Mr. Aquino was assassinated in 1983, two years after martial law was lifted. Mr. Mitra made his political comeback in 1984 as an opposition member of the Marcos-dominated legislature. In 1986, widespread unrest and the Marcos regime's increasing isolation drove Mr. Marcos into exile in Hawaii.
        Mr. Mitra became a political ally of Ms. Aquino, who presided over the turbulent transition to a still fragile democracy. He served her as minister of agriculture and helped her in one of her main themes, to reconcile the country's feuding elements.
        Thus, he held secret cease-fire talks in 1986 with the Communists, who were holding on to their bases in the mountains. Their meetings, he reported, resembled a reunion of ''old friends'' from his days as a journalist.
        News reports in Manila said that his survivors included his wife, Cecilia, and their six sons.
      