
        Helen Venturelli, a champion of better benefits for widows of police officers and firefighters killed on the job, died March 15 at Westchester Square Hospital in the Bronx. She was 86 and lived in the Bronx.
        In 1943, Mrs. Venturelli's husband, Pasquale, a policeman, leapt onto the running board of an automobile to try to apprehend two teenagers who were stealing the car. He died instantly when they rammed the vehicle into a wall.
        Mrs. Venturelli was left with two sons, Robert, 9, and Alfred, 7, and a pension of $125 a month, with no increases for inflation. She earned extra money from various part-time jobs, and was eager to get involved when Florence Churchill, who was trying to raise three children with polio on a $125 monthly pension after her husband died in the line of duty, wrote her in 1960 about forming an organization to fight for higher payments to police widows.
        At the first meeting of what became the Police and Fire Line of Duty Widows of New York City, Mrs. Venturelli pressed to include firefighters' widows, a suggestion that was immediately embraced. The group started a series of demonstrations at City Hall and elsewhere, and in 1962 won an increase in pensions equal to half the average monthly salary of a police officer, $347. In 1968, after years of struggle, they won hospitalization insurance, the same as that given to city workers.
        Mrs. Venturelli succeeded Mrs. Churchill as president in 1977 and served in that post for 20 years. A striking woman with blue eyes, perfectly coiffed hair and a collection of distinctive hats, her powers of persuasion at City Hall and in Albany were keen, said Louise Crane, vice president of the widows' group.
        ''She knew how to talk, she could talk to anybody,'' said Mrs. Crane, whose husband was shot six times as he chased a robbery suspect up a Harlem fire escape in 1963.
        Mrs. Venturelli is survived by her son, Alfred of Westchester; seven grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
        Mrs. Venturelli visited Albany each year to fight for inflation adjustments. Beginning in 1978, she and her allies were successful each year.
        ''If you don't keep after something, you sometimes get forgotten,'' Mrs. Crane said. ''And another thing Helen did: she always had them write thank-you notes.''
      