
        Hylan Garnet Lewis, a sociologist and pioneer in the field of community studies who was active in public life and taught in New York for years, died on March 8 at a hospital in Versailles, France. He was 88, lived on Manhattan's Upper West Side and had been visiting France.
        The death of Dr. Lewis, who was retired, was announced on Tuesday by the City University of New York Graduate Center, where he was a professor of sociology for two decades, beginning in 1977.
        ''Professor Lewis, in his research, teaching and leadership in public affairs, was a bright beacon that lit, and in a major way, helped to guide more than a half-century of American race relations,'' said Setsuko Matsunaga Nishi, a retired professor of sociology at Brooklyn College and the Graduate Center.
        Dr. Lewis's 1955 book ''Blackways of Kent'' is a study of a black community in the industrializing South. It has been called an exemplary early product of community studies, which examines the role of factors like race, job and economic status and family in joining people together.
        He went on to direct, from 1959 to 1964, a child-rearing study carried out by the Health and Welfare Council in Washington. A key finding of the study was that poor black mothers in Washington had aspirations of success for their children that were just as high as those of all middle-class mothers. But the study found that the poor black mothers also had a realistic understanding of the obstacles -- like racial prejudice, poverty and poor schools -- that their children would face.
        These findings were important and influential, because it had been widely thought at the time that these children had not been succeeding in life because their families had not set high goals.
        Later, Dr. Lewis held posts in New York in which he analyzed, and sought remedies for, the problems of the poor and unemployed. He also studied discrimination against members of minorities in corporate employment, foster care and schools.
        He was a senior associate at Kenneth B. Clark & Associates, a consulting firm led by Dr. Clark, the noted psychologist and race-relations expert, which advised corporations, schools and other clients about racial integration.
        After teaching at Howard University and in the South, Dr. Lewis was on the faculty of Brooklyn College from 1967 to 1977 and while teaching at the Graduate Center he also taught at Queens College from 1990 to 1992.
        He was born in Washington, received a bachelor's degree in 1932 from Virginia Union University in Richmond, Va., and his doctorate in sociology in 1951 from the University of Chicago.
        His 1935 marriage to Leighla Whipper ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his companion, Francoise Burgess; his wife, the former Audrey Carter, from whom he had been separated for 26 years; a daughter, Carole Ione of Kingston, N.Y.; a son, Guy, of Yreka, Calif.; three grandchildren, seven great-grandchildren and two sisters, Kathryn Garner and Elsie Lewis, both of Washington.
      