
        John deKoven Alsop, a veteran of Connecticut Republican politics, a former gubernatorial candidate and a retired insurance company president, died April 6 at a health care center in Old Saybrook, Conn. He was 84 and lived in Old Lyme, where he had moved from Avon, his birthplace, in 1986.
        Mr. Alsop, who served two terms in the state legislature in the late 1940's, was allied with the liberal wing of his party. He came to wider attention as an early backer of Dwight D. Eisenhower for president, and was a state vice chairman for
        Eisenhower's campaign in 1952.
        He first sought the Republican nomination for governor in 1958, but lost in a primary. He won the nomination in 1962 in a bruising contest and lost the November election to the incumbent, Gov. John Dempsey.
        Mr. Alsop, a colorful figure, remained influential in party circles for years. He represented Connecticut on the Republican National Committee and held leading positions in various councils on the state level.
        He retired in 1980 as president of the Covenant Group of insurance companies in Hartford. The business was formed by his father in the 1920's, and he had led it as chief executive for 27 years.
        Mr. Alsop was born into a well-connected family. He was a descendant of President James Monroe and was related to the Oyster Bay branch of the Roosevelt family as a grandnephew of President Theodore Roosevelt. His parents, Joseph W. and Corinne Alsop, were elected to the General Assembly, and his grandfather, a Democrat, was lieutenant governor.
        He was the younger brother of the Washington political columnists Joseph and Stewart Alsop. Joseph died in 1989 and Stewart in 1974.
        John Alsop graduated from the Groton School in 1933 and from Yale University in 1937, when he went to work at Smith, Barney & Company in New York. He enlisted in the Army in 1942 and served with the Office of Strategic Services in Britain, France and China, receiving a Bronze Star with cluster and rising to captain.
        He is survived by his wife of 52 years, Augusta Robinson Alsop; a son, John deK., of Cornville, Me.; two daughters, Mary Culver of Guilford, Conn., and Augusta Alsop of Solon, Me.; and nine grandchildren.
      