
        Ed McCurdy, a singer and songwriter who was a leading folk music figure in the 1950's, died on March 23. He was 81 and lived in Halifax, Nova Scotia.
        At the height of the Depression, Mr. McCurdy left his family farm in Willow Hill, Pa., at 18 to become a gospel singer in Manhattan. He slept on floors and went days without food but always managed to pay for voice lessons. He left Manhattan and traveled across the nation, working as a gospel singer and announcer on various radio stations.
        Influenced by Frank Sinatra, he decided to leave gospel for the secular pop world and try his luck as a nightclub singer. He headed north this time, working in Niagara Falls and Toronto. At a show in Vancouver, he met a dancer who was celebrating her 20th birthday with her fiancee. Three years later, that dancer became Mr. McCurdy's wife, Beryl.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Jim; two daughters, Dana and Maggie; and three grandchildren, all of New York.
        Mr. McCurdy received his first break when Sally Rand, the burlesque queen, hired him to sing romantic baritone songs in her act. Mr. McCurdy anticipated the revival of folk music and turned to it in the mid-1940's.
        In 1950 he performed in a series of shows at the Village Vanguard in New York and released his first folk album, ''Ed McCurdy Sings Songs of the Canadian Maritimes.'' That year he also wrote ''(Last Night I Had) the Strangest Dream,'' in which he fantasized about a worldwide peace agreement.
        In 1954 Mr. McCurdy, then living in Manhattan, cemented his reputation through a recording deal with Elektra Records, collaborating with Oscar Brand and Jack Elliott on ''Bad Men and Heroes.'' At the same time he maintained a side career as an actor and announcer on children's television shows. His album series of bawdy English songs, ''When Dalliance Was in Flower and Maidens Lost Their Heads,'' became a campus favorite in the late 50's. Simon and Garfunkel, Johnny Cash, Arlo Guthrie, the Weavers, Pete Seeger and Joan Baez recorded his songs.
        As new voices and ideas took over the folk movement, his career began to wane, though he remained an elder statesmen. In 1984 he moved to Halifax, where he continued to record albums and perform on the folk circuit and made a new career for himself as a character actor on Canadian television dramas.
      