
        Robert Emmett, an actor and writer for the stage and screen whose credits include the 1960's satirical television news show ''That Was the Week That Was,'' died April 8 at St. Vincents Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Emmett died after surgery for acute appendicitis, said his daughter, Kathryn Emmett.
        Born Robert McMenamin in Monterey, Calif., he legally adopted his father's given name, Emmett, as his own surname for the stage. He graduated from the University of California at Berkeley in 1943, then he enlisted in the United States Navy. After his discharge, he headed to New York to pursue acting.
        He appeared in various Broadway and Off Broadway productions, including the 1953 production of ''Mid-Summer,'' starring Geraldine Page;  and the 1953 Phoenix Theater production of ''Madam, Will You Walk,'' with Jessica Tandy and Hume Cronyn.
        It was while touring with Melvyn Douglas's 1950 production of ''Two Blind Mice'' that Mr. Emmett got to know his future wife, the actress Kim Hunter. The couple had met two years earlier at the Westport Country Playhouse where Mr. Emmett was working as an apprentice and Ms. Hunter was performing. Ms. Hunter and Mr. Emmett were married in 1951.
        Two years later, Mr. Emmett expanded his theater career by writing for television and, in 1967, the stage. He turned out segments for dramatic shows and specials for entertainers including Jack Jones, Barbra Streisand, Julie Andrews and Harry Belafonte. As head writer for ''That Was the Week That Was,'' Mr. Emmett was nominated for an Emmy for outstanding writing in 1964 and 1965. In 1965, he collaborated with Jule Styne and Bob Merrill on an ABC musical, ''The Dangerous Christmas of Red Riding Hood,'' with Liza Minnelli and Cyril Ritchard.
        Last year, in his final performance, Mr. Emmett appeared opposite his wife in ''On Golden Pond'' at the New Jersey Repertory Theater in Long Branch.
        In addition to his wife, and his daughter, of Stamford, Conn., he is survived by a son, Sean, also of Stamford, and six grandchildren.
      