
        Dr. Ruth Erica Benesch, a biochemist and educator who teamed with her husband at Columbia University to advance the knowledge of how the body's red blood cells function, died on March 25 at her home in the Bronx. She was 75.
        The cause was vascular disease, her family said.
        She and her husband, Dr. Reinhold Benesch, shared a laboratory at the Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons and studied the mechanisms by which hemoglobin transports oxygen to living tissues. In 1966, they discovered that one particular phosphorous compound, called 2,3-diphosphoglycerate, had an important role in loosening the bonds between hemoglobin and oxygen.
        Max F. Perutz, the British biochemist who won the Nobel Prize in chemistry in 1962, wrote that the discovery by the Benesches in 1966 ''opened a new era'' of knowledge about the respiratory system. Their work, he said, generated a ''flood of papers'' from scientists around the world and made Mrs. Benesch one of the most-cited women in science in the 1970's.
        The couple were professors of biochemistry at Columbia. He died in 1987; she became an emeritus professor of biochemistry in 1995.
        Born Ruth Erica Baade in Paris, she was raised in Berlin. In 1939, she  escaped a few months before the war in Europe, taken out by the a Kindertransport program, which rescued Jewish children from Germany. She graduated in 1946 from the University of London, came to the United States the following year and received a Ph.D. in biochemistry at Northwestern University in 1951.
        She was affiliated with Johns Hopkins University, the State University of Iowa and the Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole, Mass., before she joined the staff at Columbia as a research associate in 1960. She was named an associate professor in 1972 and a full professor in 1980.
        Dr. Benesch is survived by a son, Andrew, of Highland Park, N.J.; a daughter, Susan, of Milford, Conn.; a sister, Madeleine, of London; and two granddaughters.
        Correction:  April 15, 2000, Saturday  An obituary on April 4 about Dr. Ruth Erica Benesch, a Columbia University biochemist, misstated her maiden name and the year of the death of her husband and collaborator, Dr. Reinhold Benesch. Her maiden name was Leroi, not Baade. Her husband died in 1986, not 1987.
      