
        Alfred Peck O'Hara, a Manhattan lawyer, former federal prosecutor and past president of the Bacardi Corporation, died April 15 at his home in Patterson, his birthplace in Putnam County, N.Y. He was 80.
        At the time of his death, Mr. O'Hara, known as Pete, was of counsel to the Manhattan-based international law firm of Kelley Drye & Warren, which he joined in 1986. Before that, he was a senior partner in Rogers Hoge & Hills, dealing chiefly with trademark and unfair competition matters.
        From 1976 to 1987, he was president and chairman of the Bacardi Corporation of San Juan, P.R., the liquor concern.
        He also sat on the boards of numerous companies and organizations, including the National Association of Manufacturers and Bacardi Capital Ltd. He was a chairman of Guiding Eyes for the Blind, which provides guide dogs to the blind and sight-impaired. At the time of his death, he was a member of its board.
        In the 1940's he handled the incorporation of the National Cancer Foundation, now known as Cancer Care. He was also the organization's trustee and national campaign chairman.
        Pete O'Hara graduated from Syracuse University in 1940 and received his law degree at Fordham University two years later. He started his legal career as secretary to a Federal District Court judge and went into private practice in 1946.
        He was an assistant United States attorney and chief of the civil division for the Southern District of New York in Manhattan for three years during the 1950's. He handled major cases involving tax fraud and racketeering before joining Rogers Hoge & Hills as a senior partner in 1956.
        He was a counsel to the United States Trademark Association and secretary of the City Bar Association. He also taught trial practice at New York University for several years.
        In 1960, he oversaw successful litigation in foreign jurisdictions over the issue of private ownership of trademarks.
        Mr. O'Hara is survived by his wife, Martha Stein O'Hara; his two daughters, Jane Ann O'Hara of Woodstock, Ga., and Margaret O'Hara Vodrey of Los Angeles; two sons, Peter J., of Poughquag, N.Y., and John E., of Pawling, N.Y.; 10 grandchildren; and 4 great-grandchildren. His first wife, Muriel Sandberg O'Hara, died in 1969 after 29 years of marriage.
      