
        Abram Chayes, a professor of international law at Harvard for more than 40 years and a top State Department official in the Kennedy administration, died on Sunday at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 77.
        His family said he had pancreatic cancer.
        Mr. Chayes was one of the raft of Harvard professors who left Cambridge for Washington in 1961 to work under President John F. Kennedy. His title, legal adviser to the State Department, did not reflect the fact that he was an insider at the White House and exercised profound influence over diplomatic policy.
        In the Cuban missile crisis in October 1962, Mr. Chayes led a team of State Department lawyers who developed the legal foundation for President Kennedy's decision to have the Navy turn Soviet ships away from Cuba. The policy was called a quarantine and not a blockade. Under international law, a blockade could have been interpreted as an act of war.
        The year before, Mr. Chayes was instrumental in persuading the administration to negotiate with the Russians over the status of Berlin at the same time as the United States was building up its nuclear and conventional forces. Others recommended that the administration forgo negotiations and concentrate on preparing for a confrontation.
        Mr. Chayes (rhymes with days) was also involved in shaping policy toward Africa and Asia. After Kennedy's death, Mr. Chayes stayed in the State Department for more than a year and worked on negotiations for Soviet participation in an international satellite system. He resigned from the government and returned to Harvard in 1965.
        In academic and legal circles, he was recognized as one of the country's leading authorities on international law. His course on international legal process revolved around the legal problems he had wrestled with when he was in the State Department.
        Abram Joseph Chayes -- he went by the nickname Abe and never used his middle name or initial -- was born on the North Side of Chicago on July 18, 1922, to Edward and Kitty Chayes, both of whom were lawyers. After receiving his undergraduate degree from Harvard, he served in the Army in Europe and was discharged as a captain.
        After the war, he entered Harvard Law School. He was ranked first in the class of 1949 and was president of the law review. After law school, he became a legal adviser to Chester Bowles, then governor of Connecticut, and went on to be a law clerk for Justice Felix Frankfurter of the Supreme Court.
        Mr. Chayes joined the faculty of Harvard Law School in 1955 and remained there, except for the four years he was in the State Department, until he died. He became professor emeritus in 1993 but continued to teach and practice law.
        He was also involved in Democratic politics. He was a top foreign policy adviser in 1972 for Senator George McGovern, the Democratic presidential nominee, and worked in 1976 for Jimmy Carter's presidential campaign.
        Mr. Chayes's wife, Antonia Handler Chayes, whom he married in 1947 and who is also a lawyer, was deputy secretary of the Air Force under President Carter. They had five children: Eve Chayes Lyman, Gale Chayes Lyman and Lincoln Chayes, all of Los Angeles; Sarah Chayes of Paris, and Angelica Chayes Swenson of Canaan, N.Y.
        In addition to his wife and children, Mr. Chayes is survived by a sister, Judith Chayes-Neiman of Baltimore, and eight grandchildren.
        In 1980, Mr. Chayes represented the leftist government of Nicaragua in a lawsuit in the World Court accusing the United States of illegally mining Nicaraguan ports and sending guerrillas to wreak destruction in Nicaraguan territory.
        There is ''nothing wrong,'' he told an interviewer at the time, ''with holding the United States to its own best standards and best principles.''
        In 1986, the World Court, based in The Hague, found in Nicaragua's favor. Mr. Chayes hailed it as a victory. But the court has no enforcement power, and nothing ever came of the decision.
        Mr. Chayes was most recently in the news last year, when he represented two Kosovo Albanians living in the United States who filed suit against President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia and a dozen others, accusing them of genocide and other war crimes. The suit is pending in Federal District Court in Boston.
      