
        Joseph J. Christian, chairman of the New York City Housing Authority, the country's largest public housing authority, from 1973 to 1985, died on Thursday at his home in DeBary, Fla. He was 84 and had moved to Florida in 1986.
        At the time Mr. Christian announced his retirement as chairman, the Housing Authority had been widely recognized as one of the country's best-run public housing agencies.
        From 1978 through 1985, Mr. Christian, a Democrat, was the Housing Authority's chairman under Mayor Edward I. Koch, who reappointed him to the post, as had Mayor Abraham D. Beame, after Mayor John V. Lindsay had originally named Mr. Christian chairman.
        ''The New York Housing Authority was under his leadership a very long time,'' Mr. Koch said yesterday. Referring to those years, Mr. Koch added: ''It was the outstanding authority in the country. Where other authorities had vacancies because people were afraid to live in the housing projects operated by the government in other cities, in New York City we had a 10-year waiting line under him. He was known as a fine manager.''
        Judah Gribetz, a former commissioner of the city's Department of Buildings, said yesterday that Mr. Christian, who rose through the ranks of city government after beginning in 1938 as a clerk in what was then called the Department of Housing and Buildings, ''was the consummate career public official.''
        By the 1960's, Mr. Gribetz added, ''He probably was the most knowledgeable person in all of the intricacies of the multiple dwelling law and code of the state and the city'' of New York, and ''I observed the respect in which state legislators held him.''
        Mr. Christian was a member of the Civil Service generation that started in the Depression, when private job opportunities were limited. He held a variety of housing and administrative posts in his 47 years of working for the city government and became known as a believer in the value of decent housing for low-income working families and as a dogged searcher for federal money.
        He was commissioner of development in the Housing and Development Administration, a city agency dealing with different housing problems, in 1973, when Mayor Lindsay chose him to lead the Housing Authority. Mr. Christian succeeded Simeon Golar, whose three-year tenure as head of the authority had frequently been stormy.
        Earlier in Mr. Lindsay's years as mayor, his esteem for Mr. Christian was shown when the Mayor's Medal for Distinguished Performance was awarded in 1969 to Mr. Christian, who was general manager of the Housing Authority at the time. He also won the Citizens Housing and Planning Council Public Service Award for 1978.
        A native of Woonsocket, R.I., Mr. Christian went on to be a resident of Bayside, Queens. He was an artillery officer in Europe during World War II and studied at Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute in 1951 and the New York University Graduate School of Public Administration in 1962 and 1963.
        He married Agnes Josephine Noreyko in 1940; she died in 1983.
        Mr. Christian is survived by his wife, the former Patti Rubio; a son, Joseph J. Jr., of Winchester, Mass.; a daughter, Kathleen Gallo, of Bayside; five grandchildren; one great-grandchild; and a sister, Agnes Murray, of Mobile, Ala.
      