
        Robert L. Zion, a landscape architect who designed some of New York's most cherished oases, died on Tuesday in a traffic accident in Imlaystown, N.J., where he worked. Mr. Zion was 79 and lived in nearby Cream Ridge.
        The Associated Press reported that the accident occurred when Mr. Zion pulled out in front of a dump truck from the Monmouth County Public Works Department.
        Though Mr. Zion was not well known to the public, the parks and public spaces created by his firm, Zion and Breen, are landmarks of civic design. Samuel Paley Plaza (better known as Paley Park), the atrium of the I.B.M. Building and the Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Sculpture Garden of the Museum of Modern Art (for which Mr. Zion long served as a consultant to the garden's architect, Philip Johnson) are among the most enduring contributions to the cityscape in the past half-century.
        Paley Park in particular brought new ways of thinking about public space in New York. Commissioned by William S. Paley, chairman of CBS, and named for his father, the project introduced the concept of the vest-pocket park, a small, privately maintained midblock refuge from the Manhattan grid.
        Before its completion in 1967, experts insisted that parks smaller than three acres could not be properly maintained. Based largely on the success of Paley Park, however, the creation of smaller parks and plazas became official policy of New York City's planners. Only recently has the idea begun to lose favor.
        Zion and Breen's other New York projects include landscape designs for Co-op City in the Bronx; the Citibank office tower in Long Island City, Queens; and the grounds of the Statue of Liberty in New York Harbor. Outside New York, the firm designed landscapes for the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton University; the President's Residence at Yale University; Philip Morris manufacturing plants in Richmond, Va.; Bayfront Plaza Watergarden in Corpus Christi, Tex.; Riverfront Park in Cincinnati; and Liberty State Park in Jersey City.
        Robert Lewis Zion was born in Lawrence Township on Long Island in 1921 and educated at Harvard, where he received a master of landscape architecture degree in 1951. He opened his New York office in 1957.
        During the Wagner and Lindsay administrations, he served on the city's Arts Commission. A former vice president of the Architectural League, a professional organization, Mr. Zion designed the first prototype for the vest-pocket park for an exhibition organized by the league in 1963. His writings include ''Trees for Architecture and Landscape'' (1994).
        During his career Mr. Zion worked with some of the country's most distinguished architects, including Mr. Johnson, Edward Larrabee Barnes and I. M. Pei. And his firm produced some of the largest public works projects of the past three decades. But he owed his fame to his conversion of a 40-by-100-foot lot into the exquisite gem called Paley Park, on 53rd Street near Fifth Avenue. As fresh today as when it opened in 1967, the place still evokes an era before New York landscape design degenerated into theme park Victoriana.
        That year, 1967, belonged to two gardens in New York. One was the enclosed, landscaped atrium of the Ford Foundation Building on East 42nd Street. Paley Park was the second. Viewed as a pair, the two gardens were the good and evil twins of modern urban design.
        Though the Ford Foundation atrium was the more lushly planted of the two, it remained largely off limits to the public. People could enter the building and walk through the atrium along a straight and narrow path but were not allowed to sit or even loiter there.
        Paley Park, by contrast, delivered on its invitation to escape the hard surfaces and ceaseless motion of Midtown Manhattan. It offered New York a seductive introduction to the qualities of void space: the modernist idea that richness can be attained by reduction.
        Paley Park is the glorification of the vacant lot. The park's central feature is the empty space left by the demolition of a town house once occupied by the Stork Club, Sherman Billingsley's fabled cafe-society nightclub. Other elements -- the leaf canopy above, the cobblestones below, the dramatic waterfall at the far end -- transform leftover space into a place of unparalleled serenity.
        The waterfall, 40 feet wide, is framed by a set of steps and by two side walls planted with ivy. Mr. Zion described the walls as vertical lawns. The palette, a neutral grey and white, highlights the green of the leaf canopy and the ivy. Plumes of water, cascading down the rear wall, echo the white wire frames of Harry Bertoia's classic chairs. The waterfall also exploits the concept of void: the cascading water cancels out traffic noises, creating a hushed sanctuary in full view of cars.
        The atrium of the I.B.M. Building, entered from Madison Avenue at 56th Street, is another Zion classic. Again, Mr. Zion articulated void space with a minimal but refined intervention. The building, designed by Mr. Barnes and completed in 1982, is a stark latter-day example of the International style. The atrium is an ample but uninviting space created to satisfy zoning requirements. Mr. Zion used bamboo trees to dramatize the atrium's height. The leaves gather sun from the skylights and filter it through space, creating dappled patterns on the stone pavement below.
        Coincidentally, Mr. Zion's death came at a time when the New York City Planning Commission is proposing to abolish requirements for small parks and plazas. It is certainly true that many of the spaces that tried to emulate Paley Park were abysmal failures, because of either poor original designs or poor maintenance. Yet the examples of Paley Park and the I.B.M. atrium might give some decision-makers second thoughts. Years after their completion, these projects still convey a strong civic-minded spirit.
        In 1975, tired of commuting from his home in New Jersey, Mr. Zion moved his office to a small mill building in Imlaystown. In recent years he had been active in historic preservation in New Jersey. His primary goal was to protect the state's rural enclaves from suburban development.
        Mr. Zion had also served on the faculty of the Pratt Institute and been a consultant to Israel on the master plan for the old city of Jerusalem.
        Mr. Zion is survived by a sister, Naomi, of California.
      