
        Martin Fried, a theater director who was for many years a close associate of Lee Strasberg at the Actors Studio, died on March 28 at his home in Manhattan. He was 62.
        The cause was an aneurysm, said Lena Tabori, his former wife.
        During his diverse career, Mr. Fried worked on Broadway, off Broadway and in regional theater, and moved with ease from contemporary comedies to classics. On Broadway he directed ''Daphne in Cottage D'' (with Sandy Dennis), ''The Natural Look'' (with Gene Hackman, Jerry Orbach and Brenda Vaccaro, who was Mr. Fried's first wife) and Eugene O'Neill's ''Hughie'' (with Ben Gazzara).
        He was born in Manhattan, the son of Russian immigrants. When his mother died, he was placed in an orphanage. Mr. Fried was, said Ms. Tabori, ''a tough little kid, a scrapper and a product of the streets.'' He was in and out of orphanages, and at various times he was a prize fighter and a short-order cook and served in the United States Navy.
        While studying acting with Mr. Strasberg, he also owned and operated a taxicab. In 1955 when Susan Strasberg was starring in ''The Diary of Anne Frank'' on Broadway, at her father's request Mr. Fried drove her home in his cab after every performance.
        ''He refused pay but accepted the assignment,'' Ms. Strasberg said in her memoir ''Bittersweet.'' ''Marty was an ex-boxer with a dark-haired swarthy handsomeness. Although he had come up from the streets in an upbringing as far removed from mine as anyone I knew, I soon came to trust and confide in him.''
        As a friend and protege of Mr. Strasberg, Mr. Fried moved in with him and his wife, Anna, and became part of their extended family. He acted in ''The Best Man'' on Broadway but soon shifted his interest to directing. For the Actors Studio, he was production stage manager of ''Marathon '33'' and ''The Three Sisters.'' In 1966, he directed ''The Coop'' off Broadway and a revival of ''The Country Girl'' (with Jennifer Jones and Rip Torn) at City Center.
        At the Berkshire Theater Festival, he directed Murray Schisgal's ''Fragments,'' with Dustin Hoffman, Estelle Parsons and Mr. Hackman. Ms. Parsons, who also knew him from his work at the Actors Studio, said yesterday: ''He was a good and understanding director. He never imposed himself on the material, but let the play speak for itself.''
        Mr. Fried also staged two plays by George Tabori, Ms. Tabori's father, at the American Place Theater: ''The Cannibals'' and ''Pinkville'' (with Michael Douglas and Raul Julia). Later he did ''The Cannibals'' in Berlin. In recent years, he directed plays in Germany and Austria. In 1978 Ms. Strasberg's personal taxi driver came full circle: he directed an Off Broadway revival of ''Anne Frank'' starring Eli Wallach and Anne Jackson.
        Mr. Fried is survived by two daughters, Natasha Fried and Katrina Webber, both of Manhattan; a brother, George, of Coconut Grove, Fla., and a half-sister, Marilyn, of New York.
      