
        David Merrick, the producer whose gift for creating Broadway hits was matched only by his genius for attracting publicity and making enemies, died yesterday in his sleep at St. George's Rest Home in London. He was 88.
        For a quarter-century that ended with his last blockbuster, the musical ''42nd Street,'' in 1980, Mr. Merrick was the dominant showman in the Broadway theater. When Time magazine put him on its cover in 1966, it estimated that 20 percent of Broadway's work force was in his employment. In a typical season during the 1960's he produced a half-dozen or more plays and musicals, on occasion as many as four in a single month. His parallel record of productivity and profitability has been unmatched by any single impresario before or since in the history of New York's commercial theater.
        His headlines were nearly as numerous as his hits. Mr. Merrick was famous for baiting critics, his own stars and his fellow producers, all to promote his wares. Frequently likened to legendary predecessors like P. T. Barnum and David Belasco, he preferred to glory in his image as ''the abominable showman.'' A study in darkness -- with his tailored suits, sleek black hair, mustache, sardonic  wit and low, insinuating voice -- he went out of his way to resemble a villain out of Victorian melodrama. When Al Hirschfeld drew a particularly unflattering caricature of him as a Grinch-like Santa Claus, Mr. Merrick reproduced it on his annual Christmas card.
        Among Mr. Merrick's successes were some of the most popular musicals of his era, including ''Gypsy,'' ''Hello, Dolly!'' and ''Promises, Promises,'' as well as ''42nd Street,'' his longest running show and one of the longest-running productions in Broadway history. He introduced Woody Allen to Broadway as a playwright (''Don't Drink the Water'') and actor (''Play It Again, Sam'') and produced the 1962 musical (''I Can Get It for You Wholesale'') that catapulted a 19-year-old supporting player, Barbra Streisand, toward stardom.
        His productions also gave signature roles to Ethel Merman (Mama Rose in ''Gypsy'') and Carol Channing (Dolly Levi in ''Hello, Dolly!''), and he worked with nearly every major songwriter of the Broadway musical's last heyday: Jule Styne, Harold Arlen, Stephen Sondheim, Jerry Herman, Harold Rome, Bob Merrill and the teams of John Kander and Fred Ebb and Harvey Schmidt and Tom Jones.
        But Mr. Merrick didn't produce only high-gloss entertainment. He also presented Laurence Olivier's most celebrated postwar performance (as Archie Rice in ''The Entertainer''), the breakthrough dramas of John Osborne (''Look Back in Anger''), Brian Friel (''Philadelphia, Here I Come!'') and Tom Stoppard (''Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead'') and two epochal Royal Shakespeare Company productions directed by Peter Brook (''Marat/Sade'' and ''A Midsummer Night's Dream'').
        When few commercial producers would touch the declining Tennessee Williams in the 60's and 70's, Mr. Merrick took on his doomed projects, including a revival of ''The Milk Train Doesn't Stop Here Anymore,'' which had failed under another management only a season earlier. (It failed again.)
        Dickensian Years Of His Youth
        The producer's secretive private life was as complex and contradictory as his theatrical credits. ''I was born on Nov. 4, 1954, the night my first big show, 'Fanny,' opened on Broadway,'' Mr. Merrick once said.
        In truth he was born in St. Louis on Nov. 27, 1911, as David Margulois, the youngest child of a hand-to-mouth salesman, Samuel, and his wife, Celia. His parents were divorced when he was 7 -- ''It was like living on the set of 'Virginia Woolf,' '' he once recalled -- and the young David bounced among relatives through a grim but stagestruck adolescence he called Dickensian but never revealed in detail. Years later he said that he refused to take flights whose routes passed over St. Louis, lest he be forced to land in the despised city of his youth.
        A good student, he won a scholarship to Washington University in St. Louis, where he said he won second prize in a playwriting contest that Tennessee Williams, another underclassman, also entered. The young Margulois then went to St. Louis University, where he studied law, a trade that would prove handy in his notoriously tough theatrical contract negotiations. In law school he haunted a student playhouse, winning the role of Tubal in ''The Merchant of Venice.''
        Upon graduation he did become a lawyer, but, more crucially, he married a woman he had met in school, Leonore Beck, whose modest inheritance allowed the young couple to flee St. Louis for New York in 1939. A year later he walked into the office of Herman Shumlin, a prominent Broadway producer, and offered to invest $5,000 in a forthcoming comedy, ''The Male Animal.'' The play was a hit, and David Merrick, taking a new name inspired by the great 18th-century English actor David Garrick, was born. Excused from war service because of ulcers, he later went to work for Mr. Shumlin.
        Of his early, minor producing efforts, the most revealing was a comedy called ''Clutterbuck'' in 1949.  Though the show received indifferent notices, Mr. Merrick kept it alive for six months with discount tickets and a publicity stunt: each night during the cocktail hour of 5 to 6 p.m. he called hotel bars and restaurants all over town to page a fictive ''Mr. Clutterbuck.''
        'Have You Seen Fanny?'
        But it was ''Fanny'' five years later that elevated him to Times Square stardom. Convinced that Marcel Pagnol's cinematic trilogy set on the Marseilles waterfront could make a musical, Mr. Merrick flew to France three times to persuade Pagnol to give him the rights. After a bitterly unconsummated effort to enlist Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II to write the score -- a campaign that would lead to a lifelong feud with Rodgers -- he settled on Harold Rome. The Broadway titans Joshua Logan and Ezio Pinza served as director and star.
        ''Fanny'' did not get glowing reviews, and Mr. Merrick himself was said to be disappointed in it. But he sold the show relentlessly, plastering men's room mirrors in midtown with suggestive stickers reading ''Have You Seen Fanny?,'' running radio and television spots long before they were commonplace and taking the first full-page newspaper ads ever for a Broadway show. He also hired a sculptor to create a life-size nude statue of the show's belly dancer, Nejla Ates, installed it in Poet's Corner in Central Park late at night, then alerted policemen and reporters so they could discover it at daybreak.
        Publicity bred theatergoers, and ''Fanny'' made back its investment in a remarkably fast 17 weeks, then ran nearly another two years. Thanks to a shrewd rental deal Mr. Merrick had extracted from the Shuberts for the Majestic Theater, ''Fanny'' was on a weekly basis the most profitable show in Broadway history up to that time.
        Four back-to-back hits followed, including Thornton Wilder's ''Matchmaker,'' directed by Tyrone Guthrie, and Peter Ustinov's ''Romanoff and Juliet.'' The Merrick pattern of hoopla was set. When ''Look Back in Anger'' showed signs of faltering only four months after its 1957 opening, its box-office fortunes were transformed when a distraught woman in the audience jumped onstage at the Lyceum Theater and slapped Kenneth Haigh, who played the misogynist antihero Jimmy Porter, on behalf of wronged women everywhere. The story raged in the newspapers for three weeks before Mr. Merrick confessed he had hired the woman for $250. But by then ''Anger'' was on its way to running another 15 months on Broadway and the road.
        Many more public relations masterstrokes were yet to come, most famously and successfully the replacement of the entire cast of ''Hello, Dolly!'' with an all-black company headed by Pearl Bailey and Cab Calloway when its audiences began to wane in 1967.
        When Mr. Merrick judged the prospects dim for a lesser musical, ''Subways Are for Sleeping,'' in 1961, he turned to the phone book to find men with the same names as the  daily newspaper critics, who then numbered seven -- a stunt he had long plotted but could never execute until the retirement of the Times critic with a one-of-a-kind name, Brooks Atkinson. Mr. Merrick took the critical impostors, among them a mailman and a shoe salesman, to a preview and dinner, then got them to endorse the show with such encomiums as ''the best musical of the century.'' The full-page ad he drew up trumpeting these ''raves'' was rejected by The Times, but it ran in one edition of The Herald Tribune before editors killed it. That was enough to garner international headlines and keep ''Subways'' on the boards for a nearly profitable season.
        Somewhat less benign was Mr. Merrick's manipulation at the opening of ''42nd Street'' in 1980. Gower Champion, the musical's director and choreographer, had died early the day of the opening, at age 59, of a rare blood cancer. But Mr. Merrick kept the news secret so he could announce it from the stage at the curtain call, to the screams and tears of a devastated cast and first-night audience. Again the show's notoriety and success were assured, but an ugly aftertaste lingered.
        'Because I Am Mean -- What Else?'
        Though Mr. Champion had guided many Merrick hits, including ''Hello, Dolly!,'' the two strong-willed men, while desperately needing each other professionally, had always had a tempestuous personal relationship.  Mr. Merrick referred to the director as ''the Presbyterian Hitler,'' and during the troubled tryout of the musical ''Sugar'' in the 1970's, the producer's wife, Etan, had gone so far as to remove her knitting needles from a hotel suite for fear the men might assault each other. Now that Mr. Champion was gone, Mr. Merrick minimized the director's billing posthumously on ''42nd Street'' and fought to minimize royalties to his estate (and to the show's other authors) as well.
        This nasty side of Mr. Merrick had always been apparent. When Anna Maria Alberghetti missed performances in the hit ''Carnival!'' in 1961, the producer announced he would challenge his star's claims of ill health by adminstering a lie detector test to her in the hospital. When out of town with a production in trouble, he would humiliate the creative personnel with tirades belittling their work, pit collaborators against one another, threaten to close a show and then bring in other writers behind the authors' backs. Such was his detestation of Richard Rodgers that even after the composer's death, he took revenge on his elderly widow by seating her in the upper balcony at ''42nd Street.'' Once asked why he was reputed to be so mean, Mr. Merrick replied, ''Because I am mean -- what else?''
        He was especially hostile toward actors, whom he likened to ''unruly children,'' and the press. In the 1960's he sought to put Walter Kerr on the defensive by accusing him of being overly influenced by nudges he received from his wife, Jean, on opening nights. (When I was drama critic of The New York Times some 25 years later, he recycled the same stunt with me and my soon-to-be wife, Alex Witchel, to generate publicity for a poorly received revival of ''Oh, Kay!'') When Stanley Kauffmann was drama critic for The Times in 1966, Mr. Merrick prevented him from reviewing a preview of Brian Friel's ''Philadelphia, Here I Come!'' by canceling the performance and announcing that ''a rat'' was loose in the theater's generator. The story made page one -- publicity well worth the price of the tickets the producer had to refund.
        His taunting of Howard Taubman, the critic preceding Mr. Kauffmann at the Times, was particularly notorious. What began as a funny tirade on Johnny Carson's ''Tonight'' show -- Mr. Merrick accused the critic of removing ''Wet Paint'' signs on benches in Central Park -- escalated  when the producer descended into Nazi analogies. After Mr. Taubman threatened to sue, Mr. Merrick issued a rare apology.
        The producer's known humanitarian gestures were few, but, as a consistent foe of racism, he forced the backstage unions to integrate their crews on ''Jamaica,'' a 1957 musical with Lena Horne and a largely black cast, by threatening to jettison the production if they did not.  He also had a keen respect for his audiences. After the out-of-town ministrations of both Abe Burrows and Edward Albee failed to save a 1966 musical version of Truman Capote's ''Breakfast at Tiffany's,'' Mr. Merrick closed it during New York previews despite advance sales of $1 million (a mammoth amount for that time) that would have kept it alive for months. He refused to subject theatergoers to what he pronounced ''an excruciatingly boring evening.''
        Of his fellow producers, he was contemptuous. ''There's a horse's ass for every light on Broadway,'' he told the writer William Goldman in 1968. He refused to belong to the producers' league and at various times likened himself to a ''lone wolf'' and to an ''alley cat that's not quite trustful, that's always watching for someone to leap on him.'' Mr. Merrick didn't mind if people hated him as he battled his way to the top.
        Even so, he was not without his fans in the theater. Woody Allen, Arthur Laurents and Jerry Herman, among others, have praised his professionalism through the years.  ''He's the only man I know who's made a vice of honesty,'' said the playwright N. Richard Nash. But Mr. Merrick had no close friends among Broadway's elite, who he felt never accepted him. At the theater-district hangout Sardi's, he always insisted on sitting at a table in the back, with the tourists, rather than with other theatrical royalty up front.
        Among his toughest industry critics, Mr. Merrick was chastised for not only his misanthropy and financial ruthlessness but also for being an importer and packager rather than a truly creative producer who initiated shows from scratch. But if many of his successes were indeed from London, his biggest hits, like ''Dolly'' and ''42nd Street,'' were his own inspirations, and often his imports benefited from improvements born of his obsessive attention to every detail of production and promotion. Though Mr. Merrick was also faulted for producing his riskiest dramas through the tax dodge of a foundation, his eye for fresh theater was such that even some of those experiments, like the Brook ''Marat/Sade,'' turned out to be box-office sensations.
        A Lone Wolf From a Bygone Era
        By the time of ''42nd Street,'' which brought Mr. Merrick back to New York after a brief and fruitless Hollywood sojourn producing movies like ''Rough Cut'' and ''The Great Gatsby'' during the 1970's, his Broadway had disappeared. He and the few other surviving lone wolves among Broadway producers -- most notably Alexander H. Cohen, who died on Saturday -- were relics from a bygone time. Almost all Broadway shows were now imports of productions previously seen in London, regional theaters or Off Broadway. In place of a single tyrannical producer who ruled by gut instinct and took sole responsibility for financing, mounting and promoting a production, there were committees of producers, often investors and theater owners.
        These new producers were ''bereft of ideas, vitality and imagination,'' Mr. Merrick said. ''They're just businessmen who happen to be in the theater.'' By the 1980's the leading theatrical showmen aspiring to Mr. Merrick's stature were Joseph Papp and Cameron Mackintosh, a vocal Merrick admirer. But Mr. Papp worked primarily in the noncommercial confines of Off Broadway while Mr. Mackintosh initiated his shows in London's West End and rarely produced more than one a season, if that.
        In 1983 Mr. Merrick had a stroke, which curtailed his freedom of speech and movement as well as his professional activities. He had long since given up his famous office, decorated in the bloody color known in the trade as ''David Merrick Red,'' high above the St. James Theater down the block from Shubert Alley.
        On the weekend after New Year's in 1989, ''42nd Street'' closed simultaneously at the St. James in New York and the Drury Lane in London. After that, the compulsively litigious producer devoted much of his time to truly Dickensian legal conflicts arising from both his theatrical finances and his stormy domestic history.  Wheelchair-bound and often reduced to communicating in grunts, he was frequently in the company of a young woman named Natalie Lloyd, who served as his spokeswoman.
        In addition to his marriage to  Leonore Beck, Mr. Merrick was married to Jeanne Gilbert, whom he met when she was doing press relations for the Savoy Hotel in London; Etan Aronson; Karen Prunczik, a dancer who played Anytime Annie in the original cast of ''42nd Street,'' and again to Ms. Aronson. All five marriages ended in divorce, the fifth last year after a marathon decade of  litigation. Zack Manna, executive/ artistic director of the David Merrick Arts Foundation, said that Mr. Merrick married Ms. Lloyd last November.
        He is also survived by his children,  Cecilia Ann Merrick, whose mother was Jeanne Gilbert, and Marguerita Merrick, daughter of Etan Merrick.
        What Made Merrick Run?
        The last of his nearly 90 shows, a 1996 stage version of the 1945 Rodgers and Hammerstein movie ''State Fair,'' was actually produced by others, but Mr. Merrick took it over by making a large and impetuous investment during its pre-New York tour. It flopped on Broadway, though not before the frail showman made a brief ruckus by suing the Tony Awards for ruling part of its score ineligible for Tony consideration.
        Though Mr. Merrick's final promotional stunts on Broadway were an embarrassingly faint and farcical replay of his old tricks, they in no way diminished the judgment made by the producer Herman Shumlin, who gave the young David Margulois his start in 1940. Mr. Shumlin had observed before his own death in 1979 that David Merrick's career was ''a milestone in our modern theater, where the exploitation of plays has become a lost art.''
        But that lasting professional verdict still left unanswered the question of motive, which had obsessed Broadway for decades: What made Merrick run? For all the money he earned, and for all his efforts to keep every last dollar of it, there is no evidence that he enjoyed his fortune. He lived furtively, often in unpretentious Midtown apartments, and was not a party giver or goer. He frequently spoke of being depressed.
        One friend recalled a rare occasion in the early 1970's when Mr. Merrick briefly let down his guard and explained why his enormous success had failed to lighten his spirit. ''I'll tell you what it's like to be No. 1,'' the producer said. ''I compare it to climbing Mount Everest. It's very difficult. Lives are lost along the way. You struggle and struggle and finally you get up there. And guess what there is once you get up there? Snow and ice.''
        Correction:  August 10, 2000, Thursday  A front-page obituary of the theatrical producer David Merrick on April 27 and three later articles, including one on July 19 about a memorial tribute at the St. James Theater, misstated the date of his death. It was April 25, not April 26. The David Merrick Arts Foundation reported the error in a fax to The Times on Friday.
      