
        William C. Stokoe Jr., an iconoclastic linguistics professor whose championing of sign language helped change the way deaf people are educated around the world, died on April 4 at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 80.
        Dr. Stokoe was credited with winning recognition of American Sign Language as a genuine language, overcoming the contentions of linguists that it was little more than a rudimentary imitation of the spoken word. Eventually, Dr. Stokoe's work helped end a century-long banishment of signing from the classroom and won him a hero's status among many deaf students.
        ''People say it was a bombshell,'' Dr. Oliver Sacks, the author and neurologist, said of Dr. Stokoe's work. But he added: ''It was a rather slow bomb. The recognition he encountered was by no means immediate, because of very entrenched sort of attitudes, even among the deaf themselves.''
        When Dr. Stokoe (pronounced STOH-key) arrived in 1955 at Gallaudet University, the only university for the hearing-impaired in the United States, he knew little about sign language or even about deafness. His only extended encounter with it came in his dealings as a farm boy in Stafford, N.Y., with a local blacksmith who was deaf, said Jane Maher, who wrote a biography of Dr. Stokoe. The two used to pass each other notes, Ms. Maher said.
        Dr. Stokoe went to Gallaudet, which is in Washington, to teach English. His passion was Middle English, and like all other professors at the university, he was expected to instruct without using sign language.
        Since the 1880's, when a movement against signing began at an international conference in Milan, schools for the deaf had insisted that their students communicate orally, an often unsuccessful practice that involves lip-reading and trying to produce understandable sounds. Opponents of signing believed that oralism, as the teaching method was known, offered students their best chance at becoming part of the hearing world, and in the early days of the movement, those who were caught signing were punished.
        Among themselves, of course, students signed away, relishing the opportunity to communicate freely in the fashion that had arisen spontaneously throughout history whenever deaf people were together in sufficient numbers. Dr. Stokoe had studied some linguistics, and when he saw the signing at Gallaudet, he became fascinated.
        ''He underwent a sort of conversion, an epiphany and a revelation when he got to Gallaudet,'' said Dr. Sacks, who knew Dr. Stokoe for about 15 years and wrote an introduction to Ms. Maher's book. ''And he realized intuitively that something remarkable was going on among the students. And then he became sort of learner as much as teacher.''
        In his last book, ''Language in Hand'' (which Gallaudet University Press is now putting together), Dr. Stokoe wrote, ''At that point, my idea was simply that the signing American deaf people do is a language.''
        Five years after he arrived at Gallaudet, Dr. Stokoe published the groundbreaking ''Sign Language Structure.'' Four years later, he was the co-author of ''A Dictionary of American Sign Language on Linguistic Principles.''
        The books helped prove that sign language met the definition of a language. If every dissenter was not convinced, Dr. Stokoe's beliefs gradually drew wide acceptance and persuaded schools for the deaf to re-evaluate their approaches. It is now common for schools to use both oral and signing methods of instruction.
        If Dr. Stokoe's work proved persuasive, he himself was often nothing less than contentious, associates said. In her biography, ''Seeing Language in Sign: The Work of William C. Stokoe (Gallaudet University Press, 1996), Ms. Maher recounts how he earned the nickname Stubborn Stokoe in high school after convincing his physics teacher that he deserved a 100, not a 98, on an exam. (He was also gifted at language, learning to read by 3, Ms. Maher said.)
        Stubbornness was a trait that remained with him for life. In his last book, he still sounded scornful of those linguists who had accepted the ''fallacy'' that lack of speech meant lack of language, arguing that ''demographics and cultural oppression facilitated the conceit.''
        ''This cultural oppression made encountering deaf signing an even rarer occurrence than deaf people's small number would merit,'' Dr. Stokoe wrote. ''Virtually everyone's first impression ('These people are not speaking!') led to the false conclusion that they were not using language. Instead of seeing language in a different channel, the naive observer, hearing no speech, supposed language was absent too.''
        Dr. Stokoe's work made him highly respected among deaf students, especially as some became radicalized in recent years. ''He was really quite revered by deaf people throughout the world for this accomplishment,'' said a longtime friend, David F. Armstrong, the budget director at Gallaudet.
        Although he was not active in the effort, Dr. Stokoe, many people believe, was a driving force behind the student demonstrations in the 1980's that forced Gallaudet to choose its first deaf president.
        One reason Dr. Stokoe was not involved was that he was caring for his wife, Ruth, who died last year after battling Alzheimer's disease. When he could no longer care for her at home, Ms. Maher said, Dr. Stokoe visited her every day in the nursing home, reading to her from her favorite English books. Ruth Stokoe had helped her husband operate Linstok Press, a publisher. Dr. Stokoe, who became emeritus professor in 1984, was also the founder of the journal Sign Language Studies.
        Dr. Stokoe is survived by a son, James, of Chevy Chase, and a daughter, Helen, of Poughkeepsie, N.Y.
        Associates said Dr. Stokoe would be remembered, if not necessarily mourned, for another passion besides sign language: playing the bagpipes. He was a member of the Washington Scottish Pipe Band and liked to march around the Gallaudet campus in full regalia, ignoring -- or perhaps enjoying -- the reaction.
        ''The deaf students would joke that there were very few times that they were happy to be deaf, but that this  was one of them,'' Ms. Maher said. ''Because the screeching was unbearable.''
      