
        Dr. Ernst Knobil, a physiologist whose studies of the hormonal system led to a better understanding of the female reproductive function and improved treatment of infertility, died on April 13 at the Texas Medical Center in Houston. He was 73 and lived in Houston.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said an official of the University of Texas Health Science Center, where Dr. Knobil was a professor of physiology.
        From 1981 to 1997 he also directed the neuroendocrinology laboratory at the center. The field involves subtle interactions between the central nervous system and the hormone-secreting endocrine glands.
        Dr. Knobil (pronounced no-BEEL) spent five decades unraveling the mysteries of that relationship, hard to grasp but vital to bodily health. One of his major discoveries was finding in the brain's gray matter a hormone that regulates reproduction.
        The discovery enriched medical knowledge of the 28-day ovulatory menstrual cycle. Once synthesized, the hormone helped many women to become pregnant and achieved a better than 90 percent success rate for a common type of infertility, the University of Texas said.
        Dr. Knobil also cleared up questions about growth hormones. His research made possible the treatment of pituitary dwarfs who suffer from a deficiency in the hormone that controls body growth, secreted by the pituitary gland.
        He was the co-editor of a four-volume ''Encyclopedia of Reproduction'' and a two-volume ''Physiology of Reproduction,'' both of which remain in print. He also helped edit issues of the Annual Review of Physiology.
        Last year, Dr. Knobil was chairman of a National Research Council panel that studied the health effects of hormonally active contaminants, or chemicals that mimic sex hormones. The study concluded that not enough was known to say whether they posed health problems. The finding continues to be debated by scientists, policy makers and public advocates.
        Ernst Knobil was born in Berlin and grew up in Paris until 1940, when his parents brought him to the United States. He served two years in the Army before graduating from Cornell with a degree in animal science in 1948. He received a doctorate in zoology in 1951, also from Cornell.
        He conducted his early research at Cornell and Harvard Medical School, where he also taught. Dr. Knobil joined the Harvard faculty in 1953 and quickly rose through the academic ranks.
        In 1961 he became the founding chairman of the department of physiology at the University of Pittsburgh. From then until his move to the University of Texas in 1981, he helped develop the department's widely respected programs and founded and directed a reproduction research center.
        In Houston, Dr. Knobil was dean of the medical school in the early 1980's. After his tenure as dean he remained active in the classroom and laboratory until shortly before his death.
        He was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the National Academy of Sciences, and was a past president of the American Physiological Society, the Endocrine Society and the International Society of Endocrinology.
        Dr. Knobil is survived by his wife of 40 years, Dr. Julane Hotchkiss Knobil; three sons, Erich R., of Menomonee Falls, Wis., Mark, of Pittsburgh, and Nicholas H., of Bowdoinham, Me.; a daughter, Dr. Katharine K. Shelly of Raleigh, N.C.; and three grandchildren.
      