
        Alice Sheets Marriott, matriarch of the tight-knit family whose name stands on thousands of hotels worldwide, died on Monday in Washington. She was 92.
        Beginning in 1927 with a single root beer stand, Mrs. Marriott and her husband, J. Willard Marriott Sr., built one of the world's leading hospitality companies. Today, Marriott International, which is still run by the Marriott family, has more than 140,000 workers and annual sales approaching $10 billion.
        Along the way, Mrs. Marriott also raised a family that now numbers two children, eight grandchildren, and 23 great-grandchildren. She ''personified the American dream,'' Marriott International said in a statement.
        Alice Sheets was born in Salt Lake City, on Oct. 19, 1907. In June 1927, while still a teenager, she graduated with honors from the University of Utah with a bachelor's degree in Spanish. Two days later, she married Mr. Marriott, another University of Utah graduate, and the couple set off in a Ford Model T to Washington, where Mr. Marriott had just opened a root beer stand. There she worked as the shop's bookkeeper, taking its hard-earned nickels to the bank each day.
        As summer turned to fall, root beer sales slipped, leaving the Marriotts anxious to expand their menu. Mrs. Marriott spoke to the chef of the Mexican Embassy to learn the recipes for tamales and chili con carne. The Marriotts practiced the dishes in their apartment for two days, then added them to the menu at the stand, which they renamed The Hot Shoppe. The spicy dishes were a hit, and the Marriotts quickly opened more Hot Shoppes.
        ''Almost from the start, my parents -- especially my father -- launched the process of figuring out how to do something right and then writing it down. From washing windows to burnishing silverware to arranging buffet tables and processing customers' checks, no aspect of the workplace went untouched,'' J. W. Marriott Jr., wrote in his 1997 memoir, ''The Spirit to Serve: Marriott's Way.''
        A devotion to detail served the Marriotts well, as the chain thrived, eventually expanding to 65 sites. The Marriott family was also growing -- J. W. Jr. was born in 1932, and Richard followed in 1939.
        Then, in 1957, the Marriotts moved into the hotel business, which was taking off in tandem with the interstate highways. Mrs. Marriott spent much of the night before the opening of the first Marriott hotel, the Twin Bridges Motor Hotel in Arlington, Va., helping hang pictures in each of its 365 rooms.
        By offering travelers a consistent, dependable and safe night's rest, the Marriott chain quickly surpassed more established competitors. Today, many hotel operators consider Marriott the world's top hotel company, with a reputation for treating employees and customers fairly.
        As Marriott grew, Mrs. Marriott spent more time on charity work in the Washington area, including serving two 10-year terms on the board of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. A conservative Republican, she was vice chairman of the Republican National Committee from 1965 to 1976, and honorary chairman of the 1973 Nixon inaugural committee.
      