
        Ronald Lockley, a naturalist and prolific author whose four-year study of rabbits inspired Richard Adams's 1972 book ''Watership Down,'' died on April 12 in Auckland, New Zealand. He was 96.
        Mr. Lockley wrote about 60 books, two-thirds of them about islands, one of his driving passions. Many of the others were about birds.
        Indeed, he established the first formal bird observatories in both Britain and New Zealand and wrote definitive studies of the puffin and the Manx shearwater. He also was an early organizer of the conservationist forces that grew into the environmental movement.
        But it was with the publication in 1964 of ''The Private Life of the Rabbit: An Account of the Life History and Social Behavior of the Wild Rabbit'' that Mr. Lockley achieved his greatest recognition. It was a rigorously factual work with none of the anthropomorphic sentimentality that infused ''Watership'' with its charm, but it bristled with insights.
        The Times Literary Supplement said Mr. Lockley ''shows the rabbit to be a more complex fellow than one had thought.''
        In Time magazine, Stefan Kanfer wrote, ''Lockley was apparently born with a seventh sense -- of wonder -- and has expended most of it on rabbits, which he has studied in every imaginable sort of enclosure, even including a real burrow with specially installed infrared lighting and glass sides.''
        In his acknowledgments, Mr. Adams credited Mr. Lockley's book for his own description of bunny behavior in his tale of wandering rabbits.
        He wrote that ''anyone who wishes to know more about the migrations of yearlings, about pressing chin glands, chewing pellets, the effects of overcrowding in warrens, the phenomenon of re-absorption of fertilized embryos, the capacity of buck rabbits to fight stoats'' and any other features of rabbit life should refer to Mr. Lockley's work.
        Ronald Mathias Lockley was born  in Cardiff, Wales. He and his five brothers and sisters were raised mainly by their mother, as their father's job as a railway manager kept him away much of the time. She founded a successful boarding school outside of Cardiff.
        He was a delicate, scholarly child, and his fascination with the natural world blossomed when he sat in a chair in the family's garden recovering from appendicitis in the summer of 1914. He made a detailed inventory of the garden's wildlife and read Thoreau's ''Walden.''
        After graduating from high school, he worked with his sister on a small Welsh poultry farm for five years. He spent most of the time observing the natural world around him.
        In 1926, with his first wife, Doris, he took a 21-year lease on 240-acre Skokholm Island, off the western tip of Pembrokeshire, Wales. They lived a Swiss Family Robinson existence, rebuilding an ancient farmhouse with wood from a wrecked schooner, which also supplied their fuel.
        The island was carpeted with wildflowers and alive with sea-birds. And, yes, there were rabbits, velvety chinchilla rabbits to be precise.
        Mr. Lockley envisioned paying his bills by selling fur, but the rabbits proved frustratingly hard to catch.
        Mr. Lockley responded by turning his attentions to birds and writing. He wrote three books about the island, as well as an authoritative study of the shearwater species of seabird. It was then that he founded Britain's first bird observatory, which in 1934 drew former King Ferdinand of Bulgaria as a visitor; he was attended at all times by a servant carrying the stool he used for his frequent rests.
        Mr. Lockley's bird work drew the interest of Buckingham Palace, where officials wondered if he could find a pet razorbill, a shore bird species, for Princess Elizabeth and Princess Margaret.
        In 1939, on one of the first live television broadcasts, a handful of viewers witnessed him being ignominously bitten as he opened the bird's basket.
        In 1934, he wrote the screenplay for one of the first nature films, ''The Private Life of the Gannet,'' which is a gooselike bird. It won the Academy Award for best documentary.
        After serving as a naval intelligence officer in World War II, he moved with his second wife, Jill, to a large estate called Orielton near Milford Haven in Wales. There he did his intensive study on rabbits, under contract from the British Nature Conservancy.
        Because of high maintenance costs, he was forced to sell Orielton to the Field Studies Council, which continues to run it as a nature education center. He also arranged to have Skokholm and a nearby island acquired as permanent natural areas.
        He fought a prominent and losing battle to stop an oil refinery from being built in western Wales. Partly in frustration at the British government's inability to protect its own landscape, he moved to New Zealand in 1977, with his third wife, Jean. She died, but he is survived by a daughter, Ann Mark, and two sons, Martin and Stephen.
        In New Zealand, his writing continued, though his standards changed: in a 1979 book about marine mammals, he allowed the creatures to talk in the manner of ''Watership Down.''
        At least one review, an unsigned one in The Economist, objected to the change, saying, ''Mr. Lockley should have kept off imaginary conversations with dying killer whales.''
        He could never escape rabbits. New Zealand had no rabbits until settlers in 1864 decided that they needed something besides deer and wild pig to hunt. As a result, the country was overrun with rabbits, spurring Mark Twain to remark that the man who introduced them would be hanged immediately, if apprehended.
        With time, the situation only worsened. Mr. Lockley was asked in 1991 for expert advice on whether a rabbit-killing virus should be introduced. He said it was needlessly cruel and would never work.
      