
        Giorgio Bassani, the author of the classic modern novel ''The Garden of the Finzi-Continis,'' died today in the San Camillo hospital in Rome. He was 84.
        Mr. Bassani's final years were darkened by a bitter dispute between his lawyers and his estranged wife and children, who in 1998 had sued to have him declared mentally incompetent to manage his own finances. Mr. Bassani had been suffering from progressive dementia. A court decision was pending at the time of his death.
        The son of a Jewish doctor in Ferrara, Mr. Bassani drew on his personal memories to paint his haunting, elegiac portrait of the Finzi-Contini family, wealthy, aristocratic Jews who tried to seclude themselves from the Fascist menace of the 1930's behind a walled estate and their own delusions of invulnerability.
        The novel, published in 1962 and adapted into a memorable 1971 film by Vittorio De Sica, sealed Mr. Bassani's international reputation, but it was one of many works, poetry as well as prose, set in his hometown of Ferrara.
        It was in Ferrara that Mr. Bassani felt the crushing grip of Fascism firsthand. The Mussolini regime passed racial laws in 1938, which among other things expelled Jewish students and professors from universities, including Bologna, where Mr. Bassani studied literature.
        In 1940, seeking to disguise his Jewish ancestry in an effort to get around the racial laws, he used the pseudonym Giacomo Marchi to publish his first book of short stories, ''Cittan Pianura.'' The same year he began participating in the anti-Fascist resistance. He was arrested early in 1943 and put into prison until July, when the Fascist regime fell. In September, Italy surrendered to the Allies.
        In August 1943 Mr. Bassani married Valeria Sinigallia and moved under an assumed name to Florence, where his parents, sister and other relatives had also fled to escape the round-up and deportation of Jews he so movingly described in ''The Garden of the Finzi-Continis'' and in ''Five Stories of Ferrara.'' Ninety-six out of 300 Jews in Ferrara were deported during the war. Only five survived.
        After the war Mr. Bassani moved to Rome and resumed writing, publishing poetry, essays and novels and editing literary journals, among them the distinguished Bottega Oscura. In 1958, while working as an editor at the Feltrinelli publishing house, he discovered the work of Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa, and he is widely crediting with having championed the author, who wrote one of Italy's best-known modern novels, ''Il Gattopardo'' (''The Leopard''). In addition to ''The Garden of the Finzi-Continis,'' Mr. Bassani's works that were published in English include ''Five Stories of Ferrara'' (1971), which won the prestigious Strega Prize; the novel ''Gold-Rimmed Spectacles'' (1960); the novel ''The Heron'' (1970); the novel ''Behind the Door'' (1972); a story collection, ''The Smell of Hay'' (1975); ''Rolls-Royce and Other Poems'' (1982); and ''Italian Stories'' (1989).
        Critics have noted that Mr. Bassani wrote of Ferrara, particularly its doomed Jewish community, the way that William Faulkner and Tennessee Williams wrote of the Deep South. Ernst Pawel, reviewing ''Five Stories of Ferrara'' for The New York Times Book Review in 1971, wrote: ''Giorgio Bassani's Ferrara, like all true cities, is a myth, a state of being and of having been, and he haunts it with the nostalgic passion of his exile. His 'The Garden of the Finzi-Continis' was an ambiguous vision of paradise lost. The stories in the present collection . . . add to the vision by adding to the ambiguities.''
        Mr. Bassani, while continuing to publish poetry and novels, was active in Italian public life, working as a vice president of the state-owned network RAI from 1957 to 1967. In 1955, together with other prominent intellectuals, he was a founder of ''Italia Nostra'' (''Our Italy''), the Italian historic preservation and environmental protection association. He served as its president from 1965 to 1980, when he became honorary president.
        ''The memory of the great writer will remain alive in all of us,'' Prime Minister Massimo D'Alema said today, praising ''the poetry and the commitment of his works, which rank among the most beautiful in our 20th-century literature.''
        Mr. Bassani separated from his wife more than 30 years ago, according to his lawyer, Francesco De Petris, but never pursued a civil divorce. He lived in Rome with his longtime companion, Portia Prebys, an American educator. But when he sold his home in Ferrara a few years ago, Mrs. Sinigallia and her sons contended that Mr. Bassani's companion was squandering his estate, and they began a series of lawsuits to have him declared mentally incompetent to manage his affairs. Their doctors said he suffered from Alzheimer's disease.
        Mr. Bassani's doctors acknowledged that he had progressive dementia but argued in court briefs that his condition was a result of Parkinson's disease and could be regulated with medication. Mr. De Petris said that a judge in Rome recently ruled on the case but that the decision had not yet been made known to Mr. Bassani's lawyers.
        The Italian news agency ANSA reported that the parties put aside their rancor and were together at Mr. Bassani's bedside when he died.
        In addition to his estranged wife and Ms. Prebys, Mr. Bassani is survived by two sons, Paulo and Emilio, a sister and a brother.
      