
        Elmer Gertz, a leading Chicago lawyer who successfully represented the convicted thrill killer Nathan Leopold, the sexually explicit author  Henry Miller and Jack Ruby, assassin of Lee Harvey Oswald, died on Thursday at an acute-care center in Chicago. He was 93.
        Mr. Gertz, who was also a champion of civil rights and a law professor -- his last teaching assignment was a civil rights class only last autumn at the John Marshall Law School in Chicago -- became well known in the 1950's, when he began representing Mr. Leopold.
        Mr. Leopold had been sentenced to life imprisonment for murder and to 99 years for kidnapping for his role, along with that of another University of Chicago student, Richard Loeb, in the 1924 thrill killing of 14-year-old Bobby Franks. The two men, having pleaded guilty, were saved from execution by Clarence Darrow's argument that they had suffered from temporary insanity and that putting them to death would be all the more unjust given their youth: Mr. Leopold was 19 when the crime occurred, and Mr. Loeb 18.
        Mr. Loeb was slashed to death in prison by a former cell mate in 1936, but Mr. Leopold remained in confinement for two more decades, until, in 1958, Mr. Gertz obtained parole for him with the argument that he had been entirely rehabilitated.
        In 1964, Mr. Gertz took on the case of Mr. Ruby, the nightclub owner who had pierced police custody of  Mr. Oswald to shoot him to death only two days after Mr. Oswald had killed President John F. Kennedy.
        Mr. Ruby had already been convicted of the Oswald murder by the time Mr. Gertz took up his cause. Mr. Gertz managed to get the conviction overturned by contending that the trial had been enveloped by excessive publicity. Mr. Ruby died of natural causes in 1967 while behind bars awaiting a new trial.
        Also in the early 1960's, Mr. Gertz came to the defense of Mr. Miller, whose 1934 novel ''Tropic of Cancer'' was finally published in the United States in 1961 by Grove Press, to critical praise but also to accusations of obscenity. By March 1963, the Supreme Court and courts in New York, California and Illinois  were all considering whether Mr. Miller's work was protected by law.
        ''That month,'' Jay Martin wrote in a 1978 biography of Mr. Miller, ''at Gertz's request, Miller produced a noble defense of his book in an open letter addressed to the United States Supreme Court. He and Gertz anticipated victory, and they were victorious'': in 1964 the Supreme Court ruled that the sale of the novel was protected by the Constitution.
        Two decades later Mr. Gertz prevailed in a noted libel case in which he himself was a principal. A Chicago jury awarded him $400,000 in a retrial of the 12-year-old case, which stemmed from a 1969 article in a John Birch Society publication that linked him to an alleged Communist plot to discredit the Chicago police.
        In the civil rights field, Mr. Gertz long championed black lawyers' efforts to join bar associations, and in the 1940's and 50's battled for fairness in Chicago housing. He also played a central role in drawing up a landmark Illinois bill of rights.
        Mr. Gertz, born in Chicago, received a bachelor's degree in 1928  and his law degree in 1930, both from the University of Chicago. He was the author or a co-author of more than a dozen books.
        His first wife, Ceretta Samuels, died in 1958, and his second, Mami Laitchin Friedman, in 1997.
        His survivors include a daughter, Margery Hechtman; a son, Theodore; two brothers, Robert and Dr. George; six grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      