
        Margo Kaufman, a humorist, writer and radio commentator with a keen instinct for the comedic possibilities in the mundane, died on Friday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 46.
        The cause was breast cancer, her husband, Eric Mankin, said.
        In her writings for such publications as The Los Angeles Times, The New York Times and Cosmopolitan magazine, Ms. Kaufman established her gift for homing in on the hilarity -- and sometimes pathos -- in everyday life. She regaled readers with accounts of traveling with her family, tedious home renovations and her beloved pug dogs or, after her cancer was diagnosed in 1989, with details of her illness and its often painful treatment.
        Piping and sardonic, her distinctive voice was familiar to radio listeners in Los Angeles, where she was a regular commentator on KABC, and nationally, with frequent appearances on National Public Radio's ''Wait, Wait, Don't Tell Me.''
        She eventually elaborated upon the essays in three books, ''1-800-Am-I-Nuts?,'' ''This Damn House!: My Subcontract with America'' and ''Clara, the Early Years: The Story of the Pug Who Ruled My Life.''
        A graduate of Northwestern University, Ms. Kaufman began her career as a columnist for City Paper, an alternative weekly in her native Baltimore, and continued writing after she moved to Los Angeles, first at the LA Weekly and then for national publications.
        An aficionado of pug dogs, which she regarded as ''living proof that God has a sense of humor,'' Ms. Kaufman proudly carried a business card identifying herself as a Hollywood correspondent for Pug Talk magazine.
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by her son, Nicholas; her father, Allan Pearlstein of Boca Raton, Fla.; her mother, Gloria Asnes of New York; a sister, Laurie Goldberg of Atlanta; a brother, Robert Pearlstein of Baltimore; and a grandmother, Flora Pearlstein of Baltimore.
        ''You just can't get through life without a sense of humor these days,'' Ms. Kaufman told an audience in 1993, a year after learning that her cancer had spread. ''The most awful things can be really funny. You have to be able to laugh or it gets too depressing.''
      