
        HE has 800 unsolved murder cases crammed into scrapbooks that line the walls of his offices, his laboratory, even his bathroom, like so much incriminating wallpaper: no wonder the man Gov. John G. Rowland of Connecticut calls the most famous detective since Sherlock Holmes -- the man whose devil-in-the-details testimony helped get O. J. Simpson off the hook -- feels pressed to retire from his day jobs and get on to his second career.
        His desk clock rests on a bouquet of dynamite sticks, but dead bodies and how they get that way are what make Dr. Henry C. Lee, the celebrated commissioner of the Connecticut State Police, tick. Not that this Chinese refugee -- at 4, he fled the Communist revolution with his mother and 12 siblings for Taiwan just before his father was presumed drowned in the exodus -- has a thing for murder.
        Rather, Dr. Lee, the former police captain (second in his class at Taiwan's police academy, scholarship student at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, 1975 biochemistry doctorate from New York University) solves deaths the way his wealthy father's death never was. Did Ho-Ming Lee's boat sink by accident? Was it bombed by Communists? He's stumped.
        ''Maybe God's will: if my father don't die, maybe I become a juvenile delinquent because I grow up too rich,'' says the fatalist in him. Dr. Lee grew up so poor in Taiwan that he owned only one pair of shoes each year and walked to and from school barefoot to preserve them. He often went to bed hungry because his mother had foraged no supper.
        But she made sure her children didn't miss an education: ''Thirteen of us, and none criminals,'' notes Dr. Lee, whose mother, now 104, continues to nag him about his work ethic. (He says education is a gift he gave his two children, a financial analyst and a dentist: at his lab on weekends, they did homework while he solved cases. He remembers it as ''quality time.'')
        Dr. Lee, a 61-year-old former martial artist (he worked his way through college teaching kung fu), used to plant body parts in his backyard and dig them up later to document decomposition rates. The findings were handy during recent trips to Bosnia, where he helped identify victims in mass graves.
        He makes grisly missions like that for two reasons: out of respect to victims and closure-seeking families, and out of dedication to forensic science, the calling that inspires his 17-hour workdays and an office joke. He says colleagues envision him snapping from stress and chasing them with the samurai swords that hang behind his desk. Dr. Lee discounts that prospect, but finds it funny. Let's face it, there's not a ton of fun in his job.
        ''Nobody enjoys seeing dead bodies; I'm not that crazy,'' says Dr. Lee, who gets indignant when people assume his workday unfurls like a ''Quincy'' rerun. ''In our real life, is no Quincy,'' he says in fractured English, one of six languages in which he manages to make his point in lectures worldwide. ''You don't walk onto crime scene, figure out, wrap it up in hour. You don't have tunnel vision. That's the beauty of forensics. Common sense. No emotions.''
        Dr. Lee makes snap conclusions in murder mysteries just once a year, during his annual visit to the movies with his wife, Margaret. ''In five minutes, I have it figured out. She'll say, 'You're wrong!' but I'm always right. She can't stand it.''
        As for real-life cases, he sadly revealed a host of investigative indiscretions linked to the Los Angeles police in the Simpson trial but neglected to answer Mr. Simpson's thank-you note, one of 17,000 letters he received after testifying; his $100,000 expert witness fee went, as usual, to charity. (Dr. Lee believes he testifies for forensic facts, not for prosecution and defense lawyers.) He scrutinized the JonBenet Ramsey crime scene, speculated that some elements appeared staged and insists that it's ''a solvable case,'' implying that the principal investigators are too busy writing books about it to resolve it.
        HE confirmed the death of the deputy White House counsel Vincent Foster as suicide (25,000 letters on that one), and in his most eccentric back-burner assignment, he's looking for Pocahontas, buried in Britain 383 years ago, on behalf of the singer Wayne Newton, who traces his Native American roots to her tribe and wants her interred in the United States.
        One of his notable cases was body-less.
        Back when ''Fargo'' was just a macabre future twinkle in the Coen brothers' camera lens, Dr. Lee got down on all fours in a Connecticut blizzard to scrounge for the remains of a flight attendant suspected of being murdered and fed into a wood chipper by her husband, an airline pilot. He worked around the clock to crack the case, pausing only to check in at home in Branford, Conn., for his wife to defrost his hands and feet and fortify him with rice and tea. (He sometimes forgets to do practical things like eat and sleep.)
        Eventually Dr. Lee accumulated just under an ounce of human remains, proved they belonged to the flight attendant, and 15 years ago prosecutors secured Connecticut's first murder conviction without benefit of a corpse.
        It's just one of the chapters that Dr. Lee, who has his life story down to a science and doles out autographed cups as souvenirs, relays as he revisits his reasons for leaving his posts as commissioner and head of the state police forensics laboratory. (He believes he's accomplished his mission of putting the state police in step with 21st-century technology.)
        As for future chapters, there are 800 possibilities, plus the retrieval of an Indian princess: ''In all my life, I won't finish 800 cases,'' he frets. But he's game to try.
        PUBLIC LIVES
      