
        Daniel H. Thomas, a senior United States district judge who grappled with desegregation in southern Alabama and made a national reputation presiding over admiralty cases, died on Thursday at his home in Mobile, Ala. He was 93.
        President Harry S. Truman appointed him in 1951 to the bench for the Southern District of Alabama, sitting in Mobile. Judge Thomas took senior status with a decreasing workload in 1971. He continued to come to his chambers about twice a week until a few months ago, the court reported. That, at about 49 years in office, made him one of the longest-serving federal judges ever.
        Because Mobile is one of the country's busiest seaports, and the only one in Alabama, Judge Thomas was assigned numerous maritime cases over the years, gaining great expertise in the field.
        He was already a senior judge when he was given charge of a notable trial after an incident on a stormy night in 1980 when a freighter rammed, and wrecked, the Sunshine Skyway bridge over Tampa Bay, killing 35 people whose cars plunged into the water.
        Judge Thomas was also in the thick of the integration turmoil that overtook the Deep South in the 1960's, and many civil-rights advocates considered him hostile to their cause. Caught between an impatient Justice Department and recalcitrant local authorities, he dealt with cases involving literacy tests, voter registration, mass arrests of demonstrators and school integration.
        A conservative, he suffered a high rate of judicial reversals in civil-rights cases. He drew notice in 1970 when he helped organize a campaign, signed by 58 federal judges, to endorse President Richard M. Nixon's doomed choice of Judge G. Harrold Carswell, a staunch Southern conservative, for the United States Supreme Court.
        Daniel Holcombe Thomas was born in Prattville, Ala., and received his law degree from the University of Alabama in 1928. He went into private practice, served as a lieutenant in the Navy in World War II and was a member of the firm of Lyons, Thomas & Pipes in Mobile County when Truman appointed him to the federal bench.
        He was active in the Boy Scouts of America on a regional level and was named to the organization's national council in 1973. He served as a trustee of the Alabama department of archives and history.
        Judge Thomas is survived by his wife of 20 years, Catherine Miller Thomas; two sons, Daniel Jr., of Tequesta, Fla., and Merrill P., of Mobile; and six grandchildren. His first wife, Dorothy Quina Thomas, died in 1977 after 41 years of marriage.
      