
        Justice W. Shepro, a lawyer and businessman who used his real estate fortune to transform himself into one of the nation's leading collectors of antique clocks, died in an automobile accident near Chicago on March 30. He was 74 and lived in Roscoe, Ill.
        Mr. Shepro's odyssey in time began in 1971, when he asked a decorator if a 19th-century grandfather clock would complement the decor of his law office in suburban Chicago, where he then lived and worked. The answer was yes, and he was off and running.
        He became owner of one of the world's largest and most carefully selected collections of antique clocks, some dating from the 15th century. Claire Vincent, associate curator of European sculpture and decorative arts at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, characterized his French clocks, ranging from the late 16th century to the early 19th, as among the best in the world.
        William J. H. Andrewes, formerly curator of historical scientific instruments at Harvard University, said, ''He was a true connoisseur, enjoying every piece for its technical merit, its aesthetic quality or its historical significance.''
        In Mr. Shepro's later years, his son Richard said, he consciously changed from a flamboyant personality with two Rolls-Royces into a serious scholar of clocks and time-keeping. When he was 70, he began to teach himself French so he could converse with experts about the particulars of old French clocks, as well as read entries in the copy of Diderot's Encyclopedia that he kept in one of his clock rooms.
        He was president of the American section of the Antiquarian Horological Society for almost a decade. In 1977, he became only the second American admitted into the Worshipful Company of Clockmakers, a London guild that has its roots in a royal charter granted by King Charles I in 1631.
        Mr. Shepro roamed the world's museums, quietly accepting numerous opportunities to view collections not on display to the public. He wrote articles and notes about clocks in catalogs at galleries and auctions. For a major clock sale by Sotheby's in December, he wrote: ''There are no other objects from the past that combine such history, science, technology, design and intrinsic beauty! For what more could a collector ask?''
        Justice Warren Shepro was born on March 25, 1926, in Fort Pierce, Fla., where his father, a lawyer, was trying, unsuccessfully as it turned out, to cash in on the Florida land boom of the 20's. His mother, also a lawyer, liked to say he was named for Chief Justice Earl Warren. When it was pointed out that Mr. Warren was not named to the court until a quarter century after her son's birth, she answered, ''We thought he was doing good work even then.''
        Mr. Shepro grew up in Chicago's western suburbs, where his father practiced law and owned a company that made screws and bolts. He graduated from Northwestern University and its law school.
        His career choice was almost a foregone conclusion. ''I don't know that I had much choice with a name like Justice,'' he said. He joined the law firm of his father, who promptly resigned the day his son passed the bar exam, in order to devote himself to screws and bolts and his other businesses.
        In the same manner as his father, Mr. Shepro invested in clients' businesses. He ended up owning two travel agencies and making a number of lucrative real estate investments.
        His first marriage, to Inez McKillip, ended in divorce in 1971. They had two sons, Richard, who lives in Chicago, and Kenneth, of Wayne, Ill. Six grandchildren also survive him.
        Mr. Shepro and his second wife, Teresa Lemon, a specialist in fabrics from countries as far-flung as Peru and Indonesia, were married in 1988. They moved from their Chicago apartment to Roscoe about five years ago, in part because the Time Museum, a bountiful collection of clocks and watches, was then in nearby Rockford.
        That museum has since been disbanded by its owners, and much of its collection is scheduled to go to a new National Time Museum, to be opened this year in Chicago. Mr. Shepro was chairman of the international council of advisers to the new museum.
        Mr. Shepro's move to Roscoe was part of a new life. Two Ford Explorers replaced the Rolls-Royces. They were chosen because they were a perfect size to haul a grandfather clock.
        He continued to practice the sort of workaday law he loved. He did a real estate closing for his son Richard and Richard's wife, Lindsay, the day before he died.
        Mr. Shepro was a man in love with keeping time. He had his house designed to show off his clock collection, but would never say how many clocks he owned. In recent years, the number had shrunk as he had increasingly traded multiple clocks for a single one on which his heart was set, Richard Shepro said.
        His sons remember well the day in 1977 when he gave each a digital watch. ''This is the end of fine watchmaking,'' he said ominously.
        His own everyday wristwatch reset itself by radio signals from the atomic clock in Denver.
        Mr. Shepro could tell you off the top of his head what time it was in China. He owned a 17th-century Italian monastic night clock; a 1738 Parisian clock identical to one owned by Queen Elizabeth, and a French grandfather clock made in 1672.
        Patricia Atwood, who was director of the Time Museum in Rockford and vice president of the horological society, remembered being with him in a dark, dusty attic of the Hermitage Museum in St. Petersburg, Russia. They were shown a fabulous clock, one made by Louis XVI's clockmaker as a present for Marie Antoinette.
        Mr. Shepro had one just like it at home, but did not want to upstage his hosts as they discussed the clock's uniqueness. He said nothing and winked at Ms. Atwood.
      