
        Frank Rothman, a trial lawyer who represented the National Football League in some of its most important cases and who once ran the MGM movie studio, died Tuesday in a hospital here from complications following surgery, his family said. He was 73 and had continued to practice law until early this year.
        Mr. Rothman was a partner in the Los Angeles office of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, the New York law firm, specializing in antitrust law and working mainly for big clients in sports and entertainment. The National Law Journal, calling him a ''legendary litigator,'' included him several times on its list of the 100 most influential lawyers in the nation.
        Mr. Rothman considered his biggest victory to be defending the N.F.L. in a 1986 antitrust case filed by the fledgling United States Football League. A jury ruled that the N.F.L. did violate antitrust law on one count but awarded the U.S.F.L. only $1 in damages.
        ''Frank was a combination of Shula, Landry and Noll in the courtroom,'' Paul Tagliabue, the commissioner of the National Football League, said in a statement, referring to three legendary footbal coaches: Tom Landry, Don Shula and Chuck Noll.
        Earlier in his career, Mr. Rothman handled a case involving Spencer Haywood that invalidated the National Basketball Association's rule preventing players from entering the league before their college class graduated. And more recently he successfully defended the basketball league from a lawsuit filed by Latrell Sprewell stemming from his 68-game suspension for choking his coach.
        Another of Mr. Rothman's longtime clients was the billionaire Kirk Kerkorian, who has on three occasions owned the MGM movie studio in Hollywood. In 1982, despite having no experience in studio operation, Mr. Rothman was named chairman and chief executive of MGM/UA Entertainment Company. Mr. Rothman helped reduce the studio's heavy debts but the studio's box-office record remained shaky. When Mr. Kerkorian sold the studio in 1986, Mr. Rothman left to return to law.
        Later, Mr. Rothman would joke that he was never that comfortable being a Hollywood mogul. A lawyer, he would explain, is responsible for the outcome of his own case while a studio chief is always blamed for the failure of movies he neither writes, directs or acts in.
        ''His heart was always in the law and that was why he was able to make the transition back to becoming a practicing lawyer,'' said Ronald L. Olson, a trial attorney in Los Angeles, who said Mr. Rothman was liked and respected even by his adversaries in cases. ''He set the example for all of us litigators,'' Mr. Olson continued. ''He had a special rapport and respect from judges that the rest of us sought and few attained.''
        A native of Los Angeles, Mr. Rothman received his undergraduate degree from the University of California at Los Angeles and his law degree from the University of Southern California. He worked in the early 1950's in the Los Angeles city attorney's office and then joined a local firm that eventually became known as Wyman, Bautzer, Rothman & Kuchel & Silbert. He left that firm to join MGM and then was recruited by Skadden Arps, which was trying to expand its Los Angeles office.
        Mr. Rothman did not always win. He was on the losing side of a case in which eight N.F.L. players challenged the league's restrictions on players' becoming free agents. After a jury verdict in 1992 in favor of the players, the case was settled in a way that led to an easing of the requirements for free agency.
        Mr. Rothman collected contemporary art and was a passionate sports fan. He and his son Steven bet each week for 23 years on the outcome of N.F.L. games, awarding a trophy to the winner, his son recalled today. Even when Steven was on his honeymoon off the coast of Turkey he called his father with his picks for the week.
        Mr. Rothman's first marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Mariana Pfaelzer, a United States district judge in Los Angeles,  and by three children from his first marriage; Steven and Susan Rothman, both of Los Angeles; and Robin Wilson of the Atlanta area. He is also survived by five grandchildren.
      