
        Frances Gray Patton, a writer whose short stories appeared in The New Yorker through four decades and whose works included the popular 1954 novel ''Good Morning, Miss Dove,'' died Tuesday at Duke University Medical Center in Durham, N.C. She was 94 and lived in Durham.
        Ms. Potter's finely crafted stories offered glimpses into Durham society in the mid-20th century, a world she knew well as a Duke faculty wife.
        Her first published work, ''A Piece of Bread,'' the story of a Southern girl's encounter with a prison chain gang, won a Kenyon Review prize and was included among the 1945 ''O. Henry Memorial Award Prize Stories.''
        After that, The New Yorker began publishing Ms. Patton's stories, 30 in the next 10 years. Others appeared in magazines like Colliers, Harper's, The Saturday Review of Literature and McCall's. Her first book, ''The Finer Things of Life'' (1951), a collection culled mostly from works that appeared in The New Yorker, earned praise from critics.
        Three years later, Ms. Patton's first novel, ''Good Morning, Miss Dove,'' was published. Developed from her story ''The Terrible Miss Dove,'' first published in Ladies' Home Journal, the work chronicled the life of a strict but beloved geography teacher in a small American town whose sudden illness shocks the community.
        Writing in The New York Times, Charles Poore described the work as ''ruthlessly sentimental'' and ''a cheerful mixture of 'Goodbye Mr. Chips' and 'Mary Poppins,' with touches of the rigorous way to salvation from 'Life With Father.' ''
        The novel was a Book-of-the-Month Club selection, and the movie rights were sold to 20th Century Fox, which turned the story into a popular film starring Jennifer Jones.
        In 1955, Ms. Patton published ''A Piece of Luck,'' a second collection of stories, set mostly in suburbia, that explored the private worlds of children and women. A third collection, ''28 Stories,'' was published in 1969.
        Frances MacRae Gray was born in Raleigh, N.C., where her father was editor of The Raleigh Times. Her mother had been the first woman to enroll at the University of North Carolina.
        Ms. Patton became a writer by way of the theater. After high school, she attended Trinity College, now Duke University, before enrolling at the University of North Carolina, where she held a fellowship as a playwright and was active in the Carolina Playmakers. Over the years, she taught creative writing at both universities.
        She is survived by a son, Robert, of San Francisco; two daughters, Mary Bogdonoff of Manhattan and Susannah Patton of Bethesda, Md.; nine grandchildren; and 12 great-grandchildren.
      