
        Edmund Engelman, the clandestine photographer who let the world glimpse the famous couch of Dr. Sigmund Freud (without a consultation fee), died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 92 and had homes in Manhattan and East Hampton, N.Y.
        Mr. Engelman, a native of Vienna and an engineer by training, was asked by a friend of Freud's to make a pictorial record of the birthplace of psychoanalysis. He succeeded in doing so in 1938, days before the Freud family left Vienna for London after the Nazi takeover of Austria.
        Freud had lived in a nondescript four-story apartment house at Berggasse 19 since 1891. Mr. Engelman surreptitiously took a series of about 150 pictures of his offices and living quarters, using only natural light for fear of alerting the Gestapo.
        Mr. Engelman himself escaped Vienna months later. He reached the United States in 1939 but without the negatives, which he retrieved from Freud's daughter Anna in London after World War II. They became the material for a book, ''Berggasse 19'' (Basic Books, 1976).
        The historian Peter Gay, who wrote an introduction, said the pictures ''let us walk through Freud's rooms, sit at his desk, and contemplate, almost through his eyes, the objects he collected and cherished.''  Mr. Engelman also took portraits of Freud, his wife, Martha, and his daughter. The pictures are on view at the Freud museums in Vienna and London. The Austrian Government awarded Mr. Engelman its Cross of Honor for Science and Art, first-class, in 1998.
        Mr. Engelman received his engineering degree at the Technical University in Vienna in 1932 and founded a center for experimentation in photography and cinematography. He was a consultant to the Anatomical Institute at the University of Vienna on using film in medical education.
        In the United States he worked during the war as an engineer for International Telephone and Telegraph. He owned a camera center in New York from 1946 to 1958, after which he became a consulting engineer for photographic technology.
        He is survived by his wife, Irene Lipnofska Engelman; two sons, Ralph, of Brooklyn, and Thomas, of Newton, Mass.; and three grandchildren.
      