
        Lila Kedrova, the Russian-born actress whose portrayals of an aging French prostitute in screen and stage versions of ''Zorba the Greek'' won her an Academy Award and a Tony, died on Feb. 16 in Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario. She was believed to be around 82.
        Her death was announced in The Sault Star on Feb. 17 but was not reported by news agencies.
        Although she appeared in scores of films and plays in England, Canada and on the Continent that won her accolades ranging from a French Cesar for the film ''Razzia sur la Chnouf'' (1955), the Evening Standard Award in London for her stage role in ''The Cherry Orchard'' in 1969, a Genie Award (Canada's equivalent of the Oscar) for ''Eliza's Horoscope'' (1970) and a Golden Mask at Taormina in Sicily for the film ''Tell Me a Riddle'' (1980), Ms. Kedrova was best known her for portrayal of Madame Hortense in ''Zorba.''
        In the film and Broadway musical adaptations of the 1946 Nikos Kazantzakis novel ''Zorba, the Greek,'' which starred Anthony Quinn, Miss Kedrova won raves as the earthy Zorba's aging, dying mistress.
        ''The old woman of Lila Kedrova is brilliantly realized, a wrinkled and tacky relic of a once successful coquette, still hopeful, audacious and courageous,'' Bosley Crowther wrote in his review of the 1964 film in The New York Times.
        When she recreated her role on Broadway in 1983, Frank Rich of The Times described Ms. Kedrova's Madame Hortense as ''a small, round, smeary-faced woman out of a Toulouse-Lautrec canvas'' who could bat ''her big, Betty Boop eyes with a schoolgirl's blushing flirtatiousness.''
        He said: ''Miss Kedrova may indeed be of a certain age, but we see the young 'cabaret star' she claims to have once been; we also see that the old Hortense is remembering the young Hortense just as we do. No wonder Miss Kedrova shimmers, and no wonder our eyes mist over.''
        The role that won Miss Kedrova her Oscar as best supporting actress and her Tony for best featured actress in a musical was first offered by the film's Greek director, Michael Cacoyannis, to Simone Signoret.
        But, Miss Kedrova said, after two days on location in Crete, Miss Signoret withdrew, and Mr. Cacoyannis telephoned Ms. Kedrova in Paris to invite her to join his cast.
        ''I accepted, but in fact my feelings were ambivalent,'' she told The Times of London some years ago. ''It was a fascinating role, but not perhaps for me. What had I in common with this vulgarian, this whore, 20 years older than myself? Then I thought I must try to understand her heart, enter completely into her mentality and find what is most real and sincere in myself. I found I could do this, but I was quite amazed, quite unprepared to win the Academy Award.''
        There was one other problem, Miss Kedrova told Nora Ephron in a profile in The New York Post in 1965. When Mr. Cacoyannis called, he asked if Miss Kedrova spoke English.
        ''He asked me the question in French,'' she said. ''And I replied, 'Oui.' It was the biggest lie in my life.''
        But remembering the lyrics to a few American songs she had sung and expressions like ''How do you do?'' and ''Thank you,'' she got the part.
        Miss Kedrova, who was born in Leningrad into the Kedroffs, a distinguished and well-to-do musical family, fled the aftermath of the Russian Revolution with them and became an emigree in Paris.
        A restless child, she was a frequent truant and runaway. ''Once I joined the Gypsies; another time I took a job in a circus pulling a bear on a chain,'' she told The Times of London. ''When I was 12, I fell in love with the theater and knew then what I wanted to do. And though my parents had planned a musical career for me, they allowed me to join a troupe of Russian actors, resident in Paris, who played according to the Stanislavsky method. I was with them for three years.
        ''In those days I acted with complete spontaneity, lived my parts almost instinctively, and it was some time before I realized that any talent, however bright, needs guarding and guiding.''
        So she studied drama with the actor-director Pierre Valde, who became her first husband.
        In the early 1950's she began to achieve critical and popular success onstage in France, where she starred in productions like ''The Rose Tattoo,'' ''A View From the Bridge,'' ''A Taste of Honey'' and ''The Brothers Karamazov.''
        Her second husband, Richard Howard, a director whom she married in 1969, said that Miss Kedrova, who had no other immediate survivors, made her last stage appearance in the early 1990's at the Chichester Festival and her last film in 1993. The couple maintained homes in Toronto and Paris as well as Sault Ste. Marie.
        Some reference books listed Miss Kedrova's year of birth as 1918, and Mr. Howard pointed out that other, later dates were to be found elsewhere. He said that when her family fled Russia, they left their papers behind. And the false papers they were given in France were confiscated by the Nazis.
        ''She liked it that way,'' Mr. Howard said of her agelessness. ''I remember her telling me that it was wonderful because she could choose to be any age she wanted to be, and that she wanted to be 16.''
      