
        Arthur C. Ruge, who invented a fingernail-sized gauge that helped the United States win World War II and revolutionized the way things are weighed and tested for stress, died Monday at his home in Lexington, Mass., according to his daughter, Claire Bertucci. He was 94.
        Mr. Ruge (pronounced ROO-gee) was an assistant professor of engineering and an earthquake specialist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1938 when he created what he called the SR-4 strain gauge. Mr. Ruge came up with the invention to help a graduate student complete a thesis on the stresses experienced by model water towers that had been tested on a tabletop earthquake simulator Mr. Ruge designed.
        The SR-4 was a deceptively simple invention composed of four thin tungsten filaments, similar to those used in light bulbs, glued together in the shape of a diamond. When an electrical current is run across the wires, no voltage can be measured as long as they remain perfectly aligned. But if some force disturbs the symmetry, and thus the resistance in the wires, the gauge puts out a voltage proportional to the force.
        For the first time since humans began weighing objects -- an activity that started before recorded history -- mankind now had a method that did not rely on balancing the force exerted by the object being weighed against some other weight or force.
        The invention soon proved vital to the Allied war effort in designing aircraft, gun barrels and other machinery of destruction. Descendants of the SR-4, which are often called load cells, are crucial components in electronic scales from supermarket checkout stands to truck weighing stations. The first signal received from the moon was a reading from a strain gauge on the leg of the lunar lander as it touched down.
        The commercialization of the strain gauge brought a shock for Mr. Ruge -- he soon discovered that Edward E. Simmons, a professor at the California Institute of Technology, had pieced together the same invention in 1936. But Mr. Simmons and Cal Tech failed to recognize the significance of the gauge until Mr. Ruge began popularizing it. M.I.T.'s patent committee was equally shortsighted and gave Mr. Ruge its rights to the gauge technology, which it characterized as ''interesting'' but not likely to be commercially valuable.
        ''It wasn't until Ruge reinvented it that the world realized what had been done,'' said Peter K. Stein, an engineering consultant and historian of metrology in Phoenix.
        Mr. Ruge, widely known to friends and colleagues as Prof, linked up within months of the invention with Alfred V. de Forest, an M.I.T. colleague, to create Ruge-de Forest Inc., the first company to make strain gauges. He resigned his position at M.I.T. to work full time at the company in 1947. The company was sold to Baldwin-Lima-Hamilton, its main distributor, in 1955 and today is part of BLH Electronics in Waltham, Mass.
        Arthur Claude Ruge was born in Tomah, Wis., on July 28, 1905, the son of the Rev. C. A. Ferdinand Ruge, an Episcopal minister, and Rosa March Ruge. He received a bachelor of science degree in civil engineering from the Carnegie Institute of Technology in 1925. After short stints at manufacturing companies in Pennsylvania and Michigan, he moved to the Consolidated Steel Corporation in Los Angeles where his responsibilities included designing structural steel capable of handling earthquakes. He entered M.I.T. in 1931 and began teaching and seismological research there while completing his Master of Science degree.
        ''Prof had an informal, often messy, lab in the basement,'' recalled Frank Hines, an assistant who followed Mr. Ruge to Ruge-de Forest as its first employee. ''The only person called Mr. was the janitor.''
        After leaving Ruge-de Forest in 1955, Mr. Ruge set up Arthur C. Ruge Associates to make temperature gauges. That company was sold to Mr. Hines and others in 1974 and does business today as RdF Inc., based in Hudson, N.H. Mr. Ruge's business career also included serving as chairman of Space and Tactical Systems and MKS Instruments Inc., both of which are based in Burlington, Mass.
        Mr. Ruge married Florence Brenner in 1932. She died in 1975. In addition to their daughter, Claire, who lives in Lexington, he is survived by two granddaughters.
      