
        A. Frank Reel, who was a government-appointed defense counsel in a crucial Japanese war-crimes trial after World War II and later denounced the proceedings as a sham, died in his sleep on Monday night or early Tuesday at his assisted-living home in Norfolk, Va. He was 92 and had lived in Tarrytown, N.Y., until last year.
        Mr. Reel, a former labor lawyer in Boston, was assigned to defend Gen. Tomoyuki Yamashita, the conqueror of Malaya and the Philippines and wartime commander in Manila. The general surrendered in September 1945 to Allied forces returning to the Philippines with the victorious Gen. Douglas MacArthur.
        General Yamashita was tried in Manila in October before a military commission of five generals, none of them trained in the law. He was charged with not having prevented atrocities committed by troops under his command, found guilty in December and hanged in February.
        Mr. Reel, a captain in the Army's Claims Division in the Pacific, was  assigned to the general's defense. He recounted his experience in the 1949 book ''The Case of General Yamashita'' (Farrar, Straus & Giroux; reprinted 1971).
        The book documented the view that the general had no connection with the specified atrocities, committed mostly by Japanese naval troops whose commander ignored General Yamashita's orders. The admiral responsible went free because General Yamashita had already been convicted and executed in the crimes.
        Mr. Reel, and an ABC documentary in 1974, asserted that General MacArthur had scripted the trial, including the verdict. Mr. Reel's book was echoed during the Vietnam War when American troops were accused of atrocities like the My Lai massacre and their top commanders escaped prosecution.
        Adolf Frank Reel was born in Milwaukee. He graduated from Harvard College in 1928 and Harvard Law School in 1931. He was a partner in the Boston law firm Roewer & Reel, representing labor unions, when he enlisted in the Army in 1942.
        Mr. Reel rejoined the firm after the war, representing the Massachusetts State Federation of Labor and the New England section of the American Federation of Radio Artists, among others. He moved to the radio artists' union full time in 1947 and became its national executive secretary a year later.
        After leaving the group in 1954, he was an executive at Ziv Television Programs and Metromedia Producers and returned to the practice of law in the late 1970's. In Tarrytown he was active in Democratic politics and was a town trustee and corporation counsel.
        His second book, ''The Networks: How They Stole the Show'' (Scribner, 1979), criticized network programming. Reviewing its history, Mr. Reel cited gratuitous violence, pandering to advertisers and the use of  the industry's rating system as a propaganda tool.
        Mr. Reel's wife of 52 years, Virginia Wentworth Reel, died a year ago. He is survived by three sons, Tom, of Norfolk, Christopher, of Chatham Township, N.J., and Jeffrey, of Becket, Mass.; a daughter, Judy Reel of Los Angeles; a brother, Frederick, of Alexandria, Va.; and three grandchildren.
      