
        Bertram M. Beck, a longtime leader in social work and for 10 years the head of the Henry Street Settlement in New York City, died Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 82, lived on Roosevelt Island and had a vacation home on Fire Island.
        The cause was a form of cancer called mesotheliomia, said his wife, Deborah.
        From 1967 to 1977 Mr. Beck was the executive director of the Henry Street Settlement on the Lower East Side, on Henry Street between Montgomery and Jackson Streets. From 1977 to 1985 he was general director of the Community Service Society of New York City, which concentrates on income maintenance, health care, affordable housing and education for lower-income city residents.
        After 1985, he was a dean and held other posts at Fordham University. At the time of his death, Mr. Beck was the special assistant to Mary Ann Quaranta, the dean of Fordham's Graduate School of Social Service. He oversaw Fordham's Bertram M. Beck Institute on Religion and Poverty, which he organized, and which was named for him several months ago. The institute was established early in 1999. He also played an important role in establishing Fordham's managed care institute.
        Mr. Beck became a professor of social service at Fordham in 1985, lecturing students on social policy. He was associate dean of the social service school from 1987 until he retired from that post in 1996.
        Daniel Kronenfeld, the Henry Street Settlement's current executive director, said, ''Bert was a person who, because he was creative and generous in spirit, helped to start many important organizations in the social-welfare field that continue to this day.''
        The organizations that Mr. Beck created or helped to create while he was Henry Street's executive director include the Lower East Side Family Union, which focuses on the prevention of child abuse, and, in 1972, the Urban Family Center, at Houston Street and Baruch Place.
        He was also the executive director, from 1965 to 1969, of Mobilization for Youth, which, Dean Quantana said, brought ''services to try to help the young people of New York City.''
        A native New Yorker, Mr. Beck majored in social science and received a bachelor's degree from Antioch College in Yellow Springs, Ohio, and a master's degree from the University of Chicago's School of Social Service Administration.
        In his early professional years, he was a psychiatric caseworker in the Army Air Forces and a caseworker with the Community Service Society. From 1952 to 1955, he was the director of an anti-delinquency project for the Children's Bureau of the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare.
        When he became Mobilization for Youth's executive director, he had gained extensive experience in combating juvenile delinquency.
        Besides his wife, the former Deborah Berman, who is the executive vice president of the Real Estate Board of New York and whom he married in 1965, he is survived by two daughters, Rachel Beck of Washington, D.C., and Melissa Beck of Brooklyn; and two sisters, Ruth Korn of Manhattan and Alice Simmons of Brookline, Mass.
      