
        Samuel V. Merrick, a Washington lawyer who in 1984 directed the United States to its best showing in Olympic yachting, died Monday at his home in Medford, N.J. He was 86 and had competed in one-design sailboat races since 1926.
        In 1977, after working 35 years in labor and Congressional relations, Merrick retired and became the unsalaried director of the United States Olympic yachting committee. In 1980, he added the title of chairman.
        His main job was to prepare an American Olympic team. His efforts for the 1980 Olympics in Moscow ended when President Jimmy Carter pressured the United States Olympic Committee to boycott those Olympics because of the presence of Soviet troops in Afghanistan.
        The 1984 Los Angeles Olympics attracted 300 sailors from 62 nations. Merrick helped develop an American team he thought could win medals in six of the seven boat classes. His sailors did better, winning medals (three gold and four silver) in every class. His efforts brought him the most prestigious award in American sailing, the Nathaniel G. Herreshoff Trophy. Merrick then retired, saying, ''It's time to go home and plant some tulips.''
        Jonathan Harley, now the Olympic director of the United States Sailing Association, the sport's national governing body, had been Merrick's assistant. ''He ran the committee the way it should be run,'' Harley recalled yesterday. ''If tough was good, Sam was good. We had meager funds in those days. The first year's budget was in the $250,000 range, and you try to spread that among a lot of sailors trying to win medals.''
        Samuel Vaughn Merrick was born March 24, 1914, in Bala Cynwyd, Pa., and raised in nearby Villanova. He earned a bachelor's degree in engineering in 1937 and a law degree in 1940, both from the University of Pennsylvania.
        His governmental positions included special assistant to the general counsel of the National Labor Relations Board (1950-55), staff member of the Senate Committee on Labor and Public Welfare (1958-61), assistant to the special counsel of the mayor of Boston (1962-67) and director of Congressional relations for the United States Conference of Mayors and the National League of Cities (1971-72).
        He was married in 1947 to Eleanor Perry of Dover, Mass. He is survived by his wife; three sons, John of Portland, Ore.; Gregory of Mineral Point, Wis., and Tad of Brandon, Vt.; and five grandchildren.
        In Washington in the winter and Bay Head, N.J., in the summer, he raced in such one-design boat classes as Soling, Thistle and E Scows. The Soling is a 26-foot keelboat that first competed in the Olympics in 1972. Merrick, a Soling favorite in the United States Olympic Trials that year, finished seventh. Buddy Melges of Zenda, Wis., won the Soling trials and the Olympic gold medal. Years later, Melges received an up-close look at Merrick's competitiveness. He told The Washington Post:
        ''Merrick invited me to race with him one day. He hopped around his Soling like a man half his age. He sailed every Sunday through the winter, he said, and grew enraged whenever archrival Stuart Walker slipped by for a win.''
        At the time, Merrick was 71 and Walker 62.
      