
        Al Purdy, a lanky writer whose brash, freewheeling ways masked a love for language that produced 33 volumes of poetry, died on Friday at his winter home in Sidney, on Vancouver Island. He was 81.
        Arguing about Yeats and tinkering with lines of verse to the end, Mr. Purdy died on a bed cluttered with books and papers. After his death, of lung cancer, Canadian television hailed him as the nation's ''unofficial poet laureate'' and Dennis Lee, a  Toronto poet, said he was ''without a doubt the greatest poet English Canada has ever produced.''
        ''He really was a national poet in a way that you only find occasionally in the life of a culture,'' Mr. Lee said in an interview. ''Since the mid-1960's, he's probably been the Canadian poet that younger poets were measuring themselves against.''
        Drawing on Canadian places and people, Mr. Purdy has been called a nationalist poet. But his nationalism was that of a restless traveler and of a sensitive observer who toured his own country as well as parts of India, South America and Russia.
        In a 1965 poem, ''Transients,'' he recalled his youth, riding the rails as a Depression-era hobo:
        Riding the boxcars out of Winnipeg/
        morning after rain so close to/
        the violent sway of the fields it's/
        like running and running/
        naked with summer in your mouth.
        Turning to the Ontario lake village, Ameliasburgh, where he had a summer home, he wrote ''Wilderness Gothic,'' which began:
        Across Roblin Lake, two shores away,
        they are sheathing the church spire
        with new metal. Someone hangs in
        the sky
        over there from a piece of rope,
        hammering and fitting God's belly-
        scratcher,
        working his way up along the spire
        After a visit to the Eskimo town  Pangnirtung he wrote ''Arctic Rhododendrons,'' which begins:
        They are small purple surprises
        in the river's white racket
        and after you've seen them
        a number of times
        in water-places
        where their silence seems
        related to river-thunder
        you think of them as ''noisy flowers''
        In a trip to the Northwest Territories, he flew over the river and vast delta named after William Lyon Mackenzie. This verse is from one of his last poems, an ode to Canada,  ''Her Gates Both East and West'':
        Flying north and following the Mackenzie River long after
        the Scots explorer
        endless forest then endless empty land we seemed to
        hang between earth and sky
        then a monster hand with a hundred fingers spreading it-
        self over the river delta
        and a permafrost town still Canada
        the Beaufort Sea beyond
        where the world was blue forever
        He won Canada's highest poetry prize, the Governor General's Award for Poetry, in 1965 and in 1986.
        From a first poetry volume, ''The Enchanted Echo,'' published in 1944, Mr. Purdy kept writing for more than half a century. Last Saturday, without knowing that he had died the day before, The Globe and Mail in Toronto published a review of his latest book, an appreciation of John Donne. The book, written with Doug Beardsley, is called ''The Man who Outlived Himself.'' In September, his last book of verse is to be published, ''Beyond Remembering: The Collected Poems of Al Purdy.''
        In Canadian newspapers this week, ''ornery'' and ''obstreperous'' were adjectives appended to Alfred Wellington Purdy, a gangly, 6-foot-3-inch, 200-pound man. He was born in rural Wooler, Ontario, and after dropping out of school at 17, he rode the rails west, worked in a mattress factory in Vancouver, then enlisted in the Royal Canadian Air Force. He later described his inglorious military career as that of ''only a humble airman who kept getting demoted and demoted and demoted to a point where I finally saluted civilians.''
        Brought up by a whiskey-drinking grandfather, Mr. Purdy followed his example. He once wrote: ''If I were on a rowboat, afloat on all the beer I've drunk, I couldn't see the shore.'' In one literary encounter, he and the novelist Margaret Atwood traded barbs, shook their beer bottles and then sprayed each other with beer foam. Another literary friend wrote a poem, ''Prairie Crocuses,'' which was inspired by the litter of beer bottles uncovered by melting snow outside Mr. Purdy's apartment at the University of Manitoba, where he was writer in residence in the winter of 1975-76.
        When death approached, Susan Musgrave, a friend, wrote a lighthearted poem, ''Thirty-Two Uses for Al Purdy's Ashes,'' with Mr. Purdy's help. It included this verse:
        Shout ''these ashes oughtta be worth
        some beer!''
        in the tavern at the Quinte Hotel, and
        wait
        for a bottomless glass with yellow
        flowers in it
        to appear
        In reality, his ashes are to be interred this spring in Ameliasburgh by his wife, Eurithe, and his son, Jim, who survive him.
        Correction:  May 13, 2000, Saturday  An obituary of the Canadian poet Al Purdy on April 26 misidentified the person whose name was given to a river and a delta in the Northwest Territories of Canada, the subject of one of Mr. Purdy's last poems. He was Sir Alexander Mackenzie, a fur trader and explorer, not the journalist and political leader William Lyon Mackenzie.
      