
        Lee Petty, a champion stock car racer in the 1950's who was the father of the sport's greatest driver, Richard Petty, died Wednesday in Moses Cone Hospital in Greensboro, N.C. Petty, who was 86, had been hospitalized for several weeks after surgery for a stomach aneurysm.
        Lee Petty was the trunk of what may have been the broadest-spreading family tree in American professional sports. His death came three days after his great-grandson Adam became the fourth generation of Pettys to compete on stock car racing's top circuit, the Winston Cup tour.
        Lee Petty grew up on a farm in Level Cross, N.C., during the Depression and later worked as a mechanic. He started racing professionally on June 19, 1949, driving a borrowed car, a 1946 Buick Roadmaster, to a 17th-place finish in a race in Charlotte, N.C. He lost control and flipped the car several times.
        He was 35, relatively old to take up racing, but like any really fast driver, he quickly made up for lost time. He won 54 races on the Nascar Grand National circuit (what is now known as the Winston Cup tour) and was a three-time national champion. Petty also won the inaugural Daytona 500 in 1959, in a finish so close that it took three days to find a photograph proving that he had won.
        But if Lee Petty did not receive as much recognition as he was due, he deserved a fair measure of the blame himself. If he hadn't raised his son Richard to be such a fine racer, the younger Petty would never have won 200 races and seven national championships, both records.
        Nevertheless, Richard's first victory was delayed when another driver protested Petty's apparent victory at a North Carolina dirt track. The race officials sided with the aggrieved driver -- who happened to be Richard's father -- and awarded him the victory.
        ''I would have protested even if it was my mother,'' Lee Petty said.
        If Richard Petty had learned a lesson about his father's competitiveness that day, he also had already learned much from him about the workings of a race car. Lee Petty, who was voted the mechanic of the year in 1950 by journalists, did much of the work on his cars with some help from his sons, Richard and Maurice, his only children. The three were the core of Petty Enterprises, a racing team still active on the Winston Cup tour. One of its two drivers, Kyle Petty -- a winner of eight Winston Cup races -- is Richard's son and Adam's father.
        Petty Enterprises operates today from the same location it always has, next to a modest white frame house in Level Cross where Richard and Maurice grew up and where Lee Petty lived until his death with his wife, Elizabeth Toomes Petty. All three survive, along with 9 grandchildren, 17 great-grandchildren, and a brother, Julian.
        It was far away from the quiet farm country around Level Cross -- at Daytona International Speedway in Daytona Beach, Fla. -- that Lee Petty reached the apex, as well as the end, of his driving career.
        The track opened with the first Daytona 500 on Feb. 22, 1959. As Petty's Oldsmobile roared to the finish line of the 500-mile race, the Thunderbird of Johnny Beauchamp pulled alongside; the two cars seemed to cross the line simultaneously. Reporters on hand unanimously gave the victory to Petty, but the race officials, led by William H. G. France, the head of Nascar and owner of the track, declared Beauchamp the winner. Petty waited three days as France studied pictures taken by news photographers and fans. Finally, Lee Petty was ruled the winner.
        Richard Petty said he believed France purposely miscalled Beauchamp the winner.
        ''France was a shrewd promoter,'' Richard Petty said. ''He knew if he created a big controversy, people would talk about his new speedway for a long time and boost business.''
        Two years later, Lee Petty's career would effectively end at Daytona. On Feb. 24, 1961, during a 100-mile qualifying race, his Plymouth hurtled over the guard rail at the fourth turn and soared more than 100 feet through the air before crashing in the parking lot. Petty's lung was punctured and one leg was badly broken. He was in the hospital well into June and had two operations on his left leg. He drove in six races over the next three years before retiring in 1964 to devote his time to running the team.
        Buddy Baker, a Nascar champion who once drove for Petty Enterprises, recalled Lee Petty as a no-nonsense boss. ''He told you the way things were,'' Baker said, ''and that's the way they were.''
        Even Petty's grandson Kyle once quit driving for him because he could not cope with his hardheadedness.
        Although Lee Petty drove in an era when drivers were expected to celebrate as hard as they banged fenders, he preferred to pack up quickly after each race and get back home to prepare for the next one.
        ''I've always felt the man who works the hardest gets the most out of it,'' he once said.
      