
        Ulla Isaksson, who wrote screenplays for two Ingmar Bergman films and novels about women's issues, died on April 20 in Stockholm after a long illness. She was 83.
        In 1958 Mr. Bergman directed ''Brink of Life,'' which Ms. Isaksson (pronounced EE-sack-sohn) adapted  from one of her short stories. Two years later they collaborated again on ''The Virgin Spring,'' which was inspired by a 13th-century ballad about a deeply religious farming family whose young daughter is raped and murdered. The film, which starred Max von Sydow, Gunnel Lindblom and Brigitta Pettersson, received an Academy Award as best foreign film in 1960.
        ''Brink of Life,'' which starred Eva Dahlbeck, Ingrid Thulin, Bibi Andersson, Erland Josephson and Mr. von Sydow, is set in a maternity ward and chronicles the psychological and physical traumas of several women during childbirth.
        ''It is to the credit of the director and the scenarist that the drama, like life itself, does not come up with neatly contrived answers to all the problems posed,'' wrote A. H. Weiler in The New York Times when the film was introduced to American audiences in 1959. The film received acting and directing awards at the Cannes International Film Festival.
        Ms. Isaksson's novels include ''The Tree,'' ''Paradise Square,'' ''The Birthday'' and ''The Women's House.''
        ''She was not an aesthetic writer,'' said Per Westberg, a member of the Swedish Academy who had known Ms. Isaksson for 45 years. ''She pondered great problems -- between good and evil, between men and women. She was a true moralist.''
        With her husband, Erik Hjalmar Linder, a critic, author and literary historian, Ms. Isaksson wrote what is widely considered to be the definitive biography of Elin Wagner, one of Sweden's earliest and foremost feminist novelists, who died in 1949.
        When Mr. Linder was stricken with Alzheimer's disease, Ms. Isaksson wrote ''The Book About E,'' a memoir about caring for him. Her husband died in 1994.
        Ulla Margareta Lundberg was born on June 12, 1916, in Stockholm.  According to Mr. Westberg, she grew up in a very religious household.
        ''Her early writing is trying to break loose from it but still keep some of the moral vigor,'' he said. ''That early work is about women who are trying to emancipate themselves. Today it sounds very banal, because so many books have been written on that subject. But she was a role model for the next generation of women writers.''
        Ms. Isaksson is survived by two sons from a previous marriage, Hans Isaksson and Gunnar Isaksson; a sister, Kerstin M. Lundberg; and five grandchildren, all of Stockholm.
      