
        Andre Deutsch, a Hungarian emigre who moved to Britain before World War II and parlayed his love of literature into an independent publishing house that bore his name, died on Tuesday at a hospital here. He was 82.
        Setting up business on a shoestring at a time when publishing was not yet dominated by big conglomerates, Mr. Deutsch established himself as one of a small and influential elite of Central Europeans who brought a worldly vigor to the British publishing scene in the decades after the war.
        Mr. Deutsch had a charming if mercurial temper, a parsimonious attitude toward his business and an international reputation as both a passionate lover of books and a canny and enthusiastic spotter and nurturer of talent.
        He was particularly fond of American literature. Among the American authors he published, in many cases bringing their work to Britain for the first time, were Jack Kerouac, Norman Mailer, John Updike and Philip Roth.
        Andre Deutsch was born in Budapest in November 1917, the son of a Jewish dentist. A voracious reader as a boy, he decided early in life that he wanted to settle in England, having been told by an Anglophile uncle that it was the only possible place for a civilized man to live. He arrived in Britain in 1939, working first as a bird-scarer and then as the floor manager at the Grosvenor House Hotel in London. In 1941, when Hungary entered the war on the side of the Germans, Mr. Deutsch was declared an ''enemy alien'' and interned on the Isle of Man.
        But the detention did have a useful result: it introduced him to a fellow detainee, who was not only Arthur Koestler's cousin but also a publisher of sorts and who introduced him to the field. After working briefly for the now-defunct firm of Nicolson and Watson -- which amazed him by turning down George Orwell's ''Animal Farm'' -- Mr. Deutsch decided he wanted to make his own publishing decisions. He ventured out on his own with $:3,000 gathered from friends and from his savings. Deciding that it was the wrong era for a company to have the word Deutsch in it, he called the business Allen Wingate.
        In 1949 he had a spectacular hit with Norman Mailer's explosive first novel, ''The Naked and the Dead.'' Its condemnation by The Sunday Times of London as something that should not be left around lest women read it helped propel it onto the best-seller lists and sell 150,000 copies in paperback.
        But the book's success also caused the company to expand in directions that made Mr. Deutsch uncomfortable, and in 1951 he struck out again on his own with two partners, calling the new company Andre Deutsch Ltd. and publishing works by such authors as Mordecai Richler, Laurie Lee, Arthur Schlesinger, V. S. Naipaul, Jean Rhys and John Kenneth Galbraith.
        The company was never an enormous financial success, but Mr. Deutsch preferred it that way, always resisting the temptation to expand. He liked to boast that he had never made an annual profit of more than $:110,000 but that he had lost money only in two calendar years.
        For a brief period, he sold a stake in the company to Time-Life Books, but the partnership was not a happy one, and he bought back his shares before selling for good, to a fellow publisher, in the 1980's.
        For the last years of his life, Mr. Deutsch served as chairman of Aurum Press, a small company that had been bought by three of his former colleagues.
      