
        Frank Jewett Mather III, a scientist who developed the first tagging program for large open- ocean fish, died on March 27 in Falmouth, Mass. He was 89.
        Mr. Mather's passion for fishing lured him from a career as a naval architect into the field of fisheries research. He started working at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in Massachusetts in 1945 as a research assistant and began the cooperative game fish tagging program there in 1954.
        This program continues today under the direction of the United States National Marine Fisheries Service. Mr. Mather's research into the fisheries of fish like tuna, marlin and sailfish prompted the first active conservation measures for the Atlantic bluefin tuna by the United States, which led to the Atlantic Tunas Convention Act of 1976.
        From 1962 to 1977, Mr. Mather was a member of the Expert Panel for the Facilitation of Tuna Research of the United Nations.
        From 1971 to 1978, he was scientific adviser to the United States delegation to the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tuna. In this capacity, he worked on numerous advisory committees and working groups and was one of the major forces that led the commission to enact the first management measures ever for the Atlantic bluefin tuna.
        Mr. Mather received degrees from Williams College in 1933 and Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1937. An avid sailor in his youth, he designed ships for the war effort from 1941 to 1945.
        Late in his life, in 1999, Mr. Mather's efforts to save South Florida fishing and wildlife earned him the Herman Lucerne Memorial Award from the Metropolitan South Florida Fishing Tournament.
        Mr. Mather is survived by his wife, Natalie N. Mather of Key Biscayne, Fla., and Woods Hole; his children, Willia V. Mather of Dolores Hidalgo, Mexico, Lee Townley of Brunswick, Me., Catherine Whited of Unity, Me., Arden Edwards and Richard Edwards Jr., both of Woods Hole, and eight grandchildren.
      