
        Gregory B. Shuker, a documentary filmmaker and pioneer in the techniques of cinema verite, died on Wednesday at the Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 67 and lived in Bronxville, N.Y.
        The cause was cancer, said Nancy Shuker, his former wife.
        Mr. Shuker was among the first American filmmakers to use cinema verite, a technique in which the camera discovers life without predetermining it: scripts are not used, subjects are not rehearsed, and drama develops from daily experience.
        Mr. Shuker, who was born in Charleston, W.Va., began a career in journalism at Northwestern University, where he worked on the daily newspaper, becoming the editor in chief by his graduation in 1954.
        During college he went to the Soviet Union and provided photographs and text to Life magazine. After serving in the Navy, he began work in 1959 as a correspondent for Life, where he wrote about Ernest Hemingway and bullfighting, the Project Mercury program at NASA and a presidential hopeful, Senator John F. Kennedy of Massachusetts.
        While writing about the Indianapolis 500, he discovered the magazine's experimental film unit and began making style-oriented television programs. The unit, called Drew Associates, was founded by the former Life photo editor Robert L. Drew. It was different from other film crews because its members acted as their own producers, sound recordists, film loaders and, later, editors.
        Mr. Shuker helped create some of the unit's most memorable films, in particular ''The Chair,'' the tale of a condemned man, Paul Crump, and the successful struggle of his novice lawyer to prevent his execution. The work won the Grand Prix Award at the Cannes Film Festival in 1963.
        In his ''Crisis: Behind a Presidential Commitment'' cameras were admitted to the offices of President Kennedy, Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy and Governor George C. Wallace of Alabama during the confrontation over desegregation of the University of Alabama.
        At President Kennedy's funeral Mr. Shuker, along with other filmmakers from Drew Associates, turned their cameras not on the funeral but on the mourners, creating the film ''Faces in November,'' which won the Grand Prize at the Venice Film Festival.
        He also produced ''Letters From Vietnam,'' a 1965 documentary shot in combat and on board helicopters, and the ABC special ''Twiggy: Why?,'' which theorized on the model's popularity.
        After leaving Time-Life, Mr. Shuker worked at the Public Broadcast Laboratory, the forerunner of PBS. There he produced ''Free at Last,'' which chronicled the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s organization of the 1968 march on Washington. The project took on a new form when Dr. King was assassinated, and the 90-minute film became a document of his last days. The film was hastily edited and shown three days after Dr. King's death, with Mr. Shuker writing and providing the narration. The production won an Emmy Award as well as first prize at the Venice Film Festival.
        In 1972 Mr. Shuker helped found Playback Associates, which produced industrial training videos and instructional tapes.
        He is survived by a son, John, of Peekskill, N.Y.; two daughters, Allison Devlin of Bronxville, N.Y., and Frances Shuker-Haines of Williamstown, Mass.; and five grandchildren.
      