
       Burnita Shelton Matthews, a senior judge on the Federal District Court here and the first woman appointed to a Federal trial court, died Monday at Sibley Memorial Hospital after suffering a stroke. She was 93 years old.
        Burnita Shelton Matthews, a senior judge on the Federal District Court here and the first woman appointed to a Federal trial court, died Monday at Sibley Memorial Hospital after suffering a stroke. She was 93 years old.
        Judge Matthews was named to the bench by President Harry Truman in 1949 and assumed senior status in 1968, allowing her to go into semiretirement while still hearing cases.
        In the 1970's, she was designated to sit on the United States Court of Customs and Patent Appeals and the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. She remained active in the District Court until September 1983.
        Earlier in her career, Judge Matthews had practiced law for almost 30 years and had developed a reputation as an advocate for women's rights.
        One of her most notable cases was when she presided over the 1957 trial of Jimmy Hoffa, at that time the vice president of the teamsters union, on charges that he had bribed his way into the files of a Senate committee that was investigating him. A jury acquitted Mr. Hoffa.
        In another celebrated case, Judge Matthews in 1955 refused to order the State Department to issue a passport to the singer and actor Paul Robeson. Mr. Robeson had been accused of membership in the Communist Party and of various activities in support of the Communist movement.
        While sitting on the Court of Appeals in 1971, Judge Matthews ruled that disabled people receiving benefits from the Social Security Administration were entitled to hearings before their benefits were terminated.
        President Reagan in 1984 wrote to her that ''in furthering the administration of justice in our legal system,'' her ''diligence, distinguished efforts and pioneering spirit serve as an inspiration to all.''
        Judge Matthews studied law at the National University Law School, now part of George Washington Univerity, and received her degree in 1919. Her husband, retired Army Lieut. Col. Percy A. Matthews, died in 1969. She left no immediate survivors.
      