
       Lord Ramsey, Archbishop of Canterbury from 1961 to 1974, who traveled the world in his passion to heal schisms and reunite the divided Christian churches, died early today, the Church of England said in a statement. He was 83 years old.
        Lord Ramsey, Archbishop of Canterbury from 1961 to 1974, who traveled the world in his passion to heal schisms and reunite the divided Christian churches, died early today, the Church of England said in a statement. He was 83 years old.
        The church press office said that Lord Ramsey died at St. John's Home, a residence for the elderly in Oxford, after being ill for several weeks with bronchial pneumonia.
        Lord Ramsey was born Arthur Michael Ramsey. He was made a life peer on his retirement as Archbishop in 1974, when he took the title of Lord Ramsey of Canterbury. A Theologian and a Teacher
        As Archbishop of Canterbury he was spiritual head of the Church of England and leader of the world's 70 million Anglicans, including the three million Episcopalians in the United States.
        ''He was one of the great Archbishops of this century,'' the church statement said of Lord Ramsey. ''He always wanted to be known as a theologian and a teacher and he was one of the greatest ever spiritual leaders of the church.''
        In his wide travels the Archbishop preached in New York City in 1972, at the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine and at St. Patrick's Cathedral.
        The speech at St. Patrick's was the first time any head of the worldwide Anglican church had occupied the pulpit of the Roman Catholic cathedral.
        His message was that the church must make room for both older traditionalists and younger people. Meeting with Pope Paul VI
        In March 1966, the Archbishop met with Pope Paul VI in Rome. It was the first official visit to a Pope by a head of the Anglican Church in 400 years. Both noted the historic nature of the occasion. ''The world observes, history will remember,'' the Pope said.
        In their conversations they discussed the practical obstacles to unity between the churches. Speaking of ''formidable difficulties of doctrine,'' the Archbishop expressed the hope that there would be increasing dialogue between theologians.
        Lord Ramsey was the 100th archbishop of Canterbury, a position in which he was involved in some controversy.
        He raised eyebrows in 1965 when he said that under some circumstances there would be Christian justice in using British arms to put down the white Rhodesian regime's challenge to British authority. Support for Homosexuals
        He also caused a stir when he strongly supported a bill in Parliament to repeal criminal penalties for homosexual relations between consenting adults in private.
        Lord Ramsey was succeeded by the Most Rev. Donald Coggan, who retired in 1980. The current Archbishop of Canterbury is the Most Rev. Robert Runcie.
        Lord Ramsey's wife, Lady Ramsey, was at his side when he died peacefully at about 2 A.M.
        A funeral service will be held in Canterbury Cathedral in southeast England, and a memorial service is planned at Westminster Abbey, the statement said. No dates had been set.
      