
       Morris (Red) Rudensky, a New York-born safecracker who spent 35 years in prisons before he changed his ways and became a security expert for a lock manufacturer, died Thursday at a nursing home in St. Paul, where he had lived for many years. He was 89 years old.
        Morris (Red) Rudensky, a New York-born safecracker who spent 35 years in prisons before he changed his ways and became a security expert for a lock manufacturer, died Thursday at a nursing home in St. Paul, where he had lived for many years. He was 89 years old.
        Mr. Rudensky's life was divided roughly in half: until his mid-40's he was a habitual criminal. Afterward he became a law-abiding citizen, eventually working for many years for the 3M Company helping to devise pick-proof locks and other security systems.
        He was born Macy Motie Friedman on Orchard Street on Manhattan's Lower East Side, the oldest of seven brothers and one sister. By the time he was out of his teens he was an accomplished safecracker who roamed the country working for various gangs. He took the name Rudensky from another youngster who was wanted for a minor crime, managing to serve a shorter sentence than he would otherwise have earned, and the name stuck. A Cellmate of Al Capone
        He was in jail more often than he was out. He was once the cellmate of Al Capone in the Atlanta Federal prison and for four years he roomed with Robert Stroud, the Birdman of Alcatraz. He escaped several times, once joining an unembalmed corpse in a canvas bag to make his way to freedom.
        In his 1970 autobiography, ''The Gonif,'' Yiddish for ''thief,'' he told of meeting a fellow prisoner in the 1930's named Charles Ward, who later went to work for Brown & Bigelow, a publisher of calendars in St. Paul. When Mr. Rudensky got out of prison in 1944, he was offered a job at Brown & Bigelow, one of the few businesses in the country to seek out ex-convicts. From then on, Mr. Rudensky put his life of crime behind him, turning to such pursuits as writing inspirational verse for Boy Scout calendars.
        In his later years he formed the Red Rudensky Variety Show, a troupe that toured nursing homes, and he was a regular in the St. Paul Clown Club, entertaining in children's hospital wards.
        Mr. Rudensky leaves no immediate survivors. His wife, the former Eileen Abdo, whom he married in 1950, died in 1974.
      