
       Vernon W. Thomson, a former Governor of Wisconsin, member of Congress for 14 years and Federal Election Commission chairman, died Saturday at the George Washington University Hospital, a spokeswoman said. He was 82 years old.
        Vernon W. Thomson, a former Governor of Wisconsin, member of Congress for 14 years and Federal Election Commission chairman, died Saturday at the George Washington University Hospital, a spokeswoman said. He was 82 years old.
        Yvonne Hiott, the hospital spokeswoman, said the cause of death was respiratory arrest. She said Mr. Thomson, who lived in the Washington suburb of McLean, Va., had been in the hospital since March 25.
        A Republican member of the Wisconsin state assembly from 1935 to 1951 and speaker for three consecutive terms, Mr. Thomson served as Governor in 1956 and 1957. He was elected to the House of Representatives in November 1960, and served through 1974.
        After leaving Congress, he joined the election commission and served on the panel until 1979. He was its chairmana from 1976 to 1977. Called Out of Retirement
        In 1981, President Carter called Mr. Thomson out of retirement to serve a year as an interim member of the commission.
        Mr. Carter's request that he rejoin the commission illustrated the Government's respect for Mr. Thomson, said Glenn R. Davis, a former Republican Congressman of Wisconsin. He said he and Mr. Thomson had been friends since they served in the Wisconsin Legislature together in the 1940's.
        ''He served longer than he was supposed to,'' Mr. Davis said. ''I think he was one of the most respected members who ever served in the House.''
        Born in Richland Center, Wis., Mr. Thomson attended Carroll College and the University of Wisconsin Law School before serving as the District Attorney in Richland County in the 1930's and as the Mayor of Richland Center.
        After serving in the State Legislature, he was elected State Attorney General in 1950, 1952 and 1954 before being named Governor for two years.
        Mr. Davis said Mr. Thomson's re-election defeat in 1958 was the only serious setback in his political career. ''Unfortunately, 1958 was a bad year for Republicans,'' he said.
        Mr. Thomson is survived by three children: Vernon Jr. of McLean; Patricia Thomson of Fletcher, Va., and Susan Thomson Turner of Vienna, Va., and two grandchildren. His wife, the former Helen A. Davis, died in 1973.
        Funeral services were scheduled for Thursday at the Pratt Funeral home in Richland Center. Burial will be at the Richland Center Cemetery.
      