
       Brook Benton, the popular baritone singer and writer of ballads who had many hit songs in the late 1950's and 60's, died of pneumonia Saturday at Mary Immaculate Hospital in Jamaica, Queens. He was 56 years old and lived in St. Albans, Queens.
        Brook Benton, the popular baritone singer and writer of ballads who had many hit songs in the late 1950's and 60's, died of pneumonia Saturday at Mary Immaculate Hospital in Jamaica, Queens. He was 56 years old and lived in St. Albans, Queens.
        Mr. Benton began his career as a gospel singer in Camden, S.C. A big-voiced, silky singer who conveyed urbane, adult passion, Mr. Benton was also an excellent pop songwriter. Near the peak of his career, in 1959, he had four songs among the top 20 hits: ''It's Just a Matter of Time,'' ''So Many Ways,'' ''Endlessly'' and ''Thank You Pretty Baby.''
        The following year, Mr. Benton began a collaboration with the singer Dinah Washington that was to produce a number of hits, including ''You Got What It Takes,'' and ''A Rockin' Good Way.'' A Smooth, Deep Voice
        Mr. Benton's signature tune and last major popular success, ''A Rainy Night in Georgia,'' which he recorded in 1970, epitomized his liking for lush orchestral arrangements as an underpinning for his smooth, deep voice.
        In a 1986 review of a rare live performance by Mr. Benton in New York City, Stephen Holden wrote in The New York Times that he ''croons in a sly, subdued whisper whose emotional restraint recalls the late Nat (King) Cole.''
        In recent years, Mr. Benton's infrequent performances before nightclub audiences concentrated almost exclusively on reprises of his past triumphs. Several Hits in the Early 60's
        Mixing an ''old-fashioned sense of pop decorum with cautious rock and blues elements,'' Mr. Holden said of one of the later performances, Mr. Benton's ''sweepingly dignified melodies transcended mundane pop conventions.''
        In the early 60's, Mr. Benton had 12 consecutive hits in 21 months that he either recorded himself or had written for such artists as Miss Washington and Mr. Cole.
        As the decade wore on, however, his sentimental ballad style fell out of favor with young listeners, who increasingly turned to newer rock-and-roll styles.
        Mr. Benton's given name was Benjamin Peay. He was born in Lugoff, S.C., and began singing at an early age in a Methodist church choir in nearby Camden, where his father was choir master.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary; five children, Brook Jr., Vanessa, Roy, Gerald and Benjamin, all of Queens, and his mother, Maddie Peay of Lugoff.
      