
       Abraham Goodman, a philanthropist and a founder of Goody Products Inc., a hair-care company, died yesterday at his home in Fort Lee, N.J. He was 98 years old.
        Abraham Goodman, a philanthropist and a founder of Goody Products Inc., a hair-care company, died yesterday at his home in Fort Lee, N.J. He was 98 years old.
        Mr. Goodman began his career in 1907 as a teen-ager selling rhinestone-studded hair combs from a pushcart on the streets of New York, not long after he and his family arrived from Gritsev in the Ukraine. By selling combs he helped put himself through New York University, where he earned a degree in accounting.
        With other members of his family, he expanded the hair-comb venture into Goodman & Sons, which sold a variety of accessories for hair care and evolved into Goody Products, whose headquarters are in Kearny, N.J.
        In 1929 Goody Products acquired a half-interest in the Foster Grant Company, then a small producer of sunglasses and combs in Massachusetts. By 1975, when Mr. Goodman was Foster Grant's chairman and it was sold to American Hoechst, Foster Grant's sales had risen to more than $300 million annually in petrochemicals, sunglasses and other products. Mr. Goodman retired as chairman and president of Goody Products in 1977.
        A lifelong Zionist, Mr. Goodman was a leader of the Zionist Organization of America and a founder of a number of Jewish-sponsored institutions, including the Reconstructionist Rabbinical College in Philadelphia, Herzliah Jewish Teachers Seminary in New York and Mt. Sinai Hospital in Miami Beach.
        Mr. Goodman's first wife, the former Mollie Frishberg, died in 1964. In 1966 he married Anne Frishberg, Mollie's sister. She died in 1980. Shortly afterward he married Ruth Fox, who survives, along with three sons by Mr. Goodman's first wife: Leonard, of Manhattan; Philip, of Great Neck Estates, L.I., and Morris, of Evanston, Ill.; six grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      