
       Youri Egorov, a Soviet pianist who defected to the West in 1976 and won widespread acclaim, died of complications arising from AIDS at his home in Amsterdam Friday evening, according to Le Monde. He was 33 years old.
        Youri Egorov, a Soviet pianist who defected to the West in 1976 and won widespread acclaim, died of complications arising from AIDS at his home in Amsterdam Friday evening, according to Le Monde. He was 33 years old.
        Mr. Egorov defected in Rome in 1976, but at that time he was still unknown. It was in 1977 that he burst dramatically into public consciousness. At the Van Cliburn Competition in Fort Worth that year, he failed to make the finals. But he so captured the enthusiasm of some in the audience that they raised $10,000 - the cash prize awarded the winner, Steven de Groote - to finance a New York debut.
        That recital, in January 1978 at Alice Tully Hall, proved such a success that his career was assured. A Chicago critic called his first appearance in that city ''the debut of the decade.''
        What distinguished Mr. Egorov's pianism was the personality that often eludes products of the Soviet conservatory system - and winners of major international competitions, who many agree are frequently chosen by consensus in a way that discourages individuality. 'Nothing if Not a Romantic'
        ''Mr. Egorov plays in a free, romantic style, and his approach is quite different from that of so many competition winners,'' wrote Harold C. Schonberg in The New York Times after Mr. Egorov's New York debut.
        ''Mr. Egorov is nothing if not a Romantic,'' Mr. Schonberg continued. ''There was a proper virtuoso dash when the music called for it. Withal, Mr. Egorov is a sensitive artist. This young man is a very interesting pianist, and he seems to have a wide range. He has all the ingredients for success; there are not many young pianists in recent years who have so managed to involve an audience.''
        Born in Kazan, 400 miles east of Moscow, Mr. Egorov studied with Yakov Zak at the Moscow Conservatory, but soon grew restive at the constraints in the Soviet Union.
        ''I was not able to do what I wanted to do,'' he later told The Times, adding that he had sought ''freedom, artistic and personal.''
        ''In Russia, you have to lie to make your career,'' he continued. ''It's unnatural and depressing. I could not read certain books. I could not play certain music.'' An Interest in the Contemporary
        Although his repertory for his American concerts was mostly traditional, Mr. Egorov also had an interest in contemporary music, from dissident Soviet avant-gardists to Samuel Barber, Olivier Messiaen, Pierre Boulez and Philip Glass.
        In discussing his own gifts, Mr. Egorov preferred to stress poetry and a legato line. ''I try to imagine a voice singing a certain melody,'' he told The Times. With his elegance and refinement - gifts that rarely lapsed into preciousness - he recalled the Rumanian pianist Dinu Lipatti, and indeed he cited that artist as the predecessor he most admired.
        Although he took an apartment in Manhattan in the late 1970's, and he and his longtime companion, Jan Brouwer, established a residence in Monte Carlo for tax purposes, Mr. Egorov counted Amsterdam as his home throughout his 12 years in the West.
        During the 1980's, despite his American success, he concentrated his career in Europe. He last played in New York in 1985, and in the United States, in Florida, in 1986, although he had scheduled an American tour for this month. His last public performances came in Italy and Belgium in January. Mr. Egorov made 14 recordings, with several more sessions awaiting release.
        His survivors include his mother, Eleonora M. Bragatova, and two brothers, Aleksandr Bragatov and Vladimir Yegorov, all of Kazan.
      