
       John Reardon, an American baritone noted for his championship of contemporary works at the New York City Opera and the Metropolitan Opera - and of opera itself on the children's television show ''Mister Rogers' Neighborhood'' - died Saturday at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 58 years old. He died of pneumonia, according to his agent, Ethel
        John Reardon, an American baritone noted for his championship of contemporary works at the New York City Opera and the Metropolitan Opera - and of opera itself on the children's television show ''Mister Rogers' Neighborhood'' - died Saturday at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 58 years old. He died of pneumonia, according to his agent, Ethel Siegel.
        The singer was born in New York City on April 8, 1930. His teachers included Margaret Harshaw and Martial Singher, both Met Opera soloists. In 1954 he joined the New York City Opera, singing Falke in ''Die Fledermaus.'' He sang with the company regularly until 1972, amassing a repertory of 33 roles there, and returned for some performances of Danilo in ''The Merry Widow'' in 1983. His Metropolitan Opera debut came in 1965, and he sang several roles with the company, among them the Count in ''The Marriage of Figaro,'' which he did on the company's Paris visit in 1966. Clear Diction and Versatile Style
        Mr. Reardon's clear diction and versatile acting style made him a natural for contemporary opera, especially American opera, and for television; these were his specialties. He sang in world or American premieres of works by Douglas Moore, Thomas Pasatieri, Marvin David Levy, Lehman Engel, Gian Carlo Menotti, Hans Werner Henze, Lee Hoiby, Dmitri Shostakovich, Leos Janacek, Paul Hindemith and Gottfried von Einem. Most of these productions were at the City Opera or with the Santa Fe Opera; others, including Janacek's ''House of the Dead,'' were for television.
        Mr. Reardon was one of the pioneers in this field, singing with the NBC Opera frequently in the 1950's (including a ''Magic Flute'' in 1956 with Leontyne Price). More recently, he proselytized for his art form in ''mini-operas'' on ''Mister Rogers' Neighborhood.'' He also made several recordings, among them a fine portrayal of Nick Shadow in ''The Rake's Progress'' with Stravinsky conducting. Among his standard repertory parts were the leading baritone roles in ''La Traviata,'' ''Don Giovanni,'' ''Faust'' and ''Madama Butterfly.'' He also made several forays into musical comedy. He was to have sung in ''Kismet'' this month in Houston, but became ill and withdrew. His last performances were with the Buffalo Philharmonic in March and the Cleveland Opera (as the Count in ''Figaro'') in February.
        Mr. Reardon is survived by a sister, Thelma Sarvis, of Ohio Clyde, Ohio.
      