
       James E. Olson, the chairman and chief executive of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, who played a major role in reshaping the telecommunications giant after its breakup, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Short Hills, N.J. He was 62 years old.
        James E. Olson, the chairman and chief executive of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, who played a major role in reshaping the telecommunications giant after its breakup, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Short Hills, N.J. He was 62 years old.
        A.T.& T. said last week that Mr. Olson underwent surgery on March 25 to remove a malignant tumor in the colon. He returned home on April 1 and had been undergoing chemotherapy as an outpatient. He died suddenly early yesterday, the company said. Heir Apparent Seen
        Robert E. Allen, the A.T.& T. president who assumed control of the company last month, will continue to direct A.T.& T. until its board elects a new chairman, the company said. Mr. Allen, 53, is widely considered to be Mr. Olson's successor.
        Mr. Olson, a 44-year veteran of the Bell Telephone System, started his career cleaning dirt out of manholes and splicing cable. He is perhaps the last of a generation of A.T.& T. chairmen who have spent their professional careers with the company.
        Mr. Olson, who succeeded Charles L. Brown as chairman in September 1986, took control of A.T.& T. when the telephone company was struggling. A.T.& T., which had divested itself of the regional Bell telephone companies in 1984, had no long-term business strategy. Its expenses were out of control, and its computer division was losing about $1 billion a year.
        The new chairman turned much of that around during his 20-month tenure by emphasizing cost-cutting and such A.T.& T. core businesses as long-distance service. Aggressive Reduction Programs
        An operations specialist, Mr. Olson began a large cost-reduction program that brought 27,000 layoffs and a $3.2 billion write-off in the fourth quarter of 1986. He also concentrated on international expansion and revamped A.T.& T.'s flagging computer division.
        Analysts credit Mr. Olson with hiring Vittorio Cassoni, a former executive of Ing. C. Olivetti & Company of Italy to head A.T.& T.'s computer division. Mr. Cassoni has reduced A.T.& T.'s losses in its computers and bolstered its credibility through alliances with such technology heavyweights as Sun Microsystems Inc. of Mountain View Calif.
        ''His impact was greater than his time in office,'' said Jack Grubman, a former A.T.& T. executive who now serves as a telecommunications analyst for Paine Webber Inc. ''He let everyone from the highest officers to the lowest clerks know that they were expendable if they didn't get their act together. It's unfortunate that he will not bask in the limelight that is to come from his efforts.'' Outgoing and Energetic
        Born on Dec. 3, 1925, Mr. Olson was a short, compact man who, according to his associates, was outgoing and energetic, sometimes to the point of being forceful. He was known to shout and beat his fists on a podium or desk to emphasize a point that he believed was significant.
        ''He was an aggressive person because he had a lot of energy, but with all his aggressiveness, he still had compassion,'' said Thomas E. Bolger, the chairman of the Bell Atlantic Corporation, who worked with Mr. Olson at A.T.& T. Charles E. Hugel, a colleague of Mr. Olson's for more than 20 years at A.T.& T. before becoming the president and chief executive of Combustion Engineering Inc., said, ''People at A.T.& T. respected him and responded to his leadership and personality, and that's what it takes to be an effective executive.''
        A native of Devils Lake, N.D., James Elias Olson was the son of a barber and a school teacher. After graduating from high school in 1943, he enlisted in the Army Air Corps but had to wait until he was 18 before he could report for duty. 'A Hot and Dirty Job'
        While waiting to begin his military service, he took a summer job with the Northwestern Bell Telephone Company, later describing it as ''a hot and dirty job of going down into telephone manholes to clean out silt.'' He later served as an apprentice to a cable splicer.
        Two years after beginning his Army service, Mr. Olson entered the University of North Dakota, from he received a degree in commerce in 1950. He joined the telephone company in a management position and began to climb the corporate ladder.
        In 1972, he was named the president of the Indiana Bell Telephone Company, and in 1974, he took charge of the Illinois Bell Telephone Company, a position that had been held by two other A.T.& T. chairmen, Mr. Brown and his predecessor, John D. deButts.
        Mr. Olson became an A.T.& T. executive vice president in 1977 and was elected vice chairman in 1979. He became the chairman and chief executive of A.T.& T. Technologies in 1984 and the president and chief operating officer the following year. He was elected chairman in September 1986. Many Accolades
        Praise for Mr. Olson came from many telephone industry officials and executives yesterday. Dennis R. Patrick, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, said that Mr. Olson was instrumental in guiding A.T.& T. through the myriad of challenges arising from its divestiture of the Bell companies and from the continuing growth of competition in the long-distance market. William McGowan, the chairman of the MCI Communications Corporation, A.T.& T.'s chief rival, called Mr. Olson ''an oustanding executive and individual who made major contributions to the industry.''
        He is survived by his wife, Jean; a son, James D., of Boston; a daughter, Julie Paterson, of Alpine, N.J.; a brother, Donald, of Santa Ana, Calif., and two sisters, Nyer, of Grand Falls, N.D., and Yona Jensen, of Minneapolis.
        A memorial service will be held at 1 P.M. on Saturday at St. Thomas Church, Fifth Avenue at 53d Street. The Olson family has requested that memorials made in the name of James E. Olson be sent to the development office of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10021.
      