
       Francesco A. Gianninoto, an industrial designer whose creations included the Marlboro flip-top cigarette box, the orange roof for Howard Johnson restaurants and Elsie the Borden cow, died of kidney failure last Friday at the Danbury (Conn.) Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in Redding, Conn.
        Francesco A. Gianninoto, an industrial designer whose creations included the Marlboro flip-top cigarette box, the orange roof for Howard Johnson restaurants and Elsie the Borden cow, died of kidney failure last Friday at the Danbury (Conn.) Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in Redding, Conn.
        Mr. Gianninoto, who was born in Chiaramonte, Sicily, and came to New York with his family in 1911, was a consultant to manufacturers of many major products in the United States and abroad, including Dole pineapples. Lipton teas, Wild Turkey liquor, Buitoni spaghetti and Nestle confections.
        A specialist in packaging, he once said a good package must provide both factual information and ''completely intangible ideas such as quality, reliability and value.'' He favored bold colors, simple themes and large type to give a strong identification of the product on its packaging.
        After graduating in 1922 from the Ethical Culture School, which he attended on an art scholarship, he joined his family's dress manufacturing business as a designer and later went to work for Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn, the advertising agency, where he became art director and later creative director. Spoke Seven Languages
        In 1931, he left to form his own consulting firm and was quickly retained by several corporations, including Du Pont and Texaco, to redesign their packaging. Able to speak seven languages, he established offices in Munich, London and Mexico City and sold his services to manufacturers in several other countries.
        He was a founder of the Package Designers Council and of the Industrial Designers Institute of America, which honored him in 1985 as a pioneer in package design. He retired as head of Gianninoto Associates in 1983 but continued doing consulting work until his death.
        Four years ago he built a 12-story-tall steel windmill, the tallest windmill in Connecticut, on his 23.5-acre hilltop estate in Redding to produce electricity for a greenhouse and for sale to a local utility.
        Mr. Gianninoto was married five times. His fifth wife, the former Eirwan Brushfield, died in 1973.
        He is survived by two sisters, Mary Mansueto of Danbury and Jean Coffman of Vallejo, Calif.; two sons, Gordon, of Redding, and James, of Manhattan; a daughter, Patricia Muller of Woodstock, N.Y.; three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      