
       Thor E. Wood, chief of the Performing Arts Research Center of the New York Public Library, died of complications from AIDS yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 55 years old.
        Thor E. Wood, chief of the Performing Arts Research Center of the New York Public Library, died of complications from AIDS yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 55 years old.
        Mr. Wood first worked as a summer substitute in the library's music division in 1958 while doing graduate work at Princeton. He was appointed the first head of the center in 1965, the year the performing arts collections were moved from the library on Fifth Avenue and 42d Street to the new library at Lincoln Center. During his tenure, the four research collections - Dance, Music, the Rodgers and Hammerstein Archives of Recorded Sound and the Billy Rose Theater Collection - grew to international importance.
        A musicologist as well as a librarian, Mr. Wood was instrumental in adding new material to the collections. These included the papers of Louis Moreau Gottschalk, the 19th-century composer; William Schuman, the composer and former head of Lincoln Center, and the archives of the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers. During his directorship, Arturo Toscanini's personal archives, ''The Toscanini Legacy,'' were donated to the center. Finding Financial Support
        Mr. Wood was a leader in the campaign to find financial support for cataloguing these collections. He played a main role in the Campaign for the Performing Arts Research Center, begun in 1986 to raise $10.8 million over five years.
        During his career, Mr. Wood was active in several professional organizations. He served as an executive of the International Association of Music Libraries, as director of the American Music Center, as a member of the visiting committee of the music department at Harvard and on the advisory council of Princeton's music department.
        Among the publications to which Mr. Wood contributed were Music Library Association Notes, the Encyclopedia of Library and Information Science and the Yearbook for Inter-American Musical Research.
        Mr. Wood, who was born in Washington, graduated from Pomona College in California with a major in music. After receiving a master's degree in library science at the University of California, Berkeley, he earned a master of fine arts at Princeton. He became music librarian at the University of Illinois in 1960 and moved to the New York Public Library five years later.
        Mr. Wood is survived by his wife, Ann, of Brooklyn, and two daughters, Elizabeth and Frances.
      