
       John Mackenzie Cory, who retired in 1978 as director of the New York Public Library after 27 years with the institution, died of a heart attack on Monday. He was 74 years old and lived in Tarrytown, N.Y.
        John Mackenzie Cory, who retired in 1978 as director of the New York Public Library after 27 years with the institution, died of a heart attack on Monday. He was 74 years old and lived in Tarrytown, N.Y.
        Mr. Cory was director of the library and was responsible for administering the entire system, from 1970 until 1978. He had previously been deputy director for seven years and chief of its branch libraries for 12 years.
        For more than 30 years, Mr. Cory was an adjunct professor of library administration at Columbia University. In 1956 he was president of the New York Library Association, and from 1966 to 1970 he was executive director of the New York Metropolitan Reference and Research Agency, a cooperative concerned with research library services. From 1984 until his death, he was a consultant with Gossage Regan Associates, a firm supplying personnel services to libraries.
        A native of Asheville, N.C., and a graduate of the University of California at Berkeley and the University of Chicago Library School, Mr. Cory was executive director of the American Library Association for three years before he joined the New York Public Library. He had previously been a library official at Berkeley and at the University of Alabama, and he was a specialist with the United States Office of Education.
        Mr. Cory is survived by his wife, the former Rosella Murray; three sons, Robert, of Toronto, Thomas, of Santa Rosa, Calif., and James, of Madison, Wisc.; a daughter, Carolyn Rodden of Marburg, West Germany; four stepsons, Robert Murray, of Parlin, N.J.; Raymond Murray, of Flushing, Queens; Edward Murray, of Brewster, N.Y., and Peter Murray, of Tarrytown; a stepdaughter, Susan Murray of Tarrytown; five grandsons, and two granddaughters.
      