
       Fritz H. Landshoff, a former publishing executive with Harry N. Abrams Inc., died of heart failure Wednesday in the Netherlands. He was 86 years old.
        Fritz H. Landshoff, a former publishing executive with Harry N. Abrams Inc., died of heart failure Wednesday in the Netherlands. He was 86 years old.
        During a European and American career that spanned more than 60 years, Mr. Landshoff was known for publishing both literary and art books. After studying in Frankfurt and working for a Leipzig publisher, he became co-owner of Gustav Kiepenheuer, a Potsdam house that published the work of many leftist writers in Weimar Germany. His firm's authors included Bertolt Brecht, Heinrich Mann, Arnold Zweig and Lion Feuchtwanger.
        When the Nazis came to power in 1933, Mr. Landshoff moved to Amsterdam, where he founded a literary magazine for exiled writers and headed a house that published - in German - about 120 works by such emigre authors as Erich Maria Remarque, Ernst Toller and Alfred Doblin. After the Nazi invasion of the Netherlands, he came to the United States in 1941 and founded L. B. Fischer with Gottfried Bermann-Fischer. Paired Authors and ArtistsW
        In 1952, Harry Abrams, who had recently established his art-book publishing house, asked Mr. Landshoff to become the firm's European representative. By importing many European art books for Abrams and pairing authors with artists, Mr. Landshoff became ''one of the people most responsible for the early success of Abrams,'' Paul Gottlieb, Abrams's president and publisher, said in a 1985 interview.
        Mr. Landshoff spent 33 years with Abrams, in Europe and New York, and retired in 1985 as executive vice president. His authors included H. W. Janson, Meyer Shapiro, H. H. Arnason and Robert Rothenberg. He also was instrumental in publishing Thomas Mann's diaries.
        Mr. Landshoff is survived by his wife, Sara Catherina, of New York and Amsterdam; three daughters, Beatrice, Karen and Andrea; two sons, Andreas and Peter, and several grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
      