
       Arnie Zane, a choreographer, dancer and co-artistic director of Bill T. Jones-Arnie Zane and Company, a leading postmodernist dance troupe, died of AIDS-related lymphoma on Wednesday night at his home in Valley Cottage, N.Y. He was 39 years old.
        Arnie Zane, a choreographer, dancer and co-artistic director of Bill T. Jones-Arnie Zane and Company, a leading postmodernist dance troupe, died of AIDS-related lymphoma on Wednesday night at his home in Valley Cottage, N.Y. He was 39 years old.
        Mr. Zane began choreographing after a career as a photographer. His interest in formal values and stylish visual design played an important part in the development of his and Mr. Jones's dance, with its distinctive mix of the abstract and the anecdotal. His qualities as a performer also strongly influenced the collaborative work. He and Mr. Jones often performed together, and their physical differences contributed a great deal to the dances.
        ''Mr. Jones is big, tall and powerful,'' Jack Anderson, a dance critic for The New York Times, wrote in 1983. ''Mr. Zane is powerful, too. But he moves differently, for he's short and wiry. His gestures are quick, darting, almost fussy, and he can be a pesky presence, virtually buzzing as he moves.'' Formed First Troupe in 1973
        Mr. Zane began working with Mr. Jones in 1971. They formed the American Dance Asylum with Lois Welk in 1973 in Binghamton, N.Y. After touring together in the United States and abroad, the two choreographer-dancers formed the Jones-Zane company in 1982 and appeared in that year's Next Wave festival at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. Over the last six years, the company has become known for stylish, punchy dance that incorporates narrative and text set to music by noted post-modernist composers.
        Mr. Zane was born in the Bronx and attended public schools in New York City, receiving an undergraduate degree from the State University at Binghamton. He was the recipient of many fellowships for choreography. In 1980, he and Mr. Jones, his companion of 17 years, received the German Critics Award for ''Blauvelt Mountain.'' The two choreographer-performers also received a New York Dance Performance Award, or ''Bessie,'' in 1986.
        Mr. Zane is survived by his parents, Edith and Lon, and a brother and sister. Mr. Zane was cremated and buried yesterday in a private service.
      