
       Brook Benton, the popular baritone singer and writer of ballads who had many hit songs in the late 1950's and 60's, died of pneumonia yesterday at Mary Immaculate Hospital in Queens. He was 56 years old and lived in Queens.
        Brook Benton, the popular baritone singer and writer of ballads who had many hit songs in the late 1950's and 60's, died of pneumonia yesterday at Mary Immaculate Hospital in Queens. He was 56 years old and lived in Queens.
        Mr. Benton, who began his career as a gospel singer in Camden, S.C., wrote more than 350 songs.
        In 1959, near the peak of his career, he had four songs among the top 20 hits: ''It's Just a Matter of Time,'' ''So Many Ways,'' ''Endlessly'' and ''Thank You Pretty Baby.''
        The following year, Mr. Benton began a collaboration with the singer Dinah Washington that was to produce a number of hits, including ''You Got What it Takes,'' and ''A Rockin' Good Way.'' Smooth, Deep Voice
        Mr. Benton's signature tune and last major popular success, ''A Rainy Night in Georgia,'' which he recorded in 1974, epitomized his liking for lush orchestral arrangements as an underpinning to his smooth, deep voice.
        In a 1986 review of a rare live performance by Mr. Benton in New York City, the music critic Stephen Holden, writing in The New York Times, said of Mr. Benton's performance, he ''croons in a sly, subdued whisper whose emotional restraint recalls the late Nat (King) Cole.''
        In recent years, Mr. Benton's infrequent performances before nightclub audiences concentrated almost exclusively on reprises of his past triumphs.
        Mixing an ''old-fashioned sense of pop decorum, with cautious rock and blues elements,'' Mr. Holden said of one of these later performances that Mr. Benton's ''sweepingly dignified melodies transcended mundane pop conventions.''
        In the early 60's, Mr. Benton had 12 consecutive hits in 21 months that he either recorded himself or had written for such artists as Miss Washington and Mr. Cole.
        Mr. Benton was born Benjamin Peay in Lugoff, S.C., and began singing at an early age in a Methodist church choir in nearby Camden, where his father was choir master.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary; four children, Brook Jr., Vanessa, Roy, and Gerald, all of Queens, and his mother, Maddie Peay of Lugoff, S.C.
      