
       Mayor Bernie Simon, who once said that achieving the office fulfilled a lifetime dream, died today after a yearlong battle against cancer. He was 60 years old.
        Mayor Bernie Simon, who once said that achieving the office fulfilled a lifetime dream, died today after a yearlong battle against cancer. He was 60 years old.
        Mr. Simon was taken to Methodist Hospital by a rescue squad before dawn and was pronounced dead on arrival, said Anne Johnson, his press aide.
        Gov. Kay A. Orr called Mr. Simon ''a man of peace and concord,'' and added: ''He loved being Mayor. He loved serving the people, and in public service he gave the very essence of his nature, a spirit of unity which brought the people of Omaha together.''
        Mr. Simon, a Democrat who was first elected to the City Council in 1981, became Mayor on Feb. 3, 1987, after he was chosen by the Council to fill the two and a half years left in the term of Mike Boyle, who was recalled from office in a special election. Dream Is Fulfilled
        Mr. Simon said then that he was considering running for Mayor in 1989 and that achieving the office fulfilled a lifetime dream.
        A native of Omaha, Mr. Simon was an all-city tackle on the Creighton Preparatory High School football team in 1944. After graduating in 1945, he served briefly in the Navy before the end of World War II.
        He then went to work as a lineman for Northwestern Bell and retired in 1981 as a marketing manager.
        Mr. Simon sought treatment for alcoholism in 1979 and said he abstained from drinking ever since.
        He was elected to the City Council in 1981 and re-elected in 1985. Discovery of Tumor
        Mr. Simon was in office as Mayor only two months when doctors discovered an inoperable tumor in his lungs. That tumor was destroyed in treatment, but two more tumors showed up in Mr. Simon's brain later in the year.
        Radiation treatments and chemotherapy reduced the tumors, but they reappeared just before Christmas. Mr. Simon kept up a full schedule as Mayor until last month, when he began taking time off to rest.
        Control of the city government was turned over to Fred Conley, president of the City Council. Mr. Conley said at the news conference that he would continue as Acting Mayor until the City Council met after Mr. Simon's funeral to choose a new Mayor.
      