
       Former Representative James Domengeaux, who is credited with preserving the French language in his native state of Louisiana, died of acute leukemia Monday in Lafayette, La. He was 81 years old.
        Former Representative James Domengeaux, who is credited with preserving the French language in his native state of Louisiana, died of acute leukemia Monday in Lafayette, La. He was 81 years old.
        Mr. Domengeaux had been active in the law firm of Domengeaux & Wright in Lafayette.
        Mr. Domengeaux, who learned to speak French from his parents but was not taught to read or write the language, founded the Council for the Development of French in Louisiana, an organization to promote the teaching of French in the public schools. The organization, which was founded in 1968, is celebrating its 20th anniversary today in Lafayette, at about the time funeral services are to held there for Mr. Domengeaux.
        In 1986, for his efforts at promoting the French language, Mr. Domengeaux was named as a commander in the Order of the Legion of Honor of the French Republic, the highest civilian honor given by the French Government. He was awarded a similar medal by the Belgian Government the next year.
        Mr. Domengeaux served as the Democratic Representative from Louisiana's Third Congressional District from January 1941 to April 1944, when he resigned to be inducted into the Army's combat engineers. He was discharged about six months later for medical reasons and was re-elected to Congress to fill the congressional seat he had vacated.
        He resigned from Congress in 1948 to run for the Senate, losing to Senator Allen J. Ellender, and he returned to private law practice in Lafayette.
        At the time of food rationing in World War II, Mr. Domengeaux tried to promote the use of muskrat meat by having about 50 muskrats shipped to the Capitol dining room, where they were served to hesitant members of Congress.
        Survivors include his wife, Eleanor St. Julien Domengeau; a brother, Judge Jerome Demongeaux; two nephews, and three nieces.
      