
       Eugene K. Denton, owner of the Tailored Woman, a New York specialty shop, for 48 years and a prominent breeder of Aberdeen Angus cattle in New Jersey, died Wednesday at the Sarah Frances/Tally Ho Manor nursing home in Boonton, N.J., where he had lived for five years. He would have been 100 years old on
        Eugene K. Denton, owner of the Tailored Woman, a New York specialty shop, for 48 years and a prominent breeder of Aberdeen Angus cattle in New Jersey, died Wednesday at the Sarah Frances/Tally Ho Manor nursing home in Boonton, N.J., where he had lived for five years. He would have been 100 years old on May 27.
        Mr. Denton was born on a plantation near Nashville, came to New York shortly after the turn of the century and worked in the old James McCreary store on 34th Street. He went to Cincinnati in 1910 as a buyer for the McAlpin Company and soon opened his own specialty store, the Denton Company.
        He returned to New York in 1919 to found the Tailored Woman on a Fifth Avenue site that was later to become part of Rockefeller Center and was opposite the present location of Saks Fifth Avenue. Over the years the store moved to other sites, inching northward toward its final home in 1939 on the northwest corner of Fifth Avenue and 57th Street.
        His first newspaper advertisement, in 1929, offered ''women's clothes of a simple character at a fair price.'' Recalling that advertisement on the store's 45th anniversary, in 1964, Mr. Denton said, ''We haven't changed.'' Not for Clotheshorses
        Known by then as the dean of Fifth Avenue merchants, he divided women who shopped into two classes. ''There are those who like simple, lovely clothes and there are clotheshorses,'' he said. ''We don't cater to clotheshorses. I am opposed to the tackers-on-of-trifles - doodads, furbelows, sequins and beads.''
        When he was not on buying trips to Paris or other fashion centers, Mr. Denton restlessly roamed the sales floors and workrooms of his store. One of the four elevators on 57th Street was reserved for his exclusive use; he operated it himself.
        In 1967, under pressure from Bergdorf Goodman, which owned the buildings occupied by the Tailored Woman and wanted to expand, Mr. Denton decided to close his store, but not without hesitation.
        ''I'm still a young fellow of 79,'' he said. ''But I have plenty of other things to occupy me.'' Among them were managing his cattle farm in Flanders, N.J., and his other real estate in Morris County.
        In 1968, less than a year after he closed the store on Fifth Avenue, Mr. Denton, saying he ''found retirement dull,'' opened a small fur store on Madison Avenue. He operated it for several years.
        At White Gates Farm in Flanders he raised pheasant, wild geese and turkeys as well as one of the largest herds of Aberdeen Angus cattle in the East. He received many honors from the cattle-breeding and fashion industries, including the Medal of Honor of the city of Paris for his contributions in the fashion field.
        Mr. Denton's wife of 68 years, the former Marie Silcott, died in 1984. There are no immediate survivors.
      