
       Rodney L. Cool, an experimental physicist whose research helped to establish the existence of the quark, a subatomic particle, died of lymphoma Saturday at New York Hospital. He was 68 years old and lived in Manhattan and in Ferney-Voltaire, France.
        Rodney L. Cool, an experimental physicist whose research helped to establish the existence of the quark, a subatomic particle, died of lymphoma Saturday at New York Hospital. He was 68 years old and lived in Manhattan and in Ferney-Voltaire, France.
        Dr. Cool, a professor of high-energy physics at Rockefeller University, also conducted research at the European Center for Nuclear Research in Geneva. It was there in the 1970's that he and colleagues performed experiments that, together with data from other investigators, showed the quark to be a building block of neutrons and protons. Previously, the neutron, proton and electron had been regarded as the fundamental particles in nature.
        In recent years, Dr. Cool was investigating the detailed properties of the extremely strong force that binds together quarks.
        A native of Platte, S.D., Dr. Cool received a bachelor's degree from the University of South Dakota and master's and doctoral degrees from Harvard University. He attained the rank of major in the Army Signal Corps in World War II and was awarded a Bronze Star.
        In 1949 he joined the Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island as a research physicist and rose to become associate director in 1966. In 1970 he established an experimental physics group at Rockefeller University to plan experiments that are conducted at the Geneva center and other laboratories with particle accelerators.
        Dr. Cool was a member of the National Academy of Sciences and a Fellow of the American Physical Society.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Margaret E. Macmillan; a sister, Harriet Jane Hanna of Orange, Calif.; a son, John, of Pelham, N.Y.; three daughters, Ellen Kwait of Marblehead, Mass., and Mary Lee Gupta and Adrienne Cool, both of Boston, and six grandchildren.
      