
       Fitzhugh Turner, a retired United States Foreign Service Officer and a former correspondent for The New York Herald Tribune, died of emphysema last Sunday at his home in Haymarket, Va. He was 73 years old.
        Fitzhugh Turner, a retired United States Foreign Service Officer and a former correspondent for The New York Herald Tribune, died of emphysema last Sunday at his home in Haymarket, Va. He was 73 years old.
        After a long and varied career as a journalist, Mr. Turner joined the Foreign Service in 1962 and was put in charge of United States publications in India. In 1965, he went to Vietnam as director of psychological warfare in the Mekong delta. He later served as an American adviser in Thailand before returning to the United States to join the State Department's worldwide refugee programs. He retired in 1975.
        Born in Ogden, Utah, Mr. Turner held a series of newspaper jobs in Tucson, Ariz., Sacramento, Calif., and New Orleans before joining the Herald Tribune in 1945. As a national correspondent for the Herald Tribune, he covered the establishment of the United Nations.
        In 1947, after reporting from the Middle East, Mr. Turner became the diplomatic correspondent for the Herald Tribune. He was based in Washington and made frequent trips abroad, covering the development of the Marshall Plan, the blockade of Berlin and the origins of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. In 1951, he wrote a syndicated series of articles on communism in Central America.
        Mr. Turner received a yearlong fellowship in journalism from the Council on Foreign Relations, during which he studied at Columbia University's Russian Institute. In 1953, he became assistant managing editor of U.S. News & World report. He held the post for two years.
        Mr. Turner was part owner of several county newspapers in northern Virginia in association with Hubert B. Phipps.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Sarah McDarment; a daughter, Elizabeth T. Zlatich of Washington, D.C.; two stepsons, Guy B. Shepard of Santa Fe, N.M., and James T. Shepard of Haymarket, Va., and five grandchildren.
      