
       Lord Ramsey, a former Archbishop of Canterbury who, during his tenure as Primate of the Church of England, was a thorn in the side of conservatives and a proponent of worldwide Christian ecumenism, died yesterday in Oxford, England. He was 83 years old.
        Lord Ramsey, a former Archbishop of Canterbury who, during his tenure as Primate of the Church of England, was a thorn in the side of conservatives and a proponent of worldwide Christian ecumenism, died yesterday in Oxford, England. He was 83 years old.
        As the Most. Rev. Arthur Michael Ramsey, he headed the Anglican Church from 1961 to 1974. In 1966, as part of travel to promote the ecumenical movement, he went to Rome and paid an official visit to Pope Paul VI. And in 1972, he preached at St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York City, the first time a leader of the world's Anglican communion had occupied the pulpit of the Roman Catholic Church on Fifth Avenue.
        A statement released yesterday by the Anglican Church press said that Lord Ramsey died at St. John's Home, a residence for the elderly in Oxford, where he had been ill with bronchial pneumonia for several weeks. His wife, Lady Ramsey, was at his side. Elevated to Peerage
        Archbishop Ramsey was the 100th Primate of the Church of England since Henry VIII broke from the Catholic Church in 1534. Upon his retirement, he was made a life peer, and took the title of Lord Ramsey of Canterbury.
        In a way, it was not surprising that Archbishop Ramsey took bold steps to foster ties with the church in Rome. He was not one to avoid controversy. And that inclination was further fostered by the fact that, as Archbishop, he sat in the House of Lords and took part in parliamentary debate.
        In 1965, he outraged right-wingers when he declared that under certain circumstances, there would be Christian justice in using British troops to overthrow the white-minority regime in Rhodesia. Earlier that year, he caused a furor when he expressed strong support for a bill to repeal criminal penalties for private homosexual activity between consenting adults. Argued Case With Detail
        During the debate, he vigorously disputed an argument by Lord Dilhorne, a former Lord Chancellor, that some forms of homosexual behavior were worse than others and should be punished. The Archbishop, going into clinical detail, said that he could see no ''big moral distinction.''
        And he added: ''One hates to mention such things, but by doing so, one is perhaps able to clarify the issue.''
        During his career, he spoke of ''the futility'' of the Vietnam War, opposed proposals Asian immigration into Britain and - despite his attempts to foster ties with the Catholic Church - criticized the Pope's encyclical against birth control.
        In 1970, during an interview before a trip to South Africa, Lord Ramsey attacked apartheid, saying that ''it is being increased by more ruthless actions.'' And once he arrived in Johannesburg, he gave a speech decrying ''the abuse of power at the expense of others.'' Several pro-Government newspapers immediately labeled him a ''sleepwalker,'' and ''Archbishop of Kantelberg'' - literally translated as ''the toppling mountain.'' Physically Impressive Man
        To the vociferous challenges of opponents, according to people who followed church affairs, the Archbishop would offer a pastoral smile that emanated from a large, full face with eyes that beamed from beneath thick-tufted, white brows. He was a full-figured man who gave the impression of great physical strength. And, according to one account, when once during a ceremonial occasion he was required to strike three blows with his staff on a cathedral door, the door splintered.
        Dr. Ramsey was born on Nov. 14, 1904, in Cambridge, where his father, Arthur Stanley Ramsey, was a distinguished mathematician at the university. Lord Ramsey would later graduate from Cambridge with high honors in theology. He had, at first, planned to be a lawyer, but changed his mind after taking only second honors in the classics. He was ordained in 1929.
        The future prelate began his career as a priest in a Liverpool parish. He became a subwarden at Lincoln Theological College and taught there for six years. In 1939 and 1940, he served as vicar of St. Benedict's Church in Cambridge. A year later, he was appointed professor of divinity at Durham University in England. A decade after that, he returned to Cambridge as Regious Professor of Divinity, a royal appointment. In 1952, Lord Ramsey returned to the city of Durham as Bishop. Maintained the Common Touch
        But even after he rose to that rank, and later when he was Archbishop of York, he still delighted, as he had in Liverpool, in shedding his robes and popping into pubs to lift a few with the workers.
        When Dr. Ramsey became Archbishop of Canterbury in 1961, he succeeded Dr. Geoffrey Francis Fisher, who had retired. Lord Ramsey was succeeded in 1974 by the Most Rev. Donald Coggan, who retired in 1980. The current Archbishop of Canterbury is the Most Rev. Robert A. K. Runcie.
        With his wife, Joan, whom he maried in 1942 when she was a secretary to the Bishop of Jarrow, the Archbishop lived during his tenure at Lambeth Palace on the south side of the Thames River, opposite from the Houses of Parliament. The couple had no children.
        According to a statment from the church press, a funeral service will be held in Canterbury Cathedral, in southeastern England, and a memorial service will be held at Westminster Abbey. No dates for the services were announced.
        Correction:  May 5, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition
      