
        Harry Newman, who led the 1933 New York Giants to the National Football League's first championship game as an All-Pro quarterback one season after being honored as college football's top player, died Tuesday at his home in Las Vegas. He was 90.
        Newman, who concluded his rookie season by throwing the first touchdown pass in an N.F.L. title game, had won the Douglas Fairbanks Trophy, the forerunner of the Heisman Trophy, for leading the University of Michigan to an undefeated season in 1932 as a triple-threat tailback. He was a protege of the star quarterback Benny Friedman, who preceded him at Michigan and with the Giants, but had left the Giants without a dependable quarterback when he joined the N.F.L.'s Brooklyn Dodgers after the 1931 season.
        ''The quarterback we wanted was Newman,'' recalled Wellington Mara, the Giants' co-owner, who was then a teenage helper to his father, Tim, the club's founder. ''He could run and throw, he was smart.''
        After signing a contract giving him a percentage of the gate receipts, Newman finished the 1933 season as the N.F.L.'s leading passer with 11 touchdown throws for 973 yards at a time when the ground game predominated. He was also the Giants' leading rusher, gaining 437 yards, and starred in an exciting title game that saw the Chicago Bears of Red Grange and Bronko Nagurski defeat the Giants, 23-21, at Wrigley Field.
        Newman threw two touchdown passes to future Hall of Famers in that game, a 29-yarder to Red Badgro in the first half and an 8-yarder to Ken Strong in the fourth quarter after taking a lateral from Strong. But the Bears went ahead with a late touchdown off a lateral of their own. The game ended with Badgro brought down by Grange as he headed toward the end zone on a pass from Newman.
        A native of Detroit, Newman had been a fine running back in high school, then attended a summer camp where Friedman was the head counselor.
        ''It was Benny who taught me how to pass,'' Newman remembered. ''I think I may have thrown two passes in high school. Benny felt if I was going to make it to the top in college, I needed to be a good passer as well as a runner.''
        Newman played for Michigan from 1930 to 1932, his teams losing only one game. In his senior season -- when former President Gerald R. Ford was a Michigan lineman -- Newman not only passed and ran but did the kicking and played safety. Although only 5 feet 8 inches and 175 pounds, he saw action in 437 out of 480 minutes. Termed ''the answer to a coach's prayer'' by Michigan's coach, Harry Kipke, he was later elected to the College Football Hall of Fame.
        Newman's Giants defeated Friedman's Dodgers twice in winning the Eastern Division title in 1933 with an 11-3 record, the first year that the N.F.L. had two divisions, creating a title game.
        In November 1934, Newman set a Giant rushing record that stood for almost a half-century when he carried 38 times against the Green Bay Packers. But the following Sunday, he suffered two broken bones in his back against the Bears, ending his season. He was replaced by Ed Danowski, a former Fordham star, in the famed ''sneakers game,'' in which the Giants, switching from cleats to basketball shoes at halftime on a frozen Polo Grounds field, rallied to defeat the Bears, 30-13, for the N.F.L. championship.
        Newman played one more year for the Giants, then joined the Brooklyn Tigers of the newly formed American Football League. He retired from pro football after the 1937 season, became an executive with the Ford Motor Company and owned Ford dealerships in Detroit and Denver. He lived in retirement in south Florida, then moved last year to Las Vegas.
        He is survived by his wife, Winona; a son, Harry Jr., of Miami; a daughter, Wendy Sameroff, of Las Vegas; two grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
        Newman recalled scintillating moments in that 1933 title game. The two touchdowns off laterals weren't the only bizarre plays that afternoon. Another one featured a bit of deception that Newman persuaded Coach Steve Owen to employ.
        Newman took the snap from the future Hall of Fame center Mel Hein, who was at the end of the offensive line, making him eligible as a receiver. He slipped the ball back to Hein and spun around faking a handoff, then pretended to trip.
        Hein was supposed to walk down the field nonchalantly hiding the ball, but he got too eager and started to run, alerting the Bears. They brought him down after a nice gain, but no touchdown.
        ''Their linemen were convinced I had the ball and several of them landed on top of me,'' Newman remembered. ''George Musso, who was about 270 pounds, got this very puzzled look and said, 'Where's the ball?' I said, 'Next time you want to see me do some card tricks?' ''
      