
        Charles R. Boxer, who was Britain's chief spy in Hong Kong in the tumultuous years leading up to World War II; a prominent historian of colonial empires although he never earned a college degree and a lead player in one of the most flamboyantly public love stories of the 1940's, died April 27 in a nursing home near his country residence northwest of London. He was 96.
        His achievements ranged from writing 330 books and articles about the origins and growth of the Dutch and Portuguese to holding professorial chairs at five universities on both sides of the Atlantic to collecting a celebrated library of rare books. Always, he came at things his own way: as a boy, he taught himself Portuguese and Dutch in order to satisfy his curiosity about how Japan, his initial and principal fascination, was first affected by Europeans.
        But it was Mr. Boxer's breathtakingly public romance with Emily Hahn, the author of 52 books and a longtime contributor to The New Yorker magazine, that accounts for most of the yellowing clips in newspaper morgues. He was married to Ursula Norah Anstice Tulloch, a woman commonly called the most beautiful in Hong Kong, when he met and had an affair with Ms. Hahn, The New Yorker's China correspondent,  who herself was involved with one of China's leading intellectuals, Sinmay Zau.
        Ms. Hahn made the new romance -- not to mention her avid opium addiction -- a topic of discussion in her 1944 best seller, ''China to Me.'' She told how she fell for Mr. Boxer immediately, even though she was on friendly terms with his wife.
        She wrote that he suggested having a child and offered to be legally responsible for the baby. A few weeks before the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor, a daughter named Carola was born to the couple. After the Japanese took over Hong Kong, a British colony, Ms. Hahn convinced Japanese authorities she was Eurasian and stayed on to carry food parcels to starving prisoners of war. Fearing for her daughter's safety, though, she fled in 1943.
        In March 1945, unconfirmed reports carried in American newspapers said the Japanese had executed Mr. Boxer. Ms. Hahn told reporters she refused to believe the rumor. In truth, another British officer was executed, and Mr. Boxer was sentenced to a long term of hard labor as a result of being implicated in a secret radio-listening operation.
        Upon his release at war's end, Mr. Boxer, by then divorced, told United Press that he intended to marry Ms. Hahn as soon as possible. ''I'm going to make an honest woman of Mickey,'' he said, using her nickname. ''It's high time, don't you think?''
        Each step of his journey home was reported in the newspapers , from a flight delay in San Francisco, to Carola's excitement at spotting her father, to the couple's marriage by a justice of the peace in New Haven after a judge granted a waiver of the standard five-day waiting period.
        The marriage endured until Ms. Hahn died in 1997. In addition to Carola Vecchio of Jackson Heights, Queens, Mr. Boxer is survived by another daughter, Amanda Boxer of London, two granddaughters and two great grandsons.
        Charles Ralph Boxer was born on the Isle of Wight into a long line of admirals and generals, as well as affluent stockmen, who raised sheep in Tasmania and Australia. After being rejected by the Navy because of poor eyesight, he joined the Army in 1923 and rose to the rank of major by the late 1930's.
        From 1930 to 1933 he served as a language officer in Japan and became fluent in Japanese, Dutch, French, German and Portuguese. In 1936, he joined the British intelligence service and was assigned to Hong Kong. A 1993 article in the Canadian Journal of History cited his perspicacity in estimating the strong military threat posed by Japan at a time when many British analysts downplayed its capabilities.
        He was severely wounded in December 1941 and after a long convalescence was sent to a prisoner of war camp for the war's duration.
        His rare book collection, which centered on the Dutch and Portuguese empires, was sufficiently celebrated in East Asia to be seized by the Japanese for the Imperial Library in Tokyo. He was able to recover most of it after the war. That library became the nucleus of a much larger collection that he sold to the Lilly Library of Indiana University in the 1960's.
        In 1947, just as Mr. Boxer was realizing that he had little chance of advancement in the military, he was offered the position of Camoens Professor of Portuguese Studies at King's College, London. While he had no academic degree, his expertise was well known. Except for two years he spent at the London School of Oriental and African Studies in the early 1950's, he held the chair for 20 years.
        From 1967 until 1979, he taught at Indiana University, the University of Virginia, the University of Michigan and the University of Missouri at St. Louis. He also taught at Yale for three years beginning in 1969, serving as professor of the history of the expansion of Europe overseas.
        His best known works included, ''The Christian Century in Japan,'' published in 1951; ''South China in the Sixteenth Century,'' 1953; ''The Dutch in Brazil,'' 1957, and ''Race Relations in the Portuguese Empire,'' 1963. The race relations book, as well as some of his lectures, challenged the conventional wisdom that there was little racial prejudice in the Portuguese colonies.
        After retiring, Mr. Boxer continued writing and lecturing on Dutch and Portuguese colonial and naval history. He also pursued his interest in ceramics, coins and shipwreck relics, while continuing to add to his collection of rare books and manuscripts, which include the collection now at Indiana University.
        Mr. Boxer favored natty attire and was given to a salty wit and firm opinions. Despite his imprisonment, he harbored no resentment toward the Japanese whom he continued to admire. According to The Times of London, his personal philosophy was one of stoicism. The Times said he tried to believe that ''nothing matters much; most things don't matter at all.''
        He had an extraordinary memory for bawdy limericks and barracks-room ballads and a taste for poetry ranging from Pope to Kipling. Both, the Times said, ''were best displayed when, in congenial company, the glasses were raised shoulder-high.''
      