
        Arthur William Dake, a chess grandmaster and one of the last of a talented crop of American players who won major competitions before World War II, died on April 28 in Reno. He was 90 and lived in Portland, Ore.
        Mr. Dake had a brilliant although abbreviated career as a chess player. He learned the game at 17, very late for someone who would later become a top player. By the time he was 28, his career was essentially over as family responsibilities compelled him to look for a more stable and better-paying job. In that short time, however, Mr. Dake had established himself as one of the country's best players, and he helped the American chess team win three world team championships.
        Mr. Dake was born on April 8, 1910,  in Portland. When he was 16, he went to work as a merchant seaman, sailing to Japan, China and the Philippines. He returned to Oregon in 1927 to go back to high school. He learned to play chess from a Russian immigrant living in a local Y.M.C.A. A year later, Mr. Dake again left home to work on a ship, this time returning to New York City in 1929.
        The city was a hive of chess activity, and Mr. Dake quickly immersed himself in it. He joined a leading checkers player, Kenneth Grover, in setting up a chess and checkers stand in Coney Island, where they took on all comers for 25 cents a game, but their customer base dried up with the market crash.
        In his book ''The Bobby Fischer I Knew and Other Stories,'' Arnold Denker, another grandmaster and a lifelong friend, recalled that Mr. Dake's diet soon ''narrowed down to water, coffee and green grapes.''But in 1931 Mr. Dake won the championship of the prestigious Marshall Chess Club. As a result, he was asked to play on the United States team in the 1931 world team championships in Prague. As the No. 3 player on the team, Mr. Dake scored five wins, two losses and seven draws, helping to lead the United States to victory.
        Mr. Dake would also play on United States teams that won world championships in Folkestone, England, in 1933 and in Warsaw in 1935. At the 1935 championships, Mr. Dake won 13 games, drew 5 and and lost none, the best result among all the players in the event.
        Mr. Dake also had some notable individual successes. He finished third in an international tournament in Pasadena in 1932, behind Alexander Alekhine, the world champion, and Isaac Kashdan, the best American player of the period. Mr. Dake defeated Alekhine during the tournament, becoming the first American to beat the champion and inflicting one of only four tournament losses that Alekhine suffered from 1927 through 1936.
        Mr. Dake played in the United States championships in 1936 and 1938, finishing tied for sixth both times, but then he quit chess to support his family, first by selling insurance and telephone directories and later by working in the department of motor vehicles in Portland.
        Occasionally, he emerged from retirement to play. In 1946 he participated in the second United States-U.S.S.R. match, drawing two games with Andrei A. Lilienthal. And in 1953 and 1955 he played in the United States Open, finishing tied for 13th and 11th, respectively. It was only after he retired in 1973 that Mr. Dake again began to compete regularly, although he was no longer as formidable as in his youth.
        In 1986 the International Chess Federation (the ruling body of chess, known as FIDE, for Federation Internationale des Echecs) awarded him the title of grandmaster for his performances in the 1930's and, in 1991, the United States Chess Federation inducted him into its hall of fame.
        Mr. Dake met his wife, Helen, on an oceanliner coming home from the United States team victory in Warsaw in 1935. He wrote years later, she ''simply turned around and smiled at me. That's all.'' Six weeks later they were married .
        Mr. Dake is survived by their daughter, Marjorie Metzger; a sister, Lillian; and a grandson.
        In his day, Mr. Dake was the best American player at rapid transit chess, in which games are typically played at the rate of five minutes for each player for each game. In a speed chess tournament among the best players in the country in September 1935, Mr. Dake won with a score of 12 wins, no losses and no draws.
      