
        Damaso Seda, the first Hispanic transit worker to lead the men and women who keep New York City's buses and subways up and running, died Tuesday at his home in Peekskill, N.Y. He was 62.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said. According to the Transport Workers Union of America, Mr. Seda, who had had a long struggle with diabetes, retired last year as a vice president of its international.
        In 1993, Mr. Seda became president of Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union, representing 32,000 of a transit work force totaling 41,000. The next year, he shook hands on a contract that provided pay increases, an improved pension system and a lower retirement age.
        The union was founded in 1934 by Mike Quill, who ruled it until his death in 1966. It had been a domain of Irish immigrants for generations, but by the time Mr. Seda was put in charge, its leadership had to contend with a militant dissident faction, New Directions.
        In 1996, Mr. Seda was persuaded to resign the top post after dissidents made an issue of a little noticed contract change that meant increased health insurance costs for many union workers. Members of the local's executive board held that he had violated the union constitution by not informing the rank and file of the change before the ratification vote.
        He was succeeded by the local's secretary-treasurer, William James, the first black president of the union, who continues to do battle with New Directions. Mr. Seda was appointed director of special projects of the international in 1996.
        Damaso Seda, who was born in Manhattan, served in the Navy from 1955 to 1959. He started his union career in 1965 as a bus maintenance helper. He was elected shop steward two years later and rose through the union ranks to become a member of the executive board, director of legislation, recording secretary and secretary-treasurer of Local 100, his last stop before the presidency.
        In 1983, he received a bachelor's degree from Empire State College of the State University of New York.
        He is survived by his wife, Luz Ginorio Seda; three sons, Derek, of Princeton, N.J., Keith, of Rahway, N.J., and Kenneth, of Cortlandt Manor, N.Y.; and two sisters, Emma Sanchez and Aida Palermo, both of Puerto Rico.
      