
        William Charles Segal, a magazine publisher whose search for self-understanding led him to paint his own portrait over and over for about 60 years as part of his immersion in philosophies and Eastern religions, died on Tuesday in New York. He was 95 and lived in New York and Paris.
        A wealthy and private man (he has no entry in Who's Who), Mr. Segal had a circle of intensely loyal and admiring friends who regarded him as a man of deep spirituality and exceptional character.
        The British theatrical director Peter Brook, a friend for many years, wrote of his painting: ''William Segal looks at the outside world and leads us into William Segal the man. His spaces and silences all take us to a secret meditative core.''
        In 1946 Mr. Segal started American Fabrics, a magazine that quickly became the bible of the garment trade at a time when the American textile industry was entering a new era with the growing use of synthetic fabrics like nylon, rayon and polyester. He ran the publication for 35 years. In addition he founded Gentry, a men's fashion magazine, which also sought to teach Americans how to lead a more elegant, European style of life; the International Color Authority, an international organization that publishes fashion color forecasts; the AF Encyclopedia of Textiles; and a number of other business publications.
        All his magazines were characterized by sophisticated layout and high-quality artwork to which he brought the eye of a trained artist and accomplished painter.
        Educated at New York University,  he also studied painting at the Art Students League in New York and then at La Grande Chaumiere in Paris.
        He entered publishing before World War II, working first for a German magazine catering to the new plastics industry. Then he founded a newsletter that dealt with men's clothing as well as many other specialized publications. By 30 he was a millionaire.
        In 1971 he lost his right eye in an automobile accident and for the rest of his life wore a black eye patch. After the death of his first wife, Cora Carlyle, he married Marielle Bancou, a French designer, who survives him, along with two daughters, Elizabeth Katz and Margaret Walch, both of New York, and five grandchildren.
        As he became wealthy, Mr. Segal's interests turned increasingly toward Eastern religion and a process of self-discovery in which his self-portraiture played an important role.
        The two thinkers who influenced him most strongly where the Greco-Armenian mystic and philosopher George Ivanovitch Gurdjieff and his disciple P. D. Ouspensky, who taught that human life as ordinarily lived is similar to sleep, but that mankind can achieve higher levels of vitality  through spiritual exercises. Mr. Segal was also a student of Daisetsu Suzuki, the foremost exponent of Japanese Zen Buddhism in the West.
        Mr. Segal met Gurdjieff and Ouspensky in the 1940's and at the time of his death was co-chairman of the Gurdjieff Foundation in New York. Mr. Segal also knew Suzuki and with his help was able to spend time in most of the great Buddhist monasteries of Japan and become friends with many of their abbots.
        Although Mr. Segal painted landscapes, his favorite subject was himself; the long string of self-portraits through his life capture his journey from youth to old age. He held several exhibitions around the world, including in Tokyo in 1992, Jerusalem in 1995, Paris in 1997 and at Tibet House in New York last year.
        He also tried to describe his religious philosophy in interviews, writings and poems, some of which were collected and published as a book, ''Opening,'' in 1998. What he had to say is obscure; it centers on the idea that humans should practice silence, stillness and contemplation to discover the secret spiritual forces within themselves.
        ''When one is still and listens, one begins to be in touch with a mysterious element that is within each of us, which can transform and shape us and can help to transform the world,'' he said in an interview.
      