
        Cardinal John O'Connor, the archbishop of the New York archdiocese's 2.37 million Catholics and the Vatican's most forceful spokesman in the United States, died last night at his residence around the corner from St. Patrick's Cathedral. He was 80 years old.
        Cardinal O'Connor died of cardiopulmonary arrest at 8:05 p.m., said his spokesman, Joseph Zwilling. But Mr. Zwilling said the death was ''the result of the tumor and the cancer that he was suffering from.''
        Cardinal O'Connor came to New York in 1984 in a glare of publicity and a flurry of controversy, a relatively unknown Roman Catholic bishop from Pennsylvania who was suddenly catapulted into the church's most visible post in the United States.
        But after 16 years as archbishop of the sprawling 10-county Archdiocese of New York, he had become a familiar and towering presence, a leader whose views and personality were forcefully injected into the great civic debates of his time, a man who considered himself a conciliator, but who never hesitated to be a combatant.
        The cardinal's failing health in recent months diminished his public appearances and his position as a spokesman for the Roman Catholic Church, but it did not diminish his stature as one of its most powerful symbols on moral and political issues. When Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, seeking the Republican nomination for president, expressed regret on Feb. 27 for not speaking out against racial and anti-Catholic intolerance during a campaign visit to Bob Jones University in South Carolina, he did so in the form of a letter to Cardinal O'Connor.
        The cardinal was passionately outspoken in his opposition to abortion, the issue that shaped his tenure from the very start. He was unconditional in upholding official Catholic teachings on topics like homosexuality and  the ordination of women. And he was unwavering in his loyalty to Pope John Paul II, who had named him archbishop of New York as part of an effort to restore greater doctrinal and organizational discipline in a  church still feeling the reverberations of reforms undertaken by the Second Vatican Council 20 years earlier. It was frequently repeated, but never confirmed, that the pope had said, ''I want a man like me in New York.''
        All this gave the cardinal the profile of a zealous conservative in a city where cultural questions of sex and sexuality had eclipsed old-fashioned economic divisions and in a church in which, despite Vatican efforts to quell dissent, papal popularity no longer automatically translated into papal authority.
        But Cardinal O'Connor was also a passionate defender of organized labor, an advocate for the poor and the homeless, a vocal assailant of racism and anti-Semitism, and an opponent of capital punishment. And although he had spent 27 years as a Navy chaplain and retired with the rank of rear admiral, in the 1980's he condemned American support of counterrevolutionary guerrilla forces in Central America, questioned the need for spending on new weapons systems, and, to the end, remained a cautionary voice about American military actions overseas.
        These were positions that were rooted in Catholic doctrine and that reflected the stance of Pope John Paul. But they sometimes disconcerted the cardinal's conservative allies, while his liberal critics often ignored them altogether or welcomed them without really believing that they gave a true measure of the man.
        Projecting the Church Into Public Debates
        His image as a leader was undoubtedly affected by memories of the two cardinals who had preceded him. Cardinal Terence Cooke, who led the New York Archdiocese from 1968 to 1983, kept a low profile and preferred to work through the parishes and the archdiocesan agencies.
        By contrast, Cardinal O'Connor's willingness to joust with public officials and project the church into public debates recalled the years from 1939 to 1967, when the archdiocesan headquarters of Cardinal Francis Spellman was known as the Powerhouse for the leverage the church wielded in city affairs.
        But the comparison was deceptive, because New York City and the church had changed. The migration to the suburbs had thinned the church's solid constituency, especially among the Irish, and neither the new Hispanic immigrants nor the grandchildren of the older Irish and Italian ones were as likely to defer to the hierarchy's judgments.
        Much of what Cardinal O'Connor tried to do by public pronouncements, Cardinal Spellman would have accomplished behind the scenes. And if Cardinal O'Connor could sometimes still affect city policies with a few phone calls to some politicians, in Cardinal Spellman's day, or so it was widely believed, the calls would have been initiated  by the politicians themselves, who were careful to check their plans with the Powerhouse.
        Cardinal O'Connor himself rejected the comparison. ''I abhor the concept of Powerhouse,'' he told more than one reporter. ''My job is not to acquire or wield political power.'' But the comparison was inevitable, given the publicity and turmoil that filled his first years in New York.
        Even before arriving, he had upset many Jews in New York by declaring that widespread abortion in the United States was ''precisely the same'' as the Nazis' murder of six million Jews.
        At a televised news conference a few months later, he said, ''I do not see how a Catholic in good conscience'' could vote for a political candidate favoring abortion, and, then, when asked whether he might excommunicate Gov. Mario M. Cuomo for his support of abortion rights, the new archbishop refused to rule it out, setting off an intermittent feud with the governor that the press helped to reignite at every opportunity.
        In his first year as archbishop, Geraldine A. Ferraro, a Catholic who supported abortion rights, was nominated by the Democrats to run for vice president on a ticket headed by Walter F. Mondale. When she was a member of the House of Representatives from Queens, Ms. Ferraro, along with several other Catholic public officials, had signed a letter saying that there was ''a diversity of Catholic opinion'' about abortion.
        After the letter was released during the presidential campaign, Archbishop O'Connor assailed the candidate, saying, ''Geraldine Ferraro has misrepresented Catholic teaching on abortion.'' He went on to say that there was no diversity of Catholic opinion, only the opinion of the church that abortion was wrong under all circumstances.
        At Odds With City Over Gay Rights
        This set off countercharges that Archbishop O'Connor was signaling church support for the 1984 re-election of President  Reagan, whom he had praised earlier as ''a friend of the unborn.''
        Locally, the archbishop tangled with the city government over access to contraceptive information and abortion in the church's child care agencies. He also challenged Mayor Edward I. Koch's executive order barring discrimination against gays  by any employer, including the church, that had contracts with the city. When a court struck down the mayor's executive order, the archbishop was equally opposed to a similar bill in the City Council on gay rights, which passed, even though it contained an exemption for religious institutions.
        Conservative Catholics were delighted to have such a fresh champion in town, but many others, inside and outside the church, were similarly fascinated. For the cardinal's proclivity for confrontation seemed part of a larger spontaneity and directness that seemed right at home in New York City.
        At his installation in St. Patrick's Cathedral on March 18, 1984, the new archbishop  put on a New York Mets cap, placed his own bishop's miter on the head of a 10-year-old altar boy from the Bronx who was also named John J. O'Connor, and then mimicked Mayor Koch's regular query, ''How'm I doing?''
        He may have been the only major religious leader to hold a regular press conference every Sunday, after he had celebrated 10:15 Mass at the cathedral. And in his early years, he was usually ready with a curbside quip.
        Reporters monitored his Sunday sermons and his weekly columns in the archdiocesan newspaper, and pumped him at his press conferences, hoping for a tabloid headline for Monday. The prelate's words were sometimes blatantly misrepresented or ripped out of context, as in a headline in The New York Post on June 17, 1991, supposedly quoting him saying, ''God Is a Man.'' But for a long time this was a price he appeared willing to pay to keep his lines open to the news media.
        Eventually, he expressed misgivings about the manner of his debut in New York and his high visibility. ''Time after time I have to ask myself if the church would be better off -- certainly, I would be better off -- if when I came here I had just become a silent servant of the people,'' he said in 1993 in an interview with The New York Times.  He wondered whether he might have thrust himself too much into politics, or whether Cardinal Cooke's quieter style had not been better.
        But then again, he mused, ''If you're false to your own temperament, you're not going to be an effective leader.''
        At times the Cardinal did try to be more conciliatory. He eventually dropped the Holocaust analogy in his preaching against abortion, and some Jewish leaders came to see him as an opponent of anti-Semitism.  The relationship survived tensions in 1987 over his endorsement of Palestinian hopes for a homeland and a subsequent trip to Israel marked by a series of diplomatic contretemps.
        Despite emotional evocations of the Holocaust, first before an Arab audience and then at Yad Vashem, he provoked a protest from the Conference of Presidents of Major Jewish Organizations when he acquiesced in a Vatican request to downgrade his meetings with Israeli officials and repeated his pleas for Palestinian refugees. The public rebuke deeply stung the cardinal, but the conflict was patched over and they later honored him as a facilitator of the Vatican's  recognition of Israel in 1993.
        Before Rosh Hashana last year, the cardinal issued a characteristic expression of sorrow for wrongs that he and fellow Catholics had done to the Jewish people, a statement widely publicized and welcomed by Jewish leaders.
        Breaking Bread With 'Hizzoner'
        Cardinal O'Connor also became close friends with Mayor Koch, and the two of them collaborated on a book, ''His Eminence and Hizzoner'' (William Morrow & Company, 1989), regularly dined together and gave each other moral support during their illnesses.
        Beyond that, the cardinal seemed to mellow in recent years. The cessation of his  weekly press conferences in 1990 may have  symbolized his evolution. Attention more easily shifted to his pastoral activities and day-to-day supervision of the country's  fourth-largest archdiocese, with its 413 parishes, 55 high schools, 238 elementary schools, 882 priests, 3,707 sisters and 17  hospitals that, along with social service and child-care agencies, serve almost three million people annually.
        The archdiocese embraces Manhattan, the Bronx and Staten Island as well as  Westchester, Rockland, Putnam, Orange, Sullivan, Ulster and Dutchess Counties.  Brooklyn and Queens constitute a separate diocese. The cardinal's office does not publish a consolidated budget, but the archdiocese's annual expenditures are known to be more than $370 million. Its real estate holdings are vast and would bring far more than $1 billion if sold.
        But these holdings are often in the form of  aging churches and schools that generate more costs than income. Cardinal O'Connor strove mightily, and largely successfully, not to close or merge parishes or schools, as had been done in other large archdioceses in the United States like Chicago, Detroit and Philadelphia.
        His leadership in national church affairs had also been much more muted in recent years. He and Cardinal Bernard Law of Boston were both named archbishops by the pope in the same year, and were elevated a year later to the rank of cardinal. They were sometimes called Law and Order for their roles as channels of Vatican policy that tightened the reins on the American church.
        In 1987, for example, Cardinal O'Connor publicly repudiated a policy paper from the 50-bishop administrative board of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops that called for the support of AIDS education programs even when they included information about condoms. The Vatican subsequently demanded that the bishops modify their stance.
        The cardinal's statements made him the target of gay groups and advocacy groups for AIDS victims, including Act Up, which advertised a demonstration at St. Patrick's Cathedral in December 1989 with pictures of a bull's-eye superimposed on the cardinal's face. During the demonstration, Act Up  members shouted, lay in the aisles and chained themselves to pews during a Sunday Mass.
        Cardinal O'Connor never ceased to serve on Vatican commissions, sometimes traveling almost monthly to Rome. Nor did he cease to encourage the sometimes fractious elements of the anti-abortion movement.  But after 1990, when the bishops appointed Helen Alvare, a lawyer, as the leading representative of their Pro-Life Activities Committee, his role became less public, and other cardinals, especially Cardinal Law, appeared to take the lead in pressing Vatican priorities.
        It was in the summer of last year that the cardinal became ill. In August, a tumor was removed from the surface of his brain by doctors at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. After his surgery and extensive radiation treatments, the cardinal returned to his duties, but his recuperation was marred by setbacks.
        He was hospitalized for fatigue in October, and recurring weakness caused him to miss his customary celebration of Sunday morning Mass at St. Patrick's Cathedral with increasing frequency. For the first time since becoming archbishop, he was unable to celebrate Mass on Easter Sunday  at St. Patrick's this year.
        But his illness did not prevent him from paying a farewell visit in February to a frail Pope John Paul II in Rome.
        In a letter to New York's bishops, the cardinal said he expected the pope to name his successor as archbishop of New York in March. Various candidates are under consideration.
        Working-Class Roots In Philadelphia
        John Joseph O'Connor was born in Philadelphia on Jan. 20, 1920, the fourth of five children of Thomas and Dorothy O'Connor.  His father was a skilled interior painter, a specialist in applying gold leaf to the ornamental ceilings of auditoriums and churches. His mother suffered blindness for a year and attributed her recovery of sight in one eye to the intervention of St. Rita of Cascia.
        In many interviews and columns he wrote for Catholic New York, the archdiocesan weekly newspaper, Cardinal O'Connor often recalled his early upbringing: the warmth and seriousness of family prayers and religious observances; the forceful views of his father, ''a union man,'' on the rights of labor; the need for frugality during the hard Depression years.
        His working-class roots, he said, left him always a bit uncomfortable in the formal surroundings of the archbishop's residence  at East 50th Street and Madison Avenue, behind St. Patrick's Cathedral.
        He attended both public and Catholic grade schools in Philadelphia before entering West Catholic High School for Boys, which was run by the order of Christian Brothers, who encouraged him to pursue a calling to the priesthood.
        In recent years, his descriptions of the rigors of his life at St. Charles Borromeo Seminary in Philadelphia sometimes made it sound like Marine boot camp designed by Charles Dickens. He stressed that it was always the goal of ordination to the priesthood, which he achieved on Dec. 15, 1945, a  month before his 26th birthday, that made him persevere.
        For seven years, he was an assistant pastor in a Philadelphia parish. He taught in Catholic high schools as well as a night school for adults, conducted two weekly radio programs on local stations, worked in hospital psychiatric wards and developed special programs to instruct retarded children. His work with retarded children remained a lifelong passion. As a young priest,  he thought it might be his chief occupation until, urged by Cardinal John O'Hara of Philadelphia, he answered the plea of Cardinal Spellman for chaplains to serve in the armed forces during the Korean War.
        A two-year stint turned into a 27-year career, during which he traveled the world celebrating Mass in foxholes and on aircraft carriers. He served under fire with the Marines in Vietnam, became senior chaplain at the Naval Academy at Annapolis, and, in 1975, was appointed chief of Navy chaplains with the rank of rear admiral. During his military career, he also found time to earn a master's degree in clinical psychology at the Catholic University of America and a doctorate in political science at Georgetown University.
        Expecting to retire to parish life in 1979, he instead was made an auxiliary bishop assigned to the military vicariate, the church unit serving the armed forces. The vicariate was administered by the archbishop of New York until 1985, when it became independent. Bishop O'Connor was still supervising chaplains, although now from a post in the Catholic hierarchy rather than from one in the Navy.
        Foxhole Chaplain In Vietnam
        Military matters were fated to play a  central role in Cardinal O'Connor's life. In 1968 he published ''A Chaplain Looks at Vietnam'' (World Publishing Company), a book that argued that the American intervention there was morally and legally justified.
        ''I am convinced,'' he wrote, ''that the administration has opted to accept the tragedy of war as the only available road to meaningful peace.''
        His ministry in Vietnam, he continued, involved him in ''the unglamorous, dirty business of survival, in digging a hole in a sun-baked hill in the boiling dust of 120-degree heat, in slogging through knee-high mud, in fighting insects, tripping over jungle growth, sleeping night after night with one eye open, alert to the whisper of every breeze, the snapping of every twig.
        ''No priest can watch the blood pouring from the wounds of the dying, be they American or Vietnamese of the north or south, without anguish and a sense of desperate frustration and futility,'' he continued. ''The clergy back home, the academicians in their universities, the protesters on their marches are not the only ones who cry out, 'Why?' ''
        ''That's a bad book, you know,'' he later told Nat Hentoff, who was interviewing him for a profile in The New Yorker that was later expanded into the 1988 biography ''John Cardinal O'Connor'' (Scribners).
        ''It was a very limited view of what was going on. I regret having published it.''
        But as a man who knew the military and combat firsthand, who had published a moral analysis of a war and who had a Ph.D. in political science, he was primed for an assignment that many say changed the course of his career. He was chosen by Archbishop Joseph Bernardin of Cincinnati, later the archbishop and cardinal of Chicago, to serve on a five-member committee of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops that was charged with writing a pastoral letter on peace and nuclear weapons.
        Archbishop Bernardin, a master at forging consensus, knew the importance of including a full range of views on the committee. From the start, and through all three publicly debated drafts of the letter, Bishop O'Connor was regarded as the conservative, promilitary voice, the counterweight to another auxiliary bishop on the committee, the pacifist Bishop Thomas Gumbleton of Detroit.
        ''I was billed as the Genghis Khan of the committee,'' Cardinal O'Connor later told Mr. Hentoff. Certainly, he was a conduit to the Reagan administration and the Pentagon, consulting with them privately, although with the committee's knowledge, and bringing their views back to the committee. He fought vigorously for wording in the pastoral letter that would keep the bishops from condemning nuclear deterrence altogether, or being identified with advocates of a nuclear freeze, who were opposed to the placement of new medium-range missiles in Europe.
        In one instance, when other committee members urged a ''halt'' to new nuclear weapons, he argued for the word ''curb.''
        On several points, including ''curb,'' he lost, but in the end, the former Navy chaplain voted with his colleagues for approval of a document that rejected almost all possible uses of nuclear weapons and that condoned possession of them as a deterrent only if linked to serious steps toward disarmament.
        The Vatican was intensely interested in the American letter, indeed wary of it, and so were the Catholic hierarchies of France and West Germany. On one trip to Rome,  Auxiliary Bishop O'Connor had discussed the project with Pope John Paul II and Cardinal Agostino Casaroli, the Vatican secretary of state. The impression he made probably explains why, almost simultaneously with the completion of the letter, he was named bishop of Scranton by the pope.
        Church watchers wondered whether his appointment to a relatively minor diocese was a form of ecclesiastical exile or the first step to bigger things. The question was answered with surprising rapidity. On Jan. 31, 1984, after only eight months in Scranton and four months after Cardinal Cooke's death, he was named the eighth archbishop of New York. His name had not even been mentioned in the speculation about who would fill the post.
        As is the practice, recommendations from other American bishops had been submitted to the pope by the papal representative in the United States, at that time Archbishop Pio Laghi. Cardinal O'Connor, who had energetically thrown himself into the Scranton job, was taken aback by his selection.
        ''When I went to Scranton, I hoped I would die there,'' he said soon afterward, pausing for effect and then adding, ''I came to New York knowing I would die here.''
        A Priest, Yes, But Not a Simple One
        Because his predecessor, Cardinal Cooke, had typically described himself as a simple parish priest, a New York reporter asked the newly arrived archbishop, ''Are you a simple parish priest?''
        ''I'm a priest,'' came the reply. ''How simple I don't know.''
        He was not simple at all, although the complexity of his personality was often reduced by the news media to two Cardinal O'Connors. There was the smiling, quipping Cardinal O'Connor, a dignitary with the touch of the common man, waving and shaking hands and reviewing parades from the steps of the cathedral. And there was the stern Cardinal O'Connor, asserting old or unpopular doctrines from the pulpit and warning those who disagreed that they were in for a fight.
        Facets of his personality that did not fit into these stereotypes were often overlooked or played down. He was usually soft-spoken, not at all a pulpit thunderer. He had many of the reflective traits of an intellectual who could, in his slow, ruminating answers to questions, do equal justice to the contending sides of a dispute.
        ''He is surely one of the two or three smartest graduate students I ever had,'' said Jeane J. Kirkpatrick, the former ambassador to the United Nations, who taught him when he was a Navy chaplain studying for a Ph.D. at Georgetown.
        Yet for the cardinal, mulling over the many sides of a question was not incompatible with making spontaneous comments and on-the-spot decisions, so that it sometimes appeared as though a fine balance could be tipped by the latest opinion, a chance encounter or a sudden inspiration.
        Priests of the archdiocese were divided about how much thought went into some of his statements and appointments. Many joked that their leader's motto was, ''Ready, Fire, Aim!'' But they were also deeply appreciative of his willingness to give them time and attention to supply his counsel or discuss their futures.
        For Cardinal O'Connor, doubt and misgivings stopped short when it came to defending basic Catholic teachings, the decisions of the pope or what he considered the survival and integrity of church agencies. The combativeness with which he delivered these  expressions of duty made him one of the  most fiercely denounced public figures in New York, if not the country.
        Gloria Steinem once paired him with AIDS as the two worst things about New York. Frances Kissling, president of Catholics for a Free Choice, an organization that supports legalized abortion, called him ''the kind of man who, if the church still had the power to burn people at the stake, would be right there lighting a fire.''
        Cardinal O'Connor did not respond to his critics, and his own readiness to confess personal shortcomings and errors offered a disarming contrast, although his critics saw that, too, as calculating. The cardinal's teasing, bantering style of humor could occasionally have a sharp, even mordant, edge, even if the barbs were directed toward himself.
        Both his confessions of failure and his self-deprecating humor were part of his way of framing issues in personal terms, a trait that also marked his writing and preaching. Once, when he spoke to New York priests about the archdiocese's financial problems, he dwelt on his own sleepless nights worrying about how the church could meet its responsibilities and pay its bills. Some priests left the meeting reassured to learn that he was worrying over the problems. But others reported frustration at not being given specific facts and figures.
        ''I regularly go down to the crypt under St. Patrick's Cathedral, and I look at the tombs of my predecessors,'' the cardinal  wrote in one of his typically personal meditations in his weekly column. ''Right in the center is the next marble block with no inscription. That's reserved for me. And all that's important when I move into that crypt is that I have served New York as a good priest.''
        DEATH OF A CARDINAL  Correction:  May 5, 2000, Friday  The obituary of Cardinal John O'Connor yesterday referred imprecisely to a comment about him from Frances Kissling, president of Catholics for a Free Choice, which supports legalized abortion. It was in a Vanity Fair article in 1990 that she said the cardinal was "the kind of man who, if the church still had the power to burn people at the stake, would be right there lighting a fire." She did not say it during his illness or after his death.
      