
        William J. Boyle, a Long Island banker who played a major role in devising the first bank-issued credit card -- a forerunner of Visa and Mastercard -- died on April 30. He was 88 and lived in Garden City, N.Y.
        Mr. Boyle developed the Franklin Charge Account Plan, which charged interest and let customers make partial payments each month, in 1951 at the Franklin National Bank in Rockville Centre, N.Y.
        It was a novel plan for a bank. At the time, charge plans were limited largely to big New York department stores with suburban branches. Moreover, as Mr. Boyle once noted, ''banks did not lend money to the average fellow.'' Banks typically required borrowers to file an application with two co-signatures for loans of less than $500.
        In 1950, Diners Club introduced the first charge card -- meaning that balances had to be paid in full. But Franklin's plan, which used the marketing slogan ''Just charge it,'' was the first credit card.
        ''The bank credit card is probably the most important and enduring legacy of Franklin National Bank, which was one of the key institutions in creating the culture of postwar  consumerism,'' said Stephan Salisbury, a cultural affairs reporter at The Philadelphia Inquirer who has studied the role of Franklin National Bank in bankrolling the rise of the Long Island suburbs.
        The Franklin Charge Card began in 1951 as a method of handling fuel oil dealers' credit and collections.
        By October the following year,  however, the program had expanded to 750 merchants serving 28,000 customers, with annual charges growing to $2.5 million annually. The First National Bank of Kalamazoo in Michigan was the second bank to offer the service, licensing the  charge account plan from Franklin in 1952 and signing up 30 merchants and 18,000 customers in its first three weeks of operation. Banks in Rochester and Plainfield, N.J., soon followed suit.
        Under the Franklin credit card plan, the bank took over the duties that were once the preserve of a department store's back office. It approved the creditworthiness of borrowers while handling the accounting, bookkeeping, billing and other paperwork.
        In return, participating merchants paid the bank a small fee for the service and agreed to abide by a fair practices code that required the  merchant to take back all returns and offer a full refund of the purchase price.
        The card was immediately popular with hardware dealers, clothiers and specialty stores in Nassau County, who began directing their customers to apply for the credit cards at the bank. The American Banker, the industry trade newspaper, said in October 1952 that the Franklin Charge Account Plan was allying the merchant and banker in the same way that car dealers and finance companies became allies in the 1920's and 1930's.
        Born in Brooklyn in 1911, Mr. Boyle left St. John's University to support his family by selling, among other things, hair tonic door to door. In 1941, he enlisted in the Army, where he served as an intelligence officer and rose to the rank of captain.
        By 1953, Mr. Boyle was in demand by the country's bankers who wanted to copy the Franklin Charge Card. He left Franklin National and began his own credit card consulting firm, but ran into legal battles with his former employer and gave up the effort. (Franklin was later acquired by European American Bank, which is now owned by ABN Amro of the Netherlands.)
        In 1956 Mr. Boyle founded Eastern National Bank in Smithtown, N.Y., the first national bank in Suffolk County, and served as chairman and president for 17 years.
        At Eastern National, Mr. Boyle inaugurated the ''golden passbook,'' a program in which the bank issued higher-yielding certificates of deposit, paying 6 percent interest in the 1950's, when banks typically paid 1 to 3 percent.
        After the bank's sale to Chemical Bank in 1972, Mr. Boyle worked as a stockbroker for a short time before retiring.
        Mr. Boyle is survived by his wife, Sheila; five sons, William Jr., Arthur  and John, all of Garden City; Joseph of North Massapequa, N.Y., and Timothy of Coram, N.Y.; three daughters, Virginia Satkowski, of Katonah, N.Y.; Therese Coughlin, of Basking Ridge, N.J.; and Patricia Antonelle, of White Plains; and 13 grandchildren.
      