
        Lee G. Brewster, whose Greenwich Village boutique became a bazaar for transvestites from Avenue A to Abu Dhabi, died Friday in Manhattan. He was 57 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, said Antoinette Scapinato, a friend and employee.
        His 5,000-square-foot superstore in a loft at 400 West 14th Street, Lee's Mardi Gras Boutique, sells size 30 dresses and size 15 studded platform shoes to men who sometimes wish they were something else.
        ''Lee's will turn you into the girl you've always wanted to be,'' New York magazine said last year.
        Mr. Brewster sold racks of corsets, satin gloves and fishnet tights, but he was as interested in making a point as in making a profit. For years, he staged elaborate balls for cross-dressers, some homosexual and some heterosexual. He financed a successful legal challenge to overturn a New York City ordinance that allowed people to be removed from  public places for being gay.
        Even in the years when many gays  condemned public cross-dressing as unnecessarily provocative to the enemies of homosexuals, he urged men who felt like wearing boas to wear big feathery ones.
        ''I need to get their attention so they listen to me,'' he said, referring  to the public. ''I need to let them know that I'm there.''
        He made his own statement in white stiletto heels, form-fitting gowns, a silver-sequined maxi coat and lush false eyelashes, top and bottom. But he preferred to be called Mr. in the manner of old-time drag performers rather than using the female stage names now used by many transvestites.
        Mr. Brewster, a quiet, round-faced man, was something of a freedom fighter for men who dress as women. ''We're people enjoying life the only way we know how,'' he said.
        Lee Greer Brewster was born in a log cabin in Honacker, Va., on April 27, 1943. He spent much of his youth in the hills of West Virginia, where his father was a coal miner. In the early 1960's, he worked as a file clerk for the Federal Bureau of Investigation until he was fired for being a homosexual, said Ms. Scapinato, who has worked in his boutique for 29 years.
        So with $100 in his pocket he took off for Manhattan, where he became active in the Mattachine Society, a gay rights organization. He organized the society's drag balls and fund-raising events. Because some members disliked public cross-dressing, he began staging his own balls at the old Diplomat Hotel on West 43rd Street. The balls, held from 1969 to 1973, became so fashionable that the real Jacqueline Susann, Carol Channing and Shirley MacLaine attended the last one.
        On Oct. 31, 1969, Mr. Brewster announced at one of the balls that he would start his clothing business, which he described as the first one devoted to cross-dressers. Mr. Brewster's shop prospered before movies like ''Mrs. Doubtfire'' and ''La Cage aux Folles'' seemed to make drag almost mainstream, and opening it was a bold step in 1969.
        At first he took only mail orders, but soon so many people were knocking on the door of his Hell's Kitchen apartment that he opened a store around the corner. It moved several times, but was never on the ground floor.
        ''He wanted people to have to find him,'' Ms. Scarpinato said. ''He tried to protect his customer base.''
        Some customers, including Lady Bunny, the founder of Wigstock, the cross-dressing festival held every Labor Day in Greenwich Village --  as well as the costume designers for ''Tootsie,'' ''The Birdcage'' and ''To Wong Foo, Thanks for Everything, Julie Newmar'' -- do not mind being seen in the store. But others are touchier.
        ''Half of my clients are respectable-looking businessmen,'' Mr. Brewster said in an interview in The Village Voice, ''very normal, but they know better than to present that side of themselves.''
        Mr. Brewster also founded a civil rights organization called Queens Liberation Army and in the 1970's and 80's, published Drag Magazine. In the early 1970's, he helped persuade the New York City Department of Consumer Affairs to delete homosexuals from a list of people who could be removed from any public place. Though it was seldom enforced, he felt the regulation gave the police the legal authority to harass gays if they chose.
        Mr. Brewster is survived by his sister, June, and two brothers, James and Ted, all of whom live in the Baltimore area, and another brother, Sam, who lives in Dayton, Ohio.
        ''For want of a better phrase,'' Ms. Scapinato said, ''he was really the mother to us all.''
      