
        Robert Fryer, the producer or co-producer of many Broadway hits including ''Wonderful Town,'' ''Auntie Mame'' and its musical adaptation ''Mame,'' ''Sweet Charity,'' ''Chicago'' and ''Noises Off,'' died on Sunday in Los Angeles. He was 79 and lived in Los Angeles.
        The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease.
        A distinguished man of the theater, Mr. Fryer not only presented shows, he also often invented them, or at least brought together a subject and artists who could transform an idea into a success. His shows won dozens of Tony awards in various categories, and he himself won three as producer: for ''Wonderful Town,'' ''Redhead'' (with Lawrence Carr)  and ''Sweeney Todd.''
        With ''Wonderful Town,'' in 1953, Mr. Fryer bought the rights to the play ''My Sister Eileen'' by Joseph Fields and Jerome Chodorov and to the original Ruth McKenney stories on which the play was based. Then he told George Abbott that Rosalind Russell had agreed to star in the musical, and he told Ms. Russell that Mr. Abbott would be the director. Neither had yet been signed, but both agreed to do the musical, as did Leonard Bernstein as composer, and Betty Comden and Adolph Green as lyricists.
        ''Wonderful Town,'' which ran for 559 performances on Broadway, won a Tony award as best musical and a Tony for Ms. Russell as best actress in a musical. In 1959 Mr. Fryer produced a television version, again starring Ms. Russell.
        Mr. Fryer's role was similar with his first production, ''A Tree Grows in Brooklyn'' in 1951. He and Mr. Abbott acquired the rights to the Betty Smith novel, Arthur Schwartz and Dorothy Fields wrote the score, and Shirley Booth became the star.
        Although Mr. Fryer was best known for musicals, he also produced plays: ''Advise and Consent,'' two by Neil Simon (''California Suite'' and ''Biloxi Blues'') and three by Michael Frayn (''Noises Off,'' ''Wild Honey'' and ''Benefactors'').
        For many years, his career focused on Broadway, but he was also a film producer, including ''The Boston Strangler,'' ''The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie'' (with Maggie Smith), ''Mame'' (with Lucille Ball) and ''The Shining.'' From 1971 to 1988 he was the director of the Ahmanson Theater at the Los Angeles Music Center.
        Mr. Fryer was born in Washington, graduated from Western Reserve University in Cleveland and served with the Army during World War II. He is survived by a sister, Eleanor Massell, of Atlanta.
      