
        Harlin Quist, a publisher of sophisticated childrenHarlin Quist's books, died last Saturday at the home of a niece in Minneapolis. He was 69.
        He was suffering from myasthenia  gravis and complications from a recent hip replacement, said Clare Zupetz, a niece.
        Mr. Quist maintained an office in  Paris where Quist Books, his last publishing venture, is based.
        Mr. Quist, whose name was originally Harlin Bloomquist, was born and brought up in Virginia, Minn., attended community college there and Carnegie Tech in Pittsburgh before coming to New York in 1958. In 1959 he produced and appeared off Broadway in the highly praised first English language production of Chekhov's ''Ivanov.''
        He abandoned the theater for publishing, beginning as an editor at Crowell-Collier and then moving to Dell, where he worked on the first picture paperback books. In 1967 he started Harlin Quist Books and a year later established a French partnership that enabled him to publish and distribute his books in Europe as well as in the United States. A showcase for the work of young artists, his books attracted immediate attention everywhere but won more praise  than sales in the United States.
        ''The Geranium on the Windowsill Just Died but Teacher You Went Right On,'' written and illustrated by Albert Cullum, sold over a half-million copies worldwide and a new French edition appeared in 1999. ''Story Number 1,'' by Eugene Ionesco, illustrated by Etienne Delessert, was a 1968 New York Times Best Illustrated Book. Other artists whose distinctive work he introduced include Guy Billout, Nicole Claveloux and Patrick Couratin.
        In the 1980's he went into semi-retirement and returned to northern Minnesota to care for his ailing mother. He established a nonprofit corporation, Theater in the State, to rehabilitate the Norshor, an Art  Deco movie theater in Duluth, Minn., and reopened it with himself as an impresario of high culture. He presented dance companies including the Hubbard Street troupe from Chicago, staged contemporary plays and presented conversations with authors like Edward Albee. In 1994 he became ill with myasthenia gravis, which forced him to withdraw, and the building reverted to its previous owners.
        He is survived by two brothers, Kermit Bloomquist and Quentin Bloomquist of Virginia; a sister, Betty Hakala of Springfield, Ohio; and  many nieces and nephews.
        In 1997 the Salon du Livre de Jeunesse in Paris held a retrospective of original art and first editions of Mr. Quist's books in French and English that attracted 150,000 visitors. Mr. Quist established a new company in Paris with a French partner, Patrick Couratin, a designer and illustrator, and they reissued limited editions of some of his best-known books in France and Germany. Plans are under way for new American editions.
        The Alliance Francaise in New York exhibited 120 original illustrations from Quist books last winter, and a similar show is scheduled for  the Minnesota Center for Book Arts in September.
      