
        Jean-Pierre Rampal, the French-born flutist who was the first virtuoso on his instrument to enjoy enormous success and celebrity as a touring soloist and who almost single-handedly took the flute to new levels of popularity in the decades after World War II, died yesterday at his home in Paris. He was 78 and had been ill with a heart condition for some time.
        Other important flutists had managed to lift themselves from the ranks of orchestral and chamber players and achieve success as soloists, starting with the flutist and composer Johann Joachim Quantz in the 18th century. Two master French flutists earlier in the 20th century, Georges Barrere and Marcel Moyse, were also known for solo work, especially Moyse, who ''opened the door for us,'' Mr. Rampal used to say.
        But Mr. Rampal was the first flutist to attain the kind of visibility and presence that previously had gone only to virtuoso pianists and violinists. Mr. Rampal regularly filled the world's largest concert halls, even at times the Hollywood Bowl, for his recitals and chamber music performances, and in his prime he gave more than 100 concerts a year.
        One of the most-recorded and best-selling classical instrumentalists in history, he was a proud trailblazer in the crossover genre. His CBS Masterworks recording of Claude Bolling's Suite for Flute and Jazz Piano, released in 1975, made the Billboard chart of top-selling albums for 10 consecutive years, only the second time the 10-year milestone had been reached, the first being Pink Floyd's ''Dark Side of the Moon.''
        Mr. Rampal's popularity was grounded in qualities that won him consistent praise from critics and musicians in the first decades of his career: solid musicianship, technical command, uncanny breath control, and a distinctive tone that eschewed Romantic richness and warm vibrato in favor of clarity, radiance, focus and a wide palette of colorings. Younger flutists assiduously studied and tried to copy his approaches to tonguing, fingering, embouchure (the position of the lips on the mouthpiece) and breathing.
        Reviewing Mr. Rampal's performance in Mozart's Concerto for Flute and Harp with the New York Philharmonic in 1976, the New York Times critic Harold C. Schonberg wrote, ''Mr. Rampal, with his effortless long line, his sweet and pure tone and his sensitive musicianship, is of course one of the great flutists in history.''
        Later in his career, Mr. Rampal was often faulted by critics for resting on his laurels and cutting musical corners, giving performances that sometimes seemed listless, uninvolved and sloppy. But when he emerged in the late 1940's and for years thereafter he was an indisputably major artist.
        His entrance into concert life coincided with a revival of interest in Baroque music, which Mr. Rampal championed. Still, much of his popularity came from his presence and energy as a performer. At 6 feet 1 inch, with a bearlike build and erect stance, he looked imposing when he walked on stage. But once he started to play, he seemed the essence of French elegance, taste and poise.
        As recently as 1998, at a concert in Boston's Symphony Hall, though Mr. Rampal was recuperating from knee surgery, fighting a cold and clearly uncomfortable, his performance moved the Boston Globe critic Richard Dyer to note that ''the level of Mr. Rampal's skill and the charm of his personality'' had not changed.
        Though his background would seem to have preordained him for a musical career, Mr. Rampal was late in his commitment to it. He was born on Jan. 7, 1922, in Marseilles, France, where his father, Joseph, was a professor of flute at the music conservatory and his mother, Andree, badly wanted her son to become a doctor. He began flute lessons with his father at 12, entering the conservatory but taking a full course in letters and philosophy at the Lycee Thiers. In 1937 the conservatory awarded him first prize in a flute competition. Still, he enrolled at the state college in Marseilles to study medicine.
        In 1943, in his third year of medical training, he was called up for military service by the occupying German forces. But he evaded the Germans by going to Paris, where he hid out and frequently changed residencies while studying at the conservatory. Within five months, he won first prize in a competition there and gave his first formal performance with an orchestra, playing the Ibert Flute Concerto with the Orchestre National de France.
        ''In 1945, with the Germans out of Paris, I was getting happier every minute,'' he later recalled in his 1989 autobiography, ''Music, My Love,'' which has been translated into four languages. Accounting for the French penchant for early music at the time, he further wrote: ''The beat to which the city marched was one dear to my heart. Baroque music was the sentiment of the day. Bach, Haydn, Handel, Vivaldi & Co., with their precise, measured music, gave the public the security and sense of order that the war had taken away. You knew where this music was going and what it would do.''
        In 1945, he was invited to join the orchestra of the Paris Opera. He became its principal flutist in 1958 and held the position for six years. But he simultaneously pursued his solo career, starting in 1946 when he began a long association with the pianist and harpsichordist Robert Veyron-Lacroix. That year he also made his first formal recording (Mozart's Quartet in D for Flute and Strings). In 1947, he married Francoise Bacqueyrisse, a harpist. The security he gained from his marriage, which produced two children, emboldened him to undertake concert tours as a solo flutist, at the time an untried idea.
        The risk paid off. In 1948, he formed the Ensemble Baroque de Paris, which enjoyed considerable success. By the 1950's he was touring Europe as a recitalist. In 1958, he and Mr. Veyron-Lacroix made their first ambitious concert tour of the United States and Canada, the highlight of which was a performance at Carnegie Hall of works by Handel, Bach, Beethoven and Prokofiev, as well as a Poulenc sonata written for him.
        Mr. Rampal played a large number of contemporary works, including premieres by Bernstein, Copland, Ezra Laderman, David Diamond and Krzysztof Penderecki. Though he performed some boldly contemporary works, including a sonata by Pierre Boulez that was dedicated to him, Mr. Rampal's taste in new music tended toward the conservative.
        In 1973, he made his conducting debut with the Mostly Mozart Orchestra at Lincoln Center, and received mixed reviews. Conducting would never be a notable component of his career.
        He was always best known for his performances of Baroque and Classical works. Yet as the early-music movement grew and the understanding of historical performance practices increased, Mr. Rampal's work in Baroque began to seem sadly anachronistic. He unabashedly played Baroque trio sonatas, intended for intimate settings, in cavernous concert halls. ''It's nice to have a crowd,'' he explained in a 1992 interview. ''We are all a little ham, you know.''
        In later years many critics found him at times to be more than a little ''ham.'' Reviewing a 1990 recital at Avery Fisher Hall, the Times critic James R. Oestreich chided Mr. Rampal and the harpsichordist John Steele Ritter, Mr. Rampal's partner since 1982, for performing Bach's complete flute sonatas without including a continuo instrument (typically a cello, viola da gamba or bassoon) to support the bass line of the harpsichord part, which was standard practice in Bach's day. Mr. Rampal showed ''a kind of hubris seemingly intrinsic in today's superstar events,'' Mr. Oestreich wrote.
        But Mr. Rampal's legacy is assured. Audiences will long remember the gleam and the disarming sound of the 14-karat gold flutes that Mr. Rampal always favored.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Rampal is survived by a daughter, Isabelle; a son, Jean-Jacques; five grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren. In a sense, he is also survived by flutists like James Galway, Carol Wincenc and other virtuosos who have thriving solo careers in part because Mr. Rampal paved the way.
      