
        Raul Rettig, who headed an official inquiry into political atrocities in Chile during the dictatorship of Gen. Augusto Pinochet, died on Sunday at his house in Santiago, Chile. He was 90.
        Mr. Rettig, a lawyer, had been a senator, an ambassador and something of a swashbuckler before he became president of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, or simply the Rettig commission.
        Its mission was to investigate the repression under the general's rule from 1973 to 1990. Mr. Rettig once said in an interview, ''Human rights and truth have no political colors.''
        In the 1950's, he had a bloodless pistol duel with Dr. Salvador Allende Gossens, who was a congressman and became president from 1970 to 1973, when General Pinochet led a violent military coup that overthrew him. The cause of the duel has not been made public. The duelists fired, but did not hit each other. Afterward they became friends, and Dr. Allende made Mr. Rettig his ambassador to Brazil.
        After Chile was buffeted by economic problems, General Pinochet permitted free elections, and Patricio Aylwin, a Social Democrat, was elected president in 1989. But the general remained the top army commander.
        In April 1990, Mr. Aylwin appointed the commission, which had nine members, all lawyers and human rights experts, from all political camps. Its purpose was officially defined as serving ''the moral conscience of the nation'' and establishing ''the truth'' about political killings in the Pinochet era.
        Most of those who disappeared were members of leftist groups and sympathizers of Dr. Allende's Socialist-Communist coalition government. In addition, at least 100 police officers and a scattering of others had died, as of 1990, at the hands of leftist guerrillas.
        The commission set about gathering evidence on political disappearances, as well as killings during the dictatorship. There was tacit agreement in Mr. Aylwin's government that the commission's work would not become the basis of prosecutions. That was because of concerns that the young democracy might be endangered by a confrontation with the powerful armed forces, especially the army, which General Pinochet still commanded. During the general's rule, an amnesty had been declared for political crimes committed by the left and right in most of the Pinochet era.
        When the commission started, the general complained, saying it could sent off acts of revenge. But with prosecutions ruled out, a consensus grew among political leaders that the panel's work should end with recommendations for financial compensation to those who had lost family members in the political violence.
        The role was defined as dealing with killings and disappearances attributed to the state, and to civilians, primarily the leftist guerrillas. The panel invited anyone with evidence or reports of political killings or disappearances to appear before it. Thousands of people were interviewed.
        In 1991, the panel produced its report, finding that at least 3,197 people had been slain for political reasons or had vanished, and that 850 victims' bodies were missing.
        In the report, victims were named and the circumstances of their deaths were reported in detail. But the culprits' names were not listed. Nonetheless, General Pinochet and other military figures criticized the report and caused a crisis in relations between the military and the new civilian government.
        The report also became an important tool used by a Spanish magistrate, Baltasar Garzon, in his efforts to prosecute General Pinochet in Spain. But the judge failed in his efforts to have Britain extradite the general.
        In 1993, Eduardo Frei, a Christian Democrat, was elected president, and in 1994 the commission compensated 2,115 families of victims.
        Mr. Rettig was born in Temuco, a city in south-central Chile. He received his law degree in 1935 from Concepcion University.
      