
        Maurice Richard, the charismatic star of the Montreal Canadiens through the 1940's and 1950's known as the Rocket, one of the most electrifying goal-scorers in National Hockey League history and a revered figure in French-speaking Canada, died yesterday in a hospital in Montreal. He was 78.
        He had been suffering from stomach cancer and Parkinson's disease, and he was hospitalized early this month.
        Streaking down the right wing at the old Montreal Forum, muscling or feinting his way past defensemen, then unleashing the finest shot in hockey, Rocket Richard epitomized the elan that brought the Canadiens the sobriquet the Flying Frenchmen.
        ''When Maurice is worked up, his eyes gleam like headlights,'' Frank Selke, the Canadiens general manager during the Richard years, once remarked. ''Not a glow, but a piercing intensity. Goalies have said he's like a car coming at you at night. He is terrifying.''
        Gordie Howe, the Detroit Red Wings star who vied with Richard for acclaim as hockey's greatest star of the postwar decades, said: ''There was nobody like him for putting the puck in. He was so accurate with his shot -- and determined. You could see it in those crazy eyes. They'd open right up like sockets or camera lenses as he was going in on goal.''
        Richard starred for Montreal teams that won the Stanley Cup in 1944, '46 and '53, and then captured an unprecedented five consecutive N.H.L. titles from 1956 to 1960. In an 18-year career spent entirely with the Canadiens, he scored 544 regular-season goals. And he was devastating in the playoffs, amassing 82 goals in 133 games, including a league-record six overtime goals.
        Richard was the first player to score 50 goals in a season and led the league in goals five times. He was a perennial All-Star, won the Hart trophy as the league's most valuable player in 1947 and entered the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1961, only one year after he retired.
        The Maurice Richard Trophy, instituted in the 1998-99 season, is awarded to the league's leading goal-scorer.
        For Richard, scoring involved no master strategy: ''I never planned a play in advance. Whenever there was a break, a chance in front of the net, I'd try to pick a spot or try to beat the goalkeeper. Everything I did was spontaneous and every play I made seemed to be different than the one before.''
        Joseph Henri Maurice Richard was born on Aug. 4, 1921, in Montreal, the son of a former semipro hockey player who worked at a Canadian Pacific railway shop. He played hockey on ponds and listened every Saturday night to the French-language broadcasts of Canadiens games, following the exploits of the enormously popular wing Howie Morenz. In the years to come, only Richard would rival Morenz as a Canadien icon.
        After playing junior hockey while in high school, Richard joined the Canadiens' farm team in Montreal. Despite suffering serious injuries in each of his two seasons with that club, he was brought up by the Canadiens in 1942.
        He broke an ankle early in his rookie season but was playing regularly by the following season while gaining exemption from the World War II draft by working during the day as a war-plant machinist.
        Although he was a left-handed shooter, Richard was installed at right wing, meaning he would often have to go to his backhand. He developed the backhander into a weapon and flourished alongside Elmer Lach at center and Toe Blake at left wing, a combination known as the Punch Line for its scoring prowess.
        In his second season, Richard became known as the Rocket, the nickname coined at a practice session against the line of Phil Watson, Murphy Chamberlain and Ray Getliffe.
        ''I was really flying, and one day, when I got up a full head of steam, one of them said, 'Watch out, here comes the Rocket,' '' Richard recalled in ''The Flying Frenchmen'' (Hawthorne Books, 1971), written with Stan Fischler. ''There were a few newspapermen at the practice session that day, and they heard Watson, Chamberlain and Getliffe yelling at me, and calling me the Rocket. The next day the nickname appeared in the papers.''
        Richard scored 32 goals in the 1943-44 season as Montreal won its first Stanley Cup in 13 years.
        In 1944-45, he scored 50 goals in a 50-game season, breaking the N.H.L. single-season record of 44, set by Montreal's Joe Malone in 1917-18. No one would score more goals until Chicago's Bobby Hull got 54 in 1965-66, playing a 70-game schedule.
        Richard would be harassed by rough-and-tumble players assigned to shadow him. He retaliated with his fists and his stick, engaging in memorable brawls, and sometimes he took his wrath out on the officials.
        He was fined $500 by the N.H.L. in March 1951 for grabbing the referee Hugh McLean around the neck in the lobby of a Manhattan hotel, angry about a misconduct penalty the official gave him the night before.
        Richard's temper set off a notorious series of events four years later.
        After being checked hard by the Bruins' Hal Laycoe and cut by Laycoe's stick in a game at Boston Garden on March 13, 1955, Richard went after the player. When a linesman, Cliff Thompson, intervened, Richard punched the official.
        In a move that stunned Montreal fans, the N.H.L. president, Clarence Campbell, suspended Richard for the final three games of the regular season and all of the playoffs.
        The Canadiens were battling the Red Wings for first place, and Richard was leading his teammate Bernie Geoffrion by 4 points in the race for the league scoring title, which Richard had never won.
        When Montreal played Detroit at the Forum on March 17, Richard was in the stands. Campbell, who made his headquarters in Montreal, sat in his private box despite having received scores of angry letters from Canadiens fans, many accusing him of ethnic bias against French-Canadians. Montreal's mayor and police chief had warned Campbell to stay away.
        The fans pelted Campbell with vegetables and fruit, and someone set off a tear-gas bomb. When the game was forfeited to Detroit after the first period, with the Wings leading by 4-1, the crowds streamed into Ste.-Catherine Street. Windows were smashed, stores were looted and newsstands were set afire in what became known as the Richard Riot.
        Richard went on the radio the next day to urge calm, but the Canadiens' title quest and his personal scoring race would suffer. Montreal finished second to Detroit and lost to the Red Wings in the Stanley Cup finals. Richard lost the scoring title to Geoffrion by a point, and he would never capture that crown.
        The longtime Canadiens coach Dick Irvin, credited by Richard with teaching him everything he knew, was fired after the season, in part because management felt he could not control Richard's temper.
        But the most glorious chapter of Canadiens history was unfolding. Under the new coach, Toe Blake, Richard's old linemate, Montreal won the next five Stanley Cups, and now the team had two Richards in the lineup.
        Maurice Richard's brother Henri, a center known as the Pocket Rocket, became a Canadien in 1955-56, skated as his linemate and would join him in the Hall of Fame. The Montreal teams of the late 1950's, also boasting Geoffrion, Jean Beliveau, Dickie Moore and Bert Olmstead at forward, Doug Harvey on defense and Jacques Plante in goal, were among the greatest in N.H.L. history.
        Richard retired in September 1960 and then held a public relations position with the Canadiens for several years. In 1972 he had an abortive stint as coach of the World Hockey Association's Quebec Nordiques, running the club for two games and then quitting, reportedly because of nervous strain. He also ran a fishing-supply business out of his home.
        In 1963, Richard was surpassed as hockey's leading goal-scorer by Howe. But he remained a storied figure in Montreal Canadiens history and in recent years served as a Canadiens ambassador, representing the team at special events.
        Richard and his wife, Lucille, who died in 1994, had 7 children and 14 grandchildren.
        On the night of March 11, 1996, Richard stood at center ice at the Forum at ceremonies closing the 72-year-old building, which was replaced as the Canadiens' home by the Molson Center. He dabbed at his eyes as he received a huge ovation.
        ''He deserved it,'' said Guy Lafleur, one of the Canadiens stars on the ice that evening with Richard. ''He's the guy who started the history of the Montreal Canadiens.''
      