
        Ruth D. Turner, a Harvard professor, author, curator and diver who became one of the world's leading experts in the species of mollusks that devour wooden piers and sunken ships, died on April 30 at a nursing home in Waltham, Mass. She was 85.
        Dr. Turner added volumes to the understanding of the creatures known as teredos, commonly called shipworms because of their resemblance to worms but actually a species of mollusk related to clams.
        Sometimes called ''the mollusk with the million-dollar appetite,'' teredos were mentioned in Greek literature dating to 350 B.C. and were dreaded by early ocean explorers, including Columbus who lost all his vessels to the worms on his fourth voyage to the Americas. They have also been blamed for the deterioration of the Hudson River piers in New York City.
        Dr. Turner even hypothesized that the pests caused the hole in the wooden dike that the Little Dutch Boy plugged with his finger. ''It may be the little Dutch boy put in more than his thumb,'' she said. ''He probably put his whole arm in there.''
        Dr. Turner, who was affectionately called Lady Wormwood, wrote more than 100 publications, almost all on shipworms, covering everything from their means of reproduction to how they bore into wood and how they dispersed over wide distances. Her study of the worms took her around the world.
        Working with Robert D. Ballard, who discovered the sunken liner Titanic in 1985, she identified mollusks as the reason so little wood remained in the wreck. She investigated dozens of other shipwrecks and appeared on National Geographic television specials to discuss deep-sea vent systems, the warm-water ecosystems caused by volcanic activity. She was named to the Women Divers Hall of Fame, sponsored by several organizations including the Women's Scuba Association and the Underwater Society of America.
        In 1971, she was the first woman in the Alvin, the deep-sea submersible owned and operated by the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution on Cape Cod. She was comfortable in the male-dominated society of ocean research, often enjoying poker with her male colleagues.
        Her passion was mentoring researchers in the manner in which William J. Clench, her predecessor as mollusk curator at the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard University, had inspired her. She was always ready to provide free room and board at her Cambridge home to a needy student.
        ''Do what sets you on fire,'' Dr. Turner urged her students. ''If you do what you love, you'll succeed.''
        Ruth Dixon Turner was born on Dec. 7, 1914, in Melrose, Mass. Her father was cabinet maker; her mother was a dressmaker. She had seven brothers and sisters. Two sisters, Winifred Garrity of Sudbury, Mass., and Lina MacNeil of Wayland, Mass., survive her.
        She worked her way through Bridgewater State Teachers College, then took a job in a one-room schoolhouse in Vermont, the first of several teaching posts in New England. She worked for a short period at the New England Museum of Natural History, now the Boston Museum of Science.
        In 1944, she earned a master's degree in ornithology from Cornell University. She then taught at Vassar and worked as a biologist at the Clapp Laboratory in Duxbury, Mass. Her next stop was Harvard, where she worked as a research assistant as she earned a doctorate in biology from Radcliffe in 1954.
        She remained at Harvard as a research assistant and biology lecturer. When Dr. Clench invited her to lunch, she quickly became intrigued by mollusks. ''Things were not going well in the bird department,'' she later explained.
        From 1963 to 1975, she was the Alexander Agassiz Fellow at the zoology museum. Since 1976, she has been a professor of biology. She also served as co-editor of the scientific journal Johnsonia.
        A tiny woman with a strong jaw and equally strong opinions, she brought an easy grace to scientific expeditions, teaching others how to tie seaman's knots and sometimes cutting hair. She scuba dived until she was well into her 70's and went on her last expedition just two years ago. She never married.
        The love of her life were the students she helped to understand science. She said this devotion came from a promise she had made to Dr. Clench.
        ''When I asked Bill how I could return the kindness he'd given me, he said, 'You can't,' '' she said. '' 'Just do it for the next generation.' ''
      