
        Bernhard Heiden, a composer who was for many years chairman of the composition department at Indiana University, died April 30 at his home in Bloomington, Ind. He was 89.
        Mr. Heiden was born in Frankfurt-am-Main, Germany, in 1910, and began writing music when he was 6. As a child, he studied the piano, clarinet and violin, as well as music theory and composition. From 1929 to 1933, he was a student of Hindemith at the Hochschule fur Musik in Berlin. The year of his graduation, he won the Mendelssohn Prize for composition, but he earned his living principally as an orchestral clarinetist until he moved to the United States in 1935.
        Mr. Heiden settled in Detroit, where he joined the faculty of the Art Center Music School, conducted the Detroit Chamber Orchestra and worked as an arranger for a radio station. He entered the United States Army in 1943 and became assistant bandmaster of the 445th Army Service Forces Band. After he was discharged in 1945, Mr. Heiden continued his studies at Cornell University, where he received a master's degree in musicology.
        He joined the faculty of Indiana University in 1946. He became professor emeritus in 1981. In addition to directing the composition department, he helped start the Indiana University Early Music Institute.
        In his own music, Mr. Heiden was a traditionalist who incorporated the respect for form and structure that he learned from Hindemith with an ear for rich sound and texture. Among his larger works were an opera, ''The Darkened City''; a ballet, ''Dreamers on a Slack Wire''; two symphonies; a triple concerto for piano, violin and cello; a concerto for trumpet and winds; a violin concerto; and a tuba concerto.
        His chamber music included sonatas and two string quartets, as well as works for unusual combinations. These included a set of variations for tuba and nine horns, and a quintet for flute, violin, viola, bassoon and bass.
        He also composed several vocal and choral works, including settings of John Donne's ''Divine Poems'' and Louise Labe's ''Sonnets,'' as well as a film score, ''Conspiracy in Kyoto,'' and incidental music for several Shakespeare plays. And he was a prolific arranger. During his two years in the Army, he arranged more than 100 works for military band.
        He is survived by three nephews.
      