
        Rodman C. Rockefeller, the eldest son of Nelson A. Rockefeller, who was active in efforts that led to the North American Free Trade Agreement and in forging closer ties between the United States and Latin America, died on Sunday night at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 68 and also had a home in the Pocantico Hills section of Tarrytown, N.Y.
        The cause was cancer, said Fraser P. Seitel, a spokesman for the Rockefeller family.
        Mr. Rockefeller was the longtime chairman of Pocantico Associates, a private venture capital and real estate investment concern. He was also long active in Rockefeller family affairs.
        Nelson Rockefeller was President Franklin D. Roosevelt's Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs during World War II, and Rodman's first journey to Mexico was as a teenager with his father in 1946, when President Miguel Aleman was inaugurated. Nelson Rockefeller went on to become governor of New York and vice president of the United States.
        From the late 1960's into the 1990's, Rodman strove to spur trade with Mexico and other countries in Latin America and worked for the liberalization of foreign investment there.
        During that period, he became a high executive of the International Basic Economy Corporation and co-chairman of the Mexico-United States Business Committee, an organization focusing on economic and political issues of interest to both nations' business communities. The passage of the North American Free Trade Agreement in the mid-1990's has been called the culmination of his and the committee's efforts.
        Mr. Rockefeller was president from 1968 to 1972 and chief executive  from 1972 to 1980 of International Basic Economy, a commercial genetics and agribusiness concern based in New York. Its activities, all in Latin America, included developing corn production there and building thousands of low-cost homes in three places in Mexico.
        He was also chairman of IBEC Inc. a successor concern, from 1980 to 1985, and of Arbor Acres Farm, based in Glastonbury, Conn., a seller of genetic material for poultry stock, for some years.
        In a 1988 interview, he said, ''Our chickens are the grandparents of the ones you eat.''
        He was on the board of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund for nine years. For many years, he was a trustee of Rockefeller Financial Services, which in effect manages the family's office, its investment company and its foundations.
        He was the head of the finance committee of Rockefeller Financial Services for years and was a longtime trustee of Rockefeller Financial's holding company, Rockefeller & Company.
        He was also a trustee of the Institute of International Education, a nonprofit organization that works for international student exchanges and manages many such programs.
        He was recently active in the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation, of which he was a trustee. Its programs include the restoration of Jefferson's estate, Monticello, in which Mr. Rockefeller was particularly interested.
        The honors he received included a high Mexican decoration, the Order of the Aztec Eagle.
        He was also a trustee of the Museum of Modern Art, the Americas Society and the New York Blood Center.
        A native New Yorker, Rodman Clark Rockefeller was the son of Nelson Rockefeller and his first wife, the former Mary Todhunter Clark. He recalled years later that he and his siblings ''called my father Dad, and later on we called him Chief,'' adding that ''he was very enthusiastic, exciting, outgoing, very much of a family leader.''
        Rodman graduated from Deerfield Academy in Deerfield, Mass., and received a bachelor's degree in international economics in 1954 from Dartmouth College, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. He received a master's degree in 1957 from Columbia's Graduate School of Business Administration. He was in the Army from 1954 to 1956.
        As a young man, he recalled years later, it never occurred to him not to work despite the family's fortune. ''It would have been boring just to go to the country club,'' he said.
        He married Barbara Ann Olsen, a graduate of Wellesley College, in 1953. They were divorced in 1979.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Alexandra von Metzler, known as Sascha, an interior designer and graduate of the Parsons School of Design, whom he married in 1980. He is also survived by four children from his first marriage: a daughter, Meile Louise Rockefeller of Manhattan; three sons, Peter, Stuart and Michael, all of Manhattan; and five grandchildren.
        A private burial and a memorial service are to be held on June 1.
      