
        David W. Williams, the first black federal judge west of the Mississippi, a founder of the first black lawyers association in Los Angeles and a crusader in abolishing restrictive housing covenants, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 90 and lived in Los Angeles.
        Among the many assignments he handled in 44 years on the bench was presiding over 4,000 criminal cases brought after the 1965 rioting in the predominantly black Los Angeles neighborhood of Watts that left 34 people dead.
        It was an emotional situation, said Chief Judge Terry J. Hatter Jr. of Federal District Court in Los Angeles, a longtime friend. ''He volunteered to do it, and offered individual hearings, rather than trying the cases en masse. ''
        Judge Williams was a founding member of the John M. Langston Bar Association, a black lawyers' group, at a time when blacks were not allowed to join the Los Angeles County Bar Association.
        In the 1940's, he joined a small group of black lawyers to fight restrictive real estate covenants, which were eventually declared unconstitutional. The covenants, contained in deeds, had barred property owners from selling to members of various minorities.
        Nonetheless, even after the covenants were declared illegal, blacks and members of other minorities still had great trouble buying a house in white neighborhoods. So when Judge Williams decided to buy a lot in Bel-Air, an affluent section of Los Angeles, he circumvented the resistance he expected from neighbors and real estate brokers by negotiating the sale over the telephone. He bought the property, near the exclusive Bel-Air Country Club, for $20,000.
        ''He used to say jokingly that if the golf balls came into his yard, they didn't even want him to throw them back,'' Judge Hatter said.
        David Welford Williams was born on March 20, 1910, in Atlanta. He was 2 years old when, in the aftermath of a race riot, his family fled for South-Central Los Angeles, where he was brought up.
        Mopping floors and running errands at the Pantages Theater in Hollywood, he worked his way through Los Angeles Junior College, the University of California at Los Angeles and law school at the University of Southern California.
        He began his law practice in 1937 and maintained it until his appointment to the Los Angeles County Municipal Court in 1956. He was appointed to the Superior Court in 1962.
        There, he noticed that most of the people being prosecuted for gambling were black, even though there was gambling at exclusive white clubs.
        ''He dismissed the prosecutions of a group of black defendants who had been arrested for gambling, and made a statement in his decision about the unequal enforcement of gambling laws,'' said his son, Vaughn Charles Williams, a partner in the law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom in New York.
        A lifelong Republican, Judge Williams was nominated to the United States District Court by President Richard M. Nixon in 1969.
        His wife, the former Ouida White, died in 1995, after 55 years of marriage. In addition to his son Vaughn, of New York, he is survived by another son, David W. Jr., of Orono, Minn., and two grandchildren.
      