
        W. D. McHardy, one of the world's leading Hebrew scholars and an important member of two teams that translated the Bible into British English, died on April 9 in Cullen, Scotland. He was 88.
        Mr. McHardy was one of 40 scholars who created the New English Bible, the first totally new authorized British translation of the Bible put together by committee since the King James version was published in 1611. Modern ''authorized'' versions stem from a consensus of high church officials from several denominations.
        ''You'll have to answer for this,'' colleagues would warn Mr. McHardy, the junior member of the group when the project began in the mid-1940's. ''We'll all be dead by the time this is published.''
        When the translation came out in 1961, there were indeed things to be answered for. The New English Bible was criticized as having excessively literary language (using ''effulgence'' for ''radiance''; archaic language (''thou'' instead of ''you''), and a general flatness in tone. T. S. Eliot called the translation ''vulgar,'' ''trivial'' and ''pedantic.'' There was also controversy about the interpretations of certain words. Nonetheless, the New English Bible had its champions, and went on to sell millions of copies.
        In 1973 Mr. McHardy was appointed head of the team that was to create the Revised English Bible, which was finished in 1989 and received a much less acrimonious reception.
        William Duff McHardy, known as Mac, was born on May 26, 1911, at Cullen, Banffshire, Scotland. He had polio as a young child and used crutches and wheelchairs for the rest of his life.
        He won scholarships and earned four degrees from three different Universities. He went to Fordyce Academy, Aberdeen University, Edinburgh University and then to St. John's College, Oxford. In 1945 he became a lecturer in Aramaic and Syriac at London University. Twelve years later, he was appointed to the prestigious Regius Chair in Hebrew at Oxford, where he stayed until 1988. In 1990 he was made a Commander of the British Eempire, one of the United Kingdom's highest honors.
        His cars were specially adapted so that he could drive despite his disability. He used a plank of wood,  which friends call a ''Mac plank,'' to get from his wheelchair to his car.  He traveled extensively to Africa during his sabbatical year.
        Mr. McHardy, an assistant Church of Scotland minister in his local parish, married the former Vera Kemp in 1941. She died in 1984.
        He is survived by a daughter, Alison McHardy, who lives in England.
      