
        Dr. Harriet Lange Rheingold, a child psychologist and research professor emeritus at the University of North Carolina, died on April 29 at a retirement center in Chapel Hill, N.C. She was 92.
        Dr. Rheingold did not begin her specialized research until she was 45, after 20 years of patient care and undergraduate teaching. She made a name for herself nationally in the next 20 years with her work in developmental psychology.
        She focused on the social and exploratory skills of infants and young children. Her interests ranged from infant sociability and responsiveness to independent behavior and the development of valued traits like sharing, helping and caring.
        Her teaching and writings helped to change the way psychologists view normal infant behavior by helping to shape the recognition that infants interact with their environment from birth. Her books included ''The Infant Separates Himself From Her Mother,'' published by the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 1970.
        A native New Yorker, she graduated from Cornell University in 1928 with a degree in philosophy and earned a master's in psychology at Columbia University in 1930. She then was a research fellow, psychologist and assistant professor at Rockford College in Illinois.
        In 1955 she received a Ph.D. in psychology at the University of Chicago. She was a research psychologist at the National Institute of Mental Health in Bethesda, Md., before joining the North Carolina faculty as a research professor in 1964.
        In 1985 she organized a symposium, ''Toward a Unified Science of Behavioral Development,'' for the Society for Research in Child Development. The same year she also addressed the 18th World Congress on Early Childhood Education in Jerusalem.
        Dr. Rheingold is survived by her husband, Dr. Don W. Hayne; two sons, Paul D. Rheingold of Rye, N.Y., and Dr. Arnold L. Rheingold of Wilmington, Del.; six grandchildren, and two great-grandsons. Her first husband, Dr. Joseph D. Rheingold, a psychiatrist, died in 1978.
      