
        Richard E. Nolan, a lawyer who represented the Roman Catholic Church in some of the most important court cases involving religion and government in the last 40 years, died Monday. He was 71 and lived in Manhattan.
        He died at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan of complications from a stroke, said Geoffrey Goldberg of Davis Polk & Wardwell, the law firm for which Mr. Nolan worked for more than 42 years.
        One of Mr. Nolan's cases that went to the United States Supreme Court involved a 1980 New York State law requiring that parochial schools be reimbursed by the state for providing state-mandated educational services. A challenge to the law contended that it violated the constitutional separation of church and state.  But Mr. Nolan's argument prevailed. He convinced the justices that the law was sound because it required reimbursement only for statewide standardized services, not religious education. His victory set the stage for similar laws across the country.
        As a young lawyer, he took part in the unsuccessful battle to keep organized prayer in public schools. The Supreme Court banned such prayer in 1962 in its landmark decision in Engel v. Vitale.
        Win or lose, however, Mr. Nolan was considered a successful litigator, and his cases laid the foundation for lawsuits that are being litigated today, said Robert A. Destro, interim dean of the Columbus School of Law at Catholic University of America in Washington. ''Because of the politics at the time, he was litigating against a brick wall,'' Mr. Destro said. ''Only now is the work that he was doing in those years beginning to pay off.''
        Richard Edward Nolan was born Nov. 28, 1928, in Brooklyn. He received his law degree in 1957 from  Columbia Law School, where he was notes editor of The Law Review. He joined the law firm of Davis Polk & Wardwell that year, and remained there until his death.
        He served as a first lieutenant with the Army Signal Corps during the Korean War.
        A Roman Catholic, Mr. Nolan advised Cardinals Terence Cooke and John O'Connor on legal issues facing the church.
        He is survived by his wife of 41 years, the former Agnes Folk Gillian; two daughters, Mariana C. Nolan and Katherine H. L. Nolan; three sons, Anthony, Timothy and Christopher; a sister, Eileen Solimano; and three grandchildren.
      