
        John P. Robin, who played an influential role in the transformation of Pittsburgh from a smoggy, grimy city into one of gleaming skyscrapers and grassy promenades, died on Sunday at his daughter's house in Pittsburgh. He was 87.
        Mr. Robin was the first executive director of the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh, which in the late 1940's and 1950's rebuilt much of Pittsburgh's downtown, a project called Renaissance I. Mr. Robin returned to the agency in the late 1970's, to lead another surge of construction and rejuvenation called Renaissance II.
        ''We have saved this city from becoming a Camden or a Gary,'' Mr. Robin said in a 1980 interview.
        Although Mr. Robin was active in public life for 50 years, he never held an elected office.
        Before World War II, Pittsburgh was known as ''The Smoky City'' because of pollution from the steel industry.
        ''After the war, civic leaders feared that the city would be in trouble if it did not reinvent itself,'' said David R. Grinnell, an archivist at the Historical Society of Western Pennsylvania.
        Joseph Gariti, general counsel with the redevelopment authority,  who worked closely with Mr. Robin  on Renaissance II, said Mr. Robin ''had the ability to work with politicians, civic leaders and corporate leaders to get a consensus'' for the complex project.
        Jack Robin was born in Pittsburgh on Oct. 15, 1912.
        His daughter, Ansley J. Robin, said that at the age of 11 her father decided his name was not grand enough and renamed himself John P. Robin. When he was an adult, however, friends and close associates called him Jack.
        Mr. Robin majored in zoology at the University of Pittsburgh but dropped out to take a job as a reporter for The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette.  He was hired as a secretary for  Cornelius Scully, mayor of Pittsburgh, in 1936.
        After serving in the Army in World War II, Mr. Robin became an assistant to another Pittsburgh mayor, David L. Lawrence, who with the philanthropist Richard King Mellon led  Renaissance I.
        In 1948, Mr. Robin was appointed the first executive director of the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh, the redevelopment arm of the city; he worked there until 1954. In that time, Point State Park and an office complex called Gateway Center were created where dilapidated warehouses had stood.
        After leaving the agency, Mr. Robin wore a variety of executive hats: state secretary of commerce, the first executive officer of the Regional Industrial Development Corporation and executive president of the Old Philadelphia Development Corporation. He was also an executive with the Ford Foundation.
        In 1977 he returned to the redevelopment authority as chairman, a post he held simultaneously with that of chairman of the Pittsburgh Port Authority. In his 17 years at the redevelopment authority, Mr. Robin had an important role in creating the city rail transit system.
        In addition to his daughter, Mr. Robin is survived by a son, Peter G.,  of Merion, Pa.
      