
        Gervase Cowell, the British secret agent who ran Col. Oleg Penkovsky, one of the most valuable Soviet turncoat spies, died on May 2.
        He was 73 and lived in Sutton, Surrey, in England.
        Mr. Cowell was in Moscow under diplomatic cover as an operative for the Secret Intelligence Service of Britain, known as MI-6, in the early 1960's, when Colonel Penkovsky, a politically connected officer who became increasingly disillusioned with Communism, photographed thousands of secret Soviet documents with a tiny Minox camera.
        The most important intelligence that he provided centered on Moscow's plans to base medium-range ballistic missiles at San Cristobal, Cuba, a move that took the superpowers to the brink of nuclear war.
        Nikita S. Khrushchev, unimpressed with President John F. Kennedy was challenging the United States by breaking his pledge that Soviet military aid to Cuba would be purely defensive. The United States Navy blockaded Cuba to prevent the arrival of the missiles.
        As the crisis mounted, some of Mr. Kennedy's advisers argued that the Soviets had missile superiority and that the United States had to launch a pre-emptive strike if Mr. Khrushchev refused to back down.
        But new information from Colonel Penkovsky, who was not only an intelligence officer but had also been trained at an elite artillery and missile school, indicated that the balance of missiles was actually greatly in America's favor.
        Soviet intelligence, however, was on to Colonel Penkovsky, who had been spying for the West since the spring of 1961. On Oct. 22, 1962, at the height of the missile crisis, he was arrested by the K.G.B., along with a British executive, Greville Wynne, who had been his main contact. Colonel Penkovsky immediately confessed, and after a highly publicized trial, was executed. Mr. Wynne was sentenced to eight years in prison, but was later freed in an exchange of spies. Mr. Cowell was declared persona non grata and expelled.
        A week later, the Soviet ships steaming toward Cuba turned back, ending the crisis, at least in part, it is now widely believed, because Mr. Khrushchev was aware of what the Americans knew.
        Colonel Penkovsky's defection caused a major shake-up in the Soviet military and intelligence leadership. Nearly a year after his arrest, the military analyst for The New York Times, Hanson W. Baldwin, wrote, ''The world of espionage is still trembling from the shocks of the Oleg Penkovsky case.''
        Mr. Cowell was born on Aug. 4, 1926. He was educated at Cambridge. After serving with the Royal Air Force near the end of World War II, he joined MI-6 in 1951. He worked in Germany, Jordan, France and Israel, as well as Russia.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Pamela Alger; two sons; and a daughter.
      