
        Dr. Seymour S. Kety, a major figure in the field of biological psychiatry whose contributions revolutionized the study of schizophrenia and other major mental illnesses and yielded novel methods for studying the human brain at work, died on Thursday at his home in Westwood, Mass. He was 84.
        In giving him its 1999 Award for Special Achievement in Medical Science, the Albert and Mary Lasker Foundation cited Dr. Kety's discovery, in the late 1940's and early 50's, of the first quantitative technique for measuring blood flow in the living brain, a method that eventually led to the development of modern technologies like PET scanning.
        The foundation also recognized Dr. Kety for his work on schizophrenia, the first to provide strong evidence that the illness ran in families, an indication that heredity played a significant role. The studies, which used Danish national birth registries to track the transmission of the illness in people separated at birth from their biological families, helped overturn the then-prevailing wisdom that schizophrenia was caused by bad parenting.
        Schizophrenia is not entirely genetic; environmental stressors, as yet not completely understood, appear to trigger the illness in those with a genetic vulnerability.
        Dr. Kety's studies also laid the groundwork for efforts to identify specific genes that might predispose a person to develop the disease, efforts that continue to this day.
        ''We found that 10 percent of the biological relatives of schizophrenic adoptees have the disorder themselves,'' Dr. Kety told an interviewer upon receiving the Lasker Award, ''a five-fold higher prevalence than exists in the general population.''
        As the first scientific director of the new National Institute of Mental Health in the early 1950's, Dr. Kety also helped shift the direction of psychiatric research, putting much greater emphasis on the biological bases of mental illness.
        At the time, psychoanalysis dominated most academic psychiatry departments, but Dr. Kety ''believed that there were physiological and chemical problems that lay behind mental disease,'' said Dr. Louis Sokoloff, chief of the laboratory of cerebral metabolism at the mental health institute, who worked with Dr. Kety as a postdoctoral student at the University of Pennsylvania.
        In bestowing its award, the Lasker Foundation noted that Dr. Kety's
        ''visionary leadership in mental health,'' helped usher ''psychiatry into the molecular age.''
        At the time of his death, Dr. Kety (pronounced KET-ty) was an emeritus professor of neuroscience at the Harvard Medical School, having retired in 1983 after 15 years, and was senior psychobiologist at McLean Hospital in Belmont, Mass., until three years ago.
        Seymour Solomon Kety was born in Philadelphia. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa in 1936 from the University of Pennsylvania, where he received his M.D. in 1940. He entered Harvard Medical School as a National Research Council fellow in 1942.
        Dr. Kety taught and conducted research at Penn before becoming scientific director at the institute. As a researcher in physiology, he made many significant contributions to the field, including a seminal 1951 paper on the mechanisms of gas exchange between blood and the body tissues.
        Soon after arriving at the mental health institute, Dr. Sokoloff said, Dr. Kety found himself under pressure from his colleagues to undergo psychoanalysis -- a treatment considered de rigueur for practicing psychiatrists at the time.
        Dr. Kety, Dr. Sokoloff said, ''didn't have much interest in psychoanalysis, but they kept hounding him, and they finally said the institute would pay for it.''
        That evening, Dr. Sokoloff continued, Dr. Kety remarked to his wife, Josephine, that maybe he should take advantage of the institute's offer.
        ''Well, suppose they offered you a free appendectomy,'' Dr. Sokoloff said Mrs. Kety replied, ''Would you take that?''
        In the mid-1960's, Dr. Kety briefly left the mental health health institute to become chairman of psychiatry at Johns Hopkins University. But clinical practice was not his first love, Dr. Sokoloff said, and he soon returned to the institute and to basic research.
        In 1967, he joined the psychiatry faculty at Harvard, becoming director of the psychiatric research laboratory at Massachusetts General Hospital, where he remained until 1977, when he accepted a similar position at the Mailman Research Center at McLean.
        Survivors include his wife of 60 years, Dr. Josephine Gross Kety; a son, Lawrence; a daughter, Roberta; and two grandchildren.
      