
        Roger A. Morse, who turned a childhood interest in beekeeping into an encyclopedic knowledge that made him one of the best-known apiculturists in the world, died May 12 at his home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 72.
        Dr. Morse, an entomology professor at Cornell University for more than 40 years, was a quiet man of fluid motion -- traits that served him well in a field that often put him in intimate proximity with thousands of bees.
        That is not to say that he did not get his share of stings. Four days before his death, he visited his laboratory and returned home with what proved to be a final trophy. ''He died with a little bee sting on his eye,'' said his daughter Susan.
        A prolific author, Dr. Morse straddled the worlds of professional beekeepers and amateur ones, whose numbers in the United States are put around 200,000. Although much of his renown came from such popular books as ''The Complete Guide to Beekeeping'' (E. P. Dutton), which for many beekeepers is almost as much a necessity as the hives themselves, Dr. Morse's knowledge was widely sought by commercial beekeepers around the world.
        These beekeepers not only produce honey but play a vital role in pollinating vast swaths of cultivated land: in the United States alone, about $10 billion worth of crops each year are pollinated entirely or partly by bees.
        Dr. Morse traveled the world, often for the United States Department of Agriculture, teaching local beekeepers from Africa to South America how to improve their craft.
        ''There wasn't any subject that you could bring up in the area of bees and beekeeping that he couldn't discuss with you,'' said Philip A. Mason, a corporate lawyer in Boston who worked as Dr. Morse's last graduate student while he was on a sabbatical from the business world.
        Roger Alfred Morse was born July 5, 1927, in Saugerties, N.Y. His father, Grant, a superintendent of schools, kept bees as a hobby and instilled the interest in his son. Roger Morse began tending his own hives when he was about 10, his family said.
        After serving in the Army in Europe from 1944 to 1947, he enrolled at Cornell, where he earned a bachelor's degree and, in 1955, his doctorate. He joined the faculty about two years later, and from 1986 was chairman of the entomology department. Over the years, he also taught in Helsinki, Brazil and the Philippines.
        When he was not thinking about how to improve the general practice of beekeeping, he was looking at the intricate network of bee societies. Scientists have long been fascinated by the complexity of the hives and their elaborate division of labor, in which roles are assigned ranging from queen to, in essence, undertaker.
        ''If you want to understand sociology in this world, there is nothing like the honeybees,'' Dr. Morse said in a 1991 interview.
        He spent much time studying the incursion of the Africanized bee, a cross-breed known popularly, if fancifully, as the killer bee, which escaped from a laboratory in Brazil in the 1950's. The bees' reputation for aggressiveness made for many scare stories as they made their way north, eventually arriving in this country in the early 1990's.
        Dr. Morse, though, was more sanguine than many. He suggested once that after the bees began mating with local species, they might end up strengthening the domestic bee population. ''I'm not saying these bees are kittens, but they can be worked with,'' he said in an interview in Popular Science magazine.
        He was more worried about two forms of mite -- tracheal and varroa -- that in recent years have been ravaging wild bee populations, forcing commercial beekeepers to monitor their hives vigilantly. Dr. Morse estimated that in the mid-1990's, as many as 45 billion bees from 750,000 hives had been killed by the mites.
        In addition to his daughter Susan, of Ithaca, Dr. Morse is survived by his wife, the former Mary Louise Smith, whom he married in 1951; another daughter, Mary Ann, of New York; a son, Joseph, an entomologist at the University of California at Riverside; a sister, Jean Kallop of Voorheesville, N.Y.; and a brother, Stanley, of Millbrook, N.Y.
        At Cornell, in addition to his other teaching duties, Dr. Morse taught the introductory beekeeping course and, as recently as last fall, a laboratory course on practical beekeeping. In the early 1960's, an article described how he had figured out a way to lure swarms of bees to follow him wherever he walked. The trick was to carry filter paper saturated with the ground-up queen bee mandible glands.
        Dr. Morse also maintained his own hives at home, and he did so using the same sort of utilitarian approach he urged on his readers.
        In ''A Year in the Beeyard'' (Charles Scribner's Sons), he wrote: ''My apiaries are not picturesque; my combs are not uniformly free of drone comb; and not all of my equipment is well painted.
        ''Still, I manage to harvest a reasonable amount of honey every year. More importantly, in the occasional year when conditions are perfect, I can make sure that my hives are filled with honey. At these times beekeeping is the most fun.''
        He often gave the honey away to acquaintances, which endeared him to them. But not so much, perhaps, as when he was a graduate student at Cornell and writing his thesis on mead, the wine made from honey. His fellow students often benefited from the fruits of his research.
        ''I was very popular at school,'' Mr. Mason recalled Dr. Morse saying.
      