
        Don Gifford, a cultural historian and authority on James Joyce, died on Monday at a hospital in North Adams, Mass. He was 81 and lived in Williamstown, Mass.
        Mr. Gifford retired in 1984 from Williams College, where he was a professor of English and of American studies and had taught since 1951.
        His 1974 book, ''Notes for Joyce: An Annotation of James Joyce's Ulysses,'' which he wrote with Robert J. Seidman, an ex-student of his, is still in print in a revised and enlarged edition, entitled ''Ulysses Annotated'' (1989, University of California Press).
        That explanatory work was praised by Stanley Goldstein, the president of American Friends of James Joyce, a New York-based organization with members all across the country.
        Mr. Goldstein, a New York accountant, said: ''Gifford composed the most useful book for readers of 'Ulysses,' whether they are amateurs like me or professionals and academics. The book is on my shelf, and it is used every month when we conduct a Ulysses group-reading session.''
        His 1990 book, ''The Farther Shore: A Natural History of Perception, 1798-1984,'' considered centuries of thought about the interaction of the environment and the intellect. In a review in The New York Times,  the critic Christopher Lehmann-Haupt wrote, ''There is hardly a page of it that does not inform, provoke or make the reader see things in a different way.''
        The reviewer continued: ''To the reader's great pleasure, Mr. Gifford proceeds by anecdote, by leaps of intuition and by quirky insight. He knows so much that he need not be pedantic.''
        Mr. Gifford was the author, the editor or a co-author of more than half a dozen books. Short stories and poems by him appeared in magazines.
        Born in Schenectady, N.Y., he received a bachelor's degree in 1940 from Principia College in Elsah, Ill., and studied at Harvard University and at Cambridge University in England.
        He served in World War II as an ambulance driver and then in the infantry.
        His 1944 marriage to Ruth Cleveland ended in divorce in 1961.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Honora Kammerer, whom he married in 1963; two daughters from his first marriage, Marin Gifford Haythe of London and Nina Gifford of Atlanta; five grandchildren; and a brother, Edward, of Schenectady.
        Correction:  June 2, 2000, Friday  An obituary on May 25 about Don Gifford, a James Joyce scholar, listed survivors incompletely. They also include two stepdaughters -- Holly McLennan Ketron of Princeton, N.J., and Angelica Syp of Burlington, Vt. -- and four stepgrandchildren.
      