
        Craig Stevens, who created the title role of the suave but tough private eye in ''Peter Gunn,'' a popular television series in the late 1950's and early 60's, died on Wednesday in Los Angeles. He was 81.
        When not chasing down evildoers and dazzling the women who crossed his path, Mr. Craig's Peter Gunn spent his time at a jazz club where his girlfriend, Edie (Lola Albright), worked as a singer.
        The jazz, including the show's theme song, which became a hit on its own, was written by Henry Mancini and was also the basis of two best-selling RCA recordings.
        Gunn's friend and ally on the police force was Lieutenant Jacoby, played by Herschel Bernardi, who often lent a helping hand when Gunn bent the rules. The series ran on NBC from September 1958 to September 1960 and then moved to ABC, where it ran for another year.
        Mr. Stevens's name was originally  Gail Shikles Jr. He was born in Liberty, Mo., and studied dentistry at the University of Kansas before deciding he wanted to be an actor. He moved to California and worked at the Pasadena Playhouse before signing a contract with Warner Brothers in 1941.
        It was there that he met his future wife, the actress Alexis Smith. After serving in the Air Force during World War II, he went on to make a score of movies before television came along. His film credits include ''The Doughgirls,'' ''God Is My Co-Pilot,'' ''Humoresque'' and ''Where the Sidewalk Ends.''
        In 1963, with ''Peter Gunn'' behind him, Mr. Stevens made his Broadway debut opposite Janis Paige in ''Here's Love,'' a musical by Meredith Willson based on the film ''Miracle on 34th Street.'' He returned to television the following year, appearing on CBS in the short-lived series ''Mr. Broadway,'' in which he played a zealous publicity agent.
        In later years he made guest appearances on shows like ''Dallas'' and ''Man of the World.'' He also appeared in the Blake Edwards movie ''S.O.B.'' in 1981.
        Ms. Smith died in 1993. The couple had no children.
      