
        Lewis Allen, who directed ''The Uninvited,'' one of Hollywood's favorite ghost stories, and who helped Frank Sinatra achieve one of his best dramatic performances as a professional assassin in ''Suddenly,'' died on May 3 in a nursing home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 94.
        Mr. Allen directed more than 30 Broadway and London stage productions before he turned to feature films with ''The Uninvited,'' in 1944. Based on Dorothy Macardle's eerie novel, the movie starred Ray Milland, Ruth Hussey and Gail Russell. ''The Uninvited'' continues to be celebrated by film buffs for Russell's performance, the atmospherics and an evocative score that yielded the standard ''Stella by Starlight.''
        Ten years later Mr. Allen directed ''Suddenly,'' which starred Sinatra as one of a trio of gunmen trying to assassinate the president of the United States. Bosley Crowther, film critic for The New York Times, called Mr. Sinatra's performance ''a melodramatic tour de force,'' and praised Mr. Allen ''for direction that makes both excitement and sense.''
        Mr. Allen directed Milland again in ''The Imperfect Lady'' (1947), ''So Evil My Love'' (1948), and ''Sealed Verdict''(1948).
        He directed Alan Ladd in ''Chicago Deadline'' and ''Appointment With Danger''(1951) and Burt Lancaster in the western ''Desert Fury'' (1947). Edward G. Robinson was his star in ''A Bullet for Joey'' (1955) and ''Illegal.''
        He directed Sean Connery and Lana Turner in ''Another Time, Another Place''in 1958, but his film career was fading. His last picture was a low-budget British production called ''Whirlpool'' in 1959.
        By then Mr. Allen had begun a busy career as a television director. Among his credits were episodes of ''Bonanza,'' ''Perry Mason,'' ''The Rifleman,'' ''Route 66,'' ''Mission Impossible,'' ''I Dream of Jeannie,'' ''Cannon'' and ''Little House on the Prairie.''
        Alfred Lewis Allen was born in England in Oakergates, Shropshire, the son of William Vincent Allen, a wool trader and clothing manufacturer, and the former Sarah Matthews. After serving four years in the British Merchant Service, he became an actor and then a theatrical manager, first for Raymond Massey and then for the Gilbert Miller Organization.
        Mr. Allen's wife, Dorothy Skinner, a London literary agent, died in 1969. He is survived by his second wife, the former Trudy Colmar; a son, Jon Lewis Allen of Dallas; three brothers, all living in Britain; two grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
      