
        Margaret Harris, a theatrical designer whose name was synonymous for more than half a century with superlative yet economical stage sets and costumes in London, Stratford-Upon-Avon and on Broadway, died on Wednesday in London. She was 95.
        In 1931, with encouragement from John Gielgud, Ms. Harris and two female collaborators founded the firm Motley -- the name came from the line ''Motley's the only wear'' in ''As You Like It'' -- and gradually established themselves as masters of design for some 300 productions ranging from Shakespeare and the classics to big-budget Broadway musicals and popular Hollywood fare.
        Their hallmark was simplicity, a reaction against the visual extravagance that dominated the theater in the 1920's and 30's.
        Michael Mullin, an professor of English at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and the author of ''Design by Motley'' (University of Delaware Press, 1996), said, ''Although well known in the profession, Motley was not widely recognized by the public because men dominated set and costume design, and because the public was more interested in actors and directors than designers, yet their influence was broad and pervasive.''
        One critic praised Motley's work, saying, ''They create among them a clear-cut atmosphere of beauty and clear design.''
        Ms. Harris and her partners -- her older sister, Audrey, and Elizabeth Montgomery -- worked so closely together that their creations were inseparable to most observers though, in fact, Margaret Harris specialized in set design.
        Part of the group's success was due to economizing. When Motley designed Shylock's costume, it was made of dishrags. The effect was what counted.
        Margaret Frances Harris was born on May 28, 1904, in Kent, England. She and her collaborators first expressed their interest in the theater by peddling sketches of popular actors outside the theaters where they appeared. They especially admired Gielgud's Shakespearean productions at the Old Vic, and one day showed him drawings that they had made for the sets and costumes of his ''Richard II,'' ''Macbeth'' and ''King Lear.'' Intrigued, Gielgud visited the Harrises at their Kensington home.
        In 1932, when Gielgud was invited to direct ''Romeo and Juliet'' for the Oxford University Dramatic Society, Motley did its first costume-design work for him.
        Gielgud's praise was unrestrained, and Motley's next work for him was his ''Merchant of Venice'' for the Old Vic in 1932.
        Then came Gielgud's ''Hamlet,'' with costumes inspired by Cranach paintings and sprayed with autumnal colors.
        Motley also traveled to the United States, working on Broadway and in Hollywood for productions like the  movie version of ''Oklahoma!''
        No immediate family members survive.
      