
        Dr. Alexander Sandor Nadas, who trained generations of pediatrDr. Alexander Sandor Nadasic cardiologists at Children's Hospital in Boston and at Harvard Medical School, died on Tuesday at his home in Needham, Mass. He was 86.
        Dr. Nadas, a longtime former resident of Wellesley, Mass., retired in 1982 as chairman emeritus of the hospital's department of cardiology and in 1984 as professor emeritus of pediatrics at the medical school. He had been associated with Children's Hospital since 1949 and was credited with helping build the department's national and international renown for the care of children with heart disease.
        Harvard Medical School and Children's Hospital honored Dr. Nadas in 1989 by establishing a professorship in his name. And, just days before he died, the American Heart Association gave him its Paul Dudley White Award for his work as a pediatric cardiologist.
        Dr. Nadas's research centered on cardiovascular physiology and the physiology of congenital heart disease in children. He was the author of hundreds of clinical research papers, and wrote four editions of a textbook for medical students, Pediatric Cardiology, first published in 1957 by W. B. Saunders.
        He was a past member of the editorial boards of Circulation, The American Journal of Cardiology and the Yearbook of Cardiology. He was active in various professional associations, and was president of the American Pediatric Society in 1983.
        Alexander Nadas was born in Budapest and graduated from Budapest Medical School in 1937. He emigrated to the United States in 1938 to pursue his medical career, and trained in New York, Cleveland, Boston and Detroit, where he received his medical degree from Wayne State University in 1945.
        Dr. Nadas then spent four years in private practice in Greenfield, Mass. In 1949 he joined the staff of Children's Hospital. His association with Harvard Medical School dated to 1950, when he was appointed an instructor in pediatrics.
        Dr. Nadas's wife of 53 years, Elizabeth McClearen Nadas, died in 1994. He is survived by two daughters, Trudi Murch of Phoenix and Betsy Seamans of Pittsburgh; a son, John A., of Wellesley, and three grandchildren.
      