
        David B. Guralnik, a lexicographer whose definitions of the American language guided tens of millions of people who thumbed through the dictionaries he edited, died on Friday at his home in Shaker Heights, Ohio. He was 79.
        He had colon cancer, his daughter, Eve Harrington, said.
        As editor in chief of Webster's New World line of dictionaries from 1948 to 1985, when he retired, he supervised works that carried his view of American English around the world.
        It was a time when the language was changing as rapidly as the world it described, and he welcomed the changes. ''He looked at it as a living organism,'' Ms. Harrington recalled. ''He said the language will be alive as long as it keeps changing.''
        As a gatekeeper for words seeking admission to the literary mainstream, Mr. Guralnik wrote many of the new definitions himself. He took the title of editor in chief emeritus after he retired, and was a vice president of Simon & Schuster, now the dictionaries' publisher. His name recurred frequently as an arbiter in William Safire's ''On Language'' column in The New York Times Magazine.
        Among the works he edited, the best known is the College Edition of Webster's New World Dictionary of the American Language, a one-volume desktop standard popular not only among students but also with writers and other professionals. ''Our emphasis is on the English language as spoken in America, and for that reason, we chose to call it the dictionary of the American language,'' he said. ''It does for the American language what the Oxford English Dictionary does for the language as a whole.''
        Its first edition appeared in 1953, and Library Journal called it ''a great advance in American lexicography.''
        But compared with the magnitude of the task, Mr. Guralnik and his staff were few, and in the next several decades, as the publishing company repeatedly changed hands, they struggled to keep up with ''not only a population explosion, but an information explosion of unprecedented proportions,'' he said in the foreword to the second edition.
        New words, new pronunciations and new meanings were being born by then without the customary time for incubation. For example, man's first walk on the moon, coming shortly before the second edition was published in 1970, called for inclusion of a new word, ''mascon,'' meaning the very dense material that lay just underneath the astronaut Neil Armstrong's dusty footprints. (And Mr. Armstrong deserved a biographical entry, Mr. Guralnik decided.)
        Then there were the inevitable questions, as society's norms of discourse shifted, about what class of words, if any, to banish. In the second college edition, Mr. Guralnik decided to strip out some racial epithets that had been included before, and refused to include some common vulgarities, despite their ever widening use. Some of the words he excluded were restored in the third edition, after his retirement.
        He explained in the dictionary's foreword that the sexual and excretory vulgarities were ''so well known as to require no explanation,'' while what he called the ''true obscenities,'' the ethnic slurs, are ''encountered with diminishing frequency these days.''
        And he later engaged in a war of words with the publisher of the 13-volume Oxford dictionary over parts of its treatment of the word ''Jew,'' with a definition that referred to old stereotypes of extortionate money-lenders.
        A leader in the Jewish community in Cleveland, Mr. Guralnik had a passion for Yiddish, which he had learned as a child, delivering a weekly radio commentary on words called ''A Yiddish Vort'' and speaking and writing often on the subject. He served as president of the Jewish Community Center, vice president of The Cleveland Jewish News, and a trustee of the Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland. An amateur actor and an avid singer, he joined the Workmen's Circle and was vice president of the Cleveland Chamber Music Society and a member of the Ohio Humanities Council. He was a member of PEN; the Dictionary Society of North America; the American Dialect Society; the Rowfant Club, an association of bibliophiles; and the American Names Society.
        David Bernard Guralnik was born  in Cleveland and had intended to become a teacher, but after graduating from Western Reserve University in 1941, where he would later receive a master's degree, he took the advice of one of his own teachers and quit a summer job at a furniture factory in favor of a dictionary writing job at World Publishing Company of Cleveland.
        After three years in the Army during World War II, where he was a translator in several languages and was awarded the Bronze Star, he returned to the publishing company and became editor in chief of its New World line of dictionaries.
        He was married to the former Shirley Nashkin, a teenage friend, who survives. In addition to their daughter, Ms. Harrington, he is survived by a granddaughter, Jessi Harrington; and two sisters, Sylvia Eigenfeld and Beatrice Herman.
      