
        Harold Lloyd Patton, a stage manager for Ray Charles who is said to have amassed one of the largest private collections of black literature in the United States, died April 19 at a hospital in Burbank, Calif. He was 71.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Emily.
        Mr. Patton assembled an archive of more than 20,000 rare books and first-edition volumes by African-American authors like James Baldwin, Zora Neale Hurston, Jean Toomer and Langston Hughes. An important aspect of the collection was its representation of unknown authors, said Leon F. Litwack, the Pulitzer Prize winning historian and author of books about the black experience in the United States.
        ''It is not limited to the recognizable names in African-American literature,'' said Mr. Litwack, who was Mr. Patton's high school classmate.  ''His decision to buy extensively from vanity presses indicated his belief that these authors deserved to be recognized.''
        James Fugate, an owner of Eso Wan Books in Los Angeles, which specializes in books by black authors, said, ''If we had a notable author who was in town for a signing, Harold would stay until everyone else had left, just to have a discussion with them.''
        Mr. Patton would have the author sign his or her book, then autograph a scrapbook he had titled ''Authors I Have Known,'' which included the signatures of Alice Walker, Ossie Davis and more than 200 others.
        Mr. Patton was born in San Bernardino, Calif., and attended a community college in Ventura, Calif. His father, Dave L. Patton, who owned a general store and was politically active, encouraged his devotion to books and collecting.
        During the 1960s, Mr. Patton was stirred by the growing black consciousness movement, and began collecting contemporary authors. The 16 years he spent traveling the world with Ray Charles enabled him to find rare editions. In time, Mr. Patton expanded his property in Studio City to house his collection.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Patton is survived by 3 daughters, Deborah Woods of Los Angeles, Shonda Patton-Brown of Santa Cruz, Calif., and Marne; 4 sons, Harold Jr., of Los Angeles, Michael, of Florida, Dave, of Port Townsend, Wash, and Todd, of Studio City, Calif.;, 13 grandchildren; and 10 great-grandchildren.
        Mrs. Patton said his family would try to establish a nonprofit entity to keep the collection intact and maintain it as a research resource.
      