
        The Rev. Dr. J. Edward Carothers, a retired minister and former chief executive of national ministries for the United Methodist Church, died on May 1 at his retirement home in Doylestown, Pa., near Philadelphia. He was 92.
        Dr. Carothers, who took a keen interest in theology's relationship to economics, science and technology, published seven books, among them ''Keepers of the Poor,'' published by the church in 1966, and ''To Love or to Perish: Technological Crisis and the Churches'' (Friendship, 1972), of which he was co-editor with Margaret Mead, Roger L. Shinn and Daniel D. McCracken.
        He held positions with the National Council of Churches from 1952 to 1964. He was the drafting editor of documents that the council issued on labor policy, among them one in 1965 that called for the repeal of statutes outlawing union shops.
        Dr. Carothers was chief executive of his denomination's national missions from 1964 to 1972, when he retired to teach, write and serve as an industrial consultant on family welfare.
        For 12 years, until last September, he wrote monthly reviews of books on Christian theology, in a bulletin distributed by the church's board of global ministries.
        John Edward Carothers was born in Las Animas, Colo., about 60 miles east of Pueblo, and graduated in 1930 from Asbury College in Wilmore, Ky., before earning his master's and his doctorate in theology at the Iliff School of Theology in Denver. He was ordained a minister in 1932 and served congregations in Colorado, Vermont and New York.
        Later, as chief executive of the church's national missions, he established the Methodist Urban Service Training program to prepare clergy for the ministry in a changing urban climate. In 1970, he was named executive director of a task force on the future of humanity and the role of the churches.
        Dr. Carothers is survived by his wife of 70 years, Leta Hicks Carothers; two daughters, Bettie Lee Thomas of Portland, Me., and Joan Marsan Murphine of Laguna Beach, Calif.; seven grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      