
        Dr. Toyoichi Tanaka, a biophysicist whose fascination with polymer compounds led him to create the ''smart'' gels that are having an important impact on chemistry, medicine, agriculture and other fields,  died on May 20 in Wellesley, Mass., where he lived. He was 54.
        Dr. Tanaka suffered a fatal heart attack while playing tennis, according to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he had been on the faculty since 1975 and a full professor of physics since 1982.
        It was in 1978 that Dr. Tanaka blended fluid and polymer to create a gel with revolutionary implications.  His subsequent pioneering research on such smart gels has led to their  use in ways as diverse as toxic-waste cleanup and the release of insulin in the body.
        A gel is a polymer, a long chain of monomers, or molecules, that are cross-linked like a web of fibers. The links allow the gel to absorb water within them, giving it elasticity and fluidity.
        Dr. Tanaka's smart gels expand and contract with even tiny changes in temperature, light, a solvent or other stimuli. Their ability to undergo huge though reversible changes in volume allows new systems to be created that can envelop and release materials.
        These gels can be engineered to clean up oil spills, for instance, or to hold and release fragrances in cosmetics. Before he died, Dr. Tanaka  was even exploring the idea that gels might provide clues to the origin of life. ''By understanding the phase transitions of gels,'' he said, ''we can better understand protein functions, the molecular basis of life.''
        Toyoichi Tanaka was born in Nagaoka, Japan. He received his bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees from the University of Tokyo.
        He is survived by his wife of 30 years, Tomoko Tahira Tanaka; a son, Kazunori, of Brookline, Mass.; a daughter, Ayako, of Wellesley Hills; and his parents, Toyosuke and Shizu, and sister, Noriko, all of Japan.
        Dr. Tanaka helped found GelMed Inc. of Bedford, Mass., and a companion company, Gel Sciences Inc., in 1992 and, more recently, Buyo-Buyo Inc. The intention was to explore the medical, cosmetic, commercial and industrial potential of gels. Among other things, he wanted to use smart gels to build artificial muscles.
        ''A muscle just expands and contracts,'' he said, ''and that's what these gels are quite good at.''
      