
        Laurie C. Battle, a former representative from Alabama who was linked to an important piece of cold war legislation, died on May 2 at Bethesda Naval Hospital in Maryland. He was 87 and lived in Alexandria, Va.
        Mr. Battle, a Democrat, served four terms in Congress, representing Birmingham from 1947 to 1955. An opponent of Communism, he was best known as the principal sponsor of the Mutual Defense Assistance Control Act of 1951.
        The legislation, called the Battle Act, blocked the United States from giving aid to countries that shipped goods ''of primary strategic significance'' to the Soviet Union and other nations in Eastern Europe.
        It also gave the president the authority to waive the ban, and Harry S. Truman promptly notified Congress that several countries, including Britain, Denmark, France and Italy, would continue to receive aid from the United States.
        Laurie Calvin Battle was born in Wilsonville, Ala. He received a degree in psychology from Birmingham-Southern College in 1934 and a master's in sociology from Ohio State University in 1939.
        He worked as a laborer and clerk for a natural gas company during the day and taught sociology at Ohio State at night. He joined the Army Air Forces in 1942 and was sent to the Pacific, where he rose to the rank of major, and was awarded a Bronze Star Medal.
        Mr. Battle won his first Congressional race in 1946 on a shoestring budget. Once elected, he demanded strict ethical standards for Congress, insisting that members must not solicit or take favors from people trying to influence votes.
        After four terms, he ran for the Senate in 1954 but lost in the Democratic primary to Senator John Sparkman. He also ran for governor of Alabama in 1958 but lost in a primary election that included  George C. Wallace and John Patterson, who went on to win a runoff and the general election.
        Mr. Battle worked in the insurance business in Birmingham and then as a government relations representative and legislative consultant in Washington. He was staff director and counsel of the House Rules Committee from 1966 to 1976 and was a special adviser to the United States League of Savings Associations.
        He is survived by his wife of 55 years, Janis Hunt Battle; four sons, James, of McLean, Va., Robert, of Portsmouth, Va., L. H. (Chip), of Oak Hill, Va., and Donald, of Birmingham; two daughters, Anne Wagner of Alexandria, Va., and Cindy Rice of Waldorf, Md.; three brothers, Jean, of Tampa, Fla., David, of Huntsville, Ala., and Tom, of Birmingham; three sisters, Blanche Reed and Martha Davies of Birmingham and Mary Virginia Mudd of Baltimore, and 19 grandchildren.
      