
        Dr. Emanuel R. Piore, a retired research physicist who marshaled federal dollars for scientific research, advised presidents and helped I.B.M. develop a new generation of digital computers, died on Tuesday at New York University Hospital. He was 91 and lived in Manhattan.
        After a stint as the Navy's top-ranking scientist, Dr. Piore joined the International Business Machines Corporation in 1956 as director of research. He was a vice president and chief scientist at I.B.M. from 1965 to 1972 and retired the next year from the board of directors, of which he had been a member since 1962.
        Dr. Piore was a strong believer in the value of basic research in the sciences as well as in applied research. As I.B.M.'s leading scientist and a member of its management team, he contributed to the critical choices that hastened the developments in digital computer technology.
        Just after World War II, Dr. Piore  became the first civilian to head the Office of Naval Research.
        ''In that capacity he basically invented the mold of federal research in the United States,'' said David Lazarus, emeritus professor of physics at the University of Illinois at  Urbana, who met Dr. Piore then. ''He did this by persuading the admirals of the Navy to give direct federal support to scientists in the universities, irrespective of the importance of that research to the Navy.''
        After leaving I.B.M., Dr. Piore was an adjunct professor at Rockefeller University, a member of the New York City Board of Higher Education and the chairman of the New York City Hall of Science, of which he was the founding president. He  also had a long association with the New York State Science and Technology Foundation.
        A native of Vilnius, Lithuania, Emanuel Ruben Piore arrived in New York with his mother at age 9. He soon received a scholarship to the Ethical Culture School, graduating in 1926.
        He was a 1930 graduate of the University of Wisconsin and received his doctorate in physics there in 1935.
        He was a physicist in the electronic research laboratories of the Radio Corporation of America and from 1938 to 1942 directed the television laboratory of CBS. In 1942 he went to work for the Navy and spent the next 12 years in a series of increasingly responsible positions.
        He headed the special weapons group in the Bureau of Ships, which did early work on guided missiles. Moving to the Office of Naval Research, he became chief of the electronic branch and eventually the office's chief scientist. Along the way, he helped establish the National Science Foundation.
        When he retired, the Navy honored him with its highest civilian award, the Distinguished Civilian Service Award.
        Dr. Piore served on the Science Advisory Committees of Presidents Dwight D. Eisenhower and John F. Kennedy. He was a board member of the American Institute of Physics and the National Research Council, and a trustee of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, and Hebrew University in Jerusalem.
        He was a member of the American Academy of the Arts and Sciences, the National Academy of Science and the American Philosophical Society.
        Survivors include his wife of 70 years, Nora Kahn Piore; a son, Michael J. of Boston; two daughters, Dr. Margot Onek of Washington and Jane Gilman of South Orange, N.J., and six grandchildren.
      