
        Annalee Newman, who spent 34 years as the wife and another 30 as the widow of Barnett Newman, the Abstract Expressionist painter, died  on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 91.
        ''Artist's wife'' is not a category widely used by art historians, but Mrs. Newman was among the great ones of 20th-century American art, bringing an unusual combination of fierce loyalty and independence to her calling.
        Unlike many American artists' wives, including Elaine de Kooning, Lee Krasner, Sally Avery, Marguerite Zorach, Helen Torr (wife of Arthur Dove) and Dorothy Dehner (wife of David Smith), Mrs. Newman had no artistic ambitions of her own, but she didn't exactly shrink into the shadows, either. Instead, she provided her husband with essential financial and moral support to a degree that makes it difficult to imagine his accomplishment without her.
        Annalee Greenhouse was born in Jaffa, Palestine, in 1909. Her parents were from Russia and on their way to the United States, which they reached when Annalee was 9 months old. The family settled in Akron, Ohio, and moved to Forest Hills in Queens when she was a teenager. She attended Hunter College, where she majored in French and studied to be a teacher.
        It was as a teacher, at a teachers' meeting in 1934, that she met the erudite, loquacious Newman, who was four years her senior and working as a substitute art teacher.
        In the catalog to the retrospective of Newman's work at the Museum of Modern Art in 1971, Thomas B. Hess described how the artist got into a ''heated argument with a beautiful girl who was defending Wagner's opera.''
        ''As Newman was demolishing her case (he often used to prove a point by singing an entire scene from Mozart, taking all the voices), she ran out of the room and slammed the door,'' he continued. ''Newman was very impressed. He found out her name, Annalee Greenhouse, and he courted her with concerts, dancing and poems. They were married on June 30, 1936, and went on a trip to Concord where they spent a week visiting Walden Pond, the Bridge,  Emerson's and Hawthorne's houses and Bronson Alcott's academy -- the shrines of American culture and revolutionary thought. Their love became the center of their lives; they were always together.''
        They made an urbane, voluble couple, living in apartments on the Upper West Side or briefly in Brooklyn, rather than in lofts, although Newman always had studios in lower Manhattan. Mrs. Newman's unshakable faith in her husband's talent saw him through periods of low productivity and despair (in the early 1940's) and critical isolation (like the 1950's), when many people in the art world, including some prominent Abstract Expressionists, were put off by the stringency of his abstraction.
        After Newman had an artistic breakthrough in 1948, the couple decided that he should devote all his energy to his art. They lived almost entirely off Mrs. Newman's teaching salary until the late 1950's, when Newman's paintings began to sell consistently. Low points included visits to a pawnbroker and Newman's attempt to find work as a tailor's fitter, which lasted until his wife canceled his appointment for an interview. Throughout, she maintained a detailed archive of his work that ultimately grew to 40 file cabinets.
        Mrs. Newman, who leaves no immediate survivors, retired from teaching in 1964. After her husband's death in 1970 she moved to an apartment in River House on East 51st Street. Until she suffered severe smoke inhalation during a fire in her building several years ago, she regularly attended parties and openings and was an avid opera fan, often traveling throughout Europe and the United States to attend rare performances. In the early 1980's she established the Barnett Newman Foundation, which holds his archive and library, has published several catalogs on aspects of his work and planned a catalog raisonne, by the art historian Yves-Alain Bois, for 2001.
        But Mrs. Newman devoted the bulk of her energy to placing her husband's paintings in public and private collections in the United States and Europe, an activity she likened to ''marrying our children well.''
      