
        Paul BartelPaul Bartel, a director, screenwriter and actor whose taste for farce, black humor and social satire was reflected in films like ''Eating Raoul,'' ''Death Race 2000'' and ''Scenes From the Class Struggle in Beverly Hills,'' died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 61 and also had a home in Los Angeles.
        The cause was not immediately determined, said his father, William,  who added that Mr. Bartel had undergone eight hours of surgery two weeks ago for cancer of the liver ducts.
        Mr. Bartel, whose love affair with movies began in his childhood, last appeared as Osric in the filmmaker Michael Almereyda's new corporate setting of ''Hamlet,'' and at the time of his death was engaged in discussions with a British producing group about a new film and had also been asked to write episodes of a new television series.
        ''He was interested in theatrics from Day 1,'' his father said as he traced Mr. Bartel's life from childhood marionettes to theater and film studies and to a long career in directing, writing and acting, particularly in independent films.
        Mr. Bartel, in later years a heavyset man with a white beard, achieved his greatest acclaim in 1982, when his ''Eating Raoul'' was chosen for the 20th New York Film Festival.
        ''One has to be careful not to overstate the case when praising 'Eating Raoul,' '' Vincent Canby wrote in his review in The New York Times. ''One mustn't blunt its pleasures by calling it a laff riot. It is full of smiles, punctuated here and there by marvelously unseemly guffaws, but most of the time it works its little wonders quietly. The comic style is purposely flat, plain and ordinary, like a piece of Pop art.''
        Mr. Bartel was not only the director and co-writer of ''Eating Raoul.'' He was also its co-star, joining Mary Woronov in their portrayal of a married couple, Paul and Mary Bland, who like nice things, share a belief that sex is dirty and have the misfortune to live in a Los Angeles apartment house inhabited mostly by swingers. The Blands also share a dream. In time, the prissy Paul, who fancies himself a wine connoisseur, will quit his job in a liquor store, and the sexually charged Mary will leave her job as a hospital dietitian and they will open their own restaurant in the country.
        One day when a drunk swinger, looking for an orgy in the building, invades their apartment and attempts to rape Mary, Paul hits him over the head with a cast iron skillet and kills him. The Blands, who have fallen on hard economic times, empty his wallet and dispose of his body.
        They quickly realize they have found a path to fortune: advertise in the underground press, lure swingers to their apartment, dispatch them with the skillet, rob them and toss the bodies in the garbage compactor, all with a clear conscience.
        As Paul sees it, the victims are ''horrible, sex-crazed perverts that nobody will miss anyway.'' But life grows complicated when Raoul, a young Chicano locksmith with a passion for Mary, attempts to share in  their scheme.
        As Mr. Bartel recalled afterward, ''I was sitting on the terrace of the Carlton Hotel in Cannes, sipping a $7 coffee,'' when Richard Roud, then the director of the New York Film Festival and chairman of its program committee, ''came strolling down the Croisette, casually glanced in my direction and turned thumbs up.''
        Mr. Roud was signaling that Mr. Bartel's $500,000 black comedy had been chosen for the festival, where it was to charm the critics and win their praise. ''I felt enormous elation and relief.'' Mr. Bartel said.
        ''Eating Raoul'' was not his first film at the festival. ''The Secret Cinema,'' a 30-minute film about a New York secretary for whom everybody's paranoid fantasy becomes a reality, was shown in 1967. Mr. Canby called it ''a very funny, completely lunatic experience.''
        Among the films Mr. Bartel directed -- and sometimes acted in or co-wrote -- were ''Cannonball'' (1976), ''Not for Publication'' (1984) and ''Lust in the Dust'' (1985). As an actor he appeared in everything from ''Eat My Dust'' (1976) and ''Rock 'n' Roll High School'' (1979) to ''White Dog'' (1982), ''Heart Like a Wheel'' (1983), ''National Lampoon's European Vacation'' (1985), ''Shelf Life'' (1993), ''The Usual Suspects'' (1995) and ''Basquiat'' (1996).
        Mr. Bartel, the eldest of the two sons and two daughters of William and Jesse Bartel, who died five weeks ago, was born in Brooklyn and grew up in Manhattan and Montclair, N.J. William Bartel said Paul was 4 or 5 when ''he started out with a  marionette show, strung them and built himself a little stage. He really didn't worry too much about learning to articulate the marionettes, but he was great on the dialogue.''
        By the time he was a student at Montclair High School, he had persuaded his father to buy him a 16-millimeter German-made motion picture camera and, in the words of his father, ''proceeded to con'' a teacher into allowing him to devote a semester to making an animated cartoon, doing the main drawings himself and using the class to do the ''in-betweens,'' which required 3,000 cels, the transparent sheets on which the original drawings are traced or transferred.
        Mr. Bartel, who was fluent in French and Italian, studied theater and film at U.C.L.A. and won a Fulbright scholarship that took him to Rome and the Cinecitta studio. He fulfilled his military service by talking his way into the Army Signal Corps Pictorial Center in Long Island City and later made films for the United States Information Agency. By the early 1970's, he was making films in Hollywood.
        Besides his father, of Delray Beach, Fla., and Bay Head, N.J., he is survived by two sisters, Lucy Kizirian of Tallahassee, Fla., and Wendy Bartel of Bay Head, N.J., and a brother, Peter of Floyd, Va.,
      