
        Newell Brown, a labor official in the Eisenhower administration and an aide to Gov. Sherman Adams of New Hampshire before that, died on April 14 at his home in Keene, N.H. He was 82 and had moved there from Dublin, N.H., weeks ago.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        From 1963 until he retired in 1980, Mr. Brown worked at Princeton University, where he established and then directed its career and counseling services. In that period he published two nonfiction books, ''After College, What?'' and ''To Call It a Day in Good Season.''
        Born in Berlin, N.H., he graduated from Princeton in 1939. In World War II he was an Army lieutenant colonel in the Office of Strategic Services, commanding a guerrilla force of Kachin tribesmen operating behind Japanese lines in central Burma toward the end of the war.
        He bought a weekly newspaper, The Journal Transcript, in Franklin, N.H., which he published and edited, and was managing editor of the short-lived newspaper The Strafford Star in Strafford, N.H., before Governor Adams recruited him as an administrative assistant in 1950. A year later the governor appointed him director of the New Hampshire Division of Employment Security.
        Mr. Adams became an assistant to President Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1953, and Mr. Brown followed him to Washington in 1955 as administrator of the wages, hours and public contracts division of the Department of Labor. In 1957 he was named assistant secretary of labor for wage-hour administration.
        After leaving the government in 1961 he handled labor relations for a machine tool company in Hartford. He also earned a master's degree in guidance and counseling at the University of Hartford before joining the staff at Princeton.
        Mr. Brown is survived by three daughters, Rosalind B. McClellan of Nederland, Colo., Alice B. Spencer of Portland, Me., and Hilary M. Brown of Princeton; two sons, Robinson O. of San Francisco and Christopher M., of Washington; two sisters, Frances B. Townes of Berkeley, Calif., and Lee Snow of Falmouth, Me.; two brothers, Fielding, of Williams, Mass., and Brenton, of Peterborough, N.H.; and seven grandchildren. His marriage to Alice Osborn Breese of Heightstown, N.J., ended in divorce.
      