
        Barry Ulanov, a professor and author or translator of nearly 50 books whose interests included jazz, theater, Christian humanism, visual art, Carl Jung and Catholic literature, died Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived in Manhattan and Woodbury, Conn.
        Mr. Ulanov placed popular culture within the context of American art rather than isolating it as mere entertainment, and wrote some of America's first serious books on jazz. He taught at Princeton University and Barnard College for almost four decades, covering subjects as varied as literature, art, religion and psychology.
        He was born in Manhattan to Nathan and Jeanette Ulanov, who had immigrated from Russia. His father was concertmaster of Arturo Toscanini's NBC Philharmonic and had a horror of jazz. He wanted his son to become a classical violinist.
        But the younger Mr. Ulanov, already smitten with jazz, broke both his wrists in a car accident as a teenager; this served as a convenient excuse to stop playing the violin.
        When the family moved to Brooklyn, Mr. Ulanov attended Abraham Lincoln High School, where he was valedictorian. He chose Columbia University over Harvard to be closer to Harlem's jazz scene. There he studied with the anthropologist Franz Boas and the critic Lionel Trilling; he edited the literary magazine, publishing some of the first articles and cartoons by Thomas Merton; and began to write about jazz for The Spectator.
        After graduating in 1939 he became the editor of Metronome, a classical music magazine that also covered white swing bands. He remade the magazine, adding a focus on jazz, bebop and black performers.
        In the 1940's he planned a trilogy on the figures he considered most important in American popular music: Duke Ellington, Bing Crosby and Louis Armstrong. ''Duke Ellington,'' published in 1946, was the first biography of Ellington. ''The Incredible Crosby'' was published in 1948; the Armstrong book was never written. Mr. Ulanov also wrote two overviews of jazz history, ''A History of Jazz in America'' and ''A Handbook of Jazz,'' both in the 1950's.
        During the 1950's, he wrote about music for Esquire, Vogue, and Down Beat, as well as scripts for radio and television. He was known for championing bebop performers, particularly Dizzy Gillespie and Charlie Parker.  He was also an early crusader for the work of the pianist Lennie Tristano, who repaid the favor by writing a tune called ''Coolin' Off With Ulanov.''
        In 1951, Mr. Ulanov and his first wife, Joan Bel Geddes, daughter of the stage designer Norman Bel Geddes, converted to Catholicism. (They were divorced in 1968.) Much of his writing and teaching from then on involved religion.
        In the 1950's, as Mr. Ulanov began teaching, he wrote and translated several books on religion and culture, as well as American art.
        ''He was one of those teachers you either hated or you loved,'' said his daughter Anne.
        Mr. Ulanov, an imposing presence,  was known for uniting disciplines in his classes. He taught in the English department at Princeton University from 1951 to 1953 and at Barnard College from 1953 to 1988.
        He was president of the Catholic Renascence Society, a group that included the author Flannery O'Connor; with Ms. Bel Geddes he translated essays by the French Catholic writer Georges Bernanos; and he created the St. Thomas More Society, an intellectual discussion group. He was a member of the Vatican II Council, helping to translate the Roman Catholic Mass into the vernacular from Latin. He was also a supporter of amplified guitars and rock music in the church.
        The last two decades of Mr. Ulanov's career were dedicated to a combined exploration of religion and psychology. With his second wife, Ann Belford Ulanov, a professor of psychiatry and religion at Union Theological Seminary in Manhattan, he published a dozen books. After leaving Barnard,  he taught one course each semester at Union Theological Seminary on  psychiatry and religion until last year.
        He is survived by his wife; his daughters, Anne, of Poughkeepsie, N.Y., and Katherine, of City Island, the Bronx; a son, Nicholas, of Princeton, N.J., London and Paris; and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  May 8, 2000, Monday  An obituary yesterday about Barry Ulanov, a scholar of jazz, art and Roman Catholicism, omitted a surviving son. He is Alexander Ulanov of Manhattan and Woodbury, Conn.
      