
        Francis Lederer, a Czech-born actor whose dark good looks made him a suave, continental character in films from the silent era through the 1950's and who continued to teach weekly acting classes in Los Angeles until just a few weeks ago, died on Thursday at his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 100.
        Mr. Lederer's career spanned the century from ''Pandora's Box,'' the 1929 German silent film in which Louise Brooks made a scandalous splash as Lulu the prostitute, to the television series ''Mission Impossible'' and ''Night Gallery,'' in which he played guest roles four decades later. He also played assorted rogues, charmers, horror villains and a Nazi spy opposing Edward G. Robinson in the 1939 Warner Brothers drama, ''Confessions of a Nazi Spy.''
        In ''Midnight,'' Billy Wilder's 1939 comedy that starred Don Ameche and Claudette Colbert, Mr. Lederer played a typical part: Jacques Picot, a gigolo attached to Mary Astor. In its review at the time, Variety  said Mr. Lederer was ''aptly cast as the love pirate.'' With a slight accent and silken air, he played a philandering actor who accidentally kisses Ida Lupino in a darkened theater in ''One Rainy Afternoon'' (1936) and a sinister valet who stalks Paulette Goddard in Jean Renoir's ''Diary of a Chambermaid'' (1946).
        Frantisek Lederer was born in Prague, which was then part of Austria-Hungary. He was an established stage actor in Europe by the 1920's, in Shakespeare to Sir Noel Coward, in German, making his first big hit in Berlin as Romeo opposite Elisabeth  Bergner's Juliet. He began making films, including ''Pandora's Box,'' directed by G. W. Pabst, in which he was billed as Franz Lederer, and played the son of a prominent man seduced by the doomed, amoral Lulu, who is himself seduced by her as well.
        ''I absolutely adored her, she was a mysterious person, perfectly cast for that part,'' Mr. Lederer once said of Miss Brooks, who became a Jazz Age icon of sexuality. ''We couldn't talk. She didn't speak a word of German. I didn't speak a word of English. We just looked at each other.''
        Mr. Lederer came to Broadway in 1932, to repeat his London stage success in a play called ''Autumn Crocus,'' and was soon being billed by R.K.O Pictures as the ''newest and most popular New York matinee idol.'' He told reporters at the time that he was a confirmed bachelor and that ''domesticity would kill me, yes kill me.''
        But in fact, as Louella Parsons reported some time later, he was already married to Ada Nejedly, a European opera singer he later divorced. He was then married to Maria Marguerita Guadalupe Teresa Estela Bolado Castilla y O'Donnell, the actress known as Margo, for three years, before finally settling down in 1941 with the former Marion Irvine of Toronto, who survives him.
        The Lederers, who had no children, lived on a ranch in the San Fernando Valley community Canoga Park, of which Mr. Lederer was honorary mayor for more than 20 years before moving to Palm Springs after their home was damaged in the 1994 Northridge earthquake. After his movie career dwindled to forgettable roles like a vampire in ''The Return of Dracula'' in 1958, he began an acting workshop that became the American National Academy of Performing Arts in Los Angeles and continued to teach a Tuesday night class there until a few weeks ago, driving in from the desert. ''Francis always kept his hand in the theater,'' Mrs. Lederer said in a telephone interview. In later years, he played the father in the national tour of ''The Diary of Anne Frank,'' and appeared in other plays. In 1998 he was featured in a television documentary about Brooks, ''Looking for Lulu.''
        A lifelong pacifist since his elder brother was killed in World War I, Mr. Lederer once told The Desert Sun of Palm Springs that he was most proud of having formed an antiwar group, the World Peace Federation, in 1934, to urge nations to ''outlaw war by nationwide vote.''
      