
        Karl Shapiro, whose mordant verse, written when he was a young soldier in New Guinea in World War II, earned him a Pulitzer Prize in 1945, died on Sunday at a hospice in New York City. He was 86.
        Only the most embroidered adjectives could describe the success Mr. Shapiro achieved in his early days. His recognition was instant, his acclaim was broad-based, his readers anticipatory, his future boundless. Louise Bogan wrote in The New Yorker in 1942 that Mr. Shapiro was ''on all grounds, the finest young American talent to appear in many seasons,'' and Selden Rodman, writing in The New Republic, called Mr. Shapiro a ''true spokesman for our generation.''
        Mr. Shapiro earned such praise for poems like ''Elegy for a Dead Soldier,'' which appeared in 1944.
        A white sheet on the tailgate of a truck
        Becomes an altar; two small candlesticks
        Sputter at each side of the Crucifix
        Laid round with flowers brighter than the blood,
        Red as the red of our apocalypse
        Hibiscus that a marching man will pluck
        To stick into his rifle or his hat,
        And great blue morning-glories pale as lips
        That shall no longer taste or kiss or swear.
        The wind begins a low magnificat,
        The chaplin chants, the palmtrees swirl their hair,
        The columns come together through the mud.
        During the 1950's and early 60's he edited Poetry magazine and then Prairie Schooner and published much poetry and criticism. But in time his recognition faded, his acclaim evaporated, his readers appeared distracted, even fickle, and his future proved much more limited than anyone imagined on that spring day in 1945 when the young veteran dropped by Columbia University to have lunch and pick up his Pulitzer for ''V-Letter and Other Poems.''
        By 1985, Richard Tillinghast, in The New York Times Book Review, could say that Mr. Shapiro had become ''more a name than a presence.'' The Journal of the American Medical Association once mistakenly included him in a list of writers who had committed suicide, and in 1978 he showed up as a ''late U.S. poet'' in a crossword puzzle in The Times. He sued the A.M.A. (which settled out of court, Mr. Shapiro said) and called his 1990 autobiography ''Reports of My Death.''
        In his autobiography, he acknowledged that he had spent more than 20 years trying to stem a decline of interest in his work. To be ''put on a pedestal before your clay was dry was to invite disaster,'' he wrote.
        Carolyn Kizer, who won her own Pulitzer Prize for poetry 40 years after Mr. Shapiro won it, wrote in The Los Angeles Times in 1985 that Mr. Shapiro not only invited disaster ''but lusted after it.''
        There are those poets, however, who continued to believe in Mr. Shapiro's work. Stanley Kunitz and David Ignatow put together an anthology of Mr. Shapiro's poems to be published in 1998 called ''The Wild Card: Selected Poems, Early and Late'' (University of Illinois Press).
        In a 1997 interview, Mr. Kunitz agreed that as Mr. Shapiro grew older, ''there was a waning of invention, the freshness of his work did seem to lessen.'' But he asserted that he was ''one of the most neglected poets'' and that ''the protean nature of Shapiro's work'' was such that it deserves to be reevaluated.
        Mr. Kunitz said that Mr. Shapiro's decline was due more to his roiling the literary waters and angering critics than to the loss of creativity.
        ''He offended many in the literary culture with a certain brashness of tone in voice, a refusal to be conciliatory,'' Mr. Kunitz said. ''He was a guy who took great chances. He was a gambler. He played the wild card for high stakes and this is not what the academician/critics wanted.''
        In an article for The Times Book Review in 1959 that drew wide attention, Mr. Shapiro shocked readers and fellow poets alike when he wrote that he thought poetry was ''a diseased art,'' and he made no bones about his belief that he thought the principal carriers of the disease were such modern poets as T. S. Eliot, Wallace Stevens, Marianne Moore, Yeats and Ezra Pound.
        Mr. Shapiro likened Eliot and Pound to Jekyll and Hyde and said that if Eliot appeared to be the more savory of the two it was only ''because of his identification with the British church and state.'' In Mr. Shapiro's view, Walt Whitman was the only world-class poet America had produced.
        Other writers he thought worth reading were William Carlos Williams, Dylan Thomas and Henry Miller. (Mr. Shapiro thought so much of Miller that he wrote an introduction to a 1961 edition of Miller's ''Tropic of Cancer,'' which for 20 years had been suppressed in the United States as obscene.)
        In a famous episode in American letters, Mr. Shapiro years earlier had also found himself a lonely figure on the poetry barricades. In November 1948, the Fellows in American Letters of the Library of Congress, an advisory body, met to award the first Bollingen Prize in Poetry for the best book of verse by an American poet during the previous year. The fellows were Mr. Shapiro, Leonie Adams, Conrad Aiken, W. H. Auden, Louise Bogan, Katherine Garrison Chapin, T. S. Eliot, Paul Green, Robert Lowell, Katherine Anne Porter, Theodore Spencer, Allen Tate, Willard Thorp and Robert Penn Warren.
        After several ballots, the prize went to Ezra Pound for ''The Pisan Cantos.'' Only two fellows, Mr. Chapin and Mr. Shapiro, voted for another author, William Carlos Williams, and Mr. Green abstained.
        During the war years, Pound was in Italy delivering pro-Fascist radio broadcasts. By  V-E Day, May 8, 1945, he was in the custody of the United States Army in Genoa, then was confined at Pisa until November, when he was brought to Washington. Three months later, having been declared psychologically unfit to stand trial on treason charges, he was committed to St. Elizabeths Hospital. He was still there when he was awarded the Bollingen.
        Pound's award on Feb. 20, 1949 met widespread criticism in the press and in Congress. The Library of Congress withdrew from awarding the prize. Pound received his $1,000, but the Library returned $9,000 to the Bollingen Foundation, which later granted the money to the Yale University Library so that the prize could continue. Mr. Shapiro received a Bollingen Prize himself in 1969.
        After he publicly disassociated himself from the award to Pound, he recalled, ''I was suddenly forced into a conscious decision to stand up and be counted as a Jew. Jewish organizations got in touch with me, Jewish papers wanted me to write things for them, make me a spokesman.''
        It was not a role with which he could ever feel entirely comfortable. Although he wrote poems about the Jewish experience and about the war, he always wanted to be regarded as just a poet, not a soldier poet or a Jewish poet. Indeed, he became quite interested in Christianity, at one point studying to become a Catholic. But he regarded himself as ''above religion.''
        Carl Jay Shapiro was born in Baltimore on Nov. 10, 1913, the son of Joseph Shapiro, a traveling salesman, and the former Sarah Omansky. As an adult, he legally changed the spelling of his first name, substituting the ''K'' for the ''C.'' His family moved to Chicago when he was 6 but returned to Baltimore when he was 16. There he finished high school and began to write poetry. Of that city he once wrote:
        The camera of my eye depicts
        row-houses and row-lives;
        glass after glass, door after door the same
        face after face the same, the same,
        the brutal visibility the same.
        He had an unsatisfying stint at the University of Virginia and studied music at the Peabody Institute. He played the piano and considered poetry ''the music of language.'' With financial aid from an uncle, Mr. Shapiro's first slim volume of poems was published in 1935 by a friend of his uncle's, a publisher of medical textbooks. Mr. Shapiro then won a scholarship to Johns Hopkins University but stayed there only two years. He left to seek work, but shortly before the United States formally entered World War II, he was drafted into the Army. He never earned a degree.
        He was assigned to a medical unit and sent to New Guinea. After he witnessed the amputation of a soldier's leg in New Guinea, he wrote a poem that began:
        One day beside some flowers near his
        nose
        He will be thinking, When will I look
        at it?
        And pain, still in the middle distance,
        will reply
        At what? He knows it's gone,
        O where! and begin to tremble and cry.
        He will begin to cry as a child cries
        Whose puppy is mangled under a
        screaming wheel.
        After his ''V-Letter and Other Poems'' won the Pulitzer, his verse was sought after in many anthologies. A year later, he attracted more attention with his ''Essay on Rime,'' also written in New Guinea. It discussed ''rime'' in its widest connotation, and it was noteworthy for its intellectual acuity, the scholarship for which was evident even though it had been created without consulting any books. F. O. Matthiessen, reviewing it in The Times Book Review, said, ''The book may very well be the most remarkable contribution to American art yet to have come out of the war.''
        But certain others found it disturbing. Delmore Schwartz, reviewing it for The Nation, took offense at Mr. Shapiro's condemnation of intellectuals -- Mr. Shapiro wrote that he'd rather be a milkman or barber than an intellectual. Years later, Mr. Shapiro wrote a foreword to the ''Letters of Delmore Schwartz'' (1984).
        Mr. Shapiro was undeterred by his critics and kept writing, but his stature was not helped by the libretto he wrote in 1955 for a one-act comic opera by Hugo Weisgall called ''The Tenor.'' The Times dismissed the opera as ''very bad.''
        Three years later, he won better notices with his ''Poems of a Jew,'' in which he said that ''the free modern Jew is neither hero nor victim. He is man left over, after everything that can happen has happened.''
        He worked, not always happily, describing himself as shedding jobs ''like a poodle shaking off bath water.'' He taught writing at Johns Hopkins from 1948 to 1950; edited Poetry magazine from 1950 to 1956; and taught literature at the University of Illinois and at the University of California at Davis, where he remained from 1968 to 1985.
        Mr. Shapiro also received the Shelley Memorial Prize of the Poetry Society of America, the Oscar Blumenthal Prize, and, on two occasions, Guggenheim fellowships. Among his works were ''English Prosody and Modern Poetry'' (1947); ''The Bourgeois Poet'' (1964); ''To Abolish Children'' (1968); ''Edsel,'' his only novel (1971); ''Adult Bookstore'' (1976); ''Collected Poems, 1948-1978'' (1978), and ''New and Selected Poems, 1940-1986.''
        Mr. Kunitz regarded ''The Bourgeois Poet'' as Mr. Shapiro's finest book, reflecting the full flower of his creativity as well as the influence of the Beat Poets, who transfixed Mr. Shapiro for a few years in the 1960's.
        Mr. Shapiro's first marriage, to Evalyn Katz, his editor and agent, ended in divorce in 1967. He is survived by two children from that marriage, a son, Jacob, of Alexandria, Va., and a daughter, Kathy Shapiro, of Montpelier, Vt. He married Teri Kovach in 1967. She died in 1982. He married Sophie Wilkens in 1985. She also survives him, along with three grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      