
        Dr. Alonzo A. Crim, the first black superintendent of schools in a major city in the South, died Wednesday at a hospital in Atlanta after an automobile accident. He was 71.
        The accident, involving Dr. Crim's car and two others, occurred a few blocks from a high school named for him. The other drivers suffered some injuries.
        Dr. Crim was Atlanta's school superintendent from 1973 until he stepped down in 1988. He was the superintendent of a school district in Carmel, Calif., when he was invited to take over Atlanta's public school system, thus becoming the first black superintendent ever hired by a major Southern school system.
        When he got to Atlanta, he said he would build a system ''where students would know that people cared about them'' and would help them achieve.
        He is widely credited with achieving that goal, and received an honorary degree from Princeton and another from Harvard for being ''a wise and perceptive schoolman who has rallied his city to the cause of better public education.''
        Dr. Crim was appointed superintendent in fulfillment of a settlement regarding school desegregation that stipulated the appointment of a black superintendent and a balance between black and white administrators.
        When Dr. Crim took over the Atlanta schools system, it was in disarray, with standards plummeting, teachers and students being shunted from school to school for racial reasons, and its institutional structure unraveling.
        In a community where power was split between blacks and whites, he endeavored to foster stability, accepted goals and academic standards, and advancement as measured by those goals and standards.
        And indeed, by 1986, student performance levels in basic skills were higher than the national average. School attendance had increased 6 percent to 8 percent, and automatic promotions were being done away with.
        He was also applauded for having raised the graduation rate to more than 70 percent, and school attendance to more than 92 percent. He was remembered this week by The Atlanta Journal as ''the courtly, optimistic superintendent who brought Atlanta schools through tumultuous years of desegregation and white flight, and managed to teach the city something about civility in the process.''
        Charles V. Willie, a retired professor at Harvard's graduate school of education, where Dr. Crim received a doctorate in 1969, said, ''We always pointed'' to what Dr. Crim was doing in Atlanta ''as the work of an outstanding superintendent, in desegregation and in the area of curriculum change.''
        By early 1986 Dr. Crim was the longest-tenured black superintendent of schools in the nation.
        In 1987, he was mentioned as a possible successor to New York's retiring schools chancellor, Nathan Quinones.
        Dr. Crim retired in 1988, and a year later it was reported that student scores on standard tests had begun to drop while he was superintendent. In addition, enrollment declined while he was superintendent because white students moved out of the system.
        After retiring, he taught educational administration at Georgia State University.
        A native of Chicago, he served in the Navy in 1945 and 1946.
        He received a bachelor's degree in 1950 in sociology from Roosevelt College, did graduate work at Chicago Teacher's College in 1953 and 1954 and received a master's degree in education administration in 1958 from the University of Chicago, and a doctorate in educational administration in 1969 from Harvard.
        His wife, Gwendolyn, died in February of a heart attack.
        His survivors include a son, Timothy, and twin daughters, Sharon C. Mercer and Susan Crim-McLendon, all of Atlanta, and eight grandchildren.
      