
        Erich Mielke, the former head of the dreaded East German security agency known as the Stasi, has died at 92, German officials said yesterday. The daily Kurier said Mr. Mielke had died May 21 in a home for the elderly in his native Berlin.
        From 1957 until the Berlin Wall fell in 1989, the Stasi wielded enormous power, making Mr. Mielke the most influential person in East Germany after the Communist Party leader, Erich Honecker.
        Born into poverty in pre-World War I Berlin, Mr. Mielke joined the Communist youth movement at age 15, and his career epitomized the grimness of Communist rule in East Germany, where assassination, kidnapping, execution, denunciation and intimidation were used to achieve and maintain power under the long, menacing shadow of the Soviet Union.
        Mr. Mielke and the ministry for state security kept the 16.5 million people of East Germany obedient to Communism and repressed dissent for more than 30 years. Not only did the ministry pursue an effective campaign against those it regarded as enemies of the state, but its army of 90,000 agents and 260,000 informers finally turned East Germany into a country that spied on itself.
        Stasi informants, many of them coerced, spread suspicion and betrayal throughout society -- between spouses, between schoolmates, between office colleagues -- a terror that outlasted the East German state, which effectively collapsed when the Berlin Wall fell, and formally ceased to exist when Germany reunified in October 1990.
        Mr. Mielke's creed, expressed to subordinates in 1982 and recorded for Stasi archives, was: ''All this twaddle about no executions and no death sentences, it's all junk, comrades. Execute, if need be without a court sentence.''
        The authorities of reunited Germany arrested Mr. Mielke, but poor health saved him from trial on charges linked to his Stasi activities, including human rights abuses, fraud and embezzlement, and responsibility for killing Germans trying to escape west across East Germany's heavily guarded borders.
        He was also accused of illegally sheltering terrorists of the Red Army Faction, who were on all the international most-wanted lists, and of plotting to set up internment camps for East German dissidents.
        When he did go to jail in 1992, it was for the part he played in the killing of two policemen in Berlin 61 years earlier, in August 1931. The officers were shot dead in retaliation for the killing of a young Communist during the violent final days of the Weimar Republic.
        Although only 5 feet 4, Mr. Mielke was then a muscular 23-year-old member of a Communist unit trained in firearms and streetfighting, and was at the scene of the shooting. More than 20 Communists were eventually brought to trial in connection with the killings, and one was later executed, but Mr. Mielke escaped to the Soviet Union before he could be arrested.
        The Berlin prosecutors brought Mr. Mielke to trial for the killings shortly after German unification, relying in part on evidence gathered years earlier by the Gestapo. Mr. Mielke countered that when the Berlin Wall fell in 1989, he had the chance to flee to the Soviet Union but decided to stay.
        At his trial, Mr. Mielke was carried in and out of the courtroom, but independent physicians said he was simulating illness. He never testified.
        He was finally convicted of the 1931 murders and sentenced to six years in prison. The judge who presided, Theodor Seidel, said in pronouncing sentence that Mr. Mielke ''will go down in history as one of the most fearsome dictators and police ministers of the 20th century.''
        Mr. Mielke was jailed at the old Moabit prison, where warders trying to help his morale supplied him with a red telephone, the kind he had enjoyed as a member of the East German Communist politburo. Though it was not connected to the outside world, ''he began dialing and conducting imaginary conversations,'' a police official said, ''and soon he brightened up.'' His other pastime was television game shows.
        Mr. Mielke served the standard two-thirds of his term and was released in 1995, going to live in an apartment a mile from his birthplace using the name Muller.
        Erich Mielke was born Dec. 28, 1907, in a tenement in western Berlin, close to where the Berlin Wall was erected by the Communists in 1961. His father was a woodworker from West Prussia; his mother died after the birth of another son.
        Mr. Mielke is survived by his wife, Gertrude, and a son, Frank.
        He was a good student, permitted to attend a privileged high school. But he left voluntarily at 16 after joining the Communist Youth Association, and began work at a transport firm. At 19 he was an active street agitator and member of the Communist party.
        After escaping to Moscow in 1931 to avoid arrest in the officers' deaths, Mr. Mielke took the name Paul Bach, and attended the International Lenin School for two years to prepare for a career in the security services. The Soviets sent him to Spain at the beginning of the civil war in 1936. Using the nom de guerre Fritz Leissner, he served as a staff officer of the 14th International Brigade fighting against Franco's forces, eventually gaining the rank of captain.
        After Franco's victory in 1939, Mr. Mielke made his way to France, where he was interned after the German invasion. He escaped and, with false papers, worked as a woodcutter until he was picked up again by German authorities in late 1943 and placed in a forced-labor unit. A month after the end of the war, he got to the Soviet Zone of Occupation -- East Germany -- and was immediately employed as a police inspector.
        With the approval of the Soviets, who fostered his career from the outset, he was assigned to help build the East German political police, and rose steadily over the next decade, becoming minister for state security in 1957.
        During his years of power, he expected to be addressed as Comrade Minister Army General. He lived in a heavily guarded settlement for party leaders at Wandlitz, north of Berlin, and shot game at a special preserve nearby. He was devoted to Stalin and was recorded toasting the Soviet leader in 1970, long after his crimes were exposed.
        Along the way Mr. Mielke personally interrogated errant party comrades, some of whom were executed. ''I'll chop your head off!'' he shouted during one such session, according to a 1995 profile of him in the weekly Der Spiegel.
        He had an uneasy relationship with Markus Wolf, the legendary head of Stasi's foreign intelligence operations. Mr. Mielke said he forced Mr. Wolf to resign; Mr. Wolf said in his 1997 autobiography, ''Man Without a Face,'' that he left the service in 1986 of his own free will, and that was the official version. ''He considered himself my rival,'' Mr. Wolf wrote of Mr. Mielke, describing him as ''a warped personality even by the peculiar standards of morality that apply in the espionage world.''
        Mr. Mielke was called in January 1997 to testify when Mr. Wolf went on trial in Dusseldorf on charges of politically motivated kidnappings, but did not appear. Mr. Wolf was later acquitted.
        Mr. Mielke was said to have played a role in the ouster of Honecker by the ruling Communist Party politburo in the fall of 1989. At a critical moment at a meeting of the politburo, Mr. Mielke presented an old Stasi dossier that said Honecker had collaborated with the Gestapo when he was a political prisoner of the Nazis during World War II. Officials at the meeting said the file helped sway the vote against Honecker, who was replaced by Egon Krenz. Honecker died in 1994.
        Just weeks later, the leadership opened the Berlin Wall, and East Germany -- the German Democratic Republic -- swiftly became history.
        Years later, in a prison visitors' room, Mr. Mielke said: ''If the party had given me the task, then there would perhaps still be a G.D.R. today. On that you can rely.''
      