
        Dr. Irving L. Lichtenstein, who transformed hernia surgery from an operation requiring hospitalization and long recuperation into an uncomplicated outpatient procedure, died June 11 at his home in Marina del Rey, Calif. He was 80.
        The cause was Parkinson's disease, his family said.
        Dr. Lichtenstein announced his new procedure in 1964, to the dismay of many in the medical establishment. For a century before that, surgeons had regarded the repair of hernias, which occur when tissues protrude through a weakened area of muscle wall, as a straightforward, not especially interesting procedure with a basic technique hardly worth revisiting.
        A patient was admitted to the hospital and, on the day of surgery, given general anesthesia. A surgeon made an incision into the appropriate area of the abdomen and sewed the tear back together with sutures designed not to dissolve. The patient stayed in the hospital as long as a week and was then sent home, forbidden to work, for about two months. The thinking was that if the patient exerted himself too soon, the tear would recur.
        Dr. Lichtenstein, however, said that both the prolonged bed rest and the general anesthesia were unnecessary -- and that the anesthesia was even counterproductive. To prove this point, he insisted that many of his patients walk away from the table after surgery.
        ''My dad loved drama,'' his daughter Leslie Lichtenstein of Los Angeles said. ''That was dramatic.''
        Dr. Lichtenstein, who was long active in the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California, also loved a good battle, and he got one when he stood in front of a thousand doctors attending an American Medical Association meeting in San Francisco in 1964 and told them they were handling hernia patients all wrong.
        A 1986 article in a magazine published by Dr. Lichtenstein's alma mater, MCP Hahnemann University School of Medicine in Pennsylvania, recounted how he had been peppered by angry questions at the meeting. When Dr. Lichtenstein's time was up, the program director, eager to get things rolling again, suggested that those who still had questions take them into the hallway. Hundreds did so.
        ''I was shocked,'' Dr. Lichtenstein remembered. ''So many people followed. Physicians were shouting questions at me, criticizing me, challenging me. There was a great deal of confusion and disorganization.''
        In truth, Dr. Lichtenstein had done little, at least initially, to change the basic way hernias were treated. With some minor modifications, like using a stronger suture material, he was performing a 100-year-old technique developed by Edoardo Bassini, an Italian surgeon. It was on the question of how long patients needed to recover that he broke new ground.
        ''He exploded the myth of not letting the patient do any physical activity for two months,'' said Dr. Parviz K. Amid, director of the Lichtenstein Hernia Institute, which was founded in 1984.
        Dr. Lichtenstein focused on hernia operations only after becoming interested in the broader issue of how wounds heal.
        In the late 1950's, while he was teaching at U.C.L.A. Medical School and working at what is now known as Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, he watched as a gallbladder patient he had just sewn up began to retch violently. Remarkably, the incision did not reopen, and Dr. Lichtenstein began to wonder about the reliability of the information he and untold others had been given about wound healing.
        Over the next several years, Dr. Lichtenstein established that in animals, a properly sutured tear immediately regained 70 percent of its strength, and that what mattered most was how it was sewn up and what material was used. To test his ideas on humans, he settled on hernia patients, since their injuries were generally confined to the tear itself. He used local instead of general anesthesia so that the patients would be able to follow his instructions on the table; he would have them cough, for example, to test the strength of the repair.
        Although Dr. Lichtenstein reported high success rates, it took years for his practices to be widely adopted. It was only about two decades later, in part because of pressure from managed care to control costs, that they became truly widespread. Outpatient treatment for hernias is now normal practice; almost a million of the procedures are performed each year, mostly on men.
        In the meantime, Dr. Lichtenstein worked to refine the surgery, devising simpler suture techniques and using mesh screens to reduce the risk of the hernia's recurring.
        Dr. Lichtenstein's practice was in Beverly Hills. He stopped operating about 18 years ago, as a result of Parkinson's disease.
        Irving Lester Lichtenstein was born on Feb. 21, 1920, in Philadelphia. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania before attending Hahnemann. In addition to his daughter Leslie, he is survived by his wife, Lisa, and three daughters: Nancy, of Los Angeles, Patricia Bisch of Santa Barbara, Calif., and Joanne Lichtenstein of Mill Valley, Calif. His marriage to the former Billie Ruth Herskowitz, the mother of his children, ended in divorce.
        Correction:  July 6, 2000, Thursday  An obituary on June 25 about Dr. Irving L. Lichtenstein, who made hernia surgery an outpatient procedure, misstated the surname of his former wife. She is Billie Ruth Berkowitz, not Herskowitz. A picture caption with the obituary misidentified the man shown with Dr. Lichtenstein.  He was Dr. Alex Shulman, a former colleague, not Dr. Parviz K. Amid.
      