
        Merton H. Miller, a professor of finance who won the 1990 Nobel in economic science for helping develop theories that were used to evaluate the risks of individual investments, died yesterday at his home in Chicago. He was 77 and had been suffering from lymphoma, said Allan Friedman, a spokesman for the University of Chicago's Graduate School of Business.
        Mr. Miller's ideas have been credited with changing Wall Street and the investment habits of millions of Americans. Until Mr. Miller and Franco Modigliani, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, developed the theories, it was generally assumed that companies could raise capital cheaply by borrowing or raise it safely by issuing more stock.
        But the pivotal Miller-Modigliani theory, published in a 1958 paper, held what has become the most basic tenet of corporate financing: that the value of a company is determined by its investment decisions and not by its financing choices.
        In a statement yesterday, Robert Hamada, the dean of the University of Chicago business school, said Mr. Miller was ''the founder of modern finance and the person who fathered the discipline from an institutional field of study to one that is truly a legitimate and well-accepted part of economics and business.''
        Mr. Miller taught at the business school for 32 years.
        His theory was based on the notion that while more corporate debt might make profits vary from year to year, the extra risk should not affect a stock's price because conservative investors could always ''deleverage'' their assets by holding more of a low-risk asset, like a bank deposit. Mr. Miller could be viewed as among ''the intellectual fathers of the mutual fund'' for this work, Robert Litan, an economist at the Brookings Institution, once said. Mr. Miller was also known for showing corporations the tax benefits of repurchasing their stock rather than paying dividends, now a common practice.
        Merton Howard Miller was born in Boston. He received a bachelor's degree from Harvard University in 1943. He worked as an economist in the Treasury Department and at the Federal Reserve during World War II before earning a doctorate in economics in 1952 from Johns Hopkins University.
        After appointments at the London School of Economics and Carnegie-Mellon University, Mr. Miller joined the University of Chicago faculty in 1961, and remained there until his retirement in 1993.
        Mr. Miller's first wife, Eleanor, died in 1969. He is survived by his wife, Katherine; three daughters, Margot Horn, Pamela Chwedyk and Louise Lorber; and two grandsons.
      