
        Dowager Empress Nagako of Japan, the widow of Emperor Hirohito, died yesterday after a life that saw the transformation of her homeland several times over. She was 97.
        ''She passed away because of old age despite strenuous nursing,'' Sadame Kamakura, the grand steward of the imperial household, said at a news conference in Tokyo. ''We feel unbearable grief.''
        Nagako spent her life insulated deep inside a Japan that no longer exists. Indeed, she was one of the last Japanese who could remember life inside the aristocracy early in the 20th century or in the palace during the time when people spoke an archaic imperial form of Japanese that has largely disappeared.
        Born on March 6, 1903, the eldest daughter of a prince, Nagako was chosen at 14 to be the consort of Crown Prince Hirohito. They were formally married in 1924 -- their wedding delayed by the catastrophic Tokyo earthquake of 1923. Just two years later, Emperor Taisho died, and Hirohito succeeded him.
        Thus Nagako became wife not just of the emperor, but also of a ''living god,'' a deity in the State Shinto religion that prevailed. It was not initially a love marriage at all, and they seem to have lived their heavily scripted lives for duty and responsibility more than for pleasure.
        Nagako's main duty, as most Japanese saw it, was producing a son. Under Japanese law, then and now, only a son can inherit the throne, and there was growing disquiet as she produced four daughters in a row.
        Court officials are said to have arranged elaborate temptations for Hirohito, in the form of gorgeous young women who might produce an heir. By the time Nagako became pregnant for the fifth time, in 1933, it was widely expected that Hirohito would formally take another consort if the child was again a girl. But then booming cannons proclaimed to an overjoyed nation that the child was a boy, today's Emperor Akihito.
        For a deity, Emperor Hirohito had relatively little power. Even day-to-day decisions were made by bossy court officials, and when Akihito was 3, he was taken from his parents and raised by attendants who treated him with more veneration than warmth. He seems to have had a painfully lonely childhood. But Nagako never complained publicly about the separation.
        The emperor was used by Japan's military rulers as a rallying symbol for World War II, and he periodically appeared in a military uniform on a white horse, making comments like, ''Your life is as light as a feather, but your loyalty is as heavy as a mountain.'' There has been a debate about the degree to which he bore responsibility for the war fought in his name, and even less is known about Nagako's views of the war or of the militarism of the day.
        Nagako once described the war years as ''the hardest time of my life,'' and there was uncertainty afterward whether the Americans would execute Hirohito or at least force him to abdicate. But the United States decided to pin the blame for the war on other leaders, like Prime Minister Hideki Tojo, and Hirohito was allowed to remain emperor so long as he surrendered his divinity.
        Japan was changing, and Nagako tried to change as well. When the palace arranged for an American woman to teach Akihito English, Nagako asked for lessons, too.
        But she often came across as a remnant of a different era. Akihito fell in love with a brilliant and beautiful young college woman, Empress Michiko. But traditionalists were horrified because Michiko had entered a Roman Catholic college, although she was not Christian, and because it would be the first time that a crown prince had married a commoner. It is not clear whether Nagako was among those who disapproved of the marriage, but it is known that her relations with Michiko were strained.
        Michiko was criticized for carrying her babies in public, for breastfeeding them and for trying to raise and shape her children herself. It seems that Nagako took the traditional side in the quarrels, and a senior chamberlain recalled in a published memoir Michiko's plaintively asking why her mother-in-law disliked her.
        Likewise, Michiko regarded her chief lady-in-waiting as a spy for Nagako, and together Akihito and Michiko tried to dismiss the servant. The Imperial Household Agency did not allow that.
        The intrigues took an enormous toll on Michiko, who became gaunt and possibly suffered nervous breakdowns in 1963 and in 1993. Empress Michiko is still a beautiful and intelligent woman, but she is said to be only a shadow of the confident young college student she once was.
        Nagako was a talented artist, and three collections of her paintings have been published. She was a good singer, and was proficient in the piano, violin and Japanese harp.
        Hirohito died in 1989. Even then Nagako was regarded as too feeble to attend his funeral. Since then, she has remained out of the public eye, living quietly in a modest home on the Imperial Palace grounds in Tokyo. She has not been shown in public since a video in 1993 that showed her in a wheelchair beside a window.
        The Imperial Household Agency, never known for its candor, said on Thursday that Nagako was suffering breathing problems but that the illness was ''not serious.'' The next day, with Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko at her side, she died.
      