
        Blair Clark, an influential executive at CBS News, a former editor of the Nation and the campaign manager for Eugene J. McCarthy in his unsuccessful bid for the 1968 Democratic presidential nomination, died on Tuesday in Princeton, N.J. He was 82 and lived in Princeton and the Turtle Bay section of Manhattan.
        The cause was pulmonary complications after colon surgery, said his wife, Joanna.
        Mr. Clark was something of a mandarin, playing key roles in the careers of men who became much better known to the general public than he, including managing the unsuccessful McCarthy campaign.
        Senator McCarthy, of Minnesota,  was challenging President Lyndon B. Johnson's stance on Vietnam and did well in the New Hampshire primary, which helped persuade Johnson not to run for another term.
        From 1961 to 1964 Mr. Clark was general manager and vice president of CBS News, after being a CBS correspondent based in Paris. He was known for broadening the radio and television coverage of CBS News by hiring additional correspondents in the United States and abroad.
        Walter Cronkite recalled yesterday, ''I've always assumed that, as the general manager of CBS News, he was instrumental in assigning me to the anchor role on 'CBS Evening News,' beginning in 1962.'' The actual decision was made by Mr. Clark's superior, Richard Salant, who was president of CBS News at that time.
        And Dan Rather recalled that Mr. Clark and another CBS executive, Ernie Leiser, had hired him in 1961 because his hurricane coverage in Texas had been good.
        ''Blair was a pioneer of television news as a distinguished correspondent based in Paris and later as an executive,'' Mr. Rather added. ''As a correspondent he helped to build on and maintain the CBS News reputation that had been built primarily during the World War II years, and then as an executive he laid the foundation for the modern television era at CBS News.''
        Mr. Clark was born in East Hampton, N.Y., into the Clark family of Coats & Clark's Thread.
        He was educated at a New England boarding school, St. Marks, and received a bachelor's degree in 1940 from Harvard.
        He was a reporter for The St. Louis Post-Dispatch before serving in the Army from 1941 to 1946. Then he held other journalistic posts before joining CBS News in 1953 in Paris.
        After he left CBS in 1964, he was associate publisher of The New York Post, editor of The Nation magazine, where he found expression for his liberal views, and a fellow of the New York Institute for Humanities at New York University.
        His 1942 marriage to Jessie Holladay Philbin ended in divorce in 1960.
        Besides his wife, the former Joanna Rostropowicz, whom he married in 1971, he is survived by a son from his first marriage, Timothy, of Bethesda, Md.; a son from his second marriage, Ian, of Manhattan; a stepson, Tomasz Malinowski of Washington; a sister, Anne Martindell of Princeton; and a brother, William, of Stockbridge, Mass., and seven grandchildren.
      