
        C. D. Atkins, an inventor of frozen concentrated orange juice, which revolutionized the Florida citrus industry, died last Saturday at his home in Winter Haven, Fla. He was 86.
        Mr. Atkins, Edwin L. Moore and L. G. MacDowell, who died in July 1986, were the research team that the Florida Citrus Commission asked in the 1940's to improve the quality of processed orange products. The purpose was to provide better juice for the armed forces and make more efficient use of Florida's orange crop. The work was done at a laboratory provided by the United States Department of Agriculture in Lakeland, Fla., and began in 1942.
        The concentration process, which involves heating the juice so that the water evaporates, was already well known. But the three invented the  process in which the flavor of orange juice could be retained by adding a bit of fresh juice to the concentrate and then freezing it. Called the cutback process, it led to the expansion of the Florida citrus economy as well as surrounding industries for transporting and warehousing the juice.
        The cutback process also created a more nutritious product by restoring some of the Vitamin C that was lost in heating.
        Cedric Donald Atkins was born on Sept. 7, 1913, in Winter Haven. He was the only child of James H. Atkins, a railroad telegraph operator, and his wife, Christina, an elementary-school teacher. The Atkinses had inherited a couple of hundred acres of land in 1887, and they planted orange groves, from which they earned a second income, according to Mr. Atkins's son, Robert.
        C. D. Atkins attended the University of Florida for three years, planning to be a doctor. But when his parents ran out of money, he transferred to Florida Southern College near his parents' home in Lakeland, where he could help finance his tuition by teaching chemistry, biology and physics at the college. He graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in 1937.
        After college, he taught high school and coached football in the Florida towns of Plant City, Fort Meade and Winter Haven. In 1942, he became a research scientist with the federal Department of Agriculture.
        Mr. Atkins had seven patents in all, including one for a sports drink containing orange juice, a pulp-free syrup for carbonated beverages and a process for extracting the aroma from fresh juice, then adding it to concentrate, which enhances its flavor.
        The process for frozen orange juice was patented in 1946 under an agreement in which the patent belonged to the federal government.
        ''He never mentioned regretting it,'' Mr. Atkins's son said. ''He always had enough money to be comfortable.''
        Mr. Atkins is survived by his wife, the former Martha Kathryn Marsh; a daughter, Barbara Atkins Smith, and his son, Robert, both of Winter Haven; nine grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      