
        India's most prominent Christian leader, Alan de Lastic, the archbishop of Delhi, was killed on Tuesday night in a car crash in Poland, where he had been been praying at Cracow's shrine to the Black Madonna after a working visit to Rome. He was 70 years old.
        Archbishop de Lastic's death deals a blow not only to India's Roman Catholic minority, now under attack by Hindu militants, but also to Indian human rights organizations of all faiths.
        An outspoken defender of Christian rights in a Hindu majority nation, he was president of the Catholic Bishops Conference of India, a position that lent weight to his human rights activities at a time when Indian churches have been destroyed by mobs and priests and nuns have been killed in several Indian states.
        The archbishop was the founder of the United Christian Forum for Human Rights. The forum's convenor, John Dayal, said in a telephone interview yesterday from New Delhi that Archbishop de Lastic was ''the voice of the Christian community and a natural leader of the entire human rights movement in India.''
        In April in New York, Indians in the United States presented to the archbishop and Mr. Dayal, a writer,  the first Graham Staines International Award for Human Rights and Communal Harmony, named for an Australian missionary doctor who was burned to death in his car with his two young sons last year in the eastern Indian state of Orissa. A Hindu militant has been charged in the case.
        Christians account for only 2.5 percent of India's one billion people but have played a leading part in providing health and education services that many other Indians consider superior to those supplied by the government. Christianity, which was  brought to India from the Middle East in the first century and was later bolstered by Western missionaries who often converted disadvantaged Hindu outcastes, has long been an integral part of Indian life.
        But religion has always been close to the surface of politics in India, a constitutionally secular nation. In recent years, with a government led by Hindu Nationalists in New Delhi, militant Hindu organizations that had been focusing mainly on Muslim targets also began a campaign against Christian conversions by Indian priests, and have introduced ''reconversion'' ceremonies carried out with varying degrees of intimidation, Indian Christians say.
        Archbishop de Lastic had lately been discussing the new problems faced by Christians with Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee, a moderate leader among Hindu politicians. Yesterday in New Delhi, after he heard of the archbishop's death, Mr. Vajpayee called a meeting of Christian church leaders. The prime minister called Archbishop de Lastic ''a man of God who had dedicated his life to the service of humankind.''
        Archbishop de Lastic's readiness to publicly protest attacks by Hindus wherever they occurred drew some criticism from non-Catholic Christian groups in India.
        In Bangalore, Prof. K. E. Eapen, a lay leader of the Mar Thoma church, India's oldest Christian branch, said in a telephone interview yesterday that many members of his church were concerned that the archbishop's strident defense of Christian conversions may have played into the hands of Hindu militants. When Pope John Paul II visited India last November, he added fuel to the  controversy by also advocating  conversions.
      