
        Don Klosterman, who became one of professional football's most prominent executives, building teams in three leagues, after a skiing accident that ended his career as a quarterback and left his legs partly paralyzed, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 70.
        Klosterman, who lived in Los Angeles, suffered a heart attack last Sunday, his family said.
        In the 1960's Klosterman helped build the American Football League into a rival of the National Football League during the bidding wars that led to their merger. In the 1970's he was a successful general manager for the Baltimore Colts and the Los Angeles Rams of the N.F.L. And in the 1980's he stunned the football world by signing the all-American quarterback Steve Young to a huge contract in the United States Football League.
        He accomplished all this after nearly losing his life on a ski slope.
        On St. Patrick's Day in 1957, while he was between seasons as quarterback for the Calgary Stampeders of the Canadian Football League, Klosterman damaged his spinal cord when he hit a tree while trying to avoid a skier in his path at Banff, Alberta. He underwent eight operations and was told he would never walk again. But he regained partial feeling and was walking within a year with the aid of a cane.
        In 1960, Frank Leahy, the former coach at Notre Dame, who was then the general manager of the Los Angeles Chargers of the fledgling A.F.L., asked Klosterman to help him recruit players.
        Klosterman went on to garner a host of stars for the A.F.L. in its bidding duels with the N.F.L., while working for the Chargers; the Dallas Texans and their successors, the Kansas City Chiefs; and for the Houston Oilers. He helped obtain Lance Alworth, Ernie Ladd, John Hadl and Jack Kemp for the Chargers, and Bobby Bell, Buck Buchanan, Pete Beathard, Mike Garrett and Otis Taylor for the Chiefs.
        After guiding the Oilers to two playoff berths in four years as their general manager, Klosterman moved to the N.F.L., joining Baltimore as general manager in 1970. The Colts won the Super Bowl the following January, defeating Dallas. When Carroll Rosenbloom, the Colts' owner, swapped franchises with the Los Angeles Rams in 1972, he took Klosterman with him. He guided the team through the 1982 season and had a series of playoff teams.
        Klosterman returned to football as general manager of the Los Angeles Express of the U.S.F.L. The league gained a flood of publicity when Klosterman signed Young, the star passer at Brigham Young, to a deal in excess of $40 million in 1984. The league eventually went out of business, but Young became a star with the San Francisco 49ers.
        In 1995 Klosterman joined with the former 49ers coach Bill Walsh in an unsuccessful effort to obtain a new N.F.L. franchise for Los Angeles after the Rams went to St. Louis and the Raiders returned to Oakland.
        Klosterman is survived by a son, Kurt, of Culver City, Calif.; a daughter, Katie Fenton, of Bath, England; four brothers, Bob and Tom, of San Clemente, Calif., Francis, of Los Angeles, and Jim, of Acton, Calif.; six sisters, Lynn Day and Patti Peters of Long Beach, Calif., Josephine Weber, of Huntington Beach, Calif., Kathleen Bundy, of Garden Grove, Calif., Jeanne Berberet, of San Clemente, and Shirley Moore, of Apple Valley, Calif.; and a grandson.
        A native of LeMars, Iowa -- the 12th of 15 children -- Klosterman went to Compton, Calif., with his family as a youngster and became college football's leading passer in 1951, playing for Loyola of Los Angeles. He was drafted by the Browns, but found himself behind Otto Graham in Cleveland, which sent him to the Rams, where he was behind Norm Van Brocklin and Bob Waterfield. So he went to the Canadian league, playing quarterback until that skiing accident.
        He received tough news from a doctor back then, but did not despair.
        As Klosterman recalled: ''A few weeks later the doctor came in to see me. I asked him when I would be leaving the hospital, and he said: 'You better ask your friends to buy you a wheelchair. You're not going to walk again.'
        ''When he told me that, I ordered him out of the room. Then I picked up a vase of flowers and threw it at him. Hit him in the back of the head with it, and I said to myself, 'At least I can still throw.' ''
      