
        Enrico Cuccia, a famously reclusive Italian banker who was at the center of Italian finance for half a century, died today in Milan. He was 92.
        Mr. Cuccia, who at his death still kept an office at his bank, Mediobanca S.p.A., and held the title of honorary chairman, controlled important parts of the Italian economy for decades, using his bank to broker mergers and buy shares in a vast web of industrial groups known as the ''Mediobanca galaxy'' and including Fiat, Pirelli and Olivetti.
        Mr. Cuccia was mostly known as a promoter of ''family capitalism,'' using Mediobanca, which for most of its history was controlled by state banks, to aid Italy's most powerful industrial families, like the Agnellis. Leopoldo Pirelli, the former chairman of Pirelli S.p.A., once joked, ''What Cuccia wants, God wants, too.''
        When the news of his death broke around noon, the Italian Banking Association interrupted a meeting to hold a minute of silence. In a different kind of homage, on the stock exchange in Milan, Mediobanca shares went up 6.2 percent as investors gambled that Mr. Cuccia's demise would lead to a reorganization of the Mediobanca empire, and even a takeover.
        Over the last few years, Mediobanca lost some of its influence to foreign competition and a changing Italian economy. But Mr. Cuccia played an important role in the battle last year for Telecom Italia, the Italian telephone and communications company; he advised Olivetti as it beat a rival offer from Deutsche Telekom in the takeover of Telecom Italia.
        Mr. Cuccia, a short, stooped man who favored gray suits, never gave interviews, driving news photographers to stalk him on his way to work. But his reticence had limits. His most recent entry in Who's Who in Italy described him as having played ''a major role in all of the major financial operations in Italy.''
        Born in Rome of a Sicilian family, Mr. Cuccia began his career at Italy's central bank and then in 1934 moved to the Istituto per la Ricostuzione Industriale, or IRI, a state holding company that had been set up in 1932 by the fascist government to manage state property. The IRI founder and chairman, Alberto Beneduce, became his father-in-law in 1939. In 1938, Mr. Cuccia began working at the state-controlled Banca Commerciale Italiana. His father-in-law tapped him in 1946 to start up Mediobanca, which was created by two IRI-controlled banks and the Banco di Roma to act as medium-term lender for big industry, an activity then banned to Italian commercial banks.
        Under his leadership, Mediobanca would buy minority shares in important companies and become their banker, arranging major mergers. Mr. Cuccia arranged the 1966 merger of Montecatini and Edison, which became Italy's chemical giant, Montedison.
        He worked closely with the Fiat chairman Gianni Agnelli. In 1986, Mr. Cuccia helped the Agnelli family get rid of the Libyan leader Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi as a shareholder in Fiat by buying back shares of the automotive empire worth $3.1 billion. Mr. Cuccia made the Agnellis even richer, but the complicated financial arrangement he devised cost an international group of banks $600 million in losses.
        Mr. Cuccia's cachet remained intact, but his absolute power seemed to wane in the early 1990's, when several deals he sought to broker fell through. However, it was mostly the changes in the Italian economy that loosened Mr. Cuccia's grip on major transactions.
        ''The Italian economic world was made of state holdings and family-owned fortunes,'' said Fabio Tamburini, author of ''A Sicilian in Milan,'' an unauthorized biography of Mr. Cuccia. ''Mediobanca, which was controlled by IRI and has as its board members the most powerful families, was the clearinghouse for these two worlds, which today no longer exist.''
        Prime Minister Giuliano Amato, a former head of Italy's antitrust authority, was one of many who paid tribute today to Mr. Cuccia's prominent role in recent Italian history, but he also made clear he disapproved of Mr. Cuccia's web of cross-shareholdings, which critics viewed as stifling competition.
        Noting the coincidence that Mr. Cuccia died a few days before IRI, the symbol of state ownership, was due to be closed after the sale of most of its assets, Mr. Amato said, ''He represented the best of Italian capitalism, which is now undergoing profound transformation.''
        Mr. Cuccia's wife, whose unusual first name, Idea Nuova Socialista (New Socialist Idea), reflected the ideological fashions of an earlier era, died in 1996. Mr. Cuccia is survived by two daughters and a son.
      