
        Oleg Yefremov, one of Russia's most revered actors and directors, heir to Konstantin Stanislavsky and chief of the  Moscow Art Theater for 30 years, died on May 24. He was 72.
        The cause was lung disease, newspapers here reported.
        The Moscow Art Theater was founded by Stanislavsky, whose naturalistic style set the stage for the Method acting taught by Lee Strasberg at the Actors Studio. Strasberg saw the troupe perform during its  first American tour in 1922-23.
        Mr. Yefremov (yeff-FREM-off),  who became the theater's director in 1970, continued its long tradition of  staging Russian classics, including the plays of Chekhov. Over the years he also championed young playwrights and introduced directors now regarded as the best in Russia, like Kama Ginkas and Lev Dodin.
        In 1998 Mr. Yefremov took his troupe to New York for seven performances of Chekhov's ''Three Sisters'' at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. This was the third visit by the theater to the United States in 100 years. In 1990, when everything Soviet was exotic, he directed American actors in a cross-cultural production of Chekhov's ''Ivanov'' at the Yale Repertory Theater. William Hurt played the title role.
        A ceremony at the theater drew all of Moscow's theatrical elite as well as dignitaries including Mikhail  S. Gorbachev and President Vladimir V. Putin, who said Russia had lost ''a great artist and stage director of brilliance and infinite talent.''
        Mourners and the news media called his death as the end of an era. Though Mr. Yefremov was not a dissident -- one critic described him as ''a quiet rebel'' -- he was representative of those who came of age in the late 1950's and 60's during the cultural and social thaw in Soviet society. It was just as the thaw began that Mr. Yefremov and a like-minded group of actors organized the Sovremennik Theater in 1957. (The word  ''sovremennik'' means ''contemporary.'')
        The Sovremennik was the most important and popular theater of that period and remains a center of Moscow cultural life. It has also  played in New York, most recently performing ''The Cherry Orchard'' on Broadway in 1997.
        In 1968 Mr. Yefremov became a star in the Soviet Union after playing an earnest, thoughtful taxi driver in the film ''Three Poplars on Plyushchikha Street,'' a bittersweet comedy. But it was as a stage actor and director that he became a legend. His last role was in 1994 as Boris Godunov in the tragedy of the same name by Alexander Pushkin.
        In his final years Mr. Yefremov's life seemed increasingly unsettled. The theater split in 1987 into two separate troupes, the Gorky Art Theater and the Chekhov Art Theater. Mr. Yefremov headed the Chekhov Art Theater, which was recently shaken by a contract dispute with a group of actors.
      