
        Michaela Murphy Odone, whose struggle to keep her son alive was recounted in the 1992 motion picture ''Lorenzo's Oil,'' died on Saturday at her home in Fairfax, Va., where she had continued to care for him. She was 61.
        The cause was lung cancer, her family said.
        Ms. Odone's son, Lorenzo, was born in 1978. At 5, he was found to have adrenoleukodystrophy, or ADL, a rare hereditary children's disease that soon left him in a vegetative state. He was given two years to live.
        Refusing to give up hope, Ms. Odone and her husband, Augusto, a World Bank official, developed what they believed to be a treatment, a blend of erucic and oleic acids found in natural cooking oils. It became known as Lorenzo's oil,
        Lorenzo, now 22, is fed the oil along with the processed food he is given through a tube. The oil mixture is meant to reduce the buildup in the bloodstream of long-chain fatty acids, caused by ADL.
        It was because of the treatment, the family says, that Lorenzo regained some ability to communicate, wiggling his fingers or moving his eyebrows. The Odones believe that if the treatment is used early enough, it may save other children genetically at risk of ADL. The belief is not shared by medical specialists.
        Michaela Murphy was born in Yonkers. She graduated with a degree in French in 1962 from Dunbarton College in Washington and spent several years in France. She studied  at the University of Grenoble and did advertising work in the Paris and New York offices of Realite magazine. In ''Lorenzo's Oil,'' she and her husband were portrayed by Susan Sarandon and Nick Nolte.
        Besides her husband and Lorenzo, her survivors include two stepchildren, Cristina and Francesco Odone, both of London; a brother, J. Emmett Murphy of Yonkers, a New York State Supreme Court justice; and two sisters, Dr. Kenise M. Kilbride of Toronto and Deirdre Rufino of Reston, Va.
        Correction:  June 20, 2000, Tuesday  An obituary last Tuesday about Michaela Odone, co-developer of Lorenzo's oil to treat adrenoleukodystrophy, a rare degenerative children's disease, misstated the abbreviation by which the disease is known. It is ALD, not ADL.
      