
        Charles A. MacGillivary, who won the Medal of Honor as an Army sergeant for destroying four German machine-gun nests in France on a one-man patrol in the Battle of the Bulge, died on Saturday at a hospital in Boston. Mr. MacGillivary, who lost his left arm while silencing the last of the enemy emplacements, was 83 and lived in Braintree, Mass.
        The cause was complications of a stroke, his family said.
        In the early hours of Dec. 16, 1944, German forces in the Ardennes region of Belgium launched a surprise attack spearheaded by tanks along an 80-mile front in a bid to split the British-American front and capture  Antwerp, the Allies' largest port. The  onslaught opened a triangular bulge, 60 miles deep and 60 miles wide at its base, through the Allied lines and inflicted 81,000 casualties over the next six weeks before the Allies regained the initiative and went on to invade Germany.
        The Battle of the Bulge is perhaps best remembered for Brig. Gen. Anthony C. McAuliffe's reply to a German surrender demand at Bastogne: ''Nuts.'' But it was the G.I. -- men like Sergeant MacGillivary of the 71st Infantry, 44th Infantry Division -- who turned the tide.
        Sergeant MacGillivary's company was attacked by a German tank division near Woelfling, France, near the  German border, on Dec. 17. The Americans were pinned down in snowy woods on New Year's Day, running out of ammunition and talking of surrender. The company commander had just been killed, and Sergeant MacGillivary had taken his place.
        ''As the head of my company, I had a duty to do something,'' he would  recall.
        Sergeant MacGillivary set out on a one-man mission to destroy the German machine guns menacing his company. Firing two sub-machine guns -- his own, which ran out of ammunition, and another he picked up on the battlefield -- and hurling grenades, he wiped out the German positions and killed or wounded the defenders. A wounded German at the last emplacement hit Sergeant MacGillivary with a machine-gun burst on his left side, but he fired back and killed the man. Then, as he would tell it, ''I looked down and my arm wasn't there.''
        ''When you get hit by a machine gun, it's like somebody put a hot poker in you,'' he told The Boston Globe in 1995. ''I stuck the stump of my arm into the snow, but the warm blood melted the snow. I kept scooping snow around it till my hand was freezing. I figured I was dying. When they rescued me, my arm had a cake of bloody ice frozen around it, sealing  the wound. If it had been summer, I'd be dead.''
        For his one-man foray enabling his company to continue its mission with a minimum of casualties, Sergeant MacGillivary received the Medal of  Honor from President Harry S. Truman at the White House on Aug. 23, 1945.
        Mr. McGillivary was born in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island, Canada, and came to the Boston area to join a brother at the age 16. He served in the American merchant marine, joined the Army soon after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor and became an American citizen. He participated in the Normandy invasion, then moved through France with his division.
        After the war, he was a special agent for the Customs Bureau in  Boston. He served as president of the Congressional Medal of Honor Society from 1973 to 1975 and undertook a project to list past winners of the medal who, like himself, were foreign born.
        Mr. McGillivary is survived by three daughters, Ann MacGillivary-Schonland, of Duxbury, Mass.; Joan MacGillivary-Ward, of Kingston, Mass., and Charlene MacGillivary-Corea, of Windham, N.H.; a brother, Roland, of Weymouth, Mass.; nine grandchildren, and a great-grandson. His wife, Esther, died in 1999.
        In reflecting on the Battle of the Bulge, Mr. MacGillivary minimized  his heroics.
        ''All I was doing was fighting for my life,'' he said. ''The guys were  freezing to death and my main ambition was to get us out of there.''
      