
        Milton Victor Freeman, a senior partner in the Washington law firm of Arnold & Porter and an architect of 1940's regulations against securities fraud, died on Saturday at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 88 and lived in Chevy Chase.
        Mr. Freeman joined a predecessor firm, Arnold & Fortas, in 1946 and specialized in securities and corporate law. He came to the firm, one of  the legal powerhouses in Washington, after 12 years at the Securities and Exchange Commission.
        He joined the S.E.C. legal staff when the commission was created in 1934 and served as its assistant solicitor from 1942 until he went into private practice. Among the regulations he drafted was, most notably, S.E.C. Rule 10b-5, which was intended to prevent fraud.
        The regulation grew out of a case involving a Boston businessman who spread the rumor that his company was in dire straits. Stockholders promptly sold their shares, which he then bought, confident that their value would go up.
        Rule 10b-5 barred such a subterfuge and became a standby in fraud litigation and a potent deterrent to insider trading.
        While securities law remained one of his strong suits in private practice, Mr. Freeman took on several cases that recalled his own brush with Representative Martin Dies, Democrat of Texas and the founding chairman of the House Committee on Un-American Activities. The panel investigated Communist infiltration of various aspects of American life, and in 1942 Mr. Freeman's name appeared on a list of organizations that  the committee deemed subversive.
        In 1954, Mr. Freeman took on the federal government's program of loyalty oaths in the case of a Yale University professor of medicine, Dr. John Punnett Peters, who was exonerated. In a more widely cited landmark case before the United States Supreme Court, he argued on behalf of a German-born American woman stripped of her citizenship under a decades-old statute.
        The woman, Angelika Schaeffer Schneider, came to the United States when she was 5 and was educated here. She later moved to Europe, where she married Dieter Schneider, a young lawyer from Cologne, Germany, and a Fulbright scholar.
        They lived in Cologne, where he practiced law, and after three years, she was told that she had lost her citizenship. She protested, saying she felt as American as any native-born citizen, who had the right to reside overseas indefinitely.
        Mr. Freeman won that case in 1964.
        A native New Yorker, Mr. Freeman graduated from City College in 1931 and from Columbia University Law School in 1934.
        Mr. Freeman is survived by his wife of 62 years, Phyllis Young Freeman; two daughters, Nancy F. Gans of Wellesley, Mass., and Amy F. Malone of La Mesa, Calif.; two sons, Daniel M. Freeman, of Chevy Chase, and Andrew S. Freeman, of Wheaton, Md.; and three grandchildren.
      