
        Harry Usher, who as the right-hand man to Peter Ueberroth helped to make the 1984 Los Angeles Olympic Games by far the most successful financially, died Thursday in Secaucus, N.J. He was 61.
        His family said he apparently suffered a heart attack at the AmeriSuites in Secaucus, where he was staying during a business trip as a corporate consultant.
        A spokeswoman for Meadowlands Hospital said he was pronounced dead at the hospital's emergency room. He underwent open-heart surgery in 1975 and 1985.
        From 1964 to 1979, Mr. Usher was a lawyer specializing in entertainment law in Los Angeles and in Beverly Hills. When Mr. Ueberroth became head of the Los Angeles Olympic Organizing Committee, he chose Mr. Usher, who had done legal work for him, as second in command.
        That was a troubled time for the Olympic movement. In 1972 at the Munich Games, Arab terrorists murdered Israeli athletes. In 1976 the Montreal Games ended with a $1 billion deficit. In 1980 the United States and other nations boycotted the Moscow Games.
        Los Angeles city officials, fearing a huge deficit, refused to guarantee the financial stability of the 1984 Games. Mr. Ueberroth and Mr. Usher recruited the United States Olympic Committee as co-guarantor of the first privately financed Olympics.
        ''On a national and international level there was a feeling that this could be the last hurrah of the Olympics,'' Mr. Usher once recalled. ''On a local level there was continuous doubting and debate whether the Games could be sustained without public money.''
        Instead of losing money, as the Olympics traditionally had, these Olympics produced a profit of more than $225 million. The money was divided among the United States Olympic Committee, amateur sports in Southern California and America's individual sports federations.
        Anita de Frantz of Los Angeles, a vice president of the International Olympic Committee, described Mr. Usher's role as an ''extraordinary contribution to the Olympic movement.''
        Mr. Usher was a hands-on leader. No expense of $1,000 or more could be paid without his approval, and for a time he had to approve every outgoing letter. Once, he got on an elevator at the committee's offices and saw stacked boxes of computers. If they could be left there, he reasoned, the committee had too many computers. So he issued an order: no more computer purchases.
        The I.O.C. awarded him the Silver Olympic Order. He was also honored by the governments of France and Sweden.
        Harry Lester Usher was born March 6, 1939, in Jersey City. In 1961  he received a bachelor's degree from Brown University, where he was Phi Beta Kappa. In 1964 he received a law degree from Stanford, where he was editor of the law review.
        After the Olympics, he became the second and last commissioner of the United States Football League, a short-lived rival to the established National Football League. The new league was so short of money that one team, the Los Angeles Express, put its 28 cheerleaders on indefinite leave to save $980 a week.
        Mr. Usher explained his commissioner's job by saying, ''I am not here to rearrange the deck chairs on the Titanic, but I'm here to take this ship forward.''
        But soon after his league had won a $1.32 billion suit against the N.F.L. but was awarded only $1 (trebled to $3 under antitrust laws), it died.
        From 1961 to 1990, he was married to the former Jo Misselhorn, now the alumni director of Kenyon College in Ohio. In 1991 he married the former Jane Ellison, the dean of the Annenberg School of Communications at the University of Southern California.
        He is survived by his wife; four children from his first marriage, Lindsay Clark, Timothy Usher and Jennifer Usher, all of San Francisco, and Katie Usher of Seattle; and two sons by his second marriage, Samuel and Jackson Usher of Los Angeles.
        When Mr. Ueberroth learned of Mr. Usher's death, he said: ''He had boundless energy. He was a comrade and a partner of mine in a historic endeavor of the city of Los Angeles. He will be a sorely missed pal.''
      