
        Hanna Batatu, an authority on the contemporary Arab world who was best known for his writings on Iraq and Syria, died on Saturday at his home in Litchfield County in northwestern Connecticut. He was 74.
        He had cancer, Georgetown University's Center for Contemporary Arab Studies said in announcing his death.
        Dr. Batatu retired in 1994 as holder of the Shaykh Sabah Al-Salem Al-Sabah Chair of Contemporary Arab Studies at Georgetown.
        He wrote a highly regarded book on Iraq, another on Syria and articles on the two countries that appeared in scholarly journals. His writing could be vivid. In an account derived from official government sources, he wrote that after the Baath Party members who dominated Iraq's governing council were ousted by an army coup late in 1963, in the cellar of one building ''were found all sorts of loathsome instruments of torture, including electric wires with pincers,'' and ''small heaps of bloodied clothing were scattered about.''
        Dr. Batatu ''was probably the greatest political scientist to study the Middle East in the past 50 years,'' said Yahya Sadowski, a professor of Middle East Studies at Johns Hopkins University's Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies. ''His analyses of Iraq and Syria were unprecedented in their level of detail, their nuanced understanding, and the authority of their conclusions.''
        The book on Iraq by Dr. Batatu is ''The Old Social Classes and the Revolutionary Movements of Iraq: A Study of Iraq's Old Landed and Commercial Classes and of Its Communists, Baathists and Free Officers (1978, Books on Demand).
        Abbas Amanat, professor of modern Middle Eastern history at Yale, said that book ''still maintains its place as one of the major works of history of the 20th-century Middle East.'' It begins at the turn of that century and draws on interviews that Dr. Batatu had with many out-of-office Iraqi political figures, either in Iraq or in exile.
        The interviews, Professor Amanat said, provided Dr. Batatu ''with a thorough and unique account of the events that otherwise would have been lost to historians.''
        His book about Syria, ''Syria's Peasantry, the Descendants of Its Lesser Rural Notables, and Their Politics'' (1999, Princeton) was applauded in a review in the journal Foreign Affairs by L. Carl Brown, a historian of the Middle East. He called the work ''vintage Batatu, with awesomely thorough research,'' and added, ''This solid sociopolitical study of modern Syria's rural population will take its place among the classics of rural history.''
        He was born in Jerusalem, the son of Shukri Batatu and the former Yvonne Nicodene, and had a job with the Palestine government in Jerusalem in the 1940's. After the state of Israel was established in 1948, he came to the United States as an immigrant and worked for a carpet company in Stamford, Conn.
        Then he entered academe and received a bachelor's degree summa cum laude in 1953 from Georgetown University's school of foreign service and his doctorate in political theory in 1960 from Harvard. His Harvard dissertation had the title ''The Shaykh and the Peasant in Iraq, 1917-1958,'' and was the beginning of his Iraq book.
        He taught at the American University of Beirut from 1962 to 1981 and at Georgetown's Center for Contemporary Arab Studies from 1982 to 1994.
        Dr. Batatu is survived by his brother, Anthony Reynaud of Winsted, Conn.; three nieces, Brenda Davis, of Winchester, Conn., Cindy Fox,  of Waterbury, Conn., and Mary Anne Sok, of Torrington, Conn.; and four nephews, Anthony Reynaud Jr., of Winsted, John Reynaud, of Torrington, and Jamil Abdallah and Sukri Abdallah, both of Jerusalem. A sister, Mary Abdallah, died earlier.
        He was to have been honored this week by the American University of Beirut as one of its Millennium Scholars.
      