
        Ellis Clary, the archetype of the baseball lifer who wisecracked his way through more than half a century in the game as a player, manager, coach and one of its best-known scouts, died last Friday in Valdosta, Ga. He was 85.
        ''I believe Ellis could make a dog laugh,'' Spud Chandler, the Yankee pitcher of the 1940's and fellow scout, once said.
        Sitting behind home plate on his scouting forays at ballparks in Southern towns, Clary regaled fellow scouts with tales of playing for the St. Louis Browns, usually the laughingstock of baseball.
        In the 52-year history of the franchise (now the Baltimore Orioles), only one Browns team won a pennant -- the 1944 club, which featured 18 players physically unfit for the World War II military.
        Clary, a ballplayer with good speed (he once raced, but lost to, Jesse Owens in a 100-yard sprint exhibition) and a bad back keeping him out of the armed forces, was a reserve infielder for those '44 Browns -- a team, he recalled, with hard drinkers and brawlers.
        ''What a terrible job it was for Luke Sewell to manage that bunch of hyenas,'' Clary said at a 50th anniversary reunion sponsored by the St. Louis Browns Fan Club. ''They drank anything that would pour. If you went out with them, you wore a football helmet.''
        Clary made his debut with the Washington Senators in 1942, went to the Browns the next year, played with them through 1945, then returned to the minors with a career batting average of .263 and a host of stories.
        Spending most of his baseball career working for the Griffith family, owner of the Senators and their successor, the Minnesota Twins, Clary managed in the minors, was a coach with Washington from 1955 to 1960, scouted for the Twins from 1962 to 1984, then worked as a White Sox scout, and as a coach and scout for the Blue Jays before retiring in 1993.
        He is survived by his wife, Myra, of Valdosta; four daughters, Ellen Currie and Carol Herndon of Valdosta, and Janis Clary and Karen Cole of Fayetteville, Ga.; and four grandchildren.
        Clary delighted in telling of his ballplaying misadventures.
        ''When we won the pennant, a guy wanted my glove,'' he once said. ''He was the president of the Lipton Tea Company. He used that glove to make the world's first flow-through tea bag.''
        Clary's spirits were seldom dimmed. Chandler recalled the time Clary was rushed to a hospital in Mobile, Ala., after suffering a severe heart attack. ''He motioned me over to his bed and whispered -- he said, 'Spud, I want you to do something for me.' I said, 'Anything.' He said, 'I want you to go down and get the mileage off that ambulance so I can turn it in on my expense report.' ''
      