
        Dr. Elvin Abraham Kabat, a retired Columbia University microbiologist who contributed substantially to the field of immunology and the fundamental understanding of antibodies, died Friday at a nursing home in North Falmouth, Mass. Dr. Kabat, a former resident of Manhattan, was 85.
        He was a founder of immunochemistry, the study of the chemical reactions and phenomena of immunity. In that, he continued the work of his mentor, Dr. Michael Heidelberger of Columbia, who was regarded as the father of modern immunology.
        Dr. Kabat was Dr. Heidelberger's first graduate student in the 1930's, when Dr. Heidelberger established that antibodies were proteins. Armed with that insight, Dr. Kabat vastly extended the research into their chemical composition and activity, including their roles as a component of gamma globulin, the fraction of blood serum used to combat infectious diseases like measles and hepatitis.
        In 1977, the two scientists shared Columbia University's Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize for outstanding research in biochemistry. Their association endured 59 years until Dr. Heidelberger's death in 1991 at age 103.
        Dr. Kabat was honored that year with the country's highest award for scientific achievement, the National Medal of Science. It cited him for ''his seminal contributions in the field of immunology, and for bringing the field to its present prominence.''
        Antibodies, and specifically gamma globulin, are produced by the body to counter toxins, bacteria and other antigens. Dr. Kabat set the course for mapping their molecular structure.
        He compiled a comprehensive body of analyses, measurements and other data into an atlas published by the National Institutes of Health, which distributed it as a reference to researchers worldwide. He also traced sugar units in blood substances, which explained different immunological responses stimulated by blood groups A, B and O.
        His studies shed light on the basic mechanisms of immunohematology and blood banking. He also developed a laboratory technique used in the study of multiple sclerosis and other human autoimmune diseases, in which the body's immune system attacks other parts of the body.
        He was born in Manhattan and graduated from City College in 1932. He received a master's in 1934 and a doctorate in 1937 in biochemistry at Columbia, after which he spent a year in Uppsala, Sweden, as a Rockefeller Foundation fellow.
        He joined the Columbia faculty in 1941 and successively held professorships in microbiology, and human genetics and development. He retired in 1985 but continued his research at Columbia until 1977.
        Besides publishing hundreds of scientific articles, he was the author or co-author of several textbooks. He was a member of the National Academy of Sciences and a consultant to the National Institutes of Health. He also sat on a panel of the World Health Organization that established training programs for immunologists from developing countries.
        Dr. Kabat is survived by his wife of 57 years, Sally Lennick Kabat; three sons, Jon Kabat-Zinn of Lexington, Mass., Geoffrey, of New Rochelle, N.Y., and David, of Pelham, N.Y.; and six grandchildren.
      