
        Michel Droit, a man of letters and a journalist who was a member of the Academie Francaise, died on Thursday in La Celle-Saint-Cloud, a suburb of Paris. He was 77.
        Mr. Droit's writing, which included more than 20 novels and other books during half a century, was rich as well as prolific.
        His best-known literary works included his 1964 novel, ''Le Retour'' (''The Return''), which won a Grand Prix of the Academie Francaise. The novel recounts the difficult return to France by former French settlers in Algeria who had been ejected after Algeria gained its independence.
        Another well-known work is  ''L'Homme du Destin: Charles de Gaulle'' (''Man of Destiny: Charles de Gaulle''), a five-volume biography published in 1972.
        But Mr. Droit was better known among his compatriots for having been the sole interviewer of General de Gaulle in the three television interviews that the general granted during his lifetime. They were held while he was president of France, in 1965, 1968 and 1969.
        Mr. Droit also did other work in television, radio and print journalism, and his political views were outspokenly conservative.
        In 1980 he was elected to the Academie Francaise, whose 40 members are often called ''the immortals.''
        Mr. Droit, whose father was an artist, was born in Vincennes, outside Paris. He studied at the prestigious  Ecole Libre des Sciences Politiques, but he dropped out to join the French Resistance movement against the German Occupation during World War II.
        He went on to be a radio correspondent covering French army units in that war, and he was on hand for General de Gaulle's arrival at the Arc de Triomphe in Paris.
        In later years, Mr. Droit was editor in chief at the French state television organization and served as editor in chief of the literary weekly Figaro Litteraire for a decade.
        He also held posts at the conservative newspaper Le Figaro for 20 years. When he was elected to the Academie Francaise, Le Figaro declared that it took courage ''for him to openly call himself reactionary, a partisan of order and of virtue.''
        He was made an officer of the Legion of Honor and received other French military and civilian honors.
        He married Janine Bazin in 1947, and they had a daughter, Corinne, and a son, Eric..
      