
        Rajesh Pilot, a longtime member of Parliament and an independent-minded politician with a strong following among the peasants of northern India, died Sunday in a head-on automobile collision. He was 55.
        His death is a severe blow to the once-dominant Congress Party, which has few popular leaders of his relative youth and suffered its worst performance in national elections last year.
        Mr. Pilot, who had been seen by many as a future contender for prime minister, came from a humble farming family in the village of Baidpura, in Uttar Pradesh. To put himself through high school in New Delhi, he sold milk door to door to the political elite in a neighborhood where he later lived himself.
        Thousands of people came to his residence today to pay tribute, many of them farmers from Uttar Pradesh and from Rajasthan, which he represented in Parliament.
        Mangal Singh, a farmer from Ghauri Bahera, in Uttar Pradesh, said Mr. Pilot always listened to people who came to his home seeking help with a problem, and offered them a meal as well. ''He was a leader of farmers and poor people,'' Mr. Singh said.
        At age 19, Mr. Pilot joined the air force and became a pilot, but always nursed a desire to go into politics, friends say. In his mid-30's, he approached the Congress Party leader, Indira Gandhi, and sought her blessing to run for Parliament on the party's ticket.
        When he ran, in 1979, he took the politician's equivalent of a stage name, trading in the commonplace surname of Prasad for Pilot. He was elected to Parliament five times.
        He is survived by his wife, Rama, a son, Sachin, and a daughter, Sarika.
        Mr. Pilot revered Mrs. Gandhi, who was assassinated in 1984. But in the past year, he had become more outspoken about his worries that the party was foundering under the leadership of her widowed daughter-in-law, Sonia. The elder Mrs. Gandhi's son, Rajiv, served as prime minister after her assassination and was himself killed as he campaigned to reclaim that position in 1991.
        Before national elections last year, Mr. Pilot was among the few in the party's governing body who argued against putting forth the politically inexperienced, Italian-born Sonia Gandhi as the party's prime ministerial candidate.
        But Gandhi family retainers and loyalists -- many of them older men who have not won an election in years -- still wield considerable clout in the party, and he was outvoted.
        Two other senior party leaders spit off to form a new party. But Mr. Pilot remained a party stalwart, pressing from within for greater party democracy. ''In his political life, he was a soldier,'' said Ramesh Kaul, who went to high school with Mr. Pilot and served in the air force with him. ''He was not a dissident to go against the high command.''
        In recent weeks, Mr. Pilot was one of a number of party officials who had begun saying publicly that the party must improve its grass roots organization and develop a message with broad appeal to India's rural and impoverished multitudes.
        In an interview with the BBC late last month, Mr. Pilot said that the party had to address why Sonia Gandhi had proved to be a powerful draw for crowds, but that the public response had not translated into votes.
        ''Now we need to discuss amongst us that we get the crowd, but we are not getting the vote,'' he said. ''What is the reason? Is there a fault in the policy? Is there a fault in the party organization's functioning getting the voters to the ballot box? There is some gap somewhere.''
        In its obituary today, The Asian Age, a national newspaper, described Mr. Pilot as ''India's best-known peasant leader'' and ''one of the upcoming leaders in the Congress who never shied away from calling a spade a spade.''
      