
        There was a time in the 1970's and the 80's, when Philippe Chatrier wore dual chapeaux as president of the International Tennis Federation and president of the French Tennis Federation, that all roads in tennis led through Gaul. That era officially ended Thursday when Mr. Chatrier, the man responsible for the return of tennis to the Olympics and the renaissance of his home Grand Slam tournament, the French Open, as one of the game's four most prestigious championships, died at age 72.
        Mr. Chatrier had suffered from Alzheimer's disease for several years and died in the Brittany town of Dinard, the French Tennis Federation announced yesterday.
        As a player, journalist and administrator, Mr. Chatrier parlayed a deep passion for tennis with an instinct for making deals that showcased the game. France's junior champion at 17 in 1945, a member of its Davis Cup team from 1948 to 1950 and its captain from 1969 to 1972, Mr. Chatrier gave up playing internationally in 1953 to launch Tennis de France, the nation's first tennis magazine.
        But it was in the twin roles as head of the French federation (1973-93) and the international federation (1977-91) that he reached his zenith as a power broker in international athletics.
        ''He was a great influence in world sports and weighed heavily on the evolution of tennis,'' Christian Bimes, the current French federation president, told The Associated Press yesterday. ''Under his impetus, tennis, a sport that was living in the past, became a major sport.''
        Mr. Bimes said the rebirth of the French Open, the return of tennis to the Olympics and France's Davis Cup victory in 1991 were Mr. Chatrier's most memorable accomplishments.
        Said Francesco Ricci Bitti of Italy, the international federation's current president, ''I'll always regard him as the father of international tennis.''
        Urbane, charming and indefatigable, Mr. Chatrier understood both the velvet glove and the iron fist of international sports politics. He worked tirelessly toward the creation of open tennis, in which professionals and amateurs play together, which began in 1968. As the International Tennis Federation president, which entitled him to a seat on the International Olympic Committee, he was the indomitable force in returning tennis to the Olympics, first as a demonstration sport in 1984 and then as a medal sport in 1988 after an official absence of 64 years.
        ''An extremely shrewd judge of character,'' Mr. Bitti said, ''he was one of the greatest talent scouts that I have ever met.''
        On the recommendation of Arthur Ashe in 1971, Mr. Chatrier enrolled Yannick Noah, an 11-year-old from Cameroon, in the French development program. Twelve years later Noah won the 1983 French Open, becoming the first Frenchman to win since 1947. It was only Mr. Chatrier's most visible step in revitalizing tennis in France. In his tenure as the French federation president, the number of registered players rose from 224,000 to 1,350,000.
        Mr. Chatrier was also devoted to tennis's traditions and did not hesitate to punish or criticize what he considered transgressions to its heritage. When Jimmy Connors chose to play World Team Tennis in 1974, Mr. Chatrier called the renegade league a ''circus'' and banned Connors from the French Open that year, perhaps costing the world's No. 1-ranked player a Grand Slam of the game's four major tournaments; Connors won the other three -- the Australian Open, Wimbledon and the United States Open. In 1990 Mr. Chatrier chastised Andre Agassi when he showed up at Roland Garros stadium in a typically unorthodox -- black and pink -- outfit; Agassi returned serve by calling Mr. Chatrier a ''bozo.''
        Mr. Chatrier was married twice, first in 1953 to Suzanne Partridge of England and then to the former French golf champion Claudine Cros in 1993. He is survived by a son, Jean-Philippe.
      