
        Eugene M. Zuckert, the secretary of the Air Force during the Bay of Pigs invasion, the Cuban missile crisis and the deepening American involvement in Vietnam, died on Monday in Washington. He was 88 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md.
        Mr. Zuckert's public service dated to 1937, the year he received his law degree at Yale University. At the urging of one of his former professors, the Supreme Court Justice William O. Douglas, he joined the legal staff of the fledgling Securities and Exchange Commission.
        From then on, his career easily meshed government service, academia and the law. He taught at the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, also serving as assistant dean.
        He was the last survivor of the small team of key officials who turned the Air Force into a separate branch of the Armed Services in 1947. He sat on the Atomic Energy Commission in the 1950's.
        At his death he was of counsel to Zuckert, Scoutt & Rasenburger, the Washington law firm he joined as a partner three years after it was founded and two years after he resigned from the Pentagon in 1965.
        In the 1950's, his personal physician, Dr. William Walsh, told him of his idea to put American medical staff on a ship to train third world doctors and nurses. Mr. Zuckert helped bring the idea to life in 1958 with Project Hope, for which he was board chairman from 1967 to 1981.
        A native New Yorker, Eugene Martin Zuckert graduated from Yale in 1933. He served as a lawyer in the S.E.C.'s Washington and New York offices until 1940, when he went to Harvard to organize its wartime training program for executives.
        He enlisted in the Navy in 1944 and wound up as an assistant to Stuart Symington, who was named the assistant secretary of war for air in 1946 and the first secretary of the Air Force in 1947. As his assistant for management until 1952, Mr. Zuckert instituted cost-control practices and understudied the top post.
        He oversaw the end of racial segregation in the service and helped shape the Universal Code of Military Justice. From 1952 to 1954, he was a member of the Atomic Energy Commission.
        He then practiced law, wrote about nuclear energy and business management and served as a consultant and corporate director.
        President John F. Kennedy named him secretary of the Air Force in 1961.
        His tenure was a difficult one. Mr. Zuckert was in the middle of the debate about the problem-plagued F-111 fighter jet, which was designed for the Navy, Marine Corps and Air Force but was used only by the Air Force.
        By the time he resigned in 1965, Mr. Zuckert had served in the secretary's post longer than anybody before him. The Air Force award for outstanding management achievement is named in his honor.
        He remained an active partner in Zuckert, Scoutt until 1988.
        His first wife, Kathleen Barnes Zuckert, died in 1945; his second wife, Barbara Jackman Zuckert, died in 1985. Mr. Zuckert is survived by his wife Harriet Zimmerly Zuckert; three children, Adrienne Z. Cowles of Connecticut, Robert B., of Hilo, Hawaii, and Gene Z. Farris of Phoenix; and six grandchildren.
      