
        F. Trowbridge vom Baur, a retired lawyer, author and lecturer who was the general counsel of the Department of the Navy from 1953 to 1960, died on Saturday at a convalescent home in Charlottesville, Va. He was 91 and most recently lived in Warrenton, Va.
        As the Navy's chief lawyer in the Eisenhower administration and the McCarthy era, Mr. vom Baur devised procedures to protect the rights of thousands of Navy employees and military contractors who had been branded as security risks.
        When the government sought to rid itself of workers suspected of subversive political associations, Mr. vom Baur arranged for them to have free legal counsel provided by the American and District of Columbia Bar associations. His intervention resulted in evidentiary hearings to determine the truth of the charges. In most cases, the accusations could not be substantiated and the employees were cleared.
        When he left public service, Mr. vom Baur practiced government-contract law for 20 years as a senior partner in the Washington firm of vom Baur, Coburn, Simmons & Tuttle and its successor, Gage, Tucker & vom Baur, from which he retired in 1983. From 1980 to 1990 he was general counsel of the Naval Undersea Museum Foundation in Washington.
        Francis Trowbridge vom Baur was born in Riverton, N.J., and received a bachelor's degree from Amherst College in 1929 and a law degree from Harvard in 1932.
        Until 1942, he was an associate in the New York firm of Milbank, Tweed & Hope, which sent him to Washington to lobby against President Franklin D. Roosevelt's proposal in 1937 to increase the membership of the Supreme Court by as many as six justices who favored his New Deal legislation.
        In World War II Mr. vom Baur worked for Nelson A. Rockefeller, coordinator of Latin American affairs in the president's Office of Emergency Management. After the war Mr. vom Baur practiced law in Washington and Chicago until 1953.
        His wife of 54 years, Carolyn Bartlett Laskey vom Baur, died in 1988. He is survived by two daughters, Nerissa Roehrs of Leipzig, Germany, and Daphne vom Baur of Warrenton; a sister, Beatrice M. Edwards of Kennebunkport, Me., and three grandchildren.
      