
        Milo A. Speriglio, a tireless private detective with an unquenchable thirst for publicity and an obsession with the death of Marilyn Monroe, died April 30 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 62.
        He died of lung cancer, his wife, Patricia, said.
        Mr. Speriglio, the director of Nick Harris Detectives Inc., unabashedly modeled himself on the fictional gumshoes Sam Spade and Philip Marlowe and was inspired to become a private eye by the television series ''Peter Gunn.'' He wore gold chains, cracked wise, smoked cigarettes and had a penchant for turning up at murder sites where television crews might be expected, notably that of Nicole Brown Simpson.
        Not that he necessarily came across as some sort of outsize Runyonesque character. ''Milo is half the size of Cannon, not nearly as handsome as Mannix and a lot smarter than Barnaby Jones,'' The Los Angeles Times reported in 1976. ''He's a quiet, soft-spoken guy, on the small side with glasses. He could pass for a bank clerk. But he's handled more cases than all the television sleuths combined, about 35,000 over the years.''
        Over the course of a 20-year investigation he undertook on his own beginning in 1972, Mr. Speriglio wrote three books about Marilyn Monroe, whom he asserted was murdered in 1962 by the Mafia, at the behest of President John F. Kennedy and his father, Joseph Kennedy Sr. His accusations led to the opening of police files on her death and calls for a grand jury investigation.
        After a censored version of the Federal Bureau of Investigation's file on the case was turned over to the Los Angeles County district attorney's office in 1982, prosecutors endorsed the original conclusion: that the actress committed suicide.
        ''Based on the evidence available to us,'' District Attorney John Van de Kamp said, ''it appears that her death could have been a suicide or a result of an accidental drug overdose.''
        But Mr. Speriglio continued the hunt. He wrote two more books about Miss Monroe's death, which he insisted added more evidence to support his controversial contentions. He said his last book on the subject, ''Crypt 33: The Saga of Marilyn Monroe -- The Final Word,'' which was written with Adela Gregory and published by Birch Lane Press in 1993, should have silenced his critics and led to arrests.
        ''There is nothing left to tell,'' he said in a review he wrote of his own book for the Amazon.com Web site in September 1997.
        Though most of his cases over 41 years involved normal investigative fare like spying on unfaithful spouses, he also handled several other famous cases. One involved the death in 1959 of George Reeves, who played Superman on television.
        The actor's mother disputed the official verdict of suicide. Mr. Speriglio concluded that the bullets that killed Mr. Reeves were fired from at least 16 inches away, and his opinion became a significant part of a debate that still continues. The case, however, was never reopened.
        Mr. Speriglio was born in Greenwich, Conn., and moved to California when he was 3. He once told a reporter that his first case involved a hunt for a missing panther when he was 16. A picture of him armed with a baseball bat appeared in the local newspaper, and high school students began calling him Panther Boy.
        He briefly worked as a rock disc jockey, calling himself Mad Milo. That did not go particularly well. He held other jobs and took criminology courses before, his wife said, he ''burst'' onto the investigative scene.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his daughters, Janelle Speriglio of San Diego, and Holly Skodis of Burbank; and a sister, Amelia Speriglio of Torrance, Calif.
        Mr. Speriglio's genius for getting publicity was demonstrated when the phone company in 1975 assigned a dial-a-Santa service a number just one digit different from the detective agency's. A few children called the agency by mistake, and word got out that the private eyes were more fun than the ''real'' Santa. Thousands more children called after the story became news.
        The Los Angeles Times described the Christmas scene: ''For a famous detective, Speriglio cut a bit of a mousy figure in build, curly hair, a gold bracelet on his wrist and an almost bashful smile on his lips. He wore a short-sleeved red shirt and a cone-shaped Santa's cap with a cotton ball dangling over one ear.''
        Mr. Speriglio, who believed all publicity with the correct spelling of one's name was good publicity, explained, ''If you're going to go under cover and play the role of someone, you have to dress the part.''
        The agency kept the nearly Santa number for years.
        Another scheme that got a lot of holiday publicity was the Finder of Lost Loves Reunion, which promised in the late 1980's to reunite three people with their lost loves -- by Christmas, of course.
        As Mr. Speriglio told it, you could almost hear the ping of the heartstrings. ''A widower in his 60's here in town asked us to find his childhood sweetheart -- he knew only her maiden name,'' he said. ''It turned out they lived a few blocks apart. She was a widow and they fell in love again and were married, and I was the best man.''
        There was also the time Mr. Speriglio promised to find Nicole Brown Simpson's killer, for whom O. J. Simpson's defense team was incidentally offering a $500,000 reward.
        ''If only I knew some voodoo that would make those trees talk,'' he said as he cruised the leafy streets of the Simpsons' neighborhood with a Washington Post reporter. ''I do not believe O. J. did it. Whoever did it deserves to hang. I cannot let this woman down.''
        But it was Mr. Speriglio's interpretation of Marilyn Monroe's death that received the most attention. For instance, his offer of $10,000 for her lost red diary was widely noted, if unsuccessful.
        Always, he kept his main focus and was hardly shy about saying so.
        ''I'm not a fan of Marilyn's,'' he pronounced on a book promotion tour. ''I haven't seen her movies. And I don't read books about her unless they mention me.''
      