
        Auxiliary Bishop Austin B. Vaughan, who found himself in a brief but public dispute over abortion with Gov. Mario M. Cuomo a decade ago, died on Sunday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Yonkers. He was 72 and lived in Yonkers.
        Bishop Vaughan, who had been on sick leave for several years, suffered a heart attack earlier this month, said Joseph Zwilling, a spokesman for the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York.
        Regarded as a conservative church leader, Bishop Vaughan was named auxiliary bishop by Pope Paul VI in 1977. He was a professor of theology at St. Joseph's Seminary in Yonkers from 1956 to 1973 and then its rector until 1979, when he  was appointed vicar of Orange County. He was fluent in Spanish, Italian and French as well as Latin.
        Bishop Vaughan took his firm stance against abortion well beyond the pulpit and went to jail for it more than once. In 1990, he spent 10 days in an Albany lockup for trespassing after he tried to block the entrance of a local women's clinic the year before.
        While in jail, he caused a furor when he told an interviewer that Governor Cuomo was in ''serious risk of going to hell'' for upholding abortion rights and public financing of poor women's abortions. Mr. Cuomo responded that he would defend ''the right of this bishop to curse any politician he wants, and every woman to make her own judgment under the Constitution as to whether or not to have an abortion.''
        Cardinal John J. O'Connor, writing in Catholic New York, the weekly newspaper of the archdiocese, noted that the bishop's views were consistent with church teaching. In his first sermon out of jail, at a Mass at St. Patrick's, his parish church in Newburgh, Bishop Vaughan said: ''All I was saying is what he learned, and I learned, and all of you learned in the first grade. If you commit a serious sin and die without repenting, you go to hell.''
        Austin Vaughan was born in Manhattan and graduated from St. Joseph's Seminary in 1948. He received a licentiate in sacred theology from North American College in Rome in 1952 and a doctorate from Gregorian University there in 1954. Ordained in 1951, he taught modern languages before returning to St. Joseph's as a professor. Bishop Vaughan is survived by a sister, Mae Murphy, of Ridgefield, N.J.
      