
        Joshua Myron, one of the last of the camel-mounted Zionist brigade that fought with Vladimir Jabotinsky against Turkey in Palestine during World War I, died in Manhattan on June 8. He was 102.
        With the outbreak of World War I, Mr. Jabotinsky, then a Russian journalist, realized that the Ottoman Empire was likely to lose to the British and that it would pay for the Zionist settlers in Israel to back the winning side. He spread the idea of forming a Jewish Brigade, sometimes called the Jewish Legion, to fight beside the British.
        The British Army unit, which recruited Jews from both the Middle East and Europe, used camels to move from front to front, and Mr. Myron rose to become company sergeant in charge of transport.
        The brigade is believed to have contributed significantly to the British war effort, and Mr. Jabotinsky believed its aid was a major factor in winning the Balfour Declaration of 1917, in which Britain announced support for a Jewish national home in Palestine. ''Half the Balfour Declaration belongs to the Legion,'' Mr. Jabotinsky wrote.
        Among the other members of the brigade was David Ben-Gurion, later the first prime minister of Israel.
        Mr. Myron was born at Rishon Lezion, the first officially Zionist settlement in Palestine, and devoted his life first to battling for a Jewish homeland, then to supporting Israel after its establishment in 1948. After emigrating to New York and becoming a pharmacist, he remained active in raising arms and money for Israel.
        Mr. Myron's father, Feivel Miransky, left Russia with a group of pioneers called the Biluim to go to Palestine as one of the founders of Rishon Lezion. Jews already lived in Palestine, but had not banded together in settlements in support of the Zionist ideal.
        The settlement of Rishon and other Zionist towns was financed by Baron Edmond de Rothschild, who established a large vineyard there. Mr. Miransky set up a carriage service to link Rishon with Jaffa, which became Tel Aviv. At the time, the trip took more than two hours on a sandy, muddy road.
        Mr. Myron was born on Aug. 17, 1897, into a frontier existence. His grandson Marc Lubin told of the time some of Mr. Myron's father's horses were stolen when he was 16. He reported the theft to the police and was told he was on his own. He ended up crossing the Jordan River and taking his horses back.
        After the war, Mr. Myron decided to move to the United States. He immediately experienced what he regarded as a stinging insult and a great inconvenience when the British refused to grant him traveling papers, saying he was officially a Turkish subject. So, officially at least, he arrived in America as a Turk.
        He had intended to study veterinary medicine at Columbia University but the school was not accepting new students at that time. He studied pharmacy at Albany College of Pharmacy. While there, he married Sybil Berkowitz, who died in 1973. In the early 1930's, they returned to Palestine, where their daughter, Naomi Scheurer, was born. She now lives in Manhattan; Mr. Myron is also survived by three grandchildren.
        Eventually, the Myrons moved to Suffern, N.Y. Mr. Myron commuted to Manhattan, where he owned two Midtown pharmacies.
        Before the modern state of Israel was created, he sent money and arms to those fighting to create it, his grandson said, and he never lost his pugnacious streak. At his funeral, the rabbi remembered his response to a move in his synagogue, the Congregation of the Sons of Israel, to share more equally the honor of reciting prayers during holy days. It was decided that each member would be limited to just one reading.
        Mr. Myron said that sounded good. Then he asked, ''Which two things am I doing?''
      