
        Frederic Dard, a hugely productive and successful French writer of detective novels and other works who was known for his raffish prose style, died on June 6 in Bonnefontaine, Switzerland, where he had lived since 1978. He was 78.
        The cause was a heart attack, his wife told the Swiss news agency SDA.
        Mr. Dard wrote almost 300 books, of which more than 200 million copies have been sold. His works included more than 150 detective novels in the ''San Antonio'' series, featuring the skirt-chasing Paris police superintendent San Antonio and his partner, the bibulous Inspector Berurier. He wrote under his own name and under pseudonyms, including -- oddly -- San Antonio and also Kaput and L'Ange Noir (the Black Angel).
        Mr. Dard was inspired by Georges Simenon, the Belgian author of detective fiction, who is better known in the United States. Mr. Dard wrote in French in his own racy, pungent, innovative style.
        His admirers included President Jacques Chirac of France, who declared, in a statement at the Elysee Palace: ''Our language has lost one of its magicians, one of those who knew how to add to its colors, to its vividness, to its force.''
        France's minister of culture, Catherine Tasca, said that the prose style and the personal world Mr. Dard had created in his writing were ''in the Rabelaisian tradition'' of ''mockery and of deep sympathy for people and for the simple things of life.''
        Rabelais's writing had a ribald streak and so did Mr. Dard's. He used 200-odd different words for men's sexual anatomy and another 200-odd for women's. The British author James Kirkup, writing in The Independent, called him an ''erotic crime specialist'' and said, ''His prose style is so individual, so slangy and often so very improper in its demented vocabulary that I wonder how anyone could transform it into acceptable English.''
        But in 1968, reviewing an English translation of the San Antonio novel ''Tough Justice,'' the critic Allen J. Hubin wrote in The New York Times: ''If your taste is for hard-boiled capers'' marked by ''flip and continuous humor'' then ''this should be your dish.''
        Among Mr. Dard's other writings were noir novels, adaptations for the stage and screenplays. Mr. Dard was born in Bourgoin-Jallieu in southeast France, studied to be an accountant but worked as a journalist in Lyon from 1942 to 1950 and then concentrated on his writing. He wrote his first San Antonio book in 1949.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Francoise de Caro, and their daughter, Josephine; and a son, Patrice, and another daughter, Elisabeth, from an earlier marriage.
      