
        Donald F. Ephlin, the senior official of the United Automobile Workers union who negotiated the pioneering labor agreement that created the Saturn division of General Motors, died yesterday at his home in Dearborn Heights, Mich., a Detroit suburb. He was 74.
        One of Mr. Ephlin's sons, Dennis, said that his father appeared to have suffered a heart attack in his sleep early yesterday morning, but said that the medical examiner had not yet completed his report.
        Flags flew at half-staff yesterday at Saturn's assembly plants in Spring Hill, Tenn., and Wilmington, Del., in recognition of Mr. Ephlin's central role in the establishment of Saturn's unusual approach to labor relations. As the U.A.W.'s vice president for General Motors negotiations from 1983 to 1989, Mr. Ephlin negotiated a comprehensive new labor agreement with G.M. that allowed for an innovative approach to labor-management relations in Spring Hill.
        Traditional labor agreements between the U.A.W. and the automakers specified numerous job classifications and did not link workers' pay to the marketplace success or failure of the cars they built. The Saturn agreement in Spring Hill linked workers' paychecks partly to how many Saturn cars were sold each year and eliminated most job classifications, allowing managers, together with the local union, to assign workers to whatever tasks most needed doing.
        The workers and their union also gained unparalleled veto power over many management decisions, and even participated in the selection of dealers and auto parts suppliers. G.M. promised that Saturn would not lay off workers during slow periods, training them instead so that they could perform a wider range of jobs with greater skill.
        The agreement was long regarded with skepticism by G.M. executives and traditional U.A.W. leaders alike. The elimination of complex job classifications irked union officials and members accustomed to a system in which workers with considerable seniority could be assigned less rigorous tasks, like janitorial work, and not be asked to perform other tasks. G.M. management was wary of placing limits on its ability to lay off workers, the automaker's traditional response to recessions.
        When Saturn chose a G.M. factory in Wilmington, Del., to build the Saturn midsize sedans that went on sale last year, G.M. and U.A.W. leaders decided that the factory would keep a traditional labor agreement rather than switch to the Spring Hill system. G.M. has also forced Saturn over the last several years to share more auto parts and designs with other G.M. models, limiting the division's independence.
        The workers in Spring Hill have also become dissatisfied with lower paychecks as Saturn sales have weakened with the small-car market, and recently the workers elected new local union leaders who have promised a slightly less unconventional approach to labor-management relations.
        Dennis Ephlin said that his father had long regarded the establishment of Saturn as his greatest achievement, but had been deeply upset in his final years. ''He was very frustrated with what's going on, the moving of Saturn back into the mainstream,'' he said.
        Susan Mallino, a Saturn spokeswoman, said that the division retained an independent dealer organization and a unique labor agreement in Spring Hill. ''We're aligning with G.M. where it makes sense to expand our product portfolio,'' she said.
        Mr. Ephlin was the U.A.W. vice president for Ford Motor negotiations from 1980 to 1983, and negotiated a series of agreements then that have created very close cooperation to this day between Ford and the U.A.W.
        Mr. Ephlin is survived by his wife of 50 years, Theresa; three children: Dennis, of Troy, Mich.; Donald Ephlin Jr., of Whittaker, Mich.; and Deborah Chappo, of Novi, Mich.; and 10 grandchildren.
      