
        Merton H. Miller, a Nobel award winner in economics whose passionate belief in free markets helped him to develop what are now widely recognized guidelines for valuing corporations, died on Saturday at his home in Chicago. He was 77.
        He died of lymphoma, from which he had suffered since 1997, said his wife, Katherine. While he did his pioneering work in the late 1950's as a young professor at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, he spent most of his career, since 1961, on the faculty of the University of Chicago's Graduate School of Business, where he taught until this school year.
        Corporate finance in the 1950's was virtually untouched by academia, left mostly to the instincts and seat-of-the-pants judgments of the nation's executives and Wall Street. But as American companies grew and the stock and bond markets that served them became more complicated and faster moving, pioneers like Mr. Miller began to develop formal guidelines, and corporate finance soon became a new branch of economics.
        The research that won Mr. Miller  the Nobel in economic science in 1990 found in essence that the mix of stock and debt that a company used to finance its operations did not determine the value of the company in the financial markets. Too much debt might make a company's stock riskier because of the earnings that must be earmarked to pay interest on the debt. But investors could protect themselves through arbitrage, which is a process of buying and selling stocks and bonds to alter their mix of debt and equity.
        Mr. Miller published these findings in a 1958 paper co-written with Franco Modigliani, who was then teaching at Carnegie Mellon but soon moved to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. During a lecture, Mr.  Modigliani touched on views already taking shape in Mr. Miller's head. Mr. Miller then took the lead in carrying out the research, overcoming some early skepticism from Mr. Modigliani that markets could arbitrage so efficiently.
        Recounting the story in his book ''Capital Ideas: The Improbable Origins of Modern Wall Street'' (The Free Press, 1992), Peter L. Bernstein reported that Mr. Miller stood his ground. He was ''a passionate believer in the power of free markets to forge optimal and predictable outcomes,'' Mr. Bernstein wrote, and quoted Mr. Miller as saying: ''I believed it. I felt from the very beginning that this is right.''
        The 1958 paper and one three years later elaborating on the theory raised enormous debate. The theory required too many unrealistic assumptions, some argued. Whatever their shortcomings, the findings that brought Mr. Miller a Nobel helped to lift inhibitions on corporate borrowing. The high-yield securities called junk bonds flourished later, as a result, as did arbitrage. And in later years, a friendship developed between Mr. Miller and Michael R. Milken, the investment banker who promoted junk bonds.
        Throughout his life, Mr. Miller believed fervently in the power of free markets, unhindered by government -- an unusual stance for economists in his generation. Born in Boston on May 16, 1923, the only child of Joel and Sylvia Miller, he grew up during the Depression, an experience that won over others to the teachings of John Maynard Keynes, the British economist who gave government spending a key role in stimulating an economy.
        After graduation from Harvard in 1943, where he had majored in economics, Mr. Miller worked in Washington for the Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve. A chance encounter that summer brought Mr. Miller into contact with George Stigler, a conservative economist who later became the first professor at the University of Chicago's Graduate School of Business to win a Nobel prize in economics. The two became fast friends.
        A second mentor, Fritz Machlup, another free-market proponent, drew Mr. Miller to Johns Hopkins University, where he earned a doctorate in 1952, and after two semesters as a teacher at the London School of Economics, he joined Carnegie Mellon. He formally retired from the University of Chicago in 1993 but continued to teach and advise graduate students.
        ''He had his formative training when Keynesianism was at its height, in the 1940's and 1950's, and he evolved into a proponent of market solutions,'' said his wife, who was a graduate student in economics  when Mr. Miller married her in 1970, a year after the death of his first wife, Eleanor. In addition to his wife, Mr. Miller is survived by three daughters from his first marriage: Margot Horn and Pamela Chwedyk of Chicago and Louise Lorber of Evanston, Ill., and two grandsons.
        In his later years, Mr. Miller focused on regulatory issues and became involved in the private sector, serving on several corporate boards, as a director of the Chicago Board of Trade in the early 1980's and as a director of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange from 1990 until his death.
        The Millers often spent weekends at a farm in Woodstock, Ill., which they had bought as a country retreat, and even there Mr. Miller thought in free-market terms. A neighboring farmer rented the land, and Mr. Miller proposed to the farmer that the rent vary with the price the farmer got for the corn he grew on the land.
        ''Luckily, the farmer turned down the variable rent proposal,'' Mrs. Miller said. ''If he hadn't, we would have lost our shirts. Corn prices plunged that year.''
      