
        Horace Busby Jr., a former White House aide and longtime associate of former President Lyndon B. Johnson, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 76 and lived in Santa Monica.
        The cause was respiratory failure, said his son, Scott.
        Mr. Busby, a fellow Texan known as Buzz, served President Johnson as, among other things, a speechwriter and an idea man. He was an important aide to Johnson in various phases of his political career.
        After Johnson became president when John F. Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas in 1963, Mr. Busby was named a special assistant to Johnson. Mr. Busby had been running a management consulting firm in Austin, Tex., and Washington that specialized in economic research.
        Mr. Busby served as the liaison between the executive departments and the White House. He also was a deputy to McGeorge Bundy, then special presidential assistant for national security affairs.
        At first, Mr. Busby agreed to remain on the president's staff only through the election of November 1964, when Johnson defeated his Republican opponent, Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona, in a landslide.
        Johnson persuaded Mr. Busby to stay a few months longer, but he resigned in September 1965, and returned to private life.
        As Mr. Busby left public service, he received a letter from Johnson that said: ''As a counselor, you have been wise. As an administrator, you have been unsparing toward yourself. As a friend, you have been, and you are, a never-failing source of strength to me.''
        But that was not the end of Mr. Busby's work for Johnson. In 1988, James R. Jones, who was the president's chief of staff in 1968, recalled that early in that year Johnson told him to put Mr. Busby back to work on an ''I will not run'' peroration in which the president, whose escalation of the Vietnam War led to student unrest and a bitterly divided nation, would disclose that he would not seek re-election.
        Earlier, Mr. Busby had been assigned to write such a passage for another Johnson speech, but the president changed his mind.
        On March 31, 1968, however, at the end of a nationally televised speech in which he announced the cessation of bombing north of the 21st parallel in Vietnam, the president made his surprise statement that he would not run again.
        Johnson died in San Antonio on Jan. 22, 1973, at the age of 64.
        In 1990, when a book about the former president, ''Means of Ascent'' by Robert A. Caro, provided new evidence that Johnson had stolen his election to the United States Senate in 1948, Mr. Busby, who had been an aide in Johnson's senatorial campaign, said: ''I don't disagree with the accuracy of anything Bob has in there,'' but added, ''There was a lot of stealing in that election.''
        ''The irregularity in the voting was caused in most instances by the local races,'' Mr. Busby, who was a political analyst in 1990, added. ''It was just incidental that there were also votes stolen for Johnson'' and for the losing candidate, Coke Stevenson.
        Horace Wooten Busby Jr. was born in Fort Worth, attended the University of Texas at Austin and was a liberal editor of the student newspaper. He was employed for a while as a wire-service journalist before beginning his first stint as a Johnson aide in 1946.
        His marriage to the former Mary Alves ended in divorce. Besides his son, Scott, of Los Angeles, Mr. Busby is survived by two daughters, Leslie Busby, who lives in Italy, and Betsy Busby of Encinitas, Calif. He is also survived by a grandchild and a sister.
      