
        J. Watson Webb Jr., the former president and chairman of the Shelburne Museum in Vermont, whose family was among the country's pre-eminent art collectors, died on Saturday in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 84 and had homes in Los Angeles and Shelburne.
        Born into the wealth and society of the grand American industrialists, Mr. Webb was raised in New York and Shelburne. His parents owned Shelburne Farms, a vast estate built beside Lake Champlain by his paternal grandparents, Dr. William Seward Webb and Lila Osgood Vanderbilt, a daughter of William Henry Vanderbilt, the railroad tycoon.
        In New York, Mr. Webb's parents and maternal grandparents, Louisine and Henry Havemeyer, the sugar refiner, had adjoining Fifth Avenue town houses, where he recalled as a child gazing at the seven Rembrandts on the walls of his grandparents' library. The Havemeyers were avid collectors and on her death in 1929, his grandmother left nearly 2,000 artworks to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, many of them by Degas and Manet.
        His mother, Electra Havemeyer Webb, had inherited her parents' passion for art but channeled it in a new direction by founding the Shelburne Museum in 1947 with a collection of Americana.
        Mr. Webb is largely credited with completing the museum and its collection -- some 80,000 objects housed in 37 historic buildings on 45 acres -- after becoming the museum's president when his mother died in 1960. He held the position until 1977, when he became chairman of the board.
        In 1996, Mr. Webb resigned to protest the board's decision to sell an estimated $25 million worth of art, with proceeds allocated for a collections care endowment, as it tried to handle financial difficulties. He said plans to sell Impressionist works his mother had given to the museum violated the code of ethics of the American Association of Museums, which forbids selling artworks for purposes other than acquiring more art. The works were sold at Sotheby's in late 1996 for $32.8 million.
        Mr. Webb attended the Groton School and then Yale, from which he graduated in 1938. He moved to California in 1946, where he was hired by 20th Century-Fox as an apprentice film cutter. In 1949, after a meeting with Darryl F. Zanuck, he was promoted to assistant film cutter. He eventually became Zanuck's head film cutter, editing such works as ''The Razor's Edge,'' which starred Tyrone Power, and founding the American Cinema Editors.
        No immediate family members survive.
      