
        Dr. Jeffrey A. Willick, an assistant professor at Stanford University and an astrophysicist intrigued with cosmology and the motion of galaxies, was killed Sunday afternoon in Englewood, N.J., when a sports car crashed into a coffee shop and hit him, the authorities said. He was 40.
        Dr. Willick was fatally injured after he interrupted a Father's Day visit in his hometown -- Teaneck, N.J. -- to indulge a favorite pastime: sipping coffee and working at his laptop computer at a Starbucks coffee shop, friends and the authorities said. As he sat alone at about 3 p.m., a 2000 red Mustang GT crossed through the shop's parking lot on Route 4 and plowed through its plate-glass window. Dr. Willick was the only patron struck, the authorities said.
        The driver, identified as Joseph A. Santiglia, 53, of Wilkes-Barre, Pa., was arrested yesterday on a charge of driving while intoxicated, said John Higgins, an assistant Bergen County prosecutor.
        Dr. Willick, a member of Stanford's physics department since 1995, had a deep interest in astronomy and the structure of the universe and had developed a reputation among astrophysicists as a skillful interpreter of the data and images from telescopic observations of thousands of galaxies closest to Earth. Friends said he was fascinated with the mapping of the motion of various galaxies and studying whether they were moving in concert, or coherently, or randomly through space.
        Dr. Willick graduated magna cum laude in chemistry and physics from Harvard in 1981 and received his master's degree and doctorate in physics from the University of California at Berkeley in 1983 and 1991, respectively. He taught physics at Dwight Englewood High School in Englewood in 1983-84 and then for seven years was a teaching assistant and research assistant at the University of California in Berkeley. Before joining Stanford's physics staff, he was a postdoctoral fellow in astronomy at the Carnegie Observatories in Pasadena, Calif., from 1991 to 1995.
        He is survived by his wife, Ellen Schneider, a physician, who is pregnant; two children, Jason, 6, and Emily, 4; his parents, Martin, a psychoanalyst, and Nancy, of Teaneck; two brothers, Stuart, of Salt Lake City, and Gary, of Teaneck; and a sister, Karen, of Teaneck.
      