
        Irving Anker, who worked his way through the ranks of New York City's public schools to become chancellor in the mid-1970's, guiding the system through a chaotic period of widespread layoffs, labor unrest, corruption and struggles over integration, died yesterday at his home in Jamaica, Queens. He was 88.
        A mild-mannered, unassuming man who was respected as a thorough educator, Mr. Anker saw the school system move from one crisis to the next in the wake of its decentralization in 1969, which created 32 local districts and shifted power from the Board of Education headquarters.
        Mr. Anker, who was deputy chancellor under Harvey Scribner, oversaw the contentious decentralization process from its infancy, serving as chancellor from 1973 until 1978.
        Irving Anker was more a product of the city's school system than any chancellor in its history. He was born on Oct. 27, 1911, in Brooklyn, to Austro-Hungarian immigrants. He attended public schools while his father worked as a tailor and his mother labored in an embroidery factory.
        He began his teaching career at a high school in Brooklyn in 1937.
        Mr. Anker served as the chairman of social studies at Long Island CIty High School, then as the principal of a junior high school, and became principal of Benjamin Franklin High School in Harlem, where his dedication to integration and civil rights took shape. He was made a roving superintendent before being appointed assistant chancellor.
        The first major crisis he faced as chancellor was associated with decentralization, a policy enacted by the legislature to give more educational representation to the city's growing minority communities. Shortly after taking office in 1974, Mr. Anker was forced to confront serious fiscal mismanagement at District 9 in the Bronx. He suspended the entire district board and appointed a trustee.
        WHile the action provoked a sit-in by parents, a state audit found improper hiring and millions of dollar in expenditures that could not be accounted for.
        Mr. Anker's critics saw his actions as an assault on decentralization, but the fight over District 9 turned out to be only the opening skirmish in a battle that still continues.
        By mid-1975, the city was in the midst of a huge fiscal crisis. The Board of Education, like other agencies and authorities in the city, was asked to suggest cutbacks to ease the city's burdens, but Mr. Anker refused to cooperate and threatened huge cuts in service if the city did not back off. The strategy backfired.
        The board ended up having to cut its budget by $230 million, and had to drop 21,000 employees, more than half of them teachers. Afterschool programs, art and music classes and sports programs were all slashed.
        At the same time, Mr. Anker was dealing with major unrest in Brooklyn over his changes in the attendance zones for high schools, which were intended to make some schools more integrated and others less crowded. Many white families took their children out of the sytem.
        In 1978, Mr. Anker was forced out by the newly elected mayor, Edward I. Koch, and he retired. He then taught at a community college in Florida and at the Long Island University Graduate School of Education. He also wrote and consulted on education.
        Mr. Anker is survived by his wife, Sarah; two daughters, Deborah, of Boston, and Laura, of Easthampton, N.Y.; a son, Philip David Anker of Bethesda, Md.; and seven grandchildren.
        Mr. Anker's three children sent their children to public schools, too, and one of his granddaughters, Shanna Beth Schwartz, is now a teacher at P.S. 116.
        ''My father believed that your commitment to the system was demonstrated by the fact that you believed in it for your children,'' his daughter Laura said last night.
      