
        Robert J. Lurtsema, the inimitable host of ''Morning Pro Musica,'' the classical music program on public radio, an announcer equally revered and reviled for his resonant timbre and slow, drawling delivery, died on Monday. He was 68.
        He had been struggling with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, a lung disease, his family said.
        June 26 would have marked Mr. Lurtsema's 29th anniversary as host of ''Morning Pro Musica.'' In its heyday the program was broadcast seven days a week from 7 a.m. to noon by a large network of stations in New England and northern New York State, and transmitted via satellite to stations throughout the country.
        Whether the show's success was a triumph of substance or style was debatable, even among its fans. Mr. Lurtsema carefully planned his programming around themes, seasons, holidays around the world and the anniversaries of composers and performers. In a period when classical music radio programs became increasingly wary of substance, he was not afraid to play long works, including contemporary music.
        But most of the attention that ''Morning Pro Musica'' attracted involved Mr. Lurtsema's relaxed style as host. He typically began the program with the recorded sounds of birds, then offered five hours of languid chitchat, weather reports, news, interviews and lots of music. To his admirers he was a wonderfully calming morning companion. To his detractors he was a self-absorbed bore in love with his own voice.
        By the late 1980's some stations stopped carrying the program. In 1993 ''Morning Pro Musica'' was switched from a daily to a weekend-only format. For better or worse, classical radio had changed and Mr. Lurtsema's personal style was considered anachronistic.
        He was born on Nov. 14, 1931, in Cambridge, Mass. After serving in the Navy he attended Boston University, studying liberal arts, drama and broadcasting. After graduating in 1957 he held an eclectic array of jobs, including lumberjack and encyclopedia salesman. In 1968 he returned to Boston and became a painter. But when he stumbled into the job at WGBH two years later he knew that classical music radio was his calling.
        Mr. Lurtsema was the author of two books: ''A Pocketful of Verse'' and the ''Robert J. Lurtsema Musical Quiz Book.''
        He is survived by his companion, Betsy Northrup of Wellesley, Mass.; his mother, Dorothy, of Stoughton, Mass.; two sisters; and a brother.
      