
        Irving Rudd, a Runyonesque character who used wit and gimmickry to promote the Brooklyn Dodgers, Yonkers Raceway, Nathan's Famous and boxers like Muhammad Ali and Sugar Ray Leonard, died on Friday. He was 82.
        Mr. Rudd, a short, fast-talking raconteur, wore a tie clasp that was a 1953 Dodgers money clip, sported a 1955 Dodgers World Series ring and placed a sign that said ''Ulcer Dept.'' atop his desk. He introduced himself as I. Rudd, while others called him Unswerving Irving.
        Mr. Rudd made sure you called him a press agent, not a public-relations man, whose ranks he called ''posturing phonies.''
        Press agentry was an honorable and sporting game to Mr. Rudd, who was born in the Brownsville section of Brooklyn and graduated from Thomas Jefferson High School. In later years he joked that he hadn't graduated; he was ''acquitted.''
        Mr. Rudd learned to deal with reporters in the days before television in much the same way that he dealt with the worthiness of a boxer, a Dodger or a horse.
        Mr. Rudd's job was to generate the ink that created the buzz that put fans in seats. He started drumming up attention for fights for $18 a week at a Harlem boxing hall called the Rockland Palace and later worked in small fight clubs like the Ridgewood Grove and Eastern Parkway Arena.
        He joined the Dodgers in 1949 and subsequently devised bat day, camera day, batboy for a day and music unappreciation night.
        Mr. Rudd once demanded to know if Gen. Douglas MacArthur, having been recalled by President Harry S. Truman from Korea in 1951, ''had an allergy to Brooklyn,'' because he attended baseball games at Yankee Stadium and Giants games at the Polo Grounds, but no Dodger games at Ebbets Field. Eventually, MacArthur attended one game in Brooklyn, which yielded a promotional bonanza. He attended 12 more, all Dodger losses. That happened to be the season the Dodgers blew a 13 1/2-game lead to the Giants.
        When the Dodgers relocated to Los Angeles in 1957, Mr. Rudd went to work for Yonkers Raceway.
        He staged his most famous stunt when the raceway reopened in 1958 after being rebuilt. Mr. Rudd told painters to misspell it ''Racewya'' on a sign next to the track, which made phone callers inquire, ''Don't you idiots know how to spell raceway?'' Naturally, photographers and television cameramen came to record the faux pas, which generated clippings around the world.
        On a sweltering July day in 1979, he recalled to a reporter from The New York Times that during summer days at Yonkers, ''We used to go around to the barns and get a picture of a horse nuzzling one of those great big cakes of ice.''
        He added, ''We got a lot of ink that way.''
        He went a step further one day, placing newspaper ads that said: ''Urgently wanted: Pool for champion Australian horse who needs to swim.''
        Mr. Rudd was quick-witted enough to correct a man claiming to be the sportscaster Howard Cosell's worst enemy by saying, ''Not while I'm alive.'' And he was flexible enough to work for the feuding boxing promoters, Don King and, then, Bob Arum, Mr. Rudd's boss until his retirement in 1991.
        In later years Mr. Rudd was the rare press agent in a sea of P.R. men. But he retained his touch. When Marvelous Marvin Hagler fought Thomas Hearns on April 15, 1985, he persuaded the Internal Revenue Service to underwrite a television ad that had the fighters advising the audience to file their tax returns early.
        He is survived by his wife, Gertrude, of Bayside, Queens; two daughters, Susan Rudd-Cohen, of Manhattan, and Nancy Marmer, of Henderson, Nev.; four grandchildren; and one great-granddaughter.
      