
        Petar T. Mladenov, who served for 18 years as foreign minister of Bulgaria under the Communist strongman Todor Zhivkov, then helped to oust him and became the country's president, died on May 31 in Sofia, the state news agency B.T.A. reported. He was 63.
        Mr. Mladenov underwent bypass surgery in Houston in 1986 and was believed to have been in frail health since then.
        Hard-line Communist rule in Bulgaria did not collapse because of street demonstrations, as it had in Romania, Czechoslovakia and East Germany. Rather, it fell in a coup when reform-minded Communist leaders, including Mr. Mladenov, seized control of the government.
        Mr. Mladenov became president in November 1989, and startled the nation when he declared a month later that the Communist monopoly on power should be abandoned and that free parliamentary elections should be held that year.
        But change did not take place rapidly enough to satisfy many, and Mr. Mladenov was forced to resign in July 1990 in a dispute over whether or not he had suggested that tanks be used to disperse antigovernment demonstrators.
        Mr. Mladenov was born to a family of peasants in the village of Toshevtsi. His father was killed in 1944 while serving with the antifascist partisans.
        Losing a parent in the fight against fascism established Mr. Mladenov after World War II as a patriot, and aided his rise through the ranks of the Communist government.
        After graduating from a military school, he entered Sofia University, and in 1963 graduated from the Moscow State Institute for International Relations.
        In 1971, at 35, he was elected to the central committee of the Bulgarian Communist Party and appointed minister for foreign affairs. Six years later, he became a full member of the politburo.
        In his role as minister of foreign affairs, Mr. Mladenov had to cope with such embarrassments as the notorious ''umbrella murder'' of 1978, in which an exiled Bulgarian writer who criticized the Zhivkov government in broadcasts for Radio Free Europe was killed in London by an assailant who fired a poison pellet from a weapon disguised as an umbrella.
        There were also charges in 1981 that Bulgarian agents were involved in the attempted assassination of the pope, but they were acquitted in an Italian trial.
        Mr. Mladenov is survived by his wife, Ganka, and a daughter.
      