
        Jim Royer, who for 20 years oversaw efforts by the New York Jets to assess and sign players on other National Football League teams, died Tuesday. He was 69.
        The cause was colon cancer.
        Royer joined the Jets in 1975, in what was the midst of a decade of futility. The Jets did not have a winning season from 1970 until 1981. But Royer was part of a front office that acquired enough quality players to turn the Jets' fortunes around, making the team competitive for much of the 1980's.
        ''He was a key person in the development of the team over two decades,'' the Jets' president, Steve Gutman, said.
        Royer's title for much of his tenure before retiring in 1996 was as pro personnel director. He was intimately acquainted with many of the league's arcane rules involving the movement of players and the intricacies of contracts. He not only understood the front office, but also the play on the field as well.
        At a first meeting, especially with player agents who often saw him as adversarial, Royer could come across as gruff.
        A former Marine and a graduate of the United States Naval Academy, he was precise and serious, at least until he got to know the person with whom he was dealing.
        Shortly after his graduation from the Naval Academy in 1957, Royer served as head coach of a Marine Corps team in Okinawa, Japan. For the next 10 years, he was a collegiate assistant coach at Navy, Buffalo, Tulane and Pittsburgh. He was also a defensive coordinator in the Atlantic Coast League.
        From there he became the offensive line coach of the New Orleans Saints in 1970 and then joined the Washington Redskins as a talent scout, leaving to join a scouting combine and, finally, the Jets.
        In 1978 he became the Jets' director of pro personnel, responsible for finding players other teams had cast aside, including former collegians who did not initially make it in the pros.
        Among the unheralded players he helped sign for the Jets were Brad Baxter, a fullback; defensive back Jerry Holmes; offensive tackle Jeff Criswell; nose tackle Scott Mersereau; and Louie Aguiar, a punter.
        He is survived by his wife, Linda; a son, Brian, of New York; and a daughter, Jamie, of Malverne, N.Y.
      