
        James Hill, the leader and baritone voice of the Fairfield Four gospel group, died July 6 at a hospital in Nashville, The Tennessean reported. He was 83 and lived in Nashville.
        The Fairfield Four, founded in 1921, became one of gospel's best-known groups. They sang unaccompanied in the classic quartet style, with fervent voices growling and leaping out of rhythmic chords.
        The group was founded by the Rev. J. R. Carrethers at Fairfield Baptist Church in Nashville, initially as the duo of his sons; it grew to a quartet and eventually included up to six members singing four-part harmony. After the tenor Sam McCrary joined in 1935, the group's reputation grew locally. In 1941 it was recorded for the folk-music archives of the Library of Congress. The Fairfield Four won a competition to appear on a radio show, and from 1942 to 1952 they were heard on WLAC in Nashville, and nationally over the CBS radio network, from 6:45 to 7 a.m.
        Mr. Hill was born July 25, 1916, in Bessemer, Ala. With a powerful voice but no formal musical training, he joined the group on Thanksgiving Day in 1946, at a time when the group and gospel quartet singing were reaching a peak of popularity.
        But in the early 1950's, gospel's popularity waned. A funeral parlor owned by the group also had business difficulties. While Mr. McCrary toured with various groups using the Fairfield Four name, Mr. Hill and the group's bass, Isaac Freeman, formed the Skylarks. But the heyday of quartet singing had passed. Mr. Hill worked as a courthouse cleaner, a sheriff's deputy and a police sergeant and ran a restaurant called the Tombstone. He made a brief appearance as a police officer in Robert Altman's 1974 film ''Nashville.''
        In 1980 the Fairfield Four's late-1940's lineup was persuaded to reunite by a gospel scholar, Doug Seroff, for a concert in Birmingham. The group began touring again, and in 1989 it received a National Heritage Fellowship, the traditional-arts award from the National Endowment for the Arts.
        The group signed a contract with Warner Brothers Records in 1990 and was discovered by rock and country songwriters; the Four toured and performed with Lyle Lovett, John Fogerty, Elvis Costello and Steve Earle. Retiring members were gradually replaced during the 1980's and 90's, but Mr. Hill and Mr. Freeman continued to sing with the group. Its 1997 album, ''I Couldn't Hear Nobody Pray,'' won a Grammy as best traditional soul gospel album.
        The group's manager, Lee Olsen, said the group was discussing whether to continue without Mr. Hill.
        Mr. Hill is survived by three sons, Wayne and Anthony Hill of Nashville and Lawrence Dulin of Evansville, Ind.; a stepson, Riley Hackworth of Niagara Falls, N.Y.; a stepdaughter, Margie Patton; six grandchildren; and 17 great-grandchildren.
      