
        Dr. George A. Snow, whose laboratory experiments and theoretical calculations helped shape the modern theory of particle physics, died on June 24 in Vancouver, British Columbia. He was 73 and a professor emeritus of physics at the University of Maryland.
        The cause was a stroke, his son Andrew said.
        Dr. Snow ''was the last of a rare breed of physicists who knew both theory and experiment,'' Dr. Andrew Baden, a physicist at Maryland, said.
        Known as a consummate researcher who immersed himself in scientific problems that interested him, Dr. Snow ''was like Michael Jordan with basketball,'' Dr. Baden said.
        Dr. Snow was also known as an advocate for women in science and taught the first women's studies course at the University of Maryland, in 1972, in collaboration with his wife, the artist Lila Snow.
        Dr. Virginia Beauchamp, a professor emerita of English and the first coordinator of women's studies at the university, said support from Dr. Snow and several other physicists was crucial in the days when such programs were struggling to gain academic credibility.
        ''George was right along with us from the beginning,'' Dr. Beauchamp said.
        George A. Snow was born in Manhattan on Aug. 24, 1926, and moved with his family to the Bronx as a  child. He graduated from high school at 14 and went on to receive a bachelor's degree from City College of New York in 1945.
        In 1950, he completed his Ph.D. at Princeton University under Eugene P. Wigner, one of the giants of theoretical physics and a Nobel Prize-winning theorist. Dr. Snow later spent a year at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton when Einstein and other great theorists were working there.
        ''He looked around at all those brains there and he said, 'There's no way I can compete with those guys,' '' Dr. Baden recalled.
        So Dr. Snow shifted his emphasis to experimental physics but nevertheless wrote a highly influential theoretical paper with Dr. Thomas Day and Dr. Joseph Sucher in the late 1950's, about the time he joined the Maryland faculty.
        The paper helped physicists extract the properties of particles from complicated collision experiments, said Dr. Nick Hadley, a professor of physics at Maryland. Those properties were later used to support the successful theory that the particles are made of elementary particles called quarks, Dr. Hadley said.
        Dr. Snow's experimental work, which he undertook at Brookhaven National Laboratory, Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory and the CERN laboratory in Switzerland, helped establish the nature of the so-called weak nuclear force, an interaction that causes radioactive decay.
        All of these results were eventually rolled into what is now called the standard model of particle physics.
        In addition to his wife, Lila, of  Chevy Chase, Md., and his son Andrew, of Bethesda, Md., he is survived by his son Zachary of Manhattan; a daughter, Dr. Sara Snow, of Vancouver; eight grandchildren; and two brothers, Dr. Robert Snow of Del Ray Beach, Fla., and Dr. Lawrence Snow of Great Neck, N.Y.
      