
        Claude Sautet, an award-winning director whose films focused on the lives of the bourgeoisie, died on Saturday in Paris. He was 76.
        The cause was liver cancer, his producer, Alain Sarde, told Agence France-Presse.
        ''My goal is to choose subjects or anecdotes, if you will, that are quite simple, to develop them simply, to film them simply and to find multiple levels in relationships,'' he said in a 1996 interview with The Times of London.
        Mr. Sautet spent the early part of his career working in television and as a screenwriter and script doctor. He first drew critical attention as a director with ''Les Choses de la Vie'' (''The Things of Life'') in 1969, a tragicomedy about a romantic triangle, with Michel Piccoli and Romy Schneider.
        He himself acted in that film and several others, including ''Cesar and Rosalie'' (1972), about a divorced woman who becomes involved with a wealthy man and a young artist.
        His credits also included ''Vincent, Francois, Paul and the Others'' (1974); ''Une Histoire Simple'' (''A Simple Story''), with Ms. Schneider, which was one of the nominees for the 1980 Oscar for best foreign film; and ''Quelques Jours Avec Moi'' (''A Few Days With Me'') in 1988.
        ''Un Coeur en Hiver'' (''A Heart in Winter''), released in the United States in 1993, was the story of a violin repairer (Daniel Auteuil) who is better at his work than at his relationships with people -- including a beautiful young violinist (Emmanuelle Beart) with whom he falls in love. Mr. Sautet's film was praised by Janet Maslin in The New York Times as ''a coolly elegant romance.'' The film brought him a Cesar, the French equivalent of an Oscar, in 1992.
        He won another Cesar for his last film, ''Nelly and Monsieur Arnaud'' (1996), with Ms. Beart and Michel Serrault, the story of a young woman and her relationship with the reclusive elderly man who unexpectedly chooses to become her benefactor.
        Born in Montrouge, a suburb of Paris, on Feb. 23, 1924, Mr. Sautet first sought a career as a painter and sculptor before enrolling in film school in Paris. He worked at a series of jobs, writing music criticism and even serving as warden of a school for juvenile delinquents, before finding work as a script doctor and directorial assistant. His early efforts included several gangster films.
        Mr. Sautet said that the heart of his films, which often featured a group of people supporting the main character, was drawn from, as The Times of London put it, ''childhood experiences in an extended family with a cafe as the center of community life.''
        ''This is where I also discovered the secret of loneliness of people, of being lonely in a crowd,'' he said in the interview. ''One of the classic subjects is solitude.''
        He added: ''I always try to create an imbalance, an edge to friendship. You never know what's going to trigger the next moment. My real subject is always uncertainty.''
      