
        Alice Lord Landon, a pioneer in women's swimming and diving who was a presence on the American Olympic scene for eight decades, died last Thursday at her home in Ormond Beach, Fla. She was 98.
        At age 13, Alice Lord swam nine miles across Long Island Sound. At 18, she was a platform diver on the first United States women's swimming team in the Olympics.
        At 82, she led the procession of American athletes at the Los Angeles Olympics, wearing a replica of her uniform from the 1920 Games at Antwerp, Belgium.
        And at 94, she carried the torch for the Atlanta Games when it moved through Daytona Beach, Fla.
        ''Alice was the grand dame of the Olympians,'' said Dorothy Franey Langkop, honorary executive director of United States Olympians, an association of former competitors that the diver and her husband, the Olympic high-jump champion Dick Landon, helped found in the mid-1940's.
        Lord Landon was inducted into the International Swimming Hall of Fame at Fort Lauderdale, Fla., in 1993.
        She was evidently the oldest female American Olympian, according to the United States Olympic Committee. Hal Prieste, 103, who won a diving bronze medal for the United States in 1920, is listed as the oldest living American Olympian.
        Growing up in Brooklyn and then Westchester County, Alice Lord was encouraged by her father to pursue physical fitness.
        ''My brother and I walked 20 miles a day,'' she would recall. ''I swam distance, going a little further and faster every day, but not for competition. I wasn't working to make the Olympics, because I didn't know what the Olympics were.''
        She began competing with the newly formed Women's Swimming Association of New York, which dominated the emerging sport. But diving conditions were primitive. The practice pools were often only 6 feet deep, forcing Lord Landon to snap forward quickly and cup her hands after entering the water to keep her head from hitting the bottom.
        Competing at the 1920 Games, she was handicapped by the lack of a coach and failed to make the finals in platform diving. But her teammates from the swimming association were among the stars of the Games. Aileen Riggin Soule, now 94, won the gold medal in springboard diving, and Ethelda Bleibtrey captured three golds in swimming to lead an American women's sweep.
        On the ship going to Antwerp, Alice Lord met Dick Landon, and the high-jumper and the diver were married two years later in a burst of publicity over their Olympic romance.
        ''He got so tired of answering how we met,'' she remembered long afterward. ''Finally he answered that we met in midair: he was going up and I was going down.''
        Lord Landon remained active in the Olympic movement. She was an official of United States Olympians, held the starter's gun for women's swimming in the Olympic trials during the 1920's and 1930's, helped choose team uniforms and raised money for the United States squads.
        She is survived by a daughter, Bunny McMunn, of Ormond Beach; two grandchildren; four great-grandchildren; and one great-great-grandchild. Her husband died in 1971.
        Although she promoted the Olympic movement, Lord Landon spoke out on its blemishes. She felt that the Olympic ideal of placing participation above winning was violated when winners were honored but losers were forgotten.
        ''The creed is fine,'' she said. ''It hasn't always been lived up to.''
      