
        Enric Miralles, the renowned Catalan architect whose most important project, the soaring headquarters for the fledgling Scottish Parliament, is still being built, died of a brain tumor on Monday at his home in Barcelona, a spokesman for the Parliament said. He was 45.
        In 1998, Mr. Miralles -- the brash creative force behind such eclectic projects as the Utrecht Town Hall in the Netherlands, the archery pavilions for the 1992 winter Olympics in Barcelona and the Takaoka railway station in Japan -- was chosen to design the building that is to house Scotland's first independent Parliament in nearly 300 years. Admirers of Mr. Miralles praised his bold concept for the building, which looks a bit like an upturned boat and is now being constructed at the bottom of the Royal Mile in Edinburgh's Old Town.
        But the project was beset by trouble almost from the beginning, when some opposition members of Parliament grumbled that they didn't like the design and others said there was no need for a new structure at all. The cost, originally estimated at $:50 million -- about $75 million -- soared to $:195 million earlier this year. Predictions of when the building would be completed changed, too: the current schedule calls for an opening date at the end of 2002.
        Mr. Miralles was so eager to get the commission for the Parliament building, a process he described as a ''fantastic conversation,'' that he reportedly rearranged the furniture in the room where he was to have his final interview so as to improve the atmosphere and help secure the job. But after his death, newspapers in Scotland reported that Mr. Miralles had told a friend, even as he was dying, that he was disillusioned that the project had become so politicized. ''He was tired of their bureaucratic approach, saying that they treated him like an engineer, not a creative person,'' the friend, Julio Capella, was quoted as saying.
        Born in 1955, Enric Miralles Moya studied architecture in Barcelona and received a doctoral degree from Columbia University. With his first wife, he set up an architectural practice in Barcelona in 1984, and he went on to win architectural competitions throughout Europe. He was influenced by Charles Rennie Mackintosh, Le Corbusier and Antonio Gaudi.
        Mr. Miralles avoided living in houses of his own design. Instead, he once said, he preferred ''second-hand places, places in whose creation you haven't participated, and to play the role of observer.''
        Mr. Miralles is survived by his second wife and business partner, Benedetta, also an architect; a daughter, Katerina; and a son, Dominic. He was buried on Tuesday in Igualada Cemetery outside of Barcelona, which he designed.
      