
        Allen E. Paulson, who set speed records as a pilot and airline executive but became world famous as the owner of the renowned race horse Cigar, died Wednesday night at Scripps Hospital in La Jolla, Calif. He was 78.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Paulson had achieved a major career as a test pilot and airline pilot and head of the Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation before he became one of the country's leading owners and breeders of race horses. He piloted Gulfstream IV aircraft, which were made by the company he owned, and set 24 world speed records. He later named many of his race horses for aeronautical checkpoints he had used along the way.
        He started his second career, with horses, in the 1970's when he owned claiming horses, usually the cheapest runners available. But he did not become seriously involved until 1982. After that, horses became his passion. He bred 85 stakes winners and raced more than 100 stakes winners and 7 champions, but none made such a lasting record or had such a lasting appeal as Cigar.
        The great bay, named for an aviation checkpoint in the Gulf of Mexico, did not prove especially spectacular early in his career, and in fact did not even run in the Kentucky Derby or the other Triple Crown races. But after he was turned over to the trainer Bill Mott, he rocketed into the record books in 1995 and 1996, earning more prize money than any other race horse in history.
        The critical move came when Mott decided to switch Cigar from grass racing to dirt racing, after Cigar had won only 2 of his first 13 races. He was 4 years old in 1995 when Mott tried him on dirt, and the horse promptly made history.
        He won 16 races in a row, tying the record set from 1948 to 1950 by Calumet Farm's champion Citation, and thrilling audiences from Belmont Park in New York to Arlington Park in Chicago to Del Mar in California. Huge crowds followed him as he approached the record wearing Mr. Paulson's red, white and blue colors with the distinguished jockey Jerry Bailey on his back.
        ''We ran him in as many places as we could,'' Mr. Paulson said. ''And the public followed every move he made. We like to think that he made racing exciting to a new generation of fans. He was America's best.''
        The winning streak ended in the Pacific Classic at Del Mar on Aug. 10, 1996, when Cigar was 6 years old. But it took a two-horse team trained by Richard Mandella to run him down. Siphon set fast fractions for the first mile, keeping Cigar at his heels. Then, after Cigar collared him in the homestretch, the fast-closing Dare and Go kicked in with his deciding rally and defeated the tiring Cigar by three lengths.
        After he retired from racing with earnings of $9.9 million, Cigar was sold by Mr. Paulson to Coolmore Stud for $25 million. But in one of the strange oddities of racing life, Cigar turned out to be unproductive as a stallion, despite his stellar record as a race horse.
        Mr. Paulson and his wife Madeline became familiar, stylish figures in the winner's circle of tracks around the country as they raced Cigar and the other champions from their strong stable. The cast was headed by Cigar, who was voted Horse of the Year in 1995 and 1996, and included Estrapada, the female turf champion of 1986; Theatrical, the male turf champion of 1987; Arazi, the juvenile champion colt of North America and Europe in 1991; Eliza, the champion 2-year-old filly of 1992; Ajina, the 3-year-old filly champion of 1997; and Escena, the best older filly or mare of 1998.
        The Paulson stable produced 32 Breeders' Cup runners and 8 winners, both records, and he also won 15 Eclipse Awards for racing excellence.
        Mr. Paulson once was asked about Cigar's ownership: Didn't the horse actually belong to his wife, as earlier listings showed? ''I traded Eliza to her to get him,'' he replied with a straight face.
        The Paulsons stabled their champions at their Brookside Farm near Versailles, Ky., with divisions of the farm in Florida and California. But they sold their Kentucky property earlier this year as Mr. Paulson's illness grew more serious.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Paulson is survived by three sons, Richard, James and Michael, and a brother.
      