
        Alexandre Barbosa Lima Sobrinho, a prolific journalist and politician whose career was intertwined with the development of Brazil for much of the 20th century, died on July 16 in a clinic in Rio de Janeiro. He was 103.
        In a career that endured more than 80 years, until his final newspaper column the week before he died, Mr. Barbosa Lima personified the nationalist fervor of Brazil's news media as the country underwent a transformation from a commodities producer on the margins of the world economy to an industrialized regional power.
        He wrote more than 50 books along with about 5,000 articles for the newspaper Jornal do Brasil.
        Mr. Barbosa Lima, a member of a middle class, traditional family, began writing for several small newspapers in Recife, in northeastern Brazil, where he was born in 1897.
        Shortly after graduating from law school in Recife in 1917, Mr. Barbosa Lima moved to Rio de Janeiro, then the capital, to work for the Jornal do Brasil. At 26, he became the newspaper's editor in chief, a position that put him in contact with leading political figures.
        Although he opposed the Revolution of 1930, a movement that thrust Getulio Vargas, a strongman politician from the country's south, into power, Mr. Barbosa Lima later supported Mr. Vargas in his establishment of a dictatorship in 1937.
        A socialist, Mr. Barbosa Lima based his decision on Mr. Vargas's creation of legislation supporting a minimum wage, a social security system and state-controlled enterprises in the steel and mining industries. It was during Mr. Vargas's tenure that Mr. Barbosa Lima made a foray into politics, as director of the government's sugar institute.
        In 1947, Mr. Barbosa Lima was elected governor in his native state of Pernambuco. But his term was made difficult as opponents criticized his left-wing ideas and refusal to support the removal of Communist legislators from Congress.
        ''I took all the attitudes that I should have taken at every time in my life,'' Mr. Barbosa Lima said in a 1997 interview with the newspaper O Estado de Sao Paulo.
        He was elected to Congress three times and ran unsuccessfully in 1973 for vice president on a ticket with Ulysses Guimaraes, the presidential candidate, against the military government's candidates.
        But it was as a nationalistic journalist that Mr. Barbosa Lima is widely remembered.
        ''He was a fantastic subject who spent his entire life defending the country,'' Oscar Niemeyer, Brazil's foremost architect and another prominent leftist, said after Mr. Barbosa Lima's death.
        As president of the Brazilian Press Association, a position he held for more than 25 years, Mr. Barbosa Lima came out in favor of impeaching President Fernando Collor de Mello, who was accused of corruption. Mr. Collor resigned in December 1992.
        After Fernando Henrique Cardoso was elected president in 1994 and began a wide range of reforms to modernize Brazil's economy, Mr. Barbosa Lima emerged as a fierce critic of the government's economic policies.
        In his column, Mr. Barbosa Lima often lamented the far-reaching transfer of state enterprises to foreign concerns.
        Mr. Barbosa Lima is survived by his wife of 67 years, Maria Jose  Pereira Barbosa Lima, three children, seven grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
        Bespectacled and conservatively dressed, Mr. Barbosa Lima seemed like a throwback to a more genteel time when journalists and statesmen debated political ideas as vociferously as Internet tycoons and foreign-educated economists discuss economics in the Brazil of today.
        ''If I could provide any advice I would recommend not living longer than 100 years,'' Mr. Barbosa Lima was quoted as saying earlier this year. ''It is a cause of suffering to see all we could not do and all that we would still like to do.''
      