
        Everett Needham Case, a former president of Colgate University who was also the chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in the late 1960's, died on Tuesday in Waterville, N.Y. He was 99.
        He died in his sleep at a nursing home, said his son, James H. Case III.
        Mr. Case's long career spanned academia, commerce and foreign affairs. At various times, he also served as the president of the American Council on Education; president of the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, the nonprofit philanthropic institution in New York; and chairman of National Educational Television, a precursor of PBS.
        He was born in Plainfield, N.J. He graduated from Princeton University in 1922 and received a degree in modern European history from Cambridge University in 1924.
        His business career began in 1927 when he became the personal assistant to Owen D. Young, then chairman of General Electric and the founder of the Radio Corporation of America. From 1929 to 1933, Mr. Case was assistant secretary of G.E.
        In 1931, he married Josephine Young, the daughter of Mr. Young, and the couple subsequently spent two months in China. For Mr. Case, the visit started a lifelong interest in China and, in 1949, he was a appointed a consultant on Far Eastern policy to Dean Acheson, then the secretary of state.
        During that period, Mr. Case also was acting secretary of the National Broadcasting Company's advisory council and became involved in a study by the Carnegie Foundation to assess the role of radio in education.
        He served two years as assistant dean of the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration before becoming president of Colgate in 1942.
        The United States was then embroiled in World War II, and Mr. Case emphasized that the school would do its part to aid the war effort. During the war, the college became a training center for officer candidates for the Navy and Naval Air Force. But he also urged that greater effort should be put on the school's social studies curriculum, adding that it would be unfortunate to swing too far into technical studies.
        After the war ended, Mr. Case played a major role in developing the so-called core curriculum approach to higher education that emphasized an initial broad-based field of study rather than directing new students into a specific area. Though it quickly gained popularity at other colleges and universities, the approach has fallen in and out of favor through the years.
        Throughout his 20-year tenure at Colgate, Mr. Case was a staunch proponent of the value of a liberal arts education. He also attracted attention in 1960 when he warned against the creation of ''shadow faculties'' of professors who received high salaries to do government-sponsored research but did little teaching.
        In 1961, Mr. Case became a director of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and was appointed its chairman in 1965. His father, J. Herbert Case, held that same position from 1931 to 1936. In 1936, the post of chairman ceased to be a full-time position.
        Mr. Case's wife died in 1990. Along with his son James of White Plains, he is survived by three children, Josephine E. Case of Van Hornesville, N.Y., Samuel P. Case of Fairfax, Calif., and John P. Case of Cambridge, Mass.; eight grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      