
        Dr. Abraham Horwitz, the director of the Pan American Health Organization from 1958 to 1975, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 89.
        Dr. Horwitz led the health organization through a period of political, social and technological change. He also was chairman of the committee on international nutrition programs of the National Academy of Sciences from 1978 to 1986 and was chairman of a United Nations nutrition panel from 1986 until five years ago.
        At his death, Dr. Horwitz, an expert on vitamin A deficiency, headed an international consulting group on the subject.
        ''The persistence of vitamin A deficiency anywhere in the world is cruel because it exposes mothers and children to great risks,'' Dr. Horwitz said, according to the Pan American Health Organization. ''It is immoral because it ignores basic human values; and it is unacceptable because it is preventable.''
        Vitamin A is in foods like egg yolks, butter and carrots. Deficiencies can lead to night blindness and serious illness.
        Dr. Horwitz, who was born in Santiago, Chile, also was chairman of the Pan American Health and Education Foundation, for which he created a program to supply medical students in Latin American and the Caribbean with textbooks and instruments.
        He earned his medical degree at the University of Chile in 1936, focusing on communicable diseases and public health. He came to the United States to work as a Rockefeller Foundation fellow on infectious diseases in the early 1940's and earned a master's degree in public health at Johns Hopkins University in 1944.
        He then was named a professor at the University of Chile, directed its School of Public Health, and began his work with the Pan American Health Organization, an affiliate of the World Health Organization.
        Chile reclaimed him to help reorganize its national health service in the 1950's. He was elected director of the Washington-based Pan American Health Organization in 1958, and served four terms.
        He published many papers on epidemiology, communicable diseases and preventive medicine, and on education in health, nutrition and public health administration.
        His contributions were widely recognized in Latin America, the Caribbean and the United States, and he won numerous awards.
        Dr. Horwitz's survivors include his wife, Cecilia, and five stepchildren.
      