
        Corneliu Manescu, a former Romanian diplomat with a reputation for integrity who became a courageous opponent of Nicolae Ceausescu, his country's dictator, died on June 26 in Bucharest, the Romanian capital. He was 84.
        In the revolution in 1989, which led to the overthrow and execution of Mr. Ceausescu, an early report in the West said a new government was being put together by Mr. Manescu, who was foreign minister from 1961 to 1972 but spent much of the 80's under house arrest.
        As the revolution progressed, a soundtruck trumpeted Mr. Manescu's name (pronounced kor-NEHL-yoo mah-NESS-koo). He became, briefly, titular leader of the provisional administration that succeeded Mr. Ceausescu in December 1989.
        On the day before he took over, the anti-Ceausescu forces -- a mixture of army generals, student leaders and Communist political figures who had been under detention -- had moved quickly to create a provisional government under Mr. Manescu.
        Earlier in 1989, Mr. Manescu was one of six elderly former officials who wrote the dictator a letter accusing him of wrecking the economy and terrorizing the population. ''All the leaders of the non-Communist nations of Europe refuse to meet with you,'' the letter said, adding that the security forces, created to defend the socialist order against the exploiting classes, had been turned against workers and intellectuals.
        All six writers, evicted from their houses and made inaccessible to foreign journalists and diplomats, were relegated to dirt-floored dwellings on the capital's outskirts, under police guard.
        Mr. Manescu, who was also a former member of the Communist Party Central Committee and a former lieutenant general, stayed under house arrest until a few days before Dec. 22, 1989, when forces loyal to Mr. Ceausescu were fighting for control. On that day, Mr. Manescu announced to the nation on Romanian television that he was heading a ''national salvation front'' that would hold power until free elections could be held.
        But he was ill and seemed a pale shadow of the dashing 6-foot-2 figure that he cut in 1967, when he was a diplomat hurrying through the corridors of the United Nations General Assembly as its first Communist president, presiding over a stormy debate on the Middle East war.
        Mr. Manescu was born in Ploesti, in central Romania, the son of a minor government clerk. He went to local schools, received a law degree in Bucharest and rose to national prominence, becoming deputy armed forces minister from 1948 to 1955 and holding other high posts.
        His relationship with Mr. Ceausescu began to deteriorate in the 70's. By 1984, Mr. Manescu had lost his seat on the Communist Party Central Committee, and he was apparently in semiretirement in the period before the 1989 revolution.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Dana Dobrescu, whom he married in 1950, and a daughter.
      