
        Alexander Dallin, an American historian of the Soviet Union whose family took part in the Russian Revolution but who was widely respected for the scholarly detachment with which he viewed Communism, died of heart failure on July 22 in Stanford, Calif. He was 76.
        He had a stroke the day before, Stanford University said in announcing his death.
        Mr. Dallin was a director of the Russian Institute at Columbia University and of the Center for Russian and East European Studies at Stanford where he was the Raymond A. Spruance professor of international history from 1987 to 1994.
        Mr. Dallin exercised wide influence on other students of Russian history, said Timothy Colton, director of the Davis Center for Russian Studies at Harvard University.
        Marshall D. Shulman, another former director of the Russian Institute, emphasized Mr. Dallin's objectivity, saying, ''In a field riven by political controversy, he was universally respected as a voice of common sense and scholarly detachment rooted in a solid historical backing.''
        Born in Berlin on May 21, 1924, Mr. Dallin was the son of David Dallin, a Russian revolutionary leader who belonged to the moderate Menshevik faction, which had broken away from Lenin's Bolsheviks in 1903. After the Bolsheviks seized power in 1917, the Mensheviks sought to play the role of opposition party, but David Dallin was forced into exile in Germany in 1921, the year before Lenin formally banned the movement.
        As a Jewish revolutionary, David Dallin was then forced into exile a second time, fleeing Hitler's Germany in 1940 for the United States where he wrote hostile books and articles about the Soviet Union and its Stalinist rulers.
        His son completed graduate studies at Columbia University and went on to build a reputation for exacting Soviet scholarship and a deep understanding of the Communist Party. He became the Adlai Stevenson professor of international relations at Columbia in 1965 and was director of its Russian Institute from 1962 to 1967.
        After the the Soviet Union's fall, Mr. Dallin worked on reviving the social sciences in Russia, where they had had been eclipsed by Marxism-Leninism as academic disciplines under Communism.
        In 1994 he helped found the European University in St. Petersburg, which specializes in political science, sociology and economics, as well as the New Democracy Fellows Program at Stanford, which brings over students from the post-Communist world for graduate work in social sciences.
        ''Dallin had a profound and beneficial influence on the field of Soviet and East European studies,'' said David Holloway, who now holds the chair that Mr. Dallin held. ''For him the study of the Soviet Union was not a question of confirming an already held point of view but rather a matter of seeking to understand a complex and changing reality.''
        Mr. Dallin was something of a maverick, tending to concentrate on aspects of Soviet history and policy making that were neglected or viewed as irrelevant by other academics.
        In 1957 he published ''German Rule in Russia, 1941-45,'' a study of Hitler's occupation of parts of Russia during World War II, which remains the definitive work on that subject and won the Wolfson Prize for history, which is awarded by the Wolfson Foundation in London.
        Five years later he produced ''The Soviet Union at the United Nations: an Inquiry into Soviet Motives and Objectives,'' an examination of Moscow's approach to the United Nations at a time when the Soviet Union appeared to have turned its back on international cooperation.
        In 1964, long before the United States had embarked on the strategic arms limitation talks, he published ''The Soviet Union and Disarmament,'' which suggested a negotiated halt to the arms race would be in America's national interest.
        He published many more books, including ''Women in Russia'' (1977); ''Black Box''(1985), a study of the Soviet shooting down of Korean Air Lines Flight 007 concluding that the United States may have engineered the plane's deviation into Soviet strategic airspace; and ''The Gorbachev Era''(1986), written with Condoleezza Rice, Gov. George W. Bush's foreign policy adviser.
        He is survived by his wife, Gail W. Lapidus, herself a political scientist; three children from a previous marriage, Linda, Natasha and Andrew; and four grandchildren.
      