
        Raymond Eugene Portwood Jr., who began working as an animator with the Walt Disney Company at 17 and went on to become one of the two principal creators of the pioneering and popular Carmen Sandiego series of children's computer games, died on July 17 in Windsor, Calif. He was 66.
        Mr. Portwood died of a heart attack at a convalescent center, where he had lived since a stroke 18 months ago, his wife, Myra Bates Portwood, said.
        The Carmen Sandiego games, a painless way to learn academic subjects by following an animated vamp in a trench coat around on the computer, have sold 6.5 million copies and led to three television series. Introduced in 1985, the game was one of the first approaches to computerized education for children, and it remains one of the most popular.
        With his colleague, Lauren Elliott, Mr. Portwood is credited with dreaming up Carmen Sandiego, who, as a former secret agent gone bad, is the ringleader of a gang of eccentric provocateurs who roam the world causing trouble, usually by stealing a treasure of local significance. The player assumes the role of Interpol detective, tracking Carmen Sandiego  or her henchmen from city to city and nation to nation on the basis of clues provided by witnesses.
        ''She changed all her money for zlotys,'' a witness might say, prompting an informed player to head for Poland.
        Mr. Portwood and Mr. Elliott worked principally on the first two Carmen games, ''Where in the World Is Carmen Sandiego?'' and ''Where in the U.S.A. Is Carmen Sandiego?'' Many more games followed, covering subjects like mathematics and history.
        It began in a spare building in San Rafael, Calif., that was the home of Broderbund Software. The company's creative team would meet in what was called the rubber room to bounce around ideas. Mr. Portwood's artistic sensibility was critical to the process, his colleagues say.
        ''Other people could talk it,'' said Douglas Carlston, a founder of Broderbund. ''He could see it.''
        Mr. Carlston gives Mr. Portwood much of the credit for Carmen. ''If he wasn't the most key guy, he was one of the most key guys,'' he said.
        Ken Bull, a software engineer who was part of the original design team, said that Mr. Portwood was responsible for ''a large part of the original concept.''
        The Carmen games were some of the first to move computer games out of the arcade and into the classroom. In 1987, Dr. Ariella Lehrer, president of Lehrer Associates, a Los Angeles-based educational software consulting firm, said, ''This software gets high praise from teachers because it combines so many subjects and reference skills, and kids never get tired of it because the computer generates clues and geographic settings at random.''
        One of Broderbund's best-selling products, Carmen Sandiego helped the company become so successful as a software maker that it was bought by the Learning Company in June 1998 in a stock swap valued at $420 million. In May 1999, Mattel bought the Learning Company for $3.6 billion.
        Ms. Portwood said her husband and Mr. Elliott had no chance to cash in on the financial bonanza personally. Although they received substantial royalties for the first two Carmen games, she said, Broderbund changed its compensation arrangements for later versions. As a result, she said, the two developers left in 1992 and formed their own game company, Elliott Portwood Productions.
        Mr. Portwood was born in Chicago on Sept. 16, 1933, the son of a house painter. When he was 11, the family moved to Burbank, Calif. He showed talent for drawing cartoon characters, and a family friend introduced him to a Disney animator, who invited him to submit a portfolio of his work.
        At 17, he joined the Disney animation army of more than 200. He did not attend college, but read voraciously and became known for his vast vocabulary. He loved old movies, music and practical jokes. He positively delighted in turning language upside down.
        For example, his and Mr. Elliott's last company was in Petaluma, Calif. His resultant joke: ''You can pet a cat, but you can't pet a luma.''
        At Disney, he worked on films including''Lady and the Tramp'' and ''Sleeping Beauty.'' For ''Peter Pan,'' he contributed to the famous scene in which a crocodile chases Captain Hook. In those precomputer days, each frame had to be laboriously prepared by an assembly line of artisans. Mr. Portwood was a link in that chain.
        In his five years at Disney, he also frequently worked on the Jiminy Cricket animations that introduced segments of Disney's evening television program. ''He said he'd probably drawn more crickets than anybody on the planet,'' Mr. Carlston said.
        To earn more money for his growing family, Mr. Portwood took jobs with Security National Bank in Orange County, Honeywell International and the University of California.
        After a divorce, he married his second wife, who operated a bakery in Sebastopol, Calif., where he lived until his stroke. While commuting to Berkeley, Mr. Portwood passed San Rafael daily and made friends at Broderbund. His friendly chats led to a job offer.
        He is survived by his wife; his daughters, Kim Portwood of Santa Rosa, Calif., and Kathi Gamberutti, Kari Hermanson, Kelley Portwood and Kristi Portwood, all of Monterey, Calif.; and two sisters, Lynette Foster of Redondo Beach, Calif., and Darlene Insley of Santa Cruz, Calif.
        Mr. Portwood's job at Broderbund was the culmination of all his passions, his wife said. For one thing, he was paid to play with words, one of his favorite things. Many of the names of Carmen Sandiego's henchmen and henchwomen, said to have been his creations, were either very inspired or very bad puns. Some examples: Rob Burr, Clement See, Belle Igerent and Mandy Lifeboats.
        For another thing, he could play endlessly with computers; at home, his wife finally had to put a sheet over the family PC to have any hope of catching his attention.
      