
        Seth Ward, a hard-driving Arkansas businessman who was a peripheral figure in the scandals that embarrassed the Clinton administration and brought down his son-in-law, Webster L. Hubbell, died on Sunday in Little Rock. He was 79.
        The cause of death was heart failure, the family said.
        ''Seth was one of those old-line Southern patriarchs who overwhelmed his family with his forcefulness,'' Mr. Hubbell wrote in his book,  ''Friends in High Places,'' (William Morrow, 1997).
        The book recalled Mr. Hubbell's journey from Arkansas lawyer to Washington power figure as associate attorney general in the Clinton administration, then his resignation and imprisonment in what became known as the Whitewater scandal.
        In the book, Mr. Hubbell said he was overwhelmed not just by his father-in-law's personality, but also by his generosity. Recalling the early years of his marriage to Mr. Ward's daughter Suzanna, Mr. Hubbell wrote, ''We furnished our house from the Wards' attic.''
        Mr. Ward left college to become a Marine Corps fighter pilot in the Pacific in World War II. He also served in the Korean War. He started an insurance company, then an aluminum siding company, a burglar alarm company, a storm window company and a business that made parking meters.
        ''People often said of Seth that his instinct for when to sell was even more golden than his hunch for when to buy,'' Mr. Hubbell wrote.
        Years ago, Mr. Ward became associated with a real estate entrepreneur and banker named James B. McDougal, who was developing a tract known as Whitewater in northern Arkansas. The plan included a section, Castle Grande, that was being financed by a savings and loan association owned by Mr. McDougal and his wife, Susan.
        Before coming to Washington, Bill Clinton and his wife, Hillary, were partners for a time with Mr. McDougal. The Whitewater venture eventually collapsed and with it the McDougals' savings and loan association, at a cost to taxpayers of several million dollars.
        Mr. Ward was never charged with a crime, although government investigators concluded that he had been a ''straw buyer'' of parts of Castle Grande to hide the heavy involvement of the McDougals' savings institution. The McDougals were convicted of fraud and other crimes in 1996 and sentenced to prison, where Mr. McDougal died in 1998.
        In the early 1990's, Mr. Hubbell represented Mr. Ward's parking meter company in an unsuccessful suit against another manufacturer. Mr. Hubbell's law partners later raised questions about billings and expenses filed by Mr. Hubbell, leading to accusations that he had bilked the firm. Mr. Hubbell resigned his Justice Department position early in 1994 and served 18 months in prison on various charges arising from the Whitewater investigation.
        Mr. Hubbell, in his book, writes that his father-in-law's impatience was nearly fatal one day in 1989. Annoyed that the gutters on Mr. Hubbell's house were neglected, Mr. Ward decided to repair them. He leaned too far out a window and fell two stories, breaking his back.
        Mr. Ward spent weeks in the hospital, Mr. Hubbell wrote, and wore an expression whose meaning was clear: ''If I had done my man-of-the-house duty and gotten the drainage system fixed, he wouldn't be in a back brace.''
        Mr. Ward is survived by his wife, Yvonnie; a son, Seth II of Little Rock; two daughters, Suzanna Hubbell of Washington and Sally Ward of Little Rock; nine grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      