
        Vahe Oshagan, whom leading critics call the most important Armenian-language poet in exile, died on June 30 in Philadelphia. He was 78.
        He died of complications after heart surgery, said his son Ara.
        Mr. Oshagan, who also taught and wrote short stories and literary criticism, revolutionized Armenian poetry by rejecting its imposed formality, which shunned the concerns of daily life and themes of alienation and loss. He often wrote in colloquial language and was for many the voice of the Armenian diaspora.
        He was heavily influenced by French existentialists and had little time for those who dismissed modernity as a corruption of traditional values.
        Marc Nichanian, a professor of Armenian studies at Columbia University, called Mr. Oshagan ''the most important poet of this generation.''
        ''For a long time his work was not even accepted as poetry,'' Dr. Nichanian said. ''He had a hard time imposing himself as poet.''
        Dr. Nichanian described a 1963 book by Mr. Oshagan, ''The City,'' as ''the most radical book of Armenian poetry in the 20th century.''
        None of Mr. Oshagan's work has been published in English. The British poet Peter Reading recently translated one of his best-known works, a book of poems written in 1980 called ''Ahazank'' or ''Alarm,'' but it still awaits publication.
        In his stark and desperate poem ''Alert,'' published in 1980, Mr. Oshagan wrote:
        Each passing minute is my first and last
        I must grab the last human
        And wrench some utterance from his mouth.
        Like many Armenians, whose villages and homes were destroyed by the Turks in 1915, Mr. Oshagan drifted throughout the Middle East, Europe and the United States, never finding a permanent home.
        He was born in Plovdiv, Bulgaria, in 1922. His father, Hagop Oshagan, was a prominent writer and critic. He was raised in Jerusalem and Cyprus. He studied in France, where he received a doctorate in comparative literature from the Sorbonne.
        In 1952, he moved to Beirut and taught philosophy, psychology and Armenian, French and English literature.
        At the start of the Lebanese civil war in 1975, he moved to Philadelphia, where he taught at the University of Pennsylvania. It was there that he published ''Ahazank,'' which incorporates many streets and landmarks of Philadelphia.
        He was also the editor in chief of the literary journal RAFT: an Annual of Poetry and Criticism, for 11 years. The journal publishes English translations of Armenian poetry.
        In addition to his son Ara, Mr. Oshagan is survived by his wife, Arsine; another son, Haig; and a sister, Anahid Voskeritchian.
      