
        Alvin L. Alm, a businessman and senior government official who helped create environmental and energy policy in Republican and Democratic administrations for four decades, died on Monday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 63.
        Mr. Alm was stricken at his home in nearby Falls Church, Va., apparently with heart failure, said Allen Moore, a colleague at Chambers Associates, a public policy consulting firm where Mr. Alm was president.
        As an expert in budgeting, economics, regulation and the other fine details of environmental policy, Mr. Alm operated just under the bureaucratic rank where public service translates into renown. Although virtually every policy maker in his field knew of his work, the influence of the jobs he held, like assistant secretary of energy for environmental management and deputy administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, far exceeded his public name recognition.
        Mr. Alm spoke lightly of his many moves into and out of government, once saying, ''I have to confess I am a recidivist.'' One reason he came and went was that the most powerful figures in the federal government called upon him at critical moments.
        For example, when the Environmental Protection Agency was in crisis during the Reagan administration, with Administrator Anne Gorsuch's resignation under pressure for her handling of the Superfund and other programs, Mr. Alm returned for a second stint at the agency under William D. Ruckelshaus, whom President Ronald Reagan had called back to salvage the E.P.A.'s bruised reputation.
        Alvin Leroy Alm was born in Denver, graduated from the University of Denver in 1960 and earned a master's degree in public administration from the Maxwell Graduate School at Syracuse University.
        He worked on environmental matters in the Washington bureaucracy for several years and by 1970, when the modern environmental movement reached full flower, held a crucial post as staff director of the newly created White House Council on Environmental Quality.
        He helped develop the landmark Clean Water Act of 1972 and moved to the Environmental Protection Agency, then in its infancy, as assistant manager for planning and management. There, from 1973 to 1977, he helped devise the system of water pollution permits that put the law into force.
        During the energy crisis of the late 1970's, he worked on energy policy for the Carter administration and moved to the Energy Department for the first time.
        Throughout his long career, Mr. Alm took on some of the most intractable of problems. His most recent tour in government was from 1996 to 1998, as President Clinton's assistant secretary of energy in charge of  cleaning up the nation's nuclear weapons complex, overseeing a program of about $6 billion a year.
        Outside government, he was chairman and chief executive of the Thermal Analytical Corporation, an environmental testing concern, from 1985 to 1987; chief executive of another technical consulting company, the  Alliance Technologies Corporation, from 1987 to 1989; and senior vice president of yet another, the Science Applications International Corporation, from 1989 to 1996.
        In the early 1980's he was at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard as a lecturer and head of a research program.
        His marriage to the former Ronnie Elwell ended in divorce. He is survived by a daughter, Jessica Alm of Boston; a sister, Carol Birza of Denver; and his companion, Mary Clark of Washington.
      