
        Karl Sweetan, a National Football League quarterback in the late 1960's who was later accused of orchestrating a football espionage scheme involving a stolen playbook, died July 2 in Las Vegas. He was 57.
        The cause was complications of vascular surgery, his family said.
        Stealing a baseball catcher's signs or a football team's plays by peering through a telephoto lens may be morally repugnant to some, but what Sweetan allegedly did was considered by federal authorities to be a crime.
        What one newspaper headline termed ''The Case of the Purloined Playbook'' unfolded in July 1972, when J. D. Roberts, the New Orleans Saints' coach, reported to the N.F.L. security office that Sweetan had contacted him in hopes of selling him a Los Angeles Rams playbook, the closely guarded listing of a team's offensive and defensive schemes.
        The league notified F.B.I. agents, who arrested Sweetan and a cousin while they were allegedly trying to sell the playbook to Roberts in a predawn meeting at a New Orleans motel.
        Sweetan and the cousin, Wayne Boswell, were handcuffed, spent a night in jail and were charged with wire fraud and interstate transportation of stolen property.
        The Rams, then rivals of the Saints in the National Football Conference West, determined that the item offered, reportedly for $2,500, was a photostat of the Rams' 1971 playbook -- secrets from the previous season.
        In February 1973, Gerald Gallinghouse, the United States Attorney in New Orleans, reported that the consensus of ''numerous experts on pro football'' he surveyed put the playbook's monetary value at less than $5,000, the threshold for the sale of a stolen object across state lines to be a federal crime. As a result, Gallinghouse did not seek indictments.
        Sweetan, a native of Dallas, debuted in the N.F.L. in 1966 with the Detroit Lions, their 18th draft pick a year earlier out of Wake Forest. When quarterback Milt Plum suffered a knee injury, Sweetan became the starter and threw a 99-yard touchdown pass to Pat Studstill against Baltimore that tied a league record, held by several players, for the longest passing play.
        Sweetan threw 10 touchdown passes for Detroit in 1967, then played as a backup for the Saints in 1968 and the Rams in 1969 and 1970. He was cut by Los Angeles in September 1971.
        At his arraignment in 1972, Sweetan said, ''Once this is cleared up, I would like to play again.''
        But he never did -- at least in the pro ranks. He retired to Nevada, played semipro football and became a blackjack dealer in Las Vegas.
        He is survived by a son, Karl R. Sweetan III, and four daughters, Christhia Ann Bryan, Virginia Sweetan, Heather Sweetan and Robin Sweetan.
      