
        Ernst Jandl, an internationally known Viennese lyric poet whose work could be lighthearted or despairing, died on June 9 in Vienna. He was 74.
        The cause was a cardiac disorder, Franz-Leo Popp, a member of an Austrian authors' organization, told journalists.
        Last year Mr. Jandl was named one of the 10 most important German-language poets of the 20th century by a jury of more than 50 writers, scholars and critics established by the German-language journal Das Gedicht (The Poem).
        After Mr. Jandl's death, the German literary critic Marcel Reich-Ranicki, writing in the German newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, called him ''German literature's fanciest wag.''
        ''Capriciously and tirelessly he told us in his verses what we already knew,'' Dr. Reich-Ranicki added. ''But Jandl said it differently from the lyric poets of our epoch, he said it more concisely, and more originally and thereby more suggestively.''
        Mr. Jandl was strongly anti-Nazi, and his 1962 poem ''Heldenplatz'' bitterly criticized the way Austria coped with its history under Nazism.
        In one late poem, ''Kommentar,'' which means commentary, the mood is especially dark, and he says:
        that never
        would he write
        his autobiography
        because his life
        seemed to him
        just so much filth
        that only a few
        points, bloody ones
        he still remembers
        but that he would
        never hesitate
        to reach into the filth
        to pull out
        what perhaps
        could serve as stuff
        for poetry
        his disgusting
        purpose in life.
        Yet he wrote raffishly in English in his last book of poetry:
        When born again
        I want to be
        a tenor saxophone
        if it's up to me,
        theres gonna be
        total promiscuity.
        His trademark techniques of interchanging and cutting up words and omitting letters and syllables received mixed reviews. On that subject the poet said that he wanted to ''open as many paths as possible.''
        Mr. Jandl's work received praise in the United States. As the Modern Poetry Association's journal Poetry put it in 1998, he ''was known as a master of experimental poetry for his acoustic and visual performance pieces.''
        In the same year, The American Record Guide called him ''a master of inspired nonsense mixed with social criticism.'' And in 1985 Peter Demetz, a teacher of German and comparative literature at Yale, writing in The New York Times Book Review about Austrian poetry, said he was ''among the best of the experimentalists.''
        Ernst Jandl was born in Vienna, grew up there, was drafted into the German Army and was briefly a prisoner of war of the Americans in World War II.
        After the war he studied German philology and English language and literature at the University of Vienna and received his doctorate in 1950. He was a secondary school teacher in Vienna for many years, with frequent leaves of absence for his work as a poet.
        He also wrote plays and radio plays, and he won a number of major European awards.
      