
        Robert Runcie, the former archbishop of Canterbury known for his outspoken views on the royal family and the government of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, died Tuesday night at his home in St. Albans, Hertfordshire. He was 78 and had prostate cancer.
        As the spiritual leader of the world's Anglicans from 1980 to his retirement in 1991, he was considered a reform-minded if provocative churchman, favoring the ordination of women, choosing theological liberals as new bishops and working for reconciliation with Roman Catholicism.
        He conducted the wedding of Prince Charles and Diana but later fell out with the couple by saying the marriage was an ''arranged'' one, and by accusing the prince of having abandoned his belief in the church and the princess of being an ''actress, a schemer.'' She in turn said, ''I'll never forgive his treachery.''
        Conservative backers of Mrs. Thatcher saw him as a political meddler for his comments on striking miners whom he accused the government of treating like ''scum,'' on the country's ''lunatic'' nuclear arsenal and on the British economy's disregard for the poor and the emergence in Britain of a ''Pharisee society'' of self-interest and intolerance. He caused fury by telling a St. Paul's thanksgiving service after Britain's victory in the 1981 Falkland Islands war that prayers should be offered for the families of dead Argentine soldiers as well as for the Britons who perished.
        Tory members of parliament denounced as ''Marxist'' and ''far left'' a 1985 report he sponsored on inner city problems that led to the creation of the Church Urban Fund, a charity devoted to employment and social projects in some of the country's most deprived areas, which he accused the Thatcher government of neglecting.
        Lord Runcie, as he was known after his elevation to the peerage in 1991, maintained a very public profile as archbishop of Canterbury. Appearances on radio and television, in newspapers and at state occasions made his face, Oxbridge-accented speech and robust humor familiar to millions.
        But he experienced deep sadness when Terry Waite, the man described as his ''personal envoy,'' was kidnapped in Beirut in January 1987 by the men holding hostages he was seeking to free. Though he had tried to persuade Mr. Waite not to undertake the mission, Lord Runcie made it a point during the four years he remained prisoner to pray for his release every day before a candle in the medieval crypt of Lambeth Palace, the Thames-side official home of archbishops of Canterbury.
        He expressed satisfaction that he had ''rocked the boat'' from time to time and shortly before his retirement he said, ''The church has come through a period when so many questions were deeply divisive -- ordination of women, remarriage of divorcees, homosexuality, issues of war and peace.''
        Critics who felt his vaunted pragmatism masked indecisiveness pointed to his stance on homosexuals where he spoke out against discrimination against them, admitted knowingly ordaining them but opposed the practice of doing so and then later added that gay priests could live together as long as they forswore having sex with each other. A biographer, Adrian Hastings, rejected the indecisiveness charge, saying instead that Lord Runcie moved cautiously to avoid division.
        The comments on Charles and Diana and his admission that he had known before the royal wedding of the prince's relationship with his companion, Camilla Parker Bowles, emerged in a 1996 biography called ''Runcie: The Reluctant Archbishop.'' Though Lord Runcie scorned the book as ''irresponsible and misleading,'' he did not contest its accuracy and he seemed to acknowledge the effect its publication would have when he sent a letter to the author, Humphrey Carpenter, saying, ''I have done my best to die before this book is published.''
        Robert Alexander Kennedy Runcie was born in Liverpool on Oct. 2, 1921. Though his father, an electrical engineer, disliked clergymen, he attended confirmation classes at a local church and became a committed Anglican in his teens. He later confessed that he had gone only because he had a crush on a girl in his class.
        He earned a scholarship to Brasenose College, Oxford, but left at the end of his freshman year to join the Scots Guards and fight in World War II. After the war he returned to Oxford, became ordained, served in a Newcastle parish and went on to Cambridge, where he became dean of Trinity Hall, teaching classics and church history.
        There he met and married Rosalind Turner, known as Lindey, daughter of a senior fellow. She was to prove an active cleric's wife, pursuing her twin passions for piano and gardening by raising money for charity from concerts and recitals and supervising the replanting and redesign of the famous grounds at Lambeth Palace.
        At the time of their marriage, she explained her need for diversion by saying that ''too much religion makes me go pop.'' Lord Runcie was later to describe their marriage as a ''union of duty with delight.'' He is survived by her and the couple's two children, James and Rebecca.
        In 1962 he became principal of a theological college near Oxford and in 1970 was consecrated bishop of St. Albans. He made himself an expert on the Anglican Church's relations with Orthodox churches and traveled widely in Eastern Europe, but he was a relative unknown and a great surprise as the choice to succeed the retiring Donald Coggan.
        His enthronement speech at Canterbury Cathedral as the 102nd archbishop set out his agenda. The church, he said, must give a firm lead ''against rigid thinking'' and counter ''the disposition to over-simplify difficult and complex problems.'' In a speech soon after, he said ''the Christian voice must be loud and clear on the great political issues of the time -- race relations, unemployment, disarmament and the proper distribution of the world's resources.''
        Months later he began pursuing another goal, a drawing together of Anglicans and Catholics, when he met the Pope in Ghana. In 1982 the pope visited Britain, and Lord Runcie welcomed him to Canterbury Cathedral. In a deeply symbolic moment the two men knelt in prayer at the site where Thomas a Becket was murdered in 1170.
        In September 1989, Lord Runcie visited Rome for four days of talks with the pope, but despite warm personal relationships between the two men, the pope did not respond to the Anglican's pleas for greater unity between the churches. In a final statement, they acknowledged that the issue of whether to have women as priests stood in the way.
        He was made a life peer by Prime Minister John Major, with whom he had a better relationship than with Mrs. Thatcher. A common love of cricket was said to be the bond.
        But even in retirement he continued to roil church waters, warning of an overly ''management'' style at Lambeth Palace, an apparent rebuke of his more buttoned-up successor George Carey. While acknowledging that Dr. Carey's reforms would lead to a better organization of finances, he warned that the church was losing influence and respect among decision-makers.
        Throughout his career, he tried to disarm critics with self-deprecating humor, and he held to that habit in his last formal interview, published in The Daily Telegraph in April.  Asked about the prospect of coming face to face with God, he said: ''I cannot flannel you. I have had opportunities and position and blessings that I have not deserved. I just hope I haven't made a mess of them all. But then the heart of my faith is a belief in God's mercy and forgiveness.''
        Correction:  July 17, 2000, Monday  An obituary on Thursday about Robert Runcie, the former archbishop of Canterbury, misstated the year of the Falkland Islands war, over which the archbishop caused a furor by saying that prayers should be offered for the families of dead Argentines as well as Britons. It was 1982, not 1981.
      