
        C. Stanley Ogilvy, a mathematics professor who fell in love with the endless and evanescent possibilities of the ocean breeze, writing books about sailing as well as geometry, died on June 21 at his home in Mamaroneck, N.Y. He was 87.
        Dr. Ogilvy taught for 20 years at Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y., and wrote mathematical books and articles. But it was on the splendid, always changing waters of Long Island Sound that he found his truest metier.
        At a time when major newspapers routinely had yachting correspondents, there were dozens of articles about Dr. Ogilvy's expertise at capturing the wind in canvas and using it skillfully. Known to the nautical community as the wise professor, he raced the class of boat known as the Star, a 23-foot-long, two-man boat, for more than 30 years, placing third in the hotly competitive world championship of 1949. Among his many victories were the North American championship and the Austrian national championship.
        He then progressed to a larger class of boats, the Etchells, which use a three-member crew, and had more success, particularly at competitions of the Larchmont Yacht Club, where he was a member for 62 years and the official historian. He saw the club change from the preserve of Vanderbilts and Morgans to a place where an ambitious and skilled sailor could make a name for himself on a modest boat.
        Charles Stanley Ogilvy said he was ''a water rat from the start,'' growing up on the shores of the sound in the Sutton Manor area of New Rochelle. He began ''messing around with boats'' at a time other boys were taking their first swings with baseball bats and began his racing career at age 18 as the crew member on a Star boat. Five years later, when he joined the Larchmont club, he owned his own Star. He developed a lifelong obsession with recording each detail of every race.
        Owen Torrey, a sailor who competed against Dr. Ogilvy for many years, told of the special spirit then in the salt air of Larchmont. ''We thought we were the best sailors in the world,'' said Mr. Torrey, a maritime lawyer who went on to become a noted sail designer.
        Dr. Ogilvy attended the Berkshire School, Williams College, Cambridge University and Columbia University, eventually earning his doctorate in mathematics from Syracuse University. In World War II, he commanded a Navy air-sea rescue vehicle in the South Pacific. He taught at Trinity College before joining Hamilton's faculty in 1953.
        His books on mathematics included ''Through the Mathescope'' (1956), ''Tomorrow's Math'' (1962) and ''Excursions in Geometry'' (1969). Several were translated into other languages, including Swedish, Flemish, French, German and Japanese.
        But teaching was at least as important to him as publications. Eugene M. Tobin, the president of Hamilton College, quoted John Anderson, a mathematics professor who died just a week before Dr. Ogilvy, as saying he learned from Dr. Ogilvy ''that one's compassion for students and one's passion for subject are mutually dependent.''
        Dr. Ogilvy's books on sailing included three on one-design racing, the term for classes of boats, like Stars, in which all boats meet identical specifications. These were ''Successful Yacht Racing,'' ''Thoughts on Small Boat Racing'' and ''Win More Sailboat Races.''
        John Rousmaniere, a yachting historian, said the books, published from 1952 to 1977, were characterized by ''their affection for the sport, graceful expression, rigorous analysis, and extreme generosity with ideas for racing success that many other sailors would have regarded as proprietary.''
        Dr. Ogilvy also wrote ''The Larchmont Yacht Club: A History, 1880-1990'' (1993), which told how the club was carved from farmland and reached a position of prominence in the racing world. He did not neglect such intriguing details as the weekly poker game that began in 1896 even as he chronicled the club's glorious Race Weeks, which in the 40's and 50's featured Arthur Godfrey as master of ceremonies and performing seals in the swimming pool.
        Dr. Ogilvy never married. He is survived by a brother, Stephen, of Westport, Conn.
        A small and wiry man with a wry sense of humor, Dr. Ogilvy is most remembered in his sailing set for the column he wrote for a quarter century for the Larchmont Yacht Club newsletter. Called ''A View from Delancey Cove,'' it darted across his wide range of interests from fog, raccoons and squirrels and the wonders of sunsets to the pros and cons of detached garages.
        Dr. Ogilvy once even ventured to suggest that winning is not everything, a novel thought to many sailboat racers. ''As soon as the importance of winning the race takes command, the sun is blotted out, the black clouds descend, and before you know it you are wearing an angry scowl and can see no farther than the bow of the boat, if that far,'' he wrote.
        He argued for traditional nautical nomenclature. ''A boat has a transom, a stern and an after cockpit,'' he cautioned. ''It has no rear or back deck.''
        And what about foghorns? Dr. Ogilvy reported that the new ones all sound alike. ''Time was when each foghorn had its distinctive sound, and one knew at the first blast whether one was near the bass diaphone on Captain Island or the mournful wail of Execution Rock,'' he swore.
        But he was not some sort of slavish servant of nostalgia. ''Not all these changes are necessarily to be lamented,'' he said in his column. ''After all, we are not the same people we once were. Would you like to be exactly the same sailor that you were in your youth?
        ''Think carefully before you answer that one.''
      