
        Nija Battle, who brought a swaggering sense of sophistication to the furs she designed for the music world's most tireless clotheshorses, died last Thursday while on a business trip in Montreal. She was 37.
        The cause was a brain aneurysm, said her sister, Saddiya Battle.
        For a designer who did not have a store, who often met her future clients at clubs or outside restaurants, and who, until the editor Andre Leon Talley wrote about her in Vogue last year, was almost unknown in the fashion world, Ms. Battle had a large following. Her custom-made furs were worn by entertainers like Whitney Houston, Lil' Kim, Kid Rock and Puff Daddy, who had her make trousers for him in black sheared mink.
        And although much of the attention at the Costume Institute's ''Rock Style'' gala at the Metropolitan Museum of Art last December was focused on fashion nabobs like Tom Ford of Gucci and Donatella Versace, it was Ms. Battle of Brooklyn who designed the wraps worn by Naomi Campbell, Iman, Lynn Whitfield and Mary J. Blige, who had on a turquoise fur chubby.
        Ms. Battle began making furs about 10 years ago, though in a sense, she started as a child when she and her sister would take skins given to them by their father, an avid hunter, and turn them into blankets and doll clothes. The family lived in Brooklyn but had relatives in North Carolina, and Ms. Battle, who was part Tuscarora Indian, often visited a grandmother there who raised minks.
        After getting experience with Orchard Street furriers, Ms. Battle started her own business and gradually gained a following among rap and hip-hop stars who saw her out wearing her own designs.
        ''When people like Puff Daddy were photographed for magazines, they'd say to the stylists, 'I'm wearing my own coat,' '' recalled her sister. They meant, of course, Ms. Battle's furs. She also created coats for a number of sports stars, and, on occasion, made identical styles for their wives and children.
        Her custom-made designs, often dyed in colors like champagne, burgundy and green, projected a high urban style -- what Mr. Talley called ''a ghetto fabulousness'' -- that not only appealed to Ms. Battle's celebrated clientele but also evoked the 1970's in fashion. She was certainly among the first designers to recognize the appeal of reviving that era.
        In addition to her sister, she is survived by her mother, Gladys, and her brother, Saleem Muhammad, both of Brooklyn.
      