
        Milton W. Garland, who showed up for a 47-cents-an-hour job at a refrigeration company in 1920 and stayed on until this May, died Thursday at a nursing home in Waynesboro, Pa. He was 104.
        Mr. Garland, who earned 41 patents over eight decades in the field of refrigeration, was honored in 1998 as the nation's oldest worker by Green Thumb, a nonprofit group that helps older and disadvantaged people get jobs.
        In truth, a Green Thumb spokeswoman, Alice Ann Toole, said, he was the oldest worker who could and would come to Washington for the ceremony.
        Audrey Stubbart, a copy editor and columnist for The Examiner, a newspaper in Independence, Mo., was the first choice in 1998, because she was two months older than Mr. Garland.  Her health did not permit her to travel then or the next year. Ms. Toole said that a Florida real estate agent and perhaps others who were older than Mr. Garland were thought to be still on the job, as well.
        Still, by any measure, Mr. Garland, a tall, courtly mechanical engineer, displayed great longevity. Until late May, when he had a heart attack and moved to a nursing home from the house where he had lived since 1926, he still worked 20 hours a week.
        He had stayed on after his formal retirement in 1967 from the Frick Company, a refrigeration equipment company that is now a unit of York International. ''They hired him back the next day,'' his wife, Alice, said.
        Using a magnifying glass, he evaluated 2,000 patents a week in search of ways they might be applied to refrigeration.
        Also in his retirement years, he organized a training school for Frick's refrigeration engineers and wrote an engineering design manual. He called it ''Industrial Refrigeration 102,'' in honor of his age when he published it.
        ''I just report to work like anybody else,'' he said in an appearance before the Senate Special Committee on Aging in 1998, when he was honored by Green Thumb.
        Andrea Wooten, president of Green Thumb, suggested that he was being modest. ''At 102, I cannot imagine being as sharp as he was,'' Ms. Wooten said. ''He was so balanced and so together. We were at the press conference and he was asked a question about how he helped solve a rubber shortage during World War II.
        ''Well, he went into detail about the process. It was way over my head, but he spoke in logical and methodical terms, almost like he had written it out.''
        When Japan controlled Asian rubber plantations, Mr. Garland's inventions helped make artificial rubber-making possible by reducing temperatures during production.
        In 1996, Mr. Garland was officially named Mr. Refrigeration by the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers, in honor of his work from the gold mines of South Africa to the ice cream factories of Philadelphia.
        The group said his most recognizable invention was the first ''shell'' ice maker, which manufactured ice on the outside of tubes that are 4 inches across and 10 feet long. The method was cleaner and more efficient than the previous system of making ice in galvanized cans. Its uses ranged from chicken-processing plants to dairies to a two-mile-deep gold mine, where temperatures were reduced from 110 degrees to a more comfortable 90 degrees.
        Milton Ward Garland was born Aug. 23, 1895, in Harrisburg, Pa. His father worked for the Pennsylvania Railroad, and as a boy Mr. Garland went to work delivering newspapers. He later worked in a shop repairing Indian brand motorcycles. His specialty was the wooden wheel rims.
        In 1915, he built a motorcycle from parts and drove it to college at Worcester Polytechnic Institute in Worcester, Mass. He paid for his schooling by managing two apartment buildings.
        ''I shoveled the snow, took out the garbage, fired the furnaces,'' Mr. Garland told The Worcester Sunday Telegram in 1995, when he received an honorary doctorate. ''Had to get up awful early every morning, but I had good board and lodging and everything I wanted.''
        His schooling was interrupted by his service in the Navy during World War I. After graduating from college, he went to work for Frick in 1920, rising to superintendent of field installation work after three years. He held that position until 1948. At his retirement, he was vice president for technical services.
        His passion for refrigeration never abated. ''You see, it's a heat exchange process, and different materials have different conductivity,'' he said two years ago. ''There's always a chance of improving the heat transfer rate.''
        His work took him to the Hoover Dam, for which he designed systems to cool the water, sand and rock used to make the concrete to build it. Pouring concrete in the fiercely hot temperatures of southern Nevada would have otherwise been impossible.
        He made machinery that allowed the large-scale manufacture of dry ice, making it possible to ship fresher food to troops overseas during World War II. He also helped the war effort as a consultant for Pratt & Whitney, builders of aircraft engines; the Army's all-weather laboratory at Fort Belvoir, Va.; Goodyear Aircraft in Akron, Ohio, and the Atomic Energy Commission in Oak Ridge, Tenn.
        He is survived by his wife, Alice; a son, M. Ward of Quartz Hill, Calif.; a daughter, Jean L. Woloshyn of Big Bear City, Calif.; six grandchildren; 13 great-grandchildren; and a great-great-grandson.
        Mr. Garland took work seriously, always showing up at 8 a.m. in a hat, starched white shirt and three-piece suit. His advice was simple, old-fashioned and not particularly sugar-coated. ''Go into something and then stay with it, and then like it,'' he told the Senate panel. ''You won't like it unless you have expertise in that line of work.''
        Not that he did not have a playful side. He took up piloting his own airplane at 60 and kept it up until he was 75. He drove his own car and played golf until he was 99.
        ''Live like you're going to live forever, not like you're going to die tomorrow,'' he advised.
        When asked his secret for his own longevity, he sometimes noted that he avoided sauerkraut.
      