
        Louis Quilico, a Canadian baritone who sang nearly 300 performances at the Metropolitan Opera during his 25 years on the company's roster, died on Saturday in Toronto. He was 75 and lived in Toronto.
        Julie Giles, Mr. Quilico's publicity spokeswoman, said the cause was complications after knee surgery.
        Mr. Quilico was a robust singer who was at his best in the great Italian and French Romantic baritone roles. Donizetti, Verdi, Puccini and Massenet were the composers most heavily represented in his repertory of more than 80 roles, but he also touched on the Mozart and Wagner repertory, and performed in the premieres of operas by Milhaud and Jolivet. Near the end of his career, he also sang some music theater roles, most notably Tony in ''Most Happy Fella.''
        The signature role of his operatic career, however, was ''Rigoletto.'' He sang the role over 500 times -- the last was at the National Arts Center in Ottowa in 1994 -- and was so thoroughly identified with his portrayal of Verdi's tormented jester that he was widely known as Mr. Rigoletto. The nickname was used as the title of a book, ''Mr. Rigoletto: In Conversation With Louis Quilico'' (1996), by Mr. Quilico's wife, the pianist and writer Christina Petrowska, and as the title of a recent compact disc retrospective, ''Mr. Rigoletto: My Life in Music.''
        Louis Quilico was born in Montreal on Jan. 14, 1925. After beginning his studies in Montreal, he won a local competition for a scholarship to study at the Conservatorio di Santa Cecilia in Rome. When he returned to Montreal, he became a student of Martial Singher at the Montreal Conservatory, and later continued working with Singher at the Mannes College of Music in New York. Also among his early teachers were Teresa Pediconi and Riccardo Stracciari. In 1949 he married Lina Pizzolongo, his pianist and vocal coach. She died in 1991.
        Mr. Quilico won a Montreal radio competition in 1953, and made his professional stage debut with the Opera Guild of Montreal in 1954. He was a winner of the Metropolitan Opera Auditions of the Air in 1955, but did not make his debut at the Met until 1972. Instead, he gave his first New York performances at the New York City Opera, where he made his debut as Germont in a production of Verdi's ''Traviata'' in 1955.
        It was also as Germont that Mr. Quilico made his Covent Garden debut in 1960, and he quickly cemented his reputation as a Verdi baritone with notable debuts at the Bolshoi (as Rigoletto in 1962) and the Paris Opera (as Rodrigo in ''Don Carlos'' in 1963).
        In 1972 he made his debut at the Metropolitan Opera as a replacement for an ailing Thomas Stewart as Golaud in Debussy's ''Pelleas et Melisande.'' He joined the Met roster in 1973, and sang in five productions his first season: three Verdi operas, ''La Traviata,'' ''Rigoletto'' and ''Il Trovatore,'' as well as Berlioz's ''Troyens'' and Gounod's ''Faust.''  From the time of his debut, he sang with the company for 25 consecutive seasons and was included in several of the company's television broadcasts.
        When he appeared in Massenet's ''Manon'' with his son, Gino Quilico, also a baritone, it may have been the first time a father and son in principal roles shared the Met stage.
        In addition to his son and Ms. Petrowska, whom he married in 1993, Mr. Quilico is survived by a daughter, Donna Ruggeri, and two stepdaughters, Dominique and Alexandra Bregent, all of Toronto; a brother, Anthony, of Montreal; and two sisters, Madeleine Maynard and Georgette Danduront, also of Montreal.
      