
        Samuel Barry Guze, an influential psychiatrist who worked to wed his discipline to medical science and its diagnostic techniques, died on Wednesday at Barnes-Jewish Hospital in St. Louis. He was 76 and lived in Clayton, Mo.
        The cause was bone marrow disease, said a spokesman for the Washington University School of Medicine, where he was the Olin Professor of Psychiatry.
        Dr. Guze (pronounced goo-ZAY), was among the first psychiatrists to use the study of twins as a way to investigate the role of heredity in mental illness. He and his researchers contributed significantly to the knowledge of genetic vulnerability to alcoholism and schizophrenia.
        Dr. Guze trained as an internist before turning to psychiatry. In the 1950's, he propagated the view that psychiatric trouble should be diagnosed through the use of a scientific model and a biological approach.
        As Dr. Guze, who also was an associate professor of medicine, once put it: ''I couldn't ignore my training in internal medicine. I suggested we approach psychiatric patients the way general physicians approach all patients.''
        His views found general acceptance in 1980, when he helped to compile the American Psychiatric Association's standard DSM-III, the ''Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders.'' He and Dr. Donald W. Goodwin also published a textbook for adherents of the medical approach, ''Psychiatric Diagnosis'' (1974), whose fifth edition of 1996 remains in print at Oxford University Press.
        Also in print are ''Why Psychiatry Is a Branch of Medicine'' (Oxford, 1992), and two books of which Dr. Guze was editor or co-editor, ''Adult Psychiatry'' (Mosby, 1996) and ''Childhood Psychopathology and Development'' (Books on Demand).
        Samuel Guze, a native New Yorker, attended City College before receiving his medical degree from Washington University in St. Louis in 1945. He trained in internal medicine at Barnes Hospital.
        He joined the Washington faculty in 1951, served as vice chancellor and president of the medical center from 1971 to 1989, and headed the department of psychiatry from 1975 to 1989 and again from 1993 to 1997. He also was psychiatrist in chief of the university-affiliated Barnes-Jewish and St. Louis Children's hospitals.
        Dr. Guze is survived by his wife of 54 years, Joy Campbell Guze; a son, Jonathan D., of Durham, N.C.; a daughter, Jeremy Ann Guze Opitz of Danbury, N.H., and five grandchildren.
      