
        Henri Gault, a journalist and food critic, who with his longtime colleague Christian Millau gave the name nouvelle cuisine to modern French cooking, died at his summer home at St.-Sulpice-en-Pareds in southwestern France Monday. He was 71.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, according to a spokesman for the GaultMillau magazine in Paris.
        ''It's like losing a father,'' said Luc Dublanchet, a writer for the well-known monthly food connoisseur's publication. ''Gault's enthusiasm for food was absolute and his energy was astonishing. He still could get carried away talking about a restaurant.''
        In 1961, Mr. Gault was a bored reporter for Paris Presse, now defunct, who preferred writing about tennis to covering local politics. Mr. Millau, an editor on the paper, asked him to try restaurant reviews and they were an immediate success.
        ''There was no such thing as serious gastronomic journalism,'' Mr. Millau later recalled. ''Restaurant reviews were a function of advertising.''
        The two gathered Mr. Gault's reviews and just about everything else about Paris they could think of into a book which was published as ''The Guide Julliard'' in 1964. It included hotels, candy shops, bookstores, couturiers, hairdressers, gift shops and the best place in Paris to buy a pedigreed cat. A year later an American edition appeared, published by Odyssey Press.
        In 1969, the pair began their monthly magazine, combining their names into a single title GaultMillau. Eventually, the magazine would publish separate editions for different regions of France.
        In 1973 the two published the first ''GaultMillau Guide to France.'' Over the next three decades, their joint name would become as familiar to food lovers around the world as the gastronomic bible they always hoped, but never quite managed, to unseat, the red ''Guide Michelin.''
        Instead of stars, which the Michelin book had employed since 1926, the GaultMillau awarded toques, the tall French chef's hats. They also gave a numerical award, using a 20-point scale.
        The new guide was like a breath of fresh air on the French gastronomic scene. Compared with its longish, irreverent, witty reviews, the older Michelin read like the telephone directory.
        It was possible to achieve four toques in the GaultMillau but, on the theory that no restaurant was perfect, never 20 points. The most any restaurant ever received was 19 points until, in the 1980's, during a spat with the famous Lyonnais restaurateur Paul Bocuse, who had always received 19 points, Gault and  Millau awarded someone else 19.5.
        Most toques were black. Red toques were reserved for proponents of the so-called nouvelle cuisine.
        Mr. Gault and Mr. Millau did not invent nouvelle cuisine but they were its champions. Today many chefs insist they were there at the beginning, but it was Mr. Bocuse, his colleagues over the mountain in Roanne, the Troigros brothers, and Alain Chapel who created the new cooking.
        Writing in The New York Times in 1979, Mimi Sheraton described nouvelle cuisine as a ''gastronomic revolution'' characterized by ''the verdant brightness and herbaceous freshness of its dishes with an emphasis on lightness and the elimination of heavy flour-laden sauces so typical of classic French cooking.''
        By promoting the chefs who specialized in nouvelle cuisine, Mr. Gault and Mr. Millau unwittingly ushered in the era of the celebrity chef. Before them, chefs labored anonymously in their kitchens. Now abetted by a horde of publicists, chefs like Mr. Bocuse, Jean Troigros, Michel Guerard and their acolytes became media stars. Chefs like Alain Ducasse and Joel Robuchon in France and Wolfgang Puck and Emeril Lagasse in the United States owe at least some of their fame to the trend started more than 30 years ago by Mr. Gault and Mr. Millau.
        In spite of Mr. Millau's praise for his colleague, their relationship became strained as their business grew and led to a bitter split in the 1980's. Friends said that Mr. Millau  had always been the businessman and Mr. Gault the artist and that as the business became large and more complex, they disagreed on its direction. Eventually it was sold.
        On his own, Mr. Gault published several books, including guides to the best 50 restaurants in France, the best foreign restaurants in Paris and the best 300 restaurants in Europe. They never achieved the popularity or the influence of the original GaultMillau guide.
      