
        John O. Pastore, the first Italian-American to be elected as a governor and sit in the United States Senate, and a dominant figure in Rhode Island politics for three decades, died on Saturday at a nursing home in North Kingstown, R.I. He was 93.
        ''Rhode Island is the smallest state in the union, and I am the smallest governor in the United States,'' the 5-foot-4-inch Mr. Pastore once told a group of German editors visiting the Statehouse in Providence. When he went to Washington, he became the smallest senator. But in his 26 years in the Senate, he established himself as a formidable presence, a liberal Democrat regarded as a fierce debater with a booming voice and a firm grasp on the issues of his day.
        He staked out a specialty in nuclear power matters as chairman of the powerful Joint Committee on Atomic Energy and in 1963 provided important backing for the Kennedy administration's controversial treaty with the Soviet Union barring nuclear tests in the atmosphere.
        In waging a successful fight for ratification, Senator Pastore displayed his flair for the dramatic. During the debate he flung open his jacket and struck the left side of his chest. ''I say to those who have doubts about this treaty that I want them to open their heart and look into their consciences,'' he implored fellow senators. ''I want them to realize what they might be doing. If by their vote they destroy and kill the treaty, God help us! God help us!''
        His son, John O. Pastore Jr., a cardiologist, of Winchester, Mass., was secretary of the International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War when the Boston-based organization, jointly founded by American and Soviet physicians, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1985.
        Senator Pastore gained national recognition for his oratory while serving as keynote speaker at the 1964 Democratic National Convention, a choice that reflected President Lyndon B. Johnson's bid for support from the industrial states of the East, but also a tribute to his ability to rouse an audience.
        His voice rising and falling to great dramatic effect, his fists pounding, Mr. Pastore drew roars from the more than 5,000 Democrats at the Atlantic City Convention Hall as he denounced Senator Barry Goldwater, the Republican nominee, as a captive of ''reactionaries and extremists.'' The response to Mr. Pastore's speech was so enthusiastic that he enjoyed a brief consideration for the vice presidential nomination that eventually went to Senator Hubert H. Humphrey.
        In addition to heading the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy, Mr. Pastore held posts on the Commerce and Appropriations Committees, as well as the Senate Democratic Policy Committee, making him one of the Senate's most influential members.
        He led a bitter but losing battle to block the politically restrictive McCarran-Walter Immigration Act that passed over President Harry S. Truman's veto and played an important role in passage of the 1964 Civil Rights Act barring discrimination in public accommodations and cutting off federal financing of discriminatory programs.
        Senator Pastore was floor manager of legislation suspending equal-time provisions of the Federal Communications Act to bring about the televised Kennedy-Nixon Presidential debates in 1960. As chairman of the Senate's communications subcommittee, he sometimes took a conservative stance on social issues. In the late 1960's and 70's, he denounced what he viewed as excessive violence and sexual content in television programming.
        The son of an immigrant tailor, left fatherless at age 9, he epitomized the self-made man. ''I always felt there were two strikes against me, and to succeed I had to do a better job than anyone else,'' he said.
        Mr. Pastore, who served as governor of Rhode Island from 1945 to 1950 and who never lost an election, entered statewide politics when Italian-Americans were voting in increasingly significant numbers in urban areas and using their growing economic strength to provide financial backing for political candidates they favored.
        For a man whose rise reflected inroads by Italian-Americans on political gains made by Irish-Americans, John Orlando Pastore had an intriguing birthday. He was born in the largely Italian Federal Hill section of Providence on St. Patrick's Day -- March 17, 1907.
        Mr. Pastore's father, Michele, a native of Potenza in southern Italy, supported his wife, Erminia, and their four children with his tailor shop. But Michele Pastore died suddenly in May 1916 while his wife was pregnant with their fifth child. Mrs. Pastore went to work as a seamstress in a department store while John cared for the three younger children.
        Mrs. Pastore made sure her children were well-dressed and well-mannered, and young John developed a penchant for fastidiousness. ''When he cleaned house, he moved every stick of furniture,'' his mother would remember. His impeccable dress would become a hallmark in his public life -- he changed his shirts in the middle of the day if they bore the slightest signs of wear.
        In 1927, while working as a $15-a-week claims adjuster for an electric utility company, Mr. Pastore enrolled in evening law school classes offered by Northeastern University of Boston at a Providence Y.M.C.A. In 1932 he set up a law office in the basement of the family home, but with the Depression in full force, he attracted few clients.
        One Sunday in 1933, Mr. Pastore waited outside St. Bartholomew's Church until Tommy Testa, an important local politician, came out. ''I'd like to go into politics,'' Mr. Pastore told him. Mr. Testa, who would recall how ''I liked Johnny's manner,'' helped him obtain the Democratic nomination for the Rhode Island General Assembly, and he was elected to two-year terms in 1934 and 1936.
        Mr. Pastore then gained an appointment as an assistant state attorney general, and by the early 1940's his oratorical skill was winning over juries in criminal cases. One day a young woman named Elena Caito was passing by a courthouse while Mr. Pastore was prosecuting a case. As Mr. Pastore's son told the story long afterward: ''The transom over the door was open. She could hear this booming voice coming out, and she asked one of her brothers, 'Who is that?' So they got introduced.'' In July 1941, they were married.
        In 1944, Mr. Pastore was asked to run for lieutenant governor, a part-time position, on the statewide Democratic ticket headed by Gov. J. Howard McGrath. The Democrats won, and then Mr. Pastore got a huge break, succeeding to the governor's chair in October 1945 when Mr. McGrath was appointed solicitor general in the Truman administration. Mr. Pastore was narrowly elected to the Statehouse in November 1946, but two years later he gained a second term with ease.
        Although he was the first person of Italian descent to be elected governor, he was not the first to serve in a statehouse. Charles Poletti, a son of Italian immigrants who had been lieutenant governor of New York State, served as governor in December 1942 to complete the term of Gov. Herbert Lehman, who resigned to direct American war-relief efforts in Europe.
        A liberal on social-welfare matters, Mr. Pastore, as governor, worked with business interests, pushing through a sales tax, rather than relying solely on corporate income taxes, to pay for public improvements neglected during World War II. He maintained a popular touch, eating lunch with Statehouse employees in their cafeteria, and he was adept at cultivating the press.
        In November 1950, Mr. Pastore was elected to the United States Senate to fill out the unexpired term of Mr. McGrath, who had moved from the solicitor general's post to the Senate, then resigned to become President Truman's attorney general. In 1952, Mr. Pastore was elected to the first of his four full terms in the Senate.
        Arguing his points on the Senate floor, Mr. Pastore was not averse to wagging a finger under another senator's nose, and he impressed his Senate colleagues mightily when he got the better of the bearish senator from Oklahoma, Robert Kerr, a fierce debater, in an encounter on the floor.
        Although his oratory could be flamboyant, his personal appearance was conservative -- his grooming meticulous, his black hair slicked back, his salt-and-pepper mustache kept trim.
        Mr. Pastore, who retired from the Senate in 1976, is survived by his wife and son; two daughters, Francesca Pastore and Louise Harbourt, both of Springfield, Va.; two sisters, Elena Valente of North Providence, R.I., and Michelina Mentasti of Florida; seven grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
        Through his Senate years, Mr. Pastore earnestly pursued weighty issues. But he could also poke fun at himself.
        He once observed that nuclear fallout might bring bizarre changes. ''Mutations!'' he thundered. ''Perhaps they'll make Pastore 6 feet tall.''
        And he expressed gratitude that his parents had Anglicized his first name. ''If they had called me Giovanni,'' he said, ''my initials would be G.O.P.''
      