
        Kemal Sunal, one of Turkey's most popular comic actors, died on Monday in Istanbul. He was 55.
        Mr. Sunal had a lifelong fear of flying but had been persuaded to take a commercial flight from Istanbul to the Black Sea port of Trabzon, where he was to begin making a film. Soon after boarding the plane at Ataturk Airport, he suffered a heart attack. He did not respond to emergency first aid and was rushed to a hospital but could not be revived.
        ''He had plane phobia and could not get onto planes,'' said Hulya Kocyigit, an actress and friend of Mr. Sunal's. ''I wish he had traveled by car on the highway instead.''
        Erol Al, a member of Parliament who was on the plane with Mr. Sunal, said he believed that lack of preparation by emergency crews may have contributed to his death. He said that personnel at the Istanbul airport ''were not at all well-trained for emergency procedures and first aid'' and that when an ambulance arrived 21 minutes after the heart attack there was no doctor in it.
        Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit said Mr. Sunal's films ''gave significant messages to society through humor.''
        Mr. Sunal starred in several long-running situation comedies and had appeared in 82 movies since 1972.
        He often played characters who epitomized the poor Anatolian peasants who have migrated by the millions to big cities like Istanbul. They find themselves overwhelmed by their new environment, but although they are simple they manage to use their native common sense to survive.
        One of Mr. Sunal's most famous characters was a slow-witted student called Saban the Cow, and that expression has entered the Turkish language to signify a well-meaning dolt who is a bit stupid but good-hearted.
        ''His films were always the story of a maligned or oppressed person,'' wrote the columnist Mehmet Ali Birand. ''The city people look down on small-towners. They sneer at them. To earn money they would, if they felt the need, commit any evil deed. Kemal Sunal won a special place in the hearts of people because he showed in his films that the ugly, the clumsy, the good, the naive and the honest can also end up as winners. People saw themselves in him.''
        Mr. Sunal's screen persona was bumbling and utterly unsophisticated. His ability to reach the hearts of ordinary people with simple humor led to comparisons with Jerry Lewis.
        ''If we consider that the Turkish people's education is at the primary school level, we can see why everybody can understand Sunal's jokes,'' said Ozcan Koknel, a psychiatrist and social commentator.
        Mr. Sunal was born in Istanbul on Nov. 11, 1944. He began his career by playing theatrical roles during the 1960's and soon moved on to films. By the mid-70's he had become one of Turkey's most popular stars.
        In 1999 he played a leading role in ''Propaganda,'' a film by Sinan Cetin about a town that rival groups divide with barbed wire. It was read by some as an allegory for the divisions between Turks and Kurds and was more subtle than the films for which Mr. Sunal became famous.
        The outpouring of grief for Mr. Sunal reflected the pedestal on which many Turks place their entertainers.  Similar and perhaps even more profound waves of mourning followed the deaths of the gifted singer Zeki Muren in 1996 and the singer and television star Baris Manco last year.
        Mr. Sunal is survived by his wife, Gul; his daughter, Ezo; and his son, Ali, who was with him when he died.
        ''He was a talented actor, both in theater and movies, but saying he was Turkey's best actor is an exaggeration,'' said Eris Akman, a film producer. ''His director, Ertem Egilmez, knew his target audience very well. These people associated themselves and their village personalities with Kemal's roles. Through him they could laugh at themselves.''
      