
        Dr. Michael Sherman Aldrich, a neurologist who explored and explained the mysteries of sleep and sleep disorders, died on Tuesday at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 51.
        The cause was bone cancer, said the University of Michigan Health System, where Dr. Aldrich founded the Sleep Disorders Laboratory in 1985. Three months ago the university named it for him.
        When Dr. Aldrich established the center, sleep disorders were still regarded largely as a domain of psychiatry. He approached them as a neurologist, looking for their roots in nervous conditions.
        ''It took a person like Mike Aldrich to start systematically studying normal sleep and abnormal sleep, and connecting sleep problems to neurological disorders,'' said Dr. Sid Gilman, neurology chairman at the university.
        Dr. Aldrich's earlier studies involved strokes, degenerative disease and blindness with a neurological cause.
        After his focus shifted to sleep disorders, he contributed to the understanding of apnea, which temporarily stops a sleeper's breathing. He also became an expert on the effects of alcohol on sleep and the interaction of sleep and epilepsy.
        Of particular interest to Dr. Aldrich was narcolepsy, a frequent, overpowering desire to sleep. He studied its causes and symptoms and developed diagnostic techniques that allow physicians to distinguish it from other types of abnormal sleepiness. His knowledge of the subject gained him an international reputation.
        Dr. Aldrich's research produced four books, some 60 articles, and many book chapters and abstracts. His latest book, ''Sleep Medicine: Normal Sleep and Its Disorders'' (Oxford University Press, 1999), presents a concise and comprehensive text for clinicians, researchers and students.
        Under his stewardship the Sleep Disorders Laboratory grew into a top-ranking center not just for research but for the diagnosis and treatment of unusual sleepiness, insomnia and related conditions. It also became a training ground for specialists.
        Michael Aldrich grew up in Chicago where he developed an interest in the field as a high school laboratory assistant to a leading researcher of sleep deprivation, Dr. Allan Rechtschaffen, at the University of Chicago. He continued to work in his mentor's laboratory between semesters at Swarthmore College, from which he graduated in 1970.
        While attending medical school at the University of Virginia he became familiar with the psychiatric aspects of sleep disorders when he spent a period with an expert in Edinburgh. He received his medical degree in 1980 and trained in neurology at the University of Michigan.
        Dr. Aldrich is survived by his wife, Dr. Leslie Aldrich; their three children, Brian, Matthew and Jennifer; his parents, Dr. C. Knight and Julie Aldrich of Charlottesville, Va.; two brothers, Robert, of Washington, and Dr. Thomas, of Pelham, N.Y.; and a sister, Carol Barkin of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.
      