
        Dr. William David Kingery, who opened a high-technology chapter in the science of ceramics, died on Friday at his summer home in Wickford, R.I. He was 73 and had his principal residence in Tucson, where he taught at the University of Arizona.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Dr. Kingery's work on advanced materials technology in ceramics, at Arizona and at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, was vastly different from the hands-on methods that produced bricks, china, pottery and glass from natural materials through the ages. He built upon recent advances in high polymers, solid-state physics and crystallography to bring ceramics into the era of aerospace and electronics engineering.
        He was a pioneer in the process of sintering, a form of bonding that uses temperatures below the melting point and is the most critical process in modern ceramics manufacturing.
        Dr. Kingery's research led to the use of ceramics in oxygen sensors, fuel cells and a wide variety of electronic components through the careful selection of raw materials and strict controls of the manufacturing process. Largely because of that work, producing high-performance ceramic materials with unique electrical characteristics -- like extreme heat and pressure resistance, hardness, and corrosion resistance -- became possible.
        The W. David Kingery Award of the American Ceramic Society honored Dr. Kingery's contributions to ceramic technology, science, education and art worldwide. He was its first recipient, in 1998.
        In 1999, he received the Kyoto Prize for materials science and engineering. The prize is Japan's highest private award in the field and carries the cachet of a Nobel Prize.
        Born in White Plains, he graduated in 1948 from M.I.T., where he received a doctorate in ceramics two years later while working as a research assistant. Dr. Kingery rose to full professor at M.I.T. in 1962. In 1988, he joined the Arizona faculty.
        Dr. Kingery wrote Introduction to Ceramics, a classic textbook on ceramic materials translated into most major languages, as well as books on the archaeological history of ceramics and more than 200 scientific papers. He was a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
        Dr. Kingery is survived by his wife, Lily Koers Kingery; a son, William, of Chevy Chase, Md.; a daughter, Rebecca Jones of Burlington, Mass., a stepson, Bart H. LePoole of Norwalk, Conn.; a stepdaughter, Marina Vooren of Wichita Falls, Tex.; two brothers, John M., of Greenwich, Conn., and Robert E., of Charlotte, N.C.; and 11 grandchildren.
      