
        Lt. Col. Charles C.I. Merritt, a Canadian Army officer who was taken captive in the Dieppe raid of World War II but emerged as a heroic figure on a disastrous day for his countrymen, died July 12 in Vancouver, British Columbia. He was 91.
        He received the Victoria Cross, the highest award for valor in the British Commonwealth.
        At 4:52 in the morning, Aug. 19, 1942, 523 soldiers of the South Saskatchewan Regiment commanded by Colonel Merritt scrambled out of landing craft in the English Channel and dashed across a pebbled beach on the western flank of the German-occupied port of Dieppe, France. They were among 5,000 Canadians, 1,000 British commandos and 50 United States Rangers testing assault tactics as a prelude to the D-Day invasion mounted almost two years later.
        The raiders had orders to destroy port facilities, radar installations and the guns overlooking the beach, then withdraw.
        Arriving at the village of Pourville, Colonel Merritt's troops came under heavy fire from German pillboxes on the cliffs, and soon fallen Canadians were piled two deep along a 100-foot-long bridge.
        Colonel Merritt saw that a house 100 yards inland would provide cover for his men. He removed his steel helmet, wrapped it around his wrist, went to the center of the bridge and shouted: ''Come on over. They can't hit anything. There's nothing to worry about here.''
        His back was turned to the German defenders in disdain while shells tore away chunks of concrete on the bridge.
        ''Now let's go get them,'' he said.
        He dashed toward the house, leading a small group of soldiers, four of whom were shot down. He then returned to the bridge and told the troops who had hung back: ''Hardly anyone got hurt. Now let's have all of you over this time. Keep your heads down and run like hell.''
        He led the way, 40 soldiers following.
        Soon afterward, Colonel Merritt sprang from the shelter of the house and sprinted to a pillbox, his men following reluctantly. He blew it up with grenades and then led his soldiers in destroying additional pillboxes. But as the morning wore on, the main force of German defenders could not be dislodged.
        Orders came to end the raid at 11 a.m., but hundreds of Canadian troops were under intense fire on the beach as they waited for boats to return them to England.
        Colonel Merritt led a rear-guard action that provided covering fire for those soldiers and was shot in the shoulder when he dashed onto the beach to pick up an unconscious corporal.
        In midafternoon, after all the boats had departed, Colonel Merritt and more than 80 soldiers who had covered the retreat with him had to surrender.
        ''We were not in a position to take Paris,'' he remarked long afterward.
        On Oct. 2, 1942, while Colonel Merritt was being held at a prisoner of war camp in Bavaria, Canadian authorities announced that he had been awarded the Victoria Cross for ''matchless gallantry and inspiring leadership.''
        On the night of June 3, 1943, Colonel Merritt and more than 64 other prisoners escaped from the camp through a 120-foot tunnel, but he and most of the others were quickly recaptured, and he remained a prisoner until the war ended.
        Charles Cecil Ingersoll Merritt, known as Cecil or Cec, was born in Vancouver on Nov. 10, 1908. A broad-shouldered 6-footer, he graduated from the Royal Military College in Kingston, Ontario, then practiced law until mobilized from the reserves in September 1939.
        He left for war with a directive from his wife, Grace: ''Don't try to win medals, Cec. You just come home.''
        When he did come back, he was elected to the Canadian Parliament from a Vancouver district and served four years in Ottawa. He then returned to his law practice.
        He is survived by two sons, Cecil of Bellevue, Wash., and Peter of Edmonton, Alberta, and a daughter, Elizabeth Merritt of Vancouver.
        Colonel Merritt was one of two Canadians who won the Victoria Cross for their actions at Dieppe. The Rev. John Foote, chaplain of the Royal Hamilton Light Infantry, who was also taken prisoner, was honored for aiding wounded soldiers under fire.
        Colonel Merritt's death leaves 24 living holders of the Victoria Cross, established by Queen Victoria in 1856. There is only one surviving Canadian winner of the medal, Ernest Smith, 86, of Vancouver, honored for valor in the Italian campaign of World War II.
        More than half of the Canadians who came ashore at Dieppe were killed, wounded or captured, and few of the raid's objectives were attained, the troops having received inadequate fire support from ships and aircraft. But Colonel Merritt refused to join in criticism of the commanders who planned the raid.
        ''We were very glad to go, we were delighted,'' he said. ''We were up against a very difficult situation, and we didn't win. But to hell with this business of saying the generals done us dirt.''
      