
        William Russell Mote, a millionaire businessman whose love of the sea led him to build the Mote Marine Laboratory here into a major research center, died on Tuesday at his home on Longboat Key. He was 93.
        Born in Tampa in 1906, Mr. Mote, who spent boyhood days wading in Tampa Bay for crabs and clams, traced his maritime passion to these excursions and other childhood fishing trips.
        In 1929, he moved to New York and spent the next three decades running the Republic Carloading and Distributing Company, a transportation company, which made him rich. It was sold in 1960.
        He never earned a college degree, he told friends, because he was too busy building his business.
        Settling in Sarasota in 1965, Mr. Mote wanted to create a marine laboratory on Florida's west coast. He found that a shark researcher, Eugenie Clark, was struggling to keep the Cape Haze Marine Laboratory going, and Mr. Mote decided to improve the facility.
        In 1967, the laboratory's name was changed to honor its benefactors, Mr. Mote, his wife, Lenore, and his sister Elizabeth Mote Rose. It was moved to its present site on City Island in Sarasota in 1977.
        Mr. Mote had given the laboratory at least $8 million over the years. In 1991, Congress chose the laboratory as the home of the National Center for Shark Research. The laboratory's snook breeding program has also earned worldwide recognition, with nearly 40,000 hatchlings released into Sarasota Bay in the last three years.
        In 1994, the International Oceanographic Foundation gave Mr. Mote its Gold Medal Award for promoting the study of the sea.
        Mr. Mote and his wife, who died in 1991, donated $1 million in 1994 to establish the William R. and Lenore Mote Eminent Scholar Chair in Fisheries Ecology at Florida State University.
        Mr. Mote was president of the laboratory's board until his death.
        In 1997, he founded the Mote Vascular Foundation, which supports efforts to diagnose, prevent and treat vascular disorders. Mr. Mote lost both his legs to vascular problems in recent years.
        A laboratory spokeswoman said Mr. Mote had no immediate survivors.
      