
        Charles Alan Wright, an authority on constitutional law and the federal courts who represented President Richard M. Nixon at a crucial moment in the Watergate scandal, died on Friday at the North Austin Medical Center in Texas. He was 72 and lived in Austin.
        The cause was complications after recent lung surgery, his family said.
        Mr. Wright was an expert on court procedure who argued 13 cases before the Supreme Court and was a leader of the faculty at the University of Texas Law School in Austin.
        As a special legal consultant to Mr. Nixon in the summer of 1973, he argued unsuccessfully that the constitutional separation of powers between the executive and judicial branches protected the president from turning over White House tape recordings to the special prosecutor, Archibald Cox. Eventually, the tapes helped prove the extent of the conspiracy to obstruct justice and led to a movement toward impeachment by the House and Mr. Nixon's resignation.
        In negotiations with Mr. Cox, and in arguments before Judge John Sirica of Federal District Court and later before a court of appeals, Mr. Wright insisted that the prosecutor's demands to obtain the tapes for a grand jury investigating the break-in  at the Democratic Party headquarters in the Watergate Hotel were an intrusion by the courts into the powers of the presidency. He even suggested that Mr. Nixon would defy a judicial ruling against him. But after losing the court battle and failing to reach a compromise with Mr. Cox, who was fired in what became known as the Saturday night massacre, Mr. Wright announced that Mr. Nixon would comply after all. During the rest of the Watergate matter, Mr. Wright's role was less prominent.
        While the Watergate case put Mr. Wright most squarely before the public, in legal circles he was well known as the senior author of a 55-volume treatise, ''Federal Practice and Procedure.'' His ''Cases on Federal Courts'' is in its 10th edition and his ''Wright on Federal Courts'' is in its 5th edition. In a lighter vein, Mr. Wright occasionally reviewed crime novels for The Practical Lawyer, a publication of the American Bar Association and the American Law Institute.
        Mr. Wright regarded himself as a conservative, a philosophy exemplified in his argument on behalf of the State of Texas in 1970 when it joined three other states in challenging the constitutionality of the law that lowered the voting age to 18.
        He called the law ''frivolous'' and  insisted that the Constitution gave the states the power to set voting standards.
        Charles Alan Wright was born Sept. 3, 1927, in Philadelphia. A precocious student, he graduated from Haverford High School at 16 and finished his undergraduate work at Wesleyan University at 18. He graduated from Yale Law School in 1949, spent a year as law clerk for Judge Charles E. Clark of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York, and began to teach law at the University of Minnesota in 1950. Five years later, he moved to Austin and joined the faculty of the University of Texas Law School.
        In 1993, Mr. Wright became the president of the American Law Institute, an organization of practitioners, judges and academics. He was active  in the arts in Austin, where he was a founder of the classical radio station KMFA.
        Professor Wright is survived by his wife, Eleanor Custis Wright, of Austin; a son, Charles E., of Irvine, Calif.; four daughters, Norie Clarke of Berkeley, Calif., Margot Clarke of Austin, Henrietta Wright of Dallas and Cecily Fitzsimons of Austin; and six grandchildren. He is also survived by his sister, Jean Wright Morse of Fredonia, N.Y.
      