
        Senator Paul Coverdell of Georgia, a soft-spoken but influential Republican leader, died tonight in Atlanta from a massive cerebral hemorrhage he suffered over the weekend. He was 61.
        Mr. Coverdell had undergone surgery on Monday in Atlanta, his hometown, after being hospitalized for severe headaches.
        Rising rapidly, if almost invisibly, in the inner circles of Senate power, Mr. Coverdell emerged as a close confidant of Senator Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi, the majority leader. Mr. Lott often turned to Mr. Coverdell, a self-effacing former insurance executive, to handle some of the most difficult and politically unrewarding jobs.
        An ally and longtime friend of former President George Bush, Mr. Coverdell was the chief liaison in the Senate to the presidential campaign of Mr. Bush's son, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas.
        ''Paul's soft-spoken, hard-working ways will be sorely missed by all of us who knew him and loved him,'' Governor Bush said in a statement released through his campaign office.
        On the Senate floor tonight, Mr. Lott choked back tears in praising his former colleague. ''Paul has been a close friend and confidant, and an outstanding member of this body,'' Mr. Lott said.
        In a statement tonight, President Clinton praised Mr. Coverdell's contributions to the Senate and the country. ''He was a tireless advocate who worked to ensure that all children have access to quality education,'' Mr. Clinton said.
        Mr. Coverdell's death, which follows the death last year of another sitting Republican Senator, John Chafee of Rhode Island, opens a Republican seat at time when the party holds a 55-to-45 margin. Mr. Coverdell won re-election in 1998 for a second six-year term.
        Under Georgia law, the state's Democratic governor, Roy Barnes, will appoint an interim replacement until a special election can be held.
        The state's Democratic senator, Max Cleland, said the two possible candidates for the interim position would be Michael Coles, the Democratic cookie magnate who lost to Mr. Coverdell in the 1998 election, and a former Democratic representative, Buddy Darden. Mr. Barnes seemed unlikely to offer himself for the Senate since he was elected only two years ago.
        Mr. Cleland, who was sworn into the Georgia State Senate on the same day with Mr. Coverdell 30 years, expressed his respect for his former colleague. ''He never showed a trace of personal ego or animosity,'' Mr. Cleland said. ''He loved public service, he loved politics and he loved to contribute.''
        As the fourth-ranking Republican in the Senate, Mr. Coverdell held the title of secretary of the conference.  But he was expected to move up the ladder to conference chairmanship with the retirement this fall of Senator Connie Mack of Florida.
        As secretary, Mr. Coverdell essentially ran the marketing department for Senate Republicans, putting his organizational prowess to work in shaping the party's message in five areas: education, taxes, Social Security, defense and drug prevention.
        In the Senate, Mr. Coverdell's interests and expertise ranged broadly. He championed education savings accounts, a signature Republican issue. He was a chief backer of a $1.3 billion aid package to help Colombia combat drug traffickers protected by rebel insurgents in the South American nation.
        Senator Coverdell was first elected to the Senate in 1992, squeaking out a victory over the liberal Democratic incumbent, Wyche Fowler Jr. He won again in 1998, despite concerns about his political vulnerability, much of it fueled by his low-key, behind-the-scenes style of getting things done.
        And in a chamber bulging with oversized egos, Mr. Coverdell relished his image as an quiet insider.  ''He was a humble man who brought to the public discourse good ideas and common-sense solutions,'' Speaker J. Dennis Hastert said in a statement. ''He didn't care who received the credit.''
        In the Senate, Senator Coverdell was considered a rarity: A man who took on difficult tasks, got things done and eschewed both the limelight and the credit.
        Mr. Lott affectionately called him ''Mikey,'' for the boy in the Life cereal commercial who would ''eat anything.'' Mr. Coverdell, Mr. Lott has said, would do anything that was asked of him, and do it with enthusiasm. In fact, outside of work, he had few other interests or hobbies.
        On the Senate floor, Mr. Coverdell was not a particularly eloquent speaker and reporters sometimes struggled to find a single straight-forward quote of his they could put in the newspaper.
        But his timid demeanor belied his commitment to Republican politics and his partisan drive. A conservative on most issues, Mr. Coverdell did not hesitate to fight for tax cuts and a smaller federal government, two favorite Republican themes.
        Senator Coverdell served in the Georgia State Senate from 1970 to 1989, where he acted as minority leader for 14 years. Mr. Coverdell often joked that he knew too well what it was like being an underdog since, as minority leader in the Senate, he represented all of 5 Republicans, as opposed to 51 Democrats.
        It was during this time that he first met President Bush, who was then United States delegate to the United Nations, and the encounter led to a lifelong friendship. Mr. Coverdell was a frequent visitor to Kennebunkport, Me., Mr. Bush's vacation home, despite his professed incompetence on the links and aboard a fishing boat. ''I'm not a golfer,'' he said during a recent interview. ''And I tangled up his fishing reel.''
        In a statement today, former President Bush said, ''Paul Coverdell was one of the kindest and most decent men I met in my entire life.''
        He served as state chairman for the Georgia Republican Party from 1985 to 1987. In 1989, one year after Mr. Bush was elected, Senator Coverdell was rewarded for his loyalty and was named director of the Peace Corps, a position which cemented his interest in foreign affairs.
        Last year, his loyalty to the Bush family led to his selection as Senate liaison to Governor Bush's campaign.
        Born in Des Moines on Jan. 29, 1939, Senator Coverdell spent a large part of his childhood in the Midwest. He earned a bachelor's degree in journalism from the University of Missouri in 1961, and then joined the Army in 1962, serving in Okinawa, among other places. After leaving the Army, he helped his parents start the family's Atlanta insurance and financial services business, Coverdell & Company.
        He married Nancy Nally, a former flight attendant.
        Survivors include his wife. The two had no children.
      