
        Ahmad Shamlu, a noted Iranian poet with a free-flowing style who was both at odds with the Iranian monarchy and disappointed with the Islamic movement that ousted it, died on Sunday in a Tehran hospital. He was 74 and lived near Tehran.
        He had long been ill, Iran's official news agency, IRNA, reported.
        Mr. Shamlu was a longtime advocate of greater political freedom; some of his writings were banned both before and after the Shah of Iran was overthrown in 1979 in the Iranian revolution.
        As a writer put it in a 1979 volume of the multivolume reference work ''Contemporary Literary Criticism,'' Shamlu's poetry, ''noted for its linguistic experimentalism and grand imagery, reveals his commitment to freedom of expression.''
        He was given a Freedom of Expression award by Human Rights Watch, based in New York, in 1991.
        After his death became known, a radio station in Tehran called him Iran's greatest poet and began broadcasting poems by him.
        He was indeed considered his country's greatest modern poet by admirers. Ahmad Karimi-Hakkak, a scholar of Persian language and literature, called him ''the leading Iranian poet'' in an essay published in 1977, two years before the Shah was overthrown.
        Mr. Shamlu ''has come more and more to view poetry as a mirror which the thinking poet, in an uncertain world, holds up to his own soul,'' Professor Karimi-Hakkak, who now teaches at the University of Washington, wrote. ''The sweeping energy of the young dreamer has gradually subsided into the brooding pessimism of the white-haired poet who knows -- or believes he knows -- that change will come only if thought accompanies action. His struggle, like that of his countrymen, now goes on below the surface.''
        Professor Karimi-Hakkak quoted these lines from Mr. Shamlu's poem ''Poetry That Is Life'':
        The subject of poets of yesteryear
        was not of life. . . .
        Today the theme of poetry is a different thing.
        Poetry today is the weapon of the masses.
        For poets themselves
        are branches from the forest of the masses,
        not jasmines and hyacinths of someone's
        greenhouse.
        Mr. Shamlu caused a stir in Iran's literary world in 1956 with his poem ''The Fairies,'' which contains these lines:
        The slaves gather, torch in hand
        to burn the night off our land,
        to force the chain-maker out,
        chain him, drag him all about.
        In those lines, Professor Karimi-Hakkak wrote, the poet ''assumes a degree of historical specificity that no one slightly familiar with the contemporary history of Iran can fail to interpret as the prophecy of an imminent revolution.''
        Before the Iranian revolution, Mr. Shamlu's poetry was popular with young people, but his advocacy of more freedom led to repeated arrests and jailings, and he departed Iran voluntarily in 1977 for exile in the United States.
        He returned in 1979, after the revolution, but he distanced himself from his disappointment with the new Islamic regime's authoritarianism (against which he spoke out) by concentrating on writing love poetry. And he spent his later years mostly in purely literary pursuits.
        Besides writing poetry, he was also a translator, critic and author of books for young people, and one of Iran's foremost intellectuals.
        He was born in Tehran and earned a literary reputation before entering his 20's. As a young man he acquired a love of classical music, but he was too poor to take up a career in music.
        He married three times and had four children.
        Despite his worldly concerns and troubles, he could strike a lyric note, as he did in these lines:
        At night,
        When the silver moonstream
        makes a lake of limitless plain,
        I spread the sails of my thoughts
        in the path of the wind.
      