
        Max Showalter, a prolific character actor in movies and theater and on television, died on Sunday in Middletown, Conn. He was 83 and lived in Chester, Conn.
        In his long and varied career, Mr. Showalter acted in two movies with Marilyn Monroe (''Niagara'' and ''Bus Stop''), and also worked with Mary Martin, Susan Hayward, Lucille Ball and Bo Derek (in ''10,'' starring Dudley Moore). He had his longest run as Horace Vandergelder in ''Hello, Dolly!,'' on tour and on Broadway, playing opposite Martha Raye, Betty Grable, Betsy Palmer, Marilyn Maye and Carol Channing.
        During his days in Hollywood in the 1950's, he acted under the name Casey Adams. He appeared in more than 1,000 television shows and on Broadway in ''Make Mine Manhattan'' with Sid Caesar. In 1976 he played Captain Andy in ''Showboat'' at the Jones Beach Theater in Wantagh, N.Y. He also toured with a one-man show in which he played the piano and reminisced about his life in the theater.
        Mr. Showalter composed scores for seven musicals, including ''Harrigan 'n' Hart,'' on Broadway in 1985, and the Christmas musical ''Touch of the Child,'' performed at various theaters in Connecticut. He also wrote special material for nightclub acts. He painted as well, and had several one-man shows.
        Mr. Showalter was born in Caldwell, Kan. After appearing in many plays at the Pasadena Playhouse in California, he made his Broadway debut in 1938 in ''Knights of Song,'' directed by Oscar Hammerstein II. His second musical, Jerome Kern's ''Very Warm for May,'' was directed by Hammerstein and Vincente Minnelli. When he was in the Army during World War II, he performed in ''This Is the Army.'' While that show was on tour, Irving Berlin wrote a song for him, ''Kick in the Pants.''
        His first film was ''Always Leave Them Laughing'' in 1949 (with Milton Berle and Bert Lahr). That was followed by dozens more, including ''With a Song in My Heart,'' ''What Price Glory'' (with James Cagney), ''Night People,'' ''Summer and Smoke,'' ''The Music Man,'' ''Sex and the Single Girl,'' ''Fate Is the Hunter,'' ''Lord Love a Duck,'' ''Sixteen Candles'' and, in 1984, ''Racing with the Moon.''
        In 1958, as Casey Adams, he acted with Doris Day and Jack Lemmon in ''It Happened to Jane'' on location in Chester, and became attached to the area. Many years later, he decided to move there and bought an 1830's farmhouse. He was active in local theaters in Connecticut, including the Goodspeed Opera House and the Eugene O'Neill Theater Center. He left his collection of letters and memorabilia to the Goodspeed Library of Musical Theater.
        He is survived by a sister, Ann Philpott of Fresno, Calif.
      