
        Sally Amato, a singer and actress who founded the Amato Opera with her husband, the conductor Anthony Amato, died on Wednesday at her home in City Island in the Bronx. She was 82.
        For more than 50 years, Mrs. Amato was in many ways the welcoming face of her family-run opera company. An operagoer was greeted by her at the door of the tiny Amato theater on the Bowery, and would then proceed down a flight of stairs or into the balcony, where Mr. Amato would conduct, stopping at intermission to draw raffles out of a barrel and award prizes to audience members. The company became a home for enthusiasts on both sides of the footlights: amateur singers (and some who became professionals) go there to learn and perform the great works and occasional rarities, and opera lovers on tight budgets go there to hear their favorite scores.
        Mrs. Amato was born Serafina Bellantone in Manhattan in 1917. She began her performing career as a child, when she and her sisters performed vaudeville skits in movie theaters, and she continued to work as an actress and singer into the first decades of the Amato Opera, which she and her husband started in 1948.
        She met Mr. Amato in 1943, when they were both performing at the Paper Mill Playhouse in Millburn, N.J. The meeting itself was not auspicious: Mr. Amato and Ms. Bellantone had been cast as American Indians, and in one scene Mr. Amato was to throw his future wife to the floor and kick her. But she was charmed by his expressions of concern when the scene ended. She also said that she admired his tenor voice.
        The Amatos married in 1945, and continued to work together at the American Theater Wing, where Mr. Amato directed workshops. They also shared an abiding love of opera, and it occurred to them soon after World War II that a company was needed to provide opportunities for aspiring singers returning from military service. The Amato Opera gave its first performances in the basement of Our Lady of Pompeii Church in Greenwich Village. The company later moved to 159 Bleecker Street; in 1963 it took over the jewel box theater at the corner of the Bowery and Second Street that has been its home ever since.
        Mrs. Amato performed with the company under her maiden name for several seasons, but she increasingly took on many of the house's nonmusical jobs. She made many of the company's costumes, ran its box office, and operated its lighting board.
        Mrs. Amato is survived by her husband and a sister, Ann Frydel, of Manhattan.
      