
        Dr. Julian Nance Carsey, a Maryland college president who twice vanished and created a new life for himself, died on Sunday at his home in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 65.
        Dr. Carsey, known as Jay, had a liver ailment, said his companion, Corinne Silverton.
        Dr. Carsey first disappeared in 1982, when he left his job, his wife and his home in Maryland. After making a new life in El Paso and remarrying, he disappeared from that life in 1992. He moved to Jacksonville and took up another existence.
        In talking about his disappearance in 1982, Dr. Carsey said: ''It wasn't that I was leaving something. I always felt I was going to something, but I didn't know what it was.''
        Jonathan Coleman, the author of a book about Dr. Carsey, ''Exit the Rainmaker'' (1989, InPrint.com), said what motivated Dr. Carsey ''was just a hope that what he was going to would be better for him than what he was leaving behind.''
        ''A favorite expression of his,'' Mr. Coleman said, ''was that he always loved 'to seek and search.' ''
        Dr. Carsey had been the president of Charles County Community College in Maryland for 17 years when he disappeared from the 173-acre campus on a sunny morning in May 1982, only days before he was scheduled to preside over a graduation ceremony.
        His energetic fund-raising had enabled the institution to expand greatly from a program of evening courses offered at a local high school. But federal education money was evaporating, and he foresaw difficult times ahead for the college. His marriage had also come to seem hollow to him.
        But in a parting note discovered by his wife, Nancy, he said: ''I am a physical and psychological disaster, I have no will to improve and I don't want to drag you down with me.''
        He took refuge in El Paso, where he was not known, divorced Nancy and married a second wife, Dawn, and taught subjects including mathematics for some years at Air Force bases in Europe.
        He taught and did administrative work at El Paso Community College from 1988 until he disappeared again, just before Christmas in 1992.
        Mr. Coleman recalled that shortly before that disappearance he received a letter from Dr. Carsey.
        ''In his own way he was trying to tell me that his life was becoming too much for him again,'' Mr. Coleman said. ''So he took off.''
        Dr. Carsey's wife said at the time, '' 'I'd better go to the airport to see if the car's there,' '' Mr. Coleman said, ''and it was.''
        Dr. Carsey went to Jacksonville, made it his home, and taught at some colleges in Florida in the 1990's. He lived quietly, often watching football games.
        Julian Nance Carsey was born in Ballinger, Tex., and grew up there and elsewhere in Texas. He received two bachelor's degrees, in chemical engineering and in business administration, from Texas A&M University, and served as an officer in the Army. In later years he earned a doctorate in public administration from George Washington University.
        He became separated from his wife, the former Nancy Stevens Brumfield, who he had married in 1968, at the time of his first disappearance, in 1982, and they were divorced in 1985. His marriage later that year to Dawn Peacock Garcia ended in divorce after his second disappearance.
        In addition to his companion, Ms. Silverton, he is survived by a sister, Susan.
      