
        Eugene R. Black, an investment banker, government adviser and off-Broadway playwright, died on April 24 in Manhattan. He was 75.
        A message about his death was misdirected within The Times on April 26.
        Mr. Black, who in recent years lived in East Hampton, N.Y., and Palm Beach, Fla., was chairman of a committee that advised Mayor John V. Lindsay on cultural affairs in 1966. He also headed a government-sponsored group that in 1972 recommended changes in New York City's regulation of theaters. He was chairman of the Circle in the Square Theater and served on the boards of the Lincoln Center Repertory Company and the Stratford Shakespeare Theater.
        For many years a general partner in the Wall Street investment firm of Lazard Freres & Company, Mr. Black specialized in international finance and was an adviser to the United States Treasury in the Ford and Carter administrations. In 1980, he became a special assistant to the Secretary of the Interior in Washington and later was an adviser to the Sanwa Bank of Japan.
        But Mr. Black also began writing plays and novels, often using the pen name Franklyn MacGregor. His plays included ''The Cleansing of George Cuthbert,'' a comedy produced in New York in 1998, and ''Camelot Lost,'' a drama about Marilyn Monroe, produced in Boca Raton, Fla., in 1999.
        Eugene Robert Black was born July 19, 1924, in Atlanta. He was named after his father, the president of the World Bank from 1949 to 1962, and his grandfather, who was chairman of the Federal Reserve in 1933 and 1934. He graduated from Yale, served as a lieutenant in the Marine Corps in World War II and later studied at Oxford University.
        He is survived by his wife, Susanne Hardwick Black; two daughters, Susan Black Allen of New York and Brittany Black of Palm Beach; a son, E. Robert Black of Beaufort, N.C.; a sister, Elizabeth Black Campbell; a brother, William H. Black of Southampton, N.Y.; his stepmother, Susette Heath Black; and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  August 15, 2000, Tuesday  A picture on Thursday with the obituary of Eugene R. Black, an investment banker, government adviser and Off Broadway playwright, was published in error, and the article misstated the date of his death. The date was April 21, not April 24. The picture showed his father, also named Eugene R. Black, who died in 1992. A picture of the younger Mr. Black appears today, on Page B6.
        Correction:  August 15, 2000, Tuesday  Eugene R. Black, an investment banker, government adviser and Off Broadway playwright, who died at 75 on April 21. He is shown in New York in 1963. A picture of his late father, also Eugene R. Black, appeared erroneously with his obituary on Thursday.
      