
        Bunny Austin, an outstanding English player who introduced shorts to tennis, died Saturday in a nursing home in Coulsdon, England. He was 94 years old.
        Short pants or long, Austin was one of the world's highest-ranked players in the decade before World War II. He and the more celebrated Fred Perry led Britain to four consecutive Davis Cup championships, defeating France in the challenge round in 1933, the United States in 1934 and 1935, and Australia in 1936. After that, Perry turned professional for a $50,000 guarantee, and Britain has not won the Davis Cup since.
        Austin, whose given name was Henry Wilfred, compiled a career record of 36-12 in Davis Cup singles. In the four championship years, his 15-3 record included victories over Don Budge, Wilmer Allison, Sidney Wood and Frank Shields of the United States and Jack Crawford of Australia.
        At 5 feet 9 inches and 132 pounds, Austin was slim, quick and graceful. His fluid strokes helped him to a world top 10 ranking for 11 consecutive years, starting in 1928. He was ranked second in the world in 1931 and 1938. In major tournaments, he was the runner-up at Wimbledon in 1932 and 1938 and in the French championship in 1938.
        When Austin started playing tennis, men wore long, heavy white flannel trousers, no matter how hot it was. ''Fred Perry and I were playing in the doubles at Longwood, and it was terribly hot,'' Austin told The Boston Globe in 1997, referring to a match at the club in Brookline, Mass. ''I came off the court in those sweat-soaked trousers feeling I was carrying an awfully lot of unnecessary weight below my knees.''
        Referring to his days as a soccer player, Austin added: ''I wasn't very big. I'd been a football player in school -- Repton and Cambridge -- and of course we wore shorts. Best thing for running. Why not for tennis? We went to New York for the singles at Forest Hills, and I bought a pair and wore them. I got a lot of kidding, but the wisdom of it was apparent. The next year, I introduced them at Wimbledon. I expected a fuss there, but there was none. Slowly, others followed. I don't know why we put up with long flannel trousers for so long.''
        Austin's innovation shocked the staid sport. John Kieran wrote in The New York Times, ''With his white linen hat and his flannel shorts, the little English player looked like an A. A. Milne production.'' But at Wimbledon, King George V and Queen Mary accepted the change without comment, and soon other men, and then women, led by the American Helen Hull Jacobs, started wearing shorts, too.
        In 1932, Austin wrote in The Daily Mail of London that tennis would have to take second place to business in his future plans because he did not want to be ''a useless old man living in a one-roomed flat.'' But he continued playing until he cut back to help publicize the moral rearmament movement. With war seemingly inevitable, he joined such other British athletes as the runners Harold Abrahams and Sidney Wooderson, the golfer Bernard Darwin, the cricketer Len Hutton and the jockey Gordon Richards in calling for ''moral rearmament through sport.'' In 1940, with the blessing of the British government, Austin moved to the United States to continue the program to promote world peace.
        ''We were all of us faced with the possible end of civilization,'' he said. ''War threatened my wife, my daughter, my parents and all I cared about with destruction. It seemed uncanny to think of putting my baby daughter in a gas-proof tent.''
        His work was endorsed publicly by American sports figures like Babe Ruth, Henry Armstrong, Glenn Cunningham, Joe DiMaggio, Carl Hubbell, Bobby Jones, Connie Mack, Jesse Owens and Gene Tunney. But he and other resident aliens were subject to the draft, and in 1943 he was inducted into the United States Army Air Corps.
        In 1931, he married Phyllis Konstam, a British actress. She died in 1976. His is survived by a daughter, Jennifer Bocock, and a son, John.
        Austin was inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame in Newport, R.I., in 1997. He was confined to a wheelchair and unable to attend, ''even though,'' he said, ''I'm a kid at the nursing home where I live. Several plus-100's are among my housemates.''
      