
        Jaap Marais, a fiery orator and right-wing political leader whose 30-year-battle to uphold strict government-enforced racial segregation continued even after apartheid had ended, died on Tuesday night. He was 77.
        The cause of death was unknown, said Louis van der Schyff, general secretary of Mr. Marais's Herstigte Nasionale Party, known as the H.N.P.
        Mr. Marais's political life coincided with the rise and decline of white, right-wing politics here. In 1969, he abandoned the governing National Party, in part because it was considering integrating sports. He helped found the H.N.P. that year and became its leader in 1977, making his reputation as a firebrand who opposed the smallest efforts to moderate apartheid.
        But as the years passed and his hair turned white and his hearing dimmed, Mr. Marais watched his party's membership dwindle, his popularity wane and the few remaining white, right-wing parties lose their relevance. In the election of 1999, the extreme right got less than 1 percent of the vote.
        Still, friends say Mr. Marais never wavered from his beliefs, and even in recent months, Mr. Marais was praying for the apocalypse, the cataclysm that would lead to the collapse of the black government, a disastrous civil war and the triumphant return of some form of white rule.
        In his heart, his friends said, he was still the influential politician who said in 1981 that he would show blacks ''who is the boss in white South Africa.'' And as party leader, he continued to work late into the night, writing articles, defending his ideas and ignoring critics who dismissed him as an old man stuck in the past.
        ''They say, 'Things are different now and you must be different,' but he never changed,'' Pieter Engelbrecht, the H.N.P.'s administrative secretary, said in an interview. ''He talked very much about the good ways of the old days and how he would like to have them now.
        ''But he was never depressed. He was a fighter.
        ''He thought this government would come to a fall, and everyone would take to the streets. Out of that turmoil and bloodshed, there might be new borders. Countries would come out of that. Everybody would go to some piece of land. You and your own would defend yourself. That was his idea, that it might happen like that. He thought maybe it might happen sooner than you think. He didn't know his life would be that short.''
        Mr. Marais was born on Nov. 2, 1922, Mr. van der Schyff said. He joined Parliament in the 50's and reached the height of his power in the early 80's, when his party won one seat in Parliament.
        The party was virtually wiped out in the elections in 1989. But Mr. Marais refused to disband. He was a devoted disciple of Prime Minister Hendrik Verwoerd, the architect of apartheid, and was determined to fight against the prospect of black rule.
        He was also described as an intellectual who loved poetry, particularly Eliot and Keats, and translated Shakespeare's ''Julius Caesar'' into Afrikaans. Even as an older man, he took pains to pore through all the local newspapers daily, including The Sowetan, the newspaper directed at black readers.
        On Tuesday night, Mr. Marais was writing an article about globalism when he collapsed at home. He was taken to Eugene Marais Hospital in Pretoria, where he died about an hour later. H.N.P. officials said doctors suspected that he died from internal bleeding.
        Surviving are his wife, Marie; a son, Japie; and a daughter, Marjorie.
        Friends said Mr. Marais never considered emigrating, even after apartheid ended in 1994. Party officials would not say how many members the party has, but political experts said the party had been irrelevant for at least 10 years.
        That did not deter Mr. Marais, who continued his battle on behalf of a discredited system, convinced that it was the country, and not he, that should change.
        ''The party was never a success, but Marais was a very stubborn man,'' said Z. B. du Toit, who edited the H.N.P. newspaper from 1983 to 1987 and now works as a senior editor at Rapport, a newspaper published in Afrikaans. ''He didn't have much of an inclination for pragmatic, tactical politics, and that was his weakness.''
      