
        Michael S. Reynolds, the author of a five-volume biography of Ernest Hemingway, died on Saturday at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 63.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his daughter Dierdre Shipman.
        Ernest Hemingway's life as a novelist, war correspondent and adventurer was at least as interesting as his fiction, and he was an author who helped to create his own legend. Mr. Reynolds was noted for his meticulous scholarship and for his efforts to sort the autobiographical fact from the fiction in Hemingway's work. He also wrote in a novelistic style himself, one that emulated Hemingway's. At times, he seemed to enter Hemingway's mind and to know his most intimate thoughts.
        Indeed, Mr. Reynolds was a biographer who seemed to live not only his own existence but also his subject's. He spent 25 years writing about Hemingway, beginning in 1976 with ''Hemingway's First War: The Making of 'A Farewell to Arms,' '' published by Princeton University Press.
        Next, he sought to catalog the books that Hemingway read during  his formative years. To do so, Ms. Shipman said yesterday, Mr. Reynolds went ''through every inventory of each home that Hemingway had lived in, every library card the man ever had and his curriculum in high school.'' That resulted in ''Hemingway's Reading, 1910-1940'' (Princeton University Press, 1981).
        ''In college, he wanted to be Hemingway,'' Ms. Shipman said. ''He wanted to be able to write like that.  As fate happened, he ended up married with children and supporting a family.''
        Brenda Wineapple wrote in The Nation magazine, ''Of all Hemingway biographers, Reynolds is by far the most indefatigable.''
        Stephen Plotkin, the archives specialist in charge of the Hemingway collection at the John F. Kennedy Library in Boston, called Mr. Reynolds's biography of Hemingway ''definitive.''
        ''He was really just an extraordinary scholar and a marvelous writer who chose to use biography as his avenue of expression,'' Mr. Plotkin said.
        Mr. Reynolds was born in Kansas City, Mo. His father, Raymond, was a geologist, and Mr. Reynolds once said that among the most important events of his life was ''growing up the son of a geologist, who taught me how to see.'' Other influences, he said, were ''flunking calculus in 1956, which ensured that I would not become an engineer.'' He graduated from Rice University and received a Ph.D. from Duke University.
        In 1987 he published the first volume of his Hemingway biography, ''The Young Hemingway'' (Basil Blackwell). In the book he described Hemingway's war experience: ''Thrown in among older men, he was accepted as an equal with the privileges of an officer. In the cafes and clubs of Milan, he drank the wines, the cognacs and beers that Oak Park railed against. It had been good. And an older woman, eight years older, loved him, promised to marry him.''
        Mr. Reynolds followed that volume with ''Hemingway: The Paris Years'' (Blackwell, 1989), ''Hemingway: The American Homecoming'' (Blackwell 1992) and ''Hemingway: the 1930's'' (W. W. Norton, 1997).
        Last year Mr. Reynolds published ''Hemingway: The Final Years'' (Norton). He did not add significantly to previous biographies by Carlos Baker, Kenneth Lynn and Jeffrey Meyers, Christopher Lehmann-Haupt wrote in The New York Times, ''yet he sharpens many details.''
        Mr. Reynolds wrote vividly of Hemingway's mental decline, showing how his depressions occurred in the middle of the writing of his books instead of after they were finished. He also described Hemingway's alcoholism and his dependency on prescription drugs. And he chronicled  his abusive relationship with his fourth wife, Mary Welsh. On one occasion, Mr. Reynolds wrote, Hemingway threw white wine at her, and on another, he spat at her.
        ''I think his biography was the most extensive, and his device of injecting himself into the biography probably makes it more lively,'' Patrick Hemingway, the author's son, said in a telephone interview yesterday. ''But it does have the disadvantage of him injecting material to a certain extent he has made up. The last biography had events described as if he were an eyewitness.''
        Until his retirement, Mr. Reynolds was a professor of English at North Carolina State University in Raleigh.  In addition to Ms. Shipman, who lives in Durham, N.C., he is survived by his wife, the former Ann Eubanks, whom he married in 1960; another daughter, Shauna Reynolds of New Orleans; a brother, John, of Bryan, Tex.; a sister, Mary Hamlin of Texarkana, Tex.; and two grandchildren.
        Mr. Reynolds was a founder and president of the Hemingway Foundation and Society, an organization of Hemingway scholars that also administers the annual Ernest Hemingway Foundation Award for the best first work of fiction published in the United States. Last month, he resigned from the presidency because of poor health. ''No sad songs,  please,'' he wrote in a letter to the society. ''As Ernest told us a long time ago, follow any life far enough and it will end badly.''
      