
        Uri Gordon, an Israeli official and Zionist leader who played important roles in the resettlement of thousands of Ethiopian and Russian Jews in Israel in the 1980's and 90's, died on Sunday in Israel. He was 65.
        He had suffered for months from a number of illnesses, said Deborah Lipson, a spokeswoman for the Jewish Agency, a quasi-governmental organization that oversees immigration to Israel, The Associated Press reported.
        The craggy-faced Mr. Gordon was long known as Mr. Aliya -- the Hebrew word that in this context means immigration by Jews to Israel. The Jerusalem Post recalled in 1998, when admirers gathered to pay tribute to him, that he had been behind the airlifts ''from the former Soviet Union, Yugoslavia, Ethiopia, Yemen, Syria, Albania and elsewhere.''
        David Sommer, a member of the World Zionist Organization's 20-member governing body and a member of the board of the Jewish Agency, said, ''In many ways he believed in applied Zionism,'' meaning ''to do anything possible to bring people to come to Israel.'' Mr. Sommer added: ''He always believed that the climax of Zionism is to live in Israel. He was involved in people's lives. He participated in the new immigrants' arrival.''
        Mr. Gordon played a central role regarding immigration on behalf of the Jewish Agency after rising to prominence there in the 1970's. He was involved in the planning the airlifting of tens of thousands of Ethiopian Jews in 1984 and 1993. He also helped prepare for Israel to accommodate hundreds of thousands of Russian Jews after the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.
        Mr. Gordon directed the Jewish Agency's immigration and absorption department and its youth aliya department. For part of his career, he was active in Labor Party work with young adults.
        In the 1970's, while he was representing the Jewish Agency in the United States, he founded an American youth organization, Telem, also known as the Movement for Zionist Fulfillment, which required its members to commit themselves to emigrate to Israel.
        Mr. Gordon's intensity was recalled by Avi Granot, an Israeli Embassy official in Washington. Mr. Granot described being in a Los Angeles hotel elevator with Mr. Gordon one day in 1980. Mr. Gordon was then a Jewish Agency emissary to the United States and Mr. Granot a consular official in New York. Both were involved in developing Telem.
        ''With Uri, when he got to be talking about what should be done, he wouldn't stop,'' said Mr. Granot, who is also a former Israeli ambassador to Ethiopia, ''and we ended up spending over two hours in the elevator going up and down, down and up.'' They were discussing Zionism.
        The Soviet influx was complicated and difficult. From 1989 through late 1994, roughly 500,000 immigrants from the former Soviet Union had flooded into Israel, at a time when its total population was only about four million .
        By then, Israeli officials were acknowledging that an estimated one-third of the immigrants were distant descendants of Jews who did not consider themselves Jews and had non-Jewish spouses.
        These immigrants had been allowed in because of an amendment to a 1950 measure called the Law of Return. The law, which specified who could immigrate, was altered in 1970 to extend immigration rights to any person with a single grandparent who was Jewish, even if the connection to Judaism ended there.
        ''The amendment to the Law of Return, which was meant to deal with a few exceptional cases, turned with time into an automatic entry ticket into Israel for non-Jews in numbers beyond acceptable proportion,'' Mr. Gordon said in October 1994.
        In January 1992, the flow of Soviet immigrants to Israel sank to its lowest level in almost two years, Israeli officials reported. Jewish Agency workers said the drop was caused by acute problems facing those already in Israel -- lack of jobs and adequate housing. These troubles were reported back to relatives and friends in the former Soviet Union.
        ''The government has no answer to the question of employment,'' Mr. Gordon said at the time. ''Until now it hasn't formulated a national plan for absorption.''
        Mr. Gordon was the author, with Menachem Michelson, of the 1998 book ''Zionism Is Not a Dirty Word.''
        Uri Gordon was born in Tel Aviv and later contracted polio. ''He was a short person who had a hard time walking,'' Mr. Granot recalled, but added that because of his powerful personality, nothing stood in his way.
        During the 1960's, Mr. Gordon led Labor Party Zionist youth groups.
        He is survived by his wife and three daughters.
      