
        Edward S. Skillin, a former editor and publisher of Commonweal, a lay magazine of Roman Catholic opinion, died on Monday at Mountainside Hospital in Glen Ridge, N.J. He was 96 and lived in Montclair, N.J.
        Mr. Skillin spent more than six decades at Commonweal, a liberal journal based in Manhattan that covers religion, politics, literature, culture and the arts.
        He joined the staff in 1933 and was the magazine's editor from 1938 to 1967 and its publisher from 1967 until he retired in 1998. Commonweal, which has a circulation of 20,000, is institutionally independent of the Catholic church.
        Mr. Skillin led Commonweal, which was founded in 1924, through a succession of controversies in the religious and political realms. They included the magazine's opposition to Francisco Franco in the Spanish Civil War, to Senator Joseph McCarthy in the 1950's and, decades later, to America's role in the Vietnam War.
        Among the many church-state issues Commonweal addressed under Mr. Skillin's editorship were those raised by the candidacy of John F. Kennedy, a Roman Catholic, in the 1960 presidential election. From the 1930's to the 1960's, many of Commonweal's editorial positions foreshadowed changes in Catholic religious practice that were authorized at the Second Vatican Council, which was held from 1963 to 1965.
        Over the years, Mr. Skillin managed to sustain a reflective, civil level of discourse in the magazine's coverage of controversial subjects, including some that sharply divided American Catholics, like birth control, nuclear war and abortion.
        A native New Yorker, he grew up in Glen Ridge and received a bachelor's degree in 1925 from Williams College, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. He earned a master's degree in political science in 1933 from Columbia University.
        He is survived by his wife of 55 years, Jane Edwards Skillin; two sons, Edward John, of Montclair, and Arthur Paul, of Long Valley, N.J.; three daughters, Elizabeth Ann Flanagan of Denville, N.J., Susan Thuvanuti of Bloomfield, N.J., and Mary Jane Davis of Bricktown, N.J.; a foster daughter, Mary Beth Di Giacomo of Nutley, N.J.; a foster son, Dinh Dao of East Windsor, N.J.; and nine grandchildren.
      