
        Mary T. Reynolds, an authority on  James Joyce, died on Friday at her home in Washington. She was 87.
        Dr. Reynolds won particular praise for her book ''Joyce and Dante: The Shaping Imagination'' (Princeton University Press, 1981), about the influence of Dante's poetry on Joyce's writing.
        For ''Joyce and Dante,'' the critic Richard Brown observed in The Times Literary Supplement, Dr. Reynolds ''researched in detail the history of Joyce's reading of Dante, from unearthing his college curriculum to acquiring the actual copies of Dante's work which he possessed.''
        Dr. Reynolds's other books included ''Joyce and Nora'' (1964), ''Joyce and D'Annunzio'' (1976), ''Mr. Bloom and the Lost Vermeer'' (1989) and ''James Joyce: ''New Century Views'' (1993). She was a trustee of the International James Joyce Foundation and an editor at both the Joyce Studies Annual and the James Joyce Quarterly.
        Robert Spoo, a former professor of English at the University of Tulsa and the editor of the James Joyce Quarterly, said through a spokeswoman that ''Joyce and Dante'' was ''definitive in Joyce studies.''
        Morris Beja, a professor of English at Ohio State University and executive secretary of the International James Joyce Foundation, said  ''the importance of Dante was exceptionally profound'' in Joyce's work.
        Dr. Reynolds, he added, ''was able to show just how pervasive it was.''
        Thomas F. Staley, a professor of English at the University of Texas at Austin and the editor of the Joyce Studies Annual, called her scholarship seminal. In ''Joyce and Dante,'' he said, ''what she studies most of all is the rhetorical and linguistic maneuvers by which Joyce related his work to Dante's. An important element in the book's success was her revelation of the extent of Dante's influence on Joyce's creation of allegory in his own writing.''
        Professor Staley added that Dr. Reynolds had ''traced a myriad of Dante allusions in Joyce that had not been elaborated on before.''
        Dr. Reynolds's opinions about Joyce included approval of recipes used by his wife, Nora. ''If I had ever had the good luck to visit them,'' she wrote in 1985, ''I certainly would not have tried to discuss 'Finnegans Wake' with Joyce. I'd have been out in the kitchen with Nora, eating her scones and her greengage jam.''
        The advice, encouragement and books Dr. Reynolds provided helped Jin Di, a Chinese scholar, finish his 1994 translation of ''Ulysses,'' reported to be the first of Joyce's works published in Chinese.
        Mary Trackett Reynolds was born in Milwaukee and earned bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Wisconsin at Madison, where she was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. She received her doctorate in political science from Columbia. She taught political science at several colleges and a seminar on Irish literature and history at Yale.
        Dr. Reynolds is survived by her husband, Lloyd G. Reynolds; two daughters, Anne R. Skinner of Williamstown, Mass., and Priscilla R. Roosevelt of Washington; a son, Bruce L., of Ithaca, N.Y.; seven grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      