
        Fuad Serag Eddin, a mainstay of Egyptian politics who fought British colonial rule before the 1952 revolution and headed the largest opposition party, the Wafd, against successive Egyptian governments, died on Wednesday after having a heart attack in a hospital here. He was 89.
        For more than 50 years, Mr. Serag Eddin personified the Wafd Party -- which has been permitted, then banned and then licensed again -- since it began in 1919. His own career, interrupted by a prison term as a dissident, mirrored his party's.
        He was born on Nov. 2, 1910, to a family that held vast cotton-growing estates in the Nile Delta region. Mr. Serag Eddin earned a law degree from King Fouad University, now Cairo University, in 1930 and became an assistant prosecutor.
        He was elected to Parliament in 1936, its youngest member at the time. In 1948, he won a Senate seat. Mr. Serag Eddin was a minister in every government of Egypt's last monarchs, beginning in 1942.
        A member of the Wafd since 1936, he became active in the movement to end British control over the country and its kings. As interior minister in 1952, he ordered the Egyptian police to fire their last bullets at British tanks that were invading the Ismailia governate. The battle, on Jan. 25, is commemorated each year in Egypt as the Day of the Police.
        But Mr. Serag Eddin's service to the monarchy made him suspect after the revolution led by Gamal Abdel Nasser and his fellow army officers. As with other rich families, the Serag Eddin family lost many of its holdings to nationalization. Mr. Serag Eddin was sentenced by a revolutionary court to 15 years in prison, but was released after having served three years.
        The Wafd Party, like all other political groups, was banned by President Nasser after the Egyptian republic had been established. Mr. Serag Eddin revived the party, as the New Wafd, in 1978, in a period of liberalization under President Anwar el-Sadat. But after quarrels with Mr. Sadat, Mr. Serag Eddin quickly suspended its operations.
        Relations between the men remained tense and then worsened, after the signing of the Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty, which Mr. Serag Eddin opposed. In early 1981, he was imprisoned in a crackdown on dissent, being released after Mr. Sadat's assassination in October 1981. Mr. Serag Eddin then started a long court battle to revive the party.
        In 1983, he won permission to operate the Wafd, and it has since then been the second largest party, after the National Democratic Party, with five seats in the People's Assembly.
        Mr. Serag Eddin was still head of the party and chairman of the board of the party newspaper at his death. The Wafd, under his leadership, fiercely opposed normalizing relations with Israel. In more recent years, it called for political reform, while constantly attacking government policies and ministers.
        Surviving are Mr. Serag Eddin's brother, Yassin, the deputy leader of the Wafd and a member of Parliament; two daughters, Naela and Faiza; and five grandchildren, Fouad Badrawi, also a Wafd member of Parliament; Abdel Aziz Badrawi, Hassan Badrawi, Nevine Badrawi and Tarek al-Kazemy.
      