
        Frieda Mae Hardin, who joined the Navy during World War I, when women were still denied the right to vote, and at a widely noted ceremony  79 years later symbolized the achievements of all the women in the armed forces, died last Wednesday in Livermore, Calif. She was 103.
        Wearing a World War I ''yeomanette'' uniform and a wide-brimmed hat inscribed with ''U.S. Naval Reserve,'' Mrs. Hardin provided the emotional high point at the ceremony, held in October 1997 at Arlington National Cemetery to dedicate the Women in Military Service for America Memorial, honoring almost  two million women who had served.
        Making her way to the speaker's stand before an audience estimated at 30,000, Mrs. Hardin was accompanied by her son Jerald Kirsten, a retired Navy captain.
        ''Loud voice, mother,'' he said.
        Mrs. Hardin's audience heard her loud and clear. ''In my 101 years of living, I have observed many wonderful achievements, but none as important or as meaningful as the progress of women taking their  rightful place in society,'' she said.
        ''To those women now in military service, I say, 'Carry on.' To those  young women who may be thinking about a career in the military service, I say, 'Go for it.' ''
        The 10-minute talk brought three standing ovations and left many in the crowd in tears.
        When Frieda Mae Green was born on Sept. 22, 1896, in Eden Valley,  Minn., a formal role for women in the armed forces could hardly have been foreseen. Women had served in a quasi-military capacity, as nurses, but there were no women in the regular Navy or Army.
        In March 1917, however, with America's entry into World War I imminent, Navy Secretary Josephus Daniels called on women to enlist in the Naval Reserve to free sailors for combat duty.
        Frieda's father, a railroad worker, had moved the family to Kentucky and then Ohio, and she had taken a job at a department store in the town of Portsmouth. One day in 1918, she saw a notice that a Navy recruiter was arriving. ''I heard about the Navy taking women on a Saturday night, and I signed up first thing Monday morning,'' she would recall.
        According to her son Jerald, when she phoned her mother to tell her what she had done, ''Her mother said, 'Frieda, you get home this instant!' '' Frieda's mother took her back to the recruiting station and told the Navy man that she could not sign up without her father's permission. But the next day, her father said, ''Let her go,'' and off she went.
        She was among almost 12,000 women who served in the Navy during World War I as clerks, draftsmen, translators, camouflage designers and recruiters. They were  formally designated yeomen (f), for female, but were known as yeomanettes. She was on active duty from September 1918 to March 1919 at the Norfolk Navy Yard in Virginia, performing clerical duties and receiving an outstanding grade in reading proficiency and perfect marks in obedience and sobriety, the three areas in which the Navy graded women. (She would remain a teetotaler, even refusing a glass of celebratory champagne while flying to the 1997 memorial ceremony.)
        By 1920, all the yeomanettes were released from duty, and women would not be permitted to serve in the Navy again until the Waves were established in World War II.
        After leaving the Navy, Frieda Green married William Kirsten, a chef, and they settled in the Lodi-Stockton area of California. She remained in Northern California the rest of her life, and had been a resident of a Livermore nursing home for several years when she died there last week.
        She is survived by four children from her marriage to Mr. Kirsten: Captain Kirsten, of Lodi, Roy Kirsten of Stockton and Warren Kirsten of Sacramento, all military veterans, and Mary Botto of Stockton; 12 grandchildren; 25 great-grandchildren; and 29 great-great-grandchildren. William Kirsten and three other husbands died before her, the last of them Robert Hardin.
        In speaking at the memorial dedication, Mrs. Hardin said that ''a world of opportunity'' awaited women in the military.
        ''For my part, I have always been very proud of my Navy service,'' she  told the audience. ''It is not likely that I will be meeting with you again,  so I bid each of you a fond farewell.''
        Among those in the crowd was a woman named Ann Darr, who had served during World War II in the Women's Air Force Service Pilots, or Wasps. Reflecting on that moment at the memorial, she would write, ''When Frieda Mae Hardin spoke, reminding us she couldn't vote when she signed up, saying to the young people, 'Go for it!' we were almost ready to serve again.''
      