
        Brenda Reilly, a teacher, sports administrator and three-sport coach in a career of almost three decades at Central Connecticut State University in New Britain, died of cancer at a hospice in Branford, Conn., on Aug. 5. She was 62.
        Reilly first gained a degree of prominence as a member of the Raybestos Brakettes fast-pitch softball team in the 1950's and 60's. The team won scores of national and world championships, and its members encouraged Reilly to attend college, pointing her on a career that made her a well-known coach and athletic administrator.
        ''Brenda joined the Brakettes at 18 right out of high school and worked at the Raybestos factory in Stratford for a number of years while playing for the team from 1956 until 1965,'' said Mickey Macchietto Stratton, one of her teammates. ''Most of us were either college graduates, in college or about to go to college, and we encouraged her to do the same.''
        Reilly, an infielder and pitcher on the Brakettes, finally heeded her teammates' advice at the age of 26 and enrolled at California State University, Los Angeles, said Kathy Pullek, assistant director of sports information at Central Connecticut State. ''By the time Brenda was a senior member of the women's basketball team, she was 30 and three years older than the coach,'' Pullek said.
        In 1970, Reilly received a master's degree in physical education at U.C.L.A. The next year, she came to Central Connecticut as a physical education teacher and a basketball, softball and volleyball coach. She held those positions for 24 years.
        In 1981, she received a doctorate in physical education from Springfield College. From 1996 until her death, she was Central Connecticut State's associate athletic director and senior women's administrator.
        While she was the women's basketball coach, Central Connecticut reached the quarterfinals of the Division II National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament in 1986 after posting a 24-4 record, and Reilly was honored as coach of the year.
        Reilly was a longtime high school and college basketball official, and she served on a number of N.C.A.A. committees that examined issues related to the Title IX gender-equity laws.
        Reilly, who was born in New York City, is survived by three brothers and 17 nieces and nephews.
      