
        Abulfaz Elchibey, a former history professor who became the first democratically elected president of Azerbaijan before fleeing into internal exile, died early today in a Turkish hospital where he was being treated for advanced prostate cancer. He was 62.
        Mr. Elchibey's death was announced by his doctors at Gulhane military hospital in Ankara, where he had been a patient for two weeks. The doctors said he was also suffering from diabetes and infections. Officials in Azerbaijan said his body would be flown to the capital, Baku, for a state funeral.
        Mr. Elchibey was elected president in 1992, a year after the collapse of the Soviet Union had brought independence to the small country on the Caspian Sea. Mr. Elchibey's yearlong tenure was marked by his insistence that Russian troops and bases be removed from the country and that a local currency, the manat, be introduced.
        But his brief term was also marred by economic upheaval and military losses in the breakaway region of Nagorno-Karabakh, where Armenian-backed forces claimed 20 percent of Azerbaijan and turned about a million Azerbaijanis into refugees.
        Mr. Elchibey himself was forced to flee Baku in June 1993 when a small uprising at a military base threatened to plunge the country into civil war. He was succeeded as president by Heydar Aliyev, the country's Communist boss under Soviet rule. Mr. Aliyev cemented his control later that year in an election that Mr. Elchibey denounced as fraudulent.
        In an interview last month in Baku, Mr. Aliyev said that he agreed to assume the office of president at the insistence of Mr. Elchibey, whom he quoted as saying that Mr. Aliyev was the only person who could hold the country together and avoid a blood bath.
        Mr. Aliyev was dismissive of his predecessor, describing him as a professor who lacked the experience to run a country and deal with the political complexities of leadership.
        Mr. Elchibey was born on June 24, 1938, in the small town of Keleki in the enclave of Nakhichevan, a section of Azerbaijan cut off from the rest of the country and surrounded by Iran, Turkey and Armenia. His original surname was Aliyev, which he later changed to Elchibey, which means envoy. The surname Aliyev is shared by a great many Azerbaijanis, and the two men were not related.
        He went to Baku as a 19-year-old student and studied Arabic at the state university. He later became a history professor at the university. He was also an active dissident and  was jailed briefly in 1975 after protesting Soviet policies in the region.
        As chairman of the national Popular Front party, he was swept into office by anti-Soviet sentiment in June 1992. Unlike leaders in neighboring Georgia and Armenia, he was successful in forcing the removal of most Russian troops and bases from his country and moving Azerbaijan away from Russian dominance. Instead, he realigned the country with Turkey, an alliance that remains strong today. He also changed the alphabet from Cyrillic to Western.
        But Mr. Elchibey faced insurmountable difficulties in the heavily Armenian section of western Azerbaijan known as Nagorno-Karabakh. The military suffered stunning defeats at the hands of Russian-backed Armenian troops and lost the region.
        Mr. Elchibey was driven from office in June 1993. He spent the next four years in internal exile in Nakhichevan, coincidentally the same province where Mr. Aliyev went after the country's independence.
        In 1997 Mr. Elchibey returned to Baku and tried to regain his influence as an opposition leader. Though he remained chairman of the Popular Front, he had little real power and opposition to Mr. Aliyev has remained weak in Azerbaijan.
      