
        William Rossa Cole, an anthologist, editor and writer of children's books and light verse, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80.
        Mr. Cole was the author, co-author, editor or co-editor of more than 75 books, including more than 50 anthologies for children and adults. Among them was ''I Went to the Animal Fair: A Book of Animal Poems'' (1958), an anthology for children that he edited. Elizabeth Minot Graves, writing in The New York Times Book Review, praised it as ''the sort of book that children big and small, parents and grandparents would enjoy reading and reciting 'round a winter fire.''
        That book was named a notable book of 1958 by the American Library Association and was also on the association's List of Notable Children's Books of 1940-59.
        In addition, Mr. Cole was the editor of the anthologies ''Beastly Boys and Ghastly Girls: Poems,'' named an American Library Association notable book in 1964, and ''The Birds and Beasts Were There: Animal Poems,'' honored by the association in 1965.
        Born in Staten Island to William Harrison Cole and the former Margaret O'Donovan-Rossa, Mr. Cole graduated from high school there. He served in the infantry in Europe in World War II, rising to sergeant and receiving the Purple Heart.
        After the war, he was publicity director at Alfred A. Knopf, publicity director and editor at Simon & Schuster and a publisher, with Viking Press, of William Cole Books.
        He was also a columnist for The Saturday Review, a vice president of PEN American Center and a member of the governing board of the Poetry Society of America and the executive board of Poets and Writers.
        His 1947 marriage to Peggy Bennett and his 1967 marriage to Galen Williams ended in divorce.
        He is survived by two sons, Williams and Rossa, both of Manhattan; two daughters, Jeremy Rossa Cole of Portland, Me., and Cambria Cole-Pirro of Hampton Bays, N.Y.; a grandson; and a brother, Rossa, of East Rutherford, N.J.
      