
        Dr. L. Bryce Boyer, a psychoanalyst who advanced the concept of countertransference in doctor-patient communication, died on Aug. 9 in Walnut Creek, Calif.
        Dr. Boyer, whose practice was in Berkeley, Calif., was 84.
        Transference, in psychotherapy, is the unconscious tendency of patients to transfer to analysts feelings and attitudes associated with significant influences in the patients' early lives. The feelings, affectionate or hostile, may relate to a parent, for instance.
        In countertransference, the analysts may experience emotional reactions reflecting their own inner conflicts and needs.
        In classical psychoanalysis, countertransference was regarded as an obstacle to treatment. But Dr. Boyer argued that analysts' feelings could be important tools in understanding patients and helping the analysis to progress. It was not a popular view, and many mainstream analysts  shunned Dr. Boyer and his approach.
        Dr. Boyer also believed that psychoanalysis should be more than a treatment for the neuroses of the ''worried well,'' as he put it. Instead he championed it as a treatment for people with serious psychological disturbances like psychosis, severe borderline pathology, psychosomatic illness or addiction.
        He lectured throughout the Americas and Europe and published numerous books and articles. His ideas found a more favorable reception abroad, he thought, particularly in South America.
        His most important papers were collected in ''The Regressed Patient'' (1983) and ''Countertransference and Regression'' (1998). Each remains in print.
        Dr. Boyer was the founder of Boyer House in San Rafael, Calif., a residential psychoanalytic treatment center operated by a nonprofit foundation. He trained the staff and provided the guidance for the treatment of clients, who live in households of three to five people in central Marin County.
        Bryce Boyer was born in Vernal, Utah, and received his medical degree at Stanford University in 1942.
        He is survived by his wife of 60 years, Dr. Ruth McDonald Boyer, an anthropologist and historian of folk art; two sons, Nehemiah and Dr. Dewey Boyer; nine grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
        Dr. Boyer shared a keen interest in his wife's professional work. They traveled together and occasionally joined forces writing and editing.
        They studied indigenous cultures and the effect of outside forces upon them. Thus, they developed a lasting relationship with the Mescalero Apaches, who adopted Dr. Boyer, an avid student of folklore traditions, as a shaman.
      