
        Robert J. Northshield, an innovator in television news who established one of its most enduring programs, died on Monday night in a New York area nursing home. He was 78.
        He had been ill for some time, his former colleagues said.
        Mr. Northshield, who was known to colleagues and friends as Shad, had served as a news producer at all three of the major broadcast networks. But he spent the bulk of his career at CBS and NBC. At NBC, he produced both the ''Today'' show and ''The Huntley-Brinkley Report'' and the network's special coverage of the presidential elections and space launchings, including the Mercury, Gemini and Apollo missions.
        But Mr. Northshield made his name in the television news business at CBS by creating ''CBS News Sunday Morning,'' the 90-minute newsmagazine program, in 1979. Charles Kuralt was the host of the program, which covered not only general news but also a blend of culture and nature. The program's trademark continues to be its prolonged, closing shots of nature that run for up to two minutes with no sound other than those of the outdoor scenes themselves. The program, which is still shown nationwide, has been widely praised for its subtle style and broad appeal.
        In 1982, Mr. Northfield won the Alfred I. du Pont-Columbia University Award for ''being second to none in style, intelligence, imagination and humanity,'' according to his CBS biography. Mr. Northshield also won the Emmy and George Foster Peabody awards.
        Mr. Northshield was born in Oak Park, Ill., and was raised in nearby Chicago. After serving as an Army lieutenant in World War II -- in which he won a Purple Heart for being wounded in the foot during combat in Europe -- he began his career as a journalist, writing for papers in Chicago, including The Sun-Times, where he was a reporter, photo editor and columnist.
        In 1953, he joined CBS News in New York as an associate producer of public affairs and news programs. In 1958, after a short time at ABC News, he moved to NBC.
        Mr. Northshield returned to CBS in 1977, taking a job as an executive producer in its sports division, though he was later named executive producer of ''CBS Morning News.''
        In January 1979, he extended that franchise into the Sunday morning schedule, which, other than the networks' own political talk shows, was mostly filled with religious and cultural programming.
        Mr. Northshield recruited Mr. Kuralt, whose ''On the Road'' segments were a popular feature on the ''Evening News,'' as host of the new program. Their partnership was said to have been as productive as it was combustible.
        The program's heavy emphasis on nature and the environment reflected Mr. Northshield's passion for wildlife, friends said. He was a published ornithologist and an avid bird photographer.
        ''He was a great nature lover and a great bird fancier,'' said Philip Scheffler, senior producer and executive editor for ''60 Minutes.'' ''He used to go all over the world taking photographs.''
        Mr. Northshield produced ''Sunday Morning'' until 1987, when he went to work in program development and special events coverage for CBS News. He left the network in 1995.
        Mr. Northshield is survived by his wife, Jane, and four sons: Joseph, Samuel, John and Hoang Van Ngoan, whom Mr. Northshield adopted while covering the Vietnam War.
      