
        Neil Wilson, a tenor who sang at the Metropolitan Opera from 1988 to 1993 and was particularly admired for his portrayal of the title role in Massenet's ''Werther,'' died on Monday. He was 44 and had homes in New York and Berlin.
        The cause was kidney cancer, said his manager, Neil Funkhauser.
        Mr. Wilson was born in Lubbock, Tex., and received degrees at Southwestern University in Georgetown, Tex., and at Oklahoma City University. He began his operatic career in 1980 in a performance of Verdi's ''Falstaff'' at Wolf Trap.
        He also appeared in the early 1980's in performances with the Opera Orchestra of New York at Carnegie Hall and at the Wurttembergische Staatsoper in Stuttgart, Germany. In 1988 he made his Metropolitan Opera debut as Macduff in Verdi's ''Macbeth.'' Other roles he sang with the company were Rodolfo in Puccini's ''Boheme'' and Werther, both of which included broadcast performances, and Alfred in Verdi's ''Traviata.''
        In 1990 he was selected as a leading tenor at the Komische Oper in Berlin, and over the last decade he gave more than 150 performances in leading roles, both in the house and on tour.
        Other companies with which he sang in recent seasons include the Vienna Staatsoper, the Salzburg Festival, the New Israeli Opera, the Canadian Opera Company, the Washington Opera, the Los Angeles Opera and Glyndebourne.
        Mr. Wilson won several vocal competitions and prizes, including the Baltimore International Operatic Competition, the Rosa Ponselle International Competition and a contest sponsored by the Gerda Lissner Foundation. In May he was awarded the Wagner Prize by the Liederkranz Foundation, and performed in a concert that the foundation presented at Alice Tully Hall.
        He is survived by his wife, Linda Mungia; his mother, Shirley W. Nease of Abilene, Tex.; two sisters, Nancy Fisher and Nora Del Bosque, both of Austin, Tex.; and two brothers, Noel Nease of Littleton, Colo., and Nathan Nease of Abilene, Tex.
      