
        George Carleton Myers, a sociologist and demographer who compiled and interpreted facts and figures about the elderly worldwide, died on Aug. 10 at his home in Burnsville, N.C. He was 69.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Duke University, from which he retired as professor emeritus of sociology in 1997.
        Dr. Myers founded the Center for Demographic Studies at Duke in 1972 and, as its director for the next 25 years, built it into an internationally known research center.
        In his specialty, medical demography, he provided projections concerning the elderly, including data on health and causes of death.
        ''Every significant development in the demography of aging on the world scene over the past three decades has been either organized by George Myers or he has been a participant in it,'' said George L. Maddox, director of the Center for the Study of Aging and Human Development at Duke, in Durham, N.C.
        Dr. Myers was the author or co-author of some 100 publications analyzing demographic trends and findings from surveys.
        Central to his influence was his role as a coordinator for the Committee of Centers of Population Research, the International Network on Healthy Life Expectancy and the population activities unit of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe.
        Dr. Myers served as a consultant to government agencies and as an editor for professional journals dealing with aging and gerontology. He lectured at universities as far away as Australia and China.
        Born in Brooklyn, George Myers graduated from Yale University in 1953 and did postgraduate work at the University of Stockholm.
        He received his Ph.D. in 1963 from the University of Washington. He taught at Cornell University until 1968, when he was named a professor in the sociology department at Duke.
        Dr. Myers, who also had a home in Deerfield Beach, Fla., is survived by his wife of 46 years, Pauline Kraebel Myers; two sons, George C., of Westerly, R.I., and Peter D., of Baltimore; two daughters, Marie Lloyd of Chapel Hill, N.C., and Kathleen A. Myers of Raleigh, N.C.; and seven grandchildren.
      