
        Patricia Moyes, the British mystery writer who created Detective Chief Superintendent Henry Tibbet and his ''merry and plump and comforting'' wife, Emmy, died on Aug. 2 at her home in Virgin Gorda, in the British Virgin Islands. She was 77.
        Ms. Moyes was known for her cozy, highly civilized, solidly plotted mysteries. As The New York Times Book Review commented, Ms. Moyes handles ''indecorous events'' with ''a minimum of violence and fuss.'' She makes ''drug dealing seem more like bad manners than bad morals.''
        Ms. Moyes wrote 19 mysteries, including ''Dead Men Don't Ski'' (1959), ''Death on the Agenda'' (1962), ''Murder a la Mode'' (1963), ''Murder Fantastical'' (1967), ''Falling Star'' (1964), ''Johnny Underground'' (1965) and ''Death and the Dutch Uncle'' (1968). She also wrote ''Many Deadly Returns,'' which was published in 1970 and won the Edgar Allan Poe Special Award from the Mystery Writers of America, as well as ''Angel Death'' (1980), ''Black Girl, White Girl'' (1991) and ''Twice in a Blue Moon'' (1993). Her stories also appeared in Ellery Queen and Alfred Hitchcock magazine.
        Born in Dublin in 1923, Ms. Moyes, who was known as Penny, was raised in England. She was the daughter of Ernst Pakenham-Walsh, a judge on the high court in Madras, India, and Marion Pakenham-Walsh. She went to Overstone Girls' School near Northampton, England.
        In 1940, she joined the Royal Air Force and became a radar operator and flight officer. In the Women's Auxiliary Air Force, she wrote revue sketches for barrack concerts and a movie script for an R.A.F. documentary film about radar, which was produced by the Rank Organization.
        For eight years, Ms. Moyes was the assistant to the actor and director Peter Ustinov. She translated Jean Anouilh's play ''Leocadia,'' which was produced on Broadway in 1957 as ''Time Remembered,'' starring Richard Burton, Helen Hayes and Susan Strasberg. Ms. Moyes also collaborated with Mr. Ustinov on the film script for ''School for Scoundrels,'' which came out in 1960. From 1958 to 1962, she was an assistant editor for British Vogue and wrote the ''Shophound'' column for the magazine.
        Ms. Moyes was married twice. Her marriage to John Moyes ended in divorce in the 1960's. Her second marriage was to James Haszard, a linguist who worked as an interpreter at the International Court of Justice in the Hague and later at the International Monetary Fund in Washington. He died in 1994. She is survived by a sister, Barbara Nicholson of Hampshire, England.
        In 1959 Ms. Moyes wrote her first novel, ''Dead Men Don't Ski,'' on a whim, introducing Chief Superintendent Henry Tibbet and Emmy, a British sleuthing couple.
        In her subsequent mysteries Ms. Moyes stayed with that duo. When she moved to the Virgin Islands in the late 1970's, her characters moved with her. In ''Angel Death,'' the crime takes place at a resort hotel on a Caribbean island.
        Ms. Moyes, a cat fanatic who was deeply involved a project to control the breeding of feral cats in the Virgin Islands, also wrote ''After All, They're Only Cats'' in 1973 and ''How to Talk to Your Cat'' in 1991, which the crime columnist for The New York Times Book Review, Marilyn Stasio, called ''an affectionate little book about cat behavior.''
        Ms. Moyes's agent in London, Anthea Morton-Saner, said: ''She was one of those women who are considerably more intelligent than they let on. She wore her intellectual ability very lightly.''
        Ms. Moyes once confessed her writing secret, The Times of London noted: she wrote, she said, ''for my own pleasure.''
      