
        Walter Andrew Maggiolo, a top trouble-shooter for the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service in the 1950's and 60's, died on Monday in Arlington, Va. He was 92 and lived in Arlington.
        His career as a labor-management negotiator started in 1933 when, as a freshly minted lawyer in private practice, he was asked to mediate a protracted strike in Brooklyn.
        ''The distrust, enmities and failure of the parties to try to understand each other's problems,'' Mr. Maggiolo recalled later, ''persuaded me that this was a challenging field to which I could and should make a contribution.''
        Over nearly four decades, that contribution helped end stalemates or avert walkouts in labor disputes that had national repercussions. He helped settle a nationwide telephone strike in 1957 and a shutdown of the steel industry in 1959. A lasting contribution was a national master agreement he mediated in 1964 for the trucking industry and the Teamsters.
        His efforts also kept New Yorkers supplied with milk and newspapers.
        Since mediators have no enforcement power, Mr. Maggiolo relied on persuasion, perseverance and mutual trust. As his reputation grew, management and labor both came to rely on his counsel.
        His Washington executor, Hugh Beins, said Mr. Maggiolo, as a Roman Catholic, was guided by the teachings of the church as they applied to his field. He attributed his professional success to the principles set forth in papal encyclicals as far back as Rerum Novarum of 1891, in which Pope Leo XIII stated that workers had a moral right to a living wage and to a voice in the workplace.
        Born in the Bronx, Walter Maggiolo graduated from Holy Cross College in 1930 with a degree in philosophy. He received his law degree at Harvard University in 1933 and went into private practice in New York.
        He began his public service as a trial lawyer for the New York State Labor Relations Board in 1939 and was named a commissioner of what was then the United States Conciliation Service in 1943. After working in the New England and New York branch offices, he went to the national headquarters in Washington as general counsel in 1952. From 1957 until he retired in 1972 he was the agency's director of mediation.
        Mr. Maggiolo wrote many articles and a book, ''Techniques of Mediation in Labor Disputes'' (1973). He lectured at various colleges and was an adjunct professor of labor law at Georgetown University Law Center for more than 30 years.
        He leaves no immediate survivors.
      