
        Alvin R. Tresselt, a children's book author who won praise for describing and explaining nature to the young, died on July 24 at his home in Burlington, Vt. He was 83.
        Mr. Tresselt's books had sold over a million copies, the multivolume reference work ''Contemporary Authors'' reported in 1980. By that time, it noted, he was the sole author of more than 30 children's books and had written a score of book-length adaptations of folk tales.
        His book ''The Dead Tree'' (1972), for children ages 4 to 8, was named an American Library Association Notable Book and won the Irma Simonton Black Award of the Bank Street College of Education. That work was called a classic by Publishers Weekly. King Feature Syndicate described it as ''an informative book that shows how the animals, birds and forests thrive because of the natural cycle of a dead tree.'' It was reissued in 1992 with a new title, ''The Gift of the Tree'' (Lothrop).
        Mr. Tresselt's book ''White Snow Bright Snow'' (Lothrop, 1948), with illustrations by Roger Duvoisin, was written for children ages 3 to 6. It ''captures the excitement and ever-recurring wonder which all children feel as the first flakes fall and the world takes on a softer shape and new colors,'' The New York Times Book Review said. The work won the American Library Association's Caldecott Medal for excellence in children's book illustration in 1948.
        Another early Tresselt-Duvoisin collaboration, ''Sun Up'' (1949), for ages 4 to 8, was praised in The Times Book Review for creating ''an evocative impression of the changing moods of wind and weather.''
        Reissued in 1991, with new illustrations by Henri Sorensen, the book was lauded by Smithsonian magazine as a ''lyrical account of one day on a family farm, accompanied by watercolors steeped in sun and shadow'' and ''certainly one of the year's most beautiful offerings.''
        Mr. Tresselt was born in Passaic, N.J., graduated from high school there, worked in other fields and began writing children's books in the 1940's.
        He was for a time the editor of Humpty Dumpty's Magazine, a children's publication, and executive editor and vice president from 1967 to 1974 of Parents' Magazine Press, where he was head editor of its children's books.
        Surviving are his wife, Blossom Budney Tresselt, also a children's book writer; two daughters, Ellen Victoria Tresselt of Danbury, Conn., and India Rachel Tresselt of Westford, Vt.; and two grandsons.
      