
        John Hohenberg, who began his journalism career as a teenager by snatching an interview with the president of the United States and went on to become administrator of the Pulitzer Prizes, died Sunday morning at his home in Knoxville, Tenn. He was 94.
        Mr. Hohenberg also taught journalism for many years at Columbia University and wrote a widely used textbook on reporting. In all, he wrote 22 books -- including a novel at the age of 80 -- and maintained an arduous professional itinerary.
        He wrote for numerous New York newspapers and taught at universities from New York to Tennessee to Florida to Kansas to Syracuse. He traveled the world, particularly Asia, lecturing for the State Department and other federal agencies. He began the practice of publishing the names of Pulitzer jurors and of drawing jurors from regions beyond New York.
        Mr. Hohenberg came from the golden age of competitive newspapering, covering the 1935 trial of Bruno Richard Hauptmann -- who was convicted of kidnapping Charles Lindbergh's baby -- hanging out with Hemingway in Paris and reporting on the birth pangs of the United Nations and Israel. Tom Goldstein, dean of the Graduate School of Journalism at Columbia University, speaks of ''the John Hohenberg legend.''
        Mr. Hohenberg's larger mission was elevating journalism itself, and he viewed the painstaking selection of Pulitzer winners as another means of raising the bar.
        ''Our news media, our reporters and editors -- if they are serious people and if they really mean business and aren't merely sensation-minded -- should be the conscience of the American people,'' he said in a 1988 interview in The New York Times.
        He abhorred pomposity and wordiness, regarding journalism as a spontaneous ballet that could seldom be perfect because of daily deadlines. His motto, first growled to him by a crusty editor, was, ''Go with what you got.'' Generations of journalism students at Columbia committed the slogan to memory and the class of '69 had it printed on sweatshirts.
        Mr. Hohenberg was born on Feb. 17, 1906, in a tenement on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, the son of Louis Hohenberg, a Hungarian immigrant, and Jettchen Scheuermann, an immigrant from Germany. When he was 18 months old, the family moved to Seattle, where his father set up several small businesses.
        He started as an engineering student at the University of Washington but did not like it. His father refused to pay for the liberal arts education he wanted, so the gangling 17-year-old showed up at The Seattle Star, now closed, to ask for a job.
        The response was brusque, he later recalled. ''Listen, kid,'' the city editor said, ''the president of the United States is coming to Seattle tomorrow. You get me an exclusive interview and I'll give you a job.''
        When the Secret Service demanded to see his nonexistent press credentials, employment seemed unlikely. He called the office, fearing that his name would mean nothing.
        ''Mercifully,'' he wrote later, ''by grace of the kindly Jehovah that watches over babies, pretty girls and addled young men, the city editor remembered me and was sportsman enough to clear me for passage to the pier as a Star reporter.''
        The result was a second's conversation in which President Warren G. Harding allowed that he liked Seattle. Mr. Hohenberg turned the remark into a three-page story. ''For better or worse, I had become a newspaperman,'' Mr. Hohenberg said.
        The family soon moved back to New York to be nearer relatives. While attending journalism school at Columbia, Mr. Hohenberg worked for The New York Graphic, his first stop in 25 years of working for New York papers. After graduating, he toured Europe as the recipient of a Pulitzer Traveling Scholarship.
        In 1948, as he was reporting on the establishment of the United Nations at Lake Success, N.Y., he was asked to substitute for a Columbia journalism teacher who had broken a leg. The students liked him, he liked the students and a new career began.
        In 1960, he published what became the basic reporting and writing textbook used at many journalism schools, ''The Professional Journalist'' (Holt, Rinehart & Winston), which went through five editions and has been translated into Chinese, Japanese, Arabic and Spanish.
        His 21 other books ranged from several histories of the Pulitzer Prize to an exhaustive history of foreign correspondence, recounting its beginnings in the Napoleonic Wars and offering long analyses of the challenges facing journalism.
        Soon after his appointment in 1953 as administrator of the Pulitzer Prizes and secretary of the Advisory Board on Pulitzer Prizes, he nudged at least two members of the Pulitzer board into seeing all the plays under consideration for the drama prize, something not necessarily done before.
        In later years, he wrote about how the Columbia trustees, as final arbiters, refused to accept the Pulitzer board's recommendation that The New York Times be given a prize in 1972 for its publication of stories based on the Pentagon Papers, the government's classified history of the Vietnam War.
        The trustees were uneasy over the newspaper's decision to report classified material, an unusual action for journalists in that period. Columbia's president, William J. McGill, persuaded the trustees to reverse their decision.
        Then, Mr. McGill and Mr. Hohenberg persuaded the trustees to yield veto power over the Pulitzers, perhaps the biggest procedural change during Mr. Hohenberg's tenure, which ended in 1975. The year before, he had accepted an appointment as professor of journalism at the University of Tennessee. That was the first of a chain of academic stops over the last two decades of his life.
        Mr. Hohenberg married Dorothy Lannier, a classmate at Columbia, in 1928. She died in 1977. They had no children. He is survived by his second wife, JoAnn Fogarty Johnson, and her two children, whom he adopted: Pamela Green of Knoxville and Eric of Dawsonville, Ga.
        In 1986, Mr. Hohenberg's wife found a yellowing manuscript on newspaper copy paper in the basement that turned out to be the skeleton of a spy novel he had abandoned in the 1920's. He whipped it into shape and sold it, under the title ''The Parisian Girl.''
        In 1976 he received a Pulitzer Prize special award for his service to journalism. The citation said thousands of journalists had learned to value his tough integrity.
        ''From you they learned to respect the language,'' it read. ''They might split an infinitive because you taught them how. But they dare not dangle a participle. You forbid it.''
      