
        Dr. Roger E. Batzel, a nuclear chemist and former director of the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, died on Saturday at a hospital in San Ramon, Calif. He was 78 and had homes in Danville and Mount Shasta, Calif.
        He had a major heart attack five days earlier, the laboratory said.
        Dr. Batzel was the laboratory's sixth director, serving for more than one-third of its history, from 1971 to 1988. Livermore is now operated by the University of California for the United States Department of Energy.
        Dr. Batzel joined the staff in 1953, a year after Livermore opened, and was both a manager and a researcher throughout his career. High-energy nuclear reactions were among his principal interests.
        He was named head of the chemistry department in 1959. As an associate director, he led, in turn, nuclear testing, space reactors and biomedical sections for Livermore.
        ''He played a crucial role in the growth and transition of our lab from a defense and nuclear facility to a multiprogram institution dedicated to solving the important scientific issues of our time,'' said Dr. Bruce Tarter, the current director.
        When Dr. Batzel took over as director, the laboratory had 5,400 employees and a budget of $128 million. When he retired in 1988, there were 8,000 employees and a budget of $815 million.
        Founded at the site of the former Livermore Naval Air Station, the laboratory was part of the American response to the Soviet nuclear weapons program. Recently it has turned to applying its work to fields like ecology.
        Roger Elwood Batzel was born in Weiser, Idaho. He graduated in chemical engineering from the University of Idaho in 1947 and received a Ph.D. in nuclear chemistry from the University of California at Berkeley in 1951. His mentor at Berkeley was Dr. Glenn T. Seaborg, who shared the Nobel Prize in chemistry that year and later served as chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission.
        Dr. Batzel is survived by his wife of 54 years, Edwina Grindstaff Batzel; two daughters, Stella L. Batzel of Washington and Stacy L. McMillan of San Ramon; a son, Roger E., of Davis, Calif.; a brother, Larry, of Seattle; two sisters, Naomi Blacker of Moscow, Idaho, and Delpha Noble of Ogden, Utah; and two grandsons.
      