
        Judge David N. Edelstein of United States District Court in Manhattan, who in 48 years on the bench presided over two of the Justice Department's most historic undertakings -- the antitrust action against I.B.M. and the ongoing effort to rid the Teamsters union of corruption --  died on Saturday. He was 90 and lived on the Upper East Side.
        Appointed by President Truman on Nov. 1, 1951, Judge Edelstein served as chief judge of the Southern District of New York from 1971 to 1980 and for years was the longest-sitting active judge in the country. He became eligible for senior status, a sort of semiretirement, in 1975 but did not take it until 1994, and he heard cases until his death.
        Still on his caseload was United States v. the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, the landmark lawsuit first brought by the Justice Department in 1988, and he continued to play an active role in the efforts to monitor the union. In June, he rejected the rules proposed by the union and the Justice Department for next year's Teamsters elections.
        ''The submissions are a farrago of ill advice and misguided, inept, controversial and confused argots,'' he wrote in language that reflected his reputation for being one of the most thoughtful and irascible personalities on the bench. ''Their program has the potential of bringing grief, strife, controversy and corruption.''
        The ruling was one of countless decisions by Judge Edelstein aimed at keeping the powerful truckers' union free of criminal influence. It was Judge Edelstein who approved a review board decision in 1998 to expel Ron Carey, the union's former president. And it was a decision by Judge Edelstein in March 1999 that cleared the way for James P. Hoffa to take the helm.
        Mary Jo White, the United States attorney for the Southern District, said yesterday: ''Judge Edelstein was a dedicated jurist who was dogged in his pursuit of justice. His work, in particular on the Teamsters litigation, will stand as an impressive legacy to his judicial courage and intellect.''
        Judge Edelstein's reputation for doggedness stemmed from his long role in the government's antitrust action against International Business Machines, which was first brought in 1952 when the company's  main business was punch card technology. In 1956, he signed a consent order under which I.B.M. agreed to modify some of its practices.
        The I.B.M. case had been considered one of the most important antitrust actions in modern judicial history. But in the end, Judge Edelstein was apparently too dogged, and in 1995 a federal appeals court ordered him off the case, saying he was not impartial.
        ''We think it manifestly clear that a reasonable observer would question the judge's impartiality on the pending issue,'' Chief Judge Jon O. Newman of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit wrote in a rare rebuke of a fellow judge. The appellate decision ordered the case randomly reassigned, granting I.B.M.'s request to have Judge Edelstein removed.
        At that point, Judge Edelstein had been overseeing the I.B.M. case for 43 years. Before his removal, he opened an inquiry into why the Justice Department wanted to drop its case against I.B.M., and he refused to approve several orders jointly proposed by the company and the Justice Department to throw out billions of pages of documents that had accumulated over the years.
        David Norton Edelstein was born on Feb. 16, 1910, into a middle-class family in New York City. He attended public schools and then Fordham University, earning his bachelor's degree as well as a master's and his law degree. He paid his way through college and law school by working as a page boy at the New York Stock Exchange from 1929 to 1932 and was a firsthand witness to the devastating effects of the great crash.
        He worked in private law practice in New York and in the claims division of the Justice Department before becoming an assistant United States attorney in 1945. He became a special assistant to the United States attorney general in the lands division in 1947 and was assistant attorney general in the customs division from 1948 until 1951, when he was appointed to the bench after Mr. Truman's first choice for the seat withdrew.
        His nomination was opposed by the American Bar Association, as well as bar groups in New York City and New York State, which said that he lacked trial experience. Nevertheless, he was confirmed by the Senate in April 1952 and went on to one of the longest careers on the bench in what is arguably the highest-profile District Court in the country.
        He became chief judge in 1971 based on seniority, and remained in the post until 1980, when he was 70,  the age at which tradition dictated that he step aside. But he remained an active judge, overseeing the  I.B.M. case and numerous others, including the 1984 trial of State Senator Joseph R. Pisani of New Rochelle on charges of tax evasion and embezzling campaign funds.
        The jury convicted Mr. Pisani on 18 of 39 counts and acquitted him of 11 counts, but it was unable to reach a verdict on 10 counts that made up a large chunk of the government's case, including allegations that Mr. Pisani used $20,000 in state funds to buy a summer house. Judge Edelstein declared a mistrial on those 10 counts. Mr. Pisani's convictions were reversed on appeal.
        Throughout his career, Judge Edelstein showed particular disdain for perpetrators of crimes of greed. In 1983, he ordered six wholesale bakers who had been charged with price-fixing in supplying doughnuts and pastries to coffee shops and restaurants to provide the needy with up to $1,200 worth of free baked goods each week for two years.
        And in 1987, Judge Edelstein allowed Rudolph W. Giuliani, then a United States attorney, to seize property to prevent a defendant in a drug case from hiring a high-priced defense lawyer.
        ''In the same manner that a defendant cannot obtain a Rolls-Royce with the fruits of a crime, he cannot be permitted to obtain the services of the Rolls-Royce of attorneys from these same tainted funds,'' the judge said.
        Although the I.B.M. case was reassigned and eventually dropped, the Teamsters case seems likely to continue for the future. Not long before his death, Judge Edelstein approved a set of rules for next year's union elections.
        Judge Edelstein is survived by his wife of 60 years, the former Florence Koch, and two sons, Jonathan and Jeffrey, both of New York City.
      