
        Fred W. Hooper, who became one of the giants of horse racing after he won the Kentucky Derby in 1945 with his first thoroughbred, Hoop Jr., died yesterday in Ocala, Fla. He was 102 years old.
        In a half-century as an owner and a breeder, Hooper bred or raced the winners of more than 100 stakes. In 1992 he won the Award of Merit, the highest honor in the thoroughbred business. He was 95 years old at the time, the master of the 1,100-acre Circle H farm in Ocala and still a tall, somewhat stooped but imposing figure at the races, nearly 50 years after he spotted Hoop Jr. in the auction ring in Kentucky.
        In the annals of rags-to-riches success, it would be difficult to surpass the story of Fred William Hooper. He was born on Oct. 6, 1897, on a farm in Georgia. He quit school in the eighth grade, he raised cotton, he broke horses, he even went to barber school and cut hair for a living. He worked as a schoolteacher, a carpenter, a riveter, a prizefighter by night and a potato farmer by day. And after a blight ruined his potato crop, he borrowed money to get a job building a road, and became rich.
        By 1937, when he moved his base of operations to Montgomery, Ala., he was the head of the Hooper Construction Company and was one of the major contractors in the Southeast. He built roads, oceanfront highways, dams and bridges, and he moved three million cubic yards of dirt in five months to build the Jacksonville airport in Florida. Later, he looked back on his building days and said, ''I'm sure we moved more dirt by truck per day than has ever been moved in the South.''
        But his greatest success came with racehorses after he bought 5,000 acres near Montgomery and started breeding champion Hereford cattle and eventually horses. His star was a half-bred named Royal Prince, who raced for eight years at half-mile tracks in Jacksonville; Orlando, Fla.; St. Augustine, Fla.; Savannah, Ga.; and other cities in the South, winning 49 of 55 starts, often in match races, sometimes twice a day.
        ''But as the game grew,'' Hooper remembered in an interview several years ago, ''the pots became smaller. Each owner would put up his own money, there were all kinds of side bets and competition was furnished by farmers and cattle people who'd bring in horses they thought could run. In the old days, you rarely saw a thoroughbred at the fairs. But trying to beat Royal Prince got them to buying better horses, and it wasn't long before they all became interested in thoroughbreds.''
        So did Fred Hooper, who decided to do something about it in the summer of 1943. He went to Kentucky to attend the yearling sales at Keeneland in Lexington, although he later observed, ''I didn't know a soul in Kentucky, and they didn't know me.'' But he did know bloodlines, and he bought three yearlings at auction, including a colt sired by Sir Gallahad III. The colt cost $10,000 and was promptly named Hoop Jr. for Hooper's young son, Fred Jr.
        ''I liked the way he looked, the way he walked, everything,'' Hooper recalled. ''And I said, 'I'm going to own you.' ''
        Two years later, Hoop Jr., trained by Ivan Parke and ridden by Eddie Arcaro, outran 15 colts to win the Kentucky Derby. Two weeks later, he got pinched along the rail on the first turn in the Preakness and finished second. He also suffered a bowed tendon in a leg that day and, in the twisting fortunes of the horse business, never raced again.
        ''He was the best racehorse I ever owned,'' Hooper said. ''He could run as far as races are laid out and as fast as anybody.''
        His favorite filly, Susan's Girl, won 29 of her 63 starts and $1.2 million in purses, and also won the Eclipse Award as the filly champion of 1972, 1973 and 1975. His great colt Precisionist won the 1984 Swaps Stakes, the 1985 Breeders' Cup Sprint and the 1986 Woodward, and was voted the champion sprinter of 1985. He earned more than $3.4 million. And Hooper's star juvenile Copelan won the Sanford, the Hopeful, the Futurity and the Champagne in 1982.
        Hooper was one of the founders of the Thoroughbred Owners and Breeders Association and one of its first presidents. And he was one of the first horsemen to import jockeys from Latin America, notably Braulio Baeza, Jorge Valasquez and Laffit Pincay Jr., all of whom were later elected to the Racing Hall of Fame.
        In 1997 he turned 100 with fanfare when he was honored with three parties that drew racing friends from all over the country and a telephoned greeting from President Clinton. He was a 6-footer who stooped under a nagging back, a dapper man somewhat limited in his ability to walk but helped by a cane or a walker or, when he visited racetracks, a wheelchair. He was alert and lucid, as he peered back into the deep past with clarity and wit.
        How does a man who has lived a century explain it?
        ''Hard work,'' he replied. ''And always look ahead. Don't look back.''
        His wife, Wanda, a onetime airline attendant who was his constant companion for three decades, remembered that he had once suffered a broken neck in a car crash but survived after nine months in the hospital. She also remembered that he played excellent golf into his 80's despite many other injuries.
        ''He's like the cat,'' she said. ''He's got nine lives. And he's always planning ahead.''
        In fact, Hooper still walked to his box at Gulfstream Park racetrack in Florida with the aid of a walker as recently as last winter.
        In addition to his wife, Hooper is survived by three daughters: Kay Wheeler of Ormond Beach, Fla.; Robin Phillips of Richmond, Va.; and Betty Green of Montgomery, Ala. He lost his only son less than two weeks ago when Fred Jr. died on July 23 at the age of 61.
        In his later years Hooper was troubled by the murky future that he envisioned for thoroughbred racing, although he lived in the heart of the Florida horse country in Ocala, where his neighbors included George Steinbrenner of the Yankees and Charlotte Weber of Live Oak Stud.
        ''I don't know about the future of racing,'' he said. ''There's too much off-track betting. They used to get big crowds at Belmont Park; now, they get a few thousand. Racing has turned into a numbers game: trifecta and other exotic bets.''
        ''What they've got to do,'' Fred Hooper said, with all the assurance of a man who has lived a full century, ''is educate people to the beauty of racing.''
      