
        Roberto Baden Powell de Aquino, the musician whose blend of African, jazz and classical influences gained him renown as one of Brazil's greatest guitarists, died yesterday in Rio de Janeiro. He was 63.
        The cause was pneumonia and multiple organ failure, said Alexandre Raine, his publicist. Known professionally simply as Baden Powell, Mr. Powell had been hospitalized for the last month at the Clinica  Sorocaba in Rio de Janeiro.
        Named after Robert Steven Smyth Baden-Powell, the 19th-century British founder of the Boy Scouts, Mr. Powell was born on Aug. 6, 1937, in Varre-e-Sai, a small town in the interior of the state of Rio de Janeiro.
        His grandfather, the abolitionist Vicente Thomas de Aquino, formed an orchestra of black slave musicians before Brazil's abolition of slavery in 1888, and his father, Lilo de Aquino, supplemented his modest income as a shoemaker by playing the tuba and the violin at local dances.
        When Mr. Powell was a small boy his family moved to Rio, then Brazil's capital, where his father enrolled him in private classes with Jaime Florence, a guitar professor who introduced him to the work of Spanish masters like Francisco Tarrega and Andres Segovia.
        Mr. Powell proved to be a prodigious student, and by the time he was a teenager, he was playing the guitar on national radio programs and at dances and parties in the lower-middle-class suburbs of Rio. He went on to play at at the Bar Plaza in the late 1950's in Copacabana, where he was noticed by the composer Antonio Carlos Jobim.
        Through Jobim, Mr. Powell met the composer Marcus Vinicius de Melo Moraes and soon became immersed in bossa nova, the stylistic reworking of traditional Brazilian samba rhythms in the late 1950's and early 60's. In perhaps the most fruitful part of his career, Mr. Powell collaborated with Moraes on nearly 50 songs in the 1960's, like ''Berimbau,'' released in 1967.
        In ''Berimbau,'' for which Mr. Powell composed the music and Moraes the lyrics, the sound of the musical bow used in the ritual of capoeira, the martial art brought to Brazil by slaves from what is now Angola, is subtly recreated on the guitar.
        ''Baden Powell is to the guitar what Joao Gilberto is to style and Tom Jobim is to composition,'' said Charles Perrone, a professor of Brazilian culture at the University of Florida.
        Shy and wiry, Mr. Powell went to live abroad in the late 1960's along with many other prominent Brazilian musicians after a military coup toppled the civilian government in 1964. He established himself in Paris, where he worked with musicians like  Thelonious Monk and Stan Getz, who helped introduce him to audiences in the United States.
        Mr. Powell moved to the German city of Baden-Baden in 1983, which he used as a base for playing at jazz clubs and festivals in Europe, Japan and the United States, according to Mr. Powell's biographer, the French writer Dominique Dreyfus.
        Even though Mr. Powell's recognition grew while he lived in Europe, his heavy drinking sometimes complicated his personal life and threatened his financial security. ''What messed him up were his personal life and a friend named Johnnie Walker,'' Ruy Castro, a Brazilian writer, said in reference to Mr. Powell's longtime fondness for whiskey.
        Still, Mr. Powell saved enough money to return to Brazil in 1988. In Rio de Janeiro he began to play at clubs again. By then, however, he was perhaps better known abroad than in Brazil, where popular music had undergone enormous innovation because of musicians like Caetano Veloso and Gilberto Gil.
        ''Although his career spanned continents and decades, in the popular imagination Baden Powell belongs to that very special time for Brazilian music in the 1960's, when things were still somewhat innocent,'' said Christopher Dunn, a professor of Brazilian literary and cultural studies at Tulane University.
        In 1997 Mr. Powell became an evangelical Christian in a religious conversion that led him to tone down his public performances of Afro-sambas like ''Samba da Bencao,'' the song he composed that became well known in the 1966 film ''A Man and a Woman,'' by the French director Claude Lelouch. He also became more reflective about Brazil.
        ''I get sad because our country has such beautiful places but it's all falling down,'' Mr. Powell wrote in a Brazilian newspaper earlier this year. ''We must, I think, give greater importance to our natural wonders.''
        Mr. Powell is survived by two sons, Philippe and Louis-Marcel Baden Powell de Aquino, both of Rio de Janeiro.
      