
        Lawrence Fellows, a former foreign correspondent for The New York Times and later an editor at local newspapers in Connecticut, died on Saturday at his home in Westport, Conn. He was 75.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Ruth.
        Mr. Fellows reported for The Times from 1953 to 1978, starting as a general assignment reporter in Manhattan and as a correspondent at the United Nations. He went overseas from 1959 to 1972, based successively in Jerusalem; London; Nairobi, Kenya; and Bonn. He then spent six years as The Times's chief correspondent in Connecticut.
        While working in Nairobi from 1965 to 1969, Mr. Fellows traveled widely and sometimes, as in embattled Sudan, at some risk to himself. On April 15, 1968, The Times published a long dispatch from Sudan in which he reported on an untold number of casualties in a six-year revolt. His article carried the dateline Juba, Sudan, and began:
        '' 'We can never live with the Arabs,' '' proclaimed a Sudanese rebel in a conversation in a crowded, ill-lit room in a town not far from here, but outside the wild, forested border of the Sudan.
        ''There were half a dozen men in the room, all but one of them members of the Nilotic tribe, well over 6 feet tall, with deep-black skins.'' The article described the bitterness among black Africans over the slave trade and their resentment of the Arabs of northern Sudan. It was the first article to appear in the United States press on what happened in the southern Sudan since the civil strife had begun there.
        From 1959 to 1962, Mr. Fellows was The Times's correspondent in Israel, covering the trial of Adolf Eichmann and violence in Cyprus.
        From 1962 to 1965, he was a Times correspondent in London, where he covered the scandal surrounding the war minister, John Profumo, who resigned after lying about his affair with a call girl, and returned to Cyprus to cover Greek-Turkish fighting. In January 1964, a letter addressed to the editor of The New York Times arrived in New York. It was from Odysseus Ulysses Tsangarides, owner of the Olympic Hotel in Nicosia, Cyprus, where Mr. Fellows had been staying. It said:
        ''I would like to express my profound gratitude for saving the life of a good cook and honest man, Mr. Costas Niarchou, held as 'prisoner/ hostage' by the Turks, thanks to the daring intervention of your correspondent in Cyprus, Mr. Lawrence Fellows, at a dangerous moment of tension, and who risked his own life trying to save and liberate the above-mentioned cook.''
        It was the first that the foreign news desk had heard of Mr. Fellows's feat. Questioned by the desk, he said modestly that he had merely asked Turkish leaders whether they would try to find out whether the cook was alive and, if so, whether they could keep him alive and perhaps even return him. And they did.
        But he also told the foreign desk that, with the cook missing, he had noticed ''a drastic turn for the worse in the food.''
        From 1969 to 1972, he was a Times correspondent in Bonn. In 1972, he covered the kidnapping and murder, by Arab terrorists, of nine Israeli athletes who were in Munich for the Olympic Games there.
        He was born in Detroit, grew up there and in Washington, served in the Navy on an aircraft carrier in World War II and received a bachelor of arts degree in 1948 from Ohio Wesleyan University. He then worked as a civilian for the United States Army in Berlin and for the State Department in West Germany before joining The Times in 1953 as a copy boy.
        Besides his wife of 48 years, the former Ruth Bell, he is survived by two daughters, Eva Fellows of Boca Raton, Fla., and Robin Fellows of Westport, and three grandchildren.
      