
        Heberto Padilla, an acclaimed Cuban poet whose criticism of Fidel Castro's rule landed him first in jail and later in exile, died on Monday in Auburn, Ala., where he had recently become a writer in residence at Auburn University. He was 68.
        Mr. Padilla was found dead in his apartment on Monday by a colleague who went searching for him after he had missed three classes, a university spokesman said. The police said that Mr. Padilla had died of natural causes. Friends reported that he had had a history of heart problems.
        Mr. Padilla, an early supporter of  the Castro revolution known for his cool, ironic style, became famous abroad in 1971 when he was jailed on charges of having ''plotted against the powers of the state.''
        ''He will be forever known as the first poet to have the stature and courage to object to the repression of Fidel Castro's regime,'' said Roberto Gonzalez Echevarria, the Sterling professor of Spanish and comparative literature at Yale University, and chairman of the department of Spanish and Portuguese literature. ''And he suffered immensely for it, not the least being his death in exile, alone in Alabama.''
        In April 1971 Mr. Padilla was released after a month of brutal interrogation during which he was forced to make a humiliating 4,000-word public confession.
        His jailing and the ''confession'' that followed set off an international protest as writers around the world, from Jean-Paul Sartre to Alberto Moravia to Susan Sontag, rose to his defense: for some left-leaning authors, it was the event that forever changed the way they viewed Castro's Cuba.
        After 1971 Mr. Padilla's works were banned in his native country. For the next nine years he managed to earn a living by translating English poetry and ghostwriting. In 1980, after another campaign led by Robert B. Silvers, editor of The New York Review of Books, he was finally given permission by Mr. Castro to leave Cuba and join his wife, other members of his family and the poet Belkis Cuza Male in the United States.
        In his memoirs, ''Self-Portrait of the Other,'' published by Farrar, Straus & Giroux in 1990, Mr. Padilla recounted his last conversation with Castro, a man he had known since his youth.
        After telling Mr. Padilla he was free to leave Cuba, Mr. Castro added: ''Stay as long as you want, and when you want to come back, give me a call. If you are a true revolutionary, you will want to return.'' Mr. Castro went on to characterize those who dared to stray from official orthodoxy. ''People who criticize a revolution may be mistaken, they may be sincere, but they are dangerous nonetheless,'' Mr. Castro was quoted as saying.
        Mr. Padilla maintained a detached view of the Cuban leader, whom he described in his book as an anachronism who had grown deaf to the opinions of his own countrymen and was stuck like a fly in the amber of an outdated Marxist-Leninism.
        In 1959 Mr. Padilla, then 27, had enthusiastically embraced the revolution, which brought him back home from the United States, where he had been working as a radio commentator and translater. He became one of the founding editors of Lunes de Revolucion, a literary journal, and worked for Prensa Latina, the Cuban news agency, and Granma, the Cuban Communist Party newspaper, as a foreign correspondent based in Moscow and London.
        But by 1968 his relations with the Castro government and its cultural commissars had begun to sour, and he was recalled to Havana. When his book of poetry, ''Out of the Game,'' won a first-place prize in a literary competition, he and the book were denounced by the Cuban Writers Union as ''counterrevolutionary.''
        He is survived by two daughters,  Giselle and Maria; two sons, Carlos and Ernesto; a sister, Martha; a brother, Gilberto; and his companion, Lourdes Gil, a faculty member at New School University in Manhattan.
        Jose Mazzotti, a professor of Latin American literature at Harvard University, described Mr. Padilla as one of the Latin American poets to develop a ''conversational'' style with  strong visual and sensual images that was to mark a break with earlier European traditions.
        After his arrival in the United States, Mr. Padilla resumed work on a novel, ''Heroes Are Grazing in My Garden,'' which he had begun in Cuba but which had been confiscated by the authorities. The book was published in 1983. In 1982 the first book-length collection of his poetry, ''Legacies: Selected Poems,'' was published for the first time in English. A book of new poetry titled ''A Fountain, a House of Stone,'' was published in 1991.
        While living in Princeton, N.J., Mr. Padilla and his wife published a literary journal, Linden Lane, that  became a forum for young Latin American writers. Mr. Padillo taught literature at a number of institutions in the United States, including Ohio State University, Bowdoin College and New York University's New York Institute for the Humanities.
        At Auburn University, where he had begun working five weeks ago, Mr. Padilla taught undergraduate courses in Spanish composition and conversation, as well as a graduate seminar in Hispanic literature and culture.
        ''His poetry reflected and reflected upon the ongoing historical process,'' said Mr. Gonzalez Echevarria. ''But he proved Plato was right when he said poets are not welcome in the republic when they say uncomfortable things about the tyrants.''
      