
        Clyde Sukeforth, the Brooklyn Dodger scout and manager who accompanied Jackie Robinson through two of the Hall of Fame player's milestones as the first African-American in modern baseball, died on Sunday at his home in Waldoboro, Me. He was 98.
        In 1945, when the major league teams had an unwritten policy to ignore black players, Sukeforth was assigned by Branch Rickey, the Dodgers' president, to scout Robinson, then the Kansas City Monarchs'  shortstop, at a Negro leagues game in Chicago before bringing him back for what would be a historic meeting in the Dodger offices in Brooklyn.
        ''When Jack came out on the field,'' Sukeforth often said of that game, ''I called him over and introduced myself and told him who sent me. He was amazed. He said, 'Why is Mr. Rickey interested in me?' I told him: 'I just work here. I have no authority to answer that question, but I can assure you there's a lot of interest in you in Brooklyn.' ''
        At the time Rickey was forming a Brooklyn Brown Dodgers team to play in a new black league, but on the morning of Aug. 28, Sukeforth ushered Robinson into Rickey's office.
        ''We walked, in,'' Sukeforth recalled, ''and I said, 'Mr. Rickey, here is Jack Roosevelt Robinson,' and Mr. Rickey said, 'Jack, all my life I've been looking for a great colored ballplayer and I have reason to believe you might be that man.' That's when Jack realized Mr. Rickey was talking about the Dodgers, not the Brown Dodgers.''
        Sukeforth was the only other person at that meeting as Rickey told of his plan for Robinson to play in 1946 for the Dodgers' top farm team in Montreal.
        ''Mr. Rickey told him: 'You must be more than a great ballplayer. I need a man who can accept the worst possible abuse and take it day after day, a man with the courage not to fight back.' Jack told him: 'Mr. Rickey, I think I can play in Montreal and I think I can play in Brooklyn. I'll accept your judgment on that. But if you want to take this gamble, I promise you there will be no incidents.''
        Two months later, Robinson signed a Montreal contract, becoming the first black player in what was known as organized baseball.
        Six days before the 1947 season opener, the Dodger manager, Leo Durocher, was suddenly suspended for the entire season by Commissioner Happy Chandler for controversial off-field incidents. Rickey named Sukeforth the interim manager. The next day, the Dodgers bought Robinson's contract from Montreal.
        Durocher's ban ''took the heat,'' as Sukeforth said, off Robinson's debut.  ''I didn't tell Jack anything special,'' Sukeforth said. ''Jack had enough to think about.''
        After two regular-season games that the Dodgers won, Rickey hired Burt Shotton as manager. Sukeforth remained a Dodger coach through 1951 when he was involved in another historic moment. In the ninth inning of the decisive third game in the National League pennant playoff at the Polo Grounds, the Giants were rallying against Don Newcombe.
        Charlie Dressen, the Dodger manager, phoned Sukeforth in the bullpen, where Ralph Branca and Carl Erskine were warming up.
        ''I always leaned toward Branca,'' Sukeforth said years later. ''Branca had won 21 games in 1947, when he was 21.'' So Branca was summoned.
        On Branca's second pitch, Bobby Thomson hit the ''shot heard 'round the world,'' a three-run homer for a 5-4 victory and the N.L. pennant.
        Sukeforth later scouted for the Pittsburgh and Atlanta franchises; he had been a major league catcher with Cincinnati and the Dodgers from 1926 to 1934 and again early in the 1945 season.
        Sukeforth's first wife, Helen, died in 1938. His second wife, Grethel, died last year. According to The Associated Press, his survivors include his daughter, Helen Zimmerman of Dallas, and four grandchildren.
      