
        Aaron W. Warner, a left-leaning lawyer who began his career as one of Felix Frankfurter's ''bright young men'' in the New Deal, and then switched careers at 46 to be a Columbia University professor and administrator for almost half a century, died on Aug. 25 in Manhattan. He was 92.
        At Columbia, Dr. Warner helped frame the university's response to the 1968 student demonstrations and strove to broaden the university's reach, first as dean of the School of General Studies, which offers college courses to working adults, and then as dean of continuing education. He was also director of the University Seminars, which each year draw 3,000 people from academia and myriad other fields to address topics like Middle East politics, the cinema and brain chemistry.
        He did not resign as director of the seminars until last July, and he played tennis until 1986 and the piano until last year -- only Mozart and Chopin, as always. His final work, a collection of articles that he edited to honor his Columbia colleague William S. Vickrey, the Nobel Prize-winning economist, will be published later this year.
        It was hardly surprising that his response to a surprise birthday cake on his 90th birthday was real, not feigned, anger, recalled Anissa Bouziane, who was his assistant in running the seminars.
        He complained, ''Nobody's supposed to know I'm this old.''
        Aaron Warner, who lived in Manhattan, was born in Newark on May 16, 1908. He was given no middle name, but later added the W., which stood for nothing. He became an accomplished pianist and was awarded a scholarship to the Institute of Musical Art, which later became the Juilliard School. He graduated from New York University, and then went to Harvard, where he simultaneously earned a master's degree in English and a law degree, studying under Frankfurter, who later became a Supreme Court justice.
        He then practiced law with a Boston firm for four years, but was fired in 1934 for representing demonstrators who opposed the docking of a ship from Nazi Germany. The firm's principal, Harry N. Guterman, said he had no permission to take the case.
        In 1937, he was appointed regional director of the National Labor Relations Board in Denver, the youngest person to hold such a position, according to news reports at the time. He later held the same post in Los Angeles before becoming special examiner for all the board's regional offices.
        A fierce supporter of the rights of workers, he was quoted in The Salt Lake Tribune in 1939 as saying, ''In guaranteeing the rights of workers to organize, we are strengthening those forces which will enable us to remain a free people long after other nations with less foresight have felt the crushing heel of fascism.''
        While he was at the labor board, his former boss, Mr. Guterman, approached Representative John W. McCormack, a Democrat of Massachusetts, who later became speaker of the House, to suggest that Dr. Warner harbored ''radical sympathies.'' This resulted in a House investigation, which eventually cleared him of charges that he was a Communist.
        He then worked for the Railroad Retirement Board and was chief of field operations for the administration of wartime price controls. In 1943, he joined the Navy as an enlisted man and served for three years in the Pacific.
        While he was away at war, his wife, the former Charlotte Rosen, recovered from tuberculosis and decided to go to medical school. When he returned, he also wanted a new beginning. He enrolled in Columbia to study economics. ''He figured that if she could become a doctor, he had to have a doctorate,'' their son-in-law Alan Myerson said.
        After earning his Ph.D. in 1954, he became a Columbia professor, specializing in labor issues. He was named the Joseph Buttenwieser professor of human relations in 1967. As a member of a faculty committee appointed to deal with educational planning after student protests in 1968, Dr. Warner fought ''the old school boy, old boy Columbia College mold,'' said Ms. Bouziane, his former assistant.
        Soon after, he was named dean of the School of General Studies, and the position gave him an opportunity to make it easier for working people to take Columbia courses. After his retirement from that school at 68, he spent two years as dean of the university's School of Continuing Education, which serves older adults.
        ''Older people are good people to teach,'' he told an interviewer in 1976. ''We find them very highly motivated, very thoughtful people, and usually highly intelligent. Their life experience is rich.''
        A modest man with twinkling green-gray eyes, Dr. Warner also took charge of the University Seminars, which began in 1945. Those he introduced included one in 1962 on technology and social change, which spawned a series of books he edited, and one in 1983 on philanthropy.
        ''What we look for,'' Dr. Warner said in an interview in 1984, ''are leading people in the field from different disciplines, preferably from both on and off campus. We look for subjects which are critical from the point of view of intellectual challenge and which seem to have lasting value.''
        The program has produced a great treasure: the minutes of each seminar, which are stored on crammed bookshelves. ''If you want to find out what Margaret Mead said on June 15, 1959, you can find out,'' Dr. Warner said.
        His wife Charlotte died in 1970. He is survived by his second wife, whom he married in 1971, the former Miriam Firestone; two daughters, Rachel Warner of Washington, D.C., and Abby Myerson of Los Angeles; a sister, Miriam Rosen of Maplewood, N.J.; and six grandchildren.
        Several years ago, Dr. Warner asked Abby and Alan Myerson, who are tournament bridge players, to explain the rules of the game, Mr. Myerson recalled. That evening, he accompanied them to a tournament and was one of the top players.
      