
        Martin Lang, an engineer and water pollution expert who was a New York City commissioner in the Lindsay and Beame administrations, died Monday at a hospital in Roslyn, N.Y., where he lived. He was 85.
        Trained as an environmental engineer and chemist, he worked for the city for four decades, retiring in 1977 as administrator of the Department of Parks, Recreation and Cultural Affairs. His streetwise, hands-on approach gained him national respect and bolstered the city's reputation as a leader in environmental management during the 60's and 70's, despite technological and fiscal constraints.
        Mr. Lang, an ebullient, craggy-faced man, set out in public service in 1935 and worked in several departments before being put in charge of the division of sewage disposal in 1964. The following year he was named director of the Bureau of Water Pollution Control, a post he held for five years.
        Through the 1970's he advanced to commissioner of the Department of Water Resources, first deputy administrator of the city's Environmental Protection Administration and commissioner of the Department of Sanitation. He took the post at Parks and Recreation in 1976.
        Working in water resources and sanitation, Mr. Lang initiated studies and long-range programs to adapt water pollution controls to solid-waste and air-pollution management. He also could be out before dawn, trailing garbage trucks to see how he might improve collections.
        In the Parks Department, he involved the Federal Bureau of Outdoor Recreation, which, he felt, was directing its programs and money to nature conservancy out West, and little else.
        ''Standing with their representatives in front of a handball court in a so-called ghetto area in Brooklyn,'' he said, ''I finally convinced them that it had greater personal usage than a backpack trail in the Sierras, was equally worthy of federal support, and was part of the total environment of the community.''
        Martin Lang grew up in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn. He entered City College in 1930 at age 15 and graduated as a chemical engineer in 1935. He also received a master's degree in civil engineering from New York University in 1954.
        In World War II he was an officer with a sanitation unit in the Army's engineering corps from 1943 to 1946. After leaving the city government, he was a private management consultant for the World Health Organization and other agencies.
        Mr. Lang's survivors include his wife of 62 years, Bertha Friedman Lang; two daughters, Judith L. Zaimont of Edina, Minn., and Doris L. Kosloff of Simsbury, Conn.; a son, Robert D. of Great Neck, N.Y.; and four grandsons.
        ''My simple thesis,'' Mr. Lang told Consulting Engineer magazine in 1978, ''is that man's total environment transcends pure air, food and water, and must also encompass employment, housing, energy, transportation and recreation.''
      