
        Richard A. Holman, an inventive publisher and editor who foresaw the market for specialized business information services and was involved in an important legal test case to distinguish true business journalism from tout sheets, died on Monday at New York University Hospital. He was 77.
        Mr. Holman was being treated for acute myelogenous leukemia, said his daughter, Beth Holman.
        After a brief career in investment banking, Mr. Holman in 1963 founded The Wall Street Transcript, a tabloid-sized weekly newspaper filled with business interviews, stock recommendations, transcripts of business round-table discussions and information from government regulators. He believed that investment professionals and casual investors were willing to pay dearly for information that would help them pick stocks.
        At a time when most newspapers sold for less than a quarter, he charged $5 a copy and $180 for a one-year subscription. The specialized and sometimes technical information presented in the newspaper, which is still available on paper and online, presaged the many detailed financial services available today.
        But Mr. Holman also was engaged in a series of skirmishes with government regulators that acted like a catalyst on his iconoclastic spirit. In 1962, before The Transcript was founded, the Securities and Exchange Commission temporarily suspended his registration as a broker for violating fair-practice rules.
        In the late 1960's, The Transcript started an editorial campaign critical of the S.E.C. After one of The Transcript editorials was inserted in the Congressional record, the S.E.C. began an investigation to determine whether The Wall Street Transcript was a legitimate news publication or was actually giving investment advice, which would require registration under federal law.
        When the agency subpoenaed the paper's records, including reporters' notes, Mr. Holman, a lawyer, dug in his heels.
        ''I just don't believe any bureaucrat has the right to haul up a reporter or publisher and grill him about how he got a news story,'' Mr. Holman told an interviewer in 1968. ''We're fighting this thing all the way down the pike.''
        The case dragged on for a decade, and certain constitutional aspects were heard by the United States Supreme Court. Finally, in 1978, a federal court judge ruled in Mr. Holman's behalf. The judge found the S.E.C.'s approach was overly broad and that as defined by regulations, The Transcript was not an investment adviser. Legal scholars consider it an important case and an issue that has resurfaced with current Web sites that make stock recommendations.
        Mr. Holman was born in Manhattan, the son of a former New York State assemblyman, Abraham Goodman, and Daisy Mintz Goodman Holman. He graduated from Cornell University and served as an Army intelligence officer in Japan and the Philippines during World War II.
        He remained publisher of The Wall Street Transcript until selling the publication in 1998.
        Mr. Holman is survived by his wife, Mary, and three children, Beth, Jonathan and Jeffrey, from his first marriage to Eleanor Mae Margolis.
      