
        David Flusser, among the first Israeli scholars to scrutinize ancient religious texts for clues to the Jewish roots of Christianity, died in Jersualem on Sept. 15, his 83rd birthday.
        After poring over new archaeological discoveries like the Dead Sea Scrolls, Dr. Flusser popularized the idea that Jesus was born and died a faithful Jew and never intended to found a new religion.
        The fruits of Dr. Flusser's research were published in 1965 in an influential book, ''Jesus,'' which was translated into 11 languages. A second edition incorporating new research was published by Magnes Press in 1997.
        Dr. Flusser, a professor of comparative religion at Hebrew University of Jersualem, was awarded the Israel Prize, the country's most prestigious award, in 1980.
        ''He established the modern study of Christianity in the state of Israel in a scholarly context,'' said Dr. Lawrence H. Schiffman, chairman of the Skirball department of Hebrew and Judaic studies at New York University. ''People have now realized that this is a topic that needs to be paid greater attention in Israel.''
        Born in Vienna and raised in Prague, Dr. Flusser immigrated to Israel in 1939. He received his doctorate from Hebrew University. An Orthodox Jew, he applied his skills in Talmud study to examining ancient Roman, Greek and Arabic texts.
        Dr. Flusser strove to separate the historical, verifiable life of Jesus from the version put forth in the Gospels and the writings of his later followers. In a piece of research that made headlines, he and Shlomo Pines, a professor of philosophy at Hebrew University, offered evidence to support the idea that a description of Jesus as messiah by the Jewish-Roman historian Flavius Josephus was probably forged more than two centuries later by Christian church leaders.
        Dr. David Satran, a professor of comparative religion at Hebrew University, said in a telephone interview, ''Dr. Flusser was rather remarkable in his strong insistence that not only was Jesus a Jew from birth to death, but that Jesus did nothing that could be interpreted as a revolt or questioning of the basic principles of the Judaism at the time.''
        Dr. Flusser was conducting his research at a time when many Jews were blaming Christianity for Naziism, and he stepped into the discussion, with an article in The Jerusalem Post during the trial of Adolf Eichmann, the Gestapo officer. In court, Eichmann had refused to take an oath on the New Testament, and said he would swear only in the name of God.
        Dr. Flusser wrote: ''I do not know who is the God in whose name Eichmann swore, but I am certain that it is neither the God of Israel nor the God of the Christian church.''
        ''It should now become clear to the strongest Jewish opponents of Christianity,'' he continued, ''that Christianity per se imposes limitations and that the greatest crime against our people was not committed in the name of the Christian faith.''
        Dr. Flusser is survived by his wife, Channa; two sons, Yochanan and Uri; and seven grandchildren.
      