
        Robert W. Blanchette, a former head of the Federal Railroad Administration and a former chief executive of the Penn Central Transportation Company, died Monday at Georgetown Hospital in Washington. He was 68 and lived in Bethesda, Md.
        He died after an extended illness, said a friend, John DePodesta.
        As administrator of the railroad agency from 1981 to 1983, Mr. Blanchette was in the forefront of the Reagan Administration's plan to take the government out of the railroad business.
        The effort led to deep cuts in federal spending on Amtrak, the passenger operation, and a plan to end federal sponsorship of Conrail, the freight company, and sell its components to private industry.
        Earlier, from 1970 to 1978, he had an important role in the affairs of Penn Central, after its 1970 bankruptcy, then the biggest corporate bankruptcy in American history.
        In 1970, a judge named him counsel to the court-appointed trustees of the company. He went on be a trustee and then chairman of the board. He was chief executive of the company from 1975 to 1978, when a plan to restructure it received court approval.
        In 1969 and 1970, he was the executive director, chosen by the railroad industry, of America's Sound Transportation Review Organization, which recommended ways to enhance the industry's financial health.
        From 1963 to 1968, he was general counsel of the New Haven Railroad, which was absorbed by Penn Central.
        Mr. Blanchette was born in New Haven and received a bachelor's degree from the University of Connecticut and a law degree cum laude from Yale, where he was editor in chief of The Yale Law Journal. He served as an Air Force lieutenant in France from 1958 to 1960.
        After stepping down from the Federal Railroad Administration, he was a vice president and general counsel of the Association of American Railroads from 1990 until he retired in 1997.
        He was also a trustee of Assumption College in Worcester, Mass.
        Mr. Blanchette is survived by his wife, the former Marna Madelaire Nielsen, whom he married in 1969; a son, Pierre deJordy Blanchette of Ossining, N.Y.; and a daughter, Valerie Claude Blanchette of Bethesda.
      