
        Robert E. Dewar, the former chairman and chief executive of the Kmart Corporation, who led the company's huge expansion of retail stores nationwide, died at his home on Thursday. He was 77 and lived in Bloomfield Hills, Mich.
        The cause of death was complications from colon cancer, said Mr. Dewar's son, Robert Jr.
        After Mr. Dewar spent three years as a pilot in the United States Naval Air Corps, he attended law school at Wayne State University in Detroit. He received his degree in 1948. For six months after his graduation, he practiced at a Michigan firm, but his interest quickly turned toward corporate law.
        In 1949, he joined the legal department of the S.S. Kresge Company, which operated a group of variety stores -- those ''five-and-dime'' stores that operated usually in downtown areas or old city neighborhoods. He continued as a company lawyer until 1960, when he was promoted to assistant to the president.
        For the next two years, Mr. Dewar studied finance in evening classes at the University of Michigan Graduate School of Business Administration.
        By 1963, Mr. Dewar's classes apparently paid off -- he was promoted to assistant vice president of finance. He worked in a variety of finance positions until he was named president in 1970. Two years later, he was promoted to chairman and chief executive.
        By that time, Kresge was in the middle of a transformation. During the 1960's, the company began moving away from the variety store strategy toward diversifying into low-margin, one-stop discount centers, known as Kmarts.
        With Mr. Dewar at the helm, Kresge earned a reputation as a company in a hurry. With inflation and competition heating up, the company set lofty sales goals and began an aggressive campaign to open additional discount centers around the country. In 1977, Kresge renamed itself after its flagship business, becoming the Kmart Corporation.
        By 1979, when Mr. Dewar became chairman of the company's executive and finance committees and relinquished his other titles, Kmart had won a reputation as one of the country's largest and fastest-growing retail operations. Mr. Dewar continued with the company in that position until his retirement in 1988.
        In the years since leaving Kmart, Mr. Dewar focused his attention on his two other passions: opera and the city of Detroit. He was named chairman of the Michigan Opera Theater, where he worked to raise more than $18 million. That money was used to transform the former Grand Circus Theatre into a new opera house for Michigan.
        ''He went from auto company to auto company, from person to person, to raise that money,'' Robert Dewar Jr. said.
        During his retirement, Mr. Dewar also served on the board of several nonprofit organizations in the state, and was chairman of a local United Way organization.
        In addition to his son Robert Jr., Mr. Dewar is survived by his wife, Helen, and his two other adult children, Jane and John.
      