
        William Brian Little, an investment banker who was a founding partner of Forstmann Little, the New York leveraged-buyout firm, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 58 and maintained residences in Manhattan; Amagansett, N.Y.; and Santa Barbara, Calif.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, said his wife, Judith.
        A graduate of Colgate University and the Harvard Business School, Mr. Little began his career on Wall Street with White Weld & Company, primarily in the firm's Los Angeles office. When White Weld was bought by Merrill Lynch in the late 1970's, Mr. Little returned to New York.
        Rather than continue his career at Merrill Lynch, Mr. Little joined with Theodore J. Forstmann and his brother Nicholas C. Forstmann to form Forstmann Little in 1978.
        In contrast to many of the leveraged-buyout firms that flourished in the 1980's, Forstmann Little relied less on borrowed money and more on equity financing to pay for the companies it bought.
        The strategy paid handsome dividends.
        Between 1980 and 1992, the firm and its limited partners invested about $1 billion in 18 different deals. That investment reaped a return of about $5 billion. The successes included the Dr Pepper Company and the Topps Company, the trading card maker.
        During his career at the firm, which lasted until 1994, when he retired, Mr. Little played a crucial but low-key role.
        ''He was no wimp, but he didn't have a big ego,'' Nicholas Forstmann said yesterday. ''He was pretty plain-spoken and did what he said he was going to do.''
        Mr. Little was a private investor after he left the firm he helped to found.
        The success he enjoyed during his years at Forstmann Little gave him the opportunity to pursue other interests.
        Colgate University, his undergraduate alma mater, was high on his list of outside interests.
        Mr. Little was named a trustee of the university in 1987 and chairman of its board in 1996.
        ''He had a particular appreciation of the value of a liberal arts education,'' Charles Karelis, the president of Colgate, said yesterday. ''He was a cultured person, and he led a balanced life. You would not know from talking to Brian Little how successful he was in business.''
        Mr. Little served on several corporate boards, including the Topps Company, ScreamingMedia and the Douglas Emmett Realty Funds.
        He was also a trustee of the Bridgehampton Chamber Music Festival and was a member of the Museum of Modern Art's committee on photography.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Little is survived by a daughter, Jacqueline P. Little, of San Francisco; a son, Gregory S. Little, also of San Francisco; and three grandchildren.
      