
        Peter Pinchbeck, an English-born painter who worked in an Abstract Expressionist vein, was found dead in his loft in SoHo on Sept. 10. He was 69.
        The cause was cardiovascular hypertensive disease, his family said. He was found by friends after they became concerned when he failed to appear for the first day of classes at Manhattan Community College, where he had taught art history, painting and composition for nearly 30 years.
        Mr. Pinchbeck was a tall, courteous man who sprinkled his writings on painting with quotes from Jacques Derrida and Stephen Hawking. Except for a brief phase of streamlining in the mid-1960's, when he was included in ''Primary Structures,'' an early exhibition of Minimal Art at the Jewish Museum, he spent most of his career exploring the clearly hand-wrought surfaces and figure-ground relationships introduced by the Abstract Expressionists. At the same time, his frequently planar compositions reflected the influence of the Russian Constructivists.
        He said he felt that gestural abstract painting, with its self-evident brushwork, could create an experience of time and space that differed from that of reality, science and most other kinds of painting.
        In the 1970's and 80's his canvases tended to be dominated by burly, squarish shapes that sometimes seemed to close off space or plummet through it. In the 1990's his colors heated up and his shapes became more playful, eventually evolving into buoyant barbell volumes that appeared, paradoxically, to be continuous with the light-filled space they inhabited.
        Mr. Pinchbeck was born in 1931 in London and studied at the Twickenham College of Art and the Polytechnic Art School, both in London. Intrigued by the Abstract Expressionists, he moved to New York in 1961, and his work began appearing in East 10th Street gallery group shows. He had his first solo show at the Paley & Lowe Gallery in SoHo in 1970; his most recent one at the June Kelly Gallery in 1989.
        He is survived by his wife, the writer Joyce Johnson of Manhattan, from whom he had been separated since the early 1970's; and their son, Daniel, a writer and co-editor of Open City, an art and literature magazine, also of Manhattan.
      