
        John Alexander Simpson, a nuclear physicist and astrophysicist whose instruments have been sending data back from space for nearly 40 years, died on Aug. 31 in Chicago. He was 83 and lived in the Hyde Park neighborhood of Chicago.
        The cause was complications after open heart surgery, said the University of Chicago, where he was a professor emeritus.
        Dr. Simpson, who went from helping develop the atomic bomb to exploring cosmic rays, worked at the Enrico Fermi Institute of Nuclear Studies at the university until late last month. There, he monitored and analyzed streams of data sent to Earth by his instruments from space missions including the Ulysses solar orbiter and the Stardust mission, launched last year for a 2004 rendezvous with Comet Wild-2, a ball of ice two and one-half miles in diameter. That vehicle carries Dr. Simpson's Dust Flux Monitor Instrument, intended to measure the size of dust particles and map their distribution around the comet's nucleus.
        He was a principal investigator for dozens of space missions, ranging from satellites orbiting Earth to vessels sent into deep space. He built the first cosmic ray detectors sent to Mercury, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn. Other missions in which Dr. Simpson was involved included a fly-by of Venus, nine planetary encounters and dust experiments on two Soviet Vega spacecraft that investigated Halley's comet, for which he received the Gagarin Medal for Space Exploration of the U.S.S.R. Academy of Sciences in 1986.
        ''With instruments almost continuously in space for the last 40 years, John Simpson was always probing the frontiers of the solar system for new knowledge,'' said Edward C. Stone, director of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. ''With several generations of graduate students, he pioneered new areas of research ranging from outbursts of solar particle radiation to the origin and lifetime of cosmic-ray particles from nearby regions of the Milky Way.''
        Glenn Mason, professor of physics at the University of Maryland, called Dr. Simpson ''a towering figure in 20th-century science.''
        ''In June he received the American Geophysical Union's highest award, the William Bowie Medal,'' Professor Mason said, ''which shows how widely his contributions were appreciated in the science community.''
        John Simpson was born in Portland, Ore. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Reed College in 1940 and received his M.S. in 1942 and Ph.D. in 1943 from New York University.
        He joined the Chicago faculty in 1943 after Enrico Fermi and his team achieved the first controlled nuclear chain reaction there for the Manhattan Project.
        After the first two atomic bombs were dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, he became an organizer of a campaign for the peaceful use of atomic energy under civilian control. He was an adviser to Senator Brien McMahon of Connecticut, chairman of a special committee on atomic energy and sponsor of the McMahon Act of 1946, which called for civilian control of its use.
        The founding chairman in 1946 of The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, he had been its president since 1993.
        Dr. Simpson's work after the Manhattan Project focused on cosmic rays, the subatomic particles that bombard Earth from all directions at nearly the speed of light.
        In 1948 he invented a device to monitor the intensity of cosmic ray neutrons, which he deployed at stations from Chicago to the magnetic equator in Peru.
        In the physics department of the University of Chicago, he rose from instructor in 1945 to professor at the Fermi Institute in 1964. He served as its director from 1973 to 1978.
        He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1959, and he was a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        Dr. Simpson is survived by his wife of 20 years, Elizabeth Scott Johnson Simpson; a daughter and a son by an earlier marriage, Mary Ann Smith of Bangor, Mich., and John A. Simpson,  of Nahant, Mass.; and three grandsons. His marriage to Elizabeth Alice Hilts ended in divorce.
      