
        Gen. Gherman Stepanovich Titov, a fighter pilot who in 1961 became the second Russian to fly in space and the first man to sleep there, died on Wednesday while taking a sauna in his apartment here, officials said today.
        He turned 65 on Sept. 10. Initial reports said he died of carbon-monoxide poisoning.
        General Titov will forever be known as the man who almost became the first person in space, the runner-up in a top-secret competition that ended in the selection of Col. Yuri A. Gagarin, a farmer's son, to make the first 108-minute trip around the world in April 1961.
        On Aug. 6, Mr. Titov, a major at the time, stunned the world -- especially the United States -- by riding his 4.7-ton Vostok-2 capsule for 17 orbits and an amazing 25 hours and 11 minutes. His journey was considered a stunning feat in contrast to the American program, which had managed only to loft an astronaut on a 15-minute suborbital hop from Florida to the Bahamas.
        Under public and political pressure to keep pace, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration junked a more cautious schedule of test flights and managed, more than six months later, to send Lt. Col. John H. Glenn on a three-orbit flight around the Earth.
        The Titov flight was notable for two other reasons. He was the first human to sleep in a weightless atmosphere and the first to suffer from the nausea now known as space sickness, common to many astronauts.
        A Tass correspondent, Aleksandr Romanov, who monitored the flight, sketched a wry portrait of the astronaut as he whistled over continents early in his flight, seasick almost to incapacitation, yet forced by propaganda dictates to radio cheerful greetings to the nations below him -- even though almost nobody could pick up his weak signals.
        ''During the flight over Soviet territory, the radio-television system transmitted pictures showing the calm and smiling face of the Soviet cosmonaut,'' Mr. Romanov wrote.
        But by Australia, a few minutes later, ''this was Titov's most nauseating time,'' Mr. Romanov reported.
        ''The sickness he felt earlier had reached a peak, and the cosmonaut was far from the alert test pilot he has trained to be for more than a year,'' the report said.
        In fact, Mr. Romanov added, Major Titov came close to scrapping the flight in the early orbits because of the nausea. But after weathering the early sickness, he fared so well that, in his own words, he slept ''the sleep of the just'' for more than eight hours before plummeting back to Soviet territory on the morning of Aug. 7.
        General Titov was born in Altai, in far south-central Russia, into a teacher's family. He graduated from military pilot's school in 1957 and was sent to a fighter wing in Leningrad, now St. Petersburg. He was quickly drafted, in 1959, into the top-secret space-flight program promoted by Nikita S. Khrushchev.
        More urbane, and by his own estimate better educated, than Colonel Gagarin, Major Titov competed for the pilot's seat on the first flight. But Colonel Gagarin was seen by some officials as a warmer and more appealing centerpiece for a Soviet propaganda coup. And Khrushchev, himself a onetime farm boy, was Colonel Gagarin's biggest supporter.
        Major Titov never flew in space again after his daylong flight. After having spent the 1960's in the Soviet Air Force, he became a senior official in the design department of the space program, where he helped draft a clone of the American space shuttle, and then a staff officer in the Defense Ministry.
        After the Soviet collapse in 1991, General Titov entered politics and, in 1995, was elected to Parliament as a Communist Party member. He wrote several books about space travel, including ''The 17 Space Dawns'' and ''My Blue Planet.''
      