
        Hideo Sasaki, an internationally renowned landscape architect who was as admired for his teaching and critical abilities as for his multidisciplinary approach to design, died on Aug. 30 at a hospital in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 80 and lived in nearby Lafayette, Calif.
        Mr. Sasaki founded Sasaki Associates, in the Boston suburb of Watertown, in 1953 while teaching at Harvard University's Graduate School of Design, where he was chairman of the landscape architecture department from 1958 to 1968. He believed in throwing his students right into the design problems of the real world, where they worked alongside civil engineers, urban planners and contemporary giants like the architect Eero Saarinen and the sculptor and landscape designer Isamu Noguchi.
        ''A lot of us were working as many hours in his office as school,'' said Peter Walker, who joined the firm right after earning his degree in landscape architecture from Harvard.
        ''He changed this field, he reinvented it,'' added Mr. Walker, who now practices in San Francisco. ''It wasn't just loosey-goosey. He believed in theory, and you had to defend your position.''
        In the boom years after World War II, Mr. Sasaki's team built some of America's first corporate parks, as companies like Upjohn and John Deere moved their headquarters from city to country. As whole neighborhoods were demolished in the urban renewal fever of the 1960's -- a movement much criticized now for erasing cultural history -- Mr. Sasaki's designers produced Copley Square in Boston, Constitution Plaza in Hartford and Washington Square Village in Manhattan. The designs played with earth shapes, using hard materials, and juxtaposed what Mr. Sasaki called biomorphic shapes against geometric ones, celebrating yet set apart from the modern buildings they framed.
        The firm also designed college campuses that fit the geology of their sites, mounding the land around Foothill College in Los Altos, Calif., to echo the foothills for which it is named and expanding the campus of the University of Colorado with bold modern architecture that blended with the smaller Italianate buildings of the school's early days. And the firm designed the master plan for a brand new campus for the State University of New York at Buffalo.
        ''As a planner he understood demographics; he knew colleges were going to grow and that people would be moving out of the city,'' said Gary Hildebrand, an associate professor of landscape architecture at Harvard. ''And he organized his firm to match the corporate culture. They had the ability to organize, to develop ideas as research, to implement efficiently with accountability.''
        New Yorkers have spent many an hour in Mr. Sasaki's smaller, more intimate spaces, like Greenacre Park, on 51st Street, between Second and Third Avenues, where a stream tumbles over rocks to meet a waterfall among woodland plantings and magnolia trees; and the International Paper Plaza, where a grove of redwoods, weeping cherries and magnolias bring a breeze and welcome shade to nature-starved Midtown workers.
        Such versatility came not from one man, but from the many minds Mr. Sasaki nurtured and encouraged to design collaboratively, building models in the parking lot, going back to the drawing board as the master critic made some gentle but astute suggestion.
        ''Hideo almost never did any of the design work himself,'' said Prof. Charles Harris, who has taught at Harvard for 42 years. ''He was a master teacher and design critic. He was able to inspire people to pursue ideas and explore things without drawing a line.''
        Professor Harris first studied with Mr. Sasaki as an undergraduate at the University of Illinois, where he and other students fell in love with his international perspective.
        ''He was calling for the need for more contemporary design and collaboration at a time when landscape architecture was still caught up in the Beaux-Arts,'' Professor Harris said. ''He didn't subscribe to any particular design aesthetic. He wanted people to understand the human needs and natural forces that were working on the landscape.''
        In the 1950's Mr. Walker was just a greenhorn when Mr. Sasaki named him principal landscape architect for the 100-acre Upjohn headquarters just outside Kalamazoo, Mich., when the company moved from town to a farmer's field. The design, with its courtyards and terraces, groves of trees and artificial lakes -- which provided water to cool the buildings -- was built in collaboration with the architects Bruce Graham, Noguchi and Gordon Bunshaft. While other factories in the country were surrounded by parking lots, this one stood in a giant garden.
        ''That's why they were called villas,'' Mr. Walker said of these new corporate Versailles.
        When Stuart Dawson was still a student at Harvard in the 1950's, he was meeting with Eero Saarinen, the architect for the John Deere headquarters, which was moving from downtown Moline, Ill., to a ravine on the edge of town overlooking miles of cropland.
        ''Hid was back teaching at Harvard,'' Mr. Dawson recalled. ''You'd come back and go over everything with him, and he'd say, 'That's good, maybe you should try that.' Basically, he let us hang ourselves, but I guess he figured we wouldn't.''
        Mr. Sasaki was honored by Harvard last year at the department of landscape architecture's 100th anniversary celebration, which featured a symposium on his work. The university awarded him the Centennial Medal, honoring extraordinary achievement in landscape architecture.
        Though a longtime resident of Massachusetts, he was born on Nov. 25, 1919, in the San Joaquin Valley town of Reedley, Calif. He grew up on his parents' truck farm and worked in the beet fields in Arizona when he was relocated to a World War II  internment camp there for Japanese-Americans. He eventually made his way to Chicago, where he discovered landscape architecture at the University of Illinois, and later earned his master's degree in landscape architecture at the Harvard Graduate School of Design.
        He was appointed to the United States Commission of Fine Arts by President John F. Kennedy in 1961 and again by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1965.
        He was the first recipient of the American Society of Landscape Architects' medal in 1971, and in 1973 he received the Allied Professions Medal from the American Institute of Architects.
        Mr. Sasaki is survived by his wife, Kisa, and two daughters, Rin and Ann, all of Northern California.
      