
        Beah Richards, whose distinguished career as an actress on stage, screen and television over 50 years was capped this month when she won an Emmy as a guest actor on ''The Practice,'' died on Thursday in Vicksburg, Miss. She was 80. She was born in Vicksburg and lived in Los Angeles until Memorial Day, when she returned to her home city.
        Ms. Richards's characters were exemplars of stalwart, soulful women: Sister Margaret, the pastor of a storefront church in James Baldwin's play ''The Amen Corner''; Mr. Poitier's mother in ''Guess Who's Coming to Dinner'' (a role for which she was nominated for an Academy Award); Baby Suggs, a former slave who becomes a spiritual leader, in the film version of Toni Morrison's ''Beloved.''
        As she once said, ''I have played everybody's mother.'' In addition to Mr. Poitier, her ''sons'' included James Earl Jones, Danny Glover, Delroy Lindo and Eriq LaSalle.
        In 1959 she was the understudy to Claudia McNeil as Lena Younger in the original Broadway production of Lorraine Hansberry's ''Raisin in the Sun'' and went on to play the role in the 25th-anniversary production of the play at the Yale Repertory Theater.
        Lena Younger was, in fact, an archetypal Richards character, a woman who bravely moves from a slum into a lily white community in Chicago. With the conviction of a Rosa Parks, she leads her family into block-busting not as an act of revolution but as her birthright. It is simply time for a change. As this urban pioneer, Ms. Richards was indomitable but not overbearing, creating a deeply moving portrait exactly as large as life. In this production, directed by Dennis Scott, Mr. Lindo played the son, Walter Lee Younger, a role created by Mr. Poitier, and Mary Alice was her daughter-in-law.
        In 1984 she was Mr. Glover's mother in ''And the Children Shall Lead'' on the PBS ''Wonderworks'' series. Her role was that of a woman who worked as a maid for a sheriff in a small Southern town. When civil rights workers raise her consciousness, she confronts her employer, and he fires her. As was generally the case with Ms. Richards's characters, she rises to the challenge.
        Ms. Richards was the daughter of a Baptist minister and a seamstress. Many years later she spoke of being insulted and stoned by white children as she walked to school. As she said, ''I suffered every day in my life in that town.''
        She studied at Dillard University in New Orleans and in 1948 began her acting career at the Old Globe Theater in San Diego. Moving to New York, she was in the long-running Off Broadway revival of Louis Peterson's ''Take a Giant Step,'' with Bill Gunn, Frances Foster, Rosetta LeNoire and Godfrey Cambridge. When the play was filmed, Ms. Richards repeated her role as the grandmother.
        Her first Broadway role was in ''The Miracle Worker,'' followed by ''Purlie Victorious.'' Then came ''The Amen Corner,'' in which she played in Los Angeles as well as in New York. She was in Mike Nichols's production of ''The Little Foxes'' at Lincoln Center and also performed a one-woman show, ''A Black Woman Speaks.''
        Ms. Richards's films included ''Hurry Sundown,'' ''Drugstore Cowboy'' and ''The Great White Hope'' (as the mother of the boxer Jack Jefferson, played by Mr. Jones). She won an Emmy in 1988 for a guest appearance on ''Frank's Place'' and was in ''Roots: the Next Generation'' and ''The Bill Cosby Show.'' On ''E.R.,'' she had a running role as Mr. La Salle's mother.
        She was divorced from Hugh Harrell, an artist. There are no immediate survivors.
        Looking back to her childhood as the daughter of a minister, Ms. Richards said: ''I always relate the theater to the church. There is the sharpness of image, the poetry. And like the church, the theater must always be an exploration for truth.''
      