
        Henry T. Weinstein, a veteran movie producer who may be best known for trying to help Marilyn Monroe complete her last film, died last Sunday in Boca Raton, Fla., where he lived. He was 76.
        He had been ill for some time, his family said.
        Mr. Weinstein retired in the mid-1990's after producing films and working in television and theater for more than four decades.
        He became a producer of the last movie in which Monroe was cast, ''Something's Got to Give,'' when, as David Brown of 20th Century Fox recalled later, ''Her therapist said it would be better if Marilyn had someone who understood her and could deal with her.''
        After disagreements arose about the script shortly before filming was to begin, Mr. Weinstein concluded that Monroe was ''one very ill, very paranoid lady.'' Some weeks before, he had come to her aid when she suffered a barbiturate overdose.
        Monroe was dismissed from the film for absenteeism in 1962, after weeks of shooting. Two months later she died from a drug overdose.
        Years later, Mr. Weinstein told her biographer, Anthony Summers, that she had an extreme fear of performing, sometimes to the point of retching when she arrived at the studio.
        ''We all experience anxiety, unhappiness, heartbreaks,'' Mr. Weinstein recalled, ''but that was sheer, primal terror.''
        Mr. Weinstein ''was very close with Miss Monroe,'' recalled Jill Jacobson, the wife of his nephew, Marc Jacobson. Mrs. Jacobson said that during filming, Monroe ''cried on his shoulder a lot.'' The film was never completed.
        Years later, in 1985, Mr. Weinstein was executive producer of the movie ''Runaway Train,'' which received three Academy Award nominations.
        Mr. Weinstein also produced the film of F. Scott Fitzgerald's ''Tender Is the Night'' (1962), starring Jennifer Jones and Jason Robards Jr., and ''Joy in the Morning'' (1965), based on a novel by Betty Smith.
        He was vice president of creative affairs and production for American Film Theater, which produced film versions of serious plays for subscription audiences in movie theaters. Among the plays were ''A Delicate Balance,'' starring Katharine Hepburn, Paul Scofield and Joseph Cotten, and ''The Three Sisters,'' with Laurence Olivier and Joan Plowright.
        He was also an executive producer of ''American Playhouse,'' which presented live dramas on public television.
        Mr. Weinstein was born and raised in Brooklyn. He graduated from City College and received a master's degree in drama from Carnegie Institute of Technology.
        He is survived by two sisters, Judge Ruth Pearlman of Jersey City, and Naomi Warren, of Boca Raton
      