
        Robert H. Montgomery Jr., 77, a lawyer for prominent film, theater and art figures and the trustee of the Cole Porter Musical and Literary Property Trusts, died on Saturday at his home in Sag Harbor, N.Y.. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Henriette.
        His career at the Manhattan law firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, where he was a partner, spanned 40 years. Mr. Montgomery's clients included the composer Andrew Lloyd Weber, the director Louis Malle, Marilyn Monroe, Andy Warhol and Isabella Rosellini, said Peter Felcher, who succeeded him as the trustee for the Porter trusts.
        After joining the law firm in 1950, Mr. Montgomery worked with Mr. Porter before the composer's death in 1964, and became the trustee for the property trusts in 1977. ''When Bob took over the trusts, he really was responsible for getting the word out, to maximize people's exposure to Porter,'' Mr. Felcher said. The job called for vigilance in protecting the integrity of the composer's work. Mr. Montgomery used to tell the story of how, through an oversight, a Cole Porter song was licensed to a maker of a toilet-bowl cleaner, who changed the lyrics to ''I've Got You Under My Rim.''
        Mr. Montgomery was given credit for the current revival of Cole Porter's ''Kiss Me, Kate,'' because he worked for years to find a producer for the show. ''It was really through Bob's perseverance that the show was produced'' Mr. Felcher said. ''It was a 20-year quest.''
        Robert Kimball, the artistic adviser to the Porter trusts, agreed. ''He found the right people to produce it, and waited for so many decades for the revival,'' he said.
        Mr. Montgomery headed the entertainment department of his law firm, expanding it to include motion picture and television clients. ''Many people referred to him as the dean of the entertainment lawyers,'' Mr. Felcher said.
        Mr. Montgomery also helped represent Joseph Papp in a legal battle against New York City, paving the way for decades of performances of Shakespeare in the Park, Mr. Felcher said.
        Mr. Montgomery was born in Boston on April 1, 1923, and graduated from Harvard College and Columbia Law School. He served as a sergeant in the Army, working as a cryptanalyst decoding messages in Japanese during World War II. He was on duty to decipher news of the Japanese surrender, which he passed on to his boss, who informed the White House, Mrs. Montgomery said.
        Mr. Montgomery also served as a trustee of Vassar College and as chairman of the Alliance for the Arts. He also served on the boards of the literary journal Partisan Review, the Bay Street Theater in Sag Harbor and the Manhattan School of Music.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Samuel, of Los Angeles; a daughter, Margaret, of New York; and two grandchildren. There will be no funeral, Mrs. Montgomery said. A memorial service will be held in Manhattan at a date to be determined.
      