
        Raoul Berger, a widely read and widely debated authority on the United States Constitution, died on Saturday at his home in Concord, Mass., his wife, Patricia, said. He was 99.
        Mr. Berger's interpretation of the framers' intentions thrilled liberals when he castigated President Richard M. Nixon's assertions of executive privilege in an effort to keep information from Congress in the Watergate case and appalled them when he wrote that the Supreme Court had overstepped its authority in ordering the racial desegregation of the public schools.
        He wrote seven books and more than 100 articles covering such topics as impeachment, executive privilege, judicial review and the death penalty, thrusting himself to the center of the incessant and tortuous national debate on constitutional interpretations. He did it with a style that inspired the author Garry Wills in 1974 to speak of his ''exuberance of pugnacious learning.''
        Law was Mr. Berger's second career. In the 1920's and 1930's he was a violinist who appeared as a soloist with the Cleveland Symphony, served as second concertmaster with the Cincinnati Symphony and was first violinist with the Cincinnati String Quartet.
        But making a living in classical music was no easier then than now, so he went to medical school. When he saw his first cadaver, he knew his future was in law. He graduated from Northwestern University's law school at 34, the oldest in his class. His largest achievement, writing learned and influential books, began in 1969, when at 68 he published his first book, ''Congress v. The Supreme Court.'' At 97, he was still writing articles.
        In 1973, Israel Shenker, a reporter for The New York Times, wrote: ''Raoul Berger thinks of himself as a Dutch housemaid sweeping the dark corners of the Constitution. Impeachment, for example, was a dark corner until Mr. Berger wrote the first comprehensive book about it. Now the dust is flying around executive privilege.
        ''Every few months he lays his broom aside long enough to testify before a Congressional committee, transforming himself from Dutch housemaid into Dutch uncle.''
        In the forward to Mr. Berger's 1997 book, ''Government by Judiciary: The Transformation of the Fourteenth Amendment,'' an expanded edition of the 1977 version, the historian and legal scholar Forrest McDonald wrote that Mr. Berger presented his recurring thesis: while it is often necessary to go beyond the text of the Constitution and its amendments to gauge the authors' intent, it is wrong to assume ''ideas derived from 'natural rights' dogmas or other external values.''
        This strict constructionist view led Mr. Berger to a conservative position on the scope of the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment. He said his research showed that the  sole purpose of the amendment was to prevent freed slaves from being shackled again after the Civil War. Therefore, he criticized basing such wide-ranging decisions on the amendment as those involving school desegregation, abortion rights and the principle of one man, one vote.
        These strongly expressed views have drawn the wrath of those who believe the Constitution grows and changes organically, including Justice Thurgood Marshall.
        William M. Kunstler, a civil rights and liberties lawyer, accused Mr. Berger of ''a coldly sophisticated attempt to roll back the clock to the America of 1787 insofar as constitutional law is concerned.''
        By contrast, Mr. Berger won liberal accolades for his attack on President Nixon for invoking ''executive privilege'' in the Watergate case. Mr. Berger told a Senate committee in 1973: ''You don't need more hearings, you need gumption. You'll be treated like office boys until you stand up and kick them in the slats.''
        In 1974, he wrote in The Yale Law Journal that Mr. Nixon's impeachment defense was based on ''instant history'' and ''sheer effrontery.''
        Mr. Berger called himself a moderate Democrat, and it sometimes pained him that ''my conclusions are not infrequently at war with my predilections.'' But it did not stop him. His advice was that the people should change the Constitution rather than stretch its meaning.
        In this respect, he said that the constitutional sleuth is much like the classical musician who strives to ''search for and lay bare the meaning that is imprisoned in the little black dots which weave their way across the music staves.''
        Mr. Berger was born in Russia and  brought to the United States at the age of 4. He had been named Raoul after a character in Meyerbeer's opera, ''The Huguenots.'' As a youth, he studied music in New York and Berlin.
        After abandoning his musical career for law school, he practiced in Chicago for two years. In 1938, he  joined President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal as special assistant to the attorney general, and held  other posts. In 1946 he retired from government and for the next 16 years practiced law in Washington.
        In 1962, at 61, be began his teaching career as a law professor at the University of California at Berkeley. Several years later, he moved to Harvard, where he became the Charles Warren Senior Fellow in American Legal History.
        ''But it was not until he embarked on his journey as a constitutional scholar that he began rising to greatness,'' Mr. McDonald wrote.
        His other books were ''Impeachment: The Constitutional Problems'' (1973), ''Executive Privilege: A Constitutional Myth'' (1974), ''Death Penalties: The Supreme Court's Obstacle Course'' (1982), ''Federalism: The Founders' Design'' (1987) and ''The Fourteenth Amendment and the Bill of Rights'' (1989).
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his son, Carl, and two granddaughters. A daughter, Andrea Kalodner, died several years ago.
        Mr. Berger never ducked an intellectual battle. When law reviews bristled with critical reviews of his ''Government by Judiciary,'' he wrote 40 articles and one book-length rebuttal in response. Quoting the philosopher John Locke, he said no response meant victory was ''adjudged not to him who had the truth on his side, but by the last word in the dispute.''
      