
        Nat Fein, who won a Pulitzer Prize for capturing one of the sports world's most poignant images, a rear-view photograph of a dying Babe Ruth receiving his final accolade at Yankee Stadium in June 1948, died Tuesday at Pascack Valley Hospital in Westwood, N.J. He was 86 and lived in Tappan, N.Y.
        In his three decades with The New York Herald Tribune, Mr. Fein, who called himself ''just a human-interest photographer,'' took thousands of pictures evoking life in New York. Using a bulky Speed Graphic camera, he photographed circus elephants sleeping, Mayor Fiorello La Guardia leading the Sanitation Department orchestra, and Dr. Albert Schweitzer kneeling to shake a little girl's hand.
        On the rainy afternoon of Sunday, June 13, 1948, Mr. Fein was at Yankee Stadium when Ruth, terminally ill with throat cancer, appeared at home plate in his old uniform at a ceremony marking the stadium's silver anniversary season.
        ''When we were in the dressing room, he sat beside his old No. 3 locker and we made a picture there,'' Mr. Fein wrote in an unpublished memoir. ''Then he pulled out the belt showing how much thinner he'd got and I wanted to make a picture then, but they told me he's going to have all he can do to get out there -- he's a very sick man -- and the least bother here as possible because there's going to be a ceremony outside.
        ''He came over to home plate. Of course, the story was No. 3 bows out, the uniform being retired and all, and as they played 'Auld Lang Syne,' I was trying to make a picture showing No. 3, but it's only on his back. So I walked around behind with the band still playing 'Auld Lang Syne' and there was his figure, his thin legs compared to his bulky body, and his No. 3 showing. So I made the picture from his back.''
        The photo of Ruth leaning on a bat he borrowed from the star pitcher Bob Feller, whose Cleveland Indians played the Yankees that day, appeared on Page 1 of The Herald Tribune. Mr. Fein sent a copy to Ruth, asking him to autograph it, but Ruth never responded. On Aug. 16, 1948, Ruth died at age 53.
        Reflecting on the picture, which brought him the Pulitzer Prize for news photography in 1949, Mr. Fein once said, ''I didn't think it was a great shot,'' but he acknowledged that he ''got the feeling'' of the moment.
        Nathaniel Fein was born in Manhattan, joined The Herald Tribune as a copy boy in the early 1930's and became a staff photographer in 1939. He served as a photographer in the Army Air Forces during World War II, then returned to The Herald Tribune and remained there until it went out of business in 1966.
        Mr. Fein's photographs appeared in Edward Steichen's ''Family of Man'' show at the Museum of Modern Art in 1955, and a collection of his photos was published as ''Nat Fein's Animals'' (Gilbert Press, 1955).
        He is survived by a son, David, of Tappan.
      