
        Edward S. Gordon, a commercial real estate broker who built one of the largest real estate service companies in the New York metropolitan region, died yesterday at his home in Water Mill, N.Y. He was 65 and lived on Long Island and in New York City.
        The cause was colon cancer, said his wife, Cheryl Gordon.
        Mr. Gordon was known as an executive whose dealmaking skills allowed him to complete transactions in the complex real estate industry of New York and as one who could turn problem properties into assets.
        He was also able to recruit high-powered commercial brokers to work for his company, which he founded in 1972, rather than for more established organizations. Before founding the company he was a broker at the firm of Huberth & Huberth.
        By the time it was sold in 1996 for $74 million to the publicly traded Insignia Financial Group, the Edward S. Gordon Company rivaled such companies as Cushman & Wakefield in the number of leases arranged each year.
        After his company's acquisition by Insignia, Mr. Gordon remained as a member of the office of the chairman as the company grew nationally and internationally. It now has offices in Chicago, Atlanta, San Francisco and London. The number of employees has grown from about 500 to approximately 3,500 in that time, a company spokesman said.
        Last year, Insignia/ESG handled 130 of the 480 leases for space of more than 10,000 square feet in the New York area, compared with 92 for Cushman & Wakefield, according to CoStar, a real estate data collection company.
        Mr. Gordon's clients included the Sony Corporation of America, for which he arranged to lease of the former AT&T building at 550 Madison Avenue, Chase Manhattan Bank, The New York Times Company, Viacom and the developer Donald J. Trump.
        One of Mr. Gordon's most successful efforts when his company was new involved a building at 1166 Avenue of the Americas, a 44-story skyscraper at 45th Street that was completed in 1974 as the city was heading into a financial crisis and the demand for office space was evaporating. The building sat vacant for four years, resulting in tens of millions of dollars in losses to the owners and their lenders.
        In 1978, Mr. Gordon persuaded the Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association and what was then the New York Telephone company to buy the structure, with New York Telephone occupying about half its 1.6 million square feet of space. The next year, he leased the remainder of the building to the International Paper Corporation, assuring the profitability of the property.
        Both transactions received the Innovative Deal of the Year award from the Real Estate Board of New York.
        Mr. Gordon was also involved in the rehabilitation in the late 1970's of the Chrysler Building, a landmark site that had been neglected by its previous owners. Part of his marketing campaign was a series of newspaper advertisements that showed the building rising from the bottom of the page on successive days, symbolizing its renovation.
        Associates said Mr. Gordon  brought an intensity to leisure activities as well as to business. Although he was not initially a golfer, he grew interested in the game while participating in the development of the Atlantic Golf Club in Bridgehampton Mill on Long Island, which opened in 1992. Afterward, he built his own nine-hole course on his 60-acre estate across Scuttle Hole Road from the club and used it to help complete deals.
        When he was called to active duty in the Army Reserve in 1961, Mr. Gordon took the departure from the family importing business as an opportunity to learn how to fly an airplane. He continually upgraded his skills, including learning how to fly jet aircraft. In the mid-1980's he made a solo flight over the Atlantic Ocean, according to Stephen B. Siegel, president of Insignia/ESG.
        ''He hired a band to meet him at the airport outside London where he landed,'' Mr. Siegel said.
        Mr. Gordon was raised in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn, one of two sons of a family whose business was the sale of imported novelties and hardware. He participated in the business during his teenage years, adding new lines of products. He switched to real estate after his tour of military service.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Cheryl Gruetzmacher; his mother, Laura Gordon of Hallandale, Fla.; a brother, Allan Gordon of Greenwich, Conn.; a son, Kenneth, of New York City; a daughter, Robin, of Harrison, N.Y.; and four grandchildren. A daughter, Paula, died in 1986.
        Mr. Gordon was previously married to the former Joan Grossberg, who is the mother of Kenneth and Paula. He was also married to the former Ellen Galowitz, who was the mother of Robin, and who died in 1993.
        Andrew Farkas, the chairman of Insignia Financial Group, said he first encountered Mr. Gordon while he was still a college student and Mr. Gordon was the president of his own company. ''I was building an econometric model of commercial real estate in Midtown Manhattan and I needed data,'' he said. ''Eddie said I could have the data, but said that I had to give him the model if it worked. So the day after graduation, I did.''
        Mr. Farkas said Mr. Gordon resisted participating in various investment vehicles he subsequently promoted, but when Mr. Gordon decided to sell his company, he called Mr. Farkas first. ''We did the deal over lunch,'' Mr. Farkas said.
        Mr. Gordon sponsored advertisements promoting the achievements of New Yorkers. One was the Westinghouse Science Talent Search, now named for Intel, a contest that often had a disproportionate number of New York students as winners. One year when city students did especially well, he devised an advertisement with the headline, ''It must be something in the water.''
      