
        James A. Cavanagh, a former first deputy mayor who advised Mayor Abraham D. Beame during the depth of New York City's fiscal crisis in the 1970's, died Thursday at a hospice near his home in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 86.
        A native of Brooklyn whose career in city government spanned four decades, Mr. Cavanagh spent many of his early years with the city as an examiner in the Department of Finance. A longtime friend and adviser to Mr. Beame, he was a senior adviser to the city comptroller when Mr. Beame held that position in the early 1970's. He was brought to City Hall when Mr. Beame took office as mayor in 1974.
        Mr. Cavanagh, a genial, slightly rumpled man, was widely respected for his financial acumen, but he nonetheless bore the brunt of fierce criticism directed at Mr. Beame's fiscal management; Wall Street bond analysts condemned the city's borrowing as excessive and all but cut off New York's ability to pay its bills through the use of public financing and municipal bonds. Despite Mr. Cavanagh's loyalty to Mr. Beame, the ensuing fiscal crisis led him to resign his City Hall post under pressure in 1975.
        ''He was a quiet man who wouldn't speak unless asked, and when asked, he always knew the answer,'' said Julius C. C. Edelstein, the senior vice chancellor emeritus at the City University of New York, a longtime friend of Mr. Cavanagh. ''He was not only a fiscal expert, but an expert on government operations, and they offered him up as a scapegoat to the bankers,'' Mr. Edelstein said in an interview Thursday.
        Despite his short tenure at City Hall, Mr. Cavanagh was able to complete a major assignment from Mr. Beame: organizing the city's Off-Track Betting Corporation, a venture intended at the time to raise revenue and prop up city finances. He is also recalled fondly by friends and family members for a less widely known accomplishment: he completed years of night classes to obtain his bachelor of arts degree from Empire State College while serving as first deputy mayor.
        After his resignation, Mr. Cavanagh dedicated himself to volunteer work before retiring and moving to Boynton Beach in 1982. He was a trustee of the City University of New York, president of the Brooklyn Council of the Boy Scouts of America and an adviser to the Fund for the City of New York, a private foundation.
        He is survived by his wife of 22 years, the former Mary Delano; two sons, James, of Sarasota, Fla., and Christopher, of Hazlet, N.J.; four stepchildren; and nine grandchildren.
      