
        William Clements Warren, a former dean of Columbia Law School who rebuilt it as it entered the modern era, died on Monday. He was 91.
        As first the leader of, then a major donor to, the law school where two buildings now bear his name, Mr. Warren had an influence there that spanned five decades and ''was probably unrivaled at almost any law school in the latter part of the 20th century,'' said David W. Leebrun, the current dean.
        He was dean of the school from 1952 to 1970. But Mr. Warren, whose rise to prominence has the makings of a classic tale of hard luck and bootstraps, did not restrict his activities to academia. A renowned tax attorney who was co-author of widely used textbooks on the subject, he was called upon for advice by mayors, governors and federal officials alike.
        To carry out what friends said was the equivalent of three full-time jobs, Mr. Warren rose at 5 a.m., a habit he learned as a child in Paris, Tex., where he milked cows and delivered newspapers, holding paying jobs even as a small boy, one of his sons, Robert Warren, said.
        Mr. Warren worked his way through college at the University of Texas at Austin; there he met a judge who allowed him to bunk on his porch. That relationship encouraged him to enter Harvard Law School, from which he graduated in 1935.
        While in the United States Army in Britain during World War II, Mr. Warren met Diana June Peel Willock, an actress, whom he married in 1945.
        Mr. Warren is survived by his wife and three children: Robert Peel Warren of Potomac, Md.; Larissa Warren Gibson of Caldwell, N.J.; and William Liversridge Warren of New York City.
        After returning to his job at a New York law firm in 1946, Mr. Warren joined the faculty of the Columbia Law School. In 1947, he was one of three experts asked by the treasury secretary to help prepare a new national tax program. In 1949, he joined the ranks of American experts helping Japan rebuild its civic systems.
        He was also personal counsel to notable clients including Robert B. Anderson, secretary of the treasury, and James M. Landis, a chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, who was convicted of failing to file his income tax return.
        In 1952, Mr. Warren was made dean of Columbia Law School; he transformed the job from shepherd of the faculty to something more closely resembling chief executive of a large business.
        He raised $8 million for a new building to replace the one that had housed the school since 1910. He also established the admissions and placement offices, diversified the student body and improved scholarship financing.
        Mr. Warren, who lived in Ridgewood, N.J., prepared for the governor of New Jersey, Robert B. Meyner, a much-debated analysis of New York State's commuter tax on nonresidents. In the early 1960's, he was on the Moreland Act Commission, which recommended sweeping changes to New York's liquor laws, including an end to compulsory minimum prices.
        Described by colleagues as a no-nonsense, focused man who commanded loyalty by his sheer competence, Mr. Warren did not seem interested in using his position to win social prestige, Mr. Leebrun said. He did, however, use it as a bully pulpit. He repeatedly denounced what he called the decline of the liberal arts curriculum, complaining that the inability of law students to write ''reasonably literate English prose'' had reached ''epidemic proportions.''
        He also called for legal education for the general public, wider access to legal services for the poor and revision of the State Constitution.
        His politics were not always easy to pinpoint. He both protested the anti-Communist excesses of the McCarthy era and defended Columbia for calling in the police during the 1968 student uprisings on campus, later appearing in court to plead for leniency for the 400 students who were arrested.
        Until his final bout of ill health this year, Mr. Warren continued to commute to work at the firm of Roberts & Holland almost daily and was on the boards of several corporations, including the Sterling National Bank and Barnwell Industries.
        Correction:  September 16, 2000, Saturday  An obituary yesterday of William C. Warren, a former dean of Columbia Law School in New York, misspelled the surname of the current dean, who commented on Mr. Warren's five decades of influence on the school. He is David W. Leebron, not Leebrun.
      