
        The Rev. Edward O. Miller, an outspoken liberal Episcopal minister who was the longtime rector of St. George's Episcopal Church in Manhattan, died on Saturday in Bangor, Me. He was 84 and lived in Castine, Me.
        Mr. Miller was the rector of St. George's from 1946 to 1975. The church is at 16th Street and Stuyvesant Square.
        For many years, he was also a member of the board of Union Theological Seminary in Manhattan.
        Under his leadership, St. George's became a center of liberal activism and efforts to fight the social ills of the area it served, but Mr. Miller also spent time in the national spotlight.  In 1964, Mr. Miller testified during House Judiciary Committee hearings about proposed constitutional amendments to permit prayers in public schools.
        Speaking on behalf of the American Civil Liberties Union and as a member of its national board, he strongly opposed the proposed amendments, and said, ''In this opposition I am joined by the presiding bishop of the Episcopal Church, Rt. Rev. Arthur Lichtenberger, and the bishop of New York, Rt. Rev. Horace W. B. Donegan.''
        In his testimony, Mr. Miller said, ''Basically the First Amendment was adopted because the founding fathers believed that religion flourishes best where it is the responsibility of the church and the home, that religion thrives where it is voluntary and not dependent on the coercive power of the state.''
        Earlier, in 1960, Mr. Miller defied the laws of his church by refusing to read from the pulpit a pastoral letter issued by the Episcopal House of Bishops. The letter affirmed that in essence the Apostles' Creed and the Nicene Creed were as valid in the 20th century as they were centuries earlier.
        In a sermon at St. George's, he described the document as full of ''pious religious jargon,'' couched in ''archaic language'' and ''double talk.''
        ''It's a piece of sheer mediocrity in a world looking to the church for a voice that is relevant and understanding,'' he said.
        In early 1965, the vestry members of St. George's resigned in a conflict over the role that St. George's should play in meeting the problems of the neighborhood. Previously, appeals by Mr. Miller that the church take direct action against the causes of poverty were not accepted with equanimity by all of the congregation.
        The resignation of the vestry, the board that manages the financial affairs of the church, followed.
        After that, Mr. Miller vigorously supported a social-action program to combat poverty in poor areas and to broaden the church's membership.
        In the same period, he declared: ''It is clear that this parish's role will  be to continue to reach out to the major issues of our day and experiment with fresh ideas in this fast-moving world. We cannot survive as an isolated parish on Stuyvesant Square, however vigorous our parish life may be. It will take faith and risks to move ahead.''
        While he was its rector, St. George's was known for the quality of its music at its regular services with large volunteer choirs and on special occasions like an annual New Year's Eve celebration featuring E. Power Biggs as guest organist. In 1964, the parish's production of Benjamin Britten's ''Noye's Fludde'' was broadcast nationally on CBS television.
        Edward Oehler Miller was born in St. Louis and graduated in 1937 from Harvard College and in 1941 from General Theological Seminary in Manhattan. He was assistant to the rector of Christ Church in Cincinnati before becoming the rector of St. George's.
        He is survived by his wife, Ann Lackman Miller; a daughter, Helen H. Miller of Manhattan; three sons, Dr. David Miller and Henry L. Miller, both of Manhattan, and the Rev. Edward O. Miller of McLean, Va.; six grandchildren; and a sister, Martha M. Burt of Marquette, Mich.
      