
        Arthur M. Goldberg, who parlayed a small stake in a struggling gambling company into control of the nation's largest casino operator, died yesterday at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He was 58.
        The cause was complications from bone marrow failure, according to Michael W. Kempner, a spokesman for Mr. Goldberg's company.
        Mr. Goldberg was the president and chief executive of Park Place Entertainment, which operates more than two dozen casinos under the brand names Bally's, Caesars, Hilton, Paris and Grand.
        He built his empire through acquisitions and a devotion to cost-cutting, eschewing the opulent theme hotels built by some other casino moguls.
        ''You've all heard me say that we don't like to gamble with our company's money, even though we're in the gambling business,'' Mr. Goldberg told securities analysts last year in announcing the acquisition of Caesars casinos.
        Rumors that Mr. Goldberg was in failing health had circulated around the gambling industry for more than a year, but Mr. Goldberg and Park Place always dismissed them. He was hospitalized for more than a month last year for reasons the company at first declined to disclose, but later said was pneumonia.
        Park Place said the death was ''unexpected.'' Its board met in New York to begin the search for a new chief executive, whom the company expects to name soon.
        The death occurred as much of the gambling industry was gathered in Las Vegas for the World Gaming Congress and Expo, the industry's largest trade show. Some speakers at the show preceded their prepared remarks with tributes to Mr. Goldberg.
        In an interview, Donald J. Trump, a usually friendly rival of Mr. Goldberg's in Atlantic City, said, ''Arthur had a great vision.'' Steve Wynn, who often had strained relations with Mr. Goldberg, issued a statement yesterday calling him ''a man of extraordinary energy and courage.''
        Mr. Goldberg, a former trucking company owner, began his ascent in the gambling business 10 years ago this month. A small-time corporate raider at the time, he spent about $14 million to buy a little more than 5 percent of the Bally Manufacturing Corporation, a struggling operator of casinos and health clubs and a maker of gambling machines. With the company in financial trouble, Mr. Goldberg demanded to be put in charge at a board meeting in October 1990. With few alternatives, the board agreed, even though Mr. Goldberg had no casino business experience.
        Mr. Goldberg restored Bally to health through aggressive cost-cutting and spun off the health clubs into Bally Total Fitness, a separate company of which he was chairman. In 1996, the gambling company was acquired for $2 billion by Hilton Hotels, and Mr. Goldberg became chief of  Hilton's casino operations.
        At the end of 1998, Hilton spun off the gambling business into a separate company called Park Place, with Mr. Goldberg at the helm. At the same time, Park Place bought Grand Casinos, the largest casino operator in Mississippi. A few months later, it paid $3 billion to purchase the Caesars casinos from Starwood Hotels and Resorts, becoming the largest casino company.
        Mr. Goldberg could be charismatic, but let little stand in his way, and controversy surrounded some of his deals. While other Atlantic City gambling executives tried to prevent gambling from coming to the Catskill Mountains, Mr. Goldberg surprised people by striking a deal this year with the St. Regis Mohawk Indian tribe to build a casino at Kutsher's resort. That undercut another casino project that had already received federal approval. Rivals speculated that Mr. Goldberg's real intention was to prevent new competition to Atlantic City. Mr. Goldberg denied it.
        Mr. Goldberg paid attention to costs and minor details. He would call up the cook, for instance, if he received a room service meal that was cold.
        Stephen F. Bollenbach, the chief executive of Hilton and chairman of Park Place, said that Mr. Goldberg carried in his pocket a report on all the checks written for more than $5,000, so he could question managers about their spending. ''The key to his success was that he worked real hard,'' Mr. Bollenbach said.
        Mr. Goldberg's philosophy was the opposite of that of Steve Wynn, who built his own casinos rather than buy from others and tried to make his properties the splashiest. Mr. Goldberg's Paris casino in Las Vegas, which opened in 1999, cost $785 million, less than half the cost of Mr. Wynn's Bellagio resort.
        ''He was probably the most shareholder-oriented leader in the casino industry,'' said Jason N. Ader, a gambling industry analyst at Bear, Stearns & Company.
        Mr. Goldberg, whose father ran a small trucking company, grew up in and around Newark. He graduated from Rutgers University and Villanova University School of Law and practiced law for a couple of years.
        But when his father suffered a heart attack in the late 1960's, Mr. Goldberg quit law to run the trucking company, which he built into a big operation before selling it in the mid-1980's.
        Throughout that decade, he invested in companies. Sometimes, the company paid bought back his stock for a higher price. In other cases, he actually ran the company and then sold it.
        In addition to running Park Place, Mr. Goldberg was chief executive of the Di Giorgio Corporation, a privately owned food distributor in Carteret, N.J.
        A physical fitness buff, Mr. Goldberg ran marathons, lifted weights and until a few years ago worked out with the Rutgers football team.
        He was also a big contributor to politicians, particularly Democrats. He served as a commissioner of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey from 1991 to 1994.
        Mr. Goldberg, who lived in New Jersey, is survived by his wife, Veronica; four children; six grandchildren; and a brother, according to Mr. Kempner, the spokesman. He said the names of the survivors would not be released.
      