
        Martin Rich, a conductor who enjoyed a 26-year association with the Metropolitan Opera and who worked alongside such eminent conductors as Herbert von Karajan, Bruno Walter and William Steinberg in music festivals around the world, died on Monday in New York. He was 95 and just the previous week had attended concerts at Carnegie Hall and Lincoln Center.
        He died at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan, his family said.
        Mr. Rich was born on Oct. 8, 1905,  in Breslau, Germany (now Wroclaw, Poland). He studied with the composer Franz Schrecker at the Hoch schule in Berlin, and began his career in Dortmund, conducting opera and symphonic works. Born to a Jewish family, he fled Germany in 1933 when the Nazis came to power, and worked in Italy before coming to the United States in 1937.
        He joined the Met staff as an assistant conductor in 1950 and made his Met debut in 1955 conducting Massenet's ''Manon,'' with Licia Albanese. ''It was, in short, a stunning debut,'' a critic for The New York Herald Tribune wrote. A critic for The New York Times concurred, writing that Mr. Rich made it clear ''that he is an opera conductor of address and experience.''
        He remained with the Met until 1976, conducting 24 works for a total of 114 performances, among them ''La Sonnambula'' with Joan Sutherland, ''Ariadne auf Naxos'' with Lucine Amara, operas by Verdi and Mozart and a large number of French works, for which Mr. Rich had a special affinity.
        He also worked regularly as a symphonic conductor and from 1970 until 1986 was the music director of the Philharmonic Symphony of Westchester, where he worked with such soloists as the pianists Garrick Ohlsson and Rudolf Firkusny, and the soprano Martina Arroyo. As a pianist he accompanied many distinguished singers, including Renata Tebaldi in her Carnegie Hall recital debut in 1955.
        Mr. Rich is survived by his wife, Maria; a daughter, Monica Sturm; two sisters, Faya Rose and Harriet Appleman; and two grandchildren, all of New York.
        Mr. Rich was also a mentor to younger generations of musicians. Until two years ago, he went to Philadelphia once a week to teach at the Curtis Institute of Music.
        Correction:  November 6, 2000, Monday  An obituary of the former Metropolitan Opera conductor Martin Rich on Oct. 26 misstated his tenure at the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia. He taught from 1947 to 1950, not until two years ago.
      