
        Michael Smith, who shared the 1993 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for developing one of the basic tools of genetic engineering, died on Wednesday at Vancouver General Hospital in Vancouver, British Columbia. He was 68.
        The cause was cancer, said a spokeswoman for the University of British Columbia, where Dr. Smith was a professor for many years and founded a biotechnology laboratory.
        Working at the university in the 1980's, Dr. Smith determined how to change the sequence of the chain of building blocks that make up DNA. The technique, given the tongue-twisting name oligonucleotide-based, site-directed mutagenesis, essentially allowed researchers to reprogram the genetic code, altering the structure and functions of the proteins encoded by DNA.
        ''It was the first technique that allowed you to go in with a pair of tweezers and change what the DNA was,'' said Brett Finlay, a professor at the university's biotechnology laboratory. ''It was a major breakthrough.''
        ''Of course, he didn't set out to do it,'' Dr. Finlay added. At the time, Dr. Smith was doing research that required that he change one amino acid in a particular protein. ''So he had to figure out a way to change the DNA to change the amino acid,'' Dr. Finlay said.
        Dr. Smith submitted a paper describing the technique to the prestigious journal Cell. It was promptly rejected. In later years, Dr. Finlay said, Dr. Smith expressed pride that his work ''was not good enough for Cell, but good enough for a Nobel Prize.''
        Victor Ling, vice president of research at the British Columbia Cancer Agency and Research Center, said that Dr. Smith understood that a key to the technique was putting the rearranged DNA back to work producing altered proteins.
        ''Part of his genius is that he recognized that it was important to put it back in living organisms, to make something biologically important,'' Dr. Ling said.
        As the field of genome science has advanced, Dr. Ling added, Dr. Smith's technique now holds potential for fighting certain genetically based diseases through gene therapy -- by undoing existing mutations that cause disease, in effect putting abnormal DNA sequences back to normal.
        ''His technology will allow us to learn how, perhaps, to correct these mutations,'' Dr. Ling said.
        Dr. Smith was born in the English seaside town of Blackpool, where his mother worked in a boarding house and his father grew market vegetables. He studied chemistry at the University of Manchester beginning in 1950, eventually receiving his doctorate in 1956. He moved to Vancouver that year, after being offered a fellowship with the British Columbia Research Council.
        He joined the University of British Columbia in 1966 and founded the biotechnology laboratory in 1987. Upon his retirement from the university three years ago, he became director of a new Genome Sequencing Center at the Cancer Agency, a post he held at his death.
        Dr. Smith, who separated from his wife, Helen, in 1983, is survived by a partner, Elizabeth Raines, two sons  and a daughter.
        Dr. Ling said that Dr. Smith was pleasantly surprised when he learned of the Nobel award, which he shared with Kary B. Mullis, an American chemist who developed another fundamental genetic engineering tool, the polymerase chain reaction.
        But since Dr. Smith's name is quite a common one, there was a brief delay in his receiving the news by telephone from Sweden. The Nobel officials called another Michael Smith in Vancouver first.
        ''That Michael Smith was definitely surprised,'' Dr. Ling said.
      