
        Vincent Canby, whose lively wit and sophisticated tastes illuminated film and theater reviews in The New York Times for more than 35 years, died yesterday at the Columbia-Presbyterian Center in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in New York.
        The cause was cancer.
        In an era of entertainment as a pervasive, ever-changing feature of American life, Mr. Canby was the ubiquitous, anonymous man in the aisle seat, taking it all in tonight for a million readers tomorrow: the latest Hollywood blockbuster at a multiplex, a subtle cinematic bijou at Cannes, a glittering new Broadway musical or the magical first night of a young star in New Haven.
        As senior film critic for The Times from 1969 to 1993 (he began reviewing films for the paper in 1965) and then as a theater critic, Mr. Canby delivered trenchant insights, sober judgments and wry humor in reviews for the daily paper and in longer analysis pieces for Arts & Leisure on Sunday.
        His writing was often an entertainment itself: conversational prose that conveyed a bracing disdain for sentiment, a clear eye for meretricious art, rapier cuts for pretentious fools and fine-tuned praise for artistry, all in a monologue -- and sometimes in an invented dialogue with a character he dubbed Stanley. His scholarship and cultural perspective were never flaunted but were as solid as his journalism.
        Mr. Canby's film work -- thousands of articles and essays that made up the bulk of his criticism -- was a virtual catalog of the cinematic arts in its most robust era, from the French New Wave and the rise of American independent cinema to the big-budget Hollywood blockbuster and the advent of videocassette recorders and 25-screen theaters.
        Along the way, he championed the work of a diverse group of filmmakers, including Spike Lee, Jane Campion, Mike Leigh, Rainer Werner Fassbinder, Woody Allen, Ismail Merchant and James Ivory, as well as many of the actors who appeared in their films.
        Later in his career he brought the same wide range of appreciation to theater criticism, praising the plays of Horton Foote, David Mamet and Sam Shepard while deploring the overamplification of the voices of singers and actors and criticizing other magnified stage effects. He also opposed a tendency of the theater to make itself more like film.
        A trim, courtly man with a warmly mischievous grin, Mr. Canby, who was also a playwright and novelist, worked as a reporter and critic for the show business journal Variety for six years before joining The Times in 1965. In his daily reviews and in the analysis articles he wrote for Arts & Leisure in his 35 years at the newspaper, Mr. Canby displayed a deft, lucid style.
        In a 1992 review of ''Howards End,'' for example, he wrote: ''It's time for legislation decreeing that no one be allowed to make a screen adaptation of any quality whatsoever if Ismail Merchant, James Ivory and Ruth Prawer Jhabvala are available, and if they elect to do the job. Trespassers should be prosecuted, possibly condemned, sentenced to watch 'Adam Bede' on 'Masterpiece Theater' for five to seven years.''
        Mr. Canby's reviews often provided perspective. When Steven Spielberg's ''E.T. The Extra-Terrestrial'' appeared in 1982, Mr. Canby noted that the film ''freely recycles elements from all sorts of earlier children's works, including 'Peter Pan' and 'The Wizard of Oz.' ''
        He added: ''Dorothy has become E.T., Kansas is outer space, and Oz is a modern, middle-class real-estate development in California.''
        ''If you are what you eat, then one of the sharks in 'Jaws' is a beer can, half a mackerel and a Louisiana license plate,'' he wrote in 1975. ''Another is a pretty young woman, a cylinder of oxygen, a small boy, a scoutmaster and still more. The other characters in the film are nowhere nearly so fully packed.''
        His reviews, while trenchant, were never gratuitously harsh, and that made his condemnations all the more telling. After the disastrous 1980 ''Heaven's Gate'' was shortened and rereleased the following year, he wrote that the abbreviated version ''looks like a fat man who's been on a crash diet.''
        ''Though it's thinner,'' he continued, ''it's not appreciably different.''
        He wrote with particular eloquence about the profession to which he was fiercely devoted. In 1979 he described ''the basic difference between the critic and the member of the public who attends movies on a more or less casual basis, wanting to be (as furious letter-writers say so often) 'entertained.' ''
        ''After a certain length of time spent watching films,'' he explained, ''the critic can no longer be entertained by simply sitting back and allowing the movie to roll over him like a tank made out of feathers. He wants to assume an active role. That's his entertainment.''
        In the same column he further explained: ''My colleagues and I might as well admit it publicly: there is a difference between people who write about movies and members of the public for whom we write. It isn't thought to be good form to say so. We're supposed to pretend that we're like everyone else, just folks, except that we get into theaters free and the members of the public have to stand in line, pay through the nose and then sometimes sit so close to the screen, and so far to one side, that the actors look like walking sticks.
        ''The difference is not that critics are smarter than anyone else. Far from it. A bit luckier, perhaps, if only because most of us are doing exactly what we want to. The difference has partly to do with memories of movies -- all kinds -- that build up on the critic's mind, automatically, over a period of time, like plaque on teeth. Mostly, though, the difference has to do with levels of tolerance. The latter, more than anything else, I think, explains the great gaps that frequently exist between the tastes of critics and those of the ticket-buying public.''
        A nine-day diary of his working life captured the relentless pace at which Mr. Canby wrote and thought about films, talked about them, went to screenings and encountered those feather tanks.
        The year was 1975, and his packed hours included reviewing abstract films at the Whitney Museum of American Art, watching a D. W. Griffith program at the Museum of Modern Art, writing an Arts & Leisure article, being accosted by a stranger who disagreed with one of his assessments and attending screenings of ''Galileo'' and ''Macon County Line.'' He also watched a documentary about the filmmaker Nicholas Ray and reread some material on Griffith in ''The Art of the Moving Picture,'' by Vachel Lindsay. Then he read the autobiography ''Billy Bitzer, His Story'' and much of ''Biograph Bulletins, 1908-1912,'' a facsimile reproduction of bulletins issued by Biograph to interest exhibitors in the studio's films.
        He did the Biograph reading on his day off.
        For all his serious attention to film, Mr. Canby never lost his delight at the medium's humorous possibilities. The twinkle in his eye often found its way into his prose. He once described the physique of the young Arnold Schwarzenegger as something the actor might want to shed in order to slip into something more comfortable. He called the experience of moviegoing at a multiplex ''often as infuriating as a visit to the Department of Motor Vehicles, when you don't know which queue you're in until you get to the head of the line.''
        As a theater critic Mr. Canby was enthusiastic about everything from the modest efforts of promising new writers to big Broadway entertainments like the revival of ''How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying.'' His review of the 1998 production of Sophocles' ''Electra'' was passionate. ''Though you may come out of the theater quibbling about various aspects of the production (as I did), you may also be surprised to find that it haunts your consciousness for days afterward,'' he wrote. ''Not just the fine, stern, unfancified performances by Zoe Wanamaker and Claire Bloom, but the play itself. No matter that it is 2,400 years old or that its concerns seem arcane in our world, 'Electra' remains an eerily fundamental, theatrically dynamic work.''
        A Dartmouth graduate who forever dressed the part in tweed jacket, oxford shirt with button-down collar, gray or khaki trousers and striped tie, Mr. Canby retained his lean build and boyish gait long after his reddish-blond hair grew white. His manner could be comparably chipper -- ''You son of a gun!'' was a favorite expression -- but his serious, reflective side was always equally apparent. His dignity and stature were effortless.
        He often devoted his vacation time to working on fiction and plays. Among these were ''Living Quarters,'' a novel (Knopf, 1975); ''End of the War,'' a play produced by the Ensemble Studio Theater in 1978; ''Unnatural Scenery,'' a novel (Knopf, 1979); ''After All,'' three one-act plays produced in 1981 by the Manhattan Theater Club; and ''The Old Flag,'' a play written in 1984.
        Although Mr. Canby never married, the writer and fellow film critic Penelope Gilliatt, who died in 1993, was his companion for many years. He is survived by a first cousin, Ann Barker Trufant of Cincinnati, and her daughter, Ridgely, of New York.
        Vincent Canby was born in Chicago on July 27, 1924, a son of Lloyd Canby and the former Katharine Anne Vincent. He spent his formative years in Lake Forest, Ill., and spent his high school years at the Christchurch School, a private school in Alexandria, Va.
        During World War II, he served as a Navy officer on a landing craft in the Pacific. (He had a lifelong love of the sea and often vacationed with friends on the island of St. Martin in the French West Indies.)
        After the war he lived in Paris, where one of his occupations was writing summaries of French scripts for an American movie company. His major journalistic coup at that time, he recalled, was an assignment from an American magazine to write an article on Maxim's, the famous restaurant. Armed with the magazine's letter, he and a friend were able to dine there free for a week.
        Returning to the United States, he entered Dartmouth, majoring in English literature and receiving a bachelor's degree in 1947.
        In 1948 he began his professional career, joining The Chicago Journal of Commerce as a general reporter, an assistant to the drama critic and to the foreign trade editor and as a transcriber of stock tables.
        In 1950 he migrated to New York and worked in public relations for a year. In 1951 he became a reporter for The Motion Picture Herald, where he worked for eight years. In 1959 he was hired by Variety, and for the next six years he reported on films and the theater and wrote reviews.
        He joined The Times on Dec. 13, 1965, as a reporter in the cultural news department, covering motion pictures. But he soon was writing feature articles on entertainers like Judy Garland for the daily and Sunday papers, and also began what was to become a 28-year assignment reviewing films for The Times.
        In 1993 he was named the Sunday theater critic of The Times, and in 1994 he became the chief theater critic before returning to the Sunday critic's post in 1996, where he had a comfortable vantage point from which to take potshots at some of the modern excesses he deplored.
        Reviewing the musical ''Ragtime,'' which was produced by Garth Drabinsky and opened at the Ford Center in Manhattan in 1998, Mr. Canby wrote:
        ''Incidentally, the Ford Center commemorates not the playhouse in Washington where Lincoln was assassinated, but the motor car company whose founder, by chance, is a character in 'Ragtime.' Ford has an arrangement with Mr. Drabinsky's Livent company to have its name on this theater (as well as two others in Canada) in return for a fee. It is a fitting name for the new 42nd Street house. Much of the grandeur of its lobbies and other public spaces recalls high-class motel decor. There is plenty of room between the rows of big, comfortable seats in the orchestra, and when you're sitting there, the auditorium seems big enough to hold several parking lots.''
        That was not his only vision for the present and future of the theater.
        ''In today's theater, sound amplification has a way of making the live performance seem more artificial,'' Mr. Canby wrote in 1995. ''Why not, then, give in to television screens in the audience? They're no more artificial than loudspeakers. Being raised on television, we are used to seeing everything in close-up. How long can the theater insist that we take the long view?''
        Correction:  October 19, 2000, Thursday  An obituary of the former film and theater critic Vincent Canby on Monday misstated the location of the Christchurch School, where he attended high school. It is in Christchurch, Va., about 55 miles east of Richmond, not in Alexandria.
      