
        Joseph F. Haas, an Atlanta lawyer who played an important role in the Voter Education Project, which encouraged blacks across the South to register to vote in the 1960's, 1970's and 1980's, died on Tuesday in Atlanta. He was 89 and lived in Atlanta.
        The Voter Education Project, which was founded in 1962, financed local, nonpartisan registration efforts in the South. It also contributed money to the major civil rights organizations.
        Members of its staff were active in 11 states in the South. They ran get-out-the-vote campaigns and registration workshops.
        Representative John Lewis, a Georgia Democrat who once directed the project, which no longer exists, said that Mr. Haas ''changed the lives of hundreds of thousands of people'' and ''helped create a climate, an environment for nonviolent revolution in the South.''
        David J. Garrow, a historian of civil rights at the Emory University Law School in Atlanta, said the project's ''relative lack of success in registering large numbers of new black voters in hostile areas such as Mississippi between 1962 and 1964 provided a powerful impetus towards passing the voting rights act of 1965.''
        The project received financing from foundations that included the Taconic Foundation, the New World Foundation and the Field Foundation, with some encouragement from the Kennedy administration.
        The project's first director was Wiley A. Branton, who died in 1988. His brother, Leo Branton Jr., said  Wiley Branton had been ''responsible, along with other people, including Mr. Haas,'' for the registration of large numbers of black voters.
        This, Mr. Branton said, ''resulted in the first emergence of the black community to any kind of political power in the South.''
        Mr. Haas was a member of the board and the chief legal counsel of the Southern Regional Council, of which the project was a part until 1970. In those days the council, a group of prominent blacks and whites in Atlanta, called itself a human relations group that did research and studies on the question of race.
        Mr. Lewis said that without Mr. Haas's guidance, it would have been very difficult for the the council to establish the project. He said Mr. Haas had done major legal work involved in the project's creation. He also served on the project's board in the 1960's.
        Vernon E. Jordan Jr., a former head of the Urban League, said, ''In the South in those days, you knew who the stand-up men and women were in the white community, and he was one of them.''
        Mr. Haas was also active in the Atlanta Legal Aid Society, helping to revive it after World War II, and he was a fund-raiser for it in later years.
        Mr. Haas received his law degree from Harvard. A native Atlantan, he began practicing law there with his father, Herbert, and had various partners in later years.
        He is survived by his wife, Betty; a son, Jeff, of Evanston, Ill.; a daughter, Susan H. Reinach of Atlanta; a sister, Carolyn H. Kahn of Atlanta; six grandchildren, and a great-grandchild.
      