
        Daniel H. Lavezzo Jr., who for more than half a century as an owner of P. J. Clarke's saloon offered patrons from ironworkers to movie stars the comforts of cold beer, a dark refuge and juicy hamburgers, died of heart failure Tuesday at his Manhattan home. He was 83.
        Clarke's, on Third Avenue at 55th Street, was the setting for the movie classic ''The Lost Weekend,'' with Ray Milland, although that was filmed in 1945, four years before Mr. Lavezzo's family bought the bar. Charles R. Jackson, who wrote the novel on which the film was based, stopped by for years afterward.
        He was one of many celebrities who came to Clarke's while Mr. Lavezzo owned it. Buddy Holly proposed marriage at Clarke's, and Aristotle Onassis took Lee Radziwill there years before he married Jacqueline Kennedy. Gov. Hugh L. Carey swore that he did not visit with the frequency newspapers suggested. Nat King Cole named the bacon cheeseburger ''the Cadillac of burgers,'' a moniker that stuck. Table 23 was Frank Sinatra's any time he wanted it.
        Joe Allen, who started working at Clarke's as a bartender in the early 1950's and now owns eight restaurants around the world, remembers the evening in the late 1950's when three people entered and sat at separate tables waiting for company. They were the mobster Frank Costello, Senator Hubert H. Humphrey and Marilyn Monroe.
        ''I thought, hmmm, this isn't bad,'' Mr. Allen said in a telephone interview from his home in Tuscany, Italy.
        On Friday, a little after noon, a visitor found the place crowded and the jukebox playing the music of Louis Armstrong, who used to drop by with his trumpets early in the morning. Glasses clinked as people made merry in dark rooms said to have escaped a paintbrush since at least the First World War.
        Jessie, a terrier who once darted across Third Avenue to pick up newspapers, sat frozen in her permanent and now dusty perch above the ladies' room. Customers had chipped in long ago to have her stuffed.
        But Mr. Lavezzo was not in his usual position between the front and back room greeting customers, a task he preferred to the office chores, which his brother handles. Monday was his last day.
        ''He was the champ of all time,'' said Martin Finn, 70, a retired Off-Track Betting employee who has been coming to Clarke's for four decades. ''He was Mr. New York -- a magical, magical man.''
        He also became known as a David who prevailed over Goliath when he resisted offers to sell the property to developers who were putting up a skyscraper around it. Instead, he negotiated a 99-year lease with the developers, the Tishman Realty and Construction Company.
        He received payments totaling $1.5 million in a deal that involved the family's chopping off the building's two top floors -- which were never used by Clarke's -- so they could be traded as air rights to allow the adjacent skyscraper to be built higher.
        ''The result was what you see today: like Dudley Moore posing with the New York Knicks, here is a little bit of a thing dwarfed by giant structures, but very chipper and strong,'' an article in GQ magazine said in 1986.
        Daniel Henry Lavezzo Jr. was born in Manhattan on July 20, 1917. He grew up in Greenwich, Conn., and attended several prep schools, including Choate, where he played football with John F. Kennedy, according to his son, Daniel Henry Lavezzo III. He then entered the Navy instead of college, and after World War II pursued a variety of jobs, including selling Zenith radios in the Midwest.
        He decided to join his father in his antiques business in New York. His father owned seven lots along Third Avenue, including the site of  Clarke's. In 1949, Mr. Lavezzo, his father and a brother, John, bought the business.
        The goal was the same as with antiques: to preserve a piece of the past. The business would combine the old bar crowd, which included late-night revelers in black tie and carpenters in overalls, with Ivy League professionals eager to relax in comfortable surroundings.
        Food became more important around 1950, when city health authorities began to encourage dining in bars. In 1956, a large dining room was added in the back.
        Its large oval table became the headquarters of a group of regulars who called themselves the Science Club and met every Friday for lunch. Dorothy Kilgallen, a panelist on the television show ''What's My Line?'' started the practice of bringing a mystery guest. One of the guests was Harry Belafonte, who won immediate approval by asking, ''What are we meeting to overthrow?''
        Mr. Allen said he began stopping at Clarke's after returning from World War II and facing an ''invisible,'' if clearly not thirsty, future. Mr. Lavezzo suggested that he start working at the bar, in part to stem his rising bar tab. Mr. Allen began studying his boss's style.
        He noticed that Mr. Lavezzo refused to use ice machines, apparently because he enjoyed the old-fashioned ritual of the iceman coming. He gave Earl Wilson and other gossip columnists free drinks, like all the other bars, but begged them not to mention Clarke's, mainly so celebrities might feel protected there. He marveled that all New York Giants football players and coaches drank without charge, only because Mr. Lavezzo was such an unabashed fan.
        When Mr. Allen opened a restaurant he copied the checked tablecloths, the bare brick and other features. But he said those were not the important lessons.
        ''What I got from him was his point of view,'' Mr. Allen said.
        Mr. Lavezzo dressed nattily, favoring madras sport jackets when they were in fashion, and sometimes when they were not.
        Mr. Lavezzo is survived by his son and brother, one grandson and one great-grandson.
        His passion was racing, breeding and betting on horses. His thoroughbred Chas Conerly, named for the Giants football player, ran well in the early 1980's.
        Mr. Lavezzo's affection for betting on the horses came into play in his split-second decision to allow unaccompanied women to stand at the bar, a practice he had previously feared would encourage prostitutes. About 10 women gathered at the bar at lunchtime and demanded to be served, according to GQ.
        Mr. Lavezzo was just leaving to bet the daily double. As he rushed past, the bartender asked what he should do. ''Serve 'em before I miss the double!'' he shouted.
      