
        Col. Pat Porteous, who as a captain in the British commandos received the Victoria Cross, the British Commonwealth's highest award for valor, for leading a bayonet charge on a major German gun battery during the Dieppe raid in World War II, died Monday. He was 82.
        During the early morning of Aug. 19, 1942, 5,000 Canadians, 1,000 British commandos and 50 United States Rangers crossed the pebbled beaches in front of the German-occupied English Channel port of Dieppe, France. The troops were ordered to destroy radar installations and big guns and then return to England in a raid aimed at gaining experience for the D-Day invasion that would come less than two years later.
        Captain Porteous came ashore with Lord Lovat's 252-man No. 4 Commando unit, which was to silence a six-gun German battery on cliffs near Varengeville that could devastate Canadian forces attacking Dieppe, a few miles to the east.
        Early in the operation, Captain Porteous -- a liaison between two detachments of the commando unit -- was shot at close range through the hand, the bullet lodging in his upper arm, while he was with the smaller detachment. He closed on his attacker, disarmed him as he was taking aim on a British sergeant and then killed the German with his own bayonet.
        Soon after that, when two British officers were killed leading an attack by the larger detachment on the German gun battery, Captain Porteous took their place, dashing across 250 yards of open ground in the face of machine-gun fire at the head of a bayonet assault. He was wounded a second time -- shot through the thigh -- but supervised the destruction of the guns before collapsing.
        Just as the commandos completed their work, German fighter planes swept overhead. The commandos, having no time to seek cover, waved to the pilots, pretending they were German soldiers. They were convincing enough. The pilots waved back and continued on.
        A French woman who witnessed the operation presented each of the commandos with a newly laid egg, a treat seldom available in war-rationed England. On Oct. 28, 1942, Captain Porteous's heroics were recognized on a larger stage when he received the Victoria Cross from King George VI.
        After being hospitalized for treatment of his wounds, he returned to the commandos and took part in the D-Day invasion of Normandy on June 6, 1944, going ashore at Sword Beach, the easternmost sector.
        Patrick Anthony Porteous was born on Jan. 1, 1918, in India, the son of Brig. Gen. C. McL. Porteous of the Gurkha Rifles. He attended Wellington College and the Royal Military Academy at Woolwich, then received a commission in the artillery in 1937. He served in an antiaircraft brigade evacuated from Dunkirk in 1940, then joined the commandos at the end of that year.
        He remained in the military after World War II, and when he retired in 1970 as a colonel, he was the only remaining active officer in the British Army to have received the Victoria Cross.
        Colonel Porteous is survived by his wife, Deirdre, and four daughters.
        His death leaves 22 living holders of the Victoria Cross, established by Queen Victoria in 1856.
        More than half the Allied troops in the Dieppe raid were killed, wounded or captured, and the operation attained few of its objectives. Although Lord Lovat's commandos silenced an important gun battery, the Canadian troops bearing the brunt of the attack were raked by other German guns, having received inadequate fire support from ships and aircraft.
        ''The whole scheme was too ambitious and ended in a complete muddle,'' Lord Lovat said on the eve of ceremonies at Dieppe marking the 50th anniversary of the raid.
        Notwithstanding his receipt of the Victoria Cross and the naming of a street in his honor in Dieppe, Colonel Porteous once called the raid ''the biggest disaster that ever happened,'' and, he said, ''The people who planned it should be shot.''
      