
        Representative Bruce F. Vento of Minnesota, a Democrat who championed environmental causes and bank reform during 12 terms in Congress, died today at his home in St. Paul, three days after his 60th birthday.
        Mr. Vento had been suffering in recent months from mesothelioma, a form of cancer in the lining of the chest cavity that is often linked to exposure to asbestos fibers. He recently filed suit against 11 companies, contending that they had exposed him to asbestos on job sites in St. Paul when he was a young state-paid laborer. Mesothelioma often strikes decades after a person is exposed to asbestos.
        Mr. Vento announced in February that he would not seek re-election and he had undergone the removal of a lung, chemotherapy and radiation.
        From 1985 until Republicans captured the House in 1994, Mr. Vento was chairman of the Resources Subcommittee on National Parks and Public Lands. Until his death, he served on that panel and the Resource Subcommittee on Fisheries Conservation, Wildlife and Oceans.
        Mr. Vento favored restrictions on logging to protect the spotted owl in the Pacific Northwest, higher fees for grazing on public lands and more federal aid for urban parks. His positions made him a favorite of the Wilderness Society, the National Parks and Conservation Association and other environmental organizations.
        Mr. Vento served on the Banking and Financial Services Committee and was the ranking Democrat on the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit. He specialized in consumer-protection and privacy issues.
        He was also a member of the Banking and Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity and was on the Democratic Caucus Task Force on Urban Issues and Housing.
        On May 2, Mr. Vento cast one of his last major votes, in opposition to normalizing trade relations with China.
        It was not immediately clear when and how Mr. Vento's seat would be filled. His district has been held by Democrats since 1948.
        Bruce Vento was born on Oct. 7, 1940, the second-oldest of eight children of Frank and Anne Vento.
        Mr. Vento studied at the University of Minnesota and graduated from Wisconsin State University in 1965 with a bachelor of science degree. He attended graduate school at the University of Minnesota and was a National Science Foundation Scholar.
        He was at various times a hotel employee, brewery worker, laborer in a plastics plant and part-time newspaper mail room clerk. He taught science and social studies in Minneapolis public schools for 10 years. He was a steward in both the machinists' union and the Minnesota Federation of Teachers.
        Mr. Vento was elected to the Minnesota Legislature in 1970. He served three terms, becoming assistant majority leader and a committee chairman. He was elected to Congress from Minnesota's Fourth Congressional District as a member of the Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party in 1976.
        His marriage to Mary Jean Moore ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Susan, whom he married in August; his parents; seven brothers and sisters; three sons, John, Michael and Peter, all of the Twin Cities area; and four grandchildren.
        Correction:  October 14, 2000, Saturday  Because of an editing error, an obituary of Representative Bruce F. Vento of Minnesota on Wednesday  misstated the date of one of his last major votes, opposing normal trade relations with China. It was May 24, not May 2.
      