
        Thomas King, whose early research in frog embryos foreshadowed the cloning of sheep and other mammals decades later, died last Wednesday at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He was 79 and lived in Alexandria, Va.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Dr. King retired in 1990 from Georgetown University, which he joined in 1967 as a professor of biology. He moved to the department of obstetrics and gynecology in 1980 and became director of the university's Kennedy Institute of Ethics and deputy director of the Lombardi Cancer Research Center.
        But it was many years earlier, at the Institute for Cancer Research in Philadelphia, that Dr. King did the work that would ultimately draw wide notice. He was investigating how cells specialize in a developing embryo when he and a colleague, Dr. Robert W. Briggs, devised a delicate microsurgical technique of transplanting the nucleus from a single advanced embryonic cell into an egg whose nucleus had been removed.
        Their achievement, reported in 1952, showed that a nucleus could be transferred from a tadpole to a frog's egg to produce a new frog, in effect by cloning. The matter rested there, the scientific consensus being that it was impossible to duplicate the feat with genes from adult frogs.
        Reports to the contrary were not authenticated until the 1960's, when Dr. John B. Gurdon of Britain repeatedly succeeded in cloning frogs. His results awakened the world to the implications of the procedure and inspired a spate of science-fiction accounts of human clones.
        Then, in 1981, scientists at the University of Geneva reported the first cloning of a mammal. Using cells from mouse embryos, they produced three mice that were genetically identical, and cleared the way for experiments with larger mammals.
        For their groundbreaking contribution, Dr. King and Dr. Briggs were awarded the Charles Leopold Mayer Prize of the Academie de Science, Institut de France, in 1972. They were the first Americans to receive that award, the academy's highest.
        A native New Yorker, Thomas Joseph King graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Fordham University and received an M.S. (1949) and a Ph.D. (1953) at New York University. He interrupted his education to serve with Army medical units in Atlanta and the Pacific.
        He started teaching at Hunter College and N.Y.U. in 1947. He joined the institute in Philadelphia in 1950 and was chairman of its department of embryology when he moved to Georgetown University.
        Dr. King is survived by his wife, Hannah May Lyddane King; a daughter by an earlier marriage, Deborah K. Kurz of Baltimore; a stepson, Lawrence Lyddane of Alexandria; two stepdaughters, Deborah Trilling of Bethesda, Md., and Hannah May Batty of London; and two grandchildren. His first wife, Marion Emerson King, died in 1989 after 43 years of marriage.
        Correction:  November 6, 2000, Monday  An obituary on Tuesday about Dr. Thomas King, a biologist who conducted early experiments in cloning, misstated the result of work reported in 1952. Dr. King and a colleague told of having produced tadpoles from the nuclei of frog embryos inserted into frog eggs -- not a frog from a tadpole nucleus and a frog's egg.
        The obituary also referred incompletely to scientists' claims of cloning mice at the University of Geneva in 1981 and misstated the effect the Geneva project had on later cloning efforts. The 1981 claims have been discredited, and the efforts in Geneva did not clear the way for cloning experiments with larger mammals.
      