
        Mitchell Sviridoff, a national leader in urban social policy and philanthropy who played an important role over three decades in developing strategies for lifting people out of poverty and reviving decaying neighborhoods, died early Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 81.
        The cause of death was kidney failure, his family said.
        Mr. Sviridoff, known as Mike, had several careers. He was an assembly plant worker, a labor organizer and the architect and administrator of antipoverty programs, both in his native New Haven and later in New York. He was a Ford Foundation official and a professor of urban policy at the New School.
        His most important contribution was in the field of community development.
        An early and enthusiastic proponent of grass-roots organizations as the engine for rebuilding poor neighborhoods in places like Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, Mr. Sviridoff persuaded foundations, government agencies and corporations to recognize such groups and provide them with millions of dollars.
        He was the first president of the Local Initiatives Support Corporation, an organization that pools technical and financial resources to help so-called community development corporations create jobs and build housing for low-income residents.
        Unlike many champions of the poor, Mr. Sviridoff was a pragmatist without a political agenda, a trait that enhanced his effectiveness in corporate boardrooms.
        ''He always wanted to figure out the most practical and sensible way of getting something done,'' said Carl Weisbrod, the president of the Alliance for Downtown New York, a business group, and a regular in the weekly poker games that Mr. Sviridoff used to hold in his apartment.
        Mr. Sviridoff was born in New Haven on Nov. 4, 1918. After graduating from Hillhouse High School, he went to a vocational school. At 19, he took a job at an aircraft parts plant in Stratford, Conn. That led to a succession of posts in the labor movement, and he eventually became president of the state A.F.L.-C.I.O. Despite his lack of a college education, he was appointed president of the New Haven Board of Education.
        In the early 1960's, Mr. Sviridoff worked for a State Department program that administered aid to Latin America. But what people were calling the crisis of the cities had captured the public spotlight, and Richard C. Lee, the mayor of New Haven, summoned Mr. Sviridoff home.
        Two years before President Lyndon B. Johnson declared the war on poverty, Mr. Sviridoff became the executive director of Community Progress Inc., an antipoverty program in New Haven that was set up with a Ford Foundation grant. In its first 30 months, the program found employment for 1,500 people and became a national model.
        Rather than trying to supplant community groups, Mr. Sviridoff tried to help them achieve their goals. He and his staff were so adept at writing grant proposals to federal agencies that people in New York  began referring to New Haven's ''magic at getting money.'' In 1965, the program received one-third as much federal antipoverty money as New York, a city 50 times its size.
        By then, New York had a mayor, John V. Lindsay, who wanted his antipoverty efforts to win similar notice. Mr. Sviridoff was recruited to study a hodgepodge of programs dealing with welfare, employment training, youth programs and the poor and consolidate them in the Human Resources Administration. In 1966, Mr. Sviridoff became the agency's first administrator.
        It did not take him long to discover that New York was not New Haven, and that its problems were too big to be solved by the neat organizational charts and other strategies that had worked so well in Connecticut. His staff rebelled. Nearly 200 frustrated employees protested in a memo to Mr. Lindsay that the agency was so chaotic and the working conditions so intolerable that the human resources agency should be disbanded.
        Only nine months after assuming his new duties with the city, the Ford Foundation offered Mr. Sviridoff a position as a vice president for national affairs, and, much to the chagrin of the mayor, he accepted it.
        In later years, some people said  Mr. Sviridoff had repaid the city when Stanley Brezenoff, who had been Mr. Sviridoff's assistant at the Ford Foundation and was one of many New Yorkers in public service who regarded him as their mentor, became the city's human resources administrator.
        ''I think that ought to settle the score once and for all,'' Mr. Sviridoff said when his protege's appointment was announced in 1979. ''I think that the city is getting the better part of the bargain.''
        By that time, Mr. Sviridoff had become disenchanted with the unwieldy structure he had helped design, saying that such efforts were doomed because of turf battles, bureaucratic inertia and other obstacles.
        At the Ford Foundation, Mr. Sviridoff helped nurture a wide variety of programs to address the problems of the cities, some of which were later spun off, including the Vera Institute for Criminal Justice; the Manpower Demonstration Research Corporation, a social policy research organization; and the Police Foundation.
        ''He was extraordinarily supportive of innovative work,''said Herbert Sturz, the founding director of the Vera Institute.
        One innovation was the Local Initiatives Support Corporation. When a Ford trustee asked Mr. Sviridoff what he would do with $25 million to spend on declining cities, he answered by recalling a suggestion by Franklin A. Thomas, then a Ford trustee (and later its president). Mr. Thomas, who had run the Bedford-Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation, had proposed identifying 100 communities with promising self-help groups and getting money to them.
        In a year, the program was up and running. In 1980, Mr. Sviridoff resigned from Ford to work full time for the local initiatives group.
        ''And the results speak for themselves,'' Mr. Sviridoff wrote recently. ''Community development, something that in the 1970's and early 80's was really just a movement, is something we now quite properly call an industry.''
        During the last two decades, corporation officials say, they have raised $3 billion, money that has been used to produce more than 100,000 units of housing, more than 10 million square feet of commercial and industrial space, and projects like a Pathmark store in East Harlem, the neighborhood's first full-size supermarket in three decades.
        In 1985, Mr. Sviridoff resigned from the Local Initiatives Support Corporation to teach at the New School for Social Research, where he was director of the Kaplan Center for New York City Affairs at the Milano Graduate School. He was also founder of the school's Community Development Research Center.
        He had a steady stream of guests at the vacation home on Martha's Vineyard that he shared with his wife, Doris, whom he married in 1940. Until his recent illness, he swam and played tennis almost daily  and often cooked for his friends.
        The couple had two daughters, Karen Segal of Los Angeles, and Michele of New York, one grandchild and one great-grandchild.
        At a 1985 party to celebrate his years of public service, Mr. Sviridoff recited lines from a poem by William Butler Yeats:
        God guard me from those thoughts
        men think in the mind alone.
        He that sings a lasting song
        thinks in a marrow bone.
        He said the lines expressed his own approach to helping people.
        ''That is the way I function,'' he told an interviewer after the party. ''I do things that do not seem logical at the beginning and sometimes fail. But when they succeed, they tend to be lasting songs.''
      