
        Robert Harris Chapman, a retired teacher of English and drama at Harvard University and a co-author of the stage version of Herman Melville's ''Billy Budd,'' died on Sept. 27 in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
        He was 81 and lived in Fort Lauderdale.
        Mr. Chapman joined the Harvard faculty as an instructor of English in 1950. ''Billy Budd,'' which he wrote with Louis O. Coxe, opened on Broadway in 1951 and was applauded as ''an extraordinarily skillful play'' by the critic Brooks Atkinson in a review in The New York Times.
        Mr. Chapman rose to full professor of English at Harvard and retired in 1989. He taught a highly popular course called ''Drama Since Ibsen.''
        The Harvard Crimson said in 1953 that the number of students taking that course had undergone a ''sudden sprouting'' because Mr. Chapman's  ''intense interest in things theatrical has drawn both dilettantes and serious students with equal force.'' His other teaching included courses on George Bernard Shaw and on Restoration drama.
        In 1960 he also became director of what was then called the Loeb Drama Center for Harvard University and Radcliffe College. It opened that year and provided a main theater and a smaller experimental theater for student productions. He held that post until 1980.
        Former students of his at Harvard include Andre Bishop, artistic director of Lincoln Center Theater; Tommy Lee Jones; John Updike; John Lithgow; and the playwright Arthur Kopit.
        Mr. Chapman received an honorary master's degree from Harvard in 1956.
        He and Mr. Coxe rewrote their  version of ''Billy Budd'' before it opened on Broadway. Later Mr. Chapman recalled: ''We did it in six days over a barrel of martinis. God, what a wonderful time it was!''
        The play is based on Melville's grim allegorical tale, set in the British Navy, of good pitted against evil. Mr. Atkinson said in his review that the play had ''size and depth as well as color and excitement.''
        It was made into a 1962 movie directed by Peter Ustinov.
        Mr. Chapman was born in Highland Park, Ill., and received a bachelor's degree in 1941 from Princeton University.
        He served in naval intelligence in Morocco and Europe in World War II and taught at Princeton and then Berkeley before he was hired at Harvard.
        He is survived by a sister, Joan Chapman of Davie, Fla.
      