
        William J. Kennedy, the president of the printing pressmen's union who led an 88-day strike against New York City's three major newspapers in 1978, died on Wednesday at North Shore University Hospital in Plainview, N.Y. He was 78 and lived in Dix Hills, N.Y.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said his wife, Annette.
        Mr. Kennedy, who was also the son of a printing press operator, was a fierce advocate for the pressmen in his 22 years running Local No. 2 of the New York Newspaper Printing Pressmen's Union.
        During the 1978 strike, he delighted his union's members, but angered managers at The Daily News, The New York Post and The New York Times, by digging in against the newspapers' demands to cut back the number of people operating their printing presses.
        ''He was a tough bargainer, and he sometimes gave the impression that he was unreasonable,'' said Theodore W. Kheel, the veteran labor mediator. ''But when push came to shove, he accommodated himself to what was required for a deal.''
        Several officials at the pressmen's local said Mr. Kennedy was a born union politician, having grown up familiar with the lives and aspirations of pressmen. To those on the management side of the bargaining table, he was often gruff, especially in the opening rounds, but he was also open to hearing the other side's case.
        William Joseph Kennedy was born on Aug. 31, 1922, in Queens, the son of William Joseph and the former May Brickfield. He grew up in Queens and was graduated from John Adams High School.
        In 1941, he became a pressman at The Daily News, but left to serve in the Coast Guard during World War II. After the war, he resumed his pressman's career at The New York Mirror, achieving journeyman status in 1954.
        Over the next decade, he climbed the ladder at the union. In 1965 he was elected president of the pressmen's local in New York City. The pressmen's union was one of the most powerful of the printing trades unions because it could easily shut down operations if its 1,500 members walked out. He took the local's presidency toward the end of a 25-day walkout at The Times that also closed the six other New York dailies.
        In 1975, he married Annette Kuskowski, who survives him.
        In the 1970's, when New York's newspapers were increasingly turning to automation, Mr. Kennedy's membership grew angry when the city's newspapers proposed sizable cuts in the number of workers operating presses, even though the reductions were to be done by attrition.
        When the pressmen's union refused to agree to the proposals four months after their contract had expired, the newspapers moved to make the cuts, and the union struck. The drivers' union and eight other newspaper unions honored the pressmen's picket line.
        ''I spent 88 days with him night and day,'' said John D. Feerick, who was chief counsel to the pressmen's local and is now dean of Fordham Law School. ''There was all this pressure on him to make an early settlement regardless of what the consequences might be for his union. He withstood that pressure.''
        Mr. Kennedy used an unusual strategy to increase pressure on The Times and The News to settle when he signed an interim agreement with The Post. That agreement called for the pressmen to resume work at The Post on the condition that they accept whatever agreement the other two newspapers reached.
        Three weeks later, after weeks of mediation, Mr. Kennedy and the newspapers reached an agreement that called for considerably smaller staff reductions than the newspapers had sought.
        ''He certainly did a good job of representing his members, but the agreement was not in line with what we thought should be done,'' said W. H. James, who was publisher of The Daily News during the strike. ''The publishers were seeking a press-manning agreement that was something more in line with the suburban newspapers, with which we were all competing.''
        Mr. Kennedy retired as the union's leader in 1987, but he still kept a hand in union affairs. Patrick J. Purcell, a former publisher of The Post, said he played a crucial, behind-the-scenes role in 1993 in helping The Post negotiate a new deal with the pressmen.
        ''His members respected him,'' said George E. McDonald, president of the New York State Allied Printing Trades Council, the association of printers' unions. ''They all knew they had a leader who wasn't going to cave in on anything.''
      