
        Benjamin Orr, a bassist, vocalist and founding member of the rock group the Cars, died on Tuesday in his home in Atlanta. He was 53.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Billy Johnson, who manages Big People, an Atlanta band for which Mr. Orr played bass.
        Born Benjamin Orzechowski in Cleveland, Mr. Orr dropped out of high school to lead a regional rock band, the Grasshoppers, and perform on a television music show, ''Upbeat.'' A local fixture, Mr. Orr was known for his long hair, his good looks and his ability to fill any role in a rock band, from vocalist to guitarist to drummer. The Grasshoppers broke up when members were drafted during the Vietnam War.
        The formation of the Cars was a long, slow metamorphosis. In the late 60's, Mr. Orr met a college dropout named Ric Ocasek at a party in Ohio. They formed a duo and moved to Manhattan, Woodstock and finally Boston in search of opportunities to make music. In Boston, they met the keyboardist Greg Hawkes and released a folk-rock album as Milkwood.
        After becoming fixtures in local bars and cafes under various names and line-ups, they added Elliott Easton on guitar and became a rock band called Cap'n Swing. The final element materialized when they met David Robinson, a former drummer with the Boston band the Modern Lovers. Mr. Robinson renamed the band the Cars and helped the members cement their sleek pop-art and futurism-influenced look and style.
        In 1978, the band released its first album, ''The Cars,'' on Elektra Records. Mixing new-wave detachment, preening synthesizers, catchy pop hooks and an arch take on classic boy-girl and teeny-bop themes, ''The Cars'' landed three songs in the top 50: ''Good Times Roll,'' ''Just What I Needed'' and ''My Best Friend's Girl.'' For the next nine years, the band sustained its success (thanks in part to adapting quickly to the emerging medium of rock videos). Its nonstop string of hits peaked in 1984 with its highest-charting song, the ballad ''Drive,'' achingly sung by Mr. Orr.
        As the group was beginning to break up, Mr. Orr released a solo album, ''The Lace,'' in 1986, which resulted in a top 40 hit, ''Stay the Night.''
        Most recently, he played in a rock veteran amalgam called Big People with Pat Travers, Jeff Carlisi of .38 Special, Derek St. Holmes of Ted Nugent's band and Liberty DeVito of Billy Joel's band. The band was to perform in Atlanta tonight; its manager said the show would go on, with a tribute to Mr. Orr.
      