
        David Golub, a pianist and conductor, who was seen as Isaac Stern's accompanist in the 1979 film ''From Mao to Mozart'' and who performed regularly with several chamber ensembles, most notably the Golub-Kaplan-Carr Trio, died on Monday at his home in Milan. He was 50 and lived in Milan and New York.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Nancy Shear, Mr. Golub's press representative.
        Mr. Golub was born in Chicago in 1950 and grew up in Dallas, where he began his piano studies. He was accepted at the pre-college division of the Juilliard School when he was 14, but chose to continue studying in Dallas.
        When he was 18, he enrolled at the Juilliard School and moved to New York. But during his second year of studies there, he decided to take six months off to reconsider his technique.
        His teacher, Beveridge Webster, was a specialist in the French repertory, but Mr. Golub had become increasingly drawn to the Russian Romantic school of pianism, which demanded a different approach to both the weight and color of a pianist's sound.
        During his student years, Mr. Golub spent his summers at the Marlboro festival, in Vermont, where he began conducting from the keyboard. At both Marlboro and Juilliard, he also played chamber music and accompanied recitalists, among them cello students of Leonard Rose. When Rose needed a pianist in the early 1970's, he enlisted Mr. Golub, who toured with him for three years. Rose, in turn, recommended him to Mr. Stern, who took him on the trip to China that was documented in ''From Mao to Mozart.'' His work with Mr. Stern led to some of his first important orchestral engagements and recitals.
        In 1982, he started a trio with the violinist Mark Kaplan and the cellist Colin Carr. With the trio he commissioned several works and made a handful of recordings, principally for Arabesque Records.
        He was also an artist member of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center.
        As a conductor, Mr. Golub led the Padua Chamber Orchestra, in Italy, during the 1994-95 season and on a 1999 tour of the United States. He also made recordings with the ensemble, including a collection of Dvorak works, and the Viotti violin concertos featuring Mr. Kaplan.
        In recent years, he was increasingly drawn to opera, particularly operas of the Classical era. He conducted long-neglected works by Piccini and Traetta at the Festival della Valle d'Itria, in Italy, and led a highly regarded recording of Haydn's ''Isola Disabitata,'' which was released on Arabesque in 1999. A second Haydn opera recording, ''La Fidelta Premiata,'' has not yet been released.
        Mr. Golub is survived by his wife, Maria Majno, and his parents, Benjamin and Sima Golub of San Diego.
      