
        Dr. Malcolm C. Todd, a former president of the American Medical Association who helped develop a precursor of the Medicare program, died on Monday at Long Beach Memorial Medical Center in California. He was 87.
        In the late 1940's, as a consultant to the Navy, he collaborated with Adm. Jimmy James in developing a program that provided medical care to dependents of service members.
        A longtime friend, Rhoda Weiss, who is a consultant to the medical center, said the program for military dependents served as a model when, in the 1950's Dr. Todd advised federal officials about ways to provide health insurance to people 65 and older. Ms. Weiss said Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson consulted Dr. Todd about plans for the Medicare program, which Johnson signed into law in 1965.
        Dr. Todd also served as a personal physician to Richard M. Nixon and accompanied him on political campaigns in the 1950's.
        He was president of the American Medical Association in 1974 and 1975.
        Dr. Todd devoted much of his term as president to encouraging doctors to investigate unfit colleagues and to look for new policing mechanisms. Local medical societies, he said, were often ''derelict in exercising their responsibilities.''
        In an interview in 1975, Dr. Todd said: ''Physicians have the responsibility to see that doctors are removed from practice where they are not meeting their colleagues' standards. If we don't stand up and take disciplinary action against such individuals, we're subject to criticism that the public rightly throws at us.''
        Addressing the medical group's House of Delegates in 1974, he urged American doctors to fight any proposed national health programs.
        In 1974, he led a 16-member delegation from the medical association on a visit to China to observe noteworthy medical advances and methods of delivering medical care. After a three-week tour of medical sites in China, the delegation issued a report praising Chinese advances in setting broken bones, reattaching severed limbs and treating burns.
        Dr. Todd was born in Carlyle, Ill., earned degrees from the University of Illinois and Northwestern University Medical School and was an Army surgeon in Europe in World War II.
        A general surgeon who specialized in stomach and colon surgery and gastroenterology, he had been affiliated with Long Beach Memorial Medical Center since 1946 and was a former chief of staff.
        His wife of 52 years, the former Ruth Holle Schlake, died in 1997.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Betty Ann Eastman, whom he married in 1998; a son, Douglas, of Alexandria, Va.; a brother, Dr. William Todd of Long Beach; a sister, Jean Dunning of Iowa; three stepsons, Timothy, Douglas and Brian Toews; a grandson; and five step-grandchildren.
      