
        Britt Woodman, a trombonist who was an important member of Duke Ellington's band during the 1950's and an early associate of Charles Mingus, died on Friday at the Robert F. Kennedy Medical Center in Hawthorne, Calif. He was 80 and lived in Los Angeles.
        Proper training is obvious in some jazz musicians and it was unmistakable in Mr. Woodman. He was famous for being fast on his instrument, and his tone -- even in his final years, when he performed as a guest musician on special occasions -- was pristine, sometimes as smooth and taut as a cello's.
        Mr. Woodman was reared in the Watts section of Los Angeles. His father, William Woodman, also a trombonist, was part of the West Coast jazz scene since the 1920's. The elder Woodman encouraged his three sons -- Britt, who learned trombone, saxophone and clarinet; William, a saxophonist; and Coney, who played piano and guitar -- to learn music as a means of earning a living.
        Britt Woodman was precocious from the start. He said that his early etudes were the solos of Arthur Price, John Philip Sousa's first trombonist, and at 15 he was already playing at dances and weddings.
        He and his brothers opened the Woodman Brothers Studio on Wilmington Avenue, offering music lessons and playing at local dances. Under the management of the men's father, the Woodman Brothers Biggest Little Big Band in the World became well known among musicians; the brothers' trick was to trade instruments several times during a set.
        In the 30's Mr. Woodman befriended Charles Mingus, who was two years his junior and a fellow student at Jordan High School in Los Angeles. Mingus was a cellist, and Mr. Woodman offered him help in sight reading and harmony and chaperoned Mingus to his first Ellington performance. He remained a close confidant for the rest of Mingus's life.
        Mr. Woodman entered the thriving world of the Central Avenue jazz scene in Los Angeles in the late 30's, playing with bandleaders like Dootsie Williams, Phil Moore and Baron Moorehead. From 1940 to 1942 he toured with Les Hite, who had the only black big band on the West Coast with a radio program that was broadcast nationwide.
        Mr. Woodman served in the Army during World War II and played in the Army band from the end of basic training until his discharge in 1946.
        Returning to Los Angeles, Mr. Woodman joined a short-lived band called the Stars of Swing, an unrecorded group that had the cream of the new Los Angeles players -- including Mingus, the saxophonists Buddy Collette and Lucky Thompson and the pianist Spaulding Givens. He briefly joined Lionel Hampton's band in 1946 and then entered the Westlake College of Music in Los Angeles to study ear training.
        In 1951, when the Central Avenue jazz scene collapsed, he got a job with Duke Ellington and became the leader of the trombone section during a strong and popular period for the orchestra. Ellington featured him on the mini-concerto ''Sonnet to Hank Cinq,'' part of the album ''Such Sweet Thunder,'' and he can be heard on the albums ''Anatomy of a Murder,'' ''Ellington Uptown'' and ''Ellington at Newport.''
        Mr. Woodman also recorded with Miles Davis, Johnny Hodges, John Coltrane and the Akiyoshi-Tabackin big band, among others. With Mingus he recorded albums for the Candid label in 1960 and ''Mingus Mingus Mingus Mingus Mingus'' in 1963.
        He worked in Broadway show bands during the 1960's and in 1970 moved back to California as a freelancer. He returned to New York in the 1980's, then relocated to Los Angeles earlier this year.
        He is survived by his brothers, Coney and William, both of Los Angeles.
        Correction:  October 18, 2000, Wednesday  An obituary of the big-band trombonist Britt Woodman yesterday misstated the surname of John Philip Sousa's first trombonist, whose solos Mr. Woodman admired as a young man. He was Arthur Pryor, not Price.
        The obituary also omitted a survivor. He is a brother, George, of Los Angeles.
      