
        Zeke Manners, once a popular hillbilly singer and disc jockey and the composer of ''The Pennsylvania Polka,'' among hundreds of other songs, died on Oct. 14 in Los Angeles. He was 89 and lived in West Hollywood.
        His initial fame came from a publicity ploy in 1930 during the Depression. A radio station concocted the story of a group of hillbillies living in the hills around Los Angeles, then presented the ersatz bumpkins to large crowds at Grauman's Chinese Theater and elsewhere.
        After the group broke up three years later, Mr. Manners rode his hillbilly persona to the top of the 1940's radio scene in New York. He  appeared to be somewhere between a cowpoke just off the Chisholm Trail and Li'l Abner, though one who lived in a Manhattan penthouse with a valet.
        He appealed to country people pouring into the city. New York was then the headquarters of R.C.A. Victor, a major recorder of country music. Mr. Manners recorded most of his hits in New York, including his 1946 rendition of Dick Thomas's ''Sioux City Sue.''
        Although the ''Grand Ole Opry'' had already made Nashville the capital of country radio, New York's country music scene was nothing to sneeze at, and in New York Mr. Manners, who called himself the Jewish hillbilly, ruled the roost. By the 1940's, he was appearing daily on three radio stations, WINS, WHN and WMCA, and intermittently on others.
        ''For almost 10 years, he probably did as much radio on more different New York stations than any entertainer of that era,'' said Laura Cantrell, host of the ''The Radio Thrift Shop'' program on WFMU in Jersey City, which regularly honors radio old-timers. ''It was this totally weird hillbilly thing.''
        His talent was complemented by an ability to capitalize on opportunity. When ''The Beverly Hillbillies'' television series began in the early 1960's, Mr. Manners, who was the last surviving original Beverly Hill Billy, sued to stop the use of the name, but he became the show's musical director after an out-of-court settlement and composed an album associated with the show.
        ''I won him in a lawsuit,'' said Buddy Ebsen, a star of the show, who performed with Mr. Manners years later at trade shows and banquets.
        Leo Ezekiel Mannes was born in San Francisco (on a hill, as he seldom failed to point out) on Oct. 10, 1911. His father was an accomplished violinist. The family moved to Los Angeles, where as a young man he performed in a tent show. During the 1920's he began hanging around the radio station KMPC, where he did some children's shows and performed with a jazz trio.
        The station wanted to lasso rural people who had moved to California, fleeing the Dust Bowl. So it was that the station manager, Glen Rice, excitedly broke into regular programming to tell a most unusual story. He said that as he was riding in the hills in Malibu, he had lost his way and, by chance, stumbled onto small village of hill folk who had been out of touch with civilization for 100 years. They lived in log cabins, had a blacksmith shop and lived as people did in the 18th century.
        Day by day, more was disclosed, including the tidbit that the hill people were directly descended from Daniel Boone. On April 6, 1930, they showed up at the studio on mules. Their leader was Zeke Craddock, which Mr. Mannes thought might be a more rural-sounding name. He soon changed it to Zeke Manners.
        The stunt, of which Mr. Manners had been a principal architect, was so successful that crowds of people were soon camping outside the studio in the hope of following the hillbillies home to their hideaway. They outwitted fans by leaving hours after the show, wearing coats and ties.
        After the group broke up into at least three factions, each claiming the original name, Mr. Manners and several musicians, including Elton Britt, said to have been the world's highest yodeler, set off for New York in a Model A. They sang at radio stations, theaters and saloons and on not a few street corners.
        Not every listener was enthralled. Mr. Manners once rather ruefully recalled being given $2 to stop singing in a hotel bar.
        In Manhattan, they almost immediately got a spot on ''The Rudy Vallee Radio Show'' and soon were appearing on Fred Allen's show. For a while, Mr. Manners was one of the Three Links of Sausage, sponsored by Armour & Company, the meatpacker.
        The group tried being the Murray Hill Billies in reference to the Murray Hill neighborhood of Manhattan, but the name flopped. They achieved success as Zeke Manners and His Gang. In 1935, they went to London and performed for the royal family.
        In 1943 Mr. Manners joined the Army, serving with the Army Air Forces' motion picture unit. He appeared in ''Winged Victory,'' Moss Hart's musical celebrating the Air Forces.
        After the war, he shuttled between the East and West Coasts. From 1950 to 1952, he was the host of one of television's earliest talk shows, on Channel 7, WJZ, which is now WABC. It was a two-hour free-for-all on which Eddie Cantor might pop up; Virginia Graham got her own start as a television host by serving as his sidekick.
        Back in Los Angeles, he became the nation's first cross-country radio disc jockey on the ABC network,  Newsweek reported. He did this by using time zone differences, creeping out of bed at 3:30 a.m. At 4:30 a.m., he would do a 45-minute show for East Coast audiences. An hour later, he would do another one for audiences in Rocky Mountain Time, until the cycle finally ended at 7:45 a.m. Pacific Time.
        He banged out tunes on the accordion, piano and organ, three of the many instruments he played. He was often backed up by ABC's janitors, clanking pails.
        In the mid-1950's he worked as a rock 'n' roll disc jockey. In the 1960's he appeared in Las Vegas with a bluegrass group. The Byrds recorded a song he wrote about the initial moon landing, ''Armstrong, Aldrin and Collins.'' He was one of a couple living in a trailer park in ''Lost in America,'' a 1985 movie directed by Albert Brooks, his nephew.
        Always, he wrote songs. ''The Pennsylvania Polka,'' which was written with Lester Lee and introduced by the Andrews Sisters in 1942, has since been performed innumerable times, including eight times in the 1993 movie ''Groundhog Day.''
        His song ''Fat Man Blues,'' a collaboration with William G. Cahan, a surgeon, included the line ''All this eatin' is defeatin' your chance/Of ever getting any good romance.''
        He is survived by his daughter, Susanne, of West Hollywood, and his sisters, Vicki Heller and Maxine Samuels, both of West Los Angeles. His wife of more than 50 years, Beatrice, died in 1995, and his son, Charles, died in 1966.
        At Mr. Manners's request, he was buried ''as a hillbilly.'' He wore a baseball cap celebrating the Spice Girls, red suspenders and purple glasses from a 99-cent store. A cigar was in his pocket.
      