
        Charles Perkins, a campaigner for the rights of Aborigines who was sometimes described as the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. of Australia, died last Wednesday in Sydney. He was 64.
        The cause was kidney failure, his family said.
        The 390,000 Aborigines today are considerably poorer, sicker and less educated than Australians of European descent. When Mr. Perkins was growing up, he and other Aborigines were barred from many public pools, restaurants and schools, and they could not vote.
        From the 1910's to the 70's, Australia had a program of forcibly taking mixed-race children from their Aboriginal mothers to be brought up in institutions or by white families.
        In 1965, following the example of American civil rights workers, Mr. Perkins organized 30 fellow students from the University of Sydney to travel to Outback towns, where discrimination was the most blatant. In one town, a movie theater closed rather than let Mr. Perkins sit in the white section. In another town, a riot ensued when he tried to force a public pool to admit Aboriginal children.
        The 10-day ''Freedom Ride,'' in which the students were occasionally pelted with rocks, transfixed a nation that had been indifferent to the plight of Aborigines and made Mr. Perkins a national figure. He said at the time that he wanted ''white people to understand the Aborigine and the Aborigines to realize they didn't have to go on accepting that sort of treatment.'' He also was the first Aborigine to earn a university degree, as well as the first to head a government department.
        In April, Mr. Perkins gained international attention when he said in an interview on the BBC that Sydney would ''burn, baby, burn'' during the Summer Olympics. He later distanced himself from that remark, and no violent protests materialized.
        Charles Nelson Perkins was born in 1936 on a reservation near Alice Springs, in the desert of central Australia. His parents were both of mixed Aboriginal and European descent. To ease the family's financial burden, he lived in Anglican boys' homes in Alice Springs and Adelaide, where, he later recalled, he first experienced pervasive prejudice.
        He graduated from a technical school in 1952 and worked for a few years as a machinist. His first love, however, was soccer. By the late 50's, he had become so adept that a professional British team arranged for him to move to England. He played for several English teams before returning to Adelaide to be captain of a team there.
        His stay in Britain prompted him to consider devoting himself to ending discrimination in Australia. In 1961, he began a public-speaking campaign aimed at acquiring full citizenship for Aborigines, who won the right to vote in 1962. Soon after the Freedom Ride, Mr. Perkins garnered more headlines when he arranged the ''abduction'' of a Fijian-Indian child from her family. The child was about to be deported. The incident was an effort to dramatize Australia's discriminatory immigration policy. The girl was quickly found and sent back to Fiji.
        After graduating from the University of Sydney in 1966, he joined the government's Aboriginal Affairs Department, becoming secretary in 1984. His criticism of the government landed him in trouble several times, and he was suspended for a year. He was ousted in 1988 after accusations of mismanagement, though he was cleared by investigators and sat on government commissions.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Eileen Munchenberg; two daughters, Rachel and Hetti; and a son, Adam.
      