
        Perry W. Gilbert, a noted biologist and a leading defender of one of nature's most reviled creatures, the shark, died on Oct. 15 at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 87.
        Dr. Gilbert was working as a comparative anatomy professor at Cornell University in the 1930's, overseeing students' dissection of thousands of animal specimens, when he began taking a closer look at the assembly line of dead dogfish sharks that were going under the knife.
        ''That kind of ignited an interest in him to understand more about how sharks were put together,'' said Robert E. Hueter, director of the Center for Shark Research at the Mote Marine Laboratory in Sarasota.
        In the decades that followed, Dr. Gilbert became one of the world's foremost experts on shark anatomy and, over time, behavior, as he helped pioneer the capture and study of live sharks.
        He published two books and about 150 scientific papers dealing with almost every aspect of the shark. In later years, he became interested in what lessons sharks might hold in fighting human diseases like cancer.
        In 1967, Dr. Gilbert left Cornell and became director of the Mote laboratory, then known as the Cape Haze Marine Laboratory. Under his direction, the center came to be regarded as a world authority on sharks, although he also expanded its work to encompass other fields of marine science.
        Over the years, the direction of Dr. Gilbert's work shifted. In early research, he tried to figure out how to protect people from sharks, but in later ones, as overfishing and environmental degradation became problems, it was the other way around.
        Early in his career, with financial support from the Navy, he and his colleagues worked to develop chemical shark repellents to protect people who had to spend time in waters where sharks were populous.
        The repellents proved of limited value, and other techniques, while intriguing, were no more successful. (In the early 1970's, one project involved training bottle-nosed dolphins to butt away sharks that threaten naval personnel doing rescue or salvage work at sea.)
        The work proved helpful to other scientists by breaking ground in the understanding of sharks. And later, Dr. Gilbert and a colleague were credited with inventing an anesthetic called MS222, often mixed with sea water and sprayed into the gills, which allowed scientists to study live sharks safely.
        Dr. Gilbert was born on Dec. 1, 1912, in North Branford, Conn., and grew up on a farm. He attended Dartmouth College and Cornell before going into teaching.
        He is survived by his wife, Claire; four sons: Stephen and Christopher, both of Ithaca, N.Y., and John and Philip, both of Sarasota; three daughters: Ann G. McDonald of Arlington, Va., Mary G. Baurle of Dryden, N.Y., and Lois Gilbert of Santa Fe, N.M., and eight grandchildren.
        Even though he had worked to develop protective measures against sharks, Dr. Gilbert often felt obliged to put the threat in perspective for a public that mainly knew them through the ''Jaws'' movies.
        ''You're safer in the water than driving to the beach,'' Dr. Gilbert would tell people.
        But his goal was not just to reduce concern about sharks. At times, he seemed more intent on rehabilitating their fearsome reputation altogether, making them, if not likable, then at least admirable.
        ''They're just beautiful creatures,'' Dr. Gilbert once told the Sarasota Herald-Tribune. ''They're at the apex of the feeding scale. They have survived for 400 million years. The challenge is to find what has allowed them to do this.''
      