
        Thomas G. Labrecque, the former chairman and chief executive of the Chase Manhattan Corporation, died Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York.
        Mr. Labrecque died of lung cancer, which was diagnosed in early September, a spokesman for his family said. He was 62 and lived in Fair Haven, N.J.
        Mr. Labrecque joined Chase's management training program in 1964 and rose quickly through the ranks. In 1976, he was appointed to Chase's management committee, where, at age 38, he was 10 years younger than any other member. Mr. Labrecque also served at the request of David Rockefeller, then Chase's chief executive, on the committee to resolve New York City's fiscal crisis.
        He was named president and chief operating officer of Chase in 1981.
        By 1990, Chase was ailing from losses on loans to real estate developers and less-developed countries. Chase's board turned to Mr. Labrecque, naming him chairman and chief executive.
        He sold underperforming businesses and increased the profits of such core areas as credit cards, trust and custody, and mortgage banking. But Chase's stock still lagged, prodding an activist shareholder, Michael F. Price, who then headed the Mutual Series mutual fund company, to purchase 6.1 percent of Chase in April 1995, and urge the bank to ''increase shareholder value.''
        Four months later, the Chemical Bank Corporation announced an $11 billion merger with Chase. Mr. Price said yesterday that he appreciated Mr. Labrecque's abilities. ''Of all the companies we've ever invested in, he was by far the best C.E.O.,'' Mr. Price said.
        Rodgin Cohen, the chairman of the law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell, which advised Chase on its merger with Chemical, said: ''He probably doesn't get enough credit for turning the bank around. He put Chase in a position where it could attract a strong partner.''
        As part of the merger agreement, Mr. Labrecque relinquished the top spot of chairman and chief executive to Chemical's chairman and chief executive, Walter V. Shipley. Mr. Labrecque took the No. 2 position of president and chief operating officer of the combined company, which took the Chase name. Nor did the merger agreement provide for Mr. Labrecque to succeed Mr. Shipley.
        ''There were other possible partners at that time where he could have been guaranteed succession,'' Mr. Cohen said of Mr. Labrecque. ''He did what was best for the bank.''
        Unlike many executives who vacate the top slot after a merger, Mr. Labrecque stuck around, and not merely as a figurehead. During the financial crisis in the fall of 1998, he was the bank's main person in coping with Russia's loan default. He also represented Chase in negotiations to restructure the Long-Term Capital Management hedge fund.
        Mr. Labrecque was known for his quiet competence and modesty, traits that may have led him to be underappreciated by Wall Street. He was also noted for his patrician good looks and appropriate traits at a bank that was for years controlled by the Rockefeller family. But in fact, he came from humbler beginnings.
        Mr. Labrecque was born on Sept. 17, 1938, in Long Branch, N.J. He was the third of eight children born to New Jersey Superior Court Judge Theodore J. Labrecque, who was of French Canadian descent. Mr. Labrecque graduated from Villanova University in 1960. He attended the Graduate School of Business at American University and the New York University Graduate School of Business Administration.
        Mr. Labrecque spent four years in the United States Navy, rising to the rank of full lieutenant. He served on a destroyer at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, in 1960 and in the Mediterranean and the Baltic during the building of the Berlin Wall. During the Cuban missile crisis, he headed a section of the Office of Naval Intelligence, deploying ships in the blockade off Cuba.
        After his retirement from Chase in June 1999, Mr. Labrecque served as chairman of Chase's International Advisory Council. He also served on the board of trustees of the University of Notre Dame. Mr. Labrecque was a director of Pfizer Inc. and Delphi Automotive Systems and a trustee of the Hospital for Special Surgery.
        He is survived by his wife, Sheila; four children, Thomas Jr., Douglas, Karen Shea and Barbara Corbin; five grandchildren; three brothers; and four sisters.
      