
        Robert Lax, an American minimalist poet who was praised for his originality and spirituality, died on Sept. 26 at his family's home in Olean, N.Y. He was 84.
        Mr. Lax moved back to Olean last month after living abroad for more than 30 years, most recently on the Greek island of Patmos. He had been in failing health for some months, said Paul J. Spaeth, director of the library of St. Bonaventure University, near Olean. The library houses the main Robert Lax archives.
        One of Mr. Lax's closest friends was Thomas Merton, the American religious writer and poet, who died in 1968. They were classmates as undergraduates at Columbia. In his book ''The Seven Storey Mountain'' (Harcourt, 1948), Merton recalled Mr. Lax as a student as ''a kind of combination of Hamlet and Elias'' and ''a potential prophet, but without rage'' with ''a mind full of tremendous and subtle intuitions.''
        Richard Kostelanetz wrote in The New York Times Book Review in 1978 that Mr. Lax was ''among America's greatest experimental poets, a true minimalist who can weave awesome poems from remarkably few words.'' His poetry grew increasingly minimalist as time passed. Some poems contained only single words running down the page.
        Mr. Lax's main early work and one of his most highly praised is ''The Circus of the Sun'' (Franciscan Institute, 1959), a volume of poetry that likens the circus to Creation.
        The book contains this stanza:
        ''And in the beginning was love. Love made a sphere; all things grew within it; the sphere then encompassed beginnings and endings, beginning and end. Love had a compass whose whirling dance traced out a sphere of love in the void; in the center thereof rose a fountain.''
        Mr. Lax received a National Council of the Arts Award in 1969.
        He was born in Olean to Sigmund and Rebecca Lax and converted from Judaism to Roman Catholicism in 1943. He grew up in Olean and on Long Island and received a bachelor's degree in 1938 from Columbia.
        His work includes some whimsy like these untitled lines:
        ''are you a visitor?'' asked
        the dog.
        ''yes,'' i answered.
        ''only a visitor?'' asked
        the dog.
        ''yes,'' i answered.
        ''take me with you,'' said
        the dog.
      