
        He called it his ''cross-country schizophrenic odyssey,'' 32 years spent in state hospital wards, homeless shelters and halfway houses from New York to San Francisco, the passage of time obscured in a haze of psychosis, and the sedation brought on by the powerful drugs once used to treat it.
        But when Kenneth M. Steele Jr., 51, died on Saturday while asleep at his small subsidized apartment in Manhattan, that life was far behind him. In his last six years, Mr. Steele had become a nationally recognized advocate for the mentally ill, who devoted his efforts to involving people with schizophrenia and manic depression in the political process.
        The story of his illness and subsequent recovery was a frequent theme of his talks and writing, and it was often credited as an inspiration to others with mental illnesses.
        The cause of death was heart failure, according to family members.
        Mr. Steele was best known as the founder and publisher of New York City Voices, a newspaper focusing on mental health issues, and as the creator of the Mental Health Voter Empowerment Project, a national effort to register the mentally ill, who are often ignored by politicians.
        Growing up in Waterbury, Conn., Kenneth Myron Steele Jr. was a Boy Scout and a straight-A student who loved books and basketball. But when he was 14, voices began taunting him from the television set and the radio.
        As a teenager, he left home, bouncing from city to city and from hospital to hospital in a whirl of seclusion rooms, gurneys where he was strapped into restraints and suicide watches.
        His eventual recovery, he said, came as a result of his work with Dr. Rita Seiden, executive director of the Park Slope center and his therapist since 1991, and the benefits of a new generation of antipsychotic medications that quieted the voices but had fewer side effects than older drugs.
        Plunging into mental health advocacy, Mr. Steele worked with an intensity that often caused friends to urge him to slow down. He organized an annual Picnic for Parity, registered 28,000 voters for the 1996 presidential election, met regularly with city and state officials and carried on a voluminous e-mail correspondence.
        But Mr. Steele also took pleasure in the simpler rewards of his newfound stability. ''I have a home today,'' he said last year. ''I never had a home in my life. I feel like a teenager growing up. I have this incredible appetite to do as much as I can and to grow as much as I can.''
        His apartment was a meeting place for friends, collaborators on a multitude of projects and those who in crisis turned to him for help. Yet he also lived with the physical consequences of his long illness and its various treatments: he had high blood pressure, diabetes, sleep apnea and emphysema and was vastly overweight.
        Just before his death, he completed the manuscript for a book about his life, ''The Day the Voices Stopped: A Schizophrenic's Journey From Madness to Hope,'' written with Claire Berman. It is scheduled to be published in May by Basic Books.
        Mr. Steele was often called upon to talk to psychiatrists, medical students and psychiatry residents about issues from ethics to the experience of being schizophrenic.
        By talking about his life, said Dr. Stephen M. Goldfinger, vice chairman of psychiatry at the State University of New York Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn, Mr. Steele often ''taught seasoned psychiatrists to rethink their notions about psychosis and recovery.''
        But Mr. Steele also affected people in more private ways, as mentor, coach and surrogate parent for many young people struggling with schizophrenia or manic depression. A support network, Awakenings, which he started, offered a forum for people to talk freely about their illnesses and to offer one another help and encouragement.
        Mr. Steele was vice chairman for government affairs of the Mental Health Association in New York State and was a member of the institutional review board for the New York State Psychiatric Institute, which reviews the ethics of psychiatric research studies.
        He is survived by his parents, Kenneth Myron Steele Sr. and Sarah Louise Steele of Prospect, Conn., and by his brother, Joseph Robert Steele, also of Prospect.
      