
        Charles B. Yates, a banker, businessman and former New Jersey legislator who was a proponent of campaign finance reform and a supporter of stricter ethical rules for elected officials, died on Friday in an airplane crash in Massachusetts. He was 61.
        Mr. Yates, a pilot for more than 30 years, was approaching the Martha's Vineyard airport when his turboprop airplane crashed into the Manuel F. Correllus State Forest, about a mile from the airport. The crash also killed Mr. Yates's wife, Anya, 34, and two of their children, Elena, 8, and William, 2. Mr. Yates and his family lived in Princeton, N.J.
        The cause of the crash is under investigation, National Transportation Safety Board officials said.
        Mr. Yates, a Democrat, was a  state assemblyman from Edgewater Park, in southern New Jersey, from 1971 to 1977. In 1977, he was elected to the State Senate, in which he was chairman of the Joint Legislative Committee on Ethical Standards and the Joint Appropriations Committee. His term ended in 1981.
        While Mr. Yates was chairman of the ethics committee, several Democratic colleagues were embroiled in a corruption scandal known as Abscam, in which elected officials were  investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation for taking bribes from F.B.I. agents who posed as Arabs seeking political favors.
        He pressed for an independent counsel to look into the Abscam allegations, and supported stricter conflict-of-interest rules for legislators who sought jobs or wanted to do business in industries that they had regulated.
        Mr. Yates was born in New York City and earned a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering from City College in 1960. He spent the next six years in Luxembourg, establishing and running a copper-foil plant that was part of a family business.
        Mr. Yates returned to the United States in 1967 and became president of the company. In 1980, it was acquired by Square D, an electrical-products company.
        Mr. Yates was vice chairman of Square D for two years and then left to become a private investor. In 1993, he earned a law degree from Vermont Law School, where he had met his wife, an environmental lawyer,  his brother Craig said.
        In 1992, Mr. Yates became chairman of the FMS Financial Corporation, a holding company that owns Farmers and Mechanics Bank in Burlington Township. In 1997, he again became president of the foil company when it was reacquired by the family; it is now Yates Foil USA of Bordentown, N.J.
        He is survived by a 16-year-old son, Sergei; five children from a previous marriage, Charles, of Germantown, Md., Roy, of East Brunswick, N.J., Steven, of Beaverton, Ore., Valerie, of Washington and Jessica, of Santa Fe, N.M.; three brothers, Craig Yates of Edgewater Park, Roy O'Brien of Bordentown, and Paul O'Brien of Burlington, N.J.; a sister, Frances Yates of Camden, Me.; and seven grandchildren.
      