
        John T. Patterson Jr., who founded a development corporation that helped lure both businesses and capital to the struggling South Bronx of the 1970's, died Sept. 26 near Munich. He was 72.
        The cause of death was prostate cancer, said his daughter, Jodie Patterson Becker. Mr. Patterson, who lived in Boca Raton, Fla., died at a clinic where he was undergoing treatment, Ms. Becker said.
        In 1972, Mr. Patterson started the South Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation, a nonprofit corporation intended to help businesses expand in and relocate to the Bronx and to train young people and the unemployed for jobs.
        The corporation, still in operation, says it has lured more than $120 million in capital to the South Bronx since its founding; created or helped retain more than 30,000 jobs; and completed more than $20 million in reconstruction projects to upgrade local retail and commercial districts.
        Like other nonprofit organizations in the Bronx in the 1970's, the organization helped fill a governmental void. As the city government later turned its attention to reviving the South Bronx, Mr. Patterson helped guide its efforts, working with Mayors Edward I. Koch and David N. Dinkins.
        Born in Harlem and raised largely in Freeport, N.Y., Mr. Patterson graduated from Lincoln University in Pennsylvania. He received a law degree from Brooklyn Law School, but quickly moved into the business world, reasoning, as he said later, that ''there were enough capable Negro lawyers but not many Negroes in the investment field.''
        After starting as a mutual fund salesman, he helped establish the first black-owned and black-operated brokerage firm on Wall Street, in 1955. In 1963, he helped found the Interracial Council for Business Opportunity, a pioneer in providing technical and business counseling to black small-business men.
        He retired in 1996.
        Mr. Patterson is survived by his companion, Dorrett Abrahams; a brother, Raymond R. Patterson; a sister, Carol Patterson Lewis; four daughters, Ms. Becker, Linda Patterson Braxton, Sherry Patterson and Yeefah Patterson Thurmond; six grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
        In a 1983 letter to The New York Times, Mr. Patterson defended Mayor Koch's approval of window decals to ''beautify'' vacant apartment houses in the South Bronx. Given the more substantive restoration efforts that were simultaneously under way, he asked, ''What's wrong with giving the neighborhood a lift in looks and community morale?''
      