
        Sophie Koulomzin, a leading Orthodox Christian educator whose life encompassed the history of 20th-century Russia and the experience of Russian emigres, died in Valley Cottage, N.Y., on Friday. She was 96.
        A longtime seminary instructor in the United States, she wrote widely used textbooks and church histories for use by emigres and lived to see them published in Russia, where she visited and lectured in the last few years of her life.
        She was born Sophie Schidlovsky  in St. Petersburg, Russia, in 1903, the daughter of Sergei Schidlovsky, the last vice president of the Czar's Duma, or Parliament.
        A life of privilege was replaced by one of poverty as the family endured the first years of Soviet rule, then fled, first to Estonia, where her father died, then Berlin, then Paris.
        In Germany, she studied philosophy at the University of Berlin and took part in philosophical discussions led by Nikolai Berdyaev, the Rev. Sergius Bulgakov and Semyon Frank, leading Russian religious thinkers and former Marxists who became liberal Christians and were expelled from the Soviet Union by Lenin in 1922. They were formative in her development as a broad-minded Orthodox Christian activist.
        In 1926, a scholarship from the John D. Rockefeller Fund took her to the United States, where she graduated from Columbia University with a master's degree in religious education.
        Returning to Paris, she became a leader of the Russian Christian Student Movement, taught emigre children and edited two volumes of church school lessons. The student organization was financed by the Young Men's Christian Association, which at the time actively supported the efforts of Russian emigres to establish their church in exile.
        Mrs. Koulomzin also did social work among poor Russian emigres, working with Elizabeth Skobtsova, who became an Orthodox nun known as Mother Maria and died in the Ravensbruck concentration camp after trying to help save Jews during the German occupation.
        Mrs. Koulomzin was married in 1932 to Nikita Koulomzin, an engineer who was also of aristocratic descent, who survives her. She is also survived by their daughters, Elizabeth Lopukhin, Olga Poloukhine and Xenia Kalinin; their son, George; 11 grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
        Surviving the occupation, the family lived in Paris and then in the French provinces, where they helped Soviet prisoners of war taken by the Germans.
        In 1948, the Koulomzins moved to Nyack, N.Y. Mrs. Koulomzin worked as a religious educator, creating an English-language education program and lecturing across the country. She founded the Orthodox Christian Education Commission to coordinate the work of the various Orthodox Christian ethnic groups in America.
        Beginning in 1954, she taught for nearly 20 years at St. Vladimir's Orthodox Theological Seminary in Crestwood, N.Y.,
        After her official retirement in 1974, she continued working. At the time of her death she was president of Religious Books for Russia, founded to send Bibles and religious literature to Russia; it has continued its work in Russia.
        Mrs. Koulomzin's books, including ''God Is With Us,'' ''History of the Orthodox Church'' and 'Our Church and Our Children,'' have become classic texts in Orthodox religious education. In recent years her books were widely published in Russia. Her memoir, ''Many Worlds: A Russian Life,'' written when she was 77, ends with an account of her first visit back to her homeland, in 1970.
        ''Now I had again come briefly in touch with life there and suddenly I realized that there was no absolute break, no complete separation,'' she wrote. ''My life, my own life, such as it was, came easily in touch with the flow of life that went on in Russia. I was together with Russia in the life of the Church, I was together with Russia in the search for spiritual values that is going on there.''
      