
        Mary Francis, the wife of the mystery writer Dick Francis and a literary helpmate who was his researcher and editor, died on Sept. 30 in her home. She was 76 and lived on Seven Mile Beach in the Cayman Islands.
        She had a heart attack and died in his arms, said Mr. Francis, who came to the United States last month with his wife of 53 years to promote his latest best seller, ''Shattered.''
        Although Mrs. Francis was never named as a co-author of her husband's 40 books, Mr. Francis had for years credited his wife with an extensive role in their creation. The suspense novels were often set in the world of horse racing, riding, training and gambling and featured protagonists who were often loners and ordinary on the surface.
        A recent biography of Mr. Francis in London suggested that Mrs. Francis's role was much larger than widely believed. Last week Mr. Francis characterized the publication of his books as simply a ''joint effort'' with his wife.
        ''She loved doing research, whichever subject I was writing about,'' Mr. Francis said. ''She was a great researcher. She always helped me with my English. She wouldn't ever take any credit for the work she gave and she always helped me. I couldn't have written the books without her. She had a university degree and education, which I didn't have. She was in a way a co-author, but she wouldn't take credit. I don't really know why. She didn't really like publicity, and she was quite happy for me to have all the credit.''
        Unlike Mr. Francis, who was born in Wales and quit school at 15 and eventually became a jockey, Mrs. Francis studied French and English at Royal Holloway College in London. Later she taught and worked as an assistant stage manager before meeting Mr. Francis at a wedding in 1945.
        When Mr. Francis retired from horse racing in 1957, he wrote his first book, his autobiography. Mr. Francis said his literary collaboration with his wife spanned his entire collection of novels.
        To prepare for ''Flying Finish,'' Mrs. Francis learned how to fly, starting an air taxi service and eventually writing a book under her own name, ''Flying Start: A Guide to Flying Light Aircraft.'' For ''Reflex,'' which featured a hero who was a jockey as well as a photographer, Mrs. Francis began taking photographs and developed into an expert herself. Later she learned to paint while researching another book, Mr. Francis said.
        Elements of Mrs. Francis's life also seeped into the pages of the mysteries. ''Forfeit'' is the story of a stoic journalist who is devoted to his polio-stricken wife, who breathes with an iron lung. Mrs. Francis caught polio in 1949 and their first son, Merrick, was born while she was still ill.
        For the later part of their lives together, the couple divided their time between homes in Florida and the Cayman Islands and research trips to far-flung locations. Mrs. Francis did not have to stray far, however, to gather information for the latest novel, ''Shattered,'' which features a hero who owns a glass-blowing studio. Mr. Francis said she collected information from a local glass-blower on the Cayman Islands.
        With his wife's death, Mr. Francis said, he doubted that he would ever write another novel. ''She was the moving force behind my writing,'' he said. ''I don't think I shall write again other than letters now. So much of my work was her.''
        In addition to her husband and son Merrick, she is survived by another son, Felix, who is his father's literary agent, and five grandchildren.
      