
        Dr. Joseph Weber, a pioneer in two important fields of 20th-century physics, lasers and the search for waves in the fabric of space predicted by Einstein, died Sept. 30 in a hospital in Pittsburgh. He was 81.
        The cause was side effects of treatment for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, a form of cancer, said his wife, Dr. Virginia Trimble, who is a noted astronomer and writer at the University of California at Irvine.
        Since their marriage, in 1972, the couple had spent half of each year working and teaching in Southern California and half in Maryland.
        An emeritus professor of physics and a senior research scientist at the University of Maryland, Dr. Weber discovered the basic principle of what would come to be called masers and lasers and gave the first public talk ever on the subject in 1952. Soon after, he was the first to realize it might be possible to detect the minute distortions of space called gravitational waves that had been predicted by Einstein's theory of relativity, and Dr. Weber built the first detectors to search for them.
        ''He is regarded universally as the father of this field of gravitational wave detection,'' said Dr. Kip Thorne, a professor of theoretical physics at the California Institute of Technology. ''Joe embarked on this in an era when nobody else in the world was thinking about these things.''
        Referring to the laser, Prof. Charles Townes, a physicist at the University of California at Berkeley, said Dr. Weber had been ''one of the four people who really saw the idea'' before anyone else in the world.
        Dr. Weber, however, often found that public accolades for his innovations eluded him. That may have been because his powerful scientific imagination sometimes outpaced the technical tools available to him. In 1964, a Nobel Prize for the laser went to Professor Townes and two Russians, Nicolai Basov and Alexander Prokhorov, the other three scientists who had made independent discoveries and who built the first functioning devices. And despite decades of tantalizing results, Dr. Weber never definitively detected gravitational waves.
        Nevertheless, the influence of his work was profound. A direct descendant of his research is the $300 million Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory, or LIGO, which in about 18 months will begin the latest search for gravitational waves, which still have not been seen directly. Dr. Thorne was a co-founder of LIGO.
        Dr. John Wheeler, a theoretical physicist at Princeton who had long known Dr. Weber, compared him whimsically to the frontiersman Daniel Boone. ''It seems to me he's not so well known as an explorer like Columbus and Vasco da Gama,'' Dr. Wheeler said, yet he had a great historical impact and was much beloved.
        Joseph Weber was born in Paterson, N.J., on May 17, 1919, to Eastern European immigrants. His first language was Yiddish, Dr. Trimble said, but for several years he lost the ability to speak after being struck by a bus and gravely injured when he was 5. When he finally started to talk again, he had lost his Yiddish cadences and acquired his speech therapist's middle-American accent in English, earning him the family nickname ''Yankee.''
        In 1940, Joseph Weber received a bachelor's degree from the United States Naval Academy and was assigned to the aircraft carrier Lexington; he survived when Japanese aircraft sank it on May 8, 1942, in the Battle of the Coral Sea. After commanding a submarine-chaser ship and landing in Sicily in the invasion of Italy in 1943, he was put in charge of the Navy's program in electronic countermeasures because of his expertise in radio and radar.
        He accepted a professorship at the University of Maryland in 1948 and, while teaching there, earned a Ph.D. in physics at the Catholic University of America in 1951. About the same time, he realized that molecules in an excited, or energetic, state could amplify coherent light -- the crucial element of a laser. But independent discoverers used the idea to make practical devices, and they received virtually all of the credit for it.
        ''Disappointed, but maintaining close friendships with Townes and Basov, Weber sought a new research direction,'' Dr. Thorne wrote in ''Black Holes and Time Warps: Einstein's Outrageous Legacy.'' Dr. Weber became intrigued by a strange prediction of relativity theory: that cosmic cataclysms like collapsing or colliding stars should emit gravitational waves, which would stretch and shrink space, and all the matter in it, as they sped past the earth.
        To see the waves, he invented an experiment that involved an aluminum bar weighing more than a ton. The bar was suspended by wires and insulated from vibrations. Sensors on the bar were put in place to pick up a sort of ping, ''like a xylophone,'' that gravitational waves would induce as they passed, said Dr. Rainer Weiss, a physicist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and another co-founder of LIGO. ''The gravity wave bops it and it sings after it's been bopped,'' Dr. Weiss said.
        The devices consistently seemed to show gravitational signals, and the experiment had become a worldwide sensation by 1969, when Walter Sullivan wrote in The New York Times that if the observations were correct, ''a new chapter in man's observation of the universe has been opened.''
        The celebration turned out to be premature, and decades of ambiguous results later suggested that the instruments were somehow generating the pings for unrelated reasons. But Dr. Weiss said the importance of the work lay in the thriving field it spawned. LIGO, he said, ''would never have existed had Weber not made the initial step.''
        Besides his wife, Dr. Weber is survived by two sisters, Rae Beim and Anne Lazar; a brother, Jules Weber; three sons, Dr. Jonathan Weber, Matthew Weber and Dr. David Weber; and six grandchildren. Dr. Weber's sons were born to his first wife, Anita Straus, who died in 1971.
        Dr. Trimble said that balancing the domestic and intellectual relationships of two ambitious scientists was seldom trying.
        ''Once in a while,'' she said, ''we would have firm words about something scientific with each other.'' Then, referring to a favorite restaurant, she added, ''By the time it was supper time and we were at the Golden Bull with our wine and cheese, we were friends again.''
      