
        David Dukes, a veteran television, film and stage actor who won critical acclaim for his performance as a homosexual persecuted by the Nazis in the Broadway production of ''Bent,'' died on Monday in Spanaway, Wash., near Tacoma. He was 55 and lived in Los Angeles.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Carol Muske-Dukes. Mr. Dukes collapsed during a day off from the filming of ''Rose Red,'' a television miniseries written by Stephen King about a haunted Seattle mansion.
        Born in San Francisco in 1945, Mr. Dukes studied acting at the city's American Conservatory Theater. He went on to appear in dozens of films and television shows over the course of a career that spanned 30 years and included sitcoms like ''All in the Family'' as well as dramas like the miniseries ''The Winds of War'' and ''War and Remembrance.'' In 1990 he received an Emmy nomination for best supporting actor for his role in the HBO miniseries ''The Josephine Baker Story.'' More recently, he appeared as Mr. McPhee on ''Dawson's Creek.''
        Mr. Dukes's film credits include the Oscar-winning ''Gods and Monsters'' (1998) and ''The First Deadly Sin'' (1981), in which he played an ice-pick wielding serial killer and  Frank Sinatra a police lieutenant.
        Mr. Dukes's most acclaimed performances were on the stage. His 1979 portrayal of a homosexual prisoner en route to a Nazi concentration camp in Martin Sherman's ''Bent,'' was praised by Walter Kerr in The New York Times, who commended Mr. Dukes's acting as ''superbly varied, sensitive to nuance, controlled.''  More than once, Mr. Dukes agreed to step into a difficult starring role at the last minute. In 1980 he replaced the ailing Jean LeClerc as the star of the the Broadway show ''Dracula'' and, the following year, took over the lead role in ''Frankenstein'' when the play was already in previews.
        In an interview with The Times, Mr. Dukes said that he was ''panic-struck'' when, after just five days of rehearsals as Dr. Frankenstein, creator of the monster, he confronted the audience for the first time in a preview of the play. ''I kept my hands in my pockets and tried to prevent my knees from shaking,'' he said. But he summed up the experience as ''wonderful, rollicking fun.''
        Mr. Dukes also replaced John Lithgow in the role of the French diplomat in David Henry Hwang's Tony Award-winning drama ''M. Butterfly.'' In 1994 he appeared in Arthur Miller's ''Broken Glass.''
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Annie, of Los Angeles, and a son, Shawn, of San Francisco, from a previous marriage.
      