
        John T. Connor, who was Commerce Secretary under Lyndon B. Johnson and the chief executive of two major corporations, died of blood cancer on Friday at a hospital in Boston, said his wife, Mary. He was 85.
        Trained as a lawyer, Mr. Connor had held the top job at the pharmaceutical company Merck & Company for almost 10 years when President Johnson made him his first cabinet appointee. In Washington, he fought to keep inflation under control during the escalation of the Vietnam War.
        His strong opposition to the United States role in the war and disagreements with the president about the effects of the war on the economy led Mr. Connor to resign after two years, said John Pickering, a lawyer in Washington and a longtime friend.
        ''He found working for L.B.J. very difficult,'' Mr. Pickering said. ''I recall Jack saying once that L.B.J. thought he could snap his fingers and the business and industrial machine would just turn around.''
        Mr. Connor, known as Jack to his friends, was the Commerce Secretary from 1965 to 1967, but was better suited to the corporate world than to government, said Nicholas deB. Katzenbach, who served as Johnson's attorney general. ''I think,'' he said, ''that Jack, having been a former chief executive officer, had trouble taking orders from another chief executive. But he did it.''
        Looking back, Mr. Connor later said, ''I don't know if I helped the government much but the government surely taught me a lesson.''
        But Mr. Connor did not go quietly. In May 1970, he shook up a meeting of the Business Council at a resort in West Virginia with a speech that called on President Richard M. Nixon to withdraw troops from Vietnam and end the war. Over the years, he spoke out against other federal policies, including the Nixon administration's wage and price controls.
        As soon as Mr. Connor left Washington, he joined the Allied Chemical Corporation as president and chief operating officer. He became Allied's chairman and chief executive in 1969 and held those jobs until he retired in 1979. For the next eight years, he was the nonexecutive chairman of the New York operation of Schroders, the London-based merchant banking firm.
        A native of Syracuse, Mr. Connor held degrees from Syracuse University and Harvard Law School. He worked for the New York firm now known as Cravath, Swaine & Moore for three years, then spent two years as general counsel for the Office of Scientific Research and Development, a war agency.
        In 1944, he joined the Marines, serving as an intelligence officer. A year later, he was a special assistant to Navy Secretary James Forrestal and helped draft legislation that created the Defense Department.
        A longtime resident of New Jersey, he had homes in North Palm Beach, Fla., and Cotuit, Mass.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Connor is survived by three sisters, Mary C. Waters, Jane C. Kendrick and Nancy Connor, all of Syracuse; two sons, John T. Connor Jr. of Lake Wales, Fla., and Geoffrey M. Connor of Oldwick, N.J.; and a daughter, Lisa Forrestal Connor of Oakland, Calif.
      