
        Joseph A. Greenwald, a diplomat who helped guide international trade policy for the United States over two decades, died on Monday in Washington. He was 82.
        The cause was leukemia, said his son John.
        Mr. Greenwald was appointed in 1969 to the post of ambassador to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris,  which represents industrialized countries. In 1972, he left that position to become the United States representative to the European Common Market in Brussels.
        Mr. Greenwald graduated from the University of Chicago in 1941 and served in the merchant marine during World War II.
        In 1947, he joined the State Department as an economist, and he earned a law degree from Georgetown University in 1951.
        His government service spanned a time in which tariffs and trade barriers were reduced and the scope of global trade expanded drastically.
        In 1952, he became a representative to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the worldwide agreement that covered state subsidies, tariffs and other trade measures. A year later, as a delegate to the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, he sought to negotiate increased trade between the two sectors of a divided Europe.
        By the 1960's, Mr. Greenwald was forced to grapple with what would became a recurring trade theme in the decades that followed: how to financially stimulate the developing world through international trade. He led the United States' effort to give more favorable tariff treatment to developing nations.
        After leaving government in 1976, Mr. Greenwald became the president of the Japanese subsidiary of the Bendix Corporation and oversaw its operations in Asia.
        He then practiced international law, serving as an arbitrator in international trade disputes.
        In addition to his son John, Mr. Greenwald is survived by his wife, Virginia Doyle Greenwald, of Washington; another son, Bruce, of New York; a daughter, Jane, of San Francisco; and five grandchildren.
      