
        John Bury, the innovative production designer whose bold, stylized sets provided a dramatic alternative to the box sets and realistically painted scenes of traditional British theater, died on Sunday in Gloucestershire, England. He was 75.
        The cause was pneumonia brought on by heart disease, his family said.
        Mr. Bury's career began in the 1950's and included impressive work into the 1990's with the Royal Shakespeare Company, the National Theater, the Royal Opera House and the Glyndebourne opera festival, among many others. He designed memorable sets, paired with equally memorable lighting, that evoked the titanic power struggles and intimate human dramas of Shakespeare, the missed connections and unspoken menace of Pinter and the decadence and sensuality of the opera ''Salome.'' Describing Mr. Bury's design for Brendan Behan's prison drama ''The Quare Fellow,'' the critic Kenneth Tynan said it seemed ''exactly to capture the aridity of confinement.''
        Known for his architectural structures and his preference for authentic materials -- wood, brick, metal, glass -- in his sets, Mr. Bury also believed, in many cases, in using a minimum of scenery to provide a maximum of acting space. His ideas did not always make things easy for the actors. In 1957, his design for Henry Chapman's play ''You Won't Always Be on Top'' stipulated that an actual brick wall be constructed across the stage during each performance, a requirement that ensured, at least, that the actors became expert bricklayers by the end of the play's run.
        John Bury was born in Aberystwyth, Wales, in 1925. Educated at the Cathedral School in Hereford and University College London, he enlisted in the Fleet Air Arm of the Royal Navy in 1942, serving until 1946.
        Back in civilian life, he went to work at Joan Littlewood's proletarian-leaning Theater Workshop in Stratford East, London, advancing up the ranks from driving vans to mixing paints to choosing fabrics to hanging and then operating the lights, and then to constructing sets. He searched through junkyards for the natural objects -- toilets, cement mixers, ironing boards -- essential to the sets of the working-class dramas that so altered the landscape of British theater in the 1950's.
        By 1958, he was the chief designer at the Theater Royal, Stratford East, responsible for the sets for, among other shows, Shelagh Delaney's ''A Taste of Honey,'' Lionel Bart's ''Fings Ain't Wot They Used T'Be'' and Ms. Littlewood's ''Oh What a Lovely War.''
        In 1963, Mr. Bury left the Theater Workshop and embarked on a long and fruitful partnership with Peter Hall, for whom he first worked at the newly formed Royal Shakespeare Company, where he was associate designer and then head of design. He gained immediate attention with his first big project there: the designs for Shakespeare's ''Wars of the Roses'' cycle, under Mr. Hall's direction.
        These were huge black triple-sided structures, inspired by classical Greek theater, that rotated simultaneously for changes of scene. And they were made almost entirely of metal, even the leaves on the trees. The props and furniture were iron; the walls and floor were steel.
        His sets for the 1965 production of ''Hamlet'' -- shiny and black, full of marble and tapestries -- were judged triumphal. One critic described them as ''a superb inferno''; another said Mr. Bury had created a ''wax museum of elderly lasciviousness.''
        Mr. Hall and Mr. Bury worked together at the Royal Shakespeare Company throughout the 1960's. When Mr. Hall, now Sir Peter, became director of the National Theater in 1973, he took Mr. Bury with him.
        Among the modern plays they produced together were many by Harold Pinter, including ''The Collection,'' ''The Homecoming,'' ''Landscape,'' ''Silence'' and ''Betrayal.''
        For ''The Homecoming,'' Mr. Bury's grim, shadowy north London interior proved so popular with Mr. Pinter that when he revived the play in 1991, the playwright called Mr. Bury back to recreate the same bleakness.
        In their extensive partnership, Mr. Bury and Mr. Hall found their biggest commercial and popular success with ''Amadeus,'' which opened at the National and transferred to Broadway. Mr. Bury's opulent setting was fluid, beautiful and flexible, allowing for many changes of scene. On Broadway, the play brought him two Tony Awards, for best lighting and best set design, in 1981.
        Mr. Bury left the National Theater in 1985, turning most of his attention to opera, a medium in which he had already worked as a freelance designer in the late 1960's and early 70's. He designed two or three operas a year in Europe and the United States until his health began to fail in the mid-1990's.
        His productions -- many done in partnership with his wife, Elizabeth -- included ''Salome,'' for the Royal Opera House in 1988, for the Washington Opera in 1990 and for the San Francisco Opera in 1993; ''Carmen,'' for Glyndebourne in 1987; and ''Orfeo'' and ''A Midsummer Night's Dream'' for Glyndebourne in 1989. In New York, he designed the sets for a number of plays, including Ibsens's ''Doll's House'' and ''Hedda Gabler,'' both starring Claire Bloom.
        Mr. Bury was also active in professional groups, serving as the chairman of the Society of British Theater Designers from 1975 to 1985. He did considerable work as a consultant to architects on the design of theater buildings and opera houses, including the first opera house in Tokyo and the refurbished Glyndebourne Festival Opera House.
        Mr. Bury's first marriage, to Margaret Greenwood, ended in divorce. In addition to his wife, he is survived by four children, Christopher, Adam, Abigail and Matthew.
        Although he slowed down markedly in his final years, Mr. Bury never stopped working altogether. At the time of his death, he was working on the forthcoming revival of his and Sir Peter's ''Midsummer Night's Dream'' at Glyndebourne.
      