
        Jack O'Brian, a longtime New York newspaper columnist who brought a breezy, peppery style to writing about television and Broadway gossip, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan.
        A Time magazine profile in 1964 noted that Mr. O'Brian began writing about television ''in the days when everybody who had a TV set was watching four to five hours at night and wanted to talk about it the next morning.'' In addition to chronicling the ever-changing plots and personalities, he wrote extensively about the quiz show scandals of the 1950's.
        His frequently negative opinions landed like bombshells. The cultural figures he approved of included Bert Lahr, Perry Como and Walter Cronkite, ''to name most of them,'' in Time's phrase.
        John Dennis Patrick O'Brian was born on Aug. 16, 1914, in Buffalo. He dropped out of elementary school to become a messenger, day laborer and gravedigger. He took a job with The Buffalo Courier-Express as a cub reporter, and almost immediately established a cantankerous reputation by lambasting the young accordionists in a local orchestra.
        Mr. O'Brian joined The Associated Press as its drama and movie critic in 1943. In 1949 he moved to The New York Journal-American and started its television column. In 1967 he took over the Voice of Broadway column 10 days after the death of his predecessor, Dorothy Kilgallen. His tone was appropriately sassy, as he wrote of stars going to ''splitsville.''
        As newspapers closed and merged in New York, he continued to write the column for The New York World Journal Tribune. He presented distinctive, independent viewpoints in the manner of his mentor, Walter Winchell. After the last newspaper he wrote for closed, he continued his commentary on a radio show for WOR-AM and wrote a nationally syndicated column.
        The format of the radio show involved talking with one guest, usually somebody from the entertainment world, for 45 minutes. The show promised ''all the lighter arts, including politics.''
        Mr. O'Brian's wife, the former Yvonne Johnston, died in 1996. He is survived by two daughters, Bridget and Kate O'Brian, and four grandchildren.
      