
        Dr. Donald Jeffery Reis, a New York neurobiologist who explored the brain's role in human emotions, behavior and disease, died Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 69 and lived on the Upper East Side and in Stonington, Conn.
        The cause was complications during a liver transplant, said Kathy Koenig, his assistant.
        Dr. Reis, who spent most of his career at Cornell University Medical College in Manhattan, investigated the ways the nervous systems of humans and animals affected blood pressure, and he found evidence that brain disorders could produce hypertension.
        His work also contributed to the understanding of illnesses like dementia, strokes, Parkinson's disease and schizophrenia.
        Dr. Reis studied the ways in which the brain relates to emotional behavior, controls blood pressure, protects against strokes and generates neurotransmitters affecting mood and behavior. He also mapped the pathways in the brain that regulate blood pressure.
        His research demonstrated that irregularities in these pathways could lead to hypertension and could make blood pressure vulnerable to stress.
        Dr. Reis founded the Cornell Medical Center Laboratory of Neurobiology, which also conducts work on aspects of internal medicine, psychiatry and psychosomatic medicine.
        At his death, he was the director of the laboratory and was the George Cotzias distinguished professor of neurology and neuroscience at the medical college.
        Born in Manhattan, Donald Jeffery Reis graduated Phi Beta Kappa in zoology from Cornell in 1953 and received his medical degree there in 1956.
        He continued his training and worked in New York, Boston, England, Sweden and Japan before returning to Cornell Medical College as an assistant professor of neurology in 1963.
        Dr. Reis wrote or contributed to some 650 scientific publications, trained more than 100 neurologists and edited professional journals. He was a consultant for industry and government and lectured widely in this country and overseas.
        Dr. Reis is survived by his wife, Cornelia Langer Noland Reis; two stepdaughters, Lyn and Cady Noland of Manhattan; a stepson, William Noland of Durham, N.C.; and a granddaughter.
      