
        James Russell Wiggins, a longtime editor of The Washington Post who served as United States Ambassador to the United Nations and spent his last 30 years running a weekly newspaper in Maine, died yesterday at his home in Brooklin, Me. He was 96.
        During his 22 years as managing editor and, later, editor and executive vice-president of The Post in the 1940's, 50's and 60's, Mr. Wiggins helped build the paper from a somewhat provincial capital daily into a national voice. A strong supporter of President Lyndon B. Johnson's policies in Vietnam, Mr. Wiggins was tapped by President Johnson to be ambassador to the United Nations in 1968, shortly before he had planned to retire from The Post. He served there for the last four months of Mr. Johnson's term.
        Mr. Wiggins was born in Luverne, Minn., on December 4, 1903. He worked at his hometown's weekly paper during high school, became a full-time reporter there after graduation and bought the paper when he was 22.
        Although he skipped college, Mr. Wiggins was known as a scholar of American history, an expert on Jefferson and a brilliant debater.
        Mr. Wiggins went to work for The Dispatch-Pioneer Press of St. Paul, Minn., in 1930 and eventually became managing editor. He served as an Army intelligence officer during World War II in North Africa and Italy, and after his discharge was assistant to the publisher of The New York Times, Arthur Hays Sulzberger, for a year.
        In 1947, Mr. Wiggins was hired as managing editor by The Washington Post, became executive editor in 1955 and was editor and executive vice president from 1960 to 1968, giving him charge of both the news and editorial departments. He wrote a book, ''Freedom or Secrecy,'' urging that government records be made more accessible.
        Mr. Wiggins once wrote, ''The ideal newspaper man is a man who never forgets which side of the footlights he's on, who never forgets that he is a reporter, . . . not a mover and shaker.'' But in 1968, he was called to public life by President Johnson, who had occasionally sought his advice over the years.
        After his brief tenure as a diplomat, Mr. Wiggins finished his career as he started it, at a weekly newspaper -- this time The Ellsworth American, of Ellsworth, Me., population 6,000. Mr. Wiggins had bought the paper in 1966. Although he later sold it, he remained as editor, working  until congestive heart failure confined him to his home in mid-July.
        Mr. Wiggins, whose wife, Mabel, died in 1990, is survived by a daughter, Patricia Schroth, 10 grandchildren, 15 great-grandchildren and 3 great-great-grandchildren.
      