
        Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler, who led the Reform movement of American Judaism through 23 years of growth in which it opened its congregations to unaffiliated Jews, non-Jews and those born of intermarriage, and made room in its pulpits for women and gays, died early yesterday at his home in Westport, Conn. He was 75.
        Rabbi Schindler, who had two previous heart attacks -- one in his 40's and another at 61, atop Masada in Israel -- apparently suffered a third heart attack about 2 a.m. yesterday while sleeping, said his wife, Rhea. He was to have entered the hospital for heart tests after Thanksgiving.
        A heavyset man of grandfatherly warmth and occasionally ribald wit, Rabbi Schindler played two major roles in American Jewish life, one religious, the other secular; either would have made him one of the most influential American Jewish leaders of the latter half of the 20th century.
        In addition to serving from 1973 to 1996 as president of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations, the governing body of Reform Judaism, Rabbi Schindler acted as the chief spokesman on behalf of the wide spectrum of American Jewry on matters relating to Israel in the late 1970's. He wielded that megaphone as chairman of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations, a coalition of leading religious and secular groups.
        That Rabbi Schindler was able to serve in both capacities simultaneously was a measure of his political skills. While speaking on behalf of all Jews, including the most strictly Orthodox, on issues related to Middle East peace, for example, Rabbi Schindler also spoke out passionately against many positions that the Orthodox hold as sacred, including the idea that one's Jewishness ultimately flows from the mother's side of the family, not the father's.
        But Rabbi Schindler could be difficult to pigeonhole. In assuming the chairmanship of the coalition of Jewish organizations, he was widely assumed to be a dove, given his leadership of the more liberal Reform movement. But soon after Rabbi Schindler's appointment in 1976, Menachem Begin, initially regarded as a hawk, was elected prime minister of Israel, and Rabbi Schindler immediately embraced his leadership, saying unity on Israel's behalf was critical.
        Among those leaders of Conservative Judaism who jousted with Rabbi Schindler was Rabbi Arthur Hertzberg, a former president of the American Jewish Congress who disagreed with him fiercely on the promise of Begin's leadership and on Rabbi Schindler's explosive notion that patrilineal descent -- the Jewish lineage of one's father -- was sufficient to consider someone a Jew, even if the person's mother was non-Jewish.
        ''That didn't break a friendship,'' said Rabbi Hertzberg, a leader of the Conservative movement who was first ordained an Orthodox rabbi. ''Even though he was a partisan figure, he was never treated as the enemy.''
        ''There was something of the British House of Commons at international Jewish meetings, after hours,'' Rabbi Hertzberg added. ''We'd all get together. And Alex was one of the ties that bound.''
        Rabbi Schindler's own background and distinguished bearing -- his hair had long ago turned a silvery white -- challenged the very notion of Reform Judaism as a heavily diluted version of the real thing. The son of a Yiddish poet with roots among the German Hasidim, Rabbi Schindler peppered his conversational speech with folksy Yiddish expressions and self-deprecating humor.
        ''The irony here,'' said Rabbi Eric H. Yoffie, who succeeded Rabbi Schindler as president of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations in 1996, ''was that this most reformed of reformers, someone who was politically left and a promoter of dramatic change, was also someone who was seen as possessing Yiddishkeit. He had this Jewish soul. He had this traditional manner about him.''
        ''That's what made him so acceptable in the broader community,'' Rabbi Yoffie added. ''It gave him a measure of credibility.''
        Alexander Moshe Schindler was born on Oct. 4, 1925, in Munich. Twelve years later, he fled the Nazis with his family and settled in Washington Heights in Manhattan. He later returned to Europe as a ski trooper with the United States Army. He was wounded so severely, in fighting in Italy, that he earned a Purple Heart and a Bronze Star.
        A graduate of the College of the City of New York, he studied for the rabbinate at Hebrew Union College and was ordained in 1953.
        It was while he was a rabbi at Temple Emanuel in Worcester, Mass., that he met Rhea Rosenblum, whose sister was one of his congregants. On the night they met, he proposed.
        ''He was determined, let's put it that way,'' she said yesterday.
        It was May 1956. He was 30. She was 24, and was due to depart, within days, for Israel. It was not until she returned in August that she accepted his proposal, and they were married the next month.
        In addition to his wife and a sister, Eva Oles of Highland Park, N.J., Rabbi Schindler is survived by three daughters, Elisa R. Schindler of Manhattan, Debra L. Trautmann of Old Lyme, Conn., and Rabbi Judith R. Wallach of Charlotte, N.C.; two sons, Jonathan D. Schindler of Manhattan and Joshua M. Schindler of St. Louis; and nine grandchildren.
        After leaving Worcester in 1959, Rabbi Schindler rose rapidly through the ranks of the Reform movement, first in Boston, where he founded a New England coalition of Reform synagogues, and later at the Union of American Hebrew Congregations in Manhattan, where he was director of education and then vice president before becoming president in 1973.
        In 1978, Rabbi Schindler touched off a spirited and often angry debate within American Judaism when he called on Judaism to undertake an ''outreach'' program. Responding to the increasing concern among American Jews about defections through assimilation and intermarriage, he called on American synagogues to integrate into Jewish life intermarried couples, their children, Jews unattached to congregations and non-Jews interested in converting.
        ''The mission of Reform Jewish outreach is not preventive, but restorative,'' Rabbi Schindler wrote in 1995, in an ''ethical will'' that he posted on the Web site of the union (www.uahc.org/conv/alex.html). ''Its purpose is to draw the intermarried back into Jewish life in the hope that the non-Jewish partners will ultimately opt for Judaism, and above all that the children of these marriages will be reared as Jews.
        ''But do not all these strangers in our midst tend to dilute Judaism, to water it down?'' he continued. ''That is up to us. It is we who shall set the standards in our congregations. And if our standards are high and our programs are substantive, those who come from the periphery to the center, from the outside to the inside, invariably are among the first to laud and cultivate a flowering of Jewish literacy and spirituality.''
        Indeed, while the Reform Movement, the most liberal within Judaism, has emphasized the need to adapt classical Jewish beliefs to modern circumstances, Rabbi Schindler told a Reform convention in 1983 that its members should set a better example of religious commitment.
        ''Reform Judaism by its very nature has accorded a good deal of authority to the individual,'' he said. ''The tragedy is that too many Reform Jews at every level have seized on this right to opt to do nothing.''
        He then urged congregational leaders to help bring more Reform Jews to public worship on the Sabbath and on holidays, and to encourage them to light candles and say prayers at home.
        He also embraced and encouraged the idea of women becoming Reform rabbis (the first was ordained in 1973, his first year as president) and of gay rabbis feeling comfortable declaring their sexuality.
        Rabbi Schindler did not shy away from controversy in his public remarks directed at other branches of Judaism, or toward the country as a whole.
        In the early 1980's, he lamented that evangelical Christians, including those in Jerry Falwell's Moral Majority, were forging ties with Jewish leaders in New York and elsewhere, after years of mutual distrust.
        ''Why does organized American Jewry continue its flirtation with the Christian right?'' he said. ''We know the reasons, of course. Most Jewish leaders are willing to forgive anyone anything so long as they hear a good word about Israel.''
        Since retiring in 1996 as leader of the Reform movement, Rabbi Schindler kept up a vigorous schedule. Having performed a wedding on Nov. 4, he interviewed another couple on Monday night in preparation for their marriage ceremony next week. In the interim, he was scheduled to speak in Kansas City.
        In conversations both public and private, Rabbi Schindler was likely to be personally reflective. Under the category ''thoughts on life'' in his biography in Who's Who, Rabbi Schindler was quoted as saying, ''To live life fully, clinging to its many gifts with all my might and then, paradoxically, to let go when life compels us to surrender what it gave.''
        Rabbi Schindler's funeral service is scheduled to begin at 11 a.m. tomorrow at Temple Israel in Westport, Conn.
        Correction:  November 18, 2000, Saturday  An obituary on Thursday about Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler, former president of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations, included an erroneous date from the organization for the first ordination of a woman as a rabbi in the American Reform movement. The rabbi, Sally J. Priesand, was ordained in 1972, not 1973.
      