
        Dr. Hart Edgar Van Riper, a pediatrician who as a foundation official shepherded the development of the vaccines that virtually wiped out polio in the United States, died Saturday in Indianapolis. A former resident of the Upper East Side of Manhattan, he was 95.
        Dr. Van Riper was medical director of what is now the March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation when it underwrote the drive to wipe out infantile paralysis, or poliomyelitis, caused by a viral inflammation of the gray matter of the spinal cord.
        Polio was defeated in the late 1950's when the Salk vaccine and polio shots came into wide use, followed by the oral -- and ouchless -- Sabin version. Dr. Van Riper played a central liaison role in the development of both vaccines, a feat financed by the March of Dimes with the United States Public Health Service.
        Polio spread in frightening epidemics in the 1930's through the mid-1950's. An infection that did not spare the rich, it afflicted the young Franklin Delano Roosevelt. As president in 1938, he created the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, the forerunner of the March of Dimes.
        Little federal money was available then for what is now known as biomedical research. But the foundation and its March of Dimes campaigns for iron lungs for polio victims and research for a cure, raised about $50 million a year by the late 1940's.
        The foundation underwrote work like that conducted by Dr. Jonas Salk, then at the University of Pittsburgh, and Dr. Albert Sabin, at the University of Cincinnati. A record epidemic terrified parents in 1953 even as Dr. Salk's killed-virus vaccine went through field trials.
        It was licensed in 1955 and all but eliminated polio in this country by the 1960's. Dr. Sabin's live-virus vaccine was declared safe in 1961.
        Dr. Van Riper, in overseeing the vaccine research, at times was caught in the middle of the rivalry  between the two researchers. Both died several years ago, but Dr. Salk got his vindication posthumously last year. By then, the Sabin vaccine was used in much of the world, but the United States decided to drop it in favor of the old-fashioned polio shots with a stronger and safer variant of what remains essentially the Salk vaccine.
        Hart Van Riper was born in Kirkwood, Ill. He graduated in 1926 from the University of Pennsylvania, where he received his medical degree in 1930. He practiced pediatrics and was medical director of an insurance company in Madison, Wis., through the 1930's.
        He worked in the Children's Bureau of the Labor Department in Washington before joining the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis in New York in 1945. He was its medical director until 1956. He then was medical director and vice president for medical affairs of Geigy Pharmaceuticals in Ardsley, N.Y., until 1970.
        Dr. Van Riper is survived by two daughters, Mary-Hart Bartley of Manhattan and Christina Van Riper of Indianapolis; and a son, David S. of Berthoud, Colo. His wife, Mary-Virginia Smith, a victim of polio as an adult, died in 1974 after 37 years of marriage.
      