
        Former Representative Henry B. Gonzalez, a pugnacious and partisan Texas Democrat who used his perch as the chairman of the House banking committee to champion public housing and tighter controls over the savings and loan industry, died today in a San Antonio Hospital. He was 84 and lived in San Antonio.
        Mr. Gonzalez, whose irascible manner and staunch defense of the downtrodden exasperated many colleagues but inspired his constituents to keep him in Congress for 37 years, died at Baptist Medical Center after he awoke feeling poorly, a family spokesman said.
        The cause of death was not immediately determined, said the spokesman, Adrian Saenz.
        Mr. Gonzalez, the child of Mexican immigrants, was an ardent supporter of desegregation in Texas and later became an avid admirer of President John F. Kennedy. During his long Congressional career, from 1961 to 1998, he led critical inquiries into the savings and loan scandal of the 1980's and into the Bush administration's dealings with Iraq before  the Persian Gulf war.
        But Mr. Gonzalez, a former college boxer, will also be remembered for his inclination to throw an occasional punch at detractors.
        In a San Antonio restaurant, he heard himself referred to as a Communist by a much younger man. Mr. Gonzalez, who was 70 at the time, gave the man a black eye. He was later unrepentant.
        That combative spirit fueled a famous feud with Samuel R. Pierce, Jr., the secretary of housing and urban development in the Reagan administration. Mr. Gonzalez fought for more low-cost housing at a time when Mr. Pierce sought to dismantle such federal programs.
        A stocky, untelegenic politician who was partial to polyester suits and loud ties, Mr. Gonzalez occasionally took to the House floor for ruminations on abuses by the federal government. He sought the impeachment of two Republican presidents: Ronald Reagan, after the 1983 invasion of Grenada, and George Bush, in connection with the 1987 Iran-contra scandal.
        He clashed again with Mr. Bush when he investigated accusations that the United States had sought to curry favor with President Saddam Hussein of Iraq by offering agricultural loan guarantees and access to technology with military applications.
        Bush administration officials denied a role in strengthening President Hussein, whose 1990 invasion of Kuwait led to the Persian Gulf war.
        Although Mr. Gonzalez was a fierce partisan, his investigation of the savings and loan industry was especially painful to Democrats. He exposed the efforts of Charles F. Keating, the director of Lincoln Savings and Loan to influence senators responsible for regulating the industry. Four of the so-called Keating Five senators implicated in the scandal were fellow Democrats.
        Mr. Gonzalez drafted legislation to authorize a federal bailout of the savings and loan industry in 1989 and to impose new regulatory safeguards.
        For all his contact with movers and shakers of the financial industry, Mr. Gonzalez prided himself on his honesty and independence.
        He once claimed that he had shuffled through the muddy paths of politics at a local, state and national level but ''I still haven't gotten the tips of my shoes dirty.''
        At times, Mr. Gonzalez's obstinacy was disruptive. In 1977, he abruptly resigned from leading a House investigation into the assassinations of President Kennedy and the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. After a bitter squabble with the panel's chief counsel, Mr. Gonzalez quit, asserting that elements of organized crime were succeeding in keeping the truth obscured.
        Mr. Gonzalez was the first Mexican-American to represent Texas in Congress. But despite his pride in his heritage, he did not want to be identified solely by his ethnicity, and he dropped out of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.
        Born in 1916 to recent immigrants from Mexico, Mr. Gonzalez was one of six children who grew up familiar with discrimination and poverty. He studied engineering for two years at the University of Texas but was forced to return home for lack of money during the Depression. He went on to earn a law degree at St. Mary's University in San Antonio, though he later took jobs working for his father's translation service. He once resigned from a position as a probation officer in juvenile court after he was prohibited from hiring a black employee.
        Elected to the San Antonio City Council in 1953, Mr. Gonzalez won approval for a measure to desegregate city facilities. As a state senator, he led a 35-hour filibuster against bills favoring racial segregation.
        He once said that he had few blacks in his district, but that the principle of equal access was worth defending. ''If a bill violates the constitutional rights of even one person, then it has to be struck down,'' he said in 1992.
        During his years in Washington, Mr. Gonzalez shunned the capital's social scene, preferring the comfort of a small apartment stuffed with books. His family never moved to Washington, so he commuted home most weekends.
        He is survived by his wife of 60 years, Bertha, and eight sons and daughters: Henry B. Jr., Rosemary, Charlie, Bertha, Steven, Genevieve, Frank and Anna.
        His son Charlie now represents the San Antonio district that Mr. Gonzalez held for so long.
      