
        Albert Joseph Guerard, an author and critical essayist who taught modern literature to fledgling luminaries like Alice Hoffman and John Updike, died on Nov. 9 at his home on the Stanford University campus in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 86.
        Dr. Guerard was a professor emeritus of literature at Stanford, where he taught from 1961 until 1985.
        A man of many interests, he developed the university's first freshman seminar program and its Voice Project, which attracted well-known writers to teach freshmen classes.
        Asked once how one teaches creative writing, Dr. Guerard said there were no techniques, tricks or formulas for success; it was an empirical process.
        ''Every genuine writer has a voice of his own -- an inward voice that stems from his temperament as well as from experience,'' he said.
        ''The experienced teacher listens to that voice, helps bring it out.''
        Ms. Hoffman, the novelist, went to Stanford on a scholarship in the 1970's.
        ''I was lucky,'' she told an interviewer in 1994. ''I had Albert Guerard, one of the greatest writing teachers in the country. He just opened the world up.''
        Dr. Guerard published nine novels, six books of criticism and a memoir, ''The Touch of Time: Myth, Memory and the Self'' (1980), along with critical essays and book reviews.
        At his death he was preparing a volume of his critical writing for publication, a colleague, Prof. Thomas Moser, said.
        His novels included ''Maquisard: A Christmas Tale'' (1945) and ''Night Journey'' (1950), which reflected his experience with Army intelligence in World War II.
        ''The Exiles'' (1963) dealt with political skulduggery in the Caribbean, and his latest, ''The Hotel in the Jungle'' (1996), mixed history with fiction in a tale set at a resort in Mexico.
        His books of criticism included ''Thomas Hardy: The Novels and Stories'' (1949), ''Andre Gide'' (1951, revised in 1969), ''Conrad the Novelist'' (1958) and ''The Triumph of the Novel: Dickens, Dostoyevsky, Faulkner'' (1976).
        He also contributed short stories to periodicals. A collection of his manuscripts is in the Stanford University Library.
        Albert Guerard was born in Houston and graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Stanford in 1934. (His father, Albert Leon Guerard, was also a writer and an authority on French literature and history.)
        He received a master's at Harvard University in 1936 and a doctorate at Stanford two years later. He was on the Harvard faculty from 1938 to 1961, rising from instructor to professor before returning to Stanford for good.
        Dr. Guerard is survived by his wife, Maclin Bocock Guerard, a short-story writer; three daughters: Collot, of Washington, Maclin, of Santa Rosa, Calif. and Lundie, of Boulder, Colo.; and three grandchildren.
        The critic John Simon called his former tutor at Harvard ''a vastly underestimated figure on our cultural horizon.'' Speaking to The Associated Press when ''The Hotel'' was published, he said of Mr. Guerard:
        ''It would be nice if, however belatedly, he were recognized for his body of work. He's one of those people that everybody has read a little of.''
      