
        Thomas Baird Campion, a former New York Times director of operations, campus administrator at the University of Massachusetts and innovative fund-raiser for Dartmouth College, died on Friday at his retirement home in Lebanon, N.H. He was 84 and formerly lived in Hanover, N.H., and Bronxville, N.Y.
        A native of Columbus, Ohio, Mr. Campion graduated from Harvard College with a degree in mechanical engineering in 1938 and from the Harvard Business School two years later. He then worked in the production department of the Procter & Gamble Company in Cincinnati, with time out for defense work in World War II.
        He joined The Times in 1948 as assistant to the mechanical superintendent. He was named assistant superintendent in 1955, production director in 1960 and director of operations in 1968. In that job, he was in charge of the newspaper's production, engineering, general services and communications departments.
        Mr. Campion left The Times in 1970 to become vice chancellor for administrative services at the University of Massachusetts in Amherst. He supervised all operations on the campus related to the physical plant, and he worked closely with the other vice chancellors.
        He asked to be relieved of those duties in 1974 so he could teach. Joining the faculty of the School of Business Administration, he gave lecture courses on business policy, the environment and production.
        In 1977, Dartmouth invited him to create the Parents Fund, intended for parents who were not alumni and who had given to their own alma maters but not Dartmouth. He also led a drive to make the campus more hospitable to foreign students, who then made up less than 2 percent of the student body, and to attract more of them with scholarship funds.
        He opened his home to students from many countries, who came to live with him and his family. On his retirement in 1987, Dartmouth set up the Thomas B. Campion Scholarship fund, which supports one undergraduate scholar each year.
        Mr. Campion is survived by his wife of 59 years, Nardi Reeder Campion; four sons, Thomas B., of Ketchum, Idaho, Dr. Edward W., of Boston, Dr. Toby, of Los Angeles, and Russell, of Chicago; a daughter, Narcissa Campion of Boston; and eight grandchildren.
      