
        Herbert Brun, a composer who helped introduce the use of electronics and computers in creating music, died on Nov. 6 in Urbana, Ill. He was 82 and lived in Urbana.
        Mr. Brun was a professor emeritus of music composition at the University of Illinois School of Music. He formally retired in 1988 but contined to conduct a seminar in experimental composition until his death.
        Born in Berlin, Herbert Julius Brun wrote modern music for various instruments. But he also became a central figure in melding electronics and computer technology with music, and his teaching and writings in English and German influenced that development. He left Germany for Palestine in 1936 and studied piano composition in Tel Aviv and at the Jerusalem Conservatory of Music. He took more music courses at Columbia in the late 1940's.
        After 1950 he lived in Israel and Germany, writing for the theater, radio and television. His work included lecturing on Bavarian Radio in Munich (where he met his wife, Marianne Kortner), and in summer courses in Darmstadt.
        He also conducted research in Paris, Cologne and Munich on the use of electro-acoustic and electronic sound production in composing music, and he repeatedly toured the United States. In 1963 he was offered the professorship at Urbana, which allowed him to expand his study of computer systems as another resource in his work.
        While continuing to write pieces for traditional instruments, he used computers to generate sound, which he integrated into his compositions. He wrote widely on the function of computers in music and on the place of music in society and politics.
        Last year James Levine and the percussionists of the Metropolitan Opera included an unconducted performance of Mr. Brun's ''More Dust'' (1977) in a free concert series of contemporary works by, among others, Varese and Reich.
        In Mr. Brun's piece, Allan Kozinn reported in The New York Times, three musicians proceeded from tambourine, cymbal and xylophone to larger drums to instruments emitting a glasslike sound and on to snares. In the music the instruments interacted with one another and with taped electronic sounds, Mr. Kozinn wrote.
        During the 1970's and 80's Mr. Brun held guest professorships at universities in the United States and Germany.
        In addition to his wife, Professor Brun is survived by two sons, Michael and Stefan, both of Urbana, and a sister, Erika Brun of Haifa, Israel.
      