
        Roger David Malkin, a leader in the American seed industry and high-technology agriculture, died on Wednesday at his home in Scott, Miss. He was 69.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said.
        Last month, because of his illness, Mr. Malkin took emeritus status as chairman of the Delta and Pine Land Company, a top-ranking developer, grower and distributor of soybean and cotton seeds.
        He led a team of investors that acquired the company, then one of several seed producers in the United States cotton market, in 1978 from a British textile group, Courtaulds Ltd.
        As its chief executive and chairman, he focused on developing better seed varieties and built the company into the foremost cotton breeder in the world, with commercial activities in the domestic market and 18 foreign countries.
        To do this he melded traditional methods to improve traits and up-to-date biotechnology, producing hardier varieties, enhanced fiber quality and easier harvesting.
        Ray A. Goldberg, professor emeritus of agriculture at the Harvard Business School, said that Mr. Malkin was one of the first to put the ''genomic revolution'' to work for the benefit of the farmer and the environment. He cited ''natural pesticide control'' as a major advance that was helped along by Mr. Malkin's acumen.
        ''These technologies ushered in an entirely new system of agricultural production,'' Professor Goldberg added. ''In countries like Brazil and China the technology saved the cotton crop.''
        A native New Yorker, Mr. Malkin made the Mississippi Delta his home and used various charitable outlets to benefit the area, especially in education. He set up a scholarship fund that sends qualified young men and women to attend his alma mater, Dartmouth College.
        He also supported the Delta State University Foundation and the Mississippi State University Agribusiness Institute, among others.
        Roger Malkin was born in Brooklyn and graduated from Dartmouth in 1952 and from its graduate business school the following year.
        He had an early career in real estate and in the late 1960's acquired the Federal Compress and Warehouse Company, based in Memphis.  The company operated warehouses in the South and Southwest, and Mr. Malkin restructured it to provide commercial space in an increasingly nonagricultural economy.
        Another venture, in the 1980's, was the Superior Farming Company of Bakersfield, Calif., which he purchased from the Mobil Oil Company, a 38,000-acre grower of patented varieties of stone fruit and seedless grapes.
        Mr. Malkin is survived by a daughter, Melissa Malkin, of Encino, Calif.; a son, Jonathan R., of Washington, Conn.; a brother, Peter L., of Manhattan; two granddaughters; and his companion, Barbara Jakobson, also of Manhattan. His marriage to Carmel Adler Malkin, a Manhattan resident, ended in divorce.
      