
        Eric Morley, who made a parade of pretty girls in swimsuits into a televised international sport with millions of fans, died Thursday in London. He was 82.
        A former British Army bandsman turned entertainment promoter, he had an extraordinarily simple idea in 1951, when he was asked to liven up the Festival of Britain: he organized a bathing beauty competition for a title he called the Miss World Festival Bikini Girl.
        ''We put all the girls in bikinis, which at the time was a shocker,'' he said later.
        Originally intended as a one-time event, Mr. Morley renamed it the Miss World contest and turned it into an annual competition the next year, after American television organized the rival Miss Universe contest.
        The Miss World show was immensely sucessful, attracting millions of viewers worldwide and competitors from virtually every country. In 1997 it was seen by an estimated 2.5 billion people in 155 countries, which Mr. Morley said was a record for any television show.
        There were controversies. The 1973 victor, Marjorie Wallace, an American, sent back her crown after the British soccer player George Best was charged in court with burglarizing her London apartment. The 1974 Miss World, Helen Morgan of Britain, resigned a week after her coronation when she was discovered to be an unmarried mother. And Gabriella Brum of Germany, the 1980 winner, was forced to step down after it was disclosed that she had made pornographic movies.
        The show was also attacked by feminists who saw it as sexist and degrading to the dignity of women.
        Publicly, Mr. Morley was unapologetic, pointing to the show's huge audience as proof of its popularity and once famously retorting to a critic, ''If it's shameful to women, then the best thing they can do is turn it off.''
        But his wife and business partner, the former Julia Pritchard, whom he married in 1960, showed more sensitivity to such criticism. In the 1970's she coined the phrase ''beauty with a purpose,'' and began insisting that besides exhibiting alluring vital statistics, the contestants should display a modicum of intelligence and social awareness.
        In 1989, for instance, they were asked questions about the ozone layer and told to wear cosmetics manufactured without cruelty to animals.
        Calling the show's earlier days ''more like a cattle market,'' Mrs. Morley said, ''Now you will see real women of substance who will be tomorrow's lawyers, surgeons and engineers.''
        She survives him, along with four sons; a daughter died earlier.
        The BBC broadcast the Miss World show until 1979 from famous London locations like the Lyceum Ballroom and the Royal Albert Hall. It was then taken over by ITV, a commercial company, which dropped it under pressure from critics in 1988. The show was then produced in other parts of the world until Mr. Morley brought it back to the independent Channel 5 in Britain last year.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Morley was preparing for the 50th Miss World contest, to be held at the end of this month in the Millennium Dome near Greenwich, on the south bank of the Thames.
        Born in London on Sept. 26, 1918, Eric Douglas Morley was orphaned at the age of 11. After grammar school, he was sent to the Royal Navy Training Ship Exmouth and then became a band boy with the Royal Fusiliers, learning to play the French horn. In later life he still listed playing it as his hobby. He rose from the rank of private to sergeant in six weeks, becoming a captain during World War II.
        In 1946 Mr. Morley joined a small leisure and catering company called Mecca, which he built into a major entertainment group, eventually becoming its chairman. In 1949 he started ''Come Dancing,'' a televised dancing show. It ran for 50 years, apparently the world's longest-running TV series. In 1961 he introduced commercial bingo to Britain.
        In 1978 he was forced from the top slot at Mecca after the company was taken over by Grand Metropolitan Hotels. But he continued running the Miss World competition and became chairman of Belhaven Brewery, a Scottish company.
        A strong supporter of Margaret Thatcher when she was leader of the Conservative Party, Mr. Morley ran unsucessfully for Parliament in 1974 and 1979; he lost by just 122 votes in the second race.
        A generous philanthropist, he said in his entry in the British ''Who's Who'' that he and his wife had raised more than $150 million for charities around the world.
        Rambunctious and abrasive, Mr. Morley was not given to modesty about his own abilities. ''I can frankly say I am gifted with a bit of brain,'' he once said. ''I'm the sort of man who will walk in where angels fear to tread.''
      