
        Victor Grinich, an electronics industry pioneer who helped start Fairchild Semiconductor in 1957 with seven other defectors from a small start-up founded by the Nobel Prize winner William Shockley, died last Sunday in Mountain View, Calif. He was 75.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Helen Nelson Grinich.
        Mr. Grinich became known as one of the ''traitorous eight'' after leaving Shockley Semiconductor, owned by Mr. Shockley, a co-inventor of the electronic transistor, only a year after his work won the Nobel Prize for physics. Calling themselves Fairchildren, Mr. Grinich and his colleagues started Fairchild, which created the first mass-produced integrated circuit, a predecessor of the modern computer chip.
        Fairchild is now a $786 billion company with 8,000 employees.
        ''He probably did more to push the analog circuitry than anyone else I know, especially in those early days,'' said Julius Blank, one of the original members who later became director of Escort Memory Systems, one of a string of small companies Mr. Grinich founded after leaving Fairchild in 1968.
        Mr. Grinich was born Victor Grgurinovich to Croatian immigrant parents. His father worked in the lumberyards of Aberdeen, Wash., and taught his son to speak Croatian and to appreciate Balkan folk dancing.
        Mr. Grinich joined the Navy in 1942, where he shed his Croatian name. ''English-speakers do not understand how to pronounce three consonants in a row,'' his wife said.
        The Navy provided Mr. Grinich with money to attend the University of Washington, where he found an aptitude for electrical engineering. He received bachelor's and master's degrees in the field, then moved to the San Francisco area, where he received a doctorate from Stanford University.
        After leaving Fairchild, Mr. Grinich taught at Stanford and the University of California at Berkeley. A textbook he co-wrote, ''Introduction to Integrated Circuits,'' was translated into Spanish and Hungarian, bringing Mr. Grinich small royalty checks until last year, Mrs. Grinich said.
        The other members of the traitorous eight were Robert Noyce, Gordon Moore, Jean Hoerni, Eugene Kleiner, Jay Last and Sheldon Roberts. Among the physicists, mathematicians and metallurgists in the group, Mr. Grinich was the only electrical engineer.
        Mr. Noyce, who founded Intel, died in 1990. Mr. Hoerni died in 1997.
        The remaining members last met in 1997, in a banquet room atop the Transamerica Pyramid in San Francisco, to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the founding of Fairchild, organized by Mr. Moore.
        Mr. Grinich's first marriage, to Nina Meinhard, ended in divorce.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Grinich is survived by two sons; Nicholas, of McMinnville, Ore., and Philip, of Santa Cruz, Calif.; a daughter, Anita, of Hood River, Ore.; and three grandchildren.
        Correction:  November 14, 2000, Tuesday  An obituary on Saturday about Victor Grinich, an electronics industry pioneer who helped start Fairchild Semiconductor, misstated the size of the company. Its 1999 sales were $786 million, not $786 billion.
      