
        Robert Trout, a pioneering broadcast journalist who was admired for the ease with which he ad libbed his way through some of the century's most important breaking news reports, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 91 and had homes in  Manhattan and Madrid.
        Mr. Trout, whose career spanned nearly 70 years, was often referred to as one of ''Murrow's Boys,'' a select group of reporters hired by Edward R. Murrow in the mid-1930's, when Murrow began to assemble what would become, over the next few decades, CBS's vaunted news division. But the famously self-deprecating Mr. Trout actually preceded Murrow at CBS, then known as the Columbia Broadcasting System. He was hired in 1931 by a small station in Alexandria, Va., that was acquired by CBS the next year.
        Yet it was as members of the Murrow team, known for its literate and probing commentary even on tight deadlines, that Mr. Trout and others like him made their careers. The Murrow group included the reporters William L. Shirer, Don Hollenbeck, David Schoenbrun, Alexander Kendrick, Richard C. Hottelet, Douglas Edwards, George W. Polk and Winston Burdette.
        With the exception of Mr. Polk, who was killed covering the Greek civil war in 1948, all of them became familiar voices -- and later faces -- to the CBS audience in the postwar years. They flourished in the heyday of general assignment reporters, journalists convinced that they could cover anything, do it quickly and get it right.
        Few could equal Mr. Trout, a quick study who became known in the business as the ''iron man'' for his ability to stay with an issue and give it all it required.
        The legends about Mr. Trout's resourcefulness were grounded in reality. For example, when he covered the Allied invasion of France on D-Day, he did, in fact, make 35 broadcasts in 24 hours and was on the air for one solid stretch of 7 hours and 18 minutes, telling Americans about the extraordinary events he saw unfolding before his eyes. And it was he whom CBS listeners heard on V-E Day, saying, ''This is the end of the Second World War.''
        In the 1930's he extemporaneously covered a series of events. In less than one year, from December 1936 to September 1937,  they included the coronation of King George VI; the marriage of Wallis Warfield Simpson, an American, to the Duke of Windsor, who as Edward VIII had given up his crown for her; and the opening of the Boulder Dam.
        He also covered several runnings of the Kentucky Derby, United States naval maneuvers, the New York World's Fair in 1939, at least one flood in Mississippi, a number of egg rollings on the White House lawn and probably two dozen New Year's Eves, which he reported from Times Square for radio and later, in the 1950's and 60's, for television.
        He was noted not just for his careful elocution but also for his care with facts and for his fairness in handling clashing ideas.
        In 1936 Mr. Trout was assigned to cover both the Republican and Democratic National Conventions. His tireless ability to hold an audience when nothing was happening amazed President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
        It amazed Murrow, too, whose own abilities as a speaker were formidable but who preferred to lecture to live audiences. He found it more difficult to be himself speaking into a microphone in a studio. Murrow once asked Mr. Trout how he remained so poised and fluid on the air. A self-effacing, shy man, Mr. Trout explained that he had taught himself to think of the microphone the same way he thought of the telephone. Some believed that his approach resulted in commentary that seemed both fresh and personal, and his popularity as a broadcaster soared.
        In the 1930's, Mr. Trout's voice was familiar to CBS listeners, for it was he who made introductory remarks before President Roosevelt's radio talks. Indeed, Mr. Trout coined the term ''fireside chats'' for the radio talks, a description Roosevelt liked and adopted.
        And in April 1945, when Roosevelt died, Mr. Trout extemporaneously delivered a 25-minute memorial program, highlighting  Roosevelt's accomplishments and trials during his dozen years in the White House.
        Robert Trout was born Robert Albert Blondheim on Oct. 15, 1909, in Washington, where his father owned a shoe store. He took Trout, the last name of a friend, as his professional name in 1932.
        He did not grow up wanting to be a broadcaster or even a reporter. Admittedly a lazy student, he dreamed his way through high school, imagining a life of travel that would provide experiences he could use to become a great writer. Although he did sail to Europe one summer as a cabin boy on a passenger liner, he generally stayed closer to home, making most of his money as a soda jerk or as a cab driver in Washington.
        But Mr. Trout's political indoctrination came early. In March 1917, when he was 7, he watched Woodrow Wilson's second inaugural parade.
        ''Of course the attraction for me was the parade,'' he said. ''The big feature was always the remnants of the Civil War. They had a float with the Blue and Gray shaking hands. Everything was horse-drawn.''
        Mr. Trout never went to college. After graduating from Central High School in 1927, he held a series of odd jobs, eventually landing steady employment at WJSV, a radio station in Alexandria, Va. The station's regular newscaster failed to show up one day, and Mr. Trout was asked to substitute.
        He then became a regular announcer and taught himself the basics of broadcasting as it existed in those days. Besides writing news scripts, Mr. Trout also dispensed household hints and gave advice to hunters and fishermen.
        In October 1932, WJSV joined the network being formed by CBS and moved to Washington, where its call letters were changed to WTOP. Mr. Trout remained with it as a staff reporter. After covering Washington for a time, he was invited by Murrow to join CBS's news staff, tiny then, in New York.
        In 1933 he and Roosevelt participated in their first presidential inaugural. Roosevelt sat in an open car heading toward the Capitol; Mr. Trout stood on the roof of the Willard Hotel describing the pageantry.
        He continued covering political conventions long after. In 1952 Jack Gould, the television critic for The New York Times, praised Mr. Trout's ability to provide ''vivid and perceptive'' accounts of the Democrats and Republicans. His reports, Gould said, were ''nicely relieved by humorous observations.''
        Mr. Trout was not limited to politics or news in the 1950's, and during one period served as host of a celebrity quiz show for CBS called ''Who Said That?''
        In the 1960's Mr. Trout narrated several documentaries, both for CBS and for WCBS-TV, the CBS outlet in New York. Among them were programs on American funerals, on gun ownership and on suburban living. These were well received, and in 1964, as CBS News was trying to catch the ratings earned by Chet Huntley and David Brinkley on NBC, a decision was made to try to replace Walter Cronkite on some anchor assignments. As a result, Mr. Trout was invited to co-anchor the CBS News coverage of the Democratic National Convention. He was joined by the CBS News correspondent Roger Mudd.
        Although the Trout-Mudd team fared well with the critics, CBS News did not catch NBC News in the ratings.
        In 1965 Mr. Trout covered Winston Churchill's funeral and delivered a eulogy for Murrow, who died that April. He decided to leave the daily television news program he did each evening for WCBS-TV and became a roving correspondent for CBS in Europe.
        Throughout most of his career, Mr. Trout avoided taking planes. When emergencies developed, he would reluctantly fly, but from 1951 to 1965 he did not take a single plane for work or vacation. He went to all of his assignments by car or by train or on foot. A devoted stroller, he liked to walk at least 100 blocks a day when he lived in Manhattan, usually with a walking stick.
        Almost all of his career in broadcasting was with CBS. From 1947 to 1952 he appeared on NBC, and in the early 1980's he did some work for ABC.
        Mr. Trout, a dapper man who kept the thin mustache he grew in the 1930's to make himself look older, lived in Madrid for the last two decades. But after the death of his wife, the former Catherine Cranes of Toledo, Ohio, who was known as Kit, he began to spend more time at a small apartment on the West Side of Manhattan. He leaves no immediate survivors.
        Although Mr. Trout had become frail from osteoporosis in recent years, his rich baritone voice could still be heard on the radio, delivering essays for National Public Radio's ''All Things Considered.'' His most recent was just two weeks ago.
        His ruminations were often pegged to events he had covered decades earlier. And occasionally, as in a 1997 broadcast on the Marshall Plan, Mr. Trout touched on the personal.
        ''Maybe that's why long life is such a special gift to journalists,'' he said. ''We can enjoy the satisfaction of closure. We live long enough to appreciate the qualities of the people we covered, long enough to understand what our stories really meant. And ultimately how they all turned out.''
        Correction:  November 16, 2000, Thursday  An obituary of the broadcast news correspondent Robert Trout yesterday misstated his role in reporting on the Allied Invasion of France on D-Day. He anchored the CBS News broadcast from New York; he was not on the scene.
        Correction:  November 21, 2000, Tuesday  An obituary of the broadcast news correspondent Robert Trout on Wednesday misspelled the surname of a colleague at CBS News. He was Winston Burdett, not Burdette.
      