
        Robert M. Carroll, who used tools from medieval times and the space age on his job as armorer at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on Oct. 22 at his home in Somers, N.Y. He was 53.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Catherine Gallagher.
        From marshaling armies of toy soldiers as a boy to restoring swords as a teenager under the guidance of his father, a furniture maker known for his craftsmanship, Mr. Carroll was moved by his interest in the history of war and the finely wrought objects it has spawned.
        He joined the museum in 1969 and never worked anywhere else. He was hired as a gunsmith, the first the museum had ever recruited, and he quickly took on repairs of medieval crossbows and breastplates as well.  ''His real talent was sensitive and intelligent restoration and conservation of arms,'' said Stuart W. Pyhrr, Arthur Ochs Sulzberger curator in charge of the department of arms and armor.
        In 1912, the Met made arms and armor a separate department, and by now it has charge of more than 15,000 objects, with a thousand or so  displayed in 10 galleries at any given time. Mr. Pyhrr said Mr. Carroll had probably worked on objects in each of the 100 display cases.
        He worked in a cluttered area that is a favorite of visitors taking backstage tours of the museum. Tools employed by the museum's first armorers nearly 80 years ago -- essentially, equipment for blacksmiths -- are still there, but have been supplemented by ever more sophisticated devices, including tiny electrical brushes much like a dentist's.
        Some of Mr. Carroll's projects involved larger pieces, like the restoration of the richly embossed armor of King Henry II of France, who died in 1559. But the delicacy of much of his work is suggested by the object on which he was working at the time of his death, a 17th-century pistol.
        ''Bob was on the verge of discovering how the Dutch craftsmen 350 years ago were able to cover the stock of a gun with thin tortoise shell,'' Mr. Pyhrr said. ''He was putting himself in the place of a craftsman hundreds of years ago.''
        Robert Michael Gallagher was born in New York City on Dec. 21, 1946, and grew up in Westchester County. After graduating from high school he enrolled in the Colorado School of Trades to study gunsmithing, specializing in firearms restoration. In his first job at the Met, he had to examine hundreds of antique firearms to determine whether they were loaded. Many were, some two or three times, apparently because they had not been fired but had been reloaded.
        He learned how to fabricate breastplates and helmets from the older armorers at the museum. He also learned how to mount objects so that they appeared to float in space. ''He was especially good at the art of showing art,'' Mr. Pyhrr said.
        The job that attracted the most attention was Mr. Carroll's examination of two stolen antique pistols that the police had seized in a drug raid in the early 1980's. His work in cleaning them made it clear that they had belonged to Catherine the Great of Russia, who died in 1796. Mr. Carroll restored them to their original beauty, and the collector eventually donated them to the Met.
        Mr. Carroll had a reputation for finding solutions to problems that were never seen in a museum. If a neighbor or colleague dropped a fork behind a stove, for example, he could devise a magnetic system for extracting it. ''He had magical hands,'' Ms. Gallagher said.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by three daughters, Shannon, Catherine and Marly; a brother, Henry Carroll of Syracuse; and a sister, Dorothy Carroll Cinti of Simsbury, Conn.
        Mr. Carroll also built things around the house, his wife said, including a pond with a fountain that used no electricity and a wall that stood firmly with no cement. He made sculptures from pieces of wood he found on his hiking trips.
        ''At home,'' Ms. Gallagher said, ''he would put down the weapons and let out the softer side of himself.''
        Correction:  November 7, 2000, Tuesday  An obituary on Sunday about Robert M. Carroll, armorer at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, gave a misspelled name in some copies for the curatorship held by Stuart W. Pyhrr, who heads the department where Mr. Carroll worked. He is the Arthur Ochs Sulzberger curator, not Sulzburger.
      