
        David B. Hermelin, ambassador to Norway until last January, a real estate developer, a philanthropist who gave to Jewish and other causes, and a contributor to the Democratic Party, died yesterday in Detroit. He was 63 and lived in Bingham Farms, Mich.
        He died of brain cancer, his son said. At the end of his tenure as ambassador, Mr. Hermelin was regularly commuting to Detroit for cancer treatments.
        He became ambassador in December 1997. In his tenure, he helped put together a deal for the Ford Motor Company to build electric cars in Norway, and another for Lockheed Martin to provide the missile systems for five new Norwegian frigates, said John Hall, the State Department desk officer for Norway.
        Mr. Hall said Mr. Hermelin helped put together an American-Norwegian initiative to destroy small arms around the world and promote the delivery of prosthetic limbs to war victims. His friendship with President Clinton, who chose him as ambassador, helped in arranging the first visit by an American president to Norway last November.
        During that visit, he gathered President Clinton, Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel and the Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat around a table to eat kosher hot dogs.
        Among his other volunteer posts, Mr. Hermelin was the international chairman of State of Israel Bonds, vice chairman of the United Jewish Appeal and president of the World ORT Union and the American ORT Federation.
        David Bernard Hermelin was born in Detroit on Dec. 27, 1936. His father had come to the United States from Poland in 1920.
        After graduating from the University of Michigan, Mr. Hermelin went to work in his father's insurance agency. He gradually moved into real estate development and built apartment buildings and shopping centers around the nation.
        He was one of the developers of the Palace of Auburn Hills, where the Detroit Pistons basketball team plays. He also developed two large musical amphitheaters in Detroit, Pine Knob Entertainment Center and Meadow Brook Music Center.
        He supported Jewish education and once said, ''If I had a wish, it would be that I could play a part in translating my excitement of the beauty and joy of being Jewish, so that all our people could see how rewarding, life-affirming, just plain fun living Jewishly could be.''
        Mr. Hermelin is survived by his wife of 42 years, Doreen; daughters Marcie Orley of Franklin, Mich., and Karen Hermelin and Julie Frank of Los Angeles, and Francine Hermelin-Levite of Manhattan; a son, Brian, of Bingham Farms; and eight grandchildren.
        On visits to Israel, Mr. Hermelin would unfailingly bring along a suitcase full of salami he had bought at Katz's Delicatessen, on the Lower East Side, in order to make sandwiches on bus trips. Once, he was riding a helicopter near Jerusalem and the aircraft was forced down in the West Bank. He handed out salami sandwiches to a crowd of Arabs and got along famously.
        On another occasion, his flight to Israel was delayed when security dogs went berserk over one of his suitcases. It was stuffed with salami.
      