
        Lars-Erik Nelson, a columnist for The New York Daily News who covered and commented on the collapse of Communism and other events that shaped history, died on Monday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 59.
        The cause of death was apparently a stroke, his family said.
        Mr. Nelson joined The Daily News's Washington staff in 1979 and was bureau chief for about a decade before becoming a columnist for Newsday in 1993. In 1995, he returned to The Daily News as a columnist. He also wrote for The New York Review of Books.
        Mr. Nelson defended President Clinton early on as the independent counsel, Kenneth W. Starr, investigated Mr. Clinton's actions in connection with Monica Lewinsky. In late July 1998, amid growing evidence of a relationship between Mr. Clinton and Ms. Lewinsky, Mr. Nelson said the president should ask to be impeached to clear the air.
        ''Yes, impeachment would create a constitutional crisis,'' he wrote, ''but a constitutional crisis fought in the sunshine is better than these termites nibbling at the presidency in the dark.''
        But a few weeks later, just after Mr. Clinton had finally acknowledged his dalliance with Ms. Lewinsky, Mr. Nelson skewered both the president and his pursuers: ''His worst political enemies are so loathsome, so greedy, so filled with venom that any alternative, even a moral pygmy, looks better.''
        And last spring, Mr. Nelson condemned Mr. Starr, asserting that the president's nemesis had presided over ''a bumbling, overzealous, endless search for a crime, any crime, that could be pinned on a target that had been chosen in advance: Bill Clinton.''
        Mr. Nelson could be tough on journalists, too. He wrote that The New York Times had been alarmist in its coverage of Dr. Wen Ho Lee, the scientist who was dismissed from his job at the Los Alamos nuclear laboratory for mishandling nuclear secrets. Mr. Nelson thought The Times had been too credulous in accepting the views of people who saw a serious national security threat in Dr. Lee's behavior. The scientist eventually pleaded guilty to one of 59 charges.
        A native of New York City, Lars-Erik Nelson graduated from Bronx High School of Science (where he was a hurdler) and from Columbia with a degree in Russian.
        Shortly after beginning his career at The Daily News, Mr. Nelson won a Merriman Smith Award, named after the longtime reporter for United Press International, for writing under deadline pressure.
        Before joining The Daily News, Mr. Nelson worked at The New York Herald-Tribune and The Record of Bergen County, N.J. He was a Reuters correspondent from 1967 to 1977 in London, Moscow, Prague, New York and Washington and was briefly a diplomatic correspondent for Newsweek.
        Mr. Nelson devoured books and could converse on subjects as disparate as 17th-century shipbuilding and 20th-century baseball. He enjoyed music and loved to paint, as did his father, Arthur. He was fluent in Russian, competent in Polish and Czech and knew more than a smattering of French, Italian and Japanese.
        Last summer, Mr. Nelson and his daughter, Amanda, were in Prague, where he had covered the Soviet suppression of Czechoslovakia's ''Prague Spring'' experiment in liberalization in 1968. Amanda Nelson said her father believed not that the West had won the cold war but that the Communist system had collapsed because of it was inefficient and corrupt at its core.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Mary Cantwell, known as Goody; his daughter, who lives in Philadelphia; a son, Per Kristian, of Arlington, Va., and his mother, Freda, of Spring Valley, N.Y.
        He is also survived by his final column, which appeared in The Daily News today. It was about the fight over Florida's electoral votes.
        ''Exactly two years ago, lawyers were trying to take a President away from us,'' he began. ''Yesterday, they were trying to give us one. And both times, we, the voters in this great democracy, could only watch.''
        Correction:  November 23, 2000, Thursday  An obituary yesterday about Lars-Erik Nelson, columnist for The Daily News, listed his survivors incompletely. They also include his brothers, Nils-Peter, of Martinsville, N.J.; Randolph, of Point Reyes, Calif.; and Linde, of Stony Point, N.Y.
      