
        William G. Harrington, a mystery novelist with a long career as a collaborator with celebrity authors, died on Nov. 8 at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 68.
        The police said he apparently committed suicide.
        Mr. Harrington, whose writing career spanned 37 years and included the 1982 thriller ''The English Lady,'' actually wrote his own obituary before he died, said his friend and lawyer, Louis P. Pittocco.
        The material was discovered in the home of Mr. Harrington, who had dated his death on Oct. 25. In this letter, Mr. Harrington described himself as a ghostwriter and took credit for writing books under the names of Harold Robbins and Margaret Truman.
        His longtime agent of more than 25 years, Ted Chichak, insisted, however, that Mr. Harrington had overstated his contributions to other writers and had really acted primarily as a research collaborator.
        ''Bill would go out and scout. He would gather information as a researcher on these books. But in all of these cases, none of these people needed a writer,'' said Mr. Chichak, who is also a literary agent for Ms. Truman.
        Mr. Chichak said Mr. Harrington was in the midst of working on a manuscript with the widow of Harold Robbins, Jhan Robbins. The two, he said, had just finished a first draft of a novel that would eventually be published under Harold Robbins's name. Mr. Harrington, he said, had worked with Mr. Robbins on four previous novels.
        Mr. Harrington was also one of the principal developers of Lexis-Nexis, the worldwide computer system for the retrieval of legal and general information.
        He was born in Marietta, Ohio, in 1931 and earned a master's degree at Duke University and a law degree at Ohio State University. For almost 20 years he practiced as an attorney and lived in Columbus, Ohio, where he wrote novels like ''Jupiter Crisis,'' ''Trial'' and ''The Search for Elizabeth Brandt.'' Later he moved to Greenwich, where he also worked as a lawyer until he shifted to a full-time writing career in 1980.
        In 1982 he published ''The English Lady,'' a novel about a beautiful high-born English heroine and confidante to Winston Churchill, who spied on the German high command during World War II. Anatole Broyard, a reviewer for The New York Times, praised Mr. Harrington's clean writing and the depth of his research ''from Hitler's favorite rhetorical tropes to the flaws in the Focke-Wolf 190,'' the fighter-bomber.
        In all, he published almost 25 books under his own name, including a series of six novels that he wrote in the 1990's featuring the character Columbo, a rumpled Los Angeles homicide detective adopted from the long-running television series that starred Peter Falk.
        Along with his writing career, Mr. Harrington taught a weekly history class at the Greenwich Senior Center and met twice a month with a group of Parsonage Cottage residents to debate current events and history.
        He was married twice and his second marriage of 20 years to Diana Carol Fitch ended in 1993. He adopted his second wife's son, Shannon William Harrington, who survives him.
      