
        Dr. Louis Neel, one of France's most distinguished physicists and a Nobel laureate for his discoveries about magnetic fields and their uses in everyday life, died last Friday in Brive-Correze, France. He was 95.
        Dr. Neel (pronounced NAY-ell) was the founder and a former director of the Center for Nuclear Studies in Grenoble and was a professor in the University of Grenoble science department from 1945 to 1976.
        He shared the Nobel for physics in 1970 with a Swedish astrophysicist, Hannes Alfven, who was honored for his work on interactions between plasmas and magnetic fields.
        The Nobel jury cited Dr. Neel for his fundamental work and discoveries concerning antiferromagnetism and ferromagnetism. Those findings, the jury said, led to important applications in solid state physics. He published more than 200 papers on aspects of magnetism, casting light on how magnetic molecules behave.
        Largely because of his work, manufacturing of ferromagnetic materials to virtually any specification became possible. His work also led to the creation of synthetic ferrite materials and advances in microwave electronics.
        Ferromagnetic materials owe their properties to an enormous number of embedded tiny magnets, called domains. Those materials become strong magnets when the domains align and add together. But when they are disordered and randomly oriented -- as occurs, for example, when the materials are hot -- there is no overall magnetic field.
        Dr. Neel discovered that a ferromagnetic substance like iron loses its magnetism as it is heated and that other materials, not normally magnetic, behave like iron at higher temperatures. Thus, a new category of magnetic substances was born.
        From there, Dr. Neel went on to discover the ''Neel patterns'' of magnetism in material. He established that the strength and shape of those zones of magnetism were predictable. And he discovered ''magnetic creep,'' the variation in magnetism caused by heat and changes of atomic distribution.
        Such discoveries helped electronics engineers develop the minuscule particles with which to store information magnetically in a computer's memory core, leading to greatly enhanced computer memory units.
        The Nobel academy said Dr. Neel's research had figured in ''telegraphy and telephony, in radio and television and in general for low-loss equipment in high-frequency applications,'' as well as in ''motors, loudspeakers, microphones and coupling elements of all kinds.''
        Louis Eugene Felix Neel was born in Lyon. He studied at the Ecole Normale Superieure in Paris and the University of Strasbourg. There, he joined the faculty in 1928, received his doctorate in science in 1932 and rose to full professor by 1937. He moved to Grenoble in 1945.
        From the 1930's on, he investigated the properties of magnetism on the molecular level. He found that in some materials, alternating groups of atoms align their electrons in opposite directions, neutralizing the net magnetic effect, the phenomenon called antiferromagnetism.
        Dr. Neel was married in 1931 to Helene Hourticq. They had two daughters and a son.
      