
        Winston Grennan, a Jamaican drummer whose extensive studio work crystallized and disseminated the fundamental reggae rhythm called one drop, died on Oct. 27 in Nantucket, Mass., where he had moved this year. He was 56.
        The cause was lung and bone cancer, said his wife, Ellie Hiteshew Grennan.
        The one-drop rhythm is a sparse, unhurried beat with a bass-drum accent -- the one drop -- on the third beat. Understated, distinctive and supremely adaptable, it has made its way into music around the world.
        Working with recording-studio bands in Jamaica, Mr. Grennan perfected the one-drop beat, and he appeared on important recordings, including the soundtrack to the 1973 film ''The Harder They Come,'' early Bob Marley singles and Paul Simon's reggae-style hit ''Mother and Child Reunion.''
        Mr. Grennan started playing homemade drums and pots and pans as a child. As a teenager he recorded and performed as a singer under the name Winston Richards; he also played keyboards with Bobby Aitken and the Caribbeats.
        He had a string of 30 undefeated bouts as a boxer in the early 1960's, and used some of the prize money to buy a full-fledged drum kit. As his reputation spread, he became a session drummer in Jamaica's leading recording studios.
        Mr. Grennan notched down the speed of rock steady with the one-drop rhythm, which became established as the core of reggae, and he was an influence on leading reggae drummers, including Carlton Barrett of the Wailers and Sly Dunbar.
        Working with leading Jamaican producers like Bunny Lee, Winston Riley, Prince Buster, Leslie Kong, Byron Lee, Lee Perry and Coxsone Dodd, he recorded hundreds of songs from 1963 to 1973 at a time when Jamaican ska was giving way to the leaner, more steadfast rhythms of rock steady and reggae. His extensive recordings with Toots and the Maytals included the 1973 album ''Funky Kingston'' and the 1968 single ''Do the Reggay,'' the first song to have the word that would later be spelled ''reggae'' in its title. He also recorded with the Bob Marley, the Melodians, the Heptones, Desmond Dekker and dozens of other singers and groups. He appeared in ''The Harder They Come.''
        In the early 1970's Mr. Grennan performed with Dizzy Gillespie at the National Arena in Kingston and appeared on Paul Simon's 1972 solo album, ''Paul Simon.'' He left Jamaica in 1973 for the United States, hoping to play jazz and broaden his music; Mr. Gillespie hired him soon after he arrived. Mr. Grennan lived in New York City, Florida and New Jersey before settling in Woodstock, N.Y., in the early 1980's.
        In the United States, Mr. Grennan led his own groups playing jazz and reggae, and he continued to work as a sideman. He was a founding member of Kid Creole and the Coconuts, and he played jazz, reggae and rhythm-and-blues with musicians, among them Marvin Gaye, Herbie Hancock, Garland Jeffreys, Freddie Hubbard, Minnie Riperton and Eric Gale.
        He performed with Mr. Gillespie at the Montreux Jazz Festival and backed up Toots and the Maytals on the album ''Skafather,'' which was nominated for a 1998 Grammy. The government of Jamaica awarded him a Certificate of Appreciation for his contribution to the development of popular music. Mr. Grennan released his fifth album, ''Clean Slate,'' with his Ska Rocks band in March.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by 11 children.
      