
        Chidambaram Subramaniam, the political architect of the ''green revolution'' in India, which made the nation self-sufficient in wheat production, died Tuesday in Madras. He was 90.
        Mr. Subramaniam employed his formidable skills as a political persuader and administrator to spread the use of a new wheat variety to more than a million Indian farmers in the mid-1960's, when he was minister for food and agriculture.
        India had been heavily dependent on wheat imports, but the green revolution produced sharp increases in harvests that enabled India to better feed its rapidly growing population.
        Mr. Subramaniam's singular achievement was to convince the prime minister at the time, Lal Bahadur Shastri, and other political colleagues that seeds for a wheat variety with dwarfing genes, which were developed by the scientist Norman Borlaug in Mexico with support from the Rockefeller Foundation, could transform Indian farming. Even with larger applications of fertilizer to increase the number of grains on each stalk, dwarf wheat could hold up grain, while the stalks of taller varieties broke.
        Mr. Subramaniam's son, then just a boy, had to give up his cricket playing field to help his father prove the new seeds would work in India.
        ''Our house in Delhi had five acres of land where I played cricket,'' his son, S. S. Rajsekar, recalled today. ''He found it difficult to convince his colleagues that the Mexican wheat could be grown in Indian conditions. So our lawns were converted into wheat fields overnight.''
        His father talked Prime Minister Shastri into supporting a major new program to sell the hybrid seeds, fertilizers and pesticides at heavily subsidized prices. ''Subramaniam in effect created the entire subsidy system for farmers,'' said V. Balaji, a researcher at the M. S. Swaminathan Research Foundation in Madras.
        Mr. Swaminathan, a plant geneticist who established the foundation and the scientific brains behind the green revolution in India, credited Mr. Subramaniam -- affectionately known as C. S. -- with India's success in raising its wheat crop to 17 million tons in 1968, from 10 million in 1964.
        ''The steps C. S. took helped Indian farmers to achieve in a period of four years the same amount of progress witnessed during the preceding 4,000 years,'' Mr. Swaminathan wrote today in The Indian Express.
        Mr. Subramaniam was born on Jan. 30, 1910, in a hamlet near Coimbatore in what is now Tamil Nadu. The son of a prominent landowning family, he earned a B.A. in physics from Presidency College in Madras and a law degree from Madras Law College.
        In the early 1930's he was drawn to the independence movement led by Gandhi and left his law career to devote himself to India's struggle to free itself from British rule. He was imprisoned in 1942 when Gandhi was leading the Quit India Movement to pressure the British to give up India.
        After India gained independence in 1947, Mr. Subramaniam was elected to serve in the assembly that drafted the new nation's constitution. In 1952 he immersed himself in politics in his home state and became a leader in what was then the Madras Legislative Assembly.
        In the 1960's and 70's, Mr. Subramaniam returned to national politics. He was elected to serve in the Lok Sabha, the lower house of Parliament. He held ministerial positions in various Congress Party governments, most notably in agriculture. In 1998 he was awarded the Bharat Ratna, the nation's highest civilian honor.
        He is survived by his wife, Sakuntala Subramaniam; two daughters, Swathantra Sakthivel and Aruna Ramakrishnan; and his son, Mr. Rajsekar.
      