
        Geoffrey Marshall, the former provost of the City University of New York and the former deputy chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities, died Nov. 18 at his home in Cranbury, N.J. He was 62.
        The cause was pneumonia associated with Lou Gehrig's disease, CUNY said.
        At the CUNY Graduate Center, which he joined in 1985 as associate provost and dean for academic affairs, he was chairman of the building advisory committee for the initial planning for the center's move last year to the B. Altman building at Fifth Avenue and 34th Street.
        As provost, from 1994 to 1998, Dr. Marshall was also responsible for interviewing prospective faculty members for the graduate center, an assignment he said he loved.
        Frances Degen Horowitz, the president of the graduate center, said, ''He was very concerned about having quality faculty who represented the spectrum of attitudes and opinions.'' She said that Dr. Marshall had helped draw scholars as varied as John Patrick Diggins, a conservative historian, and Talal Asad, a liberal anthropologist.
        As a top officer of the endowment for the humanities, he also helped bridge the transition from its direction by Joseph D. Duffey, a noted liberal, to William J. Bennett, a noted conservative, who became chairman in 1981.
        Geoffrey Marshall was born in Lancaster, Pa., and attended Franklin and Marshall College. He earned his Ph.D. in English from Rice University. A scholar who specialized in 17th century literature and Restoration drama, he began his career as an administrator as an assistant provost at the University of Oklahoma.
        He left the job in 1974 to work with the National Endowment for the Humanities, where he was director of the state programs and education programs divisions before becoming deputy director.
        Dr. Marshall is survived by his wife, Mary; his mother, Mary E. Marshall of Norman, Okla.; a brother, Tony Marshall, of Manhattan; a sister, Terry Marshall, of Norman, Okla.; two daughters, Eden Marshall Hagelman of San Marcos, Tex., and Erin Marshall Lancer of Buffalo; and four grandchildren.
      