
        Leah Rabin, who emerged from the shadow of her husband, Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, to become a forceful public advocate of his peace policies after he was assassinated, died today of cancer. She was 72.
        Mrs. Rabin died eight days after Israelis marked the fifth anniversary of her husband's slaying by a Jewish militant, and during a surge of deadly Israeli-Palestinian violence that has threatened to leave his vision of peace in tatters.
        Hospitalized more than a week ago for heart problems, Mrs. Rabin was unable to attend a memorial gathering on Nov. 4 in the square where her husband was slain five years earlier.
        She underwent cancer treatment in recent months in the United States, but she returned to Israel. She died this afternoon at the Rabin Medical Center near Tel Aviv, her family by her side. She was mourned by Israeli and Palestinian leaders alike and by President Clinton.
        ''We have lost a dear friend, and the Middle East has lost a friend of peace, but the work to which she and Yitzhak dedicated their lives must and will continue,'' Mr. Clinton said.
        Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, who shared the 1994 Nobel Peace Price with Mr. Rabin and his foreign minister, Shimon Peres, paid tribute to Mrs. Rabin even as he attended a summit conference of Muslim nations in Qatar.
        ''God, it is so sad to lose this lady, wife of my partner in making the peace of the brave,'' Mr. Arafat told Reuters . After Mr. Rabin's assassination, Mr. Arafat paid a condolence call on Mrs. Rabin at her Tel Aviv home. Today mourners lighted candles there in her memory.
        Prime Minister Ehud Barak, heading for talks in Washington with President Clinton, said Mrs. Rabin had been ''a courageous and strong woman'' who stepped forward after her husband's assassination to carry his message.
        ''Leah held the torch of his legacy and brought his voice loud and clear to us Israelis and to the whole world,'' Mr. Barak said.
        Mr. Peres, who joined forces with Mr. Rabin to sign the 1993 Oslo peace accordwith the Palestinians and succeeded him as prime minister, said Mrs. Rabin found her own public voice after her husband was killed.
        ''Instead of being depressed and confused after his death, she raised his flag and carried it with courage, clarity and unsurpassed determination,'' Mr. Peres said.
        After the failed peace talks at Camp David last July and during the recent weeks of violence, Mrs. Rabin asserted that Mr. Barak had not done enough to avert conflict and reach peace.
        Last month she publicly urged Mr. Barak to send Mr. Peres to negotiate a truce with Mr. Arafat, writing: ''It is incumbent upon you to turn over every stone to prevent war. Ehud, there is at least one stone you haven't turned over: Shimon Peres.'' Mr. Peres negotiated a truce with Mr. Arafat in a meeting 10 days ago, but it has failed to take hold.
        In a recent newspaper interview to mark the anniversary of her husband's death, Mrs. Rabin said the ongoing wave of violence would not have broken out under his leadership. ''I am sure that Arafat would not have dared begin these riots if Yitzhak were prime minister,'' she said. ''The relationship between Yitzhak and Arafat was one of respect.''
        A blunt woman given to occasionally caustic public remarks, Mrs. Rabin for years was best known in Israel for her role in a financial scandal that forced her husband to resign after his first term as prime minister in 1977.
        But after Mr. Rabin was gunned down, Mrs. Rabin became known as the advocate of his ideas.
        At a memorial gathering a week after the assassination in the square where her husband was shot by an Israeli opposed to the Oslo agreement, Mrs. Rabin lamented the failure of her husband's supporters to rally to his defense when he was harshly attacked at right-wing protests.
        ''They were too silent when the writing was on the wall,'' she said, addressing her slain husband. ''Now the whole country knows that it is no longer possible to stay silent.''
        Mrs. Rabin was harshly critical of Benjamin Netanyahu, who was leader of the opposition Likud Party when her husband was killed.
        Mr. Netanyahu took part in demonstrations in which Mr. Rabin was denounced as a traitor and portrayed in a poster in an SS uniform. Although Mr. Netanyahu urged protesters to avoid the ''traitor'' label and later said he had not been aware of the poster, Mrs. Rabin insisted that he had helped create the atmosphere that led to the assassination.
        ''He has incited against my husband,'' she said. ''I will never ever forgive him.'' When Mr. Netanyahu was elected prime minister, defeating Mr. Peres months after the assassination, Mrs. Rabin said she felt like leaving Israel.
        In elections three years later, she endorsed Mr. Barak, saying her husband had considered him his successor. When Mr. Barak won, she called the victory ''the happiest moment since that terrible night'' when her husband had been killed.
        Mrs. Rabin was born Leah Schlossberg on April 28, 1928, in Konigsberg, Germany -- now Kaliningrad, Russia -- the younger of two daughters of a successful textile merchant whom she described as a great lover of the arts. Within months after Hitler rose to power in January 1933, her father moved his family to British-ruled Palestine.
        She got her first glimpse of her future husband when she was in high school and he was a member of the elite Jewish fighting force in Palestine known as the Palmach. ''He caught my eye at the Whitman ice cream stand on Allenby Street in Tel Aviv, and he looked to me like King David,'' she wrote in her memoir.
        They soon formed a relationship, and she joined the Palmach herself in 1945. She served a stint on a kibbutz, where members combined military training with farming, before being posted in Tel Aviv to work on the Palmach newsletter.
        When the first Arab-Israeli war erupted in 1948, Yitzhak Rabin was a brigade commander, directing battles to keep the highway from Tel Aviv to the besieged Jewish neigbhorhoods of Jerusalem open. ''My meetings with Yitzhak at the time were very rare,'' Mrs. Rabin wrote in the memoir. ''Yitzhak was absorbed in the war, and I waited. He would disappear for weeks, and suddenly reappear.''
        During a temporary truce, on Aug. 23, 1948, they were married in Tel Aviv.
        In subsequent years, as Mr. Rabin rose through the ranks to become chief of staff of the Israeli Army, Mrs. Rabin worked for a while as a teacher. But she gave up teaching to raise her two children.
        Mrs. Rabin went from being a military wife to a diplomat's wife when her husband became Israel's ambassador to Washington in 1968, and she remained in a support role when he was elected prime minister for the first time in 1974.
        But she was thrust into the limelight in March 1977, when she accompanied him to Washington, where he met President Carter. Her visit to a local bank to close a savings account was disclosed in the Israeli news media, revealing that the Rabins had violated an Israeli law barring bank accounts abroad without permission of the Israeli Treasury.
        The disclosure led Mr. Rabin to resign after the attorney general ruled that his wife should stand trial and he should be fined. Mrs. Rabin was sentenced to a fine of nearly $27,000 and admonished by the judge: ''One expects a public figure to observe the law more carefully.''
        In elections a month later, Mr. Rabin's Labor Party lost power for the first time since Israel attained independence. The Labor interim prime minister, Mr. Peres, was defeated by the Likud leader, Menachem Begin.
        Fifteen years later, Mr. Rabin's victory in national elections returned his wife to center stage. She accompanied him to signings of historic peace accords with the Palestinians and with Jordan, while promoting charitable causes at home.
        After her husband was killed, Mrs. Rabin was elevated to a new public status, and her name was mentioned as a possible candidate for president or ambassador to the United Nations. In the end she received no official appointment, but became the keeper of her husband's flame and traveled the world as an advocate of his ideas.
        Mrs. Rabin is survived by a daughter, Dalia Rabin-Pelosoff; a son, Yuval Rabin; and three grandchildren.
      