
        J. Russell Wiggins, the editor who was widely credited with transforming The Washington Post from a small and struggling enterprise into a nationally respected newspaper after World War II and who then became the United States ambassador to the United Nations in the waning months of the Johnson administration, died on Sunday at his home in Brooklin, Me. He was 96.
        Though his brief career in politics raised questions about his switching hats, he answered that journalists needed to be citizens, too. And he held fast to the journalistic basics, maintaining in the face of the wave of interpretive and analytic reporting that swept over American newspapers in the 1960's that ''the customer was entitled to at least one crack at the facts.''
        Mr. Wiggins was about as close as could be to a natural-born journalist, from his days writing ''Jots and Jingles,'' a column of light verse and comment for Minnesota newspapers, to serving as a top news executive, to his robust retirement as owner and editor of a Maine weekly, The Ellsworth American.
        In his 30 years at the Maine paper's helm -- in effect a fully completed second career on top of a distinguished first one -- circulation rose to 11,000 from 3,000, over 5,000 more than Ellsworth's population. The American became known for tough journalism as well as an exuberant, if calculated, quirkiness.
        This was exemplified by a series of demonstrations Mr. Wiggins conducted to show the slowness of local mail: he sent a letter by a team of oxen to Surry, 10 miles away. The beasts beat the Postal Service.
        Each week, he examined photographs of Maine scenes. He chose one, and wrote a verse about it. Of a flock of sheep, he wrote:
        The sheep are ready for the cold
        Of winter at its worst.
        Of those who don wool underwear,
        They are the very first.
        But his best known achievement was becoming managing editor of The Post in 1947, when the paper was one of four in Washington, third in circulation. By the time he left in 1968 as editor and vice president of The Washington Post Company, it was a leading national voice.
        ''He edited the paper when it didn't have the resources it later did,'' said Katharine Graham, the former publisher who is now chairwoman of the executive committee of the company. ''He made it matter. He put it on the map.''
        To an extraordinary degree, Mr. Wiggins patrolled the line that separates journalism and government, mostly defending it and sometimes crossing it.
        In the 1950's, he was censured by the Senate after he participated in an inquiry by the American Society of Newspaper Editors into whether another journalist harbored Communist sympathies. The panel he led issued a report without making any judgment on the journalist, declaring  that the press was not obligated to explain its opinions to government.
        That led Senator Joseph R. McCarthy to say he had ''prostituted and endangered freedom of the press by false, vicious, intemperate attacks upon anyone who dares to expose any of the undercover Communists.''
        At Mr. Wiggins's confirmation hearings for the ambassadorship, Senator J. W. Fulbright pressed him on whether it was right for a news  executive to enter government service at a senior level. Mr. Wiggins said he did not think ''engagement in the newspaper profession proscribed any other public activity.''
        James Russell Wiggins was born on Dec. 4, 1904, on a farm near Luverne, Minn. He edited his high school paper, and in 1922 joined the staff of the weekly Rock County Star, which he bought when he was 22. He never went to college, but was said to have read a book a day and was forever thrusting a volume into a friend's hands and demanding a review the next morning.
        He married his high school sweetheart and wife of 67 years, Mabel Preston, the week after their graduation. She died in 1990. Three of their children also died. He is survived by a daughter, Patricia Wiggins Schroth of Sedgwick, Me.; 10 grandchildren; 15 great-grandchildren; and 3 great-great-grandchildren.
        In 1930, Mr. Wiggins moved to The St. Paul Pioneer Press-Dispatch. In World War II, he served in the Army Air Force in North Africa and Italy and was discharged as a major.
        He returned to edit the St. Paul  papers, and in 1946 joined The New York Times as assistant to the publisher, Arthur Hays Sulzberger. The next year, he was appointed managing editor of The Post, becoming its executive editor in 1955. From 1960 to 1968, he was editor and executive vice president.
        Mr. Wiggins had intended to leave The Post on his 65th birthday, but resigned earlier to accept the United Nations post. He insisted at the time that President Lyndon B. Johnson was not a friend and that he had declined White House invitations to maintain journalistic integrity. But he was known through his editorials as a supporter of the Vietnam War.
        Some suggested that Mr. Wiggins lacked diplomatic experience. E. B. White, the New Yorker essayist and a neighbor of Mr. Wiggins's in Maine, countered that the delicate matter of hay demanded the highest diplomatic skills. Mr. Wiggins cut his, but only after touchy negotiations.
        ''To reach an accommodation on hay requires tact, restraint and midnight courage,'' Mr. White wrote in The Times. ''After thirty-seven years of farming this place, I know that no two people agree on when to cut hay. You can stand under a bright summer sky in haying time and ask a man his opinion of the weather, and he will certainly lapse into double-talk. Wiggins is an exception. He is blunt, optimistic, happy and effective.''
        Mr. Wiggins served in the United Nations post for four months. He then went to Maine and the paper he had bought in 1966. He sold the paper in 1991 but was asked by the new owner to remain as editor. His last editorial, published July 6, was a  rumination on the human genome project.
        ''One can barely imagine,'' he wrote, ''on this dawn of the 21st century, what the next hundred years hold in store.''
        Correction:  November 23, 2000, Thursday  An obituary on Tuesday of J. Russell Wiggins, a former editor of The Washington Post and United States ambassador to the United Nations, misstated his birth date. It was Dec. 4, 1903, not 1904.
      