
        Walter Patrick McConaughy, a specialist on the Far East for the State Department whose high-profile postings included ambassadorships in Burma, Pakistan and Taiwan, died on Friday at a hospital in Atlanta. He was 92 and had moved to Atlanta after retiring in 1974 as ambassador to the Nationalist Chinese government on Taiwan.
        Mr. McConaughy was one of the department's dwindling cadre of ''old China hands.'' Starting in 1941, he spent a large part of his career there, as well as in Washington, where he worked on assignments related to China in Washington.
        He represented the United States in Pakistan in one of its many confrontations with India and flirtations with China. And he headed the embassy in 1960 in Seoul when South Korea shook off the grip of its authoritarian founder, Syngman Rhee, in a surge of riots.
        Mr. Conaughy was born in Montevallo, Ala. He graduated from Birmingham-Southern College in 1928. In 1930, he was doing postgraduate work at Duke University and teaching high school in Brundidge, Ala., when he passed the Foreign Service examination and received an appointment.
        Initially, he was sent to Tampico, Mexico, as a vice consul. In 1933, he was transferred to Japan and worked for seven years in Kobe and Osaka, with brief spells in Taiwan and Nagasaki.
        Early in 1941, he arrived in occupied Beijing. The Japanese interned him after they attacked Pearl Harbor and the United States declared war. Released in an exchange of diplomats, he wound up in the embassy at La Paz, Bolivia, for two years as commercial attache.
        He had a posting in Rio de Janeiro and a year's study at the National War College before returning to China in 1948 as a consul and later consul general in Shanghai. By then, Mao's Communist army was closing in, the consulate was in a battle zone, and Shanghai fell in May 1949.
        Mr. McConaughy stayed on for a year and closed the consulate in May 1950 as the last American Foreign Service outpost in China. The State Department gave him its Commendable Service Award for having protected American interests and rewarded him with a two-year assignment as consul general in Hong Kong.
        He directed the Office of Chinese Affairs in Washington for five years before President Dwight D. Eisenhower appointed him ambassador to Burma, now Myanmar, in 1957, and ambassador to South Korea two years later.
        He was back in Washington as assistant secretary of state for Far Eastern Affairs in 1961, when President John F. Kennedy named him ambassador to Pakistan. His next and final position, as envoy to Taiwan, lasted an unusual eight years, from 1966 to 1974.
        Surviving are two daughters, Patricia Myers of Roswell, Ga., and Dru, of Atlanta; two sisters, Mary Ratchford of Atlanta and Kate Jenkins of Auburn, Ala.; and two grandchildren. His wife of 63 years, Dorothy Davis McConaughy, died on Sept. 2.
      