
        Mike Turnesa, a member of a renowned Westchester County golfing family who competed as a top touring pro in the 1930's and 1940's and was runner-up to Ben Hogan in the 1948 Professional Golfers Association Championship, died Tuesday at Phelps Memorial Hospital in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y. He was 93.
        For much of the 20th century, the name Turnesa was synonymous with golfing excellence in the New York metropolitan area. Mike Turnesa and his six brothers took up the sport as boys in suburban Elmsford, and all became professionals except the youngest, Willie, who went on to one of the most successful amateur careers in the first half of the century.
        The six older brothers all worked as club professionals, and the best of them -- Joe, Mike and Jimmy -- competed locally and nationally against the great players of the 20's, 30's and 40's. And although Walter Hagen, Bobby Jones, Gene Sarazen and others became the more recognizable names nationally, the Turnesas could be found on the leader board of events ranging from the major tournaments to pro-am best-ball events in St. Augustine, Fla.
        Mike Turnesa's best chance for a major title came in 1948, in the P.G.A. at St. Louis. Twice before, his brothers had made it to the finals of a P.G.A. Championship only to fall to great players; in 1927, Joe was beaten by Hagen on the final hole, and in 1942, Jim lost to Sam Snead.
        As great as the brothers were, the Turnesas were becoming better known for being bridesmaids in the big events, and it fell to Mike Turnesa to try to settle the family score.
        At the time, the P.G.A. was contested at match play, and Turnesa's opponent in the 36-hole final was the great Ben Hogan. Despite making an eagle 2, Turnesa was four down after 18 holes, as Hogan shot five under par. Hogan continued his superb play and won the match, 7 and 6.
        In 1952, Jim Turnesa finally broke through for the family by defeating Chick Harbert to win the P.G.A.
        The fourth son of Italian immigrants who moved to New York in 1889, Mike Turnesa was born June 9, 1907, in Elmsford. He and his brothers learned the game at the Fairview Country Club, where their father, Vitale, worked as a day laborer. With little money for clubs or course fees, the boys would practice as they walked along fields or roads to school.
        But as the passion for the game was passed from brother to brother -- and to the two sisters as well -- the boys gravitated to Fairview, where they would shag balls and caddie, all the while honing their golf skills. Mike Turnesa became an assistant pro at Fairview, and in the 1930's won a number of local and sectional titles, including the Westchester Open, the Westchester P.G.A. and the North and South Open. His accomplishments earned him an invitation to the first Masters, in 1934.
        In 1942, he became the head pro at Knollwood Country Club in Elmsford and held that position for 44 years. In 1986, he was given the title of director of golf at the club, and until his health failed last year he would show up there each day, greeting members on the porch and telling lunchtime stories of the early days of professional golf.
        ''You'd see him up on the putting green, giving people some tips,'' said Bob Miller, who succeeded Turnesa as head pro at Knollwood. ''And you could ask him about any round he'd played and he'd tell you exactly how he shot.''
        Only one Turnesa brother, Willie, is still alive. Mike Turnesa is also survived by his wife, Mary, of Elmsford; two sons, Jim, also of Elmsford, and Michael, of Rockville Centre, N.Y.; two daughters, Mary Ellen De Felice, of Pleasantville, N.Y., and Jean DeZalia, of Austin, Tex.; a sister, Mildred Recchia, of Elmsford; eight grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
      