
        Joseph Taubman, a New York tax expert for the entertainment industry and a lawyer for many star performers, died Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81 and had his home and office in Midtown.
        He suffered a brief illness, his family said.
        Mr. Taubman's career spanned more than 50 years; he counseled clients until April. He also published how-to books for people starting out on the business side of show business.
        Over the years, his client list included some of America's favorite musicians, from Joan Baez to Arlo Guthrie, Lionel Hampton to Pete Seeger. He also counseled actors like Trazana Beverley, who won a Tony Award in 1977 for her role in ''For Colored Girls Who Have Considered Suicide/When the Rainbow Is Enuf,'' and Tsidii Le Loka, one of the stars of ''The Lion King.'' And he represented the National Film Board of Canada for many years.
        In 1964, Mr. Taubman edited a book called ''Financing a Theatrical Production'' (Federal Legal Publications), which Variety applauded as savvy and comprehensive. Starting in the 1970's, he compiled multi volume compendiums on legal and other aspects of management in the performing arts, broadcasting and music publishing. Many of them remain in print from Law-Arts Publishers, New York.
        Mr. Taubman was born in Brooklyn. He graduated from Cornell University in 1940 and its law school in 1942. He also received a master's degree in tax law from New York University in 1952 and a doctorate in  law, also from N.Y.U., in 1955. He served in the Army in World War II in India and Burma, assigned to Signal Corps intelligence and the Judge Advocate General's office.
        Mr. Taubman is survived by his wife of 57 years, Lillian Newman Taubman, known as Liffy; two sons, Daniel M., a resident of Denver and a judge for the Colorado Court of Appeals, and Fred H., of Tulsa, Okla.; a daughter, Susan B. Taubman of Loomis, Calif.; a brother, Harry, of Brooklyn; a sister, Clara Appell of Greenwich, Conn.; four grandchildren; and one great-granddaughter.
      