
        Sidney E. Woloshin, co-composer of ''You Deserve a Break Today,'' the jingle that set the chipper tone for the national introduction of McDonald's restaurants in 1971, died on Sunday at White Plains Hospital. He was 72.
        The cause of death was pneumonia, said his wife, Sylvia G. Woloshin.
        Born in Hartford in 1928, Mr. Woloshin took up playing the violin at 8, ultimately earning bachelor's and master's degrees in the instrument at the Boston University College of Music. After a tour in the Air Force, where he performed with the Air Force orchestra, he came to New York in 1955 and found a job as a television commercial producer with the William Esty Company.
        His first summers were spent traveling with the New York Yankees, serving as the hands that poured Ballantine beer in live commercials at Yankee games. Later, he was a producer for J. Walter Thompson before starting his own firm devoted to jingles with Kevin Gavin, a singer and vocal arranger.
        That firm wrote ''Pan Am Makes the Going Great'' for Pan American World Airways. And Mr. Woloshin wrote a song for Pan Am that included a jingle called ''For Once in a Lifetime.''
        That commercial brought Mr. Woloshin's firm to the attention of Keith Reinhard, a copywriter for Needham, Harper & Steers, which was working on the McDonald's account. At first, the Needham firm wrote a tune to lyrics by Warren Pfaff, a freelance copywriter, that went: ''We're so near and far away. So get up and get away. To McDonald's.''
        Mr. Reinhard, changing the focus of the campaign to emphasize the psychological rewards in going out to eat, kept the music but rewrote the first line to ''you deserve a break today,'' Mr. Pfaff said yesterday.
        Mr. Woloshin's firm reworked the jingle for more than 100 different commercials including one featuring a McDonald's cleaning crew jumping over the counter to scrub; it began ''Grab a bucket and mop.
        Last year, Advertising Age magazine declared ''You Deserve a Break Today'' to be the top jingle of the century, ahead of ''Be All That You Can Be'' for the Army and ''Pepsi-Cola Hits the Spot.''
        In 1975, Mr. Woloshin's firm was assigned to write the jingle for the next McDonald's slogan ''You, You're the One.'' He assigned the project to several composers and ultimately to Ginny Redington, a country singer.
        Mr. Reinhard, now chairman and chief executive of DDB Needham Worldwide, recalled that Mr. Woloshin was as much an impresario as a composer, bringing in a wide range of talent. ''He was fantastic in his selection of composers, singers and musicians,'' Mr. Reinhard said. ''Way before the days of the synthesizers, you actually had live musicians.'' Mr. Reinhard tapped Mr. Woloshin again for State Farm Insurance, who hired Barry Manilow to compose and sing ''like a good neighbor, State Farm is there.'' The singer has subsequently performed and recorded a medley of commercials, including several by Mr. Woloshin.
        Indeed, much of his work has found its way from the world of advertising to culture, including dance.
        ''George Balanchine came into my office one day,'' Mr. Pfaff recalled, ''and wanted to know where he could get the music for 'Pan Am Makes the Going Great.' '' And the American Ballet Theater did perform a dance piece called ''P.A.M.T.G.G.,'' the slogan's abbreviation. ''It had a lot of people prancing around with suitcases,'' Mr. Pfaff said.
        Mr. Woloshin continued to work as a producer until he became ill several weeks ago.
        He is survived by his wife; a daughter, Ellen, of Manhattan; a son, Jonathan, of Chappaqua, N.Y.; and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  November 11, 2000, Saturday  An obituary yesterday about Sidney E. Woloshin, an advertising executive and writer of commercial jingles, referred incorrectly in some copies to the company that performed a ballet piece called ''PAMTGG,'' named with the initials of ''Pan Am Makes the Going Great.'' It was the New York City Ballet, not American Ballet Theater.
      