
        Michael Rudiakov, a cellist and teacher who performed with the Brooklyn Philharmonic and was heard regularly in recitals and chamber concerts, died on Nov. 17 in Yonkers. He was 66 and lived in Manchester, Vt.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his son, Ariel.
        Mr. Rudiakov was born in Paris in 1934 and grew up in Tel Aviv, where his father, Eliahu Rudiakov, was a concert pianist and teacher. One of Eliahu Rudiakov's students was Menahem Pressler, who became the pianist in the Beaux Arts Trio. The younger Mr. Rudiakov later became a student of the cellist Bernard Greenhouse, who was Mr. Pressler's colleague in the Beaux Arts.
        After his early training in Tel Aviv, Mr. Rudiakov spent a year playing the cello for a regional German opera house before moving to New York to study with Mr. Greenhouse at the Manhattan School of Music in 1956. After a brief tenure as the principal cellist of the Indianapolis Symphony, Mr. Rudiakov returned to Israel to become principal cellist of the Jerusalem Symphony.
        In 1966 he returned to New York and joined the faculty of Sarah Lawrence College, where he directed a chamber music series. He taught at the New England Conservatory, the Manhattan School of Music and Lehman College as well. In 1983 he joined the faculty at the Manchester Music Festival in Vermont. He became the director of the festival in 1985.
        From 1968 to 1975 Mr. Rudiakov was the cellist of the Composers' String Quartet, a pioneering new music group known for its performances of works by Elliott Carter, Ruth Crawford Seeger and Henry Cowell. He was also an early member of the Aeolian Chamber Players, an ensemble that is also known for its championship of contemporary music, and he was heard as a soloist with the Pro Arte Chamber Orchestra and other ensembles. As a recitalist, he performed frequently with his father; with his son, a violist; and with the pianist Gilbert Kalish.
        In the 1980's he formed the Rudiakov Duo with his cousin, Shoshana Rudiakov, a pianist. He was a member of the Brooklyn Philharmonic for many years, and although he moved to Vermont in 1996, he continued to  perform with the orchestra.
        In addition to his son, of Yonkers, Mr. Rudiakov is survived by his wife, Judith; a daughter, Liselotte, of Bennington, Vt.; and his stepmother, Grete, and a brother, Yair, both of Tel Aviv.
      