
        Dr. Gerard Chrzanowski, a psychoanalyst who colleagues say was the model for the caring psychiatrist in the best-selling 1946 novel ''The Snake Pit'' and the famous 1948 film based on it, died Nov. 1 at his home in Manhattan. He was 87.
        ''The Snake Pit,'' an autobiographical novel by Mary Jane Ward, told of the experiences of a woman in a crowded mental hospital where therapy for schizophrenia included being wrapped in wet, cold sheets, ''boiled'' in a bathtub and given electric shock treatment. Her few moments of gentle care come when she talks to the psychiatrist she calls ''Dr. Kik.''
        The snake pit of the title referred to the medieval practice of lowering the mentally ill into snake pits in the belief that a fright that would unhinge a sane person would cure an insane one.
        The book was hailed as one of the first honest looks at life in a mental institution. The film, starring Olivia de Havilland as the patient and Leo Genn as the doctor, earned six Academy Award nominations.
        In a published essay, Dr. Chrzanowksi named Miss Ward as one of his patients, and Genn observed him in preparation for the role, said his daughter Francesca Cohn. She added that her father considered the film ''just a footnote'' in his life, though important in engendering sympathy for the mentally ill.
        ''It was a time when they were very primitive with mental patients,'' Ms. Cohn said, while her father's therapy was ''much more humanistic and progressive.''
        Dr. Militades Zaphiropoulos, who worked at Rockland State Hospital in Orangeburg, N.Y., when Dr. Chrzanowski was treating Miss Ward there, said his colleague was one of the first in the United States to use psychoanalysis to treat patients with schizophrenia. Strict followers of Sigmund Freud, Dr. Zaphiropoulos said, declared that analysis was useless in such cases and instead relied on therapies like shock treatments and drug-induced convulsion.
        But Dr. Chrzanowski disagreed. ''He was not fond of the restraints and that people were treated with hot tubs and cold pack sheets,'' Dr. Zaphiropoulos recalled.
        Because of the difficulty Americans had in saying his name, Dr. Chrzanowski (pronounced shar-NAHF-ski) was called Dr. Kik, Dr. Zaphiropoulos said. In her book, Miss Ward described Dr. Kik as having an unpronounceable tangle of consonants in his name and an undefinable European accent.
        Gerard Stanislaus Chrzanowski was born June 13, 1913, in Gleiwitz, Germany, now Gliwice, Poland, into a prosperous Jewish family that owned coal mines. He earned his medical degree and trained as a psychiatrist in Zurich. Unable to go back to Germany, he came to the United States in 1940 and worked at several mental hospitals in New York, including Rockland State.
        In 1949, he founded the Bleuler Psychotherapy Center in Queens, which provides low-cost mental treatment; he was medical director there until 1982. An adherent of the school of psychoanalysis called interpersonal theory, in 1962 he helped start the International Federation of Psychoanalytic Societies, made up of dissenters from standard Freudian theory. He continued to see patients privately until about three years ago, Ms. Cohn said.
        Dr. Chrzanowski married and divorced three times. In addition to Ms. Cohn, he is survived by two other daughters, Barbara Alexander and Romola Chrzanowski, all of New York City; three sons, Paul and Christopher, of New York City, and Peter, of Yorkville, Ill.; and six grandchildren.
        As for Miss Ward, she suggested in her book that Dr. Kik believed she was in danger of a recurrence of her problem after her release from the mental hospital. She suffered a second breakdown in 1957, and a third in 1969. She died in 1981.
      