
        John Keats, an author and biographer with a bent for social commentary, died on Nov. 3 in Kingston, Ont. He was 79 and lived in Kingston and on Pine Island in Ontario, in the Thousand Islands region of the St. Lawrence River.
        Mr. Keats set out in journalism after World War II but turned to freelance writing, drawing on his wartime experiences and the changing America he witnessed. His 13 books frequently delved into American obsessions with education, automobiles, suburbia and the like.
        Often witty and sophisticated in their accounts of society's foibles, they showed up on best-seller lists and were translated for publication abroad. He also contributed to some 40 national magazines in North America and Europe.
        John Chesswell Keats was born in Moultrie, Ga. He attended the University of Michigan and the University of Pennsylvania before serving in the Army Air Corps in the Pacific during World War II.
        He worked as a copy editor and reporter for The Washington Daily News in the 1950's. His debut as an author came in 1956 with ''The Crack in the Picture Window'' (Houghton), a broadside at sprawling suburban housing developments.
        Next ''The Insolent Chariots'' (Lippincott, 1958) castigated Detroit automakers for flooding the country with the wide, fin-tailed monsters then fashionable. ''Schools Without Scholars'' (Houghton, 1958) presented a parent's view of public education, and ''The Sheepskin Psychosis'' (Lippincott, 1965) took the measure of the practice and worth of college training.
        ''They Fought Alone'' (Lippincott, 1963) was about guerrilla fighting in the Philippines. More recently, in 1976, ''What Ever Happened to Mom's Apple Pie: The American Food Industry and How to Cope With It'' (Houghton) decried what the author considered supermarkets overfilled with overprocessed, overpackaged junk food.
        Mr. Keats produced two biographies. In ''Howard Hughes: The Biography of a Texas Billionaire'' (Random House; revised edition, 1972), he leavened his enigmatic subject's life with a dose of pity. The other was ''You Might as Well Live: The Life and Times of Dorothy Parker'' (Simon & Schuster, 1970).
        He also published two quasi-autobiographical volumes, ''The New Romans: An American Experience'' (Lippincott, 1967) and ''Of Time and an Island'' (Charterhouse, 1974).
        In 1974 Mr. Keats began teaching magazine writing at Syracuse University, where he taught until his retirement ten years ago.
        Mr. Keats's wife, Margaret Bodine Keats, died in 1993. He is survived by two daughters, Margaret K. Jenne of Lancaster, Pa., and Victoria Frost of Minneapolis; a son, Dr. Christopher Keats of Washington; and five grandchildren.
      