
        Joe Gilliam, who was one of the first blacks to be a starting pro quarterback when he played for the Pittsburgh Steelers' 1974 Super Bowl champions but who later slid into drug addiction and homelessness, died Monday in Nashville. He was 49.
        Gilliam was pronounced dead upon arrival at Baptist Hospital. A spokeswoman, Jessica Etz, said family members believed he had a heart attack.
        His death came only months after he opened a youth football camp at Tennessee State in Nashville. He had reported being drug free for the past three years.
        Gilliam was a star at Tennessee State, where his father, Joe Sr., had coached. In 1974, he won a starting spot with the Steelers over Terry Bradshaw, the future Hall of Fame quarterback, and passed impressively in leading the Steelers to a 4-1-1 record. But at midseason, Bradshaw regained the starting spot and took the team to the championship. Gilliam never regained the No. 1 role, and his National Football League career ended after he played with the Steelers' 1975 Super Bowl winners.
        Gilliam was the Steelers' 11th-round draft pick in 1972, then saw limited action for two seasons. He got his chance to start when many veteran players staged a strike during the 1974 exhibition season. Before that, only two blacks had seen significant action as professional T-formation quarterbacks: Marlin Briscoe, with the Denver Broncos in 1968, and James Harris, with the Buffalo Bills and Los Angeles Rams in the early 1970's.
        Gilliam reported receiving hate mail and death threats while starting for the Steelers. ''It became a race issue and things started to get nasty,'' Myron Cope, the longtime color analyst for Steeler broadcasts, told The Tennessean newspaper in 1999. ''I ran a talk show at the time, and we took all kinds of calls from people who were upset because Joe was playing and he was black.''
        ''I was totally shocked,'' Gilliam said of the racism. ''I thought if you played well, you got to play. I guess I didn't understand the significance of being a black quarterback at the time.''
        Gilliam threw for 1,274 yards and 4 touchdowns in 1974. ''His arm was as good as anybody's in pro ball,'' recalled Woody Widenhofer, the Vanderbilt football coach, who was then an assistant coach with the Steelers.
        Recalling his decision to replace Gilliam with Bradshaw after six games, the former Steelers head coach Chuck Noll told The Tennessean last year that Gilliam ''had off-the-field problems as well as the acceptance of his teammates, and his off-the-field problems had something to do with his acceptance.''
        Gilliam said afterward that his drug problems began in 1974. He later played for minor league teams, then was attacked outside a Baltimore liquor store in 1979 and was in a coma for weeks. He played for Washington of the United States Football League in 1983.
        Despite stays in drug rehabilitation centers, Gilliam was addicted to cocaine and heroin and pawned his two Super Bowl rings. Friends and fans bought the rings back and gave them to his father for safekeeping. Earlier this month, at a reunion of former Steelers in Pittsburgh, Gilliam remembered how he had lived in a cardboard box under a bridge for two years, saying, ''To me, it was like the Ritz-Carlton.''
        With help from his wife, Barbara, he resolved to be drug free. Assisted by his father, he opened a youth football camp and preached alcohol and drug abstinence to his pupils.
        In addition to his father and his wife, Gilliam is survived by three daughters, Joi, LaWanda and Dominique; two stepsons, Steven and Stanley Douglas; a brother, Craig; a sister, Kim Gilliam; and his mother, Ruth.
        At that Steeler reunion, Gilliam seemed filled with hope.
        ''I had it all and then it disappeared and then my life disappeared and now, look, I'm back with my friends again,'' he said, gesturing toward Lynn Swann and Roy Gerela, two former roommates. ''I let a lot of these guys down, but only in America could I come and be with these guys again.''
      