
        Thomas Babe, the author of ''Kid Champion,'' ''A Prayer for My Daughter'' and other plays, and one of Joseph Papp's most prolific resident playwrights at the New York Shakespeare Festival, died on Dec. 6 in a hospice in Stamford, Conn. He was 59 and lived in Darien, Conn.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Tom Naro, a representative of the New York Shakespeare Festival.
        In his wide-ranging plays, Mr. Babe wrote about fathers and daughters, love, individual rights and personal intimacy and also cultural heroes like Wild Bill Hickok and Joe Hill. His first success at the Public Theater was in 1975 with ''Kid Champion,'' starring Christopher Walken in a play about the post-stardom depression and emotional turmoil of a fallen rock king. The play was revived four years later off Broadway with Alan Rosenberg in the title role.
        In 1978 Mr. Rosenberg scored his own success in Mr. Babe's ''Prayer for My Daughter,'' a close-quartered, deeply psychological interrogation in a police station. The play also starred Laurence Luckinbill and was directed by Robert Allan Ackerman. In a review in The New York Times, this writer said that it was ''a strange and compelling play'' that, ''unsuspectingly, delivers swift body punches.'' The drama was later staged in London at the Royal Court Theater, in a production starring Donal McCann and Antony Sher.
        Throughout his career, Mr. Babe's explorations of our national myths provided rich roles for actors. In ''Fathers and Sons,'' Richard Chamberlain played Wild Bill Hickok and Dixie Carter was Calamity Jane. ''Salt Lake City Skyline'' starred John Lithgow as Joe Hill, the labor organizer.
        During his years at the Shakespeare Festival, Mr. Babe -- along with David Rabe -- became one of Mr. Papp's favorite writers. In the 1970's and 80's, the producer presented a series of his plays, including ''Rebel Women'' (about the Civil War), ''Taken in Marriage'' with Meryl Streep, Colleen Dewhurst, Kathleen Quinlan, Elizabeth Wilson and Ms. Carter, and ''Buried Inside Extra,'' a newspaper drama starring Hal Holbrook and Sandy Dennis. Referring to the diversity of the settings of his plays, Mr. Babe said, ''For a playwright, finding the right place is a privilege; it's like buying a license to work.''
        Mr. Babe was born in Buffalo and grew up in Rochester, N.Y. He started writing at a very young age. As he said, ''I discovered that words were dynamite: they could blow up inside me.'' But he did not turn to theater until after he had degrees from Harvard, Cambridge and Yale Universities. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Harvard in 1963, then went to Cambridge and in 1972 graduated from Yale University Law School.
        In 1967 he was married to (and later divorced from) Susan Bramhall. He is survived by their daughter, Charissa Pacella of Pittsburgh; his mother, Ruth of Rochester; two sisters, Mimi Babe Harris of Roanoke, Va., and Karen Ford of Rochester; and his companion, the playwright Neal Bell of Darien.
        Mr. Babe also directed plays by other writers, wrote the text for Twyla Tharp's ''When We Were Very Young'' and collaborated with Arnold Weinstein on the book for William Bolcom's musical, ''Casino Paradise.''
        Most of his later plays were done in regional theaters. In 1985 he returned to Rochester with ''Planet Fires,'' the opening play in the new Geva Theater. Reviewing this post-Civil War epic in The Times, this writer said that it ''deals provocatively with American history and with questions of freedom, choice and loyalty'' and could be ''the author's most striking play since 'A Prayer for My Daughter.' ''
        His other plays included ''Demon Wine,'' presented at the Los Angeles Theater Center; ''Junk Bonds'' at the Denver Theater Center, and ''Great Day in the Morning'' (1993) at the South Coast Repertory.
        In a letter to The Times in 1982, Mr. Babe said that working in the theater requires ''stamina, patience, concern and some little indifference to the passing fancies of each season.'' He added: ''The startling vanishment of the playwright is not only a fact, but his and her persistence in an era of incivility and social chaos is something of a miracle. Celebration is in order.''
      