
        Levi Jackson, a star running back whose selection as Yale's first black football captain in November 1948 drew national attention as a symbol of racial progress in American life, died on Dec. 7 at his home in Detroit. He was 74.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        When the Yale football players selected a captain for the 1949 season, it was only 19 months after Jackie Robinson had broken major league baseball's color barrier. There had been only one black football captain among Ivy League teams, but that was in 1893, when William Lewis, a center for Harvard, was named acting captain after the regular one was hurt.
        So when Yale selected the first black football player in the school's history to be its 70th football captain, newspaper and magazine editorials hailed the choice, and scores of congratulatory letters arrived at Yale.
        Levi Alexander Jackson was as surprised as anyone.
        ''Bill Conway, who was the captain in 1948, raised a glass of Champagne and said, 'Here's to the 1949 captain,' '' Jackson remembered.  ''When he mentioned my name, I almost fell out of my seat.''
        But Jackson seemed a logical choice.
        As a freshman, playing fullback and punting for Yale's nationally ranked team, he ran for 806 yards, fifth most in the nation, and was cited by the Gridiron Club of Boston as the best college football player in New England. He was hampered by injuries as a sophomore, but led Yale in every offensive category except passing in his junior year.
        Jackson was a ''townie,'' having played football and basketball at Hillhouse High School in New Haven before joining the Camp Lee, Va., football team while serving in the Army in 1945. His father was a chef and steward at Yale dining halls.
        Encouraged to attend Yale by his high school coach, Reggie Root, a former tackle and head football coach for the Elis who was rejoining Yale as an assistant coach, Jackson enrolled with most of his tuition financed under the G.I. Bill. But he arrived with much apprehension.
        ''I was the last of six kids, the only one who got a college education,'' he recalled. ''I had the feeling that I did not belong in a rich man's institution. I'm a high school graduate and I'm going to school with a lot of prep school grads who went to Choate and Exeter.''
        Four years later, he graduated with majors in sociology, psychology and economics. He set 13 modern Yale football records, and his 2,049 career rushing yards are the sixth most in Yale history. He also played basketball at Yale, and was the first black student in one of Yale's socially prestigious senior societies, selected by Berzelius.
        Jackson joined the Ford Motor Company in 1950 and held major executive positions in urban affairs and labor relations. After the 1967 Detroit riots, he worked with the New Detroit Committee, which was formed by business and community leaders to create job opportunities for inner-city residents at Ford and other companies. In 1969, at the height of the Vietnam War, he was appointed to the National Selective Service Appeal Board, which settled disputes over eligibility for the military draft. He retired from Ford in 1983 as a vice president.
        Jackson is survived by two daughters, Denyse Jackson, of Detroit, and Sherrill Jackson, of Rochester Hills, Mich.; and two sisters, Mable Coleman and Phyllis Winston, both of Boston.
        Amid the success at Yale, Jackson faced a few unpleasant moments in his athletic career. But his teammates rallied behind him.
        When the basketball team stopped in Dallas on a trip to the West Coast, Jackson was denied access to a hotel dining room. The other players ate with him at the manager's office.
        Jackson remembered a moment near the end of the football team's 35-0 loss to Vanderbilt at Yale Bowl in 1948. As he told it: ''One of their centers got in the game. He said, 'You better watch yourself, brother,' and started jawing, 'Nobody comes through here, particularly you.' He was pointing at me.
        ''One of our guards stood up and said, 'Hey, if you were any good, you would have been in the game a long time ago.' That shut him up.''
      