
        Marie Windsor, who played sassy femmes fatales, cynical bawdyhouse matrons and two-timing crooks in 74 movies with enough verve to win the informal accolade ''Queen of the B's,'' died on Sunday at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 80.
        Acting opposite male stars like Marlon Brando, George Raft, James Garner and John Wayne, she portrayed a succession of strong, but seldom admirable characters: she was the blunt, beautiful dame with the bedroom eyes who was rotten to the core and didn't care who knew it.
        ''I know you like a book, ya little tramp,'' Sterling Hayden said to her in the 1956 film ''The Killing,'' directed by Stanley Kubrick.''You'd sell out your own mother for a piece of fudge.''
        In ''The Narrow Margin'' (1952), she played a sexy gangster's widow who ends up riding across the country by rail with a police escort played by Charles McGraw. ''She's a dish,'' he tells his partner, ''a 60-cent special: cheap, flashy, strictly poison under the gravy.''
        Later, he tells her, ''You make me sick to my stomach.''
        ''Yeah?'' she snarls. ''Well, use your own sink.''
        She also made guest appearances on more than 100 television shows, including ''Gunsmoke'' and ''Murder, She Wrote.'' Her film career spanned five decades, and included film noir classics like ''Force of Evil'' (1948) and westerns like ''The Fighting Kentuckian'' (1949), with Mr. Wayne. But she also had no qualms about appearing in quickie efforts like ''Cat Women of the Moon'' (1954), ''Swamp Women'' (1955) and ''Abbott and Costello Meet the Mummy'' (1955). ''I think those films added to my luster,'' she said in an interview with The Los Angeles Times. ''I think people said, 'She can even do that and survive.' ''
        She came to take pride in the title Queen of the B's. As she said in several different interviews over the years, ''It's better to be queen of something than nothing at all.''
        Emily Marie Bertelsen was born on Dec. 11, 1919, in Marysvale, Utah, a small farming community where her father was a mechanic. Her grandmother took her to see films with Clara Bow, the ''It Girl,'' as a child. By the time she was 11, her parents drove 30 miles over dirt roads to take her to acting lessons.
        After she won two local beauty pageants and studied drama for two years at Brigham Young University, her parents drove her to Hollywood to study with Maria Ouspenskaya, the famed acting instructor. She stayed at the Hollywood Studio Club,  whose residents included Marilyn Monroe and Donna Reed. She worked as a cigarette girl at the Mocambo, a Sunset Strip nightclub.
        In 1941 she made her movie debut in Paramount's ''All-American Coed,'' wearing a costume of velvet carrots. After appearing in some bit parts, she headed for New York, where she was cast in more than 400 radio shows, including a nine-month stint on the soap opera ''Our Gal Sunday,'' from 1943 to 1945. During her last year in New York, she played the femme heavy in the Broadway play ''Follow the Girls.''
        MGM then signed her to a contract, though she did lesser roles for many other studios, including some very small ones, through the 1950's.
        ''A lot of things hampered my career,'' she said in an interview with The San Francisco Chronicle in 1994. ''At 5 foot 9, I was too tall for most leading men. And I never had a classic face. One of my casting directors at Paramount said about me, before I'd even started my career, 'Her eyes are too big and she has a bad mouth.' ''
        The Chronicle quoted Frances Bergen, the mother of Candice and a long-time friend, as suggesting that Ms. Windsor's striking resemblance to Joan Crawford might have obscured her during Crawford's heyday. But Ms. Windsor found a niche in film noir, a genre of mainly crime thrillers that captured a sense of postwar disillusionment. In ''Force of Evil,'' she played Roy Roberts's sultry, promiscuous wife in a tale about the numbers racket. For the first time, she received featured billing and was pictured in the advertising. She once said in an interview: ''I didn't know I was doing film noir, I thought they were detective stories with low lighting! Even Kubrick, in  'The Killing,' never used the term film noir to my knowledge.''
        Perhaps her best remembered role was in the low-budget ''The Narrow Margin,'' in which she played a sexy gangster's wife with a heart of gravel. That role spurred Kubrick to cast her as an unfaithful wife in ''The Killing,'' for which she won the best supporting actress award from Look.
        ''One of the reasons film noir is so popular today is that it left so much to the imagination, in contrast to today when everything is so explicit,'' she said in an interview with The New York Times last year. ''Film noir engaged the audience, let them use the gray matter between their ears.''
        Ms. Windsor is survived by her husband, Jack Rodney Hupp; her son, Richard Hupp; a brother, Jerry Bertelsen; and a sister, Louise Atherley.
        She was a director of the Screen Actors Guild for 25 years, and was aligned with the union's conservative wing, represented by Ronald Reagan and Charlton Heston. But many conservative movie viewers might be hard pressed to believe it. Her characters were just so radically evil.
        She told Classic Images, a film magazine: ''Fans would send me Bibles with specific verses underscored and accompanied by handwritten warnings that 'the devil would get me and I'd go to hell,' if I didn't reform.''
      