
        Jason Robards, who reclaimed the legacy of Eugene O'Neill and became one of the most powerful and important actors on the American stage and screen, died yesterday at Bridgeport Hospital in Connecticut. He was 78.
        Mr. Robards, who lived in Southport, Conn., died of complications from a long battle with cancer.
        As Hickey, the willful demolisher of pipe dreams in ''The Iceman Cometh,'' and as Jamie Tyrone, the self-lacerating older brother in ''Long Day's Journey Into Night'' and ''A Moon for the Misbegotten,'' Mr. Robards created acting masterpieces.
        Directed by Jose Quintero, he placed his signature firmly on plays that have come to be considered pivotal works of the Nobel Prize-winning playwright. O'Neill would not have the reputation he has or his place in theatrical history were it not for Mr. Robards.
        Paradoxically, Mr. Robards won a Tony Award as best actor on Broadway and two Academy Awards for film, but not for acting in O'Neill works. He won his Tony as best actor in 1959 for playing a fictional version of F. Scott Fitzgerald in ''The Disenchanted.''
        In 1977 and 1978, he won back-to-back Academy Awards as best supporting actor for ''All the President's Men'' (he portrayed Benjamin C. Bradlee, the feisty editor of The Washington Post) and ''Julia'' (he personified Dashiell Hammett, one of many times that he played an author).
        His reward for his O'Neill performances was in the appreciation of theatergoers and critics, who saw him as the quintessential interpreter of O'Neill's desperate truth-tellers.
        O'Neill died in 1953, before the actor began performing his plays, but he could have been thinking of Mr. Robards's charming manner, lean, craggy good looks and raspy voice when he envisioned Jamie Tyrone as a ''beguiling ne'er-do-well.''
        One reason Mr. Robards could portray people like Jamie with such piercing authenticity was because of his own experiences of hard living and heavy drinking. As an actor, he was expert at removing the varnish and exposing the despair of emotionally bankrupt characters.
        In common with a few others, notably Laurette Taylor as Amanda Wingfield in ''The Glass Menagerie'' and Marlon Brando as Stanley Kowalski in ''A Streetcar Named Desire,'' Mr. Robards and Jamie Tyrone were irrevocably linked, an exact meeting of actor and character.
        As Harold Clurman wrote about his performance in ''A Moon for the Misbegotten,'' ''Robards is able, through inner motives and analogy, to convey the cracked vessel that is Tyrone Jr.'' He added that the actor and the character ''are one.''
        Indelible Performances Extracted From O'Neill
        His relationship with the playwright had longevity as well as intensity. No one can ever again play Hickey or Jamie without competing with the image and memory of Mr. Robards in those roles.
        After these triumphs, he sustained a distinguished career playing some of the most challenging roles in theater and in films. In Arthur Miller's ''After the Fall'' he played the central role (a variation on the playwright) who had a tortured relationship with his actress wife (patterned after Marilyn Monroe).
        In 1994 Mr. Robards starred at the Roundabout Theater opposite Christopher Plummer in the first New York revival of Harold Pinter's ''No Man's Land.''
        The next season he did two demanding roles at the Roundabout, an angry dying man in Mr. Pinter's ''Moonlight'' and a doctor offering momentary sight to a blind woman in Brian Friel's ''Molly Sweeney.''
        Although he always adjusted himself to every new challenge, many of his performances had at least a tinge of O'Neill. It was unavoidable: he was himself an O'Neill character.
        Frequently he returned to O'Neill during his career -- as Erie Smith, the lonely night talker in ''Hughie,'' the blarney-filled Con Melody in ''A Touch of the Poet,'' James Tyrone Sr. in ''Long Day's Journey'' and a gentle version of the O'Neill father in ''Ah, Wilderness.''
        Doing Movies Just to Pay the Bills
        He was dismissive of his movies, saying that he did them so he could ''grab the money and go back to Broadway as fast as I can,'' and he acted in a full share of inferior films.
        But he also gave some memorable performances, among them the grizzled prospector in ''The Ballad of Cable Hogue'' (1970), directed by his friend Sam Peckinpah, and Howard Hughes in Jonathan Demme's ''Melvin and Howard,'' for which he received an Academy Award nomination in 1980 as best supporting actor.
        In one of his last roles, the ailing Mr. Robards appeared as a dying television executive with a bitterly estranged son in the 1999 movie ''Magnolia.''
        It could be said that he was an actor from birth. Jason Nelson Robards Jr. was born in Chicago on July 26, 1922, and reared in Hollywood by his father, Jason Robards Sr., an actor best known for his work in movies, and his stepmother. His father's career declined and the family had to move into a smaller house. In school, the boy shook all over whenever he was asked to give a classroom recitation.
        After graduating from Hollywood High School in 1939, he joined the Navy and was serving in the South Pacific when the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor. During World War II he took part in 13 major naval engagements.
        Before entering the Navy, he had not been interested in the theater, but after reading a copy of O'Neill's ''Strange Interlude'' in a ship's library he started to think about becoming an actor.
        When Mr. Robards was discharged from the service he enrolled at the American Academy of Dramatic Arts in New York at the insistence of his father. The senior Robards had gone there and felt it provided the best theatrical training. It was at the academy that he met Colleen Dewhurst, who was a year ahead of him and who was destined to play opposite him in some of Mr. Quintero's memorable O'Neill productions.
        It was difficult for him to find roles in the late 1940's and he was forced to take a series of unrewarding jobs like driving a taxi and working in a bowling alley.
        He made his first, very inauspicious appearance onstage as the rear end of a cow in a children's theater production of ''Jack and the Beanstalk.'' He had a walk-on in a D'Oyly Carte production of ''The Mikado'' and was an understudy and assistant stage manager of ''Stalag 17'' on Broadway.
        In 1953 he played a leading role in ''American Gothic'' at Circle in the Square, a new Off Broadway theater in Greenwich Village that had scored a smashing success with Mr. Quintero's 1951 revival of Tennessee Williams's ''Summer and Smoke,'' starring Geraldine Page.
        Being Introduced As a Man Named Hickey
        Still, Mr. Robards's career remained at a standstill until 1956, when Mr. Quintero revived ''The Iceman Cometh,'' O'Neill's long, sprawling barroom drama that had had a disappointing initial run on Broadway in 1946. Remembering Mr. Robards, Mr. Quintero invited him to play a small role as Jimmy the Priest. The production gradually took shape. One day, Mr. Quintero's partner, Theodore Mann, asked him if he had found an actor to play Hickey, the play's central character, adding, ''You don't have a play if you don't have a Hickey.'' Mr. Quintero kept looking.
        Creating Moments Of Raw Honesty
        As the director tells the story in his autobiography, ''If You Don't Dance They Beat You,'' one day Mr. Robards asked him for a favor. Could he possibly read for the role of Hickey? The actor was 34, the character was supposed to be about 50, ''a stout roly-poly figure,'' the opposite of Mr. Robards. Mr. Quintero, thinking he knew the actor's limitations, was hesitant. Mr. Robards pleaded for a chance. He took a copy of the play from his pocket and began reading Hickey's long monologue at the end of the play, but soon threw the script down and said, ''I know it by heart.''
        Then, as the director watched, awestruck, the actor transformed himself into O'Neill's tragic hero. As Mr. Quintero wrote, ''I sat there watching him gouge his eyes out and tear the very flesh from his bones . . . driving his points cleanly, with the precision and clarity of the mad, of the holy, of the devil.'' It was an amazing performance, leading, step by step, to the revelatory conclusion.
        ''I bet that you'd never believe I could have so much hate in me,'' Mr. Robards said to the director after the reading. ''How could you? You always saw me as a good-natured happy-go-lucky slob.''
        After the actor left the room, the director sat silently for a long while, then told an assistant to telephone Mr. Robards and ''ask for Hickey.''
        In all senses, the production was an act of dramatic reclamation. Led by Mr. Robards, the play assumed its rightful place as one of O'Neill's most masterly creations. The revival of O'Neill's reputation had begun and Mr. Robards became a star. It was exciting for audiences to be in the arena-style theater as Harry Hope's last-chance saloon came alive and then as illusions were destroyed by the evangelical Hickey.
        As jaunty as his salesman's straw hat, Mr. Robards's Hickey was a hollow messiah hellbent on removing the blinders from the eyes of his disciples. When the actor moved into his final confession, it was the clearest communion between life and art, playwright and performer.
        That fall the actor moved on to Broadway as Jamie Tyrone in ''Long Day's Journey Into Night,'' a second posthumous tribute to O'Neill from the team of Quintero and Robards, a company that included Fredric March, Florence Eldridge and Bradford Dillman. As with Hickey's confession, Jamie's warning to his brother (a surrogate of the playwright) remains one of the most brutally honest moments in the American theater.
        As Jamie says to his brother: ''I'd like to see you become the greatest success in the world. But you'd better be on your guard. Because I'll do my damnedest to make you fail. Can't help it. I hate myself. Got to take revenge. On everyone else. Especially you.''
        Through this and their subsequent productions, the director and actor were established as the playwright's foremost theatrical collaborators.
        In a sudden change of pace, Mr. Robards spent the summer of 1958 acting in Shakespeare (Hotspur in ''Henry IV, Part One'' and Polixenes in ''The Winter's Tale'') at the Stratford Festival in Ontario, and the next year he played ''Macbeth'' in Cambridge, Mass. A taste was more than enough; he realized that his proper home was in contemporary work.
        In 1958 he starred in ''The Disenchanted.'' (His father had a small role.) Almost every year during the 1960's he was in a different Broadway play: Lillian Hellman's ''Toys in the Attic,'' Hugh Wheeler's ''Big Fish, Little Fish,'' Herb Gardner's ''A Thousand Clowns,'' in which he revealed a gift for antic comedy as Murray Burns. He joined the new Lincoln Center Repertory Theater for ''After the Fall'' and S. N. Behrman's ''But for Whom Charlie.'' ''Hughie'' came in 1964 and ''The Devils,'' by John Whiting, the next year, a rare foray for him into period drama. Other plays --Joseph Heller's ''We Bombed in New Haven'' and a revival of ''The Country Girl'' -- followed along with a growing movie career.
        Among his movie roles were Dick Diver in a 1962 adaptation of Fitzgerald's ''Tender Is the Night,'' a reprise of his stage comedy ''A Thousand Clowns''(1966), Al Capone in Roger Corman's ''St. Valentine's Day Massacre'' (1967) and a burlesque comedian in William Friedkin's ''Night They Raided Minsky's'' (1968).
        Gaining Empathy With a Tumultuous Life
        Privately, he had a difficult, and often public life, divorced from his first two wives, then married to (and later divorced from) Lauren Bacall, a relationship that underlined his image as someone in the tough-talking tradition of Ms. Bacall's first husband, Humphrey Bogart.
        He is survived by his fourth wife, Lois O'Connor; and six children, Jason 3rd, Sarah Louise and David from his first marriage to Eleanor Pittman; Sam from his third; and Shannon and Jake from his fourth.
        For years he had a serious drinking problem and in 1972, after losing the role of Hickey to Lee Marvin in the film version of ''The Iceman Cometh,'' he was in a horrifying accident on a winding California road. He drove his car into a mountain and almost died. After extensive surgery and facial reconstruction, he recovered. While he recuperated, a call came to do ''A Moon for the Misbegotten'' with Mr. Quintero and Ms. Dewhurst for a brief summer season in Lake Forest, Ill.
        ''With Jason,'' said Ms. Dewhurst, ''I could make the commitment to O'Neill that allowed me, as Josie Hogan, to step off the edge of the cliff and into an abyss with the firm conviction that there was solid ground around me, in the words, in the actors onstage with me and, of course, in our director, Jose.''
        After many delays, the play opened on Broadway at the end of 1973 and was hailed as a landmark production, in a class with ''The Iceman Cometh'' and ''Long Day's Journey.'' Because of all the personal problems of the actors and the director, and the fact that the show revivified their careers, they called themselves the Resurrection Company. Eventually Mr. Robards stopped drinking entirely.
        In 1976 he ventured into directing, staging ''Long Day's Journey'' at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, starring himself and Zoe Caldwell as James and Mary Tyrone.
        Speaking about James Tyrone's life as a touring actor, he said, ''He's a tumbleweed. That's what I am. He had no home -- just jumping around so much. I find a lot of parallels between us.''
        In 1983 he and Ms. Dewhurst appeared in an all-star revival of ''You Can't Take It With You.'' Two years later he and Mr. Quintero returned to ''The Iceman Cometh,'' a revival that reaffirmed their combined artistry and gave the play a biting relevance.
        For O'Neill's centennial year, 1988, Mr. Robards and Ms. Dewhurst did a two-play season of ''Long Day's Journey'' and ''Ah, Wilderness,'' demonstrating O'Neill in tragic and romantic modes.
        Agreeing with Ms. Dewhurst that an actor's belief in a play was the essence of his work, he said, ''An actor doesn't change thought, theme or mood unless the character does, and the character only does it within the words of the play.'' If the actor knows the play well enough and works hard enough, ''the play takes off and you don't even know that you've been there.'' That, he said, was ''the magic of the theater.''
        Correction:  December 28, 2000, Thursday  A front-page picture caption yesterday with the obituary of the actor Jason Robards referred incorrectly in some copies to the role he was shown playing in ''Long Day's Journey Into Night.'' It was James, the father, not Jamie, the elder son, in the 1988 revival. (Mr. Robards did play Jamie in the original Broadway production in 1956 and in the 1962 film adaptation.)
      