
        Jack S. Liebowitz, the comic-book publisher whose business acumen helped turn Superman, the creation of two teenage cartoonists, into the most recognizable superhero in the world, died on Monday in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 100 and had homes in Old Westbury, N.Y., and Manhattan.
        Mr. Liebowitz and his business partner, Harry Donenfeld, revolutionized the comic-book industry with Detective Comics, whose first issue was published in March 1937. Detective Comics was the first successful comic book series devoted to a single theme, and the title's initials gave the future company its name, DC Comics.
        In May 1939 Batman made his first appearance in Detective Comics, which remains the longest continuously published line of comic books.
        Mr. Liebowitz also started the series Action Comics and acquired the story of a superbeing from the planet Krypton, created by two shy, Clark Kent-ish cartoonists from Cleveland, Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster. Mr. Liebowitz said that the decision to run ''Superman'' was ''a pure accident'' based on deadline pressure, but the rest is comic-book history.
        ''I had a great feel for the comics field,'' Mr. Liebowitz said in an interview in the 1990's. ''I was very optimistic about the future.''
        The first issue of Action Comics appeared in June 1938, with a thrilling cover showing a caped, superstrong figure hoisting a car overhead, an image that Mr. Liebowitz selected. The first print run was 200,000 copies, but newsstands clamored for more, and sales soon approached one million a month.
        Mr. Liebowitz was also a partner in a sister company, All American Comics, whose roster of characters included The Flash, Wonder Woman and Green Lantern. The two companies merged in 1944.
        ''Superman'' branched out, becoming a popular radio series from 1940 to 1951; it also inspired movie serials and animated film series in the 1940's.
        Mr. Liebowitz had the vision to move the character to television; the series's pilot episode, ''Superman and the Mole Men,'' was made in 1951, starring the square-jawed George Reeves.
        Superman's creators, Mr. Siegel and Mr. Shuster, signed over millions in future rights and licensing royalties for Action No. 1, the first issue of Action Comics. They were paid $10 a page, a total of $130. A single copy of the original issue currently sells for more than $5,500, and Superman has gone on to become a billion-dollar industry.
        After many years of litigation, DC Comics agreed in 1978 to provide Mr. Siegel and Mr. Shuster with a $20,000 annuity each; the sum was later raised to $30,000.
        Mr. Liebowitz led Superman through one of his deadliest battles: the famous copyright infringement suit against the rival company Fawcett Publications, which published ''Captain Marvel.'' The case dragged on for years, with Fawcett finally agreeing to settle and stop publishing the adventures of Billy Batson, a newsboy who said the magic word ''Shazam!'' to turn into Captain Marvel.
        Jacob S. Liebowitz was born in Proskurov, Ukraine, on Oct. 10, 1900, and emigrated to the Lower East Side of New York in 1910. He worked as a magazine distributor before teaming up with Mr. Donenfeld, the publisher of lurid pulp magazines like Spicy Detective, to print glossy covers for the handful of comic book titles available during the Depression.
        In 1961 DC Comics became National Periodical Publications, a publicly held company. Mr. Liebowitz remained president until the company merged with Kinney National Services in 1967. Kinney acquired Warner Brothers the next year and formed Warner Communications.
        Mr. Liebowitz was a board member of Warner Communications and then Time Warner until 1991, coming into the office every day when he was over 90.
        He was a founding trustee of Long Island Jewish Hospital, now North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System, and a member of its board since 1949. He was president of the hospital from 1956 to 1968. He was also a trustee of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of New York.
        He is survived by his second wife, Shirley, of Old Westbury; two daughters, Linda Stillman of New York and Joan Levy of Great Neck; a stepson, Robert Schwartz; six grandchildren; and seven great-grandchildren.
        ''Some people viewed comics as just a passing fad,'' Mr. Liebowitz said in an interview in 1985. ''Not me.  From the beginning, I felt that comics could be a vital part of the publishing field. They had a broad appeal and a great potential for telling stories.''
      