
        John Cooper, an automotive engineer and a sports-car driver who created the chic vehicle of London's Swinging Sixties, the Mini Cooper, died on Sunday at his home in Worthing, West Sussex. He was 77 and had cancer.
        The tiny high-performance sedan became the favored car of the rock stars, actors, junior royalty, writers, debutantes and designers who gave London its fame as the fastest-paced place on the planet 35 years ago.
        Tom Wolfe celebrated it in his ''London Teenage Society Girl'' essay, and its precocious compact snub-nosed shape was featured in fashion shoots and advertising spreads aimed at the Rolls-Royce and Jaguar crowds. A Mini Cooper gained as much notice as its co-star, Sir Michael Caine, did in a 1969 film, ''The Italian Job.''
        In an extended stunt scene that was to give it a reputation for astonishing maneuverability, the Mini Cooper piloted by robbers escaping with their trove of gold bullion threaded its way along the corridors of grand Italian buildings, down stairs, through pipes and around the twisting streets of Turin.
        Sir Michael did not drive one at the time. But among those who did were Dame Margot Fonteyn, Peter Sellers, King Hussein of Jordan and three of the Beatles, Paul McCartney, John Lennon and Ringo Starr.
        Although Sir Alec Issigonis of the British Motor Corporation became famous for sketching out the original Mini on the back of a cigarette pack in the late 50's, it was Mr. Cooper who, in 1961, turned it into the souped-up roadster of choice for London's most fashionable streets and all the wannabe streets elsewhere that struggled to replicate the ultimate coolness of the mini-skirted borough of Chelsea.
        ''It was the cult car of the 60's, an icon,'' Doug Nye, a writer on motor racing and family friend, said. ''If the Mini was cool, then the Mini Cooper was cool with knobs on.''
        John Cooper was born in 1923, the son of Charles Cooper, an engineer who worked in automobile design in the early years of motor racing. The son's first job was an apprenticeship in one of his father's companies, and he went on to work for a toolmaker who specialized in equipment for the Royal Navy. In the war, he made aircraft instruments.
        After the war, father and son joined to produce cars for the Formula Three and Formula Two circuits, with John Cooper as driver, as well as co-designer.
        In 1958, Sir Stirling Moss won the Argentine Grand Prix in a rear-engine lightweight Cooper-Climax that ran the entire race without a single pit stop for tire change, an innovative advantage that brought fame to the Cooper Car Company.
        The company became the first British motor racing manufacturer to win the Formula One constructors' championship, which it took two years in a row. Its Cooper-Climax cars also brought Jack Brabham the championship titles in 1959 and 1960.
        Mr. Cooper's influence on Formula One racing declined, and after his father's death in 1964, he sold the company and turned his attention to the Mini Cooper and, later, a higher powered version called the Mini Cooper S., brought out in 1963 and produced over the years by the British Motor Company.
        In later years, Mr. Cooper retired to the Sussex coast, where he operated a small garage business. He was named last year on the Queen's annual New Year's Honors List as a Commander of the British Empire.
        Surviving are his wife, Paula; a son, Michael; and a daughter, Sally.
        Even as production of the Mini wound down this last year, BMW, which now owns the rights to it, announced that it would launch a new version next summer. Michael Cooper said word of the revival had pleased his father.
        ''I've got one of the new Minis outside my house now, and I took it around to my father the other day,'' he told the Press Association, Britain's domestic news agency. but he wasn't well enough to get up and have a look at it.
        ''Unfortunately it arrived a bit too late.''
        Correction:  January 10, 2001, Wednesday  An obituary of the British automotive engineer and sports-car driver John Cooper on Dec. 27 credited the Cooper Car Company erroneously with a first. The first British company to win the Formula One constructors' championship, in 1958, was Vanwall.
      