
        Martin Prinz, who until a few months ago stood watch over the outstanding collection of meteorites accumulated by the American Museum of Natural History, died Dec. 16 at an extended-care center in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 69 and lived in Great Neck, N.Y.
        The cause was cancer, the museum said.
        Dr. Prinz joined the staff in 1976 as chairman of mineralogy and curator of a collection that he greatly expanded into a department of earth and planetary science. Last September, because of his illness, he took the status of curator emeritus of meteorites in the division of physical sciences.
        Under his stewardship, the museum introduced research programs in meteorites, mineralogy, petrology and geochemistry. He obtained continuing grants from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration for meteorite research.
        He oversaw the final renovation of Ross Hall of Meteorites in 1981, with the ''largest meteorite in captivity'' as its center piece. The rock, 4.5 billion years old and weighing 34 tons, was moved there from relative obscurity at the Hayden Planetarium in 1979.
        Known as the Cape York, or Ahnighito meteorite, it was discovered in Greenland and brought to this country in 1895 by Adm. Robert E. Peary, the Arctic explorer. It had been at the planetarium since 1935.
        Before reintroducing it to the public in 1981, Dr. Prinz directed a crew to strip Ahnighito, meaning ''the Tent'' in Eskimo, of a coat of khaki-colored paint, which had been applied to the 11-foot-long chunk of nickel iron decades earlier for reasons lost to history.
        While Dr. Prinz was department chairman, the museum also doubled its mineral holdings by acquiring the Columbia University Systematic Mineral Collection.
        A native New Yorker, Dr. Prinz graduated from City College in 1953. He received a master's degree from Indiana University in 1957 and a Ph.D. in geology at Columbia in 1961. He started his academic career at Tufts University and was a senior researcher at the University of New Mexico Institute of Meteoritics before joining the museum staff.
        Dr. Prinz is survived by his wife, Sandy Rubinfeld Siegel Prinz; two sons and a daughter from an earlier marriage, William, of Brookline, Mass., Michael, of San Francisco, and Martha Prinz of Brooklyn; a sister, Frances Friedman of Indianapolis; a stepdaughter, Bonnie Siegel of Binghamton, N.Y.; a stepson, Larry Siegel of Oakland, Calif.; and three grandsons. Also surviving is his first wife, Victoria Prinz of Albuquerque.
      