
        Dr. Melvin B. Gottlieb, who led an expansion of America's search for fusion energy as the director of a Princeton laboratory in the 1960's and 1970's while promoting international cooperation in scientific research, died on Dec. 1, in Haverford, Pa. He was 83 and lived in Haverford on the outskirts of Philadelphia.
        Fusion reactions power the sun and stars. The process occurs when atomic nuclei in hot gases collide and fuse, or merge, a reaction that releases large amounts of energy. On earth, scientists and engineers have made progress in building vessels that contain those hot, electrified gases, called plasmas, and in generating increasing amounts of fusion energy.
        The task has turned out to be so difficult, however, that such devices still use more energy than they produce, and fusion power has never been used commercially. But from 1961 to 1980, during Dr. Gottlieb's tenure as director of the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory, which was then the center of the American fusion effort, progress often came at such a breathtaking pace that scientists dreamed of building fusion power plants before the century's end.
        ''This was a tremendously exciting time,'' said Dr. Sam Cohen, a longtime physicist at the laboratory, who also is director of Princeton's program in plasma science and technology. ''Things were happening at an incredible rate. One week things would be good and the next week they would be twice as good.''
        Taking advantage of those successes, the laboratory built a series of larger and larger devices, culminating in the $300 million Tokamak Fusion Test Reactor. Construction of the test reactor began under Dr. Gottlieb and it started operations on Dec. 24, 1982.
        ''Going from a laboratory where you have a lot of free spirits, even as teams, to doing the kind of thing that T.F.T.R. did was quite an achievement,'' said Dr. John F. Clarke, a former head of the fusion program at the Department of Energy and now chief scientist on the global climate change project at Battelle, in Washington.
        In 1994, the test reactor broke all  records by producing 11 megawatts of fusion energy, but it was shut down for budgetary reasons in 1997.
        Melvin Burt Gottlieb was born on May 25, 1917, in Chicago. He received a bachelor's degree in 1940 and a doctorate in 1950 from the University of Chicago. During the war, he worked on radar countermeasures at Harvard.
        In the early 1950's, he was working with Dr. James A. Van Allen, an astronomer at the University of Iowa who would later discover the belts of intense radiation above earth's atmosphere that now carry his name. Much of the work with Dr. Van Allen involved ''rockoons,'' or small rockets that were launched from balloons to more economically extend their altitude.
        The rockoons were released from ships ''because it was too hazardous to do over inhabited areas,'' Dr. Van Allen said in an interview. In 1953 -- while Dr. Van Allen was working at what was then a secret fusion program at Princeton -- Dr. Gottlieb led such a cruise to the Arctic, during which the rockets picked up an unexpected form of radiation over the  polar region, caused by electrons from space bombarding the upper atmosphere.
        ''That was a new and pioneering discovery of that effect,'' Dr. Van Allen said. More powerful ground-launched rockets later placed in orbit the satellites that discovered major concentrations of radiation much higher above the earth that became known as the Van Allen Belts.
        When Dr. Van Allen returned to Iowa, he recommended Dr. Gottlieb as his replacement in the fusion program, which was classified because the same process powers hydrogen bombs. But the goal of the program, then led by an astrophysicist named Dr. Lyman Spitzer Jr., was the controlled release of energy for peaceful purposes.
        The program was declassified in 1958, and American and Soviet physicists immediately began exchanging information.
        That same year, Dr. Gottlieb and Dr. Edward A. Frieman, who was then a theoretical physicist and is now director emeritus of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography in San Diego, were among the first Westerners to inspect the fusion energy program in the Soviet Union. Those  visits began decades of cooperation, and competition, between the Western and the Soviet programs.
        The visits sparked what would become Dr. Gottlieb's longtime commitment to promoting cooperation in scientific research, as he served on international commissions, helped plan joint projects and spoke about the subject extensively.
        Referring to Dr. Gottlieb's work with Soviet scientists, Dr. Clarke said that ''he believed that if we could work scientifically with them, that would contribute to breaking down the walls.''
        Dr. Gottleib succeeded Dr. Spitzer as director of the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory in 1961. For most of that decade, fusion research focused on a device for confining hot plasma that Dr. Spitzer had invented, but in 1969 the Soviets stunned the West by announcing that they had found improved results in an invention of their own, called a tokamak.
        Over the objections of several scientists at the laboratory, some of whom would later charge that the laboratory had drifted too far from  basic research, Dr. Gottlieb shifted priorities, building a series of tokamaks and related machines, which made advances that made headlines throughout the 1970's.
        In 1977, as ground was broken for the tokamak reactor, Dr. Gottlieb said, ''This new reactor represents the culmination of 25 years of work here and around the world.''
        He is survived by his wife, Golda, whom he married in 1948; a daughter, Paula Bastian, of Cedar Run, N.J.; and two grandchildren. Another daughter, Martha Gottlieb, died in 1987.
        Dr. Clarke said that for all Dr. Gottlieb's involvement in research, he was more interested in practical benefits than abstract scientific results. ''He wanted to learn about plasma physics because he wanted to see it put to work someday.''
      