
        Ilona Karmel Zucker, a Holocaust survivor who based much of her writing on her experiences in Nazi labor camps, died on Nov. 30 in Cambridge, Mass. She was 75.
        Born in Krakow, Poland, Ms. Karmel endured the war years in the city's ghetto and in three nearby camps, where she composed her first literary work, ''Songs From Behind the Barbed Wire,'' a collection of poems written secretly on the backs of worksheets.
        At Buchenwald, the last of the camps, both of her legs were crushed by a tank. During two years of postwar convalescence in a Swedish hospital, she learned to walk again and taught herself English by correspondence with Oxford University. She then immigrated to the United States in 1948, attending Hunter College before graduating Phi Beta Kappa from Radcliffe College, where she was a protegee of the poet Archibald MacLeish.
        She began her career as a short-story writer, winning the Mademoiselle College Fiction Prize in 1951 for ''Fru Holm.'' Her first novel, ''Stephania,'' completed while she was at Radcliffe and published in 1953, drew on her experiences in Sweden.
        Her 1969 novel, ''An Estate of Memory,'' based on life in a Polish camp and centering on four prisoners who conspire to save the life of a child, is considered by scholars to be among the most resonant accounts of the Holocaust.
        A review in The New York Times called it ''a very good book,'' adding that ''like Solzhenitsyn, Ilona Karmel has succeeded in writing about life in the prison camps'' as ''plausible, possible human experience.''
        The work, translated into German in 1997, was recently reissued in paperback.
        While pursuing her writing, Ms. Karmel taught in day care schools in a career that spanned a 10-year stay in Germany, where she worked in an orphanage.
        On returning to the United States in 1978 with her husband, the physicist and philosopher Francis Zucker, she was appointed to a senior lectureship in the writing program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where she remained until her retirement in 1995.
        In 1995 M.I.T. named the Ilona Karmel Writing Prizes in her honor.
        No immediate family members survive.
      