
        Lori Ledis, an art dealer and producer of concerts and music documentaries, died on Saturday at her home in Brooklyn. She was 40.
        The cause was a heart attack, said her husband, Robert Flam.
        Ms. Ledis was born in Flushing, Queens, and earned a Master of Fine Arts degree from Pratt Institute. She started an art consulting business, Contemporary Emerging Artists, in 1983. She married Mr. Flam in 1985, and in 1986 they opened the LedisFlam Gallery, the first commercial gallery in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, which exhibited artists including Amy Sillman, Terry Adkins and David Mann.
        The gallery moved to SoHo in 1990 and closed in 1995. Its final show was part of ''Art From Brazil in New York,'' a collaborative exhibition by 10 galleries, the Drawing Center and the New Museum that was organized by Ms. Ledis, Mr. Flam and Mary Sabbatino of Galerie Lelong after they visited the Sao Paulo Bienal in Brazil. The exhibitions established an American audience for many Brazilian artists. Afterward, Ms. Ledis and Mr. Flam decided to bring Brazilian musicians to New York and started NYC Entertainment.
        With some sponsorship from the Brazilian government, along with the couple's own money, in 1996 the company produced concerts by two leading Brazilian songwriters, Caetano Veloso (with the Japanese composer Ryuichi Sakamoto at Central Park Summerstage) and Milton Nascimento (at the Brooklyn Academy of Music). The 1997 festival included Chico Science, Mundo Livre, Lenine e Suzano, Cascabulho, Banda de Pifanos and Zelia Duncan at Celebrate Brooklyn and Central Park Summerstage. In 1998 the company presented the Brazilian groups Karnak and O Rappa and the Brazilian funk bandleader Ed Motta collaborating with the American vibraphonist Roy Ayers.
        All the concerts were filmed. A documentary of the 1997 concerts, ''The Brazilian Muzic Festival,'' was broadcast on public television in the United States and HBO in Latin America.
        Last summer, NYC Entertainment brought a full-scale Mexican cabaret revue to Central Park Summerstage, featuring Liliana Felipe, Astrid Hadad and Eugenia Leon, along with an orchestra and a mariachi band. Ms. Ledis was editing the film of that performance for DirecTV in Latin America.
        NYC Entertainment had also been working with the piano manufacturer Steinway & Sons on a series of concerts and documentaries to be presented in 2001 at the Steinway factory in Queens.
        Ms. Ledis is survived by her husband; her parents, Nathan Ledis and Joan Feldman; a brother, Stuart Ledis; and a sister, Holly Blumenstyk.
      