
        Porter A. McCray, for many years an indispensable figure in the councils of the Museum of Modern Art and an effective player in the international museum scene, died on Dec. 1 in Hightstown, N.J. He was 92.
        Mr. McCray was vital to the goodwill with which American achievement in high culture began to be regarded in the 1950's. Whether at the ministerial level, or when dealing with technicians in countries whose language he did not speak, he inspired trust and affection.
        Nor did he leave it to others to set up an exhibition in a foreign country. On one occasion, the Orient Express to Istanbul included eight coaches filled with artworks for an exhibition in Belgrade for which Mr. McCray was responsible. It turned out that when the train arrived in Belgrade for a one-hour stop, nobody was willing to authorize the uncoupling of those cars in Yugoslavia. It also turned out that the relevant minister in Belgrade had been ordered to cancel the exhibition and avoid all contacts with Americans.
        But Mr. McCray, who was on the train, had the coaches uncoupled. He became friendly with the minister within hours of his arrival in Belgrade, and the show opened on schedule.
        Porter McCray was born on May 28, 1908, in Clarksburg, W.Va. He attended Virginia Military Institute and Yale, where he earned a degree in architecture. A turning point in his career came when he went to work for the architect Wallace Harrison, a longtime associate of Nelson Rockefeller. Mr. Rockefeller took note of him, and for much of the rest of his life Mr. McCray was never far from the Rockefellers in their nonprofit activities.
        In 1941 he was American commissioner to the Guatemala National Fair, and in 1943 and 1944 he was chief of the Inter-American Program in Washington.
        Though rejected from active service during World War II on health grounds, Mr. McCray was a volunteer ambulance driver in the American Field Service from October 1944 to December 1945. He was then trained for service in Burma. After the war ended, he organized a volunteer information center in Calcutta for repatriated prisoners of war.
        After his return to New York, he was asked in 1947 by Nelson Rockefeller, then chairman of the Museum of Modern Art, to join the museum as its director of circulating exhibitions.  Mr. McCray was made responsible for planning and supervising every detail of the exhibitions prepared by the museum and shown on five continents.
        These were some of the glory days of the Museum of Modern Art, but they were not all plain sailing.
        In November 1962, Mr. McCray had every detail in hand for a major Mark Rothko exhibition in Paris. Three weeks before the scheduled opening, Andre Malraux, who as the French culture minister was then all-powerful in Paris, canceled the exhibition in favor of an exhibition of Haitian folk art that he fancied.
        Undeterred, Mr. McCray went to see the mayor of Paris, who offered him the basement of the Musee National d'Art Moderne. The spaces were shabby, but Mr. McCray got the rooms redecorated and the show opened on time.
        In December 1959, Mr. McCray accepted a one-year appointment to the foreign service, where he supervised the design of informational exhibition and promotional projects wherever the Marshall Plan was in operation.
        In 1963, Mr. McCray became executive director of the JDR 3rd Fund, a nonprofit organization founded by John D. Rockefeller 3rd to promote cultural exchanges in the visual and performing arts between the United States and Asia. He resigned from the fund in 1975.
        Earlier this year, Prof. P. Pal, a ranking authority on Asian culture, wrote in Orientations magazine of his ''profound gratitude to Mr. McCray who is, I believe, a little-known but towering figure in raising the consciousness of Asian culture in America.''
        In New York, Mr. McCray was an early supporter of Robert Wilson, the theater director, and Merce Cunningham, the dancer and choreographer, as well as of Nam June Paik's work with video monitors, of Ellen Stewart's La Mama Theater and of the work of the painter Jasper Johns.
        He is survived by a sister, Frances Jacob, of Staunton, Va.
      