
        N. Richard Nash, a playful and prolific playwright, screenwriter and novelist whose greatest success was the tender drama ''The Rainmaker,'' died on Dec. 11 in Manhattan. He was 87.
        Born Nathan Richard Nasbaum, Mr. Nash was raised on the rough-and-tumble south side of Philadelphia and had a bruiser's upbringing, complete with a nascent career as a $10-a-match boxer. ''I didn't get hurt too much,'' Mr. Nash later recalled. ''But I always had a bloody nose.''
        He gave up pugilism for poetry, attending the University of Philadelphia to study English and philosophy. After graduating, he published two ponderous-sounding studies, ''The Athenian Spirit'' and ''The Wounds of Sparta,'' but soon abandoned philosophy for an even less secure occupation: playwriting.
        He found some success almost immediatedly. In 1940 his first play, ''Parting at Imsdorf,'' won an award, and he soon landed a job teaching drama at Bryn Mawr College, an experience he later drew on.
        In 1946 Mr. Nash made his Broadway debut with ''The Second Best Bed,'' a comedy about Shakespeare and Anne Hathaway.
        The play made Mr. Nash a name to watch, and his reputation was cemented two years later with ''The Young and Fair,'' a drama about a  Boston girls' school. Starring Frances Starr and Julie Harris, the play received good reviews but did not last long. A 1952 drama, ''See the Jaguar,'' was less well received.
        It wasn't until 1954 that Mr. Nash  broke through at the box office, with a story he said was inspired by a  drive several years before through the drought-stricken Great Plains. The result was ''The Rainmaker,'' a romantic fable about a Kansas farm girl who falls for the charms of a fast-talking charmer named Starbuck.
        It opened on Oct. 28 of that year, with Geraldine Page in the lead role of Lizzie Curry. Writing in The New York Times, Brooks Atkinson later described the play as ''warm, simple and friendly; the humor is capitivating, and the characters are lovable and original.''
        ''The Rainmaker'' became an instant favorite of companies worldwide. Since 1954, the play has been translated into 40 languages, including an unwritten African language in which performers learn the parts by hearing them repeated. A 1956 film version starred Katharine Hepburn and Burt Lancaster; a 1999 Broadway revival starred Jayne Atkinson and Woody Harrelson.
        While ''The Rainmaker'' made Mr. Nash rich, he continued to turn out screenplays, teleplays and librettos with remarkable consistency. In 1959 he wrote the screenplay for ''Porgy and Bess.'' A year later he produced ''Wildcat,'' which starred Lucille Ball, one of several Broadway musicals, including ''Sarava'' and ''The Happy Time,'' for which he wrote the books. In 1963 he proved lightning could strike twice with ''110 in the Shade,'' a musical version of ''The Rainmaker.''
        He also tried his hand at fiction and in 1977 published ''East Wind, Rain,'' a novel about the bombing of Pearl Harbor, which received good reviews. This year he finished a novel titled ''The Wildwood.''
        He is survived by two daughters, Jennifer Nash of New York and Amanda Nash of Cambridge, Mass., and a son, Cristopher, of Warrickshire, England.
        Throughout Mr. Nash's life, ''The Rainmaker'' remained his signature work, a fact that he seemed to  enjoy. Writing about the play in The Times in 1956, he said, ''I tried to tell a simple story about droughts that happen to people, and about faith.''
      