
        Rosemarie Kanzler, who rose from humble beginnings in the Swiss Alps to become one of the most glamorous figures in the international set for more than five decades, died Dec. 9 at her estate in Argentina. She was 85. Her butler found her in her swimming pool after she had suffered a stroke, a family spokesman said.
        Mrs. Kanzler, who was married five times, was said to have made the original introductions that led to several famous marriages. Henry Ford II met his second wife, the Italian-born Cristina Vettore Austin, at one of Mrs. Kanzler's homes. Mr. Ford's daughter, Charlotte Ford, met Stavros Niarchos, the Greek shipping tycoon whom she later married, at the Kanzler residence in St. Moritz. Over her lifetime, Mrs. Kanzler decorated and lived in 23 residences throughout the world.
        Mrs. Kanzler was also credited with introducing Henry Fonda to his third wife, Countess Afdera Franchetti, and Oscar de la Renta to Francoise de Langlade, his first wife.
        Born in Zurich on Jan. 24, 1915, to Giovanni Ravelli, an Italian construction worker, and his German wife, Rosemarie Ravelli was in her early 20's when she left Switzerland with Peter Kreuder, a German theater and film composer. Intent on a singing career, she joined Mr. Kreuder's traveling troupe of entertainers but within several years fled Europe.
        She landed in Cuba and soon went on to Mexico City, where in 1944 she married Manuel Reachi, a film producer. They were divorced in 1948, and she moved on to Hollywood, Paris and the South of France. In 1953 she married Carlos Oriani, a Mexican entrepreneur. They were divorced the next year.
        Within months she was married again, to Frederick Weicker, an uncle of the former Connecticut governor Lowell P. Weicker Jr. and an heir to the Squibb pharmaceutical empire. She was a widow four months later when Mr. Weicker died at his fishing camp. In 1955 she married Ernest Kanzler, a Detroit business executive who was head of the War Production Board during World War II. Mr. Kanzler, who died in 1967 and was an uncle by marriage of Henry Ford, was associated with the Ford company and was a director of the Detroit Lions football team.
        A 1973 marriage to Jean Pierre Marcie-Riviere, a French banker, ended in divorce in 1989. Mrs. Kanzler went back to using the name of her fourth husband and will be buried next to him in Detroit.
        Her survivors include a stepdaughter, Katrina Maxtone-Graham of Manhattan; a stepson, Ernest Kanzler Jr., of Arizona; and eight step-grandchildren.
        ''I always knew what I wanted and figured out a way to get it,'' she told Kathryn Livingston, a New York writer who collaborated on her memoir, ''Yesterday Is Gone,'' recently published in Germany. But, she added, destiny also played a part, and it was important to know when to end a chapter, buy an airline ticket and get out and start a new life.
        ''I always had a good nose for timing changes,'' she said.
      