
        Thomas K. Turnage, who served in the Reagan administration as the director of the Selective Service System and as administrator of what was then the Veterans Administration, died on Dec. 10 at his home in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 77.
        The cause was cancer.
        General Turnage retired from the Army as a major general in 1981. He headed the Selective Service System from 1981 to 1986 and the Veterans Administration from 1986 to 1989, just before it became the Department of Veterans Affairs.
        In 1981, General Turnage was confirmed as selective service director after testifying that he would try to make the all-volunteer military work but would not hesitate to recommend a draft if needed.
        As director, he announced in January 1982 that young men who did not register, as required by law, had a five-week grace period to sign up without fear of prosecution.
        A month later, he said the warning had caused a surge in registrations. ''We've had the greatest response to the registration requirement than ever before in history.'' he said on the NBC News program ''Today.''
        In 1986, 1987 and 1988, while General Turnage headed the Veterans Administration, large veterans' groups disputed the agency's proposed budgets as inadequate, with relatively minor results. But in 1988, he said that more money was needed, and an additional $215 million was added the next year.
        Despite that additional money, the criticisms from veterans' groups continued.
        General Turnage was born in Conroe, Tex., and received a bachelor's degree in 1950 from the University of California at Los Angeles and a master's degree in international relations in 1965 from George Washington University.
        During his four-decade military career, he was an infantry officer in World War II and the Korean War and commanded the 40th Infantry Division twice. The decorations he received included the Distinguished Service Medal and the Bronze Star.
        His survivors include his wife, the former Betty Jane Bierce, whom he married in 1945; a daughter, Andrea Turnage of Palm Desert, Calif.; a son, Dr. Robert Mason Turnage of Ellensburg, Wash.; four grandchildren; and a brother, Joseph, of Toluca Lake, Calif.
      