
        Richard E. LeBlond Jr., who left an academic career as a professor of sociology to became an executive in the performing arts and served for 12 years as the San Francisco Ballet's president, died on Nov. 28 at his home in Sebastopol, Calif. He was 76.
        The cause was cancer, said Larry Campbell, his companion.
        Mr. LeBlond learned he had AIDS in 1990, and became active in the National Catholic AIDS Ministry and related groups.
        During his tenure at the San Francisco Ballet from 1975 to 1987, Mr. LeBlond helped save the company from bankruptcy and led a $13 million campaign to underwrite a new building for the San Francisco Ballet Association.
        Facing the San Francisco Opera House, it was the first major building for an American ballet company and raised the troupe's prestige within the city and the nation.
        As an advocate for the performing arts, Mr. LeBlond often stated his conviction that an arts organization like a ballet company must be rooted in a community and not imposed upon it.
        His efforts were directed toward recruiting an activist board. But in 1984 he embroiled it in a publicized dispute when he did not renew the contract of Michael Smuin as artistic director.
        Mr. Smuin's supporters in the troupe and outside it campaigned in his favor. After a search committee considered several candidates, the company named Helgi Tomasson, a star with the New York City Ballet, as artistic director in 1985. In 1988  Mr. LeBlond published ''From Chaos to Fragility,'' a book about his experience with the San Francisco Ballet.
        Mr. LeBlond was born in Cincinnati. After serving in the Navy during World War II, he received a Ph.D. in sociology from the University of Michigan. He taught at Temple University in Philadelphia and Rider College in Trenton, where he was chairman of the sociology department.
        Mr. LeBlond had written his doctoral dissertation on the careers of musicians. While teaching he joined the boards of the Association of American Dance Companies, a service organization, and the Pennsylvania Ballet. In 1973 he left academic life to serve as president and general manager of the Pennsylvania Ballet before going to San Francisco.
        Among the organizations in which  he had a leading role were those he helped found, including the California Confederacy for the Arts, a lobbying group, and the San Francisco Performing Arts Library and Museum.
        He also founded the AIDS outreach ministry of his parish, St. Philip the Apostle, and spoke to high school groups about AIDS.
        In addition to Mr. Campbell, Mr. LeBlond is survived by his children,  Hannie LeBlond Banister, Anne LeBlond Thompson, Lawrence and Richard, and six grandchildren.
      