
        Dr. Kenneth Merle Brinkhous, a pathologist who helped develop a treatment for hemophilia, died on Dec. 11 at his home in Chapel Hill, N.C., where he was a professor emeritus at the University of North Carolina Medical School. He was 92.
        Dr. Brinkhous's research on blood clotting began in the 1930's, when he was at the University of Iowa. He established that hemophiliacs were unable to produce the factor that causes blood to coagulate.
        At North Carolina, beginning in 1946, he became a leading figure in the laboratory efforts that sharply cut the death rate among the mostly male victims of hemophilia, a hereditary disorder that afflicts about one in 10,000 men in this country. His team developed a concentrate of the antihemophilic factor, AHF, that provided an effective treatment.
        Before that effort began to show definitive results in the 1960's and 1970's, hemophiliacs had to undergo regular transfusions of whole blood or plasma until their blood contained enough AHF to clot. For the average patient, that meant about 20 costly hospital trips a year for transfusions.
        In severe cases, even a small cut, a bad bruise or a tooth extraction could be fatal. In some places, not enough blood was on hand to meet such emergencies, and at other times the sheer volume of blood needed could prompt a circulatory overload or a heart attack.
        For many years, researchers sought to produce cheaper and more readily available blood concentrates to stop hemophilic bleeding. A major obstacle was that they were dealing with an unstable substance that often lost activity when concentrated.
        The North Carolina team announced a breakthrough in 1966 in the form of a concentrate for the blood factor, known as Factor VIII, that could be stored at room temperature, was far more potent than an equivalent quantity of plasma and could be manufactured at low cost. Their AHF treatment, approved by the federal government in 1968, permitted most hemophiliacs to have the vital clotting factor injected in a few minutes at a doctor's office.
        Kenneth Brinkhous was born in Clayton County, Iowa. He graduated in 1929 from the University of Iowa, where he received his medical degree in 1932, along with a faculty appointment. He rose to the rank of lieutenant colonel in the Army Medical Corps in World War II and joined the faculty at North Carolina in 1946 as pathology chairman.
        He contributed more than 450 papers, book chapters and other publications and edited several professional journals. Among his honors were election to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the National Academy of Sciences.
        Dr. Brinkhous was the first scientist to be granted research money by the National Institutes of Health for 50 years running, the University of North Carolina said.
        He is survived by his wife of 64 years, Frances Benton Brinkhous; a son, John R., also of Chapel Hill; three granddaughters; and one great-granddaughter.
      