
        Rabbi Irving Koslowe, the Jewish chaplain at Sing Sing for 49 years, who in 1953 counseled the convicted spies Julius and Ethel Rosenberg and led them in their final prayers, died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital after a monthlong illness. He was 80 and lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y.
        The chaplaincy at the state prison at Ossining was a part-time job for the rabbi, but it remained a central focus of his life from the time he was appointed by Gov. Thomas E. Dewey in 1950 until he retired last year. During all those years, Rabbi Koslowe visited the prison at least once a week, bringing with him a variety of visitors as well as Jewish newspapers, books, foods and items for holiday rituals.
        ''People ask me what I'm doing, bringing matzo ball soup to a bunch of killers,'' Rabbi Koslowe once told an interviewer. ''But maybe we can make some change. Maybe we can bring some good in their life. Some of the guards would say I'm crazy, but I do what I can do.''
        In a ceremony when Rabbi Koslowe retired from the state prison system last year, the Jewish chapel at Sing Sing was renamed in his honor.
        In addition to his prison duties, Rabbi Koslowe served as the rabbi of the Westchester Jewish Center, in Mamaroneck, from 1943 until 1987. In that time, it grew from a synagogue with 30 families to a center with more than 500 families.
        Over the years, Rabbi Koslowe also taught psychology, criminal justice and pastoral counseling at Westchester Community College, Mercy College and Pace University.
        From 1950 until the death penalty was abolished in 1963, Rabbi Koslowe witnessed 17 executions at Sing Sing. He spoke somberly about how he would spend the final hours with the inmate, leading him in the final confession, known in Hebrew as the vidduy, and the profession of faith, the sh'ma. In each case, he would tell the prisoner, ''I'll be right by you.'' He would go into the execution chamber, stand opposite as the inmate was strapped into the electric chair, and stay until the end.
        The Rosenbergs, who were charged with passing atomic secrets to the Soviets, were convicted of espionage and were executed on June 19, 1953. In a news program about the cold war shown last year on CNN, Rabbi Koslowe recalled that Attorney General Herbert Brownell called him from Washington with a last-minute plea that the Rosenbergs name co-conspirators. Mr. Brownell said that if the Rosenbergs gave him a name, a stay of execution would be considered, Rabbi Koslowe said.
        The Rosenbergs refused. Julius was put to death. Rabbi Koslowe said he then returned for Ethel. ''I came back and told her her husband was dead. Did she have anything to say to me, a name, to stay the execution? She said, 'No, I have no names to give, I'm innocent,' and she was far more stolid than he. She came right behind me, sat down and was executed.''
        Rabbi Koslowe never took a position on their guilt or innocence or on the appropriateness of the sentence. After the execution, he was involved in finding a foster home for the Rosenbergs' sons, Robert and Michael, who were eventually adopted by a family named Meeropol.
        Michael Meeropol, now chairman of the economics department at Western New England College in Springfield, Mass., said in an interview that the Rosenbergs, who spent more than two years at Sing Sing before their execution, respected Rabbi Koslowe and enjoyed their time with him. He recalled interviewing Rabbi Koslowe for a book he and Robert wrote in 1975 called ''We Are Your Sons: The Legacy of Ethel and Julius Rosenberg'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1975).
        ''I asked Rabbi Koslowe if he thought my parents were religious, if they believed in God,'' Michael Meeropol wrote. (In news reports of the cold war era, the Rosenbergs were often portrayed as godless communists.)
        Rabbi Koslowe responded: ''I found them responsive at all times and respectful. I read some material about the fact that they had a disdain for religion. I read this in the newspapers. From my contact with them that was not apparent at all.''
        The rabbi recalled that the Rosenbergs regularly attended services in the prison synagogue, but he said he was not sure if it was for religious reasons or because it was a rare opportunity for them to be in the same room. But the motivation, he said, was not important.
        The Meeropol book also contains letters the Rosenbergs wrote to each other in prison. In one, Julius wrote of Rabbi Koslowe: ''Without doubt the Rabbi is a sincere, intelligent and learned man and the method he uses to integrate prayer with present circumstances and obtain uniform participation is very effective.''
        Rabbi Koslowe's Sing Sing congregation was never very large. The chapel's worn wooden pews and the carved ark that held the Torah scroll were donated by a synagogue that was being remodeled. Of the 50 seats, rarely were more than 10 occupied. Of the 2,400 prisoners at the prison in the early 1990's, Rabbi Koslowe estimated that 35 were Jewish. He was never unhappy about the size of the congregation, which he used to say was the only one in the world that did not mind losing members.
        Rabbi Koslowe had a level of access at Sing Sing enjoyed by few others. ''He had the run of the place,'' said his son Neil. ''He never bothered to abide by the rules. He was there longer than any warden, any guard or any prisoners.''
        He became a consultant for the State Department of Correctional Services and was often called in to help during various prison disturbances, including the riot at Attica in 1971. He was a past president of the American Correctional Chaplains Association and editor of its journal.
        Rabbi Koslowe graduated from Yeshiva University and its affiliated rabbinical school, the Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary. He had a master's degree in education from New York University and a doctorate in sociology from Yeshiva University.
        In addition to his son Neil, who lives in Silver Spring, Md., Rabbi Koslowe is survived by his wife, Marly; two other sons, Kenneth, of Petach Tikvah, Israel, and Mark, of East Brunswick, N.J.; a daughter, Shari Schechter of Miami Beach; 19 grandchildren; and 6 great-grandchildren.
      