
        Vincent Palumbo, a fifth-generation Italian stone carver who rose to master carver at the National Cathedral, died Dec. 21 at Washington Hospital Center in Washington. He was 64.
        A cathedral spokesman said Mr. Palumbo died of complications from amyloidosis, a degenerative condition that affects the heart, liver and nervous system.
        Mr. Palumbo went to work at the Episcopal cathedral 39 years ago, shortly after arriving in the United States. From the laying of the foundation on Sept. 29, 1907, to completion in 1990, the cathedral, the second largest in the United States after the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York, has attracted hundreds of skilled artisans to Washington.
        ''Vince is the last of an era,'' the Very Rev. Nathan D. Baxter, dean of the cathedral, said on Wednesday in his eulogy at Mr. Palumbo's funeral. ''The last of the classically trained stone carvers.''
        Born in 1936 in Molfetta, Italy, Mr. Palumbo began his career at the age of 9, as an apprentice under his father.
        In 1961, he left for Washington to join his father, who had been working for five years on the restoration and remodeling of the Capitol.
        After a brief stint of restoration work at the White House, Mr. Palumbo began working for the cathedral.
        Mr. Palumbo was soon working again at his father's side, after the older man joined the cathedral staff at the completion of the Capitol project.
        Over time, Mr. Palumbo established himself as an authority in the art, and in 1978 he succeeded Roger Morigi, who had retired as the cathedral's master carver.
        Mr. Palumbo's technical skills and aesthetic aptitude are exhibited in  hundreds of carved gargoyles, pinnacles and saints. Marjorie Hunt wrote in ''The Stone Carvers: Master Craftsmen of Washington National Cathedral''(Smithsonian Institution Press, 1999) that in a lifetime spent mastering the elements and underlying principles of stone carving, Mr. Palumbo was ''like a child learning language.''
        ''He began to acquire a grammar of stone carving,'' Ms. Hunt wrote.
        Mr. Palumbo is survived by his wife, Mary Lou, of Upper Marlboro, Md., and five children: Nicolleta, Christina, Michelle, Kathleen and Rodney.
        Mr. Palumbo's works include the ''Creation'' tympanum of the center portal of the cathedral's west facade, the columnar statues of SS. Peter and Paul on west front of the cathedral, and a bust of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
        In an interview with Ms. Hunt, he spoke of an inner force behind his carvings.
        ''I was born into the stone,'' Mr. Palumbo said. ''I never had any concept to do anything else.''
      