
        Representative Julian C. Dixon of California, a senior member of the Congressional Black Caucus and the ranking Democrat on the House Select Committee on Intelligence, died today. He was 66.
        Mr. Dixon, from Los Angeles, died in a hospital there, and House colleagues said the cause was apparently a heart attack. He had told his friends that he was about to undergo minor surgery.
        Mr. Dixon served in the House for 22 years. His racially mixed West Los Angeles district is considered middle and upper-middle class. He won re-election by an overwhelming margin last month, as he had in recent years.
        A liberal whom fellow lawmakers regarded as shrewd, pragmatic and conciliatory, Mr. Dixon was chairman of the Black Caucus from 1983 to 1985. In 1984, he became the first black to serve as chairman of the rules committee at a Democratic National Convention.
        He was also a member of the House Appropriations Committee and for 14 years was chairman of its Subcommittee on the District of Columbia. In those roles, he fought hard to obtain more money for the city of Washington, where he was born on Aug. 8, 1934. In 1991, with the city struggling financially, he successfully lobbied subcommittee members to find an additional $100 million for it.
        Mr. Dixon was at first a backer of Marion S. Barry Jr., Washington's longtime mayor. But by the time Mr. Barry was re-elected in 1994 (after skipping one term to serve a prison sentence for cocaine possession), Mr. Dixon had become disenchanted with him personally and furious with the waste and inefficiency he saw at City Hall.
        ''I have personally come to the conclusion that the District government has not acted in good faith with the Congress,'' Mr. Dixon said at a 1995 hearing. ''I wanted to think the best. Now I believe the worst.''
        One of Mr. Dixon's toughest assignments was his chairmanship of the House ethics committee when it took up the case of Speaker Jim Wright, Democrat of Texas, who had come under fire for selling copies of a vanity-press book in what his foes said was a scheme to skirt limits on outside earnings. As a result of the furor, in which the committee charged him with violating House rules, the speaker resigned from Congress in 1989.
        Mr. Dixon earned a reputation as  an outspoken critic of President Ronald Reagan's civil rights and economic policies, but said his feelings were not personal. ''In general,'' he wrote in 1982, ''blacks share the public perception of the president as a decent and sincere individual. This does not alter the deep and abiding black opposition to the substance of the Reagan program.''
        Mr. Dixon graduated from California State University and from Southwestern University Law School, both in Los Angeles. He practiced law before being elected to the California Assembly, where he served from 1972 to 1978.
        His death leaves the Republicans with a 221-to-211 advantage over Democrats in the newly elected House (where there will be two independents), pending a special election next year to fill his seat.
        Surviving are his wife, Bettye; a son, Cary, from an earlier marriage; and a sister.
      