
        Seymour Hacker, whose 57th Street bookstore, Hacker Art Books, was a well-known fixture of both the art and book worlds for more than 50 years, died on Tuesday in New York. He was 83.
        A small, bright-eyed man fluent in four languages, Mr. Hacker was one of the last booksellers to learn his trade from the bookmen whose stores and stands once lined Fourth Avenue between Astor Place and 14th Street. Born on the Lower East Side in 1917, he grew up in the Bronx and began haunting Fourth Avenue when he was 12. Initially he sold the booksellers expensive magazines discarded by tenants of his Bronx apartment building.
        In 1937, at age 19, Mr. Hacker opened the Abbey Bookshop, a general bookstore on East Ninth Street. Two years later he joined Albert Saifer to open a book auction house at Ninth Street and Fourth Avenue. In 1941, he enlisted in the merchant marine, and spent five years buying books in any European port he visited and reselling them in New York.
        Noting that fine art books were in especially great demand, he opened Hacker Art Books at 381 Bleecker Street in Greenwich Village in 1946, moving uptown in 1948. Customers included Delmore Schwartz, Jackson Pollock, Willem de Kooning and Mr. Hacker's friend Zero Mostel.
        When he first moved uptown, he added an art gallery, showing lesser-known Abstract Expressionists. In 1950, he founded a publishing line and specialized in reprints of out-of-print books. One of its few original publications was ''Paul Cezanne: Letters,'' edited by John Rewald, which Mr. Hacker translated.
        Mr. Hacker considered himself one of ''the last of the dinosaurs.'' He lamented the rise of megabookstores and what he saw as the degeneration of education, which he thought prevented young people with a natural inclination from acquiring the ''mental apparatus'' to pursue bookselling.
        Despite his other ventures, he remained most attracted to the antiquarian trade. ''I grew up with old books,'' he said, ''and it sticks.''
        Mr. Hacker's first marriage, to Ruth Lorley, ended in divorce in 1974. He is survived by his wife, Linda; two daughters from his first marriage, Melissa Hacker and Emily Hacker, both of Manhattan; and a granddaughter.
        Correction:  January 6, 2001, Saturday  An obituary on Dec. 24 about Seymour Hacker, a dealer in fine art books, misstated the surname of his first wife. She was Ruth Morley, not Lorley.
      