
        Barney McNulty, who is generally credited with being the first person to use cue cards on television, died on Dec. 18 at his home in Studio City, Calif. He was 77.
        He apparently died of a heart attack, his wife, Jill, said.
        Mr. McNulty first exhibited his knack for turning someone else's phrase in 1949 while working as an usher at the CBS Studios in Hollywood. The comedian Ed Wynn, who routinely used cue cards with a few words on them to help him remember his own jokes, was ill and asked Mr. McNulty to write out the entire show, word for word, on cards.
        ''I printed the whole show until 3 in the morning,'' Mr. McNulty said in a 1987 interview. ''That was the first time cue cards, what I call full-dialogue cards, were used. There had been hints before, and there had been speeches before, but not full dialogue.''
        In 1994 the Museum of Television and Radio in New York confirmed that Mr. McNulty was the first to use cue cards on television, The Los Angeles Daily News reported.
        Mr. Wynn was just the beginning. Mr. McNulty went on to write cue cards for Bob Hope, Milton Berle, Lucille Ball, Jack Benny, Danny Kaye, Fred Astaire, George Burns, Red Skelton, Judy Garland, Orson Welles and the Smothers Brothers. At its peak his company, Ad-Libs, based in Burbank, Calif., employed 90 card handlers, who normally worked in teams of four. Card by card, for 35 years they provided each of the millions of words spoken by actors on the daytime drama ''Days of Our Lives.''
        Mr. Berle, quoted in The Los Angeles Daily News, called Mr. McNulty ''the cue-card king.'' In a statement Mr. Hope said, ''Barney was my right-hand man, my ad libs.''
        Mr. McNulty insisted that cueing was harder than it looked. ''It's like handling snakes,'' he said. ''The dialogue can go in any direction at any time. It's easy to let the guy die. You have to be right on time. There's no such thing as a little bit ahead or a little bit behind.''
        Bernard Joseph McNulty Jr. was born in Philadelphia on June 15, 1923. In 1939 his family moved to California after his sister, Peggy Singleton, 15 years his senior, began playing Blondie in the ''Dagwood'' movies.
        He graduated from North Hollywood High School in 1941 and served in the Army Air Force as a control-tower operator. In 1947 he graduated from the University of California at Los Angeles, majoring in political science. He attended Loyola Law School in Los Angeles for a year but dropped out after his success with Mr. Wynn created demand for his cue-card services.
        Mr. McNulty likened orchestrating cue cards to being part of a championship basketball team. ''Everybody coordinates, the words flow, and you have to hit different positions,'' he said. ''You're there for a few moments so the talent can see you, and then you've got to get out of there because they're going to shoot a wide shot. Then you've got to be able to come back in.''
        After he received a script, he and a crew printed it out by hand on laminated cardboard, using wide-tipped, quick-drying pens. They used three sizes of cards: 30 by 40 inches was the largest, 14 by 2 inches the smallest. Dialogue is printed as phrases because that is how people normally speak, Mr. McNulty said.
        The crew had to individualize the cards for specific actors. Jimmy Durante liked bigger letters, as did Mr. Hope, particularly in later years. Mr. Berle underlined key words. Carol Burnett added squiggles to Mr. McNulty's letters.
        Some actors need to see the cards longer than others. Some improvise,  complicating the card turner's job. Some, like Mr. Hope, make the cue cards part of their acts. ''All right, Barney, get those cards up, get 'em up,'' he occasionally implored.
        Though the business grew to at least a half-dozen companies and, even in Mr. McNulty's case, came to include mechanical prompters, he believed in keeping to the basics -- those reliable cards -- as much as possible. ''We've never blown a fuse,'' he said.
        Mr. McNulty remembered the time John Wayne called him over to a poker game on a set, saying he wanted to see ''how good you really are with cards.'' He kept more than 100,000 used cue cards in storage in case they were needed again.
        Last week Jay Leno told a national television audience what Mr. McNulty's passing meant. ''Now, all of Hollywood is speechless,'' he said.
      