
        Dr. Herman Feshbach, a nuclear physicist who helped develop the theories underlying the behavior of the nuclei of atoms and later became active in the antinuclear movement, died on Friday at a hospital in Cambridge, Mass., where he lived. He was 83.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son Mark.
        A professor of physics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,  Dr. Feshbach described the phenomenon now known as Feshbach resonance. Usually when two atoms collide, they bounce off each other like billiard balls. But Dr. Feshbach showed that when the kinetic energy of two atoms exactly equals the energy needed to bind them together, the two atoms instead stick to form a temporary molecule.
        In 1953, Dr. Feshbach and Dr. Philip M. Morse wrote the two-volume textbook ''Methods of Theoretical Physics,'' a standard reference for decades of physics graduate students.
        Beyond his research, Dr. Feshbach was ''a very vigorous, active supporter of human rights,'' said Dr. Kurt Gottfried, an emeritus professor of physics at Cornell University  and the chairman of the Union of Concerned Scientists.
        Early in his career, Dr. Feshbach rebuffed Dr. Edward Teller, who was working to develop the hydrogen bomb.
        ''In the early 50's, he was asked to be involved in the development of the H-bomb,'' Mark Feshbach said. ''He said no. He was never in favor of nuclear weapons, except during World War II.''
        Dr. Feshbach helped found the Union of Concerned Scientists, serving as its first chairman. In 1969, he participated in a ''research stoppage'' protesting military research at M.I.T., and he later championed the cause of the Soviet dissident physicist Andrei Sakharov.
        In 1989, he was one of the scientists who signed a letter urging the United States not to build new reactors to produce weapons-grade uranium and plutonium.
        A native of New York City, Dr. Feshbach spent his entire professional career at M.I.T., rising from graduate student to instructor to professor to director of the Center for Theoretical Physics. He served as chairman of the physics department from 1973 to 1983 and retired on emeritus status in 1987.
        Dr. Feshbach was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1969 and was awarded the National Medal of Science in 1986. He was president of the American Physical Society in 1980 and 1981. He was also the longtime editor of the journal Annals of Physics.
        In addition to his son Mark, of Minneapolis, Dr. Feshbach is survived by his wife, Sylvia; a daughter, Carolyn, of Lexington, Mass.; a second son, Theodore, of Hopedale, Mass.; a sister, Florence Nadelman of Cranford, N.J.; two brothers, Bernard, of Palo Alto, Calif., and Sidney, of Amherst, Mass.; and two grandchildren.
      