
        The Rev. Ndabaningi Sithole, a black nationalist who rose to prominence championing the downfall of Rhodesia's white-minority government and then fell from official favor for denouncing the ruling party he helped to install in what is now Zimbabwe, died on Tuesday.
        Mr. Sithole, 80, was being treated at Mercy Fitzgerald Hospital, south of Philadelphia, and apparently suffered a pulmonary embolism, his wife, Vesta, said in a telephone interview from there.
        Frail and ill, Mr. Sithole had gone to the United States in September for treatment of an enlarged prostate and arthritis, even as he and his family continued to do battle with the government of President Robert Mugabe.
        The founder of the Zimbabwe African National Union, Mr. Sithole parted ways with Mr. Mugabe, his comrade and fellow revolutionary, in the 1970's, not long before blacks won majority rule.
        In an ensuing tussle for power, Mr. Mugabe emerged the victor and has ruled the country ever since, while Mr. Sithole, a Methodist minister, fashioned himself as the archenemy of the ruling party.
        It was a hard role for a man who had been ZANU's first president, and it was a role that made him a target. For almost a decade, beginning in 1983, he lived in self-imposed exile in the United States, saying he feared for his life.
        Upon returning to Zimbabwe, he resumed his place in opposition politics and in 1995 won a seat in Parliament. In 1997 he was convicted of conspiring to kill Mr. Mugabe, and a court sentenced him to two years in prison. He appealed the conviction and was free on bail when his health began to deteriorate. But the state initially blocked his efforts to seek treatment in the United States, where family friends had offered to help him.
        A Zimbabwean court eventually cleared the way for him to travel to the United States for treatment, and he had been there since Sept. 12, meeting with specialists in Virginia and preparing for prostate surgery, his wife said.
        On Dec. 7, he was admitted to Mercy Fitzgerald Hospital for pre-surgery heart tests that could not be done promptly in Virginia. The tests had gone well and aside from serious arthritic back pain, he was doing fine until he was stricken on Tuesday morning, his wife said.
        With Mr. Sithole's death, Zimbabwe has lost one of its most ardent opposition voices. Others, in particular those of the upstart Movement for Democratic Change, dominate the chorus of criticism today, but Mr. Sithole's willingness to challenge Mr. Mugabe when few dared to is unlikely to be forgotten.
        Indeed, in challenging the country's leaders, Mr. Sithole was driven by the same principles that guided him in his fight against white-minority rule, his relatives said.
        ''He was a nationalist who loved his country and his people, who wanted to see justice done,'' his wife said. ''He didn't have any regrets because he didn't wrong anybody. He was fighting for the nation, as the leader, Mugabe, was fighting for himself. He didn't want personal wealth for himself. He wanted everyone to be happy and to enjoy the country that we fought for.''
        Born July 21, 1920, in Nyamand hlovu, in Matabeleland, he was the first of nine children, his brother Masipula said in a telephone interview from Harare, the capital of Zimbabwe.
        Along with his wife of 17 years, a sister and three brothers, Mr. Sithole is survived by a son and two daughters from the six children he raised with his first wife, who died many years ago, his brother said.
        With his body due back in Zimbabwe on Saturday, the government has still not said whether Mr. Sithole will be honored with a hero's funeral. In the minds of the Zimbabwean people, his brother said, he already is a hero.
        ''The people of Zimbabwe will remember him for courage, for forthrightness, and for giving us the basic fundamental philosophy that we are our own liberators,'' Masipula Sithole said.
      