
        Bernard Vorhaus, an American-born film director who made his name in England during the 1930's and who became a victim of the Hollywood blacklist in the 1950's, died on Nov. 23 in London. He was 95.
        Spurred by the Cinematograph Film Act, passed by Parliament in 1927 to limit imports, Mr. Vorhaus created more than 30 films from  1932 to 1952, some from remnants on the cutting-room floor.
        While much of the so-called quickie quota fare was substandard, Mr. Vorhaus's work drew accolades for breaking the stereotype with its exciting handling of banal material, fast cutting, seductive location shots and humane characterizations by actors like Merle Oberon, John Mills, Ida Lupino and Margaret Rutherford. His better-known works included ''The Last Journey'' (1936).
        Mr. Vorhaus, who was born in New York, was urged to join his father's law practice, but found himself drawn to the work of his elder sister Amy, a scenario writer in the film hub of Fort Lee, N.J. Studio workers  would give the young boy scraps of celluloid, which he assembled and ran through his toy projector.
        After majoring in English at Harvard University, he met Harry Cohn, the chief of Columbia Pictures and won a job as a junior writer after ad-libbing a scene for a movie on the spot. Although he also worked briefly at Paramount and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, he became discouraged with his prospects as talking pictures came on the scene and he left Hollywood for England.
        He took a job as production supervisor for British Sound Film Productions at Wembley Studios. But the studio's German parent company went broke and Mr. Vorhaus found himself out of work. He bought up much of its film in lieu of what was owed to him and produced a series of musical shorts, supplementing the old stock with film he shot himself.
        Mr. Vorhaus hired a young newsreel cutter, David Lean, to edit the films, which were usually produced in five or six days. Lean, who went on to win several Academy Awards and was later knighted, called Mr. Vorhaus his ''greatest influence.''
        In 1938 Mr. Vorhaus was lured back to the United States by an invitation to work at Republic Studios, known for its cheap westerns. There he directed John Wayne in ''Three Faces West'' (1940) and ''Lady From Louisiana'' (1941).
        During World War II he joined the Army Air Forces and worked on propaganda films. In 1951 his Hollywood career was derailed when the director Edward Dmytryk gave his name to the House Un-American Activities Committee. Mr. Vorhaus,  who was then working in Italy, did not testify. He settled in England with his Welsh-born wife, the filmmaker and activist Hetty Davies Vorhaus. After studying architecture, he established a house conversion company.
        His wife died in 1997. He is survived by a son, David.
        Mr. Vorhaus's films were presented in recent years at retrospectives. His memoirs, ''Saved From Oblivion,'' are to be published this month by Scarecrow Press.
      