
        Moses Abramovitz , a former president of the American Economic Association and a leading authority on the causes of growth and business cycles, died Dec. 1 at Stanford University Hospital. He was 88.
        The cause was complications after he was admitted to the hospital with a gastroenterological condition, said  Paul David, a fellow economic historian at Stanford University.
        Mr. Abramovitz of Stanford, Calif., held the William Robertson Coe Professorship in American Economic History, taught at Stanford for 30 years and served as department chairman.
        ''He was one of the pioneers of the modern study of economic growth, and his discoveries and analysis shaped the thinking of the profession,'' said Prof. Gavin Wright, also an economic historian at Stanford. He also helped build Stanford's department into one of the world's best.
        Mr. Abramovitz was not active in policy debates. But his careful, fact-based research was central to many of the most important policy decisions of his time.
        A paper he published in 1956 made the argument, startling at the time, that rapid growth in living standards in the United States in the first half of the 20th century could not be fully explained, as had been widely assumed, by the growth of the labor force and capital equipment. Instead, about half of the rate of growth was attributable to productivity growth -- the ability of corporations to take given amounts of labor and equipment and turn out an ever increasing amount of output.
        Citing the research by Mr. Abramovitz and by Robert Solow, Nobel laureate at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, economists concluded that the economy would prosper by emphasizing spending on research and education, the keys to lifting productivity.
        Mr. Abramovitz also studied convergence of productivity, finding that the further behind the United States the other industrialized countries were, the faster they were likely to close the gap. But when he extended his research to developing countries, the generalization broke down. He elaborated the notion of ''social capability,'' arguing that poor economies would not develop automatically. They had to build legal, political and cultural institutions that would encourage growth.
        But Mr. Abramovitz's most significant contribution in his field may have preceded his academic career.  During World War II, he served on the War Production Board with Simon Kuznets, a creator of modern systems for measuring economic activity and an eventual Nobel laureate. President Franklin D. Roosevelt had created the board to help plan for war.
        In 1942, President Roosevelt and the military proposed a huge armament program. The proposal started a ''feasibility debate,'' as to whether the economy could churn out the planes, tanks and artillery that the military said it needed and yet have enough capacity left over to produce food, clothing and other civilian goods.
        Mr. Abramovitz, with Mr. Kuznets and others, brought modern measures of economic capacity to bear, arguing that the military's plan was infeasible and if it was tried, would lead to shortages and economic dislocation. According to Prof. Michael Edelstein of Queens College the board's findings were influential in convincing the Roosevelt administration to cut back its demands and avoid severe wartime shortages.
        Mr. Abramovitz was born in Brooklyn in 1912 and earned his bachelor's degree in economics summa cum laude from Harvard University in 1932 and his doctorate from Columbia University in 1939. He served as chief of the European industry and trade section of the Office of Strategic Services and, during 1945 and 1946, served as economic adviser to the United States representative on the Allied Reparations Commission.
        Mr. Abramovitz is survived by his son, Joel,, and two granddaughters, Rachel and Sarah, all of Newtown, Mass. His wife, Carrie, died in 1999.
        Mr. David, who was a co-author with Mr. Abramovitz on several papers, said, ''He remained the least-ego-involved scholar among all the truly distinguished economists I have had the privilege of knowing.''
        Indeed, Mr. Abramovitz recounted with great modesty his role in the reparations debate during the waning days of World War II. Treasury Secretary Henry Morgenthau had proposed a plan to deindustrialize the German economy. A research team at Office of Strategic Services, led by Mr. Abramovitz, wrote a memorandum arguing that the Morgenthau plan would destroy German's capacity to export and, therefore, leave it unable to pay for food and other essential imports. The memorandum outraged Mr. Morgenthau.
        At a meeting with Ed Mason, the chief economist at O.S.S., Mr. Abramovitz, and another eminent economist, Emile Despres, Mr. Morgenthau angrily asked, ''Who is responsible for this?'' Mr. Abramovitz later recalled, ''Mason looked at Despres, and Emile looked at me. I had no one else to look at. The buck stopped with me. So, rather meekly, I said I was responsible.''
      