
        Mario Giacomelli, the Italian photographer perhaps best known for his joyous pictures of young priests reveling in a snowfall, died on Nov. 25 at home in Senigallia, a small town on the shores of the Adriatic Sea, where he had lived all his life and whose farmlands and people were the subjects of his spare, often darkly expressionist work. He was 75.
        The cause was cancer, said Davide Faccioli of the Galleria Photology in Milan, who represents him.
        A self-taught photographer, Mr. Giacomelli had a poet's eye for the startlingly abstract order man can impose on nature and a poet's understanding of the great disorder that is the human condition.
        Among his memorable images is one sometimes known as ''The Scanno Boy,'' part of the 1957-59 series of pictures that Mr. Giacomelli took in Scanno, an impoverished  town in the Abruzzi region of central Italy. Framed by elderly women in black, the boy is set apart by what John Szarkowski, former director of the department of photography at the Museum of Modern Art, has described as ''the halo of the worn footpath.'' With all the faces blurred except for the boy's, the picture is dreamlike and in its stark dichotomy -- youth surrounded by old age -- could almost be a reprise of the artist's boyhood.
        Mr. Giacomelli was born on Aug. 1, 1925, in a part of Italy whose old ways were passed from generation to generation. His father died when he was 9; his mother worked at Senigallia's home for the aged and the young Mario often accompanied her there.
        When he was 13 he became an apprentice in typography. As a young man, he worked as a typographer, painting on weekends and writing poetry. Inspired by the wartime movies of filmmakers like Fellini, Mr. Giacomelli taught himself still photography and found his art in the generally impoverished countryside. Serendipitously, the Italian photographer Giuseppe Cavalli had moved to Senigallia and was eager to form a  club that would promote photography as art. In 1953 the Misa club was formed, with its officers including Cavalli as president and Mr. Giacomelli as treasurer.
        In 1954 Mr. Giacomelli began to photograph the home for the elderly  where his mother had worked, completing the series in 1983. Empathetic but grittily unsentimental, the pictures show many women seemingly marooned in the sea of old age. In 1985-87, Mr. Giacomelli revisited the subject for his series ''Ninna Nanna,'' which means lullaby. This time, the deeply lined, gaunt faces of the aged are a bleak counterpoint to the bold lines and patterns found in the fields and on the sides of houses.
        Mr. Giacomelli's overhead views of mystifyingly abstract, horizonless landscapes, which he took from the time he snapped his first pictures, in late 1952, through the 1990's, place him in the company of photographers like William Garnett and Minor White. Mr. Giacomelli's 1970's images of geometric patterns in Senigallia's fields bear striking parallels to Aaron Siskind's contemporaneous photographs of wall abstractions.
        Contrary to published accounts that he freely manipulated his pictures, Mr. Giacomelli did not change the elements in his work from the 1950's through the 80's, said Giuliana Scime, a photography historian and critic in Milan. ''He gave dramatic tones in the darkroom,'' she said, making the whites whiter and the blacks blacker. He also experimented with double exposures, especially those made in 1971-73 to accompany an edition of Edgar Lee Master's ''Spoon River Anthology.''
        Simona Guerra, Mr. Giacomelli's niece, denied accounts that he had used a borrowed tractor to create the desired geometrics in a ploughed field. She recalled that he had once gone out with friends and stomped around in the snow, making footprints ''to record man's passage through nature.'' It was only in Mr. Giacomelli's work in the 1990's that he occasionally combined elements from several negatives in a print,  said a representative from the Galleria Photology.
        Mr. Giacomelli is survived by his wife, Anna; a daughter, Rita; two sons, Neris and Simone; and two granddaughters.
        Although he photographed in places like Ethiopia and documented Tibetan Buddhist rituals and pilgrims at the Lourdes shrine in France, the great mystery that enthralled him was life's order and disorder as seen in a small Italian town.
        ''Maybe I've never photographed landscapes,'' Mr. Giacomelli once said. ''I've only loved them.'' In the catalog for his 1983 retrospective at  the Photogallery in Cardiff, Wales, Mr. Giacomelli asked, ''Why does nature die and then always springs to life again, and man does not do so?''
        Correction:  December 7, 2000, Thursday  An obituary headline yesterday about Mario Giacomelli, an Italian photographer, misstated his age. As the article said, he was 75, not 91.
      