
        Steve D'Inzillo, former chief officer of New York Projectionists Local 306 of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, died on Oct. 13 at his home in Portland, Ore., where he had lived since the late 1980's. He was 90.
        Between 1933, when he joined the local, and 1954, with time out for Army service in World War II, he led successful efforts to bring all professional motion picture projectionists in New York City into the local.
        Mr. D'Inzillo, a former motion picture projectionist who had lived much of his life in the New York City area, retired in January of this year after eight years as chief officer, the local's highest-ranking executive.
        Earlier, he held a succession of other high posts in the local, beginning in 1945, when he became its business agent. He was also an international representative and former vice president of the International Alliance.
        From 1945 until his death, he directed Local 306's efforts to represent projectionists who were employed in all kinds of screening rooms: producer-distributor and film laboratory screening rooms, public ''for hire'' screening rooms, private screening facilities, cultural institutions in New York City, city agencies and other industries.
        He said in a 1999 interview that in the late 1940's, more than 2,400 trained projectionist had worked in New York City, but that by 1999 there were fewer than 500. Changes in technology and in the movie theater business had hurt the trade, he said. Now his local has slightly fewer than 500 working projectionists as members.
        Mr. D'Inzillo was born in Greenwich Village in Manhattan and grew up mostly in Brooklyn. He was a riveter's assistant in the Brooklyn shipyards before becoming a projectionist at the old Brooklyn Fox movie theater and elsewhere.
        An early marriage ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his wife, Nancy Newell D'Inzillo, whom he married in the early 1980's; three daughters, Nancy D'Inzillo of Portland, Carrie Aginsky, who lives near Paris, and Jane Badalato, who lives in Georgia; three grandsons; a brother, Albert, of Las Vegas; and three sisters, Nancy Dobish and Celeste Jones, both of Las Vegas, and Julia Sarfaty of Island Park, N.Y.
      