
        Lou (the Toe) Groza, one of football's greatest place-kickers and a superb offensive tackle for the Cleveland Browns teams that dominated two leagues during the emergence of the modern professional game, died Wednesday night at a hospital in Middleburgh Heights, Ohio. He was 76.
        Groza, who had been in poor health, collapsed after attending a dinner with his wife, Jackie, at a country club. He apparently had a heart attack, The Associated Press reported.
        Groza, who wore the old-style high-top black shoes and employed the straight-ahead form that gave way to soccer-style kicking, brought the art of the field goal to prominence. He was elected to the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1974.
        Groza joined the Browns in 1946, when Paul Brown, the owner and coach, launched the team as an original member of the All-America Football Conference. Groza was one of the Browns' key players when they joined the National Football League in 1950, playing alongside stars like Otto Graham, Dante Lavelli, Marion Motley and Len Ford. He remained with the Browns through the 1967 season.
        Groza played on four championship teams in the All-America league and appeared in nine N.F.L. championship games with the Browns, who won three titles in the 1950's and another in 1964. He played in nine Pro Bowl games, was an all-Pro offensive tackle six times and was named N.F.L. player of the year by The Sporting News in 1954.
        He amassed 1,608 career points, 1,349 in the N.F.L., which is 15th on the career list and still the Browns' record. All came via field goals (he had 264 in 21 seasons) or extra points, except for a touchdown on a tackle-eligible play in 1951. He led the N.F.L. in field goals for a season five times, still a record.
        The Browns retired his number, 76. College football's top kicker each year is given the Lou Groza Award.
        ''You could count on him for anything,'' said Graham, the Browns' quarterback in their glory years. ''Pressure didn't bother him at all. We always felt if we got within 40 or 50 yards of the goal post, he could make it.''
        Groza was born in Martins Ferry, Ohio, on Jan. 25, 1924, attended Ohio State for one year, then left for military service in World War II. While on Okinawa, he contacted Brown, the former Ohio State coach who was organizing the new Browns franchise. Brown sent him some footballs to kick around, and when he returned, he became an original Brown.
        Groza's signature moment came on Christmas Eve 1950, when the Browns played the Los Angeles Rams in Cleveland for the N.F.L. title. Although the Browns had won all of the championships in the All-America league, they were regarded skeptically as a new team in the long-established N.F.L.
        Graham, who threw four touchdown passes against the Rams, brought the team downfield with the Browns trailing by a point. Then, with only seconds to play, Groza kicked a 16-yard field goal that gave the Browns a 30-28 victory.
        ''It was total euphoria,'' Groza later recalled. ''On that day we proved that we belonged, that we were a major league city.''
        At 6 feet 3 inches and 240 pounds, Groza anchored the Browns' offensive line at left tackle, alongside Abe Gibron, an outstanding guard, and Frank Gatski, a future Hall of Famer at center.
        In addition to kicking field goals and extra points and booming kickoffs into the end zone, Groza was a starter at tackle until he was forced to miss the 1960 season because of an injury in preseason practice. After that, he was solely a place-kicker.
        He kicked five field goals of at least 50 yards. His longest was 52 yards, a feat he accomplished twice, the first time in the 1951 title game against the Rams.
        At his retirement, he was the last of the original Browns.
        After Art Modell, the owner of the old Browns, moved the franchise to Baltimore for the 1996 season, Groza became a leader among former Browns players in urging the N.F.L. to put another team in Cleveland. The loss of the Browns, he once said, was ''like some man walking off with your wife.''
        When the current Cleveland Browns franchise entered the N.F.L. last season as an expansion team, it renamed the street in front of its Berea, Ohio, training facility Lou Groza Boulevard. The Browns will wear Groza's No. 76 on their helmets for the rest of this season.
        Groza, who lived in Berea, was involved in alumni activities of the old Browns and worked as an insurance executive.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by three sons, a daughter, and nine grandchildren. A younger brother, Alex Groza, who died in 1995, was an all-American center for Kentucky's national championship basketball teams of the late 1940's.
        Following his winning kick in the 1950 title game, Groza punctuated the locker-room celebration by kissing his shoe. A bronze casting of Groza's kicking toe went on display in the 1960's at the Cleveland Health Museum. One of Groza's kicking shoes became part of the collection at the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of American History.
      