
        Mark Tucker, a professor, musician and jazz scholar who specialized in Duke Ellington, died on Wednesday at his home in Williamsburg, Va. He was 46.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Carol Oja, who said he was a nonsmoker.
        Mr. Tucker edited ''The Duke Ellington Reader,'' published by Oxford University Press in 1993. The book served as a model for subsequent Oxford titles that compiled  scholarly and journalistic articles on composers.
        He wrote ''Ellington: The Early Years'' (1991, University of Illinois Press), about the early style of Ellington as a composer, arranger and pianist, weaving together biography and musical analysis. He also helped write ''Jazz From the Beginning'' (1988, University of Michigan Press), an autobiography by the early jazz musician Garvin Bushell.
        He was recently working on ''Blue Sphere,'' a book focusing on the music of Thelonious Monk for Oxford University Press, and wrote the entry on jazz for the forthcoming edition of the New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians.
        One of the things that made Mr. Tucker stand out in his field, aside from his strength as a historian and his reputation for generosity in sharing research, was his skill as a pianist. He studied piano at an early age, and played classical music while a student at Yale University.
        He began to pursue jazz in the 1980's while working on his master's degree in musicology. As a pianist he became particularly schooled in the techniques of jazz musicians including Jelly Roll Morton, Count Basie, Ellington and Monk.
        His scholarship was helped by his musicianship. ''What made him such a powerhouse as an intellectual presence was that all of that skill and learning was grounded in an excellent facility as a keyboard player,'' said Robert O'Meally, a professor of American literature at Columbia University and the director of the Center for Jazz Studies there.
        He continued, ''His 'Ellington: The Early Years' is the book to understand that period of stride piano coming out of ragtime, coming out of Dvorak's theories about creating an American symphony, coming out of the Washington, D.C., scene. But what makes that book spectacular is that with all of the scaffolding and context, he can land on one piece and give you the kind of musical reading that you would expect from literary scholars at their best, looking at a single line or word in a poem.''
        Mr. Tucker taught at Columbia University from 1987 to 1997, and in 1997 became the David N. and Margaret C. Bottoms Professor of Music and professor of American studies at the College of William and Mary.  Aside from his books, he also contributed to The New York Times, Black Music Research Journal, American Music and other publications.
        As a pianist, he played Ellington programs at the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the Smithsonian Institution, the National Humanities Center and many universities, and appeared as a soloist with the Chicago Jazz Ensemble, among other college and repertory groups.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two children, Zoe and Wynn; his father, Louis L. Tucker,  and his stepmother, Caroline Woollen-Tucker, both of Cambridge, Mass.; his brother, Lance Tucker of Wellesley, Mass.; and his grandmother, Dorothy Jones of Seattle.
      