
        Prof. Louis Leprince-Ringuet, a French nuclear physicist who was the first to spot evidence of a new type of subatomic particle, died Saturday at his home in Paris, just three months shy of his 100th birthday.
        Professor Leprince-Ringuet was one of the world's leading researchers in particle physics and cosmic rays, high-energy particles that slam into the earth from outer space. An experimental physicist, he worked to puzzle out what cosmic rays are made of -- primarily protons, electrons and the nuclei of light atoms --  and to unlock the many mysteries those rays hold to this day.
        In 1944 he and another French physicist, Michel l'Heritier, published an article describing evidence of a new subatomic particle mixed with the cosmic rays. The particle that they observed was too heavy to be an electron, but too light to be a proton or neutron, the usual building blocks of matter. It is likely that the particle was what was later called a meson.
        Like the proton and neutron (the constituents of atomic nuclei) mesons are made of smaller building blocks known as quarks. But protons and neutrons each contain three quarks; mesons contain only two.
        Professor Leprince-Ringuet wrote enthusiastically about his research high up in the Swiss Alps. An English version of his book ''Cosmic Rays,'' which was published in 1950, was described in The New York Times Book Review as ''an informal, readable account of one of the most important fields of modern physics.''
        He wrote several more books about celebrated inventors, discoveries of the 20th century, the atom and human society as well as the phenomenon of electricity. In the 1950's he also helped draft a system of symbols for the various particles known to strike the earth.
        Professor Leprince-Ringuet, who was born in Ales, France, and studied engineering, worked in telecommunications and at an X-ray laboratory in Paris before being named a professor of physics at the Ecole Polytechnique in 1936. Early in his career he knew or worked with scientists like Marie Curie and Albert Einstein.
        He later headed the nuclear physics department at the College de France and served on the French Atomic Energy Commission and CERN, the European Center for Nuclear Research. He was a member of the French Academy and the Academy of Sciences, and a past president of the French Physics Society.
        His wife, the former Jelanne Motte, died 10 years ago. They had seven children.
        President Jacques Chirac said of his death: ''Our country has lost one of its greatest minds.'' Others noted how much he had looked forward to reaching 100.
      