
        Dr. Cyril Clarke, a British physician and professor of medicine whose fascination with butterfly wings led him to pursue research that helped end infant deaths from a blood disease caused by incompatible Rh factors, died on Nov. 21 in Hoylake, Cheshire, England. He was 93.
        As a geneticist, he found parallels between the inheritance of wing patterns in butterflies and the inheritance of blood types in people. That insight led to discoveries by him and others that eventually enabled women with Rh-negative blood who produce antibodies to the blood of their Rh-positive babies to have them safely.
        He investigated a broad variety of topics, including the coloration of swallowtailed butterflies and the longevity secrets of centenarians. He was an emeritus professor of medicine at the University of Liverpool and a past president of the Royal College of Physicians.
        But Dr. Clarke was known in the United States chiefly as a figure in the battle to thwart Rh disease of newborns, short for rhesus hemolytic disease. That feat ranked among the triumphs of modern preventive medicine.
        The Rh factor refers to a group of proteins that may or may not be present on the surface of red blood cells. Most people have the factor and are therefore Rh positive. Those who lack it are Rh negative. Rh disease occurs in newborns when an Rh-negative mother becomes pregnant with an Rh-positive fetus, and her body has been sensitized to produce antibodies that destroy the red cells of the fetus.
        The disorder can result in stillbirth or severe brain damage and was at one time responsible for at least 10,000 stillbirths and infant deaths every year in the United States alone. Rh disease is also called hemolytic disease of the newborn and erythroblastosis fetalis.
        Similarities between the blood groups of the rhesus monkey and of humans permitted the laboratory work that produced the countermeasure in use for the last 25 years, an injectable vaccine.
        Among Dr. Clarke's many honors was a clinical research award from the Albert and Mary Lasker Foundation in 1980, shared with four British and American colleagues. He was cited for genetic research that made a preventive ''vaccine'' for Rh disease possible. Called Rhogam, it prevents women with Rh-negative blood from producing antibodies to Rh-positive blood.
        Cyril Astley Clarke, a physician's son, was born on Aug. 22, 1907, in Leicester. He was introduced to butterflies when his parents sent him to the countryside in World War I. He became a lifelong butterfly collector and breeder.
        It was his main interest outside medicine, and he developed a method of mating butterflies to create rare hybrids. He also studied how swallowtails adapt their coat patterns as camouflage to gain an evolutionary advantage over predators.
        That transmission of colors and patterns through a group of linked genes alerted him to the properties of Rh blood groups in humans. There he found comparable manifestations of inheritance, as well as clues to the threat to the Rh-positive infants of Rh-negative mothers.
        Science can work in mysterious ways, and Dr. Clarke's curiosity about butterflies made him the crucial member of what became known as the Liverpool group. With advancing knowledge of the Rh factor, other researchers, particularly in New York, were also racing to eradicate the disease. But they took obstetric, serologic or immunologic routes. Dr. Clarke and his team at Liverpool chose to focus on genetics.
        In his ''Rh: The Intimate History of a Disease and Its Conquest'' (Macmillan, 1973), David R. Zimmerman, said the Liverpudlian approach to preventing Rh disease ''stemmed ultimately from an inquiry into evolutionary changes in the coloration of swallowtail butterflies' wings!''
        Admittedly dilettantes at immunology, the group formed around Dr. Clarke as its chief and leader in the early 50's. A practicing internist, former military surgeon and skilled yachtsman, he ''projected that born-to-command manner that characterizes the English ruling class,'' Mr. Zimmerman wrote. ''A swagger stick would have seemed, in his hands, a natural appurtenance.''
        Dr. Clarke improved his grasp of genetics with a year's stay at Columbia University. His wife, Frieda Feo Hart, then joined him as an active partner at Liverpool in a venture supported by the Nuffield Foundation, a British version of the Ford Foundation.
        While keeping up his work on butterfly breeding, Dr. Clarke began to investigate the relation between blood groups and human disease like ulcers and erythroblastosis that put some Rh-negative women at risk, but not others.
        In the end, as Mr. Zimmerman's book makes clear, it was several researchers who contributed at various stages in the quest for the magic bullet. That was the right antibody to immunize those women at risk because of the incompatible blood types of their offspring, and it was found by trial and error in Liverpool and New York.
        Dr. Clarke received a large share  of the credit, which he explicitly shared with his wife and his own original technique for breeding butterflies indoors.
        Educated at Cambridge University, he received his M.D. at the Guy's Hospital Medical School in London, where he worked as a house physician in the 30's. Dr. Clarke went to Liverpool to practice in 1946, joined the University of Liverpool faculty in 1958, rose to professor in 1965 and directed the Nuffield Unit of Medical Genetics from 1963 to 1972 when he was named the Nuffield Research Fellow in the university genetics department.
        He headed the Royal College of Physicians from 1972 to 1977 and was knighted in 1974.
        Dr. Clarke's wife died in 1998, after 63 years of marriage. Surviving are their three sons.
      