
        Leonard Woodcock, who succeeded Walter P. Reuther as president of the United Automobile Workers and  was envoy to China during the Carter administration, negotiating the historic re-establishment of full relations between the United States and China in 1979, died on Tuesday at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 89.
        Mr. Woodcock, who quit college in the Depression to get a job, was brought up to champion trade unions. Hard working, intelligent and ambitious, he rose steadily as a Reuther protege and potential successor through the 1940's, 50's and 60's. But by 1970, his career was at a standstill.
        He was 59 and a vice president of the union, in charge of its General Motors and aerospace departments. But Mr. Reuther, one of America's legendary union leaders, was displaying no interest in retiring. And Mr. Reuther had already anointed another U.A.W. leader, Douglas Fraser, as his successor.
        All that changed in May 1970. Mr. Reuther was killed in the crash of a chartered plane, and Mr. Woodcock moved to consolidate power. He and his associates played a skilled game of union politics and defeated Mr. Fraser for the presidency by a 13-to-12 vote of the union's executive board. Thirteen days after Mr. Reuther's death, Mr. Woodcock was leading the nation's second-largest union, with 1.5 million members.
        Later that year, he led auto workers in a bitter, 67-day strike against the General Motors Corporation, which was regarded as the U.A.W.'s most intractable foe. Mr. Woodcock  personally directed the negotiations in collaboration with his union colleague Irving Bluestone. It was the first time in a quarter of a century that the U.A.W. had challenged General Motors and when the strike ended, the union had achieved substantial wage and pension gains.
        In the mid-1970's, Mr. Woodcock became a supporter of Jimmy Carter's campaign for the Democratic  presidential nomination. The labor movement would play an important role in Mr. Carter's victory in 1976. In 1977, President Carter selected Mr. Woodcock to lead a commission to Vietnam and Laos to try to determine the fate of Americans missing in action in the Vietnam War. The commission had a role in moving the United States toward the resumption of relations with Vietnam.
        Later in 1977, Mr. Woodcock left the U.A.W., as planned when his term ended, and became the United States chief of mission in Peking, now Beijing, succeeding George Bush, who held the position in 1974 and 1975. ''They'll probably throw me out after six months,'' he told a friend, noting that he had no diplomatic training.
        But 20 months later he had negotiated the agreement re-establishing relations between China and the United States after nearly three decades of estrangement. Much of his effectiveness in negotiations with the Chinese was attributed to his years across the table from General Motors. President Carter had pressed  for normalization after his success in the Camp David peace talks between Egypt and Israel. It was a time when he thought his administration had sufficient strength to break America's commitments to Taiwan and withstand opposition from Taiwan's supporters in Congress.
        Mr. Woodcock supported normalization, arguing that he was sure the United States would ''find the necessary courage'' to withdraw its recognition of Taiwan and establish full ties with China. He said the absence of full relations with China was ''an obvious absurdity.''
        In September 1978, President Carter gave his proposals for normal relations to the new head of China's liaison office in Washington, Chai Zemin. A subsequent meeting in October was fruitful, and Mr. Woodcock was directed to use his negotiating skills to push things along in China. In December, Mr. Woodcock and China's deputy prime minister, Deng Xiaoping, the architect of China's modernization plans, met four times to complete the deal.
        After the establishment of diplomatic relations on Jan. 1, 1979, Mr. Woodcock was named ambassador to China.
        The agreement that Mr. Woodcock negotiated ushered in a turn to the West by China. When Mr. Deng arrived for a nine-day visit to the United States in January 1979, his companion every step of the way was Leonard Woodcock.
        It was a heady time for Mr. Woodcock. The American staff respected his work and the Chinese thought highly of him as well. He also met and married Sharon Tuohy, who had been a nurse at the American compound in Beijing. His first marriage, to Lola A. Martin in 1941, had ended in divorce.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Woodcock is survived by three children from his first marriage, a son, John R. of Los Angeles, and two daughters, Janet Kathleen Woodcock of Martha's Vineyard, Mass., and Leslie Catherine Tentler of Washington; a sister, Joyce McCormick of Saratoga Springs, N.Y.; and three grandchildren.
        Leonard Freel Woodcock was born on Feb. 15, 1911, in Providence, R.I., the son of Ernest Woodcock and the former Margaret Freel, who were British citizens. His father, a machinery installer, was a member of the Mechanical Educational Society of America, which organized workers in the automotive industry before the U.A.W. was created.
        In 1914, when he was 3, he moved to Germany with his family; his father had taken a job there installing machinery made by a Providence manufacturer. When World War I began, Mr. Woodcock's father was interned by the Germans as a British national, but Mrs. Woodcock was allowed to leave and settled in Britain with her son.
        Leonard attended British schools. His family, once reunited, did not return to the United States until 1926, settling in Detroit. He studied for two years at Detroit City College, now Wayne State University, but was forced to drop out because of the Depression. In 1933 he got a job as a machine assembler, working 12 hours a day, seven days a week for 35 cents an hour at the Detroit Gear and Machine Company.
        A small union, which later was to affiliate with the U.A.W., was installed at the plant by the American Federation of Labor, and Mr. Woodcock became what he would always be -- a proud union man.
        In 1937, Mr. Woodcock developed tuberculosis and was forced to seek out the warm climates of California and Mexico, and thus missed much of the tumultuous organizing that brought about the U.A.W. He returned in September 1940, joining the U.A.W. regional staff in Grand Rapids, Mich.
        In those years, Mr. Woodcock, whose father was a socialist, was considered a rising member of the  party. But in 1940 he resigned his membership because, he said, he was unhappy over the insistence of Norman Thomas and other Socialist Party leaders that the United States remain neutral in the war in Europe. Walter Reuther's two brothers, Roy and Victor, were among other U.A.W. officers who joined Mr. Woodcock in resigning from the party. In leaving, the men had taken their cue from Walter Reuther, who had resigned from the party in 1938.
        From 1940 to 1946, Mr. Woodcock was a U.A.W. international representative, always closely allied with Mr. Reuther, now a union vice president and director of its General Motors department.
        After the war, when Mr. Reuther began campaigning for the union presidency, Mr. Woodcock was an important member of what became known as the union's Reuther caucus, which still exists as its administrative caucus.
        In March 1946, Mr. Reuther won the presidency by a slim margin and named Mr. Woodcock as his administrative assistant.
        Mr. Woodcock knew that in order to advance he must win elective office, but that under the union's bylaws he did not have enough time in the auto plants to qualify. So in May 1947, Mr. Reuther ordered Mr. Woodcock to work in the Continental Motors in Grand Rapids, Mich. In November 1947, Mr. Reuther won re-election. Mr. Woodcock was elected to the executive council and then appointed a regional director.
        Mr. Woodcock continued to advance, becoming director of the union's American Motors division and then head of its agricultural and aerospace divisions. In 1955, Mr. Woodcock was elected a vice president and Mr. Reuther named him director of the General Motors department.
        By this time, Mr. Woodcock was considered to be Mr. Reuther's successor. He was a tough, able negotiator and a loyalist. But by the 1960's, Mr. Reuther and Mr. Woodcock  seemed to be growing apart. It became clear through the echelons of the union that Mr. Reuther had begun looking on Mr. Fraser, who was far more amiable than Mr. Woodcock, as his successor.
        On May 9, 1970, Mr. Reuther's plane crashed as it was taking him on an inspection trip of the U.A.W. vacation and education center on  Black Lake in northern Michigan. On May 22, Mr. Woodcock was elected president. He and his associates campaigned fiercely for votes on the union's executive council, calling in chits and suggesting that Mr. Woodcock's supporters might be divisive if he was not elected.
        Mr. Woodcock, who was not flamboyant like Mr. Reuther but extremely diligent, set out to show he was no weak imitation. He had wanted to take on General Motors in 1964 and 1967 but that course had been rejected by Mr. Reuther and others. On assuming the presidency, Mr. Woodcock put his authority and the union's vast financial resources on the line.
        In the 1970 strike against General Motors, the union won wage increases and cost-of-living protection that Mr. Reuther had given up in 1967 as well as an improved retirement program. The strike cost the union and its members millions of dollars and meant substantial increases in auto prices to consumers.
        Mr. Woodcock oversaw a strategy, implemented by Mr. Bluestone, Mr. Woodcock's successor as the union's General Motors director, in which the U.A.W. led a series of strikes that blunted the auto company's plans to establish nonunion supply plants in the South.
        With the election of Ronald Reagan as president in 1980, Mr. Woodcock left government, returned to the United States and became an adjunct professor of political science at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor.
        At times, he could laugh about what an associate once called ''a princely attitude'' or what others called aloofness. Once he observed with a smile, ''I've been called cold -- and emotional -- all in the last week.''
        Correction:  January 22, 2001, Monday  An obituary on Thursday about Leonard Woodcock, former president of the United Automobile Workers and former envoy to China, misidentified the diplomat he succeeded there in 1977. It was Thomas S. Gates, not George Bush.
      