
        Chrissie Collins, who with her husband devised and promoted what became the MedicAlert bracelet as a way to provide emergency medical information, died on Jan. 8 in Turlock, Calif. She was 94.
        The concept of jewelry that could alert emergency personnel to allergies and other critical information, as well as provide a toll-free phone number for details, was born in a family emergency. In 1953, Mrs. Collins and her husband, Marion, were vacationing away from Turlock, in the Central Valley of California, when their daughter Linda, a high school sophomore, cut her finger while playing with an air rifle. She was taken to a hospital, where she had a violent reaction to a small amount of tetanus antitoxin and spent three days in an oxygen tent.
        The situation was grave. Though she had received expert care from a doctor who was her uncle in an excellent hospital founded by her grandfather, she almost died because nobody knew about her allergy. Her father, a physician like his own father, sought to protect her afterward by pinning a piece of paper to her clothing saying, ''Fatally allergic to tetanus antitoxin.''
        As Linda approached college, she tired of the safety pins and hotly rejected her father's suggestion that a tattoo might fit the bill.
        ''She said, 'Dad, why don't you fix me some sort of bracelet?' '' Mrs. Collins said in an interview with The Los Angeles Daily News in 1998.
        Dr. Collins designed the first bracelet, using the well-known medical symbol of the caduceus, two snakes wrapped around a winged staff. He placed the words ''Medic Alert'' alongside the emblem and listed his daughter's medical condition on the back.
        A local jeweler fabricated that bracelet, which is now in the National Museum of Natural History's Science, Medicine and Society Collection, although it is not currently on display. The museum is part of the Smithsonian Institution.
        ''Other people saw it and said, 'I ought to have one of those. I am allergic,' or 'I have a daughter with diabetes,' '' Linda told The Los Angeles Times in 1978. ''We began having them made up, one at a time.''
        The family mailed literature about the bracelet to hospitals and law enforcement agencies throughout the United States and Canada. Some suggested adding a method to obtain additional information.
        So the family developed a system by which emergency personnel could telephone 24 hours a day to get information. The first switchboard was that of the hospital where Linda had been taken for her injury.
        Ever more volunteers came forward. In 1956, the MedicAlert Foundation was formed.
        Things really took off after June 6, 1960, when This Week magazine, which appeared every Sunday in 40 large newspapers, published an article on MedicAlert. Within days, there were 100,000 orders for bracelets. Mrs. Collins remembered ''the whole town of Turlock'' working out of her family room to enroll new members and ship bracelets.
        Tanya J. Glazebrook, president and chief executive of the foundation, said that MedicAlert had grown to more than four million bracelet-wearing members and that at least 80,000 lives were believed to have been saved by its efforts. People pay $35 to join and a $15 annual fee.
        Chrissie Woolcock was born on July 30, 1906, in Douglas on the Isle of Mann in the British Isles. In 1912, she and her family immigrated to Turlock, where she attended local schools. She graduated from the University of the Pacific in Stockton, Calif.
        She thought briefly about moving to San Francisco. ''But then, I thought, I couldn't go to the opera or a play every night and I'd get tired of shopping,'' she said in an interview with The Modesto Bee in 1996. ''I thought my friends are more important, and I've always been glad that I stayed.''
        In 1928, she married Marion Carter Collins, whom she had met in the eighth grade. She was the Turlock High School adult education choral director and later became involved in the Boy and Girl Scouts and local organizations and charities.
        Her husband died in 1977. She is survived by her daughters, Margaret Gilbert of South Beach, Ore., and Linda Maurer of Turlock; her sons, Michael of Denton, Tex., and Thomas of Plattsville, Wis.; eight grandchildren; and 12 great-grandchildren.
        Ms. Glazebrook said Mrs. Collins was a MedicAlert board member almost until her death. She asked pointed questions about operations and was particularly fascinated by the foundation's huge computer operation. For her 90th birthday, she was given her own personal computer, and she frequently sent e-mail.
      