
        Sandy Baron, the stand-up comic, actor and songwriter perhaps best known in recent years for his recurring role on ''Seinfeld'' as Jack Klompus, the nemesis of Seinfeld's father, Morty, died on Jan. 21 at a nursing home in Los Angeles. Mr. Baron, who lived in the Van Nuys section of the city until entering the home recently, was 64.
        He had been suffering for many years from emphysema, said a friend, Treva Silverman of Los Angeles.
        Mr. Baron's career took him from nightspots like the Copacabana and Upstairs at the Downstairs in New York to the Broadway stage in ''Tchin-Tchin'' with Anthony Quinn, ''One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Next'' with Kirk Douglas, ''Arturo Ui'' with Christopher Plummer, ''Generation'' with Henry Fonda and the title role of ''Lenny,'' the Lenny Bruce story.
        On the the screen Mr. Baron appeared in films like ''Birdy,'' ''The Out of Towners,'' ''The Grifters'' and Woody Allen's ''Broadway Danny Rose,'' in which he played one of the narrators gathered around a table in the Carnegie Delicatessen.
        On television Mr. Baron starred in ''Walter and Emily'' with Brian Keith and Cloris Leachman, and ''Hey, Landlord.'' He was a regular on ''That Was the Week That Was'' and the Mike Douglas and Merv Griffin shows. He also played roles on shows like ''The Defender,'' ''Naked City,'' ''Law and Order,'' ''Crime Story'' and ''Starsky and Hutch.''
        As a songwriter, he co-wrote ''A Natural Man,'' which was a hit for Lou Rawls.
        He wrote and performed on popular comedy albums like ''Out of the Mouths of Babes,'' ''Hip Fairy Tales,'' ''Sick Along With Us!'' and ''Presidential Press Conference.'' And he opened concerts and appearances for performers like the Fifth Dimension, Della Reese, Vic Damone, Neil Diamond, Bobby Vinton and Sergio Mendes.
        Mr. Baron, whose given name was Sanford, was the son of Max Beresofsky, a house painter, and his wife, Helen, a waitress. Mr. Baron graduated from Thomas Jefferson High School in Brooklyn.
        In a 1966 interview as he was preparing for the premiere of NBC's ''Hey, Landlord,'' in which he played a bright, fast-talking college graduate who wants to become a comedian, he recalled his youth in Brownsville.
        He said that at 17 he was the leader of a street gang and, upon the death of his father, the head of his household. But despite the temptation to run with the gang, he studied hard and won a scholarship to Brooklyn College.
        After graduation in 1958, he became a teacher, but he said he and the school system were soon at odds, and he was eased out of the profession when his schedule was cut.
        ''I then and there decided to become a comedian,'' he said. ''I immediately changed my name, my clothes and my nose.''
        He served an apprenticeship in little clubs and the Catskills, where he made $250 a week, and later sharpened his skills with award-winning improvisational troupes like the Premise and Second City.
        ''Those were my commedia dell'arte days,'' he said, recalling them in 1964 when he was appearing on NBC's pioneering political satire, ''That Was the Week That Was.'' Discussing comedy, he said, ''A comedian should use his face, his body, his gestures, not just his mouth.''
        Mr. Baron is survived by his sister, Roz Asherman, of Brooklyn.
        Once, recalling his first job as a stand-up comedian in a dive, Mr. Baron said he had finished his act, breathless and terror-stricken, when the owner, who appeared to be a mobster, walked up to him.
        ''Kid,'' the man said, ''I hope you don't take this personal, but you stink.''
      