
        Sir Denys Lasdun, a central figure in European midcentury modernist architecture whose most noted building, the sprawling Royal National Theater on the south bank of the Thames, still inspires praise and opprobrium, died here on Thursday. He was 86 and lived in London.
        Charles, the Prince of Wales, a frequent critic of contemporary structures, denounced the theater after it went up in 1976, calling its construction ''a clever way of building a nuclear power station in the middle of London without anyone objecting.''
        But even people who may have shared his objections to the theater complex's brutalist gray concrete exterior now consider it indispensable to London's landscape and have developed affection for it. They regularly fill not just its three formal halls but also its riverside entrance foyers and terraces, which themselves become performance spaces hours before curtain time, with musicians and theatergoers making their own dramatic spectacle.
        This was what Sir Denys had in mind, saying he wanted ''an architecture without facades but with layers of building like geological strata, connected in such a way that they flow into the surrounding riverscape and city.'' One of his main themes was the idea of buildings as urban landscapes formed from interlocking spaces and levels, and he frequently called these platforms ''strata,'' noting that it was a geological term that worked well with concrete, long his favored medium.
        ''Strata express the visual organization of social spaces in geometrical terms,'' he said. ''They recall the streets and squares of the city and contour lines of the hills; and at a more profound level they bear witness to the roots of an architectural language inspired by natural geological forms.''
        He told the National's first director, Sir Peter Hall, that concrete was particularly suitable for his method of ''sculpting'' buildings.
        ''Concrete is a very intractable material,'' he said, ''but it can be a beautiful material if it is used in the way its own nature intends it to be.''
        Denys Louis Lasdun was born in London on Sept. 8, 1914. His father, who was in the construction business, died when he was 3; his mother was a pianist and his youth was spent among musicians. In 1954 he married Susan Bendit, an art school graduate who went on to study graphics, write and work on the interiors of some of his buildings.
        The couple's three children all work in the arts, Louisa as a composer, James as a writer and William as a sculptor.
        Mr. Lasdun studied at the Architectural Association School but left before getting his diploma to join Modern Architectural Research, the  group known as MARS that was set up to promote continental modernism in Britain.
        His early inspiration was Le Corbusier, and he visited Paris to see his work as models for his own early projects. In 1937 he went to work for Berthold Lubetkin, an important figure in the European avant-garde, but then left during the war to serve five years in the Royal Engineers, where, among other things, he built airstrips.
        In 1946 he became a member of another forward-looking firm, Tecton, and three years later set up a practice with one of his partners there, Lindsey Drake. In 1949 he built one of his most noted buildings, a school in the Paddington neighborhood of London that incorporated an organic design that he said was meant to resemble a plant unfurling with stems and leaves.
        His was a generation fired by the possibilities offered by reinforced concrete and powered by social commitment. He brought his own ideas to the construction of the high-density public housing that was in such demand after the war, and a four-block, 15-story project he built in 1955 in Bethnal Green in East London is now such a desirable space that its apartments and penthouses sell for as much as $500,000. He sought to replace the slab design of high-rise blocks with apartments grouped in a circle around a central court, giving residents the light and privacy that rectilinear, long-corridor construction lacks.
        He drew admiration for the uncompromisingly modern luxury apartment building he built overlooking Green Park in the city's grand center, which managed to coexist comfortably with a Palladian building on one side and an ornate Victorian mansion block on the other. He had even greater success in this blend of old and new with the white rectangular structure he created for the Royal College of Physicians in Regents Park in 1959.
        His love for stepped-level design emerged in two major campus commissions -- Christ College, Cambridge in 1966 and the new University of East Anglia outside Norwich in 1968. Almost all of his life's work was in England, but he did design one significant building abroad -- the European Investment Bank in Luxembourg in 1983.
        The mixed praise his work received over the years seemed to breed a modest confidence rather than any discouragement. On receiving the Royal Institute of British Architects Gold Medal, he said: ''Looking back, I am bound to add that the achievements seem flawed and partial and the disappointments more or less total and unrelieved. But perhaps some work of noble note has been done, perhaps there is somewhere among it all the true sensation of architecture, the occasional external or internal space that can, to some degree, modify the consciousness of the user and the passer-by.''
      