
        Norris Turney, a jazz saxophonist, clarinetist and flutist who played in the last incarnation of Duke Ellington's orchestra, died on Wednesday in Kettering, Ohio. He was 79.
        The cause was kidney failure, said his agent, Russ Dantzler.
        As heard on some of Ellington's last recorded works -- among them the ''Afro-Eurasian Eclipse,'' ''The Queen's Suite'' and ''The New Orleans Suite'' -- Mr. Turney was clearly influenced by the alto saxophonist Johnny Hodges, whose place he took in the orchestra. His sound was smooth, lyrical, seamless and fluent in the blues. He was also the orchestra's first flute soloist.
        Mr. Turney was born in Wilmington, Ohio, and as a teenager was encouraged to play by his parents, who bought him a saxophone at 13 and an alto saxophone a year later. He played on a Cincinnati riverboat while in high school and worked around Cincinnati into his early 20's, when he joined a Midwestern band led by Bill Tye, and later, the more famous Jeter-Pillars Band of St. Louis.
        His work in the Midwest, sometimes leading his own groups, continued until 1943, when he played in Tiny Bradshaw's jump-blues band. When the band traveled to the East Coast in 1944, he joined Billy Eckstine's pioneering large-ensemble bebop band.
        After returning to Ohio in 1945, Mr. Turney worked with Ace Carter, Elmer Snowden, Charlie Gaines and Bullmoose Jackson, among other bandleaders.
        It wasn't until 1960 that he settled in New York, with his wife, Marilee, who survives him. He is also survived by a son, Norris Turney Jr.; two daughters, Olivia and Patricia; and a sister, Mildred.
        Mr. Turney had a stint with Ray Charles in 1967, and then in 1969, he landed a job with Ellington and stayed until 1973.
        Mr. Turney went on to be a busy freelancer, playing with Broadway orchestra bands, with John Lewis's short-lived American Jazz Orchestra in the late 80's and with the Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra, which he joined at its inception.
        He toured with the Ellington alumni group, the Duke's Men, and made one record under his own name -- his first -- for Mapleshade in 1996, ''Big Sweet 'n' Blue,'' a strong demonstration of full-bodied blues and ballad playing.
      