
        Dr. Horace Albert Barker, a microbiologist and biochemist who helped to unravel the complex processes of chemical conversion inside living organisms, died on Dec. 24 at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 93.
        Dr. Barker made his mark in the 1950's by tracing the biochemical function of vitamin B12. His investigation helped explain complex ways chemistry works in the body.
        Earlier, in 1944, he was on a team of researchers that detected the role of enzymes when living cells synthesize sucrose. The researchers gained that insight with one of the earliest laboratory uses of radioactive carbon-14 tracers, a technique Dr. Barker helped pioneer.
        For his work, specifically that involving vitamin B12, Dr. Barker received one of the 12 National Medals of Science for 1968 from President Lyndon B. Johnson.
        Born in Oakland, Calif., Horace Barker graduated in 1929 from Stanford University, where he also received a Ph.D. in chemistry four years later.
        Dr. Barker became an instructor in soil microbiology at the University of California in 1936. He was named a professor in the department of biochemistry when it was set up in 1959 and served as chairman in the 1960's.
        Dr. Barker's studies dealt with vitamin B12 coenzymes, vitamin chemistry, bacterial metabolism, fatty acid oxidation and synthesis, carbohydrate transformations, and amino acid and purine metabolism. Together, the studies helped build a foundation for much of what is known today of metabolism and its role in sickness and health.
        Working with a common soil bacterium dredged from the mud of San Francisco Bay, Dr. Barker led a research team that in 1959 discovered vitamin B12 coenzyme, an active form of vitamin B12, deployed in vital chemical conversions in the body. He then mapped out many of the metabolic reactions this entails.
        In doing so, Dr. Barker clarified the vitamin B12 coenzyme's role in building body tissue. This in turn contributed to the understanding of several diseases, including pernicious anemia caused by a deficiency of vitamin B12.
        Dr. Barker wrote or helped write  some 230 scientific publications. Among his honors was his election to the National Academy of Sciences and to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        Dr. Barker is survived by two daughters, Barbara B. Friede, of Piedmont, Calif., and Elizabeth F. Mark, of Lexington, Mass.; a son, Robert H., of Camino, Calif.; and four grandchildren. His wife, Margaret McDowell Barker, died in 1995 after 62 years of marriage.
        Dr. Barker retired with emeritus status in 1975 but remained active in the biochemistry department at Berkeley well after turning 80.
      