
        Leo Marks, who played a major role in Britain's sabotage operations against Nazi Germany in World War II as the chief designer of codes used by agents behind enemy lines, died Jan. 15. He was 80.
        In July 1940, Churchill created the Special Operations Executive and ordered it to ''set Europe ablaze'' by sending agents into France, Norway and the Netherlands on a campaign of destruction. Operating from the agency's headquarters on London's Baker Street, Mr. Marks revolutionized the development of codes for saboteurs communicating with England via wireless radio. At the same time, British experts at Bletchley Park were breaking the German codes.
        Mr. Marks provided code briefings to commandos who destroyed the heavy water plant in Norway that the Germans were using for an atomic weapons program, and his agency carried out extensive sabotage in conjunction with the D-Day invasion.
        Leopold Samuel Marks, a native of London, had been intrigued by codes since he was 8 years old, when his father, Benjamin, a partner in London's well-known antiquarian book store Marks & Company showed him a first edition of ''The Gold Bug'' by Edgar Allan Poe.
        Fascinated by Poe's tale of a treasure whose location was concealed in a cipher, he broke the code his father used to denote the lowest price he would accept for that book, a series of letters penciled on the inside of the cover. The boy discovered that the 10 letters making up the names of the bookstore owners, Marks and Cohen, each corresponded to a number.
        That bit of enterprise gave rise totwin ambitions -- to create codes and to be a writer.
        Mr. Marks enrolled in Britain's school for cryptographers in January 1942, then joined the Special Operations Executive. He continued to live at home, but his family thought he was working for the Ministry of Supply.
        When Mr. Marks joined the intelligence agency, it was using ciphers based on phrases in classic works of British literature. Mr. Marks realized that these codes were hardly unbreakable since the Germans might have sampled Shakespeare or Keats or could check on specific passages in reference books.
        So Mr. Marks wrote his own poems, substituting passages from them for those in the great English works. ''It would make it slightly more difficult for S.O.E.'s messages to be read like daily newspapers if we started a Baker Street poets' corner,'' he recalled.
        But he became dissatisfied with that effort as well and created a system in which codes were transferred to squares of silk carried by agents. Each code would be used to send only one message. Then an agent would cut the square containing that code from the silk and burn it. The codes were invisible until an agent shined a specially designed ultraviolet flashlight on them.
        Because the codes kept changing as successive squares were used, agents did not know the basis for the codes they had not yet used, and so they could not divulge their codes under torture if they were caught.
        Following World War II, Mr. Marks turned to writing for stage and film. He wrote the screenplay for ''Peeping Tom,'' the story of a cinematographer who kills women after filming their last, fearful moments. The film, released in Britain in 1960, was denounced by critics as immoral, was quickly withdrawn from circulation and severely damaged the career of its director, Michael Powell. But it came to be viewed as a classic film about film-making itself.
        The Marks family's bookshop was featured in Helene Hanff's popular memoir ''84, Charing Cross Road'' -- the title taken from the store's address -- an account of her 20 years of witty and sometimes biting correspondence from her New York home with the shop's chief buyer, Frank Doel. ''84, Charing Cross Road'' (Grossman, 1970) was made into a play and a movie.
        Mr. Marks recounted his wartime exploits in ''Between Silk and Cyanide: A Codemaker's War, 1941-1945'' (The Free Press, 1998), the title referring to his use of silk surfaces for his codes and the practice of supplying cyanide pills to agents who could swallow them if facing torture to elicit information.
        Mr. Marks's marriage to Elena Gaussen Marks, a painter, ended in divorce. They had no children.
        After the war, Mr. Marks met Churchill and told him that he was happy to have turned from code-making to writing. Churchill's reply: ''I, too, wish I could have devoted further time to my writing, but other events intervened.''
      