
        Dr. Alexandra Adler, a New York neurologist and psychiatrist who carried on the tradition of her father, Alfred Adler, one of the pioneers of psychoanalytic theory, died Jan. 4 at New York University Hospital. She was 99 and lived in Manhattan.
        A native of Vienna, she was among the earliest women to practice as a neurologist there and then in the United States. Her work on brain damage and alexia, the loss of the ability to read because of brain lesions, was often cited by others in the field.
        She also wrote papers on psychological subjects ranging from alcoholism to juvenile delinquency. She was among the first to write detailed papers on post-traumatic stress syndrome, reflecting her studies of the surviving victims of the Coconut Grove nightclub fire in Boston in 1942, one of the nation's worst fire disasters.
        Besides killing more than 490 people, the blaze left others with permanent brain damage. Dr. Adler studied the anxiety and depression that can follow such catastrophes and later applied her findings to the treatment World War II veterans.
        Dr. Adler interpreted Adlerian theories in a book first published in 1938, ''Guiding Human Misfits: A Practical Application of Individual Psychology.'' It went through several editions in the United States and was republished in Germany in 1990.
        Dr. Adler received her medical degree in Vienna, where she trained and practiced at the neuropsychiatric clinic of the University of Vienna. At the time, she also started editing the International Journal of Individual Psychology, the branch of psychology her father pioneered after he broke with Sigmund Freud and his psychoanalytical emphasis on sex as the root of neurosis.
        She came to this country in 1935 to teach and practice at Harvard Medical School and Massachusetts General Hospital. She joined the N.Y.U. faculty in 1946 and became a full professor of psychiatry at the its medical school in 1969.
        An expert in schizophrenia, she worked at the New York City Department of Correction for 20 years with female offenders and was medical director of the Alfred Adler Mental Hygiene Clinic in Manhattan. She continued to see some patients at her private practice until a few years ago.
        She contributed entries to national and international reference works.
        In 1959, Dr. Adler married Dr. Halfdan Gregersen, a former dean and professor of Romance languages at Williams College. He died in 1980, and there are no immediate survivors.
      