
        Rino M. Monti, the construction manager of the World Trade Center and later the director of engineering and chief engineer of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, died on Jan. 14 in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 71 and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y.
        He died of a series of serious illnesses, said Frank Lombardi, now the chief engineer of the Port Authority.
        Mr. Monti, who was known as Ray, worked for the Port Authority for 40 years, until he retired in 1992. When the World Trade Center was being built, he coordinated and supervised 200 contractors, 500 subcontractors and numerous suppliers for the mammoth job. The project, which took 400 million pounds of structural steel, 425,000 cubic yards of concrete (enough to build a five-foot-wide sidewalk from New York City to Washington), and 3,500 daily workers at the height of construction, was Mr. Monti's crowning success.
        In 1971, his management of the project earned him the Construction Man of the Year award from the trade publication Engineering News-Record. More recently, in October, Mr. Monti was given the American Society of Corporate Engineers' Construction Division's Distinguished Constructor Award.
        Mr. Lombardi worked under Mr. Monti for 28 years. ''He was known in the contracting community as someone who was firm, but also fair,'' Mr. Lombardi said. ''People who knew him respected him. At least he listened to their side of the story.''
        As chief engineer and director of engineering of the Port Authority, Mr. Monti supervised 1,100 professional engineers, architects and skilled technicians.
        Mr. Monti learned Italian as a child when his mother moved with him from the United States to Italy when he was 4. In later years, he frequently returned to Italy to paint the landscape.
        Mr. Monti attended Manhattan College in Riverdale and graduated with a B.S. in civil engineering. After college, he was commissioned as an ensign in the United States Naval Reserve in 1952. During the Korean War, he was on active duty between 1953 and 1955, supervising base construction in French Morocco.
        Mr. Monti is survived by his wife, Gloria; two daughters, Janet Monti Nevin and Carol Monti Barris,; and one grandchild, Jennifer Nevin.
      