
        Charles Mérieux, a virologist whose visionary understanding of mass vaccine cultivation and disease-fighting logistics turned a relatively modest family microbiology laboratory into an international engine for public health, died Saturday in Lyon, France, his hometown. He was 94.
        Among the immunizations Dr. Mérieux's company mass-produced, beginning in the late 1950's, were two used to fight polio around the world: Jonas Salk's injectable vaccine of denatured virus and Albert Sabin's oral one of weakened live virus. The Institut Mérieux, allying itself with various scientific partners over the years, refined and cultivated vaccines against rabies, rubella, diphtheria, tetanus and other diseases, becoming a powerhouse in preventive medicine for humans.
        But the doctor had his first success in cows, just after World War II, working on an inoculation against foot-and-mouth disease and understanding that the key was to grow it in vitro rather than in vivo -- that is, in a glass container rather than in a live animal.
        ''He had seen the light,'' said Dr. Marc Girard, scientific director of the Lyon-based European Center for Immunovirological Research, a new branch of the Mérieux organization similar to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the United States. ''He knew success was in industrialization,'' Dr. Girard added.
        That knowledge led to huge victories in battles against viral epidemics -- notably a 1974 meningitis outbreak in Brazil that killed 4,000 people in its first few weeks. The Mérieux laboratory had previously isolated the relevant meningitis strain in Africa, but vaccine had yet to be created in quantity when the Brazilian health minister called Dr. Mérieux for help.
        ''This was in July,'' said Dr. Girard, 64, ''and all of France goes on vacation in August. But he told his staff, no vacation this year, you stay, we're building a factory to inoculate all of Brazil.''
        ''They produced 100 million doses, inoculating 90 million people in six months,'' Dr. Girard said, adding that the epidemic was brought under control.
        Charles Mérieux studied medicine in Lyon but never intended a career in the family laboratory. It was his elder brother, Jean, who joined forces with their father, Marcel, and who was meant to succeed him in the business, founded in 1897. But Jean died from a meningitis infection contracted in the laboratory, Dr. Girard said, and ''Charles was faithful to his father.''
        Like his father, who had studied under Émile Roux, a scientific collaborator of Louis Pasteur, Charles enrolled at the Institut Pasteur. Wartime work at a blood transfusion center for the Resistance focused him on building France's blood product industry. He would have pursued that interest, said Dr. Girard, but after being granted a visa to the United States to observe its blood product system he found himself thwarted back in France.
        ''Politicians forbade profit from human blood,'' said Dr. Girard. The state claimed control over the developing industry.
        Veterinary medicine -- specifically a foot-and-mouth vaccine -- came to absorb Dr. Mérieux instead. The early method of cultivating the foot-and-mouth virus was to apply it to the tongue of a live cow and harvest the multiplied cells from the resulting virus pustules. But the work was laborious and produced only small amounts of usable virus. So Dr. Mérieux found a more efficient way: harvesting the cow tongues and mincing them to create a growth medium that could produce virus on an industrial scale.
        The next step was to apply the technique to human health. The Salk vaccine, cultivated in minced kidney tissue taken from monkeys, provided the perfect opportunity.
        Dr. Mérieux went on to collaborate on vaccine projects with scientists including Dr. Hilary Koprowski, a virologist with whom he introduced a new rabies vaccine for humans.
        Dr. Koprowski, now a professor of microbiology and immunology at Thomas Jefferson University in Philadelphia, explained that Pasteur's original vaccine was cultivated in animal brain tissue, which is less safe as a medium than other organ tissues. It also required 14 injections in the skin of the belly.
        ''At one point in the United States,'' Dr. Koprowski said, ''there was no human vaccine for rabies because they had stopped producing it.''
        The two men avoided brain tissue and ended up with a purified, safer virus and a more efficient, less painful inoculation procedure.
        ''He had an uncanny feeling of what is important in vaccination science,'' Dr. Koprowski said of his colleague, ''in both human and animal medicine.''
        That feeling was what led Dr. Mérieux beyond the vaccines themselves, into the complex mechanisms for delivering them to large numbers of people. He was fascinated with what Dr. Girard called vaccinology: ''that it is not enough to manufacture the vaccine, without addressing all the logistical problems surrounding vaccination.''
        To that end, in the early 1980's, he started a training organization, Bioforce Développement, to prepare professionals for public health emergencies, especially in third world countries.
        Around the same time, a family property near Annecy called Pensières was turned into an epidemiological teaching center -- to inculcate an understanding of vaccinology in doctors and researchers, Dr. Girard said. The center's first annual course was carried out in collaboration with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
        By then the French pharmaceuticals giant Rhône-Poulenc had a controlling interest in the Mérieux vaccine production company; in 1994 the acquisition was completed. In addition to the teaching, training, vaccine making and high-risk virus research performed at Dr. Girard's center, the Mérieux name has moved into gene therapy through Dr. Mérieux's son Alain, the chairman of Transgene, based in Strasbourg.
        Dr. Mérieux is also survived by his daughter, Nicole de Beublain; 11 grandchildren and 18 great-grandchildren. A second son, Jean, died in a car crash three years ago.
      