
        Edward Dimock, an influential scholar of Indian studies and an emeritus professor at the University of Chicago, died Jan. 11 at his home in Centerville, Mass. He was 71.
        The cause was cancer, said Jennifer Leovy, a spokeswoman for the university.
        ''Edward Dimock almost single-handedly introduced the study of Bengali to the American academy,'' said Clinton Seely, an associate professor of South Asian languages and civilizations at the University of Chicago. Bengali is the modern Indic language of the Indian state of West Bengal and of Bangladesh.
        Professor Dimock's contribution was also recognized by the Indian government in 1992 when it awarded him its highest honorary title, the Desikottama, or honorary doctor of letters, for his work on Bengali literature.
        Edward Cameron Dimock Jr., whose last name is pronounced DIM-ock, was born on March 18, 1929, in Roslindale, Mass. He graduated from Roxbury Latin School in 1946 and went on to Yale University and then to Harvard University's divinity school, where he received a Ph.D. in 1959.
        Dr. Dimock then joined the faculty of the University of Chicago as an assistant professor of linguistics and Asian languages. He taught at the university for nearly 35 years.
        During his early years in Chicago,  Dr. Dimock played a major role in the formation of the university's department of South Asian languages and civilizations, of which he became a professor in 1966.
        Dr. Dimock traveled to India in the mid-1950's with his family to conduct research on religion. It was the first of many visits.
        ''It was just a love-at-first-sight type of thing,'' recalled his wife, Loraine. Dr. Dimock published a number of scholarly books, including ''Mr. Dimock Explores the Mysteries of the East'' (Algonquin, 1999), a personal narrative of his thoughts and experiences in India.
        In November 1993, a few years after he retired, Dr. Dimock and his wife moved to Centerville.
        In addition to his wife, Professor Dimock is survived by a brother, George of Harvard, Mass.; three sons, Jonathan, of Knoxville, Tenn., Christopher, of Chicago, and Edward, of Brookline, Mass.; two daughters, Holly Chamota, of Romeoville, Ill., and Heather Pike, of Centerville; and eight grandchildren.
      