
        Joseph Pellegrino, an Italian immigrant who became an executive in the pasta industry and coined the popular slogan, ''Wednesday is Prince Spaghetti Day,'' died last Monday at his home in Hallandale, Fla. He was 95.
        Mr. Pellegrino was a former chief executive at the Prince Company in Lowell, Mass., which operated as a holding company for food brands, including Aunt Millie's, Dutchmaid and Prince, as well as paper and engineering products.
        In 1984, Mr. Pellegrino told The Boston Globe that he came up with the ''Wednesday is Prince Spaghetti Day'' slogan with a friend in the advertising business in 1950.
        Mr. Pellegrino's son, Joseph P. Pellegrino, said that a friend, a Boston advertising agency executive, mentioned a similar slogan to his father -- that slogan was to be used by a macaroni industry association. When the association turned the slogan down, Mr. Pellegrino simply added the name ''Prince'' and used the slogan specifically for the company. In the 1970's, Venet Advertising won a Clio Award for ads that carried the slogan.
        Born in Mistretta, Sicily, in 1905, Mr. Pellegrino moved to the United States in 1922, passing through Ellis Island before meeting his widowed father in New York City.
        Once in the United States, he was an entrepreneur with several businesses -- he was a shoeshine boy, a part-owner in a frozen custard stand at Coney Island and he then ran a grocery business, where he imported and exported food products.
        In 1931, he married Michelina Realmuto of New York and joined her father's pasta company, the Roman Macaroni Company, which he took over when his father-in-law died.
        On Christmas Eve in 1939, a fire destroyed the Roman factory. To continue supplying his customers, Mr. Pellegrino entered into an arrangement with the Prince Macaroni Manufacturing Company, which was founded on Prince Street in Boston but had moved to Lowell. By 1941, Mr. Pellegrino and his family had become the majority shareholders of the company and Mr. Pellegrino became chief executive. He held that post until his son succeeded him in 1971. Mr. Pellegrino remained the company's chairman until 1987, when it was sold to Borden.
        Mr. Pellegrino is survived by his son; three grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
      