
        Les Brown, whose Band of Renown  was one of the most enduring orchestras that grew out of the swing era of the 1930's, died on Thursday night at his home in Los Angeles. He was 88.
        Mr. Brown was one of the last  swing bandleaders to remain active as the century drew to a close. He and his band were best known for their classic 1945 recording of ''Sentimental Journey'' with Doris Day,  their hit 1946 record ''I've Got My Love to Keep Me Warm'' and for their long association with Bob Hope. Mr. Brown became the musical director of Mr. Hope's radio and television shows in 1947 and later accompanied him on 18 Christmas tours around the world to entertain American troops.
        For more than 60 years, the Les Brown orchestra was a frequent attraction, providing dance music at college proms and ballrooms and appearing at the Presidential inauguration galas for Richard M. Nixon and Ronald Reagan. The band also entertained Queen Elizabeth II at a ball arranged by Frank Sinatra.
        With the help of such resourceful  arrangers as Ben Homer, Frank Comstock, and Skip Martin, Mr. Brown fashioned an orchestra that made people want to dance.
        ''We strove for a cleanliness and a certain conservativeness that was commercially successful,'' Mr. Brown said in The Instrumentalist magazine in 1990. ''For the most part we played ballads on the pretty side, rather than swinging them like Benny Goodman.''
        Over the years, the Brown orchestra's muscular, tight approach to its music, with its emphasis on sure intonation and intentions that were always clear and serious, were rewarded with critical and popular success. John S. Wilson, jazz critic of The New York Times, noted in 1983 that Mr. Brown's group had ''retained the style and sound'' of the swing period and yet had a ''freshness that makes it seem quite up to date.''
        Mr. Brown teamed up with Ben Homer to write the music for one of the memorable songs that emerged from World War II, ''Sentimental Journey.'' The record was released in 1944 and became a big hit in 1945, largely because of Ms. Day's lovely vocal and the lyrics of Bud Green, which evoked the eagerness of G.I.'s returning to see their loved ones again.
        Got my bag, I got my
        reservation,
        Spent each dime I could afford.
        Like a child in wild anticipation
        Long to hear that 'All aboard.'
        Seven, that's the time we leave,
        at seven.
        I'll be waiting up for heaven,
        Countin' every mile of railroad
        track
        That takes me back.
        The Day-Brown combination on ''Sentimental Journey'' sold a million records for Columbia. The song stayed on the radio's hit parade for 16 weeks, became the nation's No. 1 song for five weeks and can still be heard on classic pop radio stations. It also provided a major boost to the career of Ms. Day, who was the band's popular girl singer in the war years.
        Most of the other Brown hits were instrumentals, including ''I've Got My Love to Keep Me Warm,'' ''Bizet Has His Day,'' ''Midnight Sun,'' ''Mexican Hat Dance,'' ''Ramona'' and ''Leap Frog,'' a jerky uptempo number that became the orchestra's  signature piece. In 1941 the band also had a novelty best seller with ''Joltin' Joe DiMaggio,'' inspired by the Yankee center fielder's 56-game hitting streak. The band continued to get requests for its songs years after they were recorded.
        Mr. Brown credited the freshness of his music not just to his arrangers, but to his players as well. He liked to tell interviewers that the musicians he hired were generally not big-name soloists but sidemen who were excellent readers and who worked especially well in sections.
        ''Good soloists aren't necessarily good section men,'' Mr. Brown said in The Instrumentalist. ''There's nothing worse than an all-star band with no teamwork.''
        That team varied over the years, but at times included well-regarded musicians like Matt Uttel, alto saxophonist; Bud Madison, Wes Hensel and Don Fagerquist, trumpet players; Don Rader, who played fluegelhorn and trumpet; Lou Ciotto, tenor saxophonist; Abe Most, the jazz-flavored clarinetist and alto saxophonist; Tony Rizzi, guitarist; Jeff Clarkson, pianist; and Warren Brown, Si Zentner, Andy Martin and Ray Sims, tenor trombonists. Mr. Brown's younger brother, Clyde Brown, who was known as Stumpy, was a long-time stalwart on bass trombone.
        The ''regular'' vocalists came and went; in addition to Ms. Day, they included Jo Ann Greer, Butch Stone, Lucy Ann Polk and Ellen Wilson. In the early days, when the occasion called for guest vocalists Mr. Brown called on Johnny Mercer and the songwriter Richard Whiting's young daughter, Margaret. The chemistry of the group was such that people who knew little about music loved to dance to the Band of Renown; people who knew a great deal about it listened with equal enthusiasm.
        The band had quite a consistent approach to its music over the years, even though Mr. Brown sometimes tinkered with the size and scope of the instrumentation.
        ''Although I started with a 12-piece band in 1938 that has grown and shrunk in size over the years, the instrumentation never went through radical changes,'' Mr. Brown said.  ''Instead of the four 'bones we used in 1942, we use three today. We started with three trumpets, but had to compete with Goodman and Dorsey, so we hired a fourth.''
        Lester Raymond Brown was born on March 12, 1912, in Reinerton, Pa. His father was Raymond Winfield Brown, the town baker, who had a good ear for music, played a fine soprano sax and always wanted to be a professional musician but never went beyond being named conductor of the town's concert band. In those days, many towns and villages across the nation had concert bands that would play the works of Franz von Suppe, John Philip Sousa and Victor Herbert in park bandstands on a summer's evening. The band under the elder Mr. Brown's baton played for tired Pennsylvania coal miners and their families.
        Les Brown and his two brothers were expected to help out in the bakery but they soon learned that the one way out of it was to agree to take music lessons. Les started out playing cornet and switched over to soprano saxophone and learned clarinet and bassoon.
        In 1926 he showed enough promise so that his father permitted him to enroll in the Patrick Conway Military Band School in Ithaca, N.Y., named after a e fabled Civil War-era bandmaster. The school was later absorbed into the Ithaca Conservatory of Music and ultimately became Ithaca College. At Conway he studied theory, harmony, counterpoint and composition with Wallingford Rewigger, who encouraged young Brown's interest in symphonic music. He became especially fond of Mahler, with Beethoven, Mozart, Shostakovich, Debussy and Ravel not far behind.
        After three years at Conway, Mr. Brown received a music scholarship to the New York Military Academy in Cornwall, N.Y., which awarded scholarships to instrumentalists who could benefit its military band. He played saxophone in the band and began to write music. He also became infatuated with big band music, listening to radio programs and records that featured Gene Goldkette, Paul Whiteman, Red Nichols, Fletcher Henderson and Bix Beiderbecke. .
        Mr. Brown aspired to study at the University of Pennsylvania but in 1932 he went to Duke University instead because it had the best-known college swing bands, the Blue Devils. He became its leader and toured the east coast with the band, playing one-nighters for more than a year. Most of the Blue Devils returned to Duke in September 1937. Mr. Brown went to New York City and wrote arrangements for the bands of Isham Jones, Jimmy Dorsey, Larry Clinton and Mr. Nichols. In 1938 he gained the backing of Victor Records and started the orchestra that became Les  Brown and His Band of Renown. For a time the band was a fixture at the Edison Hotel in Times Square.
        Mr. Brown is survived by his wife, Evelyn, and their son, Les Jr., and daughter, Denise Marsh.
        Over the years, the Band of Renown played for broadcasting stars like Milton Berle, Steve Allen and Dean Martin. Mr. Brown's association with Mr. Martin lasted from 1965 to 1974, the band's longest run on television. But its longest gig was in the employ of Mr. Hope. It started in the middle 1940's, when Mr. Brown was appearing at the Hollywood Palladium and had a drink with Mr. Hope's agent, who invited him to play for the Hope radio show.
        Mr. Brown remained with Mr. Hope when he made the move to television and also accompanied the comedian on his tours to entertain American troops. The association  lasted more than 40 years and more than 800 shows. Mr. Hope used to say that he never left home without Les Brown.
        The Band of Renown's songs were released, rereleased and sometimes rerecorded to take advantage of superior sound technology. Three of the more recent issues were ''Anything Goes'' and ''Les Brown: The Best of the Big Bands,'' both in the 1990's,  and ''The Les Brown Story,'' in the late 1980's. Mr. Brown worked well into his later years, refusing to retire, even as he saw his bookings decline.
        ''Let's face it,'' he told The Los Angeles Times in 1990. ''We're going to fade out. There won't be much demand for big bands soon.''
        Correction:  January 9, 2001, Tuesday  An obituary of the bandleader Les Brown on Saturday misspelled the surname of the composer with whom he studied at the Patricia Conway Military Band School in Ithaca, N.Y. The teacher was Wallingford Riegger, not Rewigger.
      