
        Eugene K. Tonkonogy, a real estate entrepreneur who fell in love with a Caribbean island when he read a magazine article about it and did not rest until he bought it years later, died on Dec. 30 in his apartment in Manhattan. He was 95.
        The island was Marina Cay, an eight-acre dot on the map of Sir Francis Drake Channel in the British Virgin Islands between the Atlantic Ocean and the Caribbean. Mr. Tonkonogy had read about the lush volcanic island in a travel article in Esquire written by Robb White, whose later book, ''Our Virgin Island,'' was the basis for the 1958 movie ''Virgin Island,'' starring Sidney Poitier and John Cassavetes.
        He made the island a private retreat that he also leased as a tourist property. ''I always wanted to own an island,'' he told The New York Times in a 1982 interview. ''I hankered after one as soon as I read my first adventure story as a boy.''
        Mr. Tonkonogy, who wrote some adventure tales himself and assiduously cultivated his adventurer's image, was beguiled by Mr. White's tale of Marina Cay, which is covered with flowers and nestled in a sheltered, emerald green lagoon.
        He demonstrated the persistence and patience he had learned as a real estate investor. After years of trying, he finally got the owner of Marina Cay to part with his property, then had to persuade the British colonial governor to grant him a license. He and the governor became frequent tennis partners, and approval was granted.
        Eugene Kenneth Tonkonogy was born in Brooklyn in 1905. His father was a lawyer and real estate investor. He had nine siblings, including a  half-brother, George T. Delacorte, who founded Dell Publishing and donated many gifts to the city, including the outdoor theater in Central Park, and his sister Gertrude Friedberg, who wrote Broadway comedies, including the 1930's hit ''Three-Cornered Moon.''
        He graduated from Cornell University, where he played soccer and was an all-American in lacrosse. He received a law degree from Columbia.
        Mr. Tonkonogy had his own theatrical ambitions and was about to follow his friend Franchot Tone, the actor, to Hollywood. Instead, he stayed behind to marry Ruth Horowitz. They were married for 60 years, until her death in 1995.
        He worked in his father-in-law's insurance brokerage firm but gradually became more interested in real estate. His forte was finding interesting properties and then lining up rich investors. This business resulted in the development of prime properties in East Hampton, N.Y., in the 1940's and 1950's, said his daughter Susan Witty.
        Most years, Mr. Tonkonogy spent at least a month on his island, where he liked to snorkel and sail. He leased much of it to Pusser's Hotels and Resorts, which operates restaurants and bars, in addition to a small hotel on the island.
        Mr. Tonkonogy is survived by Ms. Witty, who lives in Manhattan; another daughter, Peggy, of Santa Monica, Calif.; and one granddaughter.
        As for his old performing bent, it was usually satisfied by a passable imitation of his idol, Fred Astaire, to entertain party guests in East Hampton or at his apartment on Central Park West, Ms. Witty said. But in his 70's, he decided to fulfill a longtime ambition to be a clown in the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, then jubilantly did it each year for 20 years.
        And Hollywood finally saw him when he finagled a role as an extra in the film about his island.
      