
        Al McGuire, a New York original whose 20 years as a college head coach and 23 years as a brash and feisty television analyst landed him in the Basketball Hall of Fame, died yesterday in Milwaukee. He was 72.
        McGuire had suffered from leukemia, said a longtime friend, Norman Ochs, and a statement released by St. John's University, where McGuire played. In a statement released by Marquette University in Milwaukee, where McGuire coached and won a national title, McGuire's son, Al, said his father had died peacefully surrounded by his family. The statement said nothing about the cause of death.
        When McGuire retired from television broadcasting last March, he said he had a form of anemia. He declined to give more details. ''Everybody will cry,'' he said.
        He was the charismatic head coach for seven seasons (1957-64) at Belmont Abbey College in Belmont, N.C., and 13 seasons (1964-77) at Marquette University, where he recruited many players from the New York and Chicago playgrounds.
        At Marquette, his teams compiled a 295-80 record and won 20 or more games for 11 consecutive seasons. His 1970 team won the National Invitation Tournament. In 1977, Marquette won the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament, defeating North Carolina in the final, with McGuire leaving the bench in tears moments before the game ended. His overall record was 404-144.
        After that season, McGuire retired from coaching, saying: ''I enjoyed only the game. I hated practice, recruiting, administration. Too many memos.''
        Then came a television career in which he worked with Dick Enberg and Billy Packer at NBC, before he moved to CBS in 1992. The three announcers reunited for one game last season before McGuire retired. McGuire and Packer were business partners and friends, but they seldom agreed on the air. Their arguments, cleverly refereed by Enberg, helped bring inside college basketball to a generation.
        McGuire's phrases, like ''white knuckler'' for a close game or ''aircraft carrier'' for a big man in the middle, became part of the sport's vocabulary.
        Enberg once told McGuire, ''You got your master's in a bar and a doctorate in a cab.''
        McGuire often dismissed praise by saying, ''A lot of my stuff is an act now, and I don't know when the act ends anymore.''
        McGuire eventually earned more than $400,000 a year from television and more than that as a corporate consultant and motivational speaker. ''I got a lot of moss on me,'' he said, ''but I'm into my second safety deposit box.''
        After he left television, he said: ''In 23 years, I never watched myself. I just tried not to forget how I got there. If you lived in a tenement and become successful, don't make believe you had grass in front of your house.''
        That was a typical reaction from one with a blue-collar upbringing. Alfred Emanuel McGuire was born on Sept. 7, 1928, in Rockaway Beach, Queens, where his father was a saloon keeper. The family lived behind the bar. He grew up on the Queens and Brooklyn playgrounds and fields, where he played football against Joe Paterno and basketball with and against Bob Cousy and his older brother, Dick McGuire. As a 6-foot-2 guard, Al McGuire was the captain of the St. John's team.
        After graduation in 1951, he played in the National Basketball Association for three seasons with the Knicks (1951-54) and one with the Baltimore Bullets (1954-55), all as a defensive specialist who could sometimes contain Cousy. McGuire averaged 3.9 points a game and proudly described himself as ''the worst player in pro ball.''
        After his playing career, he was an assistant at Dartmouth from 1955 to 1956. As a head coach, his teams posted records of 109-64 at Belmont Abbey before moving to Marquette. His Marquette teams included such star players as Jim Chones, Maurice Lucas, Bo Ellis, Dean Meminger, Butch Lee and Jerome Whitehead.
        McGuire's successes bore his quirky stamp. Marquette won the 1970 N.I.T. after McGuire turned down a bid to the N.C.A.A. tournament because he was unhappy with the bracket his team was put in.
        So his team, ranked eighth in the country, defeated the Louisiana State team that starred Pete Maravich in the N.I.T. semifinals and St. John's in the final.
        McGuire led Marquette to the N.C.A.A. final for the first time in 1974, where the Warriors lost to an unbeaten North Carolina State team.
        Three years later, Marquette was back in the final, playing a North Carolina team coached by Dean Smith and led by Walter Davis, Phil Ford and Mike O'Koren. Marquette led, 39-27, at halftime, but North Carolina rallied to go ahead, 45-43. Marquette tied it, and then Smith put North Carolina into its four corners delay offense, which had devastated other opponents.
        The Tar Heels missed a shot after holding the ball for three minutes, however, and McGuire put Marquette in its own delay offense. The Warriors' strategy worked. They made their final 12 free throws, and Marquette won, 67-59. It was the last game McGuire coached.
        When he was elected to the Basketball Hall of Fame in 1992, he had mixed feelings because Dick, his more celebrated brother, had not been chosen. The next year, Dick was elected.
        Al McGuire is survived by his wife of 50 years, Patricia; two sons, Al and Robert; a daughter, Noreen; his brother, Dick; and six grandchildren.
        One of his players at Marquette was his son, then known as Allie. Digger Phelps, the former coach at Fordham and Notre Dame, called McGuire ''a great psychologist.'' Phelps said he remembered a game  when Allie was instructed by his father to tell the referee that Al had just called the referee a derogatory name.
        Allie did, Phelps said, and ''the ref called a technical foul on Al.''
        Phelps continued: ''With a minute to go, we're leading by 2 points and they knocked the ball out of bounds. But Al had set up the ref for a payback, and he got it then. They got the ball and went on to win the game.''
        Phelps remained McGuire's longtime friend. ''I learned defense from Bobby Knight and psychology from Al McGuire,'' Phelps said. ''People need to be refreshed on what Al McGuire was. He was a rock. He was the best. He did for Milwaukee in college basketball what Vince Lombardi did for Green Bay in pro football.''
        McGuire liked toy soldiers, seashells, balloons, clowns and nostalgic country songs. He also dismissed talk that he was a basketball genius, saying: ''I wasn't different. I was ahead of my time. I still am.''
      