
        Lt. Col. Jimmy Yule, who as a British Army officer at the Colditz prisoner of war camp in World War II operated a clandestine radio receiving coded intelligence messages and organized a P.O.W. musical group that helped orchestrate escapes, died Dec. 25 in Colchester, England. He was 84.
        Colditz Castle near Leipzig, an 11th-century hunting lodge originally for the kings of Saxony, was converted by the Germans into a camp for incorrigible Allied prisoners, most of them officers. The P.O.W.'s -- some 800 at their peak -- had been recaptured after escaping from less secure German prison camps and were experts at picking locks and using explosives and disguises. The walls of Colditz Castle were thick and high, and there were often as many guards as prisoners. It was supposed to be escape-proof.
        But 160 prisoners did escape, according to German records -- 30 of them eventually reaching their homelands, the others recaptured -- thanks to the ingenuity of men like  Colonel Yule, who was a captain at the time in the British Signal Corps.
        Captain Yule was captured in May 1940 when his troop train was bombed during the Norwegian campaign. He tried to escape from a P.O.W. camp by digging a tunnel but was discovered and put on a train to another camp. He jumped from an unlocked door on that train only to be recaptured a few days later.
        That brought him incarceration at Colditz in August 1941. He remained  there until March 1943, when he was transferred to Spangenberg camp. His attempt to escape from Spangenberg across a moat was foiled, and he was sent back to Colditz after three months.
        He never tried to escape from Colditz since his services were too valuable to the other prisoners.
        When French officers were transferred out in mid-1943, they left behind a radio receiver that had been hidden between an upper and lower attic.
        Captain Yule, using his Signal Corps training, and another operator took turns fiddling with the dials, hoping to hear the words ''This is London calling, with Alvar Liddell'' -- the voice of the BBC. Two other prisoners transcribed the BBC reports on the Allies' military progress.
        When the war news was good, the prisoners' morale soared. But the radio had another use. The BBC sent coded messages seeking intelligence information. Captain Yule had no radio transmitter, but the prisoners could respond by using written codes smuggled into Colditz by British military intelligence.
        One night, the BBC asked whether there might be barrage balloons --  devices for foiling low-flying planes -- at Dresden. ''I knew the German post officer was unbribable, but he did chat a lot and I found there was no barrage at Dresden,'' Kenneth Lockwood, secretary of the Colditz Association of former prisoners, recalled in 1993. ''The information was sent back to London, in code, in a prisoner's letter.''
        Captain Yule also arranged music for the prisoners' orchestra. The strains often drowned out preparations for breakouts or distracted guards when escapes were in progress. On one occasion, the music started or stopped to signal two escaping prisoners on the whereabouts of sentries who were in view of the prisoner musicians. And a space below the theater stage was used by four escapees as an exit toward passageways leading to freedom.
        The prisoners were also building a glider for their most spectacular escape effort, but before it could be used American troops liberated Colditz, in April 1945.
        James de D. Yule was born in India, the son of a lieutenant colonel in the Indian Army. He entered the Royal Military Academy at Woolwich, England, in 1936, and received an army commission two years later. Returning to the army at the war's end, he wrote camp revues and performed communications work, retiring as a lieutenant colonel in 1961. He later taught music at a high school.
        He is survived by a son and two daughters.
        In January 1993, workmen renovating Colditz Castle for use as a museum discovered the secret radio room. They found Captain Yule's notebook containing German words, codes and directions to German towns for escapees. But the book also revealed Captain Yule's longing for home, for an end to the cold and the hunger. It contained a poem he had written:
        Back in London, here we are
        Back to clubs and caviar.
        Back to Covent Garden's fruits,
        Back to 50-shilling suits.
      