
        James Carr, a singer whose 1966 recording of ''(At the) Dark End of the Street'' was a masterpiece of Memphis soul, died on Sunday in Memphis. He was 58 and lived in Memphis.
        The cause was cancer, said his friend and producer Quinton Claunch.
        With a robust baritone that embraced both amber-toned purity and desperate growls, Mr. Carr could turn an unhappy love song into three minutes of heartsick drama. But a combination of bad breaks and psychiatric problems limited his career.
        ''He had a hard life,'' Mr. Claunch said. ''He felt the blues, man, that's for sure.''
        Mr. Carr was born in Clarksdale, Miss., in 1942 and grew up in Memphis. The son of a minister, he began performing with gospel groups when he was 9.
        He married when he was a teenager and had children, working as a day laborer while he sang in local gospel groups, including the Southern Wonders Juniors and the Harmony Echoes. He never learned to read or write.
        In the early 1960's Mr. Carr started singing soul music. He was turned down by the fledgling Stax Records, which sent him to Mr. Claunch's label, Goldwax.
        Mr. Carr made his first single, ''The Word Is Out,'' in 1964, and in 1966 he made his two best-selling singles: ''You've Got My Mind Messed Up'' and ''(At the) Dark End of the Street,'' both Top 10 rhythm-and-blues hits.
        His was the first recording of ''Dark End of the Street,'' written by Chips Moman and Dan Penn and later performed by Aretha Franklin, Linda Ronstadt and many other singers.
        Mr. Carr made a triumphant 1966 appearance at the Apollo Theater in Harlem and toured the South and East.
        He continued to record for Goldwax through the 1960's, putting out songs like ''Pouring Water on a Drowning Man,'' ''I'm a Fool for You,'' ''Forgetting You'' and ''A Man Needs a Woman.''
        But Mr. Carr was a manic-depressive and could not sustain a career on the soul-music circuit. He grew moody and withdrawn. Mr. Claunch recalled him sitting at a recording session, not saying a word for hours, then singing one song.
        In 1970 Mr. Carr recorded four songs for Atlantic Records; two were released as a single in 1971.
        For the rest of his life, while he lived with his sister Rose, he made occasional efforts to tour or record. He released a single in 1977 and toured Japan in 1979.
        In 1992 Mr. Carr played his first New York engagement in 25 years at Tramps. He was also in and out of psychiatric hospitals, sometimes every few weeks.
        ''His first priority was a marijuana cigarette, a drink or a woman,'' Mr. Claunch said. ''That would take precedence over his music. But he loved to sing.''
        Mr. Carr made albums with Mr. Claunch in 1991 (''Take Me to the Limit'' on Goldwax) and 1994 (''Soul Survivor'' on Soul Trax). A compilation of 13 songs from those albums and 7 other songs is to be released on the Soul Trax label in the next few weeks, Mr. Claunch said.
        ''The Essential James Carr,'' a collection of his recordings from 1964 to 1969, was released in 1995 by Razor and Tie Records.
        Mr. Carr is survived by three sisters, a brother and five children.
      