
        Leonard Davis, a leading philanthropist and the founder of the Colonial Penn Group, an insurance company that pioneered insurance programs for the elderly, died Monday while on a cruise to South America. He was 76 years old and lived in Palm Beach, Fla.
        The cause of death was congestive heart failure, his son Alan said.
        Along with his wife, Sophie, who died in September last year, Mr. Davis founded Colonial Penn in 1963. The company, based in Philadelphia, grew to be one of the largest insurance underwriters in the country before its sale in 1984 to an industrial consortium. The company was best known for products like health and automobile insurance for people over 65.
        After the sale of the company, Mr. Davis, who had lived in New York and worked in the insurance company's New York office, moved to Palm Beach and became a full-time philanthropist, making gifts to a range of health and cultural programs in New York, California, Palm Beach and Israel. Over the years, Mr. Davis gave more than $10 million to City College of New York, where he had met his wife while they were students.
        Among the institutions at City College supported by the Davises was the Aaron Davis Hall, a performing arts center that was described by the architecture critic Paul Goldberger in The New York Times in 1979 as a piece of architecture ''that puts Lincoln Center to shame.'' It was named for Mr. Davis's father. In addition, the Davises provided money to the Leonard Davis Center for the Arts and the Sophie Davis School of Biomedical Education, which has trained more than 1,000 doctors to practice in poor urban areas.
        Mr. Davis also endowed the nation's first school of gerontology, at the University of Southern California, and founded the Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics at the University of Pennsylvania.
        ''My father was always older than his time,'' Alan Davis said. ''He was very concerned about the aging process. It was his passion, and he was able to use that in business and later, when he had the resources, to establish the school at U.S.C.''
        Mr. Davis, who grew up in the Bronx where his widowed mother ran a candy store, also had interests in politics and in the performing arts. A longtime donor to the Democratic Party, Mr. Davis began making contributions as far back as 1974, when he gave $100,000 to the gubernatorial campaign of Ogden R. Reid, a former New York Congressman.
        He was also chairman of National Telefilm Associates, a company whose main assets were a film library and a television station in New York. After protracted negotiations in 1961, the station, which then operated under the call letters WNTA-TV, was sold for $6.2 million and became Channel 13, the New York area's first educational television station.
        In 1964, Mr. Davis was indicted on charges of perjury in connection with a defunct dental insurance plan that he once headed. The United States attorney, Robert M. Morgenthau, said Mr. Davis had lied before a grand jury, which was investigating whether the insurance plan executives made kickbacks to union officials to obtain business. Alan Davis said that the charges against his father were later dropped.
        After moving to Palm Beach in 1984, Mr. Davis led a drive to build the Kravis Center for the Performing Arts and for 20 years backed two regular classical music programs there. He also served on the boards of several Jewish organizations, was a founding member of the National Holocaust Museum in Washington and established the Institute for the Study of International Relations at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem.
        Mr. Davis is also survived by another son, Michael, and four grandchildren.
      