
        William Francis Donnelly, a second-generation newspaperman who helped build the Army Times Publishing Company and the Times-Journal Company into the nation's largest publisher of military newspapers, died today at his home in Potomac, Md., a Washington suburb. He was 76.
        The cause was complications from cancer.
        Born in Cleveland in 1924, Mr. Donnelly moved to Washington with his family in 1936. He began his newspaper career as a boy working in the mail room of Happy Days Publishing, a newspaper created by his stepfather, Melvin Ryder, that circulated among workers in the camps of the Civilian Conservation Corps, a New Deal organization.
        The company became the parent of Army Times Publishing, which produces the Army Times, Navy Times, Air Force Times, Federal Times and Defense News, weekly newspapers that are widely read by members of the military services and in the defense industry.
        Later renamed the Times Journal Company, the company also publishes a chain of Journal newspapers serving the Washington suburbs in Northern Virginia and Maryland. It also prints the Washington edition of The New York Times, which is distributed in the Mid-Atlantic States.
        Mr. Donnelly joined the company's circulation department in 1951, where he headed the Army Times' printing operations in Tokyo and Frankfurt during the buildup of American troops in Vietnam. Mr. Donnelly became vice president of the company in 1968 and president in 1971.
        The company grew under his management, acquiring new headquarters in Springfield, Va., with a large printing press operation.
        It took over the Journal newspapers in 1981 and increased publication to five days a week.
        Mr. Donnelly retired when the Army Times and Times-Journal were bought by the Gannett Company, the nation's largest newspaper chain, in 1997.
        In addition to his newspaper and publishing career, Mr. Donnelly served as a pilot in the Navy from 1943 to 1946, and earned a law degree in 1950 from George Washington University. He was married to Helen Audrey Perkins for 32 years until her death in 1983.
        Mr. Donnelly is survived by his brother, Richard, of Washington; three half-sisters, Mary Jane Belber and Molly Ryder of Washington and Susan Skaggs of Bisbee, Ariz.; two sons, Thomas, of Washington, and John, of Moorestown, N.J.; a daughter, Ann Donnelly of New Orleans; and six grandchildren.
      