
        Kwang-chih Chang, a Harvard anthropologist known for his work documenting Chinese civilization of the Bronze Age, died on Jan. 3 at a nursing home in Boston. He was 69 and had lived in Cambridge, Mass.
        The cause was respiratory failure because of complications from Parkinson's disease, his family said.
        For much of his career, Professor Chang's focus was the Shang period, China's first historic dynasty, from 1600 to 1200 B.C. The exact dates remain somewhat unclear.
        On field trips, which he undertook almost yearly from the early 1970's to the mid-90's, Professor Chang sifted archaeological finds to separate historical fact from mythical tradition.
        Artifacts from the period and his systematic interpretation helped establish the realities of the Shang period, of which little had been known before the 1930's. He described how the people of the Shang dynasty produced fine bronze objects, appreciated art, were unusually religious, lived in cities and developed agriculture.
        His final excavations, in the 90's, centered on the environs of Shangqiu, in Henan Province. At the invitation of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, he joined in the search for the Shang's holy city, Da Yi Shang, or the Great City Shang.
        Professor Chang and his colleagues concentrated on a hypothesis that the dynasty took its name from the first seat of their domain, a town called Shang. That was the capital of at least the first three Shang rulers. But oracle-bone inscriptions strongly suggested that the city remained as a royal religious center even after the political capital had been moved.
        Based on old texts, scholars had previously set their sights on the walled town of Shangqiu, literally the Mound of Shang. But their efforts turned up just Neolithic mound sites.
        One difficulty, Professor Chang reported in the journal Archaeology two years ago, was the sprawling topography of the Shangqiu area. Shangqiu is the name of the walled town, a larger bustling transportation hub, as well as the surrounding county.
        Excavations of the site were further complicated because it was layered, containing vestiges of successive occupants and crumbled civilizations. Other researchers were willing to give up and move on. But Professor Chang persisted. His confidence was buoyed, he wrote, by intensive underground survey work by geophysicists in 1997, that turned up features that suggested a huge buried city.
        ''Now,'' he said, ''it is just a matter of time before Shang sees light.''
        Professor Chang wrote ''The Archaeology of Ancient China,'' published by the Yale University Press in 1963 and most recently revised in 1987. His other books include ''Rethinking Archaeology'' (1967), ''Settlement Archaeology'' (1968) and ''Fengpitou, Tapenking and the Prehistory of Taiwan'' (1969). He also wrote ''Early Chinese Civilization'' (1976), ''Food in Chinese Culture'' (1977), ''Shang Civilization'' (1980), ''Art, Myth and Ritual'' (1983) and ''The Chinese Bronze Age'' (vol. 1, 1983, and vol. 2, 1990).
        In a review of ''Shang Civilization'' in 1982 for The Journal of Asian Studies, Prof. David N. Keightley of the University of California at Berkeley, reported that it was the sole Western-language work to accompany him on a recent research trip to China.
        ''It proved an invaluable and encyclopedic guide to the archaeology, anthropology and culture of East Asia's first historical dynasty,'' Professor Keightley wrote. ''Professor Chang has written, if not the Bible for the field, at least the New Testament.''
        The book pulled together a wealth of information about the Shang, drawing on much new information from scattered areas of China that had been gathered since the first excavation at Anyang. The book inventories important finds like an undisturbed royal tomb that held a vast hoard of bronze and jade objects, and it details Shang social and political organization. The work surveys the chronology of the dynasty and the difficulty of pinpointing the sites of Shang capitals.
        Kwang-chih Chang, known as K. C., was born in 1931 in Beijing, where his father, Chang Wo-chun, was a professor of Japanese. The family moved to Taiwan in 1946, where the son graduated from National Taiwan University in 1954. He moved to the United States the next year and received a Ph.D. at Harvard in 1960.
        From 1961 to 1977, he was at Yale University, starting as an anthropology instructor and becoming a professor, the director of graduate anthropology studies, department chairman and chairman of the Council on East Asian Studies.
        He returned to Harvard in 1977 as a professor of anthropology and was department chairman in the 80's. In 1984, he was named the John E. Hudson professor of archaeology, from which he retired in 1996.
        Surviving are his wife of 43 years, Hwei Li Chang; a son, Julian, of Palo Alto, Calif.; a daughter, Nora, of Cambridge; his mother, Hsin Hsiang Lo of Flushing, Queens; and two brothers, Guang Zhang of Beijing and Kwang-Pu Chang of Chicago.
        Professor Chang was a member of the National Academy of Sciences and a vice president of the Academia Sinica of Taiwan. Among his many other honors were the Award for Distinguished Contributions of the Association for Asian Studies in 1996 and the Lucy Wharton Drexel Medal of the University of Pennsylvania Museum in 1986.
        ''K. C. Chang wrote with equal fluency and elegance in both English and Chinese,'' said Prof. Lothar von Falkenhausen of the Art History Department at the University of California at Los Angeles. ''For some of his works, he himself authored versions in both languages.''
        Professor von Falkenhausen called him ''the only Chinese-born scholar so far to have fundamentally influenced the mainstream discourse of archaeological method and theory.'' In particular, he added, Professor Chang's study of early human settlement patterns and the way they changed over time informed generations of archaeology students, and not only those interested in China.
      