
        The Rev. Dr. David H. C. Read, who brought his Calvinist theology, a outspoken approach to contemporary issues and a showman's verve to the pulpit of one of New York City's most prominent churches, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91.
        Dr. Read, who was always called that on the strength of his many honorary degrees, was pastor of the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church from 1956 until 1989. But his regular radio sermons, some broadcast nationally by the National Council of Churches, were carried far afield from the Victorian Gothic church at Madison Avenue and 73rd Street.
        He published more than 30 books of his sermons. And each Monday, the church mailed out sermons from the day before as part of a subscription service.
        The Rev. Dr. Fred R. Anderson, Dr. Read's successor, said the joke among preachers desperate for topics was that Dr. Read's sermons were preached by the hundreds all over America the following Sunday.
        Dr. Read's sermons were high drama indeed. He would lean far forward, waving his manuscript in his right hand and slicing the air with his left.
        Peering over his glasses at the congregation, he would marshal sources from Humpty Dumpty to Shakespeare as his Scottish-accented voice reached for the oratorical heavens.
        ''The worst sin is dullness,'' he once told Time magazine. Time said, in 1979, ''If there is any one prince of the Protestant pulpit these days, it is Read.''
        The silver-haired preacher used wit like a rapier, as exemplified by the time he seemed to apologize in a 1982 interview with The New York Times for reading his sermons. ''I know that I am thus exposed to the criticism of the Scottish beadle who remarked of a visiting minister's sermon that it was fine except for three things: first, it was read; second, it wasn't well read; and third, it wasn't worth reading,'' he said, trilling his R's, as usual.
        David Haxton Carswell Read was born in Cupar, Fife, on Jan. 2, 1910. His father was a British civil servant who brought his son up in the undiluted Reformation tradition of the Church of Scotland. Dr. Anderson said he entered the University of Edinburgh as a stern fundamentalist.
        But when he won a monetary award for his excellent scholarship, he used it to travel around Europe to study theology.
        He became taken with the contemporary writings of Karl Barth, a Swiss-German minister who advised preaching with ''a Bible in one hand and a newspaper in the other.''
        Dr. Read said the impact on him was that ''I no longer believe that the Gospel can be preached, week after week, in fidelity to the Bible without reference to the questions that are agitating us and are reflected in the daily media.''
        As World War II approached, Dr. Read joined Britain's Highland Division as a chaplain. He was sent to Dunkirk and captured by the Germans.
        He spent the rest of the war being shuttled from one prisoner-of-war camp to another.
        ''In situations like that,'' he recalled, ''you don't get into a discussion of Jonah and the whale -- but whether you believe God is real.''
        Dr. Read emerged from the camps famous, because three books of sermons he delivered in the camps had been smuggled out and published.
        He became the chaplain at the University of Edinburgh. From 1952 to 1956, he was chaplain to the Queen of England, when she was in Scotland.
        As part of that duty, he came to the United States to preach at various churches. He came to the attention of the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, which was then looking for a minister, after preaching at the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church.
        The Madison Avenue church was looking for an intellectually strong minister in the tradition of his predecessors, Henry Sloane Coffin and George Buttrick.
        Dr. Read was adamant that preachers must strike a high cerebral tone.
        ''The church has suffered from too much talk-to-the-children style,'' he said in an article produced for the 150th anniversary of the church in 1989. ''It's not demanding.''
        He is survived by his wife, Patricia, and his son, Rory, of London.
        Dr. Read went on to become active in working for human rights around the world and pressing for a freeze on nuclear arms. He was a leader in the Appeal of Conscience Foundation, which he described as ''a sort of religious version of Amnesty International.''
        At his church, he enthusiastically supported a regular Sunday lunch for the elderly and a program to help the homeless find beds. He taught Bible classes.
        His commitment to closer relationships between religions was strong. For example, in reference to Christianity's Old Testament roots, he once said, ''We are Jews first.''
        But to his parishioners, he was more than a thinker, writer and preacher. The tall man in the swirl of pipe smoke was like family.
        Dr. Anderson remembered the words of one member: ''We don't know when he went from being a preacher to being our pastor to being our resident saint to being our beloved grandfather.''
      