
        Michael Williams, a versatile British actor who was just as comfortable in television comedies as he was in Shakespearean tragedies, and who with Judi Dench had one of the most enduring and sympathetic marriages in British theater, died on Jan. 11 at his home in Surrey. He was 65.
        He had lung cancer, his family said.
        Particularly in later years, Mr. Williams's career never soared as high as his wife's, though both were considered equally promising when they met as actors in the Royal Shakespeare Company in the 1960's. But Mr. Williams never seemed to begrudge Dame Judi her success  and so adored her that he had a single red rose delivered to her every Friday, no matter where in the world she was.
        When his wife won a Bafta award in 1998 from the British Academy of Film and Television Arts for her role as Queen Victoria in the movie ''Mrs. Brown,'' he could barely contain his pride, he said afterward. ''I am afraid I didn't manage to keep my upper lip stiff,'' he said. ''I was overwhelmed not because Jude had won that particular award -- we've got five Baftas at home already -- but because of the roar of approval from the audience.''
        Born in Manchester in 1935, Mr. Williams grew up in Liverpool, was educated at St. Edward's College, and worked in insurance at his father's request before applying to the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art, which admitted him on scholarship. After a spell with the Nottingham Repertory Theater he joined the young Royal Shakespeare Company in 1963.
        He remained with the company for 14 years, playing Troilus in ''Troilus and Cressida,'' Puck in ''A Midsummer Night's Dream,'' the Fool in ''King Lear'' and Adolf Eichmann in ''The Representative,'' among a host of other roles. He also worked with actors like Paul Scofield, Glenda Jackson, Diana Rigg, Ian Richardson and the young Judi Dench.
        Mr. Williams and Dame Judi knew each other for nearly a decade before their friendship turned to romance, blossoming when they played lovers in ''London Assurance.'' When she left for Australia on a six-week tour with the Royal Shakespeare Company, he followed and proposed. She replied, ''Ask me on a rainy night in Battersea, and I'll think about it.''
        Some time later, he recalled, ''We were walking down the road in Battersea and it happened to be raining, so I asked her again, and this time she agreed.'' They married in 1971, despite religious differences (he was a Roman Catholic, she a Quaker), and gradually achieved the sort of harmony that meant that ''just to be in the same room gives us pleasure,'' she said several years ago.
        Although Mr. Williams continued to work in the theater on and off after leaving the company, occasionally working in film, he became increasingly well known for his television roles. His most famous, probably, was in ''A Fine Romance'' (1980-82), in which he and his wife played middle-aged lovers trying to resist all temptation to get married. Other television roles included ''Love in a Cold Climate'' (1980), ''Blunt'' (1985), ''Conjugal Rites'' (1993-94) and ''A Dance to the Music of Time'' (1997).
        He and his wife enjoyed appearing together onstage, too, and had a big success in the mid-1980's with ''Pack of Lies,'' in which they played an ordinary suburban couple whose neighbors turn out to be Russian spies.
        ''If you have a taste for first-rate acting at the level to which Miss Dench aspires, the actress will be reason enough for a visit,'' wrote Eric Shorter in The Daily Telegraph. ''But at the same time, in the less showy role, Mr. Williams can match her subtlety as the equally perplexed but less affected husband whose fears for his wife's health are expressed with such delicate restraint.''
        Mr. Williams also did countless radio plays, performing as Dr. Watson in many episodes of the BBC's Sherlock Holmes series. His last theatrical performance was in 1999, when he appeared at the Royal National Theater in Alan Ayckbourn's new version of ''The Forest,'' by Aleksandr Ostrovsky.
        A heavy smoker, Mr. Williams was  found to have lung cancer in the summer of 1999, and Dame Judi temporarily left her starring role in David Hare's ''Amy's View'' on Broadway to be with him in England.
        Mr. Williams received the Order of St. Gregory, the Roman Catholic Church's equivalent of a knighthood, not long before he died. Dame Judi  said he called it ''one of the best days I've ever had -- and could I have a match replay?''
        In addition to Dame Judi, Mr. Williams is survived by the couple's daughter, Finty, also an actor, and by a grandson.
        In 1994 Dame Judi was rendered nearly inconsolable when the house she shared with Mr. Williams in Hampstead, London, burned to the ground, taking many of her mementos with it. But her husband said at the time that her grief was ''somewhat assuaged when, picking over the debris, she came across my old love letters to her.''
      