
        Millicent Carey McIntosh, whose stewardship of the Brearley School and then Barnard College made her a national role model for generations of young women who wanted to combine career and family, died on Wednesday at her home in Tyringham, Mass. She was 102.
        An outspoken feminist in the 1940's and 50's before feminism became popular, Mrs. McIntosh was the first married woman to head one of the seven top women's colleges known as the Seven Sisters and became a national icon.
        ''She was a president who was ahead of her time,'' Judith Shapiro, Barnard's president, said at a gathering in 1998 at the McIntosh Student Center to mark Mrs. McIntosh's centennial birthday. She said Mrs. McIntosh, a campus legend, was a pioneer in exploring ''the struggle of both women and men to find their true roles in a changing world.''
        Leora Hanser, Barnard student government president at the time of the celebration, said Mrs. McIntosh ''came from a different era, but the work and family issue is really very important, and a lot of Barnard students struggle with this today.''
        In her long career, Mrs. McIntosh spoke and lectured widely, spreading ideas about women, education and child-rearing that would become popular 20 or 30 years later.
        ''Having both a job and a family broadens one's perspective, which in turn makes a great contribution to a happy home life,'' she told the American Association of University Women in 1950.
        She called for child care to be elevated to a dignified profession so working mothers could leave children in capable hands. And she attacked the conditioning that led young girls to feel they must subordinate their own interests when they were with boys, or to use the ''foolish technique'' of pretending they were stupid to be popular.
        For anyone doubting that it could be done, Mrs. McIntosh was also the ultimate role model as she juggled marriage, five children (including twins) and her own career. Newsweek magazine viewed that as so remarkable that it put her on its cover in 1951.
        But Mrs. McIntosh was less didactic than some later feminists. Even as she urged young women to participate in politics and community service and careers, she warned them that combining career and family meant pushing out nearly everything else. And she portrayed family life as a cornerstone of society and democracy, adding that in the face of conflict, family must take precedence.
        ''You must be prepared to sacrifice many of your social contacts until your family is full grown,'' she said, ''and must always remember that your home comes before all else.''
        She also respected the idea that happiness could come in many ways. Personal fulfillment ''may or may not lie in a career,'' she told The New York Herald Tribune in 1946. ''What is important is for each individual to order her life so that she becomes a happy, creative person.''
        Her approach to life was rooted in common sense and a lack of pretense, physically and intellectually. A small, trim woman, she often wore plain suits without decoration. As a college president, she swept her own vestibule and weeded her own garden. And when she was honored after 10 years as chief of Barnard, she agreed on the condition that there be no speeches, no gifts and no flowers.
        She also disliked honorifics. She preferred ''Mrs.'' to Dean and was often referred to as ''Mrs. Mac.'' When Barnard officials referred to her in news releases as ''Dr.,'' she chided them, saying, ''There is only one doctor in our family,'' referring to her husband, Dr. Rustin McIntosh, a pediatrician who taught at the Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons.
        Mrs. McIntosh saw education in its broadest sense, from conjugating irregular Greek verbs to sex education, as the way to prepare young women for the complicated balancing act she was urging on them. She believed that the education of young women for motherhood was society's ''most important task.''
        At a time when few women were represented in the boardrooms of major American corporations, Mrs. McIntosh was a director of several companies, schools, foundations and civic groups.
        After her retirement in 1962, she and her husband moved to their farm in Tyringham, Mass. Her husband died in 1986. Mrs. McIntosh is survived by a daughter, Susan Lloyd of Tinmouth, Vt.; 4 sons, James, of Ann Arbor, Mich., R. Carey, of Tyringham, Kenneth of West Newton, Mass., and J. Richard, of Boulder, Colo.; 10 grandchildren; and 8 great-grandchildren.
        Millicent Carey McIntosh was born on Nov. 30, 1898, in Baltimore, the daughter of Anthony Morris Carey, who ran a machinery supply business, and the former Margaret Cheston Thomas, both active Quakers. She had five brothers and sisters, and all were taught to mend and darn and market and cook.
        Her feminist notions were shaped by strong role models in her family. Her mother fought for women's suffrage, racial equality and prison reform. Her aunt, M. Carey Thomas, was a pioneer in women's education, a founder of the Bryn Mawr School (a girls' school in Baltimore) and president of Bryn Mawr College.
        At Bryn Mawr, young Millicent played water polo and basketball and majored in Greek and English, graduating magna cum laude. She organized clubs for factory workers before accepting her aunt's offer of a year of study abroad.
        After studying economics at Cambridge and English at Johns Hopkins University (where she did her doctoral thesis on 14th-century English mystery dramas), Mrs. McIntosh became an instructor at Bryn Mawr College. But she quickly was appointed dean of freshmen and then acting dean of the college.
        She left Bryn Mawr to became headmistress at the Brearley School, the private girls school in Manhattan, from 1930 to 1947, and converted it from a half-day format to a full day. When she arrived, she asked her students to help plan the ''ideal school'' with the fewest possible rules. She worked without a desk because she felt that a desk intimated students. She introduced aptitude tests and remedial instruction and instituted a sex education course for sixth graders, which she taught.
        In 1932, after she married Dr. McIntosh, her aunt discouraged her retirement, telling her, ''You can have your babies in August.'' At Brearley, she had five children. (She took to wearing academic robes to cover pregnancies.)
        She was a hands-on manager, both at school and at home. She left detailed instructions for her household: menus, shopping lists, activities for the children. And every morning, she called Brearley to specify a hymn for morning assembly.
        In late 1946, before Barnard had its own president (she was given the title in 1952), Mrs. McIntosh was chosen from more than 60 candidates to succeed Virginia Gildersleeve as Barnard's dean. It was a life that left few free minutes, but Mrs. McIntosh grabbed every one. She signed correspondence during intermissions at concerts and took her secretary with her to the beauty parlor so she could give dictation.
        An administrator who valued good teaching, Mrs. McIntosh was dismayed that teachers were paid less than secretaries and dedicated some of Barnard's endowment for faculty salaries.
        She also valued merit, and directed another part of the Barnard endowment to scholarships to open Barnard's doors to ''still more girls of superior talent regardless of their ability to pay.''
        As she balanced career and home, Mrs. McIntosh acknowledged both her husband's support and good household help (which at one point included a governess, a cook and two daily helpers). She also respected the individuality of her children, keeping each in a separate school until one year, after attending five separate Christmas pageants, she said, ''I thought if I heard one more 'Silent Night' I would break down.'' Their schooling was consolidated.
        At Barnard, she continued to teach: English and modern living, a required class that sought to help students think through their lives. She also presided over a $10 million fund-raising campaign.
        John D. Rockefeller Jr., who rarely contributed to development funds, agreed to give Barnard $1 million, he told Mrs. McIntosh, ''because of my confidence in the exceptional vision and leadership you are bringing to the college.''
        Even after she retired from Barnard, the trustees continued to consult her. In 1971, when men's and women's colleges everywhere were going coeducational and Barnard was facing pressure to merge into Columbia, Barnard's chairwoman, Eleanor Elliott, turned to Mrs. McIntosh, who suggested that the trustees try to answer three questions: Would a merger produce better education for Barnard and Columbia? Would relations between Barnard women and Columbia men be improved? And would a merger create economies for both colleges?
        ''Mrs. Mac's questions helped organize our thinking simply and calmly,'' Mrs. Elliott said in an interview, ''and of course, we felt stronger.''
      