
        Dr. Sadek K. Hilal, a Columbia University radiologist who helped advance the science of imaging technology, died Dec. 24 at his home in Englewood Cliffs, N.J. He was 70.
        Dr. Hilal suffered a stroke, his family said.
        From 1979 until he took emeritus status four years ago, he directed Columbia's division of radiology and was a professor of radiology and neurological surgery at the College of Physicians and Surgeons. At his death he was president of the International Society of Neuroradiology, a position he held since 1998.
        Dr. Hilal was known for refining the technology to treat cerebral vascular disease, and he was a pioneer in developing a treatment for tumors deep in the brain.
        In 1983, at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, he unveiled a fourth-generation nuclear magnetic resonance scanner, which diagnosed strokes and other disorders by pinpointing dead or dying tissues well inside the body.
        ''Never before,'' he said at the introduction, ''have we been able to look inside the human body with such detail and clarity.''
        He wrote about 240 papers and eight books. He held patents on three of his scientific innovations in tomography and imaging technology.
        Sadek Kamil Hilal was born in Cairo and received his medical degree at the University of Cairo in 1955. He arrived in this country two years later and earned a doctorate in radiology at the University of Minnesota in 1962.
        Even his thesis, ''The Measurement of Blood Flow by Radiologic Technique,'' became one of the most frequently cited references in the field, according to the journal Radiology. Columbia recruited him in 1963 as an assistant professor and assisting attending radiologist.
        Dr. Hilal's reputation soon grew with his introduction of a microdensitometer, which gauged the density of the cerebral arteries and allowed doctors to measure the blood flow in the brain.
        He is survived by his wife of 36 years, Cynthia Tutundgy Hilal; three sons, Dr. Peter, Paul and Philip, all of Manhattan; a daughter, Dr. Diane Hilal Campo of Ridgewood, N.J.; and three granddaughters.
        Among Dr. Hilal's notable patients was Edward I. Koch, who was mayor of New York when he underwent a magnetic resonance imaging scan, or M.R.I., in 1987. Dr. Hilal found what he described as a ''tiny, trivial stroke.''
        Mr. Koch later discussed his experience at some length in a 1987 column in Newsday called ''My Ordeal.''
        ''The doctor in charge of the machine, who has in fact perfected it and must be a genius, is Dr. Sadek Hilal,'' Mr. Koch wrote. ''I was helped out of the chair by Dr. Hilal, and he said to me: 'Eddie, don't worry. You will be O.K.' I knew that I would be and I knew I was in special hands.''
      