
        John Pierrepont, a philanthropist who was prominent in nonprofit organizations based in New York City, died on Wednesday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 84.
        Mr. Pierrepont was with Delafield & Delafield, an investment firm based in Manhattan, for a time, beginning in 1955, and then was a limited partner of Tucker, Anthony & R. L. Day, another investment firm, for some years beginning in 1966. After 1982, he carried on his career in finance as a private investor.
        He was a trustee of the Wildlife Conservation Society, formerly called the New York Zoological Society, for 40 years until his death. He was chairman of its development committee for 24 years and of its international conservation committee for more than a decade. He was also treasurer and vice president of its board. The John Pierrepont Wildfowl Marsh at the Bronx Zoo is named in his honor.
        He was long active in the affairs of Lenox Hill Neighborhood House, which carries on charitable activities in the Lenox Hill neighborhood in Manhattan. From 1967 to 1992, he was successively the institution's president, chairman and honorary chairman.
        At various times, he was a trustee of the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx, the Museum of the City of New York, the National Academy of Design and the Vincent Astor Foundation, until its dissolution three years ago.
        As the Knickerbocker Club's president from 1987 to 1998, he oversaw the renovation of its building at Fifth Avenue and 62nd Street, which was designed by William Adams Delano and completed in 1915.
        Born in Manhattan, Mr. Pierrepont grew up in Far Hills, N.J., and graduated from Lawrenceville School in Lawrenceville, N.J. In 1939, he graduated from Yale College.
        During World War II, he was a Navy officer in the Pacific for four years.
        He is survived by his wife, Nancy Weller Pierrepont; a son, John Jay  Pierrepont of San Francisco; a daughter, Margaret V. B. Pierrepont of Natchez, Miss.; a stepdaughter, Nancy Dewey Hoppin of Manhattan; and three grandchildren.
      