
        Stan Freeman, the pianist, composer, comedian and writer who was a ubiquitous presence in New York nightclubs in 1950's and 60's, was found dead in his home in Los Angeles last Saturday. He was 80.
        A classically trained pianist, renowned wit and passionate musical theater archivist, Mr. Freeman straddled many different areas of entertainment, including nightclubs, radio, television, Broadway and recordings. Born in Waterbury, Conn., he graduated from the University of Hartford and during World War II played in Glenn Miller's Army Air Force Band. After the war he joined Tex Beneke's orchestra as a pianist. He also teamed up with the pianist Cy Walter to make several duo piano albums as well as recordings with Mabel Mercer and Lee Wiley.
        As his nightclub career developed (he became almost a fixture at the Blue Angel), Mr. Freeman became known as much for his comic patter as for his musical abilities. In 1951 he achieved pop notoriety as the harpsichordist who supplied the bouncy accompaniment to Rosemary Clooney's novelty hit ''Come On-a My House.'' The next year he played harpsichord on Percy Faith's hit instrumental ''Delicado'' and years later he recorded a harpsichord-oriented ''Twist'' album.
        Mr. Freeman succeeded Burt Bacharach as Marlene Dietrich's musical director in the 1960's, and they toured the United States and Europe together. He also collaborated on the scores for two Broadway musicals. ''I Had a Ball,'' starring Lucille Ball, opened in 1964 and ran for 164 performances, but the 1970 show ''Lovely Ladies, Kind Gentlemen,'' based on the novel ''Teahouse of the August Moon,'' lasted only 16 performances.
        He contributed special material for Mary Tyler Moore and Carol Burnett's television shows and shared a 1977-78 Emmy Award with Arthur Malvin for the mini-musical ''Hi-Hat,'' an Astaire-Rogers parody featured on Ms. Burnett's show.
        His lifelong admiration for George Gershwin (whose music he frequently played in concert) and for Gershwin's sidekick, Oscar Levant, inspired the creation of Mr. Freeman's acclaimed one-man tribute to Levant, ''At Wit's End,'' which opened in Los Angeles in the late 1980's and won him a Los Angeles Drama-Logue Award for best actor. The show toured the country, arriving in New York at Michael's Pub in 1991.
        In his later years Mr. Freeman arranged for Michael Feinstein and was musical director of two revues (of Leonard Bernstein and Gershwin songs) at the cabaret Rainbow and Stars. He also contributed several songs, was musical director and performed in the satirical Off Broadway revue ''Secrets Every Smart Traveler Should Know,'' which  opened at the Triad Theater in 1997.
        He is survived by two brothers, Paul and Marvin Friedman.
        Correction:  January 23, 2001, Tuesday  An obituary of the pianist and composer Stan Freeman on Saturday misidentified the star of the 1964 Broadway musical ''I Had a Ball,'' on which he collaborated. It was Buddy Hackett, not Lucille Ball.
      