
        Dr. H. Corwin Hinshaw, a lung specialist who pioneered the use of streptomycin to treat tuberculosis, died on Dec. 28 at his home in San Rafael, Calif. He was 98.
        As a young researcher at the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota in the early 1940's, he took part in a major effort to conquer tuberculosis. He tested the new antibiotic streptomycin on guinea pigs, which recovered. He then went on to test it on people.
        On Nov. 20, 1944, he and two colleagues, Dr. Karl H. Pfuetze and Dr. William H. Feldman, used streptomycin for the first time to treat a patient, a 21-year-old woman who was suffering from advanced and spreading pulmonary tuberculosis and who was near death.
        Her right lung had been collapsed in a desperate effort to save her when a new lesion appeared on her left lung. Dr. Hinshaw and his colleagues administered streptomycin, which stopped the spread, allowing surgical treatment and resulting in complete recovery.
        Streptomycin, discovered at Rutgers University, was the first antimicrobial agent developed after penicillin and the first antibiotic effective against the TB bacterium. It also proved itself as a foil to bacilli causing various other diseases.
        Horton Corwin Hinshaw was born in Iowa Falls, Iowa, and his family later moved to Idaho. He graduated from the College of Idaho in 1923. He received a Ph.D. at the University of California in 1927 and an M.D. at the University of Pennsylvania in 1933.
        He spent his early career as a teacher and researcher in zoology and parasitology before joining the Mayo staff in 1933 and specializing in lung diseases. Dr. Hinshaw was an associate professor of medicine there until 1949, when he moved to California and was affiliated with Stanford University as a clinical professor.
        He moved to the University of California Medical School in San Francisco in 1959, where he remained until he retired in 1979. He was inducted into the American Lung Association Hall of Fame in 1980.
        Dr. Hinshaw is survived by two children, as well as grandchildren and great-grandchildren. His wife, Dorothy Youmans Hinshaw, died in 1994.
      