
        Al Gross, also known as Phineas Thaddeus Veeblefetzer, granddaddy of citizens' band radio, who tinkered with all manner of electronic gear before people just had to have them, died on Dec. 21 at a hospice in Sun City, Ariz., his hometown. He was 82.
        Mr. Gross died after a brief illness, said Ethel Stanka Gross, his wife and sole immediate survivor.
        Mr. Gross's wizardry in wireless communications earned him a stack of patents foretelling the advent of things like cell phones, paging systems, garage-door openers and walkie-talkies. One idea that did not catch on at first was the pager.
        ''The doctors hated it,'' Mr. Gross said when the Massachusetts Institute of Technology honored him last May. ''They complained that it would interrupt their golf games.''
        He received the Lemelson-M.I.T. Lifetime Achievement Award for Invention, and the Federal Communications Commission sent him a letter of commendation. At his death, having given up his own wireless radio business years ago, he was a senior staff engineer for the Orbital Sciences Corporation of Chandler, Ariz.
        Al Gross was born in Toronto. He became fascinated with things wireless at age 9 when his parents took him on a cruise on Lake Erie, and the ship's radio operator let him listen in.
        At 12 he scrounged parts from a junkyard to cobble together a ham radio, and at 16 he earned an amateur operator's license. The next step had to be what he called a ''walkie-talkie'' because, he said, ''I wanted to walk around and talk to other hams.''
        By 1938, after some experimentation, he built one that worked. He pioneered citizens' band radio, adopting the name Veeblefetzer as his own CB handle. He graduated with a degree in electrical engineering from what is now Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland in 1939 and kept improving on his lightweight, hand-held mobile transceivers.
        After World War II began, he organized a command demonstration of his walkie-talkie for Gen. William J. Donovan, founder of the Office of Strategic Services, forerunner of the C.I.A. ''Donovan liked the idea,'' Mr. Gross recalled. ''He recruited me and converted me from a civilian to a captain.''
        His top-secret mission was to develop the first ground-to-air, battery-operated two-way radio. With compact antennas and ranges of up to 30 miles, the radio used unexplored high frequencies that enabled the military to conduct surveillance behind enemy lines as well.
        The Joint Chiefs of Staff later praised Mr. Gross's project, code-named Joan-Eleanor, as having ranked among the Allies' ''most successful wireless intelligence-gathering operations, saving millions of lives by shortening the war.''
        With the war's end drawing near, Mr. Gross demonstrated his contraption for the Federal Communications Commission, which created the Citizens' Radio Communications Service for private short-range radio transmissions. Mr. Gross went into business for himself, establishing the Citizens Radio Corporation.
        He developed the circuitry that opened the way to personal pocket paging systems, and patented precursors of the cell phone and the cordless phone. He was also credited with having given Chester Gould, a cartoonist, the idea for Dick Tracy's wristwatch radio, something Mr. Gould observed Mr. Gross tinkering with in his workshop.
        Over the years Mr. Gross worked as a principal engineer for leading electronics manufacturers like the Sperry Corporation, Westinghouse, AG Communications Systems and, for the past 10 years, Orbital Sciences. At Orbital Sciences he remained active as an inventor and engineer in aerospace, satellite and military electrical and electronic systems.
        And that stack of patents to his name? They expired, drifting into the public domain for others to build on once the public was ready for cell phones and even the doctors packed pagers.
        ''Otherwise,'' Mr. Gross said, with the M.I.T. lifetime award securely his, ''I'd be as rich as Bill Gates.''
      