
        Dr. Joseph L. Melnick, a founder of modern virology, a pioneer in polio research and a leader in environmental science, died on Jan. 7 in Houston, where he worked for more than 40 years at the Baylor College of Medicine. He was 86.
        The cause was Alzheimer's disease, his wife, Dr. Matilda Benyesh-Melnick, said.
        Dr. Melnick focused his research on the practical and public health aspects of a wide variety of viruses, using techniques that required tedious work and persistence.
        He first made his mark in polio,  enabling vaccines to be used throughout the world without the need for freezers by adding a preservative, magnesium chloride.
        He died four days before the death of Dr. Dorothy M. Horstmann of New Haven, another polio pioneer, with whom he wrote scientific papers while they worked at Yale in the 1940's and 1950's.
        Dr. Melnick began his scientific career at Yale under Dr. John R. Paul, a renowned expert in polio. Until a vaccine was introduced in the 1960's, polio struck up to 57,000 people a year in the United States. His team showed that the polio virus was transmitted among people chiefly by fecal contamination, usually through soiled hands. With Dr. Horstmann, Dr. Melnick showed that flies could spread polio but that they were not the main route of transmission.
        He also showed that the virus could survive for long periods in sewage. For instance, in studies in New York City from 1940 to 1945, Dr. Melnick found that the virus appeared in the sewage when new polio infections peaked in the summer, but dwindled at other times of the year.  The findings ''spoke loudly in favor of the idea that polio viruses circulate widely in the population and environment only during epidemic seasons,'' Dr. Paul wrote.
        That information pushed Dr. Melnick to the forefront of environmental virology work. He documented the presence of hepatitis and other viruses in sewage, shellfish and soil. and documented that the standards to detect bacteria were inadequate for determining viral contamination in drinking water, which resulted in new purification standards.
        ''Dr. Melnick spawned the field of environmental virology,'' said Dr. Janet S. Butel, his successor as head of the department of virology at Baylor.
        With Dr. Michael E. DeBakey, the heart surgeon, Dr. Melnick explored whether cytomegalovirus and other viruses played a role in the development of coronary artery disease.
        Joseph Louis Melnick was born in Boston on Oct. 9, 1914. When Dr. Melnick was 7, his father, a baker, moved the family to New Haven.
        He graduated from Wesleyan University in 1936 and three years later earned a Ph.D. in physiological chemistry at Yale. As he worked his way up the Yale academic ladder, becoming a professor of epidemiology in 1954, he was among the first to discover that the polio virus belonged to a larger group now known as the enteroviruses and was among those who discovered that polio and other enteroviruses only rarely invade the central nervous system.
        In 1957, he became chief virologist at the division of biological standards at the National Institutes of Health. Although Dr. Melnick did not have a medical degree, he moved to Baylor in 1958 to become founding chairman of the medical school's department of virology and epidemiology. In 1960, Dr. Melnick showed that the weakened strains of polio virus used by Dr. Albert Sabin to make his oral vaccine produced less damage to the nervous system than the strains used in a competing vaccine.
        Dr. Melnick is credited with being the first to conceptualize, classify and name a number of virus groups, including enteroviruses. From 1968 to 1991, Dr. Melnick was dean of graduate sciences at Baylor. For many years, he wrote the section on virology for a standard textbook on microbiology and he was chief editor of three scientific journals.
        Besides his wife, Dr. Melnick is survived by a daughter, Nancy Livingston of Denver, and a granddaughter.
      