
        Frank E. Toscani, who as the American military governor of a small Sicilian town during World War II replaced a cherished 700-year-old bell that Mussolini had had melted for munitions, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Nyack, N.Y. He was 89 and lived in Pearl River, N.Y.
        The town, Licata, became Adano in John Hersey's novel ''A Bell for Adano,'' which was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for fiction in 1945. ''A Bell for Adano'' was made into a Broadway play, starring Fredric March, and a movie, starring John Hodiak.
        The story's hero, Major Joppolo, was modeled on Mr. Toscani, who was a major when John Hersey, a reporter for Time magazine, spent four or five days visiting him. Mr. Toscani's observations went into creating the fictional character.
        Major Joppolo resembled Mr. Toscani down to such details as having had a civilian job as a clerk in the New York City Sanitation Department. But one of Mr. Hersey's details created problems on the home front for Mr. Toscani: Major Joppolo's romance with a blond Italian woman.
        Mr. Hersey sent Mrs. Toscani an advance copy of the novel, with an assurance that the love affair was strictly imaginary. This was not enough to prevent her from becoming ''quite upset,'' according to an interview Mr. Toscani gave The New York Times in 1946. He filed a $250,000 libel suit, alleging that the novel ''recklessly, maliciously and falsely states certain defamatory matters.''
        It might not have helped Mr. Hersey's case that the alluring Gene Tierney dyed her hair blond to play Tina, the Italian woman who did the same thing in the book.
        Mr. Hersey and Mr. Toscani resolved the lawsuit over a friendly dinner at the Bell for Adano restaurant on West 48th Street. Mr. Hersey agreed to give all his profits from the film to the American Red Cross. He also picked up the dinner check.
        Frank Eugene Toscani was born in Manhattan on May 20, 1911. The family's poverty obliged him to drop out of school in the ninth grade. He lied about his age and obtained a chauffeur's license to get a job driving a truck. He next took a clerical job with the Sanitation Department.
        In 1935, he married Georgiana Santini. The next year, he joined the National Guard after a friend at the Sanitation Department suggested it would be a good way to supplement his income. The unit was activated for World War II.
        Major Toscani went with the Third Infantry Division to Licata, one of the Allies' first invasion points, and became military governor. Just after he arrived, a delegation of townspeople came to see him.
        ''I asked them what they needed most,'' he told The Times in 1966. '' 'A bell,' they replied. 'A bell before everything.' ''
        Only a week before the Allies landed, the village bell had been melted by Italian troops. The bell, a focal point for the town's activities, had rung for births, deaths and marriages and even to send men home from work.
        ''Being Italian, it was natural for me to treat my people sympathetically,'' Mr. Toscani said. ''I thought they needed food. Everybody was hungry. I was stunned when they wanted a new bell. My first impulse was to laugh, but I told the mayor I'd do what I could.''
        A week later, he mentioned the request to some American navy officers, who found a bell on a destroyer. ''The people acted as if a miracle was taking place,'' he recalled.
        He was transferred to Palermo and did not see the bell installed. But he was invited to Licata in 1962, and every hour, for three straight days, they rang the bell. ''Sometimes I think I can still hear it,'' he said in 1966.
        The bell was not Mr. Toscani's only claim to cinematic fame. He was also upbraided by Gen. George S. Patton for allowing a donkey cart to obstruct invading troops, a scene depicted in the movie ''Patton'' after the title character, played by George C. Scott, shoots the donkey.
        Mr. Toscani received a number of military honors, including the Bronze Star and Legion of Merit; the rank of Officer of the Order of the British Empire, and the rank of Commander from the Crown of Italy.
        He returned from the war to work for the moving company partly owned by his father-in-law, the Seven Santini Brothers, based in the Bronx. In the early 1950's, he moved to Ardsley, N.Y., and in 1985, to Pearl River. He retired as a colonel from the Army Reserve in 1966 after 31 years of service.
        Mr. Toscani's first wife died in 1987. He is survived by his second wife, Dolores, whom he married in 1990; a son, Frank Jr., of Fort Lee, N.J.; a daughter, Francesca Webber of Beverly, Mass.; a sister, Louise Villa of River Edge, N.J.; and a granddaughter.
        Despite his lawsuit complaining about how he was depicted in Mr. Hersey's book, Mr. Toscani by the 1950's appeared on ''What's My Line?'' as a mystery guest. His bosses in the moving business, the Santinis, had suggested that it might be good publicity. Only one panelist, Dorothy Kilgallen, guessed that he was the real-life Major Joppolo.
        The exact nature of Mr. Toscani's relationship with ''Tina,'' the major's romantic interest in ''A Bell for Adano,'' will probably remain a mystery. ''He never really said whether he did or didn't,'' his son said.
      