
        Rabbi Yitzchok Singer, whose leadership of the historic Bialystoker Synagogue on the Lower East Side of Manhattan helped it thrive despite four decades of community change, died on Sunday at Beth Israel Medical Center. He was 72.
        He died of a heart attack, a spokesman for the synagogue said.
        Membership of the congregation now stands at 400, but the synagogue also draws many worshipers who work on Wall Street and elsewhere downtown and who want to pray during the workday.
        While other Orthodox synagogues of the Lower East Side closed as their members moved to Brooklyn or the suburbs, the Bialystoker Synagogue grew as the newly fashionable neighborhood's Orthodox community also rebounded. Rabbi Singer ''was significantly responsible in bringing about its renaissance,'' said Sheldon Silver, the speaker of the New York State Assembly, in a telephone interview from Tel Aviv yesterday.
        ''Surprisingly, in his later years, his synagogue was the one where many young people moving into the neighborhood became affiliated,'' said Mr. Silver, a vice president of the synagogue and a lifelong member whose bar mitzvah was held there. Mr. Silver invited Rabbi Singer to deliver the invocation in the State Legislature when he was elected speaker in 1994.
        Known as a eloquent orator, Torah scholar and philanthropist, Rabbi Singer was a rarity in Orthodox Jewry: a magnet for those from across the spectrum of Orthodox practice from modern to Hasidic.
        ''Though in practice and ritual, he and the synagogue followed all the tenets of Orthodoxy, he welcomed everyone from the ultrareligious to those who were not at all observant and made them feel they belonged,'' said Norman Dawidowicz, a past president of the congregation, founded in 1878 by immigrants from the Polish city of Bialystok.
        Heir to a rabbinic tradition, Rabbi Singer was born in Newark in 1928. Two years after his ordination at the Yeshiva Torah Vodaath in Brooklyn, he assumed the pulpit that had been held by his late father, Rabbi Eliahu Singer, at the Austreich Ungarisher Shul in Newark. He was also spiritual leader of the Garden Street Synagogue in Hartford from 1956 to 1960.
        He married Bluma Halperin, the daughter of a Hasidic leader and a direct descendant of the Baal Shem Tov, the 18th-century founder of Hasidism.
        She survives him, as do five sons, Boruch Singer, Yosef Singer and Yisroel Singer of Manhattan, Rabbi Eli Hersh Singer of Brooklyn, and Nussie Singer of Queens; two brothers, Yosef Singer of Englewood, N.J., and Jack Singer of Brooklyn; and 12 grandchildren.
        In 1960, Rabbi Yitzchok Singer moved to New York, where he became leader of the Bialystoker Synagogue, an anchor for Jewish life on the Lower East Side. The synagogue is believed to be the only one in the city that has four services every morning, starting at 6 a.m. for people who are in their offices at 7 a.m.
        Rabbi Singer raised funds for institutions, schools, yeshivas and hospitals, and sometimes helped strangers who walked in off the street. He was a hospital chaplain at New York University Medical Center, and at his death was president of the United Jewish Council of the Lower East Side and chairman of the Lower East Side Board of Rabbis.
        ''He was constantly concerned about the future,'' Mr. Davidowicz said. ''Two months ago, he convened a meeting of the executive committee to plan changes in light of changes in the community. After all, the neighborhood has gone from the cradle of immigrant life to the area with the highest per capita ratio of nightclubs in Manhattan.
        ''He saw that as an opportunity to reach out to a whole group of Jews he had never reached before, including the very young and the unaffiliated.''
      