
        Ray Walston, who won a Tony Award for playing the Devil opposite Gwen Verdon in the Broadway musical ''Damn Yankees,'' repeated his role in the film version and went on to a long career playing eccentric, oddly endearing characters in movies and on television, died on Monday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 86.
        Everyone has his own Ray Walston. Broadway theatergoers will remember the fiendish, funny Applegate, who plots to beat the New York Yankees in ''Damn Yankees,'' while television viewers will first think of him as the Martian on ''My Favorite Martian'' or as Judge Henry Bone in ''Picket Fences,'' a role for which he won an Emmy Award.
        Others will recall his antic comedy in two Billy Wilder films, ''The Apartment'' and ''Kiss Me, Stupid,'' and as Popeye's edgy father, Poopdeck Pappy, in Robert Altman's ''Popeye.''
        In many of these incarnations Mr. Walston managed to combine the sinister with the comic. While acting, he applied his own quirky sense of humor, an approach that worked equally well onstage, in films and on television.
        Mr. Walston was born in New Orleans. He began acting in 1939 with Margo Jones's Community Players in Houston and then played several seasons at the Cleveland Playhouse.
        He made his Broadway debut in 1945 in a walk-on role in Maurice Evans's ''Hamlet.'' After several other appearances, he received his first notice as a sailor in a revival of Eugene O'Neill's sea plays, directed by Jose Ferrer at City Center in New York. In 1949 he was in ''Mrs. Gibbons's Boys,'' the first of five productions in which he appeared under the direction of George Abbott; the most notable was ''Damn Yankees.''
        For his performance in Tennessee Williams's ''Summer and Smoke'' on Broadway, he won the Clarence Derwent Award. For two years he played Luther Billis in the national company and in the London production of the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical ''South Pacific.'' Later he repeated the role in Joshua Logan's film version. He was also in Rodgers and Hammerstein's ''Me and Juliet.''
        His breakthrough came in 1955 when he was called on to play the Devil in ''Damn Yankees.'' With a score by Richard Adler and Jerry Ross, the show follows the Faustian path of a baseball fan who sells his soul to the Devil in order to become a Washington Senator and lead the team to victory over the Yankees. Mr. Walston was satanic with a wry twist, underplaying a role that could have become villainous and singing wistfully about death and destruction in ''Those Were the Good Old Days.'' Ms. Verdon was cast as his very sensual assistant, a role that won her a Tony Award as well.
        After ''Damn Yankees,'' Mr. Walston played in other shows on Broadway, including ''Who Was That Lady I Saw You With?'' and, in 1966, ''Agatha Sue, I Love You,'' but spent most of his years in Hollywood.
        He is survived by his wife, Ruth, and their daughter, Kate, both of Los Angeles, and by two grandchildren.
        Mr. Walston quickly became a television star playing Bill Bixby's otherworldly ''uncle'' on ''My Favorite Martian.'' For him, a Martian was only one step from a devil. At first he was fearful of being typecast, but decided the opportunity and the income made the part worthwhile.
        When Peter Sellers had a heart attack, and Mr. Walston was asked to take over his role in ''Kiss Me, Stupid,'' he did it with his customary panache. In an interview with The New York Times in 1964, he said he saw it as a chance ''to blast the possibility of spending the rest of my life being cast as a Martian and wandering about in front of a camera with antennae on my head.''
        Over the years he repeatedly turned down offers to perform in more musicals.
        ''I think I'm really ill equipped,'' he told The Times in 1980. ''I can't sing and I can't dance.'' Of course, anyone who saw him in ''Damn Yankees'' or ''South Pacific'' would have disagreed.
      