
        Charles Helou, who was Lebanon's president and head of state from 1964 to 1970, an era of growing threats and of incipient conflict, died on Sunday at a hospital in Zalka, north of Beirut. He was 88 and had recently lived in Kasslik, also north of the capital.
        The cause was a heart attack, Lebanon's state television reported.
        Mr. Helou (pronounced ay-LOO) was a Maronite Christian. He was education minister when he was elected president, not by a direct popular vote, but by the 99 members of the Parliament.
        He served a six-year term as president. Under the Constitution, he could not succeed himself.
        Mr. Helou was credited with bringing about the signing of the Cairo Agreement of November 1969. At the time, Lebanese and Palestinian commando negotiators announced that they had reached ''full agreement'' on an accord to end strife between their forces in Lebanon.
        Under the pact, Lebanon was reported to have formally endorsed the presence of Palestinian commandos on its territory in return for a pledge by the commandos to ''cooperate'' with the Lebanese Army. The pact was signed after more than a week of military conflict that tore Lebanon and raised social and political divisions to the surface. One one side were 20,000 Lebanese troops. On the other 4,000 commandos.
        But the agreement's detractors have said that although it reduced ill will between the Lebanese and the commandos, it was followed by increasing commando assaults against Israel and by stepped-up Israeli counterblows.
        Eventually, long after Mr. Helou had stepped down as president, the Israeli Army invaded southern Lebanon in 1982 and occupied the area for some years. Lebanon was also racked by a civil war from 1975 to 1990.
        Mr. Helou, son of a pharmacist, was born in Beirut. He was educated at the University of St. Joseph in Beirut and earned a law degree. For several years, he was editor of a French-language daily in Beirut, Le Jour. In 1947, he joined the government as the first Lebanese minister to the Vatican, and two years later he was recalled to Beirut to enter his the cabinet as information minister.
        As president, he was a heavy set elegantly dressed figure with dark hair brushed straight back and a taste for homburg hats.
        His wife, the former Nina Trad, died some time ago.
      