
        Byron De La Beckwith, whose 1994 conviction in the murder of a civil rights leader three decades earlier symbolized a transformation in Mississippi, died on Sunday night in Jackson, Miss. He was 80.
        Mr. Beckwith died at the University of Mississippi Medical Center shortly after he was moved there from a prison 13 miles away, said Ken Jones, a corrections agency spokesman. The cause of death was not immediately known, although Mr. Beckwith had heart disease, high blood pressure and other ailments.
        Mr. Beckwith was serving a life term for the 1963 killing of Medgar Evers, the Mississippi field secretary for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. The shooting of Mr. Evers, who was 37, outside his Jackson home was one of the most notorious events in the violence that marked the civil rights  era.
        The victim's wife, Myrlie, and their three young children had been watching President John F. Kennedy give a televised address on civil rights on the night of June 12, 1963. Mr. Evers was at a meeting of civil rights workers at a nearby church.
        Moments after Mr. Evers stepped out of the car, a sniper hiding in a clump of honeysuckle vines shot him with a high-powered hunting rifle. Mrs. Evers found her mortally wounded husband at the steps by a door to their house, where he had managed to drag himself after the bullet struck him in the back and tore through his chest.
        Mr. Beckwith (whose Ku Klux Klan friends called him DEE-lay) was quickly linked to the killing. The sniper's rifle was discovered near the scene and was soon traced to Mr. Beckwith. The rifle's telescopic sight bore Mr. Beckwith's fingerprints. Some witnesses reported seeing a man who looked like Mr. Beckwith in the vicinity. A car that looked like his distinctive white Plymouth Valiant was seen in the neighborhood.
        Mr. Beckwith, at the time a fertilizer salesman who lived in Greenwood, Miss., seemed to be a likely suspect. He was an ardent segregationist whose hatred for blacks, Jews and Roman Catholics was well known.
        But he told investigators his rifle had been stolen. And two police officers said they had seen him in Greenwood, some 95 miles away, at the time of the killing.
        There was enough evidence to charge Mr. Beckwith with murder, but white juries in the Deep South of that era often ignored the facts when white defendants were accused of harming black people. Twice in 1964 all-male, all-white juries failed to reach verdicts in Mr. Beckwith's case. (The jurors could not help but notice Gov. Ross Barnett shaking hands with Mr. Beckwith in the courtroom before they deliberated.)
        So perhaps Mr. Beckwith felt safe after the verdicts in bragging about his skill with a rifle and hinting to segregationist friends that, indeed, he had killed Medgar Evers.
        Born in Colusa, Calif., Byron De La Beckwith moved with his widowed mother to Greenwood when he was 5. When his mother died, he was reared by other relatives.
        Mr. Beckwith sold tobacco, candy, oil filters and wood stoves at various times. He married, had a son and was divorced. His second wife, Thelma, and the son survive.
        In 1967, Mr. Beckwith ran for lieutenant governor and got more than 34,000 votes, finishing fifth in a field of six.
        In 1973, he was stopped at a police roadblock in New Orleans. A bomb was found in his car, and prosecutors contended that Mr. Beckwith had meant to use it on the home of a leader of the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith. He was acquitted of federal charges but found guilty in state court of transporting explosives without a permit.
        Mr. Beckwith was sentenced to several years in a Louisiana prison. In 1979, he became ill and, while in the prison infirmary, refused treatment from a nurse's aide who was black. A guard overheard Mr. Beckwith tell the aide that ''if I could get rid of an uppity'' Medgar Evers, he would have no trouble dealing with the ''no-account'' aide.
        The guard testified in 1994 at Mr. Beckwith's third, and decisive, trial on murder charges. The trial came about in part because The Clarion-Ledger of Jackson published accounts of how the now-defunct Mississippi Sovereignty Commission, a pro-segregation state agency, had helped Mr. Beckwith screen potential jurors at his earlier trials.
        A new generation of investigators and prosecutors went over the old evidence and dug up some new evidence. Mississippi had changed greatly in three decades, in part because of revulsion at the killing of Medgar Evers.
        Mr. Beckwith wore a Confederate flag on his lapel during the trial. When the jury of eight blacks and four white people returned a guilty verdict on Feb. 5, 1994, he appeared dazed, as though not sure where he was.
      