
        Bernard J. Geis, a book publisher whose company, Bernard Geis Associates, was a pioneer of the aggressive promotion of sensational best sellers in the 1960's and 1970's, died on Monday at New York Presbyterian Hospital. He was 91 years old.
        Mr. Geis, who started his company in 1959, was behind phenomena like Jacqueline Susann's ''Valley of the Dolls,'' which spent 65 weeks on The New York Times best-seller list, and ''Sex and the Single Girl,'' by Helen Gurley Brown, who went on to revitalize Hearst's Cosmopolitan Magazine as its editor. Ms. Brown and Ms. Susann were unknown writers discovered by Mr. Geis, who clearly had a knack for spotting talent.
        He also published books by people who were already celebrities or well known, like former President Harry S. Truman, the comedians Groucho and Harpo Marx, and the television personality Art Linkletter; he was also the longtime publisher of the sexy fiction of Andrew Greeley, a Catholic priest.
        ''He made authors into celebrities and celebrities into authors,'' said Letty Cottin Pogrebin, who was head of publicity for Mr. Geis from 1960 to 1970. ''Other publishers were very buttoned-down, and believed it was a gentleman's profession.''
        Ms. Pogrebin said she was given about $100,000 to promote each book, a lot of money in the 1960's. The money was used to stage some wild stunts. In 1969, for example, a 23-year-old actress partly disrobed on a Times Square scaffolding as part of a promotional campaign for a novel called ''The Voyeur.''
        Mr. Geis also made sure his authors aggressively plugged their books. ''He rounded up people to interview you,'' Ms. Brown said. ''He got me on the 'Today' show. The book sold out practically that day.''
        Mentioning the word sex on daytime television was taboo at the time, she recalled, so instead she simply held up the book cover to the camera.
        Mr. Geis was born in Chicago on Aug. 30, 1909, the youngest of three sons of Harry Geis, a cigar manufacturer. He graduated from Northwestern University, where he was an editor on the school newspaper, in 1931, with a degree in English.
        After briefly working in advertising, Mr. Geis worked as an editor for magazines like Esquire and Coronet. He then moved into the book publishing business, working for Grossett & Dunlap and Prentice-Hall.
        In 1957, while at Prentice-Hall, Mr. Geis published a book by Mr. Linkletter called ''Kids Say the Darndest Things,'' based on the cute comments of children he interviewed on his hit daytime television show. After Mr. Linkletter mentioned the book casually on the show, sales soared.
        ''Dad realized as a result that one way to sell books was to aggressively promote them,'' said Mr. Geis's son, Stephen, in a telephone interview yesterday.
        The success of the Linkletter book led Mr. Geis to form his own publishing company in 1959, with financial backing from, among others, Groucho Marx; Mr. Linkletter; the television producers Mark Goodson and William Todman; and Alfred Bloomingdale, president of the Diners Club.
        According to news reports at the time, several of Mr. Geis's partners withdrew their backing from the company in 1967 after he began publishing novels featuring a lot of sex and characters resembling actual celebrities. At the time, Mr. Geis cited a ''battle for freedom of expression.'' Soon thereafter, Random House discontinued its distribution of Geis Associates books. In 1971, the company filed for bankruptcy protection.
        The company's books were subsequently published by a variety of other publishing houses under the Geis imprint. Its last book was published in 1995.
        Stephen Geis once asked his father how he felt about the quality of the books he backed. ''My father felt it was better that people should read something than just sitting and watching television,'' he recalled yesterday.
        In addition to Stephen, of Geneva, Mr. Geis is also survived by another son, Peter, of La Honda, Calif.; eight grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren. His wife, Darlene, an author of juvenile and teenage books, died in March 1999.
      