
        Sonia Arova, a Bulgarian-born ballerina who became an international star and was an early partner of such great male dancers as Erik Bruhn and Rudolf Nureyev, died on Sunday in San Diego. She was 74.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, her family said.
        Ms. Arova was the ballerina with whom Nureyev danced the ''Don Quixote'' pas de deux at his New York debut with Ruth Page's Chicago Opera Ballet on March 10, 1962, at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. She and Bruhn first met in the mid-1940's in the Metropolitan Ballet, a short-lived but artistically enterprising London troupe.
        Nureyev, Bruhn, Ms. Arova and the American ballerina Rosella Hightower joined forces to present sensationally successful programs together in Paris in 1962. Later that year, she was again Nureyev's ballerina as guest artist with the Royal Ballet in London.
        A dancer of strong technique and dramatic projection, Ms. Arova was born Sonia Errio in Sofia, the Bulgarian capital, where she studied music as well as ballet, receiving her dance training at the school of the Sofia Opera Ballet. When her teachers recommended further study in Paris, she left Bulgaria at age 11 with her mother. Her father sold his stamp collection to pay for her Parisian classes.
        With the outbreak of World War II, Ms. Arova's British piano teacher in Paris urged her to escape France. Disguised in male attire as the teacher's son, Ms. Arova was smuggled into England on a fishing boat in 1940. She never saw her father again but was eventually reunited with her mother and sister.
        In England, she danced with International Ballet (1942), Ballet Rambert (1946) and, most notably, with Metropolitan Ballet (1947-48). Then she became a balletic globe-trotter.
        Ms. Arova was first associated with Page in Paris in 1951 when she danced a leading role in ''Revenge,'' the popular choreographic adaptation of the opera ''Il Trovatore'' that Page created for Les Ballets des Champs Élysées. Later, she appeared with Page's own Chicago company.
        She was guest artist with American Ballet Theater several times in the 1950's and 60's, dancing both classical and contemporary works. Reviewing her performance in 1956, John Martin of The New York Times said she had become ''a lovely and curiously individual dancer, especially where dramatic color and characterization are involved.''
        She also danced with Col. W. de Basil's Ballets Russes, the Marquis de Cuevas Ballet, London Festival Ballet, the Komaki Ballet of Japan, the Australian Ballet and the National Ballet of Washington.
        Ms. Arova became increasingly involved with company direction, often in association with Thor Sutowski, the American dancer and choreographer, whom she married in 1965. As director of the Norwegian National Ballet from 1966 to 1970, she introduced several ballets by George Balanchine into the repertory, produced the first complete Oslo versions of ''Swan Lake'' and ''La Sylphide'' and was knighted for her services by King Olaf V.
        She became director of the San Diego Ballet in 1971. In 1977 she and Mr. Sutowski were named co-directors of the dance department at the Alabama School of Fine Arts, a state-run high school in Birmingham. Many dancers they trained joined the Birmingham-based Ballet South, which made its New York debut at Brooklyn College in 1996 with a ''Swan Lake,'' staged by Ms. Arova and Mr. Sutowski. Anna Kisselgoff of The Times praised it for allowing its young women to ''show off a brilliant clarity and detail in their footwork'' and ''dance with a pure classical style.''
        Ms. Arova and Mr. Sutowski returned to San Diego in 1997, where they taught for both the San Diego Ballet and the California Ballet.
        She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Ariane Sutowski of San Diego, and a sister, Jeanette Errio of Vence, France.
      