
        Boris Goldovsky, the conductor, pianist, lecturer and opera impresario best known to millions of radio listeners for his intermission commentaries during nearly 50 years of Saturday matinee broadcasts from the Metropolitan Opera, died on Thursday at his home in Brookline, Mass. He was 92.
        Though he became an impassioned evangelist of the art form -- the ''Billy Sunday of opera,'' as the critic Herbert Kupferberg once called him -- Mr. Goldovsky initially disliked it, once calling it ''easily the lowest and stupidest form of musical expression.'' But while playing the piano in 1933 for a workshop at the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia he had an epiphany during a student rehearsal of Act I of ''La Bohème.''
        ''That hour changed my life,'' Mr. Goldovsky said in a 1964 interview. ''All of a sudden everything became meaningful, and I realized that opera had to be done in a special way to make sense.''
        For the productions Mr. Goldovsky would later conduct and direct, that special way involved approaching opera as a genuine form of drama and casting singers who looked like and could believably act their characters. He was also a champion of opera in English translations. There were never prompters in Goldovsky productions, and no singer was permitted to look at the conductor, which was hard to avoid when Mr. Goldovsky was on the podium, since he was a tall and imposing figure.
        He was born on June 7, 1908, in Moscow. His mother, Lea Luboschutz, was a noted violinist. His uncle, Pierre Luboschutz, a fine concert pianist, gave young Boris his first piano lessons and became his mentor. Mr. Goldovsky's studies at the Moscow Conservatory were interrupted by the Russian Revolution. He was taken to Berlin, where he studied with the pianist Arthur Schnabel and made his debut with the Berlin Philharmonic when he was only 13.
        He then studied in Paris and also at the Liszt Academy in Budapest, where he was a pupil of the composer Ernst von Dohnanyi. After graduation he moved to Philadelphia to study at Curtis, where his mother was a faculty member. There he became an assistant to the conductor Fritz Reiner, and worked as an opera coach. In 1936 he was invited to lead the opera program at the Cleveland Institute of Music.
        His attachment to New England began in 1942 when he was invited to take charge of the opera program at the New England Conservatory in Boston. In 1946 he added to his workload the directorship of the opera workshop at the Berkshire Music Center at Tanglewood, the Boston Symphony Orchestra's summer home, where he worked closely with the conductor Serge Koussevitzky.
        At Tanglewood, Mr. Goldovsky was free to experiment. There he presided over the American premieres of Britten's ''Peter Grimes'' in 1946, conducted by Leonard Bernstein; Mozart's ''Idomeneo'' in 1947, which he conducted; and Britten's ''Albert Herring'' in 1949. Other notable productions were Tchaikovsky's ''Queen of Spades'' in 1951 and Paisiello's ''King Theodore in Venice'' in 1961, starring a young baritone named Sherrill Milnes. The soprano Phyllis Curtin, the baritone Frank Guarrera and the conductor and opera director Sarah Caldwell are among the important artists who received training from Mr. Goldovsky.
        He is survived by his wife, Margaret Codd Goldovsky, a former opera singer; a daughter, Marina Stefenescu of New York; a sister, Irene Goldovsky Wolf of Philadelphia and Rockport, Mass.; three grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
        In 1946 Mr. Goldovsky founded the New England Opera Theater, which presented innovative productions in Boston and on tour throughout the United States. It later became the Goldovsky Opera Theater, which remained in operation until 1984.
        His books include ''Accents on Opera'' (1953), ''Bringing Opera to Life'' (1968) and ''My Road to Opera'' (1979).
        Mr. Goldovsky participated in his first Met broadcast in 1943 and continued almost every year until 1990. With his Russian accent and robust voice, he was immediately recognizable. And although he was a hard-to-stump and avuncular panelist on the Texaco Opera Quiz, he was especially popular for his ''Opera News on the Air'' features, in which he would discuss and analyze the opera of the day, playing excerpts on the piano. He was a feisty and insightful commentator who extolled great operas but chastised composers for what he considered miscalculations.
      