
        Robert Enrico, a popular French movie director whose memorable 24-minute film, ''Incident at Owl Creek,'' won a Palme d'Or at the 1962 Cannes International Film Festival as well as an Oscar for best short film at the 1964 Academy Awards, died on Friday. He was 69.
        The cause was cancer, his agent said.
        Mr. Enrico's 40-year movie career was unusually eclectic, embracing art house films and adventure stories as well as historical epics. It also led him to work with many of France's top box office stars, including Brigitte Bardot, Lino Ventura, Alain Delon, Catherine Deneuve, Philippe Noiret and Romy Schneider.
        His most successful feature film, ''Le Vieux Fusil,'' or ''The Old Gun,'' starring Mr. Noiret and Ms. Schneider, won three Césars, as the French Oscars are known. Released in 1975, the movie follows a French surgeon as he seeks to avenge the deaths of his wife and daughter in a World War II massacre carried out by German troops and French militiamen.
        Born to Italian immigrant parents in the northern town of Liévin on April 13, 1931, Mr. Enrico was a graduate of France's top cinema school, then known as the Institut des Hautes Études Cinématographiques. Like many aspiring directors, he began by making short films. None,  would ever match the success of ''Incident at Owl Creek,'' known in French as ''La Rivière du Hibou.''
        The short, based on a story by Ambrose Pierce, tells of the final split seconds in the life of an American Civil War soldier who is about to be unjustly hanged from a bridge for treason. As the plank is kicked away, the rope breaks, allowing the man to fall into the creek below and swim to safety. But that, it transpires, is only what he imagines and hopes will happen. Reality is crueler.
        Among his other popular feature films were ''Les Grandes Gueles,'' or ''The Jailbird's Vacation'' and ''Les Aventuriers,'' or ''The Last Adventure.'' In 1971 he made ''Boulevard du Rhum'' with Ventura and Ms. Bardot, a film about bootlegging during Prohibition in America.
        President Jacques Chirac described him as a ''great poet'' of French cinema. ''Recognized early on by his peers, he made a name for himself with his great mastery of the art, learned in the tough school of short films, and with the originality of his camera's gaze,'' Mr. Chirac said in a statement.
        In 1989 Mr. Enrico was commissioned by the government to make a film marking the 200th anniversary of the French Revolution, which was called ''The French Revolution: The Years of Light'' and starred Jean-François, Jane Seymour and Klaus-Maria Brandauer. In the 1990's he made only two feature films, but his work for television included ''Saint-Exupéry: The Last Mission.''
        He was nonetheless kept busy promoting -- and defending -- European and French cinema in the face of the invasion of Hollywood blockbusters. He is survived by Patricia Neny and their two children, Juliette and Camille, as well as by a son, Jérôme, from an earlier marriage.
        Correction:  February 27, 2001, Tuesday  An obituary of the French film director Robert Enrico on Sunday misstated the title of a short story on which he based a film and misspelled the author's surname. The story was ''An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge,'' not ''Incident at Owl Creek,'' and the author was Ambrose Bierce, not Pierce.
        The obituary also misspelled part of the title of another Enrico film. It was ''Les Grandes Gueules'' (not ''Gueles'') -- ''The Jailbird's Vacation.''
      