
        Air Vice Marshal Johnnie Johnson, the British fighter pilot who shot down 38 German planes, becoming the leading Allied air ace of World War II in Europe, died yesterday at his home in Derbyshire, England. He was 85.
        The cause was cancer, The Daily Telegraph reported.
        Flying the single-engine Spitfire fighter, Air Vice Marshal Johnson completed more than 1,000 missions. He was never shot down and acknowledged having been hit only once, when he was jumped by a group of Messerschmitts.
        He missed most of the Battle of Britain while recovering from an injury he sustained in a rugby match. But he provided air cover for the Dieppe raid of August 1942, flew over the Normandy beaches on D-Day,  and supported raids by American B-17 bombers and advances by Allied ground forces in France and Germany.
        Only one Allied pilot -- Richard Bong of the United States Army Air Forces, who shot down 40 Japanese planes -- had greater success during the war. The leading American air ace in Europe, Francis Gabreski, shot down 28 German planes.
        James Edgar Johnson was born in Barrow Upon Soar, Leicestershire, the son of a policeman. ''I always wanted to fly,'' he recalled. ''But I had a lot of trouble. My old man wouldn't let me sign the papers to join up. He thought it was a young and frivolous service.''
        The young man obtained a civil engineering degree from Nottingham University in 1937 but took flying lessons in his spare time. Then he applied to the Auxiliary Air Force, but the recruiting officer proved as big an obstacle as his father had been upon learning that the would-be airman had no experience of any sort in shooting things down.
        As Air Vice Marshal Johnson put it in an interview with The Leicester Mercury last October: ''I remember sitting opposite this officer and he said, 'Which pack do you hunt with?' I said, 'I beg your pardon?' and I told him I spent all my money on flying lessons. And that was the end of that. Rejected.''
        He tried to join the Royal Air Force's Volunteer Reserve, was told it had no openings, then was accepted for flight training when the war began in 1939. He took part in the late stages of the Battle of Britain in the summer of 1940, without downing any planes.
        But the following year, he flew fighter sweeps and bomber-escort missions as wingman for Douglas Bader, the legendary British air ace who lost both legs in an air crash in 1931. He honed his skills from flying in the Bader unit, and by September 1941, he had shot down five planes. This made him an ace, and he was promoted to flight commander.
        On Aug. 19, 1942, Commander Johnson flew in support of Canadian and British troops in the disastrous raid on the German-occupied port of Dieppe, France. His war almost ended that day. On his fourth sortie, he went into a near-vertical dive while pursued by a Focke-Wulf 190 fighter. He pulled out just above ground level and then, crossing the beaches, flew into a barrage of antiaircraft fire from a Royal Navy destroyer. Unscathed, he pulled up over the ship and then set off in search of the fighter that had been pursuing him. ''But happily, he was no longer with me,'' he remembered.
        While leading a unit of Canadian fighter pilots, Commander Johnson flew four missions over the Normandy beaches on D-Day, June 6, 1944. Two days later, his wing landed the first Allied fighters in France since 1940.
        His 38th and final kill came on Sept. 27, 1944, near Venlo in the Netherlands, in a dogfight with nine Messerschmitts, when his Spitfire was hit for the first and only time in the war.
        He was awarded the Distinguished Service Order and the Distinguished Flying Cross. He returned to combat in the Korean War, flying fighter-bomber missions while attached to the United States Air Force, and received the United States Legion of Merit and the Air Medal.
        He was promoted to air vice marshal during the 1960's and served as the Royal Air Force's commander in the Middle East. He retired in 1966, then founded the Johnnie Johnson Housing Trust, which provided homes for elderly and disabled people. He told of his wartime exploits in his 1956 autobiography ''Wing Leader.''
        ''There was never any euphoria in shooting down a plane,'' he said. ''You just felt you had acquitted yourself well.''
        In recounting his success, Air Vice Marshal Johnson conceded that the recruiting officer who turned him down back 1938 because he didn't hunt might have had a point.
        He eventually developed prowess with a shotgun and said he could usually kill two birds with three shots.
        ''The principles of deflection shooting against wildfowl and airplanes were exactly the same,'' he said. But he acknowledged one difference: ''Airplanes could sometimes return your fire.''
        Correction:  February 10, 2001, Saturday  An obituary on Feb. 1 about Johnnie Johnson, a British fighter pilot in World War II, referred incorrectly to his ranking as an Allied air ace, as well as that of Richard Bong, of the United States Army Air Forces in the Pacific. While Mr. Johnson's record -- he shot down 38 planes in Europe -- was exceeded by that of Mr. Bong, who shot down 40 in the Pacific and was the leading ace there, both records were eclipsed by Ivan Kozhedub of the Soviet Union, who downed 62 planes.
      