
        Dr. Joseph Ransohoff, one of the country's foremost practitioners and teachers of neurosurgery, died on Jan. 30 at his home in Tampa, Fla., where he moved after retiring from New York University Medical Center. He was 85.
        Dr. Ransohoff was director of neurosurgical services at Bellevue Hospital Center, as well as a professor and chairman of the department of neurosurgery at the N.Y.U. School of Medicine, from 1961 to 1992. He trained more than 60 neurosurgeons, many of whom went on to head departments at medical schools across the country.
        Until recently, he was director of neurological surgery at the H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute, based in Tampa, and taught at the University of South Florida College of Medicine.
        At N.Y.U., he organized one of the world's first intensive care neurosurgery units, at Bellevue Hospital Center. He had a reputation for ingenuity in adapting advanced technologies -- lasers, CAT scans, magnetic resonance imaging and the like -- to brain surgery.
        ''He helped build our reputation as one of the country's premier neurological centers,'' said Dr. Patrick J. Kelly, his successor as chairman of the neurosurgery department at N.Y.U. and holder of the Joseph Ransohoff professorship.
        Joseph Ransohoff, a third-generation surgeon, was born in Cincinnati. He majored in fine arts at Harvard University but changed direction, took the required science courses, and graduated in 1938.
        He received his medical degree at the University of Chicago Medical School in 1941 and became an instructor in surgery at the University of Cincinnati.
        In the Army, after a crash course, he was assigned as a neurosurgeon to air evacuation centers in France and Germany.
        He completed his residency in 1949 at Montefiore Hospital in the Bronx. He taught at Columbia University and practiced at Presbyterian Hospital until moving to N.Y.U.
        He was later affiliated with St. Vincents Hospital, the Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center and the Hospital for Joint Diseases Orthopaedic Institute, where he headed the department of neurosurgery in the early 1990's.
        Dr. Ransohoff is survived by his wife, Dr. Lori Cohen Ransohoff; their two children, Jake, 11, and Jade, 5; a daughter and a son from an earlier marriage, Joan R. Wynn of Chicago, and Joseph, of Hamden, Conn.; five grandchildren; a half brother, Kenneth Thompson of York, Pa.; and a half sister, Nina Ransohoff of Holmes Beach, Fla. His first marriage, to Rita Mayer Ransohoff of Manhattan, ended in divorce.
        Dr. Ransohoff was a medical consultant for the popular 1960's television series ''Ben Casey,'' whose writers appeared to have borrowed some of his doctorly bearing for their main character, a gruff but dedicated neurosurgeon famous for diagnosing a subdural hematoma in nearly every episode.
      