
        Dr. Folke Karl Skoog, a biochemist who helped identify the hormonal forces that prompt plants to sprout and flourish, died on Thursday in Madison, Wis., where he was a professor emeritus at the University of Wisconsin. He was 92.
        Dr. Skoog was in the forefront of the research that transformed the field of plant physiology over the past half century and had profound implications for farming and horticulture.
        He established his reputation early in his career with his investigations of an organic substance called auxin that promotes and directs the growth of plant cells in roots and buds. It had been isolated by a fellow physiologist, Dr. Kenneth V. Thimann, and at the time was the only recognized plant growth hormone.
        Dr. Skoog and Dr. Thimann then worked out the interaction between auxin and another growth hormone, kinetin, which Dr. Skoog and other associates found in 1954 to be a factor in cell division.
        Working further in that direction, Dr. Skoog played a major role in discoveries about compounds called cytokinins that are involved in cell division.
        His group collaborated with Dr. Nelson J. Leonard of the University of Illinois to synthesize and test hundreds of possible cytokinins and cytokinin blockers.
        Dr. Skoog also studied the way that  roots, stems and leaves could be controlled, and he demonstrated that whole plants could be grown from cultured cells, pointing the way to the production of transgenic plants and other biotechnology advances.
        Born in Sweden, Folke Skoog came to the United States in 1925 and received his degrees from the California Institute of Technology. He worked at Harvard and Johns Hopkins before serving in the Army as a biochemist and technical representative in Europe toward the end of World War II.
        He was on the faculty at Wisconsin from 1947 until 1979 and was a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. In 1991, he received a National Medal of Science Award in a White House ceremony.
        Dr. Skoog is survived by his wife of 54 years, Birgit Bergner Skoog; a daughter, Karin B. Shephard; and three grandsons, all of Madison.
      