
        Pauline Koner, one of the eclectic individualists of contemporary American dance, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 88.
        A choreographer noted for powerful solos, Miss Koner was also a principal dancer with the José Limón Dance Company, a leading modern-dance troupe of the 1940's and 50's. Stylistically versatile, she contributed to early television dance, taught dance around the world and choreographed stage shows at the Roxy Theater in New York and several ice revues. Although usually categorized as a modern dancer, she was fond of saying, ''I never had a modern-dance lesson in my life.''
        She was born in New York in 1912,  the daughter of immigrants from Russia. Her father, Samuel Koner, a lawyer, had devised a medical plan for the Workmen's Circle, a Jewish socialist and benevolent organization; the result is considered a pioneering group medical plan.
        Interested in the arts, Miss Koner wanted to study ballet with Michel Fokine, the most important balletic reformer of the early 20th century.  Her family considered his fees exorbitant, so her father offered his legal services free to Fokine in exchange for ballet lessons for young Pauline.
        Miss Koner also studied Spanish dance and worked with Michio Ito and Yeichi Nimura, Japanese choreographers who blended Asian dance with Western modern dance.
        Discussing her training in her autobiography, ''Solitary Song'' (Duke University Press, 1989), Miss Koner said she derived her speed and precision from ballet, her smoothness in covering space from Asian dance and her rhythm and dynamics from Spanish dance.
        She presented her first solo concert on Dec. 7, 1930, and John Martin, then the dance critic for The New York Times, said that the event ''exhibited her unquestionable right to stand alone.'' He added, ''She can build a dance far better than the average, she can perform it with complete authority.''
        Miss Koner toured Egypt and Palestine in 1932 and taught and performed in the Soviet Union from 1934 to 1936. Her solos then included  works on biblical themes, the ''Suite of Soviet Impressions,'' the satirical ''Three Funeral Marches'' and dances in Spanish and Arabian styles.
        Miss Koner's career often took unexpected turns. In the early 40's she created dances for the Roxy and for ''Holiday on Ice.'' She began to choreograph for CBS television in 1945, experimenting with effects that only a camera could produce.
        The most important change in her artistic development came that year  when, after a solo concert, she received a note from Doris Humphrey, the legendary American modern dance pioneer.
        Humphrey praised the program, yet added criticism that Miss Koner found so perceptive that she sought out Humphrey and asked her to be her adviser, her ''outside eye,'' as she called her. Thereafter, Miss Koner would submit all her new choreography to Humphrey for comment. ''Our work together was a continuous revelation,'' she wrote in her autobiography, and added that after Humphrey's death in 1958: ''She inhabits me. She is my dybbuk.''
        Martin declared in The Times in 1955 that, by working with Humphrey, Miss Koner ''has arrived at her true fulfillment'' and that the decision to ally herself with a mentor ''was an act of high artistic insight.'' Miss Koner honored Humphrey's memory in 1962 with ''The Farewell,'' an elegiac 30-minute solo that became her best-known piece of choreography.
        Humphrey served as the artistic adviser to the Limón company and she and Limón asked Miss Koner to perform with the troupe. As a result, she became what she termed ''a permanent guest artist'' with the company from 1946 to 1960, creating roles in such major works as Limón's ''Moor's Pavane'' (1949) and Humphrey's ''Ruins and Visions'' (1953).
        At the same time, she choreographed for herself and other dancers with productions ranging in tone from ''Cassandra'' (1953), a warning against hysteria, to the gracious ''Concertino'' (1955). From 1976 to 1982 she headed the Pauline Koner Dance Consort.
        Petite, with dark hair and eyes,  Miss Koner riveted audiences with her intensity. She designed many of her stage costumes and was always strikingly dressed offstage. Reviewing a Limón concert for Dance magazine in 1955, the critic Doris Hering wrote that ''Pauline Koner was like some fiery bacchante as she tore through leaps and sharp shifts in direction.''
        Yet however spontaneous her dancing may have seemed, Miss Koner believed that the principles of stage presence and theatrical magnetism could be learned. She became famous for Elements of Performing, a course she taught at the North Carolina School of the Arts, the American Dance Festival and other schools in the United States, Europe and Asia. The course analyzed such facets of a performance as motivation, emotion, focus, dynamics and the use of props, fabrics, lights and sound.
        Miss Koner was married to the conductor Fritz Mahler from 1939 until his death in 1973. She received a Dance Magazine Award in 1964 and wrote for many dance publications.
        No immediate family members survive.
        Correction:  February 12, 2001, Monday  An obituary of the dancer Pauline Koner on Friday referred incorrectly to the José Limón Dance Company, in which she was a principal in the 1940's and 50's. It remains a leading modern-dance company; its prominence was not limited to those decades.
      