
        Roger A. Caras, one of the most prominent public voices for animal welfare as a popular writer, broadcast personality, A.S.P.C.A. president and announcer for the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show, died Sunday in Towson, Md. He was 72 and lived on a farm in Freeland, Md.
        He was president of the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals from 1991 to 1999 and was the distinctive voice of the annual Madison Square Garden dog show in New York City.
        He died of complications of a heart attack he suffered in December, said his daughter, Pamela Caras Rupert.
        A lover of animals from lab rats to llamas, Mr. Caras is credited with transforming the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals by expanding its national animal protection and public education programs to focus on population control, rather than euthanizing unwanted animals.
        Under his leadership the society also acquired and expanded the nation's first poison control center for animals.
        Perhaps most importantly, he started a spay/neuter program at the A.S.P.C.A. that has been copied by humane organizations around the country. Under the program, which encourages people to get their pets neutered as early as 8 to 12 weeks old, all pets put up for adoption by the society are first spayed or neutered.
        In 1995 in New York, the national headquarters of the organization, the local chapter ended a 100-year history as the city's animal control agency, in which it had collected and killed up to 40,000 abandoned and derelict cats, dogs and other animals each year.
        ''We were the first in and just about the last out,'' Mr. Caras said as New York society joined a national trend. ''It was a mistake 100 years ago and it was a mistake last year.''
        Mr. Caras was born on May 24, 1928, in the rural town of Methuen, Mass. He developed a love for animals during childhood, spending a great deal of time with his family's pets, which included cats, dogs, snakes, turtles and a laboratory rat.  At 10, Mr. Caras took a 10-cents-an-hour job as a kennel aide, cleaning the stables of abused horses at the Massachusetts S.P.C.A. in Methuen.
        After Army service, Mr. Caras enrolled in Northeastern University in Boston to study zoology. He transferred to Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland in 1950 and then rejoined the Army during the Korean War. In 1952, he resumed his studies at the University of Southern California, where he majored in cinema.
        Upon graduation two years later, Mr. Caras began a 15-year career as a motion picture executive. But over that career, he found his true calling, the study of animals in their natural habitats.
        Mr. Caras wrote more than 70 books on animals. His first, ''Antarctica: Land of Frozen Time,'' was published in 1962. Others included ''A Perfect Harmony: The Intertwining Lives of Animals and Humans Throughout History'' and ''The Bond,'' a series of essays about people and their animals. His most recent work, ''Going for the Blue: Inside the World of Show Dogs and Dog Shows,'' was published this month.
        In 1964, Mr. Caras began his career in broadcasting as the ''House Naturalist'' on NBC's ''Today Show.'' He stayed for eight years.
        From 1965 to 1968, he was an assistant to Arthur C. Clarke and Stanley Kubrick on the movie ''2001: A Space Odyssey.'' Starting in 1969, his radio series ''Pets and Wildlife'' was broadcast on the CBS Radio Network. NBC Radio broadcast his ''Report from the World of Animals'' in 1973, and ABC featured his ''The Living World'' from 1981 to 1983.
        In 1975, Mr. Caras moved to ABC-TV, where he spent 17 years assigned exclusively to animals, wildlife and the environment.
        He also worked as an adjunct professor of English at Southampton College on Long Island and as adjunct professor of animal ecology at the University of Pennsylvania's School of Veterinary Medicine.
        Mr. Caras became the 14th president of the A.S.P.C.A in 1991. He retired in 1999, becoming president emeritus, a position that allowed him to continue to advise the group about welfare issues.
        Instead of a public funeral, which Mr. Caras did not want, the A.S.P.C.A. plans to hold a party to honor Mr. Caras's legacy in the coming months. A spokeswoman for the society said that it was not yet known whether the site would accommodate animal guests but that she would not be surprised if they were invited.
        Mr. Caras is survived by his wife, Jill Langdon Barclay; his son, Dr. Barclay Caras; his daughter; and four grandchildren.
        Among his pets were 12 dogs, 9 cats, 5 horses, 2 cows, 2 alpacas and a llama. Of his career path, Mr. Caras once said, ''I was born to be exactly what I am -- a professional practitioner of show and tell with a deep concern about our planet and its future.''
      