
        Murray Edelman, who in the 1960's and 70's helped pioneer a new approach to political science by arguing that the true importance of many political acts and institutions is often very different from what it seems, died on Jan. 26 in Madison, Wis. He was 81.
        Dr. Edelman was a professor of political science at the University of Wisconsin from 1966 until he retired in 1990. He believed that public political developments often act as what he called symbols with meanings or purposes that can be determined only by careful investigation.
        ''A fact is always embedded in a theory and has to be interpreted,'' he once said.
        For example, he saw the symbolic value of democratic elections as their ability to convince voters that they face more of a political choice than is often, in fact, the case. Similarly, he regarded the elaborate rituals of the courts as intending to inspire awe and add authority to their judgments.
        In Dr. Edelman's view, government programs to alleviate injustices often serve mainly to allay public concern while creating a bureaucracy with a vested interest in preserving the problem it is supposed to solve. And when political leaders speak of a ''crisis,'' he believed, they are really giving themselves the right to take unusual action to deal with a situation they believe ordinary people cannot understand.
        His best-known books were ''The Symbolic Uses of Politics'' (University of Illinois Press, 1964) and ''Politics as Symbolic Action: Mass Arousal and Quiescence,'' which appeared in 1971.
        Though most of his work predated postmodern or deconstructionist theory in the fields of literary and cultural studies, with its emphasis on subjective interpretation, his approach was somewhat similar and has been called ''postmodern political science.''
        ''He had a direct impact on the way we look at politics,'' said Charles Jones, a past president of the American Political Science Association, ''and that can't be said of many people.''
        Virginia Sapiro, a political science professor at the University of Wisconsin, said, ''He looked under manifest institutions to see the hidden shadow plays.''
        But Dr. Edelman's highly subjective analytic style put him at variance with the prevailing orthodoxy in contemporary American political science. Known as rational choice theory, this holds that political actors make rational decisions after weighing all the pros and cons. And some scholars likened Dr. Edelman's approach more to anthropology or psychology than political science.
        Born on Nov. 5, 1919, in Nanticoke, Pa., he earned his B.A. at Bucknell University in 1941, his M.A. at the University of Chicago in 1942 and his doctorate at the University of Illinois in 1948. He taught at the University of Illinois from 1948 to 1966.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Bacia Stepner; three daughters, Lauren Edelman of Berkeley, Calif., Judith Edelman-Green of Kfar-Sava, Israel, and Sarah E. Coyne of Madison; and five grandchildren.
      