
        David Twersky, grand rabbi of a branch of the Skverer dynasty of Hasidic Judaism, died on Feb. 2 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79.
        He died of complications of heart and kidney ailments, his family said.
        Rabbi Twersky was the leader of the Borough Park, Brooklyn, branch of the dynasty, which traces its roots to Chernobyl, Ukraine. A separate branch of the Skverer dynasty, based in New Square in Rockland County, N.Y., is headed by a grand rabbi also named David Twersky, a second or third cousin of the Borough Park leader. It was the Rockland County rabbi who met with President Bill Clinton in a successful bid to secure a pardon for four members of the group who were convicted of defrauding the federal government.
        Spelling of the dynastic name, sometimes rendered Skwere, varies because of the different transliterations of Hebrew letters.
        David Twersky was born in 1922 in a long line of distinguished rabbis in Kishinev, Russia. When he was 2, the family moved to the Lower East Side, where his father, Yitzchok, established a synagogue. His father later moved the synagogue to Williamsburg in Brooklyn and finally to 47th Street in Borough Park. It was the first Hasidic establishment in Borough Park, which later would also become home to the far larger Bobover dynasty. David was 19 when his father died, and he took over its leadership.
        He raised his own sons ''as though they were in an Eastern European shtetl,'' according to The Jewish Press. He began to attract Jews whose ancestors had been followers of his own ancestors.
        Rabbi Twersky aided many Holocaust survivors in their efforts to immigrate to the United States. He established a network of yeshivas, or schools, separately serving boys, girls and married men, and developed an organization to help observant Jews in prison.
        Rabbi Twersky is survived by his wife of 48 years, Esther; two daughters, Mirel Bracha and Devorah; five sons, Yitzchok, Yechiel Mechel, Avrohom Yeshia Heshel, Pinchus, and Zvi Arye; 25 grandchildren; and 10 great-grandchildren.
      