
        Betty Kenward, who exhaustively and uncritically chronicled the lives of England's upper classes at their dinners, balls, race meetings and country weekends in the pages of London's toniest magazines, died last Wednesday in London. She was 94.
        A snob and proud of it, Mrs. Kenward composed numbingly undramatic accounts of parties, with long lists of names preceded by unfailingly complimentary adjectives and with their relative importance encoded for her privileged readership by idiosyncratic punctuation. Ordinary guests' names were set off from one another by mere commas. But Royal Family members and others of note rated semicolons. Many of the breathless serial sentences ended with exclamation marks.
        In a career that ended in 1991, she reported on the doings of society at a time when cigarettes and wine glasses were airbrushed out of photographs, and there was never a mention of someone arriving with a surprise consort. People from business and publishing and advertising and popular culture may have been starting to mix in society late in her career, but they never made it into ''Jennifer's Diary,'' where the exclusivity of prewar family background was remorselessly maintained.
        Attentive readers of the long-running column learned to divine judgments in the bland copy. A remark on the ''tirelessness'' of a hostess rather than her ''radiance'' meant that the night was probably a disaster. If a debutante was ''pretty'' instead of ''exquisite,'' then she was very likely ugly or badly turned out. The only way Mrs. Kenward registered utter disapproval was by omission.
        She was wary of people who paraded by too often in search of a mention, and she made sure they did not receive one. When a young society photographer, Antony Armstrong-Jones, approached at a function, she said, ''My photographers never speak to me at parties.'' A year later, he married Princess Margaret and became Lord Snowdon, but Mrs. Kenward was still unforgiving. Diary items about the royal couple identified them simply as ''HRH Princess Margaret and her husband.''
        Mrs. Kenward became a fixture in London society as much as for her decorous look as for what she wrote in ''Jennifer's Diary.'' She favored pink taffeta ball dresses and always wore a geishalike facial mask of powder with deep mascara, heavily penciled eyebrows and a four-strand pearl choker. Her lacquered champagne-blond bouffant hairdo was held in place by a color-coordinated velvet bow across the back. She strode through life with a purposeful posture, and her sweeping ballroom entrances were often met by swarms of tuxedoed men greeting her.
        She never claimed to be a journalist, partly out of a desire not to seem pretentious and partly out of her conviction that most journalists were vulgar. She called gossip columnists ''gutter rats.'' Mrs. Kenward carried no pad and took no notes, but earned the grudging respect of newsroom professionals with her ability to remember perfectly what she had seen and by her insistence on accuracy.
        If she drove proofreaders to distraction, she was hardest of all on her assistants, young women of good breeding whom she called secretaries. She forbade them to smoke, insisted that they use fountain pens instead of ballpoints and hectored them for having dirty hair or being overweight or receiving too many personal calls.
        '' 'You look a perfect fright,' she'd snap, and they'd weep in the loos all lunchtime,'' Vicki Woods, her last editor at Harpers & Queen, told The Sunday Telegraph. None lasted more than four months. When one dared to cover an event herself, a replacement was sought with an advertisement that required ''no, repeat no, ambitions to write.''
        Her routine was to have her chauffeur drive her from her Mayfair apartment to the Harpers & Queen office, where she met briefly with two assistants in her curtained-off work space piled high with invitations and calling cards and then go to lunch at Claridge's. She returned in the afternoon to file her copy from the previous night, evenings that typically included a reception, two cocktail parties and a formal dinner.
        She was born Elizabeth Kemp-Welch on July 14, 1906, the daughter of Brian and Verena Kemp-Welch, a couple who spent much of their marriage living apart and conducting indiscreet romances. The situation led to an early experience of being a social outcast that might have influenced the daughter's subsequent attention to class preferences and enforced ignorance of extramarital affairs. Mrs. Kenward later said of her mother, ''She was very pretty but very immoral.''
        Mrs. Kenward married Capt. Peter Kenward, a cavalry officer who worked in his family brewery business, in 1932 and was divorced from him 10 years later. She raised their son Jim, paying for his secondary school education at Winchester by pawning jewelry and working in a munitions factory, as a house matron at Eton and on the inquiries desk at British Vogue. Jim Kenward became an accountant and moved to Canada.
        In World War II, she began writing a column for Tatler, ''On and Off Duty in Town and Country.'' With peace, the column was retitled ''Jennifer's Diary,'' because an editor said her refined looks suited the name Jennifer. Mrs. Kenward stayed there until 1959, when she switched to Queen and, in 1970, to its successor, Harpers & Queen.
        When she closed out her career, she had never taken a sick day. The Independent reported that, describing her life in 1995, she said, ''In spite of having a cataract in both eyes, a hearing aid in both ears, a leaking heart valve and coronary arteries, which means taking 19 pills a day, I'm still having a go.''
      