
        Rosalie Gwathmey, a photographer who was noted for the warmth and artful simplicity of her pictures of black Southern communities, and who threw away all her negatives in 1955 after donating most of her prints to the New York Public Library, died on Monday at her home in Amagansett, N.Y., said her son, the architect Charles Gwathmey. She was 92.
        A textile designer throughout the 1960's and 70's, Mrs. Gwathmey seldom looked back on her photographic past, which was in turn largely forgotten by the photographic world. That changed in 1994. A solo exhibition of her images from the 40's, at Glenn Horowitz Bookseller in East Hampton, N.Y., suddenly revived interest in her work.
        Like the photographer Doris Ulmann, who found grace and simple beauty in a South Carolina black community in the 20's and early 30's, Mrs. Gwathmey focused on black life in her hometown, Charlotte, N.C., and in Rocky Mount, N.C. Unlike Ulmann, whose pictures of mostly poor blacks have a gentle, dignified grandeur, Mrs. Gwathmey's more sharply focused images are grittier, reflecting a quirkier mind and eye.
        In the foreground of a picture from the 40's a woman sits calmly in a chair on the porch of her modest house, a crowded clothesline stretching from a nearby post. Behind her, though, bulldozers are busily clearing the ground for a highway.
        In another photograph a barefoot sharecropper stands at a doorway, his steady gaze on the photographer, his checked shirt and patched trousers somehow all of a piece with the bold wood planks on an exterior wall festooned with garlands of peppers.
        In 1946 Mrs. Gwathmey's work was in a New Photographers group show at the Museum of Modern Art. Edward Steichen included one of her images in the Family of Man exhibition in 1955, the year that Mrs. Gwathmey's photographic career abruptly ended.
        Since the early 40's she had been involved with the Photo League in Manhattan, whose members included Paul Strand, Berenice Abbott, Dorothea Lange and W. Eugene Smith. But when the league was attacked as subversive during the McCarthy era, its membership evaporated and the league disbanded in 1951. Tired of keeping her work in the closet, Mrs. Gwathmey simply walked away from photography, she said in an interview for the Glenn Horowitz exhibition catalog.
        Rosalie Hook was born on Sept. 15, 1908, in Charlotte. Intending to be a portrait painter, she studied at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, where she met Robert Gwathmey, who would become known for his social realist paintings. They married in 1935.
        After their son, Charles, was born in 1938 and they were living in Pittsburgh, Mrs. Gwathmey took up photography. ''I was crazy about the way the city looked,'' she said. She studied there with the photographer Luke Swank.
        At the Photo League she studied with Paul Strand. ''Paul was a perfectionist,'' she recalled in the same catalog interview. ''He taught his students to save only their perfect prints, to mat them beautifully and to frame them beautifully.'' Her reaction was, ''I began to feel it was too precious.''
        A few years before her 1994 exhibition, she recalled, she had written to the New York Public Library, saying that she would like to have some of her pictures back. ''I had a chance to sell some and I could use the money.'' The library gave her 15 duplicates. She signed them and gave them to the buyer. Several transactions later, the pictures ended up in the possession of Mr. Horowitz.
        Mrs. Gwathmey, whose husband died in 1988, is survived by her son and two grandchildren.
        She said she saw her photography as a ''documentary thing,'' and not as an art form. In fact, the humanism in her work went with an artist's eye for composition and form. ''We all know,'' she said, ''that if the language isn't eloquent, no one bothers to finish the story.''
      