
        A. R. Ammons, an award-winning poet who could turn any topic, even a heap of garbage, into poetry, died on Sunday at his home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 75.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Phyllis.
        Typing some of his work on long strips of adding-machine tape, Mr. Ammons wrote more than 25 books of poetry, including ''Garbage,'' a 1993 book-length poem that won him his second National Book Award.
        It was one of many prizes that he collected in his long literary career, which he started while in the Navy in World War II. His honors included the Tanning Prize for ''mastery in the art of poetry,'' a MacArthur fellowship, the Ruth Lilly Poetry Prize and the Frost Medal for Achievement in Poetry Over a Lifetime.
        In 1973 he received a National Book Award for his ''Collected Poems: 1951-1971,'' and in 1974 he was awarded the Bollingen Prize in Poetry of the Yale University Library for  ''Sphere: The Form of a Motion.''
        Born Archie Randolph Ammons, the son of farmers, near Whiteville, N.C., he earned a biology degree from Wake Forest College in North Carolina and attended graduate school at the University of California at Berkeley. He was an elementary school principal, a real estate salesman and a sales executive at a New Jersey glass company before he published his first book of poetry in 1955 when he was 29.
        Eventually Mr. Ammons found a literary refuge at Cornell University in 1964, where he taught undergraduates and graduate students in formal classroom settings and presided over weekly discussions with other poets in a basement campus coffee shop, the Temple of Zeus. Even after he retired in 1998, Mr. Ammons continued to go to the Temple, where conversation roamed from politics to sports, said Roger Gilbert, a friend and a professor of English and American poetry at Cornell.
        ''I've never known anyone as addicted to conversation,'' Mr. Gilbert said. ''I suspect that his poetry was really a refinement and intensification of the unbuttoned everyday talk he loved so much.''
        Mr. Ammons, for example, was inspired to compose his poetry about garbage after spotting piles of it rotting near Interstate 95 in Florida:
        garbage has to be the poem of our time because
        garbage is spiritual, believable enough
        to get our attention, getting in the way, piling
        up, stinking, turning brooks brownish and
        creamy white: what else deflects us from the
        errors of our illusionary ways.
        In a review of ''Garbage'' in The New York Times Book Review, Edward Hirsch observed that over the decades of his career, Mr. Ammons ''consistently demonstrated the democratic precept that 'anything is poetry.' ''
        Mr. Ammons's poem, he said, ''has a rueful grandeur and characteristically splendid oddity.''
        Mr. Ammons was also the author of ''Northfield Poems,'' ''Uplands,'' ''A Coast of Trees'' and ''Lake-Effect Country,'' among other works.
        For all his literary success, Mr. Ammons still measured his achievements by his book sales. ''I think he felt a little isolated in Ithaca, and he had a very dedicated, but smaller following than other poets,'' Mr. Gilbert said. ''His poetry did not sell as well as other poets'. I think he appreciated the awards, but what really mattered to him is having as many people as possible read his work.''
        In his award-winning ''Sphere,'' Mr. Ammons wrote:
        I want to be declared a natural  disaster area . . . I
        want to be the aspect above which every hope rises, a
        freshening of courage to millions . . .
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Ammons is survived by a son, John, of Mill Valley, Calif.; a sister, Vida Cox, of Clarkton, N.C.; and two grandchildren.
      