
        O. Winston Link, a photographer whose requiem for steam railroading portrayed it as a spectacularly alive and often surreal presence in 1950's small-town America, died on Tuesday in South Salem, N.Y. He was 86.
        Mr. Link's epiphany came in January 1955. While on assignment for an advertising agency in Virginia, he stopped one evening by the Norfolk & Western train yard in Waynesboro to await the arrival of a steam-powered passenger train. By the mid-50's, most of the major American railroads had replaced their steam locomotives with diesels.
        What Mr. Link saw and felt that night started him on a five-year odyssey through the small railroad towns in the Appalachian mountains and the Shenandoah Valley to document the last years of steam railroading.
        Not only did he get Norfolk & Western's approval for his project, but he was given a key to the railroad's switch boxes. This meant he could telephone dispatchers for exact arrival times and, on occasion, to ask them to delay a train or to backtrack so he could take the desired picture.
        The marvel in Mr. Link's Norfolk & Western photographs is not the elaborate behind-the-scenes preparation for those images but their arresting spontaneity. In ''Main Line on Main Street, North Fork, W. Va.'' (1958), a train belching white steam  into the black sky seems to be heading sedately, and outlandishly, down a deserted street that is lined on one side by modest houses, some with lighted windows. In ''Birmingham Special at Rural Retreat'' (1957), a lone signalman is dwarfed by the nighttime express steaming past his country station.
        Late in life, Mr. Link became embroiled in a bitter divorce battle that resulted in civil and criminal charges against his wife, Conchita, who is now in prison. In 1993 he sought a divorce from her after nearly a decade of marriage. In a related civil action, he contended that she had taken control of his life and his business, imprisoning him in his basement where he made prints, isolating him from the outside world by cutting off his telephone and causing his driver's license to be suspended, telling gallery owners that he had Alzheimer's disease, and stealing about 2,000 of his railroad prints. In a subsequent criminal investigation, Mrs. Link was indicted and convicted of grand larceny for stealing 1,400 prints worth $1.6 million from Mr. Link.
        Mr. Link's fame came after many years of obscurity. Born in Brooklyn on Dec. 16, 1914, he was a commercial photographer trained as a civil engineer. At the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn (now Polytechnic University), he was photo editor and a photographer on the campus newspaper.
        His familiarity with the camera and the darkroom began when he was a teenager and went with friends to rail yards and photographed the trains. He developed his film at home, printing the pictures with an enlarger that he built.
        In 1937 Mr. Link graduated from Polytechnic and began working as a photographer at Carl Byoir and Associates, a public relations firm. He was technically adept with studio camera equipment and had a superb eye for framing pictures. He also had a keen sense of the absurd. Above all, he had a flair for storytelling through startling staged photography.
        During World War II Mr. Link was eager to contribute to the war effort. Unable to serve in the military because of near-total deafness in one ear, he left Byoir to work at a Columbia University wartime laboratory, developing a device to detect submarines from low-flying aircraft. The laboratory, in Mineola, N.Y., was near the Long Island Rail Road.
        Mr. Link's interest in trains was revived and, ignoring the wartime ban on railroad photography, he took pictures of trains.
        After the war he worked as a freelance photographer, specializing in  industrial subjects. His clients included advertising agencies, newspapers, fashion houses, the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority, Alcoa, B. F. Goodrich and Texaco.
        In between his commercial projects, Mr. Link made railroad scouting forays before plotting his  picture-taking with military precision. Usually with an assistant, he drove to his sites and, for nighttime scenes, began setting up complex lighting equipment, a painstaking process that could take from several hours to three days. There was no room for error; everything had to work the first time.
        Mr. Link's railroad project ended with his return to commercial photography shortly before Norfolk & Western retired its last steam engine in May 1960.
        Decades later his train images began to be noticed beyond railway circles. In 1976, John Szarkowski, then the director of the photography department at the Museum of Modern Art, bought six of his photographs for the museum. In 1982 an article about Mr. Link and his work  in American Photographer magazine sparked wider interest. Exhibitions followed, with his images influencing photographers like Gregory Crewdson and Jeff Wall.
        Mr. Link's first marriage, to the former Marteal Oglesby, ended in divorce in 1948. He is survived by a sister, Eleanor Zider, of New London, N.H.; a brother, Albert Link Jr. of Goldens Bridge, N.Y.; a son from his first marriage, Winston Conway Link, of Shreveport, La.; and a grandchild.
        In 1996 Mr. Link's former wife Conchita was sentenced to 6 1/3-to-20 years in prison. In an interview that year, Mr. Link said that she had taken the negatives of his pictures  showing the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge being built. None of the stolen prints or negatives have been recovered.
      