
        George J. Ames, a philanthropist and investment banker whose career at Lazard Frères & Company spanned more than 60 years, died on Feb. 2 at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 83.
        The cause was cancer, one of his daughters said.
        Mr. Ames first joined Lazard as a college student in 1937, became a general partner in 1957 and was working as a limited managing director as recently as October.
        The first 40 years of his Wall Street career were spent in the service of Andre Meyer, the legendary autocrat who pushed Lazard into the front ranks of a clubby industry in the decades immediately after World War II.
        A 1983 biography of Mr. Meyer, ''Financier,'' by Cary Reich, described Mr. Ames as a key figure in the 1951 purchase of the 850,000-acre Matador Ranch in Texas, the firm's first significant real estate investment. A lawyer by training, Mr. Ames also worked on several complex real estate deals that the firm undertook with William Zeckendorf, the New York developer.
        Working for Mr. Meyer was a test of diplomacy and stamina. In his book, Mr. Reich described an occasion in the late 1960's when Mr. Meyer abruptly fired Mr. Ames by telephone because Mr. Ames refused to cut short a long-scheduled family trip to Disneyland and Hawaii. After his trip, Mr. Ames returned to his desk at the firm. Mr. Meyer ''chewed me out for various things I hadn't done,'' Mr. Ames told Mr. Reich. ''But he never mentioned he fired me, and I never paid any attention to it.''
        George Joseph Ames, born in 1917, was a child of the rough New York neighborhood known as Hell's Kitchen. To keep him off the streets after school, his mother sent him for violin lessons at the nearby Hartley House, a settlement house on West 46th Street.
        His introduction to the settlement house was a transforming event, said one of his daughters, Margery E. Ames of Manhattan. The agency helped him get a scholarship to the Fieldston School in Riverdale, the Bronx, which in turn helped him attend Columbia College, from which he graduated in 1937. He earned a law degree at Fordham Law School in 1942 and served for the next four years as a lieutenant in the Navy.
        The violin lessons paid off, as well, his daughter said. A talented amateur, Mr. Ames played for years with a local orchestra in New Rochelle.
        Beyond Wall Street, Mr. Ames was chairman emeritus of Columbia College's board of visitors and was an eloquent advocate for an admission policy that accepted promising students without regard to their financial need, especially in the years when financial pressures threatened that policy, said Austin E. Quigley, the dean of Columbia.
        ''He himself was able to go to college because of such policies,'' Mr. Quigley said.
        Mr. Ames was the widower of Marion Patterson Ames, a lawyer and longtime advocate for court reform in New York State, who died in 1992.
        Besides his daughter Margery, survivors include his second wife, Bess R. Ames of Rye, and three other daughters, Ruth A. Solie of Northampton, Mass.; Joan A. Berkowitz of Guilford, Conn.; and Dorothy A. Cummings of Skillman, N.J. He is also survived by two stepchildren, Paula S. Butler and Charles David Sammons, both of Rye; a sister, Dorothy Demers of Austin, Tex.; and seven grandchildren.
      