
        Dr. M. Powell Lawton, a leading researcher on aging and the physical and psychological needs of the elderly, died on Jan. 29 at a retirement community in Haverford, Pa. He was 77 and a former resident of nearby Collegeville.
        The cause was a brain tumor, said the Philadelphia Geriatric Center, where Dr. Lawton pursued his studies and, until taking emeritus status in 1993, was director of research for 30 years.
        Foremost among his many articles and books was ''Environment and Aging,'' published in 1980. A classic text, it was reissued in 1986 by the Center for the Study of Aging and remains in print.
        Dr. Lawton, a behavioral psychologist, came to national attention in the early 1960's with his investigations into the psychological and social aspects of aging. He was among the first to recognize a need for living spaces designed to accommodate the elderly, especially those with Alzheimer's disease.
        His assessments of the needs of Alzheimer's patients and those who care for them, particularly their families, were reflected in services at the Philadelphia Geriatric Center and far beyond.
        ''Through his research, writings and teachings,'' said Frank Podietz, the center's president, ''Dr. Lawton provided a beacon that has guided and influenced public policy to enhance the quality of life of seniors.''
        Mortimer Powell Lawton was born in Atlanta and graduated in 1947 from Haverford College. He received a Ph.D. in clinical psychology at Columbia University in 1952, when he was named chief psychologist at the Veterans Administration Hospital in Providence, R.I.
        Later, while doing his research at the Philadelphia center, he was also a professor of psychiatry at the Medical College of Pennsylvania and, most recently, at the Temple University School of Medicine.
        At his death he was also editor in chief of The Annual Review of Gerontology and Geriatrics. He was a fellow of the American Psychological Association, former president of its division of adult development and aging, and founding editor of the journal Psychology and Aging.
        Fellow specialists honored him with a book, ''The Many Dimensions of Aging,'' published last year. A chapter from each contributor presented an aspect of Dr. Lawton's contributions.
        Dr. Lawton is survived by his wife, Fay Gardner Lawton; two daughters, Pamela Lawton of Manhattan and Jenny Grassl of Cambridge, Mass.; a son, Thomas, of Hatfield, Pa.; and two grandchildren.
      