
        Clay Lancaster, whose trained eye and playful imagination illuminated the history of architecture, and whose 1961 book documenting the historic houses of Brooklyn Heights proved to be one of the earliest and loudest shots in the historic preservation struggle in New York City, died on Dec. 25 in Harrodsburg, Ky. He was 83.
        News of Mr. Lancaster's death did not reach friends in New York until late last month, in part because of the ''blissful solitude'' in which he chose to live at Warwick, his estate on the Kentucky River in Mercer County. They had not received the latest edition of his trademark whimsical Christmas cards, which usually included his drawings of intricate landscapes with looming castles and fantastic trees.
        It was in Brooklyn that Mr. Lancaster, who wrote at least 20 books (a half-dozen for children) and 150 articles, left his biggest mark. His book ''Old Brooklyn Heights: New York's First Suburb'' (Charles E. Tuttle), provided the historical and intellectual ammunition for the successful argument in 1965 that Brooklyn Heights should become the city's first historic district.
        ''Brooklyn Heights still retains much of the pleasant atmosphere of opulent bygone days, which will be preserved only so long as its century-old houses are able to maintain some measure of their original character,'' he wrote, giving detailed analyses of 619 houses.
        Members of the new and ambitious Community Conservation and Improvement Council, with Mr. Lancaster's book as their bible, won election to the board of the Brooklyn Heights Association, and then fought to protect an entire neighborhood as a landmark district.
        When the destruction of Pennsylvania Station in 1962 aroused what proved to be unstoppable sentiment for protecting important individual buildings, the Brooklyn advocates managed to get entire historic districts included in the new city landmarks legislation.
        ''We would never have gotten off the ground if it weren't for Clay,'' said Otis Pratt Pearsall, a lawyer and a leader of the group.
        Frank Sanchis, executive director of the Municipal Art Society, said that Mr. Lancaster ''was one of the first people to make a case for the importance of trying to protect buildings in combination, as opposed to just individually.''
        Kent Barwick, the society's president and chairman of the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission, said that Mr. Lancaster's impact extended beyond New York. ''He revived the whole historic district movement across the United States,'' Mr. Barwick said.
        Mr. Lancaster was born on March 30, 1917, in Lexington, Ky. As a master's degree candidate at the University of Kentucky, he discovered a talent for drawing precise floor plans when a professor at the University of Kentucky suggested he focus on Kentucky architecture for his thesis.
        The paper took the form of a profile of the prolific but eccentric architect John McMurtry. It was later published as a book, ''Back Streets and Pine Trees'' (Bur Press, 1956), and is now considered a collector's item, according to James D. Birchfield, curator of rare books for the University of Kentucky Libraries.
        He became what The Louisville Courier-Journal called ''the pre-eminent authority on Kentucky architecture,'' writing ''Antebellum Houses of the Blue Grass'' (University of Kentucky Press, 1961) and ''Architecture of Antebellum Kentucky'' (same publisher, 1991).
        Mr. Lancaster moved to Brooklyn Heights after finishing his studies. He lectured at Columbia and at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, among other places, and was curator of Prospect Park in the mid-1960's.
        He loved yoga, and often stood on his head for long periods. His intellectual flexibility was similarly supple, ranging easily from Asian aesthetics to the American bungalow.
        In a review of Mr. Lancaster's book ''The Japanese Influence in America'' (Abbeville Press, 1983), Jay Matthews wrote in The Washington Post: ''He probes the influence of the Japanese blending of environment and architecture on Frank Lloyd Wright and the Chicago School. Then he leaves the reader stunned by how much his own Pasadena bungalow, with wide porches and missing attic, owes to the photographs of Japanese buildings collected by California architects at the turn of the century.''
        Mr. Lancaster combined his love of railroads and of Nantucket in a book called ''The Far-Out Island Railroad: Nantucket's Old Summer Narrow-Gauge, 1879-1918.'' His love for East Hampton formed the basis for ''East Hampton's Heritage: An Illustrated Architectural Record'' (W. W. Norton & Co., 1982), a book of essays he wrote with Robert A. M. Stern.
        Friends remember that Mr. Lancaster fled Brooklyn unhappily in the late 1960's. His quirkily elegant apartment, home to his splendid collection of art from Southeast Asia, had been burglarized.
        He went to Nantucket, where he had restored an old house, found time to fall in love with the old-fashioned California bungalow, then moved home to Kentucky, where he fixed up an early-19th-century home. He lived alone and is survived by nieces and nephews.
        Perhaps in his heart he was most comfortable in earlier eras. Mike Gladstone, a publisher who lived in Brooklyn Heights, recalls a dinner party many years ago. He sat across from Mr. Lancaster, who was engaged in a witty, animated conversation with a woman about how beautiful the gardens of Versailles seemed at the time of Louis XVI. They were speaking in the present tense.
        ''I suddenly realized they weren't kidding at all,'' Mr. Gladstone said. ''They were absolutely serious about having met in a previous life.''
        Correction:  February 10, 2001, Saturday  An obituary yesterday about Clay Lancaster, an architectural historian whose 1961 book documented the houses of Brooklyn Heights, misstated the position of Kent Barwick, who spoke about Mr. Lancaster's influence on the historic preservation movement. Mr. Barwick, the president of the Municipal Art Society, is a former chairman of the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission; the current chairwoman is Jennifer Raab.
      