
        Michel Oksenberg, an American authority on China who as a member of President Jimmy Carter's National Security Council helped establish full diplomatic relations between Washington and Beijing, died on Thursday at his home in Atherton, Calif. He was 62.
        The cause of death was cancer, his family said.
        As the China expert on the Security Council from 1977 to 1980, Dr. Oksenberg played a crucial role in the negotiations that led to the start of full relations on Jan. 1, 1979.
        After President Richard M. Nixon's visit to Beijing in 1972, the United States and China agreed to set up liaison offices in each other's capitals, but not embassies, as the United States continued to recognize the Nationalist government on Taiwan. In early 1978, Dr. Oksenberg accompanied the national security adviser, Zbigniew Brzezinski, to Beijing, where, with the help of Leonard F. Woodcock, head of the liaison office there, they laid the groundwork for the full normalization of relations announced in December 1978.
        The agreement involved severing full diplomatic relations with Taiwan by substituting a liaison office for the embassy in Taipei. Dr. Oksenberg helped negotiate an intelligence-sharing arrangement with the Chinese when China's top leader, Deng Xiaoping, visited Washington in early 1979.
        In 1980, after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, which Beijing and Washington strongly opposed, Dr. Oksenberg was involved in negotiating with China on helping the Afghan resistance movement.
        ''Throughout all that period when relations with China were high on our agenda, Mike was my right hand,'' Dr. Brzezinski, now at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, said yesterday in a telephone interview.
        At the end of last year, when his health was failing, Dr. Oksenberg helped mobilize opinion in the United States government against President Bill Clinton's expressed interest in trying to arrange a visit to North Korea. Mr. Clinton was hoping to announce an agreement to limit missile development and sales.
        In a letter to Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright and the national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, Dr. Oksenberg cautioned that the United States should not appear overly eager to draw closer to North Korea and that a presidential visit there just before an election risked tying the hands of Mr. Clinton's successor in the White House.
        The visit was not made, largely because the United States was unable to reach the understanding on missiles that Mr. Clinton had sought.
        Born on Oct. 12, 1938, in Antwerp, Belgium, Dr. Oksenberg was the son of a diamond cutter. The family moved to the United States the next year. He earned a B.A. from Swarthmore College in 1960 and an M.A. in 1963 and a Ph.D. in political science in 1969 from Columbia University. He taught at Stanford University from 1966 to 1968, transferring to Columbia until 1974. He was also on the University of Michigan faculty from 1973 to 1992, taking a leave to work on the Security Council.
        From 1992 to 1995, Dr. Oksenberg was president of the East-West Center, a federally financed research and training institute in Honolulu, before moving to the Asia-Pacific Research Center at Stanford.
        In 1988, Dr. Oksenberg wrote ''Policy Making in China: Leaders, Structures, and Processes'' with Prof. Kenneth Lieberthal of the University of Michigan. The work argued that despite China's authoritarian reputation, its bureaucracy strove for internal consensus on major decisions. His other publications included ''Shaping U.S.-China Relations: A Long-Term Strategy'' (with Elizabeth Economy, 1997) and ''China Joins the World: Progress and Prospects'' (with Elizabeth Economy, co-editor, 1999).
        Surviving are his wife, the former Lois Elinor Clarenbach; a son, Maj. David Oksenberg of the Army; and a daughter, Dr. Deborah Oksenberg, a physician in San Francisco.
        Correction:  February 27, 2001, Tuesday  A headline and a picture caption on Saturday with the obituary of an American expert on China misspelled his given name. He was Michel Oksenberg, not Michael.
      