
        Alfred J. Koeppel, an executive in one of the oldest real estate families in New York and a former board chairman at Trinity College, died of cancer on Jan. 19 at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. He was 68.
        Mr. Koeppel, who lived in a town house apartment on the Upper East Side, was a partner in the firm of Koeppel & Koeppel, which owns and manages commercial buildings in Manhattan.
        The Koeppel family's roots in New York real estate go back to 1870 when Abraham Koeppel immigrated from Germany and began buying and developing residential properties in Brooklyn. His sons, Max and Harry, joined him in Koeppel & Koeppel and in the 1940's shifted the firm's focus to Manhattan, buying and managing apartment and office towers. Alfred Koeppel joined the firm in 1954.
        In 1963, Max and Harry Koeppel divided the business, and until recently there were two Koeppel & Koeppel firms. The firm led by Max Koeppel and his sons, Alfred and Bevin, handled commercial properties and was known as the downtown Koeppel & Koeppel because it had offices in the Wall Street area. The uptown Koeppel & Koeppel, which had offices in Midtown, specialized in residential properties. It now operates under another name.
        In 1985, when their father died, Alfred and Bevin became the name partners of the Koeppel & Koeppel that remains. Alfred Koeppel's sons, Caleb and David, joined the family business in the early 1980's. In 1988, Alfred Koeppel and his children started another firm, now known as Koeppel Tener Real Estate Services. Alfred Koeppel served as chairman. Caleb Koeppel is the chief executive, and his sister, Sarah Cohn, is the general counsel. Like their father, Caleb, David and Sarah all graduated from Trinity, and as a condition of joining the family business, Mr. Koeppel required them to become lawyers.
        Among the properties now owned by Koeppel & Koeppel are the 29-story office tower on Broadway at Beaver Street that was built by John D. Rockefeller in 1926 as the headquarters of the Standard Oil Company and the 35-story building at 51st Street and Lexington Avenue formerly known as the Grolier Building. The firm also owns a small shopping center in Great Neck, N.Y.
        Mr. Koeppel became a trustee at Trinity College in 1985 and served as board chairman from 1990 to 1996, remaining on the board until last year.
        In 1994, after Tom Gerety resigned as president of Trinity to become president of Amherst College, Mr. Koeppel, a graduate of Trinity and the Brooklyn Law School, stepped in to lead Trinity for about two months until an interim president was appointed. He took charge of a major fund-raising drive that was just starting and led the search that ended with the selection of Evan S. Dobelle, the college's current president.
        Mr. Koeppel worked with the new president to start a $175 million revitalization of the decaying neighborhood around the Trinity campus in Hartford and to expand the college's studies of cities and urban life. The Harvard Business Review cited his work in a 1999 case study on the leadership of nonprofit organizations.
        Besides his children, who live in Manhattan, and his brother, who lives in Mamaroneck, N.Y., Mr. Koeppel is survived by his wife, the former Ruth Rubenstein, and three sisters, Louise Feldman of Sands Point, N.Y., Geraldine Adler and Grace Gold, both of Kings Point, N.Y., and nine grandchildren.
      