
        Edmund Fuller, a novelist, historian and literary critic, died on Monday at his home in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 86.
        A prolific writer, Mr. Fuller was the author of more than a dozen novels, histories and books of literary criticism. For 32 years he served as the chief book reviewer for The Wall Street Journal and also wrote criticism for The Saturday Review of Literature, The New York Herald Tribune and The New York Times.
        Born in Wilmington, Del., Mr. Fuller became active in the theater as a child, later directing plays at the Longwood Gardens Theater in Kennett Square, Pa., and teaching playwriting at the New School for Social Research in New York.
        In the 1940's he was appointed editor in chief of Crown Publishers in New York. In 1948 he succumbed to the dream of supporting his writing by farming and relocated with his wife, three children and mother-in-law to 264 acres in Vermont. He chronicled this move in his 1966 memoir, ''A Successful Calamity: A Writer's Follies on a Vermont Farm,'' calling it a ''gallant, growth-inducing, onward-leading mistake.''
        Five years later he joined the faculty at the Kent School in Connecticut, where he taught English while writing textbooks and annotating a series of Shakespeare plays. In 1982 he moved with his wife to Chapel Hill, where he developed a deepened interest in Southern literature and in his own ancestral roots.
        In addition to the novels ''A Star Pointed North,'' ''Brothers Divided,'' ''The Corridor'' and ''Flight,'' Mr. Fuller wrote ''Vermont: a History of the Green Mountain State'' and ''Tinkers and Genius,'' about Yankee inventors. He also wrote two books of literary criticism: ''Books With Men Behind Them,'' an exploration of the importance of an author's philosophic vision, and ''Man in Modern Fiction,'' a critique of literary values in which he railed against novelists like Norman Mailer and Jack Kerouac, charging them with abdicating their responsibility as artists by looking tolerantly upon the seamy side of life.
        He is survived by two sons, Graham, of Washington, and David, of London; two daughters, Meredith, of Falmouth, Mass., and Faith, of San Francisco; eight grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
      