
        Nathan Edward Cohen, who helped shape professional social work in the United States, died on Jan. 27 at his home in Oakland, Calif. He was 91.
        He was the founding president of the National Association of Social Workers, which in 1955 merged seven groups into one far more influential body. A former associate dean of the New York School of Social Work, he served as a professor and dean of the School of Social Welfare at the University of California at Los Angeles from 1964 until his retirement in 1979.
        As dean he coordinated an important study of the social and psychological causes of the 1965 Watts riots in Los Angeles. More a revolt than a riot, it wreaked devastation and cost 34 lives, growing from the arrest of a suspected drunk black driver on a hot and sticky summer night.
        The two-year review edited by Dr. Cohen was published in 1970 as ''The Los Angeles Riots: A Socio-Psychological Study.'' It was based on thousands of interviews with people of all races in greater Los Angeles and described conditions and attitudes prevailing before and after the event.
        Dr. Cohen trained as a psychologist rather than as a social worker and was respected for his realistic, unsentimental approach to social concerns. His aim was to make social work more professional, bring scholarship to social-work education and reconnect with its roots in Jane Addams's 19th-century quest for social reform.
        Born in Derry, N.H., Nathan Cohen graduated from Boston Latin School and Harvard University, where he also received his doctorate in experimental psychology, in 1934. He spent a year researching in Italy and worked for private agencies, including the National Jewish Welfare Board, before spending three years at Columbia.
        He had left experimental psychology behind and refocused on social justice, he said, during his fellowship in Italy. Fascism held sway over the country, he recalled, and the sight of Mussolini's Black Shirts marching below his window convinced him there were broad social concerns he could not confront by ''running rats in the laboratory.''
        In 1958 he went to head the School of Applied Social Sciences at Western Reserve University. While there he took a group of students to Selma, Ala., to march with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. He became a vice president of the university and helped manage its merger into Case Western Reserve.
        At U.C.L.A., Dr. Cohen started the  doctoral program in the School of Social Welfare. As dean of the school he oversaw a marked increase in the number of minority students and faculty members.
        He was a president of the National Conference on Social Welfare. He wrote ''Citizen Volunteer'' (1960), a history; and ''Social Work and Social Problems'' (1964). He served on federal advisory panels, testified before Congress and trained students who influenced social policies in this country and overseas.
        Dr. Cohen is survived by his wife of 66 years, Sylvia Lee Golden Cohen; 2 sons, David H., of Manhattan, and Edward N., of Loomis, Calif.; a daughter, Susan A. Cohen of Berkeley, Calif.; 11 grandchildren; and 7 great-grandchildren.
      