
        Abraham D. Beame, an accountant and clubhouse Democrat who climbed the gray ranks of municipal bookkeeping and confounded oddsmakers to become mayor of New York in the mid-1970's, only to spend his term struggling with the worst fiscal calamity in the city's history, died yesterday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 94.
        Mr. Beame, who lived on Manhattan's Upper East Side and since his retirement from politics had been an investment adviser, died of complications from open heart surgery, said his son, Bernard. Mr. Beame had a history of cardiac problems; he had a mild heart attack in 1991 and had been hospitalized since suffering another heart attack last July 17. He underwent open heart surgery in August and again in December.
        The Beame era was only four years, from 1974 through 1977, but it was tumultuous. The mayor, 67 when he took office, had to cope with terrorist bombs exploding in office buildings and department stores; a citywide blackout that led to arson, looting and 3,000 arrests; and a psychopathic killer called Son of Sam, who shot six people dead, wounded seven others and terrorized the city.
        It was not all murder and mayhem. In 1976, New York was the focus of the nation's euphoric Bicentennial celebration, and, after considerable lobbying by Mr. Beame, played host to the city's first national political convention in 52 years as the Democrats gathered to nominate Jimmy Carter.
        But it was the fiscal crisis that dominated the news -- and Abe Beame's City Hall -- in those years. Basically, the banks and the bond market that lent New York money to pay bills decided in 1975 that the city's spending binges had at last made it a bad risk, and cut off the spigot. The city almost went bankrupt.
        With the hindsight of decades, historians and others have praised Mr. Beame for having run a scandal-free administration, for struggling valiantly with an unmanageable fiscal crisis not of his making, and for allocating the city's diminished resources fairly and humanely.
        But critics have insisted that he lacked vision and dynamic leadership, that despite his experience in fiscal affairs -- or perhaps because of it -- he was not up to dealing with the fiscal crisis; indeed, that he was befuddled by it at times and slow to act, that his indecisiveness prolonged and deepened the crisis, and that his legacy was a chain of state-imposed fiscal overseers.
        'Ford to City: Drop Dead'
        The fiscal crisis in 1975 and 1976 was all rather mysterious to most New Yorkers, who gathered that the news was bad when they read day after day about ominous-sounding budget gaps and year-end rollovers, about a checkered history of unredeemable notes and floating debt, about fateful deferred payments and other bewildering arcana of municipal finance.
        But all over town, there were clearer portents. Half-built schools stood as grim reminders that public works spending was moribund. Streets were dangerous, dirty and cratered. Libraries had limited hours. Tuition at City University was imposed for the first time. City hospitals removed 3,000 beds. Schools, police stations and firehouses were closed. To save on overtime, some firefighters were dispatched in dial-a-cabs to relieve comrades ending shifts.
        While dimly understood, bankruptcy was actually a fearful specter: a city unable to pay its police officers and firefighters, to collect its garbage or maintain its hospitals, was a vision of metropolis in social collapse. Trying to cope, Mr. Beame retrenched. He eventually cut the city work force by 65,000, froze wages, reduced services, raised taxes and restructured the budget. It was not enough. He begged federal and state officials for help.
        ''Ford to City: Drop Dead,'' a legendary headline in The Daily News blared of President Gerald R. Ford's response. The federal government eventually did provide and guarantee loans for the city. And Gov. Hugh L. Carey and the State Legislature, bypassing Mr. Beame, set up innovative public agencies to monitor city finances and borrow money on its behalf.
        The measures worked, but it took years for the city to get back on its feet, even with the help of an economic boom in the 1980's, and the Faustian price was humbling and severe -- a sharp erosion of the power of the mayor and other city officials to make their own spending and budget decisions.
        In the pantheon of New York mayors, Mr. Beame -- a small, meticulous man with a basset hound face and a preference for doing things on the phone -- was a genuine anti-type: The city's first Jewish mayor, he lacked the fire of Fiorello H. La Guardia, the savvy of Robert F. Wagner Jr., the glamour of John V. Lindsay, the showmanship of Edward I. Koch.
        He was so short that an aide sometimes slipped an attaché case under him when he got up to speak. He was so colorless that he almost vanished in a three-way TV debate. He seemed to speak out of the side of his mouth -- the voice a high-pitched tootle of old ''Noo Yawk'' -- and his speeches were generally so bland that many people couldn't remember what he said right after he said it. He had a passion for details, political and budgetary, and a bookkeeper's penchant for jotting little notes to himself, mostly reminders to call aides and associates. He made hundreds of calls a day, at all hours. A harried executive assistant kept track one day and counted 43 calls from Mr. Beame.
        One writer called him a vortex disguised as a smudge: energetic on the job, but the kind of man you never notice on the street. He grew up on the Lower East Side, went to City College and worked three decades for the city, mostly toiling over budgets, and serving two nonconsecutive terms as city comptroller.
        Much of the electorate -- nudged by his campaign slogan, ''He Knows the Buck'' -- regarded him as a glorified bookkeeper when he ran for mayor in 1965 and lost to Mr. Lindsay, a witty, handsome, young Republican congressman who hob-nobbed with movie stars and brought a Kennedyesque excitement to City Hall.
        But Mr. Beame had dignity, patience, a resilient self-confidence and that indispensable quality of all real politicians -- a memory that never forgot a favor or an insult. And eight years later, the upright burgher with the aura of accountancy ran again -- at just the right time in a town where much of the electorate was fed up with Mr. Lindsay's psychedelic stewardship -- and he won.
        It was 1973, a remarkable year, with the Watergate scandal developing and the war in Vietnam winding down. In New York, poverty, unemployment and crime were surging; the city was hemorrhaging industrial jobs that had long supported the city tax base; and there was a huge exodus of middle-class taxpayers.
        Lurking just around the corner, too, was the gravest fiscal crisis the city had ever faced -- a failure of trust in municipal credit, and recurrent brushes with bankruptcy that would threaten the fabric of life in New York.
        It was an imbroglio that had been building for 15 years, the result of accumulated budget deficits built on a reckless disregard for the consequences of spending and borrowing. As if a judgment day would never come, Mayor Wagner to some extent, and Mayor Lindsay to a much larger extent, had ignored fiscal realities and let New Yorkers believe the stylish fiction that their government could afford all that they deemed appropriate in the richest city in the world.
        As if they lived in Oz, citizens expected the city to build housing, run social and health programs, give money to artists and cultural institutions, keep City University tuition-free and provide clean safe streets, cheap transit and good schools, hospitals, parks and museums. Many had come to expect even more largesse under Mr. Lindsay, whose uncomplicated moral views had contributed to huge increases in welfare, city labor contracts and other expenses.
        Borrowing to Cover Borrowing
        As revenues fell, cash rolled out of the city treasury like there was a hole in the bag. Making matters worse, Mr. Lindsay, to balance budgets, had resorted to a stupefying array of gimmicks: juggling books to shift state aid from one year to another, using fictitious surpluses, ''deferring'' required payments, arbitrarily raising revenue estimates, borrowing against questionable receipts.
        More and more, the city was borrowing just to pay back earlier borrowings.
        Taking office on Jan. 1, 1974, Mr. Beame faced a staggering $1.5 billion deficit in a $10 billion budget. With his fiscal expertise, he seemed the right man to deal with the problems. But he was slow to react, critics said, and like Hoover in the Depression seemed unable to grasp that old-style belt-tightening could not subdue the economic forces threatening the city's solvency.
        By the fall of 1974, with the economy stagnant and inflation rising, the long-looming crisis was in sight. Huge payments were due for bondholders, bank loans, payrolls and other city commitments, and banks warned that the municipal bond market would soon close its doors to the city, as it did six months later.
        Mayor Beame, a man of extreme caution, finally began to act. He cut the city work force for the first time since the 1930's and the budget by 8.5 percent, calling it ''planned shrinkage.'' He ended the use of budget-balancing tricks like financing day-to-day expenses with long-term capital funds. But the magnitude of the problem -- really, a growing market belief that the city was going broke and that lending it more money would be foolish -- was too great for such half measures.
        In early 1975, the state's Urban Development Corporation briefly defaulted on its bonds, and the financial community shuddered with the realization that government solvency could not be taken for granted. On March 6, when the city sought $567 million in what normally would have been a routine borrowing, not a single bid was offered.
        Increasingly uncertain what was happening, the mayor appealed to banks and bond brokers, to leaders of the municipal unions who controlled pension funds, to anyone with big money to invest -- and then to Governor Carey and federal officials. By spring, they were all looking the other way.Mr. Beame was especially hurt by Mr. Carey's reticence. A year earlier, in behind-the-scenes maneuvering at the State Democratic Convention in Niagara Falls, Mr. Beame had been instrumental in helping Mr. Carey gain the nomination for governor, and now he was being treated like a poor relation.
        After repeated appeals, Governor Carey reluctantly had the state borrow $400 million for the city. But it was only a stopgap. Mr. Carey also set up a White House meeting with President Ford, at which Mr. Beame sought a $1 billion federal loan to keep the city afloat for 90 days. Mr. Ford refused.
        By May, Mr. Carey had come to the conclusion -- already reached by bankers -- that Mr. Beame's perception of the problem was wrong. It was not one primarily of cash flow, but of recurrent deficits and a collapse of market trust in the city, and Mr. Carey feared that the city's problem could spread to the state.
        In June, the Legislature and Mr. Carey bypassed Mr. Beame, who was not even consulted, and created the Municipal Assistance Corporation to sell bonds and raise money for the city. Felix G. Rohatyn, an investment banker who was close to Mr. Carey, helped devise the corporation and later served as its chairman. Because the corporation's bonds had to be paid off before all other creditors, including city workers, its debt was seen as more secure than the city's bonds.
        While the corporation raised $1 billion that summer, the city's budget and spending were not under control -- the deficit had swollen to $3.3 billion -- and market resistance was strong, even to assistance-corporation bonds. In September, Mr. Carey and the Legislature created a state-dominated Emergency Financial Control Board to oversee the city's budgets, revenue estimates, spending and labor contracts.
        Mr. Beame's power was being whittled away. But even so, there were brushes with bankruptcy that left him scrambling for loans and aid. Four city pension systems made crucial loans, and banks agreed to stretch out city debt payments. New York had already undergone a painful year of retrenchments, and there was a growing view in Congress that the city had to be rescued.
        After President Ford rejected a federal bailout, inspiring the ''Drop Dead'' headline, Mr. Beame assailed him for denigrating the nation's premier city. And when the assistance corporation assembled a huge financing package in November, Mr. Ford supported $2.5 billion in federal loan guarantees that got the city through the worst of the crisis.
        Aftershocks of a Crisis
        The price was steep. Taxes and transit fares rose, free tuition at City University was gone, an army of city workers was jobless, city services were cut to the bone, some agencies were turned over to the state, and the mayor had been forced to surrender autonomy over budgets, spending and labor contracts.
        Over the years, as reforms restored confidence in city finances and the city coffers swelled with surpluses, the assistance corporation and the financial control board -- renamed the New York State Financial Control Board -- faded in importance, and City Hall regained most of its control over municipal finances. But Mr. Beame, friends said, never forgave Mr. Carey for what the mayor saw as a stab in the back that slashed his powers and made him the scapegoat.
        Mr. Beame was even forced to dismiss his closest friend, First Deputy Mayor James A. Cavanagh, to symbolize a break with the past. But the mayor, who had worked almost around the clock for months, still presided over a city that had not defaulted. Indeed, Mr. Beame claimed a $200 million cash surplus in the final budget of his administration, and he entertained hopes of re-election.
        But 13 days before the Democratic primary in 1977, with Mr. Beame locked in a tight race against Mr. Koch and Mario M. Cuomo, a Securities and Exchange Commission staff report charged that Mr. Beame, City Comptroller Harrison J. Goldin and other officials had knowingly misled investors in city securities in 1974 and 1975 by failing to disclose the city's perilous financial condition.
        Mr. Beame's denials and explanations were of no avail. He lost the primary, and Mr. Koch was elected. Two years later, the S.E.C. closed its inquiry into city finances without naming or blaming anyone. It said there may have been wrongdoing, but that the public would be better served by new laws to tighten accounting rules and disclosure requirements for marketing municipal bonds.
        ''Listen, it's history -- but unfortunately it had its damaging effect,'' said Mr. Beame, who ascribed his 1977 defeat to the S.E.C. staff report and to the antipathies of Governor Carey.
        Mr. Beame blamed his predecessors for the fiscal crisis and contended that his efforts had staved off default. Mr. Carey's supporters insisted it had been his intervention that rescued the city. Municipal labor leaders claimed it was their pension funds. Washington insisted it was the federal loan guarantees.
        The blame and credit was argued for years, but the fiscal crisis had taken place on Mr. Beame's watch, and responsibility for it fell heavily on him. At the same time, Mr. Beame was praised for his crucial decision against deferring payment on city notes and trying instead to struggle back to solvency. And he was widely credited with allocating the city's shrinking resources fairly.
        Retired from politics, Mr. Beame became chairman of UMB Bank and Trust's advisory board, and later was the senior adviser of Sterling National Bank. He also served on dozens of civic and corporate boards. He commented occasionally on city fiscal affairs, when asked, and he defended his handling of the fiscal crisis when his stewardship was criticized.
        But he sidestepped public affairs for the most part, leading a quiet life built around his family, card games and lunches with a circle of close friends, and occasional trips to Israel and Hollywood, Fla., with his wife, Mary. Mrs. Beame died in 1995, and a son, Edmond, died in 1999. Besides his son, Bernard, of Pleasantville, N.Y., Mr. Beame is survived by one brother, Jack, of North Miami, Fla., five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
        Abraham David Beame was born in London on March 20, 1906, to Polish-Jewish parents who had fled Warsaw, then part of Czarist Russia. His father, Philip Birnbaum, a Socialist revolutionary who barely escaped arrest, went directly to New York, while his mother, Esther Goldfarb Birnbaum, stopped in London to give birth and joined her husband three months later. In New York, the family name was changed to Beame. Abraham's mother, who had two more sons and a daughter, died in 1912; his father remarried and had two more children.
        The boy, called ''Spunky'' for his scrappiness, grew up in a crowded cold-water flat on the Lower East Side. Childhood friends said he was an outstanding student at Public School 160. At the High School of Commerce, where he graduated at the top of his class, he had perfect scores in the state Regents bookkeeping exams and showed an extraordinary ability to absorb data and memorize facts.
        He was always working. One early morning job was to go through tenements, waking people who had no alarm clocks. During his high school years, he worked evenings in a paper factory, studying during his dinner hour. He roller-skated to school and work to save subway fare. His father took him to Socialist party meetings, and he remembered Eugene V. Debs, who ran for president five times.
        At 15, he met Mary Ingerman over checkers at the University Settlement House on Eldridge Street. Seven years later, after he graduated from City College with an accounting degree in 1928, they were married.
        They lived in Brooklyn for the next 45 years, first in a two-family house in Crown Heights, where they raised their sons, then in a modest apartment near Prospect Park. They spent summers at rented cottages in Belle Harbor, on the Rockaways in Queens.
        Late Entry Into Public Life
        From 1929 to 1946, he taught accounting at Richmond Hill High School in Queens. He also formed a certified public accounting firm, Beame & Greidinger, and in 1944 and 1945 taught accounting at Rutgers University in New Jersey. In 1930, he and his wife joined the Madison Democratic Club in Crown Heights; for many years she was club treasurer and he a get-out-the-vote precinct captain.
        In 1946, at the age of 40, his diligent work and accounting background led to his appointment as the city's $9,500-a-year assistant budget director. In 1952, he was promoted to budget director. Over the next decade, he negotiated all city labor contracts without a strike and kept books on city spending and borrowing; he also set up management programs that saved the city $40 million.
        In 1961, at the age of 55, Mr. Beame ran for office for the first time -- as the candidate for city comptroller on a ticket headed by Mr. Wagner, who had been mayor for eight years and, though opposed by party leaders, was seeking a third term on a ''beat the bosses'' slate. Mr. Beame, who had never stepped out of line, broke with the Democratic organization to join Mr. Wagner, who won. Mr. Beame, whose opponents tended to underestimate him, outpolled Mr. Wagner.
        When Mr. Wagner retired in 1965, Mr. Beame ran to succeed him. But he all but vanished in a campaign dominated by his telegenic, erudite opponents, Mr. Lindsay, a Republican-Liberal, and William F. Buckley Jr., a Conservative. ''I'm not as glib as Mr. Lindsay, not as ready with a quick capsule answer, but what does that have to do with being mayor?'' Mr. Beame complained after a TV debate. ''That's what I wanted to say. But they wouldn't let me.''
        Mr. Beame was a Jewish mayoral candidate in a city that had more Jews than Tel Aviv, but 25 percent of the Jewish vote went to the victorious Mr. Lindsay. Analysts said many Jews had feared the attention -- and a possible surge of anti-Semitism -- that a Jewish mayor might bring if things went wrong.
        Out of office for the next four years, Mr. Beame was a private investment counselor. While he prospered, he had no expensive tastes and lived plainly, almost ritually. He woke early and had orange juice, Sanka, bread and Velveeta cheese every morning. After the day's work, he was home at 7 and, first thing, laid out the next day's shirt and tie. After a light supper, it was TV, a snack of vanilla-fudge ice cream and early to bed. On weekends, the Beames saw friends and played cards. Vacations were rare; they never went abroad.
        Mr. Beame hankered for only one thing, the political life. In 1969, he made a comeback, running for his old job as city comptroller on an independent line, and was elected overwhelmingly. He promptly became a focal point for opposition to Mr. Lindsay, who was re-elected on a Fusion-Independent ticket.
        Mr. Lindsay's second term was a political disaster. His efforts to help minorities alienated the middle class. Welfare rolls doubled. Racial tensions grew. There were strikes by city workers. Crime rates soared. There were riots in city jails. City finances deteriorated. And as all these problems swirled, the matinee-idol mayor became a Democrat and made a hopeless run for president.
        By 1973, Mr. Beame's quiet mayoral candidacy looked good to many voters. His opponents -- State Senator John J. Marchi, the Republican; Representative Mario Biaggi, the Conservative, and Assemblyman Albert H. Blumenthal, the Liberal -- labeled him a product of the Democratic machine, a tool of bosses like Meade H. Esposito, the Brooklyn leader, and a faceless vehicle for patronage.
        Mr. Beame, whose son, Bernard, was his campaign manager, did not deny his clubhouse connections; he was proud of them. He made no big promises, saying his administration would be one of prudent management, not new programs. He said he would try to hold down the budget and keep transit fares at 35 cents.
        It all sounded good to the working and white middle classes, union members, small homeowners, businessmen, older citizens and outer-borough residents who were disgusted with Mr. Lindsay's shopworn ''Fun City'' politics. Mr. Beame, 1 of 10 contenders in a free-for-all in the spring, beat Representative Herman Badillo of the Bronx in the primary and then won the four-way general election.
        ''I hope to be a matchmaker in the years of my administration, wedding our people to the city, encouraging them to identify with this great metropolis that is their home,'' Mr. Beame, the 104th mayor of New York, told the crowd gathered for his inaugural under cold, gray skies at City Hall on New Year's Day, 1974. ''I want our citizens to be proud to call themselves New Yorkers.''
        With its chandeliers and servants, Gracie Mansion, the mayor's 18th-century official residence, seemed too grand to the Beames, who brought some of their own furniture, got rid of the modern art the Lindsays had favored, and hired a cook who knew how to make blintzes, not French sauces. Mary Beame sometimes helped in the kitchen and said she missed her friends in Brooklyn and Queens.
        The Beame years were a striking contrast to his predecessor's. Mr. Lindsay was fashionably late for banquets, rallies and meetings, but Mr. Beame -- self-effacing, fundamentally shy and courteous to a fault -- arrived on time and was often the first dignitary present. His jokes rarely got more than a snicker.
        He loved to shake hands. He once shook hands with a man in a gorilla suit who breached the security detail, and when David Berkowitz was arrested for 13 shootings in 1977, Mr. Beame nearly mistook him for a detective. ''Ah,'' said Mr. Beame's press secretary, Sidney J. Frigand, ''the photo op from hell -- the mayor congratulating Son of Sam on his arrest.''
        Aside from the fiscal crisis, Mayor Beame pressed an economic development program that created thousands of jobs, won tax abatements and credits for new and expanded businesses, capped property tax rates and restructured police work schedules to get more officers on the street.
        But the four years of his mayoralty were among the most troubled in city history, and when they were over, Mr. Beame -- who had battled with federal and state officials, bankers and brokers, the news media and the unions, worrying endlessly and often working 18 hours a day -- was a tired man.
        Much of his power had been taken away. He was widely blamed for mishandling the crisis, had been accused of misleading investors and even faced a threat of prosecution. He had slogged through a tough primary campaign, had been shunned by the voters and was destined to give way to his old rival, Ed Koch.
        On the night of his defeat, Mr. Beame, 71, who seldom displayed any emotion beyond a thin smile or a peevish scowl, lost his composure before the cameras and a ballroom of supporters. Tears welled up, and he said in a quavering voice that he had done the best he could. The applause was loud and sustained.
      