
        Arthur W. Hummel Jr., who as ambassador to China from 1981 to 1985 negotiated an agreement on United States arms sales to Taiwan, died on Feb. 6 at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 80.
        Under the joint communiqué in 1982, the United States stated its intention to reduce arms sales to Taiwan gradually and reaffirmed its view that ''there is but one China.'' The United States also promised not to exceed in any year the $800 million worth of arms that it sold to Taiwan in 1979, the year it established normal diplomatic relations with Beijing. In return, Beijing committed itself to seeking the peaceful reunification of Taiwan with the mainland.
        The agreement smoothed over an irritant to relations between the United States and China and allowed the United States to continue supplying F-5E fighter planes to Taiwan, though not the more advanced aircraft that it had first sought. The sales were in keeping with obligations under the Taiwan Relations Act of 1979.
        Mr. Hummel was sent to China as ambassador after having been ambassador to Pakistan, where demonstrators burned his embassy in 1979, saying the United States was involved in the seizure of the Grand Mosque in Mecca, Saudi Arabia, by gunmen.
        Mr. Hummel was born in China to American missionary parents. When their son was 8, Mr. Hummel's parents left China for Washington, where his father became chief of the Oriental division of the Library of Congress. After attending Antioch College, Mr. Hummel studied at the College of Chinese Studies in Beijing, where he also taught English.
        After the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor in 1941, he was interned by the Japanese, who had occupied northern China since 1937. In 1944, he fled and joined the Chinese Nationalist forces until the end of the war, when he worked for a year with the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration.
        He earned a master's degree in Chinese studies from the University of Chicago, then joined the Foreign Service in 1950. His first ambassadorship was to Burma, after which he became deputy United States representative at the Micronesia status negotiations. He was then deputy assistant secretary of state for East Asia and the Pacific until his assignment as ambassador to Ethiopia in 1975. The next year he became assistant secretary of state for East Asia and the Pacific.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Betty Lou Firstenberger, whom he married in 1951; two sons, Timothy and William; three grandchildren; and a brother, Sharman Bookwalter Hummel.
      