
        Sir Richard William Southern, an Oxford University historian whose insights on the early Middle Ages won praise not only for their erudition but also for their literary style, died on Feb. 6 at his home in Oxford. He was 88.
        Sir Richard's international reputation was earned with his first and best-known work, ''The Making of the Middle Ages,'' which appeared in 1953, went through scores of editions and was translated into many languages. In it he charted the evolving intellectual landscape of Western Europe between 972 and 1204 when the foundations of medieval civilization were being laid.
        Those distant centuries witnessed what he called a transition ''from epic to romance'' as life came to be seen less as ''an exercise in endurance'' and more as ''a seeking and a journeying,'' a process of personal discovery and development.
        The Oxford medievalist Maurice Keen said ''The Making of the Middle Ages'' was ''a truly extraordinary book, outstanding both in the totality of its range and the vividness of its insights.'' Thomas Bisson, a Harvard historian, called it ''an incomparable book that shows how the rediscovery of logic fashioned the Middle Ages.''
        Sir Richard -- he was knighted for services to medieval history in 1974 -- completed his undergraduate studies at Balliol College at Oxford  and chose to spend almost his entire working life at the university, first as a research fellow at Exeter College from 1932 to 1937, then as a fellow and tutor at Balliol from 1937 to 1961.  He was appointed Chichele Professor of Modern History at Oxford and a fellow of All Souls College in 1961.
        From 1969 until his retirement in 1981, he served as president of St. John's College at a time when, like most other Oxford and Cambridge colleges, it was transforming itself into a coeducational institution.
        He followed ''The Making of the Middle Ages'' with important studies of St. Anselm and Robert Grosseteste, towering figures of the medieval world and scholar-bishops who greatly influenced their times while simultaneously immersing themselves in contemporary politics, quarreling endlessly with kings and popes over the frontiers of power between church and state.
        In ''Robert Grosseteste,'' published in 1986, he offered an original view of this 13th-century firebrand and philosopher-scientist who served as Bishop of Lincoln from 1235 to 1253. In 1990 he published ''St Anselm: A Portrait in a Landscape,'' a life of the Italian monk who became Archbishop of Canterbury in 1093 and sought to prove the existence of God using pure reason.
        Toward the end of his life Sir Richard embarked on a monumental three-volume work titled ''Scholastic Humanism and the Unification of Europe,'' in which he sought to show how the schools of Paris, Bologna and elsewhere created an immensely complex body of canon law regulating every aspect of Christian life and enforced that law through a hierarchy of courts with the papacy at its apex. The final volume remained unfinished at his death.
        Richard William Southern was born in Newcastle-Upon-Tyne on Feb. 8, 1912, the son of a lumber merchant. He was educated in his  town's Royal Grammar School, then considered one of the best state-run schools in the country, and went on to Balliol. During World War II he served in the Durham Light Infantry, attaining the rank of major and spending two years as an intelligence officer attached to the Foreign Office.
        In 1987 he was awarded the Balzan Prize, given by an Italian foundation  for excellence in academic disciplines that are not eligible for a Nobel Prize. He promptly donated his prize of $150,000 to St. Hilda's, a poorly funded women's college at Oxford. St. Hilda's principal was  Mary Moore, the daughter of his old Balliol tutor, Vivian H. Galbraith, and his gift was used to establish a medieval teaching post known as the Galbraith Fellowship.
        Mild-mannered with an ironic sense of humor, Mr. Southern was universally popular as a teacher and lecturer with his students. His last years were spent in almost total deafness with others able to communicate with him only by writing.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Sheila Cobley, and two sons.
        In addition to many learned articles, Sir Richard also published ''Western Views of Islam in the Middle Ages''(1962); ''St. Anselm and His Biographer'' (1963); ''Memorials of St. Anselm'' (with F. S. Schmitt) (1969); ''Medieval Humanism and Other Studies'' (1970); and ''Western Society and the Church in the Middle Ages'' (1970).
        He was an honorary fellow of Balliol and St. John's as well as of Sidney Sussex College at Cambridge University, and was awarded honorary doctorates by universities in Britain and the United States, among them  Harvard, Columbia, Cambridge, Glasgow, Bristol, Warwick and Newcastle-Upon-Tyne.
      