
        Bob Buhl, who teamed with Warren Spahn and Lew Burdette as the pitching stars of the Milwaukee Braves' 1957 World Series champions, died Friday in Titusville, Fla. He was 72.
        Buhl had been suffering from pneumonia and emphysema, The Associated Press reported. His death came two days before that of Eddie Mathews, the Hall of Fame third baseman who had been his Braves roommate for almost a decade.
        A hard-throwing right-hander, Buhl was known for his mastery of the Dodgers but also for his futility at the plate. While pitching mostly for the Cubs in 1962, he was 0 for 70, setting a record for most at-bats in a major league season without a hit.
        Buhl pitched in the National League for 15 seasons, winning 166 games and losing 132.
        His best season was 1957, when he was 18-7 with a league-leading winning percentage of .720 and an earned run average of 2.74. Buhl, Spahn and Burdette, the Braves' pitching stars of the 1950's, combined for 56 victories that season. The Braves defeated the Yankees in a seven-game World Series, but Buhl was knocked out early in his two Series starts.
        The Braves won the National League pennant again in 1958, then lost to the Yankees in the World Series. Buhl had a sore arm that year, pitching in only 11 games. But he regained his form in 1959, when he led the league in shutouts with four. He pitched in the first of two All-Star Games in 1960, when he was 16-9.
        ''I was mean on the mound,'' he once said, taking pride in an ability to intimidate batters by throwing inside. ''And I was wild to begin with, so that helped me.''
        In 1956, Buhl had a remarkable 8-1 record against a Brooklyn Dodger team that won the pennant by one game over the Braves. ''I showed them I was the boss,'' he said. ''They knew I would brush them back. I'd pitch Hodges inside and throw him a lot of curves because he wasn't a good curveball hitter. I'd throw Campanella nothing but high inside fastballs. I'd pitch Duke Snider high and tight.''
        A native of Saginaw, Mich., Buhl made his major league debut in 1953, the Braves' first season in Milwaukee; he went 13-8. He remained with the Braves until early in the 1962 season, then pitched for the Chicago Cubs and the Philadelphia Phillies.
        He is survived by four daughters, Kimberly Sheldon, of Titusville; Candace Raney, of Commerce, Mich.; Connie Parker, of West Palm Beach, Fla.; Jennifer Trybe, of Lowland, N.C.; and eight grandchildren.
        Buhl looked back on a friendly rivalry with Spahn and Burdette. ''We were always competing one way or another,'' he once remarked. ''On the field, we'd play pepper, and whoever booted the most would have to buy drinks after the workout. That kept up the entire time I was in Milwaukee.''
        He noted, however: ''I wouldn't compete with them with the bat. They were both good hitters, and I was probably the worst in baseball. They'd laugh at my hitting.''
        Buhl maintained that he customarily got to the ballpark early so he could take 15 to 20 minutes of batting practice, figuring that if he could help himself at the plate he might be allowed to stay longer in games. But it was no use. ''I couldn't hit a curve,'' he said. ''I can't remember any pitcher I could hit.''
        He had 76 hits in 857 at-bats in his career, for a batting average of .089.
        But there was one positive note. As Buhl put it: ''No one remembers that I was a good bunter.''
      