
        Edward E. Fitzgerald, an author and former chief executive of the Book-of-the-Month Club, died Feb. 11 at Sound Shore Medical Center in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 81.
        The cause was complications from a stroke, according to his family.
        Mr. Fitzgerald helped direct the Book-of-the-Month Club from 1973 through 1984, a period when its membership was near its peak. During his tenure, the club, an influential institution in the popular dissemination of American literary culture, shifted its focus from a small number of general interest hardcover books to a wider selection of titles and several specialty clubs.
        Mr. Fitzgerald also founded the Quality Paperback Book Club, which helped make paperbacks ''a respectable reading tool,'' said Lorraine Shanley, an industry consultant and former colleague.
        Mr. Fitzgerald was also co-author of several autobiographies by well-known sports figures like Althea Gibson, Yogi Berra, Mel Allen and Johnny Unitas.
        Mr. Fitzgerald grew up in Yonkers. During high school, he began writing about local high school sporting events for the city's newspapers, which paid him a nickel for each inch of text he provided, as he recalled in his autobiography, ''A Nickel an Inch.''
        After serving in the Army during World War II, Mr. Fitzgerald declined college in favor of returning to journalism. In 1946, he was hired as a writer and editor at the newly founded SPORT Magazine, for fans of spectator sports, and five years later he became its editor.
        In 1960, he was named president of the Doubleday company's books division, which included its book club, the Literary Guild. He left in 1968 to become president of the McCall's Magazine Group, which published McCall's, Redbook and The Saturday Review. There he started a book-publishing division as well.
        Among other changes, in 1970 he presided over the hiring of Shana Alexander as the first woman to serve as McCall's editor in chief; at the time, she was the only woman heading one of the top-selling women's magazines.
        He became an executive at the Book-of-the-Month Club in 1972. He was named president in 1973 and chief executive in 1979. He oversaw the club's integration into the magazine publisher Time Inc., which acquired it in 1977.
        He continued writing after his retirement in 1984, including a book entitled ''That Place in Minnesota'' about a month under treatment for alcoholism at St. Mary's Rehabilitation Center. A reviewer in The New York Times Book Review called it ''a moving and courageous memoir.''
        He is survived by his wife, Libuse, of Eastchester, N.Y.; a son, Kevin, of Beverly Hills, Calif.; a daughter, Eileen Fitzgerald, of Manhattan; and one granddaughter, Leona Rosenblum, also of Manhattan.
      