
        Elizabeth Bass Golding, a Nassau County Family Court judge and pioneer activist for children's rights who set up group homes to keep troubled youths out of mental hospitals, died on Jan. 6 in a nursing home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. She was 100.
        ''She went to many a graduation of a young man or young woman who had been destined for jail but pulled themselves out and made themselves into something great,'' said Rabbi Youssie Lieber, a former administrator of the Hebrew Academy of Nassau County, one of the many youth-related institutions that she and her husband, Samuel, supported.
        Elizabeth Bass was born in Manhattan. In 1921, she was one of the first women to graduate from New York University Law School. She finished second in the class. Samuel Golding, whom she would marry in 1931, finished first.
        Miss Bass practiced law on her own when most women with law degrees went into family-run practices.
        The Goldings later practiced law together.
        Mr. Golding died in 1997. Judge Golding had no immediate survivors.
        In 1944, she founded and organized the Women's Forum of Nassau County, which pressed for reforms on issues ranging from better housing to better Saturday movie matinees for children.
        A liberal Republican, she was appointed to a vacancy on the Nassau County Family Court in 1963. Later that year, she was elected to an eight-year term on the court, defeating a Democrat, Beatrice S. Burstein, who was later elected to the court.
        The two, along with Rosalie Ulrich Rosenberger, who was a guardian of the county's children's court before it became the family court, are often cited for their vigorous early efforts at protecting children's rights. Mrs. Rosenberger died at 97 in 1996, and Justice Burstein at 85 on Jan. 6, the same day as Judge Golding.
        While she was a family court judge, Judge Golding became involved with one child, Johnny, who kept showing up in her courtroom. ''Such a little fellow -- his file seemed bigger than he was,'' she said.
        After the child was placed with foster families several times, Judge Golding learned that he had been put in a psychiatric hospital. She was told that he was not psychotic but that children like him had been sent to such institutions for years.
        She convened ''a committee for lost children,'' made up of lawyers, social workers and other professionals. The group successfully lobbied the State Legislature to pass the Youth Hostels Act in 1969, authorizing appropriations for group homes.
        Judge Golding then set up one of the first group homes in Rockville Centre, under an organization she called Hope for Youth, which raised much of its money privately. ''They will not be deprived in any fashion and will stay here as long as they need the home,'' she told The New York Times in 1971.
        There were seven boys at first; thousands of others have since lived at the organization's five homes. One of them was Amos Zereoue, who became a football hero at West Virginia University.
        His father, a single parent, had checked the boy into the Bellmore home when he could no longer control his fighting and drinking during high school. George Vecsey, a sports columnist for The Times, asked the son in 1998 what would have happened to him had he not gone to Hope for Youth. ''I probably wouldn't be sitting here talking to you,'' he said.
      