
        Robert Lee, the first and only chief of chiefs of New Orleans Mardi Gras Indian tribes, died on Jan. 19 at a New Orleans hospital. He was 85.
        The Mardi Gras Indians are an exuberant but lesser known ingredient in the zestful recipe for the renowned pre-Lenten celebration in New Orleans. Unlike the famous Krewes, who historically were white,  or even their mainly middle-class black equivalents, like the Zulu Social Aid and Pleasure Club, the Indians, who in reality are blacks dressed in feathers and bangles and hooting war calls, have long manifested the energy of the city's poor, segregated black neighborhoods.
        At least since the 1880's, the Mardi Gras Indians have banged drums, cowbells and tambourines as they dance single-file from black neighborhood to black neighborhood, wearing dazzling, outlandish costumes weighing as much as 200 pounds. In the cacophony of whooping, hollering and blaring trumpets, one man, the big chief, controls everything through sign language. When he pounds the ground with his stick, everyone falls silent and bows.
        Mr. Lee, who worked much of his life as a longshoreman, was known as Chief Robbe (pronounced Rob-BEE). He was, at different times, chief of four tribes, or gangs, in the more popular usage. His memories included legendary chiefs born in the 19th century. In 1985, he was named the first chief of chiefs by the New Orleans Mardi Gras Indian Council.
        In 1995, Mr. Lee was sufficiently celebrated to be invited to speak about the Mardi Gras Indians at Yale University, but he never forgot the segregationist past that created the gangs. When the mayor of New Orleans gave him an award in the early 1990's, he pointedly recalled the days when Indian gangs were not allowed even to pass City Hall.
        Mr. Lee liked to tell stories. ''He was like a history book walking around,'' said Joyce Marie Jackson, an associate professor of anthropology and folklore at Louisiana State University. ''He was the keeper of the word.''
        In an interview with The New Orleans Times-Picayune in 1996, Mr. Lee said, ''It all started when young men ran away from their masters and lived with the Indians as Indians. After slavery, they began to spread out, but they never forgot the tribes they lived with. At first, the Native Americans thought we were making fun of them. But they found out better.''
        Other ways blacks and American Indians may have come together included mingling at the old French Market, where the Indians sold crops and slaves did errands. Still another influence was the presence of Indian symbols in carnivals in Trinidad, Haiti and Brazil, all of which influenced New Orleans.
        Robert Nathaniel Lee was born in New Orleans on May 21, 1915. As a boy not yet old enough to go to school, he would run out before dawn to watch the Mardi Gras Indians pass his house on what is now Danneel Street, said Bertrand Butler, a leader of the New Orleans Mardi Gras Indians and a close friend.
        When he was about 10, Mr. Lee began visiting a big chief known as Brother Tillman, who taught him the traditions. By the next year, he was allowed to sew his idol's costume. He memorized the names of big chiefs the way other youngsters followed baseball players.
        In the 1920's, Mr. Butler said, clothing and sewing supply stores did not sell to blacks. So Mr. Lee would go to groceries and other places that sold live chickens and buy a bag of turkey feathers for 50 cents. From the horse-drawn wagons of neighborhood ragmen, be bought old dresses, from which he removed the sequins and rhinestones for his suit.
        Because his family's apartment had no electricity, Mr. Lee learned to sew by candlelight. He began ''masking,'' or dressing in costume, in 1929, when he joined the Creole Wild West with the title Spy Boy. This meant his job was to be on the lookout for other Indian bands, which in those days were often hostile.
        Fights with guns, knives and other weapons were common, a questionable tradition he used his later leadership position to squelch.
        Mr. Lee eventually became chief of Creole Wild West. He later revived the Golden Blades, a gang that had been inactive, and was asked to serve as chief. He then started the White Eagles and, then, the Ninth Ward Hunters, both of which asked him to be chief.
        ''I never asked to be chief of a tribe in my life, and I was chief of four tribes,'' he said. ''The fellows who wanted to have the tribe came to me and asked me to be the chief.''
        While he was still a teenager, Mr. Lee played the piano and sang the blues at fish fries, suppers and speakeasies. Louis Armstrong was a friend. ''My sister used to tell me all the time to go to Ohio or Chicago to make a record,'' Mr. Lee said, ''but in Ohio or Chicago they didn't have anybody masking as Indian. So why would I want to go?''
        Mr. Lee is survived by his wife, Georgia, and his daughters, Dori Lee Boyd and Marilyn Lee Lewis, all of New Orleans. He had been blind since suffering a stroke several years ago, but still tried to continue to sew. He finished a sequined apron.
        ''I just don't believe that a person is supposed to give in to something bad, and losing your sight sure isn't good,'' Mr. Lee said. ''I try to live so I can be of some help to somebody that can see.''
        Big Chief Lee was buried to the strains of jazz at Lafayette Cemetery No. 2. Mr. Butler remembered something his friend had said a few weeks earlier. ''I want them to think of me like I think about Brother Tillman,'' he said. ''I'm just a good friend who knew the game and didn't mind telling anyone how it goes.''
      