
        Dr. Sidney Weinhouse, who received the first National Science Foundation grant half a century ago and distinguished himself as a teacher and researcher of the metabolism of cancer, died on Feb. 9 at his home in Philadelphia. He was 91.
        When the foundation received its first substantial budget, in 1952, Dr. Weinhouse's name appeared under grant No. 1 -- $10,300 over three years. At the time, he led the department of metabolic chemistry at the Lankenau Hospital Research Center and the Institute for Cancer Research in Philadelphia.
        Dr. Weinhouse pioneered the use of radioactive isotopes in his field of research. Later, as director of the Fels Research Institute at Temple University's School of Medicine in the 1960's and 1970's, he was noted for his work involving cancer tissue and carbohydrate metabolism.
        He was credited with more than 200 scientific papers and reviews and  was co-editor of 48 volumes of the publication Advances in Cancer Research from 1962 to 1987. He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1980.
        A biochemist, Dr. Weinhouse was an emeritus professor at Temple and the Thomas Jefferson University Medical College.
        Born and reared in Chicago, he graduated from the University of Chicago in 1933 and received a Ph.D. in theoretical organic chemistry there in 1936. During World War II, he worked for the Office of Scientific Research and Development at the University of Chicago.
        From 1991 until recently, he was with Thomas Jefferson University, chiefly performing editorial work. The university established a Weinhouse Lecture on cancer research.
        Dr. Weinhouse is survived by his wife of 32 years, Adele Kannerstein Klein Weinhouse; two daughters and a son from his first marriage, Doris Angell of Oak Park, Ill., Barbara Hanan of Skokie, Ill., and James, of Glassboro, N.J.; two sisters, Pearl Kabaker of Niles, Ohio, and Edith Kantor of Skokie; a brother, Norman, of Los Angeles; five grandchildren; and one great-grandson. His first wife, Sylvia Krawitz Weinhouse, died in 1957.
      