
        David Heneker, who wrote the score for the musical ''Half a Sixpence'' and collaborated on the English adaptation of the book and lyrics for ''Irma la Douce,'' died on Tuesday in a residential home in Wales. He was 94.
        ''Irma la Douce'' and ''Half a Sixpence'' were major successes in London and New York, a rare double-header for a British songwriter in the 1950's and 60's. Each ran on Broadway for more than 500 performances.
        Mr. Heneker and his collaborators Julian More and Monty Norman found ways to Anglicize the French musical ''Irma la Douce'' (by Marguerite Monnot and Alexandre Breffort) without losing the original Parisian atmosphere. Under the direction of Peter Brook, the London cast members (Elizabeth Seal, Clive Revill and Keith Michell) turned it into a Broadway hit in 1960. Three years later the show was filmed by Billy Wilder with a cast headed by Shirley MacLaine and Jack Lemmon.
        In 1965 ''Half a Sixpence'' followed the same profitable path from London to Broadway. Based on H. G. Wells's novel ''Kipps,'' the musical introduced Tommy Steele to American theatergoers. Mr. Steele played a draper's assistant who comes into a large inheritance. Strumming a banjo, he sang Mr. Heneker's ''Money to Burn,'' among other sprightly songs. He also starred in the film version.
        Although ''Irma'' and ''Half a Sixpence'' were Mr. Heneker's only Broadway musicals, he collaborated on many other shows in London, beginning in 1958 with Wolf Mankowitz's ''Expresso Bongo,'' which starred Paul Scofield as a small-time music agent. ''Expresso Bongo'' became a film in 1960. His other shows included ''Jorrocks,'' ''Make Me an Offer,'' ''Charlie Girl'' and ''The Biograph Girl.'' Jude Kelly recently directed a revival of ''Half a Sixpence'' in Leeds.
        Mr. Heneker attended Wellington College and the Royal Military College, Sandhurst. From 1925 to 1948 he was an officer in the British army. Just before World War II, while recovering from a riding accident, he read Noël Coward's ''Bittersweet,'' and, he said, that inspired him to write songs.
        After leaving the army, he sang and played the piano in London clubs. As his songs were published and recorded, he was soon swept into a successful musical career. He always preferred to consider himself a songwriter, rather than a composer, a word he considered pretentious.
        He is survived by a son, Peter, of Cardigan, Wales; five grandchildren; and 14 great-grandchildren.
      