
       Hamish Hamilton, a prominent British publisher for almost 50 years, died Wednesday in London at the age of 87.
        Hamish Hamilton, a prominent British publisher for almost 50 years, died Wednesday in London at the age of 87.
        The last of a handful of men who established important publishing houses between the world wars, Mr. Hamilton brought to his lists an exceptionally strong trans-Atlantic flavor.
        His American authors included John Gunther, James Thurber, Walter Lippmann, J. D. Salinger, Dean Acheson, Raymond Chandler, Rachel Carson, John Hersey, Truman Capote, John Kenneth Galbraith, William Styron and John and Robert Kennedy.
        Mr. Hamilton was born in Indianapolis on Nov. 15, 1900, but was raised by relatives in Scotland. After graduation from Cambridge, he worked for Jonathan Cape publishers before becoming London manager of what was then Harper & Brothers.
        Harper's eventually provided financial help for Mr. Hamilton to start his own publishing company, which he founded in 1931. His first major success was John Gunther's ''Inside Europe.''
        ''He ran one of the most distinguished houses of his time,'' said Michael Bessie, a vice president of Harper & Row. ''He had one of the distinguished literary lists, and he was a major figure on the London publishing scene.'' Rowed in Olympics
        Widely known as Jamie, Mr. Hamilton published major authors from around the world. Jean-Paul Sartre, Albert Camus, Luigi Barzini, Richard Crossman, Eric Partridge, A. W. P. Taylor, Alan Moorehead - all graced his list, and he introduced a number of them in England.
        Like some American counterparts, the rugged, gregarious Mr. Hamilton loved books and authors. He also loved adventure and went from rowing in the Olympics in Amsterdam in 1928 to flying airplanes and driving cars in what one person described as ''a distinctly carefree manner.''
        But also like those American counterparts, his passion for publishing exceeded his skills as a businessman or manager, and in the 1960's he sold his house to the Thomson Organization, which in 1985 sold it to Penguin Books. He was managing director until 1972 and chairman until 1981, when he was given the honorary title of president.
        Mr. Hamilton's marriage in 1929 to the actress Jean Forbes-Robertson ended four years later, and in 1940 he married Yvonne Pallavicino, an Italian countess.
      