
       Stanley William Hayter, a widely exhibited painter and the most influential printmaker of the first half of the century, died of cardiac arrest Wednesday at his home in Paris. He was 86 years old.
        Stanley William Hayter, a widely exhibited painter and the most influential printmaker of the first half of the century, died of cardiac arrest Wednesday at his home in Paris. He was 86 years old.
        He spent the day working on a large painting and was having drinks with friends. ''He died in one second,'' his wife, Desiree, said.
        For more than 60 years Mr. Hayter was a remarkably vigorous and influential figure. His paintings and prints are distinguished by a graphic force that is shared by other artists of roughly the same generation, including Andre Masson, Joan Miro and Jackson Pollock.
        All these artists studied with Mr. Hayter at Atelier 17, the printmaking workshop he founded in Paris in 1927. In 1940 he moved the workshop to New York, where it remained until he moved back to Paris in 1950. Artists who studied at Atelier 17 include Pablo Picasso, Max Ernst, Alexander Calder, Marc Chagall, Jacques Lipchitz and Alberto Giacometti. Principle of Automatism
        Mr. Hayter ''was one of the most influential people of our time in the printmaking field,'' said Riva Castleman, the director of the department of prints and illustrated books at the Museum of Modern Art. ''His Atelier 17, during the years when he ran it in New York, was one of the cradles of Abstract Expressionism. Jackson Pollock was one of many American artists who were influenced by the principle of automatism, which Hayter espoused.''
        Mr. Hayter was very much a child of his time. He shared with Surrealism a belief in the liberating power of impulse and the unconscious. In his engravings he wanted not so much to draw a line as release it. By following its flow, he felt he would be led to mythical images that he could then consciously shape.
        His approach was extremely physical. He immersed himself in the process. ''You walk into your drawing like a map, instead of around it as you do in a pencil drawing,'' he once said. ''Some prehistoric craftsmen work that way, too.''
        He brought to engraving a new freedom and inventiveness. He experimented with materials, expanded the range of tonalities, created more expressive possibilities with black and white.
        ''You put this instrument, a burin, down on the plate, and in order to cut, you move it away from you and move the plate,'' said Ms. Castleman, who is also a deputy director of the Modern. ''It's a very physical, two-handed kind of thing. The idea he got was to move the plate as he felt, rather automatically - left, right and so forth - and from the lines he engraved, he very often found a figure.'' Starting Atelier 17
        Mr. Hayter was born in London in 1901, his father, William Harry Hayter, was a painter. He went to Kings College in London and decided to become a research chemist.
        In 1922 he began working in the oilfields of Persia for the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company. When he came down with malaria in 1925, he returned to London and the company gave him a show of his paintings. It was so successful that he gave up his job.
        He moved to Paris, where he had some academic training and established Atelier 17. ''A couple of young artists bought some of my prints and came to me a week later to ask if I would teach them the techniques of engraving,'' he said in 1940. ''I told them if they'd find two more persons who wanted to learn, I could afford to buy the equipment - presses and stuff like that - that we'd need.''
        ''Well, they found two others, and we set up a workshop, and then a lot of other people came around, and pretty soon we were an institution.''
        At the beginning of World War II, Mr. Hayter left France, leaving behind 100 copper plates and a press, which were confiscated by the Vichy Government. Concentration on Painting
        ''When he opened his Atelier 17 in New York, it became a place where American artists could speak to French artists,'' Ms. Castleman said, ''a place where artists could drop in and maybe meet Masson or Chagall. When people went and worked there, they benefited from the rather free openness of the place.''
        In the last years, Mr. Hayter concentrated almost exclusively on painting. A show of his paintings just closed at the Galerie Jean-Claude Riedel in Paris.
        Until last year, Mr. Hayter visited Atelier 17 four times a week, then reduced the visits to two a week. The workshop will continue.
        The British Museum recently bought his entire collection of his graphic work from 1926 to 1960. The English art historian Bryan Robertson is working on a Hayter biography, and a Hayter retrospective is being considered for the Royal College of Art in London.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Hayter is survived by two sons, Julian and Augy.
      