
       Vartanig G. Vartan, the main writer of the ''Market Place'' column in The New York Times since 1983, died of cancer at Roosevelt Hospital early yesterday. He was 64 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Vartanig G. Vartan, the main writer of the ''Market Place'' column in The New York Times since 1983, died of cancer at Roosevelt Hospital early yesterday. He was 64 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Vartan was diagnosed in April as suffering from cancer of the colon, which had already spread to his liver. He entered the hospital on April 27 for chemotherapy treatment, but his condition subsequently worsened.
        He joined The Times as a financial writer in 1963 and covered various aspects of Wall Street for the next 25 years, a time when the structure of the securities industry and the trends in investing changed markedly. He wrote, for instance, about the rise of institutional investing, the corporate takeover boom, the bull market of the 1980's and the collapse of stocks last October.
        After reporting on the brokerage business for some years, Mr. Vartan then wrote the daily stock market report before becoming the main writer of the ''Market Place'' column.
        As a columnist, Mr. Vartan described the latest investment fads and wrote about the strategies and advice of money managers and analysts. In earlier years, he was also a novelist.
        A short, dapper, cheerful man who kept his largely bald head shaven much of the time, Mr. Vartan was widely known, on Wall Street and elsewhere, by the nickname Tonny.
        Vartanig Garabed Vartan, whose name reflected his Armenian heritage, was born on June 28, 1923, in Pasadena, Calif. His father was Garabed S. Vartan, and his mother was the former Yeranig Saxenian.
        Mr. Vartan grew up in Memphis and went on to Yale College. His studies there were interrupted by service, from 1943 to 1945, as an enlisted man in the Army at different posts in the United States. He then earned a B.A. degree in 1948 from Yale, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa in his junior year and was a member of the Elizabethan Club.
        He was a reporter in 1948 and 1949 with The Laurel (Miss.) Leader-Call, in the southeastern part of the state, and from 1949 to 1952 with The Tupelo (Miss.) Journal, in the northeast. On Staff of Herald Tribune
        Then, after working with United Press from 1952 to 1955 in Manhattan, he was a staff financial writer with The New York Herald Tribune from 1955 to 1962 and, concurrently, a Wall Street columnist for The Christian Science Monitor from 1957 to 1962.
        Mr. Vartan was the author of two novels. Reviewing the first, ''50 Wall Street,'' which came out in 1968, a Times critic, Charles Poore, wrote that Mr. Vartan ''certainly writes with a flair for the character behind the action.'' The second novel, ''The Dinosaur Fund,'' published in 1972, was about the world of mutual funds.
        Mr. Vartan was a collector of antique securities certificates, which line the walls of his study in his East Side apartment.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Cynthia Smith, a senior editor at Dodd, Mead whom he married in 1961, and by their son, Kirk Spencer Vartan, also of Manhattan.
        A funeral service will be held at 11 A.M. tomorrow at St. Thomas Church, on Fifth Avenue at 53d Street.
      