
       William Dermott Moran Sr., former regional director of the Secrities and Exchange Commission, died of heart failure Thursday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 78 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        William Dermott Moran Sr., former regional director of the Secrities and Exchange Commission, died of heart failure Thursday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 78 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        In 1979, just before his retirement, his office issued a report that was highly critical of New York City, of bank officials and of stock brokers who it asserted had knowingly misled investors in city securities in 1974 and 1975 by failing to disclose the city's perilous financial condition. No criminal charges were filed.
        Mr. Moran joined the Washington office of the commission in 1938 after his graduation from Fordham Law School. He became a top investigator for the agency and came to the New York office in 1947 as chief enforcement attorney. He was named assistant regional manager in 1956 and regional administrator in 1972, the job he held until he retired in 1979.
        He left the agency from 1962 to 1964 and served as vice president for operations at the American Stock Exchange, where he was part of a new management team headed by Edwin D. Etherington that was brought in to revamp operating procedures. Mentor to Young Lawyers
        At the commission, Mr. Moran was involved in the Cady Roberts case in 1961, when trading based on insider information was condemned. He was also instrumental in having fraud charges brought against Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith in 1973 for misleading about 4,000 investors by issuing glowing research reports on a Texas computer firm that filed for bankruptcy.
        Mr. Moran was a mentor to scores of young lawyers, helping them learn the intricacies of securities law.
        ''That I consider one of his greatest accomplishments,'' said Kevin T. Duffy, a Federal judge who was Regional Administrator before Mr. Moran's appointment. ''Starting back in the 1950's until even after he left, he would work with the young lawyers to teach them about the law. He had tremendous rapport with them. Some of the top securities lawyers today are graduates of the Bill Moran school.''
        He is survived by his wife, Elizabeth Welsh Moran, and two sons, William D. Jr., of Stony Point, N.Y., and, Kerry, of Manhattan.
      