
       Guido Orlando, a flamboyant press agent, charlatan and bemedaled publicist for dozens of the wish-to-be-famous, died of a heart attack Sunday at the Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Center in California. He was 80 years old and lived in Los Angeles.
        Guido Orlando, a flamboyant press agent, charlatan and bemedaled publicist for dozens of the wish-to-be-famous, died of a heart attack Sunday at the Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Center in California. He was 80 years old and lived in Los Angeles.
        Mr. Orlando, who said he had influenced the careers of Rudolph Valentino, Greta Garbo and Ingrid Bergman, was a consummate publicist who concocted outlandish stunts to sell products or to get the names of his clients into the newspapers.
        In 1958, for instance, he created the Religious Institute of Research, which released a ''survey'' that said more than 22 million Roman Catholic women went to church on Sundays bareheaded. Through a friend in the Vatican, Mr. Orlando obtained a statement from the Pope saying that women's heads should be covered in church. His client, the Millinery Institute of America, was more than pleased when sales soared.
        Mr. Orlando was born in Barisciano, Italy, and came to the United States in 1917 to join his father and two brothers who were working as miners in Ohio. Mining was not for him so he came to New York and began doing odd jobs around theaters. He later drifted to Hollywood and began to make a name for himself.
        In 1939 he was married to Jane Minnich, but the marriage lasted less than six months. 'Confessions of a Scoundrel'
        Mr. Orlando described many of his exploits in a 1954 book, ''Confessions of a Scoundrel.'' In it he recounted the tale of a much-publicized ''romance'' between King Farouk of Egypt and a 16-year-old schoolgirl from St. Louis. The girl's father owned a chain of hamburger stands and wanted to increase sales, while the girl's mother felt that her daughter had the potential to become a Hollywood actress.
        Mr. Orlando arranged to have a photograph taken when the the girl was being greeted by the King as he passed by in a hallway of a luxurious French hotel. Using the picture, his contacts in the press and a copy of the King's itinerary, Mr. Orlando had the family at hotels and other spots in advance of the King. The mother would start screaming that the King was after her daughter. Mr Orlando was able to create the impression that the King was a lecher, chasing the young girl across France.
        Although the King denied the allegations, Mr. Orlando said that hamburger sales skyrocketed and the girl was signed to a movie contract.
        Mr. Orlando also claimed credit for the defeat of the Communists in the Italian elections of 1948. He recounted how he organized gangs of youths to go door to door with department store catalogues and offer potential voters their choice of anything pictured in exchange for their votes. He then denounced the Communists for the scheme and for trying to buy votes. He said he was awarded a Papal citation, the Order of Leo, for his efforts.
        There were no immediate survivors.
      