
       Robert Shaplen, a correspondent and staff writer for The New Yorker magazine whose authoritative articles and books on Asia over many years made him one of the deans of American journalism, died yesterday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 71 years old and lived in Princeton, N
        Robert Shaplen, a correspondent and staff writer for The New Yorker magazine whose authoritative articles and books on Asia over many years made him one of the deans of American journalism, died yesterday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 71 years old and lived in Princeton, N.J.
        Mr. Shaplen's family said the cause of death was not immediately determined. He fell ill on a recent trip to Southeast Asia and entered Sloan-Kettering three weeks ago for treatment of thyroid cancer. He had undergone treatment for another cancer several years ago.
        A tall, energetic man with bushy eyebrows and prominent features, Mr. Shaplen was an indefatigable correspondent, traveling widely to interview government leaders, economists and ordinary people for reflective and analytical articles that captured the complexity of Asia's politics and the diversity of its peoples.
        In a journalistic career that spanned five decades, Mr. Shaplen was a reporter for The New York Herald Tribune and an Asia correspondent for Newsweek, Fortune and Collier's magazines. For the last 36 years, he had been on the staff of The New Yorker, and was the magazine's Far East correspondent from 1962 to 1978.
        He was the author of 10 books, including one novel and a volume of short stories, most of them about Asia. An Eye for Detail
        From the battlefields of World War II, Korea and Vietnam to the jungles of Cambodia and Laos and the teeming byways of Hong Kong and Singapore, Mr. Shaplen covered a troubled and turbulent region of the world with what his colleagues called insight, an eye for detail and a sweep that spoke of his many years of experience.
        Early in his career, he was a front-line correspondent. He plunged ashore with the Marines on Leyte in the Philippines in 1944 amid withering machine-gun and mortar fire. He flew over Nagasaki hours after it was devastated by the atomic bomb in August 1945 and wrote of ''looking over a volcano in the process of eruption.''
        He was with Mao Zedong in the mountains of Yanan in 1946; reported on the rise and fall of Indonesia's President Sukarno in the 1960's; wrote strategic and battlefield pieces from Korea and Vietnam and, in 1973, provided a gripping firsthand account of the fall of Saigon as panic swept over the city of abandoned refugees.
        In Vietnam, Mr. Shaplen's reporting was less critical of the American involvement than that of some of his colleagues during much of the war, though he, too, eventually became a harsh critic of the United States' participation. Account of Vietnam Journey
        But some colleagues who were critical of his moderate perspective were unaware that he had been reporting from Indochina for 20 years before they got there, and he was still there more than a decade later, long after they were gone. His last book, ''Bitter Victory,'' published by Harper & Row in 1986, was an account of his 1984 journey to Vietnam and Cambodia, and the last trip of his life was to Vietnam only a month ago.
        Young reporters who went to Asia found a call on Bob Shaplen almost as mandatory as clearing customs. From the lofty veranda of the Repulse Hotel in Hong Kong, with the lights of yachts and junks twinkling on the harbor below, one reporter recalled that ''the intensity of his absorption with Asia came through in every sentence.''
        Editors and reviewers who assayed his work said Mr. Shaplen caught the texture, the exotic sights and the sounds of Asia, and in his later years, they said, he added wider dimensions of historical scope and the perspective of his long experience.
        The nations of Asia and Southeast Asia were, in Mr. Shaplen's view, anything but the dominoes once posited by American policy makers, and much of his writing was intended to show that their politics were diverse, that their unique racial, religious, colonial and historical experiences were at least as varied as the nations of Europe. Born in Philadelphia
        Robert Modell Shaplen was born in Philadelphia on March 22, 1917, the son of Joseph and Sonia Modell Shaplen. He received a bachelor's degree from the University of Wisconsin in 1937 and a master's degree in journalism from Columbia University in 1938.
        His father was a reporter for The New York Times from 1929 to 1946, and on his first job with The Herald Tribune, from 1937 to 1943, he sometimes found himself covering the same story as his father.
        From 1943 to 1945, Mr. Shaplen was the Pacific war correspondent of Newsweek, and after the war he was the magazine's Far East bureau chief for two years.
        He was a Nieman Fellow at Harvard in 1947-48, worked for Fortune until 1950 and was an Asia correspondent for Collier's and 15 newspapers until 1952, when he joined The New Yorker. 'A Fierce Attachment'
        Robert Gottlieb, the editor of The New Yorker, said yesterday that Mr. Shaplen had recently returned from a tour of Vietnam, Korea and Hong Kong and was preparing several articles. Mr. Shaplen went to China last year for the first time in many years and his article on that journey is scheduled for publication this summer in The New Yorker.
        ''He was a major figure at The New Yorker for three and a half decades,'' Mr. Gottlieb said. ''He had a fierce attachment to the magazine and the magazine had a fierce attachment to him.''
        ''I think he did as much as any journalist of our generation to keep the public informed on Southeast Asia,'' said E. J. Kahn Jr., another New Yorker writer.
        Mr. Shaplen's books included ''A Corner of the World'' (1949), ''Kreuger: Genius and Swindler'' (1960), ''The Lost Revolution'' (1965), ''Time Out of Hand: Revolution and Reaction in Southeast Asia'' (1969), ''The Road from War'' (1971) and ''A Turning Wheel'' (1979). He also wrote a novel, ''A Forest of Tigers'' (1956).
        He is survived by his wife, the former Jayjia Hsia; two sons, Peter, of San Francisco, and Jason, of Princeton, and a daughter, Kate, of Minneapolis.
        The family said that the funeral would be private and that a memorial service would be held later.
      