
       Ernst August Friedrich Ruska, an electrical engineer who shared the 1986 Nobel Prize in Physics for his invention of the electron microscope, died yesterday in West Berlin. He was 81 years old.
        Ernst August Friedrich Ruska, an electrical engineer who shared the 1986 Nobel Prize in Physics for his invention of the electron microscope, died yesterday in West Berlin. He was 81 years old.
        Dr. Ruska's death was disclosed by the Technical University of Berlin in West Berlin, one of the institutions with which he had been affiliated. A university spokesman gave no details, except to say that Dr. Ruska had died after a short illness.
        The electron microscope for which Dr. Ruska was honored by the Nobel committee is one of the most significant research tools devised during the 20th century. Realizing that the ability of an ordinary microscope to discern fine detail is limited by the wavelength of visible light, Dr. Ruska sought a form of radiation with a shorter and therefore more discriminating wavelength. He chose the electron beam - a beam of energy packets that behave in some respects as discrete particles and in other respects as waves. Built Instrument in 1931
        In 1931 Dr. Ruska built an instrument that accelerated a beam of electrons rather than light through a specimen. In place of glass lenses, the instrument used electromagnets to aim the electron beam and focus it at the target. The enormously magnified invisible image thus obtained was projected on a fluorescent screen to produce a visible image.
        The electron microscope permitted biologists for the first time to examine viruses and detailed structures inside cells. Many improvements and variations of the system have continued to the present. While a visible-light microscope can magnify no more than about 2,000 times, an electron microscope can magnify up to 1 million times.
        After 1931, Dr. Ruska devoted most of his career to improving his invention, later called a transmission electron microscope. He also worked on the development of a variant of the instrument called the reflection electron microscope. In all his early designs the magnetic lenses were electromagnets through which current had to flow, but in later improvements Dr. Ruska introduced permanent magnets that greatly simplified operation. Credit for Invention Disputed
        Credit for inventing the electron microscope has been the subject of dispute, although the issue was apparently put to rest by the 1986 Nobel Prize in Physics, which Dr. Ruska shared with Heinrich Rohrer of West Germany and Gerd Binnig of Switzerland. The latter two scientists were honored for their work in another branch of microscopy.
        Several scientists worked simultaneously on the electron microscope in the early 1930's, and the race for recognition was close. Rheinhold Ruedenberg, another German, actually filed a patent application in Germany 10 days before Dr. Ruska presented a technical paper on the subject. Dr. Ruska was a graduate student at the time.
        Dr. Ruedenberg, who was Jewish, was denied a patent by German authorities. As Nazi persecution intensified, he fled to the United States. Later, RCA claimed that its scientists had invented the electron microscope, but Dr. Ruedenberg sued the company and was eventually granted the United States patent for the invention. Remained in Wartime Berlin
        Dr. Ruska, meanwhile, remained in Berlin during World War II and continued to work on the electron microscope in a converted bakery. Dr. Ruedenberg died in Boston in 1961.
        Dr. Ruska was born on Dec. 25, 1906 in Heidelberg. He received an engineering degree from the Technical University of Berlin the same year he invented the electron microscope. He was awarded a doctorate in engineering in 1934 by the same institution. In 1944, he was honored as a recognized academic lecturer.
        While pursuing an academic career, Dr. Ruska was employed from 1937 to 1955 by Siemens & Halske AG, the industrial giant that developed radar and other electronic weapons for wartime Germany.
        Besides many German awards, Dr. Ruska received in the United States the Albert Lasker Medical Research Award in 1960.
        Correction:  June 1, 1988, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition
        A schematic drawing of an electron microscope yesterday with the obituary of its developer, Ernst Ruska, described the process of magnification incorrectly. A specimen is placed above the magnetic objective lens, which produces a magnified image.
        This image, in turn, is magnified by a second lens, the intermediate image projector.
      