
       Mayor Richard S. Caliguiri, whose administration steered the city through the death of big steel to the birth of a diversified economy, died of heart failure today.
        Mayor Richard S. Caliguiri, whose administration steered the city through the death of big steel to the birth of a diversified economy, died of heart failure today.
        Mr. Caliguiri, 56 years old, suffered from amyloidosis, an incurable disease that attacks the body's tissues and organs. The disease had forced him to divide his time between City Hall and hospitals for more than a year.
        Doctors said the disease caused the Mayor's heart to fail at midnight while he was sleeping at home. He was pronounced dead at 1:36 A.M. at nearby Shadyside Hospital.
        The City Council president, Sophie Masloff, was sworn in as Mayor this morning and will serve the rest of Mr. Caliguiri's third term, which expires Dec. 31, 1989. She is the first woman to become Pittsburgh's Mayor.
        The son of a milkman, Mr. Caliguiri grew up in the city's Italian neighborhood of Greenfield and lived in Pittsburgh all his life. He headed the city's Recreation Department before being elected to the City Council in 1971.
        Mr. Caliguiri, a Democrat like the overwhelming majority of the city's population and politicians, became Mayor in 1977. As president of the City Council, he took over on an interim basis from Mayor Pete Flaherty, who joined President Carter's Administration. Mayor Caliguiri was elected to his first term later that year. He Pushed Rebuilding
        Mr. Caliguiri promptly began pushing Renaissance II, a series of joint public and private building projects that would reshape the city's skyline. The city had begun to transform its deteriorating downtown under Renaissance I, a building program begun in the 1950's by Mayor David L. Lawrence, from whom Mayor Caliguiri adopted his own political dictum, ''The best politics is good government.''
        But it was not long before the city's main economic force, the steel industry, began mass layoffs of workers because of a decrease in demand, foreign competition and a high cost of production. The Mayor began an all-out effort to bring computer concerns and other high-technology industries to the city.
        The city's building boom brought the subway system, a new cultural district of theaters and renovations of buildings with some of the city's finest architecture. Negotiations with developers brought about riverfront projects such as Station Square, a row of shops on the city's South Side comparable to the South Street Seaport.
        The Mayor also led the city into a consortium with Carnegie-Mellon University and the University of Pittsburgh to build the Pittsburgh Technology Center, buildings now under construction along the riverfront that will house advanced technology concerns.
        ''Dick was so determined to bring about these things that he could cut through all of the bureaucratic problems,'' said Dr. Richard Cyert, the president of Carnegie-Mellon. 'Opposite of Mayor Koch'
        Mr. Caliguiri had the ability to attract and keep competent officials in his adminisration. Genial but private, Mr. Caliguiri lacked public speaking skills and once enrolled in a Dale Carnegie course to help him with his campaigning.
        ''He was the opposite of Mayor Koch,'' said Jack P. Robin, the chairman of the city's Urban Redevelopment Authority. ''He hated confrontations that some politicians seem to thrive on. He was more of a conciliator. He didn't have the ambition or the manner of a politician.''
        Aides to the Mayor said his decisions were made without regard for political liability. His decision to spend city money with a consortium of businesses to purchase and operate the Pittsburgh Pirate baseball franchise drew strong criticism from the unemployed in 1986.
        The Mayor's decision to form a Department of Public Safety to bring the police and fire departments and emergency medical services under one director brought strong criticism from policemen and firemen, who wanted continued autonomy for their agencies.
        ''You see so many people in politics whose every move is dictated by political concerns,'' said Safety Director Glenn Cannon. ''The Mayor had the courage to do the right things.''
        Survivors include his wife, Jeanne, and two sons, David and Gregg.
      