
       Former Assemblyman Lloyd Everett Dickens, a self-made millionaire and veteran of Democratic Party battles, died of a heart attack Saturday at the Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 86 years old and lived in Harlem, which he represented in Albany from 1959 to 1964.
        Former Assemblyman Lloyd Everett Dickens, a self-made millionaire and veteran of Democratic Party battles, died of a heart attack Saturday at the Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 86 years old and lived in Harlem, which he represented in Albany from 1959 to 1964.
        Mr. Dickens was in the vanguard of the struggle to secure equality for blacks and other minorities in the job market, the courts, city government and education. He was a Democratic district leader in years of fast-changing party alliances and hostilities.
        In recent years he was an elder statesman and patron to a new group of politicians. He also remained active in Harlem civic and economic affairs. Once Defied De Sapio
        A party regular, Mr. Dickens nevertheless was the only Tammany Hall leader to defy Carmine G. De Sapio, the Manhattan chairman, in 1959 when Mr. De Sapio sought to end the political career of Representative Adam Clayton Powell Jr. It was Mr. Powell, then Harlem's most influential politician, who pressed an agenda that was also Mr. Dickens's. It called for a fair share of patronage and representation to deal with the social and economic problems of black people.
        Mr. Powell and Mr. Dickens, too, were under siege then by a new generation of rising politicians. A young lawyer and former member of Mr. Dickens's New Era Democratic Club, Percy E. Sutton, finally wrested Mr. Dickens's Assembly seat from him in 1964, when Mr. Dickens also surrendered his district leadership.
        But by 1977, several political upheavals later, Mr. Dickens was campaign treasurer in the unsuccessful mayoral campaign of Mr. Sutton. There were seven Democrats in the primary, which was won by Representative Edward I. Koch. A Fortune in Real Estate
        Mr. Dickens was born in Oklahoma, where his father, Andrew, was a United States marshal. He attended Columbia University for two years and became a strong advocate of putting blacks in control of the businesses in their communities. He had learned his economics, he said, ''by going hungry.''
        Mr. Dickens and his eldest brother, Fred, made a fortune buying and selling real estate in the 1930's and '40's. For a time, they owned sizable chunks of Harlem commercial and residential properties, along with row houses in Queens and the Bronx.
        As a member of the Assembly, he sponsored several measures to end what he termed ''de facto segregation'' in the city's school system and to cut class sizes, particularly in the poorest neighborhoods.
        A slender, soft-spoken man, Mr. Dickens was a past president of the Uptown Chamber of Commerce, which he said he had joined reluctantly because it had once barred blacks. In the 1970's, he helped form the Freedom National Bank on West 125th Street, where he became vice chairman. He also was a member of the board of the Urban League of Greater New York.
        He is survived by two daughters, De Lores Dickens Richards of Mount Vernon, N.Y., and Inez Dickens Russell of Manhattan; a brother, Clyde, of Manhattan; a sister, Inez Dickens Gumbs of Manhattan, and a grandson.
        A funeral service will be held at 11 A.M. Thursday in the Salem Methodist Church, Seventh Avenue at 129th Street in Harlem.
      