
       Paul Vario, a convicted gangster who was said to have been a leader in the Lucchese crime family for more than three decades, died of lung failure Tuesday in a Fort Worth Federal prison, where he was serving a 10-year sentence for extorting payoffs from air-freight companies at Kennedy International Airport.
        Paul Vario, a convicted gangster who was said to have been a leader in the Lucchese crime family for more than three decades, died of lung failure Tuesday in a Fort Worth Federal prison, where he was serving a 10-year sentence for extorting payoffs from air-freight companies at Kennedy International Airport. He was 73 years old.
        A prison officer, Alice D. Davis, said Mr. Vario, who had been ailing several years, was found late in the afternoon on the floor of his cell at the minimum-security penitentiary. He was taken to St. Joseph Hospital and was pronounced dead at 5:04. An autopsy attributed the death to respiratory arrest resulting from chronic obstructive lung disease, Ms. Davis said.
        A tall barrel-chested man who said he was a florist, Mr. Vario had been in and out of jail since 1921 on charges ranging from burglary to tax evasion to rape. In a best-selling book, ''Wiseguy: Life in a Mafia Family,'' Nicholas Pileggi described Mr. Vario as running ''one of the city's toughest and most violent gangs,'' whose ''thugs did most of the strong-arm work for the rest of the Lucchese family.''
        In 1972, law-enforcement agents secretly taped six months of conversations at Mr. Vario's headquarters at a trailer in a junkyard in the Canarsie area of Brooklyn, implicating him and hundreds of other Mafia figures in a broad range of organized-crime activities. They also found that members of Mr. Vario's organization maintained close ties with corrupt police officers, whom they used for such activities as fixing cases and obtaining coffee.
        From his headquarters, Mr. Vario reportedly oversaw schemes that included hijackings, loan-sharking, bookmaking and fencing stolen property. He and his associates were reputed to have been particularly influential in criminal dealings at Kennedy Airport, extorting money from shippers and airlines in exchange for labor peace.
      