
       Hugh Laing, one of the finest dramatic dancers of 20th-century ballet and a former star of both American Ballet Theater and the New York City Ballet, died yesterday at St. Luke's Hospital. A spokesman for Ballet Theater said Mr. Laing had been suffering from cancer. He was 77 years old and lived in New York
        Hugh Laing, one of the finest dramatic dancers of 20th-century ballet and a former star of both American Ballet Theater and the New York City Ballet, died yesterday at St. Luke's Hospital. A spokesman for Ballet Theater said Mr. Laing had been suffering from cancer. He was 77 years old and lived in New York City.
        Mr. Laing, a slight dark man with piercing blue eyes, was known for his good looks and the intensity of his stage presence. He specialized in the ballets of Antony Tudor, who choreographed notable roles for him from the 1930's to the 50's. Mr. Laing was never considered a great technician, yet his powers of characterization and his sense of theatrical timing were remarkable. Writing in The New York Times in 1952, John Martin declared that Mr. Laing's ''high-tension temperament has the power of suffusing the simplest gesture with eloquence.''
        In recent years, Mr. Laing often helped restage many of Tudor's ballets for Ballet Theater. This season, he oversaw a revival of ''Gala Performance'' and also designed the production's scenery and costumes. Paying tribute to Mr. Laing, Mikhail Baryshnikov, the artistic director of Ballet Theater, said: ''Our entire company mourns the death of Hugh Laing, who was a vital part of the company's heritage. Through his work with Antony Tudor he brought his artistry first to our audiences and then to our individual dancers. His passion for dance and theater inspired us all.'' First Goal Was to Study Art
        Mr. Laing, whose original name was Hugh Skinner, was born in 1911 in Barbados, in the British West Indies. He moved to London in 1931 to study art, but soon became interested in ballet. After taking ballet classes with Marie Rambert, Margaret Craske and Olga Preobrajenska, he joined Miss Rambert's experimental Ballet Club in 1933, and it was there that he met Tudor.
        He remained Tudor's artistic collaborator and friend until the choreographer's death in 1987. For the Ballet Club, Tudor created roles for Mr. Laing in ''The Planets,'' ''The Descent of Hebe,'' ''Jardin aux Lilas'' and ''Dark Elegies.'' In 1938, Mr. Laing became a member of Tudor's London Ballet, a short-lived troupe for which he danced in Tudor's ''Gala Performance'' and ''Judgment of Paris.''
        Mr. Laing accompanied Tudor to New York in 1939 to participate in the first season of Ballet Theater, as American Ballet Theater was originally known. Just as Tudor soon was recognized as a great choreographer, so Mr. Laing was hailed as one of the company's finest artists.
        At Ballet Theater, Tudor choreographed several of the roles for which Mr. Laing was famous. Mr. Laing portrayed the handsome, but corrupt, Young Man from the House Opposite in ''Pillar of Fire'' (1942), Romeo in ''Romeo and Juliet'' (1943), a sophisticated gentleman in ''Dim Lustre'' (also 1943) and a murderer in ''Undertow'' (1945). He was also admired for his portrayals of the gypsy lover in Leonide Massine's ''Aleko,'' a neurotic young man in Jerome Robbins's ''Facsimile,'' Albrecht in ''Giselle'' and the title role of ''Petrouchka.'' With City Ballet in Early 50's
        He danced with the New York City Ballet from 1950 to 1952, appearing in a revival of ''Jardin aux Lilas'' and in such new works by Tudor as ''The Lady of the Camellias'' (1951) and ''La Gloire'' (1952). In addition, he won praise in the title role of Balanchine's ''Prodigal Son'' and in Mr. Robbins's ''Age of Anxiety.'' He later made guest appearances with Ballet Theater, then embarked upon a new career as a commercial photographer in New York.
        He married the ballerina Diana Adams in 1947; they were divorced in 1953. A memorial service will be announced at a later date.
      