
       Shen Congwen, a novelist, short-story writer, lyricist and passionate champion of literary and intellectual independence, died Tuesday in Beijing, his relatives reported. He was 85 years old.
        Shen Congwen, a novelist, short-story writer, lyricist and passionate champion of literary and intellectual independence, died Tuesday in Beijing, his relatives reported. He was 85 years old.
        Although almost entirely unknown to Western readers, Mr. Shen's oeuvre, much of it embued with the folklore and customs of his native western Hunan, has been compared to that of William Faulkner.
        One of the first films from China to be released commercially in the United States, ''Girl From Hunan,'' which opened in New York in March, was based on ''Xiao Xiao,'' a novel by Mr. Shen.
        Denounced by the Communists and Nationalists alike, Mr. Shen saw his writings banned in Taiwan, while mainland publishing houses burned his books and destroyed printing plates for his novels. Ranked With Chekhov
        So successful was the effort to erase Mr. Shen's name from the modern literary record that few younger Chinese today recognize his name, much less the breadth of his work. Only since 1978 has the Chinese Government reissued selections of his writings, although in editions of only a few thousand copies.
        ''Shen's masterpieces rank with Chekhov's,'' wrote Jeffrey C. Kinkley, a professor of Asian studies at St. John's University in New York and the leading American authority on Mr. Shen. ''Shen Congwen looms large in the history of Chinese literature not because he wrote an unusually monumental work but, on the contrary, because his contributions to literature were so diverse and pervasive.''
        He was born Shen Yuehuan on Dec. 28, 1902, near the town of Fenghuang, in the western mountains of Hunan Province. His father was a failed military officer and writer who mismanaged and lost his family wealth. Influenced by China in 1920's
        In his teens, Mr. Shen tried his hand at soldiering although the corrupt character of the military eventually repelled him and he gravitated toward an idealized notion of the literary life, adopting the name Congwen, meaning dedicated to culture.
        Mr. Shen was influenced by the ferment in China's literary world in the early 1920's. He wrote exuberant if undisciplined poetry exploring nature, and one-act farces skewering modern social conventions.
        He developed a preoccupation with sexual themes during these early years, a focus often criticized by Communist writers decades later. First Major Work in 1932
        As he developed as a writer, his work concentrated increasingly on the mores of the people in western Hunan. ''Ultimately,'' Mr. Kinkley wrote, ''he conveyed a sense of his country folk as a moral community sitting in judgment of modern China.''
        In 1932, he published ''Fengzi,'' his first major work, a psychological novel. ''Long River,'' thought by many literary critics to be his finest novel, appeared in 1943 and, according to Mr. Kinkley, ''presents Shen's most vivid, observant and extended scenes of country life.''
        It was then, however, that his political problems began. A Communist intellectual described Mr. Shen as a reactionary. Mr. Shen agreed to take political classes, a process that led to his being forced to write a confession exposing his alleged failures. Into a Life of Study
        His publisher announced in 1953 that his books were being burned and the printing plates destroyed. Mr. Shen retreated into a life of study and some writing, much of it devoted to antiquities and design. He published a respected study on bronze mirrors of the Tang and Song Dynasties.
        In the political turmoil that swirled around intellectuals from the late 1950's until the end of the Cultural Revolution in 1976, Mr. Shen cleaned toilets, attended political indoctrination courses and tried, unsuccessfully, he said, to write fiction.
        In 1978, he was freed to write what he wished, but by this time his age prevented an aggressive return to writing. He visited the United States briefly in 1980 and returned to China to live in a spacious apartment provided by the Government in belated recognition of his contributions to 20th-century Chinese literature.
        ''I have a rule,'' Mr. Shen declared in 1980. ''Once people are promoted to high office, I no longer seek to have social intercourse with them.'' He remained true to his rule, living quietly and attended by his son and wife until his death. In China, his passing was unreported.
      