
       Marion G. Romney, a high official of the Mormon Church, died yesterday at his home in Salt Lake City. He was 90 years old. Church officials said his death resulted from ''causes incident to age.''
        Marion G. Romney, a high official of the Mormon Church, died yesterday at his home in Salt Lake City. He was 90 years old. Church officials said his death resulted from ''causes incident to age.''
        Mr. Romney was the senior member of the church's Council of the Twelve Apostles, and for more than 45 years he had been a leading authority of the Mormon faith.
        Mormon tradition would have made him next in line to become president of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, but because of his advanced age and his frail health, Mr. Romney had been inactive in the church hierarchy for several years. In his place, Howard W. Hunter, the next senior apostle, was recently appointed acting president of the Council by Ezra Taft Benson, president of the church. Born in Mexico
        Mr. Romney was born in Colonia Juarez, Mexico, where his grandfather had been sent by Brigham Young, the Mormon leader, to colonize the area. He was 14 years old and the second eldest of seven children when, under pressure from Mexican revolutionaries in 1912, his father put him in charge of taking his brothers and sisters to Texas by horse and wagon.
        The family migrated through the Southwest and to Idaho, and Mr. Romney served in the United States Army and graduated from Ricks Normal College in Rexburg, Idaho, before taking three years off to serve as a missionary in Australia. He returned to enter the University of Utah, where he received his bachelor's and law degrees.
        After serving as an assistant District Attorney, he was elected to a term in the Utah Legislature. He rose in Mormon circles, holding offices in several church-related businesses and supervising missionary bodies in Europe, South Africa and Asia.
        Among Mr. Romney's achievements was the creation of a prototype for the church's welfare system organized in 1936 to combat the impact of the Depression. The system, based on a philosophy of self-help, was a network of farms, canneries and bakeries that provided employment and goods for needy church members. Recipients were required to work at one of the enterprises or perform some other service in return for assistance. Cousin of Governors
        In 1951 Mr. Romney was named to the Council of Twelve Apostles, and a decade later he organized the first Spanish-speaking Mormon stake, or group of congregations, in Mexico. He was counselor to the church presidents from 1972 to 1985, when he became president of the Council of the Twelve Apostles.
        'He has been a great inspiration to me,'' said former Gov. Scott M. Matheson of Utah, a cousin of Mr. Romney.
        Another cousin is George Romney, the former Governor of Michigan who ran for the Republican nomination for President in 1968.
        Mr. Romney's wife, the former Ida Jensen, whom he married in 1924, died in 1979. Surviving are three sisters, Artemesia Ballif and Jasmine Edmunds, both of Provo, Utah, and Merlyn Walters of Salt Lake City; two sons, Richard J. Romney of Winters, Calif., and Gary J. Romney of Salt Lake City, eight grandchildren and 13 great-grandchildren.
        A funeral was scheduled for noon Monday in the Tabernacle on Temple Square in Salt Lake City.
      