
       Laurence Sickman, a connoisseur and scholar of Chinese art who built one of the world's best collections of Chinese paintings, sculpture and furniture at the William Rockhill Nelson Gallery and Atkins Museum of Fine Arts in Kansas City, Mo., died Saturday at St. Luke's Hospital in Kansas City. He was 81 years old.
        Laurence Sickman, a connoisseur and scholar of Chinese art who built one of the world's best collections of Chinese paintings, sculpture and furniture at the William Rockhill Nelson Gallery and Atkins Museum of Fine Arts in Kansas City, Mo., died Saturday at St. Luke's Hospital in Kansas City. He was 81 years old.  It was in the early 1930's, as a recent graduate of Harvard University, that Mr. Sickman established himself in the field. In those years, he traveled throughout China, seeking out and buying the works of art that have since made the museum a leading center for study.
        Upon returning to Kansas City in 1935, he became the curator of Oriental art at the museum. From 1953 to 1977, he served as the museum's director. Throughout his career, he wrote scholarly articles and books, including a standard text, ''The Art and Architecture of China,'' that he co-wrote with Alexander Soper in 1956. 'The Chinese Point of View'
        ''He was one of the great pioneers and connoisseurs of Chinese art,'' said Wai-Kam Ho, currently the curator of Chinese art at the Nelson-Atkins Museum. ''He had great compassion for Chinese culture, and he built up a great collection completely from the Chinese point of view, with the eye and heart and mind of a Chinese.''
        A native of Denver, Mr. Sickman became interested in Japanese and Chinese art as a high school student, and he specialized in the field at Harvard, where he also became fluent in Chinese. Upon graduation, he traveled on a scholarship to China, where he met Langdon Warner, a Harvard professor who the trustees of the Nelson museum, which was being established, had appointed to build a collection. Learning, Then Latitude
        At first, Mr. Sickman learned from Mr. Warner, and later was given wide responsibility by the museum to buy works on his own. His substantial means as a collector came from an $11 million bequest that had been made to establish the Nelson museum by William Rockhill Nelson, the founder of The Kansas City Star.
        The museum's collection is known for its depth and breadth, reaching from the Neolithic period to the early 20th century, with especially strong collections of Chinese painting from the Sung Dynasty, its ritual and funerary art, its Chinese Buddhist art and Chinese furniture from the 16th and 17th centuries.
        Mr. Sickman is survived by his brother, Darrell, of Washington.
      