
       Leon Shimkin, who joined Simon & Schuster as a 17-year-old bookkeeper and helped build it into one of the nation's major book publishing companies, died yesterday in New Rochelle Hospital in New Rochelle, N.Y. A resident of Larchmont, N.Y., he was 81 years old.
        Leon Shimkin, who joined Simon & Schuster as a 17-year-old bookkeeper and helped build it into one of the nation's major book publishing companies, died yesterday in New Rochelle Hospital in New Rochelle, N.Y. A resident of Larchmont, N.Y., he was 81 years old.
        Tireless and hard-driving, Mr. Shimkin eventually became chairman of the board and owner of Simon & Schuster. He was also one of the founders of Pocket Books, the company's mass- market paperback division. By the time he sold Simon & Schuster to Gulf & Western in 1975, Mr. Shimkin - who said his aim was to combine ''the creative art of publishing with the science of commerce'' - had played a major role in transforming book publishing from a cottage industry to big business.
        Until he became ill last winter, Mr. Shimkin continued to go twice a week to the office he maintained in the Simon & Schuster headquarters on Avenue of the Americas, according to his son Michael.
        Mr. Shimkin's career in book publishing began in 1924, when he was hired for $25 a week by Richard Simon and M. Lincoln Schuster, partners in the new publishing firm that bore their names. He soon became business manager of the fledgling company, and before long began generating additional income for the company by selling rights to its books - for example, by selling the rights to the title ''Inner Sanctum Mysteries'' to a Hollywood studio, and selling parts of the company's crossword-puzzle books to newspapers to be run as a daily feature.
        Although Mr. Shimkin rarely involved himself in the editorial side of the business, he was responsible for two books published in the late 1930's that are still among the biggest sellers in Simon & Schuster's history: ''Your Income Tax'' by J. K. Lasser, an accountant, and ''How to Win Friends and Influence People'' by Dale Carnegie, a popular lecturer. The idea for the latter book came to Mr. Shimkin after he heard Mr. Carnegie lecture.
        In 1939, Mr. Shimkin became treasurer of Pocket Books, a publishing venture that Simon & Schuster undertook with the publisher Robert F. de Graff. While critics scoffed at the notion of selling 25-cent paperback books in supermarkets and similar outlets, when books traditionally came in hardcovers and sold for $2 or $3 in bookstores, Pocket Books was an immediate success. The paperback edition of the Carnegie book sold 700,000 copies in six months and sales soon went well over 1 million.
        Allowed to buy stock in the company almost from the beginning, Mr. Shimkin eventually became an equal partner. To acquire new money for expansion, the partners sold Simon and Schuster and Pocket Books in 1944 to Field Enterprises Inc., although they remained as executives.
        Mr. Simon resigned in 1957, the same year Mr. Schuster and Mr. Shimkin repurchased the entire stock of Simon & Schuster from Field. Mr. Shimkin, who since 1950 had been president of Pocket Books, bought Pocket for himself. And in 1966 he bought Mr. Schuster's half-interest in Simon & Schuster for a reported $2 million.
        Mr. Shimkin was born in Brooklyn on April 7, 1907, the son of Russian immigrants. He had completed his freshman year at New York University when he joined Simon & Schuster, and he graduated by completing his studies at night. Out of gratitude to the school, he became an important benefactor. A building on its Washington Square campus is named after him.
        In forging his publishing empire, Mr. Shimkin acquired critics. In his history of paperback publishing, ''Two-Bit Culture,'' Kenneth C. Davis said that many in publishing, and some within Simon & Schuster, resented Mr. Shimkin ''for his dollar-oriented publishing'' and for ''the manner in which the two founders of the company had been supplanted.''
        ''But few people inside publishing begrudged Shimkin his financial savvy,'' Mr. Davis wrote, 'and it was soon acknowledged that the way of the shrewd businessman was the track that the publishing business was heading down as it moved through the sixties and seventies.''
        Mr. Shimkin is survived by his wife, Rebecca, of Larchmont; by a daughter, Emily Gindin of Princeton, and a son, Michael, of New York City.
      