
       H. A. R. (Kim) Philby, the double agent whose betrayal of his country and his social class indelibly marked British politics, has died in Moscow, officials in London said yesterday. He was 76 years old.
        H. A. R. (Kim) Philby, the double agent whose betrayal of his country and his social class indelibly marked British politics, has died in Moscow, officials in London said yesterday. He was 76 years old.
        The officials said they learned of the death from the Soviet Embassy in London, but that no date or cause of death was given.
        Mr. Philby fled to the Soviet Union in 1963, when his involvement in a Soviet spy ring was about to be revealed. Twelve years earlier, in 1951, Mr. Philby's warning had allowed two fellow spies, Guy Burgess and Donald Maclean, to flee to Moscow just before British counterintelligence was to interrogate them.
        Thus Mr. Philby, who worked for British intelligence for 30 years and became one of its leading agents, came to be known as the ''third man.'' It was not until 1979 that the long-suspected ''fourth man,'' Anthony Blunt, Surveyor of the Queen's Pictures, was publicly revealed to have recruited the other three to the cause of Soviet Communism while they were Cambridge undergraduates in the 1930's.
        Mr. Burgess and especially Mr. Maclean, who served in high posts in the British Embassy in Washington during and after World War II, provided the Soviet Union a wealth of detail on American and British policy at the height of the cold war.
        But Mr. Philby's treachery was the most serious. He rose to very high rank in the British Secret Intelligence Service, known as M.I.6, and some thought he might become its chief; he ran its entire counterespionage operation and set up the section that spied on the Soviet Union. After his defection in 1965, the Russians awarded him the Red Banner of Honor for his services to the K.G.B.; Mr. Philby later received the privileges of a K.G.B. general. In 1968, he published his memoirs, ''My Secret War.''
        In January of this year, Mr. Philby was interviewed by a British journalist, Phillip Knightley, for articles that were published recently in The Sunday Times of London. Asked if, despite all the betrayals, he would do it all again, Mr. Philby responded, ''Absolutely.'' He said he missed little in England except some friends, Colman's mustard and Lea & Perrins Worcestershire sauce. He said he had found peace and a happy fourth marriage, to a Soviet woman named Rufa. Cause of Death Not Indicated
        Mr. Philby also said he suffered from an irregular heartbeat, and had been hospitalized for it. There was no indication yesterday of the cause of death.
        The damage Mr. Philby did to British intelligence remains a subject of debate, limited by strict British secrecy laws. But his betrayal and that of his colleagues poisoned relations between British and American intelligence services for many years, with residues that last until today.
        And the magnitude of their betrayal - of colleagues, class and country -became a kind of metaphor for the diffuse loyalties of the British Establishment that not only inspired a generation of spy fiction, most notably that of John le Carre, but also fed into the middle-class counterreaction in British Conservative politics exemplified by the current Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher, who maintains a mistrust for both the Foreign Office and career intelligence officers.
        Harold Adrian Russell Philby, who was described by friends of the early 1940's as an immensely handsome and charming man who drank too much, stuttered badly and had an eye for pretty women, was born on New Year's Day, 1912, in Ambala, India. Son of Arab Scholar
        His father, Harry St. John Bridger Philby, was a famous British figure of good family and colonial aspirations: an author, desert explorer, Arab scholar and friend of the only other Arabist of the time who would be more famous, T. E. Lawrence. In 1912, the senior Philby was a civil servant in the Indian Government; within a decade, he had been interior minister of Mesopotamia (Iraq), an adviser to Winston Churchill and chief British representative in Trans-Jordan; later he became a close adviser to the Saudi king, Ibn Saud, and the explorer of the desert vastness then known as the ''Empty Quarter of Arabia.'' In 1930, he resigned from the British Foreign Service and became a Moslem and took the name of Hajj Abdullah.
        The younger Philby was known as Kim, after the hero of Rudyard Kipling's novel of that name, a young boy who serves his country as a spy. The young Mr. Philby had a brilliant record at Westminster School, one of Britain's finest public schools, and at Trinity College, Cambridge. There he became treasurer of the University Socialist Society.
        The true timing and venue of Mr. Philby's recruitment by Soviet intelligence is unclear. He maintained that he was recruited not at Cambridge but in 1934, after a visit to Vienna and his first marriage, to Litzi Kohlman, an Austrian Communist. That marriage ended in divorce in 1938. Justified His Argument
        In ''My Secret War,'' Mr. Philby justified his espionage with the argument that the Western democracies were too weak and corrupt to put up a struggle against the Germany of Adolf Hitler.
        But Western intelligence officials have always believed the Mr. Philby lied about his recruitment to protect his friends and colleagues, and that by the time he left Cambridge, Mr. Philby was a Soviet agent, and that he may have carried out an initial probationary assignment in Vienna.
        In that same year, 1933, Mr. Blunt visited Moscow. In 1934, Mr. Burgess visited Moscow, where in met with Comintern officials. In 1935, Mr. Maclean passed the Foreign Office examination. The moles had begun to burrow. Mr. Philby took up work as a journalist, first for The Review of Reviews, and then, in 1937, for The Times of London, which sent him to cover the Spanish Civil War on the side of Franco. The next year, the Falangist general awarded Mr. Philby the Red Cross of Military Merit, which served Mr. Philby as a cover in later years. Ran British Double Agents
        By 1941, Mr. Philby had joined M.I.6's Section V. Mr. Philby ran British double agents and was charged, ironically, with feeding false information to Britain's wartime ally, the Soviet Union, allowing him to meet freely with Soviet intelligence officers. His London headquarters was in a large mansion off St. James's Street; an upper floor was occupied by the American Office of Strategic Services, the wartime predecessor of the C.I.A.
        Mr. Philby is remembered then as wearing an old military tunic that had once belonged to his father. Among his subordinates were Graham Greene and Malcolm Muggeridge, who later recalled Mr. Philby as a superb administrator.
        By the end of the war, Mr. Philby was running counterespionage for M.I.6, reporting on Communist subversion in liberated Europe, and had been awarded the Order of the British Empire. In the meantime, he was sending Western agents to their deaths.
        Mr. Philby's rise was rapid. In 1947 he was sent to Istanbul, ostensibly as First Secretary of the British Embassy, where he helped the organize Turkish intelligence services. In 1949, he was transferred to Washington, where as top M.I.6 officer, he was in charge of liaison with the Americans on security matters and had close contacts at all levels of the American Government. Scandal Over Burgess
        He was joined in August 1950 by Mr. Burgess, posted there as embassy second secretary, while Mr. Maclean served in the Foreign Office as head of the American Department.
        There, Mr. Burgess's increasingly odd behavior, homosexuality and open anti-Americanism became a scandal, and Mr. Philby discovered that the F.B.I. suspected both Mr. Burgess and Mr. Maclean of spying for the Soviet Union. Warned by Mr. Philby and recalled to London for disciplinary reasons, Mr. Burgess warned Mr. Maclean, and they vanished together under poor British surveillance.
        It was not until 1956, the year Mr. Blunt was knighted by the Queen, that the Russians said Mr. Burgess and Mr. Maclean were in Moscow.
        After their disappearance in 1951, suspicion fell upon Mr. Philby, who was interrogated at great length. He was relieved of his duties but not dismissed until 1955, when questions were asked about him in the House of Commons and Harold Macmillan, the Prime Minister, cleared him.
        That same year, Mr. Philby went to Beirut, where his father had settled, as correspondent for The Economist and The Observer. His articles were regarded as balanced, well informed and occasionally brilliant. His second wife, Aileen died in 1957, leaving him five children. In 1958, he married Eleanor Brewer, who had been married previously to Sam Pope Brewer, a correspondent for The New York Times.
        She moved back to the United States from Moscow in 1965, brokenhearted after Mr. Philby took up an affair with Mr. Maclean's wife, Melinda. Aileen Philby died in 1968.
        It was not until late 1962 that British officials concerned with the espionage case were convinced that Mr. Philby was a Soviet agent, and sent a new interrogator to Beirut. In late January 1963, Mr. Philby disappeared.
        Six months later, the British Government identified him as the ''third man,'' and he emerged in Moscow.
        Mr. Blunt, who confessed his guilt under interrogation in 1964, the year Mr. Burgess died in Moscow, was not publicly exposed as the fourth man until 1979, when the Queen withdrew his knighthood. Mr. Blunt and Mr. Maclean died in 1983, in London and Moscow, respectively.
        Correction:  June 3, 1988, Friday, Late City Final Edition
        Because of an editing error, an obituary on May 12 about H. A. R. (Kim) Philby, the British double agent, misidentified one of his wives in some copies. It was his third wife, Eleanor, who died in 1968.
      