
       Richard B. Ogilvie, who served as Governor of Illinois from 1968 to 1972, died yesterday a day after suffering a heart attack and undergoing emergency bypass surgery at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 65 years old.
        Richard B. Ogilvie, who served as Governor of Illinois from 1968 to 1972, died yesterday a day after suffering a heart attack and undergoing emergency bypass surgery at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 65 years old.
        Mr. Ogilvie's rise in the world of Illinois Republican politics began when he won an upset victory for sheriff of Cook County in the 1960's. He overcame strong opposition from Democrats led by Mayor Richard J. Daley of Chicago.
        Combat was nothing new to Mr. Ogilvie. He served as a tank commander in France in World War II, was wounded by an enemy shell and was awarded a Purple Heart and a Bronze Star.
        After the war, he finished his undergraduate studies at Yale Unversity and then earned a law degree from Kent College of Law in Chicago in 1949.
        He became active in revitalizing the Illinois Young Republicans, and in 1949 joined the law firm of Lord, Bissell & Brook in Chicago.
        In 1958 he left corporate law to head a United States Justice Department crime-fighting unit in Chicago. His success in prosecuting organized-crime figures helped to fuel his victorous candidacy for sheriff as a Republican in the Democratic stronghold of Cook County in 1962. He went on to become Cook County Board president in 1966.
        He was elected Governor of Illinois in 1968 and ran for a second term in 1972. But he was defeated by Daniel Walker, a Democrat, after putting in place the state's first personal income tax. Mr. Ogilvie met the income tax issue head on, calling himself ''the Governor with guts'' who had the courage to do what the state desperately needed, but the tactic failed.
        Mr. Ogilvie returned to private law practice. He was a director of the United States Railway Association and served as the court-appointed counsel to the bankrupt Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific Railroad.
        In January 1985 he was named to the board of directors of the Continental Illinois Corporation, the bank holding company that almost failed in 1984.
        His survivors include his wife, Dorothy, and a daughter, Elizabeth.
      