
        Chung Ju Yung, who rose from peasant origins to found the Hyundai Group, Korea's largest business empire before it began to crumble last year, died here on Wednesday. He was 85.
        More than any other Korean, Mr. Chung exemplified the ''miracle'' of a country that grew from the devastation of the Korean War to become an economic powerhouse. In his final years, as his sons squabbled, he pursued another dream, that of reuniting North and South Korea through trade, aid and investment.
        Mr. Chung died a year after the breakup of his empire by factions led by two of his six surviving sons, Chung Mong Koo and Chung Mong Hun, who served briefly as co-chairmen of the Hyundai Group while their father was honorary chairman.
        The group had overall sales of more than $80 billion in 1999, its last full year as a united chaebol, or conglomerate, before the government forced it to revamp and downsize to wipe out some of its debts. Chung Mong Koo, placed in charge of the auto division by his father, separated it from the group, while Chung Mong Hun remained in charge of the group's troubled engineering and electronics companies as well as Hyundai Asan, formed to do business in North Korea.
        In 1992, when Mr. Chung waged an unsuccessful campaign for president of South Korea, his personal wealth was estimated at $4 billion, making him Korea's richest man, though recent estimates have been considerably below that level.
        The troubles affecting Hyundai dominated the last chapter in the life of the man who in 1947 gave the name ''Hyundai,'' meaning modern, to his first company, Hyundai Construction, and ran his holdings as a Confucian autocrat with a strong sense of national, group and family loyalties.
        While propounding ''the Confucian spirit,'' Mr. Chung also had faith in his ability to overcome all odds as he charged into new fields.
        Park Chung Hee, who ruled South Korea from 1961 until his assassination in 1979, favored Chung Ju Yung with contracts for bridges, dams and roads. Mr. Chung then expanded overseas, plunging into the Middle East with a winning bid to build a harbor at Jubail, in Saudi Arabia on the Persian Gulf.
        Mr. Chung, a peasant farmer's son who never went beyond primary school, believed that his success in construction justified his entry into motor vehicles, ship building and electronics.
        After building the motor vehicle plant in Ulsan, on the southeastern coast, he founded Hyundai Heavy Industries, also in Ulsan, several miles to the east, in 1973. Eventually, nine Hyundai companies had factories in Ulsan, which many Koreans would call Hyundai City.
        Hyundai Heavy, now controlled by his sixth son, Chung Mong Joon, is the world's largest manufacturer of merchant ships.
        In 1985, Mr. Chung ordered a younger brother, Chung Se Yung, then in charge of the motor vehicle company, to set up Hyundai Motor America. By 1986 the first Hyundai Excels, subcompacts built with Italian design and Mitsubishi engines, were on the American market.
        Fearful of falling behind in the technology revolution, Mr. Chung in 1983 founded Hyundai Electronics to compete with Samsung Electronics, flagship of the Samsung Group, Hyundai's rival for supremacy among the Korean conglomerates.
        Mr. Chung was humiliated, however, when he ran for president in 1992, attacking the economic ineptitude of the incumbent, Roh Tae Woo, who could not run again.
        Kim Young Sam won easily, while Mr. Chung got only 16 percent of the vote and faced charges of having embezzled more than $80 million from Hyundai Heavy Industries to finance his campaign. Though Mr. Chung got a suspended sentence, Hyundai companies for several years faced difficulties getting credit.
        After President Kim Dae Jung announced his ''sunshine'' policy of reconciliation with North Korea at his inauguration in 1998, Mr. Chung saw a chance to realize his goal of business with the north.
        In mid-1998, along with his sons Chung Mong Koo and Chung Mong Hun, he led 50 trucks holding 500  cows to North Korea, crossing the demilitarized zone at the truce village of Panmunjom. He said the cows were to pay back money he had stolen from his father, who had earned it selling two cows.
        Next, in November 1998, Mr. Chung began tours to the Mount Kumkang region, near his native village of Asan.
        In recent weeks, however, Chung Mong Hun told North Korea that he was unable to pay the sum agreed on for the tours. Hyundai also said it lacked the finances to build an industrial park in near Panmunjom.
        President Kim, whose government had pressed the Hyundai group to  restructure and reduce its debts, hailed Mr. Chung this morning as having ''contributed greatly to the development of the national economy during the days of industrialization'' and added, ''The Korean people will long remember his merits.''
        Mr. Chung is survived by his wife, Byun Joong Suk; as well as his other sons, Chung Mong Kun, Chung Mong Yun and Chung Mong Il; a daughter, Chung Kyung Hee; four brothers; a sister and numerous grandchildren.
        Mr. Chung's eldest son, Chung Mong Pil, died in a motor vehicle accident in 1982, and his fourth son, Chung Mong Woo, committed suicide in 1990.
      