
        William O. Bittman, who won a conviction against the Teamsters leader James R. Hoffa as a young federal prosecutor and became one of Washington's best-known lawyers, died on Thursday at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 69.
        The cause was cancer of the esophagus, said his son Robert J. Bittman, who was a deputy to the independent counsel Kenneth W. Starr.
        William Bittman was a 32-year-old assistant attorney general when he prosecuted Mr. Hoffa on fraud and conspiracy charges in 1964, and the case helped to propel Mr. Bittman into the front rank of Washington lawyers.
        Mr. Bittman also secured a conviction of Robert G. Baker, the onetime Senate aide, on tax charges. After Mr. Bittman became a defense lawyer, he represented the Watergate conspirator E. Howard Hunt and won an acquittal of Labor Secretary Raymond J. Donovan.
        Mr. Donovan was cleared in 1987, after a nine-month trial in the Bronx, of stealing $7.4 million from a subway-construction project while he was a contractor before joining President Ronald Reagan's cabinet.
        Usually an aggressive cross-examiner, Mr. Bittman deliberately remained quiet for long stretches during Mr. Donovan's trial. Near the end of the case, he stood next to a prosecution witness and said contemptuously, ''I don't have any questions of you, but I just want the ladies and gentlemen of the jury to know that I am alive and well.''
        As he explained later, Mr. Bittman was trying to convey to the jury that the witness (and, by extension, other prosecution witnesses) had nothing to say worth attacking. In any event, Mr. Donovan was vindicated.
        But the case that made Mr. Bittman's career was the one against Mr. Hoffa, and he was surprised when he got it.
        The charges against Mr. Hoffa and six other defendants -- that they had arranged millions in fraudulent loans from the union's pension fund and diverted some of it for their own use -- were based on five years of research by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The documents filled 50 filing cases in the United States attorney's office in Chicago, where the trial was held.
        Five days after the trial began, the chief prosecutor became seriously ill and had to withdraw. Mr. Bittman replaced him and had to immerse himself in a sea of information. Twelve weeks and 120 witnesses later he was victorious, winning praise from Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy. (Mr. Hoffa, who had also been convicted in a separate jury-tampering case, was sentenced to five years for pension fraud.)
        Early in 1967, Mr. Bittman won a conviction of Bobby Baker, the former secretary to Senate Democrats who was accused of using his connections to bilk savings and loan executives out of $100,000 and of conspiring with associates to avoid taxes.
        Mr. Bittman's role as the first defense counsel for Mr. Hunt, one of the Watergate defendants, threatened his career for a time. Prosecutors accused him of wrongly concealing a copy of a memorandum written by Mr. Hunt to White House aides, reminding them of a supposed commitment to provide money and eventual pardons to low-level Watergate suspects in return for silence about the role of more prominent figures.
        Mr. Bittman said that he had copied the memorandum for his own protection and that he believed it to be protected by the lawyer-client relationship. After a review, prosecutors said they had insufficient grounds to proceed against him.
        William Omar Bittman was born in Milwaukee on Aug. 6, 1931. His father, Omar, worked in the Labor Department; his mother, Lyda, was a homemaker. An outstanding athlete, he got a football scholarship to Marquette University, where he played linebacker. He graduated from the DePaul University College of Law.
        He is survived by his wife of 44 years, Carole; three sons, William Jr., of Washington, Robert, of Chevy Chase, Md., and Michael, of Orlando, Fla.; four daughters, Barbara Jensen of Gaithersburg, Md., Beth McGee of Orlando, Julie, of Potomac, and Carrie, of Washington; two brothers, John, of Waupaca, Wis., and James, of Sun City, Fla.; and 11 grandchildren.
        Mr. Bittman changed law firms after representing E. Howard Hunt. He had been a partner since 1974 in Pierson, Ball & Dowd, which merged with the Washington firm of Reed Smith in 1989.
        Mr. Bittman's prosecution of Bobby Baker had a lasting effect, Robert Bittman recalled. Mr. Baker's lawyer was Edward Bennett Williams, who had represented many high-profile defendants and did not lose often.
        After losing the Baker case, Mr. Williams was decidedly cool to Mr. Bittman, Robert Bittman recalled yesterday. This made for some awkwardness, since Mr. Williams happened to live across the street from the Bittmans at the time.
        ''My dad didn't dislike Ed Williams,'' Robert Bittman said. ''Ed Williams disliked my dad.''
      