
        Herbie Jones, a jazz trumpeter, composer, arranger and educator who worked closely with two of the most influential jazz composers and arrangers, Duke Ellington and Billy Strayhorn, died on March 19 in the Bronx. He was 74.
        The cause was complications of diabetes, said Patricia Willard, a jazz historian who interviewed Mr. Jones for the Smithsonian Institution's Duke Ellington Oral History Collection.
        ''Herbie Jones was one of the few musicians allowed to sit between Ellington and Strayhorn as they wrote musical sketches, which Jones later developed and copied into individual parts for the other musicians,'' Ms. Willard said.
        In his 1973 memoir, ''Music Is My Mistress,'' Ellington called Mr. Jones ''a great asset'' to his orchestra in the 1960's.
        Mr. Jones was a self-effacing musician who contributed to Ellington's ensemble sound. He often played first trumpet (the melody line) but rarely soloed. Ellington repeatedly offered to write solo material for him, but he told Ms. Willard that he had declined the offers because he did not want to be indelibly identified with the Ellington style.
        Mr. Jones, who was born in Miami, began arranging and playing professionally at 14.
        He attended Florida A&M College, but dropped out in 1950 shortly before graduation to join the Lucky Millinder band in New York.
        He studied arranging and composition with Eddie Barefield and others and played with bands led by Andy Kirk, Buddy Johnson and Cab Calloway.
        Mr. Jones toured five continents with the Ellington band. Among his recorded arrangements for the band are ''El Busto,'' ''Cootie's Caravan,'' ''The Prowling Cat'' and ''The Opener,'' and he contributed to Ellington's first and second Sacred Concerts.
        After leaving the Ellington band, Mr. Jones became the first director of Arts and Culture Inc., a New York City alternative school, and as a volunteer directed the Bugle Corps of the Police Athletic League in Harlem.
        His marriage to Gladys Hield ended in divorce. Mr. Jones is survived by two daughters, Jennifer, of Mount Vernon, N.Y., and Priscilla Carr of Lancaster, Calif.; a son, Herbert Jr., of Jersey City; a brother, Benjamin, of Miami; and three granddaughters.
      