
        Margaret Tafoya, whose nimble, ingenious hands turned the chocolate-colored clay of her New Mexico pueblo into black-on-black and red-on-red pottery of such profound and graceful beauty that it acquired a global reputation, died on Feb. 25 at her home in Santa Clara Pueblo near Santa Fe. She was 96.
        Her name in Tewa, the language of seven Southwestern pueblos, six in New Mexico and one in Arizona, was Corn Blossom. She was the matriarch of Santa Clara Pueblo potters, who are more numerous and produce more pottery than those of any other pueblo.
        Her work, known for exceptionally large vessels, is exhibited in public and private collections around the world. She was named folk artist of the year by the National Endowment for the Arts in 1984.
        The art form she practiced has long been dominated by women, and Corn Blossom was the last of a group of women who attained fame through their mastery of it. Gone are Blue Corn and Maria Martinez of the San Ildefonso Pueblo, Christina Naranjo of Santa Clara and Grace Chapella, a Hopi.
        Today Indian arts command astronomic prices and space on museum shelves in faraway cities, but fewer and fewer Pueblo Indians can speak or even understand Tewa. Mrs. Tafoya, though, was rooted in the old ways.
        She spurned inventions like the potter's wheel. She kept chickens, milked her own cows, churned her own butter and rejected natural gas heat in favor of the traditional beehive fireplace.
        After a brief fling with an Apache, she married a young man from the home pueblo, a distant relative with the same last name.
        According to the Web site of the National Museum of American History (www.americanhistory.si.edu), Santa Clarans use the same word for clay and for people: nung.
        Mrs. Tafoya always prayed to Mother Clay before working. ''You can't go to Mother Clay without the cornmeal and ask her permission to touch her,'' the museum Web site quotes Mrs. Tafoya as saying. ''Talk to Mother Clay.''
        Though she was one of the last to make pots with handles and criticized others for adding semiprecious gems to pottery, she also liked to experiment.
        She used different colors of slips, or thinned clays applied to the outside of her vessels, and her later forms were thinner, lighter and more graceful. Her shiny finishes became ever more polished. She even adapted Greek and Roman forms to classic Santa Clara shapes.
        Mrs. Tafoya clearly loved her art, but it was also how she supported her 10 children who survived their first year; 2 others did not. As she said, ''I have dressed my children with clay.''
        Maria Margarita Tafoya was born in her pueblo on Aug. 13, 1904. Her mother, Sara Fina Gutierrez Tafoya, or Autumn Leaf, was ''undoubtedly the outstanding Tewa potter of her time,'' Mary Ellen and Laurence Blair wrote in ''Margaret Tafoya: A Tewa Potter's Heritage and Legacy'' (Schiffer, 1986).
        Her father, Geronimo, or White Flower, was mainly concerned with raising food for the family, but he was also the main marketer of his wife's pottery. He would load up his burros and make sales trips of up to 500 miles.
        Five of the couple's eight children became excellent potters, driven and inspired by their perfectionist mother. Margaret's rigidly traditional approach was suggested by her insistence on using corn cobs, rather than sandpaper, for polishing.
        She and her siblings made their first pottery when their mother tossed them pieces of clay. ''We get a piece of her clay and try to make animals or maybe bowls,'' Margaret said. ''We make these just for fun.''
        Her mother allowed the young girl to sell her first piece of pottery to a Santa Fe dealer. ''I sure don't remember how much I got,'' she said in an interview in the book. ''It was a small piece, you know. It made me feel good. I felt I should make some more.''
        Margaret attended the pueblo elementary school and went to Santa Fe Indian School.
        She had to drop out of high school to help her family during the devastating flu epidemic of 1918. In 1924 she married Alcario Tafoya, a professional cook who was also related to famous potters. He carved decorations on Margaret's works but never signed them.
        In the 1930's and 40's the Tafoyas often exchanged pottery for children's clothing. Mrs. Tafoya returned to work as soon as possible after the birth of each of her children.
        At first she and her husband took her pottery to cities and fairs to sell. Then, tourists arrived in buses and cars to buy it directly. In the 1950's the family become friends with the owner of a resort at Royal Gorge on the front range of the Rocky Mountains in Colorado. He persuaded them to be resident Indians each summer. They would dance and sell pottery.
        As the value of Indian art skyrocketed, such direct selling was no longer necessary. Dealers today place blind orders for anything they can get by the best-known potters. But Mrs. Tafoya enjoyed attending group shows simply to see what others were doing.
        In 1977 she visited a gallery show in Santa Fe that included 51 potters from 11 tribes. Afterward she invited the great Hopi potter Grace Chapella, then 103, to her home. The two conversed in old Tewa, which is to today's Tewa what Elizabethan English is to modern English.
        ''The Tafoya daughters were told that it was rude to interrupt with questions, so they missed much of the conversation,'' the Blairs said in their book.
        Mrs. Tafoya once said that she learned to make pottery ''just by watching my Grandma,'' and most of her own children and grandchildren learned the same way.
        She is survived by six daughters, Virginia Ebelacker, Jennie Trammel, Toni Roller, LuAnn Tafoya, Mary Esther Archuleta and Shirley Tafoya; three sons, Leonardo, Wayne and Phillip; 30 grandchildren; 45 great-grandchildren; and 11 great-great-grandchildren.
        Mrs. Tafoya never used the words ''when I die,'' saying instead, ''if I die.''
        And she does live, in clay and in blood. ''The children, I'm proud of them because they like to do this pottery,'' she said.
      