
        Frank H. Johnson knew the truth about today's intelligent readers: they rebel against condescension and have scant time to waste. This pioneer of direct mail invented what became known as the Johnson Box, an enticing paragraph just before a letter's salutation that efficiently and pleasingly synthesized the sales pitch to follow.
        Frank H. Johnson, a pioneer in direct-mail advertising who found novel ways to grab readers' attention, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 88.
        At Time Inc., at American Heritage magazine and as a freelancer, Mr. Johnson wrote thousands of letters shilling for everything from magazines to saving wildlife but never signed his own name. Usually, the signature would be that of the head of the company or organization, but sometimes he used ''David Forrest,'' a name he made up and never explained.
        His correspondence invaded millions upon millions of households, drops in the inexorable flood of direct mail, about 90 billion pieces a year. Despite many people's hatred of direct mail -- or perhaps precisely because of it -- Mr. Johnson strove to show his readers some respect.
        For example, he never omitted a word because he thought it might be difficult.
        ''He assumed people had dictionaries,'' said Bill Jayme, who worked with Mr. Johnson at Time and himself become a major figure in direct mail. ''He always flattered their intelligence. He never talked down to people.''
        There were few stops Mr. Johnson missed on his journey through Madison Avenue's bargain basement, from shifting between pica and elite typefaces to hefty four-page letters to friendly postscripts. His largest successes were equaled by few and admired by many.
        In 1966, he was the first winner of the annual award given by the National Association of Direct Mail Writers. ''He was the father of direct marketing,'' said Mr. Jayme, who later won the award twice.
        Perhaps Mr. Johnson's most memorable mailing was devised in 1982, for the Nature Conservancy. The envelope featured the bug-eyed, red-and-white face of a sandhill crane staring alarmingly from next to the address label. The type next to it read: ''RELAX! Both of you.'' The pitch is still used, in a modified form.
        For his part, Mr. Johnson was suspicious of claims of originality in a mass-production business, to the point that he himself questioned whether he was really the first to use what became known as the Johnson Box. He said he had gotten the idea from the provocative chapter summaries favored by 19th-century novelists, but would not have been surprised if other direct mailers had used it first.
        Mr. Johnson said in a 1999 interview with Boardroom magazine: ''The truth is nobody has invented anything in direct mail. Direct mail has been written for many years before any of us were born, and we all swiped from whoever the originators were.''
        He said success in mass correspondence obviously involved catching the reader's original attention, but acknowledged that even he had no idea why people kept on reading.
        ''All I know is that when you look at any paragraph in the middle of a letter, some word in that paragraph should grab your attention,'' he said. ''It should be a dirty word, or a sexy word, or exclamatory word, something that you didn't expect.'' He called such words ''raisins.''
        Frank Homer Johnson was born on Oct. 7, 1912, in Cambridge, Ohio, where his father owned a dry goods store. His first love was reading: as a young boy, he devoured Kipling's complete works in a month.
        He attended Kenyon College, where, after forgetting to study for a test in medieval English literature,  he made up a wild story about dragons. The professor gave him an A+ and wrote, ''You write most entertainingly on a subject you know nothing about.''
        Transferring to Ohio State University because his family could not afford Kenyon's tuition during the Depression, he graduated in 1934. He got a job as an office boy at Time Inc., where his responsibilities included sharpening Henry Luce's pencils. He rose to circulation director of Life magazine.
        After four years in the Army Air Corps, he returned to Time Inc. to be circulation-promotion manager of Fortune magazine from 1949 to 1957, the heyday of direct-mail subscription sales.
        In 1957, he joined a group of former executives from Time Inc. to start American Heritage. Virtually all of the first $65,000 they put into the venture went to direct mail. He wrote and managed the advertising campaigns for American Heritage and its sister magazine, Horizon, as well as promoting dozens of books published by the company.
        He then set up his own company. Among his clients were the Audubon Society, the Bronx Zoo, the Guggenheim and Metropolitan Museums and Harper's Magazine, Ms. and Newsweek.
        His daughter Judith Thoms of Manhattan said that each time one of her two siblings, Deborah Johnson, now of Washington, or Allan, of Seattle, lost a tooth, Mr. Johnson would write an original poem. His six grandchildren, his other survivors, also got one poem for each tooth.
        Though nobody knew who he was -- unless they thought he was David Forrest -- Mr. Johnson received a steady stream of fan mail, Ms. Thoms said. He kept the letters.
      