
        Richard Ruggles, a Yale University economist who developed tools for measuring national income and improving price indexes used in formulating government policy, died of complications from prostate cancer at his home in New Haven on Sunday, according to Patricia Ruggles, his daughter. He was 84.
        Mr. Ruggles showed a talent for extracting valuable information from raw data while working for the  Office of Strategic Services in London during World War II. Using photographs of serial numbers from captured or destroyed German tanks, a team that Mr. Ruggles led figured out how to interpret the numbers and use them to estimate the production rates of the tanks at various German factories. The estimates proved to be surprisingly accurate.
        Mr. Ruggles was a member of the economics department at Yale from 1946 to 1985, serving as chairman from 1969 to 1972, but he spent much of his time away from New Haven doing research for government agencies, the United Nations, the Ford Foundation and the National Bureau of Economic Research.
        Much of his work was done with his first wife, Nancy, who died in 1987. A collection of their studies was published in ''Pricing Systems, Indexes and Price Behavior'' (Edward Elgar, 1999).
        ''He was one of the early architects of income and wealth accounting,'' said James Tobin, the Nobel laureate in economics who was Mr. Ruggles classmate at Harvard University and colleague at Yale.
        Richard Ruggles was born June 15, 1916, in Columbus, Ohio, but spent most of his childhood in Cambridge, Mass., where his father, Clyde O. Ruggles, an economist, rose through the academic ranks to become dean of the Harvard Business School.
        Mr. Ruggles studied economics at Harvard as both an undergraduate and graduate before joining the Office of Strategic Services in 1943. He returned to Harvard as an instructor in 1946, the year he married the former Nancy Dunlap, but was soon lured away by Yale.
        Mr. Ruggles and his wife were intrepid travelers who took their three children on research trips to the Soviet Union and numerous developing countries. The children, Steven, Catherine and Patricia, have all become known for their own data-intensive economic and sociological research.
        In addition to his children, Steven, of Minneapolis; Patricia, of Washington, and Catherine Ruggles, of Los Angeles; Mr. Ruggles is survived by two sisters, Catherine Ruggles Gerrish, of Cambridge, and Rebecca Ruggles, of New York; his wife, Caridad Navarrete Kindelán, whom he married in 1989; 4 grandchildren; and Ms. Navarrete Kindelán's 7 children and 13 grandchildren.
        Correction:  March 16, 2001, Friday  An obituary of the Yale economist Richard Ruggles on Saturday misstated the position of his father, Clyde O. Ruggles, also an economist, at the Harvard Business School. He was a member of the faculty, not a dean.
      