
        Ellen J. Hammer, a historian who wrote an influential book about Indochina and Vietnam before the Vietnam War, died on Jan. 28 in New York City. She was 79 and lived in New York City. The cause was lymphoma, the journal Indochina Chronology reported.
        Dr. Hammer received a bachelor's degree from Barnard in 1941 and worked for several years on the research staff of the Council on Foreign Relations in Manhattan.
        She earned a doctorate in public law and government from Columbia, where she specialized in international relations. She became known in the early 1950's as an authority on French colonial rule in Indochina. By the mid-60's, she had studied Vietnamese problems in a number of long stays in Vietnam.
        As a scholar, ''she was one of the few Americans that got into Vietnam before the American buildup there'' in the mid-60's, said Douglas Pike, a historian and director of research at the Vietnam Center at Texas Tech University.
        Mr. Pike, who went to South Vietnam in 1960 as a Foreign Service officer, said Dr. Hammer wrote one of the few books that people arriving in that era found valuable: ''The Struggle for Indochina'' (1954), which examined the struggle for freedom from France.
        In a review of a book she wrote in 1987, ''A Death in November: America in Vietnam, 1963,'' Thomas Omestad wrote in The New York Times Book Review, ''The title of this carefully researched book refers to the death of Ngo Dinh Diem, president of South Vietnam from 1955 to 1963, and that of his brother and adviser, Ngo Dinh Nhu.'' The book wove together ''dozens of classified government cables detailing the manipulations of men who held a Kipling-like faith that Vietnam was theirs for the shaping.''
        She was ''very loyal personally to Diem,'' Mr. Pike said, and she was bitter about his downfall. Afterward she moved to France and resolved to have nothing to do with the subject. But that did not keep her from writing ''A Death in November.''
      