
        Glen Francis Brown, a retired American geologist who mapped the Arabian Peninsula and divined water where none was thought to exist, died on Feb. 22 at a hospital in Fairfax, Va. He was 89 and lived in Reston, Va.
        Dr. Brown spent 44 years with the United States Geological Survey, starting as a junior geologist in 1938 and retiring as senior staff geologist for Mideastern affairs in 1982. After that he was a consultant for the agency for several more years.
        He had an adventurous career. His work took him to the Philippines, South China, Thailand, Kuwait and especially Saudi Arabia, where the royal family invited his services. Before the advent of jumbo jets, he often traveled by camel.
        Born in Graysville, Ind., he graduated from the New Mexico School of Mines in 1935 and received a master's degree in 1940 and a Ph.D. in geology in 1949 from Northwestern University. He spent two years with the Philippine Bureau of Mines before joining the United States Geological Survey.
        He studied the geology of groundwater resources in Mississippi and California for the first six years. He conducted some initial surveys in the Middle East in the 1940's and was leading a mission to Thailand in 1950 when the Saudi government asked him to return. He did so repeatedly over the next three decades.
        His work in the Saudi desert helped conserve sparse rain, find unsuspected reserves of groundwater and increase the water supply for the country's cities. The Interior Department, the survey's parent agency, credited him with creating the first true geological, geographic, topographic and tectonic maps of Saudi Arabia.
        He published more than 100 papers on the Arabian Peninsula.
        Dr. Brown is survived by his wife of 25 years, Helen Royall Brown; a daughter from an earlier marriage, Elizabeth Brown Kulwin of Cincinnati; a brother, Norman, of Bloomington, Ill.; and two grandsons. His first wife, Laura Cameron Brown, died in 1974.
      