
        Robert L. Clare Jr., a corporate lawyer who played a critical role in the growth and international expansion of the Wall Street law firm of Shearman & Sterling, died on Sunday at his home in Annandale, N.J. He was 86.
        Mr. Clare, who continued as the firm's counsel after stepping down from the partnership in 1987, ran  Shearman & Sterling from 1977 to 1982. In that period he led the firm to open new overseas offices and expand existing ones and to take on more foreign clients.
        For those who knew him outside the world of law, Mr. Clare was a chef and a connoisseur -- two skills he began developing, despite being on a tight budget, while a student at Harvard Law School, according to a profile in ''Sages of Their Craft: The First Fifty Years of the American College of Trial Lawyers.''
        He had a collection of more than 4,000 cookbooks from around the world. He also wrote his own cookbook, ''Never Trust a Skinny Cook,'' and edited another, ''The No-Fault Cookbook,'' which contained recipes submitted by members of the American College of Trial Lawyers. He was president of that organization from 1973 to 1974.
        Throughout his career, Mr. Clare was fascinated by international legal issues. He helped to set up the Anglo-American Exchanges, an international exchange program for lawyers and judges from the United States and Britain. He was also one of the few Americans to be named an honorary member of the Honorable Society of the Inner Temple, a highly selective British legal organization.
        Mr. Clare, a native of Perth Amboy, N.J., received his law degree in 1938 and went straight to Shearman & Sterling, where he worked until he went into the Army in 1941. He served until 1945, then returned to the firm, where he became partner in 1952.
        At Shearman & Sterling, Mr. Clare helped build the litigation practice, recruiting a number of young lawyers. He specialized in antitrust and securities cases but also served on boards at several companies -- something unusual for a trial lawyer -- including Georgia-Pacific, a client of the firm.
        In 1942, Mr. Clare married the former Ruth Eyerkuss, who died in 1972. He married the former Margaret Cross in 1974.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a brother, David R. Clare, a former president of Johnson & Johnson, of West Palm Beach, Fla.; four sons from his first marriage, Robert L. Clare III of New York; Mark J. Clare of Murrels Inlet, S.C.; Timothy C. Clare of Nepean, Ontario; and Michael K. Clare of Bridgewater, N.J.; two daughters, also from his first marriage, Kathleen C. Clare of Bridgewater, and Patricia C. O'Brien of Medford, N.J.; 23 grandchildren; and 8 great-grandchildren.
      