
        Arturo Uslar Pietri, a novelist and essayist whose literary career became enmeshed with modern Venezuelan politics, died on Monday at his home in Caracas. He was 94.
        Mr. Uslar Pietri had retired from writing just recently, after failing health led him to dictate essays and columns for newspapers to a secretary instead of typing them himself.
        Although he was born in 1906 to a family of relatively modest means -- his father was an officer in Venezuela's army -- Mr. Uslar Pietri had a privileged education, studying at the French School in Caracas before his family moved to the provincial city of Maracay in 1915.
        Upon his return to Caracas as a teenager, Mr. Uslar Pietri became engrossed in literature. In addition to European classics, he was influenced by the first modernist Latin American writers, like Rubén Darío, the Nicaraguan poet, and José Enrique Rodó, the Uruguayan essayist who called on Latin America to resist the materialistic influence of the United States.
        After graduating from the Central University of Caracas in 1929 with a doctorate in political science, Mr. Uslar Pietri traveled throughout Europe and the Middle East. At 25 he published his first, and perhaps best-known novel, ''Las Lanzas Coloradas'' (''The Red Lances''), in Madrid. Mr. Uslar Pietri later said he had written the book ''during a spring in Paris.''
        In the novel, which was translated into English in 1963, Mr. Uslar focused on a mestizo, or man of mixed race, who rebels against his masters. The backdrop for the narrative is Venezuela's struggle for independence from Spain, from 1812 to 1814, led by Simón Bolívar. As in his later works, Mr. Uslar Pietri champions mestizaje, or miscegenation, as a valuable feature of Latin American culture.
        In a tale that was transformed into lore for a later generation of writers, like Carlos Fuentes and Gabriel García Márquez, who fueled the boom in Latin American literature in the 1960's and 70's, Mr. Uslar Pietri was said to have feverishly discussed the direction of Latin American writing during an encounter in 1930 on the Pont des Arts in Paris with the writers Alejo Carpentier of Cuba and Miguel Ángel Asturias, the 1967 Nobel Laureate from Guatemala.
        Early classics of 20th-century Latin American literature, including Mr. Uslar Pietri's ''Red Lances,'' Carpentier's ''Kingdom of This World,'' and Asturias's ''Legends of Guatemala,'' were said to have germinated from that meeting.
        ''Uslar warned us, and strengthened us, against the dark impulses of literary chauvinism,'' Mr. Fuentes, the Mexican writer, wrote in the newspaper Reforma.
        In 1934 Mr. Uslar Pietri returned to Venezuela. He published several collections of short stories and, after becoming professor of economic policy at Cátedra University, was appointed education minister during the regime of Gen. Eleazar López Contreras in 1938.
        During the subsequent government of Gen. Isaías Medina Angarita, which began in 1941, Mr. Uslar Pietri continued his participation in public office, serving as interior minister. After a military coup removed  Medina in 1945, Mr. Uslar Pietri went into exile in New York.
        During the years he spent in the United States Mr. Uslar Pietri taught Latin American literature at Columbia University and wrote his second historical novel, ''The Road From El Dorado'' (1947), based on the life of the conquistador Lope de Aguirre. He also published a book of essays based on his lectures at Columbia before returning to Venezuela in 1950.
        While still in New York, Mr. Uslar Pietri had begun writing a weekly column called ''Pizarra'' that appeared until the 1990's in the newspaper El Nacional. After publishing several books on Venezuelan history and culture, Mr. Uslar Pietri returned to politics in 1958 when democratic elections were held after the fall of the dictator Marcos Pérez Jiménez. Mr. Uslar Pietri was elected to the nation's senate in 1958, representing the capital, Caracas.
        In 1963 Mr. Uslar Pietri ran for president with the support of a coalition of parties, including the Democratic National Front. His slogan was ''Arturo is the man.'' Mr. Uslar Pietri was defeated by Raúl Leoni, of the Democratic Action Party.
        Mr. Uslar Pietri never tired of commenting on Venezuelan society and politics. Often, in essays or in interviews, he delivered a harsh critique of Venezuela. Once, Mr. Uslar Pietri said historians could sum up the nation's history in nine words: Columbus discovered it; Bolívar liberated it; oil rotted it.
        In a 1992 interview with The New York Times, referring to the effect that the discovery of oil in Venezuela more than 80 years ago had had on the nation, Mr. Uslar Pietri said: ''Venezuela is not a country -- it's a country glued to an industry.''
        Mr. Uslar Pietri was similarly critical of Venezuela's current leader, Hugo Chávez, who led an unsuccessful coup attempt in 1992, only to be elected president in 1998. ''He is not democratic,'' Mr. Uslar Pietri warned late last year, suggesting that Mr. Chávez had a disposition for ''caudillismo,'' the system of rule in which a strongman or military dictator rules a country with little concern for democratic institutions. ''Caudillismo has never disappeared,'' Mr. Uslar Pietri said. ''It is part of our history and has cost us plenty.''
        In all, Mr. Uslar Pietri was the author of nearly 50 books, including novels, plays, stories, essays, travelogues, poetry and collections of journalistic work.
        He is survived by a son, Federico Uslar Braun.
      