
        Harold E. Stassen, a former governor of Minnesota, educator, and special presidential assistant who won an early reputation as a ''boy wonder'' of politics only to be remembered as the man who unsuccessfully sought the Republican Party's presidential nomination nine times, died yesterday at a retirement community in Bloomington, Minn. He was 93.
        Although he appeared to have an important future on the national stage after his election as governor of Minnesota at age 31 and becoming a prominent figure in the administration of President Dwight D. Eisenhower, Mr. Stassen was eventually and good-naturedly lampooned as the ''perennial, never-say-die candidate.''
        He made stabs at winning the nomination in 1948, 1952, 1956, 1960, 1964, 1968, 1972, 1976 and 1988, each with varying degrees of effectiveness and enthusiasm.
        His most successful campaign was in 1948, when he was a major candidate, along with Gov. Thomas E. Dewey of New York and Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio. Mr. Stassen won four presidential primaries but lost the crucial Oregon contest to Mr. Dewey, the eventual Republican presidential candidate against Harry S. Truman.
        Late in 1948 Mr. Stassen became president of the University of Pennsylvania, but he ran for the Republican nomination again in 1952 and was thought to have a good chance at winning it until General Eisenhower entered the race. Mr. Stassen threw his support to General Eisenhower, who defeated Senator Taft for the party's nomination and then defeated Adlai E. Stevenson in November in a landslide.
        Mr. Stassen became a trusted friend of Mr. Eisenhower's and served in his administration for five years. Throughout his political career he was to cultivate a reputation as a moderate, internationalist Republican. He was the last of the eight American signers of the United Nations Charter. (Among the signers was Eleanor Roosevelt, whose husband, President Franklin D. Roosevelt, had appointed Mr. Stassen to the United Nations delegation in San Francisco.)
        Although in middle life he appeared to be a tragicomic figure in politics, he was never anything less than respected in his professional life. For more than four decades he was a well-paid -- and some said brilliant -- international lawyer.
        The man who was sometimes called ''the Grand Old Party's grand old loser'' could boast of an often winning record. As governor of Minnesota, he was a popular and progressive figure, pushing through labor legislation and overhauling an entrenched patronage system, cutting the state payroll to 10,000 from 17,000. Mr. Stassen also brought the first black officer into his state's National Guard, and he did so before World War II, when such a move was truly daring.
        Like his fellow Minnesotan and contemporary Hubert H. Humphrey, a Democrat who was vice president and a leading senator, Mr. Stassen exuded a Midwestern ebullience and optimism, and he refused to agree with those who maintained that his quests for the presidency were quixotic.
        ''I know I've had an impact,'' he said, ''that some things I've done have really counted for world peace, for the passion of the individual.'' And, he said, ''I sometimes wish people would ask not how many times I've run a political campaign, but how many times I've been right on the issues.''
        Harold Edward Stassen was born April 13, 1907, in West St. Paul, Minn., to William Andrew Stassen, a farmer, and the former Elsie Emma Mueller. All his grandparents were immigrants. His paternal grandfather was from Norway, his paternal grandmother was a Czech and his maternal grandparents were from Germany.
        Almost from the start, Mr. Stassen showed signs of being a live wire. He completed high school at 15 and had to wait a year to enter the University of Minnesota. He put himself through college by working at a variety of jobs, including Pullman car conductor, pan greaser at a bakery and grocery clerk. He still found time to earn high marks, serve as president of the student body and become a champion marksman. As leader of the university rifle team, he won three national intercollegiate championships.
        Mr. Stassen also organized and became the first chairman of the Minnesota Young Republican League, which was to be his political base.
        After graduating from the University of Minnesota's law school in 1929, Mr. Stassen and a classmate opened law offices in South St. Paul and did so well that they soon hired five other lawyers. He also entered the race for Dakota County attorney and won, though he was hospitalized with tuberculosis for much of the campaign. He took office at age 23 in 1930 and was regularly re-elected.
        In 1937 Mr. Stassen, who with his Young Republicans had been trying to wrest power from the state's old-guard Republicans, announced for governor. He was elected the next year, the youngest governor in Minnesota's history. He was re-elected in 1940 and again in 1942, though he told the voters he would not finish his term because he intended to join the Navy.
        After serving four months of his third term, Mr. Stassen entered the Navy as a lieutenant commander and was appointed to the staff of Adm. William F. Halsey in the Pacific. His ship was hit twice by the enemy, and he was awarded the Legion of Merit and promoted to captain.
        In 1945, Mr. Stassen, as a delegate to the San Francisco conference that led to the formation of the United Nations, led a losing fight in the United States delegation to keep the veto out of the United Nations Security Council. But he initiated the provision that allows member nations to take collective action against an aggressor even when such action was  vetoed.
        Mr. Stassen traveled widely in the United States and abroad after the war, making speeches and cultivating political support. But the support he gained was never enough for political victory.
        In 1953 the newly inaugurated President Eisenhower put Mr. Stassen in charge of American foreign aid programs. In 1955 Mr. Eisenhower named him special assistant to the president for disarmament matters, with cabinet rank. He remained in that job until 1958.
        In 1956 Mr. Stassen led an unsuccessful campaign to remove Vice President Richard M. Nixon from Mr. Eisenhower's re-election ticket. In the early 1970's, however, when President Nixon was faced with impeachment in the Watergate scandal, Mr. Stassen came to his defense.
        From 1958 onward, while practicing law in Philadelphia, Mr. Stassen became transformed into a standard political joke as he ran unsuccessfully for public office time after time. Besides his campaigns for the presidential nomination, he lost races for the Pennsylvania Republican nomination for governor in 1958 and 1966 and for mayor of Philadelphia in 1959.
        Mr. Stassen kept his dignity and his sense of humor, joining in the laughter at cartoons showing his supporters convening in a telephone booth.
        When he entered his seventh Republican presidential primary in 1988, Mr. Stassen said it was because he was confident he could ''lead a powerful, compassionate America to full employment, a balanced budget, and a balanced world trade, along the path of peace and freedom.''
        He was married in 1929 to his childhood sweetheart, the former Esther Glewwe, who died in October. The Stassens are survived by their two children, Glen Harold Stassen of Pasadena, Calif., a professor of Christian ethics at Fuller Theological Seminary, and Kathleen Esther Berger of Manhattan, the head of the social sciences department at Bronx Community College; seven grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
        Mr. Stassen remained active almost until his death, attending the State of the State speech by Gov. Jesse Ventura of Minnesota in January.
        Toward the end of his life, Mr. Stassen seemed to be speaking more in sorrow than in anger about the rightward turn of his beloved Republican Party, beginning with the era of Ronald Reagan. But he said he was never tempted to switch parties.
        ''I made a basic decision, when I was a student, to work within the Republican Party and liberalize it,'' he said. ''Flipping between parties, I think, is what the voter does but the leadership should remain constant.''
        Mr. Stassen was disdainful of politicians who depended on ''the so-called image staff'' in plotting their campaigns. He also had little use for modern poll-driven politicians who tailored their views to what ''an uninformed public'' told pollsters, saying that was following, not leading.
        Correction:  March 20, 2001, Tuesday  An obituary on March 5 about Harold E. Stassen, who sought the Republican presidential nomination unsuccessfully nine times, referred erroneously to the eight American signers of the United Nations Charter, of which he was the last survivor. They did not include Eleanor Roosevelt.
      