
        S. Dillon Ripley, who led the Smithsonian Institution through its period of greatest growth, died today in a Washington hospital.
        He was 87.
        A biologist, ecologist, expert on the birds of India and, for a time, an officer in the United States' wartime spy service, Mr. Ripley was secretary of the Smithsonian from 1964 to 1984.
        During that period, eight new museums were built and the number of visitors grew to more than 30 million a year from 10.8 million.
        He broadened the Smithsonian's reach into television and in 1970 started Smithsonian magazine, which has a circulation of more than two million and has brought millions of dollars into the Smithsonian to augment its Congressional appropriations and gifts from individuals, corporations and foundations.
        Though born to wealth and privilege, Mr. Ripley had a common touch, which he brought to his work at the Smithsonian.
        James M. Hobbins, who was Mr. Ripley's executive assistant at the Smithsonian, recalled Mr. Ripley's reaction when the museum directors advised closing during the Poor People's March in 1968, when thousands camped on the Mall in front of the museum.
        ''He said, 'On the contrary, I want these people to come in, if only to use the restrooms,' '' Mr. Hobbins said.
        Instead of closing, the museums were kept open later than usual.
        ''How often are these people going to be in Washington?'' Mr. Ripley asked.
        Thomas E. Lovejoy, who was assistant secretary, also recalled Mr. Ripley's actions that day to relieve the apprehension of Smithsonian employees about the possibility of having to arrest demonstrators.
        ''To sensitize the Smithsonian guard force, he lay down on the floor and made them practice on him,'' Mr. Lovejoy said.
        There were no disturbances, and the Smithsonian became a resting place for many protesters.
        Mr. Ripley was born Sept. 20, 1913, in New York City, grew up in Litchfield, Conn., and became interested in ornithology and Asia as a child. When he was 13, his family took him to India, and he and his sister went on a six-week walking tour of western Tibet.
        He graduated from Yale University in 1936 and went on zoological expeditions to New Guinea and Sumatra before joining the American Museum of Natural History in New York in 1939. He was given a fellowship at Harvard University and received a doctorate in ornithology there in 1943.
        That same year, Mr. Ripley joined the Office of Strategic Services, the forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency, and served in India and Pakistan.
        He was asked in an interview in 1984 whether he was using the unlikely disguise of bird-watcher to spy on the Japanese in South Asia.
        ''Curiously enough,'' Mr. Ripley said, ''the British, and I suppose the Indians, Pakistanis, Ceylonese and so on, thought that it was such a marvelous part of an old-fashioned cover. Their theory was that most obviously we were spies. It never seemed to be realistic because I never could discover what someone out in the bushes could discover in the way of secrets.''
        Mr. Ripley never answered the question directly, and his role, whatever it was, has become entrenched in Smithsonian lore.
        During a wartime trip to Ceylon, now Sri Lanka, for the Office of Strategic Services, Mr. Ripley met Mary Livingston, his future wife, who also worked for the O.S.S. Mrs. Ripley died in 1996, and Mr. Ripley is survived by their three daughters, Julie Dillon Miller of South Norwalk, Conn., Rosemary L. Ripley of New York City and Sylvia McNeill Addison of Washington, and 11 grandchildren.
        One of the museums built in Mr. Ripley's tenure, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, has its enormous collection of contemporary art because of an insight that he had on how it could be filled.
        ''During the 1930's, when the National Gallery of Art was being discussed,'' said Stephen E. Weil, a former deputy director of the Hirshhorn, ''a group of artists became angry that the United States was going to back a museum of dead Italian artists and nothing by contemporary Americans.''
        Their complaints were heard by Congress, which approved a museum of modern art, but World War II forced all planning to be shelved, and, Mr. Weil said, nothing was done until Mr. Ripley became the Smithsonian's secretary.
        Mr. Weil described Mr. Ripley's thinking: ''He said to himself, 'I'll build a museum, but how am I going to get the art to fill it? It's all been taken. Who was collecting while the Smithsonian should have been?' ''
        Joseph Hirshhorn had been, Mr. Ripley was told, and the secretary set about trying to obtain the prize works of Henry Moore, Larry Rivers and others from him.
        Mr. Ripley enlisted President Lyndon B. Johnson, who persuaded Mr. Hirshhorn to donate 6,000 works from his collection to open the museum. Mr. Hirshhorn left the rest of his collection to the museum when he died in 1982.
        Another museum, the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, which houses Asian art, had a similar beginning.
        Thomas Lawton, who was director of the Freer Gallery of Art, and later the Sackler, said today that Mr. Ripley ''always felt that the Freer was a little too elitist and felt that there should be a museum of Asian art that could operate without restrictions.''
        ''He had to find a collection,'' Mr. Lawton said. ''He inquired, and someone mentioned Arthur Sackler.''
        Mr. Ripley visited Mr. Sackler at his apartment in Manhattan, which was filled with Asian art, Mr. Lawton said, and Mr. Sackler pointed out a bed from the Ming dynasty.
        ''I recognize that bed,'' Mr. Ripley said to Mr. Sackler. ''It belongs to a fellow I knew in Hong Kong.''
        The amazed Mr. Sackler responded, ''You're right, Dillon. I bought it from that fellow.''
        Mr. Sackler's collection is now the core of the gallery.
        Mr. Ripley wrote many books and articles, including, with Salim Ali, the 10-volume ''Handbook of the Birds of India and Pakistan,'' and he was both a Fulbright fellow (1950) and a Gugenheim fellow (1954) as well as a member of the National Academy of Sciences.
        Because of his background, Mr. Ripley frequently had to address the notion that he was elitist.
        ''I believe elitism is a great word if taken to mean maintaining a healthy excellence,'' he said in 1984. ''But it is not a nondemocratic word.''
        Mr. Hobbins, Mr. Ripley's former executive assistant, said: ''While he was a New England patrician and a renaissance man of learning, he had a great popular flair. The most obvious part of that was the carousel that he had installed on the Mall. He would go out and ride on it with the kids.''
        For many years, the Smithsonian kept its collection of musical instruments, including violins by Stradivarius, locked safely behind glass.
        ''Take the instruments out of their cases and make them sing,'' Mr. Ripley commanded, and concerts at the Smithsonian followed.
        Mr. Lovejoy, the former assistant secretary, told how Mr. Ripley continued his bird-watching while working for the O.S.S.
        ''He was taking a shower in Sri Lanka, and through the cracks, he sees this bird that he's been trying to collect,'' Mr. Lovejoy said. ''He wraps a towel around himself, gets a shotgun and nails this bird. Just then, Lord Mountbatten, with assorted officers and ladies, comes around the corner and the towel falls off. He didn't lose the bird.''
      