
        James A. Rhodes, a four-term Republican governor of Ohio who was known at home as a builder and booster of his state but remembered nationally more for sending onto the Kent State University campus the national guardsmen who killed four students there, died on Sunday at the Ohio State University Medical Center in Columbus, the city where he lived. He was 91.
        Mr. Rhodes was a college dropout who became an author, president of the Amateur Athletic Union and ultimately Ohio's longest-serving governor.
        Once in the Statehouse, he earned a reputation for a robust expansion of Ohio's economy, infrastructure and university system. Under his leadership, thousands of miles were added to the state's highway network, nearly every county got an airport, and Ohio became a national leader in vocational education.
        Though Mr. Rhodes was popular  with the state's voters and Republican leaders, his national reputation was tarnished by the shooting at Kent State, on May 4, 1970.
        The episode sprang from the announcement by President Richard M. Nixon that American forces fighting in South Vietnam had moved into Cambodia to deny sanctuary there to North Vietnamese soldiers. With the announcement, antiwar sentiment erupted in demonstrations on campuses across the country.
        Governor Rhodes ordered the Guard to Kent State to put down protests that had not only gripped that campus but also spilled over into the town of Kent, where damage had been done to some small businesses. That Monday afternoon, two days after the Guard's arrival and barely 36 hours after arson had damaged an R.O.T.C. building at the university, 13 seconds of rifle fire by a contingent of edgy soldiers who had been ordered to disperse a group of campus protesters killed four students and wounded nine, some of whom had simply been walking to or from class.
        Guard officers at the scene maintained initially that their troops, at whom protesters had thrown stones, had also come under a sniper's fire.  But subsequent investigations found no evidence of a sniper.
        In 1974, eight soldiers were indicted by a federal grand jury on charges of violating the victims' civil rights; all were acquitted. Mr. Rhodes and 28 other defendants were then sued for damages by the wounded students and parents of the dead. That case was settled in 1979 for $675,000 and a statement of regret.
        James Allen Rhodes, a coal miner's son, was born on Sept. 13, 1909, in Coalton, Ohio, not far from Huntington, W.Va. He attended Ohio State University, but did not graduate.
        He entered politics as a young man and in 1934 became a Republican committeeman from Columbus, where nine years later he was elected mayor. He won the Republican nomination for governor in 1954, lost the election to the Democratic incumbent, Frank J. Lausche, then finally captured the Statehouse in 1962 and served through 1970.
        Barred by law from seeking a third straight term, he ran for the Senate but lost the nomination to Robert A. Taft Jr. He reclaimed the governorship four years later, served eight more years, through 1982, stepped down again and was defeated when in 1986 he tried for a fifth term, against a Democratic incumbent, Gov. Richard F. Celeste.
        During the late 1940's, Mr. Rhodes also served as president of the Amateur Athletic Union, then the governing body of several amateur sports in the United States. In addition, he  wrote several books, including one on vocational education and three books of history: ''Johnny Shiloh'' (1958), ''The Trial of Mary Todd Lincoln'' (1959) and ''The Court-Martial of Commodore Perry'' (1960).
        He is survived by two daughters, Suzanne Moore of Upper Arlington, Ohio, and Sharon Markham of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and nine grandchildren. His wife, Helen Rawlins Rhodes, to whom he was married for 46 years, died in 1987.
      