
        Walter Dukes, a 7-foot center who set the N.C.A.A. single-season rebounding record when he led Seton Hall University to the National Invitation Tournament championship in 1953, then played for eight seasons in the National Basketball Association, was found dead in his Detroit home on Tuesday. He was 70.
        Dukes's body was found in a bedroom by the Detroit police, who were called to his home by a sister who had not seen him for some time, according to Officer Claude Fox. Officer Fox said that Dukes apparently died of natural causes.
        Dukes pulled down 734 rebounds in 1952-53, a N.C.A.A. Division I record that still stands. He led Seton Hall to a 31-2 record and the N.I.T. title when that tournament was a prestigious event.
        After being named an all-American, Dukes was drafted by the Knicks, but he spurned them for a far more lucrative offer from the Harlem Globetrotters. Abe Saperstein, the Globetrotter owner, wheeled 3,000 silver dollars into the dining room of Toots Shor's restaurant in Manhattan in June 1953 to present as a bonus for Dukes. He signed a one-year contract with the Globetrotters for a reported $25,000, played with them for two seasons, then joined the Knicks.
        Dukes was hampered by a knee injury in his rookie N.B.A. season, then was traded by the Knicks to Minneapolis. He played one season for the Lakers and six seasons for the Detroit Pistons and averaged 10.4 points a game over his career. He was the Pistons' fourth-leading career rebounder, with 4,986, and was named twice to the N.B.A. All-Star team.
        A native of Rochester, Dukes moved to South Orange, N.J., in 1948 to attend Seton Hall Prep. In his three years at Seton Hall University, he brought the Pirates to basketball prominence. In his senior year, he averaged 26.1 points and 22.2 rebounds.
        Over the years, Dukes fell on hard times. He graduated in 1960 from New York Law School and was admitted to the Michigan bar in 1961, but he was found guilty in Manhattan Criminal Court in 1975 of practicing law without a license, having been suspended from the Michigan bar for failing to pay mandatory dues.
        When he was interviewed at his home by The Star-Ledger of Newark last Feb. 8, the heat had been shut off because of unpaid bills.
        Following Dukes's death, his former college teammate Richie Regan, a star guard and later the athletic director at Seton Hall, recalled Dukes's glory years. ''Walter wasn't a great shooter, but he was a great, great rebounder,'' Regan said. ''Walter made us a great team.''
      