
        Abraham H. Lass, an educator and writer whose books, articles and 40 years as an unorthodox teacher and outspoken principal made him one of the New York City school system's best-known personalities, died Friday night at his home in Fresh Meadows, Queens. He was 93.
        Mr. Lass, who retired in 1971 after 16 years as the principal of Abraham Lincoln High School in Brighton Beach but continued for many years to write, lecture and teach English to inmates at Rikers Island and to foreign-born doctors, died of cancer of the bladder and kidney failure, his wife, Sylvia, said.
        For thousands who attended Abraham Lincoln High during his tenure from 1955 to 1971, he was a tough-love disciplinarian, a baldish, bespectacled enforcer of rules, but one who devoted long hours to counseling and preparing students for college and taking their part in criticizing the school system's failings.
        For readers who encountered articles by and about him in The New York Post, The New York Herald Tribune, The New York Times and elsewhere, Mr. Lass was -- as one put it -- ''the last of the Red Hot principals,'' a man who played the piano in silent-movie theaters as a youth and in his first teaching job joined his students' gangs in order to steer them away from trouble.
        And for parents concerned about overcrowded, tumultuous schools in the late 1960's and early 70's, he represented a refreshing throwback to an era when hard work, demanding academic standards, strict codes of behavior and respect for teachers were ascendant. ''Give us a respite from feverish innovation,'' he wrote in a 1973 opinion article for The Times about New York City schools.
        Born in Brooklyn on Sept. 16, 1907, the son of Russian Jewish immigrants who settled in America early in the century, he spoke only Yiddish when he entered elementary school in 1913. But he learned English in the streets and in schools where the teachers, he recalled, were women in pince-nez and high lace collars.
        ''They didn't seem to like us or love us,'' he wrote in 1983 on the Op-Ed page of The Times. ''But they taught us -- firmly, thoroughly, relentlessly. They did not ask, nor did they seem to care, who we were, where we came from, what we wanted or what language we spoke. They knew what they were in school for: to civilize us, Americanize us, give us a common tongue and a common set of traditions.''
        In 1923, when he was 16 and a student at Manual Training High in Brooklyn, he began playing a tinny upright piano for silent movies at the Eagle Theater in Borough Park -- three-hour stints to accompany the antics of Charlie Chaplin, Harold Lloyd and Buster Keaton.
        He became a master of improvisation, churning out falling-over-a-cliff music, lovers-kissing music and what he called ''hurry'' music to go with wild screen chases, and he did it every weekend for four years, helping to pay his way through college.
        Mr. Lass earned a bachelor's degree from City College in 1929 and a master's from Columbia Teachers College in 1931. He taught English at various city high schools from 1931 to 1950, when he was named principal of New Utrecht High in Brooklyn. Five years later, he became the principal at Abraham Lincoln.
        In the 1960's, as enrollments throughout the city swelled, Abraham Lincoln High had as many as 5,200 in a school designed for 3,500. Students attended classes in shifts, and there were no rooms for after-school activities or special classes. Even so, more than 70 percent of the students went on to college.
        Mr. Lass spoke with anger and pride, denouncing the school system for failing to relieve the crowding, but praising his students. ''How much more could we have achieved on a normal school day?'' he asked.
        He wrote or edited more than a score of books. The best known were ''The Way to Write,'' written with Rudolph Flesch and published in 1947; ''How to Prepare for College,'' a 1962 guide, and ''The College Student's Handbook,'' written with Eugene S. Wilson and published in 1965.
        For many years, Mr. Lass wrote a column for The New York Post, ''You and College.'' He later wrote a syndicated column for The Herald Tribune, ''College and You.'' After his retirement, he taught English to prisoners at Rikers Island for a year, and later taught English to foreign-born doctors working as interns and residents as Coney Island Hospital.
        Mr. Lass was married in 1930 to Betty Lipschitz, who died in 1976. In 1985, he married Sylvia Cole, a former city teacher. In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Roger Lass, of Cape Town, South Africa; a daughter, Janet Gotkin, of Croton on Hudson; and two grandchildren.
      