
        The Great Alzana, the high-wire artist ballyhooed as ''The Most Dare devilish Human Ever to Skirt Eternity's Brink,'' whose tricks were so dangerous that New York State passed a law to keep him from working without a net, died on Feb. 16 at a hospital in Sarasota, Fla.
        Away from the spotlight, his name was Harold Davis, and he was 82. He broke his back and numerous other bones with frequency, and it was because of his falls, fake falls and near falls that New York enacted a law in 1953 requiring a safety net for aerial acts more than 25 feet up. Mr. Davis worked at 40 to 50 feet.
        A spokeswoman for Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus, Mr. Davis' former employer, said New York is still the only state ever to have such a law.
        Mr. Davis, a plain-spoken working-class bloke from Yorkshire, England, disdained the New York restriction. He responded by secretly (and illegally) practicing without a net in Madison Square Garden. As he cavorted 50 feet above the deserted arena, he shouted to a writer from Argosy magazine: ''I feel like a fish with one of those things down there. Ye have it, ye fall into it.''
        He was sufficiently accident prone that a net was an imperfect protector. He broke an ankle and several ribs falling into the net at the Garden. Another time, a truck smacked him as the circus set up, prompting Gay Talese to observe in The New York Times, ''Getting hit by a truck is not part of his act -- yet.''
        In a more than 40-year career, Mr. Davis broke arms, legs, ribs, head and ankles, as well as his back, twice. Mr. Davis was of the opinion that his circus exploits represented a career move in the direction of greater safety. Before being discovered by the circus, he was a coal miner. Three times, while he worked deeper than 2,000 feet, the mine roof collapsed.
        And who cheers you underground?
        The Great Alzana replaced the great Karl Wallenda as the top-billed act for Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey at its New York opening in 1947. Mr. Davis brought bold style and brazen danger to the high wire. He used no balancing bars or guide wires, and employed a five-eighth-inch cable rather than the traditional three-quarter-inch. The thinner cable lurched, bounced and shivered precariously with each move.
        He was the first tightrope walker to use a line guyed at a 45-degree angle to get up to and down. He was the only high-wire performer to carry three people on a bicycle. He ran and skipped rope forward and backward -- sometimes blindfolded.
        John Ringling North, the president of the show, called him the greatest and most foolhardy high-wire artist who ever lived. Mr. North lobbied New York State to pass the net law to protect Mr. Davis from himself.
        But the Great Alzana had no doubts that the public liked nets about as much as he did. ''Sometimes, when you go in, you feel that you haven't given the people enough,'' he told the Saturday Evening Post. ''I feel I have to fall and break my neck for them.''
        Mr. Davis was born on Sept. 19, 1918, in Maltby, Yorkshire. His father, an amateur acrobat, set up a wire between the walls of the family garden. His father ordered him not to train, but in a display of youthful contrariness he began teetering along the wire.
        By the time he was 6 years old, he was performing at church events. At 14, at a fair in Sheffield, the fair's manager pointed to a high-wire walker and asked him if he could do that. ''I can do better,'' he replied.
        ''If you can, I'll give you £100 a week,'' the manager said.
        The Davises felled a tree in a neighbor's woods in the dark of night and stuck it into the ground in their yard, then connected it to their own growing tree by cable. The teenager practiced assiduously.
        ''What I can do low, I can do high,'' his wife, Minnie, his childhood sweetheart, quoted him as saying.
        He went back to the fair manager and was hired. He began to pick up jobs with English circuses, but with the outbreak of World War II, his father, a miner, told him he must go into the mines. On clear nights, he practiced on the backyard wire. By the time he was 18, he could hop down a flight of steps on one hand.
        He decided on the stage name of Alzana, combining his nickname Al, the letter Z and his sister Elsie's middle name, Annie. Initially the name was the suggestion of an English talent agent. ''You are never going to get any place with a name like Daredevil David,'' he said. ''Now, you'll sound Spanish and get further.''
        At first he performed in an act with his wife and sisters Hilda and Elsie as the Great Alzanas. The act became singular after the bicycle toppled, breaking his back and severely injuring the three women. The Great Alzana, alone and glorious, was back in four months.
        He left Ringling Brothers in the middle of the 1960's, performing off and on with other circuses.
        Mr. Davis is survived by his wife, Minnie; his sister Hilda Prince; a son, Allan, and a grandson, all of Sarasota.
        Mr. Davis retired in the mid-1970's, but still kept a high wire -- pristinely netless -- in his backyard for practicing, until his heart condition worsened three years ago. Even then, the Great Alzana remained drawn to the place he loved best.
        ''He'd climb up on the ladder and just sit there,'' his wife said. ''I guess in his mind and his heart he didn't want to quit.''
      