
        Mário Covas, outspoken and combative governor of Brazil's largest state and a chief architect of the country's delicate passage from dictatorship to democracy in the 1980's, died today at a hospital in São Paulo. He was 70.
        As governor since 1994 of São Paulo, whose 36 million people and booming economy make it larger than many nations, Mr. Covas earned a reputation as an honest and efficient administrator in a state previously riddled by corruption. He also helped found the Brazilian Social Democratic Party, which now governs Brazil, and was one of the closest allies and friends of President Fernando Henrique Cardoso.
        ''Politics is full of people who switch their convictions in exchange for a slice of patronage'' or a fistful of money,'' a tribute in the newsmagazine Veja said this week. But, the article continued, ''Covas is part of that special group of those who occupy the most-moneyed public posts in the country and leave office with the same middle-class net worth'' as when they were sworn in.
        ''He is rich only in his biography,'' the piece said.
        Born in Santos, the port city, Mr. Covas was a son of a coffee broker. At 32, he stepped onto the national stage when he was elected to Congress, in 1962. Two years later, however, the military seized power, and Mr. Covas, a blunt and forceful orator, became an assertive leader of the resistance to their rule, a process that culminated in the shuttering of Congress in December 1968.
        He was briefly jailed. Early in 1969, the government suspended Mr. Covas's rights to hold office for 10 years. Rather than go into exile, as many colleagues did in the face of similar threats and persecution, he chose to remain and worked as an engineer.
        After a general amnesty on Jan. 1, 1979, and the restoration of his rights, Mr. Covas was appointed mayor of São Paulo and quickly emerged as an outspoken advocate of an immediate return to direct civilian government. The military relinquished power in 1985, and Mr. Covas became majority leader of the Constitutional Assembly that drew up a new democratic charter.
        ''He was the moral conscience of his party, holding it to the straight and narrow and keeping it from straying into alliances with the right,'' David Fleischer, a professor of political science at the National University of Brasília, said today. But it is the Constitution that is probably his most lasting contribution to Brazil.''
        Elected to the Senate in 1986 with a record popular vote, Mr. Covas ran for president in 1989 as the candidate of the new Social Democratic Party. Arguing that Brazil needed a ''capitalist shock'' to grow and thrive, he finished fourth, but paved the way for his party's rise to power in 1994 on a similar platform.
        ''Covas always said whatever was on his mind,'' no matter how unpopular it might prove to be, and ''was always there on the front lines,'' a political scientist, Maria Celina d'Araújo, said today. ''He was a stubborn man, but he had a moral compass and stuck to his principles.''
        Mr. Covas was elected governor of São Paulo in 1994 and won a second term in 1998. That, with Mr. Cardoso's being ineligible for a third term, made Mr. Covas a logical choice to be his party's presidential candidate next year. But he was given a diagnosis of bladder cancer shortly after his victory. Although he continued to work and remained active in politics, he became weaker and had two operations.
        ''I want to live,'' he said last year at a tearful news conference. ''I like life and what I do. Everything that I do, I do with energy and commitment. So I am ready to fight whatever it is that I have to fight.''
        In January, though, doctors found that the cancer had spread. Shortly afterward, Mr. Covas asked for a leave of absence to have chemotherapy. ''I am about to die,'' he told reporters. You can put that in your newspapers.''
        Surviving are his wife, Lila, and two children, Renata and Mario Jr.
        In recognition of his role in the life of the country, Brazil declared a week of mourning instead of the customary three days.
      