
        Leslie C. Quick Jr., who provided investors with the chance to trade stocks at discounted prices and then earned a reputation as a leading supporter of Roman Catholic charities in the New York area, died yesterday at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston, according to his son, Thomas. He was 75.
        Mr. Quick and his partner, Kevin Reilly, set up their brokerage business in 1974. The following year, shortly after fixed-rate commissions on trading were abolished by the S.E.C., Mr. Quick balked when a bank offered to trade through the firm in return for a 50 percent discount. But, after thinking about his struggling firm's options, he decided to gamble on offering steep discounts not just to the bank but to all comers.
        The results were immediate. ''The phones were ringing off the hook,'' he said in a company history. ''Little old ladies were coming in with shopping bags full of stock. There was no competition. Orders just poured in.''
        Wall Street's big brokerage houses were appalled by the drastic price cutting. Some dismissed Quick & Reilly as doomed to disappear through lack of profits, and others disparagingly referred to the company as ''Quick & Dirty.''
        The going was tough enough that tensions rose between the two partners, leading to Mr. Reilly's departure in 1976. But the discount business pioneered by Mr. Quick and a handful of others, most notably Charles Schwab, soon became a permanent feature of the Wall Street landscape.
        In 1982, Quick & Reilly began expanding into other financial services. First, it started to acquire New York Stock Exchange specialist firms (specialists are responsible for orderly trading in the stocks assigned to their firm). The company's specialist arm now trades 426 stocks that account for 17 percent of the Big Board's volume.
        Quick & Reilly also acquired the U.S. Clearing Corporation, a leader in the arcane but lucrative business of settling trades.
        In 1997, Quick & Reilly was sold to Fleet Financial Services (now the FleetBoston Financial Corporation) for $1.6 billion in Fleet stock. The Quick family's stake was valued around $680 million.
        ''The early days weren't all that profitable, but Les had vision and he stuck to it,'' said Richard A. Grasso, chairman of the New York Stock Exchange.
        As Mr. Quick prospered, he became increasingly active in supporting Catholic charities. ''He used to talk a lot about how fortunate we were,'' said Thomas Quick, one of four sons who has been actively involved in the business from its early days.
        Mr. Quick was one of the initial corporate backers and trustees of the Inner City Scholarship Fund, a fund set up in 1975 by Cardinal Terence Cooke to sustain struggling parochial schools in New York. Mr. Quick also played a major role in building St. Francis Hospital in Garden City, N.Y., into a leading coronary center.
        ''He had a hands-on, take-charge style,'' said Charles Dolan, chairman of Cablevision, who served on several charitable boards with Mr. Quick. ''He ran no-nonsense meetings where feelings weren't spared. He took responsibility for dealing with issues and didn't believe in wasting time.''
        Leslie Charles Quick Jr. was born on Jan. 27, 1926. His father, a low-level manager at Allied Chemical, was forced to move the family frequently before settling in Queens Village, where Mr. Quick attended Andrew Jackson High School. One of his New York classmates was Regina Clarkson, whom he married in 1950 after serving in the Army Air Corps during World War II and earning a bachelor of science degree at the Pennsylvania Military College (now Widener University in Chester, Pa.).
        Mr. Quick came to know Wall Street as an equipment salesman for the Addressograph Company.
        After a brief stint with a publishing consultant in 1955, he joined Forbes magazine, where he rose to business manager in 1962. He shifted to money management with Wallace Forbes & Partners in 1969, acquired control of that firm in 1972 and transformed it into Quick & Reilly in 1974.
        The years at Forbes provided Mr. Quick with a model for the kind of family-run business he built at Quick & Reilly. Under Mr. Quick, the company stuck to conservative financial policies that did not always sit well with some of his children, who wanted to expand more rapidly. But that caution allowed the company to be unusually profitable in a business noted for its volatility.
        In later years, Mr. Quick split his time between a home on Long Island and his residence in Palm Beach, Fla.
        In addition to his wife and his son Thomas, also a resident of Palm Beach, Mr. Quick is survived by three other sons, Leslie C. Quick III of Bernardsville, N.J.; Peter Quick, of Mill Neck, N.Y.; and Christopher Quick of Purchase, N.Y.; as well as three daughters, Mary E. Pedersen of Purchase; Nancy J. Gibson of Winchester, Mass.; and Patricia A. Quick of Palm Beach; and 24 grandchildren.
      