
        Dr. Arthur Davis Hasler, an internationally recognized authority on freshwater ecology who is credited with explaining the salmon's homing instinct, died on March 23 in Madison, Wis. He was 93.
        Dr. Hasler was on the faculty of the University of Wisconsin for 41 years and built it into a hub for lake research. At his death he was an emeritus professor of limnology, a science dealing with the physical, chemical and biological properties of fresh waters.
        A member of the National Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, he recognized early on that lake ecosystems were too complex to study piecemeal in a laboratory. To overcome that problem, he devised novel controlled experiments to deal with the ecosystems of entire lakes.
        He introduced the concept of ''whole lake manipulation'' in the 1950's at two connected, hourglass-shaped lakes. He built a barrier between them and, leaving one side as a control, used the other to gauge the effects of water chemistry on aquatic life.
        Such experiments have since come widely into use in lakes, streams, forests and even oceans. Scientists trained by Dr. Hasler have founded research centers based on his model.
        Dr. Hasler helped define the importance of interplay between land and water as a primary variable in the water quality and ecological health of freshwater bodies. He tackled conditions like cultural eutrophication, or the excessive loading of nutrients into lakes bordered by urban and agricultural land, in an effort to protect the water from sewage and fertilizer runoffs and from soil erosion.
        His research became a basis for better freshwater management on an international scale, and left its imprint on salmon programs in the Great Lakes and streams in the Pacific Northwest and in Europe.
        Arthur Hasler was born in Lehi, Utah, and graduated from Brigham Young University in 1932. He received a doctorate in zoology from the University of Wisconsin in 1937. Fluent in German, he was an analyst with the Air Force Strategic Bombing Survey in postwar Germany, where he visited laboratories and formed lasting bonds with German contemporaries.
        Some authorities credit the Madison campus, which sits on a lakeshore, with giving birth to lake sciences in North America. But by the time Dr. Hasler joined the faculty, its originators of the early 1900's had aged. It was left to him to revitalize  the field, as he taught ecology of fishes and limnology to undergraduates, whom he sought to inspire with German poems devoted to the beauty of lakes.
        Dr. Hasler wrote seven textbooks -- notably ''Olfactory Imprinting and Homing in Salmon'' (1983), which remains in print -- and more than 200 other publications.
        In addition to his wife of 29 years, Hatheway Minton Brooks Hasler, he is survived by a daughter, Sylvia Thatcher of La Crosse, Wis.; and five sons, A. Frederick, of Edgewater, Md.; Bruce; Galen, of Springfield, Mo.; and Mark and Karl, both of Madison. His first wife, Hanna Prüsse Hasler, died in 1969. He had 32 grandchildren and 17 great-grandchildren.
        Serendipity led Dr. Hasler to explain how migrating salmon find their way back to their home streams to spawn. Hiking near his birthplace in Utah in 1946, he had a homing epiphany.
        At a waterfall, the fragrances of mosses and columbine enveloped him, evoking forgotten memories. And he wondered whether salmon might have a similar experience.
        In the late 1940's he translated that hypothesis of ''olfactory imprinting'' into science to demonstrate that salmon could journey thousands of miles to spawn in the precise stream of their birth. The secret, he said, was a finely honed and ingrained sense of smell.
      