
        Hugh R. Jones, a former judge of the New York State Court of Appeals who was known as an intellectual leader of the state's highest court and one of its best writers, died Saturday at his home in Utica. He was 86.
        As a member of the court from 1972 to 1984, Judge Jones wrote the decisions upholding the state's school-finance system, establishing the constitutionality of no-fault insurance and striking down the prohibition of consensual sodomy.
        A registered Republican who said freely that he did not vote for Richard M. Nixon, Judge Jones was viewed as a swing vote in an era of rapid change inside and outside the court. Legal experts said he was very much in step with the court's tendency to protect individual liberties, sometimes interpreting the State Constitution as more protective than the federal Constitution.
        For example, in the 1980 decision that found the law against sodomy between consenting adults to be unconstitutional, Judge Jones wrote for the 5-to-2 majority: ''It is not the function of the penal law to provide for the enforcement of moral or theological values.'' That case, People v. Onofre, was watched around the nation and was an important victory for gay rights advocates.
        Chief Judge Judith S. Kaye, who joined the court shortly before Judge Jones retired, said he was the court's most facile and skillful writer. She linked his analytical ability to the fact that he had taught mathematics.
        Perhaps the best-known opinion he wrote was in the 1982 case of Levittown Union Free School District v. Nyquist, in which the court upheld the state's school-financing system, ending an eight-year legal challenge from poorer school districts which had contended that the system's reliance on local property taxes created unconstitutional inequities.
        Judge Jones also wrote the decisions that upheld the state's new no-fault automobile insurance law and set up a procedure allowing judges to question confidential informers to establish probable cause for arrest.
        Hugh Richard Jones was born in New Hartford, N.Y., near Utica, on March 19, 1914.
        After graduating from Hamilton College in 1935, he taught mathematics at the American University in Cairo. He received his law degree from Harvard in 1939 and began private practice in New York before service in the United States Navy during World War II.
        After the war, he began practicing in Utica. In the 1960's he served on the State Board of Social Welfare and was appointed chairman by Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller. At Governor Rockefeller's request, he led the committee that reviewed the state's prison system after the 1971 uprising at Attica.
        He was president of the New York State Bar Association in 1972.
        The same year, Judge Jones was elected to the bench. (A 1978 law replaced that method with judicial selection by the governor, a change endorsed by Judge Jones, his son Hugh Jr. said.)
        After retiring from the bench, he resumed private practice, joining the Syracuse office of Hiscock & Barclay. He was with the firm until 1992.
        Throughout his career Judge Jones was active in the Episcopal Church, serving as the chancellor of the bishops of the Diocese of Central New York. He also earned a doctor of divinity degree from the General Theological Seminary in Manhattan in 1974, while he was on the bench.
        Survivors include his wife, Jean McMillen Jones; three sons, Hugh Richard Jr. of Weston, Mass., Thomas M. of Morris Plains, N.J., and David B. of Libertyville, Ill.; two daughters, Anne McHugh of Baileyville, Me., and Jean Morris of Remsen, N.Y.; 13 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren.
      