
        Dancers, musicians and old friends paid tribute to the tap-dancer Harold Nicholas on Thursday night at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine. But the star of the evening was Nicholas himself, who died on July 3 at age 79.
        ''Harold prayed and praised with his feet,'' the Rev. Canon Robert Wright said in welcoming remarks to the capacity audience for the tribute, which was produced by Rigmor Newman Nicholas, the dancer's widow, and Bruce Goldstein.
        ''Not only with his talented feet, but his pretty hands also.''
        Those feet and hands -- and Nicholas's honeyed, playful singing voice -- were vibrantly present in a generous assortment of clips from movie musicals starring Nicholas and his brother, Fayard.
        Projected onto a big screen over the altar, the excerpts displayed the Nicholas Brothers not just as exuberant international stars but  as virtuoso dancers as well.
        Fayard Nicholas reminisced about his younger brother, recalling that they began to add to their dance act early on as child performers in Philadelphia out of sheer exhaustion. ''I'm happy that the audience likes us,'' Mr. Nicholas told his brother.
        ''But they're killing us. Let's talk to the audience, put a little singing in.''
        The Frank Owens Trio, which accompanied many of the performers, sidled into the introduction for a song. ''Not yet,'' Mr. Nicholas told the musicians firmly, finishing his reminiscences before beginning a song medley. The suite included one of his brother's favorite songs, rewritten as ''Yes, Sir, That's My Brother.''
        The drummer Max Roach performed a percussion solo and recalled how the Nicholas Brothers helped open up all-white downtown theaters in New York to black performers. Buster Brown, a suave cut-up of a performer, and the Silver Belles proved that less can be more in tap-dancing.
        Savion Glover suggested that more can be more, too, in a cannonade of taps that reverberated through the cathedral's vast reaches. The piano playing of Peter Mintun in ''Memories of You,'' a duet with Vince Giordano on bass, lapped delicately into those dark recesses.
        Jimmy Slyde drew a standing ovation before he even danced a tap. Brenda Buffalino's dance and song routine affectionately summoned memories not only of Nicholas but also of other departed tap greats like Chuck Green and Honi Coles.
        And the singer Jimmy Randolph remembered Nicholas as a golf partner as well as a colleague in teasing comments capped with a powerful version of ''My Way.''
        Other performers included the singer Annie Ross, the Williams Brothers and the Jazz Tap Ensemble of Los Angeles, with whom Nicholas performed in his final years.
        Correction:  April 4, 2001, Wednesday  An article on Saturday about a tribute to the tap dancer Harold Nicholas at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine misidentified the musicians who accompanied Mr. Nicholas's brother, Fayard, in a song medley. They were from the Jazz Tap Ensemble; the Frank Owens Trio accompanied other performers.
      