
        Dr. John Clarke Saunders, a physician and clinical pharmacologist who won recognition in court for innovative use of biochemical drugs on chronic psychiatric patients, died  Saturday at the New York Weill Cornell Medical Center. He was 82 and lived in Upper Nyack, N.Y.
        The cause was complications from lymphoma, his family said.
        Working as a principal research scientist at the Rockland Psychiatric Center in Orangeburg, N.Y., in the 1950's, Dr. Saunders observed the euphoric effects of a certain drug type on tuberculosis patients. Work then began at the center to find out whether the compound could help hospital patients with severe chronic depression.
        The experiments with the substance -- iproniazid, from a class now identified as monoamine oxidase inhibitors -- succeeded as a ''psychic energizer'' for 17 such patients.
        The findings were described in 1957 in a paper by the center's research director, Dr. Nathan S. Kline. Dr. Saunders and Dr. Harry B. Loomer were named as associates. But in 1964, Dr. Kline, based on that work, became the single recipient of one of the most illustrious prizes in the field, a Lasker Award. Dr. Saunders and his colleague objected, saying they had made the discovery, but the awards committee stood firm.
        Seventeen years of litigation followed. A jury ruled for Dr. Saunders and Dr. Loomer, and the State Court of Appeals finally laid the case to rest in 1981, siding with them.
        But the dispute had made Dr. Saunders's position at the Rockland center untenable. For several years, he performed consulting work for pharmacological companies.
        He returned to the state system in the 1970's, working at the psychiatric center at Kings County Hospital. He retired in 1988 from the psychiatric section of Veterans Hospital in Montrose, N.Y.
        John Saunders was born in Jackson, Tenn., and received his undergraduate degree from Lambuth College and his medical degree from the Medical College of Alabama in Birmingham. He joined the research section of the Rockland Center in 1956.
        Dr. Saunders is survived by his wife of 39 years, Lucie Wood Saunders; and a brother, Andrew B. Saunders, of Jackson. Dr. Kline died in 1983, and Dr. Loomer in 1995.
      