
        Frankie Carle, the dean of the big-band leaders, who is best remembered for ''Sunrise Serenade,'' the popular, easy-swinging tune he wrote with Jack Lawrence that became his signature piece, died on Wednesday in a hospice in Mesa, Ariz. He was 97.
        The high point of his popularity  was during World War II when bands fought a bidding war for his services. When Eddie Duchin joined the Navy, Mr. Carle was invited to take over as the leader of the Duchin band in his absence.
        That offer prompted Mr. Carle's employer -- Horace Heidt's Musical Knights -- to make a counteroffer of $1,000 a week and 5 percent of the gross -- a contract that took the entertainment industry by surprise.
        Mr. Carle stayed with the Musical Knights and soon had his own band,  featuring his highly melodic approach to the piano and the vocalists Phyllis Lynne, Marjorie Hughes (Mr. Carle's daughter) and Paul Allen.
        Mr. Carle's repertory was wide-ranging, from classics like the revival of Stephen Foster's ''Swanee River'' to a World War II release that anticipated the Allied victory called ''I'm Going to See My Baby.''
        Mr. Carle's style, which like much  of pop music of the time was influenced by jazz, was chiefly that of a dance band that played traditional pop. The pop critic Bruce Eder said that Mr. Carle produced ''a clean, crisp sound, the trumpets, trombones and piano well delineated.''
        While Mr. Carle's music did not score high on record industry charts after the 1940's, he was still touring and playing concerts in the 1980's, some 70 years after he started in the music business.
        Mr. Carle, whose name was originally Francis Carlone, was born in Providence. A precocious piano player, he joined his uncle's band at the age of 13, earning $1 a week. In the early 1920's he was recorded for the first time as a member of Edwin J. McEnelley's band.
        His first major gig was as a member of Mal Hallett's band. He played with the drummer Gene Krupa and the trombonist Jack Teagarden. As a member of Horace Heidt's Musical Knights, he reached a large national radio audience.
        Mr. Carle wrote the music for many popular songs, including ''Falling Leaves,'' ''Lovers' Lullaby'' (with Larry Wagner) and ''Roses in the Rain.''
        He is survived by his companion, Betty Scott; a daughter, Marjorie Carle Wahl of Paradise Valley, Ariz.; two grandchildren; and a great-grandchild.
      