
        Wallace D. Hayes, an emeritus professor at Princeton University who made important contributions to understanding supersonic flight and aircraft design and who did major studies on airflow at speeds at least five times as fast as sound, died on March 2 in Hightstown, N.J. He was 82.
        He had long been ill with Parkinson's disease, the university said.
        Professor Hayes was widely recognized as a world leader in aerodynamics, the branch of fluid mechanics dealing with the response of air, or any gas, to forces exerted on it.
        Starting in the late 1940's, about the time American pilots became the first to fly faster than sound, Professor Hayes wrote a series of papers about the problems of flight at such speeds. The papers deal with a barrier arising when a plane catches up with pressure waves pushed ahead of it as it approaches the speed of sound (760 miles per hour at sea level or about 660 m.p.h. at 35,000 feet).
        These waves bunch up into a powerful shock wave that distorts airflow over the plane. The shock tends to cause buffeting and drag, which require great engine power to overcome. The instabilities persist until the plane accelerates to a truly supersonic zone, where shock waves stabilize and flying is smooth.
        Harvey Lam, also an emeritus professor at Princeton, said in an interview that Professor Hayes  ''strongly influenced the design of high-speed aircraft.'' Professor Lam gave as examples the Air Force's triangle-winged B-58 bomber and the subsonic Boeing 747 airliner, whose front hump allows it to fly at higher speeds -- closer to where sonic effects would normally be felt -- than would be possible without it.
        Professor Hayes also worked to minimize the thunderous sonic boom from shock waves fanning out in all directions from a supersonic plane. He was recruited to serve on many committees to see what could be done about the noise. Professor Lam said his colleague's work on the subject long ago was still mandatory reading.
        Professor Hayes advanced one  theory on minimizing the shocks of  penetrating the sound barrier for which credit eluded him. It was apparently lost in a long paper that also covered other matters.
        In 1955 the government announced that a new aircraft shape, often referred to as the wasp-waist or Coke-bottle design, had been developed and tested by a 34-year-old engineer, Richard T. Whitcomb, at the agency that later became the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. The design involved indenting a plane's fuselage from the wings inward by an amount related to the area occupied by the wings from the fuselage to their tips.
        The calculation, known as the area rule, was reflected in the design of many future aircraft. It provided room for all the supersonic airflow around the wings to flow through the indentation, sharply reducing the  shock waves.
        After Mr. Whitcomb's area rule was widely heralded, experts said, Professor Hayes got in touch with several of them to point out his earlier version of the rule in one of his theoretical studies. Though Professor Hayes had worked for two major aircraft manufacturers, the Pentagon did not began translating the area-rule design into aircraft until the Whitcomb experiments.
        Mr. Whitcomb said that he had never heard of Professor Hayes's earlier version of the theory and that he had developed the concept on his own. This has evidently not been disputed.
        Professor Hayes followed his work on supersonics with impressive studies of hypersonic flow, said to begin at five times the speed of sound. He developed ''the Hayes similitude principle,'' enabling designers to take results of certain tests and calculations about projected hypersonic planes and apply them to a range of similar shapes where tests and calculations were unavailable. Many of his theories are in a 1959 book, ''Hypersonic Flow Theory'' (Academic Press). It was written with Ronald Probstein, emeritus professor of engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and is considered a classic in the field.
        Born in Beijing to American missionaries, Professor Hayes attended the California Institute of Technology, where he received bachelor's and doctoral degrees in physics. He went to Princeton in 1954 and taught there until 1989. He was elected to the National Academy of Engineering, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics.
        He is survived by three daughters, Carolyn, Judith and Barbara Hayes;  and six grandchildren.
      