
        Dr. Paul Fiset, a microbiologist who helped develop a vaccine against the infectious disease known as Q fever, or Balkan grippe, died on Feb. 27 at a hospital in Baltimore. Dr. Fiset, who had long been in poor health, was 78 and lived in nearby Timonium, Md.
        A professor emeritus at the University of Maryland medical school, Dr. Fiset investigated diseases like typhus and Rocky Mountain spotted fever. Their bacterial agents live as parasites in ticks or fleas, whose bites transmit the agents to animals and humans. Q fever is a variety first recognized in Australia in the 1930's as a similar but distinctive disease affecting people dealing with infected sheep and cattle and their hides and carcasses.
        Its microscopic bacterial agent, Coxiella burnetii, was also found to be spread with airborne dust and contaminated milk. It was named Q, for query, because little was clear about the condition except that it caused bad fevers, headaches, sweating, dry coughs and chest and muscle pain, normally lasting up to two weeks.
        The first outbreaks in Europe affected troops from both sides in World War II, prompting a concentrated effort to search for a remedy.
        Working for a doctorate in virology at Cambridge University in England from 1953 to 1956, Dr. Fiset collaborated with Dr. Michael George Stoker to decode the structure of Coxiella burnetii. His later studies helped to produce a vaccine for Q fever, which is treated with antibiotics that shorten its duration.
        Born in Quebec, he received undergraduate and medical degrees from Laval University.
        He later joined the faculty at the Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry, and in 1964 he joined the department of microbiology at the University of Maryland. He became a full professor in 1975 and retired with emeritus status in 1989.
        He was a consultant to the armed forces and the surgeon general, and received an Outstanding Civilian Service Award from the Army in 1972.
        Dr. Fiset is survived by his wife of 47 years, Lorraine Gosselin Fiset; a son, Peter, of Pittsburgh; two daughters, Lauren Novak of Dusseldorf, Germany, and Clare Bugary of Monterey, Calif.; and three grandchildren.
      