
        Dr. Joe Gibbs, an expert on neurological diseases who helped show that maladies like mad cow disease and scrapie are infectious rather than genetic, died on Feb. 16 at a hospital in Washington, his hometown. He was 76.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        A career scientist at the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, in Bethesda, Md., Dr. Gibbs ran a laboratory there specializing in a mysterious class of disorders known as transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, or T.S.E.'s.
        The disease has different names in different species: mad cow disease in cattle, scrapie in sheep and goats, chronic wasting disease in deer and elk, and several forms of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, or C.J.D., in humans.  One of the human diseases, kuru, is contracted by eating brain tissue of  humans who have fallen victim to the disorder. Another, called new variant C.J.D., is acquired by eating the nervous tissues of cattle infected with mad cow disease.
        In the early 1960's, Dr. Gibbs began a long collaboration with Dr. D. Carleton Gajdusek, a virologist who had spent several years in the jungle highlands of Papua New Guinea studying an unidentified disease that was killing half of all the women and children of the Fore tribe. Victims trembled, staggered, laughed uncontrollably, became progressively paralyzed with frozen, masklike smiles on their faces and then died. The Fore called the affliction kuru.
        Kuru was a major medical mystery. All the classic symptoms of infection -- fever, inflammation,  changes in white blood cells or antibody response -- were absent. Further, while most bacterial or viral diseases produce illness within days or hours, kuru was believed to take years (a suspicion later confirmed).  As a result, most experts concluded that it must be hereditary.
        But Dr. Gajdusek and Dr. Gibbs had a hunch that the cause was instead a slow virus.
        The Gibbs-Gajdusek team carried out experiments to test that hypothesis. First, the researchers established the Patuxent Wildlife Center in what was then the Maryland countryside, where in 1963 Dr. Gibbs injected the ground-up brains from the bodies of kuru victims into chimpanzee brains, and waited. Two years later the animals displayed the signs of kuru.
        Eventually the transmission among the Fore was traced to the practice of eating the brains of dead relatives, a ceremonial activity that had been undertaken by women and children of the tribe not long before.  In 1976, Dr. Gajdusek shared the Nobel Prize in Medicine, for proving that kuru was caused by an infectious agent -- whose identity remains uncertain to this day -- rather than heredity.
        ''There are lots of people who felt that Joe Gibbs should have shared that prize,'' Dr. Richard Johnson, a neurologist at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine who was Dr. Gibbs's friend for over 40 years, said this week.
        After his success with kuru and chimpanzees, Dr. Gibbs injected ground brain tissue from the bodies of C.J.D. victims into monkeys' brains, and within a year the animals had developed the disease. Meanwhile, efforts to infect animals with brain tissue taken from patients suffering from other neurological diseases, including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's, did not work.
        As with kuru, the identity of the infectious agents in other transmissible spongiform encephalopathies remains uncertain. But a few years after Dr. Gibbs's later experiments,  one of his students, Dr. Stanley B. Prusiner, developed a new theory about them.
        Called the protein-only hypothesis, this theory holds that diseases like new variant C.J.D. and kuru are caused when one of the body's own proteins, called a prion, misfolds to form an abnormal protein that cannot be broken down by the body.  Moreover, the theory holds, the misfolded protein acts like a seed crystal, causing other, healthy proteins to misfold and bringing on destruction of brain tissue. For his work related to this hypothesis, Dr. Prusiner won the Nobel Prize for Medicine in 1997.
        Dr. Gibbs often told friends that a third Nobel Prize was yet to be won for work on the mysteries of T.S.E.'s.  He suggested that another molecule, perhaps an exceptionally small viral particle, might join the abnormal protein to cause the disease.
        But if his suggestion is wrong and the disease arises spontaneously, he said, then T.S.E.'s can never be eradicated. Rather, they could be expected to occur in roughly one of every million people, cows, chickens, pigs, sharks and so on throughout the world forever.
        Clarence Joseph Gibbs was born on Dec 10, 1924, in Washington. After graduating from St. John's College High School there, he joined the Navy, where he was on active duty until 1946 as a pharmacist's mate.
        He earned his bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees from the Catholic University of America, where he later became a trustee. He also rose to the rank of captain in the Naval Medical Reserve.
        Dr. Gibbs is survived by a brother, Edward C. Gibbs Sr. of Camp Springs, Md., and two sisters, Lorraine Morrison, also of Camp Springs, and Margaret Brooks of Waldorf, Md.
      