
        Mischa Richter, a painter whose drawings delighted readers of The New Yorker for the past half century, died Friday in Provincetown, Mass., where he worked and lived. He was 90.
        His magazine art -- his preferred term, rather than cartoon -- appeared in other magazines over the years. But he was best known as one of The New Yorker's most prolific contributors.
        Starting in January 1942, the magazine published more than 1,500 of his creations. Their common traits were wit, craftsmanship and intellectual curiosity.
        ''Personally, he was a joyous man and was bubbling over with ideas,'' said Bob Mankoff, the cartoon editor of the magazine. ''Bubbled throughout his life.''
        His humor kept up with the times and could have a mordant edge to it. His final contribution to The New Yorker, just a year ago, showed a couple in a funeral parlor, next to a closed coffin. The woman bends over to press her ear to the lid, and the man, with a puzzled face, observes, ''It must be his beeper.''
        Mr. Richter was equally prodigious as a painter who worked in various media, including oil on canvas, acrylics and collages. Much of his painting was abstract.
        His works are in private and museum collections as well as at the Library of Congress. His latest retrospective was at the Provincetown Art Museum in the summer of 1999.
        Mischa Richter was born in Kharkov, Ukraine, and came to the United States as a boy. He studied art at the Boston Museum School and Yale University, where he graduated in 1934.
        He started his artistic career painting murals for projects of the Works Progress Administration. Other early works were political cartoons for the newspaper PM and a daily panel for King Features. At one point he flirted with Communism but backed away when it became clear to him what Stalinism had wrought in the Soviet Union.
        Mr. Richter's wife, Helen Sinclair Annand Richter, a fellow painter, died in 1992. He is survived by a son, Daniel, of Sierra Madre, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      