
        Billy Ray Smith, a defensive lineman who played 13 seasons in the National Football League and appeared with the Baltimore Colts in two dramatic Super Bowl games, died Wednesday at his home in Little Rock, Ark. He was 66.
        The cause was complications of cancer, said his son Billy Ray Jr.
        Smith, at 6 feet 4 inches and 230 pounds, was a bit undersized at defensive end and tackle even for the 1960's, when he was in his prime. But Art Donovan, the Colts' Hall of Fame tackle, remembered: ''He was one tough guy. He intimidated a lot of people, he was so aggressive.''
        A native of Augusta, Ark., Smith was a Golden Gloves regional boxing champion in the early 1950's, then played three seasons for the University of Arkansas and was a member of the Razorbacks' 1955 Cotton Bowl team. His son Billy Ray Jr. was an all-American at Arkansas in the early 1980's and played linebacker with the San Diego Chargers for a decade.
        Billy Ray Smith Sr. made his N.F.L. debut with the Los Angeles Rams in 1957, played for the Pittsburgh Steelers from 1958 to 1960, and then was traded to the Colts. He joined a defensive line that included Donovan and Gino Marchetti, stars of the Colts' powerful teams of the 1950's, and he played alongside the star defensive end Bubba Smith later in his career.
        He was a member of the Colts team that was upset by Joe Namath's Jets, 16-7, in the memorable 1969 Super Bowl and also appeared with the Colts team that defeated the Dallas Cowboys, 16-13, in the 1971 Super Bowl.
        The Colts' rookie kicker, Jim O'Brien, was exceedingly nervous as the fourth quarter wound down in the '71 game, hoping that he would not be called upon. So he was hardly helped by a remark made by Smith when the Colts lined up for a field-goal attempt with the scored tied in the final seconds.
        Earl Morrall, the Colts' quarterback, remembered how Smith pointed at O'Brien in the huddle and ''reminded him his kick would be worth 300 grand,'' the difference between the overall winning and losing shares. Notwithstanding the extra pressure applied by Smith, O'Brien kicked a championship-winning 32-yarder.
        That Super Bowl was Smith's last game. After retiring from pro football, he became an investment banker.
        In addition to his son Billy Ray Jr., Smith is survived by his wife, Jenny; another son, Lt. Col. Kevin Smith; two daughters, Shelly Jo Swaim and Shannon Mobley; two stepdaughters, Shelly Fowler and Shannon Johnson; a stepson, Shane Ball; two sisters, Polly Ann McCormick and Peggy Smart, and nine grandchildren.
        Billy Ray Smith Jr., who became a sports broadcaster in San Diego after retiring from the Chargers, last December told of a moment the previous summer when father and son were remembered together, but in a confused fashion.
        ''My little girl and I were standing on the sideline at San Diego's training camp,'' Billy Ray Jr. recalled. ''There were a couple of fans behind us. I heard a guy talking to his buddy: 'That's Billy Ray Smith. He was with the Chargers and his dad played for the Colts.' The other guy said, 'Really?' The first guy said, 'Yeah, Bubba Smith.' ''
      