
        Adolph Levis, the inventor of the Slim Jim dried meat snack, died on Tuesday in the Hospice by the Sea in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 89.
        Born in Philadelphia, Mr. Levis, who was known as Al, dropped out of school at 16 and began selling spices, pickles and condiments during the Depression. Later, he started a business selling pickled pigs' feet, tomatoes and cabbages out of his garage, largely to delicatessens and taverns.
        In the 1940's, Mr. Levis, observing the popularity of other dried meat products like pepperoni, and working with a partner, Joseph Cherry, hired a local meatpacker to develop a dried beef stick that was smaller and easier to eat than a larger sausage. Hoping to create an elegant image, he used a man in a top hat and cane as his emblem and called him Slim Jim.
        Like the pigs' feet, the beef sticks were stored in jars of vinegar and sold mainly in bars. By the 1950's, his company, Cherry-Levis Food Products, was wrapping the Slim Jims in cellophane and mainly selling them in bars in Pennsylvania and the Northeast. A tin ashtray from the period reads ''SLIM JIMS -- 10 cents -- All Beef -- the Ready-to-Eat Spiced Sausage Treat -- Make Your Next Drink Taste Better.''
        In 1967, Mr. Levis sold Cherry-Levis to General Mills for about $20 million. He stayed on for about a year.
        ''He was very entrepreneurial and cost-conscious, with an almost frugal lifestyle,'' said Ron Dogget, a General Mills executive who was involved in the purchase and worked in the division that produced Slim Jims and its successors until he retired last year.
        In 1972, Mr. Levis and his wife, Rose, moved to Pompano Beach, Fla., and then to Delray Beach near Palm Beach in 1979.
        He was active in Jewish philanthropies and made a series of gifts to the Jewish Federation of South Palm Beach County worth more than $3.5 million. A $2 million gift provided the initial support for what became the Adolph and Rose Levis Jewish Community Center in Boca Raton. After Mrs. Levis died in 1994 of Alzheimer's disease, he gave $1 million more to establish an adult care center for people with Alzheimer's that will open soon.
        He is survived by two daughters, Judy Levis Markoff and Barbara Levis Brodsky; four grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
        The Slim Jim itself has been transformed in the years since Mr. Levis sold the company. General Mills moved the operations to Raleigh, N.C., and merged them into other meatpacking operations that it renamed Goodmark Foods. It sold Goodmark in 1982 to a group led by Mr. Dogget. ConAgra, the food conglomerate based in Omaha, bought Goodmark in 1998.
        Over that time, the product has been reformulated several times, eliminating organ meat and some additives like monosodium glutamate and adding some chicken meat to the formula. The characteristic spicy bite comes from 30 spices and lactic acid culture that ferments for 17 hours before the product is cooked for 20 hours.
        And the principal market has shifted from bars to convenience stores, where they are bought mainly by teenage boys and young men. Sales of Slim Jims and other meat snacks have grown briskly in recent years even as growth of other snack foods has slowed. Last year, about $150 million worth of Slim Jims were sold, up from $10 million when Mr. Levis sold his company.
        Mr. Dogget said this was partly because of an increased interest in diets that emphasize protein and partly because of marketing that tied Slim Jim to auto racing, wrestling and other sports popular among young men.
        ''We made it an exciting snacking experience,'' Mr. Dogget said, ''not just a little fat greasy stick.''
      