
        Norman Rodway, for many years a leading actor with the Royal Shakespeare Company, died on March 13 in Banbury, Oxfordshire. He was 72.
        He died after a stroke, according to The Guardian of London.
        Mr. Rodway played important roles in plays by Shakespeare, Chekhov, Gorky and Sean O'Casey and also by Tennessee Williams and Harold Pinter. Although he was born in Dublin and began acting on the Irish stage, most of his work was done in England.
        In 1966 he joined the Royal Shakespeare Company and remained with that theater -- with occasional interruptions -- for 14 years. It was an extraordinary period for the company, and Mr. Rodway, often at center stage, was one among equals. He had a flair for the dramatic gesture, and was known for his expressive voice and piercing eyes.
        In 1974 he played a major role in David Jones's acclaimed production of Gorky's ''Summerfolk'' at the Aldwych Theater in London, one of several Gorky plays he did for the company. The next year he headed the company of ''Summerfolk'' that came to the Brooklyn Academy of Music. He had a commanding presence as the roguish landowner Bassov. Estelle Kohler played his wife, Susan Fleetwood his sister, and other roles were taken by Ian Richardson, David Suchet and Margaret Tyzack.
        He graduated from Trinity College and made his first stage appearance  at the Opera House in Cork in 1953 in ''The Seventh Step,'' and then performed in various Dublin theaters.
        In 1959 he made his London debut in O'Casey's ''Cock-a-Doodle Dandy'' at the Royal Court. He scored a major success in 1962 as the young James Joyce in Hugh Leonard's  ''Stephen D.,'' based on Joyce's writings, and in 1970 played the title role in Terry Hands's production of ''Richard III'' for the Royal Shakespeare Company. In 1980 he was Captain Boyle opposite Judi Dench in Trevor Nunn's production of ''Juno and the Paycock.'' More recently he starred in Sam Mendes's staging of  Brian Friel's ''Translations'' at the Donmar Warehouse and in  ''Hedda Gabler'' at the Royal National Theater.
        Although primarily a stage actor, Mr. Rodway also worked in films, radio and television. He appeared as Hotspur in Orson Welles's movie ''Chimes at Midnight'' and as Hitler in ''The Empty Mirror.'' He was often seen on the Mystery series on public television, acting in ''Miss Marple,'' ''Rumpole of the Bailey'' and ''Inspector Morse.''
        He was married four times. His wife Jane survives him, as does his daughter, Bianca.
      