
        Isao Okawa, president and chairman of the Sega Corporation and a pioneer among Japanese venture capitalists, died of heart disease yesterday in a Tokyo hospital, the company said. He was 74.
        Mr. Okawa became chairman of Sega in 1984. Last June, he took on the expanded roles of president and chief executive of the once-highflying video game company to oversee its revamping. The company's game console, Dreamcast, had sold poorly after an expensive introduction, plunging the company into losses. When Sega announced earlier this year that it would stop making Dreamcast and concentrate on software development instead, Mr. Okawa donated $85 billion yen ($692 million), including 32.7 billion yen worth of Sega stock, back to the company to help absorb the shock.
        Born in Osaka in 1926, and educated at Waseda University, Mr. Okawa became rich over a long career as a technology executive and investor. He founded the CSK Corporation, a computer services company, which became Sega's largest shareholder. He was also a major early backer and stockholder in a number of other Japanese technology companies. including the ASCII Corporation, Bell System 24 and Japan Card System.
        The success of Sega's home entertainment consoles, Dreamcast and its predecessor, Saturn, came to be a personal crusade for Mr. Okawa, who saw Sega's chief competitor, the Sony Corporation, and its PlayStation machine as his archenemy. He poured a chunk of his personal fortune into the fight last spring, when Sega raised 101 billion yen ($820 million) to introduce Dreamcast. Half of the money came from Mr. Okawa personally, the rest from CSK.
        Known for his energy and determination, Mr. Okawa had a track record of dismissing and replacing managers at CSK-controlled companies when he was dissatisfied with results. When first Saturn and then Dreamcast fell short of projections, he removed Hayao Nakayama, Sega's longtime chairman, and sidelined Shoichiro Irimajiri, a former Honda executive who Mr. Okawa had promoted as president, and took personal charge of the company.
        Mr. Okawa was also among the more flamboyant of Japan's generally staid senior executives, and reportedly regaled a large crowd of associates and friends, entertainers and sports figures with hours of karaoke singing at his 74th birthday party in a Tokyo hotel last spring.
        Information about survivors was not immediately available.
      