
        Richard Harwood, who brought the determination and cunning of a combat marine to reporting and editing and, finally, to policing his own newspaper for editorial missteps, died of lung cancer on Monday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 75.
        Mr. Harwood, who worked at The Washington Post in many top writing and editing jobs, becoming one of its most influential editors, was named the newspaper's first ombudsman in 1970. He declared war against some journalists' tendency to blow stories out of proportion.
        ''The tendency to make big pictures out of small facts,'' he said, ''is so common it often appears to be a beatitude in itself.''
        Newsweek magazine suggested that with the appointment -- and the published reports of his criticisms of the newspaper -- it was almost as if The Post had printed a headline saying: ''Post bungles story. Read all about it -- in the Post.''
        His impact was swift. He succeeded in eliminating Muhammad Ali's discarded ''slave name,'' Cassius Clay, from the Post's sports page and campaigned against the injudicious use of divisive words of the time like ''hippie'' and ''hard hat.'' His investigation of a reader complaint led to a front-page apology to Attorney General John N. Mitchell, who had been misquoted by the newspaper.
        Lou Gelfand, the readers representative of The Minneapolis Star Tribune, as that paper calls its ombudsman, said Mr. Harwood brought new stature and hard-headedness to a job that had begun in the United States in Louisville at The Courier-Journal and The Louisville Times in 1967.
        There are now 38 ombudsmen, about half at newspapers with more than 110,000 circulation.
        ''He was by far, by leaps and miles, the best ombudsmen,'' Mr. Gelfand said. ''He wrote what he thought and he didn't shy away from stepping on toes, even if they were the toes of management.''
        Benjamin C. Bradlee, The Post's former executive editor, said, ''He was fair as hell, and he tolerated no sacred cows of any kind.''
        Richard Lee Harwood was born in Chilton, Wis., on March 29, 1925. The family lived in Wisconsin and Nebraska, as his father, a Presbyterian minister, was called from church to church. When Mr. Harwood's mother died, he was sent to live with an aunt in Nashville.
        He served in the Marine Corps in the Pacific and had a scar on his back from the invasion of Iwo Jima, Mr. Bradlee said.
        After briefly considering a career as an electrician, Mr. Harwood attended Peabody Teachers College and Vanderbilt University, from which he graduated.
        He began his newspaper career in Tennessee and moved to The Louisville Times. The Washington Post said politicians called him Black Death Harwood, because of the fear he engendered.
        When six leftists were indicted in 1954 in Louisville on charges of advocating sedition, he refused to give the grand jury confidential information he had collected.
        Mr. Harwood was transferred to the newspaper's Washington bureau and hired by The Washington Post in 1966. First a national reporter, he was named national editor after two years. He left the job in 1970 to be ombudsman for two years, then returned to being national editor.
        In that job, he voiced skepticism about the gravity of the Watergate break-in and criticized the inexperience of the two young reporters assigned to report on it, Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein. Mr. Bradlee said Mr. Harwoood wanted them replaced by veterans, but later admitting he had misjudged the situation.
        ''He could be cold,'' said Mr. Woodward, now an assistant managing editor. ''He had ice in his belly, and would say, 'What's that? What about this?' ''
        Mr. Woodward said he understood his editor's skepticism about whether a president would flagrantly break the law.
        In 1974, the Washington Post Company acquired The Trenton Times, and Mr. Harwood was named its editor. He hired young journalists from far afield and trained them with his trademark mixture of gruffness and intuition. Many won prizes and went on to larger papers.
        Joel Garreau, who was then assistant managing editor of the Trenton newspaper and is now a writer for The Post's Style section, said he never saw Mr. Harwood touch a pen to paper. Rather, he would so clearly give his ideas in conversation that the reporter would often rewrite the piece in almost printable form. ''It was talk therapy,'' he said.
        Michael Norman, a young reporter in Trenton and now a journalism professor at New York University, said Mr. Harwood would often amble over and look over a writer's shoulder. ''Listen, kid, write the hell out of it,'' he would invariably say and walk away.
        Mr. Harwood returned to The Post as deputy managing editor, the third-ranking manager in the newsroom, and often supervised daily news coverage. After his retirement in 1988, he again served as ombudsman until 1992.
        In 1984, he was stricken with bladder cancer, but seemed to recover completely. Lung cancer was diagnosed in 1999 and he stopped writing his weekly column, usually on media matters, on The Post's op-ed page.
        The column was provocative. To make a point that news in an instantaneous world had changed fundamentally, he argued in 1997 that in today's world, there was no longer news. In the sort of exchange that Mr. Harwood loved, a reader sent in a letter pointing out that there were more than five billion people in the world.
        ''They are so somnolent as to create no news?'' the reader demanded.
        Mr. Harwood is survived by his wife, Beatrice Mosby Harwood; daughter, Helen Harwood Minchik of Washington; sons John, of Silver Spring, Md., Richard, of Cincinnati,  and David, of Boulder, Colo., and eight grandchildren.
      