
        Stephen Prokopoff, a museum director and curator, died on March 28 in Iowa City.
        He was 71 and had homes in Iowa City and Paris.
        The cause was non-Hodgkins lymphoma, said his wife, Lois Craig.
        Mr. Prokopoff, who began his career as a painter, was known for his attention to emerging or neglected artists and to genres like comics, folk and outsider art, graphic design and photography.
        Born in Chicago, he studied art and music at the University of California at Berkeley, remaining an accomplished violinist throughout his life. In 1956 a Fulbright grant enabled him to study painting in Paris, and he had two solo shows in Europe.
        Returning to the United States, he earned a Ph.D. in art history from New York University in 1962. From 1961 to 1967 he taught at Skidmore College, where a part-time job as director of the college's Hathorn Gallery soon became a full-time commitment.
        From 1967 to 1971 he directed the Institute of Contemporary Art in Philadelphia, overseeing the first museum shows of Lucas Samaras, Will Insley and Robert Indiana.
        While directing the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago from 1971 to 1977, he organized or helped organize the first museum shows of Robert Irwin, Jim Nutt, Joel Shapiro, Richard Artschwager, Manierre Dawson and Lee Bontecou.
        At the Institute of Contemporary Art in Boston, where he was director from 1977 to 1981, he organized exhibitions of the work of the photographer George Platt Lynes, the American architect Eleanor Raymond and the American painter Florine Stett heimer (the last with Elizabeth Sussman).
        In 1982 Mr. Prokopoff became director of the Krannert Art Museum at the University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana, where he organized exhibitions devoted to Hans Bellmer, Fred Sandback, the Prinzhorn Collection of outsider art and contemporary Chinese painting.
        At the University of Iowa Museum of Art, where he was director from 1992 to 1999, he worked on the first survey of Victorian fairy painting (organized with the Royal Academy of Arts in London), an exhibition that went to the Frick Collection in scaled-back form in 1998.
        He also worked on the 1996 retrospective of the outsider artist Henry Darger that traveled to the Museum of American Folk Art in Manhattan.
        In 1974 Mr. Prokopoff was the co-commissioner of the American section of the São Paulo Biennale in Brazil, an exhibition of the Chicago Imagists.
        Over the years he taught art at the University of Pennsylvania, the University of Chicago, Boston University, the University of Illinois and the University of Iowa.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his father, Stephen, of Sacramento; two sons from his first marriage, Alexander, of Chicago, and Ilya, of San Francisco; three stepchildren, Stephen Craig of Chicago, Carolyn Craig of Davis, Calif., and Jennifer Craig of Woodland, Calif.; and one grandchild.
      