
        Al Hibbler, the blind baritone singer who came to prominence with Duke Ellington's orchestra in the 1940's and then scored a hit with his version of the Alex North song ''Unchained Melody,'' died on Tuesday at Holy Cross Hospital in Chicago. He was 85 and lived in Chicago.
        Mr. Hibbler's singing voice was mannered and strange. He used a fast, muscular vibrato; growled and crooned; put on an English accent; and turned songs into emotional rides. Ellington called it ''tonal pantomime.''
        Mr. Hibbler was blind at birth, in Tyro, Miss., and did not attend school until he was 15, when he went to the Arkansas School for the Blind. He sang in the school choir as a soprano, but by the end of his teenage years his voice had dropped, and he was soon singing the blues in Arkansas and Texas bars.
        He first tried out for Ellington's band in 1942, but, as he often recalled in what was seemingly his favorite story, he sang a song onstage with the band in Little Rock, Ark., got a good audience response, and then celebrated by getting drunk. The next day Ellington told him he wasn't ready to join the band. ''I can handle a blind man,'' Mr. Hibbler said Ellington told him, ''but not a blind drunk.'' Instead, he wound up working with Jay McShann's band for a year and a half, and returned to Ellington in 1943.
        Ellington wrote ''Do Nothin' Til You Hear From Me'' as a special number for Mr. Hibbler, and it became one of the band's hits.
        The eight years that Mr. Hibbler spent with the band were not among the creative high points of Ellington's career, but the audience did not wane; finally, however, Mr. Hibbler left the band over a payment dispute (said to have involved raising Mr. Hibbler's salary).
        Toward the end of time with Ellington, Mr. Hibbler's specialties became songs like ''Trees'' and ''Danny Boy'' -- oddments in an Ellington show but indicative of the singer's future career as a ballads-and-standards singer.
        While with Ellington, Mr. Hibbler also recorded with Harry Carney, Mercer Ellington, Billy Kyle, Billy Taylor and others.
        Mr. Hibbler next signed with Verve, and made records for the next four years that included some of his former Ellington-band colleagues, but he hit pay dirt during his next contract, with Decca. In 1955 he recorded ''Unchained Melody,'' from the prison film ''Unchained.'' Though the film was not a hit, North's theme song was, and Mr. Hibbler's version and one by Les Baxter hit the charts the same week in April 1955.  Baxter's rose to No. 1; Mr. Hibbler's peaked at No. 3. The next year Mr. Hibbler had another hit with ''After the Lights Go Down Low.'' He filled an odd musical niche in this period because he could croon songbook standards and also sing earthy blues.
        When he became involved with the civil rights movement in the 1960's -- marching with protesters and being arrested in 1959 and 1963 -- the luster came off his recording career and labels were afraid to sign him.  Frank Sinatra, however, contracted him for one album on his Reprise label, ''Monday Every Day.''
        In 1972 he recorded with the multi-instrumentalist Rahsaan Roland Kirk on the album ''A Meeting of the Times,'' but otherwise performed and recorded infrequently. His last public appearance was in January 1999, at a Jazz at Lincoln Center evening of Ellington alumni, when he performed at a late-evening party. Seated, and using a vibrato as over-the-top as ever, he sang ''Time After Time.''
        He is survived by a sister, Christine Noland, and a brother, Hubert Hibbler, both of Chicago.
      