
        Dragoslav Avramovic, a retired World Bank economist who stabilized the Yugoslav economy, died Feb. 25 in Rockville, Md. He was 81.
        Dr. Avramovic served briefly as the director of the central bank under President Slobodan Milosevic, then became a leading opposition figure before the 2000 elections, which toppled Mr. Milosevic.
        He had retired from the World Bank in 1978, returning to his native Yugoslavia in 1992 to advise the Milosevic government, while keeping a home in Rockville. His country's economy had been brought to its knees by United Nations sanctions and inflation was out of control.
        Dr. Avramovic's success at stabilizing the economy, introducing a sounder currency and bringing down inflation led to his appointment as governor of the Yugoslav Central Bank and brought some improvement in living standards.
        But in 1996 President Milosevic dismissed Dr. Avramovic after he refused to print more money to bail out bankrupt state industries and instead urged further market-related economic reforms. As he left he issued a biting public denunciation of the government's economic policies and memorably denounced President Milosevic as ''an aggressive coward'' who bullied opponents while ducking hard decisions.
        ''I wasn't attacking the government for fun,'' he said later. ''This wasn't over personalities or whims. These were serious issues for the state.''
        Dr. Avramovic's success in defeating inflation made him one of the most popular figures in the country and he quickly emerged as symbolic leader of the quarrelsome array of opposition parties facing Mr. Milosevic. But his capacity for action was impaired by his age and failing health.
        In 1996, at 76, he stepped down a month before federal elections as leader of the Zajedno (Together) coalition of opposition parties, citing age and ill health. The United States was rumored to have withheld support from him, though, because it wanted Mr. Milosevic to remain in power to ensure that the Dayton peace accords of 1995, ending the civil war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, were fully carried out.
        Four years later, on the eve of the September 2000 elections, Dr. Avramovic was still widely seen as one of only two people in the country capable of defeating Mr. Milosevic in a free vote, the other being Vojislav Kostunica, of the Democratic Party of Serbia.
        In August another prominent opposition politician, Zoran Djindjic, a leader of the anti-Milosevic coalition known as the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, said his organization would offer either Dr. Avramovic or Mr. Kostunica as its candidate.
        In the end, Dr. Avramovic decided not to run, once more citing age and ill health, and Mr. Kostunica emerged victorious, replacing Mr. Milosevic as president of a much shrunken Yugoslavia.
        Dr. Avramovic was born in Skopje,  the capital of Macedonia. He earned a doctorate in economics from Belgrade University and worked first for Yugoslavia's Central Bank and Finance Ministry while lecturing at the university.
        In 1953 he joined the staff of the World Bank in Washington, becoming chief economist for Latin America and the Caribbean and ending up as director of the development economics department.
        He resigned in 1978 to become director of the secretariat of the Independent Commission on International Development Issues, the so-called Brandt Commission, set up to study relations between the developed and the developing worlds, with the former German chancellor Willy Brandt as chairman. He also worked for the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development in Geneva.
        Dr. Avramovic wrote extensively on economic issues, particularly on international indebtedness, commodity markets and the industrialization of developing countries.
        He is survived by his wife, Marija Avramovic of Belgrade and Rockville, his son Zoran of Rockville, and two daughters, Mila Avramovic of Belgrade and The Hague, and Dora Avramovic of New York. Word of his death was delayed because the family took his body back to Belgrade for burial.
      