
        Richard M. Scammon, an influential political scientist and elections analyst who had the ear of politicians and journalists in the turbulent 1960's and 70's, died Friday in a retirement community in Gaithersburg, Md. He was 85.
        The cause was Alzheimer's disease, said his daughter, Anne Scammon. Mr. Scammon last worked as an elections analyst for NBC News in 1988, Ms. Scammon said.
        Once described as ''a one-man think tank'' by David Broder, the Washington Post political reporter, Mr. Scammon founded and directed a nonprofit organization in 1955 called the Elections Research Center. His knowledge of statistics -- election results, public opinion polls and census data -- was legendary, making him a prized source for reporters covering Washington and a consultant to presidents and members of Congress.
        ''There are politicians and journalists in Washington who believe that Richard M. Scammon was manufactured a few years ago at an IBM plant in Poughkeepsie,'' William Whitworth wrote in The New Yorker in 1969.
        Mr. Scammon, who was appointed director of the Census Bureau by President John F. Kennedy, told Mr. Whitworth that he left that post after four years because it kept him too far removed from the numbers.
        Ms. Scammon said her father's love for numbers and politics began when he was a boy in Minneapolis, where he was born. She said he once disappeared into his bedroom for an entire weekend. When his mother finally broke his solitude to deliver sandwiches, she discovered that the young Richard had been reorganizing the entire world into voting districts.
        ''My dad always answered the phone, 'Scammon, elections,' '' Ms. Scammon said. ''His life was about elections.''
        Mr. Scammon got his first experience with elections after serving in the Army in World War II. He worked for the United States military government to set up the machinery for the first elections in West Germany.
        A Democrat, Mr. Scammon perhaps gained his greatest fame in 1970 when he wrote, with Ben J. Wattenberg, a book about American politics, ''The Real Majority.'' The book argued that for the Democratic Party to survive it needed to look beyond the economic issues that dominated the American electoral scene in the first half of the 20th century toward social issues that deeply disturbed voters in middle America.
        In that book Mr. Scammon described the typical voter as ''unyoung, unpoor and unblack,'' a phrase that shocked many Democrats but resonated true with others.
        ''He turned what was an anecdotal sport into an analytical profession,'' Mr. Wattenberg said yesterday of Mr. Scammon's blending of political trends with statistics.
        In addition to his daughter, who lives in Alexandria, Va., Mr. Scammon is survived by his wife, Mary Allen Scammon, and his sister Jean Hyland of Warwick, R.I.
      