
        Peter Maag, a Swiss conductor who enjoyed a career on both sides of the Atlantic, died on Monday in Verona, Italy. He was 81.
        Mr. Maag was born in St. Gall, Switzerland, on May 10, 1919, to musical parents: his mother played second violin in the Capet Quartet, while his father, a former Lutheran pastor, was a philosophy professor and music critic. His father encouraged him to study theology and philosophy at the universities of Zurich, Basel and Geneva, and he completed a thesis on Spinoza. He also studied the piano with Czeslaw Marek in Zurich and later with Alfred Cortot in Paris.
        Like many musicians in German-speaking Europe, Mr. Maag started his career in the theater, and like some, he found himself moving from the keyboard to the podium. In the late 1940's he became Ernest Ansermet's assistant with the Orchestre de la Suisse Romande. He was chief conductor in Düsseldorf from 1952 to 1955 and general music director in Bonn from 1955 to 1959. Thereafter he worked mainly as a guest conductor, especially of Mozart.
        He made his American debut with the Minneapolis Symphony in 1959, and his operatic debut in this country with the Chicago Lyric two years later, in ''Così Fan Tutte.'' But as his career developed, he began to feel a distance from the personal forces that had made him a musician. He sought guidance in the Greek Orthodox Church. In 1962 he retired for two years to a Buddhist monastery in  Hong Kong.
        Then he took up where he had left off. His first New York performances were in programs of Mozart and Haydn with the New York Chamber Orchestra in August 1968, and he returned many times to conduct Mostly Mozart concerts. At the Met he appeared for the first time in the fall of 1972, conducting ''Don Giovanni'' and ''The Magic Flute,'' and returned for ''La Traviata'' the next season and ''Norma'' in 1979. In Europe and on recordings, he was more associated with unusual operas, such as Francesco Paer's ''Leonora,'' though he also recorded a lot of Mozart. He was chief conductor of the Berne Symphony (1984-91), after which he spent most of his time in Italy.
        Twice married, he had a son by his first wife and a daughter by his second.
      