
        Walter S. Taylor, a flamboyant winemaker who created Bully Hill Vineyards and made it one of New York's largest wine producers, died on Friday at his home in Hammondsport in the Finger Lakes region. He was 69.
        Mr. Taylor, who had become a quadriplegic in a van accident in 1990, died of a pulmonary embolism, his wife, Lillian Rakic Taylor, said.
        In 1970, with his father, Greyton H. Taylor, Mr. Taylor founded Bully Hill in Hammondsport. It produces 200,000 cases of wine annually and is visited by 150,000 people a year. Juicy and fashioned for immediate drinking, the wines have always been popular but have rarely reached premium levels and have been largely ignored by wine critics.
        Wearing a signature cowboy hat and denims, Mr. Taylor, a big man with a big mustache and a big voice, styled himself the Baron of Bully Hill. He designed and wrote his eye-catching wine labels and gave the wines names like Goat White, Fish Market White, Bulldog Baco Noir, Meat Market Red, Space Shuttle Rosé and Thunder Road Blush.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Taylor is survived by three sons, Stephen D. and Gregory F., of Hammondsport, and Walter J., of Syracuse; a daughter, Margarete Taylor-Toeneboehn of Danbury, Conn.; a stepdaughter, Marina Espana of Hammondsport; two sisters, Ellen Jane Flanagan of Greenville, N.C., and Dinah Taylor of Bath, N.Y.; and two grandchildren.
        Mr. Taylor's forebears founded the Taylor Wine Company in Hammondsport in 1880, and in 1977 sold it to the Coca-Cola Company. After he started Bully Hill, a federal court enjoined him from using the Taylor name in marketing Bully Hill wines, and he was found in contempt for pugnaciously violating the order.
        Mr. Taylor championed French-American hybrid grapes, like Maréchal Foch (a red) and Seyval blanc, that withstand Finger Lakes winters. His winemaker, the German-born Hermann J. Wiemer, favored classic European grapes and planted them on a farm he bought.
        In a locally legendary event, Mr. Taylor fired Mr. Wiemer at Christmas 1979. In return, Mr. Wiemer, whose rieslings have given him an international reputation, framed the telegram and keeps it on display.
      