
        Dr. Howard Lawrence Sanders, an oceanographer who helped explain the effects of pollution, like oil spills, on deep-sea life forms, died on Feb. 8 at a nursing home in Falmouth, Mass. A resident of Woods Hole, he was 79.
        His death was reported on April 17 in an obituary in The Times of London.
        A trained zoologist and deep-sea biologist, Dr. Sanders retired in 1986 as a senior scientist emeritus at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution.
        He left his mark after an oil barge ran aground in 1969 in Buzzards Bay off West Falmouth. Dr. Sanders and his colleagues studied the biological consequences of the resulting spill.
        His research then provided a model for assessing the long-term environmental effects of such events. Dr. Sanders became recognized internationally as an authority on the animals and plants on or near the bottom of a body of water.
        He was a leading figure in oil pollution biology and wrote or contributed to more than 60 scientific publications. He also taught at the Marine Biological Laboratory in Woods Hole, Harvard and the State University of New York at Stony Brook.
        Born in Newark, Howard Sanders served in the Army Signal Corps in World War II and graduated with a degree in zoology from the University of British Columbia in 1949. He received a master's degree in biological oceanography from the University of Rhode Island in 1951.
        He was a fisheries aide for the Fish and Wildlife Service in Alaska and Florida and took part in studies of the deep-sea fauna of Long Island Sound and Buzzards Bay before receiving his Ph.D. in zoology from Yale in 1955.
        Dr. Sanders's doctoral studies of animal life in soft sediments led him to discover a new subclass of primitive crustaceans. His discovery touched off an evolutionary debate and influenced the scientific view of the way crustaceans developed.
        He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1983 and was a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
        Dr. Sanders is survived by his wife of 51 years, Lillian Selchen Sanders; two sons, Robert, of Sendai, Japan, and Mark, of Woodside, Calif.; two sisters, Leah Green of West Bloomfield, Mich., and Betty Deutsch of Yorktown Heights, N.Y.; and two grandchildren.
      