
        Jérôme Lindon, the widely admired head of Éditions de Minuit, an independent French publishing house that includes two Nobel Prize winners, Samuel Beckett and Claude Simon, among its authors, died on April 9 in Paris. He was 75.
        His death from cancer was disclosed after he was buried in a quiet ceremony at the Montparnasse cemetery here on Thursday.
        Éditions de Minuit was founded by two members of the Resistance in 1942 and published books clandestinely during the German occupation of France. When Mr. Lindon joined the publishing house in 1946, however, it was struggling to stay afloat. Two years later, at only 23, he took over the house and, with family money and an eye for spotting unrecognized talent, turned it into one of France's most prestigious publishers.
        In the mid-1950's Mr. Lindon emerged as a central figure in a literary movement known as the Nouveau Roman when he published novelists like Nathalie Sarraute, Alain Robbe-Grillet, Robert Pinget, Michel Butor and Claude Simon. Éditions de Minuit also published Marguerite Duras's most famous novel, ''The Lover,'' which became a global best seller and won the Prix Goncourt here in 1984.
        The response to Mr. Lindon's death was a measure of the respect he enjoyed. Not only did President Jacques Chirac and Prime Minister Lionel Jospin pay homage to him, but the left-of-center daily Libération devoted four pages to his career, while Le Monde published a full-page obituary.
        ''Jérôme Lindon never ceased to defend free and critical thought,'' Le Monde said in an editorial. ''He made rebellion -- against fashion, conformity, power -- a rule of his life.''
        Born on June 9, 1925, in Paris to a wealthy Jewish family, Mr. Lindon spent part of the war in hiding near Aix-en-Provence, where while still a teenager he joined a Resistance group known as Combat. He never played up his role in the French underground, but the experience helped forge his lifetime commitment to political and intellectual freedom. After the war it also earned him a job as an unpaid intern at Éditions de Minuit, which had been founded by Jean Bruller and Pierre de Lescure.
        When he took over management of the house in 1948, with the French literary scene dominated by Éditions Gallimard and Éditions Grasset, Mr. Lindon sought out little-known authors who had trouble finding a publisher.
        One such author was Samuel Beckett, who in 1950 sent Mr. Lindon the manuscript of his novel ''Molloy,'' which had been turned down by five houses. By publishing ''Molloy,'' Éditions de Minuit became Beckett's French publisher for the rest of his life and to this day through its paperback imprint, Broché.
        With the Nouveau Roman, the publishing house finally came out of the red, but Mr. Lindon continued to take risks, not least during the Algerian war, when he published several books critical of France's attempt to hold on to its North African colony. A man of leftist convictions, he was nonetheless a political maverick, surprising many friends by supporting de Gaulle's re-election campaign in 1965.
        In 1950 Mr. Lindon absorbed a literary review, Critique, which had been founded four years earlier by Georges Bataille. In the decades that followed, association with this review led several prominent philosophers to publish with Éditions de Minuit, among them Jacques Derrida, Michel Serres and Pierre Bourdieu. At the same time Mr. Lindon became a fervent defender of authors' rights and independent booksellers.
        In recent years, while remaining a relatively small publishing house, Éditions de Minuit has continued to make its mark, with the Prix Goncourt going to two of its authors, Jean Rouaud for ''Les Champs d'Honneur'' in 1990 and Jean Échenoz for ''Je m'en Vais'' in 1999.
        At the time of his death Mr. Lindon was chairman of Éditions de Minuit, while his daughter, Irène, had assumed the post of director-general.
        In addition to his daughter, Mr. Lindon is survived by his wife, Annette, and two sons, André and Matthieu.
      