
        The Rev. Leon H. Sullivan, the clergyman and civil rights leader who drew up the Sullivan Principles, guidelines for American businesses operating in South Africa under apartheid, died yesterday in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 78.
        The cause was leukemia, his family said.
        In 1977, Mr. Sullivan drafted his guidelines to help persuade American companies with investments in South Africa to treat their workers there in the same way that they treated their workers in the United States. He later worked with the United Nations on drawing up a code of ethical conduct for multinational corporations.
        As originally stated, the Sullivan Principles called for racial nonsegregation on the factory floor and in company eating and washing facilities; fair employment practices; equal pay for equal work; training for blacks and other nonwhites so they could advance to better jobs; promotion of more blacks and other nonwhites to supervisory positions, and improved housing, schooling, recreation and health facilities for workers.
        In an interview in 1999, Mr. Sullivan recalled an experience a quarter of a century before that helped give birth to his effort.
        ''In 1974 I met with hundreds in South Africa and I realized that apartheid was sinful,'' he said. ''When I was getting on the plane to go home, the police took me to a room and told me to remove my clothes. A man with the biggest .45 I'd ever seen said, 'We do to you what we have to.'
        ''I stood there in my underwear, thinking, 'I'm the head of the largest black church in Philadelphia and I'm on the board of directors of General Motors. When I get home, I'll do to you what I have to.' ''
        In 1984, after Mr. Sullivan had used his position as a member of the board of the General Motors Corporation to persuade virtually all American companies doing business in South Africa to abide by his guidelines, he added several more, saying that American companies should also campaign actively against apartheid, allow black workers full job mobility and provide accommodation closer to work.
        By 1987, with apartheid undented by his principles and African leaders like Nelson Mandela still in prison, Mr. Sullivan toughened his approach, urging American corporations to withdraw altogether from South Africa and calling for the United States to impose trade and investment sanctions on that country.
        This harsher stance, however, won little support from either the Reagan administration or American business leaders.
        In 1999, by now retired as a clergyman, Mr. Sullivan promulgated his own Global Sullivan Principles, ethical guidelines for multinational corporations in the globalized economy; about 100 American corporations have now accepted them.
        In this effort, he worked closely with the United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, who that year put forth his own Global Compact, another set of ethical guidelines for multinational corporations based on accepted United Nations principles.
        Although the Sullivan Principles skirt such labor issues as the right to collective bargaining, the United Nations has accepted them as a practical attempt to put its ideals into practice.
        Leon Howard Sullivan was born on Oct. 16, 1922, in Charleston, W. Va. He was brought up by his grandmother after his young parents separated.
        At the age of 10 he conducted a private desegregation drive in his hometown after being told he could not sit at a drugstore counter while drinking a soft drink. He won a first victory when the owner of a segregated restaurant offered him a free meal.
        While he was still in the South, he met the Rev. Adam Clayton Powell, who was on a lecture tour. Several years later, he introduced Mr. Sullivan to the Abyssinian Baptist Church in New York with the announcement, ''I can take a young man from the hills who looks like he never wore a pair of shoes in his life and make him a leader!''
        After graduating from West Virginia State University, he studied theology at Union Theological Seminary in New York and sociology at Columbia, meanwhile working as a coin-box collector for the Bell Telephone Company, the first black to hold such a job.
        In 1945 he married the former Grace Banks and spent the next five years as pastor of the First Baptist Church in South Orange, N.J. In 1950 he became pastor of the Zion Baptist Church in Philadelphia. Here he and other black pastors started a Selective Patronage Program, under which they boycotted enterprises that failed to provide employment for minorities. The highly successful program was copied in many other cities.
        In 1962 he founded Zion Investment Associates, a cooperative organization that began investing in profit-making ventures. From modest beginnings it went on to create major real estate ventures, a garment manufacturing company and Progress Aerospace Enterprises, the first black-owned aerospace company.
        In 1964 he set up the first in a series of training schools, calling it the Opportunities Industrialization Center. By 1969 about 20,000 minority workers were enrolled in O.I.C.'s around the country.
        In 1971 he joined the board of General Motors, the company's first black director. He was instrumental in expanding black employment and creating more black dealerships. He was awarded honorary degrees by Dartmouth, Princeton and Swarthmore, among dozens of other colleges.
        In 1988 Mr. Sullivan retired from Zion Baptist Church, moved to Phoenix, and began building bridges between Africa and black America, organizing a series of African and African-American summit meetings, with the first held in Abidjan, Ivory Coast, in 1991.
        He is survived by his wife and three children, Howard, Julie and Hope.
      