
        Henry Brown, a chemist who helped make the American Dream a gleaming reality by finding new ways of keeping chromium plate bright and shiny, died on March 15 at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 93.
        In the years just after World War II, Mr. Brown's discoveries made bathroom fixtures and kitchen utensils silvery and put the gloss on the bumpers of the finny automotive monsters Detroit turned out in the 1950's and early 60's. But there had been other earlier and less obvious beneficiaries of his skill at making dull metals shiny. In the austere war years, he showed the United States Treasury how to make steel pennies gleam and invented a high-speed process for brass-plating shell cases so they did not stick in artillery guns.
        Even the atomic bombs that were exploded over Hiroshima and Nagasaki owed something to him, for in 1943 he joined the Manhattan Project as a research chemist, developing porous nickel screens for separating atomic particles.
        To prevent chromium plate from losing its shine, said Edwin Hoover, a metallurgist who worked with him,  Dr. Brown used sulfur-bearing organic compounds, like saccharin, to brighten the underlying layer of nickel plate placed on the metal before a thin covering of chrome was added.
        Dr. Brown studied these possible brightening agents, and then discovered that the outer chrome coating became more resistant to corrosion if it was made highly porous. He developed a technique using fine powders to increase the metal's porosity.
        He also invented a method of suppressing the toxic fumes given off by the process of nickel plating.
        Dr. Brown received 92 United States patents and 250 foreign ones and received recognition for his work, including the American Electroplating Society's Scientific Achievement Award in 1967.
        Born in Jersey City on April 5, 1907, Dr. Brown received his bachelor's degree in chemistry from the University of Kansas in 1928. He went to the University of Michigan on a Rockefeller Teaching Fellowship, receiving his Ph.D. there in 1933 while working as an assistant professor.
        The next year he joined the Udylite Corporation of Detroit, a company specializing in cadmium plating that wanted to diversify. Except for wartime duties, the rest of his working life was spent at the company, where  he was research director from 1950 until he retired in 1972.
        He was one of the authors of ''Modern Electroplating'' (Wiley Inter science, 1974), a standard work on the subject.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Harriet Stone; his daughter, Paula Sorrell Brown of New York City; his son, Dennis Mayer Brown of Palo Alto; and two grandchildren.
      