
        Meldrim Thomson Jr., the former New Hampshire governor who became an ultraconservative icon with his grand and petty crusades against taxes, big government and political critics, died yesterday at his home in Orford, N.H. He was 89.
        Mr. Thomson's long struggle with Parkinson's disease and heart disease had slowed him in recent years but did not diminish his political zeal or stature in the Republican right wing, friends said.
        Long after Mr. Thomson left the Governor's Mansion in 1979, after three two-year terms, his maple sugar farm was a requisite stop for Republican candidates seeking traction in the New Hampshire presidential primary. Some of that influence derived from his alliance with William Loeb, the publisher of the Manchester Union Leader, who died in 1981.
        ''They were virtually indistinguishable,'' said Donald R. Dwight, a former Republican official from Massachusetts whose family owns a smaller, rival newspaper, The Concord Monitor.
        Mr. Thomson became a columnist for The Union Leader, the state's dominant newspaper, after leaving office.
        Though born in Pittsburgh and reared in the South, Mr. Thomson became closely identified with the prickly independence of New Hampshire, where he settled with his wife, Gale, in 1954. His political campaigns relied on a series of well-remembered slogans, among them ''Ax the Tax'' and ''Keep Your Guns,'' and he cared so passionately about the state's ''Live Free or Die'' motto that he fought a resident all the way to the Supreme Court over the man's decision to cover up those words on his license plate.
        Such advocacy infuriated civil libertarians, environmentalists and gay and women's rights advocates, who accused the governor of riding roughshod over Constitutional protections. Mr. Thomson, who frequently ran afoul of the courts, fought for the voluntary recitation of the Lord's Prayer in public schools, threatened to revoke the charter of a state college that held a conference on prison reform in 1973 and ordered that the title ''Ms.'' not be used in official communications.
        With a fervent but courtly public demeanor and a drawl still evident a half-century after he left the South, he seemed to revel in such controversies.
        Mr. Thomson, who once said he had become a Republican after reading a biography of Abraham Lincoln, anticipated a kindred spirit, Ronald Reagan, who rose on the national stage just as Mr. Thomson was leaving office. In New Hampshire, which has no personal income or general sales tax, Mr. Thomson fought against the primacy of the federal government over states' rights.
        When his critics derided Mr. Thomson for espousing beliefs from the 19th century, the governor replied with characteristic confidence. ''They are wrong,'' he said. ''My beliefs are rooted in the values of the 17th century, and I'm proud of it.''
        Mr. Thomson's confrontational approach extended even to neighboring states. A disagreement over fishing rights in 1973 left New Hampshire and Maine on the verge of a ''lobster war,'' as patrol boats dispatched by Mr. Thomson and Gov. Kenneth M. Curtis of Maine challenged each other repeatedly in disputed waters.
        Born in 1912 to a mother from Boston and a father with roots in Georgia, Mr. Thomson once recalled growing up in a family as ''poor as church mice'' in numerous cities in South, where his father worked as a civil engineer.
        He attended the University of Miami and Mercer University in Macon, Ga., where his Republican leanings were unusual, then graduated with a law degree from the University of Georgia.
        After leaving a legal practice in Florida, Mr. Thomson founded a legal publishing firm in Brooklyn. He met his wife of 62 years, the former Gale Kelly, at the company, where she worked as a secretary. He is survived by his wife and their six children: Peter, David, Thomas, Marion Gale, Janet and Rob.
        In 1954, the couple moved to New Hampshire, where they established the Equity Publishing Company, which was later managed by their sons.
        Mr. Thomson became chairman of the school board in Orford, then promptly plunged into his signature issue. He helped found a political group called the Taxfighters, and along with nine other towns in the state, Orford became famous for rejecting federal funds intended for a remedial reading program.
        Mr. Thomson lost two primary bids to run for governor, in 1968 and 1970. After his second loss, he dismayed some Republicans by running in the general election on the American Independent Party ticket of Gov. George Wallace of Alabama.
        Then, in 1972, he defeated Roger J. Crowley, the incumbent Democrat, with a strong antitax message. Despite that, Mr. Thomson was quickly embroiled in a tax controversy when he instructed an aide to look through the returns of a dozen businesses, some of which were identified with his critics. The State Supreme Court ruled months later that the search had been illegal, while acknowledging that there was little that could be done about it.
        Mr. Thomson, who never explained what he had been seeking in the records, replied with a refrain that grew to become familiar. The court was entitled to its interpretation of the law, he said, and he was entitled to his.
      