
        Devi Lal, a populist Indian politician known as the raging bull of Haryana, who served as deputy prime minister from 1989 to 1991, died in New Delhi on April 6. He was 86.
        He became well known for political maneuvering and for a failed plan to build a kind of Indian Disneyland.
        After the Congress Party was dislodged from power in 1989, for only the second time since India's independence in 1947, Mr. Lal was appointed deputy prime minister in the minority National Front government of Vishwanath Pratap Singh as a result of a maneuver intended to keep the prime minister's rival, Chandra Shekhar, out of office.
        Mr. Singh duped Mr. Shekhar into agreeing that Mr. Lal, a ferocious advocate for India's independent farmers, should head the new government as a compromise prime minister. But after being elected by the parliamentary party, Mr. Lal promptly resigned in favor of Mr. Singh, leaving Mr. Shekhar raging on the sidelines and vowing revenge.
        He got it just 12 months later, through another treacherous maneuver that ended up benefiting Mr. Lal as well.
        After quarreling with Mr. Singh over efforts to get his son, Om Prakash Chautala, appointed chief minister of Haryana state, Mr. Lal was dismissed for disloyalty in August 1990 when he tried to get two other ministers dismissed for corruption on the basis of forged evidence.
        Mr. Lal immediately called a mass rally of peasant farmers in New Delhi to underscore his claim to represent rural India. To counter this populist pitch, Mr. Singh promised to carry out the recommendations of a commission that had just called for a quarter of all government and public sector jobs to be reserved for the lower castes.
        Middle-class Indians were outraged, however, and Mr. Lal joined forces with Mr. Shekhar to replace the Singh government. The move was supported by Rajiv Gandhi and his Congress Party, and Mr. Shekhar became prime minister. Mr. Lal returned to the deputy's post and also became minister of tourism.
        As tourism minister, Mr. Lal quickly embarrassed the new government's supporters by calling for the construction of a kind of Indian Disneyland on 30,000 acres in Haryana, about 20 miles from New Delhi, at a cost of $400 million. The park would have been 10 times the size of the Disney park in California, with three luxury hotels and a lake for water skiing where tigers would be marooned on small islands. Mr. Lal named his son, Mr. Chautala, to head the project.
        But the Congress Party withdrew its support and the Shekhar government collapsed, ending Mr. Lal's brief ministerial career.
        Born in Chautala, Haryana -- he named his eldest son after the village -- Mr. Lal dropped out of high school to join Gandhi's campaign of civil disobedience against British rule. He served in the Punjab Legislature before the state was divided and was a member of the Haryana Legislature for more than 20 years. He was chief minister of the state from 1977 to 1980 and from 1987 to 1989.
        Mr. Lal was elected twice to the lower house of the federal Parliament, in 1980 and 1989, and to the upper house in 1989.
        He is survived by four sons and a daughter.
      