
        Harry Boykoff, the first big-man superstar in New York City college basketball, died on Feb. 20 at St John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 78.
        The cause was lung cancer, said a daughter, Amy Kuklin.
        His obituary was delayed because word of his death did not reach The New York Times until early last week when a friend of Boykoff's sent a note to the newspaper. St. John's University, for whom Boykoff played, issued a news release several days after his death that was not received by Times editors.
        Although Boykoff's only comparatively tall ancestor was a grandfather slightly more than 6 feet, the youngster reached 6-1 in grade school, 6-5 as a high school freshman and 6-9 in college. At first, he was ungainly, and the main asset of his height, he once said, was ''when I hang drapes for my ma, I don't have to stand on a chair to do it.''
        But at Thomas Jefferson High School in Brooklyn, where he scored a total of 1 point in his first 20 games, he learned to play basketball. At St. John's University, he played three varsity seasons under the celebrated coach Joe Lapchick and was voted an all-American each year. In an era when most players shot two-handed set shots from the chest, he shot over his head, making it more difficult for opponents to block his shot.
        ''Joe Lapchick deserves credit for making a player out of me,'' Boykoff once said. ''When I came to St. John's, I soon found out that I didn't know much. There were other tall guys around. Lapchick showed me how to roll on a pivot play. He taught me how to move around, how to draw out my guard.''
        A knee injury wiped out Boykoff's freshman season in college. As a sophomore in 1942-43, he led St. John's to a 21-3 record, followed by the championship of the National Invitation Tournament, the sport's major postseason competition at the time. He was voted the tournament's most valuable player.
        After the season, despite a 4F classification because he exceeded the height limit of 6 feet 6 inches, he tried to enlist in the Army. He succeeded because the next time he was measured, he straddled the scale instead of standing on it.
        His Army jobs included field-artillery instructor and supply sergeant. After World War II, he returned to St. John's for two years and led the team to the N.I.T. both seasons. He blocked so many shots that the rules were changed so that a ball on a downward arc could not be legally swatted by a defender.
        In his three college seasons, he averaged 16.6, 16.5 and 16.7 points a game. He set Madison Square Garden records of 45 points against St. Joseph's in 1943 and 54 against St. Francis of Brooklyn in 1947.
        After graduation in 1947, he played one season with the Toledo Jeeps of the National Basketball League, two seasons with the Waterloo Hawks (one when the team played in the N.B.L. and one when it was absorbed into the Basketball Association of America) and one season divided between the Boston Celtics and the Tri-City Blackhawks of the newly expanded National Basketball Association. In four professional seasons, he averaged 10.7 points in 229 games.
        As a pro, he earned as much as $15,000 a season, a high salary at the time. During and after basketball, he worked as an accountant and a businessman. In recent years, he lived with his wife in Los Angeles, made television commercials, and appeared in television shows and movies in bit parts or as an extra. He was seen in the ''The Nanny'' and ''Frasier'' television series, the ''Star Trek'' movies and will appear in the movie ''Town and Country'' with Warren Beatty and Goldie Hawn.
        Harry Boykoff (he had no middle name because, he joked, his parents couldn't afford one) was born July 24, 1922, on the Lower East Side. He was raised in the Brownsville section of Brooklyn.
        His first wife, the former Lee Goodman, died in 1972. He is survived by his wife, the former Bea Mondschein Kahn, whom he married in 1982; two daughters, Amy Kuklin of Simi Valley, Calif., and Randy Anderson of Colorado Springs; a son, Terry Boykoff of Agura Hills, Calif.; a stepdaughter, Ava Fran Kahn of Oakland, Calif.; a sister, Molly Garbus of Congers, N.Y.; and five grandchildren.
        As good a player as he became, Boykoff was not impressed.
        ''I'm not an athlete,'' he said. ''I'm just a big guy and a lucky one.''
      