
        I. Philip Sipser, a political activist and labor lawyer who had more to do with the sound of music in New York than many an orchestra or singer, died on Saturday in Mount Sinai Hospital where he had been admitted a week earlier. He was 82 and had been suffering from pulmonary fibrosis, said his wife, Martha.
        As the longtime special counsel and chief negotiator for symphony and opera musicians in the city (as well as dancers, longshoremen and brewery workers), Mr. Sipser was on the front lines whenever contract disputes threatened to bring down the curtain at the New York Philharmonic, the Metropolitan Opera and the New York City Ballet -- which was frequently.
        He also ran three times on the American Labor Party ticket for the New York State Legislature, losing each race; refused in 1953 to tell the House Un-American Activities Committee whether he was a Communist; and managed the unsuccessful 1968 Democratic Senate campaign of the ''Dump Johnson'' candidate Paul O'Dwyer against the Republican incumbent Jacob K. Javits.
        But if Mr. Sipser had a favorite cause, it was musicians. He secured better salaries and working conditions for players through hard-fought contract talks and strikes with Broadway theaters, the Met and the New York City Opera and Ballet in the 1960's, 70's and 80's, and a bitter 11-week lockout by the Met in 1980. Yet he remained on good terms with many of his adversaries.
        Writing in The New York Times during the 1980 Met shutdown, Donal Henahan called Mr. Sipser ''the Moses who has led the symphony and opera musicians of this country to within sight of the promised land of milk and honey, after years of wandering in the deserts of short seasons, low pay and no vacations.'' He was credited with helping to lift a player's minimum pay from $4,200 a year at the New York Philharmonic in 1952 to $31,580 by 1980.
        ''The first time we met across the negotiating table, I thought he was the most recalcitrant, intolerable and unreasonable man I ever dealt with,'' said Joseph Volpe, now general manager of the Metropolitan Opera, who as assistant manager of the company faced Mr. Sipser in 1983. ''When we reached agreement I found out why.'' The Met, Mr. Volpe said, had earlier reneged on a promise to consider a four-performance week. But with that behind them, ''you could shake his hand and it was a done deal,'' Mr. Volpe said. ''He was a man of his word. He would never try to deceive you.'' Since then, the two often renewed the players' contract before it expired, amicably negotiating their last 5-year pact in 1996 to run through the end of 2001.
        Isidore Philip Sipser was born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan in 1918. His father was a tomato peddler, and young Philip worked with him on the pushcart. The family did well enough to move to Brooklyn, open a fruit store on DeKalb Avenue and send Mr. Sipser to Brooklyn College and Brooklyn Law School. He entered labor practice in 1940, representing the United Brewery Workers, who were losing jobs in a shrinking industry, and dockworkers on the racketeer-ridden waterfront.
        He ran for the State Senate in 1944 and the Assembly in 1947 and 1948. ''I lost three times before I was 30,'' he said, recalling it as ''a record very few people, if any, have ever achieved in the American political scene.''
        His first involvement with musicians came in 1967 when he mediated a contract impasse between the New York Philharmonic and its players. He took no fee but accepted, from both sides, a pen and pencil set engraved ''To the Heifetz of Negotiators.'' Musicians increasingly sought him out in other disputes.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Sipser is survived by two sons, Henry, of Rye, N.Y., and William, of New York; two daughters, Margaret Leibowitz of New York, and Jane Kaplan of Stamford, Conn. ; two bothers, Morris and Kenneth, both of Sarasota, Fla.; and a sister, Sophie Schatz of New York.
        He raised his family in Westchester County, where he came under clandestine police surveillance for joining civil rights demonstrations. He was outraged. ''I say without question that this sort of thing has a deterrent effect on people who are timid,'' he said in 1970. ''You shouldn't have to be brave to engage in activities protected by the Constitution.''
      