
        James J. McManus Sr., the proprietor of the Peter McManus Café, a venerable family-owned bar in the Chelsea section of Manhattan that often doubled as a set for movies and television episodes, died on Monday in Philadelphia. He was 81 and had moved from Manhattan to Brigantine, N.J., not long ago.
        He was in declining health and suffered renal failure, his family said.
        A confident, voluble figure, Mr. McManus started working at the bar in 1936, when it opened on the corner of Seventh Avenue and 19th Street. He became its sole owner when his brother, Peter, died in 1972.
        He was still there in 1992 when Bryan Miller, then the restaurant critic for The New York Times, dropped by and learned Mr. McManus's secret to a good Rob Roy: ''You don't want to bruise the vermouth,'' Mr. McManus said. ''It's delicate. Like wine.''
        Mr. Miller called the bar ''an inviting place in a rough-and-tumble sort of way, with a well-worn tile floor, lead-paned windows and a splendid carved mahogany bar.''
        By that time, the tile floor had been trod by film actors and crews making the movies ''Highlander'' (1986), starring Sean Connery, and ''Radio Days'' (1987), directed by Woody Allen and starring Mia Farrow. The film ''Keeping the Faith'' (2000), directed by Edward Norton, also used the bar. Filming for the television programs ''Seinfeld,'' ''Law and Order'' and ''Saturday Night Live'' has been done there, too.
        Jamie McManus succeeded his father as the bar's manager three years ago.
        The senior Mr. McManus was born in Guttenberg, N.J. He graduated from high school in the Bronx and won two Purple Hearts as an infantryman in the Philippines in World War II.
        His wife, the former Eileen T. O'Hara, died in 1976.
        In addition to his son Jamie, of Manhattan, he is survived by two daughters, Eileen Wolfman of Rockville Centre, N.Y., and Patricia Matthews of Wall Township, N.J.; another son, Brian, of Massapequa, N.Y.; a sister, Marie Plante of East Rockaway, N.Y.; and 11 grandchildren.
      