
        Ian Campbell, 12th Duke of Argyll and Chief of the Clan Campbell, who rebuilt Inveraray Castle, his family's ancestral Scottish home, after a disastrous fire and entertained views on Scottish history that drew sharp criticism, died on Sunday in London during heart surgery. He was 63.
        The duke's family was engulfed by scandal and publicity in 1963, when his father divorced his third duchess, the former Margaret Sweeney, in Britain's longest divorce case. It featured compromising photos of the duchess with a ''headless man.'' The worldwide attention that the case attracted probably helped explain why the duke became a reserved figure who liked to say his only wish was to keep ''a low profile behind my ramparts.''
        In 1975, two years after he had inherited the title from his father, fire swept through Inveraray Castle, which overlooks Loch Shira and Loch Fyne, destroying much of the structure as well as ancestral portraits by Gainsborough and Raeburn, though a dirk and sporran used by Rob Roy, the Scottish brigand, were saved.
        The duke undertook a campaign to raise $2 million for repairs, especially among Campbells elsewhere. He set up fund-raising organizations in the United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand, where many of his clan had settled.
        While the repairs were under way, the family spent months living in the castle dungeons without electricity or running water. Three years later, the castle reopened to the public.
        In 1979, heavy estate taxes led the duke to sell the island of Iona, starting point for St. Columba's campaign to Christianize the Scots in 563.
        When it became known that he remained one of Britain's richest men, with a fortune that included 81,000 acres of Argyll, some of those who had contributed to restore the castle asked for their money back.
        Although he avoided the limelight and seldom took his seat in the House of Lords, the duke set off controversy in Scotland by seeking to correct what he saw as 300 years of bad press for the Campbells. In particular, he sought to play down the importance of the 1692 Glencoe massacre of the rival MacDonald clan by soldiers commanded by his ancestor, Archibald Campbell, 10th Earl of Argyll. The duke said in 1993 that ''by the standards of the Highlands in those days, it was simply no big deal,'' since only 38 MacDonalds were killed.
        He provoked another uproar, this time among Scottish nationalists in 1995, when in a television documentary he pronounced himself ''very satisfied with the result'' of the Battle of Culloden in 1746, when British Redcoats crushed the ''Forty-Five'' Jacobite uprising and drove Bonnie Prince Charlie, the young pretender, into exile.
        ''The battle,'' the duke said, put an end ''to all this Highland nonsense and dragged the clans into a comparatively modern world,'' ending what he called ''400 years of barbarism.''
        His relations with his father were destroyed by the highly publicized divorce, his father's third. Photographs produced in court showed his stepmother, wearing just three rows of pearls, with a naked man whose head was invisible but who was widely reported by the British press to be Douglas Fairbanks Jr., the actor.
        The duke was born on Aug. 27, 1937. He was educated in Portugal and Switzerland and then at McGill University in Canada, where he studied electronics. After serving with the Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders, he worked as a banker and then for Rank Xerox, helping establish the company in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe.
        In 1964, he married Iona Mary Colquhoun, who survives, along with a son, Torquil, Marquess of Lorne, who succeeds to his father's title, and a daughter.
      