
        Theodore McCarty, president of Gibson guitars in the 1950's and 60's and designer of iconic models revered by the likes of Carl Perkins and B B. King, died on Sunday at a retirement center in Twin Falls, Idaho. He was 91.
        Mr. McCarty earned an engineering degree and later worked for Wurlitzer as an accountant and a merchandise manager.
        In 1948 he moved to Gibson as head of the company. When he began, Gibson had 150 employees; when he left 18 years later it had nearly 10 times as many and sales had increased by more than 1,000 percent.
        Mr. McCarty pursued the expanding market for electric guitars, some say at the expense of the quality of Gibson's acoustic guitars. A result of this interest was the creation, during his tenure, of electric guitar models that remain among the most widely sold today -- the Les Paul, ES-335, Flying V, Explorer and Firebird. He also introduced innovative guitar devices, including an intonation adjuster.
        ''He was the only guy in guitar history who was both a hands-on designer as well as a company manager,'' said Walter Carter, a former historian for Gibson.
        The company started designing the solid-bodied Les Paul in 1950, when country-western musicians had begun using solid-bodied electric guitars for their brighter tone, which could cut through a loud dance-band ensemble. Mr. Paul, the guitarist, had brought his ideas for a solid-body guitar to Gibson in the mid-1940's, but found little interest; after Mr. McCarty joined the company, he persuaded Mr. Paul to let the company put his name on its model.
        The Gibson Les Paul -- thereafter played by Frank Beecher of Bill Haley and the Comets, Carl Perkins, B. B. King and Jimmy Page of Led Zeppelin, among others -- went through several adjustments until 1958, when its final design was established. It is still extremely popular,  partly because of its two woods -- maple for the top and mahogany for the back -- and its double-coil humbucker pickups, which reduce interference from outside signals.
        In the late 1950's and early 60's Mr. McCarty introduced radical-looking guitars: the Flying V, Explorer and Moderne. They did not sell well at first, but later became space age classics.
        Mr. McCarty left Gibson in 1966 and bought the Bigsby company, which made the vibrato mechanisms that he had already been buying and using on certain Gibson models.  More recently he collaborated with Paul Reed Smith on the P.R.S. McCarty guitar, based on Mr. McCarty's late-1950's Les Paul designs.
        Mr. McCarty is survived by a daughter, Sue Davis of Twin Falls; a son, Theodore F. McCarty of Harbor Springs, Mich.; four grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
        Gibson's striking designs appealed to musicians such as Jimi Hendrix, who used a Flying V. Mr. McCarty's  motivation for his futuristic designs, he said, was competition with the president of Fender guitars, Leo Fender.
        ''Leo was talking trash about me so I designed those guitars to shut him up,'' Mr. McCarty explained. ''He was going around telling everybody that that old fuddy-duddy Gibson hadn't invented a new idea in years. I said, 'I'll show him.' ''
      