
        Francis Grasso, a pioneering club disc jockey credited with first mixing records together in the late 1960's by matching their rhythms, was found dead on March 23 at his home in Brooklyn. He was 52.
        The cause is unknown, pending results of an autopsy.
        Mr. Grasso was born in Brooklyn and, at an early age, discovered a talent for music, playing drums, guitar and saxophone. After he was injured in a motorcycle accident, a doctor told him that dancing would be a good form of physical therapy and soon he was a fixture on the Manhattan club scene.
        In 1968 at a Central Park club called Salvation 2, Mr. Grasso went behind the turntables for the first time when the club manager asked him to fill in for the house D.J., who was ill. Soon, Mr. Grasso had the job.
        With an understanding of the psychology of the dance floor, he slowly began to retool the job of the D.J. As he saw it, his job wasn't simply to play records, it was to keep the crowd on the dance floor. The best way to do that was to make one song seem to stretch on forever, without a break. This helped create the notion of the disc jockey as artist and live remixer. Working with two seven-inch singles, at first he would start a new song on the same beat that ended the previous song (by holding the record still as the turntable spun below it, a technique known as slip-cueing).
        Later, he began matching the beats of records, trying to keep two songs playing simultaneously for as long as possible, which was an extremely difficult task since most turntables then lacked conveniences like pitch control.
        One of his best-known tactics was his simultaneus playing of percussion-heavy songs, like Chicago Transit Authority's ''I'm a Man,'' with sexually charged vocals, like Led Zeppelin's ''Whole Lotta Love,'' anticipating the rise of disco.
        Mr. Grasso developed and refined many of these techniques when he moved his headquarters to Sanctuary, a hedonistic club in Hell's Kitchen, and presided over the dance floor there until it was closed by city authorities in 1972.
        In 1971 the movie ''Klute'' featured a scene with Mr. Grasso working at the Sanctuary. When the club closed, he worked as a D.J. off and on until 1981, when he left the profession for good and found a job working in construction.
      