
        Burt Gwirtzman, who was swept into a lifelong passion for sports as a shivering youngster at the 1934 pro football championship game and became the No. 1 fan of the football Giants and hockey Rangers, died Saturday at New York University Medical Center. Mr. Gwirtzman, who lived in Manhattan and Tuxedo, N.Y., was 75.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Sarina.
        For more than six decades, he was a presence on the New York sports scene in autumn and winter. He attended nearly every Giants home game -- at the Polo Grounds, Yankee Stadium, Yale Bowl, Shea Stadium and Giants Stadium -- and just about all the Ranger games at two Madison Square Gardens.
        The Brooklyn Dodgers' superfan, Hilda Chester, may have clanged a cowbell, but Mr. Gwirtzman shunned embellishment. Seated in the upper tier at Giants Stadium, overlooking the 20-yard line, he needed no Giants jersey to display his devotion. A sport jacket was his customary outfit. Watching the Rangers from his loge seat at the Garden behind the net, he was a gentlemanly fan, abhorring fisticuffs.
        In December 1934, his father took him to the National Football League title game between the Giants and the Chicago Bears on frozen turf at the Polo Grounds. At halftime, the Giants were losing and 9-year-old Burt was freezing. He wanted to go home, but his father insisted that the Giants still had a chance. During halftime, the Giants discarded their cleats in favor of sneakers, providing excellent traction, and went on to a 30-13 victory in what became known as the Sneakers Game.
        ''When we got back home to Brooklyn, I said, 'Dad, I'm never going to miss a game,' '' Mr. Gwirtzman recounted. Except for two years when he served in the Army during World War II, he missed only one Giant home game -- in 1955, to attend the funeral of a favorite uncle -- until illness caused him to miss three games last season. He was on hand when the Giants lost to the Baltimore Ravens in the Super Bowl at Tampa, Fla., in January.
        When the Giants played their home opener last season on Sept. 3, a Sunday on which he marked his 75th birthday, Mr. Gwirtzman posed with Coach Jim Fassel and received a football autographed by the players. He is the Giants' representative in a fans' niche at the Pro Football Hall of Fame.
        He knew nothing about hockey until a day in 1938 when he noticed a newspaper headline about the Rangers while riding on a Brooklyn trolley. After taking in a few games at the old Garden, he persuaded his father to buy a pair of season tickets for 1939-40. The Rangers won the Stanley Cup championship and ''I thought it was going to be like that forever,'' Mr. Gwirtzman once said.
        But the Rangers did not win another National Hockey League championship until 1994. By then Mr. Gwirtzman was their premier fan. The team flew him and his wife to Vancouver, British Columbia, for the final-round games there, and he was among five longtime fans who hoisted the Stanley Cup championship banner at the Garden when the next  season opened. Except for the war years, he missed only 13 home games until this season, when he was at the Garden intermittently.
        Burton Gwirtzman was born in Brooklyn. He served as an Army combat medic in World War II, taking part in the Battle of the Bulge. After that, he never bemoaned a miserable day in the stands when his Giants or Rangers blundered, for the war had put sports in perspective. He helped recover the bodies of American prisoners of war massacred by German SS troops at Malmedy, Belgium.
        ''That,'' he said, ''was the worst day I ever had.''
        When Mr. Gwirtzman returned home, he went to the library to read about all the Giants and Rangers games he had missed. Then he resumed his rooting while also pursuing a love of freshwater fishing. He graduated from New York University, worked with his father in the garment industry, then became a stockbroker.
        At his death, he was a vice president at UBS PaineWebber.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a brother, Arthur, of Manhattan.
        Two days before Mr. Gwirtzman died, his devotion was returned. Mike Richter, the Rangers goalie, and Rod Gilbert, their Hall of Fame wing of the 1960's and 70's, visited his bedside. Gilbert autographed a 75th anniversary Ranger book. He wrote, ''You are the greatest Ranger friend of them all.''
      