
        Carlos Ogden, who received the Medal of Honor for single-handedly destroying German gun positions in the battle for Cherbourg in World War II despite being shot through his helmet, died Monday at a hospital in  Palo Alto, Calif. Mr. Ogden was 83 and lived in San Jose, Calif.
        The cause was leukemia, said his wife, Louise.
        ''We were tied down and were going to get killed, and I thought I  might as well get killed going forward as back,'' Mr. Ogden once said of that June morning in 1944.
        Serving as a first lieutenant in the 314th Infantry, 79th Infantry Division, he came ashore at Utah Beach a few days after the D-Day invasion of June 6, 1944.
        Lieutenant Ogden's division advanced up the Cotentin Peninsula in a drive to capture Cherbourg undertaken by the Army's VII Corps under Maj. Gen. J. Lawton Collins. On the morning of June 25, Lieutenant Ogden's company came under heavy fire at the approaches to Fort du Roule, a multilevel cliffside installation guarding the Cherbourg harbor and bristling with guns in concrete pillboxes.
        When his company commander was wounded, Lieutenant Ogden took charge, attached a grenade launcher to his rifle and started alone up a slope toward the fortress.
        ''Two bullets went through my helmet,'' he recalled. ''They grazed my head and knocked me down. And I had a grenade in my hand with the pin pulled.''
        Lieutenant Ogden suffered a broken wrist when he fell, but he clutched the handle of the grenade so it would not detonate. Then he got up, wiped out an 88-millimeter gun position with a rifle grenade and silenced two machine guns with hand grenades. Although suffering a leg wound and incurring damage to his eardrums from the concussion of the 88-millimeter gun, and bleeding from  his head wound, he refused medical treatment. Then he rallied his troops for an assault on the remaining German defenders.
        Cherbourg and its vital port facilities were captured over the next few days. Lieutenant Ogden was awarded the Medal of Honor on June 28, 1945, for actions that inspired his men to continue the assault on the fortress.
        Mr. Ogden was born in Borton, Ill., and attended Eastern Illinois University before being drafted in 1941 and then earning his officer's commission.
        After the war, he was a counselor with the Veterans Administration in California, an executive with the Greater San Jose Chamber of Commerce and the director of Selective Service for the State of California during the Vietnam War.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by four sons, Bud, of Santa Clara, Calif., Ralph, of Oldenburg, Germany, Jim, of Saratoga, Calif., and Fred, of San Jose; a brother, Bob, of Champaign, Ill.; a sister, June Watson of Urbana, Ill.; five grandchildren; two step-grandchildren; and a great-grandchild. Bud Ogden was an All-American basketball player, teaming up with his brother Ralph at Santa Clara University in the late 1960's. Both played in the National Basketball Association, Bud with the Philadelphia 76ers and Ralph with the San Francisco Warriors.
        Jim Ogden said that his father rarely spoke with the sons about his combat experiences but that he once showed them how to disarm a knife-wielder.
        ''I remember thinking to myself, 'What are we doing in suburban San Jose worrying about somebody coming at us with a knife?' '' Jim Ogden recounted. ''But looking back on it, he was telling us in his own way what happened to him.''
      