
        Nyree Dawn Porter, who entranced millions of television viewers around the world when she starred as the beautiful Irene, trapped in a loveless marriage in the BBC adaptation of John Galsworthy's ''Forsyte Saga'' in the late 1960's, died on Monday at her home in London. She was 61.
        Her agent said she died unexpectedly but gave no further details.
        Produced by Donald Wilson to coincide with the centenary of Galsworthy's birth, the 26-part ''Forsyte Saga,'' which recounted the lives and loves of an upper-middle-class merchant family in London from 1879 to 1926, was first broadcast in 1967 and went on to attract more than 100 million viewers in 26 countries. It was shown in the United States on public television starting in 1969.
        For Ms. Porter, whose performance won her an award from the Society of Film and Television Arts as best actress and designation by Queen Elizabeth II in 1970 as an officer of the Order of the British Empire, ''The Forsyte Saga'' proved to be a mixed blessing.
        She said that afterward, BBC regarded her as ''our Irene'' and turned aside her agent's efforts to have her cast in other major roles. And her private life was shadowed  by her success and her travels as an actress. Her husband, Bryon O'Leary, an actor who had been a childhood friend and was often thrust aside by ''Forsyte'' fans eager to meet Irene, died in 1970 of an overdose of whiskey and barbiturates.
        In 1976 Ms. Porter married another actor, Robin Halstead. Before they divorced in 1987, they had a daughter, Tayla, who survives her.
        After ''Forsyte,'' Ms. Porter said, ''I waited for the movie offers to pour in, but they just didn't.''
        Nevertheless, she remained busy. She starred in several British television series and continued to act on the stage and in films. In 1998 she played the ballerina Margot Fonteyn in the film ''Hilary and Jackie.''
        Ms. Porter was born in New Zealand on Jan. 22, 1940. She was given a Maori name, Ngaire, meaning little heart-shaped flower, but for clarity she changed it to Nyree, its phonetic pronunciation. She left New Zealand for England in 1958.
        In a few more years, her work in ''The Forsyte Saga'' would win her one critic's designation as ''the first romantic sex symbol of the telly age.''
      