
        Lord Hartwell, a lifelong newspaperman who as chairman and editor in chief of The Daily Telegraph for 33 years, was one of the last of the Fleet Street press barons, died on Tuesday in a hospital here. He was 89.
        Taking over the paper from his father in 1954 after having worked on family papers in Scotland, he increased circulation, to 1.4 million from 1 million. In 1960, Lord Hartwell created what he called his proudest achievement, The Sunday Telegraph, to compete with the dominant newspaper at that time, The Sunday Times.
        Shy and dignified in his personal manner, he believed in unadorned news reporting. ''You don't want a lot of highfalutin waffle before you get to the point,'' he said. ''If you read the whole of the first paragraph of a story and still don't know what it's about, it's no good.''
        The straightforward formula and the paper's faithfulness to Conservative principles made it a popular choice for readers in the highly competitive British news market at a time when incomes were rising and labor disruptions were few.
        But Lord Hartwell's attention to the business side of the enterprise never matched his obsession with its journalism, and its growing economic problems suffered from front office neglect and ended up obliging him to sell a majority of the shares in 1985 to its current owner, Conrad Black, the Canadian newspaper publisher who heads Hollinger Inc.
        William Michael Berry was born on May 18, 1911, the son of Viscount Camrose, who had been part of a partnership that acquired The Daily Telegraph in 1927 and became its outright owner in 1937. Mr. Berry, as he was called until becoming Lord Hartwell on taking a life peerage in 1968, was educated at Eton and Christ Church, Oxford, and received his early journalism training in newsrooms in Glasgow and Aberdeen before joining the wartime Army and becoming a lieutenant colonel.
        He married Lady Pamela Smith, a zesty figure in prewar society who made up for his reclusiveness with her dinner parties and gossip. The couple had two sons and two daughters, who all survive. Lady Pamela died in 1982.
        Though he was the indisputable boss at the newspaper, his employees felt his presence by orders passed to editors and scribbled directives rather than through personal contact. According to the paper's obituary of him today, subordinates would speak of him only in the passive mode, saying not that ''Lord Hartwell wants such and such a story'' but, ''This is a wanted story.''
        When he arrived at the office, an elevator was cleared, and he made his way alone to his clubby fifth-floor paneled suite with its maps of the world as it had been in 1914, silver and porcelain collection, roof garden, view of St. Paul's and two black-suited butlers in attendance.
        It was there that, following the routine laid down by his father, he met the managing editor of news in the morning and the editor of the editorial pages in the evening. He saw galley proofs of all articles and made suggestions that, though modestly delivered, were treated on the newsroom floor as dicta.
        It was said that the first time he ventured inside the King and Keys, the Telegraph's Fleet Street pub, was the night in 1987 when the paper left its longtime home and moved out to the Docklands area of East London that has become the home for many newspapers. If that occurred, it would have been a melancholy moment for Lord Hartwell, because the journey to the new glass wall headquarters was one that he would not make.
        The technology in the new plant was essential to the survival of the paper. But Lord Hartwell had failed to anticipate its need and great cost, developments that forced him to relinquish control.
        Commenting on how he let the finances get away from him, he said: ''I was always terribly shocked when other people ran their newspapers like biscuit factories, just to make money. What I was trying to do was to make The Telegraph an institution which was respected and admired and which would leave the world the poorer if it were not there. It sounds awfully boring, but I regarded it as my life's work. That's all.''
        Lord Hartwell remained a newspaperman until the end. His family reported that he had died with a copy of The Daily Telegraph in his hands.
      