
        Stanley H. Ruttenberg, a union organizer and consultant for more than 40 years who was an assistant secretary of labor in the Johnson administration, died on Wednesday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 84.
        Drawn to the trade union movement as a young man, Mr. Ruttenberg later became an economist for the A.F.L.-C.I.O. before working for the federal government.
        W. Willard Wirtz, the secretary of labor with whom Mr. Ruttenberg served, said Mr. Ruttenberg knew how to combine fiscal policies with  ''a program of hands-on job training.''
        In the mid-1960's, Mr. Wirtz recalled, Mr. Ruttenberg helped to eliminate widespread racial discrimination in state employment offices. At that time, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibited discrimination in federally financed programs and directed government agencies to enforce that policy in the programs they administered.
        The federal government at that time financed the United States Employment Service, established in 1933, but states operated the agency's local offices.
        Mr. Ruttenberg, who was directing the Labor Department's enforcement of Title VI, sent 10 teams around the country to investigate nearly 50 complaints of discrimination and other suspicious situations.
        While urging voluntary compliance, Mr. Ruttenberg made it clear that he was prepared to cut off employment service money to any state that refused to comply with the law. Some offices changed their practices.
        In a newspaper interview at the time, Mr. Ruttenberg said change would come slowly because racial discrimination had such deep roots.
        ''You don't break that thing overnight,'' he said.
        Stanley Harvey Ruttenberg was born in St. Paul , on March 19, 1917. He grew up in Nemacolin, Pa., and attended the Massanutten Military Academy in Woodstock, Va. He earned a bachelor of science degree at the University of Pittsburgh.
        As a child, Mr. Ruttenberg recalled, he developed a lifetime dedication to the trade union movement when he stirred the soup pot for striking coal miners and heard them talk about their discontent.
        In the 1930's, Mr. Ruttenberg was a union organizer in Cincinnati, Chicago and other Midwestern cities.
        In World War II, he served as a first lieutenant in the Army on Okinawa.
        Prominent as a union economist in the 1950's, Mr. Ruttenberg became head of the research department of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
        In 1963, President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed Mr. Ruttenberg as a special assistant to the secretary of labor. Five years later, the president named him to succeed Daniel Patrick Moynihan as assistant secretary of labor for manpower.
        After six years in the Labor Department, Mr. Ruttenberg became a consultant, establishing himself as Stanley H. Ruttenberg & Associates in Washington, where he helped clients win federal contracts. He retired in 1982.
        Mr. Ruttenberg is survived by his wife, Gertrude, of Bethesda; a daughter, Ruth Ruttenberg of Bethesda; two sons, Joel, of Katonah, N.Y., and Charles, of Rockville, Md.; four grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      