
        Bill Kimpton, who was a pioneer in developing boutique hotels and founded the San Francisco-based chain that bears his name, died on Friday in Houston. He was 65.
        The cause was leukemia, his company said.
        Mr. Kimpton was the chairman of the Kimpton Hotel and Restaurant Group, which owns or manages 34 hotels and 29 restaurants, mostly in the Western United States.
        He was one of the first to find a niche in moderately priced, intimate European-style hotels, known in the industry as boutique hotels, like the Alexis Hotel in Seattle, the Hotel Palomar in San Francisco and the  Burnham Hotel in Chicago. His strategy was to buy small, old buildings in downtown neighborhoods and convert them into hotels.
        Mr. Kimpton ''created a hotel system that was truly one of a kind,'' said Bjorn Hanson, the managing partner of the hospitality practice of the accounting firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers. ''He had hotels that filled a niche, converting old hotels or buildings that were not so hot into very special, distinctive, unusual properties.''
        Mr. Kimpton said in interviews that he had found his calling as a young boy, playing Monopoly with friends. His passion, even then, was collecting hotels.
        Nonetheless, his career path was somewhat circuitous. Born in Kansas City, Mo., William Drennon Kimpton was a graduate of Northwestern University and first worked as a typewriter salesman for I.B.M. in Chicago. He later became an investment banker in New York, Chicago and California, working for, among others, Lehman Brothers and Lepercq, de Neuflize Securities.
        He helped take Kentucky Fried Chicken public in 1964. He also gained expertise in hotel development, handling the financing for the Kapalua Bay Resort Hotel in Maui and helping Harry Helmsley raise $23 million to renovate the Helmsley Palace Hotel in New York.
        Mr. Kimpton struck out on his own in 1981, buying the Bedford Hotel in San Francisco. His philosophy, he once said, is that travelers ''are all insecure.''
        ''It's just a matter of degree,'' he said. ''A hotel should relieve travelers of their insecurity and loneliness.  It should make them feel warm and cozy.''
        Mr. Kimpton was one of the first hoteliers to join forces with celebrity chefs, a now common phenomenon. One of his restaurants, Postrio at the Prescott Hotel in San Francisco, which Mr. Kimpton opened with Wolfgang Puck in 1989, is considered by many to be one of the city's best.
        Ian Schrager, a New York-based hotelier who has also been a major developer of boutique hotels, said yesterday that Mr. Kimpton's business was ''primarily focused on food and beverage, with rooms on top.''
        ''He was someone who tried to swim against the current, to do something special and unique. He served as an inspiration for people like me.''
        In addition to San Francisco, Seattle and Chicago, the Kimpton Group has hotels and restaurants in Tacoma, Wash.; Denver; Portland, Ore.; Salt Lake City; Vancouver and Whistler, British Columbia. Hotel ventures are in the works in Aspen, Colo., and Washington, D.C.
        Mr. Kimpton also founded the Mental Insight Foundation in 1996 and helped finance research projects on mental illness.
        He is survived by his wife, Isabelle, of San Francisco; three daughters, Marcia Kimpton and Laura Dell' Amico Kimpton of San Francisco and Jennifer Egan, a novelist, of New York; a son, Graham Kimpton, of San Francisco, and three grandchildren.
      