
        Richard F. Tennien, an investigator who played a pivotal but largely unheralded role in efforts to dismantle mob control of the carting and construction industries in New York, died Monday. He was 65.
        Mr. Tennien had suffered a heart attack nine days earlier and died in a hospital in Mineola, N.Y., a family member said.
        For most of his 33 years in law enforcement, Mr. Tennien remained an unassuming figure whose name was seldom featured in news accounts about the government's battle against organized crime. But many of the cases were built on his work, which included hours of sitting in cars parked outside mob haunts and developing what was widely viewed as an encyclopedic knowledge of labor racketeers. State and federal authorities routinely sought his counsel in cases in which he had no role, even after he left law enforcement and became a private investigator.
        In his most striking contribution, Mr. Tennien led a team of State Organized Crime Task Force investigators that in 1982 slipped a recording device into the black Jaguar that each day ferried Anthony (Tony Ducks) Corallo, then the Luchese crime family's boss, on his daily rounds.
        It proved a brilliant stroke. For more than six months, the recording device captured Mr. Corallo's musings as he was chauffeured to business meetings by another mobster. The conversations helped federal prosecutors in the office of Rudolph W. Giuliani, then the United States attorney in Manhattan, convict him and the leaders of two of the city's four other crime families of racketeering. Also, for the first time, these recordings proved in court the existence of a ruling commission overseeing La Cosa Nostra. The 1986 trial, which came to be known as the Commission Case, also helped establish the use of federal racketeering laws against mobsters and resulted in lengthy prison terms for Mr. Corallo and several others. Mr. Corallo died last August in a federal prison hospital at age 87.
        Years after the recording device was planted in the Jaguar, the conversations it secretly transmitted were still being reviewed by investigators, who were looking for connections between various companies and people associated with organized crime. The recordings became something of a Rosetta stone to mob investigators.
        ''He had both a retentive mind and an analytical one,'' said Ronald Goldstock, the former director of the State Organized Crime Task Force, who oversaw Mr. Tennien's work for more than a decade. ''He was this mobile computer; you could essentially put some data into it and he made the connections and he could just spit it out, at any point.''
        Mr. Tennien is survived by his wife of 28 years, Mary Ann; a sister, Jean Stoltenberg; two nieces; and two nephews.
        The son of an electrician, Mr. Tennien was born in Bristol, Vt., on Jan. 7, 1936, and grew up there and on Long Island. He graduated from Bay Shore High School in 1955 and joined the Marine Corps, serving four years on active duty, and later in the Reserves.
        He began his career in law enforcement in 1962, joining the Suffolk County Police Department, rising to the rank of detective in 1974. He retired from the department eight years later and became an investigator for the State Organized Crime Task Force. In March 1995 he joined Kroll Associates, a private investigations firm, where he was working until the time of his death.
        Many considered Mr. Tennien to be among the people most knowledgeable about organized crime's role in the carting industry. When federal authorities brought a civil racketeering case naming many Long Island carters in 1989, the prosecutors who litigated the lawsuit over the following decade regularly sought Mr. Tennien's advice.
        ''He was a continuing source, because he was the source,'' said Joseph D. McCann, who as an assistant United States attorney in Brooklyn oversaw the civil racketeering case and routinely consulted Mr. Tennien. ''Nobody knew the industry better than him, particularly the organized crime involvement in it.''
        Correction:  April 29, 2001, Sunday  An obituary yesterday about Richard F. Tennien, an investigator who played a large but mostly unheralded role in efforts to dismantle mob control of the carting and construction industries in New York, misidentified Mr. Tennien's surviving sister. She is Janet Giarratano; Jean Stoltenberg is his sister-in-law.
      