
        Mullah Muhammad Rabbani, who had a reputation as one of the more moderate leaders of the militant Taliban militia, which governs most of Afghanistan, died of cancer on Monday in Pakistan, where he had gone for medical treatment. His age was not available.
        His body was flown on a United Nations flight to Kandahar in southern Afghanistan for burial during an official three-day period of mourning.
        After the Taliban took control of most of Afghanistan in 1996, Mr. Rabbani was appointed to a position similar to that of prime minister. He led the Council of Ministers, which was in charge of directing the government agencies in Kabul.
        He was believed to have been close to Mullah Muhammad Omar, supreme Taliban leader. But Mr. Rabbani's power seemed to have waned in recent years, said experts and international aid officials.
        The real authority over military and spiritual matters in the Taliban, the Islamic militia that holds about 90 percent of Afghanistan, lies with Mr. Omar and the men around him in Kandahar. For example, it was he who issued the edict to destroy the colossal statues of Buddha at Bamiyan.
        But Mr. Rabbani had some room to maneuver, experts said. He was a moderate only in the context of the extremely conservative Taliban and never publicly differed with Mr. Omar. Still, they said, the rigid enforcement of cultural and religious edicts that required, among other things, that women not venture into the city unless accompanied by a male relative, was loosened somewhat by the end of the 1990's.
        ''This happened in Kabul during the reign of Rabbani,'' said Anders Fange, an official with the Swedish Committee, a group in Peshawar, Pakistan that provides health and education services in Afghanistan.
        The Taliban foreign minister, Ahmed Muttawakil, said Mr. Rabbani's successor would be named after the mourning period ends. His death and his replacement are not widely expected to bring any basic changes in Taliban policies.
        ''Rabbani was already marginalized,'' said Barnett R. Rubin, director of studies at the Center on International Cooperation at New York University. ''The fact that he has now died probably won't make much difference. It could ignite a struggle for his position within the Taliban. And it will be interesting to see who Mullah Omar chooses.''
      