
        Alfred Moen, who in the 1940's invented the single-handled faucet in a fit of anger after twisting on a conventional two-handled faucet and accidentally burning his hands, died Tuesday at his home in Destin, Fla. He was 84.
        It was while he was a mechanical engineering student at the University of Washington, working in a garage to pay his tuition, that Mr. Moen made his painful discovery.
        ''The hot water came on sooner than I had expected,'' he told his company's newsletter. ''It got me to thinking that you ought to be able to get what you want out of a faucet. The more I thought about it, the more I was convinced that a single-handled mixing faucet was the answer, so I began to make some drawings.''
        His first design was for a double-valve faucet with a cam to control the two valves, but the manufacturer he showed it to was not impressed.
        From 1940 to 1945, Mr. Moen made several other designs, but with the advent of World War II he could not find a manufacturer free to start production. He went to work as a tool designer at a military shipyard plant in Seattle, and then, finally, in 1947, he persuaded Ravenna Metal Products of Seattle to finance and produce his latest design for a single-handled mixing faucet. It was first sold in San Francisco, retailing for $12. And it caught on in a big way.
        In time, the invention led to the creation of Moen Inc., one of the world's major producers of plumbing products. Based in North Olmsted, Ohio, the company now employs 3,500 workers and is a division of Fortune Brands Inc., a $5.5-billion-a-year consumer-brands company.
        Mr. Moen was born in Seattle on Dec. 27, 1916. He attended the University of Washington but did not graduate.
        He is survived by a daughter, Christine Moen of Destin, and a son, Eric Moen of North Ridgeville, Ohio.
        Compulsively refining his faucet and developing other plumbing devices, Mr. Moen held some 200 patents. He served as head of the company's research and development until his retirement in 1982.
        When his son once asked him if he was disappointed at not having been included in the National Inventors Hall of Fame, he replied: ''No, I didn't invent anything great. I didn't invent penicillin.''
      