
        Jacob W. Getzels, who helped redefine measures of intelligence with his research on creativity, died on April 7 at his home in Chicago. He was 89.
        Mr. Getzels spent a half-century on the faculty of the University of Chicago, helping establish educational administration as a field of scholarship and conducting groundbreaking studies in the 1960's that challenged traditional notions of what makes a student gifted and the reliability of I.Q. tests as a measure of intelligence.
        He wrote four books and dozens of articles and was a mentor for generations of graduate students.
        His work helped lead selective colleges to seek well-rounded applicants rather than just those with top grades and test scores, and it continues to influence how critics evaluate artists and teachers assess children.
        ''Getzels was one of the founders of creativity research,'' said Robert Sternberg, a professor of psychology and education at Yale University. ''He was the person who recognized the importance of finding the right problem, not just seeking the right solution.''
        The 1962 book ''Creativity and Intelligence,'' which Mr. Getzels wrote with his Chicago colleague Philip Jackson, challenged accepted theory by showing that some children who did poorly on I.Q. tests often earned good grades.
        He identified a group of highly creative students who excelled on open-ended questions like, ''How many uses can you think of for the following objects?'' -- a key approach of the standardized tests now in broad use in the nation's schools.
        Both those with high I.Q.s and those who scored well on Mr. Getzels' creativity tests outperformed their peers in class. The high-I.Q. students showed more energy and were more goal-oriented, he found, while the creative children were more emotionally stable and had better senses of humor.
        Successful artists, entrepreneurs, even scientists, Mr. Getzels found, were often not the best at answering straightforward questions posed by teachers or routine exams.
        ''Most schools, all you learn is solving problems; then you get out in the real world, you feel lost because nobody's telling you what to solve,'' said Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi, one of his protégés and co-authors.
        ''In real life, most of us are not confronted with clearly stated problems with a simple solution. Usually, we have to first say what the problem is.''
        Mr. Getzels was born in 1912 in what is now Bialystok, Poland, and came to the United States as a child. He graduated from Brooklyn College and received a master's degree in comparative literature from Columbia University. He then joined the Army, where he switched fields to study psychology. He received a Ph.D. in social relations from Harvard in 1951 and immediately went to the University of Chicago.
        Though he retired from the faculty in 1982, Mr. Getzels continued to pass his days reading and writing in his office in the university library. In addition to his research, he read widely in physics and math and, lately, novels.
        Mr. Getzels served on many government panels, including a 1967 presidential task force on education and a cultural mission to the Soviet Union in 1960.
        He is survived by his wife, Judith Nelson Getzels; three children, Katherine, of New York; Peter, of Washington, D.C.; and Julie, of Chicago; and six grandchildren.
      