
        Harold Leon Korn, a legal scholar who helped devise a road map for the maze of civil laws invoked in courts across the state of New York, died on March 27 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 71 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and in Lenox, Mass.
        The cause was cancer of the esophagus, said the Columbia Law School, where he held the Harold R. Medina chair in Procedural Jurisprudence.
        Professor Korn was one of the three chief architects of ''New York Civil Practice,'' a work that made its debut in 1963 and now comprises 16 volumes. Its authors were Senior Judge Jack B. Weinstein of Federal District Court in Brooklyn, Prof. Arthur R. Miller of the Harvard Law School and Professor Korn, who was the project's director of research.
        They inventoried and compiled civil laws and clarifying commentaries. The resulting text serves to guide judges and lawyers, as well as jailhouse lawyers who help fellow inmates with their legal matters.
        Professor Korn was also a co-author of ''Elements of Civil Procedure'' (4th ed., 1985) and ''Catastrophic Accidents in Government Programs'' (1963), a Columbia report that advised government officials on how to deal with the possible legal fallout of nuclear-plant accidents.
        Harold Korn was born in the Bronx, the only child of Polish immigrants. He graduated from Cornell University in 1951 and from Columbia Law School in 1954.
        At 28, when he was recently married, he and his wife were severely burned in a car explosion in Wellfleet, Mass. The marriage ended in divorce.
        Harold Korn had a distinguished legal career and was also involved with propagating the arts.
        He was a law clerk to the chief judge of the state's Court of Appeals and research director for a state advisory committee on practice and procedures in the 1950's. Then the American Law Institute hired him as a special consultant for drafting its Model Penal Code, a source of the state's current Penal Law.
        He then taught at Buffalo Law School and New York University before joining the law faculty at Columbia in 1971. He taught subjects including conflicts of law, constitutional law, evidence and civil procedure.
        At his death, he was finishing a book, ''Modern Conflicts of Law and Jurisdiction,'' that discusses revisions of law necessitated by changes in modern life, like lightning communications technology, a global economy and major toxic spills.
        Referring to his death in The New York Law Journal, Judge Weinstein wrote, ''the loss to the bar for works in progress, which would have illuminated the future of our law, is substantial.''
        Professor Korn honed his love of the arts inspired by his life's companion, Amy Clampitt, a poet of dense, ornate and allusive metaphysical verse. They met in 1968 at a Democratic Party gathering in New York, when she had not yet published and he was at the threshold of legal renown.
        They eventually married, and Ms. Clampitt died a celebrated poet in 1994. They had no children.
        In the foreword of her collected works, she referred to a contented 25 years of ''life with Hal.'' He, in turn, recently created the Amy Clampitt Foundation to benefit poetry and the literary arts. His Lenox home is part of it and will offer poets a place to work.
      