
        Charles Schreiner III, who as he led a fight to preserve the legendary Texas longhorn breed became a Lone Star State symbol himself, died of congestive heart failure on April 22 at a San Antonio hospital.
        He was 74 and lived in Mountain Home, Tex.
        Known by the nickname Three, he had perhaps his most colorful moment on the evening of April 13, 1980, when he celebrated the centennial of the day his grandfather (a Texas ranger, naturally) acquired the sprawling Y.O. Ranch by riding Ranger, his giant pet longhorn steer with four-foot horns, into the great hall of his ranch's main lodge.
        ''We're trying to preserve a way of life,'' Mr. Schreiner explained.
        Indeed, his life might be seen as an inspired scramble to sustain the Texas of legend. He started the Texas Longhorn Breeders' Association of America in 1964 to preserve the lean and lanky cattle. Their numbers had declined to 1,000 or fewer from the tens of millions in the late 19th century, when most of them ran wild. His namesake had herded more than 300,000 longhorn steers to Dodge City, Kan., over his life.
        The association defined and regulated the breed for the first time and undertook many educational and promotional campaigns. The number of longhorns has since grown to 250,000, and Mr. Schreiner's own tiny herd expanded to more than 1,000, making it one of the nation's largest.
        The most important part of the effort was a breeders' registry to ensure pedigrees. ''That really preserved the breed,'' said Alan Sparger III, a rancher in Comfort, Tex.
        Paraphrasing a country song, Mr. Sparger said of Mr. Schreiner, ''He was longhorns when longhorns weren't cool.''
        Mr. Schreiner did not stop with longhorns. He also led a movement to raise exotic animals from Africa and Asia on Texas ranches and then charge hunters to shoot them. The Y.O. Ranch, about 100 miles northwest of San Antonio in the Texas Hill Country, says it has the largest menagerie of what came to be called Texotics, around 50 species. About 35, including giraffes and zebras, cannot be hunted legally, but form the core of what has become a popular and bloodless tourist attraction.
        Mr. Schreiner set up a youth camp, restaurant and dude ranch and became an expert at staging spectacles to attract visitors and attention. One of the most famous was a day when guests could shoot machine guns. After cocktails and dinner, they would riddle a car containing gasoline with tracer bullets until it exploded.
        This Memorial Day weekend, the 26th annual Y.O. Ranch Longhorn Trail Drive will be held. The Y.O. came from the brand of the first longhorns bought by Mr. Schreiner's grandfather.
        The celebration will include an 1880's costume party. Participation costs $200 a person. (Rental of a horse is $150 extra, but participants are welcome to bring their own.)
        Yet another strategy to preserve most of the family spread was to sell  small parcels, 100 acres or so, as ranch shares. Owners were entitled to roam the entire 50,000 acres and pretend it was theirs.
        ''No matter what the economy does, you can count on a Texan for two things,'' Mr. Schreiner said. ''He wants to own a ranch, and he's proud of being a Texan. It's bred into us.''
        All the plans meant that though the ranch shrank from 70,000 acres when Mr. Schreiner inherited it in 1949 to less than 50,000 acres, it remained in the family. The rocky, hardscrabble cactus patch with nary a drop of oil survived on the backs of longhorns and all manner of tourists.
        ''He was very creative,'' said Don L. King, executive director of the longhorn association.
        Mr. Schreiner was an only child, born in San Antonio on Jan. 6, 1927. He was educated in San Antonio private schools and earned a business degree from the University of Texas. His father died when Mr. Schreiner was 6, and he was educated in ranch affairs by his mother, Myrtle, and the ranch hands he adored.
        Longhorns had almost died out as a result of being bred with plumper breeds. By 1940, the Y.O. Ranch had none, and the glory days of Mr. Schreiner's grandfather, who fought with the Confederates in the Civil War before becoming a Texas ranger, were a distant memory.
        In 1957, Mr. Schreiner set out to assemble a new longhorn herd.
        ''He'd find one here and one there and a handful over there,'' his son Walter said. ''He traveled tens of thousands of miles just looking for them. A lot of dead ends.''
        In a 1987 interview with The San Antonio Express-News, Mr. Schreiner said: ''Without this breed, there wouldn't have been a Y.O. It just wasn't right for them to become extinct.''
        Others were doing the same thing, including an Oregon longhorn owner who was considering setting up an association and breeding registry. Mr. Schreiner was of the opinion that both belonged in Texas, and in 1964 he filed a certificate of incorporation. He became the first president.
        His first task was hiring Claude Shrader, who had worked at a federal refuge for longhorns in Oklahoma, established in the 1920's. He was renowned for being able to look at a cow years after having seen it as a calf and remember its pedigree. Mr. Shrader traveled the country inspecting would-be Texas longhorns, at $2 a head.
        In 1965, Mr. Schreiner hit upon the idea of staging a re-enactment of a trail drive from San Antonio to Dodge City to observe the 100th anniversary of the first trail drive after the Civil War. The group stopped at President Lyndon B. Johnson's ranch on the way, and made national news.
        Since then, longhorn breeding has become so widespread and specialized that cattle are bred for characteristics like horn length and muscle mass. Because the longhorn produces lean, grain-fed meat, it has become popular with people conscious of their diet.
        Mr. Schreiner's wife, Audrey, a University of Texas cheerleader when he met her, died in 1988. One son, Louis, died of a heart attack on April 15. In addition to his son Walter, of Mountain Home, Mr. Schreiner is survived by his sons Charles IV, of Salado, Tex., and Gus, also of Mountain Home; and nine grandchildren.
        Mr. Schreiner habitually wore a beat-up cowboy hat and collected antique Colt pistols. In 1986, Sports Illustrated described him as a ''stocky, round-faced man with a grizzled mustache who looks like a hammered-down Hemingway.''
        Mr. King of the association recalled him as a tough guy and then gave him the ultimate Texas compliment. ''He had an eye for cattle,'' Mr. King said.
      