
        Michel Fribourg, a Belgian-born American who negotiated groundbreaking sales of wheat and rice to the Soviet Union in the 1960's and 1970's, died on Tuesday in New York.  He was 87.
        During his five decades as chairman and chief executive of the Continental Grain Company, he expanded the family-owned giant into 70 countries. Along with his work in opening markets to the Soviet Union, he worked to build trade ties with China and other developing countries.
        ''He was certainly the premier figure in world trade in food of the 20th century,'' said Morton I. Sosland, a friend who served for decades on the Continental Grain board and who publishes trade magazines for the grain-based food industries.
        Born in Antwerp in 1913, Mr. Fribourg was educated in France and began working in the family's European operations.
        With the onset of World War II and the invasion of France, the family moved to the United States. Mr. Fribourg, working in the company's London office at the time, diverted a freighter to Lisbon to pick up family members and friends.
        Mr. Fribourg joined them in New York and worked in the expanding American operations. He became a citizen and served in the Army, then became the fifth generation of Fribourgs to lead the company after his father died in 1944.
        The family-owned concern, now known as the ContiGroup Companies, was founded in Belgium nearly 200 years ago and is one of the largest privately held companies in the United States. Its operations include poultry and pork production, cattle feeding, and shrimp and salmon farming.
        But it was grain trading that brought Mr. Fribourg his greatest fame, and friends and family members said that trading seemed to be encoded into his DNA.
        After announcing the $80 million sale of United States wheat and rice to the Soviet Union in 1964, Mr. Fribourg said: ''Anybody can get grain to sell to the Soviet Union. Our business is basically built on ideas and imagination.''
        The deal, he said, showed that international trade could open channels that diplomacy alone could not -- and that trade could also spur  economic development in nations.
        ''He had a discipline in his business life; he had a discipline in his personal life, which, in the crazy world we're living in, is key,'' said Paul Fribourg, ContiGroup's chairman and one of Mr. Fribourg's five children. The others are Robert, of New York; Charles, of Geneva; and  Nadine Newman and Caroline Rosen, both of New York. He is also survived by his wife, Mary Ann, of New York; two sisters, Renee Haas and Marcelle Zunz, both of Paris; and 13 grandchildren.
        Although risk-taking and deal-cutting were part of his daily life, ''he was as quiet and as unassuming a man as you would ever want to meet,'' Mr. Sosland said.
        Paul Fribourg said that his father took pride in being a ''grain man'' -- a trader who could make commitments worth millions of dollars over the telephone.
        Mr. Fribourg was a founding director of the U.S.-U.S.S.R. Trade and Economic Council and the U.S.-China Business Council, and a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.
        His philanthropic work through the Fribourg Foundation and the ContiGroup Foundation included support for social and educational programs in French culture, the grain business and international studies. He was also a contributor to New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, New York University, McGill University and the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. In 1990, he received the Commander of the Legion of Honor award from France.
        In the years after he retired as chairman of Continental Grain in 1994, the company decided to sell its grain-trading operations -- an enormous shift away from its roots. As discussions of the sale of the trading arm to Cargill evolved, Paul Fribourg and a team of advisers flew to Switzerland, where his father was vacationing, to present the company's options.
        Mr. Sosland recalled that Mr. Fribourg, after listening to debates over the company's direction, the uncertain state of the grain market and the significance of leaving behind so much of his family's heritage, asked only one question: ''Morton, what about the people? Will they be able to find jobs?''
        When Mr. Sosland was able to convince him that there would be ample work for talented traders, Mr. Fribourg gave his assent.
        ''It was never, for him, about making money,'' Paul Fribourg recalled. ''It was the people.''
      