
        Former Representative Frank Annunzio, who championed such diverse causes as the survival of the neighborhood savings and loan and the minting of commemorative coins to raise money for civic projects, died on April 8 at his home in Lincolnwood, Ill., a Chicago suburb. He was 86.
        Mr. Annunzio, a Democrat, represented Chicago for 28 years in the House, first the Seventh Congressional District and then the 11th. He rose to leadership positions on the former Banking Committee, which he used to support savings and loan associations, even as they ran into financial problems in the 1980's that caused many of them to fail.
        In an interview in Crain's Chicago Business in 1988, Mr. Annunzio said the institutions were essential providers of home mortgages, adding, ''Whatever it takes to save the industry we have to be prepared to do.''
        Curtis Prins, who was his principal aide for many years, said Mr. Annunzio played important roles in arranging the financial package that helped New York City weather its financial crisis in the 1970's, in granting federal loans that assured the survival of the Chrysler Corporation and in minting commemorative coins that helped finance the restoration of the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island.
        Mr. Annunzio was born in 1915 in the Little Italy section of Chicago to  parents who had come from the region of Calabria, in Italy, and in his career in the House he advocated many Italian-American causes, including the declaration of Columbus Day as a national holiday.
        In his youth, he was a shoeshine boy at Hull House, the social services institution founded by Jane Addams, to help support his family.
        In 1935, Mr. Annunzio married Angeline Alesia, who died in 1996. He is survived by three daughters, Jackie Lato, Linda O'Donnell and Susan Annunzio, all of Chicago; seven grandchildren; and 11 great-grandchildren.
        Mr. Annunzio taught civics and history in the Chicago public schools and worked on the staff of the United Steelworkers Union.
        Before being elected to Congress in 1964, he served as director of the Illinois Department of Labor.
        Representative Jim Leach, the Iowa Republican who served on the Banking Committee with him, said that Mr. Annunzio was ''one of the last true characters in Congress.''
        Mr. Leach recalled a hearing on red-lining, the practice that banks use to block off neighborhoods where they will not grant mortgages. Arthur F. Burns, then the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, was the main witness.
        ''I'm sitting there,'' Mr. Leach said, ''and all the sudden Frank is screaming at Burns, 'You're guilty of red-lining! Stop red-lining Italy!' I didn't know Frank Annunzio at the time and I didn't know he wasn't serious.''
        Mr. Leach added: ''Congress is a body of more homogeneity than one should expect, and Frank stands out as one of the real characters -- an individual who spoke his piece in his own way, which generally involved a greater twinkle than a reading of any script would seem possible.''
        Another example of Mr. Annunzio's eccentricity came in a committee meeting in which he was trying to gain approval of an amendment. He had an aide turn on a recording of ''Stars and Stripes Forever,'' Crain's Chicago Business reported, while he waved an American flag.
        ''We passed the amendment,'' Mr. Annunzio noted.
      