
        Walter Eytan, an early British immigrant to Israel who developed a foreign service to meet the needs of a new state suddenly at war with its neighbors, died on May 23 in a hospital in Jerusalem. He was 90.
        As first director general of the Foreign Ministry, from 1948 to 1959, Mr. Eytan faced the challenge of creating a diplomatic service that would help Israel gather international support, counter the effects of the Arab trade embargo and encourage immigration.
        In ''The First 10 Years''(Simon & Schuster, 1958), his account of that era, Mr. Eytan said Israel was forced to ''look for friends in every part of the world,'' seek economic ties ''outside the Middle East wherever possible'' and be ready to undertake ''political activity in every capital'' in a period when the United Nations was closely involved with its affairs.
        At independence on May 14, 1948, a three-member ministry started firing off telegrams to every country in the world asking them to recognize Israel. The United States, Guatemala and the Soviet Union were the first to do so.
        Although Mr. Eytan's top priority was sending diplomats to Washington, London, Paris and Moscow, he also moved quickly to open diplomatic offices in cities like Aden, Algiers, Prague, Shanghai and Tehran to help immigration to Israel, as well as in Bombay, Rio de Janeiro and Rome to win political support and develop trade relations.
        Mr. Eytan had initially envisioned a lean and nonhierarchical operation to be represented just by ministers and legations rather than ambassadors and embassies. But that plan was scrapped when the United States unexpectedly gave embassy status to its own mission to Israel at a time when America maintained envoys below ambassador status in several Arab capitals.
        From 1960 to 1970, Mr. Eytan was ambassador to France, where in 1967 he was involved in a diplomatic storm after President Charles de Gaulle, at a news conference, denounced Israel for starting the Arab-Israel War and described Jews as ''an elite people, domineering and self-assured.''
        On June 5, 1967, Mr. Eytan called on de Gaulle to tell him that Israel had just launched a pre-emptive strike to annihilate the Egyptian Air Force.
        The president's intelligence chief, Jacques Foccart, who was waiting outside, was ''surprised to hear raised voices'' coming from their meeting, according to a de Gaulle biographer, Jean Lacouture.
        ''They've just launched a colonial war,'' de Gaulle reportedly told Mr. Foccart a few minutes after Mr. Eytan had left. ''They'll win it very quickly. But they won't settle anything that way.''
        De Gaulle's subsequent controversial description of Jews -- his exact words were ''un peuple d'élite, sûr de lui-même et dominateur'' -- led to accusations of anti-Semitism.
        Le Monde published a cartoon that showed a skeletal Jewish inmate of a concentration with the caption, ''Sûr de Lui-Même et Dominateur?'' The Chief Rabbi of France, Jacob Kaplan, said de Gaulle was ''giving the highest possible sanction to a campaign of discrimination.''
        French relations with Israel, which had been close, especially in the military sphere, were never the same again. Nevertheless, Mr. Eytan was able to repair some of the damage later that year, when France published an exchange of letters between de Gaulle and the Israeli leader, David Ben-Gurion.
        While calling the president's remarks wounding, Ben-Gurion also ''deplored the unjustified criticism'' by those who ''have not examined your observations with all the attention needed.'' De Gaulle said he was merely describing ''the quality thanks to which this strong people was able to survive and remain itself after 19 centuries passed under unheard of conditions.''
        Walter Eytan was born on July 27, 1910, in Munich. His family moved to England, where he was educated at St. Paul's School in London and Queen's College at Oxford. He was a lecturer in medieval and modern German at the university from 1934 to 1936. In World War II, Mr. Eytan worked at Bletchley Park on the project that broke the Germans' Enigma code.
        He married Beatrice Levinson, who survives, along with two sons, David, of Tel Aviv, and Jonathan, of Jerusalem, and a daughter, Ruth Yehoshua, also of Tel Aviv.
        In 1946, Mr. Eytan immigrated to Israel, where he ran a school for diplomats before moving to the Foreign Ministry. He led the Israeli delegation to the peace talks with Egypt on Rhodes after the first Arab-Israeli War, in 1948. From 1970 to 1972, he was an adviser to Foreign Minister Abba Eban and, from 1972 to 1978, was chairman of the Israeli Broadcasting Authority.
      