
        Happy Hairston, a starting forward for the Los Angeles Lakers team that ran off an unprecedented winning streak in the 1971-72 season on the way to the National Basketball Association championship, died early yesterday morning at U.C.L.A Medical Center. He was 58.
        Hairston, who played at New York University, died of respiratory illness resulting from prostate cancer, according to Donna Seaton, a family friend. She said Hairston had been hospitalized since August for complications resulting from inoperable prostate cancer.
        His cancer was diagnosed in early 1999. He had been receiving chemotherapy, Ms. Seaton said.
        A 6-foot-7-inch forward who could score, rebound and play defense, Hairston played for N.Y.U. in the early 1960's, then went on to play for three N.B.A. teams over 12 years, including the 1971-72 Laker team that won 69 games, 33 of them in a row, a professional record that has not been broken.
        That mark for consecutive victories was set by a team that also included Jerry West and Gail Goodrich in the backcourt, Jim McMillian at the other forward and Wilt Chamberlain at center, as well as Pat Riley, now the Miami coach, as a backup guard.
        Harold Hairston was born on May 31, 1942, in Winston-Salem, N.C. He graduated from Atkins High School and was named all-state in track, football and basketball. He went on to attend N.Y.U., and graduated in 1964 after playing on a team that included Barry Kramer. The two combined to break almost every Violets scoring record, with Hairston averaging 21 points a game, shooting 51.8 percent from the field and finishing his career with 1,346 points.
        He was also the Violets' leading rebounder during his three years and was inducted into the New York University Athletic Hall of Fame in 1981.
        Hairston was drafted in 1964 by the Cincinnati Royals in the fourth round. In 1968, he was traded to the Detroit Pistons, who traded him a year later to the Lakers. There, he distinguished himself as a skilled forward on a Los Angeles team that always seemed to be in the championship playoffs, but had never won it. In his first season with the Lakers, the Knicks won their first title, beating Los Angeles in seven games.
        Hairston reached his pro scoring peak in 1970-71, when he averaged 18.6 points a game. The next season, Bill Sharman took over as coach of the Lakers and the team won 69 games, beating the Knicks in five games for the championship. Hairston averaged 13.1 points and 13.1 rebounds in the regular season.
        In his career, Hairston scored a total of 11,505 points during the regular season and 801 points in the postseason. He averaged 14.8 points and still holds the mark for most defensive rebounds in a quarter, 13, set in 1974 against Philadelphia.
        Hairston is survived by a daughter, Amber Cronin of Los Angeles; and three sisters: Joyce Black of Los Angeles, and Sharon Miller and Vera Baden of Charlotte, N.C.
        After retiring from basketball in 1975, Hairston went into the golf business and managed ranges and courses in Los Angeles. He also founded the Happy Hairston Youth Foundation, which pays for children from poor families to attend private school.
        ''A lot of us cry wolf,'' Hairston told The Dallas Morning News in 1996. ''We get huge amounts and don't put anything back. This is my way of putting back.''
      