
        Representative Joe Moakley, who for a half-century was the proud quintessence of the South Boston Irish Democrat, died of complications from leukemia today at Bethesda Naval Hospital in Maryland. He was 74.
        Mr. Moakley announced on Feb. 12 that he had an incurable form of leukemia and would not run for a 16th term in Congress. In recent years, he also underwent kidney surgery, a liver transplant and a hip replacement.
        Mr. Moakley was born, reared and lived his entire life in South Boston. He proclaimed himself a ''bread and butter'' politician and said he followed the adage of his mentor, Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr.: ''All politics is local.''
        In the childhood of Joe Moakley, local politicians gave out jobs and made sure dinner tables and coal buckets were not empty. As the representative from the Ninth District of Massachusetts, Mr. Moakley helped bring home federal money for cleaning up Boston Harbor, for heating the homes of the poor and for the ''Big Dig,'' the rerouting of a Boston highway into a tunnel in one of the largest public works projects in American history.
        ''He was unabashed when it came to trying to get federal money for Boston,'' said Representative Richard E. Neal, Democrat of Massachusetts. ''He never apologized for a dime of it.''
        Mr. Moakley stated his personal and political allegiances simply. ''As soon as we're born, we're baptized into the Catholic Church, we're sworn into the Democratic Party and we're given union cards,'' he said in a 1989 interview.
        That year, he was appointed chairman of the House Rules Committee, the panel that develops the rules under which legislation is to be considered on the floor. Although a liberal Democrat through and through, he differed occasionally with leaders of his party. And while he sometimes used the committee to keep the opposition at a disadvantage, some Republican lawmakers grudgingly praised him for keeping them informed and not shutting them out of debates altogether.
        ''We have an old Irish proverb,'' Mr. Moakley explained. ''The people you meet on the way up the ladder are the same people you meet on the way down.''
        The Republican Congressional landslide of 1994 cast the Democrats out of power and made Mr. Moakley the ranking minority member on the Rules Committee. He worked cordially with some of the newly empowered Republicans, although he deeply disliked their leader, Speaker Newt Gingrich of Georgia, and his most ardent followers.
        While he usually concentrated on issues close to home, Mr. Moakley headed a special panel that investigated the killing of six Jesuit priests, their housekeeper and her daughter in El Salvador in 1989 and the Salvadoran government's response to the killings.
        The Moakley Commission issued a report linking several high-ranking Salvadoran military officials to the slayings. Partly as a result of its findings, the United States ended military aid to El Salvador.
        John Joseph Moakley, who always went by Joe, was born on April 27, 1927. He enlisted in the Navy at 15 and served in the South Pacific during World War II. After the war, he attended the University of Miami on a boxing scholarship. Back in Boston, he worked in a foundry and attended night classes at Suffolk University Law School, earning his degree in 1956.
        In 1952, when he was 25, he was elected to the Massachusetts House. He served there until 1960. He was elected to the State Senate in 1964 and served until 1970, when he ran for Congress. He lost in the primary to Louise Day Hicks, the anti-busing chairwoman of the Boston School Committee, who won the general election.
        In 1971, Mr. Moakley won a seat on the Boston City Council, and the following year he ran again for Congress, this time as an independent. Ms. Hicks, weakened by a bitter Democratic primary in which she faced five rivals, lost the general election to Mr. Moakley. In recent years, Mr. Moakley has faced only token Republican opposition, or none at all, and the Democratic Party is unlikely to lose a seat when an election is held to choose his successor.
        Mr. Moakley's wife, Evelyn, died of cancer in 1996. The couple had no children. Mr. Moakley's survivors include two brothers, Bob and Tom, of Massachusetts.
        Congress passed a bill in March naming a new federal courthouse in Boston after Mr. Moakley, and President Bush invited him to the White House for the signing ceremony.
        Last month, at a bipartisan dinner in Washington to raise money for a charitable foundation named for him, Mr. Moakley looked fit and cheerful.
        ''I truly love being a member of the House,'' he told the 800 guests, ''representing the people of my hometown and surrounding neighborhoods.''
      