
        Malcom Purcell McLean, an entrepreneur who started as a truck driver and reinvented worldwide shipping 45 years ago when he hefted big loaded trailers into freighter holds, died Friday at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 87.
        The cause was heart failure, said John D. McCown, chairman of Trailer Bridge, a container shipping company based in Jacksonville, Fla. Mr. McLean was its founder and majority shareholder.
        A farmer's son born in Maxton, N.C., the man dubbed the Father of Containerization began to haul empty tobacco barrels in an old trailer when he was in his teens. Three years out of high school, in 1934, he and two of his six siblings opened the McLean Trucking Company.
        The Depression was still holding sway, but the three managed over two decades to build the company into one of the country's biggest trucking concerns. It also was among the first to use diesel trucks.
        Many years later, Mr. McLean said the idea for shipping large cargo boxes came to him one day in 1937 in Hoboken, N.J., as he watched longshoremen loading and unloading goods. It was part of a centuries-old process of manhandling wares again and again from factory to their eventual destination anywhere in the world.
        It dawned on him that sorting and packing goods into containers for shipment would make the process faster, safer and cheaper. He finally put the idea to work in 1955 when he sold his share of McLean Trucking and bought the Pan Atlantic Steamship Company of Mobile, Ala.
        In April 1956, a converted World War II tanker named Ideal X sailed from Port Newark with 58 containers on specially rigged decks. Within years, Mr. McLean changed the company name to Sea-Land as the concept caught on among competitors.
        Mr. McLean charted the world's first container routes, as he expanded from coastal transport to Puerto Rico and the Atlantic and Pacific trade. By the time he sold his interest to R. J. Reynolds in 1969, Sea-Land was the largest container carrier in the business.
        He was active in real estate but returned to sea in 1978 when he took over the moribund United States Lines and turned it into a rival of Sea-Land. That venture faltered, however, when United States Lines acquired a dozen huge vessels dubbed Econships and miscalculated their profitability.
        Able to transport 2,000 40-foot containers, they were the largest vessels afloat. But the behemoths suffered from underuse and sank United States Lines.
        In 1992, at 78, Mr. McLean set sail once more by founding Trailer Bridge, intended to serve a route between Puerto Rico and the mainland. Its ships are built to carry the largest vans used on American highways from port to port.
        Mr. McLean is survived by his second wife, Irena Serafin McLean; a son, Malcom Jr. of Fort Collins, Colo.; two daughters, Nancy Parker of Alexandria, Va., and Patricia Mendenhall of Manhattan; four siblings, Clara McLean, Mary McFadyen, Margaret Newberry and John L. McLean, all of North Carolina; 11 grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren. His first wife, Margaret Sikes McLean, died in 1992 after more than 50 years of marriage.
        President Ronald Reagan celebrated Mr. McLean in 1984 for his vision and ''spirit of determined optimism.''
      