
        Dr. John S. O'Brien, who identified the gene that causes Tay-Sachs disease and helped develop screening tests for the rare but fatal disorder among infants, died on Feb. 1 at his home in San Diego. He was 66.
        The cause was a long illness related to postpolio complications, his family said.
        A professor of neurosciences at the University of California at San Diego medical school, Dr. O'Brien published the first of several papers explaining the basis of Tay-Sachs, a hereditary disease caused by a genetic mutation, in 1969. The disease leaves the body unable to produce an enzyme necessary for fat metabolism in nerve cells.
        Tay-Sachs, first described in the 1880's, causes progressive mental deterioration, blindness, paralysis, epileptic seizures and death, usually before age 5. A victim must inherit two defective genes, one from each parent, for the disorder to develop.
        Jewish parents of Central and Eastern European ancestry, known as Ashkenazi Jews, are most at risk of having an infant with the disease. Other populations affected include French Canadians from the St. Lawrence region, certain Cajuns in Louisiana and some Amish communities.
        In addition to isolating the genetic defect that causes Tay-Sachs disease, Dr. O'Brien developed screening tests for parents at risk of carrying the gene and conceiving a child with the disease. His work and strong support of such screening helped establish widespread education and counseling programs for people with high risks.
        Jayne C. Gershkowitz, executive director of the National Tay-Sachs and Allied Diseases Association in Boston, estimated that Dr. O'Brien's discovery and his tests reduced Tay-Sachs disease among Ashkenazi Jews by 95 percent since the 1970's.
        Ms. Gershkowitz said, however, that the success rate among other affected populations had been less, depending on available education and screening programs.
        Dr. O'Brien was born in Rochester and did undergraduate work at Loyola University in Los Angeles. He next went to Creighton University in Omaha and received a master's degree in physiology in 1958 and a medical degree in 1960.
        Dr. O'Brien then worked on a research fellowship for two years, before joining the faculty of the University of Southern California. In 1968, he went to the University of California at San Diego, rising to professor in 1970. He headed the neurosciences department from 1970 until 1978.
        His research focused on ''storage diseases,'' which are characterized by the buildup in cells of materials that are normally broken down and metabolized. Such toxic accumulation of waste materials in cells prevents normal functions and can lead to early death, as does Tay-Sachs.
        He also discovered and sequenced a family of proteins called prosapasins, which are molecules that help regenerate nerve cells. Recently one of those compounds entered clinical trials for certain diabetes patients.
        Dr. O'Brien is survived by his wife, Susan; his mother, Esther O'Brien of Los Angeles; three daughters, Maggie Mathers of Seattle, Kathleen Alex of Los Angeles and Bridget Youngdale of San Diego; three sons, John E., of Lakenheath Air Base, England, and Michael and Patrick, both of San Diego; a sister, Linda O'Brien-Rothe of Los Angeles; and 20 grandchildren.
      