
        Dorothee Metlitzki, a retired professor of English at Yale and a prominent scholar of medieval Arabic, Middle English and Herman Melville, died on April 14 in Hamden, Conn. She was 86.
        Her most definitive work focused on the intersection of Arabic and English culture during the Middle Ages, but she was also known for her scholarship on Melville, Chaucer and ''The Pearl,'' a seminal medieval poem.
        Dr. Metlitzki was born in Germany and spent part of her childhood in Russia, where her family fled the Bolsheviks for two years. She grew up in Lithuania. Although English was not her native language, she gained renown teaching and writing about American and British culture.
        At Yale and elsewhere, Dr. Metlitzki was known as a riveting lecturer and storyteller who would regale her audiences with firsthand accounts of some of the 20th century's most turbulent times. Her father, an international businessman, was imprisoned by the Bolsheviks but later freed by his own workers. And Dr. Metlitzki herself left Eastern Europe just as the Nazis were coming to power and lost members of her family to the Holocaust.
        When she was 17, she went to the University of London, where she became a protégée of Moshe Sharett, who later became the second prime minister of Israel. After receiving a bachelor's degree and two master's degrees, she moved to Jerusalem and took part in Israel's founding.
        She was a co-founder of the English Department at Hebrew University, helped found a self-help organization for Arab women and traveled around the world marshaling support for the Jewish state.
        When Golda Meir was prime minister of Israel, Dr. Metlitzki served in her government: she worked as press officer for the Foreign Ministry and secretary for the affairs of Arab women in the Israeli Federation of Labor.
        In 1954 Dr. Metlitzki enrolled in the new Ph.D. program in American Studies at Yale. She then taught English at the University of California at Berkeley and became the second woman to receive tenure in Berkeley's English department.
        In 1966 she returned to Yale and there, too, became the second woman in the English department to receive tenure. A philologist who spoke eight languages, Dr. Metlitzki taught at Yale until she turned 70 in 1984. After retiring, she continued to lead seminars and remained an active scholar until her death.
        Among her published works are ''The Matter of Araby in Medieval England'' (Yale University Press, 1977) and ''Melville's Orienda'' (Yale University Press, 1960).
        Dr. Metlitzki married three times. She is survived by a daughter from her second marriage, Ruth Grdseloff, of Berkeley, Calif.
      