
        Dr. Dan Hanley, the chief physician of the United States Olympic team from 1964 through 1972 and a pioneer who helped develop Olympic drug-testing programs, died Sunday at a hospital in Portland, Me. He was 85.
        From 1946 until he retired in 1980, Dr. Hanley was the head physician for his alma mater, Bowdoin College in Brunswick, Me., which in 1980 awarded him an honorary Doctor of Science degree. He specialized in sports medicine, and in the 1960's, when many athletes in sports like track and field and weight lifting illegally started using anabolic steroids, he campaigned for precompetition drug testing.
        From 1968 through 1980, he was a member of the International Olympic Committee's medical commission. He preached against the use of anabolic steroids, artificial bodybuilding drugs whose potential side effects include cancer, heart and liver damage, impotence and sterility.
        In 1983, he was a member of the medical commission for the Pan American Games in Caracas, Venezuela. There, 16 athletes from 10 nations tested positive for banned drugs. After the first positive findings, 12 American male track and field athletes flew home on the eve of competition. Although all 12 denied having used illegal drugs, most were believed to have feared new sophisticated drug tests.
        Almost every night there, the normally cheerful Hanley would sit with friends and grimly recount the drug misdeeds.
        ''It's sad,'' he said, ''that sport has come to this.''
        In a 1984 book, ''Death in the Locker Room,'' the book's author, Bob Goldman, quoted Hanley as having said, ''There are still many people handing out get-good-quick pills, touting medicines that send blue sparks and make big muscles, or advising athletes to drink superduper seaweed extracts.''
        Daniel Francis Hanley was born March 27, 1916, in Amesbury, Mass., the youngest of eight children. After outstanding academic and athletic careers in high school and at Governor Dummer Academy, he earned a scholarship to Bowdoin. There, he was captain of the hockey team, played football and basketball and waited on tables.
        He earned a bachelor's degree in chemistry from Bowdoin in 1939 and an M.D. from Columbia in 1943. In World War II, he was an Army physician in the China-Burma-India theater. In the 1950's, he became active in the Olympic movement, and in 1960 he was an assistant on the United States Olympic medical staff. In recent years, he was the executive director of the Maine Medical Association.
        He lived in Brunswick with his wife of 53 years, the former Maria Benoit. He is also survived by two sons, Dr. Daniel Hanley Jr. of Baltimore and Dr. Sean Hanley of Falmouth, Me.; two daughters, Sheila Hanley of South Portland, Me., and Dr. Sharon Vitousek of Kamuela, Hawaii; and 11 grandchildren.
        He is survived as well by a niece, a former ski racer whose athletic career he changed. When she broke her right leg in a ski accident as a high school sophomore, he recommended that she rehabilitate it by running on the roads. She did, and in time she quit ski racing and became a distance runner. In 1984, the niece, Joan Benoit Samuelson, won the first Olympic marathon for women.
      