
        Belton Kleberg Johnson, a descendant of the founders of the King Ranch who made millions as the head of his own ranch and other businesses, died on Saturday at a San Antonio hospital. He was 71.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Johnson's mother, Sarah, who wanted her son to take over operation of the King Ranch in Kingsville one day, insisted that he speak Spanish as a child because that was the language spoken on the ranch.
        But Mr. Johnson was passed over to head the legendary 825,000-acre ranch, and in 1959 he set out to prove his management ability by buying the Chaparrosa Ranch, about 100 miles southwest of San Antonio. The ranch had several productive gas wells and, more important, plenty of water for breeding and raising cattle.
        The Chaparrosa thrived, and Mr. Johnson's annual sale of prized Santa Gertrudis cattle attracted astronauts, politicians and other celebrities.
        He sold his interest in the King Ranch in 1976, and he sold the Chaparrosa after his only son, Belton Kleberg Johnson Jr., died in 1991 in a car wreck near Corpus Christi.
        Among the elder Mr. Johnson's other business interests through the years were the Carmel Ranch Company in California and the Fairmount Hotel in San Antonio, which he arranged to have moved across the city and restored in 1986. He also invested in other real estate and in oil, banking, plastics manufacturing and a video franchise.
        Belton Dandy Kleberg Johnson was born in Baltimore on Nov. 23, 1929. He was a descendant of Richard King, a native of New York and former steamboat captain who founded the King Ranch in 1853. One of his grandfathers was Robert Justus Kleberg, who married Alice King, Richard King's youngest daughter.
        Mr. Johnson was reared on the King Ranch by an uncle and aunt, Robert and Helen Kleberg Jr. His father, Henry Belton Johnson Jr., died of injuries suffered in a car accident in 1931, and his mother, Sarah Kleberg Shelton, died in 1942, also after a car accident.
        A graduate of Cornell University and the Stanford University School of Business, he served in the Army during the Korean War.
        Mr. Johnson is survived by his wife, Laura McAllister Johnson; two daughters, Sarah Johnson Pitt of Houston and Cecilia Johnson McMurrey of San Antonio; and eight grandchildren.
      