
        Perry Como, a small-town barber from Pennsylvania whose rich voice and easy manner made him one of the nation's most popular singers and entertainers in the decades after World War II, died in his sleep yesterday at his home in Jupiter, Fla. He was six days short of his 89th birthday.
        Mr. Como's enduring popularity flowed more from his personality than it did from the way he put a song across. ''The Como personality might be compared to a marvelous hot toddy on a cold and blustery evening,'' the television critic John J. O'Connor wrote in The New York Times in 1976, reviewing one of Mr. Como's popular Christmas specials.
        Low-keyed, unassuming, direct and always relaxed, Mr. Como won a wide following on television, where, as the critic Will Friedwald observed, ''he served the same function for crooners in the medium's golden age that Milton Berle did for roughhouse comics.''
        ''The Perry Como Show'' was a staple on NBC from December 1948 to June 1950 and from September 1955 to June 1963, with a leap to CBS for the period in between. Of the thousands of television shows in the medium's history, only two have been on the air longer: ''Gunsmoke,'' for 20 seasons, and ''Lassie,'' for 17.
        The key was comfort -- everybody liked Perry Como's nonthreatening, easy-to-listen-to manner. Even Bing Crosby himself referred to Mr. Como as ''the man who invented casual.''
        Paradoxically, Perry Como arrived in the big time (in the 1940's) singing what Mr. Friedwald calls ''heavy Chopinesque numbers'' like ''Till the End of Time'' and ''I'm Always Chasing Rainbows.''
        ''But once on top,'' Mr. Friedwald observed in his 1990 book ''Jazz Singing,'' he switched over to ''the most idiotic novelties of the pre-Mitch Miller era,'' beginning with ''Hubba Hubba'' (which he sang in the 1946 film ''Doll Face'') and continuing through ''Chi-Baba Chi-Baba'' (1947), ''N'yot N'yow'' (''The Pussycat Song,'' 1948), ''Bibbidi Bobbidi Boo'' (''The Magic Song,'' 1949), ''Zing Zing Zoom Zoom'' (1950), ''Chincherinchee,'' ''Papaya-Mama'' and the monster hit ''Hot Diggity'' (1955).
        With emphasis on such upbeat novelty tunes, Mr. Como's singing never inspired much excitement from the critics, although many found much to praise in his interpretations of standards and Broadway show tunes. He seemed to do best when his minimalist technique could temper larger-than-life songs like ''Some Enchanted Evening'' and ''If I Loved You.''
        Mr. Como's performances were admired for their modesty. In show business, where writers, disc jockeys and publicity agents conjured all manner of nicknames for performers, Mr. Como was at first called ''Mr. Jukebox.'' The nickname seemed appropriate after his initial success in 1945 with such recordings as ''Till the End of Time,'' which sold more than a million records and was the biggest hit of the year, and the big sellers ''Temptation'' and ''Prisoner of Love.''
        But soon the disc jockeys had other nicknames for him: ''Mr. Nice Guy'' and finally ''Mr. Class.'' That came not from the way Mr. Como sang but from the way he was. Having found his niche early in his career, Mr. Como saw no reason to change, which was a comfort to his fans.
        John Wilson, a former jazz and pop-music critic for The New York Times, reviewed a performance at the Westbury Music Fair on Long Island in 1976 when Mr. Como was 64, and wrote: ''Mr. Como still looks very much as he did on his weekly television show 15 or 20 years ago. His voice has retained the soft, easy, inviting qualities that it had at that time and before that, on his radio series that started in 1944.
        ''Mr. Como has developed relaxation to a high art. Although his movements consist of little more than an occasional hand gesture or a subtle rhythmic switching of a foot, he conveys a sense of vitality and involvement merely though the glimmer in his eyes and a little lifting quirk in his smile. He keeps his voice at a subdued, intimate level and in a low register most of the time.''
        Pierino Como was born on May 18, 1912, in Canonsburg, Pa., one of 13 children of Pietro and Lucia Travaglini Como, who had immigrated to the United States from the Abruzzi region of Italy. The elder Como, who had a fine baritone voice, worked in the Standard Tin Plate factory in Canonsburg, a small town in the coal-mining region southwest of Pittsburgh. The town had much in common with the Abruzzi he had left: it was a place where people toiled long and hard.
        Perry Como started working at the age of 10, sweeping out Steve Fragapane's barber shop for 50 cents a week. He quickly learned how to strop razors and lather brushes, and by the time he was 14 he owned his own barbershop, giving trims to miners. He picked up extra money on weekends, singing for the local chapter of the Sons of Italy and other fraternal organizations.
        Although Pietro Como's circumstances were so meager that he had to buy food on the installment plan, he found the money to give each of his children music lessons. Perry received instruction in organ and baritone horn, and in time played with Italian street bands that were common in Washington County. Unlike many singers of his generation, he could read music.
        It was Mr. Como's intention to remain a barber. But in 1932 he met Freddie Carlone, who with his brothers Tony and Frank had a band that played in clubs in Cleveland. The Carlones liked Mr. Como's way with a song and made him the band's featured vocalist.
        In 1937, Mr. Como was heard by Ted Weems, a far more famous band leader, and with the blessing of the Carlones joined the Weems band. He remained with it until the early days of World War II, when Mr. Weems left for military service.
        Mr. Como had married the former Roselle Belline in 1933, and in 1940 they had a son, Ronald. By wartime the family was living in a small apartment in Long Island City, Queens, and Mr. Como was singing late-night performances at the Copacabana and taking the subway home after the 2:30 a.m. show. The schedule kept him from spending as much time with his family as he wanted, and he decided to return to Canonsburg and open another barber shop.
        But an agent persuaded him to give his singing career more time, and his reputation grew. In 1943, he signed his first recording contract with RCA Records and made his first single, ''Goodbye Sue.'' That same year, he was signed by 20th Century Fox to a seven-year motion picture contract. He made some movies without causing any stir, among them ''Something for the Boys'' (1944), ''Doll Face'' (1945), ''If I'm Lucky'' (1946) and ''Words and Music''(1948). In 1944 his NBC radio show, ''The Chesterfield Supper Club,'' became a major success. By 1946 he was second only to the singer he most imitated, Bing Crosby, among vocalists in Billboard magazine's annual poll. Mr. Como beat out two top-notch singers, Dick Haymes and Frank Sinatra.
        In the late 1940's he took to television, a medium he found very much to his liking, with a 15-minute music program that was quite popular.
        In 1955, his Saturday-night television show was widely watched, not just in the United States but in the Abruzzi that his parents had left. People there said they liked his sweet disposition.
        A fixture on the show was ''Letters, we get letters, we get stacks and stacks of letters'' -- the musical introduction to a part of the program in which Mr. Como sang songs his listeners had requested.
        In 1946, the Comos bought a house and three acres of land at Sands Point, on Long Island, and during the singer's most active years he stayed close to home. Mrs. Como always did the cooking and Mr. Como frequently dried dishes.
        ''I've always been a simple guy with simple tastes,'' he said. ''I don't ask too much of life.''
        Mr. Como and his family moved to Florida in the 1970's but he would return to Long Island each year to participate in one of his charities, the St. Francis Hospital Celebrity Golf Classic.
        In the 1980's, after 50 years in show business, he was still going strong, doing television specials. By then, his worldwide record sales had topped the 100 million mark. Among his biggest hits were ''Because,'' ''When You Were Sweet 16,'' ''Don't Let the Stars Get in Your Eyes,'' ''Wanted,'' ''Papa Loves Mambo,'' ''Round and Round'' and ''Catch a Falling Star,'' for which he won a Grammy Award in 1958 as best male vocalist. He also won several Emmys for his television work in the 1950's.
        Mrs. Como died in 1998. In addition to his son, Ronald, of South Bend, Ind., Mr. Como is survived by a daughter, Therese, also of Jupiter, Fla.; another son, David, of San Francisco; 13 grandchildren; and 4 great-grandchildren.
        ''I don't have a lot to tell the average interviewer,'' Perry Como once told a reporter. ''I've done nothing that I can call exciting. I was a barber. Since then I've been a singer. That's it.''
        Correction:  May 16, 2001, Wednesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary and a picture caption about Perry Como in some copies on Sunday misstated the rankings of long-running television programs. ''The Perry Como Show,'' ''Lassie'' and ''Gunsmoke,'' ran for 15, 17 and 20 years, respectively, but other programs -- both news and entertainment -- have long since eclipsed them in longevity.
      