
        Theodore Wilentz, who with his brother, Eli, owned the Eighth Street Bookshop, a bustling bibliophilic beehive in the 1950's and 60's, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Washington. He was 86 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md.
        When it opened in 1947, the fabled store -- ''three floors of books'' was its slogan -- almost immediately began attracting literary luminaries to the southeast corner of Eighth and Macdougal Streets. In 1965, it moved across the street to the five-story building at No. 17 Eighth.
        Early browsers included W. H. Auden, E. E. Cummings, Marianne Moore and Delmore Schwartz. Then came the blazing lights of the Beat generation, Allen Ginsberg, Jack Kerouac and Gregory Corso.
        So, too, came members of the emerging New York School of abstract expressionist painters, and legions of English majors, not a few harboring the secret hope that the person riffling through a book in the next aisle might be a renowned writer or poet.
        Years before Barnes & Noble dreamed of grafting espresso bars onto the book-buying experience, the Eighth Street Bookshop offered a pretty nifty singles scene. But the chief attraction was the 60,000 meticulously selected titles, including what many considered the city's largest selection of poetry. Moreover, the store was one of the first to offer a large section of quality paperbacks, some of which the brothers published themselves under their imprint Corinth Books, which published such works as Mr. Kerouac's ''Scripture of the Golden Eternity.''
        Theodore Wilentz, called ''the bourgeois Bohemian'' by the critic Seymour Krim and known to friends as Ted, liked to say that a good bookman should be ''behind the writers and ahead of the readers.'' His wife, Joan, said that he liked to mix it up intellectually with customers, while Eli, who had wanted to be an architect, was responsible for the store's layout, window displays and general appearance.
        Just as important was the brothers' personal touch: they routinely hired struggling poets to stock shelves; made never-to-be-repaid loans to Mr. Kerouac and his friend, the writer Neal Cassady, and charitably bought paintings from artists like Robert Smithson, an occasional book packer for the store; the paintings were later donated to the Smithsonian's Hirshhorn Museum.
        The publisher Jason Epstein called the Eighth Street Bookshop ''a bibliographer's paradise,'' and said that the store was his inspiration for starting Anchor Books, considered by many to be one of the first producers of quality paperback editions. The Wilentzes placed an order for 100 copies each of Anchor's first 12 titles.
        Corinth Books gave Delmore Schwartz an advance for a book the brothers knew he would never finish. ''I knew Delmore would never accept charity,'' Theodore said.
        Theodore Wilentz was born in the Bronx on March 15, 1915, two years before his brother. He quickly became an enthusiastic reader. With four friends, he opened a book and stationery store in the Bronx in 1937. The group added two more stores.
        Both brothers served in the Army during World War II. Two of the stores closed during the war, but upon their return the brothers decided to run the remaining one together. When a Womrath lending library franchise expired, they  dumped the unprofitable lending library and expanded their stock of literary backlist books. It became the Eighth Street Bookshop.
        They founded Corinth Books in 1959 in the hope of publishing books that would reflect their personal tastes and beliefs. Among its books were Diane di Prima's ''Dinners and Nightmares'' and Mr. Ginsberg's ''Empty Mirror.''
        Theodore's wife said that in 1967, her husband sold his half of the store to Eli after the brothers had trouble getting along. Fire destroyed the store in 1976, but thanks to a surge of public support, including an extemporaneous poem by Mr. Ginsberg about the blaze, Eli was able to reopen it. It closed for good in 1979.
        Theodore then worked at the Brentano's store on Fifth Avenue and at the Gotham Book Mart, and he managed the New York office of Sierra Club Books. He was later a part owner of the Discovery Bookshop on Lexington Avenue. He closed that shop to move to New Haven to run the book department of the Yale Co-op.
        He retired to Maryland in 1979, but continued to work as a consultant. In 1980, he advised Daedalus Books, the book remainder company, and became a minority shareholder. Other clients included the National Endowment for the Arts and Jeannette Watson, owner of another landmark Manhattan literary store, Books and Company. It closed in 1998.
        Theodore Wilentz is survived by his wife; two sons, John E. of Cobb Island, Md., and David T. of Manhattan; and a sister, Lillian Jacobs of Great Neck, N.Y. Eli Wilentz died in 1995.
        Correction:  May 11, 2001, Friday  An obituary on Sunday about Theodore Wilentz, an owner of the Eighth Street Bookshop in Greenwich Village during the 1950's and 1960's, gave a misspelled surname in some copies for a writer who borrowed money from him. The writer was Neal Cassady, not Cassidy.
      