
        Marie Jahoda, one of the world's foremost social psychologists and an emeritus professor at the University of Sussex, died on April 28 at her home in Keymer, in southeast England. Dr. Jahoda, who taught at New York University in the 1950's, was 94.
        In a long career as a researcher, teacher and writer, Dr. Jahoda, known as Mitzi, examined social issues in the field well beyond the realm of dry statistics, and in her classes emphasized a humanistic approach and adherence to scientific rigor in social research.
        In New York from 1949 to 1958, she was a professor of social psychology at N.Y.U. and was a founding director of its Research Center for Human Relations. She was the source of a steady stream of surveys and reports on the social fabric of the city and the country.
        Her topics included anti-Semitism and ethnic and religious prejudice in the work place and in intergroup relations. In one report she found that opinion researchers must sometimes resort to biased questions to detect bias on the respondent's part.
        ''People with prejudices,'' she concluded, ''seldom like to admit it.''
        On behalf of the federal Public Health Service, she investigated the effect of conditions in a wartime boom town on the mental health of workers. For this, she documented overcrowded living quarters and a dearth of education, health and recreation centers.
        She tackled the delicate issue of loyalty in the political atmosphere of the 1950's by studying the impact of federal security measures on government employees.
        In 1954 she assessed the role of women in America and wrote that women seeking to combine marriage with a career need strong mental health and an ability to solve problems.
        Her investigation of conformity in America in the 1950's found the issue to be oversimplified. There were several basic types of conformers, she said. The most common type she called drifters, people who willingly changed their beliefs because they lacked adequate knowledge of the arguments pro or con. Another category she characterized as people who had definite and unpopular beliefs that they kept to themselves for fear of the consequences of speaking out.
        Born in Vienna, Marie Jahoda absorbed the teachings of Freud and Jung and received her doctorate at the University of Vienna. She gained early recognition with a sociological study conducted in Marienthal, near Vienna, with Hans Zeisel and her first husband, Paul Lazarsfeld.
        Marienthal, an industrial district, was racked by unemployment in the 1920's and 1930's. Working unobtrusively, the researchers measured the psychological consequences. For Dr. Jahoda the project demonstrated that work met a basic need for most people, giving them personal worth, social coherence and structured time.
        As a Social Democrat opposed to the Austrian government even before Hitler annexed the country, she was imprisoned in 1936 but managed to reach England. There her research took on topics like unemployment in the coal mines and the transition from the classroom to the work place.
        She came to the United States after World War II and worked as a researcher for the American Jewish Committee and at Columbia University before moving to N.Y.U.
        She returned to Britain in 1958 to marry Austen Albu, a Labor member of Parliament. She worked as a researcher and teacher at the University of Sussex from 1965.
        Mr. Albu died in 1994. Dr. Jahoda is survived by a daughter from her first marriage, Lotte Bailyn of Belmont, Mass., a professor of management at M.I.T.; and two grandsons. Dr. Jahoda and Dr. Lazarsfeld divorced in the 1930's. He became a professor of sociology at Columbia University and died in 1976.
        Correction:  May 18, 2001, Friday  An obituary on May 10 about Dr. Marie Jahoda, a social psychologist, omitted two survivors. They are a sister, Rosi Kuerti of Cleveland, and a brother, Fritz Jahoda of Concord, Mass.
      