
        Dr. Wesley C. Salmon, a philosopher of science who developed a theory in which he sought to show that improbable events could still be explained scientifically if their causes could be traced with sufficient clarity, died on April 22 in an automobile accident in Madison County, Ohio. He was 75.
        He was an emeritus professor of philosophy and of the history and philosophy of science at the University of Pittsburgh.
        Dr. Adolf Grünbaum, a professor of philosophy of science at Pittsburgh, described Dr. Salmon as a leading contemporary philosopher of science and credited him with developing a ''distinctive and innovative theory of scientific explanation based on causality.''
        Dr. Salmon's approach ran counter to the then-prevailing views of Dr. Carl G. Hempel, another important figure in the field, who thought that to explain a scientific phenomenon there had to be a 50 percent chance or better that the event would occur.
        This was too strict an approach for Dr. Salmon, who thought that events with a much lower predictability could still have scientific explanations and that nature might not have provided as much regularity as the Hempel standard required. What was important to him was to exhibit a causal link between a phenomenon and its origins.
        Dr. Salmon's view was thus less exacting than the approach of Dr. Hempel, who died in 1997 at 92, in that it accepted a lower probability of cause leading to effect.
        As an illustration of his theory, he cited paresis, a neurological degradation that can follow untreated primary syphilis. Since paresis occurs in fewer than half of untreated cases, Dr. Hempel's theory does not accept untreated syphilis as an explanation of this form of nervous deterioration, although in practice untreated syphilis is its only known cause.
        Dr. Salmon was born on Aug. 9, 1925, in Detroit. He received his doctorate from the University of California at Los Angeles, where he studied under Prof. Hans Reichenbach, another leading figure in the history of the philosophy of science.
        Dr. Salmon was on the faculty of Brown University from 1955 to 1963, when he became a professor in the department of the history and philosophy of science at Indiana University. He served there for 10 years, before moving to the University of Arizona, where he worked until 1981.
        That year he joined the University of Pittsburgh as professor and chairman of philosophy. From 1983 until his retirement in 1999, he held the post of university professor of philosophy, which Dr. Hempel had filled before him.
        His most important books were ''The Foundations of Scientific Inference'' (1967), ''Scientific Explanation and the Causal Structure of the World'' (1984), ''Four Decades of Scientific Explanation''(1990) and ''Causality and Explanation'' (1998).
        He is survived by his wife, Merrilee Salmon; a daughter, Victoria Gardener of Bloomington Ind.; a stepdaughter, Charlotte Broome of Pittsburgh; and a stepson, Bruce Ashby of Reston, Va.
      