
        Boozoo Chavis, an accordionist, singer and bandleader who was a patriarch of Louisiana zydeco music, died Saturday in Austin, Tex., after suffering a heart attack and then a stroke late last month, said Jack Reich, his manager. He was 70 and lived in Lake Charles, La.
        During the 1990's, Mr. Chavis was widely acknowledged as the king of zydeco music, the mixture of Cajun (Acadian) Celtic traditions and rhythm-and-blues drive that fills Gulf Coast dance halls. Unlike his contemporary, Clifton Chenier, who played an accordion with a pianolike keyboard and carried an urban, bluesy zydeco style around the world, Mr. Chavis played diatonic button accordion, and his music was closer to rural and Celtic roots.
        It was raw and propulsive, with modal tunes that merged zydeco's Celtic and African-American strains. Mr. Chavis wore country clothes: a Stetson hat and an apron to keep his sweat off the accordion. With his rough-hewn voice and hefty accordion riffs, his band's one-chord grooves had a mesmerizing intensity that kept dance floors packed.
        Mr. Chavis recorded one of the first zydeco hits, ''Paper in My Shoe,'' in 1954, and from the 1980's on he sparked a revival of button-accordion zydeco. ''I don't get mad if they play my music,'' he told the author Michael Tisserand in ''The Kingdom of Zydeco'' (Arcade, 1998). ''But I get mad if they mess it up.''
        Wilson Anthony Chavis was born near Church Point, La., and nicknamed Boozoo. His father, a tenant farmer, played accordion; his mother did farm work, ran informal horse races and eventually opened a dance hall. There, Boozoo Chavis would sit in with Morris Chenier, a Creole fiddler, and his nephew, Clifton.
        Mr. Chavis worked as a farmer, jockey and horse trainer, and in 1952 he married Leona Predium. She survives her husband along with their sons Charles, Poncho and Rellis, who played in their father's band; their daughters Do-Right John, Louann Guidry and Licia Chavis; 21 grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
        Mr. Chavis invested winnings from a horse race on a calf and sold it as a heifer; he bought his first accordion with the profits. ''Paper in My Shoe,'' a song about being too poor to afford socks, was released in 1955 and became a regional hit. It remains a zydeco standard. A collection of Mr. Chavis's rowdy 1950's recordings, ''The Lake Charles Atom Bomb'' (Rounder), was released in 1990.
        But after recording for just a few years, Mr. Chavis decided in the late 1950's that he had been cheated by his record company and gave up performing. For more than two decades, he worked as a race horse trainer, sometimes playing his accordion ''under the tree,'' he once said.
        In 1984, Boozoo and Leona Chavis were driving to a horse race and heard a radio advertisement for a dance featuring Boozoo Chavis. Someone was impersonating him, and Mr. Chavis realized his reputation was strong enough to restart his performing career. A single about his neighborhood, ''Dog Hill,'' put him back on local radio stations, and soon he was selling out dance halls. He went on to write songs about nearly everyone he knew, from his family to his manager. He also sang raunchy zydeco songs that were sold locally from under the counter.
        Eventually, Mr. Chavis began working beyond the bayou circuit. He took his first commercial airplane flight in 1990 to perform in New York City, and he began releasing albums nationally on Rounder Records. In 1993, he was anointed the King of Zydeco according to the wishes of Rockin' Dopsie, who died in 1993. Dopsie had proclaimed himself the heir to Chenier. It was a contentious title in zydeco country, but Mr. Chavis was universally respected.
        Through the 1990's, Mr. Chavis gained fans across the United States and disciples among zydeco musicians, among them Beau Jocques and Keith Frank. Jo Jo Reed released a song called ''I Got It From Boo.'' Mr. Chavis and Mr. Jocques played concerts together billed as showdowns; Robert Mugge made a documentary, ''The Kingdom of Zydeco,'' about their friendly rivalry.
        Mr. Chavis and his band, the Majic Sounds, worked constantly, even after he lost the last joints of two fingers on his left hand in an accident while building a barbecue pit. After performing on April 24 in Austin, Mr. Chavis collapsed and was hospitalized. He had recently completed recording an album, tentatively titled ''I'm Still Blinkin'.''
        Correction:  May 9, 2001, Wednesday  An obituary of the zydeco accordionist Boozoo Chavis on Monday and in some copies on Sunday misstated the date of the heart attack that preceded his death on Saturday at age 70. It was on April 28, not April 24.
      