
        Smokey Yunick, whose ingenious wizardry with automobile innards made him one of the most celebrated mechanics in racing car history, died of leukemia on May 9 at his home in Daytona Beach, Fla. He was 77.
        In 1990, the International Motorsports Hall of Fame in 1990 inducted Yunick, who was almost never referred to by his given name of Henry, praising him as the ''sly mechanical genius whose reputation as one of the premier mechanics in Nascar hasn't diminished over the years.''
        Known for his corncob pipe and flattened ten-gallon cowboy hat, he was twice Nascar mechanic of the year, and his cars won at least once at every major track on the circuit. His cars raced at Indianapolis from 1958 to 1975, and one driven by Jim Rathmann won in 1960. His drivers included Fireball Roberts, Mario Andretti, A. J. Foyt, Junior Johnson, and Al and Bobby Unser.
        Yunick was also an inventor who designed, patented and built spark plugs, radiators, power brakes and power-steering devices. He helped develop Chevrolet's original small-block engine, and the basic principles of that design are still used. It was used in the 1955 Chevy and is beloved by classic-car buffs.
        Yunick's inventive ways led to his being constantly accused of cheating in the early days of Nascar. In the 1960's, Nascar officials ordered him to drain his fuel tank completely, suspecting that he had a hidden one. He did so, then merrily drove off.
        He had discovered a loophole: rules required fuel tanks to be uniform, but there were no restrictions on the length or size of the fuel line. That allowed him to store gallons of gasoline outside of the tank.
        In the book ''Legends of Stock Car Racing,'' John Craft wrote: ''All manner of rules violations have been attributed to Smokey over the years. Perhaps the rules he actually did break were more the result of his innovation rather than any conscious desire to thwart sanctioning bodies' wishes.''
        Or maybe not. ''If they didn't say you couldn't, I thought it was fair game,'' he said in an interview with The Orlando Sentinel in 1998.
        Henry Yunick was born on May 24, 1923, on a farm in Neshaminy, Pa., near Philadelphia. His father traveled much of the time to work as a carpenter, leaving young Henry to handle most of the farm work. At 13, he became exasperated by the stubbornness of a plow horse named Big Bill. So he took an old Dodge car, a rear axle from a Model-T Ford truck and some other parts, and built a makeshift tractor.
        When his father died, Yunick dropped out of high school as a sophomore to work as a machinist and welder. He became interested in motorcycles and bought an Indian Scout. He was nicknamed Smokey by a racetrack announcer when the motorcycle spewed fumes during a race.
        In World War II, he flew bombers, fighters and other aircraft in Europe, Africa and Asia. On a training flight, he looked out the window while piloting a B-17 over Daytona Beach and liked what he saw.
        He returned to settle on Beach Street in 1946 and opened a repair shop that he called ''the Best Damn Garage in Town.'' It quickly became more than that. Yunick ran a helicopter charter company out of the garage and became a heavy-duty truck dealer for GMC, International Harvester and other brands.
        He built a race car from a Hudson Hornet, then moved on to Fords and Chevrolets. In 1958, he was the last owner to win when Daytona's main race was run on the beach. His cars won the Daytona 500 in 1961 and 1962, and four of the first eight Winston Cup races at the Daytona International Speedway.
        Yunick personified the rough-and-tumble stock-car culture, partying hard and playing loose. ''I'm not proud of what I did back then, but if a woman looked good, we really didn't abide by the Ten Commandments,'' he told The Sentinel.
        He found himself clashing with the cleaner, more button-down image Nascar was seeking. He and Bill France Sr., Nascar's founder, virtually never spoke in the 20 years before France's death in 1992.
        Racing Indianapolis-style cars became his focus, and he was one of the first to give them wings to improve their aerodynamics. ''I would have pulled my car to Indianapolis with a rope if I had to,'' he once said.
        Increasingly, he worked on large-scale technological improvements, inventing a collapsible wall for tracks, which he believed would save drivers' lives. For years, he experimented with altering car engines to improve efficiency. For reasons now obscure, he even designed an engine to run on animal fat.
        Last year, he donated a device he invented -- a machine to test engine performance up to 10,000 revolutions per minute without ignition -- to the University of Central Florida.
        Yunick is survived by his wife, Margie; four sons, Smokey Albert Yunick, of Holly Hill, Fla., William Sam Yunick, of Jacksonville, Fla., Steven Slade Yunick, of Ormond Beach, Fla., and Rob Hink, of Lighthouse Point, Fla.; two daughters, Trish Yunick Brown, of Daytona Beach, and Gail Hink, of Lighthouse Point; and nine grandchildren.
      