
        Dr. James David Ebert, a research biologist who helped upgrade embryology from an adjunct of anatomy to a modern discipline employing genetics, biochemistry and molecular biology, was killed on Tuesday in an automobile collision in Maryland. He was 79 and lived in Baltimore.
        His wife of 61 years, Alma Goodwin Ebert, 78, also died in the accident on Interstate 95, north of Baltimore.
        Dr. Ebert was a professor of biology at Johns Hopkins University. He was also a former president of the Carnegie Institution of Washington, a vice president of the National Academy of Sciences and president of the Woods Hole Marine Biological Laboratory in Woods Hole, Mass.
        In those positions he exerted considerable influence in the formation of public science policy. In addition, he headed an advisory panel that reviewed the organization of the National Institutes of Health in the 1980's and sat on various boards of the National Science Foundation, the United States Public Health Service and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, among others.
        He was director of Carnegie's Department of Embryology in Baltimore from 1956 to 1976 and president of the Carnegie Institution from 1978 to 1987. The institution was founded by Andrew Carnegie in 1902, and its embryology department began in 1914 at Johns Hopkins.
        Under his guidance, the department turned from the classification and anatomical study of embryos to the study of genes -- their structure, evolution and control -- and the study of membrane development and function. He brought a new emphasis to cell differentiation and control mechanisms.
        James Ebert was born in Bentleyville, Pa., south of Pittsburgh. He graduated from Washington and Jefferson College in 1942 and was commissioned into the Navy and served as a lieutenant for destroyer duty in the Pacific. He received a Ph.D. in biology and experimental embryology from Johns Hopkins in 1950.
        He taught at M.I.T. and Indiana University before being named director of the Carnegie embryology department. He was president of the Woods Hole institution from 1970 to 1978.
        The Eberts are survived by two daughters, Frances D. Schwartz of Dublin, Md., and Rebecca S. Coyle of Owings Mills, Md.; a son, David B., of Cape Coral, Fla.; seven grandchildren; and one great-grandson. Also surviving are his brother, Chuck, of Vienna, Va.; and her siblings, Paul Goodwin of Ellenboro, W.Va., and Eva Goodwin of Belpre, Ohio.
      