
        Robert Forbes Woodward, a career foreign service officer and Latin America expert who left an imprint on American policy from Cuba to Argentina, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 92.
        Mr. Woodward, who was ambassador to three Latin American countries and Spain before becoming a senior State Department policy maker, helped implement the Kennedy administration's Alliance for Progress, an aid program to spur development in Latin America.
        Mr. Woodward was an early advocate for such assistance and some colleagues recalled his pressing Washington for more support to the nations of Latin America and promoting the Inter-American Development Bank -- which was established in 1960 -- as a powerful engine for economic growth.
        Known as a steady but self-effacing diplomat, Mr. Woodward had served as the American ambassador to Chile for just seven weeks when he became assistant secretary of state for Latin America in 1961.
        Various diplomats had refused the post, worried that they might be undercut by close advisers to President  Kennedy, like Richard N. Goodwin and Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., who had their own assignments to recast American relations in the hemisphere.
        But Mr. Woodward took the position, just two months after the disastrous American-backed invasion of Cuba at the Bay of Pigs. He soon became entangled in the dictates and secret missions involving the White House advisers, according to George Landau, a longtime friend and former American ambassador to Chile.
        ''He was a model diplomat,'' Mr. Landau said. ''But he was too nice. He never said 'no.' ''
        Still, as assistant secretary, Mr. Woodward led the successful effort to suspend Cuba's membership in the Organization of American States as Fidel Castro consolidated his power. He also helped organize the founding meeting of the Alliance for Progress, which aimed in part to dissuade Latin Americans from socialism and revolution.
        After eight months in the job, Mr. Woodward became ambassador to Spain. There, he renegotiated pacts for the United States to maintain a submarine base at Rota, Spain, as well as three air bases.
        Born in Minneapolis in 1908, he graduated from the University of Minnesota in 1930 and joined the foreign service a year later. He married Virginia Parker Cooke of Washington, in Lima, Peru, in 1943. She died in 1990.
        His 37-year career sent him to virtually every corner of the Americas. He served in consular and embassy posts in Canada, Argentina, Paraguay, Colombia, Brazil, Bolivia, Guatemala, and Cuba, in addition to Stockholm. He was appointed ambassador to Costa Rica in 1954, ambassador to Uruguay in 1958 and ambassador to Chile in 1961.
        Mr. Woodward is survived by their two children, Robert Forbes Woodward Jr. of Boyds, Md., and Mary  Woodward Truland of Germantown, Md.; and two sisters and six grandchildren.
      