
        David Jamieson, who as a British Army captain received the Victoria Cross, the British Commonwealth's highest award for valor, for his role in repulsing a German attack during the breakout from the D-Day invasion beaches in August 1944, died on May 5. He was 80.
        ''I'm a very nervous man,'' he once said. ''I have always considered it enormous luck that I got the Victoria Cross.''
        Whatever his disposition, Captain Jamieson remained steadfast and in command over a tumultuous 36-hour stretch of Aug. 7 and 8, 1944, when he exposed himself to intense German fire defending a bridgehead over the River Orne in Normandy, south of Caen.
        Captain Jamieson's company of the Royal Norfolk Regiment was attacked three times by a German SS tank unit on the first day of the battle for the river crossing. But by nightfall the enemy was beaten back as Captain Jamieson rallied his men. The next day, the Germans launched four more attacks. Two of the three tanks supporting Captain Jamieson's company were knocked out and the telephone on the outside of the third tank, providing communication to the tank commander, was not working.
        Captain Jamieson sprang from his slit trench. Under heavy close-range fire, he climbed atop the turret to direct the tank crew's fire, his 6-foot-5-inch frame exposed to the enemy. He was wounded in the right eye and left forearm, but refused evacuation.
        Later, lacking cover, he walked around in full view of the Germans, urging his troops to fight on, and used his radio to call in artillery fire. By the end of the second day, the Germans had been completely repelled, and enemy bodies and the wreckage of five tanks and an armored car ringed the British troops.
        ''There were times when the position appeared hopeless,'' the citation for Captain Jamieson's Victoria Cross read, ''but on each occasion it was restored by his coolness and determination. He personally was responsible for the holding of this important bridgehead.''
        David Auldjo Jamieson was born on Oct. 1, 1920, a son of Sir Archibald Jamieson, who became chairman of Vickers, the British armaments company, in 1937 as Britain began preparing for the confrontation with Germany. He was educated at Eton, then obtained a commission in the Royal Norfolk Regiment in May 1939.
        After World War II, having been promoted to major, he served as an instructor at the School of Infantry in Warminster, England, and an adviser to the British Military Mission to Egypt. After leaving the army in 1948, he was a businessman in Britain and Australia.
        He is survived by his second wife, Joanna; a son and two daughters from his marriage to his first wife, Nancy, who died in 1963; a stepson and stepdaughter.
        His death leaves 21 living recipients of the Victoria Cross, created by Queen Victoria in 1856.
        Although height gave him a decided vulnerability when he climbed atop that tank in France during the summer of 1944 while surrounded by Germans firing at him, it served him well years later. His imposing bearing, and the renown given a holder of the Victoria Cross, led to his designation as Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother's umbrella man at social functions. He carried a ceremonial umbrella as he opened paths for the Queen Mother at springtime garden parties, this time surrounded by admirers.
      