
        Dr. Morton Klass, an anthropologist and a writer who focused on the people of South Asia and their descendants in the West Indies, died Saturday at his home in Washington Heights in Manhattan. He was 73.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Dr. Klass taught for more than 30 years at Barnard College and Columbia University, where he served as director of the Southern Asian Institute in the 1980's. Barnard credited him with helping to revitalize its anthropology department, from which he retired as a professor emeritus in 1997.
        Most recently he examined the anthropology of religion in general. The result was a textbook on the subject, ''Ordered Universes,'' which remains in print, as do several of his books.
        Morton Klass was born in Brooklyn and graduated with a degree in anthropology from Brooklyn College in 1955. He received a Ph.D. in the discipline from Columbia in 1959.
        His interest in anthropology began with his reading of Margaret Mead's classic ''Coming of Age in Samoa'' while he was on sea duty with the United States merchant marine in the 1940's.
        His dissertation, ''East Indians in Trinidad,'' dealt with the offspring of sugar plantation workers imported in the 19th century.
        His studies required extensive field work in the Caribbean and West Bengal, a state in India. He wrote about the caste system persisting in both regions, its prehistoric origins, its clash with economic development and the complex relationship between caste society and Hindu religion.
        His other books included ''From Field to Factory: Community Structure and Industrialization in West Bengal,'' ''Caste: The Emergence of the South Asian Social System'' and ''Singing with Sai Baba: The Politics of Revitalization in Trinidad.''
        With Maxine Weisgrau, he edited ''Across the Boundaries of Belief: Contemporary Issues in the Anthropology of Religion.''
        Dr. Klass is survived by his wife of 48 years, Sheila Solomon Klass, a novelist and retired professor of English; two daughters, Dr. Perri E. Klass of Cambridge, Mass., and Judy A. Klass of Brooklyn; a son, David A., of Manhattan; a sister, Fran Goldman-Levy of Brooklyn; a brother, Philip, of Pittsburgh; and four grandchildren.
      