
        Aage B. Sorensen, a Danish-born Harvard sociologist who played an important role in developing new sociological theories of inequality, died on April 18 in Boston He was 59.
        He had been in bad health since falling on the ice near his home in Cambridge, Mass., in February last year, his family said.
        Dr. Sorensen's main contribution involved theories of how social and economic inequality reflects the unequal distribution of opportunities and social resources. His work offered a sociological alternative to some economic theories that see inequality as a result of differences in training and education.
        Instead, he argued that the benefits of education and training depended on whether jobs were available on a freely competitive basis or whether access to them was restricted in various ways. Persistent inequalities, he argued, occur when individuals and groups are able to limit access to jobs, education and other opportunities.
        Dr. Sorensen thought that changes in society also helped explain its inequalities, with managers and owners of businesses capturing income at the expense of workers. Declining union power was part of the explanation, in his view, as was the growing pressure from shareholders for better returns on their investments.
        But Dr. Sorensen also believed that the ample supply of skilled and unskilled labor, the rigid structure of some labor markets and changing social norms helped explain wage differences between different classes of workers, with those at the bottom faring the worst. ''People are treated like sacks of potatoes now,'' he sometimes said.
        Born May 13, 1941, in Silkeborg, Denmark, Dr. Sorensen earned a master's degree in sociology at the University of Copenhagen and a doctorate from Johns Hopkins University. He headed the sociology department at the University of Wisconsin from 1979 to 1982. In 1984, he moved to Harvard, where he led the sociology department until 1992.
        Dr. Sorensen, the author of more than 100 journal articles, leaves a wife, Annemette, and a son, Jesper.
      