
        John Scanlon, a public relations man who brought cunning, bare-knuckle tenacity and the nimbleness of a leprechaun to promoting the interests of high-profile clients, including Bob Kerrey in the current controversy over his actions in Vietnam, died yesterday at his Manhattan apartment. He was 66.
        Deborah Hayes, a spokeswoman for Mr. Scanlon's firm, Westhill Partners, said he had had heart attacks in the past and had most likely suffered another.
        His battles, including defending the CBS program ''60 minutes'' against libel charges by Gen. William Westmoreland and casting what turned out to be seriously questionable aspersions on the character of a scientist for a tobacco company that he was representing, gave sharply personalized definition to a pervasive phrase: ''spin doctor.''
        Increasingly, Mr. Scanlon came to define a new, often harsher, certainly more immediate brand of public relations, often termed crisis management. His hardball tactics in trying to beat down a man who blew the whistle against a tobacco company led to an unsympathetic character based on him in the 1999 movie ''The Insider.''
        Mr. Scanlon kept turning up at the center of media storms. When news broke in February that Jesse Jackson had fathered a child by an unmarried associate and had secretly supported the child, there he was. This week, when not busy with Mr. Kerrey, he has been vigorously polishing the image of A. Alfred Taubman, the former chairman of Sotheby's auction house, who was indicted on Wednesday on federal price-fixing charges.
        He represented Crédit Suisse, a Swiss bank accused of keeping, after World War II, hundreds of millions of dollars deposited by Jews.
        ''Sometimes you sup with long spoons,'' he said in an interview with New York magazine in 1997. ''This was never an attempt to defend Swiss actions during the war, because they are, in fact, indefensible. But you can walk away from the issue and help nobody, or you can become part of the process of solving things.''
        He strongly denied that he was a paid liar. ''That's not what we do,'' he told New York magazine. ''I mean, we're strategic counselors.''
        Other public relations consultants, even some who opposed him, admired his skill. Howard J. Rubenstein, who represented Donald J. Trump in his divorce from Mr. Scanlon's client Ivana Trump, said he used his sense of humor to exceptional advantage.
        ''He once said I had more conflicts of interest than existed in Beirut,'' he said with a laugh. ''But each time he would say something like that, he would say it with a twinkle.''
        Dan Klores, another public relations executive, said: ''He didn't do dog-and-pony shows. He understood the news and how to embrace the media -- and also how to manage difficult clients.''
        He would often suggest ideas to journalists that were totally unrelated to any paying client, in the belief that the favor might be remembered.
        ''He didn't just sell you stories,'' said John Leo, a columnist for U.S. News & World Report. ''He paid attention to what you wrote and what you thought and what your interests were.''
        At a time when many, perhaps most, journalists are deeply skeptical of paid purveyors of story ideas, the big man with the Hemingway-style beard still managed to be friendly with many. Much of his success stemmed from his larger-than-life personality. He prodigiously entertained, drank, cooked and recited Irish poetry. His musical rendition of a Yeats poem, ''The Golden Apples of the Sun,'' could moisten eyes.
        ''He consumed 16,000 calories of life a day,'' said Graydon Carter, editor of Vanity Fair.
        One friend, Peter Jennings, the ABC anchor, said he and others learned to separate Mr. Scanlon's fine company from some of his harsher campaigns. ''All of his close friends totally disapproved of his tactics,'' he said.
        John Patrick Scanlon was born in Manhattan on Feb. 27, 1935. He grew up in the Bronx, just north of Yankee Stadium. His father worked for the Transit Authority, inspecting the electricity on the third rail. His mother cleaned houses.
        He graduated from Catholic University in Washington and spent six years teaching in Roman Catholic schools. He thought about becoming a monk, but balked. ''I couldn't take the chaste thing,'' he told New York.
        He then taught at a public high school on Long Island. Wanting more income, he began selling textbooks. He hung out at the Lion's Head bar in Greenwich Village, where he fell in with writers from Commonweal magazine and other publications. He became a full-time activist against the Vietnam War and worked in Eugene McCarthy's presidential campaign in 1968.
        He then worked as a press spokesman for the city's economic development arm in the Lindsay administration. Next, he worked for Phoenix House, a drug treatment program, as a spokesman. In 1973, he went to work at the Municipal Assistance Corporation, which was wrestling with the city's deepening fiscal crisis.
        He then began working as public relations consultant, gradually ranging beyond the clients chosen for purely idealistic reasons. When the Rev. Bruce Ritter at Covenant House became embroiled in a sex scandal, Mr. Scanlon was by his side. He fought heated battles against unions for Eastern Airlines and Tavern on the Green restaurant. He was on the side of the Tribune Company in its labor battle with employees of The New York Daily News.
        ''The thrill of handling the risky client seemed to overtake the thrill of handing the righteous client,'' the writer Alex Williams suggested in the New York magazine article.
        Perhaps his most controversial client was Brown & Williamson, the maker of Kool and Viceroy cigarettes. At the time a grand jury was looking into allegations that the company had conspired to make cigarettes more addictive, Mr. Scanlon passed on to The Wall Street Journal a 500-page dossier on the employee who had blown the whistle, Jeffrey S. Wigand, a chemist.
        It backfired. The Journal reported that many allegations were ''backed by scanty or contradictory evidence,'' while others were ''demonstrably untrue.''
        Mr. Scanlon's private life was pleasant. He had a Manhattan apartment; a house in Sag Harbor, N.Y.; and a house in County Westmeath, Ireland. Friends said he had been trying to arrange his life so that he could spend more time in Ireland.
        For years, he served as announcer and chief heckler at the Artists and Writers softball game in East Hampton.
        His most treasured possession was a first-edition copy of James Joyce's ''Ulysses,'' and he was a friend of the Irish poet Seamus Heaney. He was a patron of Concern Worldwide, an international relief organization with many Irish-American backers, and, at the time of his death, was writing a book on Ireland with Ed Tivnan.
        He is survived by his wife, Julienne; his daughters, Caitlin Scanlon, of Los Angeles; Elizabeth Scanlon Hyman, of San Francisco; and Rebecca Scanlon of Manhattan; his brother, Michael, of Brooklyn; his sister, Mary Pat McDermott, of Manhattan, and one granddaughter.
        Mr. Carter suggested Mr. Scanlon's greatest accomplishment was the ancient Irish art of making the language dance. ''What he was brilliant at was rhetoric,'' he said. ''He could take a white tennis ball, and, at the end of an hour, make you think it was black.''
        Correction:  May 7, 2001, Monday  An obituary of the public relations consultant John Scanlon on Saturday misidentified the CBS News unit that he advised in the 1980's on its defense in a libel suit by Gen. William C. Westmoreland. It was ''CBS Reports,'' which made the documentary ''The Uncounted Enemy,'' not ''60 Minutes.''
      