
        Ibrahim Abu-Lughod, a Palestinian-American political scientist who was a spokesman in the United States for the Palestinians, died on Wednesday in his home in Ramallah, in the West Bank. He was 72.
        The cause was a debilitating lung disease, said Edward W. Said, professor of English and comparative literature at Columbia University, who was a friend of Mr. Abu-Lughod's.
        Professor Abu-Lughod was born and grew up in Jaffa in what was then Palestine, Professor Said said, and was among the many Palestinians who left in 1948 as Israel became a state.
        Professor Abu-Lughod came to America, where he earned bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Illinois and then a doctorate from Princeton, He also became an American citizen.
        He became a professor at Northwestern University in 1967 and was chairman of its political science department in the 1980's. He left Northwestern in 1992 and became vice president and a professor at Bir Zeit University in Ramallah, where he taught until just before his death.
        From 1977 to 1991, he was a member of the Palestine National Council, which was then the Palestinians' parliament in exile. In 1988, he and Professor Said, also a Palestinian-American and member of the council, met in Washington with Secretary of State George P. Shultz, who was planning to visit the Middle East to try to persuade Israelis and Arabs  to accept his peace plan.
        Professor Said recalled that Professor Abu-Lughod had ''quickly established himself as the leading Arab academic activist in North America'' after the 1967 Arab-Israeli war, ''maintaining a heavy schedule of speaking engagements about the Palestinian cause.''
        In his last years, he was a serious critic of the Oslo Agreement of 1993, which created what was viewed as a phased peace effort between the Palestine Liberation Organization and Israel. The pact left for future resolution such issues as Israeli settlements in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, and the control of sovereignty, exits and entrances, military security and the use of water in those two areas.
        Professor Abu-Lughod was a great believer in building Palestinian institutions, especially those that dealt with culture and education. After moving to Ramallah, he criss-crossed the West Bank, the Gaza Strip and the Arab-inhabited parts of Israel, giving lectures and attending conferences and seminars.
        His comments focused on steps the Palestinians could take to improve their situation, including changing the elementary and secondary school curriculums, which is being done now, and building a Palestinian national museum and library, which has not been done.
        Professor Said said that Professor Abu-Lughod became the best-known Palestinian intellectual in the Middle East.
        Before Professor Abu-Lughod joined the Northwestern faculty, he worked for Unesco and taught at Smith College and then at McGill. While at Northwestern, in 1968, he was active in founding the Association of Arab-American University Graduates.
        He edited and contributed to the book ''The Arab-Israeli Confrontation of June 1967: An Arab Perspective'' (1970, Books on Demand). His other writings include the book ''Arab Rediscovery of Europe'' (1963, Books on Demand).
        His marriage in 1951 to Janet Lippman Abu-Lughod ended in divorce in 1991.
        He is survived by three daughters, Lila Abu-Lughod of Manhattan, Mariam Abu-Lughod of Durham, N.C., and Deena Abu Lughod of Manhattan; a son, Jawad, of Grand Rapids, Mich.; and six grandchildren.
      