
        Harry G. A. Seggerman, a pioneer in investing in Asian companies, died on Saturday in Fairfield, Conn., where he lived. He was 73.
        The cause was complications from diabetes, according to his family.
        Mr. Seggerman was one of the first mutual fund managers to explore investment opportunities in Asia. As a fund manager for the Capital Research and Management Company in the 1950's, he visited Japan and was among the first mutual fund managers to invest in companies there after World War II.
        He then became president of the Japan Fund, a joint venture of Prudential Bache, PaineWebber and Nikko Securities, and in 1969 joined Fidelity Investments, the fund giant. Acting once again as an Asia pioneer, he started the Fidelity Pacific Fund, the company's first overseas investment venture.
        He rose to the position of vice chairman of Fidelity by the time he retired in 1992.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Seggerman was president of International Investment Advisers Inc., a hedge fund that invests in South Korean securities. Its investors included Sir John Templeton, the well-known international investor who said that he tracked Mr. Seggerman's portfolio and considered him skillful in evaluating foreign companies.
        Mr. Seggerman is survived by his wife of 50 years, Anne Crellin Seggerman; six children, Patricia Seggerman, of Fairfield; Marianne Seggerman, of Westport, Conn.; Yvonne Seggerman Beauregard, of Cumberland, R.I.; Suzanne Seggerman, of New York; Henry Seggerman, of Los Angeles; and John Seggerman, of Arlington, Va.; a brother, Frederick Seggerman of Milford, Conn.; and five grandchildren.
        Mr. Seggerman graduated from Princeton University in 1949 and was a trustee of Sacred Heart University. He served on the advisory boards on international investment to the State Department and to the United States trade representative.
        He also had a long interest in conservative causes and was a major contributor to the Republican Party. He served on the national advisory board of Accuracy in Media, the watchdog group, and was an early investor in Newsmax, a conservative news Web site. Christopher Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax, said that Mr. Seggerman ''was very passionate about ideas -- he was not just a pure business guy.''
      