
        Victor Kiam, the man who said he liked Remington razors so much that he bought the company and the former owner of the New England Patriots professional football team, died Sunday morning at his home in Stamford, Conn. He was 74.
        The cause of death was unclear, although he had suffered several heart attacks in recent years, his son, Victor Kiam III, said.
        Mr. Kiam was probably best known as the chairman, president and television spokesman for the Remington Products Company, of Bridgeport, Conn. He was credited with trimming fat and turning around the manufacturer, expanding its line of products and promoting the company in commercials he starred in and wrote.
        Mr. Kiam bought the Patriots in 1988. In an interview at the time, Mr. Kiam said that he saw the acquisition of the team as a valuable asset for Remington. He said he hoped to help guarantee that his players had careers that went beyond football.
        ''I can say one thing point-blank,'' Mr. Kiam said in January 1989. ''The team will never be known as the Remington Shavers, but I could see possibly using some of the players to promote the product.''
        Victor Kermit Kiam II was born on Dec. 7, 1926, in the French Quarter of New Orleans.
        Three years after leaving Yale in 1948 with a bachelor of arts degree, Mr. Kiam graduated from Harvard  with a master's degree in business administration. That year, he began his career at Lever Brothers, where he lugged cosmetic samples from store to store, eventually rising to the managerial ranks.
        Mr. Kiam joined Playtex as a sales manager in 1955 and rose to executive vice president of marketing. He left Playtex to become the chief executive of his first company, the Benrus Corporation, a maker of expensive watches.
        By 1979, Mr. Kiam had amassed enough money to buy Remington, which had lost $30 million in the previous five years, for $25 million in a leveraged buyout. Mr. Kiam was able to quickly turn around the company. He wrote and starred in Remington commercials that aired worldwide. In his first commercial, Mr. Kiam said, ''I liked it so much, that I bought the company.''
        Mr. Kiam bought the Patriots for $85 million. He later was vilified after a locker-room incident in 1990 involving several Patriots players and a female sportswriter for The Boston Herald. The incident mushroomed into a boycott against all of Mr. Kiam's properties. Mr. Kiam denied accusations of condoning and supporting the players' behavior. The sportswriter eventually sued Mr. Kiam, the general manager of the team and the three players for sexual harassment. The case was settled out of court.
        Soon afterward, Mr. Kiam, an accomplished bridge player who had won a reputation for business shrewdness because of his success at Remington, had put both his stakes in Remington and the football team up for sale because of financial troubles related to the Patriots.
        Mr. Kiam remained the chairman of Remington until his death.
        Mr. Kiam is survived by his wife, Ellen, of Wellington, Fla.; two daughters, Lisa Durkin, of Cambridge, Mass., and Robin Aviv of Manhattan; his son, Victor, of Manhattan; and five grandchildren
      