
        Edwin Finckel, a composer, jazz pianist, conductor and musical educator, died on Monday in Madison, N.J. He was 83 and lived in Madison.
        Traversing musical genres, Mr. Finckel wrote more than 200 pieces for a variety of ensembles, including orchestral works, concertos, ballets, choral and vocal music, and incidental music for the stage and screen. During the 1992-93 season he was the featured composer of the Omega Ensemble, which performed four of his works, including one world premiere.
        Mr. Finckel's son, David, cellist for the Emerson String Quartet, has recorded several of his father's works, including a suite for cello and piano (''Of Human Kindness''), ''Songs of Spring'' and an exploration of a pop standard, ''Variations on a Theme: Willow Weep for Me.''
        Born in Washington, Mr. Finckel taught himself piano by studying and reproducing the solos of jazz idols like Teddy Wilson and Art Tatum. By the time he was 18 he was performing regularly in jazz clubs and became a close associate of the great tenor saxophonist Lester Young. An innovative composer and arranger, he wrote for Boyd Raeburn, Gene Krupa, Ted Heath, Sam Donahue, Les Brown and Buddy Rich and was  one of the first arrangers to incorporate strings into big-band settings.
        While with the Krupa band, he wrote music for the film ''George White's Scandals.'' He also composed many popular songs, including  ''Where Is the One?'' (with lyrics by Alec Wilder), which was recorded twice by Frank Sinatra.
        In 1951 Mr. Finckel became the musical director at the Far Brook School, a progressive arts-based private school in Short Hills, N.J., where he presided for the next 39 years. During the 1950's he also began composing classical music, although he never stopped playing jazz. In 1963 he and his wife, Helen, founded Point Counterpoint, a summer chamber music camp in Vermont, which they ran until 1980. The camp remains in business under new directors.
        He is survived by his wife and son and a grandchild.
      