
        Dr. Russell Andrew Nelson, who led Johns Hopkins Hospital in a period of robust growth in the 1950's and 60's, died last Saturday at a nursing home in Naples, Fla. A former resident of Baltimore, he was 88.
        Dr. Nelson became director of the hospital in 1952 and president in 1963. Under his administration, Johns Hopkins greatly expanded its physical plant and pioneered comprehensive prepaid health care programs.
        Dr. Nelson, who retired in 1971, advocated a national health insurance plan that would have overhauled the organization and delivery of services.
        He received his medical degree at Johns Hopkins in 1937 and remained for a 34-year career as a teacher and administrator. But his influence on hospital care and public health issues reached far beyond Baltimore and the United States.
        Over the years he headed the American Hospitals Association, the Joint Commission on the Accreditation of Hospitals and the Association of American Medical Colleges, where he was the first chairman who was not also a medical school dean. He was a presence at hearings and panels shaping state, national and international policies.
        He had a hand in the planning and design for new medical complexes at the Free University in Berlin and at Leiden Hospital in the Netherlands. In the middle of the cold war, in 1965, he joined an American delegation that evaluated Russian hospital conditions under a health exchange agreement.
        Russell Nelson was born in Grand Forks, N.D., and graduated from the University of Minnesota in 1933. From 1937 to 1952, he rose from intern at Johns Hopkins to director of medical clinics and assistant director of the hospital.
        From the 1940's until 1975, he published papers on penicillin therapy for syphilis as well as many articles about hospital management and the delivery of health care.
        Dr. Nelson is survived by his wife of 61 years, Ruth Jeffcoat Nelson, and a sister, Donna Fawbush of Brooklyn Center, Minn.
      