
        Howard Kahane, a philosopher who sought to rid logic of its strict mathematical connotations, making it instead a tool for assessing the truthfulness of anything, including political statements, advertisements and school textbooks, died on May 2 in Mill Valley, Calif. He was 73.
        He died after a heart attack, said Prof. Alan Hausman of Hunter College.
        A former professor of philosophy at Baruch College in New York, Dr. Kahane published his best-known work, ''Logic and Contemporary Rhetoric: The Use of Reason in Everyday Life'' (Wadsworth Publishing Company), in 1971. In it he sought to teach students how to use logical principles to spot correct or fallacious reasoning in a wide variety of contemporary political and social debates.
        This method of teaching logic, variously known as critical thinking or informal logic, had already been embraced by a few teachers of philosophy who wanted to get away from the essentially mathematical view of logic taken by famous thinkers like Bertrand Russell and make it a more practical instrument for analyzing the questions of everyday life.
        But Dr. Kahane's book greatly popularized the approach and led to a rapid expansion of critical-thinking courses in the philosophy and English literature departments of American universities. In Europe, where it is sometimes called pragma-dialectics, critical thinking has proved most popular in the Netherlands.
        At the time of his death, the book had been through eight editions, and a ninth was in preparation.
        Teachers welcomed Dr. Kahane's advocacy of critical thinking because it showed their students how to take apart an argument or text and assess its logical merits.
        Students liked this approach to logic because it encouraged them to analyze and question the decisions of those in authority. It appeared at a time when there was widespread unrest on university campuses after the Paris student riots of May 1968 and when America was still trying to extricate itself from an increasingly unpopular war in Vietnam.
        As his raw material, Dr. Kahane took politicians' speeches, newspaper editorials and cartoons, as well as advertisements and school textbooks, analyzing them to expose faulty logic and bias. His aim, he said, was to improve reasoning about everyday political and social issues and ''raise the level of political discussion.''
        He never disguised his own radical leanings. In judging President Nixon's pronouncements on Cambodia and Watergate, for example, he advised students to remember ''Nixon's record as a shady liar.'' He scorned the belief that Vice President Nelson A. Rockefeller's great wealth ensured his impartiality. And he argued that lower military spending need not mean less security if the quality of the armed forces was improved.
        Born April 19, 1928, in Cleveland, Dr. Kahane received a bachelor's degree in 1954, and a master's degree in 1958, from the University of California at Los Angeles. He received a Ph.D. in 1962 from the University of Pennsylvania.
        Before going to Baruch College, he taught at Whitman College, the University of Kansas, American University and the University of Maryland at Baltimore.
        He is survived by a daughter, Bonnie, of New York City, and his companion, Nancy Cavender of Mill Valley.
      