
        John Herbert, the Canadian playwright whose experiences in a reformatory inspired his influential play about prison homosexuality, ''Fortune and Men's Eyes,'' died on Friday at his home in Toronto. He was 75.
        He had been ill for a month after undergoing a biopsy to determine if he had prostate cancer, said David Rothenberg, a co-producer of the play.
        ''Fortune and Men's Eyes,'' which opened off Broadway in 1967 and ran for more than a year in the United States, was later produced in more than 60 countries. It not only drew attention to degradation and corruption within the prison system but also inspired the formation of the Fortune Society to heighten public awareness of the conditions for inmates and the problems they faced after their release. Former prisoners turned to this organization for food and clothing, help in finding jobs and support from those who had already made the difficult readjustment to life outside.
        The play, which opened at the Actors Playhouse in Greenwich Village, took its title from the words of a Shakespearean sonnet: ''When in disgrace with fortune and men's eyes/I all alone beweep my outcast state . . .''
        The play, which was made into a film in 1975, dealt with the brutality  of prison. It included a vivid discussion of how new prisoners were forcibly initiated into homosexuality. While still a teenager, Mr. Herbert had served a six-month sentence in an Ontario reformatory after some men he had accused of robbing him said he had solicited sex.
        Although ''Fortune and Men's Eyes'' received mixed reviews from the critics, it became a smash hit. Performances were followed on some nights by freewheeling panel discussions that involved former convicts and were moderated by Mr. Rothenberg, who produced the play with Mitchell Nestor.
        Not long after ''Fortune and Men's Eyes'' opened, Mr. Herbert, who was visiting the United States, was told by a government official that he had to leave the country because of his status as an ex-convict. Mr. Rothenberg said that after spending seven months filling out forms to enable him to return, Mr. Herbert called an official in Buffalo from his home in Toronto. Mr. Herbert said he was a writer and wanted to go to Chicago, where his play was opening after its New York run. Mr. Rothenberg said that Mr. Herbert was told, ''Listen, prostitutes can't get in either, and some of them are pretty famous.''
        In a 1967 interview in The New York Post, Mr. Herbert said that at the time of his arrest, he was working on displays for a Toronto department store. ''In that neighborhood I was always considered an oddball,'' he said, adding that he was called a sissy for as long as he could remember. ''One night this gang was robbing me, beating me up. A policeman stopped it. He asked me if I wanted to press charges.''
        Mr. Herbert said he wanted to think it over, and the next morning learned that his attackers had filed charges against him, leading to his conviction.
        After his release at 19, he said he worked for two weeks in a Toronto restaurant until a police officer came in one night and asked his boss, ''Do you think that's a fit person to have working around food?''
        Mr. Herbert took to the road and went west, then to Montreal, where he became interested in plays. He  returned to his hometown, where one of his sisters, Nana Brundage, was involved in the theater. In 1960 they founded the Garret Theater.
        She survives him, as do four other  sisters, Mary Gordius, Grace Gannett, Phyllis Stratton and Faye Forrell, and a brother, Claude Brundage.
        Mr. Herbert's full name was John Herbert Brundage. He was born in Toronto. His father, Claude, once a professional athlete, lost his money in the Depression. Mr. Herbert said he grew up in poverty in a house that was nevertheless filled with literature, from the ancient Greeks to Shakespeare and Stevenson.
        He left high school in his last year to become an artist. ''I was very interested in costume,'' he said. He was employed for a while by an advertising agency and then by the department store where he was working at the time of his arrest.
        After ''Fortune and Men's Eyes,'' Mr. Herbert went on to write 16 more plays, but few were given professional productions and none had the same success. For the last 25 years, he was the artistic director of the Maverick Theater in Toronto, of which he was a co-founder. His principal source of income was teaching at the Three Schools of Art.
        A month after ''Fortune and Men's Eyes'' opened, Mr. Herbert said in an interview, he was working as a waiter at the University Club of Toronto, when a judge in his 80's called him over and said, ''You're getting a lot of attention in the papers.''
        Mr. Herbert said he replied, ''Yes, sir.''
        He said the judge continued: ''Tell me, people have written plays about prisons, and people have written plays about ho-mo-sex-yew-ality. Why would you have to put them together?''
      