
        Harold A. Jerry Jr., a past New York State public service commissioner who played a major role in a state plan to save the Adirondacks from overdevelopment, died on June 9 at his home in Albany. He was 81 and also lived in Speculator, N.Y.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Jerry, a lawyer and former Republican state senator, was on the Public Service Commission for 24 years, until 1997. He was its interim chairman in 1995, when Gov. George E. Pataki removed him from that position.
        Mr. Jerry spent half his life protecting one of the country's great wildernesses from large-scale second-home developments and other intrusions.
        Public lands in the mountainous region had been protected by ''forever wild'' legislation ever since the 19th century. What concerned Mr. Jerry, and other environmentalists, was development of privately held tracts scattered within and around the public lands.
        His day came in 1967, when Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller named him executive director of the Temporary Commission on the Adirondacks. The panel give its report in 1970, declaring that ''time is of the essence'' if the region was to be saved from large-scale second-home builders and the like.
        The Legislature acted that year to realize the report's central recommendation, the creation of a parkwide zoning authority for an area half the size of Vermont. This resulted in the state-level Adirondack Park Agency, which the Legislature empowered to draw up and apply land-use and development plans for the private holdings.
        Harold Anderson Jerry was born in Plattsburgh, N.Y. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Princeton in 1941, was a lieutenant colonel in the Army in Europe in World War II and got a law degree at Harvard University in 1948. He then went into private practice in Elmira, N.Y., which he represented in the State Senate from 1959 to 1962.
        He joined the Rockefeller administration in 1963 as director of the Office for Regional Development, which prepared him for leadership on the Adirondacks commission.
        He fell out with Governor Pataki  over a vote he cast as a member of the state's Environmental Board. Mr. Pataki wanted it to overturn a ban on the chemical DEET, which is found in insect repellents. Under Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, the state ordered it banned as a health hazard, but Mr. Pataki said DEET was needed to fight Lyme disease. Mr. Jerry was the only dissenter as the board backed Mr. Pataki's position.
        Mr. Jerry is survived by his wife of 53 years, Jocelyn Rogers Jerry; a son, Harold A. III of Princeton, N.J.; two daughters, Danielle G. Jerry of Anchorage and Jocelyn Jerry Wolcott of Concord, N.H.; a sister, Helen Mallet of Columbus, Ga.; and eight grandchildren. (Another son, Philip C. R. Jerry, a choreographer and leading dancer with the Joffrey Ballet, died in 1996.)
        Mr. Jerry told officials dealing with the park to do as he often did: get to know the vast territory by camping and hiking, by paddling its streams in summer and snowshoeing it in winter.
        His own family would trek five miles on weekends to a 2,200-acre camp near Speculator, at which he allowed neither electricity nor running water.
      