
        Dr. J. Julian Chisolm Jr., whose crusade against lead poisoning led to innovative ways to treat the condition, died on Wednesday in a retirement community in Baltimore. He was 79.
        He had congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Dr. Chisolm is credited with saving the lives of hundreds of children with his introduction in 1968 of a treatment called chelation, which  continues to be the primary way to  remove lead from the blood in severe poisoning. In the treatment, chemical agents injected into the bloodstream bond with lead ions, forming a compound that can be excreted in urine.
        Before Dr. Chisolm's work, said Dr. John F. Rosen, director of the lead program at the Children's Hospital at Montefiore in New York City,  essentially no treatments existed for children with lead poisoning.
        Dr. George Dover, director and pediatrician in charge of the Johns Hopkins Children's Center, said of Dr. Chisolm, ''He had a tremendous influence in public health, in getting people to recognize the problem.''
        Lead, once commonly used in house paint and gasoline and as solder in food cans, has particularly damaging effects on the nervous system and blood. Severe lead poisoning causes brain swelling that can lead to coma and death and can leave survivors retarded, blind or unable to walk. In part because of Dr. Chisolm's work, severe cases are rare today, but that was not the case in the first half of the 20th century.
        As a pediatric intern at Johns Hopkins Hospital in the late 1940's, Dr. Chisolm was particularly horrified by the death of a girl shortly after her family moved into a house near the hospital. Within days of exposure to the house's peeling lead-based  paint, she developed a brain fever.
        ''From the day she first presented symptoms in the clinic to the day she expired, it was only a matter of weeks,'' he recalled in an interview in The Baltimore Sun last year.
        In 1952, while at Baltimore City Hospitals, he started going door to door collecting stool samples of children living in the slums of East Baltimore to evaluate their exposure to lead. Four years later he published a study showing that the children had much higher levels of lead in their blood than had been suspected, because they had inhaled dust from crumbling paint or eaten paint chips. That study and others helped persuade cities, including New York in 1960, to ban the use of lead-based paint.
        Chelation treatment did not reverse the damage caused by lead poisoning, so Dr. Chisolm also focused on prevention. He testified before Congress and other agencies against lead paint, influencing the passage of federal legislation in 1978 virtually banning the use of lead in  paint and gasoline. A federal survey in 1994 found that the amount of lead  in the blood of Americans dropped 78 percent from 1976 to 1991, a decline attributed to banning lead in paint and gasoline and phasing out the use of lead solder in food cans.
        Dr. Chisolm's work in helping devise a finger-stick test made it possible to diagnose the early stages of lead poisoning in children quickly and cheaply, said Dr. Rosen and Dr. Herbert L. Needleman, director of the lead exposure project at the University of Pittsburgh. That test and  more sensitive methods developed more recently have helped make severe lead poisoning unusual.
        ''His work was highly innovative in three ways,'' Dr. Rosen said. ''His use of chelating agents in treating children; his development with others of a single finger-stick test in screening for lead poisoning in the 1980's; and third was his persistent view that it was lead-based paint that was the overwhelming cause of lead poisoning in children, which continues to be true today.''
        James Julian Chisolm Jr. was born July 24, 1921, in Baltimore, the son of a doctor. He graduated from Princeton in 1944 and earned his medical degree from Johns Hopkins University in 1946.
        He served in the Army Medical Corps from 1948 to 1950 and was discharged as a captain. He joined the faculty at Johns Hopkins in the 1950's. In 1975, he became the director of the lead program at the Kennedy Krieger Institute, which is affiliated with Johns Hopkins, where he saw successive generations of Baltimore families treated for lead poisoning. He retired from the institute last year.
        He is survived by his wife of 53 years, the former Sylvia Larsen; a  son, Edward L., of Baltimore, and a sister, Mary Mountcastle of Roanoke, Va.
        While severe lead poisoning virtually disappeared during Dr. Chisolm's career, low-level poisoning remains a problem, especially in poorly maintained inner-city housing built before 1960. A 1999 study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found that 890,000 American preschoolers had lead levels that could hurt their health or ability to learn.
        ''The sadness is that we still have very significant problem,'' Dr. Dover said.
      