
        Aaron Green, an architect in the San Francisco Bay Area and an associate of Frank Lloyd Wright in the 1940's and 50's, died on June 5 in San Francisco. He was 84.
        Mr. Green was awarded the first Gold Medal of the Frank Lloyd Wright Foundation this month in recognition of a half-century of work in the Bay Area, where he established an office for himself and Wright in 1951. Wright died in 1959.
        The medal arrived shortly after Mr. Green's death, said Arnold Roy, a member of the Wright Foundation.
        Throughout his career, Mr. Green carried out hundreds of commissions, including churches, low-rent housing, college buildings and community centers.
        The current issue of the Frank Lloyd Wright Quarterly reports that more than 30 of these designs were collaborations with Wright, but almost all of Mr. Green's work reflected the influence of Wright characteristics like clean lines, the use of new materials and sensitivity to the environment.
        Among Mr. Green's collaborations with Wright were the V. C. Morris Store in San Francisco, which was later restored by Mr. Green and renamed Folk Arts International, and the futuristic Butterfly Wing Bridge across the lower bay, which was never constructed.
        Allan Temko, architecture critic of The San Francisco Chronicle, said Mr. Green's important contributions to Wright's achievement were ''the sweeping horizontal forms, plastic roofs and mighty arches of the Marin County Civic Center in San Rafael.''
        Wright had named Mr. Green associate architect for the project.
        Mr. Green described working with Wright on the design of the Civic Center -- Wright's only constructed government building -- in his book ''An Architecture for Democracy'' (Grendon, San Francisco, 1990).
        Aaron Gus Green was born in Corinth, Miss., on May 4, 1917. He was reared in Florence, Ala., not far from the hydroelectric dams of the Tennessee Valley Authority that gave him his earliest impressions of large-scale functional modern architecture.
        He studied at the Chicago Academy of Fine Arts, Florence State College and Cooper Union, but it was his Taliesin fellowship at Spring Green, Wis., and Scottsdale, Ariz., from 1940 to 1943 under the tutelage of Wright that profoundly shaped Mr. Green's career.
        During World War II he served as a bombardier in the Pacific theater.
        After the war he worked as a designer in Los Angeles and San Francisco until Wright asked him to join him in San Francisco, where Mr. Green would spend most of his professional life, frequently serving as Wright's representative on the West Coast.
        Mr. Green was married three times. He is survived by his wife, Nancy Klein Green; two sons, Frank Green of San Francisco and Allan Green of Philo, Calif.; and two grandchildren.
      