
        Dr. Donald J. Cram, who shared the 1987 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for synthesizing molecules that mimicked some of the chemical reactions of life, died on Sunday at his home in Palm Desert, Calif. He was 82.
        The cause was cancer, said the University of California at Los Angeles, where Dr. Cram taught and did  research for more than 50 years.
        In the work that earned him the Nobel Prize, Dr. Cram created molecules with hollow regions where specific molecules could attach, much as a key fits into a lock. That is similar to how enzymes work within living organisms and how antibodies attach onto their targets.
        ''It's like playing a three-dimensional puzzle,'' said Dr. Charles Knobler, a professor of chemistry and former department chairman at U.C.L.A. Dr. Cram used to walk around with large models of molecules trying to figure out how they might fit together, Dr. Knobler said.
        When Dr. Cram was tapped for the Nobel Prize in 1987, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences mistakenly contacted Donald O. Cram, a 38-year-old man in the carpet cleaning business, and told him that he had won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry. Upon hearing of the mistake, Dr. Cram said: ''I'm really tickled. There is some chemistry involved in carpet cleaning, but it's a little different from my brand.''
        In later work, Dr. Cram created large ''prison'' molecules, which completely enclose smaller molecules, like the bottles that house ship models. That allowed him to capture and study molecules that would otherwise quickly fall apart.
        ''He could stabilize them inside other molecules and look at them,'' said Dr. Patrick Hawthorne, a U.C.L.A. chemistry professor who was one of Dr. Cram's earliest graduate students. ''This was absolutely knockout stuff for organic chemistry. It was worth another Nobel Prize, to tell you the truth.''
        The prison molecules that Dr. Cram and his team created have a range of potential applications, Dr. Cram said in a 1989 interview with The New York Times. He speculated that some of the prison molecules might one day be used to treat cancer by encapsulating small radioactive or poisonous molecules that could be delivered to the site of a tumor, allowing the molecules to attack the cancer without coming into direct contact with healthy tissue.
        When Dr. Cram began studying science in college, he was stung by a college professor who told him that he did not have the mind for academic research. Challenged, he went on to earn his B.S. in chemistry at Rollins College in 1941 and his master's degree in organic chemistry at the University of Nebraska. He served in World War II as a research chemist for Merck & Company, working on the penicillin program, and he subsequently completed his Ph.D. at Harvard in 1947.
        That year, Dr. Cram became an instructor at U.C.L.A., where for the next four decades he did research and published more than 400 research papers and 7 books on organic chemistry, one of which has gained international recognition.
        He usually played his guitar and sang folk music in class at the end of every academic term.
        Throughout his career, Dr. Cram received numerous honors, including the Roger Adams Award in Organic Chemistry and the National Academy of Sciences Award in the Chemical Sciences.
        In 1965, he received the American Chemical Society award for creative work in synthetic organic chemistry and two years later he received the society's Cope Award for distinguished achievement in organic chemistry. He was also named California Scientist of the Year.
        Dr. Cram is survived by his wife, Caroline, and two sisters, Margaret Fitzgibbon of Dayton, Ohio, and Kathleen McLean of State College, Pa.
        Correction:  June 21, 2001, Thursday  Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about Dr. Donald J. Cram, who shared the 1987 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, misstated the given name of a professor at the University of California at Los Angeles who described Dr. Cram's manipulation of molecules. He is Dr. M. Frederick Hawthorne, not Patrick.
      