
        Jerry Sterner, a businessman turned playwright who wrote the Off Broadway hit ''Other People's Money,'' died on Monday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 62.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Jean.
        After attending City College of New York, Mr. Sterner sold tokens for the New York City Transit Authority. (They cost 15 cents each at the time.) He worked from 11 p.m. to 7 a.m. and wrote seven plays in nearly six years in the booth. When he could not sell his work, he went into real estate.
        In 1984 he stepped down as president of David C. Gold & Company, a real estate concern, to return to writing plays. ''I'd rather be Neil Simon than Harry Helmsley any day, I thought (wouldn't you?),'' he wrote in a 1990 article in The New York Times. ''And dealing with critics, after wrangling with 4,000 tenants, would be a piece of cake.''
        His first play from this period was never performed. His second, ''Be Happy for Me,'' was produced Off Broadway in 1986 with a cast headed by Philip Bosco, David Groh and Priscilla Lopez.
        Then came ''Other People's Money,'' about a small factory in New England trying to protect itself from a takeover. The play opened in February 1989 at the Minetta Lane Theater to favorable reviews and strikingly positive word of mouth, particularly in the financial world. In The Times, Mel Gussow called it ''a swift straight line of a play.''
        Its New York success led to a national tour, separate Chicago and London productions and a 1991 movie version, starring Danny DeVito and Gregory Peck and directed by Norman Jewison.
        ''I went from 'Mister, would you please read my script' to 'Talk to my agent' in what seems like a weekend,'' Mr. Sterner wrote.
        Over the last 30 years Mr. Sterner had been a devoted investor in the stock market. After the 1987 stock market crash, he took to short-selling, the practice of selling borrowed shares in the hope that the stock's price would decline before the shares had to be returned to the lender. When buying stocks, Mr. Sterner did his homework, reading up on a company's reports to shareholders and attending annual shareholders' meetings.
        He is survived by his wife; two daughters, Emily James of Exeter, N.H., and Kate Shaffar of Holtsville, N.Y.; a sister, Beverly Sterner of Milanville, Pa.; a half-brother, Steven Sterner of Manhattan; a half-sister, Bonnie Celnick of the Bronx; and two stepbrothers, Louis Weinstein of Flagstaff, Ariz., and Benjamin Weinstein of Los Angeles.
        Since the success of ''Other People's Money,'' Mr. Sterner had continued writing plays, though none had been produced by the time of his death. The Stamford Center for the Arts in Connecticut is planning to stage his play ''Crossing the Double White Line'' in the fall.
        ''Many other playwrights have written better,'' Mr. Sterner wrote, ''but no one has enjoyed having written more.''
      