
        Rosemary Verey, the tough, artistic English gardener who brought the art of clipped boxwoods, laburnum walks and ornamental vegetable gardening to America, died in Chelsea Memorial Hospital in London on May 31. She was 82.
        ''She was a marvelous lecturer and she knew so much,'' said Gregory Long, the president of the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx. He first heard her speak about her famous garden at Barnsley House, a 17th-century rectory in the Cotswolds of England, about 20 years ago at the Horticultural Alliance of the Hamptons.
        The four-acre garden was her working laboratory, where she domesticated elements from legendary gardens, like the yellow-flowering laburnum arch at the National Trust's Bodnant Garden, in North Wales, or the ornamental potager, or vegetable garden, at the Chateau de Villandry, in the Loire Valley in France, and made them seem possible for the home gardener.
        Mr. Long remembers staring longingly at the slides of the neo-Classical temple that Mrs. Verey's husband, David Verey, an architectural historian, had dismantled in an English park and rebuilt himself, stone by stone.
        ''It was a really good lesson in garden-building,'' Mr. Long said. ''None of this redwood pergola stuff from catalogues.''
        Years later, when he became the president of the New York Botanical Garden, he would ask her to design an ornamental vegetable garden for the Bronx, complete with cold frames for extending the seasons and herbs that are used by gardeners from other cultures. She was working on the design with the sculptor Simon Verity the week that she died of pneumonia, possibly contracted while flying to Cincinnati and on to Kentucky to work on gardens there.
        She was mentor to many American garden leaders like Marco Polo Stufano, who transformed Wave Hill, the public garden in the Riverdale section of the Bronx; Robert Dash, the painter who created the Madoo Conservancy, on the East End of Long Island, and Mr. Long.
        Ms. Verey wrote more than a dozen garden books including ''The Classic Garden'' and ''The Garden in Winter,'' which were seminal works for Americans interested in design and sophisticated use of plants, with color and texture year-round.
        In her later years, she designed gardens for British celebrities like Prince Charles and Elton John. But her favorite people were gardeners. She often gave them cuttings and seeds from plants she herself had clipped or gathered from such legendary gardens as Gethsemane, outside the city of Jerusalem, or Monet's garden at Giverny.
        For more than 20 years she redesigned the grounds around Barnsley House, which is near Cirencester, in Gloucestershire, first with her laburnum arch, which dangles chains of gold flowers over purple alliums in May. Her husband laid the path beneath, a mosaic of colorful stone and pebbles collected from the Pembrokeshire beaches.
        ''She had an impeccable eye for color, an ability to embroider gold against purple,'' said Mr. Dash, whose gardens at Madoo, in Sagaponack, N.Y., are widely considered an American work of art. ''She took that grim forbidding aristocratic face off English gardening, and with her charm and her writings, gave it a friendly, domesticated face.''
        Mr. Dash and Ms. Verey would occasionally lecture together, playfully arguing over whose garden was more original and just who stole from whom. Did Ms. Verey really swipe her famous laburnum arch from Bodnant?
        ''Of course!'' Mr. Dash said, laughing. ''But my laburnum arch bears no resemblance to hers. It's a question of following your own light.''
        She studied mathematics and economics at University College in London, but left before earning her degree to marry Mr. Verey in 1939, and proceeded to raise four children, like a proper English gentlewoman of her day. She was an accomplished horsewoman, until she fell in a hunting accident.
        ''A horse rolled over on her,'' Mr. Dash said. ''So her husband gave her a book on mandrakes that piqued her interest.'' And a temple just to get her started.
        A scholar and perfectionist, she began to read widely, collecting rare first editions usually seen only in the British Museum or the Royal Horticultural Society's Lindley Library. Her redesign project began in 1950, and the grounds opened to the public in 1970. By the time her husband died in 1984, she had started a new career, and a garden that would eventually attract 30,000 visitors a year.
        She lectured widely in the United States, where she made five or six trips a year to cities like New York, Seattle, Atlanta or Chicago, or to Indiana and Kentucky. ''Flower shows in winter and the garden clubs in spring and summer,'' Mr. Long said. ''We began to see a lot of laburnum arches in the Hamptons.''
        She took many young gardeners under her wing, drilling them in the Latin names of plants, and shooing them off for the day to plunge into the great gardens of England.
        ''She would get very cross with us if we didn't speak to the head gardener,'' recalled Mr. Stufano, who with his companion, John Nally, spent many days in the gardens at Barnsley. ''Her garden was a very personal garden. She was always trying new things. It had the feeling of someone who loved plants and she was out in it constantly. She was a wonderful cook and one of my fond memories is being sent out to the garden for a few marrows, or zucchinis, for dinner.''
        Long before Mr. Long became president of the New York Botanical Garden, he made a gardener's pilgrimage to Barnsley, to learn some secrets for his place upstate. He had been happily wandering about in the rain, poking about as gardeners do, when he saw her looking out the window.
        ''She was so imposing in those days, I was a bit intimidated by her,'' he said. ''I almost wished that she not come out. She showed me Phlomis fruticosa, which is a silver-leafed thing with yellow flowers in the fall. I tried to grow it at home and couldn't.''
        Then she locked the gate and invited him in for drinks. Years later, at his own garden upstate, she sat on his compost pile and showed him how to dry the bulbs he had carelessly thrown away. They bloomed the next year.
        Her influence was not restricted to naïve Americans. David Wheeler, the editor of Hortus, a garden quarterly in England, who has built, with the artist Simon Dorell, a garden on the edge of Wales, was also nurtured by Ms. Verey, who opened up her library, garden and larder to him.
        She was a great networker, or Miss Fix-It, as Mr. Wheeler put it. When he admitted that he would like to meet Prince Charles, she simply rang him up. ''Be here at 5,'' she said.'' ''We're expected at Highgrove at 6.''
        Her vegetable garden, a tapestry of ever-changing cabbages, lettuces, strawberries, hop vines and espaliered fruit trees, ''has become a cliché copied around the world,'' Mr. Wheeler said. ''But she made us look at growing vegetables in these times of peace and well-being. We were no longer digging for victory and growing rows of vegetables. We could do this decoratively.''
        She also reinvented the formal garden, he said, with little parterres of clipped boxwood. ''Those had been part of the English garden since Elizabethan times,'' he said, ''but it had all but washed away with modernism and the 20th century.''
        In 1999, Ms. Verey received a special award from the Massachusetts Horticultural Society for her work with English gardens, and the same year, was given the Royal Horticultural Society's most distinguished award, the Victoria Medal of Honor.
        She leaves two sons and two daughters. Over the last two years, her son Charles has overseen the gardens, which are still open to the public. ''But the eye is gone,'' Mr. Dash said. ''The artist is gone.''
      