
        Herbert Woods, who stayed modestly in the shadows as his wife, Sylvia, played center stage as Harlem's ''Queen of Soul Food'' at their famous restaurant, died on Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Mount Pleasant, N.Y.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said his grandson Lindsey Williams.
        Mr. Woods played a far greater role than many of the patrons greeted by his vivacious wife realized. He handled purchasing and real estate decisions and was known to put in the occasional shift as chef. His income as a long-distance truck driver was a critical ingredient in the early success of Sylvia's Restaurant, which is on Lenox Avenue near 127th Street.
        Busloads of foreign tourists, delivery boys, chorus girls and celebrities from Roberta Flack to Robert F. Kennedy have flocked to Sylvia's for feathery, moist cornbread, tangy ribs, perfectly seasoned collard greens and crisp fried chicken.
        Mrs. Woods many times insisted that one spice made it all possible: love. Her own love story, she never failed to add, was her life's inspiration.
        Sylvia Pressley was 11 when she met Herbert Deward Woods, 12, who had been born in their hometown, Hemingway, S.C., on May 25, 1925. They were picking beans in the hot sun. ''We kept our eyes on each other,'' Mr. Woods once said in an interview with The New York Daily News.
        They seemed to have a lot in common.
        ''Our mothers were both born on New Year's Day 1906, our fathers died when we were babies, we both grew up on a farm and watched our mothers and grandmothers struggle to raise us,'' he said.
        They became inseparable, until Sylvia moved to New York with her mother in 1939. Mr. Woods joined the Navy on the hope that he might sail to Brooklyn and see his sweetheart. The closest he got was Norfolk, Va., Mr. Woods said in an interview with The New York Times.
        He found himself working as cook on light cruisers and destroyers in the Pacific. ''When I was in the Navy, that's all you could be,'' he said of the era's segregated armed forces.
        He married Sylvia as soon as he was discharged, and they moved to Harlem. He drove a cab, and she found a factory job on Long Island. When she wearied of the commute, she jumped at the chance to work as a waitress at Johnson's Luncheonette in Harlem. She faced a particularly steep learning curve: because many restaurants in the South barred blacks, she had never been in one before.
        But she learned by watching other waitresses. In 1962, when the owner was leaving to open another establishment upstate, he offered to sell it to her. She at first thought it was a joke, but was able to buy it when her mother mortgaged the family farm.
        On Aug. 1, 1962, the restaurant opened as Sylvia's, featuring Southern fare. It had 15 stools and six booths. It has since grown into an empire, selling prepared foods in supermarkets, operating a restaurant in Atlanta and holding Sunday gospel brunches in Sag Harbor.
        Moreover, Mr. Woods gradually assembled real estate, including all the other stores on the restaurant's Lenox Avenue block and several nearby brownstones.
        In the early days, he drove a tractor-trailer on cross-country trips to help pay the bills. He continued to drive the truck, which he owned, until the late 1970's, Mr. Williams  said. But from then on, Mr. Woods, a snappy dresser with a broad, gentle face, was able to satisfy his love of driving fine cars, including a 1988 Rolls-Royce Silver Spur.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by their sons, sons, Van, of Harlem, and Kenneth, of Mount Pleasant; their daughters, Bedelia and Crizette, both of Mount Vernon; 17 grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren. Almost everybody in the family works at the restaurant.
        Correction:  June 20, 2001, Wednesday  An obituary on Friday about Herbert Woods, who helped his wife run Sylvia's Restaurant in Harlem, misidentified the town where he lived. It was Mount Vernon, N.Y., not Mount Pleasant.
      