
        Makanda K. McIntyre, a jazz saxophonist, flutist and player of reed instruments who began recording in the early 1960's before beginning a 40-year career as a beloved jazz educator, died on Wednesday at his Harlem apartment. He was 69.
        He collapsed after exercising, said his wife, Joy Rosenthal McIntyre.
        Mr. McIntyre's best-known album was ''Looking Ahead'' (1960). It was from a session that featured his compositions and put Mr. McIntyre, who was then known as Ken McIntyre, alongside the saxophonist Eric Dolphy. On it, his alto saxophone voice -- somewhat influenced by Dolphy but recognizable in itself --  was already well-established.
        Though he stayed within the basic harmonies of a tune's given chords, his cantering delivery was charmingly eccentric, bursting with vocalistic devices: harrumphs, swoons and chuckles.
        From the beginning Mr. McIntyre considered himself part of the avant-garde or ''new thing'' movement in jazz, as spearheaded by musicians like Ornette Coleman, Bill Dixon and Cecil Taylor, although his own music was considerably more traditionally melodic than theirs.
        He played a whole fleet of reed instruments, including oboe, bassoon, bass clarinet and saxophones. In 1964, on the album ''Way, Way Out,'' he recorded bouncing, urgent jazz tunes with chilly, dissonant string arrangements; in 1966, he accompanied Mr. Taylor on the album ''Unit Structures,'' a landmark recording of the jazz avant-garde.
        Mr. McIntyre was born in Boston.  At 15 he heard Charlie Parker; from then he on pursued a life in jazz.  After a year in Japan serving in the  Army, he returned home and began studies at the Boston Conservatory of Music on the G.I. Bill. In 1959 he received a master's degree in composition there, and in 1975 a doctorate in education from the University of Massachusetts.
        In 1964, after making four albums, Mr. McIntyre began to teach full time, first as the director of music at P.S. 171 in Manhattan and later as a lecturer and professor of music at Central State University in Wilberforce, Ohio; Wesleyan University, Smith College, Fordham University and the New School. He taught African-American music and dance at the State University at Old Westbury, N.Y., where he was the founder and chairman of the American music, dance and theater program, and where he became professor emeritus in 1995.
        Mr. McIntyre made five records in the 1970's for the Steeplechase label and in 1990 played with Charlie Haden's Liberation Orchestra. His own appearances as band leader were mostly restricted to jazz festivals.
        In the early 90's he changed his name to Makanda K. McIntyre after a stranger in Zimbabwe handed him a piece of paper on which was written, ''Makanda,'' a word in the Ndebele and Shona languages meaning ''many skins.''
        He taught at the New School until 2000 and continued to teach privately. In the late 90's he played solo performances, in duos with the bassist Wilber Morris and could often be seen in recent years at small clubs like the Lickety Split and the Internet Cafe, where he always arrived with a truckload of wind instruments. His final album, a sort of comeback recording called ''A New Beginning,'' is to be released next month on the Passin' Thru label.
        In addition to his wife, whom he married last year, he is survived by  his sons from a previous marriage, Kenneth A. McIntyre Jr. and Kheil A. McIntyre, and two grandchildren, Aaron and Rachel, all of Manhattan.
      