
        Helen Oakley Dance, a journalist and historian of jazz and blues, as well as a record producer, music publisher and personal assistant to musicians like Duke Ellington, Red Norvo, Chick Webb, Johnny Hodges, Bob Crosby and Earl Hines, died on Sunday in Escondido, Calif. She was 88.
        Ms. Dance -- who often worked  with her husband, the jazz historian and record producer Stanley Dance -- began as a pioneering female jazz critic in the 1930's but soon began to play a role in exposing a wider American audience to jazz. She insisted on taking the music seriously, and from the start, as a habitué of the swing ballrooms, she distinguished herself from the jitterbuggers by watching from the sidelines.
        During that decade, she wrote jazz reviews for Downbeat and other publications, worked for the management organizations of Duke Ellington and Louis Armstrong and promoted and booked Chick Webb's touring band. She also produced records for the Okeh label and organized the well-promoted swing-band battles at the Savoy Ballroom in New York, which became legendary events.
        In 1935, as head of the Chicago Rhythm Club, a fan organization that  booked concerts, she persuaded Benny Goodman to hire the pianist Teddy Wilson, and to bring Goodman's group to play in April 1936 at the  Congress Hotel in Chicago. The event broke ground because it featured an interracial band and because it was one of the earliest American presentations of jazz in a sit-down performance hall. And while working for Irving Mills, Ellington's manager, she sold him on the idea of forming small bands within Ellington's larger orchestra. She soon become the head of artists and repertory for Variety records, which issued a series of recordings by these small bands.
        Born in Toronto to a well-to-do family, Ms. Dance attended Ovenden and Trinity Colleges in Toronto and a finishing school in Lausanne, Switzerland. In the early 1930's she traveled to London, where she first saw  Ellington perform. Soon after, she rebelled against her family by moving to Detroit, where she intended to work as a jazz singer and later met  Ellington by forging an introductory note to him from a jazz critic. But by 1934 she moved to Chicago and found work writing about and helping to produce jazz concerts. She became a regular contributor to the new Downbeat magazine and was one of the organizers of the famous 1937 Goodman concert at Carnegie Hall.
        In 1942 she volunteered for the Women's Army Corps and was assigned to Algiers, where she sent undercover operatives and radio technicians to occupied zones. Later in the war she trained renegade German soldiers as American spies.
        Soon after the war she married Mr. Dance, whom she originally met while working for Mills, and they began their 50-year collaboration on  articles, histories and record productions. The family moved to Rowayton, Conn., and from 1964 to 1982, while her husband managed Hines, Ms. Dance ran Hicue, the music publishing company for Hines and Hodges. She also conducted interviews with jazz musicians for the Smithsonian Institution and Rutgers University. In 1971 she wrote ''Stormy Monday'' (Lightning Press), a biography of the blues musician Aaron (T-Bone) Walker.
        Ms. Dance also worked in the civil rights movement, founding the Catholic Interracial Council within the Roman Catholic diocese of Bridgeport, Conn., and the Human Relations Commission in Norwalk, Conn.
        In 1988 the Helen Oakley Dance and Stanley Dance Archive was established at Yale University, encompassing correspondence, writings, interviews, records, photographs and films; it will become available to researchers later this year. An oral history interview with Ms. Dance, conducted by Patricia Willard, a jazz historian, is part of the Ellington Collection at the National Museum of American History in Washington.
        Mr. Dance died in February 1999.
        Ms. Dance is survived by sons  Francis, of Woodbury, Conn., and Rupert, of Hopkinton, N.H.; daughters Theresa Bennink-Dance of Peterborough, Ontario, and Maria Lindley of Carlsbad, Calif.; sisters Jacqueline Hickson of New Smyrna Beach, Fla., and Doris Barry of Wilton, Conn.;  brother John Gillespie of Toronto; and three grandchildren.
        ''The affinity with jazz which has determined my life was not inherited,'' she told the writer Sally Placksin in the book ''Jazzwomen.'' ''It was a gift. For the record, I was never really career-minded. My priorities were reversed, because I wasn't that hungry for gold. All my feel was for the music and the people who played things you wanted to hear.''
      