
        George Senesky, an all-American basketball player at St. Joseph's of Philadelphia and a player and coach for N.B.A. champion Philadelphia Warrior teams, died Monday at a hospital in Cape May Courthouse, N.J. He was 79.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        A presence in Philadelphia basketball during the 1940's and 50's, the 6-foot-2-inch Senesky was a high-scoring forward in college and a guard in the N.B.A., playing eight seasons for the Warriors before coaching them for three years.
        He was a first-team all-American as a senior at St. Joseph's in 1942-43, when he was named the Helms Foundation national player of the year, averaged 23.4 points a game and set a school season-scoring record of 515 points, a mark eclipsed seven years later by his brother Paul.
        After serving as an officer in the Army Air Forces during World War II, Senesky became a starting guard for the Warriors in 1946, the first year of the Basketball Association of America, which became the N.B.A. Led by the league's first superstar, Joe Fulks, the Warriors defeated the Chicago Stags for the league championship.
        Senesky teamed up in the backcourt during the early 1950's with the future Hall of Famer Andy Phillip, a fellow all-American in 1943, at Illinois. Playing in the era before the 24-second shot clock, Senesky averaged 7.2 points a game for eight seasons.
        Senesky was named the Warriors' coach for 1955-56, succeeding Eddie Gottlieb, the franchise's founder. That team, led by the scoring of Paul Arizin and Neil Johnston and the heralded rookie Tom Gola, defeated the Fort Wayne Pistons in the championship final.
        ''We were explosive, a joy to watch,'' Senesky recalled.
        The next season, the Boston Celtics obtained Bill Russell, leaving the Warriors as also-rans in Senesky's last two seasons as coach.
        Senesky, a native of Mahanoy City, Pa., is survived by his wife, Lena, of Sea Isle City, N.J.; a brother, William, of Pearl River, N.Y.; two sisters, Mary Minewicz, of Shenandoah, Pa., and Dorothy Senesky, of Philadelphia; a stepson, Ernesto Forlini, of Broomall, Pa.; a stepdaughter, Diana Rosini, of Havertown, Pa.; and five grandchildren.
        In comparing the N.B.A. of the 1950's to the modern era, Senesky once remarked how ''today's game is more brute force.''
        But Senesky gave the current players their due. ''I played in the league, but I don't think I could be a ball boy today,'' he said. ''They'd throw me through the basket.''
      