
        Clarkson Nott Potter, a publisher, writer and literary agent who founded an imprint in his own name, died Sunday at his home in Jamestown, R.I. He was 73.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Helga Maass Potter.
        Mr. Potter was the founder and retired editor in chief of Clarkson N. Potter Inc., an imprint of Random House's Crown Publishers, which publishes illustrated books about cooking and interior design.
        Up until his death Mr. Potter was still working as a publishing consultant, including his last project for the Herreshoff Marine Museum in Bristol, R.I., which in the fall will publish an annotated book of letters between Nathanael Greene Herreshoff and William Picard Stephens, two prominent yacht designers.
        Mr. Potter embarked on a publishing career in 1950 after graduating from Union College in Schenectady, N.Y. He started as an editor at Doubleday and Co., worked as a managing editor at Dial Press and founded Clarkson N. Potter in 1959. He retired from his own imprint in 1977 after suffering some heart problems and moved to Rhode Island, his wife said.
        Born in Mendham, N.J., Mr. Potter was the first in his family to seek a literary career. He wrote several books that sought to offer insights into the New York publishing world, from essential office politics to a practical overview of the business of writing and editing. His last book, ''Who Does What and Why in Book Publishing,'' was published in 1990.
        After retiring from Clarkson N. Potter, he was the president of Brandywine Press for four years ending in 1980. After that, he worked as a literary agent and publishing consultant. In addition, he taught courses in publishing and writing at Brown University and the Rhode Island School of Design.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Potter is survived by five children from two previous marriages, including four sons, Howard, of Weston, Conn.; Edward, of Bedford, N.Y.; Christian, of Litchfield, Conn.; and Jack Rohe Howard-Potter of New York City; and a daughter, Margaretta Patterson of New Milford, Conn. He is also survived by a brother, Spencer, of Boston; two sisters, Elisabeth Kruesi of Bernardsville, N.J., and Virginia Held of New York City; and  six grandchildren.
        Correction:  July 3, 2001, Tuesday  An obituary on Thursday about Clarkson N. Potter, a publisher, writer and literary agent, described one of his survivors incorrectly. Christian Potter Drury of Litchfield, Conn., was a daughter, not a son.
      