
        John Finley Yardley, a retired engineer who played a central role in the fledgling days of space flight and set the stage for the space shuttle program, died on Tuesday at his home in suburban St. Louis. He was 76.
        The cause was complications of cancer.
        Mr. Yardley was closely associated with the Mercury and Gemini programs, often acting as a troubleshooter.
        He oversaw the teams that built the capsules for the initial flights of American astronauts.
        Daniel S. Goldin, administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, said Mr. Yardley was as responsible as anyone for this country's forays into space.
        ''His experience and leadership through NASA's early space flight efforts paved the way for his great contributions to the space shuttle program,'' Mr. Goldin said.
        A native of St. Louis, Mr. Yardley graduated with a degree in aeronautical engineering from Iowa State College with the wartime class of 1944. He was an ensign in the Navy from 1943 to 1946 and received a master's degree in applied engineering from Washington University in St. Louis in 1950.
        He started his career as structural and aeronautical engineer at the McDonnell Aircraft Corporation in St. Louis in 1946. He rose to chief strength engineer 10 years later.
        He entered the space program in 1958 as project engineer for the design of the Mercury spacecraft. In the early 1960's he was based in Cape Canaveral, Fla., to manage launching operations for Mercury and Gemini spacecraft.
        Mr. Yardley became technical director for the Gemini program in 1964.
        ''In those days, we were constantly making choices, and people's lives and the programs depended on them,'' said Dr. Christopher C. Kraft Jr., then the NASA flight director. ''Yardley was always willing to come up with the next idea to overcome whatever problem we were having. You knew you would get not just the right answer from him, but the best answer.''
        Mr. Yardley was a vice president and general manager of McDonnell Douglas Astronautics' eastern division in 1974 when he joined NASA headquarters in Washington.
        He was associate administrator for space flights using astronauts and was charged with getting the shuttle program, which was running behind schedule, on track for its first launching in 1981.
        He returned to McDonnell Douglas and retired as a senior corporate vice president in 1989.
        Mr. Yardley is survived by his wife of 55 years, Phyllis Steele Yardley; four daughters; a son; a sister; nine grandchildren; and a great-granddaughter.
      