
        Brig. Gen. Denis Whitaker, one of Canada's most highly decorated army officers of World War II and a military historian and sportsman, died May 30 in Oakville, Ontario. He was 86.
        Serving with the Royal Hamilton Light Infantry -- from the Dieppe raid through the Normandy campaign and the drive to the Rhine -- General Whitaker was a two-time recipient of the Distinguished Service Order, the British Commonwealth's highest military award for valor after the Victoria Cross.
        ''Dieppe is synonymous with disaster in Canadian military history,'' said Serge Durflinger, a historian at the Canadian War Museum in Ottawa. ''Yet Denis Whitaker is an example of success at Dieppe.''
        On the morning of Aug. 19, 1942, 5,000 Canadians, 1,000 British commandos and 50 United States Rangers stormed the German-occupied port of Dieppe, France, to test tactics for the D-Day invasion that was to come almost two years later. They were ordered to destroy port facilities, radar installations and guns overlooking the harbor, then withdraw.
        As a junior officer, Captain Whitaker led a 30-man platoon that captured a beach-front casino from which the Germans were sending intense fire. The platoon suffered  heavy casualties, but Captain Whitaker led his men across a plaza and into the town of Dieppe.
        That foray -- bringing him his first award for valor -- represented one of the few accomplishments in a raid that saw only 2,210 Canadians return to England, many of them wounded. Almost 2,000 were taken prisoner and 907 were killed.
        General Whitaker later called planning for the raid ''disgraceful'' but cited a positive impact on subsequent Allied invasions since ''so many things were done wrong at Dieppe that simply by correcting them they saved thousands.''
        Promoted to commander of the Royal Hamilton Light Infantry, known as the Rileys, he was fighting in Normandy in July 1944 when a shell blew up in his face. It was feared he would lose his sight, but he was back in action within two months, leading his men through combat in the Netherlands and Germany. He won a second Distinguished Service Order for combat exploits against German paratroopers and Panzer units in the Rhineland during the winter of 1945.
        He finished the war as a colonel and retired from the army in 1951 as a brigadier general.
        The son of an army major, William Denis Whitaker was born on Feb. 27, 1915, in Calgary, Alberta, and came to Toronto with his family as a boy. After graduating in 1937 from the Royal Military College in Kingston, Ontario, where he was captain of the football and hockey teams, he was a star quarterback for the Hamilton Tigers of the Canadian pro football league.
        After the war, he was an executive with CHML Radio in Hamilton, Ontario, and president of the O'Keefe Brewery Company.
        He collaborated with his second wife, Shelagh, a journalist, on books recounting Canadian campaigns in World War II. Their ''Tug of War: The Canadian Victory That Opened Antwerp'' (Stoddart, 1984) won the John W. Dafoe award as the year's best book on Canadian international affairs. They also wrote ''Rhineland: The Battle to End the War'' (Stoddart, 1989), ''Dieppe: Tragedy to Triumph'' (McGraw-Hill Ryerson, 1992) and ''Victory at Falaise: The Soldiers' Story'' (HarperCollins, 2000).
        General Whitaker renewed his interest in the sports world, serving as chairman of the Canadian national equestrian team from 1960 to 1982 and winning Canadian senior singles titles in squash and water-skiing. He organized fund-raising to aid Canadian Olympians.
        In addition to his wife, General Whitaker is survived by two sons, Clarke and Michael; a daughter, Gail Thompson, from his first marriage, which ended in divorce; and four stepdaughters, Wendy Rutherford, Barbara Horne, Martie Hooker and Jenifer Cepella.
        In the 1970's, when General Whitaker was in Europe on equestrian matters, he made a side trip to the Dutch town of Woensdrecht, which he helped liberate in October 1944. When there three decades earlier, he had been in a rush to set up a headquarters while under fire. He had shot the lock off a large oak door on the town hall, then carted the door to a farm to build his command shack.
        ''I always felt guilty about that,'' he told his wife, so he decided to apologize to the people of Woensdrecht. The mayor invited him to the town hall, where 100 people welcomed him. And there was the oak door, long since repaired.
        The townspeople kept in touch with the Whitakers, and last month Mayor Herman Klitsie of Woensdrecht and his wife were guests at the Whitaker home in Oakville. The mayor presented Mr. Whitaker with a small silver model of the town hall. It was correct in every detail, down to the door that General Whitaker had liberated so many years before.
      