
        George Abrams, an artist and type designer whose distinctive logotypes spelled out household names like B. Altman and Godiva Chocolates, died on June 7 in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 81 and lived in Great Neck Estates, N.Y.
        Mr. Abrams and his company, Alphabets Inc., worked with many of the largest advertising agencies, and while his studio boasted the latest in computer technology, he called himself a boardman who spent much creative time drawing and inking on paper.
        Among his type designs are three known as Abrams Venetian, Abrams Augereau and Abrams Caslon. He created the cover logos for a number of popular magazines, notably the original one for Sports Illustrated in 1954. Others he designed included those for Newsweek (1968), The Saturday Evening Post (1965) and House Beautiful (1949).
        His lettering showed up in the headlines and subheadings of Life magazine. He created logos for the Singer Company; Reed & Barton, the silverware maker; and Ballantine beer and ale. He also hand lettered copy for corporate giants like American Express and General Foods.
        George Abrams was born in Brooklyn, the son of artistically inclined parents from Russia. (A brother was Harry N. Abrams, founder of the art books publisher by that name, who died in 1979.)
        He was self-taught, learning to draw while running errands for printing companies. At 19 he began to work for publishers and advertising agencies.
        Mr. Abrams taught lettering and typeface design at the Parsons School of Design, the New School for Social Research and Columbia University Teachers College, where he was a professor of type design in the 1960's. He lectured widely in the United States and Europe.
        He was a bibliophile with a large collection of rare books and manuscripts, ranging from incunabula to the Russian avant-garde. He was active in the Grolier Club and the New York Typophiles, and was a fellow of the Pierpont Morgan Library and an honorary fellow of the London Society of Typographic Design.
        He served with the Third Armored Division during World War II, earning five Battle Stars as a weatherman during the invasion of Normandy and the advance into Germany, where he participated in the liberation of the Buchenwald death camp. He also received the Caen memorial invasion medal.
        Mr. Abrams's first wife, Marion Cordes, died in 1971, and his second wife, Joan Allen Walker, died in 1998. He is survived by a son, Jeffrey, of Manhattan; three daughters, Vicki, Nancy and Lauren Abrams, all of San Diego; eight grandchildren; and his companion, Jean Stephenson of Bronxville, N.Y.
      