
        Tsen-cha Tsao, an engineer and educator who helped recreate one of China's leading institutions of higher learning on Taiwan, died on May 23 at home on the Upper East Side. He was 99.
        Mr. Tsao, known as T.C., retired in 1971 as a senior research engineer involved in defense-related work at the Riverside Research Institute in Manhattan. This nuclear laboratory conducts both military and medical research and is affiliated with the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons.
        A native of Shanghai, Mr. Tsao graduated in 1924 from National Chiao Tung University in Shanghai, one of China's finest engineering schools, and maintained close ties with it all his life.
        He continued his telecommunications training in England and Germany and received a master's degree from Harvard University in 1929. After teaching at Chekiang University, he entered Chinese government service in 1932 and for the next 10 years headed the Chekiang provincial telephone company and the telecommunications commission for southeastern China.
        After World War II, he oversaw public utilities in Shanghai. In 1949, he came to the United States to study the work of the Tennessee Valley Authority, and remained as Mao's Communist forces took control of the Chinese mainland.
        He worked for the Consolidated Edison Company of New York until he joined the Riverside Research Institute in the 1950's.
        But Mr. Tsao stayed in touch with the Nationalist Chinese government in Taiwan and encouraged it to re-establish Chiao Tung University on the island. Other alumni and Taiwan's ministries of education, communications, economics and defense joined the campaign, and it opened in the late 1950's.
        The university regained its status as a crown jewel in the Nationalist Chinese technical education system. Mr. Tsao was celebrated as a founding father and for 20 years made annual visits to conduct seminars on engineering and technology.
        Mr. Tsao's first wife, Winifred Chang, died in 1963. He is survived by his wife of 31 years, Christina Ching Tsao. Also surviving are three stepdaughters, Alice Ching Mock of Honolulu, Dr. Julia Ching of Toronto and Priscilla Ching-Chung of Hong Kong; two stepsons, Anthony B. Ching of Tempe, Ariz., and Frank Ching of Hong Kong; two grandchildren and three great-grandsons.
      