
        Russell M. Saunders, whose daring stunts in more than 100 movies overshadowed even his acrobatic antics on Santa Monica's fabled Muscle Beach, died on May 29 at a nursing home in West Los Angeles. He was 82.
        Doubling for actors like Alan Ladd, Gene Kelly, Red Buttons and Jack Benny, Mr. Saunders literally threw himself into the profession of appearing to risk his life, sometimes bringing that appearance perilously close to reality.
        Once when doubling for Richard Widmark, he jumped off a 50-foot cliff and broke his arm so badly on a rock in the water that he could never fully straighten it again. His partners in subsequent acrobatic acts had to learn to perform with one crooked arm to preserve the all-important symmetry.
        He did Ladd's famous fight scene in ''Shane'' in 1953; jumped off a 60-foot bridge for Robert Cummings in ''Saboteur'' in 1942; and was the agile figure leaping from rooftop to rooftop in the 1948 version of ''The Three Musketeers.'' That ended with his catching a waving flag that ripped, then swinging on its shreds into an open window.
        Fay Alexander, the great circus acrobat who himself doubled for Tony Curtis and Doris Day in circus movies, said that performance was the greatest movie stunt he ever saw. Mr. Alexander, who died last year, called Mr. Saunders ''without a doubt the best all-around acrobat I've ever known.''
        He certainly had the right look. Salvador Dali used the perfectly proportioned acrobat as a model for his painting ''The Christ of St. John,''  making him what fellow stuntmen delighted in calling the ultimate double.
        Indeed, other stuntmen, many of whom learned their skills from him, praised Mr. Saunders's often breathtaking skills. Brayton Yerkes called him flamboyant, and ''the best all-around stuntman I've known.''
        Another stuntman, Gary Morgan,  lauded Mr. Saunders's ability to imitate an actor's precise mannerisms, down to the peculiarities of his walk. Mr. Morgan, who learned the tricks of the trade from Mr. Saunders, remembered him working on several movies at the same time on the MGM lot: diving through a window for one picture, immediately doing a fight scene in another and then racing off to do acrobatics for Gene Kelly.
        ''He sometimes got four checks in a day,'' marveled Mr. Morgan, who got his first job through Mr. Saunders and whose own most recent stunt work was for the coming film ''Rush Hour II.''
        Mr. Morgan pointed out that stuntmen used to face far greater dangers than they do today, when they can use supporting wires that can be digitally removed from the film.
        Russell Maurice Saunders was born on a farm outside Winnipeg, Manitoba, on May 21, 1919, the youngest of eight children. His father was a farmer and railroad worker.
        His only immediate survivors are two sisters, Edna Hall of Penticton, British Columbia, and Doris Sandore of Newport Beach, Calif.
        His future was foreshadowed when, as a very young boy, he jumped off the barn, cradling two chickens, sure that they would enable him to fly. An older sister who worked as a cashier in the local movie house let him in free. He hung around circuses.
        He went to a summer camp specializing in acrobatics and began to develop skills that propelled him to Canadian championships in diving and gymnastics. He tried to enlist in the Canadian Air Force, but was rejected because he was color-blind.
        He then moved to California, where one of his sisters was living. He thought he might go to college, but got only as far as making friends with the diving coaches at the University of Southern California and the University of California at Los Angles, who helped him find jobs in water shows, one of which starred Bing Crosby.
        During World War II, he volunteered to serve in the United States Army as a paratrooper, but was later assigned to an Armed Force Aquacade in England.
        Soon after his arrival in California, he heard of Muscle Beach, then a platform just south of the pier in Santa Monica, where the great acrobats came to practice and show off. It later became the home of body builders like Jack La Lanne, another admirer.
        Mr. Saunders refused to lift weights. ''He said he'd rather lift girls than weights,'' Mr. Morgan said.
        Among his achievements on Muscle Beach was somersaulting over 14 people who were standing side by side and bending over.
        He also became so well known as a generous teacher who never charged for his considerable expertise that some called the beach Russell Beach, Ms. Boelsems said.
        Even after the platform that defined Muscle Beach was torn down in 1959 because the city thought it drew unsavory crowds, he continued to take his own equipment, including trampolines and teeterboards, to the beach to teach children. He called his trainees Muscle Beach AcroBrats.
        ''This has to be the only place in the world where someone can just walk up and receive free gymnastic instruction from pros,'' he said in an interview with The Los Angeles Times in 1986.
        Mr. Morgan said Mr. Saunders was offered chances to move up in the movie business, including an offer to direct. But he never accepted a directing job, though he was often confused with Russell Saunders, a well-known assistant director, who died in 1987.
        ''Russ was like a big kid,'' Mr. Morgan said. ''He didn't want to interfere with anything that would interfere with him having fun.''
        Correction:  June 22, 2001, Friday  Because of an editing error, an obituary of the movie stuntman Russell M. Saunders on Sunday omitted the given name and occupation of a woman who commented on his career. She was Paula Boelsems, his longtime acrobatic partner.
      