
        Rabbi Bernard Mandelbaum, president from 1966 to 1971 of the Jewish Theological Seminary, the academic and spiritual center of Conservative Judaism, died June 19 at a nursing home in Plantation, Fla. He was 79 and lived in Mount Vernon, N.Y., and Tamarac, Fla.
        The cause was a heart attack, family members said.
        Rabbi Mandelbaum, born in Brooklyn, came to the seminary, at Broadway and 122nd Street, as a student in 1942 after graduating from Columbia College. After being ordained, he held a variety of posts at the seminary, including dean of students, provost, and professor of midrash, or scriptural interpretation.
        He became president of the seminary in 1966, when Rabbi Louis Finkelstein was chancellor. The person who holds the position of chancellor has long been regarded as the de facto head of the Conservative movement, to which nearly two million American Jews belong.
        Rabbi Mandelbaum was widely regarded as being groomed to succeed Rabbi Finkelstein as chancellor, and it was also expected that Dr. Gerson Cohen would succeed him as president. He lost a highly publicized succession battle for the chancellorship, though. Instead, Dr. Cohen became chancellor and Rabbi Mandelbaum left the seminary.
        The succession battle involved issues of personality and skills as well as religious ideology. Rabbi Mandelbaum was regarded as the superior fund-raiser and administrator, Dr. Cohen as the greater scholar. Rabbi Mandelbaum was also considered more traditional, and Dr. Cohen did go on to lead the seminary in a more progressive direction, presiding in 1985 over the ordination of the first women to become rabbis in Conservative Judaism.
        Rabbi David C. Kogen, a vice chancellor of the seminary at the time, recalled the succession battle as ''a major crossroads'' in the life of the institution. ''If Rabbi Mandelbaum had become chancellor, women rabbis would not have come into being so soon, if at all,'' Rabbi Kogen said. Women are now a large part of the seminary's rabbinical school.
        The seminary ordained 29 rabbis last month, and 12 were women, bringing to 123 the number of women ordained since 1985, seminary officials said.
        Rabbi Mandelbaum later held other leadership roles, including serving as president of the America-Israel Cultural Foundation, which was established to promote musical and culture exchanges. He was also executive vice president of the Synagogue Council of America, an umbrella organization of the major Jewish denominations, and created and led the Foundation for Future Generations, which supported Jewish education.
        Rabbi Mandelbaum was the author or editor of several books. His major scholarly work was a critical edition of the ''Pesikta deRav Kahana,'' a work of biblical interpretation dating to the Fifth Century, which was published by the seminary in 1962.
        Rabbi Mandelbaum's first wife, Judith, died in 1980. He is survived by his second wife, Marcelle; a sister, Ethel Salwen of San Francisco; five children, Joel, of Manhattan; Dasi, of Jefferson City, Mo.; David of Highland Park, N.J.; Debra Lyman of Woodmere, N.Y.; and Naomi Rosenblum of West Hempstead, N.Y.; 10 grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      