
        Dr. James H. Sammons, a former top executive of the American Medical Association who turned the organization around during a financial crisis in the 1980's, died on June 17 in Chicago, where he lived. He was 74.
        The causes were cancer and a heart ailment, an A.M.A. spokeswoman said.
        Dr. Sammons was executive vice president of the medical association for 16 years. His appointment to that post in 1974 came in a turbulent time for the association. He put its finances on a more solid footing, then resigned in 1990 during a controversy over two financial deals made by the group.
        In 1974, the association was approaching bankruptcy, losing members and forced to take out monthly loans of $1 million just to meet its payroll. By the time Dr. Sammons stepped down, the association had nearly $200 million in assets and had become one of the most influential medical organizations in the world.
        Dr. Sammons's overhaul of the association included raising membership dues and slashing the number of association committees and councils to 8 from 100. He also made a 20 percent reduction in staff budgets, which angered many association members. According to a 1984 account in American Medical News, a publication of the association, when the editor of The Journal of the American Medical Association walked into Dr. Sammons's office one day and threatened to resign over some changes, Dr. Sammons replied, ''You just did.''
        In the 1984 interview, he said, ''The fiscal crisis motivated us to bring A.M.A. into the 20th century and turn it into a modern corporation.''
        Dr. Sammons was born in Montgomery, Ala., in 1927. He graduated from Washington and Lee University and then the St. Louis University School of Medicine in 1951.
        He is survived by his wife, JoAnne Halloway; a son, Dr. James Harris Sammons Jr. of Laken-Heath, England; a daughter, Patricia Sammons Sheats of Bastrop, Tex.; two stepchildren, Nancy Bond and Joseph Bond of Chicago; and five grandchildren.
      