
        Paolo Emilio Taviani, a wartime resistance fighter and a founding father of the Italian Republic and the Christian Democratic Party that dominated it in the postwar era, died on Monday in Rome. He was 88.
        He suffered a stroke, it was announced in the upper chamber of Parliament, where he had served since 1992 as a senator for life, a rare honor in Italian public life.
        Mr. Taviani, who held major government posts, was unscathed by the scandals that ended his party's long sway and left it in splinters. Among the ministries that he led from 1953 to 1974 were Defense, Finance, Treasury and Interior -- a department he headed two times in the years when the country dealt with left- and right-wing terrorists.
        Mr. Taviani was born in Genoa. He became an expert on a fellow Genoan, Christopher Columbus, and wrote several books on him. The first was ''Christopher Columbus: The Genesis of the Great Discovery'' (1974), and the last was ''Christopher Columbus, Genius of the Sea'' (1991). Mr. Taviani also wrote books on economics, politics and the European integration movement since World War II.
        Mr. Taviani was educated at the University of Genoa, where he taught the history of economic theory before becoming active in the anti-Fascist resistance and politics. From 1943 to 1945 he was a partisan leader in his home region in the northwest around Genoa and Liguria. After Mussolini's fall, the Germans occupied the area, and Mr. Taviani was a leader of an uprising in Genoa that ousted the occupiers before the Allied forces arrived in 1945.
        Mr. Taviani helped organize the Christian Democratic Party in the Genoa area in 1943, when it was clandestine. After the war, he served in the Constituent Assembly, which abolished the monarchy, and was elected a member of Parliament in 1948. Mr. Taviani was named under secretary for foreign affairs in 1951 and rose to defense minister by 1953. In Parliament, he presided over the Senate foreign relations committee in the 1980's and was elected vice president of the Senate in 1987.
        Survivors include his wife, Vittoria Festa Taviani; five sons; and two daughters.
      