
        Barton Mumaw, a member of Ted Shawn's pioneering all-male dance company of the 1930's and a performer in many modern-dance and musical theater productions, died on Monday in Clearwater, Fla., his home for many years. He was 88.
        Mr. Mumaw was long associated with Jacob's Pillow, the farm property in the Berkshires that Shawn first bought as a summer retreat and then turned into a home for his all-male company and later the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival, which continues to flourish there. Visitors to the Pillow have long been familiar with Mr. Mumaw's image: he was the model for the dancing figure adorning the theater's weather vane.
        Born in Hazelton, Pa., on Aug. 20, 1912, and reared in Florida, Mr. Mumaw studied dance with local teachers as a boy. In 1930 he attended a program by Denishawn, the dance company directed by Shawn and his wife, Ruth St. Denis, which was known for its choreographic eclecticism and theatrical vividness. Mr. Mumaw was so overwhelmed by the performance that he went to New York to study at the Denishawn school.
        After he joined the company in 1931, he also worked as Shawn's chauffeur and dresser.
        He was a member of Shawn's all-male troupe, Ted Shawn and His Men Dancers, from its inception in 1933 until it disbanded in 1940. That company's athletic style did much to make dancing seem like a respectable profession for men.
        Shawn remained the greatest influence on Mr. Mumaw. In ''Barton Mumaw, Dancer: From Denishawn to Jacob's Pillow and Beyond,'' the autobiography he wrote with Jane Sherman (Dance Horizons, 1986), he declared that ''in essence, my life began in 1927, when I took my first dancing lesson in Eustis, Fla., and ended in 1972, when Ted Shawn died there.''
        In that memoir Mr. Mumaw also revealed that he had been Shawn's lover for many years and recorded how their involvement affected every aspect of their professional lives. So that no one could accuse dance of being morally questionable, the two took pains to conceal the true nature of their relationship. Mr. Mumaw was even forbidden to call Shawn by his first name in public.
        Shawn choreographed solos for Mr. Mumaw, who also created works of his own, which he began presenting in dance concerts.
        Reviewing a performance by him in The New York Times in 1941, John Martin described him as ''excellently equipped to be a dancer,'' adding, ''He moves easily and well and has possibilities of technical brilliance.''
        After serving in the Air Force from 1942 to 1946, Mr. Mumaw continued to offer modern-dance programs and appeared in the Broadway productions of ''Out of This World,'' ''The Golden Apple'' and ''My Fair Lady.''
        He is survived by his companion, Marvin Morgenstern.
        This year a Barton Mumaw Scholarship was established at the Fiorello H. La Guardia High School of Music and Art and Performing Arts in New York to help a promising but needy young male dancer study dance at the Juilliard School.
        In recent years Mr. Mumaw often helped supervise revivals of dances from Shawn's repertory, many of them at the Pillow. That work caused him to remark after a performance there in 1981, ''You can go home again.''
      