
        Dr. Abe Silverstein, a mechanical engineer who oversaw parts of  America's fledgling space program of the 1950's and 1960's, died on Friday at his home in Fairview Park, Ohio. He was 92.
        He went to work for the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics in 1929 and held leading positions at its successor agency, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, until he retired in 1970. He directed programs that led to the Mercury space flights and the Apollo missions that put the first man on the moon.
        ''NASA has lost a true founding member,'' said its administrator, Daniel S. Goldin.
        Mr. Goldin said Dr. Silverstein's work directly contributed to the success of the United States' unmanned and manned space programs.
        Born in Terre Haute, Ind., Dr. Silverstein graduated from Rose Polytechnic Institute in 1929 and returned for an advanced degree in mechanical engineering in 1934. By then, he had started his career at NASA's predecessor as an aerodynamic research engineer.
        In the 1930's he was based at its Aeronautical Laboratory in Langley, Va. He directed wind-tunnel research that produced faster combat planes built in World War II.
        In the middle of the war he was transferred to the Lewis Flight Propulsion Laboratory in Cleveland and headed its wind-tunnel and flight research division.
        Later named overall chief of research, he oversaw the building of a  supersonic wind tunnel, the largest, fastest and most powerful in the world.
        He became associate director at Lewis in 1952, but in 1958, NASA called him to headquarters in Washington to be director of the Office of Flight Programs.
        At the time, the United States was in a space race with the Soviet Union, and his responsibilities included unmanned and manned Project Mercury missions and Pioneer research probes of the solar system.
        From 1961 until his retirement, he was the director of the Cleveland center, since renamed the John H. Glenn Research Center Lewis Field. He supervised the development of the Centaur launching vehicles that hefted spacecraft toward the planets Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune.
        Dr. Silverstein is survived by two sons, Joe, of Thousand Oaks, Calif., and David, of Maumee, Ohio; a daughter, Judy Cook of Columbia, Va.; and five grandchildren. His wife of 48 years, Marion Croster Silverstein, died in 1998.
        Dr. Silverstein was credited with having put the labels on the Mercury and Apollo programs. The Roman god and the planet Mercury, it seemed, lent it a heroic ring, and most Americans knew the namesake from Detroit. But Apollo?
        Dr. Silverstein recalled that he first dropped the name at a 1969 brainstorming session about how to top Mercury. ''No specific reason for it,'' he said. ''It was just an attractive name.''
        Apollo, a son of Zeus, had many  qualities, one of which was his ability as an archer who could hit targets at great distances.
        Correction:  June 7, 2001, Thursday  An obituary on Tuesday about Abe Silverstein, a NASA official, misstated the date of the brainstorming session in which he proposed the name Apollo for the program to place a man on the moon. It was in the early years of the moon program, announced by President John F. Kennedy in 1961, not in 1969.
        Correction:  June 18, 2001, Monday  An obituary on June 5 about Abe Silverstein, a NASA official, misstated the date of the brainstorming session in which he proposed the name Apollo for the program to place a man on the moon. A correction in this space on Thursday placed the session in the appropriate time period -- the early 1960's, not 1969 -- but left the date imprecise. NASA records say the session took place in January 1960.
      