
        Amos Perlmutter, a Washington-based political scientist, author and commentator on Middle Eastern affairs, died Tuesday at a hospital in Washington. He was 69.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        He was the author of 15 books and innumerable articles and essays about the Middle East and American foreign and security policies. Topics included strategic studies, military sociology and comparative politics.
        Dr. Perlmutter's last newspaper column, ''Arafat's Failed Utopia,'' a critique of the Middle East peace effort, appeared in The Jerusalem Post on June 8.
        He was born in Bialystok in northeastern Poland, grew up in Palestine and fought for Israel in the wars of 1948, 1956 and 1973. Before settling in Washington, he served as atomic energy commissioner in Israel, political adviser to the Israeli military and member of Israel's delegation to the United Nations.
        Besides English, he was conversant in Hebrew, Arabic, French and German. He held a Ph.D. from the University of California at Berkeley and taught at Harvard University, Johns Hopkins University and the Free University of Berlin. Since 1972 he served as a professor of political science and sociology at American University in Washington.
        Viewers of television news programs knew him as an expert on terrorism, Israel and the Middle East in general. His weekly opinion columns also appeared in The Washington Times, an outpost of the political right.
        He was the author of a biography, ''The Life and Times of Menachem Begin'' (Doubleday, 1987), a highly critical assessment that became a best seller and appeared in a pirated Arabic version.
        Among his most recent books were ''Making the World Safe for Democracy: A Century of Wilsonianism and Its Totalitarian Challengers'' (University of North Carolina Press, 1997); ''The War Policies of F.D.R., 1943-1945'' (University of Missouri Press, 1993); ''F.D.R. and Stalin: A Not So Grand Alliance, 1943-1945'' (University of Missouri Press, 1993); and a classic text of political science, ''The Military and Politics in Modern Times'' (Yale University Press, 1977).
        Dr. Perlmutter was the co-editor of the Journal of Strategic Studies,  and he contributed essays and commentary to the op-ed pages of several newspapers, including The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Times of London, Maariv and Haaretz in Israel and Der Tagespiegel in Berlin.
        Dr. Perlmutter is survived by his wife, Sharon Watts Perlmutter; and his mother, Berta Perlmutter, and a sister, Elazara Hason, both of Israel.
      