
        Michael Sonnabend, the husband of the art dealer Ileana Sonnabend and a familiar, approachable presence on the downtown art scene, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 101.
        From the 1970's to the mid-90's, the diminutive Mr. Sonnabend could often be found chatting with visitors at his wife's gallery about art, literature or the movies, discussions whose range reflected an extensive, largely self-taught erudition. In an essay that focused largely on Mrs. Sonnabend's first husband, Leo Castelli, the critic Robert Pincus-Witten described Mr. Sonnabend as a ''leprechaunlike Dantephile and Michelangelo scholar.''
        Born in Poland in 1900, Mr. Sonnabend came to the United States with his parents when he was a young child. He grew up in Buffalo, N.Y. He was no older than his early 20's when he went to Paris, where he supported himself as a tour guide to the city's cultural and architectural riches. This activity sparked an interest in visual art and also helped immerse him in Paris's teeming cultural life. During this period he traveled throughout Europe on almost no money. He learned Italian so he could read Dante in the original and also became fluent in French and Spanish.
        He returned to New York only when forced to by World War II. Once more, he followed his interests into the city's cultural environment, especially whatever was downtown and bohemian. It was uptown, however, while attending a class on psychology at Columbia University, where he and the Castellis met and became friends.
        In the 1950's Mr. Sonnabend collaborated with the film director Robert Snyder, whom he had met in Paris through the American theater director Harold Clurman. Their first project was ''The Titan,'' an Oscar-winning documentary about Michelangelo for which Mr. Sonnabend wrote the script. A second collaboration, ''Sketchbook No. 1: Three Americans,'' was a documentary about Willem de Kooning, Buckminster Fuller and Stravinsky, released in 1960.
        After the Castellis were divorced in 1959, Mr. Sonnabend and Mrs. Sonnabend married and moved to Europe, eventually opening a gallery in Paris that played a major role in introducing Pop Art and Minimalism to the Continent. He was often credited with encouraging his wife to take risks, including opening her gallery in SoHo in 1971. At one time the couple thought that Mr. Sonnabend would run the New York gallery while Mrs. Sonnabend oversaw their Paris establishment, but he soon found that the art business did not suit him.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Sonnabend is survived by Antonio Homem, the director of the Sonnabend Gallery and the Sonnabends' adopted son.
        Yesterday Mr. Homem said, ''Michael was the only person I ever met who made his choices so that practical needs never got in the way of  following his interests, which I think almost always centered on a pursuit of a kind of divine that was nondenominational.''
        Correction:  June 7, 2001, Thursday  An obituary yesterday about Michael Sonnabend, husband of the art dealer Ileana Sonnabend, misstated his age and omitted four survivors. He was 100, not 101. Survivors included his stepdaughter, Nina Sundell of New York, and her three children.
        Correction:  June 14, 2001, Thursday  An obituary on June 6 about Michael Sonnabend, the husband of the New York art dealer Ileana Sonnabend, misstated his contribution to ''The Titan,'' a 1950 documentary film about Michelangelo. The credits cited him for art interpretation; the script was by Norman Borisoff.
      