
        Viktor Hamburger, an experimental embryologist who mapped much of the delicate pas de deux executed by the developing nervous system and the tissue it controls, died on Tuesday in St. Louis. He was 100 years old and lived in nearby University City.
        Dr. Hamburger, who spent much of his career as a professor at Washington University, was born soon after embryology had grown into an experimental science from a mainly observational pursuit. His death comes as much of classical experimental embryology, which focuses on tissues and cells, is being supplanted by strategies that look at the interactions of molecules in the embryo.
        ''It is given to relatively few to be so totally identified with a scientific endeavor,'' said Dr. W. Maxwell Cowan, then vice president and chief scientific officer at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, in his introduction to ''Studies in Developmental Neurobiology: Essays in Honor of Viktor Hamburger'' (Oxford University Press, 1981).
        As a leading experimental embryologist throughout the field's heyday, Dr. Hamburger discovered some of the basic principles that govern development across many species. He also tried to call attention to the unanswered questions of classical embryology so that younger scientists could use the power of molecular biology to go where he could not.
        Dr. Hamburger and his colleagues figured out that the architecture of the nervous system depends as much on which nerve cells die as it does on which cells are born, and they determined many of the rules for predicting the cellular winners and losers.
        Scientists already knew about the one-way chemical and electrical traffic from a nerve cell to a muscle or other target tissue, but Dr. Hamburger's laboratory determined that the traffic was two-way. Target tissues produce sustaining chemicals, called trophic factors, which are picked up by the spidery processes of the nerve cells, influencing the life-and-death competition among the neurons. That fundamental finding spun off a new area of research that attracted many scientists.
        The first trophic factor, a protein called nerve growth factor, or N.G.F., was discovered in Dr. Hamburger's laboratory. He collaborated on the biology of the factor with Dr. Rita Levi-Montalcini; a biochemist, Dr. Stanley Cohen, joined the project to isolate the protein, which was done in 1954.
        ''N.G.F. was really the link between the 1930's and 40's and the modern age of molecular neuroscience,'' said Dr. Dale Purves, chairman of the neurobiology department at Duke University. The concept of trophic factors, and of how they affect the competition for survival among neurons, he said, would have been considered ''an enormous contribution to the canon of neuroscience,'' even if nerve growth factor itself had never been found.
        Dr. Hamburger moved on to the study of the origin of behavior in the early 1960's. He found that chick embryos moved in predictable ways as they developed, until they finally broke out of their shells, and that those movements were spontaneous. That discovery contradicted the contentions of behavioral psychologists, who said all behavior arose from stimuli or reflexes.
        Dr. Ron Oppenheim, a professor of neurobiology at Wake Forest University Medical School who worked on the embryonic behavior experiments with Dr. Hamburger, said, ''It was an unexpected finding and revived a field that nobody had been working in for 30 years.''
        But Dr. Hamburger's detour from the nerve growth factor work may have been a costly decision. Though he was a member of the National Academy of Sciences and received many honors, he probably drew the most attention from his peers for an award he did not receive: the 1986 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, which was awarded to his colleague, Dr. Levi-Montalcini, for the N.G.F. work, and to Dr. Cohen for his later work on epidermal growth factor.
        ''Viktor's contributions were to set the stage to make that discovery possible,'' said Dr. Thomas A. Woolsey, a neurobiology professor at Washington University Medical School.
        Dr. Purves said that Dr. Hamburger should have been included by the Nobel committee. ''He was the prime mover in this research and was a giant in the field quite apart from that,'' he said.
        Viktor Hamburger was born on July 9, 1900, in Landeshut, Germany, which is now part of Poland, and became interested in biology as a child.
        ''I was an all-around naturalist as a boy,'' he said in an interview published in The St. Louis Post-Dispatch in 1989. ''I had a very good time in a small town surrounded by nature and birds and forests and meadows and ponds -- ponds were my specialty.''
        He earned his Ph.D. in 1925 under the experimental embryologist Dr. Hans Spemann at the University of Freiburg in Germany. He was working in Dr. Spemann's laboratory in 1921 when an experiment, now considered a classic, discovered the principle of the embryonic ''organizer.'' When a tiny bit of tissue was transplanted in an unformed newt embryo, it induced the formation of a second embryo, an embryo within an embryo. The work, reported in 1924, earned Dr. Spemann a Nobel Prize, and inspired many of the embryology experiments done in the rest of the century.
        Dr. Hamburger took Dr. Spemann's ideas with him when he came to the United States in 1932 as a Rockefeller Fellow. He studied at the University of Chicago with Dr. Frank R. Lillie, who was well known for his studies of chick embryology. Dr. Hamburger adapted Dr. Spemann's techniques to the chick embryo, and many other biologists followed suit in the next 10 to 15 years. Chicks had many advantages over amphibians as research subjects; for one thing, chick development is easy to observe. Even Aristotle reported such studies.
        In 1933, the Nazis came to power in Germany, and Dr. Hamburger was told that he no longer had a research position in Germany because of his Jewish ancestry. In 1935, he moved to Washington University in St. Louis. He was chairman of the biology department from 1941 to 1966, became a professor emeritus in 1969 and continued his laboratory work until the mid-1980's.
        Dr. Hamburger is survived by two daughters, Dr. Carola Marte of Bethany, Conn., and Prof. Doris Sloan of Berkeley, Calif.; four grandchildren; two great-grandchildren and one great-great grandchild. His wife, the former Martha Fricke, died in 1965.
        Dr. Hamburger, along with H. L. Hamilton, published a research paper in 1951 that has become one of the most cited in biology. The meticulous, labor-intensive study categorized the stages of chick development so scientists could share their research findings with much greater precision.
        In 1988, Dr. Hamburger published ''The Heritage of Experimental Embryology: Hans Spemann and the Organizer'' (Oxford University Press). In an interview in the spring 1987 issue of Washington University Magazine, he described why he had written it.
        ''If I am very lucky, it will instigate or encourage maybe 20 years from now a scientist in developmental biology,'' he said. ''At least he or she can look at what the problems were, where we got stuck, where there is a possibility of breaking through the crust.''
      