
        Li Kwoh-ting, a driving force behind Taiwan's transformation into an economic power, died on Thursday. He was 91.
        Mr. Li, better known in Taiwan as K. T. Li, was a senior presidential adviser and former minister of economics and minister of finance.
        He was hospitalized in Taipei earlier last month after suffering a brain hemorrhage. Among his visitors were President Chen Shui-bian and Vice President Annette Lu, who hailed him as the architect of Taiwan's financial reforms and its transformation from an Asian backwater to an economic powerhouse.
        Many called Mr. Li the country's godfather of technology. He served as economics minister from 1965 to 1969, headed the Finance Ministry from then until 1975, and remained a principal adviser in those fields afterward.
        Under his stewardship, Taiwan changed from a poor agrarian society into an export-driven manufacturing one. His policies then steered the country toward high-technology ventures and production. Among his legacies were the Hsinchu Science-based Industrial Park and the export-processing zones he promoted early on.
        In 1979, he formed the Institute for Information Industry to nurture Taiwan's information and telecommunications technology. His insistence on the training of specialists at schools and universities also helped catapult Taiwan into third place among the world's producers in those fields.
        Mr. Li was born in Nanjing and studied engineering, economics and law at China's National Central University and at Cambridge University in England. In the 1940's, he worked as superintendent of the Tze Yu Iron Works in Chongqing, formerly Chunking.
        He moved to Taiwan in the 1940's and became president of the Taiwan Shipbuilding Corporation in 1951. Two years later, he joined the industrial development section of the Economic Stabilization Board, the first step in a career that helped make the ''Made in Taiwan'' label recognized worldwide.
        He served as publisher of the monthly Industry of Free China from 1954 to 1971. He also published several books and collections of his essays and speeches.
        His survivors include his son, Li Yung-chang.
      