
        Col. Todd Sweeney, who commanded a platoon of glider-borne British infantrymen in a storied raid that captured two vital bridges in the first moments of D-Day, died June 4, The Times of London reported. He was 82.
        Just past midnight on June 6, 1944, six gliders carrying 181 troops of Britain's Oxfordshire and Buckinghamshire Light Infantry were released from Halifax bomber towlines and landed near Sword Beach in the vanguard of the Allied invasion of Normandy.
        The soldiers had orders to seize two bridges almost five miles inland and a quarter-mile apart, one over the Caen Canal and the other spanning the parallel Orne River, the only water crossings on the Norman coastal road. If the Germans held those bridges, their counterattack could threaten the British infantrymen coming ashore at daybreak. And the British needed the bridges to supply their paratroopers who were dropping behind the beach during the night.
        Three platoons from the Ox and Bucks, under the raid's overall commander, Maj. John Howard, captured the Caen Canal bridge in a five-minute firefight, suffering 2 dead and 14 wounded.
        Three other platoons were assigned to capture the bridge over the  Orne. One platoon was mistakenly dropped at the Dives River, 10 miles  away, but another landed near the Orne bridge. The remaining platoon was commanded by Lt. Henry John Sweeney, who, like most British soldiers named Sweeney, was known as Todd, for the tales of Sweeney Todd, the Demon Barber of Fleet Street.
        Lieutenant Sweeney's platoon was dropped perhaps as far as 700 yards from the bridge, its glider having hit an air pocket that caused it to descend too quickly. And as he trotted  toward the bridge, he fell into a drainage ditch and was drenched.
        But when Lieutenant Sweeney took his men across the bridge moments later, they encountered only the British platoon that had been dropped closer to the target. Those men had scared off two German sentries by firing a mortar.
        ''We came to a halt, rather disappointed, because we were all worked up to kill the enemy, bayonet the enemy, be blown up or something,'' he recalled.
        Soon afterward, an open Mercedes-Benz roared onto the bridge, escorted by a motorcycle. Lieutenant Sweeney shot at the car with automatic weapons fire and his troops fired on the motorcycle, sending it into the water. Maj. Hans Schmidt, the commander of the two-bridge garrison, was in the car and was wounded. He had sped to the scene  late, having first dropped his girlfriend off at her home after late-night partying, according to Stephen Ambrose's book ''Pegasus Bridge: June 6, 1944.''
        The next day, during a firefight near the village of Escouville, one of Lieutenant Sweeney's corporals was stranded in an exposed spot after being severely wounded. Although under machine-gun and mortar fire, Lieutenant Sweeney moved forward by himself and rescued the soldier in full view of the Germans.
        Lieutenant Sweeney was wounded on July 5. On being evacuated to England, he was presented with the Military Cross for valor by Gen. Bernard Montgomery.
        He returned to combat for World War II's climactic campaigns in Germany, remained in the military after the war and retired in 1974 as a colonel and deputy commander of Britain's School of Infantry.
        Colonel Sweeney, a native of Blyth, England, is survived by his wife, Geraldine, two sons and two daughters.
        After the war, the French government renamed the Caen Canal span Pegasus Bridge, for the flying horse symbolizing the British airborne. Colonel Sweeney often attended D-Day anniversary reunions at the bridge, whose capture was portrayed in the 1962 film ''The Longest Day.''
        But his most emotional moment may have come away from the fanfare on the June day in 1991 when he visited the military cemetery at nearby Ranville, accompanied by Col. Hans von Luck, the former commander of a German panzer regiment that fought in Normandy.
        ''He went to one corner of the cemetery to mourn his dead, and I went to the other to mourn my dead,'' Colonel Sweeney recalled. ''It made me think what war is all about. At the time it was the only way out. But is it necessary? Isn't it a futile way of settling business?''
      