
        Faiga Teitelbaum, who achieved unusual influence for a woman among the Satmar group of Hasidic Jews, died on June 2 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 89.
        Mrs. Teitelbaum's husband, Joel, the Satmars' rebbe, or grand rabbi, suffered a stroke 36 years ago, causing her to be a behind-the-scenes power in much the way President Woodrow Wilson's wife Edith assumed decision-making responsibility after he suffered a stroke in 1919.
        ''It's very unusual within the Hasidic community for a woman to play such a role,'' said Rabbi Hertz Frankel, a principal at one of the Satmar schools.
        Samuel Heilman, author of ''Defenders of the Faith: Inside Ultra-Orthodox Jewry,'' said, ''She was the closest thing there has been to a female Hasidic rabbi.''
        Mrs. Teitelbaum, who as the wife of a rabbi was known as a rebbitsin, continued to have considerable power through her work with educational and charitable activities after her husband's death 22 years ago. She never left what had been the grand rabbi's official residence in Kiryas Joel in Orange County, where many Satmars would go to ask her for blessings.
        Rabbi Frankel said many women regarded her almost like royalty.
        The Satmars, one of the largest Hasidic groups, settled in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, after being nearly eradicated in Eastern Europe during the Holocaust. They later branched out to other parts of Brooklyn, to Orange County and to Israel. Others stayed in Europe.
        The Satmars are distinguished by strict fealty to traditional customs and dress, and most speak Yiddish as their first language, Mr. Heilmansaid. ''They are fiercely anti-Zionist, believing that God, not secular leaders, must ultimately lead Jews back to their homeland.
        Faiga Shapiro was born in Czestochowa, Poland, on April 19, 1912. Her father was a grand rabbi. Her arranged marriage to Rabbi Teitelbaum, already the Satmar grand rabbi, was his second. He was 50 and she was 25 when they were married in 1937.
        The couple and the grand rabbi's secretary were passengers on the famous Kastner train, for which 1,685 Hungarian Jews paid $1,000 each for a journey to Switzerland. Rudolph Kastner, head of the Zionist Rescue Committee in Budapest, negotiated the arrangement with Adolph Eichmann.
        But instead of going to Switzerland, the train turned north into Germany, and went to the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp. The Kastner train passengers were given special treatment there, including kosher meals, which the grand rabbi and his wife nevertheless refused to eat. He even then refused to eat a single slice of bread from the camp. His wife found a way to smuggle him potatoes, which she prepared according to kosher rules.
        Six months after the train passengers were detained, Eichmann agreed to fulfill his promise to transport them to Switzerland. From there, they went to Palestine, where they settled with 100 other Satmars and she founded two schools for girls.
        Many of the Satmars next found their way to Brooklyn, , where there were established synagogues, ritual baths and stores that sold kosher food. Mrs. Teitelbaum began her charitable works by taking kosher  meals by subway to patients in Manhattan hospitals every day. Ultimately, she helped her husband build the largest Hasidic school system in the United States.
        She had no children and has no immediate survivors. Her husband's nephew, Rabbi Moses Teitelbaum, is the current grand rabbi of the Satmars.
        Mr. Heilman noted that Mrs. Teitelbaum represented one of the last Hasidic leaders going back to the Holocaust. ''She is the last of the generation of giants,'' he said.
      