
        John McKay, who coached the University of Southern California football team to four unofficial national championships, then coached for nine seasons with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, died yesterday at a hospital in Tampa, Fla. He was 77.
        The cause was kidney failure arising from diabetes, said Reggie Roberts, a Buccaneers spokesman.
        Serving as the U.S.C. head coach from 1960 through 1975, McKay coached the team to national titles in 1962, 1967, 1972 and 1974, nine titles in the conference then known as the Pacific-8, nine postseason bowl games and a 127-40-8 record. In 1962 and 1972, he was voted the national coach of the year.
        Then he moved on to Tampa Bay, a new National Football League team, as coach from 1976 through 1984. In those days, few good players were available in the expansion draft and free agency did not yet exist, so he started with little talent.
        His team lost its first 26 games -- 14 the first season and the first 12 the next. After one of those losses, when he was asked what he thought of his team's execution, he replied, ''I think it's a good idea.'' When asked when his team would win a game, he said, ''Only God knows, and I'm not too close to God now.''
        In 1979, his fourth season, the Bucs won their division title. They won it again in 1981, and in all, three of his teams qualified for the playoffs. But after losing seasons in 1983 and 1984 and a nine-year record of 44-88-1, he quit as coach and became the team president.
        He was brash, opinionated, witty and quick with one-liners, a popular banquet speaker who made 286 appearances in one year. But he was also remote from his players, saying his only obligation was to coach them, not befriend them.
        As Richard Wood, a linebacker who played for him in college and the pros, said, ''He can draw you in, but to me and a bunch of the other players, he's a cold person.''
        McKay's closest friends were lawyers, bankers and football coaches, although John Ralston, the former Stanford coach, once said, ''You always had a feeling that it was a friendly relationship, but you were never close.'' Still, McKay was so close to Bear Bryant, the legendary coach, that he declined to speak at Bryant's funeral because he feared he would break down.
        The knocks did not bother McKay.
        ''If you coach long enough, you're put into some kind of category,'' he said in 1983. ''Tom Landry is the fellow who doesn't smile. Don Shula is the brilliant young coach with his jaw out. John McKay is the guy with the ready quip. Somebody reads enough about you and has that perception. Then they meet you and say: 'That guy's not like that. He never spoke to us.' I don't try to entertain people. Some people say, 'He's aloof.' But I'm not that way. I am the way I am.''
        John Harvey McKay was born July 5, 1923, in Everettsville, W.Va., and grew up in nearby Shinnston, 50 miles south of Pittsburgh. He was one of five children of a coal-mine supervisor who died at 45.
        The son was an all-state running back in high school, and in his spare time he swept floors and carried cement at a coal-mine construction site. After high school, he worked a year in coal mines and then enlisted in the Army Air Forces during World War II.
        In 1946, he entered Purdue and started at defensive back. After one year, he transferred to Oregon, where he was a two-way player.
        He graduated from Oregon in 1950 and became an assistant coach there, starting at $3,800 a year plus occasional meals at the head coach's home. He stayed for nine seasons, then moved to Southern Cal in 1959 as an assistant.
        A year later, he was the head coach, and the next year he introduced a revolutionary offensive formation, the I, in which three backs lined up in a row behind the center. The one farthest from the center was the tailback, the main ball carrier.
        He turned out pre-eminent tailbacks, including two Heisman Trophy winners (O. J. Simpson and Mike Garrett) and two other All-Americans (Anthony Davis and Ricky Bell). His college and pro assistants included John Robinson, Joe Gibbs, Mike Holmgren and Wayne Fontes. He was elected to the College Football Hall of Fame in 1988.
        He left U.S.C., he said, ''because I wanted to make some money -- it's that simple.''
        As college coach and athletic director, he was earning $48,000 a year. His first pro contract gave him $750,000 over five years, $250,000 in Florida real estate and life-insurance policies for him and his wife. The money was good, but his teams often were not.
        ''I'll tell you how bad we were,'' he said of his second pro season. ''We beat New Orleans, and their coach, Hank Stram, was fired the next day. Then we beat the St. Louis Cardinals, and they promptly fired their coach, Don Coryell.''
        He was never really happy at Tampa Bay, and he quit coaching partly to spend more time with his family. He married Corky Hunter in 1950, and they lived in Tampa. He is survived by his wife; two sons, Rich and John; two daughters, Michele Breese and Terri Florio; and 10 grandchildren. Rich McKay is general manager of the Bucs. John McKay, who played for his father at Southern Cal and Tampa Bay, was general manager of the Los Angeles Xtreme, the champions of the XFL in its only season.
        McKay's sense of humor never disappeared. At age 77, he told Steve Bisheff of The Orange County Register: ''I don't look that bad, do I? I probably could go 10 rounds with Mickey Rooney.''
      