
        William J. Nisselson, the longtime manager of a post-production film studio that became a haven for generations of famous and not yet famous New York directors, died on June 19 at his office in Manhattan. He was 56 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was heart failure, his colleagues said.
        As the manager of Sound One studios, where he worked since 1980, Mr. Nisselson was a pivotal figure in the city's film community, overseeing sound mixing and editing for many of its established directors, including Woody Allen, Martin Scorsese and Spike Lee.
        But he was best known for his work with young and struggling independent filmmakers, who found in him a friend and mentor who would juggle his time, studio space and even his billing practices to accommodate their low budgets.
        ''He was someone who bent over backward to make it easy for people who were just starting out,'' said Joel Coen, who with his brother, Ethan, took their first film, ''Blood Simple,'' to Sound One in 1984.
        Many of those young directors, including Jim Jarmusch, John Sayles, Frank Oz and Jonathan Demme, went on to become famous, but they continued to come back to Mr. Nisselson and Sound One for special attention.
        Ric Burns, who is finishing the last episode of his documentary on the history of New York City at Sound One, described Mr. Nisselson as ''one of these guys who had a startlingly wide influence on the film community, from the suits in Hollywood to production assistants.''
        A native New Yorker, Mr. Nisselson came to Sound One as a production coordinator after pursuing a series of jobs that gave him special insight into the life of the city, from taxi driver to copy boy at The New York Times to employee in the garment industry.
        He rose to become the Sound One studio manager, based at the company headquarters in the Brill Building at West 49th Street and Broadway, where the studio occupies five and a half floors. When Sound One was acquired last year by Liberty Media Group, Mr. Nisselson became the studios' chief operating officer.
        ''Everything was done there,'' said Nora Ephron, the writer and director, whose films were also products of Mr. Nisselson's studios. ''If a movie was made in the East and cut in the East, chances are it was cut in that building.''
        The director M. Night Shyamalan remembers going to Mr. Nisselson in 1993 with ''Praying With Anger,'' his first film.
        ''I didn't have enough money, and he gave me a lot of time and cut rates, which was the first time anyone had gone out of his way for me,'' said Mr. Shyamalan, who went on to direct ''The Sixth Sense.'' ''All he said was, 'When you become famous, bring your films back here.' ''
        For that first movie, Mr. Shyamalan, then 21, was given Sound One's tiniest studio at midnight. When he came back recently to mix and cut ''Unbreakable,'' his latest film, he received the biggest studio.
        ''It was a good moment,'' he recalled. ''It was like your father giving you the keys to the big car.''
        Mr. Nisselson is survived by his wife, Susan Diederich; his mother, Herta Danis; a sister, Jane Assimakopoulos; and a stepdaughter, Alana Vidal.
      