
        Paul R. Carey, a top aide to President Bill Clinton and later a Securities and Exchange commissioner who campaigned for the rights of individual investors, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 38 and lived in Washington.
        The cause was endocrine cancer, which he had fought for many years, said his brother, Bryan.
        Mr. Carey, a son of former Gov. Hugh L. Carey of New York, worked in investment banking before joining the 1992 Clinton-Gore campaign, becoming finance director for the Northeast.
        As special assistant to Mr. Clinton for legislative affairs, he was one of the president's chief liaisons to Congress; his work emphasized banking and finance issues, and in particular he was the president's primary link to Senators Alfonse M. D'Amato and Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York.
        He also advised the president on judicial selection and helped shepherd many presidential nominees through Senate confirmation.
        Mr. Carey served for the last four years on the S.E.C., spending much of his time studying the potential effect of allowing people to invest Social Security money in stocks and bonds. He pushed for greater disclosure of corporate proxy voting procedures and for an end to ''selective disclosure,'' in which companies leak financial information to certain investment advisers before informing the public. He also called for greater openness in the management of investment funds and for an end to advertising by fund managers based on out-of-date performance data.
        Members of his family were no strangers to political triumph or early death. Two of Mr. Carey's older brothers, Peter and Hugh Jr., died in a car accident in 1969, when they were teenagers.
        His mother, Helen, died in 1974, the year his father, a congressman, was elected to the first of two four-year terms as governor.
        Paul Carey, one of 14 children, grew up at the family's homes in Brooklyn and Shelter Island and in the governor's mansion in Albany. He graduated from the Doane Stuart School in Albany and Colgate University in Hamilton, N.Y.
        He is survived by his father; 11 siblings, Alexandria McManus, Susan Dempsey, Marianne Hayes, Helen O'Neill, Nancy Cassidy, Christopher, Michael, Donald, Bryan, Kevin and Thomas; and by his companion, Jackie Chorney.
      