
        Adele Dellenbaugh Hofmann, a pediatrician who helped tailor medical science to the needs of teenagers, died on Friday at a hospital in Newport Beach, Calif. She was 74 and lived in nearby Laguna Beach.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, her family said.
        A practitioner of pediatrics for nearly 50 years, Dr. Hofmann was a leader in a movement to redefine how health professionals treated minors. She blended her knowledge of endocrinology, pediatrics, psychology and general medicine to shape  adolescent care into a pediatric specialty.
        Dr. Hofmann was a founder of the Society for Adolescent Medicine, based in Blue Springs, Mo. and served as its president in 1976-77. The next year she founded the Section on Adolescent Health as a unit within the American Academy of Pediatrics; the section now gives an award in her name.
        Dr. Hofmann contended that the passage to adulthood and emancipation meant difficult years for both child and parent.
        ''What we're talking about is a decade,'' she once said, ''an age of human growth and development that has tremendously unique things happening emotionally and biologically.''
        Over the years she published many articles on the legal rights of minors, teenage behavior and sexuality, and youths with special risks. Dr. Hofmann and Dr. Donald Graydanus wrote the authoritative textbook ''Adolescent Medicine.'' First published in 1986, it won an award from the American College of Internal Medicine the year after and went into its third edition in 1997 at McGraw Hill, where it remains in print.
        She also wrote ''The Hospitalized Adolescent'' (1976), which received an American Nurses Association award, and ''Consent and Confidentiality in Child and Adolescent Care'' (1984).
        Adele Dellenbaugh was born in Boston, a granddaughter of Frederick Samuel Dellenbaugh, an artist, writer and explorer. She graduated from Smith College in 1948 and from the University of Rochester Medical School in 1952.
        She trained at Babies Hospital of Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center and was a National Foundation Fellow in Endocrinology at Presbyterian Hospital. She directed pediatric and adolescent programs at New York University, Bellevue Hospital, St. Luke's Hospital and Beth Israel Hospital in New York. After moving to California, she was affiliated with the Children's Hospital of Orange County and the University of California at Irvine.
        Dr. Hofmann's marriage to Dr. Frederick G. Hofmann ended in divorce. He died in 1992. She is survived by a daughter, Annie Gardiner of Oakland, Calif., and a son, Peter, of Middletown, Conn.
      