
        Freddie Trenkler, a comic ice skater known for his ingenious and well-timed stumbles and falls, died on May 21 in Canoga Park, Calif. He was 88, according to the IceStage Archive of Minneapolis.
        The tiny and impish skater, who favored ragged clothes and a beat-up hat as his costume, was a comic star of ice shows from the 1940's through the 70's. He was often billed as the Bouncing Ball of the Ice because of the multitudinous ways in which he would seemingly slip, tumble and then nimbly recover. Mr. Trenkler's narrow escapes from disaster were heightened by pantomimic gestures and droll facial expressions.
        But one spectacular fall was totally unchoreographed. Part of his act in the Ice Capades of 1958 involved swinging over the heads of theatergoers on a rope. On Sept. 7, during a performance at Madison Square Garden that was being televised for ''The Ed Sullivan Show,'' Mr. Trenkler slipped from the rope and fell into the audience, slightly injuring himself and a spectator. Mr. Sullivan made an announcement to reassure the public that the skater was fine, and Mr. Trenkler returned for a bow at the end of the show.
        Mr. Trenkler was born in Vienna, where he trained as a serious figure skater but discovered that he loved to make people laugh with his antics. He first came to the United States in 1937 in a show called ''Gay Blades.'' After appearances in London, he toured the United States in 1940 with the first company of the annual ''Ice Capades'' revue. That year he also appeared in New York in ''It Happens on Ice'' at the Center Theater in Rockefeller Center.
        From 1940 to 1950 he was featured in six ice shows at the Center Theater that were produced by Arthur Wirtz and the ice skater and movie star Sonja Henie. He also toured annually with Ms. Henie in her ''Hollywood Ice Revue'' until that show ended in 1956. He returned to the ''Ice Capades'' in 1957, staying until he retired in 1981.
        Mr. Trenkler is survived by his wife, Gigi, and two daughters, Margaret and Pam.
      