
        John Hartford, a versatile musician known for mastering banjo, playing violin, performing comedy on television and writing one of country music's most recorded songs, ''Gentle on My Mind,'' died on Monday at the Centennial Medical Center in Nashville. He was 63.
        The cause was cancer, said Marie Hartford, his wife.
        Mr. Hartford's cancer was diagnosed in 1980, and his health had deteriorated in recent years. Nonetheless, he regularly invited local musicians over for bluegrass picking parties, where he would play violin and regale them with his homespun personal philosophy, riverboat adventures and tales of bluegrass masters. Even after he lost control of his hands after a series of engagements in Texas in the spring, he continued to host picking parties, where he watched instead of played.
        There were many sides to Mr. Hartford's life. Best known as a banjo player and as the writer of ''Gentle on My Mind,'' which became a hit for Glen Campbell, he recorded nearly 40 albums on his own, appearing most recently last year on the soundtrack for the film ''O Brother, Where Art Thou?''
        Those who met him rarely forgot the experience: he never shook hands because he was afraid of hurting the bones he needed to play his instruments. He always signed his autograph by writing with both hands simultaneously, creating a beautiful baroque script. He also carried index cards that served as his personal organization system.
        Born in New York City, Mr. Hartford was reared in the St. Louis area. His father was a doctor, an infectious-disease specialist who conducted influential studies of viruses; his mother was a painter. He became fascinated with local bluegrass pickers like Marvin and Clifford Hawthorne and with the riverboats he saw on the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers. He took up the fiddle, performing at barn dances when he was 13 and sneaking out at night to perform in rough-and-tumble honky-tonks. After hearing Earl Scruggs, he decided to turn to the banjo.
        Mr. Hartford studied art at Washington University in St. Louis and worked as a sign painter, commercial artist, riverboat deckhand and disc jockey. He played with the Dillards, the Bray Brothers and the Ozark Mountain Trio before moving to Tennessee in 1965 to take a job as a disc jockey. There he worked as a session musician and songwriter.
        Impressed by ''Eve of My Multiplication,'' a song Mr. Hartford had written about the birth of his son, the guitarist Chet Atkins signed him to RCA Records in 1966, which released the album ''John Hartford Looks at Life'' and its follow-up, ''Earthwords and Music.''
        In 1967 Mr. Campbell recorded a minor hit from ''Earthwords and Music'' about a hobo reminiscing about a lost love. Titled ''Gentle on My Mind,'' it became a Top 40 single for Mr. Campbell and earned Mr. Hartford two Grammys. Since then, between 200 and 300 artists have recorded the tune, which has been broadcast on radio or television more than 6,000 times.
        Mr. Hartford also played banjo on the seminal country-rock album ''Sweetheart of the Rodeo'' by the Byrds in 1968. In his spare time, he became a licensed riverboat pilot.
        In the late 1960's he moved to Los Angeles, where he wrote for and appeared on ''The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour'' and ''The Glen Campbell Goodtime Hour.'' On these shows he worked with Stevie Wonder, Johnny Cash, Steve Martin, Joan Baez and many others. He also continued to record albums, like ''Aero-Plain,'' produced by Dave Bromberg for Warner Brothers Records in 1971.
        In the early 70's Mr. Hartford was briefly the host of his own television  show, ''Something Else.'' Offered the star role in a CBS detective series, he turned the network down, moved back to Nashville and purposefully eschewed celebrity for the rest of his life, going back to the bluegrass music and riverboat environment he loved.
        He occasionally returned to the screen, providing voice-overs for film and television projects, including Ken Burns's ''Civil War.'' He also wrote books like ''Steamboat in a Cornfield.''
        But he was best known for recording independent-label albums, appearing at bluegrass festivals (where he would perform a solo show in which he would play guitar, banjo and fiddle in addition to clog dancing and telling stories) and giving picking parties in his house on the Cumberland River.
        Since his return to his roots, he recorded some 27 albums, collaborating with Benny Martin, Lester Flatt, the Dillards, and his son, Jamie. His 1977 album, ''Mark Twang,'' on Flying Fish Records, won a Grammy Award for best ethnic or traditional recording.
        Surprisingly, Mr. Hartford always considered himself a mediocre musician. He continued to release records like ''Retrograss,'' with Mike Seeger and David Grisman, and was working on a book about the blind fiddler Ed Haley.
        But when he learned several years ago that death was approaching, he became obsessed with practicing, returning to his first instrument, the fiddle. He realized that what had always attracted him to both riverboats and music was craftsmanship, and worked on becoming as good a craftsman as possible in the time he had left.
        Mr. Hartford's survivors include his wife and his son, both of Nashville.
      