
        Joey Maxim, a light-heavyweight champion who was the only boxer to keep Sugar Ray Robinson from finishing a fight, died last Saturday at a hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 79.
        The cause was complications of a stroke he had four months ago. He had been hospitalized in Cleveland before being moved to Florida by his two daughters.
        Maxim's career peaked in the early 1950's, when he held the 175-pound world title. He successfully defended it on June 25, 1952, in a memorable bout at Yankee Stadium against Robinson, considered by many to be boxing's greatest pound-for-pound fighter. The fight ended when Robinson collapsed from heat exhaustion after the 13th round.
        Maxim retired with an 82-29-4 record, with 21 knockouts.
        He was born Giuseppe Antonio Berardinelli on March 28, 1922, in Collingwood, Ohio, a suburb of Cleveland. He became an amateur boxer at age 12 and fought in more than 200 amateur bouts, including Golden Gloves matches, and won many titles.
        At age 18 he turned professional. That was when he adopted his nom de guerre at the encouragement of his manager, Jack Kearns. A boxing aficionado who had seen his furious left jab in the ring said he threw his punches faster than a Maxim machine gun. The name stuck.
        Maxim turned pro in January 1941. He served in the Army from 1943 to 1945 as an athletic instructor and military policeman stationed in Miami Beach, and fought exhibitions there.
        He won the 175-pound world title when he stopped the champion, Freddie Mills, in the 10th round in London on Jan. 24, 1950. The next year, he made a failed attempt at the heavyweight title held by Ezzard Charles. Then Robinson moved up from middleweight to make a bid for Maxim's title.
        The temperature in Yankee Stadium soared to 103 degrees that night. The 48,000 fans were sweating almost as much as the boxers were. Maxim was behind on the scorecards of all three judges when Robinson collapsed from the heat after the 13th round.
        Robinson had lost only twice in 135 fights before then and was the favorite. Maxim's victory went into the books as a knockout. He always insisted that it was his fighting prowess, and not the heat, that exhausted Robinson that night.
        ''Did I have air-conditioning in my corner?'' he told The Cleveland Plain Dealer in 1997. ''I pushed him all night. He knocked himself out.''
        Maxim and Robinson each walked away with $125,000. In December 1952, Maxim lost his title to Archie Moore in a 15-round decision. He fought Moore twice more in a bid to regain the title but lost decisions each time.
        By the time he left the ring in 1958, he had fought 10 world champions. He was stopped only once, by Curtis Sheppard, a one-round knockout in 1943, then defeated Sheppard by decision in his next bout.
        He was inducted into the Boxing Hall of Fame in 1994.
        In addition to his daughters, Charlene Bagnall and Maxine Murphy, Maxim is survived by his mother, Henrietta; three brothers, Emmanuel, John and Richard; a sister, Lucille; six grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren. His wife, Michelina, died in 1977.
        After his retirement, Maxim worked at a variety of jobs: cabdriver in Florida, restaurateur in a suburb of Cleveland and a casino host and stand-up comic in Las Vegas. But his boxing memories continued to ring bells for him.
        ''When someone comes up to you and says, 'Hi, Champ,' I like that,'' he told The Plain Dealer. ''I'm a tough old bird.''
        Correction:  June 7, 2001, Thursday  An obituary of the boxer Joey Maxim on Tuesday misspelled the name of his birthplace and misstated its location. It was Collinwood, not Collingwood -- a neighborhood in the city of Cleveland, not a suburb. A picture caption about Maxim's 1952 fight against Sugar Ray Robinson misstated the reason for Robinson's fall to the canvas. He had swung at Maxim and missed; Maxim had not knocked him down.
      