
        Mordecai Richler, the cranky and combative Canadian novelist and critic whose sometimes ribald writing exposed the heart of Old World Montreal while skewering bourgeois ambition, the roots of Jewish identity and the Quebec separatist movement, died yesterday in a Montreal hospital. He was 70.
        Louise Dennys, his Canadian editor and publisher since 1993, said the cause was complications arising from kidney cancer.
        Mr. Richler, the author of ''The Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz,'' ''Barney's Version'' and other novels, fled Montreal as a young writer and spent 20 years abroad, although he never left the city and its characters out of his writing. He returned in 1972 but continued to spend part of the year in England for the rest of his life.
        He often referred to himself as a minority within a minority. He used his status as an irritable, English-speaking Jew in the overwhelmingly French-speaking province of Quebec (itself a minority within predominately English-speaking Canada) to highlight the hypocrisies of contemporary life. In more than two dozen books of fiction and nonfiction, along with innumerable contributions to magazines, he became one of the first Canadian writers to be widely recognized outside of Canada.
        In a peculiar way that reflected the ambiguous nature of his bilingual, bicultural homeland, Mr. Richler (pronounced RICH-ler) was considered both an icon of Canadian culture, who won all of Canada's most important literary awards, and one of that culture's most withering critics.
        Over a long career, he infatuated readers on two continents and managed to offend nearly everyone in some way. Few outside of his immediate family were spared his mocking venom. He attacked every target vigorously, and anticipated the critical backlash that followed the publication of nearly every book and article he wrote. ''I'm criticized by the feminists, I'm criticized by the Jewish establishment, I'm criticized by Canadian nationalists -- and why not?'' he once told an interviewer. ''I've had my pot shots at them. I'm fair game.''
        He saved some of his choicest bons mots for the French-speaking elite in Quebec. During the decades that Mr. Richler lived abroad, French Quebecers wrested control of the province from English-speaking Canadians and pursued a separatist agenda. Many of their actions galled him, but none more so than restrictions on the use of English to ensure that the French language would be dominant in Quebec.
        ''In 1977, shortly after the separatist Parti Québécois, then in office, brought in the French Language Charter, we were subjected to a degree of linguistic cleansing,'' he wrote in one of his frequent journalistic contributions to magazines. The word hamburger ''was adjudged an impurity imposed on Québécois pure laine by their colonial masters in the foreign capital of Ottawa. So it was ruled that it should be immediately replaced by hambourgeois, which was what we were supposed to ask for if we suffered a Gros Mac attack.''
        For years Mr. Richler engaged in a running battle with Le Devoir, a French-language newspaper in Montreal that supported the separatist cause. He accused the newspaper of treason, anti-Semitism and more. At a roast of Mr. Richler in 1993, Benoît Aubin, managing editor of Le Devoir, reminded the audience that French speakers considered Mr. Richler's portrait of Quebec to be fiction, not journalism, and oftentimes completely unfounded, or even libelous.
        Despite the protests of separatists, Mr. Richler's view of Quebec greatly shaped the way the English-speaking world viewed the province's struggle for independence. He was the writer magazines like The New Yorker turned to for reports on secessionist fever or the fate of the United States's closest ally. When the television news program ''60 Minutes'' produced a segment that poked fun at the tough new language laws in Quebec, Mr. Richler acted as guide.
        Mr. Richler was also criticized by Jewish groups for his unflattering portrayal of Montreal's Jewish community. He was, as always, unapologetic. In Mr. Richler's mind, his Canadian identity was thoroughly entangled with his Jewishness. ''To be a Jew and a Canadian,'' he wrote, ''is to emerge from the ghetto twice, for self-conscious Canadians, like some touchy Jews, tend to contemplate the world through a wrong-ended telescope.''
        After a brief marriage that ended in divorce, Mr. Richler married Florence Wood, a Canadian model, in 1960. His wife survives him, as do their five children, Daniel, Noah, Emma, Martha and Jacob.
        Mordecai Richler was born Jan. 27, 1931, in the tightly packed Jewish neighborhood around St. Urbain Street in Montreal. His grandfather was a rabbinical scholar and his father, Moses Isaac Richler, was a scrapyard dealer and a dreamer.
        Though raised in an Orthodox family, Mr. Richler was not especially observant. By the time he was 12 he considered himself an atheist, which infuriated his family. As a teenager, he joined the Zionist Habonim movement to spite them. By the time he entered Sir George Williams College in Montreal, he was convinced that he wanted to become a writer. He majored in English, but after two years set off for Europe. He lived in Paris for a short time before moving to London, staying there for almost 20 years.
        It was in London that Mr. Richler first tasted literary success. In 1959 he published ''The Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz,'' the coming-of-age story of a ruthlessly ambitious Montreal teenager who confuses material possessions with personal success. One Canadian critic called Duddy ''a naïve yet shrewd latter-day Huck Finn,'' and another called him the new ''North American everyman.'' The character became a template for the rapscallions who were a trademark of Mr. Richler's novels.
        Although it had a substantial impact on the literary world, ''Duddy Kravitz'' had only moderate commercial success at first. It sold an estimated 1,000 copies in Canada and not many more in England and the United States. But it gained much wider notice after it was made into a popular motion picture in 1974, with Richard Dreyfuss in the title role. Mr. Richler wrote the screenplay, which was nominated for an Academy Award. He did not win the Oscar, but did receive a Writer's Guild award. ''Mind you,'' he wrote in an essay, ''it was for the 'Best American Comedy Adapted From Another Medium,' which would take a lot of explaining to the nationalists back home, but let it pass, let it pass. It was a prize, after all.''
        ''Duddy Kravitz'' is sometimes considered Mr. Richler's best novel, but it was not universally liked. ''However memorable,'' wrote the critic Kerry McSweeney in the journal ''Studies in Canadian Literature'' in 1979, '''Duddy Kravitz' is hardly a masterpiece.'' Mr. Richler was 28 when he published the novel, and up to that time he had never held a permanent job. In later years he complained that his burning desire to lead the writer's life had caused him to miss the quotidian challenges and travails that could have enriched his writing.
        ''With hindsight I wish I had not been published so easily or so soon,'' he wrote, ''because novelist friends of mine who had to wait longer to publish can now draw on jobs they hated, the things they had to do to get by for years, and I haven't got that because I've been writing all this time.''
        His writing continued to attract widespread recognition. His novel ''Cocksure,'' published in 1968, won the Governor General's Literary Award, Canada's highest writing prize. But its unflinching treatment of sex and street language offended some critics in the late 1960's, one of whom called the book ''truly dirty.'' As a result, the W. H. Smith bookstore chain in Britain refused to carry ''Cocksure.''
        Mr. Richler won the Governor General's Award again in 1971 for ''St. Urbain's Horseman.'' He won the Commonwealth Writers Award in 1990 and the Giller Fiction Prize in 1997. Although widely criticized in Canada for his attacks on Quebec separatists and his depiction of Jewish life, he was awarded the Order of Canada in 1999.
        The author of both fiction and nonfiction, Mr. Richler remained prolific. Knopf Canada is about to publish ''On Snooker,'' about the billiards-type game he devoutly followed, and next June a collection of his sports articles, called ''Scenes From a Sporting Life,'' will be released.
        Nothing characterized Mr. Richler's fiction more than the manner in which he blended sarcasm, obscenity and street-smart humor, all elements that contrasted greatly with the image of Canada, and Canadians, as islands of calm reserve.
        ''It's the air of hustle and betrayal that gives Richler's fiction its nervous, horny hum,'' wrote James Wolcott in The New York Review of Books. Mr. Richler's humor, he said, ''is based on a cunning understanding of the sneaky motives of flunkies and upstarts.''
        In 1972, Mr. Richler and his family moved back to Canada. In his later novels, he returned to familiar themes and characters from old Montreal, which led to criticism that his range was limited. He once conceded in an interview that he, like most serious novelists, had ''one or two ideas and many variations to play on them.''
        Mr. Richler surprised critics, and himself, by writing several successful children's books. They came to life as stories that he told to his children, one of whom became the model for the character named Jacob Two-Two, a curious boy who has to repeat everything at least twice before adults understand him.
        In ''Jacob Two-Two's First Spy Case,'' the boy Jacob comes home to find his father asleep on the living room couch. Embarrassed at having been found lounging, his father claims he was actually thinking, which he says writers are supposed to do. Asked what a writer is, Jacob's father outlines a view of the world that reflects Mr. Richler's own notions about the writing life.
        A writer, he says in the novel, is a kind of master of magic and that every morning he toss the letters on the typewriter up in the air ''and when they come down again I sort them out and then there's enough money to buy hot dogs, cross-country skis, ice cream, red roses for Mommy and maybe enough left over for a bottle of decent single-malt whisky for your devoted, ever-loving, incomparable dad.''
        In 1990, Mr. Richler published one of his most ambitious novels, ''Solomon Gursky Was Here,'' the chronicle of a peripatetic Jewish family loosely modeled on the fabulously wealthy Bronfmans and their Seagram empire. Mr. Richler maintained his humor in the book but departed from his traditional story-telling technique. In its place he used fantastic imagery and complicated flashbacks similar to the magical realism found in Latin American literature. In one section, the family patriarch -- stranded in the Arctic --  persuades Eskimos to convert to Judaism. The fledgling community is almost wiped out when the converts fast on Yom Kippur, refusing to eat until sunset, which in the Arctic is months away.
        Mr. Richler called the book ''the first North American South American novel.'' In The New York Times Book Review, the novelist Francine Prose described ''Solomon Gursky Was Here'' as ''Two Hundred Years of Jewish-Canadian solitude.''
        In 1998, Mr. Richler published ''Barney's Version,'' which one critic considered ''almost universally offensive.'' In a typically edgy passage, Barney Panofsky, the narrator, describes a neighbor in his faded apartment building in Montreal: ''My favorite, an anorexic with a helmet of lacquered hair, dyed blonde, breasts once as flat as yesterday's flapjacks, and legs as thin as pipe cleaners, hasn't spoken to me since we ran into each other after she had returned from a second-chance clinic in Toronto, where she had gone for a face-lift and a boob refill. I had greeted her in the lobby with a kiss on the cheek.
        '' 'What are you staring at?' she demanded.
        'I'm waiting to see if the dent remains in place.' ''
        Critics detected many similarities between Mr. Richler and Barney Panofsky. Both caroused freely, drank copiously and survived unhappy relationships. As they grew old, both continued to live in Montreal, which Barney described as ''a city that, like me, is diminishing day by day.''
        In part to compensate for the real-world experiences he believed he lacked, Mr. Richler regularly reported on political issues for a variety of magazines and newspapers. He agreed to write a regular column for Conrad Black's new National Post newspaper when it began publishing in 1998.
        For 10 years starting in 1972 he was a member of the editorial board of the Book-of-the-Month Club. And for many years, he held regular court at various watering holes in and around Montreal, bellying up to the bar with an assortment of accountants, lawyers and other non-writers. Over single-malt whiskey and cigarette-thin cigars, he regularly dissected the antics of government officials and literary critics. Occasionally, he allowed a reporter into this inner sanctum and, grouchily, discussed his writing life and the controversies he got himself into because of his words.
        ''I wouldn't know what to do with myself until 4 p.m., my usual quitting time, if I couldn't sit down at my portable typewriter,'' he once said. ''Even so, I'm stuck with my original notion, which is to be an honest witness to my time, my place, and to write at least one novel that will last, that will make me remembered after death.''
        Many Slices of Life Earn an Irritable Stare
        Following are selections from Mordecai Richler's writings:
        At the parochial school until he was 13 years old Duddy met many boys who came from families that were much better off than his own and on the least pretext he fought with them. Those who were too big to beat up he tried to become friendly with. He taught them how to steal at Kresge's and split streetcar tickets so that one could be used twice, how to smoke with bubble pipes, and the way babies were made. After he had been at the school for three years mothers warned their children not to play with that Kravitz boy. But boys and girls alike were drawn to dark, skinny Duddy and those who were excluded from his gang, the Warriors, felt the snub deeply.
        -- From ''The Apprenticeship
        of Duddy Kravitz,'' 1959
        On a perfect summer day last year in Montreal, local raspberries in season, two tickets to that night's ballgame riding in my breast pocket, I went to meet some friends at a downtown bar I favored at the time: Woody's Pub, on Bishop Street. As I arrived, a solemn middle-aged man was taking photographs of the blackboard mounted on the outside steps. He was intent on a notice scrawled in the chalk on the board: Today's Special/ Ploughman's Lunch.
        The notice happened to be a blatant violation of Quebec's Bill 178, which prohibits exterior signs in any language but French, and the photographer was one of a number of self-appointed vigilantes who, on lazy summer days off work, do not head for the countryside to cool off in the woods or to fish: instead, they dutifully search the downtown streets for English language or bilingual commercial signs that are an affront to Montreal's visage linguistique -- ''Hiya! Vermont Baseball Fans Welcome Here,'' say, or ''Happy Hour 5 to 7.''
        -- From ''Inside/Outside''
        The New Yorker, Sept. 23, 1991
        The mountain, still listed on the map as Eagle Head in those days, has long since been renamed Mont Groulx, after the rabidly racist Abbé Lionel Groulx, who is such a hero to the separatists here. Climbing to a clearing on the top, I would settle into the shade of the little lean-to I had built, wash down my lunch with Macallans, and read until I fell asleep.
        On my return to the cottage, usually nicely sodden, I sometimes managed to avoid the dinner party, as well as the games of charades or Scrabble that followed, pleading a headache. Because joining the family at the table I would inevitably quarrel with my father-in-law, who would announce, for example, that Richard Nixon had done himself credit in his kitchen debate with Nikita Khrushchev in Moscow.
        -- From ''Barney's Version,'' 1998
      