
        Eudora Welty, whose evocative short stories, notable for their imagery, sharp dialogue and fierce wit, made her a revered figure in contemporary American letters, died yesterday at a hospital near her home in Jackson, Miss. She was 92.
        She was plagued by health problems and had been confined for some time to her home, where she had lived since high school and where she wrote most of her stories, novels, essays, memoirs and book reviews.
        As a short-story master, Miss Welty is often mentioned by critics in the same breath as Chekhov, but she was  dismissed early in her career as a regionalist and did not earn widespread critical respect until she was no longer young. When recognition came, she accepted it with the ease, modesty and grace that had become her hallmarks.
        She was awarded a Pulitzer Prize in 1973 for her novel ''The Optimist's Daughter.'' She also received the National Book Critics Circle Award, the American Book Award, several O. Henry Awards and the Gold Medal of the National Institute of Arts and Letters. She was inducted into the French Legion of Honor and received the Medal of Freedom in 1980, presented, she said happily, by ''one of my great Southern heroes, President Jimmy Carter.''
        Late in 1998 Miss Welty said she was ''excited and delighted'' to learn that she had become the first living writer to be included in the prestigious Library of America series of collected works by United States literary giants. The library's break with its long tradition of choosing only dead authors for its series of definitive collections ushered Miss Welty into a pantheon that includes Mark Twain, Walt Whitman, Henry James, Edith Wharton, Willa Cather, Edgar Allan Poe and William Faulkner.
        For decades she was pigeonholed by critics who placed her with Faulkner, Katherine Anne Porter, Flannery O'Connor and Carson McCullers as a writer of the so-called Southern School. Her reputation as a regional and apolitical writer was often cited as a reason for her failure to win a Nobel Prize. But her work, like that of those other Southern writers, transcended region and possessed a universal relevance and appeal.
        ''It is not the South we find in her stories, it is Eudora Welty's South, a region that feeds her imagination and a place we come to trust,'' Maureen Howard said when she reviewed Miss Welty's ''Collected Stories'' in 1980. ''She is a Southerner as Chekhov was a Russian, because place provides them with a reality -- a reality as difficult, mysterious and impermanent as life.''
        A Clan of Readers
        Eudora Welty was born on April 13, 1909, in Jackson, the daughter of Christian Webb Welty, an Ohio native, and the former Chestina Andrews, who had been a West Virginia schoolteacher. The Weltys settled in Jackson shortly after their marriage, and Mr. Welty became an executive of the Lamar Life Insurance company. They also had two sons younger than Miss Welty.
        The Weltys were devoted to books and learning. In ''One Writer's Beginnings,'' Miss Welty's 1984 memoir based on a series of lectures she gave at Harvard, she recalled the exhilaration she felt when she fell under the spell of books.
        ''It had been startling and disappointing to me to find out that storybooks had been written by people, that books were not natural wonders, coming up of themselves like grass,'' she wrote. ''Yet regardless of where they came from, I cannot remember a time when I was not in love with them -- with the books themselves, cover and binding and the paper they were printed on, with their smell and their weight and with their possession in my arms, captured and carried off to myself. Still illiterate, I was ready for them, committed to all the reading I could give them.''
        Miss Welty was a daily visitor to the local Andrew Carnegie Library, where she was allowed what she later called ''a sweet devouring'' -- a ration of two books a day by the stern-faced librarian. Several decades later, in 1986, the building was replaced; the new one was named the Eudora Welty Library.
        Miss Welty learned to read before starting public school and began turning out stories as a child.
        ''It took Latin to thrust me into a bona fide alliance with words in their true meaning,'' she wrote. ''Learning Latin (once I was free of Caesar) fed my love for words upon words, words in continuation and modification, and the beautiful, sober accretion of a sentence. I could see the achieved sentence finally standing there, as real, intact and built to stay as the Mississippi State Capitol at the top of my street, where I could walk through it on my way to school and hear underfoot the echo of its marble floor and over me the bell of its rotunda.''
        'Listening for Stories'
        Miss Welty said she discovered stories in daily life. ''Long before I wrote stories, I listened for stories,'' she wrote in 1984. ''Listening for them is something more acute than listening to them. I suppose it's an early form of participation in what goes on. Listening children know stories are there. When their elders sit and begin, children are just waiting and hoping for one to come out, like a mouse from its hole.''
        Miss Welty attended the Mississippi State College for Women, where she helped to start a literary magazine, and then the University of Wisconsin, where she earned a bachelor's degree in 1929. After college Miss Welty told her parents that she wanted to be a writer, but she said that her father insisted that she ''learn something to fall back on'' to support herself, so she took advertising courses at the Columbia University School of Business.
        Back in Jackson in the early 1930's, Miss Welty wrote for a radio station and contributed society items to The Commercial Appeal in Memphis. During the Depression she got a publicity job at the Works Progress Administration, which enabled her to travel throughout Mississippi. She was troubled and fascinated by the people she saw and took hundreds of snapshots with a cheap camera, developing her prints in her kitchen at night. In 1971 Random House published a collection of these pictures, ''One Time, One Place: Mississippi in the Depression.'' The book's stark, often grim black-and-white photographs revealed that Miss Welty's long-admired sense of observation was not limited to the ear.
        ''I learned quickly enough when to click the shutter,'' she said later, ''but what I was becoming aware of more slowly was a story-writer's truth. The thing to wait on, to reach there in time for, is the moment when you see it. In my own case, a fuller awareness of what I needed to find out about people and their lives had to be sought for through another way, through writing stories. I knew this, anyway: that my wish, indeed my continuing passion, would be not to point the finger in judgment but to part a curtain, that invisible shadow that falls between people, the veil of indifference to each other's presence, each other's wonder, each other's human plight.''
        The Depression pictures were exhibited in New York in 1936, the same year that Miss Welty, who had sent dozens of unsolicited stories to magazines, finally made her first sale. A small literary magazine called Manuscript accepted ''Death of a Traveling Salesman,'' the often anthologized recounting of the last day in the life of a lonely, ill and frightened shoe salesman who loses his way in rural Mississippi. Before he dies of a heart attack, he realizes fleetingly how little he has understood about himself and others.
        It was the first of several stories published in small magazines. ''None of these publications paid, not really,'' Miss Welty recalled years later. ''Oh, I think The Southern Review was giving $25 a story, but it took two years before an agent could place one of my stories in a national magazine.''
        Life at the P.O.
        Miss Welty began to attract attention after The Atlantic Monthly published two of her stories destined to become classics: ''Why I Live at the P.O.'' and ''A Worn Path.'' The first, one of the most popular of the dozens that were to be printed in the years to come, is a first-person explanation by a small-town postmistress of why she is moving out of her eccentric family's home to live at the post office. The second won Miss Welty her first of six O. Henry Awards.
        Early admirers of her short stories pressed Miss Welty to try her hand at a novel, but she resisted for several years. Her first hardcover book was a 1941 short-story collection, ''A Curtain of Green,'' with an introduction by Katherine Anne Porter, who had encouraged her early on. ''A Curtain of Green '' sold only 7,000 copies in 30 years, but the 17 stories in the collection became widely known and valued through their inclusion in many anthologies and college textbooks.
        The editor and critic James Olney said of ''A Curtain of Green'': ''The volume's tonal variety is astonishing: from the somber 'Death of a Traveling Salesman' to the hallucinatory 'Flowers for Marjorie,' from the wonderment at the variety of human faces of 'Clytie' to the foreboding near-violence of the title piece, from the jazzy 'Powerhouse' to the satiric 'Petrified Man,' from the wildly comic 'Why I Live at the P.O.' to the dignified 'A Worn Path' (the 'grave, persistent, meditative' sound of old Phoenix Jackson's cane tapping the frozen earth establishes the tone at the outset).''
        ''Why I Live at the P.O.'' combined Miss Welty's antic sense of humor with her pleasure in language. As the narrator prepares to leave her family's home, she says: ''So I hope to tell you I marched in and got the radio. And they could of all bit a nail in two, especially Stella-Rondo, that it used to belong to, and she well knew she couldn't get it back, I'd sue for it like a shot . . . The thermometer and the Hawaiian ukulele were certainly mine, and I stood on the stepladder and got all my watermelon-rind preserves and every fruit and vegetable I put up, every jar.''
        An Internet Legacy
        Many years later Eudora, the widely used e-mail program, was named after Miss Welty because its designer, Steven Dorner, said he had been processing so much e-mail that he felt like the Welty character who lived at the post office.
        In 1941 Miss Welty followed ''A Curtain of Green'' with ''The Wide Net and Other Stories,'' and in 1942 she published ''The Robber Bridegroom,'' a novella that later became a successful musical in an adaptation by Alfred Uhry and Robert Waldman. Her first full-length novel, ''Delta Wedding,'' appeared in 1946.
        Three years later, a group of stories set in Morgana, an imaginary small town on the Mississippi Delta, was published under the title ''The Golden Apples.'' All of Miss Welty's gifts for compression, metaphorical language and poetic structure were on display. So was her genius for using the details of daily life to illuminate the mysteries of the heart. In the story ''The Whole World Knows,'' she charted a doomed meeting between a young couple who were estranged:
        ''There in the flower beds walked the same robins. The sprinkler dripped now. Once again we went into the house by the back door. Our hands touched. We had stepped on Tellie's patch of mint. The yellow cat was waiting to go in with us, the door handle was as hot as the hand, and on the step, getting under the feet of two people who went in together, the Mason jars with the busy cuttings in water -- ''Watch out for Mama's!'' -- a thousand times we had gone in like that. As a thousand bees had droned and burrowed in the pears that lay on the ground.''
        During World War II, Miss Welty was briefly on the staff of The New York Times Book Review and sometimes contributed reviews under the pseudonym Michael Ravenna. But she returned to Jackson during the 1950's, when her mother and brothers fell seriously ill. For almost 15 years, from the mid-50's to the late 60's, she published just a few short stories, some book reviews and a children's book, ''The Shoe Bird'' (1964). During this period she cared for her family and worked on two novels. Some writers speculated that she also suffered some spiritual ordeal or artistic crisis. After the deaths of her mother and brothers, she returned in the 70's with the novels ''Losing Battles'' and ''The Optimist's Daughter.''
        Miss Welty's stories often reflected the fruits of her wide reading and special interests. ''The Robber Bridegroom,'' for example, incorporates elements of folklore, fairy tales, classical myths and legends of the Mississippi River and the Natchez Trace, the road of pioneer days that stretched from Natchez, Miss., to Nashville.
        In ''Delta Wedding,'' Miss Welty concentrates on the frenzied activities of the extended Fairchild family in the week before the marriage of a daughter to the plantation's overseer, who is considered by several of the Fairchilds to be an intruder unworthy of admission into the family.
        Fiction of Family Life
        That book, as well as the short novel ''The Ponder Heart'' (1954) and her longest one, ''Losing Battles'' (1970), are examples of Miss Welty's preoccupation with family life. They focus on weddings, reunions and funerals, which all bring family members together to recall the past, criticize and lavish praise on one another and settle old scores.
        Her novels and stories expose the foibles to which large clans are prone, their tendencies to resist change, squelch individuality and ostracize outsiders. Miss Welty often shifts points of view to accomplish this, but in ''The Ponder Heart,'' she  demonstrates her extraordinary ear for dialect and a sense of the ridiculous as she tells the entire story as a comic monologue by Edna Earle Ponder, a garrulous hotel manager. This novel was adapted for the stage by Joseph Fields and Jerome Chodorov and became a hit when it opened on Broadway in 1956.
        Commenting on many critics' observations that ''Losing Battles'' and her other works carried a strong sense of place, Miss Welty said: ''I think Southerners have such an intimate sense of place. We grew up in the fact that we live here with people about whom we know almost everything that can be known as a citizen of the same neighborhood or town. We learn significant things that way. We know what the place has made of these people, what they've made of the place through generations. We have a sense of continuity and that, I think, comes from place.''
        And because she was in her particular place in the racially discordant 60's, she said, ''I was one of the writers who received dead-of-night telephone calls, when I was harangued by strangers saying, 'Why are you sitting down there writing your stories instead of out condemning your society?' ''
        ''I didn't need their pointers to know that there was injustice among human beings or that there was trouble,'' she continued. ''I had been writing about that steadily right along, by letting my characters show this. I see as my privilege writing about human beings as human beings with all the things that make them up, including bigotry, misunderstanding, injustice and also love and affection and whatever else. Whatever else makes them up interests me.''
        Miss Welty made one notable exception to her rule against direct crusading when Medgar Evers, the black civil rights leader, was shot to death by a sniper in Jackson in 1963.
        ''I did write a story the night it happened,'' she said. ''I was so upset about this, and I thought: I live down here where this happened and I believe I must know what a person like that felt like -- the murderer. There had been so many stories about such a character in the stock manner, written by people who didn't know the South, so I wrote about the murderer intimately -- in the first person, which was a very daring thing for me to do.''
        In the Mind of an Assassin
        The story, ''Where Is the Voice Coming From?,'' was rushed into print in The New Yorker only days after Evers's killer was arrested. Taking up only two pages, it was a chilling journey into the mind of a bigoted psychopath. Hailed as a disturbingly effective examination of the roots of racial hatred, it has since been included in many anthologies.
        Miss Welty never married. (Marriage, she said, ''never came up.'') She leaves no immediate survivors.
        Although she was a shy person, she had many friends who were writers, among them Porter, Robert Penn Warren, Elizabeth Bowen, V. S. Pritchett, Cleanth Brooks, Shelby Foote, Walker Percy, Elizabeth Spencer, Ross MacDonald and Reynolds Price. She also had an enduring friendship with Diarmuid Russell, the agent who fiercely and devotedly represented her.
        Her friends often spoke of her innate courtesy, which led her to seldom turn down requests for interviews. Those conversations usually took place at her home, and she often offered her interviewer bourbon and a home-cooked meal. She was warm and humorously self-deprecating.
        One unlikely caller was Henry Miller. Miss Welty's mother, who had heard that Miller was a writer of obscene books, banned him from  their house. When Miss Welty did see him, she reported that he was ''the dullest man I ever saw in my life.''
        ''He wasn't interested in anything outside himself,'' she said, ''that was the truth.''
        In 1943, Faulkner wrote an unsolicited letter to Miss Welty after he had by chance read ''The Robber Bridegroom.''
        ''You're doing all right,'' he said. That letter was hung near her wooden desk in an upstairs room in the Tudor-style house that her father built on Pinehurst Street in 1925, when she was 16.
        ''The writing of a novel is taking life as it already exists,'' Miss Welty said. ''What distinguishes it above all from the raw material, and what distinguishes it from journalism, is that inherent is the possibility of a shared act of the imagination between its writer and its reader. There is absolutely everything in great fiction but a clear answer.''
        Correction:  July 25, 2001, Wednesday  An obituary of the author Eudora Welty yesterday misstated the number of O. Henry Awards she received for short stories and misidentified the first of her stories to win one. The total was eight, not six. The first was for ''Petrified Man'' (1939); ''A Worn Path'' won in 1941.
      