
        Erik Barnouw, whose classic three-volume history of broadcasting in the United States defined the sweep, power and foibles of the industry that forever altered communication and public life, died last Thursday in Fair Haven, Vt. He was 93.
        Mr. Barnouw, who came to the United States from the Netherlands in 1919, when he was about 11, spent his undergraduate years at Princeton University writing plays and lyrics for musical plays, then moved into a career as a radio writer and producer. He was a writer and editor for CBS in 1939 and 1940, and an editor at NBC from 1942 to 1944.
        His experiences in an industry younger than he was both informed and inspired his prolific later work as an educator, a scholar and as the creator and first chief of the Library of Congress's broadcasting and motion picture division.
        In 1975, John Leonard of The New York Times wrote, ''Quite simply, Erik Barnouw's three-volume 'History of Broadcasting in the United States' is what everybody who writes about television steals from.''
        Mr. Barnouw also worked in documentary film making, serving in 1970 as the producer of the documentary ''Hiroshima-Nagasaki, August 1945,'' which included Japanese newsreel film that brought home the human devastation caused by the two atomic explosions at the close of World War II. Earlier, in 1963, he was  co-author of ''Indian Film,'' (Columbia University Press, 1963) on the impact of the cinema in the policial and social development of India.
        But it was the history he wrote at the invitation of Oxford University Press that anchored his reputation as the foremost scholar of broadcasting.
        The first volume, ''A Tower of Babel,'' charted the development of radio until 1933. This was followed by ''The Golden Web,'' which covered the next two decades of radio, and ''The Image Empire,'' which charted the rise of television.
        In a 1971 review in The New York Timesof the full work, the Princeton historian Eric F. Goldman wrote, ''In its broad theme, this history of broadcasting is Lincoln Steffens again. The problem is not so much evil men as all kinds of human beings, 'statesmen, mountebanks, teachers, salesmen, wheeler-dealers . . . brilliant, arrogant, psychopathic, inspired, corrupt,' operating within a structure which is beautifully designed to bring out the worst in a saint.''
        Mr. Goldman continued, ''With a scope not previously used, he details the whole history of the electronic huckstering of candidates and of the drive of Washington to twist public affairs into a picture pleasing to itself.''
        Sheldon Meyer, the editor at Oxford University Press who commissioned the broadcast history, said of Mr. Barnouw, ''He certainly wasn't completely negative about broacasting. He loved it, in a way. But he had an eye for the scoundrels and the fakes and the dangerous people.''
        In 1937 Mr. Barnouw began to teach radio writing at Columbia University. A decade later, he founded the division of film, radio and television in the University's Program in the Arts.
        He served as chairman of the division until 1968 and retired from the University in 1973. He was also a member of the Writers Guild of America, and served as its chairman from 1957 through 1959.
        He joined the Library of Congress as a film and television expert in 1978. He retired from this career in 1981, the same year as ''The Magician and The Cinema,'' Mr. Barnouw's book-length essay on the infancy of film, was published by Oxford University Press.
        Mr. Barnouw's formal retirement did not slow down his writing pace. Last summer, he published ''Migrations,'' a family chronicle, and in January he published ''Media Lost and Found,'' (Fordham University Press), with vignettes about his work in the film industry.
        His first wife, Dorothy, died in 1987.
        He is survived by his second wife, Elizabeth, of Fair Haven; a son, Jeffrey, of Del Mar, Calif., two daughters, Susanna Gilmore of Benson, Vt., and Karen Barnouw of Rutland, Vt., a grandson, a great-grandson and a sister.
      