
        John H. Holdridge, a longtime Foreign Service official who accompanied President Richard M. Nixon on his historic visit to Beijing in 1972, died on Thursday in Washington. He was 76 and lived in Bethesda, Md.
        The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, his family said.
        Mr. Holdridge, an expert in Asian affairs who also served as ambassador to two countries, retired in 1986 after almost 40 years in the Foreign Service.
        After joining it in 1948, he spent more than two years learning Mandarin Chinese at the Foreign Service Institute in Washington, and at Cornell and Harvard Universities.
        After holding posts in Bangkok, Hong Kong, Singapore and Washington, he was director of Asian affairs in the Intelligence and Research Bureau at the State Department.
        After Nixon became president in 1969, Mr. Holdridge was one of the first top assistants whom Henry A. Kissinger -- then Nixon's assistant for national security affairs -- brought over from the State Department for his strengthened National Security Council staff.
        Mr. Holdridge became the White House's in-house expert on China in particular and the Far East in general. In China early in 1972, he sat with the president and Mr. Kissinger during their conferences with Premier Chou En-lai. That visit to China by Nixon was a breakthrough in the antagonism between Washington and Beijing and led to a bilateral agreement on improving relations between the countries.
        Mr. Holdridge was ambassador to Singapore from 1975 to 1978. From 1979 to 1981 he worked with the Central Intelligence Agency, as national intelligence officer for East Asia. From 1981 to 1983 he was assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs, and from 1983 to 1986 he was ambassador to Indonesia.
        He wrote ''Crossing the Divide: An Insider's Account of the Normalization of U.S.-China Relations'' (Rowman, 1996) and cowrote ''War and Peace With China'' (University Press of America, 1994).
        Born in Brooklyn, he graduated in 1945 from West Point and then switched from the Army to the Foreign Service.
        In his later years, he was a consultant and worked informally to improve the United States' relations with China and Indonesia.
        His survivors include his wife of five decades, Martha McKelvey Holdridge; a daughter, Patricia Johnson of Silver Spring, Md.; two sons, David, of Bethesda, and Geoffrey, of Laurel, Md.; and six grandchildren.
      