
        Dr. Gerald L. Geison, a biographer of Louis Pasteur and an expert on the history of medicine, died July 3 at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 58.
        The cause was an enlarged heart, according to Princeton, where he was on the faculty for more than 30 years.
        Dr. Geison's most famous work, ''The Private Science of Louis Pasteur,'' published in 1995, is noted for its ethical scrutiny of Pasteur, the French chemist known for his vaccines and the development of the bacteria-destruction process that bears his name.
        Dr. Geison, using information from Pasteur's laboratory notebooks and papers, revealed how Pasteur, in order to avoid embarrassment, secretly incorporated a rival's findings to make his version of an anthrax vaccine work.
        The book also revealed that Pasteur's success with the vaccine for rabies, which he hastily developed in the 1880's, involved much uncertainty and human experimentation.
        Dr. Geison, after finishing his doctorate in 1970, took a professorship at Princeton in the history department. Seven years later he became associate dean of the college and in 1980 he was named director of the school's history of science department, where he gained a reputation for devoting much of his time to his students.
        The 20 Dictionary of Scientific Biography articles and 40 scholarly essays and book reviews that Dr. Geison wrote during his career earned him many honors and invitations to lecture. He was a visiting historical scholar at the National Library of Medicine and a member of the editorial board of The Journal of the History of Medicine and Allied Sciences. In 1996, the American Association for the History of Medicine awarded him its annual William H. Welch medal for his book on Pasteur.
        Born in Savanna, Ill., Dr. Geison, completed his undergraduate studies at Beloit College in Beloit, Wis., and earned his Ph.D. in the history of science and medicine at Yale.
        He is survived by two sons, Christopher and Andrew, both of San Francisco; two sisters, Carmen Kellogg of Rockford, Ill., and Rita Huizenga of Moline, Ill.; and three brothers, Roger, of Savanna, Ill.; Stan, of Bloomington, Ill.; and Lt. Col. Gordon Geison of Sterling, Va.
        His marriage to Lynne Pauley of Baltimore ended in divorce.
      