
        Leonard Pines, who expanded his father's business selling deli meats from a wagon on Manhattan's Lower East Side into Hebrew National Kosher Foods, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 90.
        For most of his adult life, Mr. Pines would walk into the company smokehouse, pick a frankfurter at random, cook it on a griddle in his office and eat it. ''It was my father's way of assuring quality control,'' his younger son, Kenneth, of Roslyn, N.Y., said yesterday.
        Mr. Pines used a variety of promotions to expand sales beyond Jewish  customers. One was a 1940's ad campaign featuring a boy balancing a gigantic salami on his head. The caption read: ''For a well-balanced meal.'' In 1965, still trying to expand beyond its traditional market, the company advertised that it answered ''to a higher authority.'' The strategy worked as non-Jews became the majority of customers for the company's processed meats.
        The business began in 1905 when Isadore Pinkowitz, an immigrant from Romania, made frankfurters and sold them from his wagon. In 1928, his son, Leonard, who had changed his name to Pines, started selling to delis, said his elder son, Isadore, of Old Westbury, N.Y.
        The company soon moved to Brooklyn and then to Queens as it steadily expanded.
        In 1962, Mr. Pines was one of several kosher meat and deli bun makers who was indicted on price-fixing charges. Isadore Pines said the case went nowhere ''because we responded by expanding our sales from just delis to supermarkets.''
        The family sold the business in 1968 to Riviana Foods, which was later taken over by Colgate-Palmolive, but Mr. Pines, his son Isadore and some cousins continued to work for the business, and they bought it back in 1980. They moved the meatpacking operations to Indianapolis in 1986, a move fought by some of the 129 employees who were told to move or lose their jobs. A small bomb was set off in the car of one cousin.
        Mr. Pines was married to Mary Zucker for 48 years until she died in 1980. He then married Jeanette Brooks, who died in 1999. In addition to his sons, he is survived by two daughters, Myrna Chase of Boca Raton, Fla., and Paula Pines of Tamarac, Fla.; 13 grandchildren; and 10 great-grandchildren.
      