
        Margaret Kilgallen, an artist who contributed to the vibrant fusion of graffiti art, folk art, painting and installation art that emerged in San Francisco in the 1990's, died Thursday in San Francisco. She was 33.
        The cause was complications of breast cancer, her family said.
        Ms. Kilgallen was born in Washington and raised in Kensington, Md. She received a B.A. in studio art and printmaking at Colorado College before moving to San Francisco. Exposed to bluegrass music as a child, Ms. Kilgallen was a skillful banjo player. In San Francisco she took up surfing, becoming equally adept. In 1990 she met her future husband, Barry McGee, also a surfer, and one of several young painters showing in galleries and painting noncommissioned murals on city walls. She and Mr. McGee, who were married in 1999, became part of a circle that included the artists Chris Johanson, Phil Frost, Ed Templeton and Thomas Campbell.
        Ms. Kilgallen eventually painted hundreds of murals around San Francisco, most of which have been painted over.
        Until 1997, she worked as a book conservator in the San Francisco Public Library, a job that enabled her to study traditional type fonts, which became central to her work. Her installations featured words and cartoonish figures, usually women, painted in different scales on pieces of wood that resembled shop signs, or directly on walls on top of expanses of odd, Depression-conjuring colors. (Consistent with her use of wood scrap for her signs, Ms. Kilgallen got her paint free from recycling centers, which mixed surplus colors at random.)
        The overall result was impure Americana, a slightly acidic nostalgia that evoked sideshows, tramp art and old travel posters with infusions of feminist wit. Her women smoked, fought, surfed, played the banjo and occasionally hooked up with men.
        Ms. Kilgallen had her first solo exhibition at the Drawing Room at the Drawing Center in New York 1997, and her second the following year at the John Berggruen Gallery in San Francisco. She had a second show in New York at Deitch Projects in SoHo in 1999. Titled ''To Friend and Foe,'' it featured floor-to-ceiling images and words and a pair of small, scrappy wood shacks painted with her signature Victorian lettering.
        Ms. Kilgallen's work is currently in ''East Meets West,'' an exhibition at the Institute of Contemporary Art in Philadelphia through July 29, and at Stanford University, where she received a master's degree on June 17.
        She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Asha, who was born on June 7; her parents, Dena and James Kilgallen, of Rockville, Md.; two sisters, Lil Kilgallen of Adamstown, Md., and Marianne Sullivan of Marriottsville, Md.; and a brother, Jamie Kilgallen of Charleston, N.C.
      