
        John Trubin, a prominent New York lawyer and quintessential political insider who spent much of his time working in state and city government, died Tuesday at New York University Medical Center. He was 83 and lived in Greenwich Village.
        He had undergone heart bypass surgery earlier this year at New York Hospital, said Richard Aurelio, a family spokesman.
        Mr. Trubin, active in the liberal wing of the Republican Party, was a longtime law partner, close friend and campaign manager of Jacob K. Javits. He led the charge that took Mr. Javits into the state attorney general's office in 1954. He thereby helped limit a Democratic sweep that elected W. Averell Harriman governor that year.
        Mr. Trubin became Mr. Javits's first assistant attorney general, and in 1956 helped him gain national prominence with the defeat of Mayor Robert F. Wagner of New York for the United States Senate.
        Mr. Trubin kept the same position under Attorney General Louis J. Lefkowitz, but he resigned in 1957 to set up a law firm with Mr. Javits, first known as Javits Trubin Sillcocks & Edelman and later as Trubin Sillcocks Edelman & Knapp.
        Mr. Javits was in the Senate until 1980 and died in 1986.
        Born in East Orange, N.J., John Trubin took night courses at college during the Depression, paying his way with various day jobs. He graduated from City College of New York in 1939 and received his law degree at New York University in 1943.
        He started his rise in Republican politics while working as a law secretary in Surrogate's Court and, in 1953, served as chief counsel to the Moreland Act Commission, which studied workers' compensation costs. The next year he was recommended to Mr. Javits, who took him on as his campaign manager.
        Mr. Trubin's service in city government started in 1966 when he led a panel that studied the taxi and limousine business for the Lindsay administration. In 1990, Mayor David N. Dinkins appointed him to the board of the Housing Authority. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani made him a commissioner of the city's Tax Appeals Tribunal in 1994 and in 1998 a member of the Taxi and Limousine Commission.
        On the state level, Mr. Trubin acted as chief counsel to State Senator Roy M. Goodman's Committee on Investigations in the late 1980's. At the federal level, Mr. Trubin advised both Senator Javits and Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan on federal judicial appointments.
        The Trubin law partnership, which prospered in its practice of general and real estate law, was dissolved in 1984. After that, Mr. Trubin was associated with other law firms, including Parker Chapin Flattau & Klimpl.
        He was a trustee of the New York City Police Foundation, director of the Citizens Committee for New York City and a board member of the New School University graduate division and of the UJA-Federation of New York.
        Mr. Trubin is survived by his wife of 56 years, Edna Glassman Trubin; a daughter, Priscilla Jo Lewis of Dayton, Md.; a son, Andrew J., of Manhattan; and four grandchildren.
      