
        The Rev. John F. Hotchkin, widely considered a guiding spirit in the Roman Catholic Church's ecumenical efforts in the United States, died on June 24 at his home in Washington. He was 66.
        He had severe bronchitis, the National Conference of Catholic Bishops said in announcing his death.
        Father Hotchkin was the executive director of the conference's Secretariat for Ecumenical and Interreligious Affairs from 1971 until his death. He had been associate director from 1967 to 1971.
        Much of his work in those posts was behind the scenes, but he was also a major force in the church's relations with Jewish, Lutheran and other religious traditions.
        Rabbi A. James Rudin, senior interreligious adviser for the American Jewish Committee, said Father Hotchkin ''was an enormously gifted religious leader who helped change Catholic-Jewish history,'' adding that ''his deep commitment to building a new relationship with Jews and Judaism spanned five decades.''
        Father Hotchkin was involved in the dialogue between American Catholics and American Lutherans, and he also played a role in the European contacts that preceded the signing in 1999 in Augsburg, Germany, of a Joint Declaration on the Doctrine of Justification by officials of the Lutheran World Federation and a Roman Catholic cardinal, with the blessing of Pope John Paul II.
        The Protestant Reformation in the 16th century was provoked by the issue of justification, the belief that people were justified -- that is, saved and brought into a right relationship with God -- strictly by God's gift of grace and by faith in Christ, and not by anything that humans might do or earn on their own.
        But Martin Luther and others said that the Catholic Church's selling of indulgences, which promise to reduce the punishment after death due to sin, was one of many ways by which the church fostered the illusion that people could be saved by their own works or merits.
        The 1999 declaration announced a ''common understanding'' of justification: ''By grace alone, in faith in Christ's work and not because of any merit on our part, we are accepted by God and receive the Holy Spirit, who renews our hearts while equipping and calling us to good works.''
        The declaration also recognized that Lutherans and Catholics explicated this common understanding in different ways. A large American Lutheran body, the 2.6 million-member Lutheran Church-Missouri Synod, strongly criticized the declaration.
        Father Hotchkin was born in Chicago and grew up in Mokena, Ill. He attended two seminaries in Illinois and received a doctorate in sacred theology from the Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome.
        His survivors include his mother, Sarah J. Hotchkin of Crete, Ill., and four sisters who live in Illinois and Indiana.
      