
        Abraham Schrader, a garment manufacturer who cut a wide swath in the Seventh Avenue ready-to-wear trade, died yesterday on the Abe Schrader Floor of Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 100.
        Mr. Schrader, who was universally called Abe, reigned as one of the kings of Seventh Avenue as a leading manufacturer of women's coats and better dresses, which he sent to stores for half a century.
        He retired in 1988 and lived on Central Park West. Four years before, he sold his business, the Abe Schrader Corporation, to Interco Inc.
        A natty dresser all his life, Mr. Schrader wore only clothes made to order, explaining that he could never find a good fit off the rack.
        ''Even when I made $10 a week,'' he said last year in an interview with The New York Times, ''I saved up my money all year and bought a custom suit.''
        Mr. Schrader was born in a small town north of Warsaw and never quite lost his Polish accent. He was 20 when he arrived in the United States with his mother's advice to continue his religious studies and become a rabbi.
        But young Abe found that he had a knack for business. He set out as a contractor, hiring seamstresses to sew garments for a jobber who took orders from retail stores.
        Soon, Mr. Schrader started his own manufacturing business, complete with a clutch of designers, so he could deal with the retailers directly. One of his biggest contracts in his early years was a government order for uniforms for the Women's Auxiliary Army Corps.
        For many years, Mr. Schrader was a familiar figure on the dance floors of New York's fanciest nightclubs, where he displayed his considerable gifts as a ballroom dancer. He met Pauline Trigère, the high-fashion designer, on the parquet of El Morocco. For years after that, Ms. Trigère, a grande dame of American fashion, designed a line of coats for Mr. Schrader to manufacture, to be sold at prices well below her classic models, but carrying details typical of more expensive Trigères.
        Mr. Schrader shared his fortune with a number of charities. Besides the Abe Schrader Floor, Beth Israel also has an Abe Schrader Lobby. Much of his giving was channeled to Jewish organizations serving Israel.
        Mr. Schrader is survived by two sons, Mort and Steve, both of Manhattan, and three grandchildren. His wife, Rose Platt Schrader, died in 1988 after more than 60 years of marriage.
        After retiring, Mr. Schrader kept an office at a Wall Street brokerage house, where he traded stocks for his own account. Approaching his 100th birthday, he still did so every afternoon.
        He said he savored trading as much as he had dancing the waltz in earlier years.
      