
        Mourned as a friend of the powerful but a foe of the imperial presidency, Katharine Graham was buried today after an eloquent farewell from leaders of the ruling establishment where she had flourished as publisher of The Washington Post.
        ''Maybe all of you do not understand what it takes to make a great newspaper,'' Ben Bradlee, Mrs. Graham's former executive editor, told an overflow crowd of more than 3,000 gathered to honor her at Washington National Cathedral.
        ''It takes a great owner, period,'' Mr. Bradlee declared, his gruff voice tinged with mourning.
        ''Great owners help editors and reporters shine a bright light on the darkest corners of society,'' he continued from the cathedral lectern before an audience of government and political figures that included former President Bill Clinton and Vice President Dick Cheney.
        Mrs. Graham, who died on Tuesday at 84, was accorded a funeral worthy of a head of state. The usher corps included celebrity friends like William H. Gates, the Microsoft chairman; Mike Nichols, the director; and Warren E. Buffett, the billionaire investor.
        The homily was delivered by the Rev. John C. Danforth, former senator from Missouri, who hailed Mrs. Graham as a powerful woman ''not taken with her own power.''
        A formal tribute was offered by former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger, who had watched from within the White House as the presidency of Richard M. Nixon crumbled in the Watergate scandal uncovered by The Post. Describing a deep friendship that followed, he hailed Mrs. Graham with open affection as ''a seminal figure in the battle to submit even the highest officials to ethical and judicial norms.''
        With a phalanx of United States senators arriving by bus, Mrs. Graham's funeral was broadcast live on all the city's major channels. Commentators endlessly invoked the word ''power'' as they watched the nation's upper echelon of leaders from publishing and politics, entertainment and industry arrive at the cathedral.
        Through the day, the story was retold of how Mrs. Graham rose as a widow suddenly handed the reins of The Post to rule it wisely and turn it into the flagship driving one of the nation's leading communications companies.
        In a second tribute, Arthur Schlesinger Jr., the historian and veteran of the Kennedy administration, hailed Mrs. Graham as a dedicated foe of the imperial presidency. He cited The Post's relentless Watergate coverage and her decision to publish the Pentagon Papers' secret investigation of the Vietnam War after The New York Times had been enjoined in court from publishing because of protests from the Nixon administration.
        ''Kay Graham was a very gallant lady,'' said Mr. Schlesinger, who saluted her as a ''quiet revolutionary'' on behalf of all women. ''She will leave an enduring mark on the nation's capital and on the American press.''
        The 95-minute ceremony was a major Washington event as people of power gathered to mourn Mrs. Graham and in the process to eye one another's relative place at the event. Ushers worked from a red and yellow schematic in trying to guide the right people to the right pews.
        The arrival of Mr. Clinton and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton stirred extra attention. They sat in a front row that included Mr. Cheney and his wife, Lynne, Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who had an end seat from which he worked the passing notables.
        For all the high ceremony of the day and some six addresses of eulogy, it was Mr. Bradlee who kept  things simple as he told newspaper tales about Mrs. Graham. He sparked laughter when he cited Mrs. Graham's tale of having to rush dripping from the shower to answer a phone call from President Ronald Reagan, taking notes on soaked paper. ''Brenda Starr, girl reporter, is at the scene, ready to go!'' Mr. Bradlee exulted.
        In appraising her virtues as a publisher, the editor kept it terse: ''A love for news, a love for answers and a love for a piece of the action.''
        He told of her doubts during periods of exclusive muckraking, saying she would demand of him, ''If this is such a great story, where the hell are all the other papers?''
        There was more laughter as Mr. Bradlee related his publisher's pride in the now well-known warning from Attorney General John Mitchell during the Watergate days that Mrs. Graham, as her editor put it in church, would have ''her you-know-what caught in a wringer'' if the paper persisted in its coverage.
        The scene in the cathedral presented a lesson in the mortality of power and ambition. From the choir loft, Mr. Clinton, Mr. Cheney and hundreds of other politicians could be seen in the throng below hymn-singing as one:
        Time, like an ever-rolling stream,
        Bears all its sons away;
        They fly forgotten, as a dream
        Dies at the opening day.
        The crowd included scores of corporate executives, including Don Keough, former president of the Coca-Coca Company, and Barry Diller, chairman of USA Networks. Both were with Mrs. Graham last week in Sun Valley, Idaho, where she had her fatal fall.
        Many of Mrs. Graham's friends from publishing were also in the cathedral, including John Madigan, chief executive of the Tribune Company; Louis D. Boccardi, president and chief executive of The Associated Press; Donald E. Newhouse, president of Advance Publications, and S. I. Newhouse Jr., the chairman; Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, chairman emeritus of The New York Times Company and former publisher of The New York Times; and Arthur  Sulzberger Jr., current chairman and publisher.
        In family speeches, Donald E. Graham, chairman and chief executive officer of The Post, thanked the crowd for enriching his mother's life in ''some of the most loving, longest-lasting friendships a person could have.'' Lally Graham Weymouth described her mother as ''a reporter at heart always'' who wrote her own will in approaching death as a part of reality not to be feared. Stephen Graham offered a lovingly candid summary of his mother's strengths and weaknesses, telling the assembled politicians, ''She was no good at back-slapping and processed joviality.''
        Burial at Oak Hill, within sight of Mrs. Graham's home on R Street in Georgetown, was private.
        ''Well, Mums, what a way to go -- not bad at all,'' Mr. Bradlee said in direct address to his publisher, whose white-cloth-draped coffin rested below his speaking perch at the cathedral crossing.
        The editor told of how the two had exchanged annual Christmas letters, not presents. He clearly savored quoting a passage from Mrs. Graham about the joy of newspapering: ''My God, the fun. It's unfair. Who else has this kind of fun?''
        Brusquely, as if masking emotion, Mr. Bradlee concluded, ''She was a spectacular dame and I loved her very much.'' He strode back to his pew, touching the coffin on the way.
      