
        Ernie K-Doe, the eccentric rhythm-and-blues singer best known for his 1961 No. 1 hit ''Mother-in-Law,'' died on Thursday at a New Orleans hospital. He was 65.
        The cause was cirrhosis, said his wife and manager, Antoinette.
        Mr. K-Doe's career peaked in the early 1960's with a series of catchy, sing-along rhythm-and-blues hits, but afterward his career floundered  and he became an alcoholic. In the 1990's, however, he sobered up and reinvented himself as one of the most memorable cultural figures in New Orleans, where he lived. He became a fixture there in 1995 when he opened the Mother-in-Law Lounge, where on almost any night Mr. K-Doe could be found entertaining customers with renditions of his songs and his self-worshiping maxims.
        ''There aren't but three songs that will last for eternity,'' he used to tell patrons. ''One is 'Amazing Grace.' Another is 'The Star-Spangled Banner.' And the third is 'Mother-in-Law,' because as long as there are people on this earth, there will always be mother-in-laws.''
        The son of a Baptist minister, Mr. K-Doe was born Ernest Kador Jr. at Charity Hospital in New Orleans. He began singing in church choirs and gospel groups, including the Golden Choir Jubilee of New Orleans and the Divine Traveler.
        As a teenager he performed regularly at local talent shows, where he met singers like Little Richard. Mr. K-Doe always said that he cobbled together his style from a combination of the energy, singing and marching of Baptist church services and performers he shared the stage with, like Little Richard, Sam Cooke, Huey (Piano) Smith and, later, James Brown. He is believed to have toured briefly with the Flamingos and the Moonglows before returning to New Orleans to join the Blue Diamonds. In 1959 he recorded his first local solo hit, ''Hello, My Lover.''
        Recording for the Minit label at the time, he stumbled across a song in a studio trash can that would forever be associated with his name. The song was ''Mother-in-Law.'' Its producer and writer was Allen Toussaint, who was only 23 at the time. Mr. Toussaint played piano on the song and a bass vocalist, Benny Spellman, who happened to be rehearsing in the studio, performed the  memorable bass backing. The song reached No. 1 on the rhythm-and-blues and the pop charts in 1961.
        Mr. K-Doe also recorded many minor hits, including ''Te-Ta-Te-Ta-Ta,'' ''A Certain Girl,'' '' 'Taint It the Truth'' and ''Later for Tomorrow.''
        In the late 60's Mr. K-Doe fell into a depression, fueled by whiskey and the realization that while he was earning fame the business people handling his career were earning most of the money. His career came to a halt in the 70's and 80's as he wandered the streets in an alcoholic fog, often singing for spare change and occasionally appearing on radio.
        Then in the mid-1990's he met his future wife, Antoinette Fox, who helped turn his life around. She weaned him from alcohol, and they found a vacant building on Claiborne Avenue in a seedy New Orleans neighborhood. Friends helped the couple convert the place into a lounge, and Mr. K-Doe became an active member of the New Orleans community again.
        The lounge soon became a favorite haunt for locals and visiting music fans. Outside, Mr. K-Doe's touring van was usually parked, with his name emblazoned on it surrounded by stars. Inside, he typically stood behind the bar, with nails jutting several inches past his fingertips; long, curly hair (which some said was a wig); and a bright jacket covering the ruffled lapels of his shirt. The jukebox was full of Mr. K-Doe's songs. If a customer played one, Mr. K-Doe would usually pick up a cheap microphone behind the bar and sing along, often having dialogues with his recorded voice. ''Really, K-Doe?'' he'd ask, and then exclaim, ''I'm cocky, but I'm good.''
        At least once a week he would step out from behind the bar and perform with a keyboardist in front of a giant mural of himself. After he married Antoinette, his flesh-and-blood mother-in-law could often be found watching television in a back room of the lounge. As word leaked out of Mr.  K-Doe's rehabilitation, music fans  embraced him. He was inducted into the Louisiana and New Orleans music halls of fame, and then accepted a Rhythm and Blues Foundation Pioneer Award in Manhattan in 1997. In May he received a lifetime achievement award from Louisiana Gov. Mike Foster.
        Mr. K-Doe flourished in the limelight, nicknaming himself the Emperor of the World. His appearances at events were always memorable: he would show up in a limousine with a ''Mr. Mother-in-Law'' sign on the side, and he would wear outrageous clothes tailored by his wife, including a bright pink tuxedo, a gold-colored crown or a cape reading ''Emperor K-Doe.''
        Besides his wife, Mr. K-Doe is survived by four children from previous marriages.
        His last release was a two-song compact disc with a stay-in-school anthem, ''Children of the World,'' and the racial-harmony plea ''White Boy, Black Boy,'' which he recorded and sold in his lounge. He also appears in a forthcoming movie, ''Happy Here and Now.''
        ''Tell all his fans that they can send flowers to the lounge,'' Mrs. K-Doe said. ''And if they can send money, it should be cash money.'' She added that the money would be used to promote his legacy.
      