
        Don Sunseri, an artist, teacher and the founding director of Grace, an art workshop program for the handicapped and elderly that became a national model, died on July 19 at his home in West Glover, Vt. He was 62.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Carol Putnam, managing director of Grace, the acronym for the nonprofit Grass Roots Art and Community Effort based in Hardwick, Vt.
        Mr. Sunseri was born in Chicago and attended the School of the Art Institute of Chicago. He moved to New York in the late 1960's, taught art at the Little Red School House and exhibited his work with the O. K. Harris Gallery in SoHo. He moved permanently to West Glover in 1974.
        After tiring of teaching art, he took a job in the kitchen of a nursing home. He soon found himself awed by the art its residents were making,  and he initiated a program of minimally directed classes. ''I saw something incredible going on,'' he said. ''I eventually figured out what I was not doing, and I tried to stay with that approach.''
        Mr. Sunseri began loading his car with art supplies, and visiting community centers and hospitals in the Northeast Kingdom of Vermont and by the end of 1975 named his program Grace.
        By 2000 Grace had a staff of seven, a board of directors and scores of volunteers and received regular grants from the National Endowment for the Arts.
        It offered hundreds of workshops a year, and organized exhibitions and other events. Grace artists exhibited and sold their work, won awards, published books and became the subject of film and television productions. Grace was operated from Mr. Sunseri's home until a few years ago. Its first building, a former firehouse in Hardwick, was purchased last year.
        In May he had a 20-year survey of his painted wall constructions and paintings on wood at the Tamarack Gallery in East Craftsbury, Vt.
        Mr. Sunseri's marriage to the painter Elizabeth Murray ended in  divorce. He is survived by a son, Dakota Sunseri of Los Angeles; Bert Francke, his companion, of West Glover; and a grandson.
      