
        Rabbi Ira Eisenstein, a key figure in the creation of the Reconstructionist movement in American Judaism, died on Thursday at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring, Md. He was 94 and lived in Silver Spring.
        Rabbi Eisenstein was the closest collaborator of Rabbi Mordecai M. Kaplan, the founder of the movement, who was also his father-in-law.
        As defined by Rabbis Kaplan and Eisenstein, Reconstructionist belief sees Judaism as ''the evolving religious civilization of the Jewish people,'' emphasizing the constant change that always has and always will define the Jewish experience as well as the cultural and moral heritage of the Jewish people.
        In Reconstructionism, which emerged as a distinct movement in the 1940's during a quest for the right moral path, followers often say that traditional belief and past practice should have ''a vote, not a veto'' in deciding on future action. The movement now has 100 congregations and tens of thousands of adherents in North America.
        Reconstructionists do not believe in the literal truth of the Hebrew Bible, and Rabbi Eisenstein, even in his last years, continued to goad Reconstructionist communities toward rethinking the traditional Jewish liturgy in light of modern secular thought.
        He felt that God can only be described by observing God's effect on the world. As he wrote: ''We get to know what God is by what God makes people do: when people are, so to speak, connected with God, they do good things. We call such people godly, and their acts godly. Whenever this force is active, we say that God has exercised influence and power.''
        Rabbi Eisenstein was the main founder of the Reconstructionist Rabbinical College, which is now in Wyncote, Pa., and was its first president from 1968 through 1981.
        He was also president of the Jewish Reconstructionist Foundation from 1959 to 1970, editor of the influential journal The Reconstructionist from 1935 through 1981 and a former president of the Rabbinical Assembly of America.
        He was the associate rabbi from 1922 to 1945, and succeeded Rabbi Kaplan in 1945 as the rabbi of the Society for the Advancement of Judaism, the original Reconstructionist synagogue, which is on West 86th Street in Manhattan. He held that post until 1954.
        He was also the rabbi of other synagogues in Chicago and Plandome, N.Y., over the years.
        His writings include the books ''Creative Judaism,'' ''What We Mean by Religion,'' ''The Ethics of Tolerance,'' ''Judaism Under Freedom'' and ''Reconstructing Judaism: An Autobiography'' (Reconstructionist Press).
        One of Rabbi Eisenstein's grandfathers, Rabbi Judah David Eisenstein, compiled many collections of classical Jewish texts and customs. Those collections are still consulted to this day.
        Ira Eisenstein was born in the Morningside Heights section of Manhattan. He graduated from DeWitt Clinton High School in the Bronx and received a bachelor's degree and later a doctorate in philosophy from Columbia University.
        In 1931, he graduated from and was ordained by the Jewish Theological Seminary in Manhattan, where Rabbi Kaplan taught for more than 50 years.
        In his last years, Rabbi Ira, as he was known, taught a weekly class for adults on a variety of religious subjects at his home in Silver Spring.
        Rabbi Eisenstein's wife, the former Judith Kaplan, died in 1996 after 62 years of marriage. She was a leading ethnomusicologist who in 1922 became the first woman to become bat mitzvah.
        The rabbi is survived by a son, Ethan, who lives in a group home near Albany; two daughters, Miriam Eisenstein of Chevy Chase, Md., and Ann Eisenstein of Brooklyn; and a grandson.
      