
        Morris H. Bergreen, a lawyer, businessman and administrator who as president of the Skirball Foundation oversaw the donation of millions of dollars to New York University, the Skirball Cultural Center in Los Angeles and other recipients, died on Monday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 83 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was complications of heart surgery, said Shane Kavanagh, a spokesman for the family.
        Mr. Bergreen was president of the Skirball Foundation, which is based in Manhattan, from 1986 until his death.
        Among the main beneficiaries of the foundation's largess have been New York University and three cultural institutions that also bear the name Skirball. Mr. Bergreen's son Laurence said that the foundation was financed by Jack H. Skirball, a longtime Los Angeles resident who produced movies and was a successful investor in other fields. He died in 1985.
        Laurence Bergreen said that the foundation was the principal donor for the construction of the Skirball Biomolecular Institute at the New York University Medical Center, at First Avenue and 34th Street.
        He said the foundation was also the main donor for construction of the Skirball Theater of the Performing Arts, which is being built at N.Y.U.
        In addition, the foundation was the principal donor for the construction of the Skirball Cultural Center in Los Angeles, which was dedicated five years ago, and continues to be one of the center's major benefactors. The center comprises concert halls, conference centers, classrooms and extensive exhibition space.
        The foundation has played the same roles at two other cultural institutions that bear its name: the Skirball Gallery in Cincinnati, which specializes in the Jewish cultural heritage in America, and the Skirball Museum of Biblical Archaeology in Jerusalem.
        Another major recipient of the foundation's largess during Morris Bergreen's tenure as president was the Skirball Institute of the American Jewish Committee. The institute publishes the journal Commentary. Mr. Bergreen was chairman of the Commentary publication committee.
        He was also a life trustee of N.Y.U., a trustee of its medical school and a life trustee of Mount Sinai-N.Y.U. Medical Center and Health Systems.
        In addition, he was a member of the executive committee of the board of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion, and he served on various panels there. He was also a member of the board of Oxford University's Oxford Centre for Hebrew and Jewish Studies and of the boards of other nonprofit institutions.
        At his death he was the principal owner of Gaylord Brothers, a company based in Syracuse that provides supplies to libraries. The posts he held in the business world over the years included owner of the radio station KCMJ in Palm Springs, Calif., and general manager of the Grosvenor Investment Company and of the Skirball Investment Company.
        Mr. Bergreen was born in Passaic, N.J. He graduated from New York University, received a law degree from Fordham University and was an Army Air Force staff officer during World War II.
        Over the years, he was also active in the Manhattan law firm of Bergreen & Bergreen and was of counsel to the Manhattan-based law firm Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy.
        In addition to his son Laurence, of Manhattan, he is survived by his wife, Adele G. Bergreen, and two grandchildren. Another son, John, died this year.
      