
        Lyubov Sokolova, a Russian actress whose roles in more than 300 movies in the years after World War II shaped the image of the Soviet wife and mother, died on June 6 at her home in Moscow. She was 79.
        The cause was a heart attack, according to the German newspaper Die Welt.
        Die Welt said of Miss Sokolova that in the postwar years, ''None of her Russian women colleagues formed as she did the image of the woman -- which was also propagandistically polished up, to be sure.''
        She was one of only three professional performers in the 1967 Soviet movie ''Asya's Happiness,'' set on a collective farm. One of her best-known films, it was shown at the New York Film Festival in 1988. She also appeared in a 1965 Soviet movie that has been shown under the English titles ''Workers' Quarters'' and ''Workers' Settlement.'' It was shown at the Locarno Film Festival last August.
        After Miss Sokolova's death, The Moscow Times called her ''Soviet cinematography's ultimate strong woman with a hard life.'' Her final movie, made last year, is titled ''The Agonies of Love.''
        There was also drama in her real life. During the Nazi siege of Leningrad in World War II, when she was working in a factory and also training to become a teacher, her first husband, Georgi Arapovsky, and her mother-in-law starved to death.
        After the war, when she had begun acting in films, she married a prominent director, Georgi Daneliya. He left her for another woman after more than two decades of marriage. Their son died in 1985.
        Lyubov Sergeyevna Sokolova was born in the industrial city of Ivanovo, 198 miles northeast of Moscow. Her mother sold fabrics in a store. Her father was a carpenter.
        As a girl, she was a theater buff and performed in school plays. In 1948, she acted in her first movie, ''The Genuine Human Being.'' As an established actress with a kindly face and large, handsome eyes, she was so helpful to fledgling performers that she acquired the nickname Mama.
      