
        Chet Atkins, the versatile guitarist and record producer who was a leader in the growth of Nashville as a music center in the 1950's and part of the elite force that transformed country music and affected popular musical taste in America, died on Saturday at his home in Nashville.  He was 77.
        Mr. Atkins had battled cancer for several years, undergoing surgery to remove a brain tumor in June 1997, and had a bout with colon cancer in 1970's, The Associated Press reported.
        Called the Country Gentleman, Chet Atkins accepted his position in the music industry with a remarkable lack of arrogance, spending his last years in his office on Nashville's Music Row singing and playing the  old songs with visiting performers whose recording careers he had a hand in shaping and whose music he influenced.
        Though he was directly involved in turning Nashville into a distinct country music hit-making empire, he played down his own ingenuity as a prime mover. ''All I was trying to do was to keep my job,'' he recalled in 1988 of the days when Nashville was becoming the center of country music in the mid-1950's. ''And the way you keep your job is to surprise the friends and neighbors with each new record.''
        Chester Burton Atkins was born on June 20, 1924, on his grandfather's 50-acre farm in the Clinch Mountains near Luttrell, Tenn. He spent his childhood in poverty, and he said that left him with a sense of insecurity. ''We were so poor and everybody around us was so poor that it was the 40's before any of us knew there had been a Depression,'' he wrote in his 1975 autobiography, ''Country Gentleman.''
        Music was central to his upbringing. His grandfather was a champion fiddler, and his father, James Arley Atkins, was a music teacher, piano tuner and sometime evangelistic singer. His half-brother, Jim, would become the rhythm guitarist in the Les Paul Trio in the 1930's, and his other brother, Lowell, also played guitar.
        Asthmatic as a child, Mr. Atkins learned how to play the banjo on days when he had to stay home from school. ''I'd play it until the strings broke,'' he recalled. ''When that happened, I'd just rip a wire out of the screen porch and tune 'er up again. It took me 20 years to learn I couldn't tune too well. And by that time I was too rich to care.''
        According to stories, he traded either a pistol or a farm wagon for his first guitar, which was owned by his stepfather, Willie Strevel. He took up the instrument at age 9, having already learned to play the ukulele and the fiddle, and he played at local parties and roadhouses. Meanwhile, he was learning guitar styles by listening to groups like the Sons of the Pioneers and the Corn Cobblers on  radio.
        At 11, he moved to Columbus, Ga., where it was hoped that the drier climate would ease his asthma. He  lived with his natural father and his stepmother. Listening to a Cincinnati radio station, the young Chet Atkins became enthralled by the playing style of guitarist Merle Travis, and in 1941, while working for the National Youth Administration in Mountain Hill, Ga., he spent his salary on equipment to make his acoustic guitar electric. To get even closer to the Travis style, he devised a method of picking with a thumb and three fingers that would later influence other guitarists. He did not know that Merle Travis got his own sound with a thumb and one finger.
        Mr. Atkins was a professional musician by age 17. The outbreak of World War II spread Southern rural music as Southerners left home for military bases and defense plants all over the country. Mr. Atkins quit high school and took advantage of the wider demand for country music, getting a job as a fiddler with the Jumpin' Bill Carlisle-Archie Campbell program, which was broadcast once a week from WNOX in Knoxville, Tenn.
        Lowell Blanchard, the director of the radio station, heard him idly practicing guitar and was impressed enough to put Mr. Atkins on the station's ''Midday Merry-Go-Round'' program. After the Carlisle-Campbell show was canceled, Mr. Blanchard made Mr. Atkins the rhythm guitarist in the radio station's staff band, at $30 a week.
        Mr. Atkins was a solitary young man whose shyness was often misinterpreted as hostility. As a result, he was often fired. He found and lost short-term jobs at radio stations in Cincinnati; Raleigh, N.C.; Richmond, Va.; and Springfield, Mo. But the guitarist's luck changed when the Carter Sisters and Mother Maybelle, among the most popular performers on WNOX, added him to their touring band.
        The troupe traveled extensively and appeared every Saturday night on the radio program ''Tennessee Barn Dance'' in Knoxville. They moved to Springfield, Mo., where ''The Carter Family and Chet Atkins Show'' on KWTO proved so successful that it was nationally syndicated.
        Chet Atkins was becoming known throughout the country and his reputation grew even more when he and the Carter sisters began to appear as stars of the Grand Ole Opry.
        Mr. Atkins capitalized on his radio success with LP's, which he began recording for RCA Victor in 1946. He had his first hit, ''The Galloping Guitars,'' in 1949. He moved to Nashville, where he found steady work as a studio musician and as an artists-and-repertoire man for Steve Sholes, the chief producer of country and western records for RCA Victor.
        Mr. Atkins settled into a group of young musicians who played on most RCA country sessions, a group that included the pianist Floyd Cramer, the drummer Buddy Harman, the bassist Bob Moore, and the guitarists Ray Edenton and Grady Martin.  Harmonies were provided by the Jordanaires and the Anita Kerr Singers. The sound of that strong team at work enlivened hit after hit.
        In 1957, Mr. Sholes, who had become head of artists and repertoire  for RCA Victor in New York, appointed Mr. Atkins the manager of recording operations in Nashville. ''There were an awful lot of sidemen around who could have done the same thing,'' Mr. Atkins said in 1988, when asked about his early promotion to a position of authority at RCA.  ''But the difference was that I was friends with Mr. Steve Sholes.''
        RCA built a recording studio in Nashville, and there Mr. Atkins, who had left the Grand Ole Opry and the Carter Sisters to concentrate on his recording career, guided many of the most famous country artists to success. Among the singers whose career-enhancing records were produced by Mr. Atkins were Don Gibson, Hank Snow, Jim Reeves, Roger Miller, Waylon Jennings, Dolly Parton and Charley Pride. Don Gibson had failed with four record companies before Mr. Atkins signed him for RCA. Mr. Gibson's first single for the company was a recording of two songs he wrote on one day in 1957. The first, ''Oh, Lonesome Me,'' hit both the country and pop music charts. The song on the flip side, ''I Can't Stop Loving You,'' became an American standard.
        Mr. Atkins also suggested to Mr. Sholes that RCA should outbid Columbia Records and sign Elvis Presley to a contract. RCA made millions of dollars from that suggestion.
        Mr. Atkins was regarded as possibly the consummate pop professional in American music. He used his own wide taste, his mastery of every kind of music, from the classics and jazz to religious music and flamenco, and his familiarity with electronic instruments and sound to change the sound of country music in the 1950's and 60's. Rock and roll had made enormous inroads into country music when Mr. Atkins was operating as a record producer. Sales of country music were declining and many radio stations were switching to rock. Mr. Atkins was pivotal in adapting country music to changing American tastes, initially toward a hard-edged, urban honky-tonk style, then toward a suburban pop style with strings and vocal choruses.
        This softer sound -- Mr. Atkins called it ''uptown'' -- was marketed as ''countrypolitan'' but became more widely known as the Nashville Sound. It was created so that country music could have an identity separate from rockabilly, but the softening also took place because Mr. Atkins and a few other influential producers believed that the sounds of steel guitars and country fiddles had become too old-fashioned.
        Under his guidance, ''progressive'' country music achieved its intended commercial crossover. Its admirers believe it saved country music from the rock 'n' roll juggernaut, brought the music to mid-America in a way that had not been experienced since Gene Autry, and turned Nashville into Music City U.S.A.
        Once success was achieved, however, the the style was derided for its homogeneity and lack of backbone. ''Aren't you going to ask me to define the Nashville Sound?'' Mr. Atkins  would tease interviewers. Then he would jingle some coins in his fist over the microphone. ''It's the sound of money.''
        Though he never seemed particularly bothered by trends in the business, Mr. Atkins maintained that country musicians should have their own market identity. Mr. Atkins became vice president in charge of country music for RCA in 1967, but three years later he began to phase  himself out of that end of the business. ''Producing can be so stressful,'' he said later. ''I couldn't handle it. It wasn't fun anymore.''
        Mr. Atkins made concert tours of Europe, Asia and Africa and played at the Newport Jazz Festival, the White House and on numerous television programs. He always played with a thumb-pick and his fingers, rather than a flat pick, and he liked to show off his dexterity by playing two melodies simultaneously on different strings. He took up the classical guitar and was a guest artist with many symphony orchestras. Though he was offered honorary degrees by various universities, he never accepted one; he preferred instead the  degree he bestowed on himself, Certified Guitar Picker or C.G.P.
        He recorded duet albums through the 90's, among them sessions with the singer Suzy Bogguss and the singer-guitarists Mark Knopfler and Jerry Reed.
        Mr. Atkins was a tall, slender man who retained his childhood reticence. Paul Hemphill described him in his book ''The Nashville Sound'' as ''an icy-veined, wry-humored, conservatively dressed refugee from the mountains'' with the ''demeanor of a small-town undertaker.''
        He had been a member of the Country Music Hall of Fame since 1973 and received many awards, including being named Cashbox magazine's outstanding instrumentalist for 13 consecutive years.
        He is survived by his wife of 55 years, Leona; a daughter, Merle, who was named after his idol, Merle Travis; and two grandchildren.
        In 1995, he told The Los Angeles Times that the reason he was still performing on guitar was because he was still trying to ''get it right.''
        ''I've never expressed myself musically the way I would like,'' he said.  ''Because of that, I've had a long career. I've never been able to sit back and say, 'Wasn't I great? Listen to the one I made in 1958!' ''
      