
        Hugo Princz, a United States citizen who survived the Holocaust and won a 41-year battle for reparations from Germany, died of cancer on Sunday at his home in Highland Park, N.J. He was 78.
        He eventually won an undisclosed part of a $2.1 million settlement, shared with 11 others, after legal expenses.
        ''We don't know if he ever saw a penny,'' said Elizabeth J. Coleman, director of civil rights for the Anti-Defamation League.
        Under another provision of the settlement, an additional 235 or so Americans who survived Nazi concentration camps shared a further $18.5 million. Of most importance, Ms. Coleman said, was the effect Mr. Princz's long struggle had in keeping the memory of the Holocaust alive.
        In addition to his award from the German Government, Mr. Princz also won an undisclosed settlement from four German companies proven to have used prisoners for slave labor. The companies were Bayer,  Messerschmidt-Boelkow-Blohm, BASF and Hoechst.
        Mr. Princz, being neither a German citizen nor a refugee, was ineligible for the monthly benefits West Germany began paying survivors in the early 1950's. After Germany rebuffed his claim, he retained an American lawyer, Steven Perles, and tried to win reparations through diplomatic channels. He finally sued Germany in Federal District Court in Washington in 1992.
        Mr. Princz won the first round when Judge Stanley Sporkin ruled that Congress could not have intended to bar actions against the Nazis when it passed a law barring Americans from suing foreign governments, the Foreign Sovereignty Immunity Act.
        But in July 1994, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit reversed the ruling. The Supreme Court upheld the appeals court. In 1995, after President Bill Clinton personally raised Mr. Princz's case with German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, Germany agreed to pay reparations.
        The case involved high politics, with the State and Justice Departments arguing that Americans should not be allowed to sue foreign governments. The House passed legislation to enable such suits, but the Senate rejected the measure. Finally, a government-to-government deal was reached.
        Mr. Princz did not say thank you. ''Many times in the last four decades my situation seemed hopeless and I felt like giving up,'' he said at a news conference after the settlement. ''I think Germany wanted to see me die before providing me a penny.''
        Mr. Princz was born to a naturalized American businessman in what is now Slovakia, making him a United States citizen at birth. In March 1942, his family's house was surrounded by local townspeople. The family was given 40 minutes to pack and was handed over as Jewish prisoners to the Nazis, who ignored the family's American passports and refused to include it in a Red Cross civilian prisoner exchange.
        The family was separated. His parents and sisters disappeared into the Treblinka death camp. Mr. Princz spent three years as a prisoner, including time at Auschwitz and at an underground airplane factory at Dachau.
        ''Jail would have been a picnic in comparison,'' he said in an interview with The New York Times in 1994.
        He was liberated on May 1, 1945, by American soldiers who saw the ''U.S.A.'' the Nazis had stitched on his shirt and sent him to an American military hospital for treatment.
        For that reason, he was not registered as a Holocaust victim through a displaced persons camp. After futilely searching for his family, Mr. Princz left Europe and settled in the United States.
        He worked as a butcher in a supermarket, and then bought the supermarket. His last job, until he was stricken with cancer a year and a half ago, was as a building administrator for the Young Men's and Young Women's Hebrew Association in Highland Park.
        Mr. Princz is survived by his wife of 45 years, Dolores Kruman; a brother, Harold, of East Brunswick, N.J.; and two daughters, Giselle Princz-Wald of Stoughton, Mass., and Cheryl Princz of Henderson, Nev.
      