
        Stephen Ailes, a retired antitrust lawyer and government official who served as civilian head of the Army during the early buildup of American forces in South Vietnam, died on June 30 at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 89.
        Mr. Ailes (pronounced ales) retired in 1985 from the large Washington law firm of Steptoe & Johnson, where he worked primarily as a litigator in the antitrust field. He joined the firm in 1946 but took occasional leaves of absence for government service.
        He did so first in 1947 for a brief stint as counsel to the American Economic Mission to Greece. The next leave, as a member of the Kennedy and Johnson administrations, lasted nearly five years.
        In 1961, President John F. Kennedy named him the under secretary of the Army. President Lyndon B. Johnson promoted him to secretary in 1964 when the administration began to commit combat troops to Southeast Asia.
        Mr. Ailes resigned the next year to return to practicing law. His son Richard said that it was not a protest on his father's part but that a few years later ''he had real concerns about the Vietnam conflict.''
        Mr. Ailes took another leave in 1972 to serve as president of the Association of American Railroads; he served until 1977. He was also a member of the Panama Canal Company's board from 1961 to 1971.
        In the Ford administration, Mr. Ailes joined the president's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board and the Intelligence Oversight Board. He was an author of the charter for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and, in the 1970's, served as a trustee of the Washington educational outlets WETA-TV and WETA-FM.
        He was a past chairman of the George C. Marshall Foundation and vice chairman of the Athletic Council of the United States. He was a trustee emeritus of Princeton University.
        For many years, he sat on the board of the Accokeek Foundation, which was formed in 1957 to preserve the land across the Potomac River from George Washington's home, Mount Vernon. The foundation operates the National Colonial Farm in Accokeek, Md. Mr. Ailes played a pivotal role in establishing the site as an ''ecosystem farm,'' land cultivated without chemicals, as it was in colonial times. He helped in the foundation's strategic planning and financial affairs.
        Stephen Ailes was born in Romney, W.Va., and graduated from Princeton in 1933 and from the West Virginia University College of Law in 1936. He taught at the college, but at the outset of World War II he moved to Washington and worked on the legal staff of the Office of Price Administration.
        In addition to his son Richard, of Bethesda, Mr. Ailes is survived by a daughter, Hester A. Abbuhl of McCormick, S.C.; two other sons, Stephen, of Martinsburg, W.Va., and Walter, of Bethesda; a sister, Edna J. Sprague of Albuquerque; five grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  July 10, 2001, Tuesday  An obituary on Saturday about Stephen Ailes, a retired antitrust lawyer and former secretary of the Army, misstated the name of an organization of which he was vice chairman. It is the Atlantic Council of the United States, not Athletic Council.
      