
        Meyer P. Potamkin, a Philadelphia banker and philanthropist who assembled one of the country's finest private collections of American art, died on July 8 at his home in Philadelphia. He was 91.
        Mr. Potamkin, known as Pat, and his wife, Vivian, built their collection during five decades or so. It spans 150 years of American art, with special emphasis on masters like Georgia O'Keeffe, Red Grooms, Winslow Homer, Mary Cassatt and John Sloan.
        Works from the collection have been lent to important exhibitions across the country and were reproduced in scholarly texts. A showing of ''American Art From the Collection of Vivian and Meyer P. Potamkin'' in 1989 became one of the top attractions in the history of the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts.
        The Potamkins donated paintings to many museums and galleries, including the National Gallery of Art in Washington and the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York. They had designated an important set of works by early 20th-century artists, a group known as the Eight, for the Philadelphia Museum of Art after their deaths but instead sent the set to the museum just over a year ago.
        ''We wanted to have the pleasure of seeing these things in the museum while we were still alive,'' Vivian Potamkin said at the time. They made another significant gift recently to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, including Edward Hicks's ''William Penn and his Treaty With the Indians'' (c. 1840's).
        In 1989 Philadelphia's public television outlet produced a half-hour program for PBS, ''Collectors' Love Story,'' which chronicled the couple's life as art patrons, narrated by them.
        Prominent as civic leaders, the Potamkins also helped living artists carry on their work. Among their many charities was the Potamkin Foundation for Breast Cancer Research, which gave an annual award to an outstanding individual in that field.
        Mr. Potamkin was born in South Philadelphia and played championship basketball and football in high school. A basketball scholarship got him into Dickinson College, from which he graduated in philosophy in 1932. He worked for the Crime Prevention Association of Philadelphia and received a master's degree in social work education at Temple University in 1941.
        By then he had joined the Orleans Construction Company in Philadelphia as a partner. In 1954 he founded the Boulevard Mortgage Company and was its president until the mid-1990's.
        In addition to his wife of 61 years, Vivian Orleans Potamkin, he is survived by a daughter, Mary Ann Lasky of Washington; a son, Marshall F., of Greenwich Village; a brother, Nathan, of Miami Beach; and two grandchildren.
      