
        Heinz Prechter, who as an exchange student from Bavaria brought the concept of car sunroofs to the United States and who went on to become a major manufacturer of  automotive products and a leading contributor to the campaigns of both President Bush and his father, died on July 6 at a guest house next to his home in Grosse Ile, Mich., a suburb of Detroit. He was 59.
        The cause was suicide by hanging,  said Maria Leonhauser Rosenau, a spokeswoman for Prechter Holdings, his privately held conglomerate with interests including real estate, livestock and newspapers.
        Mr. Prechter had suffered from depression for 30 years, said David Treadwell, who was named chairman of Prechter Holdings yesterday. Three days before his death, The Detroit News reported that he had suffered ''a prolonged and uncharacteristic case of the blahs'' since an injury last fall in a fishing trip to Alaska.
        His absence during a visit to Detroit by President Bush on June 24 was considered remarkable. In 1998, he assembled a dozen major Republican contributors at his 10,000-acre Texas ranch for a weekend of hunting and political discussion with Mr.  Bush, who was then the Texas governor.
        ''They sat around Prechter's fireplace and peppered Bush with questions, then everyone donned camouflage and went bird hunting,'' Newsweek reported. ''The fat cats were sold.''
        Mr. Prechter acknowledged his role in promoting the Bush candidacy in an interview with The Houston Chronicle in 1999. ''A lot of work went into it,'' he said. ''It didn't just happen.''
        Heinz Christian Prechter was born on Jan. 19, 1942, in the farming village of Kleinhöbing in southern Germany, a place he once described as ''24 houses in the middle of nowhere.'' Not wanting to be a farmer, he became an apprentice in automotive trim, tool and die making and coach and body building.
        In addition to formal studies at Berufs-Oberschule and OHM Polytechnic Engineering School, both in Nuremburg, he trained by working at several companies, including Faunwerke, a truck and military equipment supplier; Siemens, an electronics company, and Deutz, a diesel engine maker.
        In 1963, he studied English and business administration at San Francisco State College as an exchange student. He began importing and installing sunroofs, a popular product in Germany then virtually unknown in the United States.
        In a little more than a year, his part-time enterprise blossomed into the American Sunroof Company, with its first headquarters in a two-car garage. His initial investment of $764 was used to buy tools, a workbench fashioned from an old aluminum-covered door and a sewing machine from a junkyard.
        In addition to making sunroofs, he began manufacturing specialty vehicles for the film industry. Later he made prototypes for the designs of major car companies as well as other customized vehicles. The company became known as ASC Inc. and moved to Detroit in 1967; it also made automotive products like custom-tailored vinyl tops.
        The company grew to 5,300 employees working at 60 sites in the United States, Canada, Germany and South Korea.
        Mr. Prechter's philanthropies included contributions to the University of Michigan Depression Center and ranged from education to health care to the arts. In his political giving, he was a protégé of Max Fisher, who lives in Michigan and is known for his generosity to Republican candidates and Jewish causes.
        Mr. Prechter raised more than $1 million for George H. W. Bush's 1988 presidential campaign, then sent the new president a five-page letter with recommendations for increasing manufacturing exports. Mr. Bush named him chairman of the President's Export Council, a trade advisory group.
        Mr. Prechter accompanied the president on a trade mission to Japan in 1992, during which he signed a deal giving his company rights to put sunroofs on Hondas. He said the agreement was in the works before the trip.
        In addition to giving to many other political candidates, including Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York, Mr. Prechter was known for his support of local causes in Detroit. He helped elevate the regional Detroit Auto Show into the North American International Auto Show. In 1988, he also pitched in to try to save the London Chop House, a legendary Detroit restaurant, which closed three years later.
        Mr. Prechter was known for speaking independently. In 1992, he broke rank with conservatives to advocate ending the trade embargo with Vietnam. In 1999, he urged auto makers to produce much lighter, simpler cars capable of traveling 500,000 miles.
        He denied any interest in becoming an ambassador. ''I have no interest at this point in my life to be reporting to an assistant secretary,'' he said in an interview with Crain's Detroit Business last November.
        Mr. Prechter is survived by his wife, Waltraud, and their 21-year-old twin daughter and son, Stephanie and Paul.
      