
        Dr. Dave Freeman, the only American man to win a world singles championship in badminton and the only one to be ranked No. 1 in the world, died June 28 at San Diego Hospice. Freeman, who lived in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif., was 80 and had Merkle cell carcinoma, his family said.
        Until the world championships were begun in 1977, badminton's most prestigious competition was the annual All-England championships, and the winner was regarded as the unofficial world champion. Freeman won there in 1949 and won seven United States championships between 1939 and 1953. In 1997, he became the first American to be inducted into the International Badminton Federation Hall of Fame.
        ''Badminton was built for me,'' he once said, ''probably because I was quick more than anything else. I wasn't powerful. I wasn't fast. I couldn't run very fast, but I was quick and I had good hand-eye coordination.''
        David Guthrie Freeman was born Sept. 6, 1920, in Pasadena, Calif., and was raised there. By 13, when he was an outstanding player in squash and table tennis and nationally ranked in junior tennis, a friend introduced him to badminton.
        He was an instant success. As the Hickok Sports biography Web site said, ''His colorful style, darting and whirling around the court to return his opponent's shots, has been described as resembling a Comanche war dance.''
        He earned a bachelor's degree from Pomona College, where he was the student-body president, and graduated from Harvard Medical School in 1945. He then served two years in the Army Medical Corps.
        In 1953, after winning his last national title, Freeman retired from tournament competition. He told The San Diego Union: ''I was 33 and had a swollen knee and a sprained ankle and diarrhea. It was the first time in a tournament I didn't have a good time.''
        After that, he was a full-time neurosurgeon and played badminton only for fun, often with his two sons. He is survived by his wife of 59 years, Addie; the sons, Rees of Roseburg, Ore., and Dave of Arcadia, Calif.; a daughter, Diana Peterson of Rancho Santa Fe, and four grandchildren.
        When Freeman retired from surgery in 1994, he was doing only back operations and appearing as an expert witness in medical cases. Until then, he was as quick in the operating room as he had been on the court.
        ''I always did operations a lot faster than the next guy,'' he once said. ''I used to do 16-hour operations in 12 hours.''
      