
        Msgr. John Patrick Carroll-Abbing, a priest who founded Boys' Town and Girls' Town of Italy 56 years ago for the waifs left after World War II, died on Monday at Boys' Town of Rome. He was 88.
        He had worked on day-to-day management until recently and died after  a stroke, the organization said in New York.
        After the war, orphaned and abandoned children all over Europe were shining shoes, panhandling and stealing to survive. Monsignor Carroll-Abbing, posted to the Vatican, found some of them in the caves outside the walls of Rome.
        ''I said to the pope, someone ought to do something,'' he often recalled. Pius XII agreed. But when the monsignor began, he said, all he had was the pope's permission to assist the refugee population of Italy.
        He started with what he called his Shoeshine Hotel, a basement shelter in a war-damaged abandoned school. He made just one ironclad rule, one that his charges did not seem to mind. They had to be back in by 5:30 p.m.
        The boys then freshened up and prepared dinner. The younger ones peeled potatoes and set the table. The older ones cooked a healthy meal, usually a minestrone or a dish of donated baccalà, dried cod.
        The monsignor recalled that the quality of the fare gradually improved with the experience of his young cooks. The principle that all have to pitch in to keep the community afloat remains to this day.
        His concept of giving troubled children love and -- his motto -- ''a chance in life'' grew as he organized such shelters all over the country. All told, he was credited with feeding and clothing more than 180,000 children.
        Monsignor Carroll-Abbing organized eight additional permanent children's villages and 40 temporary shelters.
        He built 30 children's day-care centers in the poorest areas of southern Italy, and he arranged to have all of them managed by other religious and civic charities.
        Boys' Town and Girls' Town of Rome remain self-governing communities supported largely by the organization that he founded for that purpose in the United States. Boys' Town of Rome occupies a campus outside the city proper, with an average of 120 youngsters from 10 to 18 who receive vocational training.
        Girls' Town of Rome, founded in 1956, is on the edge of town near the Vatican, a spacious villa donated by Linda Darnell, the actress. It houses 20 to 25 young women 15 or older.
        John Patrick Carroll-Abbing was born in Dublin and went to Rome in 1930 to study for the priesthood. He was ordained at 23 and was named a monsignor in the Papal Household soon after. An Irish citizen, he entered the diplomatic service of Pope Pius XI in 1937, after having received doctorates in sacred theology and canon law.
        Besides his work directly with troubled youths, he was active in child welfare worldwide. He also took part in church efforts to assist refugees and the victims of every earthquake and flood that hit Italy.
        He received many honors in and beyond Italy. In 1987, Monsignor Carroll-Abbing became the 29th person and the third non-Italian to be made an honorary citizen of Rome. The other two were American, Presidents Woodrow Wilson and Franklin Delano Roosevelt.
      