
        Edward Gierek, Poland's Western-oriented Communist leader for 10 years until he was toppled in 1980 by food protests and strikes that led to the creation of Solidarity, the Soviet bloc's first independent trade union, died yesterday in the southern Polish town of Cieszyn, Reuters reported. He was 88.
        The Polish news agency PAP quoted Mr. Gierek's son Adam as saying his father had died of a lung ailment related to his work as a coal miner in his youth.
        Mr. Gierek, a tall, burly, gruff-voiced man with a penchant for gaudy ties, rose to power in the 1950's and 1960's organizing Communist control over coal mines and industrial plants, He became first secretary of the Polish Communist Party in 1970 after his predecessor, Wladyslaw Gomulka, was swept aside during food riots in which scores of workers were killed by the police.
        At the helm of a nation with a crumbling economy and oppressed by decades of hard-line Stalinist rule, Mr. Gierek purged Gomulka cronies, rebuilt the party to promote better-educated leaders with managerial qualifications, encouraged cultural amenities and more freedom to travel to the West, and embarked on a program of economic reforms based heavily on loans from the West.
        His efforts to promote Western-style consumerism brought in Fiat cars that put Poland on wheels, buses from France, tractors from Britain and Coca-Cola and Marlboro cigarettes from America. They also made Mr. Gierek enormously popular, and he is still remembered with nostalgia by older Poles. He was also trusted by many Western leaders.
        The former German chancellor, Helmut Schmidt, in a 1996 memoir, said of Mr. Gierek and the Hungarian leader Janos Kadar: ''Both were longtime Communists, but reasonable human beings -- and in private very open and almost cordial. They made no secret of the fact that they would have preferred to see their people with the West rather than in the shadow of the Soviet Union.''
        But his reforms were limited, and he remained subservient to the Soviet Union, which had controlled Eastern Europe since the end of World War II. Much of the money borrowed by the Gierek governent was wasted on ill-considered industrial projects, and contributed to a $40 billion debt that is still being repaid 12 years after the end of Communist rule.
        By 1979, when Pope John Paul II made his first papal visit to his homeland, rising food prices and growing labor unrest had weakened Mr. Gierek's hold on power. In 1980, there were nationwide strikes. While the government eschewed violence and entered negotiations that led to the birth of Solidarity, Mr. Gierek was forced to resign.
        He was succeeded by Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski, who imposed martial law in 1981 that repressed Solidarity, which later in the decade would become the foundation of Poland's democracy. Mr. Gierek was interned briefly, then retreated from public life, living quietly with his wife, Stanislawa, in his native Silesia, and writing his memoirs.
        He was born on Jan. 6, 1913, into a miner's family in the Polish village of Porabka. His father died in a mine disaster in 1923, and he and his mother moved to France, where they lived until 1934. By age 13, he was working in collieries in France, and he joined the French Communist Party in the early 1930's. He immigrated to Belgium later to work in mines there.
        During World War II, he reportedly became a leader of Polish partisans fighting in the anti-Nazi underground in Belgium. In 1948, he returned to Poland and joined the Communist Party in Katowice, where he established his political base. By 1951, he had became the party leader in Katowice.
        Three years later, with a degree in engineering from the Academy of Mining and Metallurgy in Krakow, he was appointed director of Poland's heavy industry department. In 1956, he was made a member of the Polish politburo.
        Correction:  July 31, 2001, Tuesday  An obituary of the former Polish leader Edward Gierek yesterday misidentified his successor as head of the Communist Party. The successor was Stanislaw Kania, not Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski.
      