
        Ely Callaway, a versatile and charismatic business leader who founded the Callaway Golf Company, the world's largest maker of golf clubs, died yesterday at his home in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif. He was 82.
        Mr. Callaway died of pancreatic cancer, which he had been suffering from since April, said Larry Dorman, a Callaway spokesman.
        Using an uncommon blend of entrepreneurial savvy and Southern charm, Mr. Callaway rose to the top of the textile industry and the wine industry during the first 60 years of his life. But it was Callaway Golf, which he founded in 1982, that made him important to the millions of golfers worldwide who bought and used his products with devotion.
        Under his direction, Callaway Golf grew from a four-person company into a multibillion-dollar corporation that generated $840 million in sales last year. It is approaching $6 billion in sales of golf clubs. The backbone of his company's success was the Big Bertha driver, developed in 1991, that allowed even mediocre players to get the ball airborne more quickly and with more distance.
        In the last year, Mr. Callaway was in a battle with the United States Golf Association regarding Callaway's ERC II, a thin-faced driver developed last year that does not conform to limits established by U.S.G.A. testing procedures.
        Mr. Callaway advocated two sets of rules regarding golf clubs, one for professional golfers and another for other players. He believed that pros should play by standards that limit technology in tournaments, while recreational golfers should enjoy using the clubs of their choosing.
        The Royal & Ancient Golf Club of St. Andrews, the governing body of golf outside North America, has not banned the ERC II; it is legal on the European Tour and for this month's British Open. But the ERC II exceeds the U.S.G.A.'s specifications, adopted in 1998, for so-called springlike, trampoline effect off the club face. The club remains illegal on the PGA Tour.
        Ely Reeves Callaway was born on June 3, 1919, in LaGrange, Ga. He developed his entrepreneurial skills at an early age, peddling copies of the Literary Digest as a 10-year-old. He made $150 from selling the Literary Digest, bought some peach trees with the money, and sold his first harvest for $750.
        At age 24, Mr. Callaway was the youngest major in the Philadelphia Quartermaster Depot. During World War II, he was the United States Army's chief procurement officer for cotton goods. After the war, he was hired by Roger Milliken, who ran the textile giant Deering-Milliken, to head the company's wool fabric division.
        In 1956, Mr. Callaway moved to Textron company, and his division was bought out by Burlington Industries, which was then the largest textile company in the world. He developed a blend of polyester and worsted wool fibers named Viracle, and rose to become president of the company at age 48. Mr. Callaway resigned from Burlington in 1973, when he was not named chief executive officer.
        Five years earlier, Mr. Callaway founded Callaway Vineyard and Winery in Temecula, Calif., which earned a reputation for producing fine white wines. In 1976, Callaway's wines were chosen for Queen Elizabeth's bicentennial luncheon at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in Manhattan. The queen had two glasses, causing a major stir in wine circles.
        In 1981, Mr. Callaway sold his winery to Hiram Walker for $14 million, and turned his attention to building Callaway Golf, the business that consumed his final 20 years. Golf was always a passion for Mr. Callaway, who was a distant cousin of Bobby Jones, the legendary golfer who founded the Masters and Augusta National Golf Club.
        When Mr. Callaway's company developed the Big Bertha, he predicted from his own experience that the new driver would revolutionize the golf industry.
        ''I knew that if a 72-year-old man could hit this driver off the ground, that anybody could hit it off the tee,'' Callaway said at the time. ''Prior to Big Bertha, the most feared, shunned, disliked golf club in most everybody's bag was the driver. Now, it's most everybody's favorite. What we did in creating that club was to transform an attitude among the masses. We made the driver easier to hit. We took the fear out of it.''
        Mr. Callaway was a hands-on executive until May, when his illness forced him to retire from daily operations. He remained chairman, holding the titles of founder and chief executive officer emeritus.
        One of Mr. Callaway's slogans was that his new products should be ''demonstrably superior and pleasingly different.'' Though hardly publicity shy, he did not consider it a compliment when people called him a great marketer.
        ''I am not a good enough salesman to sell a mediocre product,'' he said. ''Our philosophy as a company, no matter what we're making, we want to find a way to make it better. If we don't, someone else will. People who say it's all marketing, well, they are just wrong. I am a product creator who understands what it takes to move people to a new product. If I'm good at anything, I'm pretty good at that.''
        He is survived by his wife, Lucinda Villa Callaway of Indian Wells, Calif.; a sister, Lula Callaway Albright of Gastonia, N. C.; three children, Reeves Callaway III of Old Lyme, Conn., Nicholas Callaway of Brooklyn, and Lisa Callaway of Watertown, Mass.; and four grandchildren.
        At first, Mr. Callaway considered calling his signature club the Cannon. But he settled on Big Bertha, the name of the World War I weapon made by Baron von Krupp's ironworks in Germany and named after the baron's daughter. Not everyone cared for the name at first.
        ''There were some objections from some women who thought it was kind of a putdown,'' Mr. Callaway said. ''But after they've used them, all the women golfers we've encountered have had an affectionate feeling for the name, rather than hostility.''
      