
        Marco Zanuso, one of the leading designers of furniture, appliances, buildings and more to emerge from postwar Italy, died on July 11 at his home in Milan. He was 85.
        Mr. Zanuso belonged to a generation of designers dedicated to exploring the new technologies and materials developed during and after World War II. His designs epitomized the elegance, practicality and irreverence that made Italy a world leader in design.
        Trained as an architect, made famous at an early age by a plastic chair he designed for children, Mr. Zanuso did some of his best work as an industrial designer packaging functional ease within a snappy sculptural form. His acrylic portable radio of 1964, the TS-502, was shaped like a cube that split open into a speaker and dial. Designed for the Italian company Brionvega in collaboration with Richard Sapper, the TS-502 is now, along with several other Zanuso product designs, in the permanent collection of the Museum of Modern Art in New York.
        ''Marco was always able to synthesize the task at hand using the most innovative tools and materials in order to come up with a brand new solution nobody had seen before,'' said Paola Antonelli, a design curator at the museum.
        Mr. Zanuso was born in Milan on May 14, 1916. He received his degree in architecture from the Milan Polytechnic in 1939. After serving in the navy in World War II, he opened his own design office in 1945, and married Billa Zanuso. He also became an editor of Domus and Casabella, two prominent design magazines, using their pages as a platform to promote modern Italian design and to report on some of his own experiments with materials like latex foam. Zanuso's ''Lady'' of 1951, a chair made of foam rubber and Nastrocord (a new rubber that could replace metal springs), is considered a pioneering piece of modern upholstered furniture.
        From 1955 to 1957, Mr. Zanuso served as architect for Olivetti, designing factories in São Paulo and Buenos Aires. He then joined forces with Mr. Sapper, a promising young German designer living in Milan, with whom he collaborated until 1977.
        Together, Mr. Zanuso and Mr. Sapper revolutionized chair design with the 4999 model of 1964, manufactured by Kartell, a bright red children's stacking chair with cylindrical legs and a ribbed back to make it lightweight. It was the first chair made entirely of injection-molded plastic.
        Mr. Zanuso's 1972 Lombrico, also known as the infinity sofa, was a modular fiberglass seating unit with a wide-wale polyfoam seat suggestive of an enlarged caterpillar. His industrial designs, and particularly the radios and portable televisions designed for Brionvega, helped to define Italian design as sleek, daring and well-made.
        In 1972, the Museum of Modern Art commissioned Mr. Zanuso, along with other powerhouses of Italian design, including Ettore Sottsass, Mario Bellini and Gae Aulenti, to design an installation for the exhibition ''Italy: The New Domestic Landscape.'' Mr. Zanuso presented an ambulance that turned into a living room.
        From the 1970's on, Mr. Zanuso taught architecture and industrial design at the Milan Polytechnic. He also designed a headquarters building for I.B.M. in Milan and an I.B.M. factory in Rome. His later architectural works include the renovation of two Milan theaters, the 19th-century Teatro Fossati (now Teatro Studio del Piccolo Teatro) in 1983 and the neo-Brutalist Piccolo Teatro in 1995.
        He is survived by his wife and three daughters, Federica, Lorenza and Susanna, all of Milan.
      