
        Norman Singer, a teacher and arts executive who directed several music organizations in New York City, where he also presented major dance troupes, died on Saturday in Great Barrington, Mass. He was 80 and lived in Sandisfield, Mass.
        Mr. Singer was born in Rockaway Beach, Queens, in 1921, and earned degrees at Cornell and Columbia. During World War II, he was a sergeant in the United States Army Signal Corps, where he worked as a code breaker. After his return to New York, he began a career in the arts world in 1948 with a position at the Juilliard School, where he taught psychology and sociology until 1955.
        In 1954 Mr. Singer became the director of the Aspen Music Festival and dean of the Aspen School of Music, both summer programs in Aspen, Colo. He was dean at Aspen until 1962, when he became director of programs at the Hunter College Concert Bureau.
        He was one of the first arts administrators to give experimental dance choreographers a major showcase in New York. At Hunter in 1967, he presented the Ann Halprin Dance Company from San Francisco, which was threatened with legal action because it featured some nudity.
        Dance played a major role in Mr. Singer's choice of programming when he was executive director of the City Center of Music and Drama from 1968 to 1975. City Center took part in pioneering modern-dance seasons supported by the Ford Foundation in the early 1970's, and the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater joined the center as a resident company not long after.
        Mr. Singer was the executive director of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center from 1975 until his retirement in 1981. During his five years at the society, its budget more than tripled, to $1.3 million from $400,000, and its schedule was expanded to 88 concerts from 56.
        After retiring, Mr. Singer devoted himself to rock gardening, a field in which he lectured regularly and for which he won several awards. He was president emeritus of the North American Rock Gardening Society and president emeritus of the Country Dance Society of America.
        He is survived by his companion, Geoffrey Charlesworth.
      