
        Charles Neider, a prolific essayist, novelist, nature writer and Mark Twain scholar, died on Wednesday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 86.
        Mr. Neider edited and annotated a dozen anthologies of Twain's short stories, humorous sketches, essays, travel books, novels and letters, as well as ''The Autobiography of Mark Twain,'' published in 1959. Compiled from material in Albert Bigelow Paine and Bernard De Voto's earlier Twain autobiographies, with nearly 40,000 additional words of Twain's unpublished anecdotes and observations, the autobiography, Orville Prescott wrote in The New York Times, was ''a wonderful book, a marvelous self-portrait of one of the most amusing and interesting Americans who ever set pen to paper.'' In 1999 the Modern Library named it one of the 100 best nonfiction books written in English during the 20th century.
        The year it was published, the autobiography fueled an international exchange when a critic for Literaturnaya Gazeta, the official newspaper of the Union of Soviet Writers, sharply denigrated Mr. Neider's views, particularly his assertion that Twain was mainly a humorist. The critic, who faulted the autobiography for its omission of Twain's political writings, suggested that United States officials had tried to suppress Twain's work to make the American public forget him.
        Mr. Neider sent a request for space to Premier Nikita S. Khrushchev, who allowed the publication of his 1,100-word rebuttal (though the Gazeta's retaliatory response was twice as long). Mr. Neider was amused to receive a $49 check from the Gazeta for his contribution.
        Mr. Neider himself was born in Odessa, Russia. His family moved to the United States when he was 5 and settled in Richmond, Va. He later moved to New York, where he attended City College. In addition to Twain, he edited the works of Robert Louis Stevenson, Washington Irving and Leo Tolstoy, and wrote many  essays about the natural world.
        His fiction includes ''The Authentic Death of Hendry Jones,'' based on the life of Billy the Kid and the basis for the 1961 movie ''One-Eyed Jacks,'' directed by and starring Marlon Brando, and ''The Grotto Berg,'' published this year.
        Between 1969 and 1977, Mr. Neider traveled to Antarctica three times under the auspices of the National Science Foundation and the United States Navy. He described himself as  the first humanist to visit this continent and wrote about his experiences in two nonfiction books, ''Edge of the World: Ross Island, Antarctica'' and ''Beyond Cape Horn: Travels in the Antarctic.'' His novel ''Overflight,'' about a helicopter crash on the  Mount Erebus volcano, was based on his own nearly fatal 1971 accident there.
        Mr. Neider's latest work, ''Adam's Burden,'' about his eight-year struggle with prostate cancer, is to be published next month.
        He is survived by his wife of 49 years, Joan Merrick; a daughter, Susan Neider, of Princeton; a sister, Tess Noble, of Roslyn, N.Y.; a brother, Mark, of Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.; and a granddaughter.
      