
        Jim Hughes, a hard-throwing relief pitcher for the Brooklyn Dodgers of the 1950's who set a franchise record for saves that endured for 35 years, died Monday in Worth, Ill. He was 78.
        Hughes, who lived in Crestwood, Ill., a suburb of Chicago, had a heart attack while driving his car, his son Michael said.
        Pitching for the Dodger teams known as the Boys of Summer, Hughes led the major leagues in saves, with 24, and in games pitched, with 60, in 1954. His saves total eclipsed Hugh Casey's franchise record of 18, recorded in 1947. It was matched in 1970 by Jim Brewer, pitching for the Los Angeles Dodgers, but was not exceeded until Jay Howell recorded 28 saves in 1989.
        A 6-foot-1, 205-pounder who relied on his fastball, Hughes needed little time to warm up.
        ''He was a big, tough guy,'' recalled Tommy Lasorda, the former Los Angeles Dodgers manager and Hughes's onetime roommate when Lasorda pitched briefly for Brooklyn. ''It would take him three, four pitches to get warm. After a few pitches, he was fogging it. Nothing but hard stuff. Didn't have a breaking ball.''
        Hughes had two careers as a fireman -- one, informally, in baseball, and another in carrying on a family tradition in Chicago.
        Relievers' speciality in dowsing rallies -- or dampening the opposing team's fires, so to speak -- have brought them the sobriquet firemen. Hughes's father, grandfather and numerous other family members were Chicago firefighters, and when his baseball career ended, Hughes joined the department. He was a firefighter from 1963 to 1986, retiring as a captain.
        A Chicago native, Hughes pitched for the Dodgers from 1952 to 1956 and made one World Series appearance, pitching four innings of one-run relief in Game 1 of the 1953 Series, a 9-5 loss to the Yankees.
        Hughes was sold to the Chicago Cubs in May 1956, pitched briefly for the Chicago White Sox in 1957, then retired, having made only one start in 172 career appearances. He had a 15-13 record and 39 saves.
        Hughes is survived by his wife, Mary; four sons, Michael, James, Thomas and Terence; a daughter, Dolores Friel; three brothers, Jack, Michael and David; eight sisters, Eileen Molloy, Mary Morgan, Joan Heneghan, Pat Lassandrello, Sue Moran, Barbara Dorsey, Dianne Brennan and Janet Gartland; 18 grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.
        When he began to quell nonbaseball fires, Hughes could not resist playing on the obvious when he visited one day with his former Brooklyn Dodgers manager, Walter Alston, who was sometimes known as Smokey. Hughes donned a Dodgers jersey for a photo with Alston, but that was not all. As his son Michael recalled: ''He had a fire helmet on his head, he carried an ax and he had a hose over his shoulder.''
      