
        Jeanne Loriod, whose artistry playing the ondes martenot, a rare electronic instrument known for its haunting wail, made her the instrument's most celebrated performer, died on Aug. 3 at Juan-les-Pins, France. She was 72.
        The cause was a stroke, British newspapers reported.
        The instrument, also known as ondes musicales, French for musical waves, was first demonstrated in France on April 20, 1928, by its inventor, Maurice Martenot. Miss Loriod was born in Houilles, near Paris, three months later, on July 13.
        She followed her sister Yvonne, to the piano class of Lazare Levy at the Paris Conservatory, where she soon became fascinated by the new instrument. She studied it with Martenot, who had just begun teaching it at the conservatory. Her high grades enabled her to join a quartet begun by Martenot's sister, Ginette.
        She was in the middle of a futuristic electric music movement that never went remotely as far as its pioneers dreamed. Beginning with the 200-ton telharmonium, and on through at least a dozen instruments with strange-sounding names and even stranger sounds, proponents of the new wired music delighted in making previously unimaginable noises.
        For example, the theremin, an electronic instrument conjured up by a Russian scientist, Leon Theremin, as he tinkered with radio parts in 1920, can make a sound that has been likened to a violin being played while submerged in deep water. Other electronic instruments include the trautonium, the sfaerofon, the gnome and the orgatron.
        Not surprisingly, the new instruments found their most welcome home in movie soundtracks, including those for ''King Kong,'' ''The Lost Weekend'' and ''Spellbound.'' Rock groups also liked the eerie sounds. The Beach Boys used a theremin in ''Good Vibrations.''
        But those who loved the ondes martenot had higher aspirations. It uses oscillating radio tubes to produce electronic pulses at two supersonic sound-wave frequencies. These in turn produce a lower frequency within the audible range that is amplified and converted into sound by a loudspeaker. Many tones can be created by filtering out some of the tones of the audible notes.
        The instrument is played with a keyboard and by manipulating a ribbon with a ring for the player's right index finger. Ondes were manufactured individually, to order only.
        But like the theremin, the ondes martenot achieved its widest exposure not in avant-garde music, but on the screen. Maurice Jarre, a friend of Ms. Loriod, played the instrument for ''Lawrence of Arabia'' and ''Mad Max.''
        One early composer who took an immediate liking to the ondes martenot was Olivier Messiaen, who married Jeanne's sister Yvonne Loriod; she became a renowned pianist. Particularly in his 10-movement symphony, ''Turangalila,'' Messiaen uses the ondes martenot to create shimmering, swooping musical effects. Virtually everywhere ''Turangalila'' was performed, Jeanne Loriod was to be found, her sister often playing the virtuoso piano part. Miss Loriod recorded her part in the symphony at least six times and performed it live on at least four continents with conductors like Pierre Boulez, Seiji Ozawa, André Previn and Zubin Mehta.
        In addition to Yvonne, Miss Loriod is survived by another sister, Jacqueline.
        Miss Loriod also took ample advantage of two further masterworks that Messiaen wrote for the instrument. ''Trois Petites Liturgies de la Présence Divine'' (1943-44) mixes its qualities with women's voices, piano, strings and percussion. ''Saint François d'Assise'' (1975-83) features the ondes in three of the eight tableaus in a work lasting nearly four hours.
        Other composers who wrote for the instrument included Arthur Honegger, Darius Milhaud, Edgard Varèse, Charles Koechlin, Florent Schmitt and Jacques Ibert.
        Jeanne Loriod performed in more than 500 works, 14 of them concertos. She added to the repertoire herself, by creating 85 works for a sextet of ondes she formed in 1974, initially to revive Messiaen's first ondes piece, ''La Fête des Belles Eaux'' of 1937.
        She taught at several French conservatories and wrote a three-volume book that became the standard text for the instrument: ''Technique de l'Onde Electronique Type Martenot'' (Leduc, 1987).
        Hugh Davies, a performer and musicologist specializing in electronic instruments, estimated that more than 1,000 works had been composed for the ondes.
        Thus Miss Loriod bristled when an interviewer suggested to her in 1988 that the instrument's repertory might be less than extensive.
        ''Since 1928 we have 15 concertos and over 300 works of chamber music,'' she answered, also citing the 85 she wrote for her sextet.
        But the success of the exotic electronic instrument seems to have been diminished by small number of players.
        ''The fact is that any instrument with no institutional grounding of second- and third-raters, no spectral army of amateurs, will wither and vanish: how can it not?'' Mark Singer wrote in ''The Wire'' in 1997.
        He continued, ''Specialist virtuosos may arrive to tackle the one-off novelty -- the theramin's Clara Rockwell, the ondes martenot's Jeanne Loriod, the trautonium's Oskar Sala -- but there's no meaningful level of entry at the ground floor, and, what's worse, no fallback possibility of rank careerism if things don't turn out.''
        Not just anybody, after all, had Ms. Loriod's versatility. Shortly before her death, she had hoped to perform with the British pop group Radiohead. ''Sadly,'' The Times of London said, ''a new era in the history of the 20th century's weirdest classical instrument was not to commence.''
        Correction:  August 22, 2001, Wednesday  An obituary on Sunday about Jeanne Loriod, a player of the rare electronic instrument known as the ondes martinot, used an erroneous surname for another such musician, a theremin virtuoso, obtained from a discussion of obstacles to their careers in a British online publication, The Wire. She was Clara Rockmore, not Rockwell.
      