
        Michael L. Dertouzos, a computer scientist with a knack for explaining the ways that high technology affects people's lives, died on Monday night in Boston. He was 64.
        The cause of death is unknown, pending an autopsy.
        Mr. Dertouzos, a faculty member of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology since 1964, became the director of the institute's Laboratory for Computer Sciences in 1974. Under his leadership, the laboratory developed many of the technologies that underlie today's computers, including one of the best-known methods for scrambling data, the RSA encryption system, and innovations  that helped bring the World Wide Web into popular use.
        Charles M. Vest, the president of M.I.T., described Mr. Dertouzos as ''larger than life,'' saying: ''He was at once a leader, builder, visionary and caring human being. Few individuals have so personally and profoundly shaped their institutions and professional fields.''
        Mr. Dertouzos was instrumental in creating a home within his labs for the World Wide Web Consortium, a forum of companies and organizations that promotes the development of the Web. He recruited Tim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the Web, to the labs.
        Though he worked in some of the highest realms of computer science, Mr. Dertouzos always insisted that technology be designed to serve people and not the other way around. In 1999, for example, the labs announced the ''Oxygen Project,'' a $50 million effort undertaken with the M.I.T. Artificial Intelligence Laboratory to make computers easier to use, the institute said, and ''as natural a part of our environment as the air we breathe.''
        Mr. Berners-Lee, in a tribute posted on the Web (www.w3.org/People/ Berners-Lee/2001/MLD.html), wrote, ''Michael had been promoting the vision of the information marketplace long before the Web came along.''
        In the tribute, Mr. Berners-Lee recalled Mr. Dertouzos's ability to cut through confusion to get things done. It was early in the life of his fledgling organization, and he recalled that the small group was ''frankly quite adrift.'' At that moment, he recalled, Mr. Dertouzos ''took us in hand'' and held ''one dramatic eight-hour meeting in which the mission, goals and structure of the team was in place, and everything looked at once logical and possible.''
        In an interview yesterday, Mr. Berners-Lee recalled his friend as being ''very effective -- but unbelievably human and warm at the end of the day, and much more interested in the human than in the project.''
        Michael Leonidas Dertouzos (pronounced der-TOO-zohs) was born in Athens on Nov. 5, 1936. His father was an admiral in the Greek navy, and his mother was a concert pianist. Although he recalled dreaming of going to M.I.T. as a young man, he won a Fulbright Scholarship to attend the University of Arkansas, where he earned bachelor's and master's degrees. He worked briefly at Baldwin Piano and then entered the M.I.T. doctorate program, earning the degree in 1964; he never left.
        During the Carter administration, Mr. Dertouzos was chairman of a White House advisory group that helped to redesign computer networks there, and represented the United States in a delegation to the 1995 G-7 Conference on the Information Society. He was co-chairman of the World Economic Forum on the Network Society in Davos, Switzerland, in 1998. In his free time, he was an avid sailor and woodworker.
        Mr. Dertouzos, a resident of Weston, Mass., married Hadwig Gofferje in 1961. They divorced in 1993. In 1998 he married Catherine Liddell, who survives him. He is also survived by two children, Alexandra Dertouzos Rowe and Leonidas M. Dertouzos of Boston, and a granddaughter.
        A scientist in his own right, Mr. Dertouzos held patents on such inventions as a thermal printer, a graphical display system and a graphic tablet. He also tried to communicate his vision of science and technology to a broader audience in eight books, including his last, ''The Unfinished Revolution: Human-Centered Computers and What They Can Do For Us'' (Harper-Collins), which was published this year.
        He foresaw technological change in his books and speeches. In 1976, he predicted that there would be a personal computer in one of every three homes by the mid-1990's, and described the vast online information marketplace that the Internet would become in antediluvian 1980.
        ''He is one of the truly articulate spokesmen for the field,'' said David D. Clark, a senior research scientist at the laboratory. ''It's a big loss for us, because there are very few people who had their arms so much around what our field is, and what it should aspire to be.''
        In ''The Unfinished Revolution,'' Mr. Dertouzos sought an elusive harmony between technology and humanity. He wrote that intractable problems like the ethics of genetic engineering, school violence -- everything from choosing a school to running a nation -- would require the kind of thinking that transcended  ''pure technology'' and ''pure faith.'' He wrote, ''We need to bring these back together if we want to find our way through the maze of an increasingly complex world.''
        Bridging that gap is difficult, he wrote, but essential.
        ''We will be better off and we will be finishing the ultimate Unfinished Revolution,'' he wrote, ''if we reach for these goals using all our human dimensions in concert, standing once again in awe before the sunset, the wheel, and what may lie behind them.''
      