
        The funeral for Jack Maple, the former deputy police commissioner, was to have been held at a smaller church in Times Square, the neighborhood where he first worked as a transit officer.
        But there was something about the self-made guy from Queens -- the guy who told his people to approach every case ''as if the victim were your mother'' and changed the way crime was fought in New York, who called himself a ''crookologist'' and favored the snazzy black-and-white-movie style of bow ties and spats and two-tone shoes, who scribbled his plans for reducing crime on paper napkins at Elaine's while tossing back Champagne on ice -- that brought him a lot of friends.
        And so yesterday, the funeral service for Mr. Maple, who died Saturday at 48 of colon cancer, was held at a larger space: St. Patrick's Cathedral. There was a full inspector's police funeral, with color guard and a motorcycle escort to the church, police brass present and past, eulogies by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Police Commissioner Bernard B. Kerik. Both credited Mr. Maple, who had been brought in by a former police commissioner, William J. Bratton, and who in recent years worked as a crime consultant around the country, with changing the way crime was fought in New York -- and, increasingly, in the rest of the country.
        ''He had a genius for crime fighting,'' the mayor said.
        Mr. Maple, after all, was the man who developed Compstat, the crime-fighting program using computerized statistics. That system of identifying crime patterns played a big part in the lasting and profound reductions in crime in the city, successes that have knocked the city's murder rate down by two-thirds.
        The mayor spoke of Mr. Maple as a man who had risen from transit police officer ''to nothing less than a nationally, internationally, recognized icon -- the cop who cleaned up New York.''
        ''He was a revolutionary who wore bow ties, double-breasted suit, what do you call those shoes he wore?'' the mayor said.
        There had been bad blood between Mayor Giuliani and Mr. Bratton. The mayor had forced Mr. Bratton out of office in 1996, and when he left, Deputy Commissioner John F. Timoney, who is now police commissioner of Philadelphia, and Mr. Maple left out of loyalty.
        Yesterday, however, with Mr. Bratton and Mr. Timoney and their wives seated side by side in one of the front pews, the mayor made a point of praising his former police commissioner.
        There had been a wake for Mr. Maple the night before. But in a sense, it continued before the service, in the entryway of the cathedral, as police officers from New York and around the country shared stories of Mr. Maple.
        But yes, yes, indeed, Mr. Timoney said, Mr. Maple, as a transit cop in the 1980's, really did borrow $20,000 from the Money Store and spend it on a stay at the Plaza. Most fellows would say that when they made it, they would stay at the Plaza. Mr. Maple's philosophy was: why wait? Yes, indeed, Mr. Timoney said, Mr. Maple had been laid out, at the funeral home, in a beautiful double-breasted pinstriped suit and spats, his homburg and cigar beside him.
        Mayor Giuliani, in his eulogy, confirmed this, speaking of paying his respects at the funeral home the evening before.
        ''I went up to the casket and kneeled down to say a prayer and started to laugh,'' the mayor said. ''I was embarrassed. I was hoping nobody would see me, but I couldn't help it. He was wearing this beautiful gray suit, this bowler hat. That's him, he's really an exceptional character.''
        Then the mayor asked everyone to rise and honor Mr. Maple with a standing ovation, and everyone did.
      