
        Dr. Jon Eisenson, who played a major role in calling attention to the speech problems of children and adults alike, died last Friday at his home in Stanford, Calif. He was 93.
        Dr. Eisenson, at his death an emeritus professor of speech at Stanford University, helped establish the diagnostic category of childhood aphasia, a disorder that involves difficulty in  speaking or understanding language, usually as a result of brain injury or disease. In 1962, he established the Institute for Childhood Aphasia at Stanford.
        But much earlier, during World War II, he developed a test to assess aphasia in soldiers who had severe brain damage. He helped teach such soldiers how to speak again, said his son, Arthur M. Eisenson, with whom he wrote the last of his many books.
        Dr. Eisenson began his career researching the effects of problems in the home on children's speech disorders like stuttering. In a 1948 article in The New York Times, he was quoted as saying, ''If we can uproot the anxiety, we can usually prevent the speech deficiency from continuing.''
        But he urged parents not to be too concerned about early speech problems. ''We are told that Moses was a stutterer,'' he said in the article. ''So was Demosthenes.''
        Dr. Eisenson was a prolific and wide-ranging writer, producing poetry, children's books and books on aging, in addition to work in his own field.
        His professional books included ''Adult Aphasia'' (Prentice-Hall, 1984), ''Aphasia and Related Disorders in Children'' (Harper & Row, 1984) and ''Understanding Stroke and Aphasia'' (ProEd, 1990). His last book, which he wrote with his son, was ''Voice and Diction: A Program for Improvement'' (Allyn & Bacon, 1996), intended to help college students improve their diction.
        Dr. Eisenson was born in New York City, graduated from the City College of New York in 1928 and earned master's and doctoral degrees from Columbia University.
        In addition to his son, who lives in  Los Angeles, he is survived by a daughter, Elinor Lurie of San Francisco; his first wife, Freda F. Eisenson of San Francisco, the mother of his two children; and his second wife, Eileen Eisenson of Stanford.
      