
        Stuart C. Davidson, who glimpsed potential gold in a 1962 law legalizing the sale of hard liquor at bars in Washington and then mined it by opening Clyde's, a Georgetown institution, died on Aug. 1. He was 78.
        He died in an Oslo hospital after becoming ill from acute myelogenous leukemia while traveling north of the Arctic Circle to see polar bears, Sally Foulis Davidson, his wife, said.
        In May 1962, Mr. Davidson, then an investment banker, watched with mounting interest after President John F. Kennedy signed a bill that made it legal for the first time since 1917 to sell hard liquor to patrons standing at bars in the District of Columbia. (Before the law, hard liquor could be consumed only at tables.)
        Nobody else leaped in. ''I said to myself, 'A bar in Washington could do really well,' '' Mr. Davidson said in an interview with The Washington Business Journal.
        The result was Clyde's, which opened in 1963 and emphasized an attractive décor and food as much as martinis. Though the inspiration was P. J. Clarke's on Third Avenue in Manhattan, a haunt of Mr. Davidson's, Clyde's had little of its Irish working class grit. But the mix of students, senators and secretaries who streamed through the doors of Clyde's made it a new kind of Georgetown gathering place.
        Clyde's also became the first bar and restaurant business in Georgetown to be open on Sunday, the first to serve brunch and the first in Georgetown to hire women as waiters, a 1995 article in Washingtonian magazine said.
        Mr. Davidson's concept was simple: ''It's more fun to eat in a saloon than drink in a restaurant,'' he said.
        Success fed upon success. With the help of his partner, John G. Laytham, Mr. Davidson formed Clyde's Restaurant Group, which included five more Clyde's in the Washington area, as well as the Old Ebbitt Grill, 1789 Restaurant, The Tombs and The Tomato Place.
        Stuart Carleton Davidson was born in Dayton, Ohio, on Sept. 9, 1922. His grandfather Frank Patterson was a founder of the National Cash Register Company, and Mr. Davidson grew up in comfort.
        His father, Gen. Howard C. Davidson, and his mother, Mary Perrine Patterson, took the family from one Army base to the next. They were in Washington long enough for Stuart to graduate from St. Alban's Preparatory School. He then attended Harvard, with a two-year break to serve as a pilot in the Army Air Forces in World War II.
        After graduating from Harvard, he graduated from Harvard Business School and worked as an investment banker for Kidder-Peabody and Wertheim & Company.
        Though he jumped at the chance to open a saloon, his wife said, he did not plan to make it his life's mission. ''I'll sell it and get a real job again,'' he said.
        Clyde's made money from its first day, but his Harvard classmates would rib Mr. Davidson about not having a serious job and ask when he was returning to investment banking.
        ''So far, I'm into you for $38.42,'' he would answer.
        Clyde's spawned a few legends, or at least curious stories. During the filming of ''All the President's Men,'' Dustin Hoffman cavorted there with a can of whipped cream. Kitchen workers, noticing nobody ate the pickles with their hamburgers, began cutting notches in them each time they returned and then sent them out again; some reached eight or ten notches.
        Mr. Davidson said a Saudi prince who bounced a check once worked as a waiter for a week, and Mr. Davidson joked about the time a policeman stopped him as he carried a musket into the restaurant for decoration.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by three sisters, Mary Howard Davidson Swift of Washington, Julia Shaw Davidson Cheshire of Panama City, Fla., and Frances Patterson Davidson Bortz of Reading, Pa.; two daughters, Ellen Lindsay Davidson Shea of Brooklyn and Olga Merck Davidson Boszormenyi-Nagy of Boston and Washington; two sons, Stuart Patterson Davidson of San Francisco and Alexander Johnston Davidson of Boston; and seven grandchildren.
      