
        Jack N. James, a rocket engineer who oversaw the United States' first interplanetary missions, to Venus and Mars, died on Aug. 7 in Pasadena, Calif. He was 80 and lived in the nearby community of La Cañada.
        The cause was respiratory failure, his family said.
        Mr. James spent 36 years at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, a NASA installation operated by the California Institute of Technology. There he helped build and fly the unmanned Mariner spacecraft that explored the nearby solar system with scientific instruments in the early 1960's.
        With Mr. James as project manager, the program enjoyed spectacular successes with Mariner 2 and 4. The first Mariner, destined for Venus, was destroyed when it veered off course, and Mariner 3 failed nine hours into a flight to Mars.
        But Mariner 2 came within 21,000 miles of Venus on Dec. 14, 1962, in what was then an unprecedented feat of navigation and engineering. Remote-controlled from Pasadena, the 447-pound craft carried six scientific instruments that provided the first measurements of Earth's nearest planetary neighbor.
        Mariner 4 streaked by Mars on July 14, 1965, on a photo mission and sent back the first close-ups of the surface, from an altitude of 6,000 miles. For the mission to succeed, Mr. James explained at the time, the craft's 138,000 parts had to work flawlessly for nine months, relay data and pictures across 150 million miles, and seek out the star Canopus, one of millions in the Milky Way, for orientation throughout the flight.
        For this and many other projects he worked on, Mr. James received  commendations from Presidents Lyndon B. Johnson, Richard M. Nixon and Ronald Reagan.
        Jack Norval James was born in Dallas and graduated in electrical engineering from Southern Methodist University there in 1942. He served as a naval radar maintenance officer in World War II.
        He received a master's in electrical engineering at Union College in Schenectady, N.Y., in 1949. A year later he joined the Pasadena laboratory as a research engineer.
        Before supervising the Mariner program, he helped develop some early radar guidance systems for rockets; was project manager for the Corporal and Sergeant missiles; served on the engineering team for Pioneer 4, the first Moon shot, in 1959; and was deputy program manager for planetary projects.
        After the first Mars fly-by, he managed the technical teams that lofted later Mariner missions, including the first to fly by Mercury in 1973, as well as the Viking spacecraft that orbited and landed on the Moon in 1976. He retired from the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in as assistant director in charge of its technical divisions.
        Mr. James is survived by his wife of 57 years, Ruth Shockley James; three sons, Jeffrey D., of San Clemente, Calif.; Jeremy R., of San Luis Obispo, Calif.; and Jack F., of Mountainview, Calif.; a daughter, Susan E. James of London; and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  August 24, 2001, Friday  An obituary on Aug. 16 about Jack N. James, a rocket engineer and technical team leader for several space missions, misstated the destination of the Viking spacecraft. It went to Mars, not to the Moon.
      