
        Philip H. Trezise, a trade negotiator who was assistant secretary of state during the Nixon administration, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Bethesda, Md. He was 89.
        In 1965, as the deputy assistant secretary of state for economic affairs, Mr. Trezise was the chief negotiator of an auto parts agreement that allowed duty-free trade of vehicles and parts between the United States and Canada. President Lyndon B. Johnson gave him the President's Award for Distinguished Federal Service for his work on the trade pact.
        And after four years as ambassador to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris, Mr. Trezise was appointed assistant secretary of state for economic affairs by President Richard M. Nixon in 1969.
        During his tenure, Mr. Trezise managed long-running conflicts over textile imports from Japan and the emergence of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. In 1971, he proposed an economic summit of the five major trading nations. The idea was rejected by Henry A. Kissinger, then Mr. Nixon's national security adviser, but the proposal served as a prospectus for the first annual Group of 5 summit meeting -- with the United States, Japan, West Germany, Britain and France -- in 1975.
        Born in Calumet, Mich., in 1912, Mr. Trezise graduated from the University of Michigan in 1936 and earned a master's degree in economics from the university in 1939. He began working toward a doctorate, but abandoned his dissertation at the outset of American entry into World War II.
        He arrived in Washington in 1942 to take a position at the Office of Defense Transportation. During the war, he was a naval officer, planning bombing raids in a research and analysis unit in China.
        In 1946, Mr. Trezise returned to Washington for an assignment with the China branch of the office of intelligence research at the State Department. He was deputy director of intelligence research at the department from 1953 to 1955.
        Mr. Trezise was dispatched to the American Embassy in Tokyo in 1957 as an adviser for economic affairs. For four years there, he negotiated trade disputes between the United States and Japan.
        He retired from the government in 1971 and joined the Brookings Institution as a senior fellow for international trade.
        Mr. Trezise long contended that Japan's postwar economic ''miracle'' was a result of domestic savings and innovation by companies like Sony, Matsushita, Hitachi and Honda, rather than of skilled maneuvering by bureaucrats at the Ministry of International Trade and Industry. He received the Emperor's Order of the Rising Sun from Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone in 1985 for his analysis of the Japanese economy.
        His wife, Ruth Dorsey, whom he married in 1938, died in 1985. Mr. Trezise is survived by two sons, John, of Bethesda, and David, of Geneva, and five grandchildren.
      