
        Louis Rayfield Purnell Sr., who went from decorated Tuskegee airman to curator of air and space relics at the Smithsonian, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 81.
        The cause was cancer, the family said.
        Mr. Purnell was born on April 5, 1920, in Snow Hill, Md., and grew up in Wilmington, Del., and Cape May, N.J. His mother was a teacher, and his father was a Pullman painter.
        He studied at Lincoln University in Pennsylvania and attended flight school there. In 1941, he went to the Tuskegee Institute and finished an advanced training course as a civil pilot. At the time, the War Department seemed interested in accepting black students for military flight training, but the Army Air Forces would have none of it.
        Another would-be cadet, backed by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, broke that barrier. The organization mailed Mr. Purnell an application form for air corps training.
        ''We were aching to fly,'' he said years later.
        He completed advanced training and received the wings of a military flier in 1942. The War Department established a Negro Pursuit Squadron at the Tuskegee Army Air Field in Tuskegee, Ala., with 400 enlisted men, 33 pilots and 27 airplanes, the nucleus of the air units in which Mr. Purnell served in North Africa, Sicily and Italy.
        He reached the rank of captain. Even as a black flying officer, though, he endured the humiliation of being shown the door at hotels and officers' clubs. ''We always had to be twice as good,'' he said later.
        He served two overseas tours of duty with the all-black 99th Fighter Squadron and 332nd Fighter Group, flew 88 bomber escort missions and returned home with the Distinguished Flying Cross and the Air Medal with six Oak Leaf Clusters.
        After the war, he first worked as a speech therapist and then in the quartermaster general's office. In 1961 he joined the Smithsonian Institution's Museum of National History in the division of paleobiology, the study of prehistoric specimens. After taking graduate courses in oceanography, he went on ocean surveys. In 1961, he moved to the Air and Space Museum as a technician and later curator. He had a role in acquiring and maintaining the Smithsonian's collection of capsules and other relics of American forays into space.
        ''I became a specialist in spacesuits, too, and food,'' he recalled, ''everything that went on a mission.''
        He retired in 1985 but continued to work as a consultant to the museum and as a traveling lecturer about aviation and space exploration.
        Mr. Purnell is survived by his wife of more than 30 years, JoAnn; a daughter and a son from a previous marriage, Yvonne Brown of Columbia, Md., and Louis Jr., of Washington; a stepdaughter, Stacy King of Stafford, Va.,; a sister, Ethel P. Byers of South Bend, Ind.; two grandchildren; and five stepgrandchildren.
        Mr. Purnell found friends and bigots alike among the flight crews his 99th unit escorted, never losing a bomber to the enemy. He said he mostly ignored insults but could not pass one sergeant's hateful words.
        ''We actually flew cover for this guy,'' Mr. Purnell recalled. ''I just told him we'd see him up there.''
        When Mr. Purnell retired from the museum, he left behind his wings, scarf and other wartime mementos as part of its collection.
      