
        William G. Clark, a former chief justice of the Illinois Supreme Court and an outspoken critic of the Vietnam War in 1968, both at the Democratic National Convention and as a candidate for the Senate, died on Friday in Skokie, Ill. He was 77 and lived in Chicago.
        The cause was complications of diabetes, The Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Clark retired in 1992 after 16 years on his state's highest court, where he was chief justice from 1985 to 1988.
        He was the attorney general of Illinois in 1968, and his views on Vietnam gained widespread attention. As a delegate to that year's Democratic convention in Chicago, he was co-author of a disputed party ''peace plank,'' urging a halt to the bombing of North Vietnam by the United States.
        In his unsuccessful campaign in 1968 as the Democratic candidate for the seat held by Senator Everett M. Dirksen, the Republican leader, Mr. Clark strongly criticized the Johnson administration's Vietnam policies.
        In June 1968, Mr. Clark asked young people, whose support he had been seeking, ''please not to make the mistake of believing that the Democratic Party is the party of war.'' And in August of that year he called for an immediate and unconditional halt in the bombing of North Vietnam.
        Mr. Clark's criticisms cost him the support of Mayor Richard J. Daley of Chicago, who had headed a slate-making committee that had selected Mr. Clark for the Senate race. But the criticisms also gained Mr. Clark a substantial personal following. Senator Dirksen defeated him by almost 300,000 votes out of about 4.5 million cast.
        On the Illinois Supreme Court, he was the author of opinions on the death penalty and other aspects of law enforcement. As state attorney general from 1960 to 1969, he took measures against consumer fraud and air and water pollution.
        Earlier he practiced law in Chicago and served in the Illinois Senate and House of Representatives.
        William George Clark was born in Chicago and grew up there. He attended Loyola University in Chicago and received his law degree from DePaul University.
        He is survived by his wife, Rosalie Locatis Clark; a daughter, Merrilee Redmond; four sons, William G. Jr., John S., Don D., and Robert K.; 11 grandchildren; and two brothers, John S., and Don D., of the Chicago area.
      