
        Representative Floyd D. Spence, a South Carolina Republican who was chairman of the House Armed Services Committee until earlier this year and used the post to call for a larger military budget and a national missile-defense program, died today at a hospital in Jackson, Miss., after emergency brain surgery. He was 73.
        The hospital said Mr. Spence did not recover after surgery on Aug. 9 to remove a blood clot from his brain.
        His chief of staff, Craig Metz, said then that Mr. Spence had been at St. Dominic-Jackson Memorial Hospital for three weeks for treatment for Ramsay Hunt syndrome, a serious nerve ailment, and that the blood clot had been discovered during the treatment.
        Under the rules of the House Republican leadership, Mr. Spence stepped down this year as chairman of the Armed Services Committee, which was known for most of his tenure as the National Security Committee. He had been in the post six years. He became chairman instead of the Armed Services subcommittee on military procurement.
        Mr. Spence ran the committee for most of the Clinton administration, and he was often at odds with the White House over its military policies and budget.
        He argued that cuts in the Pentagon's budget and manpower under President Bill Clinton had jeopardized national security.
        ''Our national strategy is to be able to fight and win two major regional contingencies'' simultaneously, he said in 1998. ''But we've cut back so much since Desert Storm that I don't think we could even do one.''
        He said that military cuts made no sense at a time when the United States was repeatedly being asked to commit troops to regional conflicts, like those in the Balkans or Africa. ''To anyone who believes the post-cold war world will be kinder or gentler, the hatred against humanity on display in Rwanda ought to give us pause,'' he said of the genocide in that central African nation in the mid-1990's.
        Mr. Spence was an early champion of a national missile-defense system and criticized the Clinton administration for moving, in his view, too slowly on research and deployment of a shield to defend from attack by ballistic missiles. ''We don't have a defense against weapons of mass destruction, and the president has blocked all our efforts to increase national security,'' he said.
        Mr. Spence represented a solidly Republican district of South Carolina and had a solidly conservative voting record to match.
        During the Clinton years, he tangled with both the president and the first lady, Hillary Rodham Clinton, after she led a panel that recommended the creation of a far-reaching national health care program, a proposal that was eventually abandoned. He said that a government that had been ''a failure in just about everything else'' could not be expected to succeed in providing health care.
        Floyd Davidson Spence was born in Columbia, S.C. He attended the University of South Carolina on an athletic scholarship and graduated in 1952. He had been president of the student body and captain of the varsity track team. He served in the Navy Reserve and was on active duty during the Korean War.
        In 1956, he received a law degree from the University of South Carolina and set up a law firm in West Columbia, S.C.
        His political career began the same year with his election as a Democratic member of the South Carolina House of Representatives. In 1962, he switched to the Republican Party on the crest of a political wave that ended Democratic Party control in South Carolina and much of the South. Four years later, he was elected to the State Senate. He was elected to the House of Representatives in 1970.
        Mr. Spence had suffered a series of serious health problems in recent years, including chronic obstructive lung disease, for which he underwent a double lung transplant in 1998. He had a kidney transplant last year.
        His first wife, Lula Hancock Drake Spence, died in 1978. He is survived by his second wife, Deborah Ellen Williams Spence of Lake Murray, S.C.; four sons from his first marriage: Floyd Davidson Spence Jr., Zachariah William, Benjamin Dudley and Caldwell Drake, all of Lake Murray; and nine grandchildren.
      