
        Sidney Tillim, an artist best known for his revival of history painting in the 1970's and a critic much admired for his lucid prose and independent outlook, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications following surgery, said his wife, Diane Radycki.
        Consistently a contrarian but never an outsider, Mr. Tillim made his mark in the late 1960's as a writer and contributing editor for Artforum, the influential journal then devoted to the most advanced forms of abstraction in contemporary art. Although Mr. Tillim wrote on a wide range of topics, he was most identified with representational and figurative painting, which he supported at a time when esteem for that sort of work was at its lowest ebb. Perhaps surprisingly, he considered the writings of the formalist critic Clement Greenberg to have been the most important influence on his own criticism.
        Mr. Tillim was less influential as a painter but was respected for his maverick ambitions. He started showing still-life paintings in the early 1960's and toward the end of the decade began working on large, ungainly and frankly illustrative pictures of historical episodes with titles like ''John Adams Accepts the Retainer to Defend the British Soldiers Accused in the Boston Massacre.''
        In retrospect it could be seen that he was on the forefront of a trend back to realism and narrative that would grow throughout the 70's and blossom in the 80's. By then, however, he had turned to abstraction, which he pursued until the last three years of his life, when he went back to narrative painting. In his last exhibition, at Trans Hudson Gallery in the West Village, he showed curious small paintings depicting scenes like ''The Death of Irene Silverman'' and ''David Cone's No-Hitter.''
        Mr. Tillim had 17 solo exhibitions and took part in many more group shows, including ''22 Realists'' at the Whitney Museum of American Art in 1970 and ''Contemporary American Realism Since 1960'' at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts in 1981.
        Born in Brooklyn, Mr. Tillim grew up in Norfolk, Va., where at 13 he won the Tidewater Marble Championship. After serving in the Army in Europe in World War II, he attended Syracuse University, earning a bachelor's degree in art in 1950. In New York in 1953 he began writing reviews for Arts Digest and later reviewed art full time for Arts magazine before moving to Artforum in 1965.
        Mr. Tillim began teaching art in 1961, first at Parsons School of Design and the School of Visual Arts and then at Pratt Institute. From 1966 to 1993 he taught at Bennington College. He received grants for painting from the National Endowment for the Arts (1974) and the Ingram-Merrill Foundation (1976), and in 1995 he was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship.
        He is survived by his wife, an art historian.
      