
        Juan Muñoz, a Spanish sculptor  known for expansive and enigmatic architectural installations sparsely populated by anonymous figures, died on Tuesday on the island of  Ibiza, Spain. He was 48 and lived in Madrid.
        He died from a heart attack, said Lynne Cooke, a curator at the Dia Center in Manhattan, where Mr. Muñoz's first museum exhibition in the United States was held in 1996.
        Mr. Muñoz's death was shocking to many in the art world not only because it happened at such an early age but also because it came at the high point of a career that had been quietly but steadily evolving since the artist's first solo exhibition in Madrid in 1984. In June this year, he opened a major installation in the Turbine Room of the Tate Modern in London. He was only the second artist (Louise Bourgeois was the first) commissioned to work in that enormous, newly renovated space. In October, a career retrospective will open at the Hirshhorn Museum in Washington.
        Mr. Muñoz came of age at a time when, by contrast with the Minimalist abstraction of previous decades, theatrical installation, narrative and metaphorically suggestive imagery were on the rise in contemporary sculpture.
        His surrealistic environments dealt with experiences of alienation, uncertainty, paranoia and despair in urban life but also generated darkly comical moods and intimations of things supernatural.
        In early works, Mr. Muñoz manipulated spatial experience by adding small balconies and staircases to otherwise empty galleries. Later he began to incorporate curious figures: ventriloquist dummies, dwarfs and ballerinas. For his solo exhibition titled ''A Place Called Abroad'' at the Dia Center, he turned a whole floor of the museum into a labyrinthine, walk-in dream city with gray building facades, sign fragments, a stairway leading to a dead end and here and there groups of slightly-smaller-than-life, bald, puppetlike figures in baggy suits who seemed at once like cabalistic conspirators and victims of a vaguely political oppression.
        In the Tate Modern's 500-foot-long, 115-foot-high Turbine Hall, Mr. Muñoz created his most ambitious work, a confounding, two-tiered architectural environment. It has continuously rising and falling elevators and a patterned upper floor with square openings admitting shafts of light into dim spaces below where his signature undersize people lurk like ghosts in purgatory. Called ''Double Bind,'' it will remain on view through March 10.
        Born in Madrid, Mr. Muñoz studied  at the Central School of Art and Design and then Croydon College of Design and Technology, both in London, during the late 1970's. In 1982 he attended the Pratt School of Art and Design in New York.
        He had over 50 solo exhibitions in Europe and the United States, including shows at the Renaissance Society at the University of Chicago, the Irish Museum of Modern art in Dublin and the Reina Sofía Art Center in Madrid. He was included as well in major international group exhibitions like the Venice Biennale, the Carnegie International in Pittsburgh and Documenta 9 in Kassel, Germany.
        In New York Mr. Muñoz exhibited his work regularly from 1991 on at Marian Goodman Gallery. Last year he won the Premio Nacional de Artes Plásticas, Spain's most prestigious art award. Mr. Muñoz lived in Madrid.
        He is survived by his wife, Christina Iglesias, a sculptor; a son, Diego; and a daughter, Lucia.
      