
        John Ralph Apel, a physicist and oceanographer who three decades ago began surveying the seas from orbiting perches in the sky, died Aug. 16 in Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 71 and a resident of Rockville, Md.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said.
        Working for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and Johns Hopkins University, Dr. Apel contributed concepts and designs for satellites to gather environmental data. His work refined the use of radio waves and radar to observe the topography of the high seas and construct models of their dynamics.
        He directed the Ocean Remote Sensing Laboratory in Miami in the early 1970's and had an important  role in the NASA Seasat orbiter program. He was an expert in the use of imaging radar to produce an image of the ocean surface and detect processes that affect weather patterns on a continental scale.
        Years later the powerful instrumentation he devised became the centerpiece of NASA's Magellan radar-imaging mission that mapped Venus. It has also been adapted to fly in European and Canadian satellites.
        John Apel's dedication to the sea dated to his boyhood, growing up in the saltwater breezes of the South Jersey Shore. He was born near Atlantic City in Absecon, N.J., where his father designed and built boats.
        He spent two years at the Westlawn (N.J.) School of Yacht Design before he entered the University of Maryland, graduating in physics and mathematics in 1957 and earning a master's degree in theoretical physics in 1961. He received a Ph.D. in plasma physics at Johns Hopkins in 1970.
        He worked in the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratory from 1957 to 1970, then spent six years at the Miami laboratory. From 1976 to 1982, he directed the Marine Environmental Laboratory in Seattle.
        Returning to Johns Hopkins in 1982, he was named assistant director of the applied physics laboratory. He retired in 1996 as chief scientist at the laboratory's Research Center to form Global Ocean Associates, a research and development company in Rockville.
        Dr. Apel wrote and edited many papers, book chapters and scientific journals. He wrote ''Principles of Ocean Physics'' (Academic Press, 1987), a textbook now in its fourth edition.
        Dr. Apel's survivors include his wife of 45 years, Martha Davis Apel; two daughters, Denise Jay and Jacqueline Apel, both of Rockville; and a grandson.
      