
        Eric Bedford, the British government's anonymous chief architect, whose works were visible to millions but whose name was scarcely known, died on July 28 in a hospital at Worcester near his home in England. He was 91.
        As chief architect for the Ministry of Public Building and Works, Mr. Bedford changed the London skyline in 1961 by building the tall and slim Post Office Tower, a telecommunications tower that rises 500 feet in the center of the city.
        To add visual interest, Mr. Bedford left the upper floors uncovered, exposing the antennae that carry microwave telephone links, and topped the structure with two public observation platforms and a revolving restaurant.
        The observation platforms were closed in 1971 after a bomb went off inside the tower, and the restaurant was shut in 1980. It is now called the British Telecom Tower.
        As chief government architect, Mr. Bedford was, in bureaucratic terms, the modern-day equivalent of Sir Christopher Wren, who held the similar post of king's surveyor general of works under Charles II from 1669 to 1717. But Mr. Bedford never shared the immense fame and fortune his predecessor enjoyed from his work redesigning London's skyline after the Great Fire of 1666.
        In the early 1960's Mr. Bedford also left his mark on Washington,  designing the squat redbrick office block on Massachusetts Avenue that houses the British Embassy.
        Ottawa also bears his imprint in the form of the nine-story steel-framed British High Commission building, completed in 1964 and known locally as the Ottawa Hilton.
        In 1964 he erected a three-story residence for the British ambassador in Warsaw. And two years earlier a new British Embassy building of his design was completed in Jakarta, Indonesia, notable for its horizontal sunbreakers to keep out the heat and its green and gray glass mosaics.
        Born Aug. 23, 1909, near Halifax in Yorkshire, Mr. Bedford never went to college but instead became an apprentice with a firm of architects in Leicester. In 1934 he won a prize from the Royal Institute of British Architects for his design for a railway terminal. Two years later he joined the Ministry of Works, becoming its youngest chief architect in 1950, at the age of 41. He specialized in functional buildings, designing grain silos, communications centers and a slaughterhouse .
        After redecorating the Ministry of Defense in pale green and pink, he was charged with designing the London decorations for Queen Elizabeth's coronation in 1953, erecting triumphal arches along the city's Mall, striped kiosks in Hyde Park and a temporary annex outside Westminister Abbey where the coronation procession assembled.
        After retiring in 1970, Mr. Bedford and his wife went to live in Versailles, outside Paris, to be near their daughter. After the death of his wife, the former Elsie Steel, in 1977, Mr. Bedford returned to Britain, living near Malvern. He is survived by his daughter, Elizabeth Snow.
        Correction:  August 15, 2001, Wednesday  An obituary on Monday about Eric Bedford, a former chief architect of Britain, misstated the number of monarchs served by Sir Christopher Wren, who held an equivalent post -- king's surveyor of general works. Although Wren was appointed in 1669 by Charles II (1660-1685), he served further kings and queens before leaving office in 1717, in the reign of George I.
      