
        Gale Cincotta, a plainspoken mother of six who became a neighborhood activist and went on to help ignite the national debate over bank lending policies that discriminated against minority home buyers, died Wednesday at a hospital in Maywood, Ill. She was 72.
        The cause was gall bladder cancer, said Tracy Van Slyke, spokeswoman for the National Training and Information Center, of which Ms. Cincotta was executive director.
        Ms. Cincotta, who lived in Oak Park, a Chicago suburb, achieved fame for her spirited fights for residents of the neighborhood of Austin, on Chicago's West Side, where she lived most of her life. In a 1996 article in Illinois Issues, she told of nailing a rat to the door of the alderman for  Austin in 1970 after he refused to attack rodents. The next day, the city's rat patrol was on the job.
        She moved on to national issues, especially her challenge to the banking industry and the federal bureaucracy over the practice called redlining, refusing to lend to residents of minority neighborhoods. As part of this fight, she once threatened to nail a ''Loan Shark'' sign over the door of the Federal Reserve in Washington.
        After redlining was outlawed in the 1970's, she kept fighting to make sure the law was enforced.
        Mayor Richard M. Daley of Chicago said she ''was instrumental in helping the city formulate its campaign against predatory lending.''
        Last year, she successfully lobbied for a Chicago ordinance to ban such lending practices, like offering very high mortgage rates and other confiscatory financial terms to minority members and the poor, often resulting in the loss of homes through foreclosures. In April, the Illinois Legislature followed suit.
        Gail Angeles was born on Dec. 28, 1929, in Chicago. Her father ran a Greek restaurant. She married a gas station owner and they had six sons. She became politically active in the 1960's because of school crowding.
        In the late 1960's, Ms. Cincotta became president of the Organization for a Better Austin. The school battle expanded into other concerns, as Ms. Cincotta fought real estate agents' encouragement of panic selling by white homeowners as minorities began looking for homes.
        People in other cities began turning to Ms. Cincotta and her colleagues for advice, and she became head of National People's Action, a network of 30 groups from 110 cities. The umbrella group held a housing conference in Chicago in 1972 and a protest in Baltimore the next year.
        The strategy was extended to other issues, including consumer protection. ''Coalitions are forming all over the place,'' Ms. Cincotta said in an interview with The New York Times in 1982.
        Her group was one of those that successfully pressed Congress to pass the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975, which requires lending institutions to disclose where they make home loans. It also was an advocate in the winning fight to persuade Congress to pass the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, which required banks to invest in neighborhoods where they did business.
        National People's Action combined with other neighborhood groups to persuade three large Chicago banks to commit themselves to making $173 million in low-interest loans for housing and industrial development in poor neighborhoods. In return, the groups agreed not to challenge the banks' merger plans.
        Colleagues remembered her war cry: ''We want it. They've got it. Let's go get it.''
        Ms. Cincotta is survived by five sons, George and Charles of Delray Beach, Fla.; James of Ottawa, Canada; Theodore of Phoenix and Richard of Oak Park, Ill., eight grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.  No information was available on the sixth son.
      