
        Earl Anthony, professional bowling's No. 1 title-winner and its first $1 million man, was found dead Tuesday at a friend's home in New Berlin, Wis., having fallen down a flight of stairs. He was 63.
        The friend, Ed Baur, said he discovered Mr. Anthony's body at the bottom of the stairs at about 8 a.m. An autopsy by the Waukesha County Medical Examiner's office found that Mr. Anthony suffered head trauma, but a final determination on the cause of death will await toxicology tests, a spokeswoman said. The Medical Examiner said it was not clear how long Mr. Anthony had been dead before his body was found.
        Having long shed the days of grimy alleys and dimly lighted lanes tended by pin boys, bowling proved a television-ratings spectacular in the 1970's. Nobody was a bigger name then than Anthony, a crew-cut, bespectacled left-hander sometimes called Square Earl, a man who once seemed destined to line his den with grocery-league trophies.
        Anthony wanted to be a major league pitcher, but an injury in the minor leagues ended that dream. He did not win on the pro bowling tour until he was past 30. But in 1975, he was the first bowler to earn six figures in one year, winning $107,585 while capturing seven tournaments. In 1982, he became the first to amass $1 million in career earnings.
        He won 41 titles on the regular Professional Bowlers Association Tour, a career record that still stands, and seven more on the Senior Tour. He captured eight major tournaments -- the P.B.A. National Championship six times and the Tournament of Champions twice. He was bowler of the year a record six times and the Tour scoring leader five times. He reached the championship round of tournaments (the top five) 144 times, more than anyone else, and his only disappointment was a failure to win the United States Open.
        Anthony earned $1,441,061 in his career, but with the rise of prize money in the past two decades, he is only 11th on the career list, which is headed by Walter Ray Williams Jr. with more than $2.5 million in prize money. Anthony was a member of the halls of fame of the Professional Bowlers Association and the American Bowling Congress.
        ''He was as smooth as the pin-setter,'' recalled Chris Schenkel, whose Saturday afternoon telecasts on ABC brought bowling into the pro sports limelight during the 1970's. ''His temperament determined his ability to win.
        ''He was not a big personality. He was self-contained, which is a compliment in my book.''
        A native of Kent, Wash., Anthony played baseball in the Air Force, then received a tryout as a pitcher with the Baltimore Orioles' Vancouver team of the Pacific Coast League in 1960. But he injured an ankle covering first base, received a reduced contract offer and decided to go home.
        Soon he was driving a fork lift on the overnight shift at a supermarket in Tacoma, Wash. ''Some people asked me to join a bowling league after work,'' he remembered. ''I had set pins to make money as a kid, but I had never bowled before.'' He was averaging 185 before long and then went over the 200 mark.
        Anthony joined the Tour briefly in 1963 without winning, then returned to his grocery job, bowling three nights a week and earning perhaps $8,000 annually in local prize money. He tried again on the Tour in 1969, finishing second in his first tournament, then won at Seattle in 1970 and again in New York in 1971. He was on his way to the top.
        After failing to win his first 13 tournaments in 1974, Anthony captured the Tournament of Champions and the National Championship, back-to-back events, and won four other tournaments, setting records for earnings (more than $99,000) and titles in a single year and for scoring average.
        Two years later, he surpassed Dick Weber as No. 1 on the career victory list with his 27th title. Weber hailed him then as ''the greatest speed-control bowler ever.''
        Anthony made only limited appearances on the Tour after 1983, then joined the Senior Tour in 1988. His last tournament victory was in 1997 at Richland, Wash.
        He lived in North Plains, Ore., and owned a bowling center in Dublin, Calif.
        He is survived by his wife, Susie; a son, Mike, and two daughters, Tracy Nelson and Jeri Voyles.
        ''I set goals throughout the years,'' Anthony told The Oregonian in 1991, when he expected to retire for good, only to return five years later and capture three more senior tournaments. ''I wanted to win 40 tournaments and I won 45. I wanted to be the first bowler to win $100,000 in a year and I did that. I wanted to win $1 million and I did that.''
        As Jim Zebehazy, executive director of the Young American Bowling Alliance, put it: ''He was just Mr. Bowling.''
      