
        Varro E. Tyler, one of the nation's foremost experts on herbal medicine and nutritional supplements and a professor emeritus of pharmacognosy at Purdue University, died on Wednesday at St. Elizabeth's Hospital in Lafayette, Ind. He was 74.
        The cause was a blood clot in his lung, said his wife, Virginia.
        Dr. Tyler, of West Lafayette, Ind., was known for his research and education efforts in pharmacognosy, the study of drugs that come from plants.
        ''He was one of the most knowledgeable people in the area of herbal medicines and botanicals,'' said Dr. Sheldon Hendler, author of the Physicians' Desk Reference for Nutritional Supplements.
        Dr. Tyler also supported the use of some dietary supplements, but as the industry boomed in recent years he urged the Food and Drug Administration to take a more assertive role in regulating product quality and manufacturers' claims.
        ''His biggest contribution was that he had the best sense of balance in trying to moderate not only the appropriate use of botanical supplements but to also try to hold the industry's feet to a warm fire,'' said John Cordaro, president and chief executive of the Council for Responsible Nutrition, a trade association of the dietary supplement industry.
        Before the 1950's, many drugs came from plants, Dr. Hendler said. But once pharmaceutical companies started producing synthetic drugs, pharmacognosy became ''an arcane subject, which was taught in a few pharmacy programs to typically bored pharmacy students,'' Dr. Hendler said.
        In 1994, Congress passed the Dietary Supplement and Health Education Act, which allowed health claims about supplements, like vitamins, minerals, herbs and botanicals. ''That really opened up the area of botanical medicine to the public,'' Dr. Hendler said. ''So then people who really knew pharmacognosy were at a premium.''
        Dr. Tyler was the author or co-author of more than 270 publications, including ''Hoosier Home Remedies'' (Purdue University Press, 1985), ''The Honest Herbal'' (Haworth Press), first published in 1982, and ''Herbs of Choice: The Therapeutic Use of Phytomedicinals'' (Haworth Press), first published in 1994. He frequently appeared on television and radio talk shows and wrote a monthly column on herbal remedies for Prevention magazine.
        He took a moderate position on the use of herbal supplements, Mrs. Tyler said.
        ''He believed these products should be standardized so the consumer would know that what it says on the label is actually in there,'' she said.
        Varro Eugene Tyler was born in 1926 in Auburn, Neb. He received his bachelor of science degree in pharmacy at the University of Nebraska in 1949. While a student at Nebraska, he met Virginia M. Demel on a blind date, and they were married in 1947.
        He received his master's and doctoral degrees from the University of Connecticut and taught at the University of Nebraska and the University of Washington in Seattle before going to Purdue in 1966 as dean of the School of Pharmacy and Pharmacal Sciences. In 1979, he was promoted to dean of the School of Pharmacy, Nursing and Health Sciences.
        In 1986, Dr. Tyler was appointed executive vice president for academic affairs of the Purdue system.
        He ran Purdue's first fund-raising campaign, in 1980. As part of the campaign, he visited every school in the university and encouraged the faculty to contribute, said Connie M. Weaver, director of the Botanicals Research Center at Purdue and the University of Alabama-Birmingham, for which Dr. Tyler was a senior adviser. ''He talked me and I don't know how many other people into taking out our checkbooks and giving a couple of hundred dollars right on the spot,'' Dr. Weaver said.
        In 1991, Dr. Tyler rejoined the School of Pharmacy as the Lilly Distinguished Professor of Pharmacognosy. He retired in 1996.
        Dr. Tyler was the first president of the American Society of Pharmacognosy, as well as president of the American Association of the Colleges of Pharmacy, the American Council on Pharmaceutical Education and the American Institute of the History of Pharmacy.
        Dr. Tyler was also a stamp collector and an expert on how to tell whether a stamp was genuine. He wrote for Linn's Stamp News, which published a collection of his columns under the title ''Focus on Forgeries: A Guide to Forgeries of Common Stamps'' (2000). He was also the author of ''Philatelic Forgers: Their Lives and Works'' (Linn's Stamp News, 1991).
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Tyler is survived by a daughter, Jeanne Griffith of Lafayette, Ind.; a son, David Tyler, of Eugene, Ore.; and a sister, Jessie Lou Allen of Brentwood, Calif.
      