
        Dr. Henry Lewis Barnett, a pediatrician who was an expert on the diagnosis and treatment of kidney disease in children, died on Tuesday at New York Weill Cornell Center in Manhattan. He was 87.
        Dr. Barnett, who lived in Manhattan, was considered by many in his field to be the father of pediatric nephrology for his long career in promoting research into pediatric kidney disease and for improving its treatment.
        In 1943, shortly after medical school and a brief professorship at Washington University in St. Louis, Dr. Barnett became the resident pediatrician for the Manhattan Project in Los Alamos, N.M., treating the children of the scientists working there.
        He witnessed the first test of the atomic bomb in the desert and was on the first American inspection team to travel to Japan after Nagasaki was bombed.
        After the war, he moved to New York to be an assistant professor at Cornell University Medical College. He remained there until 1955, when he left to begin the pediatrics department at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine and also to head Bronx Municipal Hospital's pediatrics department.
        Ten years later, he founded the International Study of Kidney Disease in Children, an organization now known for conducting clinical trials in hospitals throughout the world.
        In 1981, he became medical director of the Children's Aid Society,  which works to improve health care for children from disadvantaged homes and for children in foster care in New York. One program he helped develop for the organization brings primary care to children in some of the city's most impoverished neighborhoods.
        The author of a classic text used widely in his field, ''Pediatrics'' (1968), he published numerous articles and studies in medical and scientific journals.
        He received several of the highest awards in pediatrics. In 1984, he won the John Howland Award, the American Pediatric Society's most prestigious award. The American Society of Nephrology gave him its highest honor in 1988 and, in 1993, the American Academy of Pediatrics established an annual award in his name for contributions to pediatric nephrology.
        Dr. Barnett was born in Detroit in 1914 and earned his Bachelor of Science degree at Washington University in 1934 and his medical degree at Washington University School of Medicine in 1938.
        He is survived by his wife of 60 years, Shirley; a son, Martin; and a daughter, Judy Barnett, a jazz singer, all of Manhattan.
      