
        A. G. Dickens, a noted British historian of the Reformation who was among the first to play down the theological disputes of this period in Europe and to emphasize broader social change instead, died on July 31 in London. He was 91.
        For Professor Dickens, the Reformation was a European phenomenon in which new outlooks fostered a religious revolution with roots going back hundreds of years. New methods of communication and transport, the professor argued, allowed the ideas of the Reformation to spread.
        In his most important book, ''The English Reformation'' (Batsford), first published in 1964, he wrote that in England the rise of Protestantism ''demands to be considered within a long temporal and wide geographic context'' extending far beyond Pope Clement VII's refusal to grant Henry VIII a divorce.
        For the reformers, he argued, the church had taken a wrong turning centuries before, with the Emperor Constantine allowing pagan superstitions to penetrate Christianity while the popes created an imperial papacy that was rich and politically powerful but increasingly bereft of spiritual authority.
        Professor Dickens wrote prolifically about many aspects of the Reformation. His works include ''Lollards and Protestants in the Diocese of York, 1509-1558'' (Oxford University Press, 1959), ''Thomas Cromwell and the English Reformation'' (English Universities Press, 1959), ''Reformation and Society in 16th-Century Europe'' (Thames and Hudson, 1966) and ''Martin Luther and the Reformation'' (English Universities Press, 1976)
        Born in the northern port town of Hull on July 6, 1910, Arthur Geoffrey Dickens was the son of a dock foreman. He won a scholarship to Magdalen College, Oxford, and became a fellow of Keble College in 1933.
        After wartime service as a captain in the artillery, he returned to Hull University as G. F. Grant professor of history but in 1962 moved to London University to became professor of modern history at King's College.
        He married the former Molly Bygott in 1936. She died in 1978.
        He is survived by his two sons, Peter Geoffrey and Paul Jonathan.
      