
        The blind Cuban pianist Frank Emilio Flynn, whose long career connected many tributaries of Cuban jazz, died Thursday at his home in Havana. He was 80, said René Lopez, his friend and record producer.
        Mr. Flynn's musical life encompassed many forms, including classical music; the fílin style of the 1950's, which fused jazz harmony, Cuban rhythm and romantic ballads; and the more modern Latin jazz movement of the 1960's, as leader of the Quinteto Instrumental de Música Moderna, which played in the descarga, or jam-session style.
        Born Francisco Emilio Flynn Rodríguez, Mr. Flynn suffered eye damage at birth. His Cuban mother died when he was 5, and his Irish-American father returned to the United States. Mr. Flynn grew up in the care of a Cuban aunt and uncle.
        His career began at 13, when he won an amateur contest and joined a danzón orchestra, playing in the popular courtly style. He studied further at Cuba's National Association for the Blind, and in the 1940's joined the fílin-style band Loquibambia, whose singer was Omara Portuondo, later well-known from Buena Vista Social Club albums.
        In 1959, Mr. Flynn founded the Quinteto Instrumental de Música Moderna, a key group in the evolution of modern Cuban jazz. It eventually became Frank Emilio y Los Amigos, a band that has survived in various forms through the last 25 years. As a solo pianist, he played all over Cuba. With Los Amigos, he finally made his American debut in New York at a Jazz at Lincoln Center concert in 1998.
        Mr. Flynn was well versed in everything from the music of Ernesto Lecuona, Cuba's great pop-classical composer, to Art Tatum and Bill Evans. He also worked as an educator for blind musicians, developing a method for transcribing music into Braille. He had a late-career revival in the 1990's, making several albums for the Milan/RCA label, and one for Metro Blue/Capitol, ''Piano Reflections'' (1999). In 1999, he was reunited with his American relatives.
        He is survived by his wife, Marta Montes; a son, Jesús Flynn Montes; and two grandchildren.
      