
        Larry Adler, a harmonica player of enormous sensitivity whose advocacy and artistry helped elevate the instrument to concert status, died yesterday at a London hospital. He was 87 and had lived in Britain since the early 1950's, when he was blacklisted for his political views and his career in America effectively ended.
        In performances that spanned seven decades, Mr. Adler brought dignity to the harmonica, which was previously regarded as either a toy or an instrument for amateurs. He not only introduced the ''mouth organ,'' as he called it, into the concert hall, but also persuaded important composers, among them Darius Milhaud, Ralph Vaughan Williams, William Walton, Malcolm Arnold and JoaquÛn Rodrigo, to create works specifically for him. He also proved that the unadorned harmonica could provide an eloquent score for an entire motion picture.
        Mr. Adler and his performing partner, the tap dancer Paul Draper, were denounced as Communist sympathizers in 1948. They sued for libel but were unable to win full vindication. Mr. Adler, a celebrated star who had been earning up to $200,000 a year, suddenly could not find employment. He departed for Britain, where he remained a star of the first rank. He earned household-name status there as much for his lively and humorous public personality as for his musicianship.
        Although a self-described ''left-minded kid,'' Mr. Adler steadfastly denied he had ever supported the Communist cause but refused to take a loyalty oath or mute his criticism of the House Un-American Activities Committee.
        ''I can't understand Marx,'' he said in 1971. ''Communist literature, brochures and stuff didn't mean anything to me.'' But he continued to insist that imagined or even real Communists should not be deprived of their ability to earn a living, since being a Communist was not against the law.
        Lawrence Cecil Adler was born on Feb. 10, 1914, in Baltimore, the eldest of two sons of Louis Adler, a peripatetic plumber (''Adler's Plumbing Shop on Wheels'' was the name of his business) and the former Sadie Hack. His parents were both born in Russia and were brought to the United States as infants.
        He was fascinated by music from an early age, and sang in the neighborhood synagogue. His parents had an old piano and arranged for him to take lessons. He loved it. So much so, in fact, that he walked into a music store in downtown Baltimore and talked the proprietor into sending a new $2,500 piano to his home. The modest piano on which he had started was no longer good enough.
        When his father recoiled at the cost, the proprietor of the music store, a man named Levin, replied, ''Could you afford 50 cents a week?'' And they worked out a time-payment plan.
        As a youngster, Larry Adler sold newspapers and magazines on the streets of Baltimore to earn enough money to purchase phonograph records and tickets to classical concerts. He enrolled in the Peabody School of Music in Baltimore for piano training, but stayed only a short time. Instead of playing a Grieg waltz, as the school had expected, he made a face and pounded out, ''Yes, We Have No Bananas.'' He was expelled from Peabody, he said, for being ''incorrigible, untalented and entirely lacking in ear.'' (In 1985 he returned to Peabody and received an honorary degree.)
        The store owner who sold the Adlers the new piano also had given the young man a harmonica as a sort of commission. He taught himself to play it. Some of his friends did the same thing, practicing on time-tested favorites like ''Home on the Range'' and ''St. Louis Blues.'' The young Adler also taught himself to play classical selections by ear.
        One day he learned that The Baltimore Sun was sponsoring a harmonica-playing contest and he immediately entered it. All the other contestants played tunes like ''Turkey in the Straw''; Larry Adler surprised the judges with a patrician reading of Beethoven's ''Minuet in G'' and won the prize.
        The harmonica, he said, ''was just a means of getting the hell away from Baltimore.'' In 1928, at age 14, he said, he left home with $7 in his pocket and headed for New York. He lived in cheap rooms and played his harmonica in the streets around Times Square, hoping a talent agent would discover him. He auditioned for Borrah Minevitch and His Harmonica Rascals, which was the biggest harmonica act in show business, but was rejected. Minevitch listened carefully, looked at young Adler, and said, ''Kid, you stink.''
        Undeterred, Mr. Adler persuaded the bandleader Rudy Vallee to listen to him play. Vallee heard something that Minevitch hadn't heard and invited him to appear with him at a Manhattan club. That led to other jobs; at one point, Florenz Ziegfeld hired him for ''Smiles,'' a musical revue.
        For all his increasing success, Mr. Adler played by ear and from memory after listening to phonograph records; he couldn't even read music until he was in his late 20's and well into his career. He once said that he agreed to learn only at the behest of  Milhaud, who explained that unless he learned to understand what all those little notes meant, he'd never be able to perform the music that was being written for him, music that he'd never be able to hear on a phonograph record or the radio.
        In 1934, Mr. Adler landed a small role in a movie called ''Many Happy Returns.'' That same year, he was booked at the Paramount in New York, where he was seen by C. B. Cochran, a British producer, and hired to appear in a London production called ''Streamline.'' Audiences liked him in London, so much so that the British built an entire revue around him called ''Tune Inn.'' Soon there was a tremendous increase in harmonica sales and there were Larry Adler fan clubs throughout Britain.
        By the late 1930's, he realized, he was better known in England than he was in his own country. He returned to the United States and got some jobs playing with the pianist Eddie Duchin. The columnist Leonard Lyons helped him find some spots in New York nightclubs. He got a few more movie roles, and his credits included ''The Singing Marine'' (1937); ''The Big Broadcast of 1937,'' in which he appeared with Jack Benny; ''St. Martin's Lane'' (1938); ''Sidewalks of London'' (1940); ''Music for Millions'' (1945); and ''The Birds and the Bees'' (1947).
        He began his association with the dancer Paul Draper before World War II, appearing with him at Carnegie Hall and at City Center in New York, and on a tour of United States Army camps during World War II. During the war he also entertained the troops with Jack Benny and with Ingrid Bergman, with whom he had an affair.
        Mr. Adler and Mr. Draper began to hear criticism of their political views in the late 1940's, particularly for their support of 19 Hollywood writers, including Alvah Bessie, Ring Lardner Jr. and Dalton Trumbo, who had been summoned before the House Committee on Un-American Activities.
        In 1948, a club in Birmingham, Ala., announced that it was ''exceedingly embarrassed'' because Mr. Adler and Mr. Draper had appeared at  the club immediately before speaking at a rally for Henry Wallace, who was running for president as the Progressive Party candidate. Mr. Adler and Mr. Draper issued a joint reply: ''We have done our best as artists and do not intend to let anything stop us from doing our best as citizens.'' The contretemps made headlines, and inspired some angry editorials.
        In December 1948, a Connecticut woman, Hester T. McCullough, sought to prevent Mr. Adler and Mr. Draper from appearing before the Greenwich Concert Association. In a letter to the group, published in Greenwich Time, a daily newspaper, Mrs. McCullough said the two men were ''pro-Communist in sympathy'' and ''exponents of a line of thinking directly opposed to every democratic principle upon which our great country has been founded.''
        As a result of her protest, their performance was canceled. Mr. Adler and Mr. Draper sued for libel, each asking $100,000 in damages. The suit became a cause célèbre, prompting Westbrook Pegler, the columnist, to call for contributions to help pay for Mrs. McCullough's defense.
        The suit came to trial in Federal District Court in Hartford, and ended in a hung jury on May 27, 1950. The case was dismissed on Sept. 30, 1951. The performers said they lacked the funds for more litigation.
        By 1952, Mr. Adler had left the United States to live in London with his wife and family and remained there for the rest of his life, performing regularly and making recordings of classical and popular music.
        After his first return engagement in 1959, Mr. Adler's visits to his native land grew more frequent. In 1975 he and Mr. Draper reunited for a concert at Carnegie Hall. Mr. Draper died at 86 in 1996.
        Mr. Adler's marriage to Eileen Walser, an English model, ended in divorce as did his second marriage, to Sally Cline.
        He is survived by a son, Peter, and two daughters, Carole and Wendy, from his first marriage; a daughter, Katelyn, from his second; two granddaughters; and two great-grandchildren.
        During his years in Britain, Mr. Adler wrote articles for American newspapers and restaurant reviews and articles about food for several British publications. In the mid-1960's, he wrote a book called ''Jokes and How to Tell Them.''
        Despite his efforts to bring the harmonica to the concert stage, Mr. Adler said he thought the instrument would always be grounded in cowboy songs and blues. ''I can play it for the next hundred years and it won't change that,'' he said in 1984.
        He said he wasn't bitter about his political experiences and suggested more than once that if he had to do it over again, he would have chosen the same course. ''Resist the pressure to conform,'' he would tell young people. ''Better be a lonely individualist than a contented conformist.''
        Correction:  August 13, 2001, Monday  An obituary of the harmonica virtuoso Larry Adler on Wednesday referred incorrectly to ''Smiles,'' a Florenz Ziegfeld stage production in which he appeared. It was a musical play, not a revue. The obituary also referred incorrectly to his film role credits for ''St. Martin's Lane'' and ''Sidewalks of London.'' The titles represent a single film -- the first as released in Britain, in 1938, the second in the United States, in 1940.
        Correction:  August 20, 2001, Monday  An obituary of the harmonica virtuoso Larry Adler on Aug. 8 misstated the name and release date of a film in which he appeared. It is ''Three Daring Daughters'' (1948, not 1947); ''The Birds and the Bees'' was a working title before its release.
      