
        Peter Bergson, a Zionist who crusaded in the United States on behalf of Jews in Europe during World War II, died on Saturday at his home in Kfar Shmaryahu, Israel, a Tel Aviv suburb. He was 86.
        Mr. Bergson, who was known in Israel by his Hebrew name, Hillel Kook, was born in 1915 in Lithuania, and was the youngest of eight children. At age 10, amid widespread pogroms, he and his family fled to Palestine, where his uncle Avraham Yitzak Kook was the country's first Ashkenazi chief rabbi. One of Mr. Bergson's earliest friends there was David Raziel, who became the head of Irgun Zvai Leumi, the armed Jewish underground movement.
        A member of Irgun from his early teens, Mr. Bergson adopted his new name to shield his family from his political activities after he was sent to Poland in 1937 to help the Revisionist Zionist leader Ze'ev Jabotinsky smuggle Jews into Palestine.
        Mr. Bergson first came to the United States in June 1940 to help Mr. Jabotinsky set up a Jewish army to join the fight against Hitler.
        But by late 1942, Mr. Bergson's mentor had died and his focus had shifted. On Nov. 25, 1942, a small article appeared on Page 10 of The New York Times with the first official news that, up to that point, two million Jews had been killed in Europe. From then on, Mr. Bergson's talents at fund-raising and garnering publicity were devoted to the campaign to rescue European Jews.
        With his fellow campaigner, the writer Ben Hecht, Mr. Bergson set up the Emergency Committee to Save the Jews in Europe in 1943 in response to what he considered to be feeble official efforts to respond to the killings. To get attention for their cause, they held plays and mass pageants, including Mr. Hecht's ''A Flag Is Born'' and ''We Will Never Die,'' which toured the country after attracting 40,000 to Madison Square Garden in March 1943. Edward G. Robinson, Marlon Brando and Stella Adler were among those who took part.
        Most controversial were the committee's full-page advertisements in major newspapers, including one that appeared in The Times and The Washington Post in February 1943. It said: ''For sale to humanity: 70,000 Rumanian Jews, Guaranteed Human beings at $50 a Piece.'' Jewish leaders were outraged. And Rabbi Stephen S. Wise, head of the American Jewish Congress, quickly condemned the advertisement as a hoax.
        Charismatic, indefatigable and reviled in many quarters, Mr. Bergson was ''as persistent as a force of nature,'' Mr. Hecht later wrote. On one occasion, two days before Yom Kippur in October 1943, Mr. Bergson persuaded 400 orthodox rabbis to march on Washington to protest what they thought was the Roosevelt administration's indifference to the plight of European Jews. He later said that he had invited clergymen of all faiths to take part, but only the rabbis had agreed to come.
        President Franklin D. Roosevelt did not receive the marchers, having been told by Jewish advisers that the committee did not represent the mainstream of American Jewish opinion. But the marchers met with others in the capital. To many historians, the event helped force Congress to hold its first hearings on the plight of Jews in Europe and contributed directly to the creation of a government rescue agency, the War Refugee Board, in January 1944.
        ''He was a master of public relations at a very young age,'' said his daughter Rebecca Kook, who teaches political science at Ben Gurion University in Be'er Sheva, Israel. ''In many ways, he established what many consider to be the first example of a real political lobby in Washington.''
        After the creation of the War Refugee Board, Mr. Bergson and his group shifted their focus back to events in Palestine, with the creation of the Hebrew Committee of National Liberation. But this body, closely associated with Irgun, with its own ''Hebrew Embassy'' on Washington's Embassy Row, never gained widespread acceptance as a government in exile. David Ben-Gurion, later to become Israel's first prime minister, called it ''a group of self-appointed people who represent nobody but themselves.''
        As Hillel Kook, Mr. Bergson returned home in May 1948 with Is rael's declaration of independence and was elected to the Constituent Assembly. But he later resigned his seat in protest when the Ben-Gurion government turned the assembly into the first Knesset before it had written a constitution.
        In 1951, Mr. Bergson returned to the United States with his wife, Betty, a fellow wartime campaigner for refugees, whom he had married in Israel in 1950. He then withdrew from politics, successfully working as an independent stockbroker on Wall Street.
        Betty Kook died of cancer in 1964, and in 1970 Mr. Bergson retired from business and returned to Israel. There he picked up some of his old causes, including his campaign for an Israeli constitution built on a strong division between synagogue and government.
        ''The bearded, impeccably dressed Kook looks every inch the elder statesman, a Trotsky in Mexico whose brilliant theories have been filed away,'' Louis Rapoport wrote of Mr. Bergson's retirement years in  ''Shake Heaven & Earth: Peter Bergson and the Struggle to Rescue the Jews of Europe'' (Gefen).
        He married Nili Haskell in Israel in 1975. She survives him, as do two daughters, Rebecca Kook of Israel and Astra Zemko of London; two granddaughters; and a grandson.
        Correction:  August 23, 2001, Thursday  An obituary on Monday about Peter Bergson, a Zionist who crusaded in the United States during World War II on behalf of Jews in Europe, misspelled the surname of a surviving daughter. She is Astra Temko, not Zemko.
      