
        Govan Mbeki, a South African liberation leader who sent his eldest son, Thabo, into the antiapartheid struggle and lived to see him become president of South Africa, died early this morning in the coastal city of Port Elizabeth. He was 91.
        A teacher by training, Mr. Mbeki was a soldier in spirit, and soon abandoned schools for politics, writing and organizing his way into the vanguard of the liberation struggle and eventually into prison, where he spent 23 years, many of them alongside Nelson Mandela, Walter Sissulu and other leading enemies of the apartheid regime.
        The oldest of those convicted in the so-called Rivonia trial, in which eight African National Congress leaders were sentenced to life in prison in 1964 for plotting against the government, Mr. Mbeki was something of a father figure among them, said Ahmed Kathrada, one of the other defendants, in an interview today from Cape Town.
        ''Naturally, we looked upon him with a great deal of respect, for his wisdom, his worldliness, his courtesy, his patience, his concern and his compassion,'' Mr. Kathrada said.
        Govan Archibald Mvunyelwa Mbeki was born on July 9, 1910, in the Transkei, and grew up there, in what is now the country's Eastern Cape Province. Educated at mission schools, he went on to study at the University College of Fort Hare, often spoken of as the intellectual cradle of the antiapartheid movement.
        While the Rivonia trial would make Mr. Mbeki and his fellow defendants famous, the man known to his friends as Oom Gov, or Uncle Gov, had done earnest grass-roots work for years before that.
        In rural areas, he helped peasants organize simple agricultural cooperatives and wrote a pamphlet explaining how to replicate his work. As an editor of New Age, a national newspaper that opposed the apartheid regime, he chronicled the growing fight against apartheid being fought in the hinterlands. His first book, ''South Africa: The Peasants' Revolt,'' memorialized the late 1950's uprising.
        As the apartheid regime's repression intensified and New Age was banned, Mr. Mbeki was driven underground. In 1963, he and seven other leaders, among them Mr. Mandela, were arrested on a farm in Rivonia, near Johannesburg.
        Tried on charges of trying to overthrow the government, they were convicted and sentenced to life in prison.
        Entering prison, he left behind his family, including his wife, Epainette, who survives him, still living in the small village where they raised their family. They had four children, Linda, Thabo, Moeletsi and Jama.
        Only Thabo would follow him into politics. Linda became a businesswoman, and Moeletsi is a media consultant. Jama, a lawyer, disappeared almost 20 years ago under mysterious circumstances in Lesotho.
        The future president, already in exile when his father was imprisoned on Robben Island, spent 22 years abroad, in Britain, Nigeria, Swaziland, the Soviet Union and Zambia.
        ''He learned at a very young age that he couldn't depend on his father being around, and that his father had a whole nation of children to care for,'' said Mark Gevisser, who is writing a biography of the president. The father, however, had an early influence on the future president. As a boy of 7 or 8, young Thabo would spend time in the study with his father, who would show him the texts of important struggle documents, Mr. Gevisser said.
        Released in 1987, a few years before Mr. Mandela, Govan Mbeki rejoined the struggle. And in 1994, in the country's first all-race elections, he won a seat in Parliament and became the deputy president of the Senate, while his son became deputy president, under Mr. Mandela.
        Correction:  September 1, 2001, Saturday  An obituary yesterday of the South African anti-apartheid leader Govan Mbeki misspelled the name of another leading opponent of apartheid. He is Walter Sisulu, not Sissulu.
      