
        Stanley S. Herr, a lawyer whose career of crusades for the mentally  disabled altered the legal landscape from schools to death rows, died on Monday at his home in Baltimore. He was 56.
        His wife, Raquel Schuster-Herr, said the cause was adrenal carcinoma, a very rare cancer.
        Dr. Herr argued several noted cases on the civil rights of the disabled, among them the one that led to the closing of the infamous Willowbrook Developmental Center on Staten Island in 1987.
        One of his earliest jobs was with the National Office of Legal Aid and Defenders Association, where he was a lead lawyer in three important cases. The first, in 1971, involved a boy known as Gregory J., who was deemed retarded (a misdiagnosis, it was later found) and who was suspended from a Washington elementary school for throwing spitballs.
        Barred from school, Gregory sat at home awaiting the small class for the retarded that education officials had promised. ''How will my son ever get to college if I can't even get him into elementary school?'' his mother asked in an affidavit.
        The result was a legal victory that amplified the meaning of an earlier, similar case in Pennsylvania. Upholding both judgments, the Supreme Court affirmed the principle that a child is entitled to a publicly supported education regardless of impairment.
        Dr. Herr's argument was based on the Constitution's equal-protection  guarantee, which underlay many of the court rulings involving civil rights for racial minorities. In fact, he described the Pennsylvania and Washington cases as ''our equivalent of Brown v. Board of Education.''
        The Supreme Court's decision led Congress to pass the Education for All Handicapped Children Act of 1975 (later called the Individuals With Disabilities Education Act). In adopting the legislation, lawmakers found that one million children were totally excluded from school. At a Senate hearing on reauthorizing the law in 1997, Dr. Herr said, ''The regimes of segregation and exclusion for children with disabilities rivaled the worst abuses and humiliations of Jim Crow schooling that once beset African-Americans.''
        Dr. Herr was also involved in two cases -- one in Alabama in 1972, the other in New York the next year --  that ultimately caused many states to close squalid homes for the retarded. In the case of the Willowbrook Developmental Center, children had been beaten, otherwise abused and, in one episode, even injected with hepatitis for medical experiments.
        Dr. Herr was a leading opponent of executing the retarded in capital crimes. His victory in a legal battle in 1989 caused Maryland to bar the execution of retarded prisoners, only the second state, after Georgia, to do so.
        He also filed Supreme Court briefs opposing Texas' plans to execute  Johnny Paul Penry, whose I.Q. had been measured at less than 70. In June, on the basis of flawed instructions to his jury, the justices overturned Mr. Penry's death sentence. Though the court did not address the broader issue of whether a mentally retarded person should be executed,  Dr. Herr predicted that the case  would ''spur a national movement'' against the practice. Of the 38 states that now have a death penalty, 18 forbid execution of the retarded.
        Dr. Herr also took up many cases concerning the rights of the homeless. And when he saw a homeless person on the street, his wife said, he would stop his car and offer a ride to a shelter. If he was refused, he would soon return with blankets.
        Stanley Sholom Herr was born on Aug. 7, 1945, in Newark. He graduated from Yale College and Yale Law School, and also earned a doctorate in law from Oxford University.
        During the Clinton administration, he was named a Kennedy fellow at the White House, where he was an  adviser on disability and homelessness. He was a law professor at the University of Maryland from 1983 until his death, and president of the American Association on Mental Retardation in 1998-99.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by three school-age children --  twin daughters, Deborah Ann and Llana Ruth, and a son, David Louis -- and a sister, Judith Herr of Bethesda, Md.
      