
        Lynn Payer, a science writer and medical journalist best known for her books about the impact of culture on medical care, died Saturday at Calvary Hospice in the Bronx. She was 56 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was breast cancer, said her sister, Cheryl Payer, her only immediate relative.
        Ms. Payer's critically praised book, ''Medicine and Culture: Varieties of Treatment in the United States, England, West Germany and France,'' was first published by Holt in 1988. A 1995 paperback edition is still in print.
        The book grew from her work as a reporter in Europe writing on health and medical matters. The countries she studied have similar mortality rates but significant differences in medical practice.
        Medical care, she found, is strongly influenced by cultural norms and values ingrained over hundreds of years. The differences can show up in the types and quantities of drugs doctors prescribe, the kinds and numbers of operations performed, even what blood pressure levels are thought to require treatment.
        Lynn Payer was born in El Dorado, Kan., and discovered her interest in science on nature walks and at summer science camps of the National Science Foundation. She studied comparative biochemistry and physiology at the University of Kansas, graduating in 1967, and got her master's degree from the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism in 1969.
        She was a reporter for Medical Tribune in New York, but she soon quit and spent eight years in Paris in the 1970's before returning to New York in 1979 as a freelance writer.
        At her death, she was managing editor of Medical Encounter, the quarterly newsletter of the American Academy on Physician and Patient.
        She contributed to a book, ''Questions Patients Most Often Ask Their Doctors'' (Bantam, 1983), and was the author of ''How to Avoid a Hysterectomy'' (Pantheon, 1987). She also wrote ''Disease Mongers: How Doctors, Drug Companies, and Insurers are Making You Feel Sick'' (Reed, 1992).
      