
        Igor Buketoff, an American conductor whose specialties were Russian music, particularly Rachmaninoff's, and contemporary opera, died on Friday at a hospital in the Bronx. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan.
        In recent years Mr. Buketoff was best known for his orchestration of the first act of Rachmaninoff's unfinished opera, ''Monna Vanna,'' a work that the composer abandoned in 1908 but which remained close to his heart. Mr. Buketoff led the Philadelphia Orchestra in the world premiere in 1984. He also produced a new orchestration of Mussorgsky's ''Boris Godunov'' in which he stripped away Rimsky-Korsakov's orchestral and editorial additions while fleshing out Mussorgsky's orchestration. The edition was introduced at the Metropolitan Opera in 1997, conducted by Valery Gergiyev. Mr. Buketoff also earned attention for restoring folk song texts to Tchaikovsky's ''1812 Overture.''
        Igor Buketoff was born in Hartford, Conn., the son of a Russian Orthodox priest through whom he met Rachmaninoff in 1927. ''I went to a rehearsal for the world premiere of his 'Three Russian Folk Songs,' a work for choir and orchestra,'' Mr. Buketoff said in a 1984 interview. ''Leopold Stokowski was conducting, and the basses in the choir were all deacons of the Russian church, because Rachmaninoff wanted a very deep, Russian bass sound. Because my father was in the clergy and knew all the other deacons and priests who had suitable voices, he assembled the choir, and when he went to the rehearsal, I went with him.''
        As Mr. Buketoff recalled it, Rachmaninoff was unable to persuade Stokowski to adopt his preferred tempo for the last of the songs. A few years later, when he programmed the work at the Juilliard School, where he became head of the choral department, he approached Rachmaninoff and asked him about the tempo.
        Mr. Buketoff earned bachelor's and master's degrees at Juilliard and directed the choral departments there and at Adelphi College and Columbia University. He established his credentials as a scholar of Russian music when he contributed a section on Russian chant to Gustave Reese's influential ''Music in the Middle Ages'' (1940). And in 1941 he won the first Alice Ditson Award for outstanding American conductors, a prize administered by Columbia University. He won the award again in 1967.
        In 1945 Mr. Buketoff was appointed music director of the Chautauqua Opera Association. In 1947 he directed Gian-Carlo Menotti's double bill of ''The Medium'' and ''The Telephone'' on an American and European tour. Upon his return to the United States, he became music director of the Fort Wayne Philharmonic and director of the orchestral department at Butler University in Indianapolis. He held his Fort Wayne post until 1966. From 1948 to 1953 he also directed the Young People's Concerts at the New York Philharmonic, and from 1963 to 1966 he was music director of the Iceland Symphony Orchestra.
        Always interested in contemporary works, he established the World Music Bank in 1959 to promote modern orchestral music. The organization is now called the International Contemporary Music Exchange.
        Mr. Buketoff is survived by his wife, Margaret, and a daughter, Barbara Mouk, of New York.
      