
        Gunnar Dybwad, an early and prominent advocate for people with mental retardation and other developmental disabilities, died last Thursday in Needham, Mass. He was 92 and lived in Wellesley, Mass.
        Dr. Dybwad, an authority on retardation, autism, cerebral palsy and other disabilities, had retired from Brandeis University, where he was professor of human development and founding director of the Starr Center for Mental Retardation at Brandeis's Heller School.
        In a 1997 book on the disability rights movement, Fred Pelka wrote that Dr. Dybwad (pronounced dib-wad) ''is credited with being one of the first in the world to frame mental disability as an issue of civil rights, rather than as a medical or social work problem.''
        He had a role in more than a dozen lawsuits in federal courts advocating civil rights for people with mental disabilities. Two of the cases went to the Supreme Court, and in both the court handed down decisions that affirmed the right to treatment and education of developmentally disabled children. The cases were Pennhurst State School v. Halderman,  1981, and Board of Education v. Rowley, 1982.
        Dr. Dybwad played a critical part in persuading leaders of the Pennsylvania Association for Retarded Children to sue on behalf of disabled children. The case, PARC v. Pennsylvania, 1972, is credited with establishing the right of disabled children to get a public education and with helping lead to laws about disability rights.
        His writings include a book written with Hank A. Bersani, ''Responding to the Challenge: Current Issues and International Developments in Developmental Disabilities'' (Brookline, 1999).
        Dr. Dybwad was born in Leipzig, Germany, and earned a doctorate in law in 1934 from the University of Halle. He fled Hitler's Germany that year for the United States.
        He graduated in 1939 from the New York School of Social Work. From 1943 to 1951 he was director of the Child Welfare Program in Michigan,  and from 1957 to 1963 he was executive director of the National Association for Retarded Children, now known as the Arc. He was the executive director of the Child Study Association of America, a parent education group, from 1951 to 1957.
        In 1967 he began more than a decade of teaching at Brandeis. After retiring, he taught a course on developmental disabilities at Syracuse University.
        His wife, Dr. Rosemary Dybwad, died in 1992.
        He is survived by a son, Peter, of Berkeley, Calif.; a daughter, Susan Bell of Nashville; a sister, Gudny Dybwad of Sachrang, Germany; five grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      