
        Heywood Hale Broun, the television commentator, sports correspondent and writer known for his wit and elegant commentary, died Wednesday at Kingston (N.Y.) Hospital. He was 83.
        Mr. Broun underwent surgery for a broken hip last spring. The hospital did not list a cause of death.
        Mr. Broun, known as Woody, was a CBS sports correspondent for some two decades and had been a baseball writer.
        He was also an actor, appearing in many Broadway plays and several movies, including ''For Pete's Sake'' and ''It Should Happen to You.''
        Mr. Broun's father, Heywood Broun, the well-known newspaper columnist of the 1920's and 1930's, founded The Newspaper Guild. The guild, an affiliate of the Communications Workers of America, has sponsored the annual Heywood Broun Award for distinguished journalism in his name since 1941. Mr. Broun's mother, Ruth Hale, was the nation's first female movie critic.
        Mr. Broun wrote of his family in the memoir ''Whose Little Boy Are You?'' (St. Martin's/Marek, 1983).
        Mr. Broun looked at sports with a wry eye, commenting often on baseball, horse racing and golf.
        ''There is something about golf that suggests Dad and Granddad also played,'' he once said. ''It's too expensive for most of us to own a yacht or race horses, but almost anyone can buy a set of clubs and move right into the middle class. The poor toss baskets and go to a vacant lot, if there is one, to play baseball, but the middle class play golf, which is a sort of super outdoor pinball.''
        Writing in The New York Times in 1994, Mr. Broun said of thoroughbred racing: ''To be great, a horse must have metaphorical wings. In mythology we punished wax-winged Icarus for flying too close to the sun, but in recognition of the nobility of their singlemindedness, mythology has let the chariot horses of Apollo traverse the sky. Race horses do not chaffer over money, get into bar fights or endorse horse blankets and aluminum shoes. They combine strength, grace, beauty and speed as perhaps no other link in the Darwinian chain can manage (cheetahs have funny-looking shoulders).''
      