
        Doris Howes Calloway, a nutritionist whose studies helped set standards for the dietary needs of people, died Aug. 31 at a nursing home in Seattle. She was 78.
        Dr. Calloway had Parkinson's disease, said the University of California at Berkeley, where she was a professor and a provost emeritus.
        In her 27 years at Berkeley, Dr. Calloway earned international renown as a scientist. She also was the first woman to enter the ranks of the university's top administrators, becoming provost of its 13 professional schools and colleges in 1981.
        Her work nearly 40 years ago influenced dietary research. Especially influential were her classic Penthouse studies, begun in 1963. They recorded in detail the food and energy needs of six volunteers who lived in isolation for weeks in a campus apartment, known as the Penthouse. Among Dr. Calloway's conclusions was that Americans did not need as much protein as had been thought. The body uses only so much and eliminates the rest, she found.
        She also studied the special nutritional requirements of women during menstruation and pregnancy, as well as the needs of the elderly and other groups.
        The Penthouse studies continued  until 1981 and influenced national norms for recommended daily allowances of nutrients. They were directed by Dr. Calloway with Dr. Sheldon Margen, now an emeritus professor of public health.
        The university created a laboratory for them on the fourth floor of Morgan Hall. There, six volunteers at a time lived in a three-bedroom apartment for up to three months on a minutely monitored diet.
        They were allowed out for exercise under strict supervision. Every particle of protein that went into and out of their bodies was tracked, including in sweat and tears and hair and skin loss.
        In the late 1980's, during and after her tenure as a provost, Dr. Calloway led a nine-university research project in Kenya, Egypt and Mexico to measure the causes and effects of moderate malnutrition. Besides assessing its consequences, the study identified the poor education and low status of women as being among its causes.
        Born Doris Howes in Canton, Ohio, she graduated from Ohio State University in 1943. She received her Ph.D. in nutrition at the University of Chicago in 1947.
        Her career started at the Quartermaster Food and Container Institute of the Armed Forces, in Chicago, where she worked until 1961 and became chief of the nutrition branch.
        After a job at the Stanford Research Institute, she was appointed a professor of nutrition at Berkeley in 1963. She formally retired in 1990 but continued her work until her health failed well into the 1990's.
        Dr. Calloway is survived by her husband of 20 years, Robert Nesheim of Seattle; a son, David, of Woodland Hills, Calif.; a daughter, Candace Calloway Whiting of Seattle; two stepdaughters, Sandra Rankin of Danbury, Conn., and Barbara Mowry of Denver; and nine grandchildren. Her first marriage, to Nathaniel O. Calloway, ended in divorce.
        One of the many honors Dr. Calloway received came from the Quartermaster Institute in Chicago, which named her Man of the Year in 1959. She displayed the plaque prominently in her office and delighted in drawing attention to it.
      