
        Michael L. Katzev, an archaeologist who combined luck, scholarship and eight years of meticulous toil to raise, preserve and interpret one of the oldest and most intact seagoing cargo vessels ever discovered, died on Sept. 8 at his home in Southport, Me. He was 62.
        The cause was a stroke, his wife, Susan, said.
        Mr. Katzev led the team that found the 2,300-year-old ship off the town of Kyrenia on the north coast of Cyprus in 1967 and then worked eight years to delicately recover and reconstruct it. The home port and name of the vessel could never be discerned, so the vessel came to be called the Kyrenia Ship.
        For New Yorkers who saw an exact reproduction of the tubby, 47-foot, single-masted vessel with a rectangular sail glide through the parade of ships honoring the Statue of Liberty's 100th birthday in 1986, the vessel perhaps floats in memory as the smallest in the procession. But for students of the ancient Mediterranean, it looms large.
        Though much older seagoing ships have been found since -- including an intact 13th century B.C. vessel off southern Turkey in 1984 -- Mr. Katzev's discovery, at the time, was the best-preserved ship of the late classical period of Greek civilization.
        ''It told us how the Greeks built their ships,'' said J. Richard Steffy, an archaeologist at Texas A&M University. ''We had suspicions, but this really confirmed it.''
        The wreck also provided clues to the puzzles archaeologists love to solve, largely because it had been buried in sand, which protected it from oxygen and worms. The main cargo of more than 400 wine jars, mostly made in Rhodes, indicated the ship had stopped at that island. Ten jars in different shapes suggested a different port of call, perhaps Samos to the north.
        Markings on millstones indicated that they came from the island of Nisyros, while 10,000 almonds had probably just been collected from Cyprus. The fact that there were four each of plates, bowls, saucers and drinking cups was persuasive evidence that there was a crew of four.
        Most intriguing, the team was able to theorize that the vessel had been attacked and sunk by pirates, which ancient literature says were a scourge in the area. Spearheads were found embedded in the hull, and there is tantalizing evidence that a hole was made to sink the boat. No reefs are nearby.
        But what was missing was equally persuasive. There were few coins, and the captain's purse, which would have been expected, could not be found, said Mrs. Katzev, an archaeologist who worked on the project with her husband. She said the absence of bones suggested that the crew had been taken as slaves.
        Still, she acknowledged, the vessel might simply have died of old age. Carbon dating indicates that the trees used to build the ship were felled in 389 B.C., while the fresh-harvested almonds in the cargo gave a date of 288 B.C. That would suggest the ship was a century old, she said.
        Michael Lazare Katzev, the son of a magazine distribution executive, was born in Los Angeles on July 25, 1939. He studied economics at Stanford University, then earned a master's degree in art history at the University of California at Berkeley. He went to Columbia to study ancient bronze sculpture, but transferred to the University of Pennsylvania after realizing that such sculpture was most often found in shipwrecks.
        George F. Bass, considered the father of underwater archaeology, taught at Penn. Mr. Katzev went as a graduate student to work with Dr. Bass on Roman and Byzantine shipwrecks at Yassi Ada, Turkey.
        Mrs. Katzev recalled how he arrived on a hot, dusty day in 1964 in his red Mercedes sports car to join the project, where she had worked since 1961. She was covered with an oozing black compound used to make molds of objects.
        ''I don't know how he could get by that, but he did,'' she said.
        They were married two years later. He is also survived by a brother, Richard, of Portland, Ore.
        After they married, Dr. Bass dispatched the couple to visit other Mediterranean countries eager to have their coasts scoured for antiquities. In Cyprus, they learned that a sponge diver had found an intriguing pile of wine jars on the sea bottom. He took the newlyweds, both scuba divers, to have a look.
        ''It was like the most beautiful thing we had ever seen,'' Mrs. Katzev said.
        Then the work started. Using sophisticated methods of photography and instrumentation, they recorded the position of each object before touching it. Then, they picked everything up by hand, feeding it gently into an underwater vacuum cleaner.
        For years, they grappled daily with the painstaking task of reconstructing and stabilizing the artifacts. All that was left of iron objects were the sandy, cementlike incrustations that had enshrouded them. These casings had to be carefully filled with a casting compound to be used as molds to reconstruct the objects.
        The wood itself, which at first had the quality of wet bread, was impregnated with a waxlike compound to give it solidity. The process took a few months for the smaller pieces and two years for larger ones.
        The vessel, which had been 75 percent intact, was placed on display in the medieval Crusader castle of Ky renia, which is in a part of Cyprus now controlled by Turkey.
        Mr. Katzev then directed the reconstruction of the vessel for the government of Greece, which sent it as its representative to New York's tall ships parade and other events. As closely as could be learned or surmised, it was built according to traditional methods.
        Scholars had long assumed that ancient mariners had hugged the coasts at a lumbering speed, but the modern vessel, known as Kyrenia II, could travel at 12 knots, or nearly 14 miles an hour, in the open sea.
        Mr. Katzev, a connoisseur of horse racing, said, ''With a fair wind over her stern, Kyrenia II sails like a filly thoroughbred breaking track speeds, speeding well beyond our highest expectations.''
      