
        Tank Younger, a star fullback and linebacker for the Los Angeles Rams in the decade after World War II and the first athlete from a historically black college to play in the National Football League, died Saturday in Inglewood, Calif. He was 73.
        He had been in failing health for some time, the St. Louis Rams said.
        In a football career that spanned a half-century, Paul (Tank) Younger was one of the greatest players in the history of black college football, a five-time Pro Bowl player and an executive with the Rams and the San Diego Chargers.
        A tackle, running back and linebacker at Grambling College of Louisiana, now Grambling State University, Younger was the first star player turned out by the renowned coach Eddie Robinson. He was a star of the Rams team that won the N.F.L. championship in 1951, playing fullback and earning first-team All-Pro selection at linebacker.
        A 6-foot-3-inch, 225-pounder, Younger was a formidable presence who gained his nickname while playing at Grambling, where his godfather, Ralph Waldo Emerson Jones, was president.
        ''It was just after World War II,'' remembered Collie Nicholson, who was Grambling's sports information director. ''I was watching him run over everybody he couldn't run around. I'd been a Marine in the South Pacific, and it reminded me of what I saw those tanks doing down there.''
        ''When Tank made it in pro football, he paved the way for everyone else in the black colleges,'' Nicholson said. ''He made it possible for a lot of young players who had been overlooked before.''
        Younger, who had played for Robinson at Grambling High School in the war years, began his college career as a tackle, often scoring on trick end-around plays, then switched to running back. He scored 60 touchdowns in his college career, playing from 1945 to 1948.
        When Younger graduated from Grambling, there were only a few black players in the N.F.L., all from major colleges because the league did not scout the black schools. He was not drafted, instead signing with the Rams as a free agent for $6,000.
        Younger joined with Deacon Dan Towler and Dick Hoerner in the Rams' Bull Elephant backfield, a novel alignment of three 225-pound-plus speedy and bruising runners. They complemented the passing attack led by quarterbacks Bob Waterfield and Norm Van Brocklin and receivers Elroy (Crazylegs) Hirsch and Tom Fears in propelling the Rams to the 1951 N.F.L. championship.
        Playing nine seasons with the Rams and one year with the Pittsburgh Steelers, Younger gained 3,640 yards, averaging 4.7 yards a carry, and scored 34 touchdowns. He later scouted for the Rams, served as assistant general manager of the San Diego Chargers from 1975 to 1987, then rejoined the Rams, spending five years in a variety of administrative posts before retiring in 1995.
        In 1993, Younger and Walter Payton, the Chicago Bears star who had played at Jackson State, were named by sportswriters as the two running backs on black college football's 100th-year all-star team. Younger was inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame last year.
        He is survived by his wife, Lucille; a son, Howard; and two daughters, Harriette and Lucy.
        Younger once recalled what Robinson told him when he headed for the Rams' training camp in 1949: ''You have to remember, if you fail, there's no telling when another black athlete from a black college will get a chance to play pro football.''
        As Younger put it: ''I left school with the attitude that I couldn't fail. I saw some tough days, but I hung in there.''
        In his rookie season, the Rams' few black players had to stay in separate hotels from the white players for exhibition games in the South. ''I don't know if I felt like a trailblazer, but I experienced some of the same things Robinson experienced,'' Younger said, referring to Jackie Robinson, who broke baseball's color barrier in 1947. ''But I guess I was willing to do a lot of things to achieve my goal, and my goal was to be a football player in the N.F.L.''
      