
        Theodore Silverstein, a scholar of medieval literature at the University of Chicago whose subjects included Old English poetry and Late Latin visionary apocalypses and whose exploits as an intelligence officer in World War II were only recently revealed, died on Sept. 1.
        He was 96 and lived in Chicago.
        Dr. Silverstein was known for extending the work of 19th-century American scholars who realized that the dark ages were far from dark. His translation of the tale of Sir Gawain and the Green Knight was considered by some to surpass the previous definitive version, that of J. R. R. Tolkien.
        His scholarship was often playful, and he once made up a verse of Latin poetry to begin an article on his beloved Sir Gawain and signed it Petrus Argenteus, Latin for ''silver stone.''
        But his jokes sometimes suggested some fascinating thread in the rich tapestry of his life. The flyleaf of his translation of Sir Gawain, for instance, mentions ''an adventure of a certain knight, during which Professor Silverstein commanded an Air Force unit which requisitioned the Eiffel Tower.''
        The reference is to Dr. Silverstein's participation in an elite intelligence unit, which did indeed take over the tower to intercept communications of German planes during World War II.
        To be sure, his intelligence career contained stunning mishaps as well as brilliant successes. In trying to show his commanding officer a captured Belgian pistol, he accidentally fired the gun, hitting his superior in the groin. But Arnold C. Franco, who wrote a book about the unit, ''Code to Victory'' (Sunflower University Press, 1998), said the wounded officer, Harry Turkel, nonetheless later called him ''the finest intelligence officer in the Western Theater.''
        Hyman Theodore Silverstein was born on Oct. 11, 1904, in Liverpool and immigrated with his family to Boston in 1910. His father was a furniture salesman, and he attended the Boston Latin School. He then graduated from Harvard, where he stayed to earn his doctorate and teach.
        He accepted an appointment to teach at the University of Kansas City, a private college, now part of the University of Missouri. A freshman there, Mary Poindexter, became so enthusiastic about his brilliance that she attended all his lectures, even those in courses in which she was not enrolled. When he enlisted at 37 in the Army Air Forces in 1942, she wrote him every day for three years.
        They married after the war, after Dr. Silverstein agreed to her one demand: that he drop his first name, Hyman. His wartime career remained classified until the late 1980's. He first served in North Africa and Italy interrogating captured German pilots. He was then assigned to a new mobile unit that intercepted communications of German pilots and relayed them to Allied pilots.
        Dr. Silverstein joined the English department at the University of Chicago as an assistant professor in 1947, and stayed until his retirement in 1973.
        His intellectual work virtually began and ended with editions of the Apocalypse of Paul, an anonymous text written in the third century A.D., or even earlier, which tells of Paul's visits to heaven and hell. It was the subject of Dr. Silverstein's first book in 1935, and in 1997, he and Anthony Hilhorst, a Dutch scholar, cooperated on a version that many scholars consider definitive.
        Dr. Silverstein, who is also survived by his sister Mildred Nollman of Foxboro, Mass., is remembered for his talent for teasing. When a niece said she had never tried mincemeat pie, he gave a long lecture highlighted by the disclosure that the first such pie was found in fossilized form in China.
        He then offered what he said was the rival Russian claim, that the pie was actually Minsk pie.
      