
        Sallie M. Wheeler, an Anheuser-Busch heiress who led a successful campaign to return the nation's oldest and most prestigious horse show to Manhattan, died on Friday at her home in Keswick, Va. She was 70.
        Mrs. Wheeler, a lifelong equestrian, led efforts to return the National Horse Show to Madison Square Garden after it moved to the Meadowlands in New Jersey in 1989. With its audience full of black ties and evening gowns, the show had been a highlight of the high society calendar. But, facing financial burdens, it began to lose its luster in the 1980's.
        The show, a Manhattan mainstay since 1883, relocated to the Meadowlands amid rumors of impending bankruptcy. In New Jersey, the show increased in size and eliminated its debt but began to lose what Mrs. Wheeler saw as its greatest asset: its prestige.
        Mrs. Wheeler believed the National Horse Show was synonymous with its original location, Madison Square Garden. Throughout the show's history, and even during its seven years at the Meadowlands, fans referred to the show as simply the Garden. The horse show is among four events that have been held at the four different Madison Square Garden buildings. Mrs. Wheeler contributed her time and fortune to make sure it went back there.
        With much fanfare, the show returned to the Garden in 1996. To herald its homecoming, Mrs. Wheeler arranged for Seventh Avenue to be shut for a parade of Budweiser Clydesdales.
        The heyday of the show was over, however. What was once a weeklong event was condensed into four days and eventually into two and a half. And its stature in the New York social scene was only partly restored.
        Mrs. Wheeler's love of horses stemmed from her childhood. She was born Sallie Marie Busch on Aug. 22, 1931, in St. Louis to Catherine Milliken Busch and Adolphus Busch III, who became president of Anheuser-Busch in 1934.
        Mr. Busch and his brother, August A. Busch Jr., were partners at the brewery and were accomplished horsemen. As a child growing up on Grant's Farm, once the home of Ulysses S. Grant, Sallie rode horses, and when her father died in 1946, August Busch helped rear her. She began to ride competitively, and at 15, she made her first National Horse Show appearance.
        Supported by her stake in the family company, Sallie made a living of her love of horses. In 1965, she married Kenneth M. Wheeler, a professional horse trainer. During their more than 35 years of marriage, they raised and trained hundreds of champion horses at their farm in Keswick and participated in equestrian shows around the country.
        Among the most prominent and successful exhibitors in the horse world, the Wheelers won thousands of blue ribbons, an average of 200 to 300 each year. In 1987, the American Horse Shows Association named Mrs. Wheeler its horsewoman of the year. In 1999, the organization gave the Wheelers its lifetime achievement award.
        Upon receiving that award, Mrs. Wheeler said: ''It is rare that two people have so fully enjoyed a career in a profession and a hobby in a sport such as Kenny and I have been privileged to. We both realize that none of this would be possible without the fabulous animals we do dearly love and appreciate.''
        Mrs. Wheeler's first marriage, to Robert Motch, ended with his death.
        In addition to her husband, Mrs. Wheeler is survived by five children, Sallie M. Motch of Cold Spring, N.Y., Robert Motch of Carthage, Mo., Kenneth M. Wheeler Jr. of Memphis, Gordon L. Wheeler of Harrodsburg, Ky., and Douglas B. Wheeler of Keswick, Va., and nine grandchildren.
      