
        A. Joseph Debe, who had worked for more than two decades to create a stock derivative that became popular in the late 1980's, died at his home in Garden City, N.Y., on Sunday. He was 73.
        The cause was lung cancer, his daughter Gina O'Sullivan said.
        Born in Italy on Nov. 16, 1927, Mr. Debe came to the United States in 1934. He spent his childhood in Maine before moving to New York, where he attended Astoria High School. He served in the Navy as a pharmacist's mate for three years, then returned to New York, where he studied economics at City College.
        After a number of jobs in the securities industry, Mr. Debe became manager of the $160 million Surveyor mutual fund in 1971. Five years later, he founded the Americus Shareholder Service Corporation to work full time on a plan he had conceived in the late 1960's to create a kind of stock derivative that would help both conservative and aggressive investors.
        Shareholders profit from stocks either by cash dividend payments or by the capital gains that result when a stock's price rises. Risk-averse investors prefer the security of dividends, while more aggressive investors like the potential profits that result from big price increases.
        Mr. Debe realized he could split a single share into its dividend and capital gains components, creating two separate investments out of one stock. To do so, he formed trusts that issued two securities, the ''Prime'' and the ''Score,'' on individual stocks like Philip Morris and Merck. The Prime's returns came mainly from dividends, while those of the Scores were generated solely by gains in the underlying stock -- although if the stock did not rise, the Score unit was worthless. Both securities lasted five years from the day a trust was created, and both could be traded on the American Stock Exchange.
        Mr. Debe worked for more than a decade before winning approval from the Internal Revenue Service for a full-scale introduction of the new securities. ''He worked on it for a long time,'' said Barbara Mehringer, his assistant of 30 years. ''He was a very patient, very persevering person, and determined.''
        When Primes and Scores were introduced in 1987, they proved extremely popular, accounting on some days for more than 10 percent of the trading volume of the exchange. But after Americus had issued 27 of the trusts, the I.R.S. dealt Mr. Debe a heavy blow, ruling that the trusts would be subject to unfavorable tax treatment. The ruling effectively meant that Americus could not create more trusts.
        The ruling left Mr. Debe very disappointed, Ms. Mehringer said. But he did not give up, working until his death on other ways to recreate his idea.
        In addition to his daughter Gina, Mr. Debe is survived by three other daughters, Dawn Crociani, Karen Cosme and Joanne Hibner; two sons, Joseph and Peter; and 16 grandchildren.
      