
        Daniel C. Lewin, a co-founder of Akamai Technologies Inc., a leading developer of Internet services, died on Tuesday in the World Trade Center attack, the company said. He was 31.
        Mr. Lewin was aboard American Airlines Flight 11, a Boeing 767 that took off from Boston Tuesday morning bound for Los Angeles. Flight 11 was hijacked and crashed into the World Trade Center's north tower at 8:48 a.m. Tuesday, 18 minutes before a second airliner crashed into the south tower.
        Mr. Lewin, Akamai's chief technology officer, lived in Brookline, Mass.
        In 1998, Mr. Lewin co-founded Akamai in Cambridge, Mass., along with Tom Leighton, now Akamai's chief scientist, and Jonathan Seelig, now Akamai's vice president for strategy and corporate development.
        When they founded the company, Mr. Leighton was Mr. Lewin's professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where Mr. Leighton remains. Mr. Lewin received his master's degree in computer science from M.I.T. in 1997 for work he conducted under Mr. Leighton. When he died, Mr. Lewin was still pursuing his doctorate in computer science at M.I.T.
        Using technology and algorithms developed by Mr. Lewin and others, Akamai devised one of the most efficient systems for accelerating the delivery of Internet information, especially Web pages. When a company becomes an Akamai customer, Akamai generally distributes significant information for the client's Web pages to a network of server computers around the nation.
        Then, when a user tries to view one of the client's Web pages, the information can be sent from a server closer to the user's location rather than from a central point that could be on the other side of the continent. Such a setup can allow the client to save on overall server capacity while also delivering Web pages to users more quickly.
        Akamai has counted Apple, BestBuy.com, Nasdaq and Novartis among its customers.
        Before arriving at M.I.T. in 1996, Mr. Lewin studied computer science at Technion, a leading technology university in Israel, and also worked at an I.B.M. research laboratory in Haifa, Israel. Before going to college,  he spent four years in the Israeli military, serving in an elite army unit and rising to the rank of captain. A dual citizen of Israel and the United States, Mr. Lewin was born in Denver and raised in Jerusalem.
        Mr. Lewin is survived by his parents, Charles and Peggy, of Jerusalem; two brothers, Jonathan and Michael, of Jerusalem; his wife, Anne; and two sons, Eitan and Itamar.
      