
        Stephen Gorove, a jurist who was among the first to tackle the legal angles of the conquest of space, died on May 20 in Oxford, Miss., where he was a professor emeritus at the University of Mississippi. He was 83.
        His scholarship in international and space law became a cornerstone of the NASA-financed National Remote Sensing and Space Law Center, which opened on the Mississippi campus last year. He served as professor of space law and director of space studies and policy from 1981 until his retirement in 1998.
        Hungarian-born, Dr. Gorove received a doctor of law degree at the University of Budapest in 1939. After coming to this country, he studied at Yale University, where he received a master's of law degree in 1950, a doctorate in law in 1952 and a doctorate in philosophy in 1955.
        He was a research associate at Yale and Georgetown University, then taught at New York University Law School from 1954 to 1962 and at University of Denver until 1965. That year he joined the Mississippi faculty in 1965 as director of the graduate law program and helped turn Mississippi into an international center for space law studies.
        Dr. Gorove built a core program dealing with all aspects of space exploration. He founded the campus-based Journal of Space Law, the only periodical devoted exclusively to that subject, and remained on its board after reaching emeritus status.
        He received distinguished service awards from the American Astronomical Society and from the International Institute of Space Law, of which he was a past vice president.
        He addressed the first Space Law Congress at The Hague in 1958 and for many years represented the American Society of International Law before the United Nations Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space. He lectured at academic institutions around the world and was a consultant to the Institute of Air and Space Law of McGill University.
        He contributed to professional journals and was the author or editor of several books. He wrote ''Developments in Space Law: Issues and Policies'' (Kluwer, 1991) and ''United States Space Law: National and International Regulation'' (Oceana, 1982), both of which remain in print.
        Dr. Gorove is survived by two daughters, Katherine M. Gorove of Bethesda, Md., and Margaret C. Gorove of Washington; two sons, Stephen J., of Oxford, and Michael A., of Atlanta, and two grandchildren. His wife, Prof. Margaret Beasley Gorove, a former chairwoman of the university's arts department, died last year after 42 years of marriage.
      