
        George Ireland, who coached Loyola University of Chicago to the 1963 national basketball championship while taking a highly visible stride toward integration in college athletics, died last Friday in Addison, Ill. He was 88.
        Ireland coached for 24 seasons at Loyola, taking the Ramblers to the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament four times and to the National Invitation Tournament once during the 1960's. He had four 20-victory seasons during a five-year span in the 60's.
        But he was best remembered for the night in March 1963 when Loyola defeated Cincinnati, 60-58, in overtime for the N.C.A.A. championship at Freedom Hall in Louisville, Ky.
        The matchup pitted a Loyola team that led the nation in scoring, averaging 91.8 points a game, against a Cincinnati team that was the two-time defending champion and the nation's best on defense, yielding 52.9 points a game.
        It proved to be one of the most thrilling N.C.A.A. title games. Loyola forced overtime after trailing by 15 points midway through the second half, then defeated Cincinnati on Vic Rouse's layin of a rebound at the buzzer.
        But winning the title transcended athletic victory.
        Don Haskins, who coached a Texas Western team with an all-black starting lineup to the N.C.A.A. title in 1966 against Adolph Rupp's all-white Kentucky team, is recalled as a pioneer in integrating college basketball. But Ireland took important steps three years earlier.
        At a time when the 1960's civil rights struggle was still emerging, when segregation had yet to be broken, when college basketball was still predominately a white sport, Ireland had four black players in the starting lineup of his 1963 title team.
        Those four -- the all-American Jerry Harkness and Ron Miller, former teammates at DeWitt Clinton High School in the Bronx, and Les Hunter and Rouse, who had played together at Pearl High School in Nashville -- together with the sole white starter, guard Johnny Egan of Chicago, played the entire 45 minutes against Cincinnati.
        ''There was an unwritten rule in basketball that you didn't take blacks, at least more than one or two, onto your team,'' Harkness remembered. ''George Ireland broke the rules.''
        Ireland once said: ''A lot of these coaches hated the way I used so many blacks. They used to stand up at banquets and say, 'George Ireland isn't with us tonight because he's in Africa -- recruiting.' ''
        A native of Madison, Wis., Ireland was a star guard at Notre Dame in the mid-1930's and was the senior captain when Ray Meyer, the future Hall of Fame coach at DePaul in Chicago, was a sophomore.
        Ireland coached basketball at Marmion Military Academy in Aurora, Ill., from 1936 to 1951, then became the Loyola coach, succeeding his former Notre Dame teammate John Jordan.
        Coaching at Loyola from 1951 to 1975, Ireland achieved a record of 321-255. He had more victories and defeats than any other coach in the university's history.
        Ireland's wife, Gert, died in 1998. He is survived by a son, Michael; two daughters, Kathy Van Dyck, a Loyola cheerleader in 1963, and Judy Schwieger; eight grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
        Ireland was a disciplinarian as a coach. ''I was tough on my players,'' he said, ''but they respected that. They called me the Man.''
        He said that his adherence to strict standards paid off beyond basketball, noting that every player on his 1963 championship team graduated.
        ''I was selective in my recruiting,'' he once said. ''I don't have to go to the prisons to see the players I coached.''
        Correction:  September 27, 2001, Thursday  An obituary on Sept. 20 about George Ireland, former basketball coach at Loyola of Chicago, misidentified the Bronx high school attended by Ron Miller, one of his players. It was Christopher Columbus, not De Witt Clinton.
      