
        Sir Arthur Gilbert, a British-born real estate developer and philanthropist who donated his valuable collection of silverware and other decorative arts to a new museum in London that carries his name, died on Sunday in Los Angeles, his home for the last five decades. He was 88.
        His bequest, thought to be worth more than $300 million, is now housed in the Gilbert Collection at Somerset House on the banks of the Thames and comprises some 850 objects spanning the 15th to the 19th centuries, including silverware, gold snuff boxes, micromosaics and enameled portrait miniatures.
        More unusually, the museum, which opened to the public last year, also displays a life-size wax figure of Sir Arthur sitting at a desk in a replica of his Los Angeles office dressed casually and talking cheerfully on the telephone.
        Largely unknown in London in 1996 when his donation was announced, Sir Arthur was clearly eager to be remembered. ''People will say, 'Who in the hell was Gilbert?' '' he told The Financial Times at the time. ''I want them to know, 'He was the man who brought this to the people.' I suppose you could call it a kind of epitaph.''
        Born May 16, 1913, in Golders Green, London, to Lazarus and Bella Bernstein, who had emigrated to Britain from Poland 20 years earlier, he was sent to boarding school at 4. Always distant from his stern father, a successful furrier, Arthur decided not to enter the family business. Instead, in 1934, at 21, he married a struggling dress designer, Rosalinde Gilbert, whose surname he took and whose talent he learned to market.
        In 1949, having made a small fortune, he and his wife sold their company and, fleeing high taxes and cold weather in Britain, decided to retire to Los Angeles with their son, Colin. There, ever the businessman, he promptly went into real estate and, showing a knack for buying corner properties in new urban developments, made a second fortune. But, he later explained, ''to me, making money just for the sake of making money doesn't make any sense.''
        His discovery of how to spend it came almost accidentally, in 1968, when a California auctioneer interested him in tiny paintings that turned out to be micromosaics, images created by threads of glass.
        In time his collection came to comprise several collections. The silver and silver-gilt items include scores of ornate tankards, dishes, candelabra and cups that once decorated the royal and aristocratic dinner tables of Europe. To these he added two large silver ceremonial gates that were presented by Catherine the Great to a monastery near Kiev.
        Sir Arthur's gold collection includes an Anatolian ewer dating to around 2500 B.C., but most of it is made up of some 220 gold snuff boxes, many of them decorated with precious stones and miniature paintings. These, like his 260 micromosaics and his 80 portrait miniatures, are best appreciated through a magnifying glass.
        For 20 years much of the collection was on loan to the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, but the collector grew irritated by what he considered the inadequate space provided for its display and withdrew the objects in the mid-1990's. Coincidentally, plans were moving ahead in London to restore and convert Somerset House, an 18th-century palace long used by Britain's tax authorities.
        Through the intervention of Lord Rothschild, then chairman of the Heritage Lottery Fund in Britain, an agreement was reached in 1996: the fund would pay $30 million for the creation of gallery space in Somerset House, and the collection would be displayed, under the Gilbert name.
        Sir Arthur, who never renounced his British citizenship, was awarded a knighthood in 1999. In May of last year, Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother inaugurated the Gilbert Collection. Since then it has received more than 200,000 visitors.
        Rosalinde died in 1995. Sir Arthur married the former Marjorie Ha worth in 1997. She survives him, as does his son.
        Arthur and Rosalinde Gilbert were also benefactors of several charities, including the February 1941 Foundation, which was created to thank the Dutch people for helping fugitive Jews and downed Allied pilots in World War II. In Israel they founded the Arthur and Rosalinde Gilbert Center for the Advancement of Scientific Research and contributed toward buildings at Hebrew University in Jerusalem.
      