
        Robert R. Nathan, an economist who helped lead the nation's industrial mobilization in World War II, died on Sept. 4 at a group home in Bethesda, Md. He was 92 and lived in Bethesda.
        Mr. Nathan spent most of the 1930's with the Commerce Department before becoming chairman of the War Production Board's planning committee in 1942 at age 33.
        In the years before the United States entered World War II, Mr. Nathan often criticized what he called the nation's lackadaisical approach to increasing production.
        Mr. Nathan was often thought to resemble the fighter Primo Carnera, and he had a pugnacious personality to match his appearance. During the war, Mr. Nathan not only set production goals but helped achieve them by finding ways to increase factory production.
        In a four-page article on Mr. Nathan in 1942, Life magazine wrote: ''His greatest usefulness is as a 'needler.' He goes prowling through a great bureaucratic organization, looking for sour spots and needling the individuals responsible. For instance he may find, as he recently did, that the refrigerator manufacturers had been given several months leeway to keep on making electric refrigerators. To Nathan this means not only waste of steel but waste of production facilities which might be turning out searchlights and gun mounts.''
        The Life article said that Mr. Nathan enjoyed spending Sunday afternoons driving around the Washington area in his red Pontiac convertible, heckling slow-moving truck drivers.
        Raised in Dayton, Ohio, Mr. Nathan worked his way through the University of Pennsylvania by selling silk stockings and telephone memo pads and by working in a factory at night. After receiving a master's degree in 1933, he joined the Commerce Department, working on studies of national income.
        In 1946, Mr. Nathan left government service and started an economic consulting firm, Robert R. Nathan Associates, where he served as chairman until last month. Mr. Nathan's firm has conducted studies for industry associations and federal agencies and has had as clients the governments of several countries, including El Salvador, Israel and Vietnam.
        For a time in the 1950's, Mr. Nathan served as chairman of Americans for Democratic Action, a liberal advocacy group. In that position, he often criticized the Eisenhower administration for its conservative policy making and supported a more liberal approach. In 1959, for instance, the group called for undiminished contributions to the United Nations, an expanded foreign aid program, a Congressional pledge of full employment and a 67 percent increase in the minimum wage.
        In 1968, Mr. Nathan served as an adviser to Hubert H. Humphrey's presidential campaign.
        Mr. Nathan is survived by his wife, Mary T. Nathan of Bethesda; three children, Richard A. Nathan of Burbank, Calif., Ann L. Nathan of Clarksburg, Md., and David A. Nathan of Coatesville, Pa.; and a granddaughter.
      