
        David L. Yunich, who began his professional life as a minor-league catcher before rising to become vice chairman of R. H. Macy & Company and later chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority during some of the subway's darkest days, died on Wednesday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 84.
        Mr. Yunich had already had a long and successful career in retailing -- working his way up from a $35-a-week clerk to vice chairman during 33 years with Macy's -- before taking the job that made him a lightning rod for criticism of the crumbling subways during the mid-1970's.
        He was only the second head of the M.T.A., created in 1968 to oversee the region's transportation agencies. By the time he was appointed by Gov. Malcolm Wilson in 1974, the city was suffering from a dangerous hemorrhage of jobs, a growing fiscal crisis and a subway system badly in need of repairs it could not afford.
        The result was a downward spiral that Mr. Yunich (pronounced YOO-nish) struggled to stop for four years, with little success, before he resigned in 1977 in the midst of fierce budget battles with state officials.
        One of Mr. Yunich's first moves on taking over the agency was to secure an agreement to raise the subway and bus fare to 50 cents from 35, to try to patch widening holes in the operating budget. But the effect, at a time when the subway was already graffiti-covered and increasingly unreliable, was to drive more commuters away.
        Subway ridership had already declined by almost a million riders a day from 1964 to 1975; it dropped 5 percent more in the year after the fare increase. Bus ridership suffered even more. Badly needed revenue from the turnstiles also fell.
        Under pressure from the Emergency Financial Control Board, created by the state to oversee the city's budgets, Mr. Yunich tried to exact savings by cutting service, eliminating train runs and bus routes and shortening some trains.
        Mr. Yunich said the cuts were absorbed by the public with ''nary a whimper.'' But they appeared to further exacerbate the flight of passengers from subways and buses.
        In 1976, Mr. Yunich repeatedly threatened another fare increase, to 75 or 80 cents, in part to try to force the city and the control board to step in with financial help. This, however, seemed only to set him on a collision course with the new governor, Hugh L. Carey, and the head of the control board, Stephen Berger, who once derided Mr. Yunich for taking a vacation to his home in Barbados while subway service cuts were being announced.
        Mr. Yunich, who was not known for mincing words, later told reporters that the budget official did not have the clout of a ''flea crawling up an elephant's backside.'' Then he joked that the governor would probably blame him for the Yankees' troubles that year, too.
        Mr. Yunich relied on baseball analogies as often as a sportscaster -- but he came by it honestly.
        Mr. Yunich was born in Brownsville, Tex.; his family moved to Albany before he was a year old. His father became bedridden with arthritis when Mr. Yunich was young, and the family struggled to make ends meet.
        He graduated from Union College in Schenectady, where he was a standout on the college baseball team. He was accepted by Harvard Business School, but he wavered between the worlds of business and sports, playing catcher for the Cincinnati Reds farm team even while he attended classes. He would also, however, sell clothes to fans before the game.
        Somehow, in the middle of all of this, he managed to marry the former Beverly Blickman. She survives him, as do two sons: Robert, of Manhattan, and Peter, of Bayville, N.Y.
        Mr. Yunich once said that he would have gladly made a career of baseball -- his batting average was near .300 -- except that he was stocky, short and, sadly, too slow a runner to make it in the majors.
        ''I'd reach for an outside pitch and send a scorcher into the outfield,'' he said, ''and sometimes the fielder would scoop it up and try to throw me out at first base.''
      