
        Fred V. Morrone, the superintendent of police and director of public safety for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, died in the Sept. 11 collapse of the World Trade Center towers, where the agency had its headquarters, his family said. He was 63 and lived in Lakewood, N.J.
        Lewis M. Eisenberg, the Port Authority chairman, said that agency employees had encountered Mr. Morrone heading upward at 1 World Trade Center, in a rescue effort, as they fled from offices on the 66th or 67th floors after a hijacked jet crashed into the tower.
        ''He would hesitate momentarily to assure them they'd get out safely,'' Mr. Eisenberg said.
        ''His encouragement, and the fact he was moving up while others were coming down, gave them a sense of security.''
        Mr. Morrone had planned to have breakfast that morning at Windows on the World, on the 107th floor of the tower, with Neil D. Levin, the executive director of the Port Authority, who also died.
        Mr. Morrone had served since August 1996 as manager of the 1,300-member Port Authority police force, which patrols the metropolitan region's three major airports, the bridges and tunnels linking New York and New Jersey, the Port Authority Bus Terminal in Manhattan, the PATH rail system and other facilities.
        Mr. Morrone, who grew up in Brooklyn and in Princeton, N.J., received a bachelor's degree in political science from the Richard Stockton College of New Jersey and a master's degree in public administration from Rider University.
        He was a member of the New Jersey State Police from 1963 to 1993, reaching the rank of lieutenant colonel, and had commanded its Casino Gaming Bureau and Intelligence Services Section.
        He is survived by his wife, Linda; two sons, Gregory, of Lakewood, and Hutch, of Westerly, R.I.; a daughter, Alyssa of Fair Lawn, N.J.; a sister, Patricia Freda of New Jersey; and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  September 28, 2001, Friday  Fred V. Morrone, the superintendent of police and director of public safety for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, died on Sept. 11 in the collapse of the World Trade Center towers. A photograph with his obituary yesterday was published in error and showed Chief Thomas Farrell of the Port Authority police.
        Correction:  September 28, 2001, Friday  A picture yesterday with an obituary of Fred V. Morrone, the superintendent of police and director of public safety for the Port Authority, was published in error. It showed Thomas Farrell, a chief of the Port Authority police. A picture of Mr. Morrone appears today, on Page D6.
      