
        SPEAKING of Labor Day, there are easier jobs than being The Rat.
        First off, there is this problem of being a streetwise 15-foot-tall inflatable gray beast with fierce red eyes, prominent white fangs and claws poised in a fighting stance. There is the undeniable reality, too, that The Rat is full of hot air.
        In fulfilling its year-round mission of embarrassing nonunion construction contractors, The Rat endures more rain, snow, sleet and gloom of of night than a letter carrier. Not to mention the challenge of New York's Labor Day parade this Saturday, when The Rat rides up Fifth Avenue on a very slow float under a very hot sun.
        ''Yet it never complains,'' says Anthony Esemplare, whose job it is to deploy The Rat for the 9,000-member Construction and General Building Laborers Local 79.
        In its role as champion of the city's construction unions, The Rat will have its own Labor Day float, clutching American flags in its claws. But its life is hardly constant adulation. The Rat has been deflated accidentally when its gasoline-powered generator has unexpectedly cut out. And there has been unkindness. More than once, it has been viciously stabbed. In fact, after a still unsolved slashing, Mr. Esemplare recalled, The Rat ''was confiscated by police and held for interrogation in 1 Police Plaza.''
        Mr. Esemplare has been a Local 79 union organizer for the last five years, after working for 11 years as a manual laborer on construction sites. It is now Mr. Esemplare's lot to inflate (7 minutes, thanks to a portable gas generator), and deflate (15 seconds) The Rat. It folds into a red duffel bag that he stores in his black Explorer.
        Not only is he guardian of the patch kit, but he also serves as maintenance guy. ''I give him a manicure once a month,'' Mr. Esemplare says, ''and I wash him down in my backyard.''
        To see The Rat in action is to see Mr. Esemplare as the Pied Piper. So Friday, 200 construction workers have turned out for duty at a nonunion construction site at the northeast corner of 17th Street and Avenue of the Americas.
        More than 200 union hardhats from neighboring construction sites are chanting, clapping and jeering in protest. And here is Mr. Esemplare, exhorting them, striding between The Rat and the blue police barricades that pen the demonstrators. Everyone at the rally knows Mr. Esemplare. ''He gets the people out,'' says Kevin Carmody, an 18-year member of Local 79 who lives in Riverdale, ''and then he gets them going.''
        For construction workers, The Rat is ''a rallying point and a symbol,'' says Anthony Silveri, business manager of the Mason Tenders District Council, which oversees Local 79. ''We have no problem with the guys working these jobs, they're just trying to feed their families or send money home. Our problem is with the contractors who are exploiting them, giving them substandard wages and no benefits.''
        At this point, though, a secret must be revealed: there is more than one rat. In fact, on Friday, a total of six construction-worker rats are up and battling across the city.
        Mr. Esemplare insists that Local 79 introduced the first inflatable rally rat to New York five years ago. Other area unions are fielding their own, so that as many as 35 inflatable rodents are working the region.
        The King Rat could be a 30-foot inflatable that is often reserved for high-rise sites. Rats cost  $3,500 to $7,500 -- depending on size -- and, for Local 79, are made by Big Sky Balloons and Searchlights Inc. of Plainfield, Ill.
        WITH his salt-and-pepper, high-and-tight crew cut, the 40-year-old Mr. Esemplare -- stocky, 5-foot-6, and known to all as Dino for his crooning -- could possibly be mistaken for Billy Joel.
        He was born in the Sunset Park area of Brooklyn, graduated from Chelsea Vocational High School in Manhattan, and believes ''I was blessed by the organizing angels.'' Meaning his career was ordained after his late father, Thomas, a Teamster, took him to his first union meeting at the age of 8. Now his 19-year-old son, Anthony Jr., has his union card at Local 79.
        Yesterday, Mr. Esemplare said over the phone that he was celebrating Labor Day as its founders intended: at home (in Staten Island, at a cookout with his wife of 21 years, Maria). Labor Day was down time for The Rat as well. ''The rats get off weekends and holidays,'' Mr. Esemplare said, ''because they work so hard during the week.''
        Indeed. On Friday, unexpected winds and looming thundershowers have added several degrees of difficulty to inflatable-rodent management. Inflation accomplished, the hardhats rally round, and Dino starts crooning the venerable call-and-response that has been a staple of union actions, and Labor Days, for generations:
        Everywhere we go,
        People want to know,
        Who we are,
        So we tell them:
        We are the union,
        The mighty, mighty union!
        PUBLIC LIVES
      