
        Solomon Sagall, an early proponent of pay television, died on Sept. 6 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in New York. He was 101.
        In the 1930's Mr. Sagall was among the first to seize on the commercial potential of technology for transmitting video and sound over the airwaves to remote screens, using it first to broadcast sporting events to paying audiences in theaters.
        Later, waging a prolonged battle against broadcasters and theater owners, he became the leading prophet of what is now known as pay-per-view television.
        His 30-year-long drive proved quixotic in the end. His own company, Teleglobe Pay-TV Systems Inc., sought to broadcast coded programming and charge customers a fee for the use of decoding devices attached to their television sets. Just as his plans neared fruition, his concept was overtaken by the advent of cable television. Although cable television was not exactly the revolution Mr. Sagall had in mind, his stalwart advocacy helped to bring it about.
        The son of a Russian rabbi in the town of Podberzye, near Minsk, Mr. Sagall attended the University of Moscow before emigrating to Berlin after the Russian Revolution. He then studied economics and political science in Berlin and continued his education at the London School of Economics.
        ''Dad went to four universities and spoke five foreign languages -- Russian, German, Yiddish, Hebrew, English and some French -- but he never got a degree,'' said Mr. Sagall's son, Joel, of New York.
        Mr. Sagall started his career as a journalist, writing in Russian and Yiddish for a Zionist newspaper when he lived in Berlin and continuing to write about Zionism as a freelance correspondent in London.
        But his life changed in 1929 when he read an article about a Hungarian engineer's invention for transmitting video images through the air. He immediately borrowed money to travel to Berlin to acquire the rights to the technology. Although he abandoned the technology almost immediately for a different system designed by a British engineer, Mr. Sagall had found his calling.
        ''When I was a Zionist, I was a visionary,'' Mr. Sagall often told his family, ''then I became a televisionary.''
        Mr. Sagall started a company called Scophony to use the technology. Its first venture was broadcasting sporting events to four-foot-high television screens in two London theaters. Mr. Sagall's goal was to use television to make ''every home a theater,'' with ''television universities'' and ''news for breakfast,'' his son said.
        During World War II, Scophony shifted to the military industry and Mr. Sagall moved to New York. After manufacturing chemicals for the war effort and making televisions for bars and taverns, in 1957 he founded Teleglobe-Pay Systems, based on technology for transmitting coded programming.
        Broadcast networks and movie theater owners were firmly opposed to the idea of charging for television, fearing that it would threaten their businesses and deprive the public of free programming altogether. At their behest, regulators and lawmakers blocked the idea.
        But Mr. Sagall maintained that charging a fee would elevate broadcast fare. ''Television has largely become a kind of soporific, a mild narcotic having the effect of preventing the majority of the viewers from exercising their thinking faculties,'' he testified in Congressional hearings in 1958.
        Mr. Sagall, meanwhile, began dabbling in theatrical production, partly as a source of programming for Teleglobe. His first production, in 1968, was ''I'm Solomon,'' a translation of a play about the biblical King Solomon. It was a hit in Tel Aviv. But its popularity derived mainly from Hebrew wordplay, and the English production became an expensive flop. Mr. Sagall later staged a smaller production of a play in Yiddish.
        By the 1970's, regulators had dropped barriers to pay television. Soon, however, Mr. Sagall's proposed system for broadcasting coded signals was overtaken by cable, which provided more channels. His company, Teleglobe, eventually licensed its pay-per-view technology to cable companies.
        In 1984, Mr. Sagall was elected a fellow of the Royal Television Society of London. He continued going to his office and pursuing other projects until health problems interfered last December.
        In addition to his son, Mr. Sagall is survived by two nephews: Sabby Sagall of London and Myron Sagall of Silver Spring, Md.
        Throughout his career, his son recalled, ''behind his back, they would say that my father was a Luftmensch -- a man who floats in air, a dreamer.''
      