
        Sally F. Reston, a newspaper publisher, photographer and writer who was for 60 years as much a partner as a wife to the columnist James B. Reston of The New York Times, died Saturday at her home in Washington. She was 89.
        ''Sally not only married me but also educated me,'' Mr. Reston wrote in ''Deadline,'' a memoir published four years before his death in 1995. ''For while I was focusing narrowly on journalism in college, she was studying and taking the highest honors in philosophy and literature and thereafter regarded life as a postgraduate course in these subjects.''
        The Restons fashioned a professional alliance within their marriage that was unusually close for its time, not an easy one for women in journalism. Indeed, Mr. Reston himself was criticized for running The Times's Washington bureau in the 1950's and 60's as something of a men's club.
        But there was no disputing the importance of Mrs. Reston's role.
        ''I don't have any doubt that Sally has been a great influence on his life and his work,'' said Tom Wicker, who succeeded Mr. Reston as The Times's top Washington correspondent, in the 1992 documentary ''James Reston: The Man Millions Read,'' produced and directed by Susan W. Dryfoos.
        From 1968 to 1988 the Restons were co-publishers of The Vineyard Gazette on Martha's Vineyard. The Gazette is a 155-year-old country weekly (published twice weekly in the summer) with an outsized national reputation and an influential cast of readers.
        Mrs. Reston lived in London with her husband early in World War II and returned to file more than 20 dispatches to The Times describing women's wartime roles, not only in Britain but also in Germany. ''Women Must Get Jobs, Nazis Warn'' and ''Destruction From Air Increases Burden of German Housewife'' were among the headlines.
        In a front-page article on Sept. 29, 1943, Mrs. Reston reported on a meeting of 6,000 women at Albert Hall at which Prime Minister Winston Churchill warned presciently that the war might last until the autumn of 1945.
        She would often join her husband in interviews with world leaders and bring her own questions and ebullient manner to the table. Mrs. Reston doubled as a photographer and chronicled her husband's appendectomy, with acupuncture for the anesthetic, at the Anti-Imperialist Hospital in Beijing in 1971.
        Mrs. Reston also served on the board of the Mexican-American Legal Defense and Educational Fund from the 1970's through the 1990's.
        She was born Sarah Jane Fulton in Sycamore, Ill., 55 miles west of Chicago. Her father, William J. Fulton, was a state judge who served twice as chief justice of the Illinois Supreme Court. But he objected to her going to law school.
        The Restons met at the University of Illinois in 1930. ''She was a Phi Beta Kappa,'' Mr. Reston recalled. ''I was a C-minus student.''
        They married on Dec. 24, 1935, and had three sons: Richard F. of Edgartown, Mass., who is now editor and publisher of The Gazette; James B. Jr. of Chevy Chase, Md.; and Thomas B. of Washington. Mrs. Reston is also survived by five grandchildren.
        The Restons were designated by Katharine and Philip Graham of The Washington Post to serve as parents for their own children in the event of their deaths. ''We believed Scotty and Sally would most nearly approximate our values and our love,'' Mrs. Graham wrote in her 1997 memoir, ''Personal History.''
        Ever eager to nudge the spotlight toward her husband, Mrs. Reston punctured his depiction of the academic gulf between them in a 1992 interview, recalling a class six decades earlier in which he received an A and she received a B.
        Then, unable to contain a broad smile, she confessed, ''That still rankles -- that he got a better grade.''
      