
        Calvin C. Hernton, a scholar, critic and poet whose work explored the terrain where American race relations collide with American sexual politics, died on Oct. 1 at his home in Oberlin, Ohio. He was 69.
        He had been ill with cancer for some time, said a spokesman for Oberlin College, where Mr. Hernton was emeritus professor of African-American studies.
        A prolific writer whose work spanned a wide variety of genres, Mr. Hernton was the author of several significant books of social and literary criticism, including the landmark study ''Sex and Racism in America'' (Doubleday, 1965), ''White Papers for White Americans'' (Doubleday, 1966) and ''The Sexual Mountain and Black Women Writers'' (Doubleday, 1987). He also published scholarly articles on subjects ranging from marijuana use to analyses of the work of Langston Hughes, James Baldwin and Chester Himes; a novel, ''Scarecrow'' (Doubleday, 1974); short stories; dramatic work; and books of poetry.
        Uniting his diverse output was a propulsive desire to question -- and at times to subvert -- received wisdom about how social institutions function. In ''White Papers,'' Mr. Hernton used personal essays about his experience as a black man in America as a window on the larger workings of race, sex and class. In his fiction and poetry, he played the formal preoccupations of modernists like Hughes and T. S. Eliot off against voices from African-America oral tradition.
        But it was for ''Sex and Racism in America'' that Mr. Hernton remained best known. In this provocative work, Mr. Hernton, a sociologist by training, examined the ways in which racism operates in concert with relations between the sexes. The result -- a complex, uneasy and sometimes violent pas de deux -- was, he argued, the historical legacy of a social dynamic begun during slavery.
        ''Many people were outraged by that book,'' recalled the novelist, poet and publisher Ishmael Reed, who published two volumes of Mr. Hernton's poetry. ''He went into a section of the American experience that you were not supposed to talk about.''  The book's central thesis is that modern race relations are rooted in hierarchies of sexual dominance forged in the slave era. Mr. Herndon argued that white men were puritanical in sexual matters and dealt with their sexual urges by ''elevating'' white women beyond the reach of base desire, turning instead to a marginalized population -- black women -- to meet their needs. To allay their subsequent guilt, these men valorized themselves by constructing the opposing stereotype of the black man as sexual predator, crazed with lust for white women, a stock character in American demonology that informs race relations to this day.
        This connection between skin color and sexuality, Mr. Hernton wrote, is ''so immaculate and yet so perverse, so ethereal and yet so concrete, that all race relations tend to be, however subtly, sexual relations.''
        Calvin Coolidge Hernton was born April 28, 1932, in Chattanooga, Tenn. He received a B.A. in sociology from Talladega College in Alabama and a master's degree in the same field from Fisk University. In the mid-1950's, Mr. Hernton worked as a social worker for children in New York City, where he also gave frequent poetry readings and was a founder and editor of the magazine Umbra, which published Langston Hughes, Ishmael Reed and Alice Walker. From 1965 to 1969 he was a fellow at the Institute of Phenomenological Studies in London, where he studied under the psychiatrist R. D. Laing.
        In 1970, Mr. Hernton went to Oberlin as a writer in residence, joining the college's black studies department two years later. From 1980 until his retirement, in 1999, he was professor of African-American studies and creative writing.
        Mr. Hernton is survived by his wife, Mary O'Callaghan Hernton, of Oberlin, and by a son from a previous marriage, Antone, of Brooklyn.
        In much of his work, Mr. Hernton anticipated black feminist writers like Ms. Walker and Toni Morrison with his frank discussion of black men's abusive treatment of black women. Writing in Black American Literature Forum in 1984, he said: ''Black men write a lot about the 'castrating' black female, and feel righteous about doing so.'' The situation is different, he wrote, ''when black women write about the incest, rape and sexual violence committed by black men against black females of all ages.'' Then, ''black men accuse the women of sowing seeds of 'division' in the black community.''
        ''In other words,'' Mr. Hernton continued, ''when the women tell the truth about men and refuse to accept the blame for what men have done to them, the men get mad as hell.''
      