
        Gerald B.H. Solomon, a conservative former congressman from New York who led crusades to punish flag burners and draft dodgers, died today at his home in Glens Falls, N.Y.
        Mr. Solomon, who retired from the House in 1998, died from congestive heart failure, his family said. He was 71.
        During his 20 years in Congress, Mr. Solomon was a tough-talking advocate of conservative causes.
        A former marine who was an ardent supporter of the Reagan administration's military buildup, he doggedly fought for veterans' benefits and reformed House procedures after the Republican takeover in 1994 as chairman of the powerful Rules Committee.
        President Bush called Mr. Solomon ''a true patriot,'' adding that the decorated marine ''will always be remembered as true to his creed: duty, honor, country.''
        ''Nobody was willing to fight harder for freedom than Jerry Solomon,'' said House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert.
        Mr. Solomon's tart-tongued patriotism earned him some detractors.
        In 1990, he lashed out at then-Speaker Thomas S. Foley for refusing to delay a vote on a constitutional amendment to prohibit flag burning. Insisting that veterans' lobbyists needed more time to muster support, he accused Speaker Foley of ''kowtowing'' to groups such as the Communist Youth Brigade.
        Mr. Solomon later apologized for the remark, which was stricken from the Congressional Record.
        Representing a largely rural and conservative district ranging from the outskirts of New York City into the Adirondacks, Mr. Solomon was equally adamant in his opposition to gun control and narcotics use.
        In 1996, he angrily challenged Representative Patrick Kennedy of Rhode Island to ''step outside'' in a dispute over a proposal to outlaw assault weapons. Mr. Solomon invoked the safety of his wife, Freda, in opposing the ban.
        ''My wife lives alone five days a week in a rural area in upstate New York,'' Mr. Solomon told Mr. Kennedy. ''She has a right to defend herself when I'm not there, son. And don't you ever forget it.''
        Mr. Solomon, who served more than eight years in the Marines beginning in the Korean War, projected a military bearing and showed little patience for Americans who evaded service. He successfully pushed to deny federal student aid to men who failed to register for the draft.
        Born in Okeechobee, Fla., Mr. Solomon moved to New York in 1945, where he attended Siena College and St. Lawrence University before leaving to join the Marines. In 1955, he married Freda Parker, whom he had met in high school. He is survived by her, their five children and six grandchildren.
        Mr. Solomon worked as an insurance salesman from Glens Falls, became a New York assemblyman in 1972 and was elected to Congress in 1978. Despite his conservative leanings, he was not a free-market purist. Over the years, he opposed the North American Free Trade Agreement and sought to deny trade benefits to China in retaliation for its treatment of pro-democracy demonstrators in 1989.
        He became prominent in the Republican leadership, and in 1994, he briefly challenged Newt Gingrich for the speakership after the retirement of Republican leader Bob Michel. When Mr. Gingrich prevailed he rewarded his outspoken rival with the chairmanship of the Rules Committee. From that perch, Mr. Solomon overhauled House procedures, ending votes by proxy in committee and limiting committee chairmen to three terms.
        His strong support of business interests from his district won him the sobriquet ''the congressman from General Electric,'' but he supported several projects backed by organized labor, including the family leave bill and a law to prevent companies from replacing employees on strike.
        Within months of his retirement from Congress, Mr. Solomon stirred some controversy by becoming a lobbyist for General Electric. Critics said he appeared in a rush to capitalize on his ties to members of Congress, though the law prevented him from lobbying former colleagues for a year. Mr. Solomon was untroubled by the charge, saying he restricted his lobbying to members of the Clinton administration.
        ''You can't deprive a person of their income,'' he said. ''I'm going to work until I'm 85.''
      