
        George P. Brockway, former president and chairman of the publishing house W. W. Norton & Company, died on Friday at his home in Chappaqua, N.Y. He was 85.
        He had a long illness, the company said in announcing his death.
        After doing much editing at Norton, which is based in Manhattan, Mr. Brockway was its president from 1958 to 1976 and chairman from 1976 to 1984, when he retired. He joined the company in 1942, beginning as a copy editor and salesman.
        In 1973, when independent book-publishing houses were considered fair game for takeovers, he vowed that Norton had ''never been for sale and is not likely to be.''
        Norton's current president and chairman, W. Drake McFeely, said,  ''He invented Norton's independence and ownership structure that allowed W. W. Norton & Company to remain independent 78 years after its founding and long after all the other famous book-publishing houses established in the 1920's have been merged into larger corporate entities.'' All Norton's stock is now owned by people who currently work at Norton.
        In the 1950's Mr. Brockway also created the Norton Anthologies, a still continuing series of collections of writings, including ''The Norton Anthology of World Masterpieces,'' ''The Norton Anthology of English Literature'' and ''The Norton Anthology of American Literature.'' A total of more than 20 million copies of the books in the series have been sold.
        Mr. Brockway also published such bestsellers as Betty Friedan's ''Feminine Mystique,'' Fawn Brodie's ''Thomas Jefferson: An Intimate History,'' Judge John Sirica's ''To Set the Record Straight,'' about the Watergate case, and Norman Cousins's ''Anatomy of an Illness.''
        He also published many books by the psychiatrist-author Erik H. Erikson.
        In addition, Mr. Brockway and a colleague, Evan W. Thomas 2nd, bought the book rights to Robert F. Kennedy's 25,000-word account of the Cuban missile crisis, ''Thirteen Days,'' for more than $250,000, which was a bestseller.
        George Pond Brockway was born in Portland, Me., grew up there and received a bachelor's degree in 1936 from Williams College, where he was the editor of Sketch, the college literary monthly, and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa.
        He was with the McGraw-Hill Book Company from 1937 to 1942 and served in the Army from 1944 to 1946. He was an artillery officer in France and Germany. He went on to be a vice president at Norton and a member of its board of directors.
        He was also a director of the Yale University Press, wrote books and articles on economics and was a columnist for New Leader magazine and a founder of the journal Post-Keynesian Economics.
        His wife, Lucile Hunt Brockway, died in 1988. His wife, Elizabeth Love Brockway, died in 1999.
        He is survived by four daughters, Susan Brockway Aradeon of Lagos, Nigeria; Nancy Brockway of Concord, N.H.; Sally Brockway Borger of Ridegefield, Conn.; and Laura Brockway of Atlanta; three sons, David, of Washington; Douglas, of Acton, Mass.; and Andrew, of Maynard, Mass.; and nine grandchildren.
      