
        Daniel Wildenstein, the French-born head of one of the art world's wealthiest and most secretive dynasties who was also a prominent figure in thoroughbred horse-racing circles, died on Tuesday in a Paris hospital, the Wildenstein Institute announced here today. He was 84.
        Mr. Wildenstein, whose family owns two prominent art galleries in New York and one in Tokyo, was both a highly successful art dealer and an art expert in his own right. He wrote the catalogues raisonnes for Monet, Manet and Gauguin, while several other catalogues raisonnes were published by the Paris-based Wildenstein Institute.
        The third member of the billionaire art dynasty, Mr. Wildenstein inherited the company from his father, Georges, who in turn succeeded his grandfather, Nathan, who fled to France when Alsace was annexed by Germany in 1870.
        The company, which owns a vast but rarely seen collection of works by both old and modern great masters, is now run by Mr. Wildenstein's sons, Guy and Alec, from its current headquarters on East 64th Street in Manhattan.
        The wealth and power of the Wildenstein family have often been the source of resentment in art circles, with Mr. Wildenstein himself frequently embroiled in legal disputes. One current case involves a claim that the Wildensteins illegally acquired illuminated manuscripts seized from another French Jewish collector, Alphonse Kann, by the Nazi occupiers of Paris in 1940. The Wildensteins have rejected the claim, but a New York court recently agreed to hear the case.
        In another case being heard in Paris, the Wildensteins have sued Hector Feliciano, the American author of ''The Lost Museum: The Nazi Conspiracy to Steal the World's Greatest Works of Art,'' for suggesting that Georges Wildenstein collaborated with the Nazis. The family strongly denied the charge, but both a lower French court and a court of appeal have rejected its claim to $1 million in damages. The Wildensteins are now appealing to France's highest court.
        No less embarrassing to the soft-spoken and discreet Mr. Wildenstein was the scandal in 1997 that surrounded the messy divorce of his son, Alec, who was accused of threatening his wife, Jocelyne, with a pistol when she caught him in bed with a young woman. Before the divorce proceedings were settled, Mrs. Wildenstein went out of her way to denounce her husband's family in gossip magazines and tabloids.
        Born on Sept. 11, 1917, in Verrieres-le-Buisson outside Paris, Mr. Wildenstein was raised in the world of art, attending the Ecole du Louvre after graduating from the University of Paris.
        He worked as exhibitions director at the Jacquemart-Andre Museum here and the Chaalis Museum north of Paris before becoming chairman of the board of Wildenstein & Company in 1959, four years before his father's death.
        Although the Wildensteins resumed operations in Paris after World War II, they stopped doing business here in the early 1960's after Andre Malraux, France's minister of culture at the time, publicly accused Georges Wildenstein of bribing a ministry official to authorize the export and sale abroad of Georges de la Tour's painting ''The Fortune Teller.'' The case never went to court, while Mr. Wildenstein refused to explain why the family ended its French operation.
        Mr. Wildenstein, who is survived by his two sons, Guy and Alec, and six grandchildren, as well as by his second wife, Sylvia Roth, always considered himself first and foremost a scholar, but he was almost as devoted to horse racing. The owner of important stables, he was six times France's leading owner, and his horses won the prestigious Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe on four occasions.
        The publicity surrounding some recent lawsuits prompted him to break his silence in 1999 in ''Art Dealers,'' a book of interviews with a French journalist, Yves Stravides. In it, he not only recounted the story of his grandfather's love of art but also defended his father against charges of collaboration and accused Malraux of malice.
        A year earlier, his son, Guy, who is now president of Wildenstein & Company, explained in an interview that, by not responding to charges, the family had given the impression of acquiescing to allegations. ''We decided not to remain indifferent now,'' he said.
        ''For me, the honor of my family is at stake,'' he added.
      