
        Eleanor Ann McDonald, who bred a fabulously and famously cute marshmallow of a dog -- a bichon frisé judged best in show at the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show this year -- died Oct. 11 in Port Chester in Westchester County, N.Y. She was 66.
        The cause was a stroke, her nephew Brian McDonald said. He said she had lived in the same house in Scarsdale her entire life.
        Her champion dog, Special Times Just Right, has won 100 best-in-show awards, beating his own and other breeds. His ultimate triumph was victory over 2,500 dogs to win the top award at Westminster last February. He did this by matching the exact standards for the breed.
        ''He's as close to perfection as you can get,'' said Dorothy Macdonald, the judge.
        J. R., as he is known to friends, meaning everyone, is a dazzlingly white, 14-pound, intensely furry powder puff with sparkling black-currant eyes. But his attitude is his most distinguishing characteristic, as befits a champion bichon frisé. The breed standard for temperament decrees: ''A cheerful attitude is the hallmark of the breed and one should settle for nothing less.''
        When he won at Westminster, J. R. celebrated by jumping inside the sterling bowl he had just been presented, raising his front paws and beating them in the air like Rocky,  his signature gesture. The next morning, he cranked the charm up to panda level as he made the rounds of the morning talk shows.
        On ''Good Morning America,'' Diane Sawyer called J. R. the ''Sally Field of the dog world.''
        Miss McDonald, who was born in Mount Vernon, N.Y., on Oct. 13, 1934, traveled a circuitous route to dog-fancy stardom. She graduated from Mount Holyoke College, worked for the advertising agency Dancer, Fitzgerald & Sample and then fell ill, having a liver transplant on June 17, 1991. She never married, and is survived by her brother, Henry C. McDonald of Naples, Fla.
        She and her mother once had a poodle, which died. Then in 1992, Miss McDonald went to Mimi Winkler, a bichon frisé breeder, and acquired her first canine fluff ball. ''She wanted something else in life,'' Ms. Winkler said. ''She wanted a dog who could become her child.''
        Mr. McDonald said that his aunt began to breed the dogs in 1993, and some of the first did well at shows. Four years later, she acquired Oliver, a bichon frisé from Brazil, and introduced him to Candy, a bitch she already owned. First, however, the dogs were shown. They bred only after both were certified champions.
        On Nov. 12, 1997, Special Times Just Right was born as a singleton in a breed in which litters usually range from four to eight. The first part of his name came from a program in South Carolina for children with cancer, Happy Days and Special Times. The pup seemed ''just right'' as he cavorted around Miss McDonald's dining room, his birthplace, giving him the second part of his name.
        Scott Sommer, who handled J. R. at dog shows, said Miss McDonald gave the dog every toy imaginable, adding, ''At restaurants, she would always order what she thought he would like some of.''
        At 6 months, J. R. began competing. Because of the steep expense of a dog show campaign, his first handler, Flavio Werneck, became a part-owner. So did Cecelia Ruggles, who lives in Ridgefield, Conn., and had experience showing bichons frisés.
        Miss McDonald, however, was the major force in a full-fledged campaign for glory. ''She knew he was a great one, so she really wanted to give it a whirl,'' Ms. Ruggles said.
        The result was that J. R. entered Westminster as the top-ranked dog in the country and then became the first of his breed to win America's top dog show. The victory came after a long, winding journey for the breed, bichon frisé.
        The breed originated around the Mediterranean Sea, as did three other related breeds of bichons: the Maltese, Bolognese and Havanese.  The name means roughly curly, white hair.
        Spanish sailors are believed to have introduced bichons frisés to the island of Tenerife of the Canary Islands. Italian sailors discovered them there in the 14th century and took them back to Europe. The breed became popular with royalty, especially in France in the late 16th century. King Henry III carried the little dogs in a basket attached to ribbons around his neck.
        They appeared in paintings by Goya, but by the late 19th century, aristocrats turned to other dogs. Bichons frisés became performers in circuses or with organ grinders; even commoners owned them. In the 1930's, they were recognized as show dogs.
        J. R. took being a show bichon to new and lofty levels: he endorses Purina dog food and regularly appears at parties and business events -- for a fee, of course. J. R. has even been asked for his autograph. He responds with a paw print.
        But his biggest fan was always the woman who bred him. Miss McDonald beamed as she watched J. R. prance from success to success at shows. ''Seeing her face every time J. R. went around the ring, watching her eyes sparkle, was worth everything,'' Ms. Winkler said.
        Miss McDonald said when she was showing J. R., ''These have been the happiest years of my life.''
      