
        Dr. Robert Matthew Berne, a heart specialist and educator whose textbooks were used by generations of doctors, died on Oct. 4 at his home in Charlottesville, Va., where he was a professor emeritus at the University of Virginia Medical Center. He was 83.
        The cause was lung cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Berne was known for his research into the role that the chemical adenosine played in controlling the blood flow to the heart and regulating heart rhythms.
        He first reported on the subject in 1963, in one of more than 200 papers he published over the years. His later role in developing Adenocard, a medication for cardiac arrhythmias, earned him special citations from the American Heart Association in 1979 and 1985.
        Textbooks he wrote and edited by himself or with his longtime collaborator, Matthew N. Levy, remain in print in revised and updated editions. They include ''Principles of Physiology,'' ''Cardiovascular Physiology'' and ''Case Studies in Physiology.''
        His accomplishments prompted the University of Virginia to establish its Cardiovascular Research Center and endow a Robert M. Berne chair in cardiovascular research.
        Dr. Berne began his career in cardiology and the study of the cardiovascular system in 1949 at Western Reserve University in Cleveland. In 1966 he joined the Charlottesville faculty as department chairman, serving until 1988.
        He took emeritus status in 1994 but continued to work in his laboratory, write and edit.
        He was a member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        Robert Berne was born in Yonkers and grew up in Brooklyn.
        He graduated from the University of North Carolina in 1939 and from Harvard Medical School in 1943. After wartime service in the Army Medical Corps, he completed his training at Mount Sinai Medical School in New York and Western Reserve, whose faculty he joined in 1949.
        Dr. Berne is survived by his wife of 57 years, Beth Goldberg Berne; two daughters, Julie Speasmaker of Charlottesville and Amy Kaminshine of Atlanta; two sons, Gordon D., of Charlottesville, and Michael A., of Boston; a sister, Peggy Leavitt of Los Angeles; and eight grandchildren.
      