
        Frederick M. Lussen, a police detective who investigated many of the city's most famous cases in the 1960's and 70's, from gangland shootings to the Mad Bomber, died on Oct. 4, at his home in Nanuet, N.Y. He was 91.
        As the son of a police officer and the father of another, Mr. Lussen was so loyal to the force that he stayed on well past retirement, despite being eligible for a pension that would have been equal to his salary, his son, John said.
        From 1964 until early 1971, he served as chief of detectives, an exceptionally long tenure in the highly visible post. He commanded 3,481 detectives.
        Two of his most famous cases involved shootings of mobsters. One was the nonfatal shooting of Frank Costello, known as ''the boss of racketeers,'' in 1957. The other was the slaying of Albert Anastasia, chief executioner of Murder Inc., in 1957.
        As often happened in organized crime cases in those days, there were arrests and press conferences, but no convictions in either case. ''You don't solve those cases,'' his son said.
        Another case he was involved in was that of the bomber who planted as many as 37 bombs that injured at least 10 people in the 1950's. Another was the assassination of Malcolm X in 1965. Still another was that of Salvador Agron, a teenage gang member known for wearing a cape when he murdered two other youths in 1959. The singer Paul Simon produced a Broadway musical that opened in 1998 called ''The Capeman'' based on the case. Mr. Simon depicted Mr. Agron as a woefully mistreated youth and as a true repenter in prison. Mr. Lussen's son said his father also ''felt very sorry for that fellow ultimately.''
        One of his most publicized cases involved the murder on March 13, 1964, of Kitty Genovese in Kew Gardens, Queens. Miss Genovese was slain in the early hours of the morning while 38 people watched at various times as the killer stabbed her in three separate attacks over more than an hour. None of them called the police. After he had solved the murder, Chief Lussen said he was baffled by one phase of the case. ''Why didn't the good people call us?'' he asked repeatedly at the time. ''If we had been called when the killer first attacked, the woman might not be dead now.''
        Frederick Maurice Lussen was born on the East Side of Manhattan on Dec. 18, 1909. His father, Frederick J. Lussen, was on the force for 33 years. His father-in-law, William Herlihy, was a policeman for 41 years.
        He graduated from DeWitt Clinton High School and attended St. John's University before joining the police force in 1935. He advanced rapidly, moving up to sergeant in 1942, lieutenant in 1945 and captain in 1951. In 1952, he was named a deputy inspector, and in 1957, a full inspector.
        At six feet tall and 200 pounds, he made an imposing figure as he served in the Bronx -- where he lived for most of his life -- and in Manhattan, Brooklyn and Queens.
        Chief Lussen's career did not end smoothly. In January 1970, Police Commissioner Howard R. Leary took away the chief of detective's traditional sole power over promotions. He specified that the action was not directed at Chief Lussen.
        Then, in April 1970, The New York Times reported that Chief Lussen and the department's chief corruption investigator had ''a physical tussle'' when Mr. Lussen returned from lunch and found the investigator in his office. The newspaper attributed the confrontation to the ''suspicion and fear'' that existed in the department as corruption investigations were intensifying.
        Patrick V. Murphy, who succeeded Mr. Leary as commissioner, wrote in his book ''Commissioner: A View from the Top of American Law Enforcement'' (Simon and Schuster, 1977) that Mr. Lussen's honesty had never been questioned. But he said he represented the old ways of doing things.
        ''He was one of the top commanders of a previous administration that had not covered itself with glory,'' Mr. Murphy said in the book. ''If my hunch was right, that administration would come close to being destroyed by the Knapp Commission.''
        A week before Mr. Lussen resigned on December 28, 1970, the Rand Institute of New York City released a study of the detective bureau. It showed that detectives solved only 1.35 percent of burglaries referred to them, 5.58 percent of robberies and 2.16 percent of grand larcenies.
        In at least one instance, Mr. Lussen was a strong voice for more accountability on the part of detectives. He unsuccessfully opposed a move to grant detectives tenure after six years, arguing that it would cause complacency. ''The good detectives -- and 99 percent of them are good -- don't need tenure,'' he said.
        Mr. Lussen is survived by his wife, Kathleen, his son, John, of Lake Forest, Ill; a daughter, Eileen Lussen of Sarasota, Fla.; nine grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. His son Timothy, who died in 1994, was a detective and served under his father.
        John said that his father rarely cried, but wept after the collapse of the World Trade Center, steadily becoming weaker and weaker.
      