
        Mike Mansfield, who served as Senate majority leader longer than anyone else and was instrumental in the 1960's and 1970's in the enactment of legislation on civil rights, social policy and foreign affairs that changed the course of the country, died today at Walter Reed Army Medical Center. He was 98.
        Mr. Mansfield lived in Washington and went to his office at Goldman Sachs Group almost every weekday until last week, when he went into the hospital, said his assistant, Barbara Hickey.
        A Democrat from Montana, Mr. Mansfield was in the House of Representatives for 10 years and in the Senate for 24, 16 of them as majority leader. He left the Senate in 1977, ready to retire to Montana. But he was quickly named ambassador to Japan, and he held that post for 10 years, also longer than anyone else.
        In Congress, where bombast and pomposity are common, Mr. Mansfield was unusually modest and self-effacing.
        ''He's the most decent man I've ever met in public life,'' said former Senator Hugh D. Scott Jr. of Pennsylvania, who was the Republican minority leader when Mr. Mansfield retired as majority leader.
        In Japan, where he served both Democratic and Republican presidents, Mr. Mansfield was a revered figure. He did not hesitate to tell the Japanese when he thought American patience was running out. But he also spoke out when he thought Americans had criticized Japan unfairly.
        A few days after his 95th birthday, in March 1998, Mr. Mansfield expressed in an interview his philosophy of moderation and accommodation, which characterized his career as a politician and as an envoy.
        ''Differences can be bridged, solutions can be found, concessions can be made,'' he said. ''It's much better to take an inch than to take nothing at all. I don't believe that winning is everything, though it's very desirable. I don't think there's anything wrong in losing if you do it the right way.''
        At the time of the interview, Mr. Mansfield was vigorous and informed, with a straight back, a quick step and a strong voice. The week after his 95th birthday, he inaugurated a lecture series on leadership sponsored by the Senate Republican leader, Trent Lott of Mississippi.
        Mr. Mansfield's distaste for partisan warfare often frustrated his more aggressive Democratic colleagues in the Senate, and his brand of leadership sometimes seemed ineffective compared with the strong-arm style of his predecessor as majority leader, Lyndon B. Johnson.
        But after President John F. Kennedy was assassinated and Vice President Johnson became president, Mr. Mansfield guided the Senate toward passage of a spate of civil rights, health, education and antipoverty legislation that Johnson called the Great Society.
        His leadership was essential in the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which outlawed discrimination in all public accommodations, and the Voting Rights Act of 1965, which made possible the widespread participation of Southern blacks in state and federal elections.
        Ross K. Baker, a political scientist at Rutgers University, calls this period ''one of the golden ages of the U.S. Senate.'' Senator Mansfield's legacy, Professor Baker said, is that he sapped the influence of the inner club of a few powerful senators and ''allowed the modern Senate of equals to emerge.''
        The current Senate majority leader, Tom Daschle of South Dakota, said today, ''The Senate never had a finer leader.''
        Mr. Mansfield had strong personal views on many subjects, and he never hesitated to express them, even when he was at odds with presidents and many of his Democratic colleagues.
        This was especially true in the war in Vietnam. He supported the increasing United States involvement in Vietnam in 1961 and 1962, but became an implacable critic of the American position after the assassination of President Ngo Dinh Diem of South Vietnam in November 1963.
        Year after year, he backed legislation to withdraw troops and stop the bombing. In 1973, he was a principal architect of the War Powers Act, which was designed to check the president's ability to commit American troops abroad without the consent of Congress.
        Mr. Mansfield often said he was proudest of the central role he played in winning Congressional approval of legislation that led, in 1971, to ratification of the 26th Amendment, which gave 18-year-olds the right to vote.
        Throughout it all, he was remarkably taciturn, his statements often limited to ''Yep,'' ''Nope,'' ''Maybe'' or ''Can't say.''
        In the 1998 interview, Mr. Mansfield said he worried about the political polarization that had developed in the country generally and in the Senate especially.
        ''I've always felt,'' he said, ''that the true strength of the Senate lay in the center, not on the right and not on the left, but with those people who could see both sides and were not so convicted of their own assumptions that they wouldn't listen to the other side.''
        Less than a year after he retired from the Senate, Mr. Mansfield, at 74, was named by President Jimmy Carter to be ambassador to Japan. In 1981, when Ronald Reagan became president, Mr. Mansfield began packing his belongings.
        In the interview, he described what happened next:
        ''The phone rang at 2 o'clock one morning, and I wondered who the hell is calling at this hour. It was President Reagan. He said, 'I'd like you to stay on.' I said, 'I'm half packed, ready to go.' He said, 'Unpack. I want you to stay on.' So I said, 'Hang on a minute,' and I woke up Maureen. And she said, 'Yes,' and so I said, 'Yes,' and so we stayed on for eight more years.''
        In Tokyo, Mr. Mansfield presided over some tense times in a relationship that he liked to call ''the world's most important, bar none.'' In his tenure, the United States and Japan clashed over trade issues involving items including automobiles and television sets, telecommunications equipment and beef.
        Mr. Mansfield also argued the American side in disputes over whether Japan hurt Western security interests by selling machine tools to the Soviet Union and differed with the Japanese on just how much Japan should spend to help its economy, pay for its own defense and dispense in foreign aid.
        In many ways a prototypical  rough-hewn, laconic Westerner, Mr. Mansfield was born in the East and had a hard, sad childhood.
        Michael Joseph Mansfield was born on March 16, 1903, in New York City, the son of Irish immigrants. His father, Patrick, was a porter in a Greenwich Village hotel. His mother, the former Josephine O'Brien, died when he was 3, and the boy was sent to live with an aunt and uncle who owned a grocery store in Great Falls, Mont.
        As soon as he was able, Michael was working, pushing his uncle's delivery cart around Great Falls. He was an unhappy boy and ran away from home several times. ''I hopped freight cars and got sent home twice, and once I spent the night in jail,'' he recalled.
        After lying to recruiters about his age -- he was a month shy of 15 at the time -- he joined the Navy shortly before the United States entered World War I and served in the Atlantic. After the war, he served in the Army for a year, and in 1920 he enlisted for two years in the Marine Corps. The Marines sent him to the Philippines, Japan and China, awakening a lifelong interest in the Far East.
        Returning to Montana in 1922, Mr. Mansfield worked as a ''mucker'' in the copper mines of Butte, using a pick and shovel to clear away rock and debris in shafts half a mile underground.
        In Butte he met a schoolteacher, Maureen Hayes, who persuaded him to enter the Montana School of Mines, though he had not finished the eighth grade.
        Mr. Mansfield enrolled as a special student and took college courses and high school correspondence courses simultaneously. He and Miss Hayes were married in 1932. The next year, at 30, he graduated from the University of Montana in Missoula with a degree in history and began teaching there.
        Mr. Mansfield always said that his wife was responsible for his successful career.
        ''She did the pushing and pressing that got me where I am today,'' he said in 1998. ''I get the credit. She does the work. It isn't fair. She cashed in her life insurance to get me through school. She gave up her job as a high school teacher to follow me in my career.''
        Mrs. Mansfield died last year. He is survived by their daughter, Anne Morris, and a granddaughter.
        As a popular professor of Far Eastern and Latin American affairs, Mr. Mansfield built up a network of former students, and they helped him throughout his political career.
        In his first campaign, in 1940, he finished last in a three-man primary for the Democratic nomination for a seat in the House of Representatives. But in 1942 he won a close contest for the First Congressional District seat vacated when Jeannette Rankin, a Republican, retired.
        In the decade he spent in the House, Mr. Mansfield's voting record included support for extensions of price controls, a higher minimum wage, the Marshall Plan to aid European recovery after World War II, economic aid to Turkey and Greece and immigration for people displaced in World War II. He opposed restrictions on labor unions, the peacetime draft, money for the House Un-American Activities Committee and the 22d Amendment, which limits presidents to two terms in office.
        When Mr. Mansfield challenged Senator Zales N. Ecton, a Republican, in the 1952 senatorial race in Montana, Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, the flamboyant Red hunter from Wisconsin, went to Montana to campaign for Mr. Ecton. Senator McCarthy said Mr. Mansfield was ''either stupid or a dupe'' of the Communists and was guilty of coddling them. But Mr. Mansfield won the Senate seat despite the landslide victory of the Republican presidential candidate, Dwight D. Eisenhower.
        Four years after entering the Senate, he was made assistant majority leader under Johnson. ''I didn't want the job,'' he said in 1998, ''but they kept insisting. Later I learned that they needed me because they didn't want an all-Southern leadership, so I took it. But Johnson did everything. I didn't have a thing to do. It was just a title.''
        But when Johnson became vice president in 1961, Mr. Mansfield was in position to become majority leader.
        Although some of Mr. Mansfield's colleagues criticized his style as lacking in vigor, he resisted suggestions to be tougher. ''In the first place, I couldn't do it,'' he said. ''In the second, if I were to do it and I got away with it, the result would be temporary. Sooner or later they'd just tell you to go to hell and do what they wanted to anyway. I like to treat the members as I would like them to treat me.''
        Mr. Mansfield was never known as an orator. But many Americans' sharpest memory of him is the brief eulogy in simple words and spare sentences he delivered for John F. Kennedy as the slain president lay in state in the Rotunda of the Capitol.
        The eulogy began: ''There was a sound of laughter; in a moment, it was no more. And so she took a ring from her finger and placed it in his hands.''
        After Johnson became president and steadily increased the American combat role in Vietnam, relations between him and Mr. Mansfield began to cool. Mr. Mansfield said the war in Vietnam convinced him that ''Congress had handed its power over to the president on a silver platter'' and for that reason he co-sponsored the war powers bill of 1973.
        Through his close friendships with many Asian leaders, Mr. Mansfield helped pave the way for President Richard M. Nixon's 1972 visit to China, the first step toward the restoration of diplomatic relations between the countries. But Mr. Mansfield criticized Mr. Nixon for continuing the war in Vietnam.
        When the Watergate scandal began to unfold in 1973, Mr. Mansfield became a leading opponent of the Nixon administration. ''To excise Watergate and what it implies before it becomes fatal to liberty is a fundamental responsibility of this government,'' he said. ''The people of this nation do not want government by the whim or the will of the most powerful and influential.''
        He was a staunch advocate of gun control, an unpopular position with many voters in Montana. Nevertheless, they returned him to the Senate in 1958, 1964 and 1970, each time with a winning margin that exceeded 60 percent. Had he chosen to run in 1976 there seemed no doubt he would have won again.
        After serving in Japan, he returned to Washington at 85 and became a senior adviser on East Asian affairs at Goldman Sachs, the investment banking firm.
        President Carter first asked Mr. Mansfield to be ambassador to Mexico. But he turned it down, he said, because ''Maureen doesn't like high altitudes.'' But because of his longtime interest in the Far East, he accepted the post in Japan.
        The Japanese, who especially respect diplomats who have been seasoned by age and experience, enthusiastically welcomed him to Tokyo. A newspaper carried an editorial headlined, ''A Giant Walks Among Us.''
        Mr. Mansfield's response was typical of him. ''I'm no giant,'' he said. ''I'm just a fellow embarking on a new career.''
        Obituaries  Correction:  October 13, 2001, Saturday  An obituary last Saturday about Mike Mansfield, the longest-serving Senate majority leader, misstated the timing of the lie about his age that allowed him to join the Navy before he was 15. It was after the United States entered World War I, not before.
      