
        Ernest A. Lindner, whose business of selling and upgrading Linotype machines became a single-minded mission of collecting and preserving hundreds of antique presses and other printing equipment, died on Oct. 3. He was 79 and lived in Glendale, Calif.
        The cause was heart failure, his wife, Ruth Harriet, said.
        For a half century, Mr. Lindner roamed basements and back lots from England to Arkansas to China to find ink-stained treasures that might seem like dinosaurs in a time of microchips and laser printers. But Stan Nelson, a museum specialist in the graphic arts collection of the National Museum of American History in Washington, said Mr. Lindner's collection, in which some artifacts are nearly 500 years old, carries incalculable significance.
        ''Printing is a subject that lies at the roots of Western civilization,'' Mr. Nelson said. ''It's the beginning of everything, really.''
        Mr. Nelson said that Mr. Lindner's accomplishment transcended simply amassing greasy objects. ''Ernie certainly had the means, but that doesn't explain the quality and the breadth of his collection,'' he said.
        Mr. Nelson's finds included a Stanhope all-metal printing press built in England in 1810 and the first web-offset press, designed in 1931. He found an 1824 Columbian hand press that is topped with a decorative iron eagle, weighs 3,300 pounds and could generate 2,000 pages a day when operated by two skilled workers.
        Since 1988, the equipment has been housed in the International Printing Museum, temporarily located in Carson, Calif. Exhibits include the third-oldest American-made printing press in a working re-creation of Benjamin Franklin's printing shop.
        Mr. Lindner's collecting may have begun as an intriguing hobby like collecting antique eggbeaters -- on a much larger scale -- but it became his life's crowning work.
        ''It became apparent that I was just in temporary custody of these items,'' Mr. Lindner said in an interview with The Orange County Register in 1988. ''I was searching for a place where they would be safe.''
        Ernest Arthur Lindner was born in San Mateo, Calif., on June 8, 1922. His father, August, sold Linotype machines, so named because they set a line of lead type at a time. His mother, Beatrice Rose Kinsey, was a Linotype operator who met Arthur's father when she was dispatched to learn how to operate the new machine her employer had just bought.
        August and his brother Ernest G. Lindner worked for the Mergenthaler Linotype Company, which had been founded by Ottmar Mergenthaler, the machine's inventor. But in 1932 the two brothers formed the E. G. Lindner Company to sell printing equipment. Their specialty was rebuilding Linotype machines to add as much as 20 years to their life.
        Ernest went to work for the company, and began collecting presses and printing machinery as a young man.
        ''We would sell a machine and take in trade a piece being replaced,'' he said. ''I couldn't bear to throw away some of these wonderful machines, so I began shoving them into corners, even after there were no corners.''
        It then somehow seemed natural to begin scouring the world for bulky fragments of the history of printing.
        A barrel-chested man with a meticulously waxed handlebar mustache, Mr. Lindner was not averse to conveying a colorful image. In 1976, when he lent a large press to the Smithsonian as part of an exhibition to recreate the American centennial 100 years earlier, he and his wife arrived in exuberant period dress.
        In addition to her, he is survived by a daughter, Kristine, and the two children of a deceased son, Ernest. The Linders adopted the children,  Ernest and Jennifer. All live in Glendale. He is also survived by four other grandchildren, a sister, Paula Bunney of San Rafael, Calif., and a half-sister, Olive Davis of San Carlos, Calif.
        Mr. Lindner constantly sought adventures, from racing hot air balloons to visiting the North and South Poles. At the age of 70, a veteran of 83 combat missions in World War II and the Korean War, he flew a MIG jet over Moscow. He filled his walls with hunting trophies. He died just three days after returning home with his wife from a 1,700-mile trip in a Model A touring car through Switzerland, Germany, Italy and Austria.
        ''That was a nice ending,'' she said.
      