
        Laszlo Halasz, the first music director of the New York City Opera, died on Friday at his home in Port Washington, N.Y. He was 96.
        During a tumultuous eight-year tenure, which began in 1943, Mr. Halasz established several crucial elements of the New York City Opera's artistic personality. He believed that tickets should be inexpensive and the productions convincingly staged, with singers who were visually as well as vocally suited to their roles. He also supported the notion of performing opera in English translation and insisted on offering at least one production in English every season.  In building a stable of singers, he turned budget limitations into a virtue: unable to compete with the Metropolitan Opera for big stars, he made his company an important platform for young singers, particularly Americans.
        But perhaps his most important contribution was his insistence that the company's repertory include not only the standard works, but new ones as well. His desire to present new operas put him at odds with the board, but Mr. Halasz prevailed and the company came to be known as one of the country's most adventurous houses.
        Mr. Halasz was born in Debrecen, Hungary, near Budapest, on June 6, 1905, and was encouraged to pursue a musical career by his uncle Teodor Szanto, a pianist and composer. He enrolled at the Liszt Academy in Budapest, where his teachers included Bela Bartok, Ernst von Dohnanyi, Leo Weiner and Zoltan Kodaly. He made his professional debut as a pianist in 1928, and was sufficiently well-known as a recitalist by 1930 that he was hired for commercial endorsements of Förster pianos. But Mr. Halasz was also interested in conducting opera, and in 1928, the same year as his piano debut, he joined the Royal Hungarian State Opera as an assistant conductor.
        In 1930, he became an assistant to George Szell at the German Opera in Prague, and in 1931 he gave up his career as a recitalist to focus on conducting. He became music director of the Sakharoff Ballet in 1932, and made his debut at the Vienna Volksoper in 1933. In 1935 and 1936, he was an assistant to Arturo Toscanini and Bruno Walter at the Salzburg Festival. When Toscanini moved to New York, in 1936, he invited Mr. Halasz to become his assistant at the NBC Symphony.
        Toscanini also recommended Mr. Halasz for his first American operatic job, as chorus master of the St. Louis Opera Company. He made his conducting debut there in 1937, leading Wagner's ''Tristan und Isolde'' in a last-minute substitution for the conductor Leo Blech. When the company was reorganized as the St. Louis Grand Opera, in 1939, Mr. Halasz was appointed artistic and music director. His tenure lasted until 1941, and he continued to perform as a guest conductor elsewhere in the United States. One notable engagement was the American premiere of Kodaly's ''Hary Janos'' at the 1939 New York World's Fair.
        When the New York City Opera was formed in the fall of 1943 under the imprimatur of Mayor Fiorello H. LaGuardia as a way to bring opera to the masses, Mr. Halasz was appointed its music director and quickly set about assembling not only an artist roster and chorus, but also an administrative staff. The company's first season began in February 1944, and included productions of Puccini's ''Tosca,'' Flotow's ''Martha'' and Bizet's ''Carmen,'' all of which Mr. Halasz conducted. Tickets were priced between 75 cents and $2, and the company's first annual budget was $30,463.
        Mr. Halasz's policy of hiring exceptional young singers quickly proved hazardous: three of the singers in the first season, Jennie Tourel, Martha Lipton and Hugh Thompson, were lured away by the Met soon after their debuts. Other notable singers on Mr. Halasz's early City Opera rosters include Regina Resnik, Dorothy Kirsten, Frances Bible, Mack Harrell and Ramon Vinay. Todd Duncan, a black baritone, made his debut at the City Opera in 1945, a decade before Marian Anderson became the first black singer to perform at the Met. And Robert McFerrin, who in 1955 became the first male black singer to join the Met roster, made his City Opera debut in 1949.
        When the company presented its first American premiere, Strauss's ''Ariadne auf Naxos,'' in 1946, Mr. Halasz conducted. As he did for the City Opera's first world premiere, William Grant Still's ''Troubled Island,'' with a libretto by Langston Hughes. But the board was uneasy with Mr. Halasz's ventures into modern opera, and it opposed him when he scheduled the world premiere of ''The Dybbuk,'' by David Tamkin.
        When the board insisted, in 1951, that Mr. Halasz submit his repertory plans for approval, he resigned, as did several members of his conducting staff, among them Jean Morel, Thomas Martin and two of his eventual successors, Joseph Rosenstock and Julius Rudel. When the board relented, Mr. Halasz and his staff returned. But tensions remained high, and when Mr. Halasz became involved in union disputes later that year, the board fired him.
        After he left the City Opera, Mr. Halasz began a second career as a record producer, undertaking a series of opera and symphonic projects for the Remington label, both in Europe and the United States, including concerto recordings by the pianists Jorge Bolet and Edward Kilenyi. He also conducted opera at houses in Frankfurt, Barcelona, Budapest, London and South America. As a teacher, he was on the conducting faculty at the Peabody Conservatory, in Baltimore, and the Eastman School of Music, in Rochester.
        Mr. Halasz is survived by his wife, Suzette Forgues; a son, George; and a daughter, Suzanne.
      