
        Don S. Maurer, a longtime advertising and marketing executive who was president and chief executive at one of the largest ad agencies in the Southeast, McKinney & Silver, died on Saturday. He was 47.
        The cause was injuries suffered in an automobile accident in Raleigh, N.C., according to executives at the agency, which is based in Raleigh.
        Under Mr. Maurer, billings at McKinney & Silver grew to $325 million from $150 million. The current clients of the agency, which has 140 employees in Raleigh and smaller offices in six other cities, include Audi of America, Bacardi USA, the Nasdaq stock market and XO Communications. In naming McKinney & Silver as the Southeast Agency of the Year for 2000, the trade publication Adweek praised Mr. Maurer's leadership.
        Mr. Maurer was known for steering McKinney & Silver through a tumultuous period when the ownership of the agency, originally independent, changed hands several times. When one owner, MarchFirst, an Internet services company, filed for bankruptcy earlier this year, Mr. Maurer helped negotiate the sale of the agency as an intact, continuing business to a new owner, the Arnold Worldwide Partners division of Havas Advertising in Paris.
        ''He navigated with an amazing level of aplomb through all the various owners, all the various issues that go with buying and selling agencies,'' said Cameron McNaughton, senior vice president and director for client services at McKinney & Silver, ''and he found us an excellent home in Havas.''
        A nine-member executive committee that was formed by Mr. Maurer 18 months ago at the agency is working on a succession plan, Mr. McNaughton said.
        Mr. Maurer joined McKinney & Silver in 1996 as an account group director and was promoted to president that October. In February 1997, he added the duties of chief executive to his president's post; he was only the third chief executive at the agency since it was opened in 1969.
        Before joining McKinney & Silver, Mr. Maurer held senior posts at the Timberland Company, the shoe and apparel maker in Stratham, N.H., and at agencies like BBDO Worldwide in New York; Mullen in Wenham, Mass.; and J. Walter Thompson in New York.
        Mr. Maurer is survived by two daughters, Rachael, 19, and Sarah, 17, of Raleigh; his parents, Marilyn and Jerry Maurer of Miami; a sister, Linda Terilli of Huntington Station, N.Y.; and a brother, William, of Deer Park, N.Y.
      