
        Dr. George F. Solomon, one of the first scientists to see a link between emotions and immunity and a pioneer in the field now known as psychoneuroimmunology, died on Oct. 7 in Los Angeles, where he lived. He was 69.
        The cause was a stroke, his family said.
        ''Even though doctors paid lip service to the idea and anecdotally thought people got colds under stress, there was remarkably little science to support their belief,'' until Dr. Solomon conducted his groundbreaking work, said Dr. Steven E. Locke, director of the Institute of Cybermedicine in Boston and associate professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical School.
        Today, Dr. Locke said, it is widely acknowledged that stress affects the body's ability to resist disease.
        ''Mind and body are inseparable,'' Dr. Solomon said in an interview in 1983. ''The brain influences all sorts of physiological processes that were once thought not to be centrally regulated.''
        Starting in the 1960's, Dr. Solomon conducted research on the effects of psychological factors on diseases like rheumatoid arthritis. In 1974, Dr. Solomon published a paper summarizing the still scant research, some dating to Pavlov, and concluded that there was a connection between stress and altered immunity, Dr. Locke said. The paper, he said, also prompted a generation of scientists to enter what is now a lively field of research.
        But Dr. Solomon himself became discouraged in the early 1970's that not enough attention was being paid to what he had christened psychoimmunology, said Dr. Robert Ader, professor of psychiatry, medicine and psychology at the University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry.
        He turned his focus to the study of violence and criminal behavior until a surge of interest in psychoneuroimmunlogy in the 1980's swept him back into the field. He then concentrated on studying the characteristics of long-term AIDS patients.
        ''He never stopped learning and never failed to be excited by new findings,'' Dr. Ader said.
        George Freeman Solomon was born on Nov. 25, 1931, in Freeport, N.Y. His father, Joseph, was a child psychiatrist who later collaborated on papers with Dr. Solomon. His mother, Ruth Freeman Solomon, was a historical novelist.
        He earned bachelor's and medical degrees from Stanford University. From 1959 to 1961, he was chief of the Mental Health Consultation Service at Fort McClellan, Ala.
        He went on hold professorships at Stanford, the University of California at Los Angeles and the University of California at San Francisco, where he was vice chairman of the psychiatry department from 1978 to 1983. Other positions included director of medical education at the Fresno Department of Public Health and chief of psychoneuroimmunology at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Sepulveda, in Los Angeles.
        He became professor emeritus at U.C.L.A. in 1995.
        His first marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife of 22 years, Susan; two sons, Joshua, of Santa Monica, Calif., and Jared, of Los Angeles; and a brother, Daniel, of San Francisco.
      