
        Dr. Joseph B. Slowinski, an expert on venomous snakes who was in the middle of an ambitious inventory of the reptile and amphibian populations of Myanmar, died on Sept. 12 in the northern reaches of that country. He was 38.
        Dr. Slowinski, who recalled hunting for snakes at age 4 in Kansas City, Mo., had survived previous bites from a rattlesnake, copperheads and a cobra.
        But in the high jungle near Myanmar's border with China, he was unable to reach the help he needed when he was bitten by a krait, a relative of the cobra, that he was collecting on Sept. 11. He died about 30 hours later.
        At the time of his death, Dr. Slowinski was an associate curator of the department of herpetology at the California Academy of Sciences in San Francisco.
        Since 1997, Dr. Slowinski had been making frequent trips to Myanmar, formerly Burma, as part of a team financed by the National Science Foundation.
        The researchers are engaged in a comprehensive survey of wildlife in the country, only recently opened to outsiders by its military government after years of isolation. The American scientists were working closely with Myanmar's Division of Nature and Wildlife Conservation, training its employees to conduct biodiversity surveys.
        Dr. Slowinski was on his 11th trip to the country when he died, and the academy said he had discovered about 18 new species of amphibians and reptiles.
        ''Joe had been the driving force of the survey,'' said a member of the Myanmar project, Dr. George R. Zug, senior curator at the division of amphibians and reptiles at the National Museum of Natural History in Washington.
        Dr. Slowinski, a herpetologist who was an author or co-author of 40 scientific papers, did not limit his work to snakes, but they were how he made his reputation. He was especially fascinated by the family Elapidae, which includes the venomous cobra and the coral snake.
        ''I can't remember when I got so interested in snakes,'' Dr. Slowinski told The San Francisco Chronicle last year. ''But I know I was only 4 when I ran around catching little snakes, and frogs, too.''
        Joseph Bruno Slowinski was born Nov. 15, 1962, in New York City, but his family moved soon afterward to Kansas City.
        He earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Kansas and his doctorate from the University of Miami.
        He is survived by his parents, Martha Crow of Brooklyn and Ron Slowinski of Kansas City, and his sister, Rachel Slowinski of Los Angeles.
        Dr. Slowinski's field work extended far beyond Myanmar. Over the years, he traveled to Mexico, Peru, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Jamaica and the Bahamas.
        He had also recently helped secure a large grant from the National Science Foundation to survey biodioversity in the western part of the Yunnan Province in China.
        He had a special affinity for Myanmar, as was clear in an article he wrote last year that described a 1997 trip there. He recalled one evening when, exhausted after a day of examining specimens brought to him by villagers, he had nothing more in mind than relaxing with a beer.
        ''But before I can,'' he wrote, ''I hear loud chicken-squawking coming from directly below my hut. Checking their bamboo hutch, I see a kukri snake has crawled in to eat some eggs. I bag it. What a great country Myanmar is -- at least, if you're a herpetologist.''
      