
        Gregory H. Hemingway, whose 1976 book, ''Papa: A Personal Memoir,'' lent humanity and balanced insight to the life of his celebrated father, Ernest Hemingway, died on Monday in Miami. He was 69.
        The cause was hypertension and heart disease, according to the Reuters news agency.
        Mr. Hemingway, the youngest of Ernest Hemingway's three sons,  wrote of his father's compassion and sometimes obsessive creative drive, forces that left an indelible mark on those around him. Gregory Hemingway's own life was turbulent: he was tormented by drink and depression, and died in a Miami-Dade County jail after his arrest for indecent exposure.
        ''What I really wanted to be was a Hemingway hero,'' the son wrote in his memoir, which was published 15 years after Ernest Hemingway's suicide in 1961.
        The book was praised by a reviewer in The New York Times as ''a late-night unearthing of childhood joy and adolescent regret'' that also extended into the ''discovery of manly love and pardon'' toward a literary icon and often distant father.
        ''The man I remembered was kind, gentle, elemental in his vastness, tormented beyond endurance, and although we always called him papa, it was out of love, not fear,'' Gregory Hemingway wrote.
        In an interview yesterday, one of the younger Hemingway's eight children, Lorian Hemingway, said, ''I think the compassion he wrote of in his own father should be applied to my father in a huge way.''
        Ms. Hemingway, herself the author a critically acclaimed book, ''Walk on Water: A Memoir,'' which recounts her battle to overcome alcoholism, said she had had little contact with her father for 15 years.
        Mr. Hemingway, who lived in Coconut Grove, Fla., had been arrested in nearby Key Biscayne for indecent exposure and resisting arrest without violence, according to The Miami Herald. He was found dead in his cell at the Miami-Dade County Women's Detention Center at 5:45 a.m. on Monday, the paper said.
        According to several news accounts yesterday, Mr. Hemingway often dressed as a woman, and was known among some friends as Gloria. He had undergone a sex change operation, according to Reuters.
        Gregory Hemingway was born in Kansas City, Mo., on Nov. 12, 1931. His mother, the former Pauline Pfeiffer, was the second of Ernest Hemingway's four wives. Her death from cancer in 1951 led to a rift between Ernest and Gregory. The elder Hemingway accused Gregory of contributing to his mother's demise by being absent when her health failed.
        Gregory Hemingway had been a practicing physician for more than a decade during the 1970's and 80's, and attended the University of Miami Medical School. He lost his license when he was wrestling with alcohol abuse and emotional problems, according to Reuters.
        He wrote his memoir while practicing medicine, first in New York  and later in Montana. In a 1976 interview in a small brick hospital in Fort Benton, Mont., he said he preferred working as a rural family doctor, and reflected on childhood memories of being in the West with his father.
        ''When I smell the sagebrush or see the mountains, or a vast clean stream, I love those things,'' he said. ''Some of my happiest memories of childhood were associated with the West.''
        Lorian Hemingway said her father had been living in Florida for more than 10 years. He was married four times, she said, but she did not know if he was married when he died.
        Lorian Hemingway, 49, said she was the oldest of Mr. Hemingway's eight children, all of whom survive him. He is also survived by a brother, Patrick Hemingway, of Bozeman, Mont.
      