
        Henryk Tomaszewski, a Polish theater artist who surprised the West with his dreamlike, wordless presentations and influenced American avant-garde artists like Robert Wilson and Meredith Monk, died on Sept. 23 in Kowary, near Wroclaw, Poland. He was 81.
        The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, PAP, the Polish news agency, reported.
        Explaining the work of Mr. Tomaszewski (Pronounced HEN-rik toma-CHEF-ski) in a review for The New York Times in 1973, Anna Kisselgoff, the dance critic, wrote that it ''cannot be categorized strictly as mime or ballet, but it is theater.''
        ''It is, in fact,'' she continued, ''another piece of evidence of how far in advance of the West many East European artists have been in toying with certain techniques and approaches that have since gained currency.''
        She was referring to how Mr. Tomaszewski's presentations would develop a theme through a set of unspoken images, often disassociated in sequence or time.
        Reviewing several of Mr. Tomaszewski's works presented in New York in 1973, Ms. Kisselgoff wrote that there was ''something of both Breughel and the beachboy here, and the mix is worth experiencing.''
        Not everyone was so enthusiastic. Writing for The Times in 1970, the critic Clive Barnes said, ''Mr. Tomaszewski throws out ideas like confetti, and they are just about as valuable.'' In another review Mr. Barnes found the work ''tedious to an inhumane extreme.''
        Among the better known of the 24 theater pieces Mr. Tomaszewski created are ''Gilgamesh,'' ''Hamlet, Grief and Irony,'' ''King Arthur's Knights'' and ''Prodigal Sons.''
        He directed many plays, ballets and operas in Germany, Denmark, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden. In 1955 he founded the Wroclaw Pantomime Theater.
        Henryk Tomaszewski was born on Nov. 20, 1919, in Poznan, Poland. He began his theatrical studies at the Krakow Ballet School and went on to become a soloist with the Polish National Theater in Warsaw.
        Fascinated by what he called mime-drama, he founded his own theater in 1955 and within two years had won a gold medal at an international competition in Moscow.
        He toured the West with his company and as a guest conductor throughout Europe.
      