
        Dr. Donald J. Cohen, a psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who as the director of Yale University's renowned Child Study Center reshaped the field of child psychiatry, died in New Haven on Tuesday. He was 61.
        The cause was ocular melanoma, a rare form of cancer, his colleagues at Yale said.
        Dr. Cohen was known for his scientific work, including fundamental contributions to the understanding of autism, Tourette's syndrome and other illnesses, and for his leadership in bringing together the biological and the psychological approaches to understanding psychiatric disorders in childhood.
        His research included work on the roots of personality development, the interaction of biological and environmental factors in psychiatric illnesses, the effects of acute and long-term stresses on child development and new drug treatments for Tourette's syndrome.
        But he also offered a thoughtful voice at times when the nation was troubled and perplexed by its children, when teenagers went on shooting rampages or 6-year-olds turned guns on their classmates.
        ''You can blame a parent only until you've become a parent,'' Dr. Cohen said after the shootings at Columbine High School in Colorado in 1999. He said the challenge was to distinguish the normal experimentation and idiosyncrasy of adolescence from the signs of more serious emotional difficulty.
        Unflagging in his efforts to persuade policy makers to devote more money to research and clinical services for children, Dr. Cohen commented at the time: ''This country doesn't think as much about its children and their future as it does about how to clean up streams.''
        Dr. David A. Kessler, dean of Yale's School of Medicine and a former commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, said, ''Donald Cohen really moved child psychiatry into the biological era, but he continued to put emphasis on the psychological and social aspects affecting child development.''
        Dr. Cohen was also widely known for the programs he helped establish in the United States and abroad to help children affected by violence and disaster.
        The Child Study Center, where Dr. Cohen had been director since 1983, was designated by the Department of Justice as the site of the National Center for Children Exposed to Violence. With colleagues, Dr. Cohen established the International Working Group on Children and War, a coalition of researchers and clinicians.
        ''He fostered the development of the next generation of academic child psychiatrists from many countries, in Europe, Korea, China, as well as Israel,'' said Dr. James F. Leckman, a professor of psychiatry at Yale, who worked closely with Dr. Cohen.
        Dr. Leckman and other colleagues cited Dr. Cohen's ability to put children and adults at ease in clinical interviews.
        ''With kids, he was just magical,'' said Dr. Joseph L. Woolston, also a professor of psychiatry at Yale.
        For example, Dr. Leckman said, Dr. Cohen might chat with a 6-year-old boy about his pet fish or his baseball cards and then show the child his own rock collection.
        ''To be a good child psychiatrist, you have to be a child at heart,'' Dr. Leckman said, ''and Donald was always willing to be sort of down there on the floor with the kids.''
        Donald Jay Cohen was born on Sept. 5, 1940, in Chicago, the son of a businessman. He once told a colleague that as a student he honed his fund-raising skills working as a copy writer for a mail order catalog, extolling the virtues of women's hats and other merchandise.
        Graduating from Brandeis University in 1961, he received a Fulbright fellowship to study philosophy at Cambridge University. In 1966, he graduated from Yale's School of Medicine and completed his training in psychiatry at Massachusetts Mental Health Center and Children's Hospital in Boston.
        Dr. Cohen wrote more than 400 books and professional articles. Among many other positions, he was president of the International Association of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and Allied Professions and vice president of Yale's board of governors.
        Last year, he was named the Sterling Professor of Child Psychiatry, Pediatrics and Psychology. At the time of his death, he was also a training and supervising analyst at the Western New England Institute of Psychoanalysis and a member of the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences.
        Dr. Cohen, a Jew, blended a profound spirituality with a broad understanding of science and clinical work, his colleagues and friends said.
        ''His scholarship centered on the deepest questions of the interface between biology and psychology,'' Dr. Kessler wrote in a memorandum to the Yale faculty.
        In recognition of his contributions, the Cohen-Harris Center for the Study of Trauma was recently established by Tel Aviv University and the Tel Aviv Mental Health Center.
        Dr. Cohen is survived by his wife, Phyllis Cohen, also a psychoanalyst on the faculty of the Child Study Center; four children, Matthew, of Glasgow, Scotland, Rebecca Martin of New Haven, Rachel Goldstein of Manhattan and Joseph, a senior at Yale; his mother, Rose Cohen of Woodbridge, Conn.; and five grandchildren.
      