
        Sir John Plumb, a prolific British historian of the 18th century whose  lucrative and popular history books and unerring knack for picking brilliant students may have eclipsed his own potential as a serious historian, died Sunday in Cambridge, England. He was 90.
        Sir John was a former master of Christ's College, Cambridge, where he spent his entire academic career. His monumental life of Sir Robert Walpole, the 18th-century British statesman, remains unfinished, with only the first two volumes completed.
        His 1967 study ''The Growth of Political Stability in England 1675-1725'' had enduring influence on the study of late Stuart and early Georgian England. He also wrote the ''Penguin History of England in the 18th Century'' (1950), a life of Chatham (1953), ''The First Four Georges'' (1956) and an account of his philosophy of history, ''The Death of the Past'' (1969), in which he argued that technical innovation has reduced history's ability to guide modern societies.
        The rest of his work was aimed at wider audiences and displayed his undoubted talent for synthesis and generalization. His popular books, under the byline J. H. Plumb before his knighthood, were about subjects like the Renaissance and the British monarchy and sold in huge numbers; he also wrote essays and voluminous quantities of articles, including many book reviews for The New York Times.
        In all, he published 23 books from 1950 to 1973, as well as editing ''The History of Human Society'' and the Fontana History of Modern Europe.
        These works made him a great deal of money, which enabled him to indulge his taste for fine food and wines and amass a much admired collection of porcelain, which decorated his college rooms. He drove a Rolls-Royce and enjoyed a 16th-century rectory in Suffolk, a mill in the south of France and a Manhattan pied-à-terre in the Carlyle Hotel.
        He was an inspiring teacher who spotted and trained a whole school of distinguished British historians, including Norman Stone, Simon Schama, John Kenyon, David Cannadine, Linda Colley and Niall Ferguson. He was also generous. In 1997 Sir John gave $750,000 to establish the Levy-Plumb Fund for the Humanities at Christ's College, to which his friend Leon Levy, a New York banker, contributed a further $2.25 million.
        John Harold Plumb was born on Aug. 20, 1911, in Leicester to parents of modest means. He inexplicably failed to win a place at Cambridge and earned his first degree from the University of Leicester in 1933. That year he moved to Christ's, Cambridge, to study under the great historian G. M. Trevelyan.
        In World War II he worked at Bletchley Park on the top-secret project to break the Germans' Enigma code but then returned to Christ's, where he became a fellow in 1946 and spent the rest of his working life. In 1966 he was appointed professor of modern English history. But the more prestigious Regius Chair of History eluded him.
        He was elected master of his college in 1978 and knighted in 1982. A prominent figure in Cambridge, Sir John made enemies as well as loyal friends, with a reputation for rudeness amply documented in his writings about his peers.
        In his collected essays, he described his fellow Cambridge historian Sir Geoffrey Elton, who beat him out for the coveted Regius chair, as ''a scholar whose capacity as a writer has slowly improved.'' He judged some of the works of Sir Owen Chadick, another Regius professor, ''surprisingly good but some indifferent when not downright bad.''
        The novelist C. P. Snow, also a fellow of Christ's, referred to his ''complex and contradictory nature,'' and characters based on Sir John, or aspects of him, appear in his ''Strangers and Brothers'' series of novels as well as in Angus Wilson's '' Wrong Set.''
        He was an ardent socialist for most of his life, but toward the end he suddenly embraced the politics of Margaret Thatcher with equal fervor, telling shocked liberal friends, ''There is no rage like the rage of a convert.''
        His 80th birthday was celebrated with fanfare on both side of the Atlantic. In London, Princess Margaret gave a champagne reception in his honor at Kensington Palace, while in Washington the Union Jack was flown for a day above the Senate in honor of a historian who had lectured in all but three American states.
        Although twice engaged, he was never married.
      