
        Lord Hailsham of St. Marylebone, a leading British Conservative politician who served in six governments, including Churchill's wartime administration, and was the longest-serving lord chancellor, or head of the British judiciary, in the 20th century, died on Friday at his London home. He was 94.
        A lawyer of undoubted brilliance who was seen by many as a potential prime minister, Lord Hailsham also acquired a reputation for eccentric buffoonery, which probably cost him the party leadership in 1963, after Harold Macmillan stepped down. The less colorful Sir Alec Douglas-Home claimed the prize.
        Lord Hailsham did however successfully make the transition from the paternalistic conservatism of Churchill and Macmillan to the more common touch of Edward Heath and Margaret Thatcher. He sat in their cabinets as lord chancellor until he retired in 1987 at 80.
        ''Lady Thatcher was wary of him.'' Lord Heseltine, another former Conservative cabinet minister, recalled in The Daily Telegraph last weekend. ''He was one of the people she was not prepared to take on or counter.''
        Quintin McGarel Hogg was born in London on Oct. 9, 1907, and was educated at Eton and Oxford before practicing law in London.
        He was dismayed when his father was named the first Viscount Hailsham in 1928, realizing this could damage the political career he was planning by forcing him to sit in the  House of Lords, rather than the House of Commons. The struggle to get rid of the peerage he inherited in 1950 became a strand that ran through much of his political career.
        He made a flamboyant entry into politics in 1938 by winning a seat in Parliament representing Oxford as a supporter of Neville Chamberlain's Munich pact with Hitler. After leaving the army on medical grounds in 1942, Mr. Hogg returned to Parliament, where he joined a group of radical conservative politicians who supported the social reforms that eventually created the British welfare state. At the very end of World War II, Churchill made him secretary of state for air.
        Mr. Hogg retained his Oxford seat in the Labor landslide of 1945 but moved to the House of Lords as Viscount Hailsham on his father's death. Both he and the left-winger Anthony Wedgwood-Benn, then Lord Stansgate, unsuccessfully petitioned Prime Minister Clement Atlee to renounce their titles.
        In 1956, Anthony Eden appointed Lord Hailsham first lord of the admiralty on the eve of Britain's disastrous attempt to recapture the Suez Canal from Egypt. Lord Hailsham stoutly defended that effort and denounced American opposition to the invasion, saying he ''did not wish to hear any moral lectures from those whose moral weakness and incapacity to see the facts was the precipitating factor'' in the crisis.
        After Harold Macmillan became prime minister in 1957, Lord Hailsham was first promoted to education minister -- he persuaded the government to accept the expansion of public higher education -- and then to party chairman, with the task of rejuvenating the party for the 1959 elections.
        At the 1957 Conservative Party conference, Lord Hailsham made headlines by waving the chairman's ceremonial bell around his head, tolling the death of Socialism, and plunging into the freezing sea in ancient swimming trunks. The conservatives won their third successive victory at the polls, but Lord Hailsham's reputation for eccentricity grew.
        In 1963, legislation was passed allowing peers to relinquish titles. On the eve of the Conservatives' annual conference, Mr. Macmillan decided he was too ill to remain prime minister and encouraged Lord Hailsham to try to succeed him.
        Earlier that year, however, during the Profumo scandal involving the Tory minister John Profumo and the call-girl Christine Keeler, Lord Hailsham had gone against the grain of many Britons by exclaiming on television that ''a great party is not to be brought down because of a scandal by a woman of easy virtue and a proved liar.''
        At the party conference, he irritated potential supporters by making no secret of his ambition to be leader.
        As plain Mr. Hogg once again, he captured his father's old parliamentary seat of Marylebone in London after the Conservative defeat in 1964.  He held the seat until he was designated a life peer -- Lord Hailsham once more -- when appointed Lord Chancellor in 1970 by Mr. Heath.
        In 1974, Lord Hailsham had Enoch Powell dismissed from the conservative shadow cabinet for a speech that warned of racial strife.
        In 1979, Mrs. Thatcher brought Lord Hailsham back as lord chancellor. He presided over many of judicial appointments, generally resisting change and defending the rights of judges and lawyers.
        A first marriage ended in divorce on grounds of his wife's adultery. In 1944 he married the former Mary Evelyn Martin, who died in 1978. In 1986, he married his secretary, Deirdre Shannon, who died in 1998.
        Lord Hailsham's elder son, the Douglas Hogg, a member of Parliament, inherits his father's title. One of Lord Hailsham's daughters, Dame Mary Hogg, is a judge. His survivors also include another son, James Richard Martin Hogg, and two other daughters, Frances Evelyn Hoare and Katharine Amelia Hogg.
        Correction:  October 22, 2001, Monday  An obituary of the British politician Lord Hailsham on Tuesday misstated the year he had Enoch Powell dismissed from the Conservative shadow cabinet over racial issues. It was 1968, not 1974.
      