
        Diana van der Vlis, the blond-haired, blue-eyed actress who caused a stir on Broadway in the 1950's hit ''The Happiest Millionaire,'' died on Monday in a hospital in Missoula, Mont., where she had a home. She was 66.
        The cause of death was uncertain pending an autopsy, said her husband, Roger Donald, who said his wife had had respiratory problems.
        A child of international origin -- she was born in Toronto to a Scottish mother and a Dutch father -- Ms. van der Vlis studied at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts in London and acted in Canada before moving to New York in the spring of 1956.
        There, in one of her first auditions, she landed the plum role of Cordelia Biddle, daughter of Col. Anthony J. Drexel Biddle, the eccentric socialite and title character of ''The Happiest Millionaire,'' a popular comedy drawn from Ms. Biddle's memoir.
        Acting opposite Walter Pidgeon, Ms. van der Vlis won the type of reviews that would secure her position as one of Broadway's most sought-after ingénues. Writing in The New York Times, Brooks Atkinson called her ''an uncommonly talented young lady'' who ''plunges into the temperamental whirlpool of Cordelia's adolescent emotions and makes a stunning performance out of them.'' She was nominated for a Tony Award for her performance.
        Much work followed. In the next few years, Ms. van der Vlis played in the Broadway productions of ''Comes a Day,'' ''A Mighty Man Is He,'' ''A Shot in the Dark'' and Gore Vidal's ''Visit to a Small Planet.''
        Ms. van der Vlis also appeared in films and on television series like  ''The Man From Uncle'' and ''The Fugitive.'' Her films included ''The Incident'' (1967) and Roger Corman's ''Man With the X-Ray Eyes'' (1963).
        Later, Ms. van der Vlis also appeared in two soap operas, ''Where the Heart Is'' and ''Ryan's Hope.''
        In addition to her husband, Ms. van der Vlis is survived by a son, Matthew, of Los Angeles, and a daughter, Adrienne of New York.
      