
        Madhavrao Scindia, scion of one of India's legendary royal families and a senior leader of the opposition Congress Party, died yesterday when a small plane carrying him to a political rally crashed into a paddy field during a lashing rainstorm. He was 56.
        Mr. Scindia, reared in palaces and educated at Oxford University, cut a suave, elegant figure during a parliamentary career that began 30 years ago. He had the usual hobbies of a prince in a poor country -- shooting and golf. But he also loved cricket, the national pasttime. And people in his district, interviewed earlier this year, said he had also attended to their mundane concerns.
        The man who would have been maharaja was exceedingly popular among his family's former subjects in the erstwhile princely state of Gwalior. They elected him to Parliament nine times from what is now Madhya Pradesh in central India. On special occasions, they flocked to see him and his family ride through Gwalior.
        ''A bright political career and promising leadership has been cut short in the prime by this gruesome crash,'' President K. R. Narayanan said in a statement.
        In recent years, Mr. Scindia had become a leading voice of the Congress Party, often presenting its views in Parliament as deputy to the party's president, Sonia Gandhi. Her husband, Rajiv, a former prime minister, also died suddenly and prematurely when he was assassinated in 1991, at the age of 46, by a Tamil suicide bomber.
        Mr. Scindia's death today, in an accident that also claimed the lives of four journalists traveling with him to Kanpur to Uttar Pradesh in northern India, had some Congress Party officials talking darkly of a curse on the party's best young leaders.
        Last year, Rajesh Pilot, who, like Mr. Scindia, was considered a potential prime ministerial candidate, died in a car crash at age 55.
        Mr. Scindia came from a family practiced in the exercise of power. It had ruled over one of the largest and richest of India's more than 500 princely states. Both he and his mother, Vajayraje Scindia, the rajmata, or queen mother, became influential political leaders. They started out in the same camp, seeking seats in Parliament with the support of the the Hindu nationalist precursor to the Bharatiya Janata Party, which now leads a coalition government in New Delhi.
        But in the late 1970's, Mr. Scindia switched to the Congress Party, which had been India's dominant political party since the country gained its independence from Britain in 1947. His decision outraged his mother, who had been imprisoned in the mid-1970's when Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, the Congress Party leader, suspended democracy.
        The emotionally loaded estrangement between mother and son burst into the public eye earlier this year after the rajmata died at age 81 on Jan. 25.
        Mrs. Scindia's will, read aloud in a packed news conference, denied her only son any share of her wealth and declared he should not be allowed to light her funeral pyre.
        But the will was read out after Mr. Scindia had already performed his sacred ritual duties. And some family members said the two had reconciled privately as the mother's health worsened.
        For 20 years, mother and son had battled in the courts over the family's property -- rumored to be worth billions. The cases have now outlived them both.
        Mr. Scindia is survived by his wife, Madhavi Raje; a son, Jyotiraditya; and a daughter, Chitrangada Singh.
      