
        Dr. Alvan Feinstein, an epidemiologist who advanced the science of disease diagnosis and prognosis and made significant strides in preventing rheumatic fever, died Wednesday in Toronto, where he was attending an awards ceremony. He was 75.
        The cause was a heart attack, according to Dr. Ralph I. Horwitz, a colleague of Dr. Feinstein and chairman of the department of medicine at Yale.
        Dr. Feinstein was the Sterling professor of medicine and epidemiology, the medical school's most prestigious professorship. He is known widely in his field for work that sprang from his undergraduate studies in mathematics, which he later applied to developing what he called ''clinimetrics.''
        The idea behind clinimetrics, used widely today, is that it is possible to maintain consistency among assessments made by doctors through clinical indexes and rating scales for evaluating conditions like pain, distress and disability.
        ''More than anyone else, in an era of molecular medicine and molecular biology, Dr. Feinstein was the champion of patient-based data,'' Dr. Horwitz said. ''He developed a science that allows you to do the measurements that cannot be made by machines, such as pain and disability, and to do them in a scientifically rigorous fashion.
        ''His greatest contribution was his advocacy for the information that patients can offer and the role that physicians can play in collecting that data.''
        Dr. Feinstein's research was fundamental in its focus on the most basic issues in the design and analysis of clinical investigation.
        Throughout his career he challenged widely accepted medical studies and tenets, developed new clinical approaches and methods, and promoted consistency in assessments of patients.
        In the late 1950's, Dr. Feinstein became medical director of Irvington House, an affiliate of New York University just outside New York City. There, he studied a large population of patients with rheumatic fever and challenged the belief that proper treatment after an early diagnosis kept those patients from developing severe heart disease later in life.
        Dr. Feinstein showed that the disease had different forms. One, he discovered, causes joint pain and seldom progresses to heart disease. The other, which does result in heart disease, has no symptoms to evoke early detection.
        Thus, diagnosis of the disease at an early stage usually leads to a favorable outcome not because the early treatment is so beneficial, but because those patients tend to have a less-virulent form.
        The clinical investigative techniques that Dr. Feinstein developed through his six years of work on rheumatic fever led to improved diagnosis and treatment of the disease, and its incidence has since declined markedly. He applied those principles to later work on cancer therapy and prognosis.
        In a study published in The Archives of Internal Medicine last year, Dr. Feinstein and his team of researchers showed that breast cancers grew at differing rates and that aggressive treatments were not necessarily appropriate for cancers detected at an early stage by mammograms. Those detected early, his work showed, are often slow-growing and relatively benign.
        Because mammography often detects less severe cancers, he argued, less aggressive treatment should be used, whereas tumors detected through other approaches are often more serious.
        Alvan Feinstein was born in Philadelphia and received both his bachelor's and medical degrees at the University of Chicago. He performed his residency at Rockefeller Institute and at its completion in 1955, he became medical director of Irvington House. In 1974, he left to head the Yale School of Medicine's clinical epidemiologic fellowship.
        A lover of writing who encouraged his students and colleagues to read Strunk and White's ''The Elements of Style,'' Dr. Feinstein published over 400 clinical studies and six books. Two of his books, ''Clinical Judgment'' (1967) and ''Clinical Epidemiology'' (1985) are among the most widely referenced books in clinical epidemiology.
        He is survived by his wife, Lilli Sentz of New Haven, and two children, Daniel, of Camden, Me., and Miriam F. Gottlieb of Ellenville, N.Y.
      