
        Seymour Milstein, who, with his brother, Paul, presided over a multibillion-dollar real estate and banking empire with three million square feet of office space, 8,000 apartments and one of New York's oldest financial institutions, the Emigrant Savings Bank, died yesterday at New York Presbyterian Hospital. He was 81 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was pneumonia, said his children, Constance and Philip.
        Mr. Milstein and his more boisterous younger brother worked together for nearly five decades, lunching together daily at the Rainbow Room and taking family vacations together in Puerto Rico. But in later years, as succession issues loomed, the rivalry between their sons escalated into a legal battle of operatic intensity. The two factions hired separate public relations consultants and gave damaging information about each other to reporters.
        In January, in what was seen as a first step in dismantling the real estate partnership, Paul Milstein's family outbid Seymour Milstein's family to buy the last vacant parcel in the Times Square redevelopment area -- a parking lot on the southeast corner of 42nd Street and Eighth Avenue -- at a court-supervised auction. The price was $111.1 million, many times the $5 million that the brothers and another partner had paid for the property in 1984.
        But the brothers were never able to put together a project for the site. Although they were able to prevent the state from condemning their property, they never realized their dream of playing a major role in Times Square's redevelopment.
        In March, Seymour Milstein dissolved the family partnership that owned the Milford Plaza Hotel at Eighth Avenue and 44th Street. In court papers, he said that ''relations within the family are strained to the breaking point'' because his nephew, Howard Milstein, ''had attempted to exercise unilateral control over the family's holdings.'' His brother accused him of trying to cover up for the deficiencies of his son, Philip.
        The Milsteins' combativeness was not limited to family members. In 1981, they outraged city officials and preservationists by demolishing the famous Palm Court lounge and gilded clock at the Biltmore Hotel on Madison Avenue, after promising to restore them as part of Bank of America Plaza. Over the years, they also filed several lawsuits against the city, some of which were related to the Times Square project.
        The quieter and more diplomatic of the brothers, Seymour Milstein was born in New York City. His father, Morris, had founded Circle Floor Company, a floor and ceiling contractor that installed the floors at Rockefeller Center the World Trade Center and other buildings. In 1941, Seymour Milstein graduated from New York University, and in 1945, he married Vivian Leiner, who survives him, as do six grandchildren.
        Shortly after World War II, Mr. Milstein joined a second company started by his father, Mastic Tile Company. Both companies flourished in the postwar housing boom, and in 1955, Seymour Milstein became Mastic's president.
        Four years later, the company was sold to Ruberoid, a building products company, for $24 million. Seymour Milstein became a Ruberoid director and vice president, but when it was bought by GAF in 1967, he was not offered a top job. The brothers tried and failed to take control of GAF.
        In 1970, the family took control of United Brands, the food company, and Starrett Housing Corporation. They later sold the companies for a profit. In 1986, they took over the failing Emigrant Savings Bank and pumped $90 million into it.
        In the 1960's, Paul Milstein built the family's first apartment house, the Dorchester Tower near Lincoln Center. In the 1980's the Milsteins built Normandie Court and Windsor Court on the Upper East Side and the Liberty buildings in Battery Park City.
        During their partnership, Seymour Milstein handled the financial details and was in charge of dealing with banks. But though his demeanor was quieter than his brother's, he was considered just as competitive.
        In recent years, friends and business associates said Seymour Milstein had decided that breaking up the family empire would be preferable to allowing his nephew Howard to assume control. Howard and his father have accused Philip, the chief executive of Emigrant Savings, of mismanaging the bank, and unsuccessfully sought to oust him and replace him with Howard.
        Yesterday, Paul Milstein's family issued a statement in response to Seymour Milstein's death. ''We will always cherish the happy times we shared and our many years together,'' it read in its entirety.
        Correction:  October 6, 2001, Saturday  Seymour Milstein, long a partner with his brother, Paul, in the family real estate and banking businesses, left a wide-ranging record of philanthropy in New York when he died  Tuesday at age 81. An obituary on this page on Wednesday omitted that aspect of his life.
        Among the beneficiaries was New York Presbyterian Hospital, where he was chairman from 1989 to 1996. His family's $25 million gift, in 1989, made possible the construction of the Milstein Hospital Building, a 10-story addition above the Hudson River in Washington Heights.
        During his chairmanship, the hospital helped erase large budget deficits, modernized laboratories and improved its network of neighborhood clinics.
        Mr. Milstein also supported research on interferon, the hepatitis and cancer drug.
        From 1964 to 1973, he was chairman of Bronx Lebanon Hospital Center. He was also a founder of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum and a contributor to many Jewish philanthropies.
        Correction:  October 6, 2001, Saturday  An obituary on Wednesday about Seymour Milstein, the New York real estate and banking executive, omitted an account of his wide-ranging  philanthropy. Additional information appears today, on Page C15.
      