
        Ismat Kittani, an adroit Kurdish diplomat who represented Iraq at the United Nations from 1985 to 1989, was president of the General Assembly and served five secretaries general in senior posts, died on Tuesday in Geneva. He was 72. The cause was cancer.
        Mr. Kittani's term as Iraqi representative in New York coincided with some of the fiercest fighting in the Iraq-Iran war as well as with President Saddam Hussein's repression of the country's Kurdish minority, which culminated in a chemical-weapons attack on Halabja that left about 5,000 Kurds dead in March 1988.
        At the United Nations, Mr. Kittani defended the regime's war with Iran as well as its atrocities against the Kurds, saying he had chosen to be a civil servant, not a politician, and must therefore support his government.
        Earlier, Mr. Kittani had given several other notable displays of his diplomatic skills in service to Iraqi interests at the United Nations. After President Hussein first attacked Iran in September 1980 he held up Security Council consideration of this act of aggression for several days in the hope of a quick Iraqi victory before the international community could start pressing Baghdad to make peace.
        The following year, in a triumph of personal diplomacy, he was elected president of the United Nations General Assembly, even though he represented a nation that was still locked in an increasingly bloody war with its neighbor while also considering itself at war with Israel.
        Despite these displays of loyalty to his government, Mr. Kittani became increasingly disillusioned with President Hussein, although he was careful not to criticize him publicly. After his retirement as a diplomat, he never returned to Baghdad.
        In retirement he held several other United Nations posts, including  consultant to Secretary General Javier Pérez de Cuéllar and mediator for Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali in Somalia during the civil war.
        Mr. Kittani was born on April 5, 1929, in Amadia, in the Kurdish region of northern Iraq. Raised in a poor family, he liked to recall that he had not seen an electric light until he was 12.
        His family urged him to study the Koran to master Arabic and English, the language of his country's former rulers. At 17, Mr. Kittani won a scholarship to study abroad and at the urging of a brother who was at the University of California chose to attend Knox College in Galesburg, Ill.
        After working briefly as a teacher in Iraq, Mr. Kittani joined the foreign service and then won a United Nations essay competition that earned him a month's stay at the New York headquarters. Fascinated by the experience, Mr. Kittani arranged his career so that he would almost always be involved with United Nations matters.
        After serving with Iraq's United Nations mission in New York from 1957 to 1961, Mr. Kittani was Iraq's representative to the United Nations organizations in Geneva from 1961 to 1964.
        He was sent to the United Nations secretariat in New York from 1964 to 1975, holding several posts and serving as Secretary General Kurt Waldheim's chief of staff.
        He then returned to Baghdad as head of the International Organizations Department at the Foreign Ministry and as an under secretary, making frequent trips to New York. He came back to New York full time in 1985, as Iraq's representative at the United Nations.
        He is survived by a son, Dara.
      