
        Henry A. Ashforth Jr., a major commercial real estate developer in New York City and its suburbs, died on Sept. 21 at a hospital in Stamford, Conn. He was 73 and lived in Greenwich, Conn., and Peru, Vt.
        The cause was cancer, his son Thomas A. Ashforth said.
        As chairman and chief executive of the Manhattan-based Ashforth Company, Mr. Ashforth was among the first to capitalize on the trend of businesses to relocate in the suburbs, developing commercial properties in Connecticut in the 1960's and 70's.
        Perhaps his best-known project is Greenwich Plaza, a 300,000-square-foot office building and retail complex at the town's train station, which was completed in 1970. Stamford Square, a 270,000-square-foot office building in Stamford, was completed in 1980.
        Henry Adams Ashforth Jr. was born on Jan. 5, 1928, in Manhattan and graduated from Yale University in 1952. He married the former Georgia McCampbell Perkins in 1954.
        Mr. Ashforth's grandfather, Albert B. Ashforth, founded the real estate company Ashforth & Duryee in Manhattan in 1896. After college, Henry Ashforth joined the company, and in 1972 he became its chairman and chief executive. During his tenure, the Ashforth Company began to focus on Fairfield County, Conn.
        In 1981, the company moved its headquarters to Stamford, though it maintained a Manhattan brokerage office until 1991. Ashforth is still affiliated with Ashforth Warburg Associates, a residential brokerage firm that specializes in luxury Manhattan apartments. The Ashforth Company now has about 300 employees.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Ashforth is survived by three sons, Henry A. III of Portland, Ore., who is chief executive of Ashforth Pacific, Thomas A. of Greenwich, who is a vice president of the Ashforth Company, and Andrew B. of New Canaan, who is co-chief executive of the company; three daughters, Elizabeth A. Bacon of Sutton, Mass., Katherine A. Wiener of Park City, Utah, and Margaret M. Ashforth of Keene, N.H.; and 14 grandchildren.
        He is also survived by his stepmother, Elsie L. Ashforth, of Rye, N.Y.; two sisters, Eleanor A. Harvey of Stonington, Conn., and Marna A., of Santa Cruz, Calif.; two stepbrothers, Alden B. Ashforth of New Orleans and Peter Madden of Manhattan; and a stepsister, Christina M. Whitman of Manhattan.
      