
        Frank Gasparro, who as an engraver at the United States Mint designed the tails side of the current Lincoln penny, showing the Lincoln Memorial, died on Saturday in Havertown, Pa. He was 92.
        There are more than 100 billion of the pennies in circulation, each with Mr. Gasparro's tiny initials to the right of the memorial.
        Mr. Gasparro, the mint's chief engraver for his last 16 years there, played a role in every change in coin design from 1959 until 1981. He designed, among others, both sides of the Eisenhower and Anthony dollars and the tails side of the Kennedy half dollar. He adapted outsiders' designs for the bicentennial dollar, half dollar and quarter after they had been chosen in an open competition.
        He fashioned scores of medals, including the nation's official bicentennial medal and the mint's presidential medals for every chief executive from Lyndon B. Johnson to Ronald Reagan. He also designed foreign coins produced for other countries by the mint.
        His daughter, Christina Hansen, said he originally aspired to make sculptures like those of Rodin and Michelangelo, but came to take pride in his billions of lowly pennies. He was known to show cashiers the reverse side of a penny and announce that he had designed it.
        ''They looked at me like I was crazy, so I don't do it anymore,'' he said in an interview in Smithsonian magazine in 1989.
        Frank Gasparro was born in Philadelphia, the eldest of seven children, on Aug. 26, 1909, just 24 days after the introduction of the Lincoln cent. Fifty years later, his Lincoln Memorial design was chosen from 21 entries by mint employees for a new penny to be issued for the 150th anniversary of Lincoln's birth. In 1959, it replaced the ''wheat ears'' design.
        His father was a professional musician who so fervently hoped that his son would follow in his footsteps that he would tear his drawings up, fuming that artists starved to death.
        ''He finally decided I wasn't going to stop and apprenticed me to a sculptor,'' Mr. Gasparro said in an interview in The New York Times in 1979. ''And that's how I entered the field.
        He studied under Giuseppe Donato, a prominent sculptor who once served as assistant foreman to Rodin. He then attended the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts in Philadelphia, and while there won two scholarships that enabled him to study and work in Europe. He became particularly enamored of Greek art.
        His daughter said it was Grecian design that influenced his first idea for a new dollar in the 1980's. She said he first envisioned a young woman's face and profile, her hair flowing. Instead, he was told to depict Susan B. Anthony, the famous suffragist. He had no idea what she looked like, so he went to the offices of The Philadelphia Bulletin and found two photographs in the newspaper's library. She was 28 in one and 84 in the other.
        When he chose the younger Anthony, her family, feminists and even his own wife, Julia, complained that she was too pretty. He then showed her with a square jaw, hooked nose and drooping right eye, and this design was accepted.
        But the coin was not. Americans by and large thought it looked and felt too much like a quarter and refused to use it. By this time, Mr. Gasparro had fallen in love with his creation, calling the Anthony dollar his ''top achievement.''
        He explained in a 1981 interview with The Times, ''It is uppermost in my mind because it was the most trying experience.''
        He joined the mint's staff as a $2,300-a-year junior engraver in December 1942. His first public success was the Lincoln penny, which he designed in 1958. When he presented his design to his superiors, they told him to remove the words ''Lincoln Memorial'' from below the relief of the building and 13 stars that ran around the outer edge of the coin.
        Mr. Gasparro agreed, but refused to take out his initials and the tiny statue of Lincoln between the sixth and seventh columns, two features his boss said would look like smudges of dirt. The result was a coin celebrated by numismatists: the only United States coin struck for circulation to bear a likeness of the same person on both sides.
        After his retirement from the mint, Mr. Gasparro designed numerous commemorative coins, including those for John Wayne and baseball heroes. He continued to teach art at the Samuel S. Fleisher Art Memorial in Philadelphia until a few weeks before his death.
        In addition to his wife and daughter, who lives in Brooklyn, he is survived by his brothers Robert, Anthony and Alfred.
        His daughter said her father, a slight man with a Jimmy Durante profile, had strong, large hands and liked to work in alabaster. When he introduced himself to strangers as a sculptor, he had a ready reply when they asked where they might find his work.
        ''It's in your pocket,'' he said.
        Correction:  October 6, 2001, Saturday  An obituary on Wednesday about Frank Gasparro, designer of the reverse side of the Lincoln commemorative penny issued in 1959, included an outdated reference to the uniqueness of the design. While the coin was the first circulated by the United States with a likeness of the same person on both sides, it is no longer the only one; the 1999 New Jersey quarter has George Washington on both front and back.
      