
        Gardner McKay, who became famous as the star of the 1960's television series ''Adventures in Paradise'' but abandoned the spotlight to move to the Amazon jungle, died at his home in Honolulu on Wednesday. He was 69 and had been fighting prostate cancer while trying to finish his memoirs.
        In later life, Mr. McKay became a successful playwright and an author, but he gained celebrity status as Adam Troy, the dashing skipper of the schooner Tiki, which plied the South Pacific. He was better known for his rugged good looks than for his acting talent: in an early review, one critic said that Mr. McKay played his role ''in one emotion.''
        But Life magazine quickly labeled Mr. McKay ''a new Apollo,'' featuring him on its cover and predicting that his face would ''launch a million sighs and burn its way into the hearts of hordes of American females.''
        The prediction did not come true, and perhaps no one was happier than Mr. McKay. When ''Adventures in Paradise' died after nearly three years, he did not renew his contract with 20th Century Fox and turned down a chance to star in a movie with Marilyn Monroe -- despite personal appeals from Monroe. His wife, Madeleine McKay, said he left Hollywood and moved south, eventually finding work as an agronomist's assistant in the rain forest.
        ''As soon as his contract was up, he said that is it, he was quitting,'' Mrs. McKay said. ''He felt he had to cleanse himself, to get it out of his system and to become an unknown.''
        Born in Manhattan, Mr. McKay was raised in New York and Paris. He never intended to become an actor. His father, an advertising executive, died after Mr. McKay's second year at Cornell University, and Mr. McKay left school to work as a sculptor. An offer of a modeling job lured him back to Paris. On the trip to Europe, Mr. McKay was aboard the Île de France when the ship passed the stricken Andrea Doria. He scrambled into a rescue boat and snapped photographs of the sinking liner.
        Mr. McKay's discovery as an actor reads like a line from an overused script. He was sitting in a Hollywood coffee shop when Dominick Dunne, who was co-producing ''Adventures in Paradise,'' spotted him reading a book of poetry.
        ''He was at the time, in the parlance of the town, nobody, absolutely nobody, but his attitude declared that he was somebody,'' Mr. Dunne wrote in a 1999 article in Vanity Fair.
        Mr. Dunne arranged a screen test, and Mr. McKay, an imposing 6 feet 5 inches tall, was given the part. ''Gardner was a classy guy -- good goods, as they used to say,'' Mr. Dunne wrote.
        After ''Adventures in Paradise'' sank, Mr. McKay spent two years in the Amazon, then moved to France, where reruns of the show had become a sensation. His next stop was Egypt, where his wife said he traveled the desert on camelback.
        Mr. McKay returned to the United States and began a career as a writer. He wrote a number of plays, including the well-received ''Sea Marks,'' and several novels. One of his last, the thriller ''Toyer,'' was the best known. Mr. McKay, who was the drama critic for The Los Angeles Herald-Examiner from 1977 to 1982, was also a prolific short-story writer and was regularly featured reading his works on public radio stations in Hawaii.
        Jean Doumanian, a movie producer and a friend of Mr. McKay, said he always considered himself a writer rather than an actor.
        ''He hated the fact that he was known for that television series,'' she said. ''It was not the professional or private path he wanted to take.''
        In addition to his wife, Mr. McKay is survived by his brother, Hugh Dean McKay, of California; his son, Tristan Gardner Lebaile, of Paris; his daughter, Liza McKay Petree, of San Francisco; and one granddaughter.
        Although Mr. McKay thought of himself as a writer who, for a short time, had been a famous actor, he never escaped his celebrity. His wife said that decades after the show went off the air, people continued to recognize him.
        ''He still gets fan mail, every week,'' she said. ''People were always coming up to him, saying, 'You are the reason I moved to Hawaii.' He got a kick out of it.''
      