
        Dr. George Alfred Kiersch, a geologist who used his expertise to find the proper sites for large-scale projects like dams and power plants and then built them, died on Oct. 19 in Tucson, Ariz., where he lived in retirement. He was 83.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Dr. Kiersch, a former professor and department chairman at Cornell University, was a leading figure in the branch known as engineering geology.
        Early in his career he alternated teaching with stints as a field geologist in the Western states. In the 1950's he supervised one of the first comprehensive surveys of mineral resources in Navajo and Hopi Indian reservations, and he helped to assess and map large swaths of territory for the Southern Pacific Railroad.
        Research on geothermal steam resources for the Air Force led to an appointment at the Technical University of Vienna to study underground steam around Salzburg in the early 1960's. He cut short that undertaking to go to northern Italy to investigate a disaster.
        A huge wave had topped a recently finished concrete arch dam over the Vaiont River and killed more than 2,000 people within minutes. Dr. Kiersch's investigation helped establish that the badly damaged dam, one of the world's highest, did not break but that a massive landslide behind it sent the wall of water over it and hurtling down the valley.
        Born in Lodi, Calif., George Kiersch studied geology and engineering at the Colorado School of Mines. He graduated in 1942, served three years in the Army Corps of Engineers and received a Ph.D. in geology and mining engineering at the University of Arizona in 1947.
        He joined the Cornell faculty as a professor of geological sciences in 1960, served as department chairman from 1965 to 1971 and retired in 1978. Moving to Tucson, he formed his own consulting firm.
        Dr. Kiersch's wife of 59 years, Jane Keith Kiersch, died in March. He is survived by three daughters, Dana Haycock of Lancaster, Calif., Mary Annan Kiersch of San Diego, Calif., and Nancy Bohnett of Colorado Springs; a son, George K., of Oklahoma City; two sisters, Gladys Wraith of Sacramento, Calif., and Freda Adams of Mountain View, Calif.; and 10 grandchildren.
        Last year, his received the prestigious Palmes Académiques in France for his work in Europe. Established in 1808 by Napoleon to honor foreign citizens, it praised him for decades of work applying the theory and principles of geoscience in finding appropriate sites and in building major projects, and for his role in the Viaont dam investigation.
      