
        Bob Eckhardt, who survived for 14 years in Congress as a liberal Democrat from Houston despite a constituency that was considerably to his right politically, died on Tuesday in Austin, Tex., his hometown. He was 88.
        His family said Mr. Eckhardt had suffered a series of strokes.
        Mr. Eckhardt represented Texas's Eighth Congressional District from 1967 until 1981, losing his seat in the 1980 Republican landslide led by Ronald Reagan.
        Mr. Eckhardt was a man of deceiving appearance. With his flowing mane, loud bow ties, Panama hats and three-piece linen suits, he looked like an old-style Southern congressman -- at least if one were to go by stereotypes, which Mr. Eckhardt spent much of his career defying.
        He supported busing to achieve school desegregation and supported federal money for abortions. He opposed a constitutional amendment to allow organized prayers in public schools. Perhaps most importantly, considering the economics of his district, he repeatedly sponsored or backed legislation that oil and gas interests disliked. His influence in the energy area was considerable, since he served for a time as chairman of an oversight panel of the House Energy and Commerce Committee.
        Mr. Eckhardt successfully fought deregulation of natural gas prices in the late 1970's. In 1975, he wrote legislation to keep price controls on oil. He also supported antipollution bills that the petroleum and chemical interests in his district found too restrictive.
        Mr. Eckhardt, who once termed himself as ''something of a populist,'' was decidedly liberal on civil rights and labor issues. He was an early critic of United States involvement in Vietnam and in 1975 became the first Southerner to be elected chairman of the Democratic Study Group, an organization of House liberals.
        Yet he was sometimes bored by the speechmaking that precedes lawmaking. To alleviate the tedium, Mr. Eckhardt drew cartoons, something he had taken up in grade school and refined as editor and chief cartoonist for a humor magazine at the University of Texas.
        During House proceedings, he drew on note pads, scrap paper or pages of the Congressional Record ''to puncture the shield of sham,'' as he once put it. President Richard M. Nixon's ski-jump nose (not to mention his politics) made him a natural and frequent target.
        Robert Christian Eckhardt was born on July 16, 1913. He graduated from the University of Texas and its School of Law, served in the Army Air Corps from 1940 to 1944 and practiced labor law before being elected to the Texas Legislature in 1958.
        Various explanations were offered for Mr. Eckhardt's survival as a liberal, first in the Texas Legislature and then in Congress. For one thing, his Texas roots ran deep. His ancestors on both his father's and mother's sides arrived from Germany in the first half of the 19th century.
        A great-grandfather fought at the Battle of San Jacinto in the Texas Revolution. A great-uncle married into the King family, which controlled the vast King Ranch. And Mr. Eckhardt's second cousin Representative Richard M. Kleberg of Texas gave the young Lyndon B. Johnson his first job in Washington.
        Then, too, Mr. Eckhardt could be an entertaining speaker, whether relying on drawled puns or quotes from Shakespeare. Mr. Eckhardt, who  once wrote a book on the Constitution with a Yale law professor, Charles L. Black Jr., was respected for his intellect.
        In the campaigns of 1976 and 1978, oil and gas interests spent heavily in trying to oust Mr. Eckhardt. They succeeded in 1980 when he lost by 4,000 votes to a young lawyer who had never held office, Jack Fields, who served until 1997.
        Mr. Eckhardt said afterward that he had no regrets. ''I believed Edmund Burke's idea that a legislator should not simply be a reflection of public opinion,'' he said.
        Mr. Eckhardt's three marriages ended in divorce. He is survived by three daughters, Sarah, of Austin, Rosalind, of Durango, Colo., and Orissa Arend of New Orleans; two brothers, Norman, of Dallas, and Joseph, of Nyack, N.Y., and six grandchildren.
      