
        Albert Hague, a popular composer whose work included his Tony award-winning score for the 1959 musical ''Redhead,'' the much-recorded standard ''Young and Foolish'' and the soundtrack for last year's film ''How the Grinch Stole Christmas,'' died on Monday at a hospital in Marina del Rey, Calif., where he lived. He was 81.
        Mr. Hague was perhaps best known for his role in the movie and television series ''Fame,'' in which he played the white-bearded, bespectacled, irascible music teacher. The film's director, Alan Parker, had wanted a real musician to play the part. The film came out in 1980, and the television show ran from 1982-1987 on NBC and in syndication.
        Mr. Hague insisted he had always been an actor, however much he had seemed to be totally immersed in music. With the humor he and his wife, Renee Orin, honed into a popular cabaret act in their later years, he explained, ''I was out of work for 59 years.''
        His song ''Young and Foolish'' for the 1955 musical ''Plain and Fancy,'' was another large claim to celebrity. It was recorded by Tony Bennett, the McGuire Sisters and Nancy Wilson, among many others. His Tony for the score of ''Redhead'' was one of six for the murder-mystery musical, which starred Gwen Verdon and was directed by Bob Fosse.
        Mr. Hague also worked as a teacher and coach for hundreds of young actors, including Jane Fonda, Roy Scheider and Robert Redford. His special expertise was preparing actors for the thorny process of auditioning.
        ''My definition of an audition is a nervous artist who's not quite sure whom he's looking for who's interviewing a nervous artist who's not quite sure who he is,'' he once said.
        He was born Albert Marcuse in Berlin on Oct. 13, 1920. His father was a psychiatrist and a musical prodigy and his mother a chess champion. His family considered their Jewish heritage a liability and raised him as a Lutheran.
        He was 9 when his father died, and he and his mother moved from their luxurious apartment into much smaller quarters where she ran a cooking school for debutantes. In 1937, after completing high school, Albert was about to be inducted into the Hitler youth, but escaped with his mother by train to Rome, said Brian Raine, a writer who is preparing a biography on him. The passport he carried identified him as a Lutheran.
        In Rome he attended the Royal Conservatory of Santa Cecilia on a full scholarship. When German authorities learned of his whereabouts, they ordered him to report to the army. His mother sent word to her sister in Ohio, and the sister arranged for Albert to be awarded a music scholarship to the University of Cincinnati. But he then had no legal basis for being in the United States, so an eye surgeon, Dr. Elliott B. Hague, who had close ties to the university, offered to adopt him.
        While a student in Cincinnati, he became a saloon pianist known for a rollicking rendition of ''Beer Barrel Polka.'' During World War II, he played with the Army's special services band. He began to proudly identify himself as a Jew.
        After the war, he settled in New York, but it was in Cleveland that his first stage show, ''Reluctant Lady,'' had its premiere in 1948. The leading lady was Renee Orin, whom he married in 1951. Later that year, he debuted on Broadway with incidental music to ''The Mad Woman of Chaillot.''
        His Broadway breakthrough was the 1955 musical ''Plain and Fancy'' about the Amish, which yielded ''Young and Foolish.'' His biggest success came in 1959 with ''Redhead.'' He shared his Tony with the musical's book writers, Herbert and  Dorothy Fields, Sidney Sheldon and David Shaw. His later Broadway efforts were generally considered less successful. But he found other arenas for his talent. When he played the song he wrote for the Grinch assignment to Theodore Geisel, Mr. Geisel (a k a Dr. Seuss) exclaimed, ''Any man who slides an octave on the word Grinch gets the job.''
        Mr. Hague is survived by his son,  Andrew, of New York, and a daughter, Janet, of Portland, Ore.
        His wife died last year. John Corry, writing in The New York Times in 1976, described the two doing their cabaret act. Miss Orin was singing some of her husband's songs.
        He wrote, ''Two waiters and the maître d'hôtel stopped what they were doing to listen, and very softly Mr. Hague said, 'In the final analysis, if they don't listen to your music, you're dead.' ''
        Correction:  November 16, 2001, Friday  Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about Albert Hague, a composer and actor, misidentified a film for which he composed the music. It was the 1966 television cartoon version of ''How the Grinch Stole Christmas,'' not last year's movie. The obituary also misspelled the given name of the ''Grinch'' author, whose pen name was Dr. Seuss. He was Theodor Seuss Geisel, not Theodore.
      