
        Irwin Weiner, a sports agent whose clients included Julius Erving and Walt Frazier, died last Saturday at a nursing home in Rye Brook, N.Y. He was 69.
        The cause was complications related to pneumonia, his family said.
        Mr. Weiner was a high school dropout who channeled his entrepreneurial drive to become one of the most prominent New York sports agents of the 1970's and 1980's.
        A native of the Bronx, he attended DeWitt Clinton High School but dropped out because of poor eyesight caused by cataracts. His father, Morris, worked in the garment district in Manhattan, and Mr. Weiner tried his hand in the bottom rungs of that industry, pushing hand trucks. But soon he started his own businesses and went through a series of failed ventures, from running a bagel shop to founding a skirt factory.
        In 1969, with almost no money to his name, Mr. Weiner started a sports agency after Ed Kranepool of the Mets, whom he had met at a social function, pointed out to him that many athletes did not have representation. He soon met Frazier, the Knicks' star guard, who did not have an agent and who asked Mr. Weiner to negotiate his contract. Mr. Weiner landed the first big contract for Frazier, whose salary went from $50,000 a year to $300,000 a year.
        About the same time, Mr. Weiner met Suzanne Beggins in a coffee shop on Long Island. She began working for him at the sports agency two years later, and they were married in 1986.
        Mr. Weiner is survived by his wife, of Eastchester, N.Y.; five children, Ellen Scappatura of Mahopac, N.Y., Mark, of Elmsford, N.Y., Kim Perrault of Glendale, Ariz., Jeff, of Mahopac, and Justine De Nunzio of Valhalla, N.Y.; and seven grandchildren.
        In 1973 a doctor successfully treated Mr. Weiner's cataracts. The grateful sports agent started the Dr. I Fund Foundation to raise money for medical research.
        Mr. Weiner served as police commissioner in Eastchester from 1980 to 1984. He continued to represent athletes and ran a $40-million-a-year printing business in Mount Vernon, N.Y.
        After his agency had achieved success, Mr. Weiner was often asked to lecture college students on his negotiation strategies.
        ''You've got to go by feel and experience,'' he would tell them. ''It also doesn't hurt to have a good product.''
      