
        Dr. Jeffrey M. Isner, who wedded  gene therapy and cardiovascular medicine to create promising treatments for heart and circulatory disease, died on Wednesday at his home in Weston, Mass., near Boston. He was 53.
        The cause was a heart attack, said St. Elizabeth's Medical Center in Boston, where he had worked for two decades.
        Dr. Isner, who also taught at Tufts University, was an interventional cardiologist, a member of a relatively new medical field whose practitioners try to remove arterial obstructions to restore the flow of blood to the heart. He also treated patients who had blocked blood vessels in the legs, a painful, disabling and potentially fatal condition that can require amputation.
        Interventional cardiologists are accustomed to thinking small. They typically do their work through angioplasty, a procedure in which a miniature balloon is threaded into a coronary or other artery and then inflated to clear away a blockage. Often the procedure entails inserting a tiny metal tube, called a stent, into the artery after inflation in an effort to prevent the blockage's recurrence.
        But a decade or so ago, Dr. Isner began thinking much smaller still. That was when other researchers discovered a protein they called vascular endothelial growth factor, or VEGF (pronounced VEJ-eff), which signals the body that it is time to grow new blood vessels. Could the substance, he wondered, be used to induce patients to grow new vessels that would bypass a blockage?
        In 1994, Dr. Isner put the idea to the test, becoming the first to use genes to treat people with vascular disease. In the very first case, to treat a leg blockage, his team of surgeons coated an angioplasty balloon with trillions of genes that produce VEGF and then threaded it several times to a site near the patient's blockage.
        The procedure came to be called angiogenesis, and while it remains experimental, preliminary studies have been promising, indicating that it may indeed help people who have vascular disease of the leg or who are suffering from angina, chest pain that results from coronary blockage.
        Still, experts say, many questions remain before gene therapy can become standard treatment for vascular disease.
        ''The results were promising,'' said Dr. Valentin Fuster, director of cardiovascular medicine at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York, who was a friend of Dr. Isner. ''The thing that he was trying to answer was for how long this increased flow would last. He didn't have the answer for that.''
        Jeffrey Michael Isner was born on Dec. 11, 1947, in Uhrichsville, Ohio, the son of Justin and Lilli Isner. He earned his bachelor's degree at the University of Maryland and his medical degree at Tufts.
        In a 1997 interview, he attributed some of his early successes to simple good fortune.
        ''When we began our study,'' he said, ''we had no idea what dose of gene therapy was going to work, or if the way we were injecting the genes was appropriate, of if the sites we were injecting were really appropriate.''
        Those successes also placed him in the middle of the debate over whether the increased blurring of industry and medical research raised ethical questions for doctors. Like a growing number of physicians, Dr. Isner was involved not only in medicine but also in business, as founder of Vascular Genetics and a major stockholder in the company, which is based in North Carolina.
        Some critics have raised questions about whether such relationships can affect a doctor's medical judgment, but Dr. Isner rejected those suggestions.
        ''I'm not trying to dismiss this out of hand,'' he once said, ''but I'm not going to be a wimp and roll over because someone is projecting a concern. I understand what the arguments are, but frankly I don't agree with most of them.''
        Last year the Food and Drug Administration temporarily suspended research by Dr. Isner, Vascular Genetics and St. Elizabeth's, criticizing the researchers on grounds that they had failed to report properly the death of two patients participating in a study and might have endangered the health of another. That suspension followed the much-publicized death of an 18-year-old man in an unrelated University of Pennsylvania gene therapy experiment.
        Dr. Isner said the two patients had died of their underlying cardiovascular condition, not the treatment. But his company acknowledged administrative problems with the research and promised to correct them. Last spring he was permitted to resume his studies, and he recently received a $10 million grant from federal health officials.
        He is survived by his wife, Linda Hajjar Isner, and three children: Joshua, Jessica and Matthew, all of Weston.
      