
        Harrison A. Williams Jr., the Democratic senator from New Jersey who used his considerable power to further the interests of labor and education before being convicted of bribery and conspiracy in the Abscam scandal, died on Saturday. He was 81 and lived in Bedminster.
        Dr. Bruce Mintz, his physician, said he died of heart disease at St. Clare's Hospital in Denville, N.J.
        Once known as ''senator for life,'' and the only New Jersey Democrat to be elected to four Senate terms, Senator Williams was convicted on May 1, 1981, on nine counts of bribery and conspiracy for promising to use his office to further a business venture in which he had a hidden interest. He was fined $50,000 and sentenced to three years in prison, which he served at a minimum-security federal prison in Allenwood, Pa.
        On March 11, 1982, he resigned in the face of overwhelming indications that more than two-thirds of the Senate, where he had served for 23 years, were about to expel him. He said he had been illegally entrapped by federal agents posing as Arab sheiks and businessmen. Six congressmen were also convicted in the Abscam scandal.
        He always said he was convicted of what he termed a ''dishonest crime.'' In a 1986 interview with WNET-TV, he defined this as ''when somebody else creates the situation for which you are convicted.''
        In his resignation speech, he denied breaking any laws and said, ''I did not want the Senate to bring dishonor to itself by expelling me.''
        President Clinton last year turned down his request for a pardon.
        Harrison Arlington Williams Jr. was born in Plainfield, N.J., on Dec. 10, 1919. When a grandfather heard the news by telegraph, he wired back, ''For Pete's sake, the name's too long.'' From then on, he was known as Pete.
        His father, a Republican, was president of a burial vault company. He attended local schools in Plainfield and went to Oberlin College in Ohio, repeatedly running for student offices. He majored in economics. After graduation in 1941, he studied briefly at the Georgetown University School of Foreign Service in Washington while he worked as a copy boy at The Washington Post.
        In the winter of 1941-42, he enlisted in the Navy. In the naval air division, he was commissioned and became a pilot and flight instructor.
        Mr. Williams then took a job as a steelworker at the National Tube Company in Lorain, Ohio, for several months, becoming a member of the United Steelworkers of America.
        He graduated from Columbia Law School. in 1948, he worked for a year as a lawyer in Jaffrey, N.H., but returned to Plainfield, where he worked for a time as ''a combination clerk and baby sitter'' for George F. Hetfield, a conservative Republican whom he opposed in 1953 in his first Congressional race.
        He had been admitted to the New Jersey bar in 1951, joined a Newark law firm and taught business law at the Newark branch of Rutgers University. He lost some minor races. Then, in 1953, Clifford P. Case resigned from the House of Representatives to run for the Senate, resulting in a special election. The Congressional seat was considered so safe for Republicans that the Democratic National Committee told Mr. Williams it was ''against party policy to spend money in hopeless contests.''
        So Mr. Williams financed the campaign with $2,800 of his own money and some borrowed from friends. He promised to support Eisenhower and to continue Mr. Case's liberal policies, and defeated Mr. Hetfield, the first Democratic victory in the history of the district.
        He introduced his first bill with Representative John F. Kennedy to give aid to businesses hurt by competition from cheap imports, beginning a lifelong closeness to the Kennedys. He was re-elected in 1954 with a record of anti-Communism abroad and liberal social policies at home. He said he was a ''liberal with both feet on the ground.''
        In 1956, he was defeated by only 4,400 votes in his re-election bid despite a Republican margin in the district for Eisenhower of 78,668 votes. He returned to private law practice, but kept his hand in politics by aiding in the re-election of Democratic Gov. Robert B. Meyner.
        Governor Meyner designated him as the party's candidate to run against Robert W. Kean (father of former Gov. Thomas Kean). He became the first Democrat elected to the Senate from New Jersey since 1936.
        He was re-elected in 1970 and became chairman of the Labor and Human Resources Committee. In that post, he backed the interests of migrant workers, women, coal miners, the disabled and the elderly. He wrote the Occupational Safety and Health Act and sponsored the creation of the federal urban transit program.
        He was the first chairman of the Select Committee on Aging.
        In the late 1960's, his actions while under the influence of alcohol made headlines as the New Jersey chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People censored him for unbecoming behavior at its 1968 convention. Soon after, he said he would never drink again.
        Two years into his fourth term came Abscam, short for Abdul Scam. Mr. Williams always noted that he did not immediately agree to use his influence to obtain government contracts to buy the output of an idle Virginia titanium mine and processing plant. He had a concealed interest in the enterprise and said he thought the sheik was willing to invest $100 million.
        But he agreed to the scheme five months later. He argued in his appeal that his not agreeing to the scheme in the first videotaped encounter proved he was not predisposed to commit the crime, which the trial judge in Brooklyn had told the jury the prosecution had the burden of proving.
        In December 1983, the Supreme Court unanimously refused to hear his appeal.
        After his release, he was active on the boards of drug treatment programs like Integrity.
        He is survived by his wife, Jeanette; two sons, Dr. Peter Williams and Jonathan; two daughters, Wendy Scarcella and Nina Learner, and six grandchildren. All live in or around Plainfield, N.J.
      