
        B. K. Nehru, an Indian diplomat who nearly succeeded Dag Hammarskjold as United Nations secretary general and quarreled with his cousin Prime Minister Indira Gandhi over Kashmir, died on Oct. 31 in Kasauli in northern India. He was 92.
        In 1958, Mr. Nehru helped create the Aid India Club, a consortium of donor nations that, starting in 1961, committed $2 billion over two years to development in India and promised to find $3 billion later.
        Named in 1958 as Indian ambassador to Washington, he was approached by Western European countries in 1961 as a possible successor after Mr. Hammarskjold's retirement. The Europeans wanted the post to go to a figure from a nonaligned country like India but preferred Mr. Nehru to the Indian foreign minister, V. K. Krishna Menon.
        After Mr. Hammarskjold's death in a plane crash in September 1961, Mr. Nehru wrote in 1997 in his memoirs, ''Nice Guys Finish Second,'' Mr. Menon unexpectedly called him from New Delhi and persuaded him to say that he did not really want the United Nations position.
        Afterward, Mr. Nehru decided that he had made ''an idiotic decision'' and that Mr. Menon, with whom he had a difficult relationship, was deliberately sabotaging his chances of becoming secretary general because he knew that he could never land the post himself.
        Born in Allahabad on Sept. 4, 1909, Brij Kumar Nehru was a cousin to India's first and third prime ministers, Jawaharlal Nehru and his daughter, Indira Gandhi. B. K. Nehru was educated at Allahabad University, the London School of Economics and Balliol College, Oxford, before joining the Civil Service, where he specialized in financial work. He was in the Indian delegation to the Paris Conference on German reparations at the end of World War II.
        Mr. Nehru had a major role in convincing the Indian government that it would never achieve its development goals unless it relaxed its authoritarian economic policies and agreed to seek Western economic aid. He told Prime Minister Nehru that if he wanted the aid he had to tone down his anti-Americanism.
        Ambassador Nehru left Washington in 1968 to become governor of Assam and Nagaland, in the northeast, in the period when what is now Bangladesh was breaking away from Pakistan. He was also Indian high commissioner in London from 1973 to 1977.
        In 1981, he was named governor of Jammu and Kashmir, where he split with Mrs. Gandhi over her effort to remove the province's elected leader. One result was that Mr. Nehru, far from a teetotaler, was sent in 1984 to govern Gujarat, a state that practiced prohibition.
        Surviving are his wife, Shobha, and three sons, Ashok, Aditya and Anil.
      