
        Joe Modise, a guerrilla fighter who led the armed struggle against apartheid and became South Africa's first black defense minister, died in his home near Pretoria on Monday night, government officials said Tuesday.
        He was 72 and had cancer, said Snuki Zikalala, a family spokesman.
        For nearly three decades, Mr. Modise served as the commander of Umkhonto we Sizwe, the military wing of the African National Congress, which tried to dislodge the white government with its campaign of bombings and sabotage.
        When Nelson Mandela was elected South Africa's first black president in 1994, he selected Mr. Modise to lead the defense ministry. It was a daunting task. Mr. Modise had to integrate about 27,000 black guerrillas from the A.N.C. and the smaller Pan Africanist Congress into the old army, a force of 65,000 in which the enlisted men were mainly black volunteers and the officers overwhelmingly white.
        By the time Mr. Modise retired from government in 1999, the transition was complete. Racial tensions still simmer within the South African National Defense Force, but the merger went smoothly.
        This week, he won praise from across the political spectrum.
        ''Comrade Joe Modise was responsible for creating a loyal, stable, unified and professional South African National Defense Force, one that has become increasingly representative of the population and credible and legitimate in the eyes of our people,'' said Moloto Mothapo, a spokesman for the Congress of South African Trade Unions.
        Mr. Modise was born in Doornfontein on May 23, 1929, and became active in the anti-apartheid struggle as a young man. In the 1950's, he got involved in nonviolent campaigns against apartheid and was tried along with Mr. Mandela and others in a four-year treason trial. All 156 defendants were acquitted.
        After the authorities opened fire on a peaceful crowd of demonstrators in Sharpeville, killing 69 people, and banned the African National Congress in 1960, Mr. Modise and others decided to take up arms. They began organizing Umkhonto we Sizwe, or Spear of the Nation.
        Mr. Modise spent two years organizing guerrilla cells in South Africa before he went into exile in 1964. He received military training in Czechoslovakia and the Soviet Union and established military bases in Tanzania, Angola and Uganda, A.N.C. officials said. He also oversaw the training of South African exiles in Cuba, Algeria, Egypt, Ethiopia and China.
        By 1981, attacks on police stations, migration offices and oil refineries were occurring on an average of almost one every two days.
        By the late 1980's, however, it was clear to senior members of the congress that dialogue was the only way to end apartheid. Mr. Modise joined the group's first team of negotiators to hold talks with the white government, in March 1990.
        But he kept the threat of returning to the armed struggle as an important tool in negotiations. ''Let there be no mistake about it,'' Mr. Modise told 2,500 blacks gathered in a stadium in 1990. ''The talks may have begun, but the struggle has not ended. It is important that the demands that we make at the table must continue to be backed up by your action,'' he said, urging black neighborhoods to turn themselves into ''solid blocs of resistance to the regime.''
        Mr. Modise's reputation was sullied in 1993 when the African National Congress publicly criticized him for being part of a tribunal that improperly arrested a man who had complained about nepotism and sexual harassment within the party in the 1980's. The man was beaten and imprisoned for three years.
        In recent months, Mr. Modise has been criticized for conflicts of interest in awarding contracts in the multibillion-dollar arms deal when he was defense minister.
        But this week, Mr. Modise was celebrated for his long struggle against apartheid. ''As a former minister of defense in South Africa's democratically elected government and a veteran freedom fighter, Joe Modise will long be remembered as a stalwart of our fight for liberation and one who served his country well,'' President Thabo Mbeki said.
        Mr. Modise is survived by his wife, Jackie Sidebe, and his daughters, Boipuso, Lesidi, Binki, Thoko and Priscilla Phake.
      