
        Milton Shaw, who oversaw the design and construction of the reactors that powered the first nuclear submarine and the first nuclear aircraft carrier, died on Saturday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 80.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        A protégé of Adm. Hyman G. Rickover, Mr. Shaw was the project leader for the Nautilus, the first nuclear submarine, which was launched in 1954, and the Enterprise, the first nuclear aircraft carrier, launched in 1960. The propulsion reactors in those ships became the basis for the design of civilian power plants.
        Mr. Shaw was also the director of the division of reactor research and development at the Atomic Energy Commission, from 1964 to 1973. He was a leader of the project to develop a breeder reactor, which makes more nuclear fuel than it consumes. The project became the commission's top priority in the late 1960's, as nuclear experts predicted that a growing number of reactors would exhaust the world's uranium supply.
        After a partial meltdown of a breeder reactor owned by a utility company, Fermi, in October 1966, Mr. Shaw became an advocate for closer government control of such research and was a proponent of the Fast Flux Test Facility, which was built in Hanford, Wash., as a precursor to the Liquid Metal Breeder Reactor. But the government eventually abandoned the breeder program as impractical.
        After retiring from the Atomic Energy Commission in 1973, Mr. Shaw worked as a consultant in energy, engineering and national security, and was a visiting professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Carnegie-Mellon University.
        He received the Navy's Distinguished Civilian Service Award in 1959 and 1964, and the National Civil Service Award in 1968.
        Mr. Shaw served in the Pacific in World War II as an engineering officer in the Navy's Amphibious Fleet, and reached the rank of lieutenant junior grade. A graduate of the University of Tennessee, he earned graduate degrees from Pennsylvania State College and the Oak Ridge School of Reactor Technology.
        Mr. Shaw is survived by his wife, Natalie; two sons, Eric, of Chevy Chase, and Daniel, of Mars, Pa.; a daughter, Andrea Shaw Reed of Orleans, Mass.; two sisters, Ruth Kahan of Roslyn Heights, N.Y., and Genevieve Kramer of St. Louis; and eight grandchildren.
      