
        Former Representative Edward P. Boland, a steady, self-effacing lawmaker whose name became central to the debates over the Reagan administration's policies in Central America, died on Sunday. He was 90.
        Mr. Boland, a native of Springfield, Mass., spent 36 years in Congress representing a western Massachusetts district. He was known as a man who remembered his constituents.
        He never lost an election, retiring in 1989.
        ''There was nothing flashy about Eddie Boland,'' Representative Jim  McGovern, a Democrat from Worchester, Mass., said. ''He had the job to do, and he did it.''
        Mr. Boland, the child of Irish immigrants, inherited an allegiance to the Democratic Party.
        His friendship with Thomas P.  O'Neill Jr., another Massachusetts Democrat, was a touchstone of his career and led to opportunities when Mr. O'Neill became House speaker.
        Elected to Congress in 1952, Mr. Boland spent many years in relative obscurity, playfully observing that no one outside Springfield had ever heard of him. He marched for civil rights in Selma, Ala., with the Rev.  Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in 1965 and promoted the Johnson administration's Great Society as chairman of the Appropriations subcommittee on housing and urban development.
        Despite those liberal credentials, Mr. Boland earned a reputation as a moderate. He was an avid anti-Communist and early supporter of the war in Vietnam. A World War II Army veteran, Mr. Boland supported the military and successfully lobbied to reinstate registration for the draft.
        He was an austere man, who remained a bachelor until he was 61. In 1972, he married Mary Egan, the  president of the Springfield City Council, who survives him. They had four children: Martha Boland of Brighton, Mass., Kathleen Boland of Brighton, Mass., Edward Boland Jr. of Brooklyn and Michael Boland of Northampton, Mass.
        It was Mr. Boland's role as chairman of the Select Committee on Intelligence that gave him the fame he claimed to shun. Chosen for the post by Mr. O'Neill in 1977, Mr. Boland took over the committee months after disclosures that the Central Intelligence Agency had spied on American citizens and tried to assassinate foreign leaders.
        Mr. Boland took the new oversight role seriously and sought a bipartisan consensus on intelligence matters. But that goal slipped away amid the efforts of the Reagan administration to unseat the Marxist Sandinista government in Nicaragua.
        In the early 1980's, as Reagan officials began a covert program to aid Nicaraguan rebels, called contras, Mr. Boland offered successive amendments to restrict the assistance and then end it. Insisting he was in ''complete sympathy'' with the effort to curb communism, Mr. Boland said the administration's approach was duplicitous and counterproductive.
        ''The secret war hasn't brought Central America closer to peace or Nicaragua closer to democracy,'' he said. ''What it does is provide the Sandinistas with the perfect excuse to foist unfair elections, a huge army, censorship and the draft on the Nicaraguan people.''
        The Boland amendments curtailing aid were at the heart of the Iran-contra scandal, in which Reagan officials had sought to divert funds from the sale of arms to Iran to support the rebels. Throughout the investigation, Mr. Boland stood by the principle of upholding the law but winced at the attention he received.
        ''This kind of thing,'' he said, ''gives me visibility I don't cherish and don't seek.''
        Correction:  November 7, 2001, Wednesday  An obituary yesterday about former Representative Edward P. Boland, a Massachusetts Democrat, misspelled the name of the hometown of Jim McGovern, another Massachusetts Democrat, who commented on Mr. Boland's low-key style. It is Worcester, not Worchester.
      