
        Paul R. Screvane, who began serving New York City by driving a garbage truck and progressed to one of its loftiest political positions, president of the City Council, died on Sunday at his home in Wyomissing, Pa. He was 87.
        His daughter, Sara-Ann Steber, said he never sold his home in Douglaston, Queens, but had lived with her family in recent years. She said he died of congestive heart failure.
        His many public roles included being campaign manager for both of Robert F. Wagner's mayoral campaigns and Robert F. Kennedy's Senate campaign. He organized the city's role in President Lyndon B. Johnson's war against poverty, and worked with Robert Moses to put on the 1964 World's Fair. He ran for mayor in 1965, but was defeated by Abraham D. Beame in the Democratic primary.
        In what remains a matter of sometimes desperate importance to New York car owners, he developed, while serving as sanitation commissioner, the city's system of alternate-side parking, which requires that cars be moved out of the way of street cleaners on one side of the street on specific days.
        ''My recollection is that he was a tough guy,'' former Mayor Edward I. Koch said. ''People liked him.''
        Paul Rogers Screvane was born on Aug. 11, 1914, in Woodcliffe, N.J., where his mother was visiting at the time. At the age of 3 weeks, he moved back to his family's home in the Bronx where he grew up.
        He was a star halfback on the James Monroe High School football team and won an athletic scholarship to Mississippi State College. But after a year, his mother became seriously ill and he dropped out of college. He took a job as an $18-a-week clerk.
        His uncle, a former member of the sanitation department, told him that if he did not mind getting his hands dirty, the agency offered a chance for rapid advancement. Promotions were based on merit tests. So, at the age of 22, Mr. Screvane took a job as a $35-a-week truck driver for the agency.
        Five years later and 10 months before Pearl Harbor, he enlisted in the Army as a private. By the end of World War II, he was a colonel and had won the Silver Star for gallantry and two Bronze Stars for meritorious achievement.
        He returned to the Sanitation Department and rose quickly and steadily: Mayor Wagner appointed him commissioner in 1957. At 42, he was the department's youngest commissioner and immediately began experimenting with such novel ideas as dog comfort stations and public ashtrays.
        After Mayor Wagner broke with Carmine DeSapio and the Tammany bosses, he recruited Mr. Screvane to run for City Council president, then one of the city's highest positions. He represented a civil service in which advancement was based on merit not patronage, Henry J. Stern, parks commissioner, said.
        ''His greatest role was as an exemplar of the civil service,'' said Mr. Stern, who at the time was an aide to the Manhattan borough president.
        But he had other accomplishments. He wrote a law to protect New Yorkers who were arrested on Freedom Rides in the South from  any negative treatment by city agencies. During the summer of 1962, he served as acting mayor while Mayor Wagner vacationed abroad. He signed several laws, including a measure barring the importation of strikebreakers.
        In 1965, Mr. Screvane was defeated by Mr. Beame in the mayoral primary. John V. Lindsay, then a Republican, won the mayoralty.
        After working in private business, Mr. Screvane returned to government in 1974 to serve as head of the New York City Off-Track Betting Corporation. In 1978, he returned to private business and was president and chief executive of Federal Metal Maintenance Inc. until his retirement seven years ago.
        His wife, Birdie McKessy Screvane, died in 1989. In addition to his daughter, he is survived by his sons, Paul, of Reading, Pa., and Christopher and Brian, both of New York City; nine grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  November 12, 2001, Monday  An obituary on Wednesday about Paul R. Screvane, a former New York City Council president, misspelled the given name of his wife, who died in 1989. She was Bridey McKessy Screvane, not Birdy. Her nickname was the Bird.
      