
        Chaim Stern, one of Reform Judaism's most prolific liturgists -- whose influence extended even to President Bill Clinton, who quoted a passage on contrition from one of Rabbi Stern's books during the president's sex scandal -- died of a malignant brain tumor at a Miami hospital on Monday. He was 71 and lived in Miami.
        Rabbi Stern was the editor and author of the majority of the prayer books used by the 800 congregations in the American Reform movement, Judaism's liberal wing. His ''Gates of Prayer,'' published in 1975, was the movement's official year-round prayer book, while his ''Gates of Repentance,'' which appeared three years later, played the same role for the High Holy Days.
        ''As editor of our major prayer books, he has helped the Reform movement to reach thousands and thousands of Jews, creating a vehicle for people to relate to God,'' Rabbi Paul J. Menitoff, executive vice president of the Central Conference of American Rabbis, the Reform movement's rabbinical organization, said in an interview with The New York Times in 1998.
        Rabbi Stern translated many of the materials from the original Hebrew, wrote passages himself and collected words of wisdom from eclectic voices ranging from Martin Buber to E.E. Cummings to Norman Mailer. The traditional ''thee'' and ''thou'' became ''you,'' and the references to ''our fathers'' in traditional prayers, considered sexist, became ''our ancestors.'' All references to God as King were changed to Sovereign.
        In September 1998, after President Clinton acknowledged his relationship with Monica S. Lewinsky, Mr. Clinton read to a group of clergy members an extensive passage from ''Gates of Repentance''; the president used it as a description of the path to contrition he planned to take.
        The passage the president read was written in the 1960's by Rabbi Jack Riemer of Florida. It compares the natural change of seasons with the far more difficult act of will needed to change human behavior.
        When asked three months later if he thought President Clinton was really repenting, Rabbi Stern answered: ''There is no possibility we're going to know any time soon. We may know this 5 or 10 years from now.''
        Chaim Stern was born on Aug. 8, 1930, in the Brownsville neighborhood of Brooklyn. He was the youngest of nine children of Leah and Pinchas Stern. His father had a butcher shop during the Depression, and later sold it to make straps for tefillin, the small leather boxes containing four texts of Scripture worn by Jews during morning prayers on all days except the Sabbath. His mother's lineage claimed biblical scholars going back to the 11th century.
        His Orthodox parents sent Chaim to yeshivas from an early age. But the rise of the Nazis caused him to question his faith, and he became far more secular than his family. He attended City College, while working part time as a cabdriver, and Harvard Law School. But he left Harvard after a year because of deepening religious feelings, and enrolled in Hebrew Union College Institute of Religion in New York and Cincinnati. He was inspired by an uncle who later became a Reform rabbi.
        He was ordained in 1958, but began to serve as a rabbi at Temple Sholom in River Edge, N.J., during his last two years as a student. He stayed at the synagogue until 1962. Always an outspoken political activist, he traveled to Mississippi to fight for civil rights as a Freedom Rider in 1961.
        From 1962 until 1965, he was acting senior rabbi of the Liberal Jewish Synagogue in London where he helped edit two new prayer books for the Liberal Movement of England, similar to the Reform movement. These prayer books, ''On the Doorposts of Your House'' and ''Gates of Joy,'' led to his being asked to do the same thing in the United States.
        For 33 years, until last spring, he was the senior rabbi at Temple Beth El of Northern Westchester in Chappaqua, N.Y. He then took a two-year assignment as the senior rabbi at Temple Israel of Greater Miami.
        Among his other works were a Passover Haggadah, as the narrative of the Exodus read at the Seder is called, titled ''Gates of Freedom.'' His ''Day by Day,'' a collection of reflections to accompany the cycle of the Jewish year, turned out to be popular with people of many faiths.
        Recently, he and Rabbi Gunther Plaut finished ''The Book of Genesis,'' a translation and commentary, which will be published soon. Last month, he finished his final work, ''Paths of Faith,'' a weekday, Sabbath and festival prayer book that also awaits publication.
        Rabbi Stern is survived by his wife, Lea Lane Stern; sons David, of Muncie, Ind.; Philip, of White Plains; and Michael, of Los Angeles; and stepsons Randall and Cary Lane, both of New York City.
      