
        Tommy Flanagan, a jazz pianist who with a classic trio set a high standard for elegance in mainstream postwar jazz, died Friday night at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 71 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was an arterial aneurysm, said his wife, Diane Flanagan.
        Mr. Flanagan, a distinguished accompanist who came into his own as a leader late in his career, stood in the stylistic tradition of Art Tatum and Teddy Wilson. All were technical wizards who played sustained single-note lines and who integrated rhythmic and melodic ideas with both left hand and right hand. Also like those predecessors, Mr. Flanagan was a connoisseur of American-song obscurities, and he spent relatively little time in the medium of the blues. His touch at the keyboard was clear and illuminating; his art was urbane and refined.
        The youngest of six children, Mr. Flanagan was born in Detroit. He began studying the clarinet at age 6 and started piano lessons when he was 11. In Mr. Flanagan's youth Detroit was such an important center for jazz that it was possible to play in a nationally known band without leaving town; its Blue Bird Inn, where he was long part of the house band that played with visiting stars, was one of the most hallowed jazz clubs in the country. (One of Mr. Flanagan's own best compositions is a tribute to the club, ''Beyond the Blue Bird.'')
        In his hometown he was surrounded by a loose circle of musicians from the same generation who like him would deeply affect the jazz tradition: the brothers Elvin, Hank and Thad Jones, playing drums, piano and trumpet; the vibraphonist Milt Jackson; the pianist Barry Harris; the bassist Paul Chambers; the guitarist Kenny Burrell; and the singer Betty Carter.
        Mr. Flanagan moved to New York in 1956, at the tail end of Charlie Parker's reign, and learned bebop through the filter of his own strengths as a distinctly witty, fluid language. He handled its labyrinthine progressions of chords like a painter with a fine brush; he had the speed but not the rattling intensity of Bud Powell, another close colleague after Mr. Flanagan's move to New York.
        In 1956 during the Newport summer jazz festival Mr. Flanagan first accompanied Ella Fitzgerald, a job that would keep him occupied for a good deal of the next 20 years; he also acted as her musical director.
        ''He really started getting me singing what I heard inside and what I wanted to get out,'' she said in 1983.
        Mr. Flanagan worked with Fitzgerald from 1962 to 1965, then again from 1968 until 1978; he also worked for Tony Bennett, and as a sideman on many important jazz records, including John Coltrane's ''Giant Steps'' and Sonny Rollins's ''Saxophone Colossus,'' and others by Freddie Hubbard, Dexter Gordon, Wes Montgomery, Gene Ammons and Coleman Hawkins.
        In 1978 Mr. Flanagan had a heart attack and stopped working for Fitzgerald. But then he slowly began to establish himself as an individual artist of the first order, and in the early 1990's, with trio albums like ''Jazz Poet'' (1989) and ''Let's'' (1993), he was suddenly one of the most celebrated figures in jazz.
        The critic Gary Giddins wrote in his book ''Visions of Jazz'' that Mr. Flanagan had ''perfected his own niche, a style beyond style, where the only appropriate comparisons are between his inspired performances and those that are merely characteristic.''
        He created a fluid, democratic trio, rather than one featuring a pianist with accompanists. This trio -- including the bassists George Mraz and Peter Washington, and the drummers Kenny Washington, Lewis Nash and most recently Albert Heath -- forged a deep repertory out of bebop miniatures, the work of jazz composers like Billy Strayhorn and Thad Jones, and little-known pieces from the American songbook.
        His trio created arrangements lined with short improvisations, with one player's solo framed by concise phrases worked out between the other two musicians. A sense of self-restraint permeated all the band's performances, with solo breaks that were not too long and all ideas tastefully wrapped up; the melody line never disappeared under his improvisations. Mr. Flanagan's touch and rhythmic bounce connoted the spontaneity of jazz, and yet the shape of his playing gave evidence that he could see a map of the entire piece.
        A quiet man with a fringe of white hair, Mr. Flanagan had in recent years been working with a heart condition, but his performance schedule remained unabated. For the last several years he played two consecutive weeks at the Village Vanguard twice a year. One of his most recent recordings was ''Sunset and the Mockingbird: The Birthday Concert,'' recorded live at the Vanguard in March 1998. He was to appear at Iridium for the weeks including Christmas and New Year's Eve.
        He won the distinguished Danish Jazzpar Prize in 1993.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Tommy Flanagan Jr. of Redondo Beach, Calif.; two daughters, Rachel Flanagan Jackson of Lemoore, Calif., and Jennifer Flanagan of the San Diego area; and six grandchildren.
        Correction:  November 20, 2001, Tuesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary of the jazz pianist Tommy Flanagan yesterday misspelled the given name of his wife, who survives him, and omitted her maiden name. The names of three other survivors were also omitted. His wife is Diana Kershner Flanagan, not Diane. Survivors also include his sister, Ida Flanagan Jones of Detroit, and his brothers -- Luther, of Ann Arbor, Mich., and Douglas, of Detroit.
      