
        W. Glenn Campbell, an economist and friend of President Ronald Reagan who built the Hoover Institution at Stanford University into one of the world's most influential conservative research groups, died on Saturday at his home in Los Altos Hills, Calif. He was 77.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Michele M. Horaney, a spokeswoman for the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace.
        Dr. Campbell, who was reared on a Canadian farm without running water and indoor plumbing, earned his doctorate at Harvard and took control of the Hoover institution in 1960 when it was in organizational and financial shambles. By 1991, two years after his resignation, The Economist called Hoover the top such institution in the world.
        ''When Glenn took over this place, it was nothing,'' said Melvyn Krauss, a Hoover senior fellow.
        Dr. Krauss, an economist, said Dr. Campbell's success in increasing the Hoover endowment to $135 million  from $2 million and attracting high-profile intellectuals were the results of strategies like recruiting famous academics whom many universities considered too old; these big names, in turn, attracted younger researchers.
        Another advantage stemmed from a friendship begun with Mr. Reagan when he ran for governor of California. Dr. Campbell eventually built on this personal relationship to forge institutional ties to the Reagan administration in Washington, giving the institution an unusual practical influence. At one point in President Reagan's second term, 26 Hoover fellows worked in his administration, in positions ranging from top advisers to members of advisory panels.
        Still another Campbell policy was to give researchers wide autonomy to work independently, while freeing them from chasing grants and other chores.
        All these approaches combined to help bring in money from conservative donors and ideas from the cream of conservative scholars, including Milton Friedman, the economist, and Edward Teller, the designer of the hydrogen bomb. Scholars who later attained fame and Nobel Prizes also followed.
        ''He was the premier intellectual entrepreneur of the century,'' said Martin Anderson, a policy adviser in the Reagan White House.
        Describing himself as an ''old Scottish warrior,'' Dr. Campbell delighted in fierce ideological battles, whether with Stanford administrators whom he accused of wanting to take over Hoover or of spokesmen for liberal causes, not a few of whom he considered nonsensical.
        ''He loved controversy,'' said George P. Shultz, the former secretary of state and a distinguished fellow at Hoover. ''He felt that if what he said provoked other people to say otherwise, that was fine with him.''
        Dr. Campbell was born on April 29, 1924, on a farm in Lobo Township in Ontario. He was one of seven children. He graduated from the University of Western Ontario in 1944 and received his doctorate in economics from Harvard in 1948. At Harvard he studied with the economists Joseph A. Schumpeter and Wassily Leontief.
        President Herbert Hoover appointed Dr. Campbell to head the Hoover Institution in an effort to keep what Hoover called left-wingers from gaining control of it. Three months after Mr. Campbell's appointment, the Stanford faculty tried to end the institution's autonomy and put it under direct university control. Hoover, then 86, ended this initiative with the flick of his pen.
        Another storm arose from Dr. Campbell's invitation in 1983 to President Reagan to store his papers in the institution. Ronald A. Rebholz, a Stanford English professor, said in an interview with The New York Times in 1987, ''Hoover brings Stanford into the Reagan presidency in a way that is completely objectionable.''
        In the end, Stanford agreed to accept the library, but the Reagans decided to go elsewhere, building the library in Simi Valley, Calif.
        Mr. Campbell's last battle with Stanford arose when the university demanded that he retire at 65, the official retirement age. He noted that other Stanford professors were allowed to stay beyond 65, and threatened to file an age discrimination suit, but eventually stepped down.
        Throughout his career, he exemplified the ease with which many Hoover scholars passed back and forth between academia and public service. He was a regent of the University of California and chairman of the president's Intelligence Oversight Board during the Reagan administration, among other jobs.
        Dr. Campbell is survived by his wife of 55 years, Rita Ricardo-Campbell, an economist at Hoover; three daughters, Diane Rita Campbell, Barbara Lee Gray and Nancy Elizabeth Yaeger, and four grandchildren.
      