
        A memorial service has been scheduled for Deputy Chief Raymond M. Downey, who commanded the rescue units of the New York Fire Department and oversaw the search-and-rescue work after the Oklahoma City bombing in 1995. Mr. Downey, who was 63 and lived in Deer Park, N.Y., died in the collapse of the World Trade Center buildings.
        Chief Downey's body has not been found, but the family announced yesterday that it had scheduled a memorial service for Dec. 15.
        Chief Downey's son Chuck, a lieutenant in the Fire Department, said that his father had been seen with another fire chief in the ruins of the Marriott World Trade Hotel, which had been hit by the collapsing south tower. He had been trying to help a man who had injured a leg and could not move. The son said that two fire lieutenants had reported hearing Chief Downey tell firefighters at the north end of the hotel site to flee, saying that the north tower was about to collapse. Chief Downey might have been heading toward that tower to order firefighters out, his son said.
        Lieutenant Downey and another son, Fire Captain Joseph Downey, participated in the search at the site.
        Chief Downey, a New York City firefighter for 39 years, led the Special Operations Command, whose duties include rescue work, marine operations and the handling of hazardous materials. He was one of the nation's leading experts on rescue operations at collapsed buildings.
        In April 1995, Chief Downey spent 16 days at the ruins of the Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City, serving as operations chief for the Urban Search and Rescue teams, which worked with the Federal Emergency Management Agency. He was involved in the evacuation of thousands of workers in the 1993 bombing at the World Trade Center.
        Chief Downey was also a member of a national advisory commission on domestic response to terrorism.
        Upon their return from Oklahoma City, Chief Downey and the New York firefighters and police rescuers who worked with him received more than 1,000 letters, poems and drawings expressing gratitude. After the collapse of the trade center towers on Sept. 11, Gov. Frank Keating of Oklahoma expressed renewed appreciation for Chief Downey's help after the 1995 bombing.
        Governor Keating recalled how Chief Downey had advised workers on the placement of support beams so the ruins of the Oklahoma City federal building would not collapse on those engaged in rescue and recovery work. ''I have no doubt that he saved lives in Oklahoma City,'' the governor said.
        ''Ray named the huge concrete slab that hung ominously overhead,'' Governor Keating recalled. '' 'That's mother,' he said simply, as if it had no power to fall on him.''
        In March 1992, while a captain with Rescue Company 2, Mr. Downey directed more than 500 firefighters, police officers and Emergency Medical Service rescue workers when a USAir plane taking off from a snowy runway at La Guardia Airport slid into Flushing Bay.
        Having remained atop the belly of the plane through the night, he explained why his men continued to search the icy waters even when hope seemed gone. ''You think about the families,'' he said. ''The only way you can relieve some of their sorrow is to successfully recover the bodies of the people they loved.''
        Raymond Matthew Downey, a native of Sunnyside, Queens, became a New York City firefighter in 1962. He served with ladder and engine companies and with Rescue Company 2 before forming Squad Company 1 in 1977. He remained with it until 1980, when he returned to Rescue Company 2, serving as its commander for 14 years. He became a battalion chief in August 1994, and joined the Special Operations Command a year later. He was named its leader in 1997, and was promoted to deputy chief in August.
        He is survived by his wife, Rosalie, of Deer Park; sons Chuck, of Commack, N.Y.; Joseph, of West Islip, N.Y., and Ray, of Babylon Village, N.Y.; two daughters, Marie Tortorici and Kathy Ugalde, both of Deer Park; two brothers, Gene, of Stony Point, N.Y., and Tom, of Garden City, N.Y., who are retired members of the Fire Department; and seven grandchildren.
        Chief Downey once told of the need to make split-second decisions.
        ''The fire business is so unpredictable,'' he said in an interview with Newsday in 1994. ''It's like going into a battle and you're under attack. You move in, look for those who are trapped. First it's clear. A second later it's dark, black heat.''
      