
        J. P. Miller, an Emmy Award-winning writer from television's golden age of live drama, who was best known for the teleplays ''The Days of Wine and Roses'' and ''The People Next Door,'' died on Thursday at the Hunterdon Medical Center in Flemington, N.J. He was 81.
        The cause was pneumonia, his daughter Lia Miller said.
        ''One thing that characterized him was that he never stopped working,'' said Ingo Preminger, a film producer who was Mr. Miller's agent in 1958 when ''The Days of Wine and Roses'' was broadcast on ''Playhouse 90'' on CBS. A novelist and screenwriter who adapted much of his own television material for the movies, he was at work on an autobiography at his home in Stockton, N.J., where he lived since 1965.
        His career began in the 1950's, when the likes of Paddy Chayefsky, Rod Serling, Gore Vidal and Horton Foote wrote and adapted often surpassingly good drama for television. Mr. Miller stepped into that company with his play ''The Rabbit Trap,'' shown on the Philco TV Playhouse in 1954. About a man who quits his deadening job in the interests of a better relationship with his young son, the show won generally favorable reviews, but it also signaled the arrival of a writer not necessarily interested in sunny storytelling.
        ''Mr. Miller was a shade too content to let his downbeat motif of human inadequacy carry his story for him,'' Jack Gould wrote about ''The Rabbit Trap'' in The New York Times. Other comments over the years describe Miller plays as stark and unrelenting, which is certainly not to say ineffective.
        Often he wrote about the ravages of drugs and alcohol on family life, obviously never easy ground to cover. In ''The Days of Wine and Roses,'' a young couple played on television by Cliff Robertson and Piper Laurie (Jack Lemmon and Lee Remick in the film adapted by Mr. Miller in 1962) take a harrowing 10-year slide into alcoholism. ''It was a brilliant and compelling work,'' Mr. Gould wrote in The Times. ''Mr. Miller's dialogue was especially fine, natural, vivid and understated.''
        In 1969 Mr. Miller won an Emmy for ''The People Next Door,'' another decidedly uncheery and controversial tale on ''CBS Playhouse.'' In a story resembling the recent film ''Traffic,'' a benighted surburban couple (Lloyd Bridges and Kim Hunter) try to deal with an addicted teenage daughter (Deborah Winters) sinking steadily into ruin. Mr. Gould called the play ''fiercely realistic and overwhelmingly frank,'' the kind of programming that ''marks a breakthrough in the medium's willingness to come to grips with one aspect of modern life.''
        Two years earlier, Mr. Miller hailed a plan by CBS to produce serious television plays. He hoped the networks could escape the grip of ratings. ''But if the script has to be shaped to fit a format, forget it,'' he said in The Times. ''Money is not everything. Writers want to reflect their own strike zone. What counts, too, is to have a television producer with guts who will stand up to the fellow in the checked suit from the sponsor who says you can't offend some little old lady.''
        Interviewed in The Times in 1982, Mr. Miller had lost any optimism. ''Nowadays, writing for television is a painful experience in psychic castration,'' he said. ''You never know what's going to happen to your writing. It makes it difficult to believe in the ultimate result.''
        Though he never left television completely, Mr. Miller did turn to movies and, perhaps more satisfyingly, to books. The first of several novels, ''The Race for Home,'' was published in 1968. The narrative follows a 15-year-old boy's wanderings through Texas during the Depression as he searches for a home and roots. ''Comic, bawdy, sprawled and well traveled in its experience of men and women -- all things a novel ought to be,'' Richard Rhodes wrote in The Times.
        A Texan himself, James Pinckney Miller was born on Dec, 18, 1919, in San Antonio. After graduating from Rice and serving as a Navy lieutenant in World War II, he attended the Yale School of Drama. For a while he boxed professionally under the name of Tex Frontier. His first television script was for a 50's show called ''Man Against Crime.''
        His first two marriages ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Lian Miller; four sons, Jace, John, Montgomery and Anthony; two daughters, Lia and Sophie Miller-Solarino; and one grandchild.
        Mr. Miller was a large, pleasant man. ''He was bigger than life, immediately in command of a situation, always with a sense of humor,'' said Brendan Byrne, former governor of New Jersey and a tennis and golf partner of Mr. Miller's. ''If he hit the ball 300 yards, he'd always say he didn't get it all. In life I think he did.''
        Mr. Preminger, the brother of the producer Otto Preminger, called Mr. Miller a person of strong friendships and a definite personality. ''We loved him for his loud voice,'' he said. Apparently volume didn't affect civility. ''He wouldn't talk to people who didn't behave in a civilized way,'' Mr. Preminger said, adding that this was a good stance to adopt in Hollywood.
        Mr. Miller wrote many screen adaptations, including films of his own work. ''The Days of Wine and Roses,'' directed by Blake Edwards, was the best. ''Of course, the television version was closer to my heart, because it was closer to my original image,'' he said.
        In 1981 that version was rebroadcast on PBS. ''It offers a fascinating glimpse into what television would fail to become,'' the critic Tom Shales wrote in The Washington Post.
      