
        Juan Bosch, a prolific writer who in December 1962 became the first freely elected president of the Dominican Republic in 38 years -- only to be toppled by a military coup after seven months in office -- died yesterday in the capital, Santo Domingo. He was 92.
        At its start, Mr. Bosch's presidency appeared to promise a more hopeful future for his impoverished and deeply troubled country. His election had been made possible by the assassination in May 1961 of Gen. Rafael L. Trujillo, the dictator who had ruled since 1930. That also let the Organization of American States lift sanctions imposed on the country in 1960 because of General Trujillo's complicity in a plot to assassinate President Rómulo Betancourt of Venezuela.
        The Kennedy administration welcomed Mr. Bosch's election and sent Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson to represent the United States at his inauguration in February 1963. Washington also promised increased aid under the Alliance for Progress.
        But Mr. Bosch quickly provoked his rightist opponents, introducing constitutional changes that included limiting the size of landholdings and strengthening industrial and agricultural workers' rights.
        His performance as president had other problems, too. Caught between the remnants of General Trujillo's forces and Communists inspired by Fidel Castro, he often appeared indecisive and unable to delegate responsibility. In his book ''Overtaken by Events,'' John Bartlow Martin, who was the American ambassador in Santo Domingo, described Mr. Bosch as ''a poor president.''
        On Sept. 25, a group of military officers and other enemies of the government led by Generals Elías Wessin y Wessin and Antonio Imbert Barreras ousted Mr. Bosch and his cabinet. The plotters called them ''corrupt and pro-Communist.'' Mr. Bosch went into exile in Puerto Rico.
        The United States reacted angrily, suspending aid and refusing to recognize the triumvirate that emerged from the coup and was replaced by a cabal headed by Donald Cabal Reid, a prominent businessman.
        In 1965, military supporters of Mr. Bosch conducted an uprising in the capital, demanding the restoration of the exiled president and a return to the Constitution of 1963. In April, Mr. Johnson warned Mr. Bosch not to return to the Dominican Republic. That month, the United States sent 22,000 marines to occupy the capital for several months while a provisional government was formed and elections were arranged.
        Mr. Bosch returned to contest the elections in June 1966 but lost to Joaquín Balaguer, a former ally of General Trujillo. Mr. Bosch contested elections in 1978, 1982, 1986, 1990 and 1994, always losing.
        Juan Bosch Gavino was born on June 30, 1909, in La Vega to a Spanish father and a Puerto Rican mother. After college in Santo Domingo, he began writing and published more than 30 works of fiction and history. In 1937, appalled by a massacre of Haitian squatters ordered by General Trujillo, he began a 24-year exile, initially moving to Cuba.
        In 1939, he helped found the Partido Revolucionario Dominicano, with a leftist non-Communist orientation. In 1952, he fled Cuba after Gen. Fulgencio Batista took power and threatened to deport him to the Dominican Republic. Mr. Bosch returned to his homeland in 1961 after General Trujillo's death and built his party into a movement of farm and factory workers.
        In the 1962 election campaign, he made his followers extravagant promises that were probably unrealizable, including jobs for the unemployed, the division and distribution of big estates to landless farm workers, better housing and higher living standards.
        He was so eager to resist being called a Communist that when a Spanish Jesuit accused him of that, he withdrew from the election for a while after failing to have the contest postponed to give himself time to reply. Two days before Election Day, Mr. Bosch rejoined the contest and won.
        In 1941, he married the former Carmen Quidiello, a Cuban. They have a son, Patricio, and a daughter, Barbara.
        Correction:  November 10, 2001, Saturday  An obituary on Nov. 2 about Juan Bosch, the first freely elected president of the Dominican Republic, misstated the family names of the man who succeeded him after a coup in 1963. The successor was Donald Reid Cabral, not Cabal Reid. The article also referred incorrectly to the 22,000 United States troops who were sent to the Dominican Republic in 1965 to occupy the capital for several months while a provisional government was formed and elections were arranged. They were a mixed force of marines and Army soldiers, not just marines.
      