
        Paul Hume, whose opinions on music raised him to an almost statesmanlike stature in the minds and hearts of Washington's concertgoers, died on Monday at a nursing home in Baltimore. He was 85 and was suffering from pneumonia.
        Mr. Hume was The Washington Post's music critic for 35 years, beginning in 1947. Though his local orchestra, the National Symphony, never found its way to the highest levels of success and accomplishment, its audience included some of the most powerful listeners on the globe. Indeed, the hazards of Mr. Hume's job were most famously reflected in his confrontation with President Harry S. Truman, who was incensed by the less-than-favorable review extended his daughter after a recital at Constitution Hall in 1950.
        Having characterized the president's daughter as ''a unique American phenomenon with a pleasant voice of little size and fair quality,'' he added, ''She is flat a good deal of the time.'' Mr. Hume was shocked to receive a letter in President Truman's hand that read in part: ''I've just read your lousy review of Margaret's concert. It seems to me that you are a frustrated old man who wishes he could have been successful.'' Calling Mr. Hume's review ''poppycock,'' Truman went on to say: ''Some day I hope to meet you. When that happens you'll need a new nose, a lot of beefsteak for black eyes and perhaps a supporter below.''
        As a musical commentator in official disfavor, he was, of course, lucky to have run afoul of Truman rather than, say, Stalin. Mr. Hume went on to 32 more years of prosperity. In fact, he expressed sympathy for the strain of the president's job, and for  the sudden death of his friend and press secretary, Charles G. Ross, a few hours before the concert. The Post did not print Truman's letter, but the rival Washington News made it public. Years later Mr. Hume called on Truman in Independence, Mo. The two reconciled and played the piano together.
        Paul Hume was born in Chicago and studied the piano, organ and voice as a child. His major at the University of Chicago was English, but he also followed courses in theory and music history. During World War II, Mr. Hume declared himself a conscientious objector. After the war his first job was at radio station WINX, owned by The Washington Post. He became the paper's music critic a year later.
        Mr. Hume was busy in the music world. He taught the history of music at Georgetown and Yale Universities and was host for classical-music radio programs on WGMS in Washington. He wrote books on Verdi and Catholic church music. Together with his wife, Ruth Fox, he produced studies of the pianist Jan Paderewski (''The Lion of Poland'') and the Irish tenor John McCormack (''The King of Song'').
        Mr. Hume performed as well: as a cocktail pianist at the Mayflower Hotel during the war, as a baritone soloist at the Washington National Cathedral, as an organist, and as director of the Georgetown glee club. He received a Peabody Award and several honorary doctorates.
        Although Mr. Hume's wider fame rests with the Truman incident, he regularly passed judgment on all of the prominent artists who passed through town. He had the respect of many of them, including Leonard Bernstein, Vladimir Horowitz and Eugene Ormandy. Margaret Truman's response went: ''Mr. Hume is a very fine critic. He has the right to write as he pleases.''
        Mr. Hume moved to Baltimore two years ago. His wife had died in 1980. He is survived by three sons, Paul, Michael and Peter, and by a daughter, Ann Hume Wilson.
      