
        Dr. Franz P. Hoskins, a Navy officer in World War II who took part in a storied appendectomy aboard a submarine years before he went to medical school, died on Nov. 8 in Kingsport, Tenn. He was 86.
        On Sept. 11, 1942, at a depth of 120 feet in the China Sea, a pharmacist's mate and a group of officers -- none of them a doctor -- joined together on the Seadragon for what was evidently the first major surgical operation ever performed on a submerged submarine.
        A day earlier, on his 19th birthday, a crewman from Kansas, Darrell Dean Rector, fell ill with appendicitis. With the submarine a week or so from the nearest Allied port, in Australia, the skipper, Lt. Cmdr. William Ferrall, obtained the patient's permission to form a makeshift surgical team.
        The patient was placed on a mess table, and Pharmacist's Mate Wheeler Lipes, who had observed a few appendectomies while serving as a laboratory technician at a naval hospital in Philadelphia, became the surgeon, working from a manual.
        Lieutenant Hoskins, the communications officer, administered ether.
        ''Like all the others involved, I'd had no medical training, but after reading how to give an ether anesthesia from the medical manual, I finally consented to do my bit,'' he once recalled.
        The ether mask was a tea strainer covered with gauze. Metal spoons bent at right angles were used as muscle retractors to hold the wound open after an incision was made. A scalpel was rigged up, sulfa pills were ground into powder for an antiseptic, and the instruments were sterilized with alcohol milked from the torpedo mechanism and boiling water.
        As the procedure dragged on, Lieutenant Hoskins came close to using up his ether, but with the patient seemingly about to regain consciousness he continued to soak the strainer. When the ether fumes began to mount, making the surgical staff giddy, the skipper speeded up the blowers to dissipate the effects.
        After 2 hours and 36 minutes, the appendix was successfully removed; 13 days later, the patient was back on duty manning battle phones.
        ''One thing I learned,'' Dr. Hoskins said in a 1987 interview with The Seattle Times. ''You can do an appendectomy with three ounces of ether. I used three pints on the Seadragon.''
        When the Seadragon arrived in Australia after its war patrol, it submitted a report telling of the Japanese ships it sank and a certain non-combat procedure. The report was titled ''One Merchant Ship, One Oil Tanker and One Successful Appendectomy.''
        George Weller, a correspondent for The Chicago Daily News, won a Pulitzer Prize for reporting in 1943 for his account of the appendectomy, based on interviews he conducted in Australia. The episode was reprised in the 1950's television series ''The Silent Service'' and the Hollywood movies ''Destination Tokyo'' and ''Run Silent, Run Deep.''
        According to the Naval Historical Center in Washington, two other successful appendectomies were performed by submarine corpsmen in World War II, aboard the Grayback and the Silversides.
        After duty on the Seadragon, Lieutenant Hoskins became one of the few Naval Reserve officers to be a World War II submarine skipper.
        Promoted to lieutenant commander, he served as captain of the Trutta, which shelled and destroyed 17 small Japanese merchant vessels in 1945.
        But the man whose life was saved by the emergency appendectomy did not survive the war. Darrell Dean Rector was among the 78 crewmen lost aboard the submarine Tang when it sank off Formosa in October 1944, after a torpedo it fired at a Japanese ship turned around and hit the sub. The skipper, Cmdr. Richard Okane, was among crew members tossed into the sea by the explosion and spent the rest of the war as a Japanese prisoner. He was awarded the Medal of Honor for the Tang's exploits.
        Dr. Hoskins attended the University of Washington Medical School after the war and had a family practice in Tacoma, Wash., for more than 40 years. He is survived by a son, Franz Jr., an anesthesiologist, and a daughter, Nancy Hoskins.
        Many years after the war, Mr. Lipes, the once-in-a-lifetime surgeon, who retired as a lieutenant commander, told of having been on an airplane and spotting a man next to him reading a ''Ripley's Believe It or Not'' item about a submarine sailor who removed the appendix of a shipmate.
        As Mr. Lipes remembered it: ''This guy turned to me and said, 'Can you believe that?' I read it, shook my head and said, 'Don't you believe a word of it.' ''
      