
        Dr. John M. Dawson, a leading authority on plasma physics, died on Nov. 17 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 71.
        The cause of death has not been determined, said Dr. Warren Mori, a professor of physics and electrical engineering at the University of California at Los Angeles, who was a colleague of Dr. Dawson's.
        Dr. Dawson is considered the father of computer-simulated plasma models and of plasma-based particle accelerators.
        In the late 1950's, as a research physicist at Princeton, Dr. Dawson helped create what is now regarded as a new area of experimental science. He was among the first to realize that computers were becoming powerful enough to perform experiments on clouds of particles that had been the province of laboratory studies. The method has since spread to many areas of science and technology.
        ''Before he did his work, scientists were limited to either laboratory experiments or theoretical calculations,'' Dr. Mori said. ''Today, his simulation approach is considered on an equal footing with experimental and theoretical techniques.''
        Dr. Dawson first applied the technique to simulate the physics phenomena of plasma, a gaseous collection of free-moving electrons and ions that makes up 99 percent of the visible universe.
        He was also one of the earliest and most creative thinkers in the effort to extract energy from plasmas for peaceful purposes, a process called nuclear fusion, said Dr. Nathaniel Fisch, a professor of astrophysical sciences and the director of the program in plasma physics at Princeton.
        ''He was known as being out there with some of the most original thoughts on how to put together fusion reactors,'' Dr. Fisch said.
        Dr. Dawson left Princeton in 1973 for a professorship in physics at U.C.L.A. While there, he came up with a way to make particle accelerators more powerful. Conventional accelerators, in order to accelerate particles at higher speeds, must be made larger and larger -- some reaching tens of miles in circumference and costing hundreds of millions of dollars to build.
        Dr. Dawson proposed using plasma in accelerators. Plasma, when excited by a laser pulse or particle beam, leaves behind a wake, similar to the one created by a motorboat, on which particles can surf. Because the acceleration rate in this process becomes 1,000 times as high as the rates produced by conventional devices, accelerators could theoretically be made at one-thousandth their current sizes. Over the last few years, there have been many promising results in the development of the technology, and if successful, conventional accelerators might one day be miniaturized to fit on a tabletop, the National Energy Research Scientific Computing Center said.
        One of the inventions that Dr. Dawson was most proud of, said Dr. Tom Katsouleas, a professor of electrophysics at the University of Southern California and a former student of Dr. Watson's, was a technique for separating isotopes of the element palladium, which is used to treat cancer. Dr. Dawson developed the technique while recovering from prostate cancer in the mid-1970's.
        Dr. Dawson's technique for simulating plasmas on computers, called the particle-in-cell computer model, has helped to expand plasma research, which today has applications as diverse as energy production and air pollution control.
        Born in Champaign, Ill., John Myrick Dawson earned both his bachelor's degree, in 1952, and Ph.D., in 1957, from the University of Maryland. He was the director of U.C.L.A.'s center for plasma physics and fusion engineering from 1976 to 1987 and was associate director of its institute for plasma and fusion research from 1989 to 1991.
        He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1977. That  year, he received the Maxwell Prize from the American Physical Society, and in 1994 he received the physical society's Aneesur Rahman Prize. The two awards are the organization's highest honors in its plasma physics and computational physics divisions.
        Dr. Dawson's wife, Nancy Wilds, died in 1994.
        He is survived by a son, Arthur, of Glen Ellen, Calif.; a daughter, Margaret Dawson, of Walnut Creek, Calif.; two brothers, Edward, of Beltsville, Md., and Fred, of Rockland, Md.; two sisters, Irene Leland of Lansing, Mich., and Ruth Phillips of Accokeek, Md.; and four grandchildren.
      