
        Satguru Sivaya Subramuniya swami, a native Californian who sought spiritual meaning in India as a young man and became the spiritual leader of Sri Lankan Hindus, died on Tuesday at his ashram on the Hawaiian island of Kauai. He was 74.
        Satguru Sivaya Subramuniya swami (soo-bra-MOON-ya SWA-mee) helped build more than a dozen Hindu temples around the world, including what he called the first Hindu church in the United States.
        Paramacharya Palaniswami, editor of Hinduism Today magazine, said the satguru died on the 32nd day of a fast he had begun after learning he had incurable intestinal cancer.
        The satguru (teacher of truth) was a tall, regal man with silken white hair who devoted his life to spreading Hinduism's message. He helped build temples from Denmark to New Zealand for Tamil refugees from Sri Lanka, established four monastery branches and 32 missions in seven countries and founded and published Hinduism Today, a major voice among American Hindus.
        In 1986, the World Religious Parliament in New Delhi honored him as one of the five Hindu spiritual leaders outside India who had most dynamically promoted Hinduism in the previous 25 years.
        The paramacharya (another term for teacher) said the satguru was born in Oakland on Jan. 5, 1927. He declined to give the satguru's original name, because he had renounced it and everything else from his earlier life when he became an ascetic, celibate Hindu monk. He is survived by a sister, Carol Griffin of Woodland, Calif.
        Orphaned when he was 11, the satguru was raised by a friend of his mother's who had spent time in India and absorbed Indian culture. He had become the leading dancer of the San Francisco Ballet Company by the time he was 19 but quit to go to India.
        After sailing to Bombay on a freighter, he spent months scouring the south of India unsuccessfully for a guru. He continued his quest in Sri Lanka, which was then called Ceylon. He practiced severe austerities and yogic disciplines, then went into the Caves of Jalani to find enlightenment.
        ''That was basically his revelation of God, his personal experience of the divine,'' the Paramacharya said.
        Soon afterward, he met the guru Sage Yogaswami, who gave him his Hindu name, denoting one who teaches through radiance, and who initiated him into the strict monastic life, ordaining him into his own spiritual lineage. The guru then slapped him on the back and exclaimed: ''This will be heard in America! Now go 'round the world and roar like a lion. You will build temples and feed thousands.''
        While still in Sri Lanka, the satguru founded an ashram and the Saiva Siddhanta Church, now active in many countries. He called it a church because he thought that word would be more comfortable to Western ears.
        He later lived in Colorado, Arizona and Nevada, where he spent seven years intensively preparing himself spiritually. In 1957, he began teaching in San Francisco, where he founded what the paramacharya said was the nation's first Hindu temple.
        The satguru became what the book Religious Leaders of America called ''a pillar of orthodox Hinduism.'' In 1965 he founded the Himalayan Academy, which promotes the Saivist, or Shiva-worshiping, branch of Hinduism through classes, lectures, retreats, home-study courses and study pilgrimages to India and Hawaii, home of the organization's principal monastery. In 1970, the church's headquarters were moved to the island of Kauai.
        When the Sri Lankan civil war between Hindus and Buddhists erupted in the early 1980's, the satguru organized relief efforts. He also provided guidance to refugees scattered around the world. He urged them to raise their children as Hindus in their new countries and helped them start temples.
        Also in the 1980's, he founded a branch monastery in Mauritius, whose government had invited him to revive a languishing Hindu faith.
        He displayed a practical side, once drawing attention in San Francisco with a sign suggesting that tithes could be put on credit cards. He also required monks to be adept on Apple McIntosh computers.
        He became a spokesman for Hinduism at global gatherings, despite representing fewer then three million of the world's estimated one billion Hindus. His influence reflected the reach of his publications, including the approximately 30 books he wrote. For example, he represented Hinduism at the Global Forum of Spiritual and Parliamentary Leaders in Oxford in 1988, Moscow in 1990 and Rio de Janeiro in 1992.
        In 1994, he founded the Hindu Heritage Endowment to provide permanent income for Hindu swamis, temples and orphanages worldwide. In 1995, after returning from a trip to India, he worked seven days a week for three years to complete a trilogy of books exploring Hinduism.
        The satguru kept his sense of humor to the end. During his fast, the last of many he had undertaken as spiritual quests, a colleague asked him how he felt.
        ''Bored,'' he answered.
      