
        Jamie Shannon, the chef who succeeded Emeril Lagasse at Commander's Palace in New Orleans and brought its kitchen national acclaim, died on Nov. 23 at the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. He was 40 and was being treated at the center.
        In his 17 years at Commander's Palace, the venerable restaurant in the Garden District owned by the Brennan family, he won numerous  awards while endearing himself to his adopted city with an unabashed celebration of Creole traditions and ingredients. He often said his menu relied on foods grown, hunted or fished within 100 miles of his stove, and he sometimes bagged the quail or speckled-belly geese he served. He also prided himself on producing his own staples, whether spicy andouille sausage, fresh Creole cream cheese or even Worcestershire sauce.
        Mr. Shannon, who started his career in a cafeteria near his hometown, Sea Isle City on the Jersey Shore, had a gift for making the richest Creole dishes seem refreshingly New American. His seafood and sausage gumbo was less a murky stew than an artful mélange, with every element sending out a clear message of powerful flavor. His first signature dish, shrimp stuffed with tasso (a spicy Cajun ham) and sauced with five-pepper jelly, was also renowned for its interplay of sweetness and heat and its innovative pairing of Louisiana favorites.
        ''He used local ingredients, but put a fresh spin on things,'' said the chef Frank Brigtsen, owner of Brigtsen's in New Orleans, who also cooked at Commander's Palace, when Paul Prudhomme ruled the range. He said Mr. Shannon was admired for ''embracing all the great things about Louisiana, not just the cooking but the hunting, the fishing, Mardi Gras and Jazzfest.''
        Unlike most other chefs in a city where ''Commander's Palace is our cooking school,'' as Mr. Brigtsen put it, Mr. Shannon had a formal education, at the Culinary Institute of America, and arrived with professional training in 1984. He was promoted to executive chef in 1991. Before coming to New Orleans, Mr. Shannon had cooked for Ivana's, at Trump Plaza in Atlantic City.
        He is survived by his wife, Jeannette; a son, Tustin; his mother, Anne M. Shannon; his adoptive father, Patrick J. Shannon; his father, James E. Fraizer; three sisters, Lynda M. Fraizer, Melissa A. Trout-Baron and Jocealynn Shannon; and three brothers, Howard T. Trout III, Jamie T. Bitting and Jonathan Shannon.
        Last year Mr. Shannon published his first cookbook, ''Commander's Kitchen,'' written with one of his employers, Ti Adelaide Martin (Broadway Books).
        Over the last few months he had been featured in a series for the Turner South cable network, ''Off the Menu at Commander's Palace,'' that showed him riding his motorcycle or prowling the bayous in search of ingredients like alligator.
      