
        Dr. David Moody Hopkins, an arctic geologist and leading authority on the land link that allowed ice age hunters to pursue their mammoth and mastodon prey from Siberia to Alaska nearly 12,000 years ago, died on Nov. 2 at his home in Menlo Park, Calif. He was 79.
        The cause was kidney failure, his family said.
        Dr. Hopkins's work centered on the Western Arctic during the last ice age. When he began his field work on the Seward Peninsula in the early 1940's, the region's geology was mostly unknown to scientists.
        In the 1950's and 1960's he joined with botanists, archaeologists and others to study the area in its permafrozen entirety and to date its first inhabitants by the campsites and hunting stations they left. But his name became associated especially with the Bering Land Bridge.
        The Bering Strait, 55 miles wide, joins the Pacific and Arctic Oceans. But in the last ice age, its floor was drained sufficiently to yield a plain that big-game hunters were able to cross into North America.
        Dr. Hopkins edited and contributed to ''The Bering Land Bridge,'' an anthology, published in 1967, that remains in print. He was a co-editor and contributor to ''Paleoecology of Beringia'' (1982), a book about an area referring to the two shores of the Bering Sea.
        Born in Nashua, N.H., he graduated from the University of New Hampshire in 1942. He received his master's (1948) and doctorate (1955) from Harvard.
        He worked as a research scientist for the United States Geological Survey from 1942 to 1984, based in Washington and Menlo Park. From then until his retirement in 1994, he was a professor at the University of Alaska.
        He was among the first American scientists to work cooperatively with  counterparts in the Soviet Union, and Dr. Hopkins worked there as an exchange fellow of the National Academy of Sciences in 1969. This permitted him to carry on his field studies in Siberia.
        He was a lifelong member of a wide range of ecological, social and human rights organizations.
        Dr. Hopkins is survived by his wife of 31 years, Rachel Chouinard Hopkins; two daughters and a son from previous marriages, Dana Hopkins of Palo Alto, Calif., Dr. Chindi Peavey of Castro Valley, Calif., and Alexander, of Reno, Nev.; three stepsons, Vincent Stanley of Santa Barbara, Calif., Christopher Stanley of Bainbridge Island, Wash., and Gregory Stanley of Fairfield, Calif.; a brother, Dr. Daniel Hopkins of St. Charles, Mo.; a sister, Dona White of Elephant Butte Lake, N.M.; and eight grandchildren.
        His first wife, Joan Prewitt Hopkins, died in 1955. His second marriage, to Martha Bryant Hopkins, ended in divorce.
      