
        Earle K. Moore, an American communications lawyer who secured a landmark civil rights court ruling that obliged broadcasting stations to serve the interests of their audiences, died of cancer Saturday in Manhattan. He was 79.
        In 1964, at the height of the civil rights movement, Mr. Moore made communications law history by successfully challenging the license renewal for a television station, WLBT-TV of Jackson, Miss., accusing it of  broadcasting racial slurs and defending segregation even though 40 percent of its audience was black.
        He brought the case on behalf of the Rev. Everett C. Parker, director of the Office of Communications of the United Church of Christ.
        Rebuffed at first by the Federal Communications Commission, which argued that the public had no say in the award of broadcasting licenses, Mr. Moore took his case to court and eventually won before the Court of Appeals in Washington, which stripped the station of its license.
        He successfully argued that the public should have a right to appeal to the communications agency and other regulators, and that television stations must take account of the interests of their viewers. In response to the argument that viewers did not have a substantial stake in the station, he pointed out that their investment in television sets amounted to more than was spent by the broadcasting company.
        The court's ruling that the public has a right to appeal directly to the F.C.C. opened the door to similar actions by environmental and other special interest bodies.
        Mr. Moore was involved in many other important test cases in communications law, including the 1969 decision to require television stations to disclose the number of minorities and women they hire.
        Mr. Moore was born Dec. 8, 1921, grew up in Kenmore, a suburb of Buffalo, and attended Harvard University, from which he graduated in 1942. After wartime service in the Pacific as an Army photo interpreter, he returned to Harvard and graduated from its law school in 1948.
        He joined the Manhattan law firm of Goldstein, Judd & Gurfein. In 1968 he started his own law firm, which was dissolved 25 years later when he joined the firm of Bondy & Schloss. He retired in 1996.
        A first marriage ended in divorce in 1964. In 1968 he married Katharine Muto, who survives him, along with two sons, Arthur Moore of Pasadena, Calif., and Frank Moore of Manhattan; and two daughters, Rebecca Moore of Los Gatos, Calif., and Elizabeth Moore of Bay Shore, N.Y.
        Mr. Moore was active in community affairs, working to combat racial discrimination in New York housing and for fairer taxation. In 1976, he helped New York City speed up the work of its housing court by installing computers.
      