
        Augustus C. Long, a former chief executive of Texaco, who guided the company's international expansion in the 1950's and 60's, died last Thursday at his home in North, Va. He was 97.
        A tough-talking graduate of the Naval Academy, Mr. Long joined Texaco in 1930, when it was known as the Texas Company, as a supervisor of gas stations in Florida. He worked for the company for 41 years, 12 of them as chief executive in two separate stints, and was a director until 1977.
        Mr. Long, who was known as Gus, sought to find and develop sources of oil in North America and elsewhere in the Western Hemisphere to reduce dependence on the Middle East. To that end, he oversaw Texaco's purchase of oil production operations in Trinidad, Venezuela and Canada.
        ''He was a great builder at a time of rapid expansion after the war,'' said James W. Kinnear, one of Mr. Long's successors as president and chief executive.
        Mr. Kinnear said he often tried to emulate Mr. Long's oratorical style in motivating his own sales staff -- with less success.
        ''He was basically a marketer,'' Mr. Kinnear said. ''He used to come to sales meetings and recite poetry. He'd get you so stirred up.''
        During Mr. Long's first tenure as chairman and chief executive, from 1956 to 1965, Texaco strove to maintain a balance of the amount of oil it pumped out of the ground and the amount it refined for consumption. Doing so smoothed out Texaco's operations and reduced the risk of disruptions, making the company's earnings more predictable.
        Mr. Long also encouraged his fellow business leaders to double as diplomats. In a 1958 speech to a group of sales executives in Manhattan, he urged them to ''sell'' the ideal of individual freedom.
        ''As American businessmen, it is not enough for us to go abroad simply to sell merchandise or exploit natural resources,'' he said. ''We must have real respect and appreciation for the point of view and the way of life of friendly peoples.''
        Born in Starke, Fla., in 1904, Mr. Long was the son of Augustine V. Long, a federal district judge. After he graduated from the Naval Academy, where he played second base on the baseball team, he served in the Navy for four years.
        During World War II, he returned to the Navy as a lieutenant, coordinating fuel supplies for the Allied war effort from London. After the war, he rejoined Texaco and managed various parts of the company's foreign operations. He was promoted to president in 1953.
        Mr. Long retired as chief executive on Jan. 1, 1965, but stayed on as a director of Texaco, then the nation's third-largest oil company. Almost six years later, the man he chose to replace him, J. Howard Rambin Jr., resigned and the board asked Mr. Long, at 66, to return as chairman and chief executive. He retired again on Dec. 31, 1971. After retiring, he served four years as chairman of the board of trustees of Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.
        Mr. Long was married in 1927 to Elizabeth Walsh, who died in 1963. They had three daughters, one of whom, Sheila, died at 20 when she was struck by a car in Manhattan in 1956. In 1964, he married Doris Ann Penrose, who is also deceased.
        Mr. Long is survived by two daughters from his first marriage, Elizabeth Smyth of Naples, Fla., and Ellen Walsh Long of Washington, and a daughter from his second marriage, Dorothy Sara Long of New York.
      