
        Nathan M. Pusey, who led Harvard University through tremendous growth and liberalization only to be swept away in a storm over Vietnam-era protests, died yesterday at New York Weill Cornell Center in Manhattan. He was 94 and lived on the East Side.
        In Dr. Pusey's tenure as Harvard's 24th president, from 1953 to 1971, the university's budget quadrupled, as did its endowments. The campus was transformed by the construction of more than 30 buildings, which almost doubled its floor space. The permanent population of teachers and administrators swelled to 8,500 from 3,000, and Dr. Pusey made higher salaries and improved benefits a priority.
        As blacks, Southerners and Westerners were recruited, prep-school graduates from the Northeast were no longer in the majority, and adult scholars came from all over the world to new interdisciplinary research centers.
        Harvard also began opening more doors to women. Dr. Pusey hired female professors to join the solitary woman who was teaching history when he arrived, and added women to the choir of Memorial Church. (He also approved, in 1970, a 150-student experiment in having men live in women's dormitories, and women in men's. ''Civilization is dead,'' a 1933 alumnus groaned.)
        A classical scholar whose teaching and administrative skills were recognized early in his career, Dr. Pusey, a native of the Midwest, was the first non-New Englander to head the nation's oldest and richest university. He believed devoutly in the primacy of Harvard, the civilizing mission of a liberal arts education and the ideal of the independent university.
        Though he strove to keep Harvard above politics, early in his term, at the height of the McCarthy era, he mounted a courageous and influential defense of his faculty when Harvard was accused of harboring Communists.
        But ultimately the evaluations of his leadership tended to focus on 20 tumultuous hours in April 1969. Several hundred protesters, led by the radical Students for a Democratic Society, took over the main administration building, University Hall. Deans and other administrators were manhandled out the doors. Overnight, Dr. Pusey called in a force of state and local police officers who, attired in riot gear, drove out the protesters with batons and tear gas; 45 were injured, and 197 arrested.
        The days that followed were chaotic. Students generally saw the summoning of the police as a betrayal by Harvard; in clamorous mass meetings in the stadium, they decided on a protest strike, which paralyzed the university. Faculty members kept watch over Widener Library for three nights because of rumors that the S.D.S. planned to burn it.
        At a faculty meeting, Dr. Pusey said he had called in the police to defend ''freedom within the university: the fact that people cannot use force or violence to interfere with the normal workings of our activity.'' But the faculty voted to table a resolution of support for him, and in the end no student was permanently expelled. In February 1970, Dr. Pusey announced that he would retire the next year.
        After leaving Harvard, he was president of the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation until 1975. He then remained active in charity work in New York City, leaving the board of Fountain House, a mental health program, only recently.
        Nathan Marsh Pusey was born on April 4, 1907, in Council Bluffs, Iowa, the youngest of three children of John and Rosa Pusey (pronounced PEW-zy). His father died when he was a year old; his mother, who supported the family as a $65-a-week school principal, taught him the value of study and a need for better salaries for educators.
        He won a scholarship to Harvard. Keeping it required him to make the dean's list every term, a demand that set him apart as a grind in a Roaring 20's student body. He studied under the poet Conrad Aiken and the famed humanities professor Irving Babbitt. He placed first in a Harvard-Yale English literature exam, and graduated magna cum laude in 1928.
        After a tour of France and Italy and a teaching job at the Riverdale Country Day School in New York, he studied Greek and entered graduate school at Harvard in 1931, receiving a master's degree in ancient history the next year. He earned a fellowship to the American School of Classical Study in Athens, then was invited to lead a new ''great books'' program at Lawrence College in Appleton, Wis., in 1935.
        In 1936, he married Anne Woodward, a Bryn Mawr graduate from Council Bluffs whom he had tutored in algebra. She survives him, along with two sons, Nathan Marsh Pusey Jr. of Norwalk, Conn., and James Reeve Pusey of Lewisburg, Pa.; a daughter, Rosemary Hopkins of Palo Alto, Calif.; eight grandchildren; and seven great-grandchildren.
        After earning a Ph.D. in the classics at Harvard, Dr. Pusey taught at Scripps College in Claremont, Calif., and developed new liberal arts courses at Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn.
        He was named president of Lawrence College in 1944. In his nine years there, he doubled the endowment, raised teachers' salaries, modernized their surroundings and started a required interdepartmental survey of Western cultural traditions.
        Dr. Pusey was just 46 when, in June 1953, the Harvard Corporation, the university's governing body, chose him to succeed James Bryant Conant as president -- not least because he ''could be relied upon to shun fashionable causes for moral education of the timeless variety,'' Richard Norton Smith wrote in ''The Harvard Century: The Making of a University to a Nation.''
        The corporation announced that the new president would emphasize undergraduate teaching and the liberal arts, as opposed to Dr. Conant's focus on the graduate schools, science and research. Yet, true to his personal priorities, Dr. Pusey began his tenure by strengthening the Graduate School of Education and opening a drive that yielded more than $3.5 million for the moribund Divinity School.
        In his first major address, at the Divinity School, Dr Pusey, a lifelong Episcopalian, said there was an ''almost desperate urgency'' to a need for religious education. He went on to criticize an ''almost idolatrous preoccupation with the secular order,''  expressing a view not very popular among Harvard's worldly faculty.
        In the first great confrontation of his tenure at Harvard, he won praise for his response to Senator Joseph R. McCarthy of Wisconsin, who was pressing for dismissal of four faculty members he accused of Communist activities.
        Heaping scorn on the university's new president, Senator McCarthy called Harvard ''a privileged sanctuary for Fifth Amendment Communists'' -- those who, citing their right against compelled self-incrimination, had refused to testify about  membership in the Communist Party. At a news conference, Dr. Pusey said he had replied by telegram that a Communist would lack ''the necessary independence of thought and judgment'' required of a Harvard faculty member. Harvard was unequivocally opposed to Communism, he said throughout the controversy, and would not allow a Communist to teach.
        But, in a widely reported and influential statement, he also declared: ''Americanism does not mean enforced and circumscribed belief; it cannot mean this. Our job is to educate free, independent and vigorous minds capable of analyzing events, of exercising judgment, of distinguishing facts from propaganda, and truth from half-truths and lies.''
        In May 1954, however, when dormitory televisions were universally tuned to the Army-McCarthy hearings, which would lead to the senator's downfall, Dr. Pusey expressed a blinkered distaste for politics that was to trip him up in the highly political 60's. ''The number of undergraduates who get excited about political problems is not large,'' he said. ''Most of them are above that sort of thing.''
        His own focus was Harvard, and in 1957 he proposed a grand plan to revive an institution hurt by the Depression and World War II.
        New housing, higher faculty salaries and a richer ''environment of undergraduate life'' -- a new theater, a visual arts center and a health center -- would be financed by raising $82.5 million, five times the size of any previous college fund drive. His success led other universities to follow suit, securing a firmer financial footing for higher education in general.
        Dr. Pusey kept his distance from faculty members, who in any case  tended to scorn his assiduous attendance of Saturday football games and Sunday church services. In ''Coming Apart,'' a memoir of Harvard's struggles of the late 1960's, Roger Rosenblatt, then an English instructor, wrote, ''To the majority of the liberal faculty, he was a patrician pighead,'' adding, ''His face was an institution itself -- handsome, monumental and implacable.''
        His admirers described him differently, of course. Fred Glimp, a Montana native who went to Harvard on the G.I. Bill and became dean of Harvard College in the late 1960's, recalled: ''He had this great Olympian equanimity, which came across to some people as if he didn't care, which certainly wasn't true. But it would really annoy his critics.''
        Dr. Pusey published two books, ''The Age of the Scholar'' (1963), a compilation of speeches from his first decade as Harvard's president, and ''American Higher Education, 1945-70'' (1978).
        In the early 1960's, a new ''need blind'' admissions policy, promising  prospective students that lack of money would not bar them from Harvard, infused the campus with young people of more diverse backgrounds. Dr. Pusey busily raised still more money, sought out new deans and professors, opened new student housing towers and began negotiating for a merger of Harvard and Radcliffe.
        As he strove to bring Harvard up to date, he was taken aback by the student protest movement of the late 1960's, coalescing around opposition to the Vietnam War. Radical leaders found in him a natural target, and he was spat on and cursed when he walked across the Yard.
        Harvard had ended academic credit for Reserve Officer Training Corps courses in response to earlier sit-ins; now the protesters wanted the R.O.T.C. barred from campus entirely. They also demanded changes in the university's expansion and real estate practices.
        But Dr. Pusey and the protesters both knew that the central issue had little to do with the list of demands.
        In an article in The New York Times Magazine a month after the police were called to the campus, J. Anthony Lukas (Harvard '55) described a panel discussion in which Hugh Calkins, a member of the Harvard Corporation, said it was the essence of a university to try to resolve disagreements by rational persuasion rather than the exercise of power. A member of Students for a Democratic Society retorted: ''Nonsense. Persuasion doesn't mean any more in a university than it does outside. All that counts is power. You have it now, and we intend to get it.''
        In the mid-50's, in a report to the corporation on the McCarthy battle, Dr. Pusey had summed up his visceral response to attacks on Harvard's self-governance. ''The central issue,'' he said then, ''was whether the university was to continue to govern herself in an age-old and tested manner, or whether she was to reverse her earlier pattern of thoughtful, independent behavior to begin now to be governed by outside pressure.''
        Much later, James Reston of The New York Times recalled that earlier confrontation, in a column concluding that Dr. Pusey ''is a political innocent and not a popular president with the students or the faculty -- never has been -- but his record in defending the integrity of a free university cannot be seriously challenged.''
        An official student-faculty committee that investigated the campus disturbance, however, did fault his administration, saying it had failed to make itself accessible to students and faculty members; their alienation, the panel said, contributed to the subsequent student strike.
        Looking back on the protests in a 1989 interview with The Harvard Crimson, Dr. Pusey recalled his decision to summon the police as a simple one, based on his belief that force or violence against democracy should not be tolerated.
        ''When I was against McCarthy and I was out in Wisconsin fighting against his election,'' he said, ''and when I was calling in the police at Harvard, I was fighting for the same principles.''
      