
        Sandy Lehmann-Haupt, one of the Merry Pranksters on the novelist Ken Kesey's boisterously psychedelic bus, which helped define the hippie way of life as it emerged in the 1960's, died on Oct. 28 at a hospital in Callicoon Center, N.Y., near his home. He was 59 and had succeeded in leaving behind the troubled 22-year-old who rode the bus on trips both physical and metaphorical.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Mr. Lehmann-Haupt was a principal source for Tom Wolfe during his research for his best-selling book ''The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test,'' published in 1968. In it, the bus emerged as a metaphor for the cultural shift from the cool world of the Beatniks to the exuberant, sometimes self-destructive craziness of the hippie generation.
        During long walks with Mr. Wolfe in Central Park, Mr. Lehmann-Haupt precisely -- and fantastically -- described his own harrowing drug experiences, both on the famous bus and off.
        As Mr. Wolfe wrote, ''Sandy had a mad sense of the world torn apart into stained-glass shards behind his eyelids.''
        Hellmut Alexander Lehmann-Haupt was born on March 22, 1942, in Manhattan, the third and youngest child of the author and bibliographer Hellmut Lehmann-Haupt.
        His brothers Christopher, now chief obituary writer of The New York Times, and Carl, a graphic designer, described his early childhood as troubled, and as an adult he suffered from addictions and bipolar disorder.
        Dropping out of New York University after six months, he became a sound engineer.
        When Mr. Kesey visited New York for the opening of the stage version of his book ''One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest,'' Sandy's brother Carl introduced him to Mr. Kesey. Sandy moved into Mr. Kesey's home in Palo Alto, Calif., and installed a new sound system.
        He experimented with LSD, then legal, with others living there. By this time, they had been christened Merry Pranksters.
        In the spring of 1964, Mr. Kesey bought a 1939 International Harvester school bus, painted a frenzy of primary colors. Mr. Lehmann-Haupt installed its powerful sound system and sometimes drove it.
        Mr. Lehmann-Haupt was one of just two Pranksters invited to take LSD with the psychedelic drug advocate Timothy Leary when they dropped in to see him.
        But his paranoia and anxiety grew, and the strange, zany trip soon ended for him, followed by many lost years.
        Over the last decade, through deepening religious conviction and 12-step recovery programs, he stopped using drugs, found a job as an advocate for the mentally ill, married and bought a house. He no longer needed disability payments. He told young people that he regretted the way Mr. Kesey and his followers had glorified drugs.
        ''His legacy was not something he was proud of,'' said his wife, Fredrika.
        Correction:  November 14, 2001, Wednesday  An obituary on Nov. 3 about Hellmut Alexander Lehmann-Haupt, known as Sandy, who was one of the Merry Pranksters on the novelist Ken Kesey's psychedelic bus in the 1960's, misstated the cause of his death and omitted the names of his mother and some survivors. Mr. Lehmann-Haupt died of a pulmonary embolism, not a heart attack, his family said. He was the son of Hellmut Lehmann-Haupt and Letitia Grierson. Survivors include a half sister, Roxana Lehmann-Haupt, and a half brother, John Lehmann-Haupt, both of Manhattan.
      