
        Fred J. Maroon, a meticulous photographer whose work caught the eye of Richard M. Nixon, who invited him into the White House where he wound up photographing the decline and fall of a president, died Monday at his home in Washington. He was 77.
        His wife, Suzy, said the cause was multiple myeloma.
        Mr. Maroon's career tracked the second half of the 20th century, which he photographed for virtually all of the leading magazines -- including Life, Look, Holiday, National Geographic, Smithsonian, Paris Match, Cosmopolitan, Esquire, Time and Newsweek.
        ''He was an absolute perfectionist,'' his wife said. ''For his book on the Capitol, he took two whole days just to set up the lights for one picture, trying to achieve a natural look, before he exposed a single frame.''
        In 1970, Mr. Nixon, impressed by Mr. Maroon's pictures of Washington's monuments and landscapes, granted Mr. Maroon's request for access to the White House for a book. ''After Kennedy and Johnson nobody seemed to be running stories on the Nixon White House. The big news magazines just didn't like him, so I proposed a book,'' Mr. Maroon wrote.
        Shortly after the Watergate break-in, Mr. Maroon said, ''I started taking notice of things differently.'' One of his photographs shows the White House document-shredder.
        Mr. Maroon was in the White House during Nixon's farewell speech on Aug. 9, 1974, photographing the morose president as he spoke. In an interview on C-Span in 1999, Mr. Maroon likened it to covering ''a Shakespearean or a Greek tragedy.''
        Because of what Mr. Maroon described as the ''negative and worrisome mood'' of the country, he locked away 576 rolls of film that he had shot at the White House and did not publish most of his pictures until 1999, when he brought out ''The Nixon Years, 1969-1974, White House to Watergate'' (Abbeville Press).
        The Smithsonian Institution mounted an exhibition that year of Mr. Maroon's photographs of Mr. Nixon and others from the book. The exhibition can be seen on the Web at americanhistory.si.edu/maroon.
        Mr. Maroon got to point his camera at the halls of Congress and the mountains of Afghanistan by a circuitous route. He was born in New Brunswick, N.J., the son of Lebanese immigrants who ran a dry goods and hardware store, and he served in the Navy in World War II, on convoy duty in the North Atlantic.
        Besides his wife, Suzy, Mr. Maroon is survived by two sons, Marc and Paul, of New York City; two daughters, Sophia, of New York, and Anne, of San Francisco, and three sisters, Sylvia and Marie, of New Brunswick, and Celestine, of Hampton, Va.
        Mr. Maroon was working on his 13th book at his death, a collection of the photographs he took half a century ago in Europe as a student. The book, ''Sorrow and Splendor: Europe 1950-51,'' will be completed by his wife for publication next year.
      