
        Ardito Desio, an inveterate explorer who in 1954 meticulously organized the first ascent of K2, the world's second highest mountain, died on Dec. 12 in Rome. He was 104.
        A geologist, Professor Desio led scientific expeditions well into his 90's, visiting the slopes of Mount Everest, the world's highest peak, at 92.
        Other explorations took him to the Middle East, North Africa, the Philippines and Burma. In 1962, he went to Antarctica and became the first Italian to reach the South Pole.
        Professor Desio, whose formidable mental and physical stamina compensated for his small stature, was born in Palmanova in northeastern Italy on April 18, 1897. He studied at the University of Florence and later taught at the University of Milan, where he directed its institute of geology.
        In 1926, he went into the Libyan desert and helped uncover its oil riches. On another expedition to Libya in 1932, when his group was held up by several days by tribal fighting, he used the lost time to look for fossils in the desert.
        In 1932, he married Aurelia Bevilacqua, and they had a son and daughter. It was not known whether any immediate family members survived him.
        The adventure that most captured his imagination began in 1929 when, as a geographer on an expedition led by the Duke of Spoleto, he glimpsed K2 soaring 28,250 feet high, a spectacular white pyramid against the sweep of the Karakorum range in the Himalayas. He resolved to climb it, despite the warning of the Duke of Abruzzi, Spoleto's uncle, who pronounced an ascent impossible after being stopped at 20,000 feet 20 years earlier by a wall of ice.
        Professor Desio was ''a tiny, frail-appearing man'' who ''had only moderate climbing experience but was known as an organizer par excellence,'' Galen Rowell, an American photojournalist who attempted to climb K2 in 1975, wrote in his book, ''In The Throne Room of the Mountain Gods.'' Professor Desio had organized 10 scientific expeditions abroad before embarking upon the conquest of K2 in 1954.
        K2, once named Mount Godwin Austin after a 19th-century English surveyor, took its shorthand designation from a survey measurement in the Karakorum. While Mount Everest, 29,028 feet high, is better known, K2 is considered more hazardous.
        ''Technically, K2 is more difficult to climb than Mount Everest, because the topmost slopes are so steep,'' Professor Desio said in 1955. ''In that respect, K2 is a lot like the Matterhorn, where we trained.''
        Heavy snows thwarted the first attempt on K2, by British, Swiss and Austrian climbers in 1902. The Americans mounted serious assaults in 1938, 1939 and 1953, stalling 750 feet below the summit in 1939. Dr. Charles S. Houston, the leader of the 1953 team, called K2 the ''worst and most challenging mountain in the world.''
        After the British ascent of Mount Everest in 1953, Professor Desio persuaded the Italian Olympic Committee to subsidize an Italian assault on K2. He put applicants through exhausting tests and chose 11 climbers.  He added some scientists to conduct research in the vicinity of K2.
        His expedition became one of the best organized and executed assaults on a Himalayan peak. He combed through accounts of the five failed attempts, selected the route pioneered by the Duke of Abruzzi and equipped team members with photographs from earlier expeditions. Rather than have his team lug heavy gear and food up the steep Abruzzi ridge, he brought a winch and ropes to haul loads on skis.
        He installed seven sturdy, well-stocked camps to let climbers rest at higher altitudes. More than 500 local porters were hired to pack 13 tons of gear and food up the upper Baltoro glacier; most quit by 15,000 feet.
        Professor Desio, who was by then 57, passed up trying for the summit himself and sent his strongest young climbers for the final push. Achille Compagnoni and Bruno Lacedelli struggled to the top through waist-deep snow on July 31, 1954. Professor Desio demanded such close teamwork that their identities were not disclosed for more than two months, until after his expedition returned home and he announced the names at a dinner in Genoa.
      