
        Rufus Thomas, the jovial patriarch of Memphis soul, who billed himself as the ''world's oldest teenager,'' died on Saturday at 84.
        He died at St. Francis Hospital in Memphis after a short illness, said Marcy Vaughn Perkins, his niece.
        As a singer, songwriter, talent scout, disc jockey and father of musical children, Mr. Thomas was a force in Memphis rhythm and blues as early as 1949, when he became a disc jockey on WDIA. Two important Memphis labels, Sun and Stax, were jump-started by profits from Mr. Thomas's singles. And in the 1960's he became a pop hitmaker by celebrating novelty dance crazes, with ''Walking the Dog'' and ''Do the Funky Chicken.'' A duet with his teenage daughter Carla started her own soul-music career in 1960.
        Mr. Thomas had had a long apprenticeship in vaudeville. And for five decades, he maintained his blues show on the pioneering black station WDIA, announcing, ''I'm young and loose and full of juice/I got the goose so what's the use?''
        Mr. Thomas, a sharecropper's son, was born in Casey, Miss., in 1917. The family moved to Memphis, and as a high-school student in the 1930's, Mr. Thomas tap danced in the streets for tips. His history teacher, Nat D. Williams, was also an emcee at the Palace Theater on Beale Street in Memphis, and he made Mr. Thomas his partner in comedy routines. After graduating from high school, Mr. Thomas toured the South as a dancer, singer and comedian with the Rabbit Foot Minstrels until he married in 1940 and settled in Memphis.
        He formed his own comedy duo, Rufus and Bones (with Robert Couch), and took over as the master of ceremonies at the Palace Theater, presenting an amateur show where the contest winners included B. B. King. ''Beale Street was the black man's haven,'' Mr. Thomas once said. ''They'd come into town and forget all their worries and woes.''
        Mr. Thomas started his recording career in the 1950's. ''Bear Cat,'' which he wrote and sang as an answer to Big Mama Thornton's ''Hound Dog,'' became the first hit on Sun Records. After Sun discovered Elvis Presley and began concentrating on white rockabilly singers, Mr. Thomas was dropped from Sun and went on to record for other local labels. Yet he became the first to play Presley songs on WDIA, refusing to segregate his playlists.
        Mr. Thomas's renown in Memphis didn't pay the bills. He also had a day job operating boilers at a textile-bleaching plant, where, he said, the noise sometimes suggested rhythms for songs and lyrics.
        Another fledgling Memphis label, Satellite, recorded ''Cause I Love You,'' a duet by the 43-year-old Mr. Thomas and his 17-year-old daughter, Carla, in 1960; Mr. Thomas's son, Marvell, played keyboards in the studio band. Mr. Thomas is survived by them and another daughter, Vaneese, as well as by one grandchild.
        As Satellite became Stax Records in 1961, the Thomases were among the label's first mainstays, recording separately and as a duo. Carla Thomas's ''Gee Whiz'' reached the pop Top 10. Mr. Thomas had a rhythm-and-blues hit in 1962 with ''The Dog,'' a song he originally improvised -- complete with barking -- on the bandstand. Its sequel, ''Walking the Dog,'' became a Top 10 pop hit in 1963, soon to be remade on the debut album of the Rolling Stones. He released follow-ups in 1964: ''Can Your Monkey Do the Dog'' and ''Somebody Stole My Dog.''
        Mr. Thomas continued making dance songs, including ''Jump Back'' in 1964, while he became a mentor to younger Stax stars, giving advice on stage moves to singers like Otis Redding. And in 1970, he had new dance hits with ''Do the Funky Chicken'' and ''Do the Push and Pull.'' Follow-ups like ''Do the Funky Penguin'' and ''Do the Funky Robot'' were less successful. But in the 1972 concert that became the documentary ''Wattstax,'' Mr. Thomas led thousands in funky-chicken moves.
        Although his streak of hits was over, Mr. Thomas continued to perform and record, getting laughs with a wardrobe of hot pants, boots and capes, all in wild colors. After Stax went bankrupt in 1975, Mr. Thomas made albums for labels like Alligator, Sequel and High Stacks between tours and his weekly Saturday radio show on WDIA. Mr. Thomas also had a screen presence, appearing in Jim Jarmusch's 1989 ''Mystery Train'' and Robert Altman's 1999 ''Cookie's Fortune.''
        The city of Memphis considered Mr. Thomas its ambassador of soul. For his 80th birthday in 1997, the city of Memphis renamed Hernando Street as Rufus Thomas Boulevard at the intersection of Beale Street where the Palace Theater once stood. The city also gave him an honorary reserved downtown parking space, which he often used. Mr. Thomas received the Pioneer Award from the Rhythm and Blues Foundation in 1992, and a lifetime achievement award from Ascap in 1997. The documentary filmmakers Chris Hegedus and D. A. Pennebaker recently completed a film about rhythm and blues that features Mr. Thomas, ''Only the Strong Survive.''
        ''You knew he was an old person,'' Mr. Pennebaker said, ''but he acted like a 16-year-old. He was always full of funny takes on things, and he always gave the impression that he was a goofball. But when he talked about the music, you realized he knew a lot.''
        Correction:  December 21, 2001, Friday  An obituary on Wednesday about Rufus Thomas, the musical figure known as the patriarch of Memphis soul, misspelled the name of his birthplace. It is Cayce, Miss., not Casey.
      