
        Edward G. Jordan, who helped to lift the remnants of several railroad freight lines out of bankruptcy as the first chairman and chief executive of Conrail, died on Wednesday at his vacation home in Bend, Ore. He was 72.
        Mr. Jordan, who also had a home in the San Francisco area, had suffered from esophageal cancer, his family said.
        A native of Oakland, Calif., Mr. Jordan graduated from the University of California at Berkeley in 1951 and earned a master's in business administration from Stanford University. He worked for several corporations, including the Ford Motor Company and Procter & Gamble.
        He was a Los Angeles insurance executive when President Gerald R. Ford selected him in 1974 to be president of the United States Railway Association, the federal agency formed to develop a plan to take over most properties of ailing freight carriers in the Northeast and the Midwest.
        After he had been president of the association for 17 months, its board picked him in mid-1975 to head the new line created by the association: the Consolidated Rail Corporation, known as Conrail. Although he had no experience with railroads, Mr. Jordan was confident he could do what earlier train executives could not. His credo was, the fewer managers, the better.
        ''One of the real problems with American industry, in large organizations such as the railroads,'' he said at the time, ''is that you get such incredible depth in management that the nature of a real problem and the man dealing with it never gets to the decision maker.''
        But Mr. Jordan was battling more than management problems, however intractable they may have been; he was also up against the tide of history. For much of the 19th century, there were scores of thriving railroad freight lines. But by the middle of the 20th century, there were only six: the Penn Central, the Central Railroad of New Jersey, the Erie Lackawanna, the Lehigh and Hudson River, the Lehigh Valley and the Reading.
        Buffeted by competition from trucks using the Interstate highway system, hobbled by federal requirements to run money-losing passenger service, the six railroads deferred maintenance on trains and tracks. As their service deteriorated, more freight business went to the trucks in what seemed to be a death spiral for the rail lines.
        One by one, the six lines entered bankruptcy in the early 1970's, weakening a national economy already in recession. The federal government responded by creating Conrail and appropriating money to rebuild tracks, locomotives and freight cars. Congress also loosened some regulations, making it easier for trains to compete with trucks, and created Amtrak to take over intercity passenger service from the freight railroads.
        Mr. Jordan confidently predicted a quick turnaround, with engines in mint condition hauling more freight for more customers on smoother tracks. But despite his efforts to modernize the operation and bring costs under control, Conrail ran at a loss and was troubled by problems and complaints for many months. Mr. Jordan and other Conrail executives said that the equipment they had inherited was even worse than they had expected and that harsh winter weather and a prolonged coal strike had made things worse.
        In 1980, after Conrail had finally recorded two consecutive profitable quarters, Mr. Jordan resigned. He was dean of the Cornell University business school for nine months, then for several years was president of the American College, in Bryn Mawr, Pa., which provides instruction to insurance and financial services professionals. He also sat on the boards of several corporations.
        He is survived by his wife of 47 years, Nancy; two daughters, Susan Thomas of Accra, Ghana, and Kathryn Ragan of Fair Oaks, Calif.; two sons, Jonathan, of Rohnert Park, Calif., and Christopher, of Lake Oswego, Ore.; and 11 grandchildren.
        In 1981, Conrail had its first profitable year and no longer required federal subsidies. On March 26, 1987, the government's 85 percent share of the corporation was sold to private investors for $1.65 billion, then the largest stock offering in Wall Street history, a transaction that completed one of the more successful federal bailouts. (The remaining 15 percent of the railroad was owned by concurrent and former Conrail employees.)
        In 1997, Conrail was bought by the CSX Corporation and the Norfolk Southern Corporation in a deal worth more than $10 billion.
      