
        Stefan Heym, the widely published author of more than a dozen historical and political novels, died yesterday while on a lecture tour in Israel. He was 88 and lived in Berlin.
        A Jew uprooted in Germany in 1933 by the Nazis, Mr. Heym became an intellectual nomad and a lifelong Marxist-Leninist: two years in Czechoslovakia, 15 years in the United States; settling finally in East Germany. In World War II he served in the United States Army in France and Germany.
        Extraordinarily prolific, Stefan Heym -- his pen name -- was more a highly gifted storyteller than a transcendent writer. With few exceptions his tales, drawn from history and contemporary political life, pitted a single man against a powerful and implacable authority.
        Describing his literary aims in 1967 to an American visitor to East Germany, he said the country was ''a blank spot in literature for me to fill in.'' In fact East Germany produced a number of greatly talented homegrown novelists and poets whose works filled in virtually all of that blank spot.
        Mr. Heym never became deeply rooted in the hybrid society of East Germany. ''I always say I'm not only a German writer but also an American,'' he said. ''Much of what I write, say and the way I act is American, although as a boy I wanted to be like Schiller.''
        Klaus Korn, a retired university professor in Berlin, said of Mr. Heym: ''We saw him as somebody from over there, from America. His novels were more in the American style, Sinclair Lewis or Norman Mailer, than German.''
        As for his origins Mr. Heym said: ''Being here in Germany helps me to continue feeling as a Jew. Sometimes I feel myself as a Jew. Sometimes I feel myself a German. And sometimes I even have American traces in my makeup. I am kind of a mix.''
        Late in life, four years after the Berlin Wall collapsed, he ran as an independent Socialist for political office in the newly united Germany and won election as a Bundestag deputy from the Communist stronghold of Prenzlauer Berg, a borough of eastern Berlin. At the time he described himself as both ''a writer of genius'' and ''a full-blooded politician.''
        Mr. Heym quit office after a year in protest against the deputies' vote to increase their own salaries by 50 percent.
        He was born Helmut Flieg, the son of a textile manufacturer in the eastern industrial city of Chemnitz, on April 10, 1913. Early on he demonstrated a fierce ambition to be noticed, publishing an anti-militarist verse in The Chemnitzer Volkszeitung in 1931, which caused his expulsion from high school. He was attending the University of Berlin when Hitler came to power in 1933.
        Fleeing across the frontier near his birthplace to neighboring Czechoslovakia, he earned a hand-to-mouth living as a writer in Prague. He was already strongly attached to the teachings of Marx and Lenin, contributing articles over the next six years to Communist periodicals in Prague and Moscow. In 1935 he gained a scholarship from a Jewish fraternity at the University of Chicago and went to the United States on a ticket paid for by Czech writers and journalists.
        He received a master's degree and moved to New York to become editor of a German-language anti-Nazi weekly, Deutsches Volksecho. The paper supported the Hitler-Stalin pact of 1939.
        After the collapse of the Berlin Wall, Mr. Heym repeatedly claimed that he ''never belonged to a party in my whole life.'' On a questionnaire he filled out for the East German Writers Association in 1952, however, he said he joined the Communist Party U.S.A. in 1936 and remained a member for three years.
        From 1939 to 1942 he was a printing salesman, working on a novel in his spare time: ''Hostages'' (G. P. Putnam's Sons), a thriller about the Nazi occupation of Prague, which was an instant success before he turned 30. Orville Prescott, The New York Times's book critic, called the story ''tense, tautly constructed, swift and terrible.'' Paramount made it into a movie, starring Luise Rainer and William Bendix.
        He joined the United States Army and was assigned to a psychological warfare unit, the Second Mobile Broadcasting Company. Landing in France a week after D-Day in 1944, he saw duty close to the front as one of the ''hog callers,'' speaking German over a loudspeaker to urge Wehrmacht troops to surrender.
        He became one of the founding editors in Munich of Neue Zeitung, the first American Occupation Zone newspaper. He then returned to New York and resumed writing fiction, publishing a modestly successful World War II novel, ''The Crusaders,'' and ''The Eyes of Reason'' three years later.
        In 1951, fearing investigation by the House Un-American Activities Committee as the hunt for Communists led by Senator Joseph R. McCarthy reached a crescendo, Mr. Heym left the United States with his American wife, Gertrude Peltryn, a New Yorker whom he married in 1944. She died in 1969. They stayed first in Warsaw and Prague, arriving in East Germany a year later.
        He then presented his action as ''a protest'' against the role of the United States in the Korean War and took part in anti-American propaganda campaigns. He also renounced his American citizenship and returned his Army decorations to Washington.
        He soon became a star propagandist for the Communist regime and its Soviet protectors. When construction workers demonstrated in the streets against the system in 1953, he wrote in his weekly column in The Berliner Zeitung that the repression of the uprising by Soviet tank cannons was justified ''to prevent a war'' because otherwise ''American bombing nights would have started.'' On Stalin's birthday that year Mr. Heym wrote of him as ''the most beloved man of our time.'' Later he called Soviet political concentration camps ''settlements.''
        When Hungarians revolted against Communist rule in 1956, he called their crushing defeat by Soviet armored columns a ''matter of ethics.'' For this and other expressions of loyalty he was awarded the National Prize II Class and two literary awards by the Stalinist regime in East Berlin. But by the mid-60's he was out of favor with the party leadership, accused of conducting ''a conceited elitist mission'' and writing ''truth as conceived in the West.''
        His relations with the ruling party worsened when he began to publish novels in the West that he could not get permission for in the East. But he lived in a comfortable house in the lakeside borough of Grünau and drove a white Lancia roadster. Because of his Western television appearances he was a celebrity in the East despite strictures on his publishing there and police surveillance. With his hard-currency earnings he also traveled to the West.
        His historical-political novels included ''The Eyes of Reason'' in 1951 about the 1948 Communist takeover in Czechoslovakia; ''Goldsborough'' in 1953 about a miners' strike in Pennsylvania; ''The Papers of Andreas Lenz'' in 1963 about the abortive 1848 revolution in Germany; ''Lassalle'' in 1969 about Ferdinand Lassalle, the 19th-century founder of the German Socialist movement; ''The Queen Against Defoe'' in 1970 about Daniel Defoe's libel and slander case; ''The King David Report'' in 1972, a story about the rewriting of history under a dictatorship cast as a biblical tale; and ''Ahasver'' in 1981, a mythological story about the eternal wandering Jew as an itinerant revolutionary.
        In his autobiographical ''Nachruf'' (''Obituary'') in 1988 he often spoke of himself in the third person as ''S. H.,'' especially when describing his behavior during the Stalin purges. But he was not candid about  being an ardent Stalinist from 1933 to 1963. ''I was never a dissident in relation to the Communist-Socialist world movement,'' Mr. Heym said in 1977.
        On Nov. 4, 1989, as the Communist regime in East Germany began to topple, Mr. Heym joined other prominent would-be reformers at Marx Engels Square in the center of East Berlin where he spoke to a crowd of 100,000, saying that ''socialism, the right kind, not the Stalinist kind, is what we want to build for our benefit and the benefit of all Germany.''
        Just as Mr. Heym had assailed the East Germans in 1953 for rising up against their Soviet overlords, he now spoke sarcastically of this people as ''a horde pressed belly to back on the hunt for glittering junk'' in West German department stores.
        One of his last works, ''The Gals Are Always Gone and Other Clever Sayings,'' published in 1997, is a mostly autobiographical collection of tales about himself and his second wife, Inge. A sharp departure from the novels that form the main part of his output, it is written in a peculiar hybrid jargon that is the author's conception of what might be called Jewish-German, including a sprinkling of Yiddish phrases, and is designed as a tribute to his wife, Inge Hohn, a film scenarist who survives him.
      