
        Hank Soar, an outstanding two-way back for the football Giants, a coach in pro basketball and a longtime American League umpire, died Monday in Pawtucket, R.I. He was 87.
        In forging a professional sports career that spanned a half-century, Soar scored the winning touchdown in a National Football League championship game and umpired in the only perfect game in a World Series.
        His signature moment came on Dec. 11, 1938, when the Giants played the Green Bay Packers at the Polo Grounds for the N.F.L. title. With the Giants at the Packer 23-yard line and trailing by 17-16 in the third quarter, quarterback Ed Danowski threw a pass that Soar reached for at the 2-yard line.
        ''It was just a jump ball, and I outjumped a bunch of guys from Green Bay,'' he once recalled.
        The Packers' star back, Clark Hinkle, was hanging onto Soar's leg, but Soar dragged him into the end zone, and the Giants went on to win, 23-17.
        Soar was the first-base umpire when Don Larsen pitched a perfect game for the Yankees against the Brooklyn Dodgers in the 1956 World Series.
        In the second inning, Jackie Robinson hit a drive that caromed off third baseman Andy Carey's glove, then bounded to shortstop Gil McDougald, who threw to first.
        ''His foot was about six inches above the bag when Joe Collins, the Yankee first baseman, caught the ball,'' Soar remembered. ''I called Robinson out and Jackie didn't say a word.''
        Albert Henry Soar, a native of Alton, R.I., was a star running back at Providence College, then played with the Boston Shamrocks of the American Football League in 1936 for $100 a game. The following season, he joined the Giants for $200 a game and a $100 bonus.
        Soar and Tuffy Leemans, a future Hall of Famer, led the Giants' ground game in the late 1930's, alternating at fullback. Soar also played safety on defense.
        In the early 1940's, Soar was umpiring in a New England semipro baseball league and putting his 6-foot-2-inch, 215-pound frame to good use.
        ''An umpire had to be tough,'' he recalled. ''We had at least a half-dozen big fights a season, and I never lost one. Once, I picked up a guy and threw him back into his dugout to end a brawl.''
        During World War II, when Soar umpired at Fort Devens, Mass., while serving in the Army, he was spotted by Connie Mack, the Philadelphia Athletics' manager.
        ''He told me, 'You belong in the majors,' '' Soar remembered.
        Soar retired from pro football after the 1946 season, umpired in the minor leagues and was named coach of the 1947-48 Providence Steamrollers of the Basketball Association of America, the forerunner of the National Basketball Association.
        He had a pair of outstanding guards, Ernie Calverley and Kenny Sailors, but little else.
        ''We had a 2-17 record when I was fired in midseason,'' Soar recalled. ''But my successor was 4-25, so I think the problem might have been the players and not the coaching.''
        Soar was an American League umpire from 1950 to 1975, working in five World Series, and was an assistant supervisor of umpires into the mid-1980's.
        ''He's absolutely consistent,'' Ted Williams once said, ''and that's the most important thing in calling a pitch.''
        Soar, who lived in Narragansett, R.I., and Pawtucket, is survived by two daughters, Betsy Hoyt, of Pawtucket, and Marjorie Scotti, of Taunton, Mass.; three grandchildren; and a great-grandson. His wife, Marjorie, died in 1994.
        While umpiring in the major leagues, Soar sometimes called on the physical presence that served him well on the football field.
        When Billy Martin, regarded by Soar as particularly belligerent, returned to the Yankee infield in 1955 after military service, Soar greeted him with a smile and an outstretched hand. Martin returned the handshake. Soar squeezed tighter and tighter.
        ''You know,'' Soar said, ''I never had any trouble with Billy Martin after that.''
      