
        Larry Costello, who played guard for the Philadelphia 76ers' 1966-67 championship team and coached the Milwaukee Bucks to the 1970-71 league title in a National Basketball Association career that spanned more than two decades, died Tuesday in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 70.
        The cause was cancer, the Bucks said.
        When Costello arrived in the N.B.A. in the 1954-55 season with the Philadelphia Warriors, the league had just adopted the 24-second rule. Playing with the Warriors, the Syracuse Nationals and their successor franchise, the 76ers, over 12 seasons, Costello was cut in the mold of the old N.B.A.
        A 6-foot-1 guard with a crew cut, he was a tough defensive player and one of the league's last two-handed set shooters.
        Dick McGuire, the Knicks' Hall of Fame guard and coach, regarded Costello, Bob Cousy, Slater Martin and Bob Davies as the best guards of his era. Costello appeared in five All-Star Games, averaged 12.2 points a game and twice led the league in free-throw percentage.
        In an interview in 1992, when he coached at an old-timers' game, Costello was doubtful about the modern N.B.A. ''I think we played better defense,'' he said. ''I don't see anybody stopping anybody.''
        The N.B.A. commissioner, David Stern, recalled Wednesday that Costello was a ''hard-nosed competitor.''
        ''People ask me who gave me the most trouble,'' Cousy, a Hall of Famer who played for the Boston Celtics, said in 1995. ''It wasn't Oscar or Jerry,'' he said of Oscar Robertson and Jerry West. ''Larry had this animal determination.''
        A native of Minoa, N.Y., near Syracuse, Costello starred at Niagara University, where he was a teammate of Hubie Brown, who later coached the Knicks.
        On Feb. 21, 1953, Costello played 69 minutes 40 seconds -- all but 20 seconds of action -- in a six-overtime victory over Siena. After that, the school switched his jersey number from 24 to 69.
        Costello joined the Warriors in 1954 but entered the military during the season. When he returned for the 1956-57 season, he was a starter, playing with the star frontcourt men Paul Arizin and Neil Johnston. Then he went to the Syracuse Nationals and played six seasons. His teammates included Dolph Schayes, Johnny Kerr and Hal Greer.
        He returned to Philadelphia in 1963 when the Nationals moved there and became the 76ers, a year after the Warriors moved to San Francisco.
        After a year in retirement, Costello played with Wilt Chamberlain on the 76ers team that captured the N.B.A. championship in 1967 following the Boston Celtics' run of eight straight titles. That 76ers team had 68 victories, a record at the time.
        Costello was named head coach of the Milwaukee Bucks when they entered the league in 1968. He coached a team featuring Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, then known as Lew Alcindor, and Robertson to the N.B.A. championship in 1971.
        Costello's Bucks took the Celtics to a seventh game in the league's championship series in 1974. He coached Milwaukee for eight full seasons, then resigned in November 1976. He coached the Chicago Bulls for a part of one season and compiled an overall record of 430-300.
        He later coached the Milwaukee Does in the Women's Basketball League briefly, then spent seven seasons as coach at Utica College.
        He is survived by his wife, Barbara; four daughters; a brother; a sister; and three grandchildren.
        Costello played in the days when money was scarce, or so the N.B.A. owners maintained. He once remembered asking for a raise after averaging 14.5 points a game for Syracuse in 1960-61, when he was named an all-N.B.A. player.
        ''I want $500 more,'' he told Danny Biasone, the Nationals' owner.
        ''Have no money. Can't do it,'' Biasone replied.
        Costello kept returning with the same plea. Biasone finally relented.
        ''You know what?'' Costello said in an interview with The Syracuse Herald-Journal in 1995. ''I felt guilty getting that $500. I still feel guilty.''
      