
        Margaret Byrd Rawson, an educator, researcher and author who spent some 70 years identifying and treating reading disorders, died on Nov. 25 at her home near Frederick, Md. She was 102.
        She wrote nine books and many articles on dyslexia and was an early and enduring force in the International Dyslexia Association, a 13,000-member professional group based in Maryland. She was its national president in the 1960's, when it was called the Orton Society. She received the group's lifetime achievement award on her 100th birthday.
        Born in Rome, Ga., she was reared in Philadelphia and graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Swarthmore College in 1923. In 1940, she received a master's degree from the University of Pennsylvania, where she studied elementary education and psychology, with emphasis on educational testing and measurements.
        In 1929, Mrs. Rawson helped establish the School in Rose Valley, a private school near Philadelphia, and was a librarian, psychologist and teacher until 1947. It was there that she came to the field of dyslexia.
        She had been trying in vain to help a boy who had great trouble reading. Frustrated, she enlisted the assistance of Dr. Samuel T. Orton, the neurologist who identified dyslexia and its causes. Dr. Orton tested the child and sent him back with what are known as Orton-Gillingham teaching materials devised to overcome such difficulties. The boy was soon reading at grade level, and Mrs. Rawson had found her niche.
        Mrs. Rawson conducted one of the longest-running studies of people with neurological language problems, tracking the lives of 56 children from the school for more than 50 years. Many of them went on to successful careers and stayed in contact with her.
        Moving to Frederick in 1947, she taught sociology at Hood College. She also was a clinical psychologist and language consultant and had a private practice diagnosing and correcting language disorders.
        Her books included ''A Bibliography on the Nature, Recognition and Treatment of Language Difficulties'' (1966) and ''Developmental Language Disability: Adult Accomplishments of Dyslexic Boys'' (1968).
        Mrs. Rawson's husband, Arthur, an engineer, died in 1963. She is survived by a son, Kenneth S., of Swarthmore, Pa.; six grandchildren; and 13 great-grandchildren.
        Mrs. Rawson was 99 when she testified before the Maryland Department of Education. The hearing, on the teaching of reading, lasted four hours and she was there for the duration.
      