
        John M. Culbertson, an economist known for mounting an articulate defense of protectionist economic policy long after the tenets of free trade were de rigueur among his colleagues, died on Sunday in Madison, Wis. He was 80.
        Mr. Culbertson had been suffering from Parkinson's disease, according to his wife, Frances.
        Mr. Culbertson began his career as a specialist in monetary issues for the Federal Reserve System in Washington in the 1950's. He shifted his focus to trade relatively late in his career, in the 1970's, nearly two decades after he became a tenured professor at the University of Wisconsin.
        Mr. Culbertson was born in 1922 in Detroit and grew up on a farm in Walled Lake, Mich. His undergraduate education at the University of Michigan was interrupted by World War II, when he served in the U.S. Army Air Corps as an instructor of pilots and a pilot of B-26 Marauders in Europe.
        Mr. Culbertson became well known when support for protectionism grew in the 1980's when concern grew about companies' decisions to shift manufacturing and jobs from the United States to cheaper countries abroad and about swelling imports from other nations, especially Japan.
        He was a passionate advocate of protectionism, favoring tariffs to limit imports and other barriers designed to shield domestic industries from the threat of foreign competition. Mr. Culbertson's ideas were well received by unions, but he had many detractors in university faculties and research groups.
        ''The future of the United States depends on whether we can escape from the childish dream world in which 'free trade' is The Good Fairy, and 'protectionism' is The Wicked Witch of the West,'' Mr. Culbertson wrote in an essay in 1986.
        Unable to find publishers for his books and concerned that the University of Wisconsin Press would not enthusiastically promote his work, he formed his own publishing concern, 21st Century Press. He designed the typeface for the press on a personal computer and promoted books with fliers sent to prospective readers.
        Using that strategy, Mr. Culbertson published several books in the 1980's, including ''Competition, Constructive and Destructive'' and ''The Dangers of 'Free Trade.' '' An earlier book, ''Money and Banking,'' published by McGraw-Hill in 1972, was used as a textbook for undergraduate economics courses for many years.
        Mr. Culbertson's critics did not mince words. William A. Niskanen, a former presidential economist, once said that an economics professor who supported protectionism is rarer than ''a creationist in a leading biology department.''
        By the end of the 1980's, Mr. Culbertson was saying that Reaganomics, with its regulatory changes, tax cuts and increases in military spending, would sputter and fail.
        Mr. Culbertson was disillusioned with the spread of free-market policies to countries in the developing world in the 1990's. He attributed much of the instability in these nations to the adoption of theories imported from rich countries.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Culbertson is survived by four children, John, of Vienna, Va.; Joanne, of Arlington, Va.; Lyndall, of New York; and Amy, of Arlington, Va.; and two grandchildren.
      