
        W. G. Sebald, the profoundly elegiac and distinctive author of ''Austerlitz'' and other novels and one of the most acclaimed of contemporary writers, was killed yesterday in an automobile accident in Norfolk, England, near his home in Norwich in East Anglia. He was 57.
        He was driving his daughter, Anna, home, said Andrew Wylie, his agent. ''Perhaps he suffered a heart attack,'' Mr. Wylie said. ''He swerved into oncoming traffic.''
        Mr. Sebald's car struck a truck, and he apparently died instantly. His daughter was badly injured in the accident, Mr. Wylie said. He added that Mr. Sebald's death was ''unspeakable -- the last gasp of a bad year.''
        Mr. Sebald, a poet and essayist as well as a novelist, wrote with powerful images and insights about the contemporary world, often about characters shadowed by World War II and the Holocaust.
        ''Anxious, daring, extreme, muted -- only an annulling wash of contradictory adjectives can approach the agitated density of W. G. Sebald's writing,'' wrote the critic James Wood in The New Republic. ''For this German who has lived in England for over 30 years is one of the most mysteriously sublime of contemporary European writers.''
        Jon Cook, dean of the School of English and American Studies at the University of East Anglia, where Mr. Sebald taught, described him as ''inventing a genre of his own.''
        ''It was a special kind of mixture of fiction, memory and history,'' he said. ''He was deeply concerned with the nature of memory, whether the past is lost or not.''
        Mr. Sebald's work included aspects of biography and travel writing as well as fiction. ''He took these forms and made them into something his own,'' said Mr. Cook, who was Mr. Sebald's friend as well as his colleague. ''The common element is a wandering, mobile narrator.''
        As a writer, he ''was gathering together the history of Europe,'' Mr. Cook said. ''The Holocaust was his preoccupation.'' He said that Mr. Sebald, who was known as Max, had literary predecessors, but there was no one today writing as he did.
        When ''The Emigrants,'' Mr. Sebald's first book to be translated into English, was published in the United States in 1996, he was greeted as a writer's writer. Susan Sontag called it ''an astonishing masterpiece.''
        ''The Emigrants,'' a novel about Jews who escaped the Holocaust, was followed in 1998 by ''The Rings of Saturn.'' In The New York Times Book Review, Roberta Silman said that this novel, a personal journey that moves through time and space, ''obliterates time and defies comparison.''
        After ''The Rings of Saturn,'' his first novel, ''Vertigo,'' published in Germany in 1990, was also published in English. The four books firmly established Mr. Sebald in the literary pantheon, where he was regarded as a future candidate for the Nobel Prize in Literature.
        ''Austerlitz,'' which the editors of The New York Times Book Review named as one of the nine best books of 2001, is about a Holocaust survivor  searching for the identity of his parents.
        In her review in The New York Times, Michiko Kakutani said that it transported the reader ''to a memoryscape -- a twilight, fogbound world of half-remembered images and ghosts that is reminiscent at once of Ingmar Bergman's 'Wild Strawberries,' Kafka's troubling fables of guilt and apprehension and, of course, Proust's 'Remembrance of Things Past.' '' For Mr. Sebald, all those comparisons were essential.
        In researching a novel, he would briefly visit war archives but spent most of his time collecting and analyzing artifacts: postcards, maps and pictures from magazines. Then,  in characteristic fashion, he would place some of them in his books, sifting everything through his artist's imagination. This was a hybrid technique that was sui generis.
        In a profile of Mr. Sebald in The New York Times on Tuesday, Arthur Lubow said all this novelist's characters were ''indistinguishably Sebaldian: melancholic, elegiacal, ill-starred,'' and that it was difficult to separate the writer from his protagonist.
        Mr. Lubow said that on meeting Mr. Sebald, it came as a relief to realize that he was ''loquacious and darkly funny in person.'' He was, he said, ''a trim, handsome, professorial man'' who spoke English ''with the soft accent of southern Germany.''
        He was born Winfried Georg Sebald in Wertach im Allgäu in 1944. ''Mr. Sebald's writerly motivation can be tracked to his childhood,'' Mr. Lubow wrote. ''Germany in the postwar years was a place in which unpleasant truths went undiscussed and preferably unnoticed.''
        In 1947 he visited Munich with his parents. Although the family's village in the Bavarian Alps was not damaged by the war, Munich was devastated by Allied bombing.
        ''It seemed to me the natural condition of cities,'' Mr. Sebald said, ''houses between mountains of rubble.''
        His father, who had been in the German Army, never discussed his wartime experiences. ''There was truly this conspiracy of silence, nationwide and in every family,'' Mr. Sebald recalled. When he attended the University of Freiburg in Germany, he felt it even more strongly.
        After two years, he moved to Switzerland. When he was 21, he left for England, where he became a lecturer at the University of Manchester. After a year, he returned to Switzerland, and then went back to England with his wife, Ute, who is Austrian. They lived in a Victorian brick house on the outskirts of Norwich, where, Mr. Lubow wrote, Mr. Sebald remained ''chronically unsettled.'' Mr. Sebald said, ''I've lived here for 30 years, but I don't feel in the least at home.''
        His survivors include his wife and his daughter, who teaches in primary school.
        Since 1970 he had taught at East Anglia while writing his books and essays. At his death, there was at least one novel, ''Airwar,'' yet to be published in English. (It was published in Germany under the title ''Luftkreig.'') The book deals with another tragedy of Sebaldian dimensions, the bombing of Dresden.
        In his profile in The Times, Mr. Lubow wrote about looking at old photographs with Mr. Sebald. Leafing through a family album, the author pointed to a picture that his father had taken during the war of a fellow soldier who was killed in a car accident.
        Mr. Lubow wrote: ''Lying on his back, his unseeing eyes staring upward, the dead young man is surrounded by flowers. Seeing this picture for the first time, at the age of 5, Max had 'a hunch that this is where it all began -- a great disaster that had occurred, which I knew nothing about.' ''
        Through his art, Mr. Sebald contemplated this and other disasters and made them vividly real as a traveler searching for the source of the human spirit.
      