
        Gerhard Stoltenberg, who reunified the armies of Germany after the Berlin Wall fell, died of cancer on Nov. 23 in Bad Godesberg, Germany. He was 73.
        Mr. Stoltenberg, a politician whose precocious rise through the ranks led him to the highest levels of power, wasted little time joining the political fray as a young man.
        At the age of fifteen, Mr. Stoltenberg, a pastor's son from Schleswig-Holstein, was drafted to serve as an airplane gunner in the Wehrmacht, spending the last days of the war in a British prisoner-of-war camp. Returning to school after his release, he was awarded a doctorate in history in 1954 from the University of Kiel when he was 26.
        But already too deep into politics as a member of the Young Christian Democrats to pursue an academic career, he immediately ran for office and was elected a member of the Schleswig-Holstein state Parliament in the same year. Three years later,  he became the youngest member of the national Parliament.
        From the time Chancellor Ludwig Erhard appointed him minister of research in 1965, Mr. Stoltenberg was mentioned as a likely chancellor. But perhaps because of a tendency toward hesitation and a stiff political style, he missed his chances. When he put his name forward in 1973 and 1976, it was Helmut Kohl who was asked to lead the party.
        As a politician, Mr. Stoltenberg's most successful years were during his 11 years as premier of Schleswig-Holstein. In 1982, Chancellor Kohl appointed him finance minister, and his fiscal policies helped reduce inflation in Germany to its lowest levels since the country's economic miracle had taken shape in the 1950's. He also helped push through the country's most significant tax overhaul.
        But in the fall of 1987, he publicly balked when the United States treasury secretary, James A. Baker III, called for Germany to lower interest rates. When Mr. Baker then threatened to push the dollar lower at the expense of German exports, markets around the world fell drastically.
        Mr. Stoltenberg's stance contributed to Mr. Kohl's decision to move him to head the Defense Ministry, a post he had turned down in 1962. In his new job, he was responsible for figuring out what to do with the East German National People's Army after the Berlin Wall came down. Rather than pursuing a wholesale dismemberment of the East German forces, Mr. Stoltenberg allowed the officers to apply for membership in a reconstituted army of a reunited Germany, and for those who passed a careful screening to take posts beside their former West German enemies.
        Despite this success, Mr. Stoltenberg faced disgrace in the Defense Ministry after taking responsibility for two scandals involving arms exports. In 1992, he resigned, ending his public political career, but he continued to be a player behind the scenes as deputy chairman of the Konrad Adenauer Stiftung, the Christian Democrat's political foundation.
      