
        Adm. Ulysses S. Grant Sharp Jr., the commander in chief of the United States Pacific Command in the Vietnam War and an outspoken critic of how the war was fought, died on Wednesday at home in San Diego. He was 95.
        Admiral Sharp, a decorated veteran of three wars, was appointed by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964 to lead the million-member Pacific Command, based in Hawaii.
        That year, with thousands of American advisers in South Vietnam, Admiral Sharp received permission from the president to respond to a reported attack on American destroyers by North Vietnamese torpedo boats in the Gulf of Tonkin. Congress quickly approved a resolution that led to full-scale war.
        As the campaign dragged on, Admiral Sharp clashed repeatedly with Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara, who pursued a strategy of gradual bombing in hopes of resolving the conflict through negotiations.
        Admiral Sharp, who advocated stronger measures, later accused Mr. McNamara of causing ''needless casualties'' by misusing American air power. The defense secretary, he charged, ''consistently discarded the advice of his military advisers'' and ''gave the enemy plenty of time to cope with our every move.''
        A golfer and avid reader of history and political affairs who disliked bureaucracy, Admiral Sharp was known to friends and relatives as Oley, a nickname he acquired at the United States Naval Academy, in Annapolis, Md. Like his father before him, he was named for the Civil War general and president, to whom his great-aunt had been married.
        Born in Chinook, Mont., in 1906, he continued a family tradition in the Navy, entering the academy in 1923. He served on battleships and destroyers, and in World War II took part in the landings at Casablanca.
        In 1943, he was sent to the Pacific to command the destroyer Boyd,  which came under punishing fire  during a search for an American aviator downed off the island of Nauru. He received the Silver Star for his conduct, the first of two; he later received two Bronze Stars. He was fleet planning officer for the Inchon landing in the Korean War.
        But in a career that spanned nearly five decades, Vietnam was the admiral's greatest challenge and disappointment. He bemoaned decisions by civilians at the Pentagon -- a reference to his nemesis, Mr. McNamara, among others -- to avoid large-scale bombing of Hanoi and other North Vietnamese targets.
        ''The air campaign of 1965 was characterized by excessive restrictions from Washington which limited us to piddling strikes against generally unimportant targets,'' he said.
        In 1969, he wrote a critique in Reader's Digest titled ''We Could Have Won in Vietnam Long Ago.'' He later denounced the lack of discipline in the armed forces, criticized antiwar demonstrators and asserted that the Pentagon Papers reflected the bias of the reporters who compiled them.
        He is survived by his wife, Nina Blake Sharp; a daughter, Patricia Ann Milham of California; and a son, Rear Adm. Grant Alexander Sharp of Virginia. They are his children by  his first wife, Patricia, to whom he was married for 56 years. She died in 1986. He is also survived by a sister, Margaret Angus.
        After his retirement in 1968, Admiral Sharp lectured widely. His chief message reflected his continuing frustration over Vietnam.
        ''That lesson is that we should never commit the armed forces of the United States to combat unless we have decided at the same time to use the nonnuclear power we have available to win in the shortest possible time,'' he said.
      