
        Charlie McClendon, one of college football's most prominent coaches of the 1960's and 70's, when he took Louisiana State University to 13 bowl games, died Friday at his home in Baton Rouge, La. He was 78.
        He was treated in recent months for cancer of the fatty tissue.
        McClendon was the winningest football coach in L.S.U. history, with a record of 137-59-7 from 1962 through 1979. He had 17 all-Americans, including running backs Jerry Stovall and Charles Alexander, defensive back Tommy Casanova and quarterback Bert Jones. He was named co-coach of the year, with Darrell Royal of Texas, by the American Football Coaches Association in 1970, when L.S.U. was 9-3 and won the Southeastern Conference title.
        McClendon had only one losing year but was forced out after the 1979 season, having fallen short on two counts: his teams were never recognized as national champions and they had a 2-14 record against Alabama teams coached by his mentor, Bear Bryant.
        ''That was a sore spot with a lot of people,'' McClendon once said of the failures against Bryant's teams. ''But there weren't many people beating Bear in those days, especially with the kind of injuries we had.''
        McClendon was elected to the College Football Hall of Fame in 1986.
        ''It's a miracle I ever got into football,'' he once said.
        The high school in his hometown, Lewisville, Ark., did not have a football team, and after graduating, McClendon spent four years in the Navy. He attended Magnolia (Ark.) Junior College, then played tight end for two years in the late 1940's under Bryant at Kentucky.
        Babe Parilli, a star quarterback at Kentucky who was a teammate of McClendon, recalled his toughness.
        ''I remember Charlie bleeding a lot out there on the practice field,'' Parilli said. ''We all bled a pretty good bit for the Bear. Charlie was one of those overachievers. He pushed himself pretty hard, and I think he coached the same way.''
        McClendon was an assistant at Kentucky (1950-51) and at Vanderbilt (1952) before going to L.S.U. as an assistant. In 1958, when Paul Dietzel's L.S.U. team was ranked No. 1, the defense, coached by McClendon, allowed 53 points in 11 games.
        McClendon's best-remembered game as coach at L.S.U. was probably the 1966 Cotton Bowl against Arkansas, a game McClendon was especially eager to win because he was a native of the state and the Razorbacks were heavy favorites.
        He dressed some of his players in Arkansas red during the practices as a motivational tool.
        ''Arkansas had won 22 straight games, and for two weeks in our preparation we had red jerseys for our scout squad and all the numbers on them were 23,'' he once remembered. ''We just said, 'Fellas, you are going to be victim No. 23 if they beat us.' After awhile that irritated the guys something awful.''
        L.S.U. beat Arkansas, 14-7.
        After leaving L.S.U., McClendon spent two years as executive director of the Tangerine Bowl, now the Florida Citrus Bowl, in Orlando, Fla. He served as executive director of the Orlando-based American Football Coaches Association from 1982 to 1994, creating standardized contracts that improved job security for assistant coaches.
        He is survived by his wife, Dorothy Faye; a son, Scott; a daughter, Dolores Kaye Alberty; and three grandchildren.
        McClendon used his late-bloomer status to help motivate his players.
        As he told The Orlando Sentinel in 1994: ''Whenever they'd feel sorry for themselves, I'd say, 'You've got five minutes?' They thought I was born with a silver spoon in my mouth. I'd say: 'Johnny, I never played a down of football in high school. You can do anything you want.' ''
      