
        Joseph Washington McGovern, whose long record of public service included six years as chancellor of the state Board of Regents, died Wednesday at Mount Vernon Hospital in Westchester. He was 92 and lived in Irvington, N.Y.
        Mr. McGovern, a New York lawyer who specialized in real estate, mortgage and property law, became  a regent in 1961. He became chancellor in 1968 and was re-elected to a second three-year term by unanimous vote in 1971.
        He held a central position in guiding educational policy as head of the 16-member Board of Regents. Established by the Legislature in 1784, it is the oldest continuous state board of education in the country. Its unsalaried appointed members, assisted by professionals, set policy for a vast system ranging from preschool through postgraduate studies.
        Mr. McGovern was also counsel and an officer of Roman Catholic institutions like Catholic Charities and the Catholic Guardian Society. He was a New York State delegate to the White House Conference on Education in 1955 and to the White House Conference on Children and Youth in 1960.
        Joseph McGovern, who was born in the Bronx on Feb. 22, 1909, graduated from Regis High School, a Jesuit scholarship school in Manhattan. In 1930, he graduated magna cum laude from Fordham College. After teaching Latin and Greek at Regis, he earned his law degree at Fordham University in 1933 and went into private practice.
        Three years later, he joined the Fordham faculty as a professor of law. After he returned to private practice, he remained an adjunct professor until 1966, when his duties as a regent prompted him to take a leave of absence from teaching.
        Since 1933, he was associated as a partner or senior partner with a number of law firms. From 1974 until his death he practiced with the firm of McGovern & Dawson in White Plains.
        Mr. McGovern is survived by a daughter, Marie Therese Melillo of Naples, Fla.; three sons, Raymond L., of Arlington, Va., Joseph J., of Seattle and Lawrence F., his law partner, of Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.; 22 grandchildren; and 12 great-grandchildren. His wife of 64 years, Marie Gough McGovern, died two years ago.
        As chancellor of the Regents, Mr. McGovern stood in awe of what he considered a ''unique system.''
        ''There's such a variety of problems,'' he once said. ''We're dealing with early childhood one hour and the next we're talking of expanding library facilities, and then we're talking about the problems in engineering education, then it's drugs and then the environment.''
      