
        William Jovanovich, who presided over Harcourt, Brace Jovanovich for 36 years and transformed the highbrow literary house into one of the nation's leading textbook publishers, died on Tuesday at his home in San Diego. He was 81.
        The cause was a heart attack after a long illness, said his son Peter Jovanovich.
        A reclusive, fiercely independent figure who worked his way up from textbook salesman to company president in seven years, Mr. Jovanovich defied industry conventions. He shunned the press and declined to join the American Publishers' Association, the industry's trade group. He earned derision by acquiring Sea World marine parks as well as traditional media properties. And he baffled rivals in 1984 by moving the company's headquarters to Orlando, Fla., from New York City, the book publishing capital.
        ''He was a brilliant nonconformist,'' said Rubin Pfeffer, the chief creative officer at Pearson Education, who worked for Mr. Jovanovich at Harcourt for 16 years. ''He stuck to his guns and did not jump on any bandwagon.''
        Mr. Jovanovich's instincts frequently paid off: the $8 million company he took over in 1954 was worth $1.3 billion in 1990, when he resigned. Some business decisions, though, were far from successful. In an effort to stave off a hostile takeover by the British publisher Robert Maxwell in 1987, Mr. Jovanovich borrowed nearly $3 billion. Although the ploy effectively foiled Mr. Maxwell's plans, Harcourt became mired in debt, a factor that contributed to Mr. Jovanovich's abrupt departure three years later. The company was sold in 1991.
        Several of his innovations eventually became industry norms. In 1961, Mr. Jovanovich persuaded Helen and Kurt Wolff, respected editors of several major European authors, to join Harcourt by offering to let them publish books under their own name. Under the Wolff imprint, Harcourt printed books by Günter Grass, Umberto Eco, Italo Calvino and Anne Morrow Lindbergh. Today, such imprints are a standard feature at major publishing houses. Mr. Jovanovich also enlivened textbook publishing by adding full color images to school texts and by introducing elaborate teachers' editions.
        In 1970, Harcourt, Brace shareholders added Mr. Jovanovich's name to the company's title.
        A stickler for detail, Mr. Jovanovich remained involved with all aspects of the business throughout his tenure as chairman. His son Peter recalled his father's reaction to an article in The Wall Street Journal about a competitor who boasted that the high school history textbook he had under development would supplant Harcourt's popular textbook series. ''My Dad called up the head of the school division,'' recalled the younger Mr. Jovanovich, who was in his father's office at the time. ''He said, 'Get the editor in chief and the designer in here.' Within the course of an hour, he had our high school history book entirely redesigned.' ''
        Mr. Jovanovich's flair for creative intervention extended beyond publishing. Mr. Pfeffer recalled watching Mr. Jovanovich stroll some wooded acreage near Austin, Tex., with a pad of white paper and a purple magic marker, sketching his designs for the Sea World he planned to build there. Determined that his theme parks should educate as well as entertain, Mr. Jovanovich dreamed up amusements like a football-field-size map of the United States that children could play on.
        His interest in education stemmed from his own experiences in American public schools. Born Vladimir Jovanovich in a northern Colorado coal camp in 1920, he was the youngest child of a Polish mother and a Montenegrin father, who worked in the local coal mines.
        Mr. Jovanovich entered elementary school in Denver speaking Polish and Serbian but no English. He went to the University of Colorado and studied English and American literature at Harvard. During the World War II, he served as a naval officer. In 1943, while stationed in Mobile, Ala., he met and married Martha Evelyn Davis, with whom he had three children: Martha Welsh, Stefan Jovanovich and Peter Jovanovich, who also served as chief executive at Harcourt. They all survive, as do six grandchildren..
        Too short on cash to finish his dissertation on Emerson after the war, Mr. Jovanovich joined Harcourt Brace and Company as a college textbook salesman earning $50 a week, a job that occasionally involved hawking books on passenger trains. Promoted to head of Harcourt's school division in 1953, he became president the following year, at the age of 34.
        While expanding the company's holdings through takeovers and mergers of other publishing houses, Mr. Jovanovich cultivated such writers as Hannah Arendt, Milton Friedman and Charles Lindbergh.
        Mark Helprin, who published his novel ''Winter's Tale'' at Harcourt in 1983, said Mr. Jovanovich provided great support. ''He bought it for quite a large sum of money,'' Mr. Helprin recalled. ''There's usually a long-delayed payout, but in this case the check came the next day via Fed-Ex.''
        Mr. Jovanovich also found time to write books himself. In his essay collection, ''Now, Barabbas'' (1964), he championed the social importance of education, scholarship and literature. He also published several novels, including ''The World's Last Night'' (1990), the story of a Navy officer of Serbian background from Colorado who establishes a major publishing house by cutting brilliant deals and facing down adversaries.
        Correction:  December 10, 2001, Monday  An obituary of the longtime book publisher about William A. Jovanovich on Thursday referred incorrectly to a site he visited near Austin, Tex. Although it was being considered for a Sea World amusement park, his company built its Texas park in San Antonio.
      