
        Pierre de Bénouville, a hero of the French Resistance in World War II, died on Wednesday in Paris. He was 87 and lived in Paris.
        A literary critic before the war, he formed the United Movements of the Resistance, an early part of the overall Resistance movement in Nazi-occupied France. In 1942 it became the Movement of National Liberation.
        In the years of occupation he made more than 50 surreptitious border crossings and became an expert in organizing escape routes for Resistance members.
        His work for the Resistance included going to Switzerland to negotiate with Allen Dulles of the Office of Strategic Services, the American wartime intelligence agency, about cooperation and support.
        David Schoenbrun, an American war correspondent in France in World War II, wrote in his book ''Soldiers of the Night: The Story of the French Resistance'' (1980) that ''like many French rightists, he was a patriotic nationalist and a bitter foe of the Germans,'' and he rejected the occupied government's call to capitulation and collaboration and went into the underground.
        An ardent supporter of Charles de Gaulle, to whom he was close in his later political career, he was also a member of the Free French Forces during the war and organized French forces in Algeria. In 1944 he was promoted to brigadier general in the French Army because of his achievements as the commander of a unit of Moroccan sharpshooters on the Italian front. He went on to be a major general.
        A high-ranking member of the Legion of Honor, he received other decorations, including the Croix de Guerre and the Medal of the Resistance.
        He was born in Amsterdam, had his secondary schooling in France and received a degree in literature from the Sorbonne.
        After World War II, he held a seat in France's National Assembly from 1951 to 1993 almost without interruption, representing constituencies in Brittany and then in Paris.
        By 1970 he was a top executive of the mass-circulation weekly Jours de France and was on the boards of the Marcel Dassault aircraft company, the Banque Commerciale de Paris and other major enterprises.
        As a writer he used the pen name Guillain de Bénouville. His books include ''The Sacrifice of the Morning'' (1946), about the Resistance years.
        His wife, the former Georgie Thibonier, died before him.
      