
        Spencer Holst, a writer of fables and a fixture of the downtown Manhattan avant-garde scene for 30 years, died on Nov. 23 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 75.
        He had been suffering from emphysema and apparently died of a stroke, said George Quasha, a co-owner of Station Hill/Barrytown, Mr. Holst's publisher.
        Mr. Holst gained his reputation partly from his own readings of his stories. He was a big-eyed man and read the magical tales with an air of constant wonderment, as if they had been dropped on his doorstep just that morning. They were short and often funny stories in which animals mixed with people.
        The poet Hugh Seidman, Mr. Holst's neighbor for 30 years in Westbeth, the housing complex for artists in the West Village, said, ''Once you heard him perform his classic tales, like 'The Frog' or 'A Balkan Entertainment,' it was impossible to get his voice out of your head, impossible not to hear it each time you read one of his fables.''
        His venues for readings included Westbeth, the former club Max's Kansas City, Judson Memorial Church and the Village Vanguard.
        His books of stories included ''On Demons'' (written with his wife, the painter Beate Wheeler), ''The Language of Cats and Other Stories,'' ''Prose for Dancing,'' ''The Zebra Storyteller,'' ''Brilliant Silence,'' and ''Spencer Holst Stories,'' for which he received the Hilda and Richard Rosenthal Foundation Award from the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters in 1977.
        His stories are hard to classify. The poet John Hollander said: ''These are routines -- something like fictions, something like jokes -- of a stand-up tragic. Transcriptions of a spoken voice, their cadences linger beyond laughter.''
        In one of his characteristic stories, ''The Frog,'' a frog becomes ''addicted to morphine during experiments at the federal hospital at Lexington, Ky.,'' is eventually kissed by a beautiful teenager and, of course, becomes a prince (''a tall Italian-looking guy''). But the girl won't marry her prince because he is a drug addict; the narrator wins her.
        Some of his short stories are very short indeed. For example, ''Mona Lisa Meets Buddha'' reads in its entirety: ''Up in heaven the curtains fluttered, the curtains fluttered, and the Mona Lisa entered at one end of a small hall, which was hung with many veils. Up in heaven the curtains fluttered, fluttered, fluttered, and the Buddha entered the hall at the other end. They smiled.''
        He once said of himself, ''In the geography of literature I have always felt my work to be equidistant between two writers, each born in Ohio -- Hart Crane and James Thurber -- but my wife says don't be silly, your stories are halfway between Hans Christian Andersen and Franz Kafka.''
        Mr. Holst was born in 1926 in Detroit and grew up in Ohio, where his father was a sports columnist for The Toledo Blade and The Toledo Times. In 1957 he came to New York determined to be a writer. He married Ms. Wheeler, and in 1970 they became charter tenants of Westbeth. He lived there until his death.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a sister, Mary-Ella Holst, of Manhattan; a son, Sebastian, of Chevy Chase, Md.; and two grandchildren.
      