
        Robert Helps, an American composer and concert pianist whose own works ranged freely through the lexicon of contemporary styles and techniques, died last Saturday at his home in Tampa, Fla. He was 73.
        Scott Kluksdah, a cellist on the faculty of the University of South Florida, where Mr. Helps also taught, said the cause was cancer.
        Mr. Helps was born in Passaic, N.J., in 1928, and studied piano with Abby Whiteside and composition with Roger Sessions at the Juilliard School of Music. He also studied at Columbia University and the University of California, Berkeley. As a pianist, Mr. Helps had the benefit of both a powerful technique and a composer's eye for the structure of musical discourse.
        Early in his career he performed standard repertory works, including the big Romantic concertos. But he quickly became most renowned for his performances of new music, particularly the dense, demanding works of Milton Babbitt, who dedicated his ''Partitions'' to Mr. Helps in 1957, and of Mel Powell and George Perle. Four years ago he recorded the three Piano Sonatas by Sessions for the CRI label.
        In addition to performing as a soloist, Mr. Helps gave concerts and made recordings with the sopranos Bethany Beardslee and Phyllis Curtin and the violinists Isidore Cohen and Rudolf Kolisch.
        Mr. Helps's compositions ranged from tender chromaticism in works like ''Hommage à Fauré'' to the more complex and evocative textures of ''Gossamer Noons,'' a work for soprano and orchestra that is one of his best-known scores. His other works include two symphonies, two piano concertos and many chamber works and solo piano pieces. His Piano Concerto No. 2 had its premiere by Richard Goode in 1975; his ''Shall We Dance'' was composed for the pianist Russell Sherman in 1994.
        Mr. Helps joined the faculty of the University of South Florida in 1980. In the late 1960's and early 70's, he taught at the San Francisco Conservatory, Stanford University, the University of California, Berkeley, the New England Conservatory, the Manhattan School of Music and Princeton University.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      