
        Don Tennant, the advertising agency executive who specialized in creating characters like Tony the Tiger during the heyday of such marketing ploys, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 79.
        Mr. Tennant, who recently moved from his home in San Diego to Los Angeles, where two of his three children live, had been suffering from heart disease, his family said.
        Mr. Tennant worked for two decades at the Leo Burnett agency in Chicago, home of what Madison Avenue fondly calls ''critters'' -- anthropomorphic figures created to put familiar faces on prosaic packaged-goods products -- to build brand identities that would appeal to consumers. The Burnett menagerie includes Tony the Tiger, pitching Kellogg's Frosted Flakes cereal, which the trade publication Advertising Age named ninth on a list of the Top 10 ''advertising icons'' of the 20th century; the Jolly Green Giant, for Green Giant vegetables, third on the list; the Keebler elves, for Keebler cookies and crackers; and the Pillsbury baked-goods doughboy, No. 6 on the list.
        Tony was originally one of several characters Burnett introduced in 1952 for a large client, the Kellogg Company, to sell what was then called Kellogg's Sugar Frosted Flakes. (The ''sugar'' disappeared decades later when consumer activists began complaining about sugared children's breakfast cereals.) Tony's cohorts included an elephant, a kangaroo and a gnu. A year later, Kellogg noticed that the boxes bearing Tony outsold the rest, so the other characters were retired.
        The Tony initially drawn by Mr. Tennant had a head shaped like a football, dark green eyes, orange and black stripes and a red bandanna around his neck. Over the years, the character changed in appearance; for instance, the eyes turned golden. When Tony was brought to television, the character was animated and began speaking, shouting the now familiar slogan, ''They're gr-r-reat!!!,'' which still appears on Frosted Flakes packages.
        ''I was the kid who heard 'Your dad created Tony the Tiger,' '' said Tim Tennant of Los Angeles, one of Mr. Tennant's two sons. ''There was even a cereal box brought to 'show and tell' at school.''
        ''To my dad, you always had to stand for something,'' Tim Tennant said. ''It was all about classic Americana, storytelling, revolving around the product.''
        Tony continues as the focus of Frosted Flakes advertising, which is still created by Burnett. Commercials from 1984 to 1999 had the character interviewing adults as to why they still eat the children's cereal. Since 1999, Tony has made cameo appearances in the spots, the way Alfred Hitchcock did in his movies, as eccentric adults tell why they like Frosted Flakes.
        Mr. Tennant was ''a very important part of Burnett's and Kellogg's history,'' said Celeste Clark, a spokeswoman for Kellogg in Battle Creek, Mich. Frosted Flakes is the company's best-selling cereal, she added, ''in the United States and around the world.'' In other countries it goes by names like Frosties and Zucharitas and Tony roars words like ''Bartig'' (Germany).
        After serving as a naval officer in the Pacific during World War II, Mr. Tennant began his career writing for radio and television shows, then joined Burnett in 1950 as a radio and television writer and producer. He rose to lead the agency's worldwide creative operations under the founder, Leo Burnett, holding titles like creative services director.
        ''No client did not feel the influence'' of Mr. Tennant's ideas, said Wally Petersen, senior vice president at the Bcom3 Group, the parent of the agency now known as Leo Burnett Worldwide.
        In addition to serving as creative overseer, copywriter and artist, Mr. Tennant also edited and directed commercials and composed jingles, including ''You get a lot to like with a Marlboro: filter, flavor, flip-top box,'' delivered with a smoky growl by the singer Julie London, and ''Nothin' says lovin' like somethin' from the oven, and Pillsbury says it best.''
        Under Mr. Tennant's creative leadership, Burnett successfully changed Marlboro from a woman's cigarette to a masculine-oriented brand; developed the ''Come to Marlboro Country'' campaign centered on cowboys and the American West; and introduced ''Fly the friendly skies'' as the theme for United Airlines.
        Mr. Tennant left Burnett in October 1970 and in March 1971 became chairman and creative services director at the Clinton E. Frank agency in Chicago. Two years later, he resigned and opened an agency, Don Tennant Advertising. It was acquired in 1987 by Nobel Communications, which formed Nobel-Tennant and then Nobel & Associates.
        Mr. Tennant served as a consultant to Nobel until 1990 and to other agencies and marketers until recently; his clients included the German candy makers Ragold (Velamints) and Storck (Werther's Original).
        In addition to his son Tim, Mr. Tennant is survived by another son, Andy, of Los Angeles; a daughter, Tracy, of Joshua Tree, Calif.; and six grandchildren. His wife, Barbara, died in 1996.
        Both sons followed Mr. Tennant into his lines of work. Tim is president for integrated creative services at Aspect in Hollywood, a creative entertainment marketing agency with six divisions, and Andy is a director of television shows, including ''The Wonder Years,'' and movies, including ''Fools Rush In'' and ''Anna and the King.''
        Correction:  December 20, 2001, Thursday  An obituary on Dec. 13 about Don Tennant, who created the advertising character Tony the Tiger, misstated the word that Tony roars in cereal commercials in German. It is ''grossartig'' -- ''great'' -- not ''bartig.''
      