
        Budd Boetticher, who directed a series of stark, low-budget westerns regarded by film scholars as classics of the genre, died on Thursday at his home in Ramona, Calif. He was 85.
        In the austere, suspenseful opening of ''Comanche Station'' (1960), the last of seven westerns starring Randolph Scott that Mr. Boetticher directed, a lone rider in a black hat appears on a rugged mountain ridge, descends to a sun-baked valley, pauses and looks back to see a mounted band of Indians armed with spears. They ride to challenge him. Minutes pass. The first words are spoken in the Comanche tongue. The man in the black hat replies in sign language.
        Mr. Boetticher (pronounced BET-i-ker) was partial to the barren, rocky landscape around Lone Pine, Calif., between Sequoia National Park and Death Valley, as the bleak setting for his westerns. To play the villains opposite the stone-faced Scott, he chose outstanding actors, including Lee Marvin, Richard Boone and James Coburn.
        All together, he directed 38 films, most of them low-budget and many of them westerns, under the assembly-line conditions of the studio system. They display an eye for vivid landscapes and were noted for a sharp contrast between heroes who were men of few words -- the strong, silent type -- and voluble villains.
        Mr. Boetticher summed up the western formula as: ''A man has a job to do, or a couple of men. They try to do it against tremendous odds. They do it.''
        Film historians remarked on his early affinity for civil rights causes. The sympathies of the film ''Seminole'' (1953), for example, lay with  American Indians rather than with  the Army soldiers bent on their destruction. His ''Buchanan Rides Alone'' portrays an appealing young Mexican in trouble with nasty Americans in a border town.
        Oscar Boetticher Jr. was born on July 29, 1916, in Chicago, and was adopted by Oscar Boetticher, a prosperous hardware dealer. After attending Culver Military Academy near South Bend, Ind., Oscar Jr. went to Ohio State University, where he excelled in track, basketball, boxing and varsity football.
        In 1936 he went to Mexico to recover from a football injury and became fascinated with bullfighting. Apprenticing himself in 1938 to Carlos Arruza, a star matador, he learned enough to enter the ring as a matador and was once gored in the belly.
        Bullfighting informed his view of the westerns he would eventually direct, according to specialists in the genre. From it he drew elements like ritualized behavior, codes of machismo and ''the primal nature of its climactic showdown,'' one wrote.
        From Mexico he went to Hollywood to visit Hal Roach Jr., a school chum, who got him a job as a horse wrangler in his father's 1939 film ''Of Mice and Men.''
        Hooked on movies, Mr. Boetticher was hired in 1940 by Rouben Mamoulian, the director of ''Blood and Sand,'' starring Tyrone Power, as a technical adviser on bullfighting. He then worked his way up from studio messenger to assistant director.
        During World War II he directed or helped direct a series of propaganda films, mostly about the United States Navy, under the name Oscar Boetticher. He served in the Marines from 1946 to 1947.
        His initial feature film, in 1944, was ''The Missing Juror,'' a thriller about a reporter tracking down the killer of the jurors who sent a man to the electric chair.
        Mr. Boetticher's first major work, ''The Bullfighter and the Lady,'' starring the young Robert Stack, fictionalized some of his own adventures in Mexico. The film, released in 1951, won an Oscar nomination for writing. It was produced by Mr. Boetticher's drinking buddy John Wayne. From Wayne he got his nickname, Budd, which he used for the first time in the credits for this film.
        His most productive period was the 1950's, when scores of westerns were released to movie theaters and shown on television. His movies from that period, adventure and war stories as well as westerns, included: ''Killer Shark,'' with Roddy McDowall (1950); ''The Cimarron Kid,'' with Audie Murphy (1951); ''Bronco Buster,'' with Scott (1952); ''Red Ball Express,'' with Sidney Poitier (1952); ''Horizons West,'' with Robert Ryan (1952); ''City Beneath the Sea,'' with Anthony Quinn (1953); ''The Man From the Alamo,'' with Glenn Ford (1953); ''Seminole,'' with Quinn and Rock Hudson (1953); ''Wings of the Hawk,'' with Van Heflin and Scott (1953); ''East of Sumatra'' with Jeff Chandler (1953); ''The Magnificent Matador,'' with Quinn (1955); ''Seven Men From Now,'' with Scott (1956); ''The Killer Is Loose,'' with Joseph Cotten (1956); ''The Tall T,'' with Scott and Maureen O'Sullivan (1957); ''Buchanan Rides Alone,'' with Scott (1958); ''Westbound,'' with Scott (1958); and ''Ride Lonesome,'' also with Scott (1959).
        André Bazin, the French film critic, called ''Seven Men From Now'' one of the best movies he had ever seen. (The film was shown in 2000 as a tribute to Mr. Boetticher at the New York Film Festival.) Italian moviemakers also praised his work. Martin Scorsese, the American director, remarked of Mr. Boetticher, ''His style was as simple as his impassive heroes -- deceptively simple.'' Another critic compared his westerns to ''psychological chess games.''
        In 1960 he directed a crime movie, ''The Rise and Fall of Legs Diamond,'' which the critic Andrew Sarris called ''a minor classic.''
        Then he turned to his dream project, a documentary about Arruza, the matador. Shunning lucrative Hollywood offers, he drove in his Rolls-Royce to Mexico with his glamorous new bride, Debra Paget, the actress, to begin the project.
        In his 1989 memoir, ''When in Disgrace,'' he recalled: ''This I wanted to be real. I wanted to smell the bulls and sweat out the stench of impending destruction and death, the low calls and whistles of the corral workers, the snorting of the bulls and the rusty creaking and slamming of heavy gates.''
        But it was not to be. The project nearly bankrupted him. His marriage collapsed after three weeks.  Arruza and several members of the film crew were killed in a car crash. Mr. Boetticher suffered a nervous breakdown, was jailed for a week and spent another week in a mental hospital. His Hollywood career collapsed.
        The documentary finally came out in 1972, and Greg Senf, a Hollywood writer, pronounced it ''a rich, fascinating portrait of a great athlete and man, containing spectacular photography of action so authentic and accurate that one can almost smell and breathe the dust, taste the blood.''
        He is survived by his fourth wife, the former Mary Chelde. Previously he had been married to Emily Erskine Cook and to Karen Steele, an actress in several of his films.
        At age 84, reflecting on a life of bullfighting and making films about tough guys in tough situations, Mr. Boetticher said, ''I hate macho, even though that's what I was all my life.''
      