
        Gerhart Riegner, the World Jewish Congress official who was the first to warn an incredulous world that Nazi Germany had formally decided at the highest levels to annihilate Europe's Jews, died on Monday in Geneva. He was 90.
        The cable he sent in August 1942 -- which was passed on to the State Department and the British Foreign Office -- said the Nazis planned to exterminate at one blow three and a half to four million Jews. It specified that prussic acid might be used. (Zyklon B, the gas used in the death camps, was indeed derived from prussic acid.)
        The Riegner message was based on a report from a German industrialist whose identity was kept secret for decades, but is now known to have been Eduard Schulte, managing director of a mining company employing 30,000 workers. Mr. Schulte's stature and the specificity of the plan, which was approved in January 1942 and known as the Wannsee Protocol, made the cable of pivotal importance.
        Mr. Riegner and many others had earlier reported the vast and mounting evidence of Nazi persecutions: arrests, deportations, the use of ghettos, imprisonment, forced labor and summary executions. In three speeches, in 1939, 1941 and 1942, Hitler had said he would exterminate European Jews.
        What distinguished the Schulte report, The Holocaust Encyclopedia said, was that came it not from Jewish victims but from a German who had access to the highest authorities. There was now proof that annihilation of Jews was official German policy.
        But the cablegram had no effect for four months, until the governments of Britain, the United States and the Soviet Union issued a warning to Germany that it must stop the plan or face retribution. It took 18 more months for President Franklin D. Roosevelt to create the War Refugee Board to try to save the Jews.
        ''Never did I feel so strongly the sense of abandonment, powerlessness and loneliness as when I sent messages of disaster and horror to the free world and no one believed me,'' Mr. Riegner wrote in his autobiography, ''Ne Jamais Desperer'' (''Never Give Up Hope''), published in 1999.
        Gerhart Moritz Riegner was born in Berlin on Sept. 12, 1911. His first experience of anti-Semitism, he said, came at 5, when another schoolboy called him a ''dirty little Jew.''
        Years later, in 1933, Nazi thugs stood outside his parents Berlin house yelling, ''Jews out! Jews out!'' while he sat, frozen in terror. He left Germany with a law degree, and went to France and Switzerland to earn a doctorate in law.
        Nahum Goldmann, a leading Zionist and a founder of the World Jewish Congress, met him on a trip to Switzerland and hired him to serve as director of the organization's Geneva office.
        Switzerland became an excellent vantage point from which to report on the gathering persecution of Jews. In case of a German attack, he had a ''rucksack filled with basics ready to flee to the mountains,'' a false Bolivian passport and an emergency visa for the United States.
        He had gained the confidence of the American consul in Geneva, who permitted him to send messages to the United States using State Department cable facilities. This allowed him to communicate in secure fashion with Rabbi Stephen S. Wise, head of the American Jewish Congress.
        Mr. Schulte first told an acquaintance in Zurich about the Nazi extermination plan; he in turn told Benjamin Sagalowitz, press secretary of the Swiss Federation of Jewish Communities. On Aug. 1, Mr. Sagalowitz phoned Mr. Riegner.
        Mr. Riegner spent a week investigating the report and those who had passed it on, as well as mulling over its significance. He knew of many atrocities that were already occurring, but, he said, ''In spite of all this knowledge, it took me about 48 hours to convince myself that this information about a plan for total annihilation was to be taken seriously.''
        On Aug. 8, he went to the American consul and was received by Howard Elting, a vice consul. Mr. Riegner asked Mr. Elting to inform the State Department and pass on a copy to Rabbi Wise.
        Mr. Elting sent the message to the embassy in Bern, attaching a memorandum saying Mr. Riegner appeared to be in a state of ''great agitation,'' but vouching for his credibility. The ambassador in Bern passed it on, despite his own doubts.
        On the same day, Mr. Riegner went to the British Consulate, and asked that his message be passed on to Samuel Sidney Silverman, a member of Parliament and the British section chief of the World Jewish Congress. Mr. Silverman, as requested, passed it on to Rabbi Wise.
        At first, no government official in Washington or London believed the news. The State Department and British Foreign Office considered it unsubstantiated.
        The State Department never relayed the message to Rabbi Wise, but Mr. Silverman did. The rabbi approached the State Department and was asked to keep it private until it could be confirmed.
        Mr. Riegner continued to gather information, including proof that 6,000 people a day were being executed at the Treblinka death camp. When all this material reached Washington -- as well as considerable evidence from other sources --  Sumner Welles asked Rabbi Wise to come to the State Department on Nov. 24.
        ''I hold in my hands,'' Mr. Welles said, ''documents which have come to me from our legation in Bern. I regret to tell you, Dr. Wise, that these confirm and justify your deepest fears.'' Mr. Welles authorized the rabbi to release the news. On Dec. 12, the Allied governments condemned Hitler's scheme.
        Mr. Riegner was secretary general of the World Jewish Congress from 1965 to 1983 and then became its honorary vice president. He campaigned to rescind a resolution by the United Nations General Assembly equating Zionism with racism. The resolution was annulled in 1991.
        He was also a leader in promoting Christian and Jewish relations. Mr. Riegner never married.
        The original copy of his cable, which begins with the words ''Received alarming report,'' is in the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington.
      