
        George T. Scharffenberger, a builder and dismantler of one of the most prominent business conglomerates, died on Nov. 10 at his home in Rolling Hills, Calif., of lung cancer. He was 82.
        Mr. Scharffenberger joined City Investing Company in 1966 when it was a real estate holding company. He succeeded Robert W. Dowling, Jr., son of the company's founder, and was wooed away from Litton Industries, where he had been considered a rising star.
        As chairman and chief executive of City Investing, he bought companies in the insurance, manufacturing, printing, housing, motel and food service industries. Well-known companies that City Investing owned wholly or in part included the Motel 6 chain, Rheem Manufacturing and the Sambo's restaurant chain.
        For Mr. Scharffenberger, the logic of building diversified corporations was clear. In an essay in The New York Times in 1970, he attributed their rise to the evolution of truly global markets and a belief that diversification helped companies to manage risk. ''The conglomerate movement has put a spotlight on the performance of management, to the great benefit of the millions of Americans who own stock,'' he wrote.
        Still, he wrote, ''Perhaps the day of the sprawling conglomerate, one which is involved in 10 to 20 markets and which grew by means of multitudinous acquisitions, has come to an end.'' He blamed government, accountants and Wall Street for making acquisitions ''less and less fruitful.'' In any case, he wrote, ''Conglomerates -- in business, in government and throughout society -- are here to stay.''
        But not City Investing. By the mid-1980's, diffuse conglomerates were out of fashion as corporate raiders took them over and broke them up for the greater value of their parts. Mr. Scharffenberger decided to take that route voluntarily. Among other sales, City Investing spun off Rheem and two other companies to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company and Merrill Lynch Capital Markets in 1984. Shareholders ultimately received stock in the last remaining chunk, the Home Insurance Company. The liquidation produced $8 billion in value for shareholders, company officials said.
        Mr. Scharffenberger served on the board of trustees of the University of Southern California beginning in 1973, and was chairman from 1985 to 1990.
        ''When he joined the board, I said, 'Why would you want to do a thing like that?' '' recalled his wife of 53 years, the former Marion Agnes Nelson. ''He said, well, because they asked him.''
        He also served as a member of the Board of Regents of Georgetown University from 1969 to 1973, and on numerous corporate boards.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Scharffenberger is survived by six children, Ann Scharffenberger Allen of New York City, George Jr. of Chevy Chase, Md., John of Philo, Calif.,  Thomas of San Francisco, James of Rolling Hills, and Joan Scharffenberger Laarakkers of Ottersum, the Netherlands; a brother, William, of New York; and 10 grandchildren.
        Her husband's transition from the world of business to public service was gradual, Mrs. Scharffenberger said. ''No flags went up or shots went up or anything. It just seemed to happen.''
      