
        Edwin F. Russell, a former newspaper publisher who joined the Royal Navy to fight Germany before the United States entered World War II, died Saturday at his home in Hobe Sound, Fla.
        Mr. Russell, 87, was the chairman of The Patriot-News Company and the former publisher of The Harrisburg Patriot-News in Harrisburg, Pa. He was born in Elizabeth, N.J., and worked during the 1940's as the associate publisher of The Star-Ledger, a newspaper in Newark.
        Mr. Russell, whose father was a newspaper publisher, joined The Newark Ledger, one of the Star-Ledger's predecessor newspapers, in 1935. But before long, he was swept  up in the events of World War II.
        In 1940, he was among those sued by the German-American Bund Auxiliary Inc. for libel after the publication in The Newark Ledger of an article charging that the group was involved with the National-Socialist Party in Germany and operated training camps for Nazi sympathizers in this country. The lawsuit was dismissed after the plaintiffs failed to appear in court.
        A year later, Mr. Russell, who was a graduate of Princeton University, was summoned to active duty by the British government after he had previously enlisted in the Royal Navy Voluntary Reserve. He was among a small group of Americans who served with the Royal Navy prior to this country's entry into World War II, though he eventually joined the staff of Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower.
        In 1943, he married Lady Sarah Spencer-Churchill, a distant relative of Prime Minister Winston Churchill. Winston Spencer Churchill, a grandson of the prime minister, served as a page at the wedding.
        After World War II, Mr. Russell returned to the newspaper business and in 1947 purchased two newspapers in Harrisburg, The Patriot and The Evening News, for $2.5 million. He subsequently bought another area paper, The Harrisburg Telegraph. Eventually, the papers were combined into The Patriot News.
        Mr. Russell was also active in politics and served in 1952 as chairman of the Pennsylvania Citizens-for-Eisenhower committee, the year Mr. Eisenhower won the presidency.
        In the 1960's, Mr. Russell held several positions with Condé Nast Publications Inc., the publishing organization controlled by Samuel I. Newhouse. Among the positions Mr. Russell held was publisher of Vogue magazine.
        In 1966, Mr. Russell and his first wife, who died last year, were divorced. He subsequently married Iris Smith Van Ingen Paine. That marriage ended in divorce and his second wife is among his survivors.
        Mr. Russell is also survived by four children, Alexandra Churchill Birch of Camp Hill, Pa.; Consuelo Russell of New York City; Jacqueline Williams of New York City; and Serena Balfour of London, as well as 10 grandchildren.
        In October, Mr. Russell attended a ceremony at the Royal Navy College in Greenwich, England, for the dedication of a plaque honoring those Americans like him who had served in the Royal Navy during World War II. He was the only American who was healthy enough to attend the ceremony, his wife said.
        Correction:  December 27, 2001, Thursday  A picture on Tuesday with an obituary of Edwin F. Russell, a former newspaper publisher, was published in error. It showed Edwin Fortune Russell, a Bronxville, N.Y., lawyer who died in 1990. A correct picture appears above. (Fabian Bachrach)
        Correction:  December 27, 2001, Thursday  A picture on Tuesday with an obituary of Edwin F. Russell, a former newspaper publisher, was published in error. It showed Edwin Fortune Russell, a Bronxville, N.Y., lawyer who died in 1990. A correct picture appears today, on Page C12.
        Because of an editing error, the obituary omitted the name of Edwin F. Russell's third wife, who survives him. She is Cynthia Cary Russell.
      