
       Cleo Hartwig, a sculptor whose works featuring animals, birds and other natural subjects were inspired by her childhood in rural Michigan, died of cancer of the pancreas yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital. She was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Cleo Hartwig, a sculptor whose works featuring animals, birds and other natural subjects were inspired by her childhood in rural Michigan, died of cancer of the pancreas yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital. She was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Miss Hartwig's work is in the permanent collections of many American museums, including the National Academy of Design, the National Museum of American Art at the Smithsonian Institution and the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts.
        Miss Hartwig, a petite woman who wore her hair in a trademark ponytail, was a sculpture instructor at the Montclair Art Museum in Montclair, N.J., from 1945 to 1971 and had previously taught sculpture at Cooper Union. Her work was usually carved from wood or stone, and she was sculpturing until shortly before she died, said Renata Manasse Schwebel, a fellow sculptor and longtime friend.
        She was known among her colleagues as a woman who shunned the limelight herself but was a fervid supporter of other artists' careers.
        ''When you met her, you thought she was a very shy, little birdie of a person,'' Ms. Schwebel said. ''Underneath it, if you ever tried to change her mind, she was total stainless steel.''
        Miss Hartwig studied at Western Michigan University, the Art Institute of Chicago and the International School of Art in Manhattan.
        In 1951, she married Vincent Glinsky, a sculptor, who was a founding member of the Sculptors Guild in Manhattan. For many years they shared a studio on West 16th Street. Mr. Glinsky died in 1975.
        Miss Hartwig was a director of the National Sculpture Society, and the society's annual exhibition last year included two of her works: ''Owlet,'' a 1969 work in white Tennessee marble, and ''Guinea Fowl,'' a bronze executed in 1986.
        She is survived by a son, Albert Glinsky of Manhattan.
        The funeral will be private, and a memorial service is planned for a later date.
      