
       Giuseppe Saragat, President of Italy from 1964 to 1971 and an strong opponent of Facism and Communism, died of heart disease yesterday at his home in Rome. He was 89 years old.
        Giuseppe Saragat, President of Italy from 1964 to 1971 and an strong opponent of Facism and Communism, died of heart disease yesterday at his home in Rome. He was 89 years old.
        Mr. Saragat, though originally a Socialist, was a founder of Italy's Social Democratic Party, which attempted to bring leftists into a more centrist position by calling for staunch support of the Western democracies and promoting radical change in housing, medical care, education and taxation.
        In 1983, Mr. Saragat was voted president for life of his small party, which won 3 percent of the vote in national elections last year.
        Mr. Saragat, who was Italy's fifth postwar President, was one of the framers of the Constitution drafted for the republic after the war. In 1946, he was elected president of the Constituent Assembly, the provisional parliament that drafted the Constitution. Trained to Be a Bank Clerk
        Mr. Saragat was a native of Turin, The son of a lawyer, he trained to be a bank clerk but soon turned to politics. In 1922, the year Mussolini and the Fascists came to power, he joined the Socialist Party.
        Shortly after assuming a leadership post in the party Mr. Saragat went into exile in Austria and France when Socialsts were threatened by the Government. When he returned to Italy in 1943 to join the partisans he was imprisoned by the German occupation authorities.
        After the war, Mr. Saragat dedicated himself to luring the Socialist Party, then led by his friend Pietro Nenni, away from the Communists. In 1947 he founded the Socialist Party of Italian Workers, which later became the Italian Social Democratic Party.
        Mr. Saragat was one of the first Italian politicians to call for ''an opening to the left'' by making the Nenni Socialists partners in a center-left government. A Compromise President
        In the 1960's he was named Foreign Minister in the center-left, four-party coalition Government of Prime Minister Aldo Moro and Mr. Nenni was named Deputy Prime Minister.
        Mr. Saragat was elected President in 1964 as a compromise candidate after the leading parties in Parliament failed to agree on a candidate after 20 ballots.
        A student of literature, Mr. Saragat often puzzled working-class audiences by quoting St. Augustine, Proust or Joyce. He said he read at least four hours a day. A lover of art, he once said that he had visited every important museum in the world.
        Mr. Saragat is survived by a daughter, Ernestina Santacatterina, and a son, Giovanni. Services were scheduled for Monday.
      