
       Joseph Bostic, a former newspaperman, broadcaster and promoter who fought against racism in the sports world, died of a heart attack Sunday at Southampton (L.I.) Hospital. He was 79 years old.
        Joseph Bostic, a former newspaperman, broadcaster and promoter who fought against racism in the sports world, died of a heart attack Sunday at Southampton (L.I.) Hospital. He was 79 years old.
        Jackie Robinson broke baseball's color barrier in 1947 when he was signed to a Brooklyn Dodger contract by Branch Rickey. Two years earlier, Mr. Bostic escorted two players from the Negro leagues to the Dodger spring training camp at Bear Mountain and demanded tryouts for them. At the time, Mr. Bostic was an announcer for Negro league games and the sports editor of People's Voice, a weekly newspaper read widely in black communities.
        Rickey was reportedly surprised and highly distressed, but allowed the tryouts to take place under the supervision of Manager Leo Durocher. Neither player received a contract with the organization. First Black in Writers' Groups
        As a newspaperman, Mr. Bostic, who was also the sports editor of The Amsterdam News, was the first black admitted to the Boxing Writers and Track Writers associations. After his graduation in 1932 from Morgan College (now Morgan State University), he became the first black announcer at WCBM in Baltimore.
        Later, he was a popular disk jockey in New York on WLIB, where he conducted the ''Gospel Train'' program for many years.
        In 1947, he became the first black to be licensed as a ringside announcer at Queensboro Arena, Ridgewood Grove and Sunnyside Gardens. And in 1972 he became the main ringside boxing announcer at Madison Square Garden.
        He was an employee of a theatrical publicity agency in the 1930's and 1940's, and promoted shows at Madison Square Garden and Carnegie Hall.
        Mr. Bostic, a longtime resident of Brooklyn who had recently moved to Sag Harbor, L.I., is survived by his wife, Dorothy; two sons, Lee of Jamaica, Queens, and Joseph Jr. of Hollis, Queens; a daughter, Debra Nelson; seven grandchildren, and one great-grandchild. A funeral service will be held at 9:30 A.M. tomorrow at the Bridge Street A.M.E. Church in Brooklyn.
      