
       Cyril Issac Magnin, a former department store tycoon whose dedication to promoting this city and its performing arts earned him the title of ''Mr. San Francisco,'' died of cardiac failure here today after five weeks of hospitalization at the University of California Hospital. He was 88 years old and lived here.
        Cyril Issac Magnin, a former department store tycoon whose dedication to promoting this city and its performing arts earned him the title of ''Mr. San Francisco,'' died of cardiac failure here today after five weeks of hospitalization at the University of California Hospital. He was 88 years old and lived here.
        Mayor Art Agnos ordered the city's flags to fly at half staff in honor of Mr. Magnin's long service to the city, including 22 years as Chief of Protocol, a volunteer position which he left in 1986. ''Cyril Magnin was a tower of civility whose spirit and grace personified San Francisco,'' Mr. Agnos said today.
        While he had guided the management of a chain of department stores named for his father, Joseph Magnin, for 35 years, Mr. Magnin also became one of the city's most beloved citizens through decades of civic volunteer work, fundraising and philanthropy. He was known particularly for his efforts to promote all the performing arts, ranging from the San Francisco Opera to the American Conservatory Theater to the long-running zany stage show known as Beach Blanket Babylon in which Mr. Magnin sometimes performed as a tap dancer. 'Dedicated to His Community'
        ''He wasn't an elitist when it came to entertainment, that's for sure, '' said his son, Donald I. Magnin. ''He was a man totally dedicated to his community.''
        Mr. Magnin was born here July 6, 1899. He was a graduate of Lowell High School and the University of California at Berkeley and attended its law school, leaving to join his father in managing the chain of department stores that his father had been founded in 1907.
        His grandmother, Maryann Magnin, was the founder of I. Magnin department stores, which she named after her husband, Issac.
        Mr. Magnin served as President of Joseph Magnin beginning in 1940 and assumed the positions of chairman of the board and chief executive officer upon his father's retirement in 1952. He retired in 1975.
        His many volunteer efforts in the community over the years included serving as the director of the San Francisco Film Festival, head of the California Museums Foundation, two terms as the head of the National Conference of Christians and Jews and president of the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce.
        Mr. Magnin's wife, Anna Smithline, died in 1948. He is survived by his sons Donald, 61, and Jerry Magnin, 49; a daughter, Ellen Magnin Newman, 60, and 10 grandchildren.
        Funeral services will be held at 11:00 A.M. on June 10 at Temple Emanu-El. The family asks that donations be made to the San Francisco Opera.
      