
       Russell DeYoung, 79 years old, former chairman of the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, died Tuesday at his home in Naples, Fla. The apparent cause of death was heart failure.
        Russell DeYoung, 79 years old, former chairman of the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, died Tuesday at his home in Naples, Fla. The apparent cause of death was heart failure.
        Mr. DeYoung, who served as chairman and chief executive of Goodyear from 1964 to 1973, joined the company, based in Akron, Ohio, after his graduation from high school in 1927. He later graduated from college in a company work-study program.
        When he was 24 years old, he was sent to Java to supervise construction of a new plant. In the 1940's he served as vice president of the Goodyear Aircraft Corporation, presiding over the growth of the unit into one of the nation's 10 largest wartime producers of airplanes.
        After the war, he was appointed to the parent company and in 1956 was named executive vice president of Goodyear. He was elected president of the company two years later.
        He was instrumental in the development of the steel-studded snow tire in 1964.
        In 1973, Mr. DeYoung, on behalf of Goodyear, pleaded guilty, along with the officers of several other companies, to making illegal contributions to the 1972 re-election campaign of President Nixon. He was fined $1,000.
        After his retirement as chief executive officer in 1973, Mr. DeYoung continued to serve as director and chairman of the board's executive and finance committee until April 1979.
        Mr. DeYoung, who was born in Rutherford, N.J., was graduated from the University of Akron with a degree in industrial engineering and received a master's degree in business administration from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
        He was an advocate of physical fitness and in his tenure as chief executive he stayed in shape by playing handball and swimming a quarter of mile daily in his indoor pool.
        He is survived by his wife, Lois Eleanor DeYoung, of Naples; two sons, Bruce, of Akron, and Ralph, of Kennett Square, Pa., and a daughter, Janet Mungo, of Akron.
      