
       Paul R. Reynolds, a literary agent whose career spanned more than half a century, died yesterday in Waterbury (Conn.) Hospital. He was 83 years old and lived in Southbury, Conn.
        Paul R. Reynolds, a literary agent whose career spanned more than half a century, died yesterday in Waterbury (Conn.) Hospital. He was 83 years old and lived in Southbury, Conn.
        Among the clients Mr. Reynolds represented, in a career that ran from 1926 to 1978, were Conrad Richter, Alex Haley, Morris West, Richard Wright, Mary Martin, William Shirer, Irving Wallace, Howard Fast, Malcolm X and the estate of Henry and William James.
        Mr. Reynolds, whose full name was Paul Revere Reynolds, was related to Paul Revere, the American Revolutionary leader. He was born in New York City and raised in Scarsdale, N.Y., but he exhibited traits that are sometimes associated with New Englanders.
        ''We used to call him 'the late George Apley,''' said John Toland, the author, referring to the proper Brahmin character in John P. Marquantcd's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel. ''He was very New England. He always talked in a slow manner, and I used to say that every time he said 'hmmmm' during negotiations, the price went up $5,000. He was knowledgeable about the business, and a fine negotiator.'' 'Tough but Fair'
        Ken McCormack, who was editor in chief of Doubleday for 30 years, said yesterday of Mr. Reynolds: ''He was an old-time literary agent - tough but fair. And unlike agents who never read the books they represent, he read them all.''
        Mr. McCormack added that Mr. Reynolds encouraged his authors to dedicate books to him, and he proudly displayed them in the library of his longtime home in Chappaqua, N.Y.
        That home, in Westchester County, was frequented by editors, publishers and authors, including one noted author from Vienna whom Mr. Reynolds took on a marathon hike through the surrounding woods one fall evening. ''Isn't this more beautiful than the Black Forest?'' he kept asking, as he rhapsodized about the changing leaves. ''The author kept nodding agreement,'' said Jane Swain, one of Mr. Reynolds's daughters, ''but he didn't want to tell Daddy he was colorblind.''
        In 1893, Mr. Reynolds's Boston-born father, who bore the same name, founded the Paul R. Reynolds literary agency, which is widely believed to have been the first literary agency in the United States. Through the years it represented Stephen Crane, George Bernard Shaw, Joseph Conrad, Stephen Leacock and others. 'A Vague Notion'
        When the younger Mr. Reynolds graduated from Williams College in 1926, his father, then 63, asked him to join the business. ''I had only the vaguest notion of what his business was like,'' the son recalled, ''for my father had never talked about his work nor had he ever entertained authors or editors in his home.'' But the younger Mr. Reynolds quickly became one of the leading agents in the field.
        Mr. Reynolds was a founder and longtime president of the Society of Author's Representatives, the country's oldest organization of literary agents. A longtime advocate of standards of professional and ethical conduct, he wrote in 1966 that ''A number of the people listed as agents are not really agents, but predatory sharks.''
        He was himself the author of five books: ''The Middle Man: Adventures of a Literary Agent,'' ''The Writing and Selling of Nonfiction,'' ''The Writing and Selling of Fiction,'' ''The Writer and His Markets'' and ''Guy Cartleton,'' a biography of Quebec's first Governor.
        Mr. Reynolds is survived by his wife, Ruth, of Southbury, and by three daughters.: Jane Swain of Los Olivos, Calif., Robin Reynolds of New York City and Rebecca Wells of Duxbury, Mass.
        A memorial service will be held on Monday at 2 P.M. at the United Church of Christ in Southbury.
      