
       Bramwell Fletcher, a veteran stage, screen and television performer best known as an actor in plays by George Bernard Shaw and for a one-man show about the Irish playwright, died on Wednesday at the Maplewood Nursing Home in Westmoreland, N.H. He was 84 years old and lived in Keene, N.H.
        Bramwell Fletcher, a veteran stage, screen and television performer best known as an actor in plays by George Bernard Shaw and for a one-man show about the Irish playwright, died on Wednesday at the Maplewood Nursing Home in Westmoreland, N.H. He was 84 years old and lived in Keene, N.H.
        Mr. Fletcher was born in Yorkshire, England, but grew up in London. His family's straitened financial circumstances forced him to go to work as an office boy for an insurance company at the age of 15. He was offered his first theatrical contract by the Shakespeare Company in Stratford-on-Avon, but his career in England also included film work; he was a juvenile star in silent pictures and appeared in both the last silent film and the first talking picture produced in Britain.
        Mr. Fletcher then sailed for the United States with Laurence Olivier, who became a lifelong friend. Mr. Fletcher made his home in the United States for the rest of his life.
        In Hollywood, which he said he disliked, Mr. Fletcher appeared in such movies as ''The Mummy'' and ''Svengali,'' with John Barrymore. But when Sam Goldwyn refused to release him to play opposite Greta Garbo in a film, Mr. Fletcher abandoned both his contract and Hollywood and headed for New York to return to the stage. Many Leading Roles
        He specialized in Shaw, his favorite playwright, but over the years appeared also in plays by Shakespeare, Ibsen, Chekhov, O'Casey and many others. Mr. Fletcher had leading roles opposite such actresses as Lillian Gish, Helen Hayes, Katharine Cornell, Laurette Taylor, Tallulah Bankhead, Cornelia Otis Skinner and Julie Andrews.
        One of his long-running engagements was as the standby for Rex Harrison and then for Edward Mulhare, as Prof. Henry Higgins in ''My Fair Lady.'' During the hundreds of performances in which Mr. Fletcher stood by but did not go on, he concentrated on his lifelong passion for art, developing a second career as a portrait painter; he maintained a studio near the theater from which he contended that he could reach the stage in 20 seconds, if necessary.
        During that time, Mr. Fletcher also composed his own one-man production, ''The Bernard Shaw Story,'' about his favorite playwright. ''My real education began when I met Bernard Shaw,'' Mr. Fletcher once said. ''The Bernard Shaw Story'' opened in Dublin, where Shaw was born, to critical acclaim. A theatrical portrait of Shaw compiled from anecdotes and from his essays on everything from drama criticism to baseball to sex, it became a durable vehicle for Mr. Fletcher, who toured extensively with the show during the 1960's and 70's. He was frequently seen on television as well. Four Marriages
        Mr. Fletcher was married four times; his first wife was the actress Helen Chandler; his second, Diana Barrymore, the daughter of John. Mr. Fletcher and his third wife, Susan Robinson, had three children before the marriage ended in divorce. In 1970 Mr. Fletcher collaborated with Lael Wertenbaker in an educational project for the National Endowment for the Humanities, a collaboration that led to marriage. Of their life together in Nelson, N.H., Mr. Fletcher said: ''If you have a ship that has been through all the storms and it comes into port, you drop the sail. You work, of course, to keep the ship in order, but you battle no more big storms. It's astonishing; it's wonderful.''
        In 1985 Mr. Fletcher and his wife moved from Nelson to Keene. After an accident that left him with a crushed leg, and later a stroke and increasing blindness, he became too ill for home care and moved to the Maplewood Nursing Home.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Fletcher is survived by a daughter, Catherine Fletcher Morra of Phillipsburg, N.J.; two sons, Kent, of Durham, N.H., and Whitney, of Keene; two grandchildren, and three sisters who live in England.
      