
       Richard P. Conlon, executive director of the Democratic Study Group in the House of Representatives, one of the most influential staff members in Congress, died Sunday in a boating accident on the Chesapeake Bay.
        Richard P. Conlon, executive director of the Democratic Study Group in the House of Representatives, one of the most influential staff members in Congress, died Sunday in a boating accident on the Chesapeake Bay.
        Mr. Conlon, who was 57 years old, was sailing a friend's boat with his wife, Marti, when he was knocked overboard by the boom. He disappeared, and his body was found Tuesday by the Maryland state police.
        A week ago Mr. Conlon was the guest of honor at a party attended by several hundred members of Congress and their aides, marking his 20th anniversary as director of the Democratic Study Group. The group, which describes itself as a service and coordinating organization for House Democrats, is an authoritative source of legislative research and political strategy.
        Of the 262 House Democrats, 236 are members of the group, which has a moderate-to-liberal orientation; 17 more Democrats and 21 House Republicans pay the $2,500 annual dues in order to receive the group's reports on issues and legislation. 'The Heart and Soul'
        Informing their colleagues of Mr. Conlon's death, Representative Mike Lowry of Washington, the current chairman of the study group, and four former chairmen said in a statement: ''For 20 years, Dick Conlon was the heart and soul of virtually every progressive effort in the Congress to strengthen the House of Representatives as an institution and to promote justice and equity in our public policies.''
        Representative Tony Coelho of California, the majority whip, said in an interview today, ''Dick was one of the people who made this place work.'' Mr. Coelho said that Mr. Conlon enjoyed such credibility with so many House members that virtually no major legislation could pass without his personal support. If Mr. Conlon opposed a leadership initiative, Mr. Coelho said, the leadership would often have to decide whether to modify its position or work through other House members to try to persuade Mr. Conlon to see the matter in a new light.
        Mr. Conlon, a liberal who was a longtime admirer of Hubert H. Humphrey, worked actively for civil rights legislation and was an opponent of both the war in Vietnam and military assistance to the Nicaraguan rebels. His personal specialties were campaign finance and House procedure. Representative Lowry, in a 20th anniversary tribute to Mr. Conlon in the Congressional Record, credited him with a key role in bringing about changes in the 1970's that diminished secrecy and weakened the hold of the seniority system in the House. Took Reagan to Court
        Mr. Conlon, a slim, gray-bearded man who projected energy and enthusiasm, was also a strong defender of the institutional prerogatives of Congress. Last year, after President Reagan ordered the beginning of naval maneuvers in the Persian Gulf, Mr. Conlon was instrumental in organizing 110 House members to bring a lawsuit to force him to comply with the terms of the War Powers Resolution. The lawsuit was dismissed in Federal District Court here and is now on appeal.
        Mr. Conlon was born Nov. 16, 1930 in Dubuque, Iowa. He graduated from the University of Minnesota and began a career as a journalist, first for The Duluth Herald & News Tribune and then for The Minneapolis Tribune. He came to Washington in 1963 on a Congressional fellowship sponsored by the American Political Science Association, under which he spent a year working in both the House and Senate. ''The program changed my life,'' he said in an interview several years ago. ''Like most reporters, I had an itch to get in and straighten things out.''
        He remained on Capitol Hill, working for three years as a press assistant to Walter Mondale, then a Senator from Minnesota. In 1968, he began his tenure as executive director of the Democratic Study Group.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Conlon is survived by two sons, Charles and Michael; a daughter, Kellie J. Paris, and two grandchildren.
        RICHARD CONLON DIES IN ACCIDENT
      