
       Raj Kapoor, India's most successful and dynamic film personality, died today. The actor and director, who won a vast following here and abroad with his skillful portrayals of simple folk, was 64 years old.
        Raj Kapoor, India's most successful and dynamic film personality, died today. The actor and director, who won a vast following here and abroad with his skillful portrayals of simple folk, was 64 years old.
        Hundreds of sobbing fans surrounded the hospital where he died, and the police had to keep them from sweeping into the building. Doctors said he died of complications from an asthma attack last month.
        Mr. Kapoor was best known for roles patterned on Charlie Chaplin's lovable but sad tramp, a little man seeking justice in an unjust world. It was a role he played in a series of movies that he produced and directed in the 1950's and 60's as the Indian movie industry grew into one of the world's largest.
        Mr. Kapoor's screen character drew a tremendous response from Indian audiences and fans abroad, especially in the Soviet Union and the Middle East, where Indian films are popular. An Indian film critic who visited the Soviet Union in 1985 said the Russians had ''three Indian heroes: Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi and Raj Kapoor, although not necessarily in that order - probably the reverse.'' The Typical Plot
        In his early films, Mr. Kapoor was often a village bumpkin or a poor young man who went to the city in search of fortune, survived a series of bad knocks that made him a little less optimistic about life, falling occasionally into bad company but being saved by the love of an attractive woman, occasionally an heiress.
        In one such movie, ''Awara,'' the tramp's moral was that society and environment play a greater role in shaping an individual's life than heredity does. The songs from that film are still popular, and film journalists and critics say a new and younger generation of Indians is discovering the magic of his old movies on video cassettes.
        Most of his earlier movies were runaway hits because their themes appealed to millions of his countrymen and because their haunting songs spoke of love, pain, sorrow and desire. Mr. Kapoor introduced an element of sensuality to the Indian cinema without resorting to graphic sex scenes, which are banned in Indian movies. In many films he appeared opposite Nargis Dutt, an actress with whom he was romantically involved for several years. Father Was Also a Star
        In his later movies, especially in the 1970's and 80's, Mr. Kapoor showed female nudity, which brought struggles with the censors. Although the women in his films were shown as sexually progressive, they also kept such traditional virtues as fidelity, purity and conformity.
        Mr. Kapoor began his film career as an assistant to his father, Prithviraj Kapoor, who first appeared with British theater groups staging plays by Shakespeare then left the stage to join the Indian film industry, becoming one of its most successful stars in the 1930's and 40's.
        Raj Kapoor's last appearance in a film of his own was in ''My Name Is Joker'' (1970), which was a box-office flop. But the three movies he subsequently directed were hits, including one last year in which the heroine wears a see-through dress as she is drenched by a waterfall.
        Mr. Kapoor's younger brother, the actor Shashi Kapoor, has been in several Hollywood films, most recently opposite Greta Sacchi in ''Heat and Dust,'' which is still to be released.
        Raj Kapoor is also survived by his wife, three sons who are prominent film actors and two daughters.
      