
       Henry A. Murray, a psychologist and educator who was a pioneer in the development of personality theory, died of pneumonia yesterday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 95 years old.
        Henry A. Murray, a psychologist and educator who was a pioneer in the development of personality theory, died of pneumonia yesterday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 95 years old.
        Dr. Murray, who taught at Harvard University for almost 40 years until his retirement in 1962 was, among other things, one of the early American-born psychoanalists, a selector of agents for the Office of Strategic Services in World War II, a scholar and a leading authority on the life and works of Herman Melville.
        ''He was undoubtedly one of the outstanding psychologists of his time,'' Dr. Robert Holt, professor of psychology at New York University and a student of Dr. Murray more than 40 years ago, said yesterday. ''He was one of a small number of leading theorists in the study of personality, and his work was known worldwide to psychologists and psychiatrists. His contributions influenced several generations of professors and clinical practitioners.'' Co-Inventor of Test
        Dr. Murray was perhaps best known as a co-inventor of the Thematic Apperception Test, or TAT, a widely used tool in psychiatric diagnosis and in academic research.
        When the late Dr. Morton Prince founded the Harvard Psychological Clinic in 1926 as the first institution of its kind, specializing in the treatment of psychoneurosis as well as in research, he asked Dr. Murray to help set it up. Two years later Dr. Murray became its director, a post he held until 1937.
        Henry Alexander Murray was born to a wealthy family in a townhouse on the site of what is now Rockefeller Center. In an autobiographical essay many years later he recalled that he was not a very good student, even something of a playboy. At Harvard, which he attended after graduating from Groton, he studied history, attended one lecture in psychology and walked out when he found the subject boring.
        Nevertheless, he earned a Phi Beta Kappa key and embarked on an eclectic postgraduate career. He received his medical degree from Columbia University in 1919 and a year later took a Master of Arts, moving on to Cambridge in England for a Ph.D.
        His medical career embraced several disciplines: he was a physician, a surgeon, a biochemical researcher, an embryologist and an anatomist before settling on psychology as the field he would devote most of his energies to for the rest of his life. Joins Harvard Faculty
        In the 1920's and 1930's, when psychoanalysis was not widely accepted in this country, he was one of a small group who fought detractors to establish it as a worthwhile branch of science. He had been drawn into psychoanalysis while doing research in biochemistry at the Rockefeller Institute in New York before he joined the Harvard faculty in 1926.
        Carl Jung of Switzerland, who was pre-eminent in the field, analyzed Dr. Murray and profoundly influenced him. He later underwent analysis with the Hungarian-born Franz Alexander and was one of the first Americans to practice psychoanalysis. He was a founder of the Boston Psychoanalytic Society.
        As time went on he became enmeshed in the study of personality; the sum of an individual's emotional trends, interests, behavioral tendencies and other characteristics, particularly as they pertain to his relationships with others.
        In a series of articles, essays and monographs he defined many outlines of personality theory. His most widely known work, ''Explorations in Personality,'' was completed in 1938.
        ''Not since William James has there been an American psychologist so versatile, nor has anyone else written with equal verve and boldness,'' Jopseph Adelson, professor of psychology at the University of Michigan, wrote in a 1981 appraisal of his work.
        Dr. Murray was a wordsmith of some accomplishment and was fond of creating new words. He first used the word ''personology'' to describe the study of personality and ''nurturance'' to sum up the process of nurturing in human relations. Passion for Melville
        From his youth he developed a passion for the literary work of Herman Melville and he became a student of the author's life. In 1925 Dr. Murray gave Sigmund Freud a copy of ''Moby Dick'' and reported that the father of psychoanysis promptly proclaimed that ''the whale was a father figure.''
        After his retirement in 1962 he continued to travel and lecture in this country and abroad, and he intensified his study of Melville. At his death he was preparing a book tentatively titled ''A Melville Mosaic: Morsels from the Unpublished Biography.''
        In 1943 Dr. Murray was recruited by the Office of Strategic Services, forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency, to apply his knowledge of psychology in selecting undercover agents. He was given a commission in the Army's Medical Corps in 1933, achieving the rank of lieutenant colonel and being decorated with the Legion of Merit.
        He returned to Harvard after the war as a lecturer, and in 1948, when he was 55 years old and world-famous, he was granted tenure at the university. He became a full professor in 1950. Dr. Murray is survived by his second wife, Dr. Caroline (Nina) Murray; a daughter by his previous marriage, Josephine Lee Murray of Topsfield, Mass.; four stepdaughters, Caroline Janover of Ridgewood, N.J., Ann MacLaughlin of Medfield, Mass; Maude Fish of Belmont, Mass. and Quita Palmer of Fairfield, Iowa; a stepson, Alexander Davis of Berlin, Mass., and 10 stepgrandchildren.
        HENRY A. MURRAY IS DEAD AT 95
      