
       Dr. John Adriani, an anesthesiologist who created a controversy two decades ago as an early advocate of requiring prescription drugs to be sold under generic names instead of brand names, died of diverticulitis on Tuesday at Southern Baptist Hospital in New Orleans. He was 80 years old and lived in New
        Dr. John Adriani, an anesthesiologist who created a controversy two decades ago as an early advocate of requiring prescription drugs to be sold under generic names instead of brand names, died of diverticulitis on Tuesday at Southern Baptist Hospital in New Orleans. He was 80 years old and lived in New Orleans.
        Dr. Adriani became a national figure for a brief period in 1969 when he was offered the job of director of the Bureau of Medicine in the United States Food and Drug Administration, only to have the appointment withdrawn under pressure from the pharmaceutical industry.
        At a Congressinal hearing a few months before his name was put forward, Dr. Adriani strongly urged that all drugs be sold under generic designations to reduce the cost to consumers.
        ''Brand names of drugs are aliases,'' he said. ''An alias is meant to be deceptive or to conceal identity.''
        He argued that brand names created confusion in the marketplace and that substituting the common chemical names for drugs would benefit the public.
        At the time Dr. Adriani was associate director of Charity Hospital in New Orleans and a professor at Tulane and Louisiana State Universities, where he taught surgery, oral surgery and pharmacology as well as anesthesiology.
        A native of Bridgeport, Conn., he was a graduate of Columbia College and of Columbia's College of Physicians and Surgeons. He practiced in several disciplines and was for several years director of the Council on Drugs of the American Medical Association.
        Dr. Adriani is survived by his wife, Irene Miller Adriani; a son, John, of New Orleans; three brothers, Frank, Philip and Joseph, all of Bridgeport; four sisters, Helen and Nancy Adriani and Florence Maier, all of of Bridgeport, and Mary Czufin of Corte Madera, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      