
       Edgar W. B. Fairchild, chief executive of his family's publishing company until his retirement in 1970, died of complications from pneumonia Saturday at New York Hospital. He was 82 years old and had been ill for some time.
        Edgar W. B. Fairchild, chief executive of his family's publishing company until his retirement in 1970, died of complications from pneumonia Saturday at New York Hospital. He was 82 years old and had been ill for some time.
        Mr. Fairchild worked for Fairchild Publications, the company founded by his father and uncle, for 47 years, beginning in the advertising and circulation departments and rising to become chairman of the board and chief financial and operating officer in 1966.
        The company, which was bought by Capitol Cities/ABC in 1968, publishes more than 25 trade and special-interest publications, including Women's Wear Daily, W and M magazines and Electronic Age.
        In recent years, Mr. Fairchild, who lived in Center Moriches, L.I., and had an apartment in New York, was a director of Capital Cities Broadcasting, now Capital Cities/ABC. Supported Colgate University
        He was also active in charity work and was a supporter of Colgate University in Hamilton, N.Y., believing strongly in the importance of education though he never went to college. In 1973, Mr. Fairchild founded the Fairfield Chair of Literature at Colgate, and in 1983, he received an honorary degree in letters there.
        He was also a founder of the Naval War College Foundation, a group that studies and serves as an advisory board to the United States Navy.
        Edgar William Boyd Fairchild was born in Chicago in 1905, the son of Louis E. Fairchild, who founded Fairchild Publications with his brother, Edmund, in Chicago in 1881. The company later moved to New York.
        Mr. Fairchild's first job, at the age of 16, was as a pressman at Doubleday, Page & Company, which later published Bantam, Doubleday and Dell Books. He was a paymaster when he left to work at his family's company.
        It was 1923, when he was 18, that Mr. Fairchild joined Fairchild Publications. As the company grew over the years, adding a number of publications, Mr. Fairchild held various executive positions, including vice president and president, before becoming the company's top official in 1968.
        Mr. Fairchild is survived by his wife, Lois; his son, Robert F., of Manhattan, and four granddaughters.
      