
        Fred Taylor, the Hall of Fame basketball coach at Ohio State whose teams won the N.C.A.A. championship in 1960 and reached the title game the following two seasons, died Sunday at a nursing home in Hilliard, Ohio. He was 77.
        He had been in failing health since a brain aneurysm in 1996 and a heart attack the next year.
        Ohio State reached the first National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament final, losing to Oregon in 1939, but its athletic program became known mostly for football and Coach Woody Hayes.
        The Buckeyes emerged as a basketball power under Taylor, whose teams of the early 1960's featured Jerry Lucas and John Havlicek and three other future pros, Larry Siegfried, Mel Nowell and Joe Roberts. Taylor also had a substitute named Bob Knight.
        Taylor's Buckeyes routed the defending champion, California, 75-55, in the 1960 N.C.A.A. final for Ohio State's only national basketball title. The Buckeyes had a 32-game winning streak snapped in the 1961 championship game, when they were beaten by Cincinnati, 70-65, in overtime, then lost to the Bearcats in the 1962 championship game. Ohio State was ranked No. 1 in 1961 and 1962, with Taylor named coach of the year both times. Taylor's teams had a combined record of 78-6 in their three premier seasons.
        Taylor's squads won or shared seven Big Ten championships, and he had a record of 297-158 through 18 seasons at Ohio State. He was elected to the National Basketball Hall of Fame in Springfield, Mass., in 1986.
        A native of Zanesville, Ohio, the 6-foot-4 Taylor played on the Ohio State team that won the Big Ten championship in 1950, and he was also a baseball all-American. He played first base briefly for the Washington Senators from 1951 to 1953, then became the head basketball coach at Ohio State in 1958.
        Taylor was an adept recruiter and stressed smart team play.
        ''My team is an extension of his team,'' Knight, the longtime Indiana coach now at Texas Tech, said Sunday.
        Knight added that Taylor's teams were ''always a working model for me -- they played good defense, they ran the fast break when they had it and they were well disciplined.''
        Taylor once recalled how his 1959-60 Buckeyes, No. 1 on offense nationally, ''weren't very sound defensively at the start of the season.'' But, he said, ''as they progressed, they could play pretty thorny defense.''
        Taylor became disenchanted with coaching after a brawl in a January 1972 game at Minnesota, which left three Ohio State players hospitalized. One of them, center Luke Witte, was knocked to the floor and stomped by two Gophers players. Those Minnesota players were suspended for the rest of the season, but Taylor felt that the Ohio State administration should have pushed for more aggressive disciplinary action.
        ''I still kick myself for not quitting then because that's what I felt I should do when nobody really even acted as though they cared,'' Taylor said later.
        He resigned after his team finished 6-20 in the 1975-76 season.
        Taylor is survived by his wife, Eileen; four daughters, Nikki Kelley, Sharla Peponis, Janna Roewer and Krista Zimmerman; and 12 grandchildren.
        In November 1998, Ohio State dedicated Fred Taylor Drive outside its new arena, the Schottenstein Center.
        At the ceremony, Knight remarked how Taylor ''has been responsible for the basketball we see played in the Big Ten today -- and a lot elsewhere in the country.''
        Andy Geiger, the athletic director, said at that ceremony that Taylor's players ''have always conducted themselves as gentlemen on and off the court.''
        Afterward, the controversial Knight said: ''I kind of take exception to that. He didn't turn out a real gentleman in me.''
      