
        Bruce Bliven Jr., a prolific writer of popular books and magazine articles on subjects as diverse as military campaigns and the history of the typewriter, died on Jan. 2 at his home in Manhattan. He was 85.
        Mr. Bliven, who wrote for The New Yorker for many years, put the story in what he considered the proper perspective, even if it meant biting the hand that fed him. For example, his typewriter history, ''The Wonderful Writing Machine'' (Random House, 1954), was subsidized by the Royal Typewriter Company, which agreed to buy a sizable number of copies without imposing any editorial control.
        Mr. Bliven proceeded to give far more space to Remington Rand, the first typewriter maker in the United States.
        ''I think Royal was a little mad,'' he said in an interview with The New York Times in 1982.
        Mr. Bliven received good reviews for many of his books and was known for his fresh, often unexpected approach. The typewriter book began with a chapter on secretaries, the main users of typewriters.
        ''What secretaries like best are good typewriters,'' the chapter ends. ''Their preference is law.''
        His ''Battle for Manhattan'' (Holt, 1956) about Washington's fight with the Redcoats, drew praise for using present-day names for locations to put historic events in perspective, a technique he called ''terrain appreciation.'' Who knew that the area just below 34th Street between Lexington and Park was known as Sunfish Pond in Revolutionary times?
        ''The fact that so much of the terrain is blanketed by buildings, asphalt and macadam,'' Mr. Bliven said in the book, ''is surprisingly unimportant; if anything, it adds to the fun of seeing that the ground goes much as it did 180 years ago.''
        Bruce Bliven Jr. was born on Jan. 31, 1916, in Los Angeles but moved to New York when he was 17 months old. He later said, ''Fifty-four years later, I began to write New York history to find out where I was.''
        He wrote three books about the city's history and one about the whole state, ''including Buffalo,'' as he said in a remark published in ''Contemporary Authors.''
        His father, a journalist, was managing editor of The New Republic. The son inherited his father's liberal stance and joined him in quitting the Descendants of the American Revolution in February 1941 after the group opposed the Lend Lease Act aiding countries fighting the Nazis.
        Mr. Bliven wrote briefly for a newspaper in Stroudsburg, Pa., and for The Manchester Guardian, the British paper, before graduating from Harvard in 1937. He then wrote editorials for The New York Post, leaving to serve in World War II.
        ''I was a lieutenant in the field artillery and took part in the D-Day landings in Normandy and wrote a children's book about it a dozen years later to find out what happened,'' he said. That book was ''The Story of D-Day, June 6, 1944'' (Random House, 1956).
        When he returned to civilian life, he became a magazine writer who ranged across many subjects with deep knowledge but ''did not wear it on his sleeve,'' said Philip Hamburger, another New Yorker writer.
        He met his wife, the former Naomi Horowitz, at The New Yorker, where she was a writer. He is also survived by his son, Frederic.
      