
        Bishop John R. McGann, who led the Roman Catholic Diocese of Rockville Centre, N.Y., for more than 20 years, died yesterday in Rockville Centre. He was 77.
        He had been hospitalized at Mercy Medical Center for the last week and a half. He died of aplastic anemia, said Joanne Novarro, a spokeswoman for the diocese.
        Bishop McGann was the second bishop of the diocese, which consists of Nassau and Suffolk Counties on Long Island and ministers to nearly 1.5 million Catholics in 134 parishes.
        ''He used to call it the second-best place next to heaven,'' Ms. Novarro said.
        Bishop McGann succeeded Bishop Walter P. Kellenberg in 1976. The diocese was created in 1957.
        Known for his strong stands on social issues, Bishop McGann was part of a generation of church leaders who emerged in the 1960's and 1970's and who embodied the Second Vatican Council spirit of openness toward the laity and the outside world.
        In 1983, he asked Catholics on Long Island to lobby for an end to military aid to El Salvador and to urge the United States to grant temporary asylum for an estimated 40,000 Salvadoran refugees in the Long Island diocese.
        He led nearly 4,000 protesters in a march on a Hempstead abortion clinic in 1985. Though the fight against abortion was nothing new for him, his participation in the march surprised many people, and he was criticized for not condemning anti-abortion violence more forcefully.
        The bishop also angered conservatives with a campaign for housing. In 1987 he issued a pastoral letter strongly advocating lower-cost housing on Long Island, putting him at odds with homeowners who feared for their property values.
        That same year, Bishop McGann made national headlines with his eulogy for William J. Casey, the former  director of central intelligence, during which he criticized the Reagan administration's policy of aiding the rebels fighting the government of Nicaragua.
        With Mr. Reagan in a front-row pew and former President Nixon in attendance, Bishop McGann said, ''I cannot conceal nor disguise my fundamental disagreement on this matter with a man I knew and respected.''
        In issues closer to home, Bishop McGann criticized Sunday store openings and urged Catholics to avoid shopping on the day of rest, and brought more laypeople into administrative positions in the church.
        John Raymond McGann was born on Dec. 2, 1924, in Brooklyn. He studied for the priesthood at Cathedral College Preparatory Seminary in Brooklyn and Immaculate Conception Seminary in Huntington, N.Y.
        He was ordained in the Diocese of Brooklyn in 1951 and assigned to St. Anne's parish in Brentwood, which became part of the Diocese of Rockville Centre when it was created in 1957. Church attendance grew so rapidly that he began celebrating Mass at a drive-in theater, with families listening on speakers hung on their car windows.
        He was also an assistant chaplain at Pilgrim State Hospital and a faculty member of St. Joseph's Academy in Brentwood.
        In 1959 he became a monsignor, in 1970 a bishop, and in 1976, he was chosen to lead the diocese. He was elected treasurer of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops in 1984. In 1999, at 75, he offered his resignation, as required by church law. He retired on Jan. 4, 2000.
        ''Often I referred to him as the living history of this diocese, because he stood beside the first bishop, Walter Kellenberg, as his secretary,'' said Bishop William Murphy, who pronounced prayers for the dying at Bishop McGann's bedside hours before he died.
        He is survived by a brother, James, and a twin sister, Sister John Raymond, former general superior of the Sisters of St. Joseph in Brentwood.
        A funeral Mass celebrated by Cardinal Edward M. Egan of the New York Archdiocese will be offered at 2 p.m. Monday in the Cathedral of St. Agnes in Rockville Centre.
      