
        Dr. Kenneth J. Ryan, a Harvard obstetrician who helped the nation grapple with thorny ethical issues like fetal tissue research, died on Jan. 5 at his home in Weston, Mass.  He was 75.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Dr. Ryan made a name for himself early in his career through a series of discoveries in biochemistry, including one that helped untangle the process by which the body produces the hormone estrogen. The work helped lead to treatments for infertility and cancers of the prostate and breast. He was also a longtime chairman of the obstetrics, gynecology and reproductive biology at Brigham and Women's Hospital, a Harvard affiliate.
        Dr. Ryan was perhaps best known for his work in medical ethics, including recommendations in 1988 on the propriety of using fetal tissue from abortions to try to develop treatments for diseases.
        He was co-chairman of a panel that recommended that a ban on federal financing of research using fetal tissue be lifted, a recommendation that President George Bush rejected in 1989.
        Dr. Ryan was a firm if soft-spoken supporter of abortion rights, and he discounted suggestions that allowing federal financing of research on fetal tissue would encourage abortion. The thinking was that a woman undecided over an unwanted pregnancy could be swayed toward abortion by knowing that her decision could help someone else.
        After the panel's recommendations were rejected, Dr. Ryan said: ''This is a doctrinaire approach. You have a government person in a secular society saying, 'This is immoral in my eyes.' ''
        President Bill Clinton lifted the ban shortly after taking office.
        Dr. Fredric Frigoletto, chief of obstetrics at Massachusetts General Hospital described Dr. Ryan as a supporter of choice, ''in its broadest sense.''
        ''He was not only for a woman's right to choose pregnancy termination,'' Dr. Frigoletto said. ''He was a person who represented the patient's right to choose their form of treatment.''
        Dr. Ryan was the chairman of several federal panels that examined several other ethical issues, including the National Commission for the Protection of Human Subjects of Biomedical and Behavioral Research, which met from 1974 to 1978. The committee was formed in part as a result of research scandals like the one in Tuskegee, Ala., where black syphilis patients were left untreated  without their knowledge for four decades, ending in 1972, so that the disease could be better understood.
        The recommendations that grew out of that commission, known as the Belmont Report, are the basis for the informed-consent rules that now govern research across the country.
        Kenneth John Ryan was born and raised in New York City. He attended Northwestern University and graduated from Harvard Medical School.
        He is survived by his wife of 53 years, the former Marion E. Kinney, and three children: Alison R. Glassey of Willits, Calif., Kenneth J. Jr., of Weston, and Christopher E., of Chicago.
      