
        Michel Poniatowski, a former French interior minister who helped Valéry Giscard d'Estaing become president in 1974 but whose career was plunged into controversy by a murder scandal and increasingly reactionary views, died on Jan. 15 in his home in Opio, Alpes-Maritimes, in southeastern France. He was 79.
        A close friend of Mr. Giscard d'Estaing's since their days at France's elite École Nationale d'Administration, Ponia, as he was universally known, masterminded his friend's successful effort to win the presidency after the death of President Georges Pompidou, defeating Jacques Chaban-Delmas, a Gaullist, and François Mitterrand, the Socialist candidate.
        Mr. Poniatowski was widely credited with having presented Mr. Giscard d'Estaing and his small center-right Independent Republican Party as more moderate and modern than the Gaullists, but more trustworthy than the Socialists.
        His reward was the powerful Interior Ministry, with responsibility for law and order and control of the police. In this position Mr. Poniatowski sought to shore up the president's position by replacing more than half the central government's regional administrators, or prefects, with officers loyal to him.
        He also strove to give Mr. Giscard d'Estaing's government a more liberal air by abolishing fingerprints on identity cards, curbing telephone tapping and relaxing controls on television.
        But his position as ''the second most powerful man in France'' was called into question after the murder on Christmas Eve 1976 of Jean de Broglie, another Independent Republican parliamentarian.
        Within five days Mr. Poniatowski announced that the murderers had been rounded up, claiming they had killed Mr. de Broglie because they owed him money. But this story quickly began to unravel as details of Mr. de Broglie's own dubious financial dealings came to light together with suggestions that he was planning to defect to the Gaullists.
        Although Mr. Giscard d'Estaing dropped his close friend from the cabinet in March 1977, the scandal rumbled on. By 1980, the satirical magazine Le Canard Enchaîné (The Chained Duck) had published documents withheld from the authorities who were investigating the murder. The documents showed that the police had known of threats to Mr. de Broglie's life months before his death but took no action.
        However, a commission set up to investigate Mr. Poniatowski's role in the killing cleared him of any wrongdoing.
        He was born Prince Michel Casimir Poniatowski in Paris on May 16, 1922. His ancestors included one of Napoleon's marshals and Stanislas II, the last king of Poland. He studied law in Paris and Cambridge University and acquired a love of history.
        After the fall of France in 1940 he joined the Free French forces in Algiers, was twice wounded and won the Croix de Guerre. But from the start he sided with Gen. Henri Giraud against Gen. Charles de Gaulle in their struggle to lead the Free French, describing the Gaullists as ''armchair Resistance fighters'' and ''copains and coquins'' -- chums and scoundrels.
        He was elected to Parliament as an Independent Republican for the south-central Puy-de-Dôme department in 1959. He was chief of staff to Mr. Giscard d'Estaing during his two terms as finance minister, from 1962 to 1966 and from 1969 to 1974.
        In 1978, Mr. Poniatowski and President Giscard d'Estaing founded the Union Pour la Démocratie Française, a loose federation of right and center-right non-Gaullist groups. But his views became increasingly right-wing, and in 1998 he resigned over the U.D.F.'s refusal to ally itself with Jean-Marie Le Pen's far-right National Front.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Gilberte de Chavagnaz; three sons; and a daughter.
      