
        Dr. Herchel Smith, a chemist who developed a process to synthesize hormones for birth control pills and then gave millions of dollars he earned from the patents to support academic research, died on Dec. 20 at his home in West Chester, Pa. He was 76.
        Dr. Smith died in his sleep, his son, Marcus, said.
        With money earned from his patents, Dr. Smith endowed several academic chairs at Harvard and Cambridge. He also sponsored fellowships and other programs at several universities.
        Herchel Smith was born in Plymouth, England, and received his bachelor's and doctoral degrees from Cambridge. He was a postdoctoral fellow at Oxford and a lecturer in organic chemistry at Manchester University before moving to the United States in 1961 to work at Wyeth Laboratories.
        Dr. Smith did not invent oral contraceptives, nor was he the first to make synthetic versions of steroid hormones, but he was the first to find a cost-effective method.
        The hormones in early birth control pills were extracted from natural sources, usually Mexican yams. Previous chemical reactions for making steroid hormones produced a mix of molecules -- all had the same chemical composition, but the atoms were assembled in several shapes. Separating the desired hormones, which came in a particular shape, from the unwanted molecules was expensive and inefficient.
        Dr. Smith developed chemical reactions that produced the hormone in just the desired shape.
        ''He was the first one to make a commercially feasible synthesis,'' said Dr. Gordon A. Hughes, one of Dr. Smith's doctoral students at Manchester, who later joined him at Wyeth.
        That research led to Wyeth's Ovral birth control pill, the first oral contraceptive made entirely of synthetic hormones, which was introduced in the United States in 1968.
        In addition to his son, Marcus, of San Francisco, Dr. Smith is survived by two grandchildren. His wife, Sheila Jones Smith, died in 1977.
      