
        George Rochester, an architect of particle physics known for discovering the kaon particle and regarded as one of Britain's most respected scientists, died on Dec. 26 in England. He was 93.
        Dr. Rochester made history in the 1940's when he discovered nuclear matter that was heavier than the known particles, protons and neutrons. That achievement and his work on cosmic rays brought him his country's highest scientific honor, the Fellowship of the Royal Society, in 1958.
        His work with particles contributed to the development of particle accelerators, which established quarks as the building blocks of matter, and to the Standard Model for the properties of matter.
        When Dr. Rochester began conducting his research, it had been long known that atoms were not the ultimate building blocks. What was not clear was the precise nature of the subatomic particles and the forces that held them together.
        Attention in the mid-1930's focused on an unknown presence of something dubbed the meson, far heavier than an electron and seemingly interacting with protons and neutrons. Mesons also were supposed to exist for an infinitesimally short blip before disintegrating.
        Scientists testing the theory by tracking subatomic particles emitted by cosmic rays suspected that the meson could not behave that way. Dr. Rochester and a younger colleague, Clifford Butler, demonstrated that the behavior of such particles was far more intricate.
        In a laboratory in the Pyrenees, they came upon the tracks of the kaon, the first known ''strange'' particle. Also named the K-meson system, it was called strange because of its odd behavior, later explained by quark theory.
        Their highly significant discovery touched off a spate of research everywhere, with new particles joining the fray in bewildering numbers.
        George Dixon Rochester received his Ph.D. at Durham University in northeast England and later joined the faculty there, helping establish centers for astronomy, astrophysics, cosmic radiation and elementary particle theory.
        He wrote numerous scientific papers on subjects like spectroscopy, cosmic rays and the history of strange particles.
        A joint service and burial took place on Jan. 10 for Dr. Rochester and his wife of 63 years, Idaline Bayliffe Rochester, who died six days after he did.
      