
        George P. Goold, a Yale classics professor who rejuvenated and debowdlerized the Loeb Classical Library, a collection of ancient Greek and Latin texts published with English translations, died on Dec. 5 in Holyoke, Mass. He was 79.
        The cause was cancer, his wife, Filippa Forder Goold, said.
        In 1973, just as he was moving from Harvard to University College, London, Professor Goold was appointed general editor of the venerable Loeb Library, which belongs to Harvard and was founded in 1910 to make classical literature accessible to English-speaking readers.
        At the time the library was widely felt to be in need of improvement. Many of the English translations were antiquated and inaccurate, while fear of prosecution for obscenity had forced the editors to disguise the bawdier passages by translating risky Greek writings into Latin while those in Latin were left in the original or put into Italian.
        Under Professor Goold's direction, new and more up-to-date translations were commissioned and texts were added to the series. By himself he produced Loeb editions of the Roman poets Propertius and Manilius and the Greek novelist Chariton.
        Meanwhile a more permissive legal environment allowed scholars to render the seamier passages of Catallus, Aristophanes, Petronius and others into explicit English.
        A formidable Latinist, George Patrick Goold was born in London in 1922. He spent World War II in London breaking enemy codes and then attended University College, London, where he received a bachelor's degree and a doctorate.
        His teaching career took him first to University College, Hull, and then to the University of Cape Town and to the Universities of Manitoba and Toronto in Canada before he moved to Harvard in 1965.
        He headed the classics department there in 1971 and 1972 before returning to London to assume the chair of Latin once occupied by A. E. Housman. He held that until 1978, when he went to Yale as William Lampson professor in Latin classics.
        He is survived by his wife and two children from a previous marriage, John and Barbara Goold of Toronto.
      