
        Jack Shea, who won two gold medals in speedskating at the 1932 Lake Placid Olympics and was the United States' oldest Winter Games gold medalist, died yesterday in Saranac Lake, N.Y., of injuries incurred Monday in an auto accident. He was 91.
        Shea's death came one month after his grandson Jim Shea Jr. earned a spot on the United States Olympic skeleton team, making the Sheas the first family with three generations of Olympians. Jim Sr., 63, competed in three skiing events at the 1964 Winter Games in Innsbruck, Austria.
        The state police said a van driven by Herbert J. Reynolds, 36, of Saranac Lake slid out of control on a snow-covered road and struck an auto driven by Shea head-on. Reynolds, who was treated for a cut lip, was arrested on charges including driving while intoxicated and was released to await a court appearance on Feb. 4.
        Shea grew up in Lake Placid, N.Y., a village in the Adirondack Mountains. His home faced Mirror Lake, and at 3 he started skating there. While still in high school, he won the North American men's championship in 1929 and 1930.
        Despite the worldwide economic depression, 17 nations entered the 1932 Winter Games. Shea, then a 21-year-old Dartmouth sophomore, took the Olympic oath on behalf of all the athletes.
        Later that day, in the first final of the Olympics, Shea, wearing a red beret, won the 500-meter speedskating gold medal. The next day, he won the 1,500.
        After his victories, Shea called the 500-meter final the highlight of his career.
        ''I wanted so much to see that flag go up first on the pole,'' he said of winning the 500 meters. ''I was more nervous before the start of that race than I ever had been before. But when I won and the American flag did rise to the top, I was so satisfied that when I won the 1,500-meter championship, it was just another race to me. The first one was the one I wanted most.''
        After the Olympics, when Shea returned to Dartmouth, more than 500 people greeted him in an outdoor celebration in cold so bitter that band members could not play their instruments. His classmates were elated by his achievements, but he said the college administration did not care.
        ''They didn't appreciate what I was doing,'' Shea told The New York Times in an interview in 2000. ''They finally excused me from classes, but they held me responsible for all the work that went on when I was away. So I spent half the time at the Olympics studying and half the time training, but it worked out very well.''
        Despite urging by American Olympic officials, Shea refused to skate in the 1936 Winter Games in Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany.
        ''I majored in political science,'' he said, ''and I knew what was going on in Germany and I didn't like it. And I didn't compete again because in those days, 25 or 26 years of age was over the hill, and I had four kids then.''
        In 1934, Shea married Elizabeth Stearns of Saranac Lake. He is survived by his wife; three sons, Jack of Elmhurst, Ill., and Jim and Michael of Lake Placid; and several grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
        Jim Shea Sr. competed in Nordic combined skiing and two cross-country ski races in the 1964 Winter Olympics and coached the United States biathlon team in the 1972 Winter Olympics. His son, Jim Jr., won the 1999 world championship in skeleton, a sport for one-man sleds.
        John Amos Shea was born Sept. 7, 1910, in Lake Placid. His father, James, was a state assemblyman. After graduating from Dartmouth, Jack Shea attended Albany Law School for a year. But money was scarce, and he left law school to support his family. First, he was a letter carrier. Then he ran the family's gourmet market and was the golf secretary at the Lake Placid Club.
        From 1958 to 1974, he was the town justice, and from 1974 to his retirement in 1983 he was the supervisor of North Elba, the township that included the village of Lake Placid. He then became vice chairman of the Olympic Regional Development Authority, a New York State organization that took over the sites for Lake Placid's 1980 Winter Olympics.
        He was a familiar figure at Lake Placid, walking around the ice rink or strolling around Mirror Lake in his 1932 Olympic team jacket. He skated recreationally until 1994.
        His grandson's achievement in making the Salt Lake City Games thrust him back into the spotlight, and the three Sheas appeared together in a television commercial. Jack Shea was to have been honored at the opening ceremony of the Winter Olympics next month.
        Three weeks ago, when the Olympic torch came through Lake Placid, Shea carried it into the Olympic speedskating oval where he won his gold medals.
        ''Jack Shea was an important father figure for this community,'' Mayor Roby Politi of Lake Placid said. ''He was a kind of curator of the Olympic spirit that this community has been engulfed with over the years.''
      