
        John W. Reynolds, the senior federal district judge in Wisconsin who oversaw the racial integration of the Milwaukee public schools in the 1970's, died on Sunday in a hospital in Milwaukee. He was 80 and lived in suburban Mequon.
        The cause was complications from heart disease, the court said.
        Judge Reynolds, a Democrat who came from a politically active family, was Wisconsin's attorney general from 1958 to 1962 and served a term as governor from 1963 to 1965. He was defeated for re-election by Warren P. Knowles, a Republican.
        By then, he had made his reputation by establishing the state's first women's commission and arts council, as well as championing a more open legislative process, academic freedom, redistricting changes and improvements at state mental hospitals. Though a strong advocate of civil rights, he was less successful in enacting open-housing legislation.
        President Lyndon B. Johnson nominated Mr. Reynolds to the federal bench in 1965, and he was chief judge of the Federal District Court in Milwaukee from 1971 to 1986. In 1976, he drew national attention by ordering the city's Board of Education to establish a racial balance in its schools. The case ended when the board agreed to an out-of-court settlement in 1979, resulting in widespread busing for pupils.
        Judge Reynolds's ruling was a benchmark in efforts to give children from minorities an equal education.
        John -- the W. is just an initial -- Reynolds was born in Green Bay, Wis.
        His father, also John, was state attorney general from 1927 to 1933.
        John Reynolds graduated from the University of Wisconsin with a degree in economics in 1942. After service in World War II, he completed law school at Wisconsin in 1949.
        Since stepping down as chief judge in Milwaukee, he sat on the court with senior status.
        Surviving are his wife of 30 years, Jane Conway Reynolds; their three sons, Thomas and Jacob, of Milwaukee, and John W. III, of Brooklyn, and a daughter, Frances, of Madison, Wis.; two daughters and a son from an earlier marriage, Kate R. Lindquist of Thorp, Wis., Molly A. Reynolds of Cedarburg, Wis., and James B. of Menomonee Falls, Wis.; a sister, Florence Mullarkey of Milwaukee; and nine grandchildren. His first wife, Patricia Brody Reynolds, died in 1967.
      