
        John William Locke, an artist's representative who helped transform the aesthetics of American illustration by introducing satiric European illustrators and cartoonists to  magazines, book publishers and advertising agencies, died on Jan. 3 in Great Barrington, Mass. He was 87.
        In 1935, when Mr. Locke opened the John Locke Agency in New York, illustrations outnumbered photographs in magazines. Photography was growing in popularity, but interpretive and humorous paintings and drawings, ranging from the realistic to the expressionistic, were the media choices of the day. Mr. Locke had been a salesman for a New York art agency that supplied Madison Avenue with pictures by the pound.
        However, after learning the business, Mr. Locke decided to develop his own stable of artists. With an initial roster including John Pike, Norwood Patton and Lou Glansman, he developed relationships with The Saturday Evening Post, Collier's, Holiday and others.
        A passion for Expressionism and Surrealism led him to represent some of the most astute satirists and visual storytellers in Europe, among them Ronald Searle of England and Roland Topor, André François and Folon of France. Among American illustrators, Edward Gorey was his most renowned client. During the late 1960's and early 70's all these artists contributed to and helped define the visual persona of The New Yorker and the new Op-Ed page of The New York Times.
        Mr. Locke guided and nurtured his artists, refusing to accept work for them when he considered it against their artistic interests or their principles.
        ''He often told us to turn down any job we didn't feel good about,'' said W. B. Park, whom Locke represented  for more than 30 years.
        Mr. Locke held luncheons and teas in his studio off Central Park, creating an atmosphere for artists and clients to become acquainted.
        The son of a painter, W. R. Locke, and Gertrude Salome Waldmayer, Mr. Locke spent his early years on a farm in Marlboro, Vt., and later moved to Woodstock, N.Y., where, after quitting high school in his freshman year, he helped his father run the Woodstock Inn. In 1933 he married Margery Streeble, and had two children, Ronald and Sandra.
        After divorcing in 1947, he married an illustrator, Charlotte Arnel, with whom he had a daughter, Elizabeth. After another divorce in 1950 he married Margery Babcock, with whom he adopted a daughter, Joanne, and together the couple ran the John Locke Studio until 1997.
        He is survived by Ronald, of Dover-Foxcroft, Maine; Sandra Scott of Wappingers Falls, N.Y., Elizabeth Locke of Austin, Tex., and Joanne Boelke of Great Barrington.
      