
        Everett Kircher, who founded a ski empire that offered technical advances on the country's slopes, died on Jan. 16 at a hospital in Petoskey, Mich.
        He was 85 and lived in Boyne Falls, Mich.
        The cause was complications from kidney dialysis, his family said.
        Mr. Kircher was also in the hotel business, as president of Boyne USA Resorts, a ski and golf business he founded in 1947 with a $1 investment in Michigan real estate. Over the years, he built it into the country's largest private group of ski resorts.
        He introduced new methods of ski instruction, adapting some from Austria, along with innovations in artificial snow and in keeping it well groomed. He held a number of patents on equipment and techniques that will be used next month at the Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, including a snow maker for marginal temperatures.
        As Boyne USA grew, Mr. Kircher broke new ground in 1965 -- turning the core business into an all-seasons operation with golf links, hotels and cross-country trails beckoning hikers. Boyne USA draws vacationers to locations including Boyne Mountain and Boyne Highlands in Michigan; Big Sky in Montana; Gatlinburg Skylift in Tennessee; Crystal Mountain Resort near Seattle; and most recently, Cypress Mountain resort near Vancouver, British Columbia.
        Everett Kircher was born in St. Louis. His family moved to Detroit when he was an infant, his father landing a job with the Ford Motor Company at $5 a week. As a young man, he studied for a year at the University of Michigan, quitting to help the family run a car dealership and repair shop.
        Moving north in Michigan, he spent $1 for the land on which he developed what is now Boyne Mountain. He also bought one of the earliest chairlifts ever built, bringing it from Sun Valley, Idaho, and acquired what would become Boyne Highlands.
        At those two areas he installed the first triple chairlift in 1964, the first four-seater in 1969 and a high-speed detachable four-chair lift in 1990. Boyne Mountain introduced the country's first six-seater high-speed chairlift in 1992.
        His snow maker for marginal temperatures combined small amounts of air and electricity with lots of water to save energy and produce snow efficiently without a lot of noise. He brought the former Olympians Stein Erickson and Othmar Schneider to lead the ski school at Boyne Mountain.
        His desire to keep his staff between ski season inspired Mr. Kircher to lure golfers. Using a family farm tractor, he carved out a nine-hole layout at the foot of Boyne Mountain Lodge.
        One thing led to another, and he engaged the golf course architect Robert Trent Jones Jr. to design the 18-hole Heather course that made Boyne Highlands a year-round resort in 1970. Boyne now features eight championship courses, one designed by Arnold Palmer at Big Sky.
        Mr. Kircher is survived by his wife, Lois Moore Kircher; two sons, John E., of Enumclaw, Wash., the manager of Boyne's Western operations, and Stephen M., of Walloon Lake, Mich., his counterpart in the East; two daughters, Amy Kircher Prang, of Naples, Fla., head of Boyne South, and Kathryn L. Kircher of Harbor Springs, Mich., whose designer group outfits all Boyne interiors; and five grandchildren.
        Mr. Kircher established a ski area for the handicapped. He was a sportsman who loved to fish and to pilot jet aircraft. In his autobiography he wrote, ''I'd rather be known as a great fly fisherman.''
      