
        Keith Clark, the Army bugler whose imperfect rendition of taps at the funeral of President John F. Kennedy came to be seen as a perfect embodiment of national sorrow, died last Friday at a hospital in Fort Pierce, Fla. Mr. Clark, who lived in Port Charlotte, Fla., was 74.
        The cause was an aortic aneurysm he suffered after playing the trumpet at an orchestral recital, his wife, Marjorie, said.
        On the afternoon of Friday, Nov. 22, 1963, Sergeant Clark, the lead trumpet player in the United States Army Band, was at home, browsing through his collection of rare hymnals, when he learned that Kennedy had been assassinated. Two weeks earlier he had sounded taps at Arlington National Cemetery at a Veterans Day ceremony attended by President Kennedy, and he had rendered its 24 notes flawlessly at hundreds of military funerals.
        Now, Sergeant Clark knew that the eyes -- and the ears -- of millions would be soon be focused on him. So he embarked on a prosaic task far removed from his musical talents.
        ''We were musicians first and soldiers second in the band,'' he reflected long afterward. ''But I generally got a haircut every two weeks, and it was getting close to the 14th day.''
        So Sergeant Clark went to a barber shop. But it was not until early Monday, the day of the funeral, that he received the phone call ordering him to sound taps at Arlington.
        ''The military goes crazy on dry runs and being there ahead of time,'' he once recalled. ''So I was to be there ready to play at 12:15. It was a rainy day, and we weren't allowed to wear overcoats. So I stood there in the drizzle for three hours.''
        Sergeant Clark's lips grew cold as he waited, and the pressure mounted.
        As he remembered the moment: ''It is like the speaker of the House saying, 'Ladies and gentlemen, the president of the United States.' That is not at all hard to say. But to do it then, and to do it there, that's when the pressure comes. That's when it becomes difficult all of a sudden. A lot of people can sing in the shower.''
        To make matters even more difficult, Sergeant Clark, to be in view of the television cameras, was told to stand five yards from the squad of riflemen who fired three volleys in tribute to Kennedy after a 21-gun cannon salute. When he was called upon to sound taps at 3:08 p.m., the guns had momentarily rendered him deaf.
        On the sixth note, Sergeant Clark fluttered off key. Then he went on to complete taps without another flaw.
        In his book ''The Death of a President'' (Harper & Row, 1967), William Manchester told how the broken note would ''be widely regarded as a deliberate effect.'' That miscue, Manchester wrote, ''was like a catch in your voice, or a swiftly stifled sob.''
        But Mr. Clark said, ''I missed a note under pressure.''
        Mr. Clark, a native of Grand Rapids, Mich., who had begun playing the trumpet as a youngster, retired from the Army in 1966, then taught music at Houghton College in Houghton, N.Y., and performed with musical groups in Florida after moving there in 1980.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by four daughters, Nancy McColley and Karen Moore, of Port Charlotte; Sandra Masse, of Lovell, Me., and Beth Barnard, of Monterrey, Mexico; a brother, Bruce, of Westlake, Ohio, 12 grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
        The Kennedy bugle is on display at Arlington National Cemetery as part of an exhibit on the history of taps, which originated in the Civil War.
        Tom Sherlock, senior historian at the cemetery, remarked last year how Sergeant Clark's flawed sounding of taps seemed entirely fitting.
        ''It showed the tension that the nation felt,'' Mr. Sherlock said. ''It's part of the emotion. It's when a speech is well delivered and a voice cracks because it's an emotional time. It's what should happen. And in that way, it almost personalized it. And it made it immortal.''
      