
        Al Smith, the Chicago White Sox outfielder who became the hapless subject in one of baseball's most famous photographs when a fan spilled a cup of beer on him as Smith watched a home run sail over his head in the 1959 World Series, died Thursday at a hospital in Hammond, Ind. He was 73.
        The cause was cardiac arrest after arterial surgery, his family said..
        Smith played in the major leagues for 12 seasons, was twice an All-Star and was a starter with two American League pennant winners. But he was mostly remembered for one unfortunate moment.
        It was Oct. 2, 1959, the fifth inning of Game 2 at Chicago's Comiskey Park in the World Series between the White Sox and the Los Angeles Dodgers. With two out, the Dodgers' Charlie Neal hit a drive to left field off the right-hander Bob Shaw.
        Smith backed up to the fence. As he watched the ball fall into the seats, he was splattered with beer.
        ''It hit the bill of my cap and came down the side of my face,'' Smith once recalled. ''It was in my nose and everywhere. At first, I thought the guy dumped it on purpose, but the umpire told me he just tipped it over trying to get the ball. I wouldn't have caught the ball anyhow. It made about the third row.''
        Ray Gora, a photographer for The Chicago Tribune, snapped away from his spot near the third-base dugout with a new model of camera developed by the government to film rockets blasting into space from Cape Canaveral. It featured an innovative shutter allowing rapid-succession photos and had a 70-millimeter lens.
        ''They were clumsy,'' Gora recalled in an interview with The Tribune in April 2000. ''Nobody really wanted to use the one we had, and I always ended up with it. Almost everything you took with this camera became a close-up, no matter where you were.''
        But Gora shot an eight-panel sequence of the home run, its key segment reproduced many times.
        A motor-oil company executive named Melvin Piehl was the fan who spilled the beer. In an October 2000 interview with The Tribune, Piehl recalled that he was seated next to his wife and the wife of his boss, playing host to company salesmen who had been rewarded with tickets to the game.
        ''Somebody wanted a sandwich,'' he remembered. ''I put my beer on top of the wall and bent down to get a sandwich out of the basket. Then I heard the crack of the bat.''
        The photograph shows a fan with his left arm above the tumbling beer and his right arm outstretched.
        Piehl said he was trying to catch the baseball because ''I wanted to be sure the ball didn't hit my boss's wife.'' He said he shunned publicity over the dousing and turned down an offer to appear on television's ''I've Got a Secret.''
        Smith, a native of Kirkwood, Mo., made his debut in the majors with the Cleveland Indians in 1953. He was an outfielder-infielder on the 1954 Indians team that won the American League with what was then a record 111 victories, and he led the league in runs scored in 1955, with 123. He was traded to the White Sox before the 1958 season and hit .315 in 1960, finishing second for the batting title. He later played for the Baltimore Orioles, Cleveland again and the Boston Red Sox. He had a career batting average of .272 with 164 home runs.
        After leaving baseball, he was a supervisor in the Chicago parks system. He is survived by his wife, Mildred; two sons, Al Jr. and Dan; two daughters, Deborah Bender and Maria Chalkley; a brother, Ralph; three sisters, Irene Redmond, Arvella Edwards and Lucille Brooks; and 11 grandchildren.
        Smith kept a blown-up photograph of that signature World Series moment at his Chicago home. ''I've signed that picture 200,000 times,'' he once said.
        At a 40th anniversary celebration held in Chicago by the '59 White Sox, who were beaten by the Dodgers in a six-game World Series, Smith said: ''All those years and I've never made a dime off it. Everywhere I go, that's the one thing people bring up. Maybe I should make some T-shirts and sell them.''
        Smith once said that the beer shower was not the worst part of his World Series afternoon. ''We lost the game, and that's what bothered me more at the time,'' he told The Tribune two years ago. ''Still does.''
      