
        Eugene H. Nickerson, the first Democrat to serve as Nassau County executive and later the Federal District Court judge who presided over the Abner Louima police brutality cases, died on Tuesday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83.
        He died of complications from ulcer surgery, his brother Adams said.
        Judge Nickerson, who was a descendant of President John Adams, entered public life as a patrician liberal politician, but later developed a reputation as a steely, independent-minded judge with little patience for lawyers' antics.
        ''Like all great judges, he can't be pigeonholed by a particular political philosophy,'' said Joan G. Wexler, the dean of Brooklyn Law School. ''He looked at each case before him and dealt with the issues that were presented.''
        In his 24 years on the federal bench  in Brooklyn, Judge Nickerson presided over many prominent cases, the most notable being three trials in which New York City police officers faced charges of torture, assault and lying in the case of Mr. Louima, a Haitian immigrant who was savagely beaten and had a broomstick rammed up his rectum inside a Brooklyn station house in 1997. The Louima case shocked New York, fueled racial tensions and raised cries of police brutality.
        In 1987, Judge Nickerson presided over a racketeering trial in which John Gotti, head of the Gambino crime family, was acquitted. In 1995  he became the first judge to strike down the Pentagon's ''don't ask, don't tell policy'' for gays in the military.
        In 1996, he rejected claims by Vincent Gigante, a reputed mob boss who wore pajamas and a bathrobe in the street, that he was not mentally competent to stand trial -- a ruling that paved the way for Mr. Gigante's conviction on racketeering charges.
        And in a 1983 ruling he boldly strayed from Supreme Court precedent and barred prosecutors from using their peremptory challenges to oust jurors solely on the basis of race. His reasoning ultimately helped persuade the Supreme Court to stop allowing jurors to be removed on the basis of race.
        Legal scholars said Judge Nickerson, whom President Jimmy Carter nominated to the federal bench in Brooklyn in 1977, showed law-and-order sternness when handling criminal cases while often exhibiting a liberal impulse in civil cases.
        In 1990, he castigated New York public school officials when he learned that they had dragged their feet for years in establishing an adequate education program for the city's 116,000 handicapped schoolchildren.
        In a hotly contested case, in 1995 he struck down the Pentagon's ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy. Calling the policy a violation of free speech, Judge Nickerson wrote, ''Hitler taught the world what could happen when the government began to target people not for what they had done but because of their status.''
        A year later, a three-judge federal appeals panel in New York sent the case back to him, directing him to assess the constitutionality of the Pentagon's ban on homosexual activity.
        In 1997, he again struck down the Pentagon's policy, but this time on the ground of equal protection. Rejecting the military's argument that prohibiting homosexual conduct was needed to maintain ''unit cohesion,'' he wrote, ''It is hard to imagine why the mere holding of hands off base and in private is dangerous to the mission of the armed forces if done by a homosexual but not if done by a heterosexual.''
        Showing his civil libertarian bent, he added, ''It is not within our constitutional tradition for our government to designate members of one societal group as pariahs.''
        But the following year a three-judge appeals court overruled Judge Nickerson and upheld the military's ban on homosexual activity and  ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy. Saying that ''courts are ill suited to second-guess military judgments,'' the appellate panel ruled that the Pentagon's policy did not violate constitutional rights because of the special circumstances of the military.
        Many lawyers who appeared before Judge Nickerson complained that he kept them on too short a leash, although they gave him grudging respect for doing a good job in maintaining decorum in his courtroom.
        A soft-voiced, often humorous man who wore half-glasses, he often warned lawyers not to raise their voices, and often cut off those who he thought were badgering witnesses. He impressed many lawyers with his command of details.
        Judge Nickerson presided with a firm hand over the Louima cases, in which several of the indicted police officers insisted they were being made scapegoats.
        In the first case, a white police officer, Justin Volpe, pleaded guilty in 1999 after three weeks of testimony in the trial, acknowledging that he beat Mr. Louima, who is black, in a police car and then sodomized him with a broomstick in the station house basement, causing severe internal damage. Another white police officer, Charles Schwarz, was convicted of assisting in the torture.
        In that trial, two other police officers were cleared of beating Mr. Louima in a police car, but in subsequent trials the two officers were convicted of seeking to cover up Officer Schwarz's role, and another officer was convicted of lying to federal investigators. A sixth police officer pleaded guilty to lying.
        Eugene Hoffman Nickerson was born in Orange, N.J., on Aug. 2, 1918, and the family moved to Nassau County six years later. His father, Hoffman Nickerson, was an Army intelligence officer in both world wars who later became a prominent writer on military matters. One of his paternal ancestors, William Nickerson, came to this country in 1637, bought Cape Cod from the Indians and founded the town of Chatham, Mass. His mother, Ruth Comstock Nickerson, also had prominent bloodlines -- she was a descendant of Presidents John Adams and John Quincy Adams.
        At St. Mark's School in Southborough, Mass., he had been quarterback of the football team and captain of the hockey team. But shortly before he entered Harvard College in 1937, Mr. Nickerson was stricken by polio, seemingly ending what had started out to be a promising athletic career. For two years, he was forced to wear his right arm in a brace held out from his body.
        While at Harvard, Mr. Nickerson showed unusual perseverance by teaching himself to play squash with his left hand. Ultimately he was named the squash team's captain and its ranking player.
        Harvard's athletic director, William Bingham, wrote to another Harvard graduate, President Franklin D. Roosevelt, about the courage of this young squash player. Soon Mr. Nickerson received a letter from the president in which Roosevelt discussed the disabilities they both shared. Mr. Nickerson kept that letter for the rest of his life.
        He was a Kent scholar at Harvard, graduating in 1941. In 1943 he completed Columbia University Law School, where he was an editor of the law review. He then landed prestigious clerkships with Judge Augustus N. Hand of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and then with Chief Justice Harlan Fiske Stone of the United States Supreme Court.
        In 1943, he married Marie-Louise Steiner, a classmate at Columbia. His wife went on to become a jurist respected in her own right, serving as a Nassau County district court judge. They lived in Roslyn, N.Y.
        He is survived by his wife and their four daughters, Marie-Louise, Lawrie H., Stephanie W. and Susan A. He is also survived by five grandchildren and by three brothers, Adams, William and Martin.
        After his clerkships, he went to work for the prominent Wall Street law firm Milbank, Tweed, Hope, Hadley & McCloy. From 1952 to 1961, he worked at another firm, Hale, Stimson, Russell & Nickerson.
        While there, he waded into politics, losing a race for surrogate of Nassau County, a Republican stronghold, in 1959. But that race made him well known through the county and paved the way for this tall, athletic-looking politician with a regal manner to be elected county executive in 1961.
        He became the first Democrat to win a countywide seat in Nassau since 1912, when regular Republicans and the Progressive (Bull Moose) Party split the Republican vote. Another Democrat was not  elected county executive in Nassau until last November, when Thomas R. Suozzi won. Judge Nickerson died on the day that Mr. Suozzi was sworn in.
        In his three three-year terms as county executive, Judge Nickerson took a more liberal approach than his Republican predecessors, often working to expand social services for the needy in what was then one of the nation's fastest-growing counties. He was an early advocate of environmental protection, expanded Nassau County's park system, recruited college graduates for the police force, and favored progressive zoning regulations to open up housing opportunities to minorities and the poor.
        He later described his years in the post as reorienting ''government to concern itself with human beings and their problems.''
        Pressed by Robert F. Kennedy, who recognized Mr. Nickerson's considerable political talents, he ran for the United States Senate in 1968. He won the endorsement of the State Democratic Committee, but narrowly lost the primary election to Paul O'Dwyer, a popular maverick politician. Jacob K. Javits, the Republican incumbent, won re-election that November.
        In 1970, Mr. Nickerson began campaigning for the Democratic nomination for governor, but withdrew from the race because of fund-raising problems and tough competition from Howard Samuels and Arthur Goldberg, the former Supreme Court justice. Mr. Goldberg won the Democratic primary, but lost in November to the state's long-time Republican governor, Nelson A. Rockefeller.
        Deciding that three terms as county executive was enough, Mr. Nickerson returned to private practice in 1970, becoming a senior partner at what became known as Nickerson, Kramer, Lowenstein, Nessen, Kamin & Soll.
        In 1980, three years after Mr. Nickerson became a federal judge for the Eastern District of New York, President Jimmy Carter nominated him for a seat on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in New York. But that nomination was withdrawn in 1981 when the Senate had not confirmed him by the time Ronald Reagan took office.
        For many people, it was a mystery why a patrician like Mr. Nickerson became a Democrat. Referring to the man who was the Democratic presidential nominee in 1952 and 1956, Mr. Nickerson once explained, ''Adlai Stevenson turned me into a Democrat. I was active in his first campaign, and I stayed active. He brought in other people like myself who had intense interests about government, of ideals and principles.''
      