
        Casper Citron, a radio host who for 43 years broadcast interviews with the famous and powerful from the lobbies of Manhattan hotels, winning a reputation for erudition in no small measure because he actually read his guests' books, died in Manhattan on Tuesday at the age of 82.
        The cause was liver failure, said his daughter Christiane Citron. He lived in Manhattan.
        ''This is Casper Citron from the Algonquin Hotel, legendary rendezvous for people in the arts,'' he said at the beginning and end of each program there.
        Over the years, he used similar refrains at the other hotels, and it often seemed that he held forth in as many hotels as a politician in full campaign swing, beginning with the Pierre in 1958.
        He broadcast four or five days a week, and never missed a program until he fell ill recently.
        His programs were syndicated nationally. In New York, he was heard first on WRFM for 10 years, then for 15 years on WQXR, which is owned by The New York Times Company, and for the last 14 years on WOR.
        His format, in which he interviewed one guest at a time without interruption, allowed serious discussion, and it attracted serious guests. They included Dwight D. Eisenhower, Martin Luther King Jr., Robert F. Kennedy, Jimmy Carter and Henry Kissinger, as well as artists like the dancer Margot Fonteyn, the painter Marcel Duchamp and the photographer Alfred Eisenstaedt. Most were promoting books they had written.
        From the start, when Mr. Citron's first guest, Zero Mostel, threw the microphone in the air and caught it, his broadcasts were enlivened by the unexpected. Marlon Brando did his entire interview lying down, and Bobby Fischer wanted to play chess. Mr. Citron lasted 13 moves.
        When he started his interview with Robert Crichton on his book about Ferdinand Demara, ''The Great Impostor,'' Mr. Citron suddenly realized he was talking to a man pretending to be Mr. Crichton.
        He learned the hard way about the usefulness of reading guests' books. In one of his early interviews, he asked Edgar Snow when he had returned from China. ''Eleven years, next Tuesday,'' came the answer.
        Later, Mr. Citron said, ''That was the last time I did not read a book on my program.''
        Casper Henry Citron was born on Oct. 28, 1919, in Brooklyn Heights. His mother was Minna Wright Citron, an artist.
        He graduated from the Loomis School in Windsor, Conn., and Lafayette College in Easton, Pa. He served in the Army Air Forces during World War II, and received an  M.B.A. from New York University in 1948.
        He took jobs in sales and government and became very active in politics as a liberal Democrat, losing two races for Congress.
        ''He was a man of great courage and one of the earliest of the reformers,'' said former Mayor Edward I. Koch, who won the Congressional seat Mr. Citron had sought.
        He had a political column for The Village Voice, and in 1965 wrote a book, ''John V. Lindsay and the Silk Stocking Story'' (Fleet), which was not well reviewed.
        Mr. Citron, who was divorced twice, is survived by his five children. In addition to Christiane, who lives in Denver, they are Alisande, of Morristown, N.J.; Monique, of Manhattan; Steven, of Purdys, N.Y.; and Gavin, of Manhattan. He is also survived by his brother, Thomas, of Short Hills, N.J., and three granddaughters.
        Mr. Citron's last broadcast was taped Aug. 28 for broadcast on Sept. 15.
        It never went on the air, though, since it concerned the safety problems at airports in the New York City area.
      