
        Dr. Thomas A. Sebeok, a pioneer in the science of signs and symbols, noted for challenging the theory that apes and chimpanzees could learn language to communicate with humans, died on Dec. 21 at his home in Bloomington, Ind. He was 81.
        The cause was leukemia, said his wife, Dr. Jean Umiker-Sebeok.
        Dr. Sebeok, a professor emeritus at Indiana University, published more than 60 books in his field, known as semiotics, including the classic ''Speaking of Apes'' (1979), which he edited with his wife.
        He argued that apes could not learn language because they lacked the body parts for language, like a larynx or vocal cords, and that they were unable to pass language on to their offspring.
        ''Dr. Sebeok (pronounced see-bee-AWK) showed that nonhuman animals need both the anatomy and nature for learning language,'' said Dr. Marcel Danesi, a professor of semiotics at the University of Toronto, who has also written extensively in the field. ''His work demonstrated that if language were a genetic endowment in apes, then we could just teach them and they would pass it on.''
        The Sebeoks also argued that language experiments with the animals were unsuccessful because the researchers had not taken into account signals or cues from the trainers, like facial expressions. They also argued that animals did not have the intellect to pick up the human sign language and were instead taught a signal system less complex than human language.
        When Dr. Sebeok began his career, his field was limited to the study of language. But with the publication of his ''Approaches to Semiotics'' (1964), he revolutionized that field,  expanding it beyond human language to nonverbal communication in all organisms.
        In 1981, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission turned to Dr. Sebeok for help in developing ''keep away'' signs that could be understood by people in 10,000 years, the duration that nuclear waste may be dangerous to humans.
        Dr. Sebeok suggested signs with words, pictures, cartoons and stick figures to indicate danger. The signs, he said, should also include a ''veiled threat that to ignore the mandate would be to invite some sort of supernatural retribution.''
        Thomas Albert Sebeok was born in Budapest but left to study at Cambridge and then immigrated to the United States, receiving a bachelor's  degree at the University of Chicago and a doctorate at Princeton. He next went to Indiana, where he created its department of Uralic and Altaic studies, covering languages of Eastern Europe, Russia and Asia.
        There, he was chairman of its Research Center for Language and Semiotic Studies, retiring in 1991.
        Dr. Sebeok held visiting appointments at 33 universities in 17 countries and received the Distinguished Service Award of the American Anthropological Association.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by three daughters, Veronica Sebeok Wald of Chicago, Jessica Sebeok of New Haven and Erica Sebeok of Brooklyn.
      