
        John Arthur Love, a former Republican governor of Colorado and energy czar in the Nixon administration, died on Monday. He was 85 and lived in Denver.
        Mr. Love had only limited political experience when he was elected to the first of three terms as governor in 1963. He defeated an incumbent Democrat and stayed in office for 10 years, becoming the state's longest-serving governor at the time.
        In his third term he left to become the director of the new Office of Energy Policy under President Richard M. Nixon. He resigned six months later, complaining that he could not make a difference, and returned to Colorado. At the time, it was rumored that he had been ousted because he pressed for a stricter oil  conservation program than Nixon wanted.
        In 1970 Mr. Love served on the President's Fact-Finding Commission on Vietnam.
        Known as a moderate Republican, Governor Love did not always agree with the majority of his party and signed legislation that legalized abortion and downgraded the possession of a small amount of marijuana to a misdemeanor from a felony. He encouraged big business to move to his state and signed the Colorado Air and Water Pollution Act to protect the environment.
        John Arthur Love was born in Gibson City, Ill., in 1916, and his family moved to Colorado in 1920 because of his father's tuberculosis. Mr. Love paid for his own education by washing dishes and working in a tuberculosis ward at Denver General Hospital. He graduated from the University of Denver in 1938 and earned his law degree there in 1941.
        He was a Navy pilot in the Pacific in World War II, twice winning the Distinguished Flying Cross. He left the Navy as a lieutenant commander in 1945 and opened a law firm in Colorado Springs.
        Before becoming governor, he served as leader of the El Paso County Young Republicans and president of the Colorado Springs Chamber of Commerce.
        After returning to Colorado from Washington, in 1973, he taught history at the University of Northern Colorado, served as an adviser to a renowned regional law firm and in 1980 was named chief executive of Ideal Basics Industries, Inc., a maker of concrete and potash.
        Mr. Love's wife, Ann, died in 1999. He is survived by two sons, Maj. Gen. John Andrew Love of the Air National Guard and Dan Arthur Love; a daughter, Justice Rebecca Love Kourlis of the Colorado Supreme Court; and five grandchildren.
      