
        Juan García Esquivel, a composer and arranger whose meticulously outlandish pop instrumentals from the 1950's and 60's sparked a lounge-music revival in the 90's, died on Jan. 3 at his home in Jiutepec, Morelos, Mexico. He was 83.
        Mr. Esquivel wrote television and movie scores, but most of his music was released from 1957 to 1968 by RCA Victor on what were considered easy-listening albums, with titles like ''Other Worlds, Other Sounds'' and ''Exploring New Sounds in Stereo.'' He called his style sonorama.
        It was anything but background music. A reviewer in Audio magazine in 1962 described Esquivel's music as ''mayhem in Latin tempos.'' Orchestrating standards or his own compositions, Mr. Esquivel often started with Latin rhythms and built three-minute extravaganzas that gleefully showed off the era's newfangled hi-fi stereo equipment.
        In flashy arrangements that changed texture every few seconds and ping-ponged from speaker to speaker, brassy big bands were laced with sliding steel guitar, skittering xylophone, buzzing electronic instruments like the Ondioline and choruses belting syllables like ooh-wah-wah or pow!
        Mr. Esquivel was born in Tampico, Mexico, in 1918. At 17 he formed a band to play his arrangements and it grew into a 22-piece orchestra with five singers. He was popular across Mexico in the 1940's and 50's, performing on radio and television, touring clubs and theaters and appearing in films.
        He made a dashing star. In an interview with The Wire magazine, he said, ''I have had many loves in my life: music, cars, women and the piano, not necessarily in that order.'' Mr. Esquivel was married six times, most recently in May to his 25-year-old health care aide, Carin Osorio. He is survived by her and by a son and two sisters.
        RCA Victor in the United States discovered Mr. Esquivel with his third album, ''To Love Again,'' which had been released by that label's  Mexican subsidiary. RCA Victor released the album in 1957 and took Mr. Esquivel to the United States, where he recorded with studio orchestras.
        Arrangements of ''Jalousie'' and ''Sentimental Journey'' from his 1961 album, ''Infinity in Sound, Vol. 2,'' were used by the comedian Ernie Kovacs for a noted television sketch featuring dancing furniture. For his 1962 album, ''Latin-Esque,'' Mr. Esquivel achieved complete stereo separation by having each half of his orchestra record in studios a block apart.
        As rock began to dominate the pop market, he returned to nightclubs, taking a revue to Las Vegas and Lake Tahoe.
        He also wrote soundtrack music for the Universal Studios music library that was heard in programs including ''McHale's Navy,'' ''Magnum P.I.,'' ''Baywatch,'' ''Battlestar Galactica'' and ''Law and Order.'' He wrote music for the Disney film ''20,000 Leagues Under the Sea'' and commercial jingles. Mr. Esquivel also composed the fanfarelike theme heard when the Universal logo appears on television shows.
        He returned to Mexico in 1979 and wrote songs for a children's television show, ''Burbujas.'' By the 1990's he was retired.
        Meanwhile he was being rediscovered by record collectors and avant-garde musicians. Perhaps initially drawn by his period-piece album covers, they soon became fans of his quick-changing music. In 1994 his manager, Irwin Chusid, compiled a selection of Mr. Esquivel's RCA recordings that Bar None Records released as ''Space Age Bachelor Pad Music,'' and it sparked a revival.
        His music returned to parties and lounges; it was also heard in the soundtracks to films including ''The Big Lebowski,'' ''Four Rooms'' and ''Beavis and Butt-Head Do America.'' His original albums were rereleased along with other compilations and an album of unreleased recordings, ''See It in Sound'' (1999, Buddha). The Kronos Quartet commissioned and performed a string arrangement of Esquivel's 1967 composition ''Miniskirt.''
        A film about Mr. Esquivel, starring John Leguizamo and directed by Alexander Payne, is being developed by Fox Studios.
      