
        Richard Brown Baker, a collector of contemporary art whose keen eye and largess benefited both the Yale University Art Gallery and the Museum of Art at the Rhode Island School of Design, died on Tuesday in Shelburne, Vt. He was 89 and lived in Shelburne.
        Mr. Baker was a tall, reserved man who tended toward self-deprecation and had the uncanny ability to seem aloof and approachable at the same time. Known as a ''collector's collector,'' he decided in the mid-1950's that ''it would be helpful and challenging to buy the work of the living, the young and the unestablished.'' At the time, this meant Jackson Pollock, Franz Kline and Hans Hofmann. In the early 1960's it was Roy Lichtenstein, Robert Morris, Richard Tuttle, Andy Warhol and Frank Stella; in the 70's, Robert Bechtel, Ralph Goings and John Baeder.
        Guided by a first principle of forward motion, Mr. Baker and his ever-larger collection swept through the first several decades of postwar American art, with occasional attention to Japanese and European artists. ''I get there early, and I make fast decisions,'' he once told a reporter for The New York Times. He bought nearly every artist who was anybody and lots of artists who ultimately weren't, and was sometimes accused of being indiscriminate. But he explained, ''To have a collection on the edge of the new, you've got to keep on with it.''
        He also believed that future generations should know about a period's ''lesser lights.'' He never backtracked to fill holes -- ''After all, I'm not an institution,'' he said -- and consequently missed out on Rothko, Bacon and Still.
        He did not weed his collection, nor, citing his ''limited means,'' did he buy once an artist's prices started rising. Calling collecting ''a disease,'' he went on to say: ''Aside from that, of course, I like to think my motives are the noblest. I haven't sold anything, so at least profit isn't one of them.''
        In 1995, Mr. Baker gave 14 of his most important paintings, including three early Lichtensteins, to Yale, his alma mater. He simultaneously announced his intention to bequeath to the university three-quarters of his 1,600-work collection, with the remaining one-quarter going to the Museum of Art at the Rhode Island School of Design in Providence, where he was born and grew up. The majority of his American works will go to Yale, with the Rhode Island school receiving a concentration of works by postwar British artists, as well as a watercolor by J. M. W. Turner, whose work Mr. Baker considered a precursor of Abstract Expressionism.
        On Thursday, Richard C. Levin, the president of Yale, said that the promised bequest would ''put Yale firmly in the front ranks of post-World War II collecting and scholarship.'' Phillip M. Johnston, director of the Rhode Island museum, said: ''Richard Brown Baker was wonderfully generous to this museum over many years. We feel honored by that association and pleased that it will have a permanent memorial here.''
        Mr. Baker was born in 1912. His father was Harvey A. Baker, a prominent Providence lawyer, and a grandfather was H. Martin Brown, president of Industrial Trust Company of Rhode Island (now Fleet National Bank). His father collected azaleas, his mother and sister collected stamps, and as a boy he collected pennies. He has no immediate survivors.
        He attended the Moses Brown School, and after graduating from Yale in 1935 he studied at Oxford University as a Rhodes Scholar. He returned to Europe in 1940, serving as private secretary to the American ambassador to Spain. During the war years he worked in Washington as a research analyst in the Office of Strategic Services and its successor, the Central Intelligence Agency.
        Mr. Baker bought his first work of art, an Adolph Dehn watercolor, in Washington in 1941. He moved to New York in 1952 and briefly studied abstract painting with Hofmann, but collecting soon emerged as the central focus of his life, at once a passion and a discipline. In 1955 and 1956 he bought 50 works, including Pollock's ''Arabesque'' (1948), Jean Dubuffet's ''Field in Winter With Two Dogs'' (1954) and Franz Kline's ''Wannamaker Block'' (1955).
        In time his collection covered the walls and filled several closets of his five-room apartment. That condition persisted despite his frequent loans to exhibitions, extended loans to Yale and the Rhode Island School of Design and serial exhibitions drawn entirely from his holdings, at the Newark Museum in 1974, Yale in 1975 and 1995, and the Rhode Island school in 1985.
        He kept meticulous records of each artwork purchased, its seller and its price, and channeled his creative instincts into voluminous personal diaries detailing his encounters with art and artists. The entries concerning his purchase of ''Arabesque'' from the Sidney Janis Gallery, his only brush with Pollock, and his reaction to the artist's death were published in 1998 in The Times, coinciding with the Museum of Modern Art's Pollock retrospective. The diaries, accession records and other archival material have been given to Yale. Copies of the diaries will also go to the Rhode Island Historical Society.
        Mr. Baker's bequests to Yale and to the Rhode Island School of Design include financial support for the use and study of his collection and for contemporary art in general. In 1998 he endowed the School of Design museum's first curatorship for contemporary art, a position held by Judith Tannenbaum.
        In 1965, Mr. Baker tellingly characterized his life and his legacy: ''My collection represents more time spent walking around and looking than it does money. That's been my minor contribution to American life -- to be there and buy what's not yet wanted.''
      