
        Gyorgy Kepes, an influential designer, photographer, painter, educator, writer and aesthetic theorist, died on Dec. 29 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 95.
        Mr. Kepes was best known as the founder of the Center for Advanced Visual Studies, an organization at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology dedicated to creative collaboration between artists and scientists.
        Established in 1967, the center was the culmination of Mr. Kepes's long-held view that traditional art forms could no longer adequately speak to the problems of the modern world, a world too much conditioned, he believed, by chaos and alienation. It was a decade when many artists became intrigued by the possibilities of cross-fertilization between art and technology -- most famously Robert Rauschenberg and his Experiments in Art and Technology, or E.A.T.
        The center served as a forum and laboratory where artists like Otto Piene, Jack Burnham, Takis and others who would stay for residencies could exchange ideas with physicists, engineers, mathematicians and other sorts of scientists and create kinetic, electrical, environmental and interactive artworks using new technologies and materials.
        It was not technology per se, however, that fascinated Mr. Kepes (pronounced KEP-ish). He was driven, rather, by utopian aspirations. He wanted the center not just to produce novel art forms but also to promote a more expansive sense of connectedness among separated communities and to foster a more holistic awareness of the world as a complex ecological system.
        One of the center's most attention-getting efforts happened in 1969 when it was picked to represent the United States at the São Paulo Biennial in Brazil, then the world's largest international art fair. Mr. Kepes and his team planned not to showcase individual artists but to produce a two-part installation divided between ''Information,'' a multimedia show representing the state of art in the United States, and ''Community,'' a walk-in environment of interactive sculpture.
        As it turned out, the São Paulo venture didn't take place because 9 of the 23 artists involved pulled out to express their objections to what they viewed as Brazil's repressive government.
        Mr. Kepes's interest in new technologies for art developed early. Born in 1906 in Selyp, Hungary, he studied at the School of Arts in Budapest. In the aftermath of World War I, he became convinced of the irrelevance of painting and determined to go into film. In 1930 he went to Berlin to work with Laszlo Moholy-Nagy, one of the principals of the Bauhaus School. With Moholy-Nagy, he worked on film and stage projects.
        In 1937 he accepted a position as head of the Light and Color Department at the New Bauhaus in Chicago, the design school founded by Moholy-Nagy in 1936. (The school's name was later changed to the Chicago Institute of Design.) In 1945 he went to teach in M.I.T.'s School of Architecture and Planning. He served as director of the center until 1972.
        Throughout his career, Mr. Kepes took commercial assignments, producing designs for objects from books and bathroom tiles to major stained-glass windows for St. Mary's Cathedral in San Francisco and the First and Second Church in Boston, the city's oldest continuous church. He also persisted in more avant-garde forms, focusing particularly on photography.
        Working without cameras, he experimented with direct application of fluids and objects to photographic paper, producing luminous abstractions. In 1984 the International Center of Photography in Manhattan organized a retrospective of Mr. Kepes's photographic work.
        Around 1950, he overcame his misgivings about old-fashioned technology and returned to painting, producing abstractions with lyrical hints of landscape. He made flat, sandy-textured pictures with organic shapes generated by pouring glue and paint over which he spread richly colored glazes. His paintings are included in the collections of the Brooklyn Museum of Art, the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington and the Whitney Museum of American Art.
        Mr. Kepes also expounded his theories through writing. His books included ''The Language of Vision'' (1944), a discussion of his educational theories and methods; and ''The New Landscape in Art and Science'' (1956), in which he formulated ideas leading to the creation of the Center for Advanced Visual Studies. In 1965 and 66 he edited a seven-volume series of essays by writers working in many different disciplines addressing issues of creativity and the social function and meaning of art.
        Honors received by Mr. Kepes include a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1958 and the Medal of Honor from the Republic of Hungary in 1996.
        Mr. Kepes is survived by a daughter, Juliet Stone of Watertown, Mass.; a son, Imre, of Pelham, Mass.; six grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
        Mr. Kepes did not deny the difficulties of earthly existence, but he held  to an optimistic view of art's purpose.
        He once said: ''It is not important for me to echo Auschwitz, Hiroshima or the Russian slave camps. We can't compete with such brutality and we shouldn't just mirror it. What we can find are the seeds of something clean and pure.''
      