
        Ron Taylor, who created the voice of Audrey II, the malicious man-eating plant in the cult musical ''Little Shop of Horrors,'' as well as writing and starring in the sleeper hit ''It Ain't Nothin' but the Blues'' on Broadway, died on Jan. 15 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 49.
        The cause was heart failure, said DeBorah Sharpe-Taylor, his wife.
        A barrel-chested bass-baritone with a teddy-bear demeanor, Mr. Taylor was born in Galveston, Tex., where big men like him are expected to play football. But Mr. Taylor gave up the pigskin after he discovered the theater, and when he was 19 he moved to New York to study at the American Academy of Dramatic Arts.
        After graduating, Mr. Taylor -- who said he didn't read music and could barely play the piano -- quickly found work as a singer, and in 1977 he played the Cowardly Lion in the first national touring company of ''The Wiz,'' where he also met his future wife.
        His big break came from an Off Broadway role for which he never set foot onstage. The show was ''Little Shop of Horrors,'' the 1982 Howard Ashman/Alan Menken musical about a meek flower shop attendant named Seymour who unleashes a carnivorous cactus named Audrey II. It was a role Mr. Taylor's booming voice was made for, and the actor, who sat just offstage, soon put his stamp on Audrey's signature line: ''Feed me, feed me!'' The show ran for more than 2,000 performances.
        Audrey II, for which he won a Drama Desk Award (for ''outstanding special effects,'' sharing the prize with Martin P. Robinson, the puppeteer), led to a series of acting gigs for Mr. Taylor, including a short-lived Broadway run as Porthos in a musical version of ''The Three Musketeers'' in 1984.
        Several years later, Mr. Taylor came up with an idea that would result in his longest, and last, Broadway appearance. In 1987, while preparing for a role in a Hank Williams revue, Mr. Taylor began researching some of the century's great unsung bluesmen.
        ''I thought, 'When are we going to do a show on these guys?,' '' he said in a 1999 interview.
        Over the next decade, that idea would slowly gel into ''It Ain't Nothin' but the Blues,'' a musical revue of the history of the blues that Mr. Taylor would co-author, help produce and perform in. During the mid and late 1990's, the show toured the nation's regional theaters, eventually landing at New Victory Theater in Times Square for a limited run on an Off Broadway contract.
        But the show drew raves, and a month later, in April 1999, it jumped to Broadway's Vivian Beaumont Theater just before the deadline for Tony Award nominations. Days later, the show received four nominations, including two -- best featured actor and best book -- for Mr. Taylor.
        It would prove to be a bittersweet honor, however, as a number from ''Blues'' was cut from that year's Tony Awards broadcast when the program ran long. Producers cried foul, and less than a week later Mr. Taylor was hospitalized with a minor stroke. He recovered, and the show ran for eight months at the Beaumont and at the Ambassador.
        A resident of Los Angeles, Mr. Taylor also was active in film and television, appearing in small roles in films like ''Trading Places,'' as well as television shows like ''E.R.'' and ''L.A. Law.''
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Taylor is survived by his parents, Robert James Taylor and Marian Taylor of Galveston; two sisters, Roberta Taylor and Frances Taylor-Stovall, also of Galveston; and a son, Adamah Taylor.
        Despite failing health, Mr. Taylor continued to perform in a blues band until shortly before his death.
        ''No matter where you're from, no matter your culture,'' Mr. Taylor said, ''you can get the blues.''
      