
        Emile Renan, a versatile bass-baritone who was the first performer seen when the curtain rose on the first opening night at the New York City Opera 48 years ago, died on Dec. 8 in Englewood, N.J. He was 88 and had moved to Englewood from the East Side of Manhattan in September.
        The City Opera engaged him for its inaugural production as the Sacristan in Puccini's ''Tosca'' on Feb. 21, 1944. According to the company's archives, the audience saw his character going quietly about his business after the house lights dimmed for Act I, Scene 1.
        It was Mr. Renan's personal New York opera debut as well, and between then and 1959 he sang 32 buffo and character roles at the City Opera alone, many of them in its 20th-century repertory. He took on scores more in opera houses and summer stock productions of favorite Broadway musicals across the country.
        He sang Beckmesser in Wagner's ''Meistersinger von Nürnberg'' at the City Opera in a 1950 production. In The New York Times, the critic Olin Downes thanked him for not overacting the part but for once playing it straight and ''amusingly as a fussy, pedantic person, frustrated too, but not a rogue, or idiot, or one criminally inclined.''
        Some of his other City Opera characters were the Principal in ''The Bartered Bride,'' Oscar Hubbard in ''Regina'' and the Army doctor in the 1958 world premiere of ''The Good Soldier Schweik.''
        He returned to the City Opera in 1965 as stage director for its performances of ''Carmen'' and ''I Pagliacci.'' He also staged productions at houses elsewhere.
        Emile Renan was born in Brooklyn and studied voice as a teenager and started a promising career as a crooner and folk singer on local and network radio and records. Hoping for more serious work, he trained with Eleanor McLellan and John Daggett Howell.
        Over the years he appeared with companies from Canada to Mexico and across the United States. More recently he was on the faculty of the Juilliard School of Music, staged opera, taught voice and coached.
        Mr. Renan's wife, Doris, a writer, died in 1999. He left no immediate survivors.
      