
        Gordon J. Stanley, a pioneer in radio astronomy who discovered incredibly powerful sources of radio waves in outer space, died on Dec. 17 in Monterey, Calif. He was 80.
        The cause of death was complications from progressive supranuclear palsy, his family said.
        Born in Cambridge, New Zealand, Mr. Stanley, an engineer by training, was among a group of scientists who adapted radar equipment left from World War II for observing radio signals from the skies.
        Most astronomers presumed, correctly, that most radio noise was generated by hot clouds of gas floating in interstellar space, but they also detected puzzling bright spots.
        Because their antennas were small compared with the giant dishes of later radio telescopes, they could not identify exactly where the signals were coming from, as if the radio pictures were too blurry.
        From a former radar station on a cliff overlooking Sydney, Mr. Stanley and his colleague John G. Bolton used a trick to home in on the bright spots that were producing the strong radio waves.
        Soon after one of the radio sources rose above the horizon, they pointed the antenna at it.
        The vast expanse of the Pacific to the east acted as a giant mirror, and some of the radio waves bounced off the water before traveling to the antenna. The two beams of radio waves -- one coming directly from the sky, the other reflecting off the water -- produced an interference pattern like the intersecting rings of raindrops hitting a pond. That allowed the scientists to better determine the size and position of the radio source.
        To their surprise, the source was not diffuse like a gas cloud but small and compact like a star. The universe, it appeared, contained tremendously powerful radio transmitters.
        ''It is difficult to comprehend the emotional impact of an observation which took us from the partially explicable solar system and galactic radio emission phenomena, into the realms of phenomena with inexplicably high energy outputs,'' Mr. Stanley wrote in 1994, in a tribute to Mr. Bolton, who died in 1993. ''Neither of us ever approached such an emotional high again in our work.''
        Later research showed that two of the radio sources were actually distant galaxies, the radio waves generated by gas falling into giant black holes. Another radio source turned out to be the Crab Nebula, the remnants of an exploded star.
        In 1955, Mr. Stanley followed Mr. Bolton to the California Institute of Technology, where they built the Owens Valley Radio Observatory. Mr. Stanley was the observatory's director from 1961 to 1975.
        Mr. Stanley, who lived in Monterey, is survived by his wife, Helen; two daughters, Luise Phelps of Santa Barbara, Calif., and Teresa Stanley of Arcata, Calif.; a son, Stephen, of Issaquah, Wash.; and three grandchildren.
      