
        Michael P. Hammond, a composer and music expert who was confirmed as the new chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts last month, died yesterday at his temporary residence in Washington. He was 69.
        Mr. Hammond died of what appeared to be natural causes, said Mark Weinberg, the endowment's communications director.
        Mr. Hammond, who had officially assumed his duties as chairman just last Tuesday, had called in sick on Monday, complaining of flu-like symptoms, Mr. Weinberg said. When he did not come in to work yesterday, two staff members went to his home, and when he did not answer the door, they called the police. There did not appear to be any indication of a crime, Mr. Weinberg said, adding that Mr. Hammond had been treated for cancer in the past.
        Mr. Hammond's wife, Anne Lilley Hammond, was preparing to join him in Washington from their home in Houston, where he had served as dean of the Shepherd School of Music at Rice University for the last 15 years. The couple had one child, Thomas M. Hammond, an actor in New York City.
        President Bush said yesterday afternoon in a statement released by the White House: ''Michael Hammond was an accomplished conductor, composer and advocate of the arts. His commitment to excellence and his extraordinary talents will be greatly missed.''
        The new chairman's confirmation process was speedy and uneventful, in large part because the endowment had changed so much from the lightning rod it had been in the late 1980's, when the provocative work of artists like Karen Finley and Robert Mapplethorpe fueled debate about what was worthy of public money. Over the last decade, the agency has made a largely successful effort to avoid grants that might prove divisive and to build better relationships with Capitol Hill.
        Nevertheless, given that the endowment came very close to being eliminated by Congress, many in the arts community still view the agency as precarious and Mr. Hammond was expected to continue to plead its cause with politicians and the public.
        Upon his confirmation, Mr. Hammond, said, ''I will advocate especially for policies and practices that enhance the experience of our young people, by giving them the insights and skills that lead to understanding and participation in the arts.''
        Mr. Hammond's special interests included the music of Southeast Asia, Western medieval and Renaissance music and the relationships between neuroscience and music. He had degrees from Lawrence University in Appleton, Wis.; Oxford University, where he was a Rhodes Scholar; and Delhi University in India. From 1977 to 1980, he was president of the State University at Purchase, N.Y., where he began the Pepsico Summerfare festival, which was financed by the college's neighbor in Purchase.
        Before going to Purchase, Mr. Hammond had been director of the Wisconsin Conservatory of Music in Milwaukee.
        At Rice, he wrote the architectural program for the new music building, Alice Pratt Brown Hall, which was designed by Ricardo Bofill. He was also the founding rector of the Prague Mozart Academy in the Czech Republic, now called the European Mozart Academy. Mr. Hammond was on the board of the Houston Symphony and was on its search committee for a new conductor.
        Mr. Hammond's studies at Oxford were in philosophy, psychology and physiology, and he taught neuroanatomy and physiology at Marquette Medical School and the University of Wisconsin. In October 1999, he gave the keynote lecture at the International Symposium on the Neuroscience of Music in Niigata, Japan.
        Mr. Hammond had also been associate conductor of the American Symphony Orchestra with Leopold Stokowski, musical director and conductor of the Dessoff Choirs in New York City, and composer in residence for the Milwaukee Repertory Theater. He was director of Canticum, an ensemble for the performance of medieval and Renaissance vocal music. In March 2000, he directed a production of Stravinsky's opera ''The Rake's Progress'' at Rice University, in which he was assisted by his son.
        At Rice, Mr. Hammond taught in both the music school and the humanities division. The Rice Alumni Association gave him its gold medal for his contributions to the university, and Lawrence University awarded him an honorary doctorate.
        A National Endowment for the Arts statement, released by Mr. Weinberg, said, ''All of us at the N.E.A. had looked forward to his leadership, and we join our colleagues in the arts community in mourning his passing.''
        In an interview last month, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the chairman of the Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, which handled Mr. Hammond's confirmation, said, ''My sense is he's going to expose the arts to the widest possible group.''
        Until a new head of the endowment is named, Eileen Mason, the senior deputy chairwoman, will serve as acting chairwoman.
      