
        Paul Byers, an early practitioner of visual anthropology, which he pioneered with Margaret Mead, died on Dec. 31 at his home in the East Village, Manhattan. He was 81.
        The cause was lung cancer, his family said.
        A native of Pittsburg, Kan., he attended the University of Chicago but left to travel and write. After Pearl Harbor, he enlisted in the Navy, which trained him as a cryptanalyst and stationed him in Australia.
        He remained there after the war working as a magazine correspondent and photographer. In that context he met Dr. Mead, the anthropologist. During a 10-year collaboration, he and Dr. Mead developed techniques using still photography to record human behavior for demonstration and analysis.
        Dr. Mead's interest, as the curator of ethnology at the American Museum of Natural History and an adjunct professor at Columbia University, lay in conference -- or many-to-many -- communication, which she distinguished from one-to-one or one-to-many, or even many-to-one forms of communication.
        Her work with Mr. Byers resulted in a series of three conferences. Mr. Byers, a lecturer at Columbia's School of the Arts, produced photographic sequences that became the visual basis for a classic analysis of many-to-many communication. They illustrated the inattention, restlessness or eagerness of participants as observed by the speaker and others at the conferences.
        A result was a book by Dr. Mead and Mr. Byers, ''The Small Conference: An Innovation in Communication'' (Mouton, Paris and The Hague). It remains in print.
        Mr. Byers was then teaching ethnographic photography at Columbia, where he received a Ph.D. in anthropology in 1972, with a dissertation titled ''Eskimo and Bushman.'' From 1970 until his retirement about 10 years ago, he taught at Columbia's Teachers College and supervised the dissertations of more than 100 other candidates.
        Dr. Byers is survived by his wife of 23 years, Lucy Schneider; a son, Peter, of Seattle; and a granddaughter. His earlier marriage to Happie Byers, a Seattle resident, ended in divorce.
      