
        Dr. Stephen B. Dobrow, who served for 40 years as the surrogate voice of the straphanger, demanding better mass transit, hectoring transit officials and using his encyclopedic knowledge of the subways to suggest better ways to fix them, died on Sunday at his home in Woodside, Queens. He was 58.
        Family members said they were unsure of the cause, but assumed it was a heart attack. He collapsed after complaining of not feeling well, said his sister, Cynthia Radol.
        Starting in the early 1970's, Dr. Dobrow taught electrical engineering and urban studies at Fairleigh Dickinson University, first as an assistant professor and later as a professor at the campus in Teaneck, N.J. But from the time he was a teenager, his true occupation had been feeding his fascination with the subways, buses and trains of the city, and not suffering fools who did not run them the way he thought they should.
        He was the transit buff's buff, collecting a basement full of manuals, studies and articles on the way trains operated, on the workings of tracks and signals, on how accidents were caused. In no time, he could, if asked, and even if not, produce charts showing how many trains per hour ran along the Culver line in Brooklyn during the 1950's or describe in great detail the history of any subway or bus line.
        Two years ago, for example, he sent a letter to an editor of a transit newsletter correcting an error in an account of streetcars using the Queensboro Bridge. ''The upper level did not have streetcars,'' he wrote, then felt compelled to add: ''It carried the Second Avenue El until 1942. The main level had four tracks of streetcars. The outer tracks were used by Manhattan-bound streetcars running to the underground terminal at Second Avenue. Until 1919, streetcars from the 42nd Street line ran to Queens Plaza on the inner tracks, an average of 1,563 a day in 1914.''
        But unlike many transit aficionados, whose love of trains and buses is a purely personal obsession, Dr. Dobrow was able to put his knowledge to use in the worlds of politics and policy in a way that kept him at the forefront of most transit debates over the last four decades.
        He formed an advocacy group called the Committee for Better Transit when he was 19 years old, just out of Stuyvesant High School and a student at Cooper Union. With the committee, he began a long career as a prolific writer of highly practical, usually dryly funny and occasionally scathing letters about transit issues to newspapers, from The New York Times to small weeklies in Queens.
        He was an early and vocal proponent, for example, of supplementing or supplanting tokens with monthly passes that would permit free transfers between buses and subways and encourage more people to return to mass transit after its decline in the 1970's and 80's. He was also a longtime critic of the vastly expensive 63rd Street tunnel and connector plan that recently allowed New York City Transit to add a new line, the V, linking Manhattan and Queens.
        He was not afraid to be provocative. In 1972, angry about new subway cars that kept doors locked between the cars while the trains were moving, he distributed leaflets that appeared to be printed by the Transit Authority, counseling riders on how to conduct themselves if they were being mugged in a locked car and had no way to flee.
        ''Do not panic,'' the leaflet said. ''Your Transit Authority is concerned about your safety. Pull emergency cord; this will stop train. This will also knock over both you and your attacker.''
        The Transit Authority was not amused. It brought forgery charges against Dr. Dobrow, which were later dropped after he apologized for the Swiftian stunt in Criminal Court in Queens.
        ''Not only was he really smart, but he had a very good sense of humor,'' said Beverly Dolinsky, executive director of the Permanent Citizens Advisory Committee to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. She added that for years he had sent out a newsletter called ''Notes From the Underground'' that included not only transit news from around the world, but also local restaurant reviews and funny doggerel that he compulsively dashed off about current events.
        Mr. Dobrow's sister, Ms. Radol, who survives him, as does his mother, Sylvia, and his brother, Sidney, both of Woodside, said yesterday that she could not remember a time when her brother was not in love with trains.
        ''I think he got it as an infant, right in the crib,'' said Ms. Radol, of Fresh Meadows, Queens. ''Our house faced the Long Island Rail Road tracks, and he heard the trains passing by from the time he was born.''
      