
        Donald Clayton Spencer, a pioneer of American mathematics who inspired a generation of younger mathematicians, died in Durango, Colo., on Dec. 23. He was 89.
        Together with his friend and collaborator Kunihiko Kodaira, he invented the modern theory of deformation of complex structures, a theory that has had enormous influence in geometry and mathematical physics.
        Once described by his department chairman at Princeton University as ''the most attractive mathematician in America,'' as well as ''one of the most versatile American-born mathematicians,'' Dr. Spencer won the National Medal of Science in 1989.
        ''He was an American original in many ways, scientifically and personally,'' said Phillip Griffiths, one of Dr. Spencer's students and now director of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton.
        Born in Boulder, Colo., in 1912 and apparently destined to become a physician like his father, Dr. Spencer became interested in mathematics  early, thanks to a playmate's mother, a high school math teacher.
        He received a bachelor's degree from the University of Colorado. After being admitted to Harvard Medical School, he walked out of his first lecture and went to Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he fell under the spell of Norbert Wiener, the father of cybernetics, and acquired a second bachelor's degree, in aeronautical engineering.
        In 1936, he went to Trinity College of Cambridge University on an M.I.T. scholarship to study with two of the greatest mathematicians of the time, J. E. Littlewood and G. H. Hardy. ''It was a big shock,'' Dr. Spencer said later. ''I was not very well educated in mathematics when I arrived in Cambridge and had to work very hard to catch up.''
        At Cambridge, he soon overtook his peers, solving a problem that had eluded his advisers. He completed his Ph.D. thesis, ''On the Hardy-Littlewood Problem of Diophantine Approximations and Its Generalizations,'' in 1939.
        During World War II, he was a member of the Applied Mathematics Panel, headed by Richard Courant. That group, which worked on problems involving submarine warfare, drew on Dr. Spencer's expertise in hydrodynamics.
        In the early 1950's, after nearly a decade of teaching at M.I.T. and Stanford, and publishing a groundbreaking book on one complex variable with A. C. Schaeffer that won him the prestigious Bocher Prize, Spencer joined the brilliant mathematics faculty at Princeton, known then as the center of the mathematical universe. At the time, it was a haven for expatriate mathematicians from war-ravaged countries. One was Dr. Kodaira, an eminent Japanese mathematician who won the Fields medal, the mathematics equivalent of the Nobel, in 1954.
        The ebullient Dr. Spencer wrote a dozen important papers with the shy and cautious Dr. Kodaira.
        ''We worked beautifully together,'' Dr. Spencer recalled. ''That collaboration is one of the great things in my life.'' In 1963, after Dr. Kodaira was treated shabbily by Princeton's mathematics department, which refused to match an offer by another university, Dr. Spencer resigned in protest, and went back to Stanford for five years before returning to Princeton.
        Dr. Spencer liked to use homely images to describe the theory he invented with Dr. Kodaira, drawing in part on work Dr. Spencer had done with another Stanford colleague, Max Schiffer.
        Imagine a patchwork quilt, he used to say. Now imagine taking it apart and sewing patches together in a different way to form a new pattern. ''Deformation is shifting those patches,'' he said.
        ''Looking back,'' Dr. Griffiths said, ''one can see he started several lines of mathematical work that continue to be of central importance to mathematics 40 to 50 years later. You can only say that of very few mathematicians.''
        The Spencer-Kodaira ''Nothing'' seminar became famous in the mathematical world. The cardinal rule was that no one could come prepared. Dr. Spencer wanted to communicate the struggle of researchers to understand, rather than to present polished results.
        At Princeton, the irreverent Dr. Spencer became a magnet for young researchers. Among his brilliant protégés were Dr. Griffiths and Joseph  Kohn, former chairman of Princeton's mathematics department.
        Dr. Spencer was also a mentor to John Nash, the mathematical genius who inspired Ron Howard's new movie, ''A Beautiful Mind.''
        ''I didn't think he was going to get anywhere,'' Dr. Spencer said of Dr. Nash, whom he came to know as a postgraduate student. As it turned out, the research Dr. Spencer encouraged Dr. Nash to pursue led to his first big breakthrough in pure mathematics.
        When Dr. Nash became ill with schizophrenia, Dr. Spencer tried to arrange first-class treatment, and raised money on his behalf. He made similar efforts for others.
        An Ivy League professor who looked like a cowboy and drank martinis out of what he called birdbaths, Dr. Spencer was never entirely at home in genteel Princeton. ''I always felt like my fly was open,'' he once said.
        He returned to Colorado every summer, wearing boots and letting his beard grow, and when he retired in 1978, he returned to the Rocky Mountains for good. There, he gathered a circle of new friends decades his junior, became an ardent environmentalist, and hiked whenever he could. Well into his 80's, his favorite sport was racing up and down steep slopes in his jeep.
        His marriage to Mary Jo Halley ended in divorce. His second wife, the former Natalie Robertson, died in 1987, and his daughter Maredith died in 1991.
        His survivors include his daughter, Marianne Pearlman of Columbia, Md.; his son, Donald Clayton Spencer Jr. of Boston; and two grandchildren.
      