
        The art collector and philanthropist Gustav Rau, who amassed one of the world's major private art collections, died in Stuttgart last Thursday. He was 79.
        He died suddenly in a hospital, his Zurich lawyer, Dietrich Stettler, said. He had been recovering from pneumonia contracted a few months ago; no official cause of death was listed.
        While working as a medical doctor in Africa, Dr. Rau regularly slipped away to Europe and the United States to indulge his passion for works by the old masters. Using the wealth he inherited from his family, who made money in auto accessories in Stuttgart, Dr. Rau bought hundreds of paintings and sculptures from five centuries, including works by Auguste Renoir, Claude Monet and Paul Cézanne.
        Mr. Stettler represented Dr. Rau in his fight with former employees for control of the $600 million collection, which had been stored in a duty-free zone at Zurich airport. Dr. Rau, who never married or had children, willed the collection to the German branch of Unicef. The collection is second only in size to the Thyssen-Bronemisza collection in Madrid, his foundation said.
        Dr. Rau ''perhaps had a kind of naïve attitude,'' Mr. Stettler said. ''He didn't want to be a celebrity. He wanted to concentrate on carrying off his plans'' for an investment that would significantly benefit children in the developing world, he added.
        Although he prided himself on selecting and personally bidding on each piece, Dr. Rau parted company with most collectors and declined to surround himself with his choices. He had favorites, especially Jean Honore Fragonard's ''Portrait of the Duke of Harcourt,'' but he did not hang art on his own walls. Instead, it was warehoused or on tour.
        Dr. Rau, who used a wheelchair, made infrequent public appearances and refused most interviews. In recent months, he agreed to answer questions for The New York Times about his collection, explaining that he decided to invest his wealth in art because he was ''wary of traditional investments'' after seeing first-hand the economic turmoil in pre-World War II Germany.
        He was drafted into the Nazi Wehrmacht at 19 but quickly deserted. At 40 he earned a medical degree, then sold the family business and moved to Africa. He worked first in Nigeria, then in the former Zaire, where he founded a hospital.
        His return to Europe in 1997 set off a legal battle, mostly in Switzerland, over his art works. He medicated himself to offset the effects of a stroke and was found wandering the streets, disoriented, near his Monaco apartment. A guardianship ensued, and only after a series of rulings was his control restored last autumn over what he saw as his life's work.
        Most of the paintings have already been moved to Germany, where they will be sold gradually to provide funds for vaccines, medical care and clean drinking water for children in the developing world, the German branch of Unicef announced.
      