
        Bertalan de Nemethy, an elegant, one-time Hungarian cavalry captain who coached the United States Equestrian Team to Olympic and other international success for a quarter century, died Jan. 16 at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 90 and had contracted pneumonia after being hospitalized the week before with an arm injury.
        From 1955 to 1980, from the team's headquarters in Gladstone in New Jersey's Somerset County, de Nemethy instituted a training program for young American riders. He taught riding techniques that emphasized skill over strength, what the London newspaper The Independent called an ''attractive flowing style.''
        His national teams won Olympic silver medals in 1960 and 1972. They also won gold medals in the Pan American Games in 1959, 1963, 1975 and 1979 and in 71 of the 144 Nations Cups in which they participated. After he retired from the United States Equestrian Team, he coached the United States show-jumping team to the 1982 world championship.
        His riders included Bill Stein kraus, a member of six Olympic teams who won America's first individual gold medal in 1968. De Nemethy also coached such outstanding riders as Frank Chapot and his wife, Mary Mairs Chapot, Joe Fargis, Neal Shapiro and Conrad Homfeld.
        Steinkraus, the United States Equestrian Team's chairman emeritus, said of de Nemethy: ''By both example and precept, he taught several generations of Americans not only how to ride, but also how to behave and how to give horses the respect, understanding, care and training they deserve.''
        De Nemethy was born on Feb. 24, 1911, in Gyor, Hungary, where his father was the governor. In 1932, he graduated from a cavalry academy and became a leading European show jumper and a riding instructor at the Royal Hungarian Cavalry School. He was a member of the Hungarian equestrian team for the 1940 Olympics, which were canceled because of World War II.
        In 1944, he led the cavalry cadets to safety when the Soviet army invaded Budapest. He taught riding in Denmark until he came to the United States in 1952. He became an American citizen in 1958.
        In her 1983 book, ''The de Nemethy Years,'' Paula Rodenas wrote, ''He brought with him all the cavalry traditions of classical horsemanship that he had learned under a system that no longer exists and tailored them to the American riding scene.''
        His book ''The de Nemethy Method'' became a classic primer on how to train show-jumping horses and riders. The book led to a set of videotapes. He designed jumping courses, including those for the 1984 Olympics in Los Angeles and the 1989 World Cup finals in Tampa, Fla., and conducted clinics around the United States.
        In 1987, he was voted a charter member of the Show Jumping Hall of Fame in Tampa.
        Until de Nemethy moved to Florida in 1991, he and his wife, Emily, lived in Far Hills, N.J. His wife died in 1997. He is survived by a sister, Maria Bobrovniczky of Budapest; a stepdaughter, Christine Ranelli of Auburndale, Mass.; and three grandchildren.
        Armand Leone Jr., the president of the United States Equestrian Team, said de Nemethy would be remembered for more than his coaching. As Leone said, ''His genius enabled so many to enjoy the wonder of horses.''
      