
        Bobo Olson, a middleweight champion in the 1950's who was most remembered for his four losing bouts against Sugar Ray Robinson, died Wednesday at a hospital in Honolulu. He was 73.
        He had Alzheimer's disease for many years.
        In a professional boxing career that spanned two decades, Olson faced a host of marquee opponents.
        He won the vacant world middleweight title with a unanimous decision over Randy Turpin of England, a former middleweight champion, at Madison Square Garden on Oct. 21, 1953. Ring Magazine named him fighter of the year.
        Olson successfully defended the title against Kid Gavilan, Rocky Castellani and Pierre Langlois in 1954, then sought Archie Moore's light-heavyweight championship belt in June 1955, but was knocked out in three rounds.
        Olson lost the middleweight title in December 1955 when he was stopped in the second round by Robinson, who had come out of retirement.
        Robinson had knocked Olson out in October 1950, then scored a decision against him in defending his crown in March 1952. Olson and Robinson fought a fourth time, in May 1956, with Robinson winning on a knockout.
        ''This lad isn't in the same class with Robinson,'' Turpin said after he was defeated by Olson. Turpin did accomplish something Olson never managed. He defeated Robinson, winning the title on a decision in July 1951, in London. Robinson won back the title by knocking out Turpin at the Polo Grounds three months later.
        Olson had 99 victories, 16 defeats and 2 draws, fighting from 1944 to 1966. He was inducted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame at Canastota, N.Y., two years ago.
        Carl Olson -- nicknamed Bobo by a sister as a youngster -- was born in Honolulu, of Swedish and Portuguese descent, and grew up in rough neighborhoods.
        ''He was mean and tough in his very early youth, but he got some discipline from boxing,'' the sportscaster Les Keiter recalled.
        Olson made his pro debut just after his 16th birthday and fought mostly in Honolulu and San Francisco early in his career.
        He was known more as a boxer than a puncher.
        ''Olson goes about his work in the methodical, workmanlike way of a power shovel moving a specified amount of earth,'' Time magazine observed after Olson stopped Langlois by opening cuts over an eye after the 11th round in December 1954.
        But Olson's Hawaiian background lent itself to a few flourishes.
        Just before the opening bell of the Gavilan fight, Olson draped a lei around the Cuban challenger's neck.
        After Olson defeated Turpin for the middleweight title, John Lardner wrote in Newsweek: ''Olson's body is copiously illustrated. When he was a boy, the shrewder minds in the tattooing trade in Honolulu sensed that he might grow up to be a world's champion. Appreciating the advertising possibilities in such an event, they etched him freely with the mellowist blues, reds and greens in Waikiki. The man is a walking Louvre.''
        Olson cried in the center of the ring after defeating Turpin. But the glory of the sport quickly faded for him.
        ''I am tired of fighting,'' he said before facing Gavilan six months later. ''I don't like it anymore. I'm doing it for the money alone.''
        After retiring from boxing, Olson did recreational and public relations work for labor unions in California.
        He is survived by his wife, Judith; five sons, Carl Jr., Vincent, Grant, Dane and Arthur; three daughters, Cynthia Olson, Dawn Olson and Brenda Cotta; two sisters, Mathilda Howze and Bernice Sullivan; and 18 grandchildren.
      