
        Pablo Antonio Cuadra, a leading poet and political voice of Nicaragua who for much of the 20th century was one of Central America's most important literary figures, died in Managua on Jan. 2. He was 89.
        Mr. Cuadra was known principally as a poet, but he was also an essayist, critic, playwright and graphic artist.
        Because Nicaragua experienced great political turbulence during his life, Mr. Cuadra was inevitably a political figure. He never held public office, but his moral standing made him a powerful voice for beliefs derived from classical ideals of strong, paternalistic leadership.
        Mr. Cuadra often said that his work could not have been produced anywhere but in Nicaragua. The country is a fountainhead of poetry, and poets are held in high esteem.
        The question of Nicaragua's identity, and by extension that of Latin America and its people, became Mr. Cuadra's lifelong preoccupation.
        He grew up under the enormous influence of the Nicaraguan poet Rubén Darío, a central figure in 19th-century Hispanic literature. From Darío he took the interests that shaped his work, steeping himself in classical poetry and in the work of such French innovators as Verlaine, Rimbaud and Baudelaire. But he was also deeply conscious of his roots, and returned constantly to peasant folklore, Indian legends and the state of nature.
        ''Children understand the magic of places,'' he said recently, ''and that's what I was about: places.''
        Mr. Cuadra's ideals were closely tied to his deep Roman Catholic faith. As a young man he was attracted to falangism, a precursor of fascism that was later embraced by the Spanish dictator Francisco Franco.
        In the 1930's Mr. Cuadra helped to organize the Blue Shirts Movement, which opposed socialist ideas and attacked the offices of La Noticia, a newspaper he detested. He also opposed United States military intervention in Nicaragua and supported the guerrilla leader Augusto César Sandino. Later he rallied to the side of Anastasio Somoza García, who ordered Sandino's murder.
        In the 1940's Mr. Cuadra broke with the Somoza dictatorship and became an outspoken advocate for Nicaragua's poor, embracing liberation theology and other intellectual currents the dictatorship considered subversive. He could not, however, bring himself to support the leftist Sandinista regime, which deposed the Somozas in 1979, and for several years thereafter he lived in self-imposed exile in Costa Rica and Texas.
        This political trajectory, seemingly full of contradictions, expressed what Mr. Cuadra considered a consistent ideology. It was his own blend of Catholicism, Spanish monarchism, sympathy for the oppressed and the legacy of the authoritarian caudillos who dominated Nicaragua in the 19th century.
        Pablo Antonio Cuadra Cardenal's name reflected that he was a scion of the aristocracy of Granada, Nicaragua. Both the Cuadra and Cardenal families were pillars of the Conservative party, which was based in Granada, a stately colonial city on the shore of Lake Nicaragua. He was born in Managua, the capital, on Nov. 4, 1912, but his parents soon took him back to Granada, and he lived there for most of the next 40 years. He is now buried there.
        Mr. Cuadra studied law but dropped out because, he later recalled, ''I was horrified at the idea of working as a lawyer.'' He and one of his brothers ran a farm and an adjacent lumberyard, and to buy wood he traveled widely through remote parts of Nicaragua, an experience that he said marked him for life.
        While still a teenager, Mr. Cuadra and a handful of other visionary Nicaraguan poets founded a literary movement they called Vanguard, dedicated to affirming their native heritage but also to pulling their country out of its provincialism and integrating it into world culture. He edited several literary journals, including El Pez y La Serpiente (The Fish and the Serpent), which was highly influential in Latin America.
        In 1954, Mr. Cuadra also became co-director of Nicaragua's crusading newspaper La Prensa. His cousin and partner, Pedro Joaquín Chamorro Cardenal, was assassinated in 1978, evidently by supporters of the Somoza dictatorship.
        Mr. Cuadra won many literary honors, among them the Gabriela Mistral Inter-American Cultural Prize, awarded by the Organization of American States in 1991.
        He is survived by his wife, Adilia, and several children and grandchildren.
        Mr. Cuadra's death set off a flood of emotional tributes in Nicaragua. His death mask is to be cast in silver and given a place of honor in the National Palace of Culture in Managua. His country's homage is reminiscent of a verse in one of his later poems, ''Epitaph for a Poet.''
        The poet always arrives where no one receives him
        and lives that way until death comes;
        only then, when even death will not receive him
        does everyone hear his song.
      