
        Dr. Harold P. Furth, an architect and leader of American efforts to harness thermonuclear fusion for the generation of electricity, died yesterday in a hospital in Philadelphia. He was 72.
        The cause was a heart ailment, according to the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory, where he worked.
        As director of the laboratory from 1981 to 1990, Dr. Furth oversaw the greatest accomplishment in American fusion research -- a warehouse-size experiment known as the Tokamak Fusion Test Reactor. (''Tokamak'' is an acronym of three Russian words that mean ''toroidal magnetic chamber,'' referring to the doughnut-shaped reactor that housed the ultrahot gases.)
        In 1986, the reactor reached a record high temperature of 360 million degrees Fahrenheit, or 10 times as hot as the core of the sun.
        In 1995, they raised the record to 920 million degrees.
        Dr. Furth in 1971 was also one of the researchers who came up with a fundamental concept that enabled the reactor to reach its ultrahot temperatures. Later he was instrumental in conceiving the project and getting it built.
        ''He was the father of the Tokamak Fusion Test Reactor,'' said Dr. N. Anne Davies, director of the office of fusion energy sciences at the Department of Energy. ''He was really one of the giants of the fusion program.''
        Born in Vienna, Harold Paul Furth immigrated to the United States in 1941. He received his undergraduate degree from Harvard in 1951 and completed his physics doctorate at Harvard in 1960. He worked at the Lawrence Radiation Laboratory in Livermore, Calif., before joining the Plasma Physics Laboratory in 1967. He was also a professor of astrophysical sciences at Princeton.
        In his early work, he built supermagnets that generated brief bursts of magnetic fields so powerful that they vaporized metal. Later, he shifted to work on fusion, in which hydrogen atoms fuse together into helium, producing large bursts of energy.
        An unrestrained, cascading fusion reaction produces the annihilative power of the hydrogen bomb. But scientists also envisioned controlled fusion as a potentially unlimited energy source -- just as steady fusion produces the light and heat of the sun.
        Dr. Furth and other fusion researchers worked to use magnetic fields to confine hydrogen plasma -- a state of matter that exists at high temperatures, when electrons are stripped away from atomic nucleii.
        In the 1960's, he was one of the scientists who worked out a theory to explain how small electrical resistance in the plasma could cause the plasma to fall apart. The finding enabled reactor designers to work around the problem.
        ''Harold was a fusion Renaissance man,'' said Dr. Dale M. Meade, former deputy director of the Plasma Physics Laboratory. ''He was an ingenious theorist on one side. He was a master builder of experiments and he was the architect of the magnetic fusion program.''
        Dr. Furth also led the design efforts for a later reactor, but it was never built, because the urgency of the energy crisis of the 1970's faded. The Princeton Tokamak reactor was shut down in 1997, and its accomplishments have been eclipsed by a newer fusion reactor in England.
        Dr. Furth was a member of the National Academy of Sciences and published more than 200 technical papers.
        He is survived by his wife, Christiane Ludescher of Princeton; a son, John Furth of New York City; and a sister, Inge Steer of Shelton, Conn.
        In lighter moments, Dr. Furth also dabbled in poetry. He had one poem published in The New Yorker on Nov. 10, 1956. In the poem, ''Perils of Modern Living,'' he imagined Dr. Edward Teller, head of the hydrogen bomb program, meeting a twin made of antimatter.
        Then, shouting gladly o'er the sands,
        Met two who in their alien ways
        Were like as lentils. Their right hands
        Clasped, and the rest was gamma rays.
      