
        Peter Gzowski, the rumpled host of a national radio program in Canada whose gentle, homey tones gave voice to a generation of Canadians searching for their national identity, died on Jan. 24 in Toronto. He was 67.
        The cause was chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, a severe form of emphysema, a family spokesman said.
        Largely unknown in the United States, Mr. Gzowski (pronounced ZAH-ski) was instantly recognizable to Canadians and loved by many, though not all. His gravely voice, roughened by a smoker's cough, was as familiar as the neighbor next door to listeners to his programs on the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation.
        A successful author, Mr. Gzowski recently described with brutal frankness his long struggle to stop smoking.
        ''If you've decided to quit, you will,'' he wrote in ''How to Quit Smoking in 50 Years or Less,'' which was included in the book called ''Addicted: Notes from the Belly of the Beast,'' published last fall in Canada by Greystone Books. ''If you haven't, you should put your affairs in order.''
        His most popular radio program was ''Morningside,'' which ran from 1982 to 1997. It was a three-hour-a-day heap of interviews, comments and Canadian oddities, like the school principal who agreed to eat a live worm if his students met scholastic goals. ''Morningside'' reached 1.5 million listeners, but as its audience aged, its support declined.
        In a journalistic career spanning six decades, Mr. Gzowski also worked for several newspapers, including The Moose Jaw Times-Herald. At 28 he became managing editor of Maclean's, Canada most important weekly news magazine.
        In 1976, after a stint on national radio, Mr. Gzowski was host of a late night television talk show, ''90 Minutes Live,'' on the CBC. It flopped. Television cameras highlighted all the flaws that radio hid: Mr. Gzowski's lumpy wardrobe, his disobedient head of hair and the ravages of severe adolescent acne that were only partly hidden by a scruffy beard. So nervous on the set that he had to hide his shaking hands, Mr. Gzowski could not defend the program, which he said even he did not like.
        He returned to radio and cemented his stature as the voice of Canada. He championed all things Canadian, from Inuit throat singing to overlooked Canadian literature. Alice Munro, the Canadian short story writer who usually shuns interviews, took part regularly in his programs.
        ''His listeners felt that he trusted them to take an adult interest in their country,'' Ms. Munro said in a Globe & Mail tribute after his death. ''And their response showed how ther lives were opened and their days warmed by such easy courtesy, such comfortable respect.''
        Peter Gzowski was born in Toronto on July 13, 1934, the only son of Margaret Brown and Harold Gzowski. At 14, he ran away from home to seek his paternal grandfather, who helped him get into Ridley College, a private high school.
        Mr. Gzowski attended the University of Toronto and edited the campus newspaper. He did not graduate, but in later years was awarded doctorates from 12 universities, including Trent University in Peterborough, Ontario, which in 1999 named him chancellor. He won an international Peabody Award in 1997 for his radio work, and in 1999 was named a companion of the Order of Canada.
        He wrote or contributed to 16 books, including ''The Game of Our Lives,'' about hockey.
        Mr. Gzowski's marriage to the former Jennie Lissaman ended in divorce. He is survived by their five children, Alison, John, Maria, Mick and Peter, and by his companion, Gillian Howard.
      