
        Waylon Jennings, the leather-voiced singer and songwriter who was at the center of ''outlaw'' country music, died yesterday at his home in Chandler, Ariz. He was 64.
        He had suffered from diabetes-related health problems, The Associated Press reported.
        In a career that began in the 1950's, Mr. Jennings became a country icon: a bearded man in a black hat, part cowboy, part rambler and always his own man. He appeared on more than 60 albums, including collaborations with Willie Nelson, Johnny Cash and Kris Kristofferson; he sold more than 40 million albums and singles worldwide, including 16 No. 1 country hits. His songs, which often marched along on the oompah of his thumb picking the lower strings of his Telecaster guitar, were a Texas blend of rockabilly, honky-tonk, rock and blues. ''I've always felt that blues, rock 'n' roll and country are just about a beat apart,'' he once said.
        Mr. Jennings was born on June 15, 1937, in Littlefield, Tex. By the time he was 12 he was performing with a country band and working as a disc jockey on a local radio station. He dropped out of the 10th grade, and moved to Lubbock, Tex., in 1954, where he performed on the radio station KLLL. There, he met Buddy Holly in 1955.
        He joined Holly's band, playing bass, in 1958, and Holly produced Mr. Jennings's first single, a version of the Cajun song ''Jole Blon.'' One cold night on a package tour with Holly, Mr. Jennings gave up his seat on a private airplane to J. P. Richardson, a k a the Big Bopper. According to Mr. Jennings's 1997 autobiography, ''Waylon'' (Warner Books), he told Holly, ''I hope your ol' plane crashes.'' The plane, which also carried Ritchie Valens, crashed in Clear Lake, Iowa, on Feb. 3, 1959.
        Mr. Jennings returned to Lubbock to work as a disc jockey, then moved to Phoenix and started a band, the Waylors. At a local club, JD's, he recorded a live album that was released in 1964. By then he had moved to Los Angeles, where he made an unsuccessful album for A&M Records. In 1965 Chet Atkins signed Mr. Jennings to RCA Records.
        Mr. Jennings moved to Nashville, at first living there with Johnny Cash. His long string of country hit singles began in the mid-1960's with songs like ''Only Daddy That'll Walk the Line'' in 1968. He won a Grammy Award for a version of ''MacArthur Park'' recorded with the Kimberleys. In 1970 his country hits included a duet version of ''Suspicious Minds'' with his fourth wife, Jessi Colter, whom he had married in 1969. She survives him, along with their son, Waylon Albright; her daughter, Jennifer; and five children from Mr. Jennings's previous marriages: Terry, Tomi Lynn, Julie, Deana and Buddy.
        But Mr. Jennings grew frustrated with the Nashville system of making country records, in which producers choose songs and singers are backed by interchangeable studio bands. Mr. Jennings, along with Mr. Nelson and Mr. Cash, decided to do things differently. ''We just couldn't do it the way it was set up,'' Mr. Jennings recalled.
        He started producing his own recordings in 1972. At one point he supposedly threatened to shoot the fingers off any musician who looked at sheet music instead of playing by feeling. Soon afterward, he began recording with his road band instead of studio musicians.
        The change invigorated both Mr. Jennings's music and his career. His 1972 hit, ''Good-Hearted Woman,'' and his albums ''Lonesome, On'ry and Mean'' and ''Honky-Tonk Heroes'' in 1973 and ''This Time,'' co-produced with Mr. Nelson in 1974,  defined his music -- country without strings or sweetening -- and his larger-than-life persona. His 1974 hit, ''Ramblin' Man,'' reached pop radio stations as well as country ones. He was named Male Vocalist of the Year by the Country Music Association in 1975.
        In 1976 Mr. Jennings, Mr. Nelson, Ms. Colter and the songwriter and producer Tompall Glaser collaborated on ''Wanted: The Outlaws,'' the first million-selling album recorded in Nashville. A duet version of ''Good-Hearted Woman,'' with Mr. Nelson, was a No. 1 country single and a pop hit, and the album was named Album of the Year by the  Country Music Association. Mr. Jennings continued to have country hits including ''Are You Sure Hank Done It This Way,'' ''Ain't Living Long Like This'' and ''I've Always Been Crazy.'' Mr. Jennings and Mr. Nelson made an album together in 1978 and won a Grammy Award for their duet ''Mamas, Don't Let Your Babies Grow Up to Be Cowboys.''
        In 1980, Mr. Jennings sang the theme for the television show ''The Dukes of Hazzard,'' and was the series' narrator. In the early 1980's he made a duet album with his wife, another album of duets with singers including Ernest Tubb and Emmylou Harris, and a second duet album with Mr. Nelson, ''WWII.'' He teamed up with Mr. Nelson, Mr. Cash and Mr. Kristofferson as the Highwaymen, and went on to tour with them through the years.
        With success came excess. Mr. Jennings was abusing amphetamines and cocaine, developing a habit that, he said, cost as much as $1,500 a day. ''I was the happiest druggie you ever saw,'' he wrote. ''If they hadn't been killing me, and killing the people around me, I'd probably still be doing them.'' In 1984, after what he described as 21 years of drug abuse, he gave up the habit. He later would say he had narrowly avoided what he called, in a song, ''The Hank Williams Syndrome.'' He described it as, ''Come to Nashville, write some good songs, cut some hit records, make money, take all the drugs you can and drink all you can, become a wild man and all of a sudden die.''
        He moved to MCA Records in 1985, and in 1987 put together a frank  autobiographical program, ''A Man Called Hoss,'' which included the country hit ''My Rough and Rowdy Days.'' He earned a high-school equivalency degree in 1989.
        During the 1990's Mr. Jennings's songs grew more blunt than ever, including his 1992 album, '' ''Too Dumb for New York City, Too Ugly for L. A.'' (Epic). He made a children's album, ''Cowboys, Sisters, Rascals, and Dirt,'' in 1993.
        In 1996, he played a few dates on the Lollapalooza tour headlined by  Metallica. Sting and Sheryl Crow sang on his 1998 album, ''Closing in on the Fire.'' And in 2000, Mr. Jennings recorded concerts at the Ryman Auditorium in Nashville for ''Never Say Die Live.''
        ''As long as you are honest and up front with me,'' he once said, ''I will be the same with you. But I still do things my way.''
      