
        John E. Bebout, an expert on state constitutions, died on Feb. 1 in Hyannis, Mass. He was 98 and lived in Wellfleet, Mass.
        He was involved in the seven-year struggle that led in 1947 to a replacement for New Jersey's Constitution, which critics had called a horse-and-buggy document. The new Constitution gave more scope and responsibility to the executive branch.
        Mr. Bebout (pronounced BEE-bowt) was the executive vice president of the New Jersey Constitution Foundation and an aide to Gov. Charles A. Edison Jr.
        He was an adviser in the drafting of Constitutions for the new states of Alaska and Hawaii and assisted with changes in those of Missouri and Rhode Island.
        He was staff director of New York's Temporary State Commission on the Revision and Simplification of the Constitution in 1959, when it advocated a broad expansion of local home-rule powers in the state.
        He believed that constitutional changes could make local as well as state governments more efficient, economical and responsible. He worked to eliminate what he saw as antiquated restrictions that reflected 19th-century concerns about corruption in state governments.
        Mr. Bebout, who was trained as a political scientist, was a professor at Rutgers and the director of its Urban Studies Center from 1960 to 1969. He also taught at New York University, the University of Texas, Western Reserve University and elsewhere before retiring from his teaching and consulting work in the mid-1970's.
        He was a co-author of ''Where Cities Meet: The Urbanization of New Jersey,'' published in 1964.
        John Elber Bebout was born in Westwood, N.J., grew up in Long Hill, N.J., and graduated summa cum laude from Rutgers. He received a master's degree in political science from Rutgers and did further graduate work in political science at Princeton and Columbia.
        His wife, the former Ann Reed, died last year.
        He is survived by two sons, Hugh of Newton, N.J., and John of North Eastham, Mass.; two daughters, Judith Bebout of Stockton, N.J., and Alice Bebout of Lambertville, N.J.; a sister, Betty Harrington of Cape May, N.J.; four stepgrandchildren; and five stepgreat-grandchildren.
      