
        Rosemary Woodruff, who was married to the psychedelic guru Timothy Leary, designed their flamboyant wardrobe and spent much of her life living underground after helping him escape from prison, died on Feb. 7 at her home in Aptos, Calif., near San Jose. She was 66.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said Denis Berry, her friend and housemate.
        Rosemary Sarah Woodruff, born in St. Louis, met Mr. Leary, a psychologist and former Harvard professor, in 1965 and accepted an invitation to visit him at the estate in Millbrook, N.Y., that he used for his experimenting with LSD. She became his third wife in 1967.
        Their relationship was punctuated by a series of drug arrests. In 1968, she was sentenced to six months' imprisonment in a California drug case, while Mr. Leary, with a long history of drug involvement, drew 28 years and was sent to the minimum-security prison at San Luis Obispo.
        Ms. Woodruff, free on bail pending  appeal, worked with the radical group Weather Underground and others to help Mr. Leary escape from prison in 1970. With forged passports, the couple fled the country, seeking refuge first with Eldridge Cleaver at his Black Panther ''embassy'' in Algeria, then separating in 1971 and hiding individually in other countries. Mr. Leary was captured in Afghanistan in 1973, sent back to the United States and again imprisoned.
        But Ms. Woodruff lived in hiding for 23 years, abroad and in the United States, before surrendering to the California authorities. In 1994, a judge threw out the charges against her, saying that no purpose would be served by pursuing them after so much time and that Ms. Woodruff's ailing mother needed her care.
        Mr. Leary, meanwhile, had left  prison after his parole in 1976 arm in arm with Joanna Harcourt-Smith, who described herself at the time as his wife, although Mr. Leary said in a later interview that they had never married. In 1978, he did marry again, wedding Barbara Chase; they divorced 12 years later.
        As for his marriage to Ms. Woodruff, she learned by reading in a gossip column in 1976, while still a fugitive, that a Los Angeles judge had dissolved it, granting Mr. Leary a divorce petition he had filed without her knowledge.
        Ms. Woodruff again grew closer to Mr. Leary before his death in 1996, and became executor of his estate. In her last years, she lectured at the University of California at Santa Cruz for a course about the 1960's.
        She is survived by a brother, Gary Woodruff of Long Beach, Calif.
        Last May, Ms. Woodruff gave her fifth and final annual farewell party for Mr. Leary. She passed out 75  plastic bags with small portions of his cremated remains (some of which had been rocketed into space in 1997 in a well-publicized fulfillment of his wishes). Mixed with the ashes in the bags was body glitter. Ms. Woodruff wanted the remains to sparkle when the guests tossed them into the air.
      