
        Pauline Trigère, the Paris-born designer who was not only her own best model but also an elegant and chic symbol of the American fashion industry for more than half a century, died at her home on the East Side of Manhattan last night, said her daughter-in-law Melanie Radley. She was 93.
        ''Fashion is what people tell you to wear,'' she often said. ''Style is what comes from your own inner thing.'' She herself was an exemplar of style, and was described by her peers as ''a truly intellectual designer'' and ''a creator of timeless fashion'' in ready-to-wear clothes.
        Her 50th anniversary in fashion, a milestone reached by no other designer in this country, was celebrated in 1992 at a benefit fashion show and dinner at the Fashion Institute of Technology in Manhattan. It was attended by 600 of the most influential names in design, manufacturing and retailing, as well as by scores of social and theater personalities who were both clients and friends. The following year, at a ceremony at Lincoln Center, Miss Trigère received the Lifetime Achievement Award from the Council of Fashion Designers of America.
        She was noted not only for her designing skills, but also for her tailoring and such touches as constructing dresses with no obvious seams.
        She did not sketch her designs: in the tradition of Lanvin and Chanel, she cut and draped from bolts of fabric. Her clothes were worn by such women as Mrs. John Hay Whitney, Beverly Sills, Evelyn Lauder, Rita Gam and Dina Merrill.
        Miss Trigère wore only her own designs, and she generally punctuated them with several of her trademark turtle pins. She was known both for her meticulous grooming and for a charm that surmounted her blunt, sometimes impolitic comments, spoken in a Gallic accent she never lost.
        On occasion a prima donna, a description she never challenged (she once told an assistant ''There is room for only one prima donna around here, and that's me''), she was often impatient. But her displays of temper were brief. She admitted that she was outspoken to a fault, but seemed to revel in that image. A woman meeting her at a social event once gushed, ''Oh, Miss Trigère, I have a dress of yours that I've worn for 25 years.'' The designer fixed her with an icy glance and said, ''Just what am I to do with that piece of information?''
        Once, when she was approached by two retailers while dining in a restaurant after one of her shows, she asked them, ''Did you come to copy or to buy?''
        She was also a woman of strong beliefs. In 1961, she became the first name designer to use an African- American model. She rarely hesitated to offer an opinion and had no reservations about discussing her life and background -- with one exception. She steadfastly refused to reveal her age and sloughed off questions on the subject with ''I'm past 75, I still walk, and I don't dye my hair blond and I don't touch it up.'' For years, a silver streak intersected her simple hair style, but gradually she allowed the streak to evolve into a blend of salt sprinkled with pepper.
        She finally revealed her age in 1998 when she held a 90th-birthday party for herself with 200 guests at La Grenouille restaurant in Manhattan. (During the festivities she announced that her age on the invitation had been printed upside down).
        Unlike almost all other name designers, who stage their shows without commentary and emerge only at the finale to the sound of applause, Miss Trigère usually stood on the stage during her presentations, eyes partly obscured by tinted glasses, and talked about each design as it appeared. She interspersed information about fabric and style with somewhat Rabelaisian humor. Typical of her remarks was one she made at the appearance of a dress with a particularly revealing décolletage. ''You can see the boobs better,'' she said. During a personal appearance, she was asked what she really wanted to be. ''A courtesan,'' she replied.
        Miss Trigère was born in 1908 in the Pigalle district of Paris to Russian-Jewish parents. Her mother was a dressmaker and her father a tailor who had made military uniforms for Russian aristocrats. She grew up behind the shop in Paris and picked up pins for a few centimes a week. She remembered designing her first dress in her early teens, although, she said, she never particularly wanted or intended to be in the fashion business. As a young woman, she preferred taking part in amateur theatrical productions and even thought of becoming a surgeon, an ambition nipped by her father before it was even a bud.
        She married Lazar Radley, a Russian immigrant and a tailor, because, she said, ''I was young, my mother worried about me, he wanted to marry me and so I did.'' She had two sons before her husband, increasingly concerned about the rise of Hitler, decided to leave France. The Radleys left Paris in 1937 and were bound for Chile with what was to be a brief stopover in New York. But, she recalled, ''New York captured my heart,'' and the family settled in Manhattan.
        Within a short time, the Radleys opened a small tailoring business with Miss Trigère's brother, Robert.
        Five years later, in 1942, Mr. Radley walked out on the marriage, leaving his wife to bring up the two children. Some years later, he wrote to ask for a divorce. Miss Trigère signed the papers and never heard from him again. She did not remarry, but she had several of what she termed ''longstanding friendships.''
        ''Don't say 'beaux' -- I hate the word 'beau,' '' she always exclaimed when the subject came up.
        She is survived by her two sons, Jean-Pierre Radley and Philippe Radley and a granddaughter, Karen, all of Manhattan.
        Although the original business ended when Mr. Radley left, the following year, Miss Trigère and her brother were back with a collection of 11 styles. Within three years, her name was a recognized one in fashion. In the ensuing decades, she received, in addition to three Coty Awards and inclusion in the Coty Hall of Fame, major fashion awards from Neiman Marcus and Filene's, the National Cotton Award and both the silver and the vermeil medals of the City of Paris.
        In addition to creating women's fashions, at various times Miss Trigère also designed scarves, jewelry and men's ties. She also developed her own perfume, called Trigère.
        Although new and younger designers gradually replaced her at the top of the fashion hierarchy, and a number of stores that had been important customers went out of business, Miss Trigère continued to design collections and to take part in fashion press weeks until 1994. She closed her ready-to-wear business at that time, partly because several of her principal accounts went into bankruptcy, owing her money. She moved out of her prestigious Seventh Avenue showrooms and took a small space elsewhere in the fashion district, forming a company called P. T. Concepts to market her scarves and jewelry. It was during this period that she underwent several eye and throat operations. She gave up even her smaller space in 2000.
        Despite her sophistication, she never lost a sense of delight and wonder at the friendships she enjoyed with many of the illustrious names in the fashion, arts, business and political worlds. She entertained frequently, both in her Manhattan apartment and at her country house, called La Tortue (the Turtle), in South Salem, N.Y. She was known as an excellent cook, and in both homes the atmosphere was informal but carefully orchestrated. She was one of the first hostesses to set a formal table but to have guests follow her into the kitchen to pick up their second courses buffet style.
        Once she bought her country house, she spent several years tripling its size. ''I'm engaged, married and completely devoted to this house,'' she once said. She was equally passionate about the grounds, and was a dedicated and knowledgeable gardener.
        She was dedicated, also, to her adopted country.
        ''People always say to me, 'Aren't you French?' and I say, 'No, I am American,' '' she said. ''I found in this country everything I wanted. This country made me Pauline Trigère.''
        Shortly after her 90th birthday, she told friends that she had left instructions that she wanted to be cremated wearing her trademark bright red lipstick. ''What does it matter?'' one friend asked. ''Who will know whether or not you have lipstick on?''
        ''I'll know,'' she said.
        Miss Trigère's family said there would be a viewing tonight at the Riverside Memorial Chapel on the Upper West Side.
      