
        Dr. John Slade, an expert in the treatment of alcohol, tobacco and drug addictions and an early and ardent supporter of government regulation of cigarettes, died on Jan. 29 at a family home on Lake Burton in Rabun County, Ga. He was 52.
        The cause was a self-inflicted gunshot wound, said Lloyd Hunter, the Rabun County coroner, and the death was ruled a suicide. Dr. Slade had suffered a stroke last July.
        He was a pioneer in showing the addictive power of nicotine, and his work influenced the Food and Drug Administration as it moved to declare cigarettes a nicotine-delivery system that should fall under the agency's control.
        Dr. Slade, who lived in Skillman, N.J., had smoked briefly when he was receiving his medical training, and he understood the difficulties of quitting, said his wife, Frances. But his anti-tobacco feelings were deepened by the tobacco billboards he saw every day along Route 1 on his way to and from work.
        ''He was really conscious of how the tobacco advertising -- the marketing -- played on the psyche,'' Mrs. Slade said.
        ''He had been trained as an epidemiologist,'' she added, ''and he went: 'This is an infectious agent. This is the virus -- these signs, this marketing.' ''
        Eventually he stopped his car, photographed tobacco billboards and gave slide presentations about his observations.
        He also studied the companies' patents to determine how the nicotine levels were being altered.
        ''His whole specialty was in understanding exactly the ingredients that go into a lot of different tobacco products,'' said Nancy Kaufman, vice president of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, which focuses on health care.
        Dr. Slade testified before a subcommittee of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce in March 1994, carrying a beaker of tobacco extract and explaining his findings on nicotine levels.
        His work had gained the attention of Dr. David A. Kessler, who was the Food and Drug Administration commissioner under the elder President George Bush and President Bill Clinton.
        In his book ''A Question of Intent: A Great American Battle With a Deadly Industry,'' published last year, Dr. Kessler said of Dr. Slade, ''From the beginning of our investigation, he sent us a steady stream of information.''
        ''Over the years, he scoured the libraries and read everything he could find about the history and public health aspects of tobacco,'' Dr. Kessler wrote. ''He asked friends in banking and advertising to funnel information about the industry to him.''
        At a 1995 news conference, President Clinton called tobacco ''highly addictive'' and ordered the F.D.A. to restrict the advertising, promotion, distribution and marketing of cigarettes to teenagers.
        Ms. Kaufman of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation attended the news conference with Dr. Slade. ''Outside of the day that I married my wife,'' Ms. Kaufman quoted Dr. Slade as saying, ''this is the most incredible thing that has ever happened to me, because it culminates all the work I put in.''
        The same day, the tobacco industry sued to block the F.D.A. from regulating the sale and promotion of cigarettes. In March 2000, the Supreme Court ruled that the agency had not received authority from Congress to regulate tobacco products.
        Dr. Slade, whose license plates read ''NO CIGS,'' was a member of the team that conducted the first scholarly analysis of tobacco company documents, which formed the basis for the film ''The Insider.'' His analysis led to a series of articles in The Journal of the American Medical Association and the book ''The Cigarette Papers'' (1996), an edited compendium of the documents with commentary.
        John Downey Slade was born in Atlanta on Feb. 19, 1949. He graduated from Oberlin College and from the Emory School of Medicine. In 1998, he was appointed professor of medicine at the Robert Wood Johnson Medical School.
        He was also the director of the program for addictions at the University of Medicine and Dentistry of the New Jersey School of Public Health, and he assisted New Jersey in developing its tobacco prevention and treatment program.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Slade is survived by his parents, Dr. John de R. Slade and Dr. Helen Benedict Slade of Atlanta, and two brothers, Stephen, of Atlanta, and Michael, of San Francisco.
      