
        William Davis Taylor, the publisher of The Boston Globe for 22 years, until 1978, died on Tuesday at his home in Brookline, Mass. He was 93.
        Mr. Taylor followed his father and grandfather as publisher, the third of five members of a family dynasty that led The Globe from its founding in 1872. The paper was acquired by The New York Times Company in 1993.
        Under his stewardship, The Globe grew to be New England's leading daily, drawing national attention with prize-winning articles and enjoying a steady growth in circulation, to 450,000 on weekdays and 569,000 on Sunday. Mr. Taylor oversaw its move from its original building downtown to new quarters in the Dorchester section.
        Mr. Taylor was known as a publisher who gave his editors free rein, although it was only with his assent  that The Globe in October 1973 became an early editorial voice calling on President Richard M. Nixon to resign.
        Mr. Taylor, a native of Boston, graduated from Harvard in 1931. He joined The Globe that year as a junior accountant and worked in all its departments on his way up.
        He was named treasurer in 1937, general manager in 1940 and publisher in 1955, upon the death of his father, William O. Taylor. His grandfather Charles H. Taylor was the founder.
        After retirement as publisher in 1978, Mr. Taylor remained chairman of Affiliated Publications Inc., then the paper's parent, until 1981. He was succeeded as publisher by a son, like his grandfather named William O., who held the post when the Times Company acquired The Globe from the Taylor family; a nephew, Benjamin B. Taylor, was later publisher.
        William Davis Taylor was a past president and director of the American Newspaper Publishers Association, a trustee of the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution and a member of the board of overseers of Harvard University.
        His first wife, Mary Hammond Taylor, died in 1947. He is survived by their children, William O., of Boston, and Anna T. Caleb of Enosburg Falls, Vt. Also surviving are his wife of 54 years, Ann Macy Taylor; their four children, Margaret M. Kane of New Haven, Wendy E. Patriquin of Dover, Mass., Thomas M., of Edgartown, Mass., and James M., of York, Me.; 16 grandchildren; and 6 great-grandchildren.
      