
        Sir Walter Winterbottom, the first coach of the English national team and the man who presided over the two most shocking defeats in English soccer history, died on Saturday in Guildford, England. He was 89.
        Sir Walter, a native of Oldham, England, had a brief and undistinguished career as a professional player. He appeared in 27 matches for Manchester United before a spinal disease forced him to quit during the 1937-38 season.
        After serving as a Royal Air Force wing commander during World War II, Sir Walter became the English Football Association's first full-time coach in 1946, at age 33, holding the position until 1962.
        During his tenure, England, the insular and protective birthplace of soccer, joined the rest of the soccer world in the international governing body, FIFA, and participated in its first World Cup, in Brazil in 1950 (20 years after the first tournament was held in Uruguay).
        It was in Belo Horizonte that a team of journeymen from the United States recorded an amazing 1-0 victory over Sir Walter's English side on June 29.
        ''After England's disastrous performance at the 1950 World Cup in Brazil, Walter produced a prophetic report which recommended the essential need for better qualified English coaches to concentrate entirely on the development of technique and skill in the very young,'' Howard Wilkinson, the English Football Association's head of coaching, said on the organization's Web site.
        Wilkinson also remembered how Sir Walter promoted lighted training areas to allow evening workouts and recommended that the Football Association have its own center, ''a 'home,' as he put it.''
        Three years after the disappointment in Brazil, the Hungarian national team, known as the Magical Magyars, became the first interloper from the European continent to beat the English at their own game on their home soil. It was not simply a victory but also a seminal moment in English soccer, an eye-popping 6-3 defeat that forced officials to reassess their tactical approach to the game. Nandor Hidegkuti, who scored three goals for Hungary in that game, died last week.
        In most nations, two defeats of such soaring proportion would have cost a coach his job. Sir Walter, however, kept his position and coached England in the 1954 World Cup in Switzerland. England never advanced past the quarterfinals in the 1954, 1958 and 1962 World Cup tournaments. Sir Walter resigned four months after the 1962 tournament, only to see England win the championship, its only World Cup title, as the host nation in 1966.
        Sir Walter remains the most successful postwar coach of England with 79 victories, 28 losses and 32 draws. He was awarded an Order of the British Empire in 1963, named a Commander of the British Empire in 1972 and was given a knighthood in 1978 for his services to sports.
        Sir Walter is survived by his wife of 60 years, Ann, and two daughters.
      