
        Gordon Matthews, who in the 1970's invented voice mail, which is now used by about 80 percent of large American corporations, died on Saturday in a hospital in Dallas. He was 65 and lived in Austin, Tex.
        The cause was complications related to a stroke he suffered on Feb. 20 at a hotel in Dallas, The Associated Press reported.
        After varieties of telephone answering machines were invented in the 1920's and 1930's, voice mail had its own limited beginnings in the late 1970's.
        Accounts of how Mr. Matthews, an entrepreneur as well as an inventor, came to invent voice mail differ. One version is that he was stuck in heavy rain when he noticed in a nearby dump a large bunch of pink ''While You Were Out'' message slips.
        That sight is said to have given him the idea that an apparatus permitting callers to record substantial messages in their own voices could help do away with the multitudes of message slips and unfinished and mixed-up messages that were burdening modern communications, notably in corporations.
        Mr. Matthews formed the concept of voice mail in his mind during the 1970's. In 1979, he applied for a patent. Competitors were interested in voice mail technology, but he is said to have been the first into the workplace. The next year, the first Matthews equipment was bought by the Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Corporation.
        But the first voice mail machine that was brought into reality by his company, which later became VMX Inc., did not actually answer the telephone. Employees could leave a message for other employees only without ringing the telephone. That limited the early machine's appeal to companies.
        In the early 1980's, Mr. Matthews and VMX, which stands for Voice Message Express, patented voice mail. But in those years, voice mail computers were too large, too undependable and too costly to interest most corporations.
        With time, however, technological advances made it possible to employ smaller equipment. Voice mail machines used early in the 1980's were as large as half a dozen refrigerators. By 1992, the machines took up less space than an ordinary filing cabinet with three drawers.
        Voice mail systems also became more dependable and less expensive. Twenty hours of storage capacity cost around $13,000 by 1992, compared with $180,000 early in the 1980's.
        Voice mail also became more flexible, offering options attractive to a wide variety of potential customers, from sales representatives to journalists.
        Voice mail's role in American life grew larger. By 1989, Mr. Matthews said, his company was earning royalties in the ''tens of millions of dollars.'' And by 1992, over 40 million people were hearing the measured, clear, recorded voice of one woman, Jane Barbe, saying things like ''Please press one for more options'' to callers who were reaching a growing number of voice mail systems.
        Modern voice mail consists of a single central answering machine that uses a recorded message to request that callers leave a message. The person whose number a caller has called can get access to the messages by calling from the office or elsewhere.
        At his death, Mr. Matthews held more than 35 United States and foreign patents.
        He was born in Tulsa, Okla., grew up there and graduated in 1959 from the University of Tulsa, where he studied engineering as well as physics.
        He went on to be a Marine aviator and to work for I.B.M. and Texas Instruments. He also spent 13 years with VMX Inc., based in Dallas, before selling it and retiring for a while. Last year, he became an executive of the VTEL Corporation, based in Austin, whose business is videoconferencing equipment. The company changed its name to Forgent Networks in January.
        He is survived by his wife, Monika; and a daughter, Christina Matthews, of Austin.
      