
        Jim Spencer, a power-hitting first baseman and outstanding fielder who played for the Yankees' 1978 World Series champions, died Sunday in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 54.
        The cause was a heart attack, his mother, Helen Spencer, said.
        Spencer, who lived in Sykesville, Md., and Sarasota, Fla., died at a hotel after having appeared Saturday night in a benefit game for the Joe DiMaggio Children's Hospital in Hollywood, Fla.
        Playing in the American League from 1968 to 1982 -- with the California Angels, the Texas Rangers, the Chicago White Sox, the Yankees and the Oakland Athletics -- Spencer had 146 home runs and a career batting average of .250. He played in the 1973 All-Star Game and won Gold Glove awards for fielding in 1970 and 1977. He led American League first basemen in fielding four times in the 1970's.
        Spencer, a left-handed batter, came to the Yankees from the White Sox in 1978. He played in 71 games for the Yankee team that completed one of baseball's greatest comebacks by defeating the Boston Red Sox for the pennant on Bucky Dent's playoff-game home run at Fenway Park. Spencer, who hit .227 that season, popped out with two runners on as the batter who preceded Dent.
        The Yankees did not win the pennant the next season, but Spencer batted .288 and hit 23 home runs. He slumped to .236 in 1980, when the Yankees were swept by the Kansas City Royals in the playoffs.
        When he reported to spring training in 1981, Spencer complained to press about excessive platooning the previous summer by Manager Dick Howser, who departed after the 1980 season, and pressure from George Steinbrenner, the Yankee owner, who was unhappy with Spencer's lack of production at the plate.
        ''I know he thinks he's motivating players that way, but I've played 16 years and I don't need that kind of motivation,'' Spencer said of Steinbrenner. ''I don't need harassment.''
        Less than two months later, the Yankees tried to trade Spencer to Pittsburgh, but Bowie Kuhn, then the baseball commissioner, vetoed the deal because the Yankees would have given the Pirates $850,000, exceeding Kuhn's limits for cash transactions. In May, the Yankees sent Spencer to the Athletics.
        After his playing career ended, Spencer was an assistant baseball coach at Navy, and he worked briefly as a scout for the Yankees.
        He is survived by his wife, Susan; two daughters, Jessica Spencer, of Linthicum, Md., and Jamie Spencer, of Sykesville; his parents, Lloyd and Helen, of Westminster, Md.; and a sister, Deborah Duvall, of Jacksonville, N.C.
      