
        Ed Jucker, who coached the University of Cincinnati basketball team to three consecutive N.C.A.A. tournament finals and won the first two, died Saturday at his home on Callawassie Island, S.C., near Hilton Head Island.
        He was 85 and had prostate cancer, his wife, Joanne, said.
        After seven years as an assistant at Cincinnati, his alma mater, Jucker became the head coach for 1960-61. Oscar Robertson, one of basketball history's outstanding players, had just graduated, and Jucker abandoned a successful racehorse offense and emphasized defense.
        His first team started with a 5-3 record. Then it won 22 consecutive games, culminating with a 70-65 overtime victory over Ohio State in the national championship final. The next season, it extended its winning streak to 37 games and went on to a 71-59 triumph, again over Ohio State, in the tournament final.
        The following season, Cincinnati ranked No. 1 in the nation in defense. In the N.C.A.A. final, it led Loyola of Chicago by 15 points with 14 minutes left, only to lose in overtime, 60-58. After two more seasons, Jucker resigned, saying the job pressure was affecting his health and his family.
        ''I hardly know my family,'' he said. ''I have four children growing up who hardly know me. They have got to come first.''
        His five-year record was 113-28. His N.C.A.A. tournament record was 11-1, the best ever. He explained his success this way:
        ''I wanted us to run only when we had the advantage, but to concentrate more on a half-court game, press and power the ball inside because of the makeup of our team. I firmly believe that their chances of making a 1-foot shot inside were better than those of hitting a long shot.''
        Bob Huggins, the current Cincinnati coach, said of Jucker, ''He set the standard for coaching excellence at the University of Cincinnati.'' Jucker wanted to be remembered for something else.
        ''I am proud that all my players graduated,'' he said, ''that all have done well through a lot of adversity and that they are all fine men.''
        Edwin Louis Jucker was born July 8, 1916, in Norwood, Ohio. He played on the basketball, baseball and golf teams at Cincinnati and served in the Navy in World War II.
        Before his Cincinnati tenure, he was an assistant coach at the United States Merchant Marine Academy and head coach at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. Later, he was coach of the Cincinnati Royals of the N.B.A. and Rollins College.
        In addition to his wife, Jucker is survived by two sons, Steven of Heathrow, Fla., and Kenneth of Gainesville, Fla.; two daughters, Judy Pregler of Memphis and Karen Reddig of Atlanta; a sister, Doris Flaig of Cincinnati; and five grandchildren.
        In Jucker's early years at Cincinnati, when he also coached the baseball team, he recruited a left-handed pitcher from Lafayette High School in Brooklyn and signed him to a basketball scholarship. After one season, that pitcher, Sandy Koufax, signed with the Brooklyn Dodgers.
      