
        Alain Vanzo, a leading French lyric tenor of the postwar generation, died on Jan. 27. He was 73 and lived in Gournay-sur-Marne near Paris.
        The cause was complications following a stroke, his family said.
        With a light, agile voice and a sensitivity to the nuances of the French language, Mr. Vanzo epitomized for many people a flowering of the French vocal style in ''Werther'' by Massenet and ''Faust'' by Gounod. But he also sang many Italian roles. Marked by cool restraint and focus on the text, the French style can seem self-effacing in comparison to the Italian one, which may have contributed to the fact that the tenor was not as widely appreciated by the public as some flashier contemporaries.
        Born in Monte Carlo, Fernand Albert Vanzo began singing as a boy soprano there and established his own music hall band at 18. His victory in a vocal competition in Cannes in 1954 paved his way to Paris debuts at the Opéra and the Opéra Comique.
        Soon a star in France, Mr. Vanzo had a flourishing international career as well. He sang to great acclaim at most of the world's major houses, from the Vienna State Opera to San Francisco. In 1973 he was one of five tenors invited to take part in celebrations of the Caruso centennial in Italy in the company of Mario del Monaco and Luciano Pavarotti.
        Yet on the international circuit it was his fate to be overshadowed by illustrious colleagues and partners. In 1961 he made his Covent Garden debut as Edgardo in Donizetti's ''Lucia di Lammermoor'' opposite no less a Lucia than Joan Sutherland. His New York debut at Carnegie Hall in 1965 coincided with the American debut of the soprano who was singing ''Lucrezia Borgia'' with him: Montserrat Caballé. (The recording of the event is still prized by collectors.)
        And in America he had to compete with Alfredo Kraus and Nicolai Gedda. One result was that his sole appearance on the Metropolitan Opera stage as Faust in 1977 was not with the Metropolitan Opera company but with the Paris Opéra.
        His career is, however, well documented in recordings, including ''Lakmé'' with Ms. Sutherland, ''Mireille'' with Mirella Freni and ''Mignon'' with Marilyn Horne. As he got older, he moved into slightly heavier parts like the title role in Berlioz's ''Benvenuto Cellini.'' . In 1985 at 57 he starred in the Paris Opéra's historic revival of ''Robert le Diable'' by Meyerbeer, which the company had not staged for some 90 years.
        A sometime composer, Mr. Vanzo had an operetta and an opera staged in French houses. In October, at 73, he gave two concerts at commemorative events in his honor, one at the Opéra de Marseille and one in his hometown. ''He was in fine voice,'' said Pierrette Vanzo, his wife of 52 years. In addition to Mrs. Vanzo, he is survived by a son, Philippe, and a grandson, Geoffray.
        Mady Mesplé, the soprano and a frequent vocal partner, told Le Monde that ''with him, a whole page of French lyric history has vanished.''
      