
        Robert L. Chapman, an editor of Roget's Thesaurus who built a distinguished career on the difference between the right word and the almost right word and who streamlined the work for postmodern users, died Saturday in Morristown, N.J. He was 81 and lived in Madison, N.J.
        Dr. Chapman, who had lived with a pre-leukemic condition for a decade, had been in declining health in recent months, his son Douglass Chapman said.
        A scholar of medieval literature who with his long face, white hair and neat beard looked every inch the part, Dr. Chapman was an emeritus professor of English at Drew University in Madison. He was also the editor of the fifth edition of Roget's International Thesaurus (HarperCollins, 1992), which has sold more than half a million copies, according to the publisher. (Roget's sixth edition, edited by Barbara Ann Kipfer, was published last year.)
        In addition, Dr. Chapman was also the editor of the New Dictionary of American Slang (1986) and the Thesaurus of American Slang (1989), both published by HarperCollins. He also edited the fourth edition of Roget's, published in 1977.
        With the fifth edition, Dr. Chapman pushed Roget's firmly into the postmodern age. Originally published in 1852, the thesaurus (from the Greek word for ''treasury'' or ''storehouse'') was the work of Peter Mark Roget (1779-1869), an English doctor. Seeking a project to occupy his retirement, Dr. Roget, a learned man of taxonomic bent, set about organizing English words and their synonyms into a vast collection, a compendium, which was published when he was 73.
        Roget's book was organized not alphabetically but thematically with families of related words appearing under the kind of abstract, Platonic subject headings dear to the hearts of literate Victorians, starting with ''Existence'' and ending with ''Religious Affections.''
        In preparing the fifth edition, a four-year undertaking, Dr. Chapman retained Roget's organizing principle, resisting pressure to list the entries in more user-friendly alphabetical order; ''It's jejune,'' he said.
        But he completely overhauled the subject headings to reflect modern concerns: the fifth edition opens with ''The Body and the Senses,'' runs through ''Occupations and Crafts'' and ends with ''Science and Technology.'' Beneath each heading words are grouped into smaller categories -- Dr. Chapman added 30 new ones -- like ''Substance Abuse,''  ''Fitness, Exercise'' and ''Computer Science.''
        Weighing in at 4 1/2 pounds, Roget's fifth edition runs 1,141 pages and comprises more than 325,000 words. As Dr. Chapman later described the editing process, he ''sifted, snifted, sorted and snorted'' vast computerized databases of contemporary texts to unearth thousands of words that Roget would have been hard-pressed to define: ''AIDS,''  ''yuppie,''  ''Lyme disease,''  ''infotainment,''  ''ibuprofen.'' Elsewhere, he broadened the meanings of existing words, including ''hacker'' (formerly under ''Golf,'' now also under ''Computer Science, Liveware'') and ''crack'' (now under ''Substance Abuse, Cocaine'' as well as the time-honored ''Opening'').
        Robert Lundquist Chapman was born Dec. 28, 1920, in Huntington, W.Va., the son of Curtis Wheaton Chapman Sr., a typewriter repairman, and Cecilia Lundquist Chapman. He earned his bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees from the University of Michigan and went on to work as a dictionary editor, first for Funk & Wagnalls and later for Holt, Rhinehart & Winston. He joined the Drew faculty in 1966, retiring in 1986.
        Dr. Chapman is survived by his wife, the former Sarah Zeitz; by a brother, Curtis Wheaton Chapman Jr., of New London, N.H.; and three sons, Douglass, of Pelham, N.Y.; Mark Llewellyn, of Nashville; and Geoffrey (named for Chaucer), of Paterson, N.J.
        In the original edition of the thesaurus, Roget set forth his reason for assembling it: ''Such a compilation,'' he wrote in the preface, ''might help to supply my own deficiencies.'' When asked 140 years later to name the deficiency that had inspired him to edit the fifth edition, Dr. Chapman homed in on the right word without difficulty: ''Money.'' The previous edition, he explained, had enabled him -- formerly a threadbare Chaucer specialist -- to buy a 26-foot sailboat. He christened the boat Thesaurus.
        Correction:  February 8, 2002, Friday  An obituary on Tuesday about Robert L. Chapman, an editor of the modern Roget's Thesaurus, misstated the year of death in some copies for Peter Mark Roget, who originated the book. It was 1869, not 1896.
      