
        Rudolph Davila, who was awarded the Medal of Honor 56 years after he saved the lives of 130 American soldiers by rushing a German machine gun outpost in Italy in World War II, died Jan. 26 at his home in Vista, Calif. He was 85.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        On May 28, 1944, Sergeant Davila's machine gun platoon was going over a hill near Artena just as German gunners prepared to ambush a company of American riflemen caught in a wheat field.
        His platoon hung back, but Sergeant Davila charged at the Germans, firing his machine gun, lobbing grenades and finally bursting into a building and routing enemy soldiers with rifle fire. He suffered a leg wound but prevented the ambush.
        The captain commanding the American rifle company offered thanks, Mr. Davila once said. ''He told me: 'If you hadn't done that, we'd have all been slaughtered. I'm going to write you up for the Medal of Honor.' ''
        Mr. Davila, serving in the Seventh Infantry, received a battlefield commission as a lieutenant but did not receive the military's highest award for valor at the time. Instead, he was presented with the Distinguished Service Cross, the Army's second-highest citation for bravery.
        But on June 21, 2000, President Bill Clinton bestowed the Medal of Honor on Mr. Davila and 21 other World War II servicemen of Asian descent. Mr. Davila, whose father was Spanish and mother Filipino, was among seven surviving recipients.
        The presentations arose from a Congressional measure sponsored by Senator Daniel K. Akaka, Democrat of Hawaii. The measure directed the Army to review the World War II records of highly decorated servicemen of Asian background, 104 having received the Distinguished Service Cross, to see whether bias may have deprived any of them of the Medal of Honor.
        Only one Japanese-American -- Pvt. Sadao Munemori, who died falling on a grenade to save two fellow soldiers -- had received the Medal of Honor for heroism in World War II although the Japanese-American 442nd Regimental Combat Team and 100th Infantry Battalion, fighting in France and Italy, were the most highly decorated units for their size in American military history.
        Twenty men from those units were among the 22 recipients of the Medal of Honor at that White House ceremony two years ago. Among them was Senator Daniel K. Inouye, Democrat of Hawaii, a lieutenant in the 442nd who lost his right arm charging a German position at San Terenzo, Italy, in April 1945, an action that initially brought him the Distinguished Service Cross.
        Rudolph Blanco Davila, who was born in El Paso and grew up in Los Angeles, remained in combat until late 1944 when shrapnel from a tank round tore into his chest and right shoulder during combat in France. He underwent numerous operations, but his right arm became paralyzed.
        After the war, he earned bachelor's and master's degrees in sociology at the University of Southern California and was a high school history teacher in Los Angeles.
        Mr. Davila met his wife, Harriet, when she was a nurse at an Army hospital where he was treated. Over the years, she wrote many letters to the Army, seeking to have her husband awarded the Medal of Honor. She died on Dec. 25, 1999, six months before her campaign was vindicated.
        Mr. Davila is survived by three sons, Gregg, of Santa Ana, Calif.; Jeffrey, of Calistoga, Calif., and Roland, of Evergreen, Colo.; two daughters, Tana Lemmenes of Clintonville, Wis., and Jill Link of La Habra, Calif.; and nine grandchildren.
        ''I didn't want to think my country would deny me something because I'm not an Anglo,'' Mr. Davila said last year. Nevertheless, as he put it, ''The conscience of America went to sleep, in my case, for 56 years.''
      