
        Spike Milligan, progenitor of a lunatic brand of postwar British humor that blossomed as the 1950's radio hit ''The Goon Show'' and evolved into a blueprint for antic and inventive sketch comedy, died yesterday at his home in Sussex, England. He was 83.
        Mr. Milligan was the ringleader, and sole survivor, of a band of anarchic comedians -- Peter Sellers, Harry Secombe and Michael Bentine -- whose alchemy relied on filtering saucy British music-hall humor through the insanity of the war they had just survived.
        Their absurdist rantings transcended class -- Prince Charles was a huge fan -- and helped to nurture the success of the next generation of Goons, epitomized by ''Monty Python's Flying Circus.''
        Mr. Milligan's comic universe on radio, then on television and in films, was populated by Spotty Minnie Bannister, Hercules Grytpype-Thynne, Neddy Seagoon, Bluebottle, Count Moriarty, Henry Crun (''the world's greatest underwater inventor''), Lord Chattshaw-Blurtington, Major Bloodnok and a host of other original but recognizably eccentric British characters. He acted some of the roles himself.
        They appeared first on a twice-monthly radio program called ''The Crazy People,'' in 1951, then ''The Goon Show,'' beginning in 1952 and ending in 1960. Broadcast around the world by the BBC and the British Forces Network, they soon gained a huge international audience. ''The Goon Show'' and its offshoots in television and the movies came to define a sense of the ridiculous for a generation in the English-speaking world.
        Along the way, Mr. Milligan published comic novels, including the hugely popular ''Puckoon,'' about a sleepy Irish border village; verse;  and a six-volume memoir of his experiences in World War II.
        Among the original Goons (the term was taken from characters in the Popeye comic strip), Mr. Sellers was perhaps the best-known internationally, moving on to stardom in a series of Hollywood comedies that showcased his talents for mangling English in a variety of foreign accents and for righteous self-destruction that he first displayed performing Mr. Milligan's scripts. In Hollywood in the 1960's where he survived the first of a series of ultimately fatal heart attacks, Sellers received a telegram from Mr. Milligan that read: ''Swine, Bloodnok. Had you insured.''
        The makers of the Monty Python movies (Mr. Milligan acted in ''The Life of Brian'') also credited him as their principal inspiration. Without the Goons, said the Python member John Cleese in a 1996 documentary on Mr. Milligan, there ''would have been no Monty Python.''
        Denis Norden, once a Milligan collaborator who went on to a long career as a performer and writer, said of his comic style, ''Spike had a feeling for how long things should go on before they stopped.'' In a 1994 interview, Mr. Milligan described the Goons's approach this way: ''Peter Sellers and I saw ourselves as comic Bolsheviks. We wanted to destroy all that had come before and create something totally new.''
        A typical Goon Show recorded in 1958 chronicled the ''Siege of Fort Knight,'' described as ''a lonely British outpost in a lonely British outpost.''
        Army officer: ''Unless this garrison is relieved in 14 days, Fort Knight is finished and I feel a terrible pun coming.''
        Seagoon: ''Can't they hold out for an extra week?''
        Army officer: ''Rubbish. Who's heard of a fortnight lasting three weeks?''
        Seagoon: ''I have -- it was in Scunthorpe.'' (He then asks if the garrison has enough provisions)
        Army officer: ''They've got ample.''
        Seagoon: ''They can't live on ample alone.'
        Army officer: ''Worse, they've got nothing to cook it on.''
        Seagoon: ''Uncooked ample -- you know what that means.''
        Mate: ''The squits!.''
        There were also Goon verses like ''The Ying-Tong Song,'' consisting almost entirely of unintelligible but solemnly delivered patter. It became a pop hit.
        Mr. Milligan's lengthy entry in International Who's Who does not mention his wartime combat service with the 56th Heavy Regiment, Royal Artillery, in North Africa and Italy, which was the cradle of his career as an entertainer, the basis of much of his humorous material and the source of frequent bouts of manic-depressive illness that led to numerous hospital stays.
        His first breakdown came Jan. 20, 1944, after Lance Bombardier (a noncommissioned rank) Milligan volunteered to carry communications equipment to a frontline post during the battle for Monte Cassino, scene of some of the bitterest fighting of the war.
        After crossing the Garigliano River under heavy German shelling, he and his party were climbing a hillside stepped for olive orchards when they came under mortar fire: ''There is a noise like thunder. It's right on my head, there's a high-pitched whistle in my ears, at first I black out and then I see red.'' He made it back to his command post where a Major Jenkins first told him to get a leg wound dressed and then called him a coward. Shaking and weeping uncontrollably he was taken to a field hospital where his shrapnel wound was treated and he was assigned to a psychiatric ward for treatment of ''battle fatigue.'' That was the end of combat for Bombardier Milligan. He was given a medical discharge.
        Years later he told an interviewer, ''Whatever bravery I had, I had run out of. They said they would have to downgrade me. From that day I suffered mental illness.''
        The end of the war found him in Austria and Italy working in troop entertainment. In December 1945 he met Secombe, a veteran from Wales who had a rowdy comedy act.
        Back in London in 1946 he and two other musicians resumed performing as the Bill Hall Trio and did fairly well on the road in variety halls of Blackpool, Glasgow and other cities. He kept adding comic bits to his guitarwork. Gradually the comedy was superseding the music.
        Terence Alan Milligan was born on April 16, 1918, in Ahmadnagar, India, the elder son of Leo A. and Florence Mary Milligan. He attended Roman Catholic schools in Poona, India, and Rangoon in Burma and, after the family moved to England in 1933, the Brownhill Boys School in Catford and, briefly, the Lewisham Polytechnic.
        Because his father was Irish and he was born in India, a new British immigration law deprived him of British citizenship in 1956, pending new certification. Indignant, he called up the Irish Embassy in London and upon aking if he could have Irish citizenship was told ''Bejasus yes! We're terribly short of people.''
        Mr. Milligan was divorced from June Marlowe, with whom he had a son, Sean, and two daughters, Sile and Laura. He had a daughter, Jane, with his second wife, Patrica Ridgway, who died in 1978. He married Shelagh Sinclair in 1983. She and his children survive him.
        In his 70's he became misanthropic, turning on some of his best-known fans, including the Prince of Wales, whom Mr. Milligan called ''a groveling little bastard'' during a British comedy awards show in 1994.
        Later, in a message to Prince Charles, Mr. Milligan wrote: ''I suppose a knighthood is out of the question now?'' He was knighted last year at St. James's Palace, with the prince in attendance.
      