
        Kenneth Armitage, a sculptor who gained fame as part of a new generation of British artists in the 1950's and was best known for his quirky, semi-abstract, often lighthearted bronze figures, died on Jan. 22, the British press reported. He was 85.
        Mr. Armitage was born in Leeds on July 18, 1916. He enrolled at the Slade School in London in 1937, and was captivated, like his friend and fellow Yorkshireman Henry Moore, by the Egyptian and Cycladic sculpture he saw in the British Museum. In the army for six years during World War II, he constructed airplane models for teaching purposes. Their flat and curving forms helped inspire his screenlike figurative work, which also included elements of Giacometti-like attenuation.
        Mr. Armitage benefited from Britain's postwar enthusiasm for homegrown artists and represented his country at the Venice Biennale in 1952, and in 1958, when he won the prize for best international sculptor under 45. He had a solo show at Whitechapel Gallery in London in 1959 and exhibited at the Documenta show in Kassel, Germany, the next year. An exhibition of his work organized by the British Council toured internationally. From 1953 to 1955 he held the Gregory Fellowship in Sculpture at Leeds University as the first British university artist in residence. He was head of sculpture at Bath Academy of Art from 1946 to 1956 and taught in London, Berlin, Boston and Caracas, Venezuela.
        With the advent of Pop in the 1960's he adapted his sculpture to the new style, experimenting with plastic and spray paint, but his career began to lose both critical approval and visibility, particularly in Britain. He continued to produce new work until the end of his life, finding sources in both the archaic and the natural and often modeling pieces in clay that were then cast on a large scale in bronze.
        He took part in many international shows, among them ''New Images of Man'' at the Museum of Modern Art in 1960, which brought him wide attention in this country. He had a major exhibition at the Yorkshire Sculpture Park in celebration of his 80th year and showed at the Marlborough Gallery, Gimpel Fils and the Bertha Schaefer Gallery among other places. His public commissions included a war memorial for the city of Krefeld, Germany; a sculpture for the British Embassy in Brasilia; and another for the 1988 Seoul Olympics. He was named a Commander of the British Empire in 1969 and was an honorary member of the Royal Academy.
        Mr. Armitage's wife, the sculptor Joan Moore, died in 1996.
      