
        Bunny Allen, the last of a generation of professional hunters in East Africa who prided themselves on having as sharp an eye for their clients' wives as for their four-legged quarry, died at his home on the Indian Ocean island of Lamu last month, his family said.
        He was 95.
        Mr. Allen, whose real name was Frank, turned a youthful knack for poaching royal game in Britain into a skill for hunting buffaloes, leopards and elephants with the rich and famous in Africa. He belonged to a coterie of whites in Kenya who consorted with princes, presidents, diplomats and movie stars on luxurious tented expeditions into the savanna where Champagne and mischief flowed as freely as hunters' yarns.
        In one interview, he recalled gazing at the face of a leopard as it began to maul him.
        ''I remember thinking to myself, 'What beautiful eyes you have,' '' Mr. Allen said in 1984. An African retainer dispatched the leopard and saved him, he said, a reminder that, while white hunters harvested the glamour, they frequently depended on black Africans. Mr. Allen once said that each of his clients was accompanied by a staff of five Africans.
        Mr. Allen lived long past Kenya's 1977 ban on hunting. He began his African career as an assistant to Bror Blixen and Denys Finch Hatton, a big-game hunter of the 1920's and 1930's and lover of Isak Dinesen, author of the novel ''Out of Africa,'' who was married to Bror Blixen.
        There were rumors of a romantic association with Ava Gardner, who traveled to Kenya with other stars, including Clark Gable and Grace Kelly, to make the movie ''Mogambo'' in the early 1950's. Mr. Allen was hired to manage the 300-tent camp in southwestern Kenya for the movie's cast and crew.
        ''I think it was the peak of his career,'' his son David said in a telephone interview from Nairobi, Kenya. ''It was his biggest camp under canvas, with over 1,000 people.''
        Earlier, he scouted the Congo River for locations for ''The African Queen,'' starring Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn.
        Mr. Allen always denied having an affair with the flier and author Beryl Markham. ''I kissed her in the mornings and I kissed her good night, but never in the middle of the day,'' he was quoted as saying. In the secret code of Kenya's licentious ''Happy Valley'' set of aristocrats and settlers, kissing someone in the middle of the day was said to mean romance.
        Otherwise, he did nothing to dispute his reputation as a Lothario. On a hunting safari, he once said ''emotions are stirred which spill over into the evening. Affairs are inevitable.''
        But he insisted on discretion. His son David said: ''One piece of advice Bunny did give me was: no matter who you go to bed with, don't tell anyone. If the woman wants to talk about it, that's up to her. It's her reputation.''
        Claiming to be a descendent of gypsies, Mr. Allen arrived in Kenya from Britain in 1927 looking for work as an apprentice hunter and set up his own safari companies, hunting with Philip Percival, the model for the character Pop in Ernest Hemingway's ''Green Hills of Africa.''
        Like other safari hunters, whose way of life was resented by Kenya's first generation of African leaders as a colonial relic, Mr. Allen had his share of brushes with buffaloes and lions. He liked to tell the story of a lion breaking his nose only to chip its claws in the process.
        But he died peacefully, his son David said. He is survived by his second wife, Jeri; a daughter, Lavinia; another son, Anton; and six grandchildren.
      