
        Though it is little more than a collection of old, weathered buildings and a dance hall, this Hill Country village has for decades occupied a special place in Texas myth and music, and several hundred admirers gathered here today to remember the country singer who made Luckenbach famous, but visited here only once.
        The singer, Waylon Jennings, died last Wednesday in Mesa, Ariz., at 64, and hundreds of his fans, including motorcyclists in greasy leathers, ranch hands in scuffed boots and bearded musicians packing guitar cases, filed past a hastily built ''Waylon Wall'' here today to pay homage to the self-proclaimed outlaw musician.
        ''Truth is, Waylon only came here once, for the Willie Nelson Fourth of July picnic in 1997, and when it came time to play that song, he didn't want to do it,'' said Mac McIntyre, who calls himself head wrangler of Luckenbach's post office and dance hall. ''He never really liked the song that much because it really wasn't his style. He was more of a rocker.''
        That song is ''Luckenbach, Texas,'' recorded by Mr. Jennings and Mr. Nelson in 1977, an ode to an idyllic, imagined place and time of rural sensibilities where ''the only two things in life that make it worth livin' is guitars tuned good and firm-feeling women.''
        The song was a hit on the county charts for six weeks and brought this former German farming community international attention.
        But, Mr. McIntyre said, not only had Mr. Jennings never been here when he recorded the song, the two men who wrote it, Chips Moman and Bobby Gene Emmons, have never been here at all.
        The village, population three, had been a gathering point for music fans and colorful Texas eccentrics since Luckenbach was bought in the early 1970's by Hondo Crouch, a sheep rancher and entrepreneur, who, local lore has it, wanted a place to stop off and have a beer while traveling between his two ranches in central Texas. Mr. Crouch died in 1976, so he never really lived to see his creation become famous, Mr. McIntyre said.
        A small bust of Mr. Crouch stands on a pedestal in front of Luckenbach's general store and former post office, where today the flags flew at half-staff in honor of Mr. Jennings.
        Though nearly 25 years have passed since ''Luckenbach, Texas'' was on the charts, visitors still come from distant places to visit the clapboard post office, built in 1849, the dance hall, and the surrounding picnic tables that have almost been  whittled away by people carving their initials.
        ''We had one fellow 82 years old who came all the way from India to see Luckenbach,'' said Reba Timmons, 42, one of the town's three permanent residents. ''This was the only thing in the whole country he wanted to see. His family brought him, he walked around, drank two Diet 7-Up's, then got back on a plane to India and went home.
        ''But he went home happy.''
        Because today's tribute to Mr. Jennings coincided with the 27th Annual Hug-In here this weekend, it was hard to tell how many in the crowd came to honor the singer and how came simply to enjoy a sunny day in the country. About 100 people camped out last night along the banks of South Grape Creek here, and country music blared from car stereos this morning as the smoke of mesquite campfires drifted among the oaks.
        By midafternoon, at least 400 other people, many on motorcycles, had joined the campers, and musicians began to pick their guitars. Children chased dogs and the smell of barbecue, mingled with beer, permeated the air.
        ''The theme of the song is really about being in a laid-back place, with a laid-back state of mind,'' said Mr. McIntyre, gesturing with an outstretched arm.
        ''Waylon would have loved this,'' he said.
      