
        David J. Cogan, a theater owner, producer and manager who co-produced Lorraine Hansberry's drama ''A Raisin in the Sun'' on Broadway in 1959, died on Feb. 7 at his home in Bedford, N.Y. He was 78.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his stepdaughter Kim Snyder.
        Mr. Cogan was born in Romania and came to the United States as an infant. He began his career as an accountant but started a management firm, Cogan, Bell & Company, whose clients included Anne Bancroft, William Gibson, Neil Simon and other theater celebrities, as well as the psychoanalyst Erik Erikson and the classical Beaux Arts Trio.
        In 1959 he and Philip Rose, a music publisher, produced ''A Raisin in the Sun'' at the Barrymore Theater. Both were novices, and the play made history in many respects. It was Broadway's first production by a black playwright and the first to have a black director, Lloyd Richards. It was also Sydney Poitier's first starring role on Broadway.
        Mr. Cogan produced a number of other plays in the late 50's and early 60's, including ''The Midnight Sun,'' ''Caligula'' and ''In the Counting House,'' while continuing to do business in accounting, real estate and management.
        In 1960 he bought the Biltmore Theater on West 47th Street for $850,000, and over the next two decades, the theater housed productions of ''Hair,'' ''Brother Rat,'' ''Barefoot in the Park'' and other shows.
        But by the 1980's the theater had become an expensive liability for Mr. Cogan -- it reportedly cost $250,000 a year to maintain while dark -- and in 1986 it was sold to Murray Hill Properties for $5 million. The theater, which has been dark since a fire in 1987, is now under renovation and is scheduled to open in 2003 with the Manhattan Theater Club as tenant.
        Mr. Cogan also owned the Eugene O'Neill Theater on West 49th Street from 1965 to late 1967, when it was bought by Neil Simon, who had had a half interest in the theater.
        Mr. Cogan is survived by his wife, Arline; two daughters, Carol Savitsky and Sharon Cogan-Beck; and three stepchildren, Kim Snyder, Jill Snyder and Gary Snyder. All live in New York City.
        Correction:  February 26, 2002, Tuesday  An obituary on Sunday about David J. Cogan, a Broadway theater owner and producer, listed a play erroneously among those staged at the Biltmore Theater after he bought it in 1960. ''Brother Rat'' was produced at the Biltmore in 1936. The obituary also misspelled the given name of an actor who worked with Mr. Cogan; he is Sidney Poitier, not Sydney.
      