
        Jonas Savimbi, who was killed yesterday by Angolan government soldiers, spent more than 35 years in the African bush battling first for Angolan independence and then for personal power.
        Mr. Savimbi, 67, was among the more charismatic rebels on the continent. The burly leader was easily recognized by his lumbering gait, menacing scowl, combat fatigues, pistol and black beret, all of which served to obscure his Swiss doctorate in political science.
        He first led armed fighters against Angola's Portuguese rulers in the 1960's, using the tactics of a ''people's war'' that he had learned in Communist China. A decade later,  when the war-weary Portuguese withdrew in 1975, he became one of the contenders in a three-way tribally based struggle for power. This civil war, with its contrary claims to patronage and governance, quickly became enmeshed in global politics as the rival superpowers and their proxies rushed to sponsor their chosen factions.
        The Soviets sent arms and the Cubans sent troops to help the leftist  government in Luanda -- the M.P.L.A., or the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola -- headed by Agostinho Neto, a Marxist doctor and poet. The United States and its allies backed Holden Roberto and his Front for the National Liberation of Angola (F.N.L.A.), an organization that commanded the allegiance of the Bakongo peoples of the north. Mr. Savimbi, the youngest of the three leaders, had his own power base among the Ovambundu and other southern tribes who had provided fighters for his Unita faction, an acronym for the Portuguese equivalent of the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola.
        As for military backing, Mr. Savimbi took it wherever he could, a little from China, some ragtag mercenaries, diamond smugglers and, most controversially, from the then white supremacist government of South Africa. A lifelong admirer of Che Guevara, he nonetheless became the darling of Western anti-Communists..
        Though the civil war that broke out in 1975 was fought largely in remote regions of a country that is twice the size of Texas, it marked the opening wheeze in what was to be Moscow's last interventionist gasp..
        By the late 1980's Cuba had 50,000 soldiers there and the South African Defense Forces were actively fighting on the other side with Mr. Savimbi. But then, after more than a decade of warfare, Communism as a global force vanished. The Soviet Union collapsed, and South Africa abandoned apartheid. As a result, the international aspects of the Angolan conflict seemed less pressing.
        Still, the fighting continued, though Mr. Roberto and his F.N.L.A. had dropped out of the picture. The warfare, at times interrupted by fragile truces, pitted Mr. Savimbi and his men against the Luanda government that was accepted by most African states, though not recognized by the United States until 1993.
        The country of about 10 million people is rich in oil, coal, diamonds and farmland, but after decades of fighting it lay devastated. More than a million of its people have been  killed or wounded. Once attractive cities like Luanda and Huambo have become ruins where orphaned children seek security in sewers, and the country has a higher percentage of limbless citizens maimed by land mines than any other.
        In 1996, Thomas L. Friedman, a columnist for The New York Times,  traveled in Angola asking people what the fighting was about. A 23-year-old soldier who had spent the previous eight years as a warrior for Mr. Savimbi said, ''I don't know if there was ever a reason for this war.'' President José Eduardo dos Santos, who as Dr. Neto's successor and president of Angola was Mr. Savimbi's chief adversary, said he knew of ''no ideological reason to have a war.''
        Mr. Savimbi was born on Aug. 3, 1934, in a village along the Benguela railroad line where his father, Lote, was a stationmaster. His parents were members of the Ovimbundu tribe, which represents some 40 percent of Angola's population. Lote Savimbi was a Protestant preacher, so active in the organization of congregations and schools that Catholic churchmen repeatedly asked railroad officials to send him to new posts. As the family moved, young Jonas picked up his father's compelling oratorical skills and detailed  knowledge about the railroad.
        This information would later serve him when as a guerrilla leader he organized attacks on the line that was one of southern Africa's vital commercial links, transporting copper and other ores from Zaire, Zambia and Zimbabwe. By cutting the railroad, Unita paralyzed Angola's economy.
        A bright student, Mr. Savimbi was accepted by an elite Portuguese high school where graduated at the top of his class. In 1958 he went to Lisbon to study medicine. There he became active in the struggle for Angolan independence, and when the Portuguese secret police pressured him to inform on his associates, he fled for Lausanne, where he changed his field of study to politics. He received his doctorate in 1965.
        As early as 1961, Mr. Roberto had named Mr. Savimbi as foreign minister of his self-proclaimed Angolan government in exile. Angered by what he regarded as Mr. Roberto's favoritism of the Bakongo, he resigned and flirted with the Marxist M.P.L.A. But when Dr. Neto's movement denied him a seat on its governing council, he went to look for sponsorship first in Moscow and then in China. The Russians turned him down, but the Chinese were interested. Late in 1965 they invited him and 12 of his colleagues to study guerrilla warfare.
        Infiltrating back into the Portuguese colony in 1966, he founded Unita in a remote village in Moxico province and began military operations.. During the fighting for independence, tensions between the three groups and their chiefs prevented a common strategy and the Portuguese were able to maintain control of Angola for nine years after Mr. Savimbi took up arms. Then, on April 25, 1974, leftist-leaning officers in Lisbon overthrew the dictatorship of  Marcelo Caetano and pledged to end the colonial wars.
        As the Portuguese military withdrew along with 300,000 Portuguese settlers, Angola became independent on Nov. 11, 1975. With an eye to possible benefactors, Mr. Savimbi pragmatically recast himself as an anti-Communist.
        Fighting continued throughout the 1980's. Unita raided the railroad and government posts and established itself in the diamond region. In 1986,  Mr. Savimbi traveled to Washington in search of military aid, meeting with President Reagan, whose administration provided him with a $15 million package of covert assistance. In June 1989, President Mobutu Sese Seko of Zaire convened a peace meeting at which Mr. Savimbi and President dos Santos agree to a cease-fire. Two months later it collapsed in heavy fighting.
        On May 31, 1991, in Lisbon, the two men signed a peace accord calling for national elections. Mr. dos Santos won the first round of balloting in 1992, but Mr. Savimbi claimed widespread fraud. Before a second round of voting took place, Mr. Savimbi pulled out of the agreement and the  fighting resumed.
        Seemingly facing military defeat in 1994, Mr. Savimbi agreed to peace terms, but said he could not leave his hideout for the signing ceremony in Zambia because the Angolan government would kill him. Since then, the country has continued to be riven by conflict, though generally it has been less intense.
      