
        Dr. Robert Hanbury Brown, an engineer who drew on his pioneering work in radar to invent a way of measuring stars in distant galaxies, died Jan. 16 at a hospice in England. He was 85 and lived in Penton Mewsey, a small parish in Hampshire.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Hanbury Brown was best known for his work in the 1950's on the optical intensity interferometer, a telescopic device that allowed astronomers to study stars that until then had been little more than flickers of light.
        But he never set out to be an astronomer. Indeed, he flirted with the idea of becoming a classics scholar before taking up engineering.
        In 1936, however, with World War II drawing near, the young man was given an assignment that set the course of the rest of his career. A student at London University, he was dispatched to Bawdsey, a sprawling manor in Suffolk, to take part in a top-secret project to develop a system for detecting German airplanes and submarines.
        The result was the world's first radar system, which helped the British hold off the Germans, and Dr. Hanbury Brown was later sent to Washington to help the Americans adopt the technology.
        The turn of events that pulled him from London University suited Dr. Hanbury Brown fine, he wrote in a 1991 memoir titled ''Boffin'' (British slang for research scientist).
        The son of an army officer who oversaw arms factories in India, and the grandson of a man who worked on irrigation projects in Egypt and India, Dr. Hanbury Brown was delighted to find himself at the center of such intrigue.
        ''I have never wanted to be one of that crowd of people one sees at rush hour in a place like Victoria Station hurrying to their offices,'' he wrote. ''This has always seemed to me too high a price to pay for the benefits of civilization.''
        After the war, his skills with radar drew him to the attention of researchers at Manchester University who were hoping to apply the new technology to their efforts to make astronomical observations. It was there that that Dr. Hanbury Brown, working with a colleague, Richard Twiss, designed an interferometer that used two widely spaced dishes to capture signals from two stars known for their heavy radio emissions, Cygnus A and Cassiopeia A, and used the information to determine their size.
        The men then decided to adapt the method so that a star's diameter could be calculated based on the light it gave off -- a much trickier proposition, said Dr. Freeman Dyson, a physicist at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., who was a friend of Dr. Hanbury Brown's.
        ''An interferometer is just putting two telescopes, or more than two, together and mixing the light together to make a sharper image,'' Dr. Dyson said. ''The central point is, you must take the light from different telescopes and combine it together. And that's hard to do. It's technically difficult.''
        In fact, the scientists' announcement that they intended to develop such a device was greeted with wide skepticism among astronomers.
        In the end, the men borrowed two old antiaircraft searchlights equipped with five-foot mirrors from the army. After half a year of focusing on the star Sirius, whose dimensions were basically known, the men proved that their idea worked.
        Dr. Hanbury Brown went on to build a much larger version of the interferometer in England. But in the early 1960's, needing a better place to view the stars, he moved to Australia, where he taught in Sydney and set up his equipment in the Australian bush. He moved back to England in 1986.
        Dr. Hanbury Brown was born in India on Aug. 31, 1916.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Heather Chesterman; two sons: Robert and Jordan, both of Sydney; and a daughter, Dr. Marion H. Brown of Oxford.
        Correction:  February 16, 2002, Saturday  An obituary on Feb. 7 about Dr. Robert Hanbury Brown, an engineer who helped develop a telescopic device that allowed the measurement of stars, misstated its reach. The device measured stars in this galaxy, not in distant ones. The obituary also referred erroneously to a connection between the device and Dr. Hanbury Brown's earlier work on radar. The technologies were not related.
      