
        Dr. Merton Bernfield, a pediatrician and microbiologist whose research advanced knowledge of the human cell structure, died on March 18 in Boston, where he was previously chief of newborn medicine at Children's Hospital. He was 63.
        The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, his family said.
        Dr. Bernfield's approach was to merge patient care with his own scientific advances. Dealing with newborns, he sought answers to diseases associated with premature birth by understanding them on the molecular and cellular level.
        As a pioneer in glycobiology, the study of carbohydrate-containing molecules, he identified a whole family of core proteins with sugars attached to the cell surfaces.
        Those proteins, called syndecans, control or influence tissue repair, metabolism, the formation of tumors and the development of immune responses. Despite his advancing illness, Dr. Bernfield continued his work on the subject and in the fall published influential papers about it in the journals Cell and Nature.
        The papers described a mouse mutant lacking a certain syndecan, a shortfall whose discovery was considered an important finding about appetite control.
        Dr. Bernfield was a former chief not only of the division of newborn medicine at Children's Hospital but also of the hospital's joint program in neonatology at Harvard Medical School, where he was a professor of pediatrics and cell biology. He was a member of the Institute of Medicine at the National Academy of Sciences.
        Merton Ronald Bernfield was born in Chicago and received undergraduate and medical degrees from the University of Illinois. He worked at the National Institutes of Health before accepting teaching and hospital positions at Stanford in 1967. He was directing a cystic fibrosis research program there in 1989 when he left for Boston.
        He is survived by his wife of 42 years, Audrey Rivkin Bernfield; a daughter, Susan Bernfield of Manhattan; two sons, James, of Manhattan, and Mark, of Oakland, Calif.; his mother, Adeline Bernfield of Chicago; a brother, Glenn, of Chicago; and two grandsons.
      