
        Avraham Tory, a Lithuanian Jew whose meticulous diary chronicled three years of murderous Nazi rule and was later included as evidence in war crimes trials, died on Feb. 24 at his home in Tel Aviv. He was 92.
        In the Jewish ghetto in Kovno, in central Lithuania, Mr. Tory, a lawyer, served as secretary of the Jewish Council of Elders, an administrative agency formed by the Nazis to carry out their orders. As secretary, he was allowed to leave the ghetto, and had access to a sea of paperwork that documented the horrors he was  recording. In almost daily entries in Yiddish from June 1941 to January 1944, Mr. Tory detailed his meetings with Nazi officers and Jewish leaders.
        Mr. Tory was helped by Pnina Sheinzon, who took dictation and hid the diary in her home. Few people knew about the diary, and the notebooks were buried underground in large crates as soon as Mr. Tory filled them.
        In each, he included a note. ''I am hiding in this crate what I have written, noted and collected,'' he wrote, ''with thrill and anxiety, so that it may serve as material evidence -- 'corpus delicti' -- accusing testimony when the Day of Judgment comes.''
        In 1944, he and Miss Sheinzon escaped the ghetto. They soon married, and moved to Israel in 1947.
        After the war, Mr. Tory recovered three of the five hidden crates. In the 1980's, he was a witness in the trials of Kovno's former mayor and several Nazi war criminals.
        In 1990, an English translation of the diary was published. In 1997,  ''Surviving the Holocaust: The Kovno Ghetto Diary'' formed the basis for a two-year exhibit at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington. The diary's importance is in its ''relentless details,'' said Sara Bloomfield, director of the museum.
        At the exhibit's opening, Mr. Tory said: ''I felt an irresistible compulsion to keep a record of what was happening. Even if some people would survive, nobody would believe what happened to us.''
        The diary was also the subject of a documentary film, ''Kovno Ghetto: A Buried History.'' The original documents are housed at Yad Vashem in Jerusalem, a museum dedicated to the Holocaust. A Lithuanian translation was published in 2000.
        Avraham Tory was born Avraham Golub in Lazdijai, Lithuania, in 1909. He competed as a gymnast in the first Maccabiah Games in Tel Aviv in 1932, and studied law at the University of Pittsburgh and at the University of Kovno.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Tory is survived by three daughters, also in Israel, Shulamit Karbi, Alina Tory, and Tzila Magdassi, and by 6 grandchildren and 12 great-grandchildren.
      