
        Joseph B. Hartranft, the founder of the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association and a pioneer of general aviation, died on Feb. 22 in Annapolis, Md. He was 86.
        His influence on flying was profound, straddling military and civilian aviation for nearly 50 years.
        Phil Boyer, president of the owners and pilots association, said Mr. Hartranft was ''a true visionary and defender of general aviation.''
        Just before World War II, Mr. Hartranft feared that civilian aviation would be grounded by military security concerns. He formed the aircraft owners and pilots air guard, the predecessor of the Civil Air Guard, to train pilots for emergency medical flights and to spot submarines operating in the waters off the United States.
        Mr. Hartranft joined the Army in 1942 and served through 1946. With the Army Air Corps in Washington, he was a liaison for President Franklin D. Roosevelt, settling disputes between military and civilian operations and helping preserve airspace for general aviation during the war.
        ''Hartranft's leadership not only preserved general aviation through that dark period, but also enlisted general aviation in the defense of the nation,'' Mr. Boyer said. ''Much of what general aviation is today is the result of Hartranft's leadership and innovation.''
        Mr. Hartranft proposed marking runways with magnetic headings, the method used today, and he wrote the first pilot's manual on how to use the electronic navigation system.
        Born on May 24, 1915, in Buffalo, Mr. Hartranft was a descendant of Roger Sherman, who signed the Declaration of Independence.
        He learned to fly at Roosevelt Field in Long Island as a teenager.  He graduated from the Wharton School of Finance and Commerce at the University of Pennsylvania and the Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University.
        While an undergraduate, he founded the National Intercollegiate Flying Club, which is now called the National Intercollegiate Flying Association, and the Cloudcombers, the university's flying club.
        After graduating from Penn, he helped found the owners and pilots association in 1939, contending that private fliers needed a representative body to lobby Congress to compete with the powerful organizations formed by the airlines, airline pilots and the military. As his organization grew, he became the first president, from 1952 to 1977.
        His wife, Evelyn, died in 1964; he is survived by a daughter, Diane L. Hartranft of Annapolis.
      