
        Dr. Alvin Radkowsky, a nuclear engineer who developed a reactor fuel that does not generate waste that can be reused for nuclear weapons, died on Feb. 17 in Israel. He was 86.
        Born in the United States, Dr. Radkowsky was the chief American scientist for the design of nuclear reactors for naval ships and submarines from 1950 through 1972. He also headed the design team that built the United States' first full-scale commercial nuclear power plant in Shippingport, Pa.
        In the 1980's, Dr. Radkowsky developed a technology, now being tested, that replaces much of the uranium at the core of a nuclear reactor with thorium, a cheap and relatively plentiful element occurring in minerals. When thorium is used, the nuclear reactions are altered so that the reactor produces much less plutonium, and the radioactive waste it does create is more difficult to refine for use in bombs.
        ''Alvin specifically had the goal of stopping reactors from producing weapons-grade material,'' said Seth Grae, president of Thorium Power Inc., a company Dr. Radkowsky helped found in 1992 to bring his design to market.
        Dr. Radkowsky hoped the thorium fuel design could be offered to countries like North Korea and Cuba, allowing them to use reactors to generate electricity but largely eliminating worries that they would scavenge the spent fuel rods for nuclear weapons.
        ''He was an outstanding nuclear engineer working successfully on an important and timely topic,'' said Dr. Edward Teller, who was Dr. Radkowsky's master's thesis adviser at George Washington University before World War II. ''I believe his argument for thorium, that it cannot be easily used for military purposes, is valid.''
        In a letter to The New York Times in 1984, Dr. Radowsky said that ''a thorium reactor's plutonium production rate would be less than 2 percent of that of a standard reactor, and the plutonium's isotopic content would make it unsuitable for a nuclear detonation.''
        A variation of the thorium idea may allow the Department of Energy to use excess plutonium in commercial nuclear power plants, also without creating byproducts suitable for weapons.
        Thorium Power is running tests at the Kurchatov Institute in Moscow. Mr. Grae said he hoped the Nuclear Regulatory Commission would approve the thorium fuel assembly for use in American nuclear reactors in three to four years.
        Alvin Radkowsky was born in Elizabeth, N.J., and graduated from City College of New York in 1935 with a degree in electrical engineering. He received his master's degree in physics from George Washington University in 1942, studying under Dr. Teller, the inventor of the hydrogen bomb. He completed his doctorate in 1947 at the Catholic University of America in Washington.
        In 1972, Dr. Radkowsky moved to Israel and became a professor of nuclear engineering at Tel Aviv University.
        ''It was Alvin's efforts at Teller's request which led to him to develop this type of nuclear fuel and eventually led to the formation of the company,'' Mr. Grae said.
        Dr. Radkowsky was a fellow of the American Physical Society and the American Nuclear Society. He was also elected to the National Academy of Engineering in 1991.
        Survivors include his wife, Annette Eisenberg Radkowsky; a daughter, Gilah Chukat of Israel; a brother, Lawrence Radkowsky of Silver Spring, Md.; and six grandchildren.
      