
        Ernest van den Haag, a conservative commentator on social issues, especially crime, and a leading advocate of the death penalty, died on Thursday in Mendham, N.J. He was 87 and a longtime resident of the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
        He died at a nursing home, succumbing ''to the myriad attenuations of old age,'' William F. Buckley Jr. said in an obituary of Dr. van den Haag that is to appear in National Review, to which Dr. van den Haag was a consultant and occasional contributor for more than four decades.
        Dr. van den Haag, who was also an educator and psychoanalyst, was John M. Olin professor of jurisprudence and public policy at Fordham from 1982 to 1988 and held many other teaching posts.
        Dr. van den Haag wrote in 1983 in an Op-Ed article in The New York Times: ''Common sense, lately bolstered by statistics, tells us that the death penalty will deter murder, if anything can. People fear nothing more than death. Therefore, nothing will deter a criminal more than the fear of death. Death is final. But where there is life there is hope.
        ''Wherefore, life in prison is less feared. Murderers clearly prefer it to execution -- otherwise, they would not try to be sentenced to life in prison instead of death. (Only an infinitesimal percentage of murderers are suicidal.) Therefore, a life sentence must be less deterrent than a death sentence. And we must execute murderers as long as it is merely possible that their execution protects citizens from future murder.''
        Dr. van den Haag was comfortable taking strong and often controversial stands on a wide range of other issues. He was a critic of the 1954 Supreme Court desegregation decision in the case of Brown v. Board of Education.
        He also advocated abolition of the child labor laws, saying that the evils they were intended to guard against had long passed.
        After he stopped teaching at Fordham, he continued to lecture, mainly about criminology, and to write.
        He was born in The Hague. The National Review obituary says he was interned by the Nazis as a teenager, escaped and left the Netherlands. He came to the United States in 1940. He was a propaganda analyst with the United States Office of War Information in World War II.
        After studying at the Sorbonne and elsewhere, he received a master's degree in 1942 from the University of Iowa and a doctorate in economics in 1952 from New York University. His other teaching posts included adjunct professor of social policy at N.Y.U. and lecturer in psychology at the New School for Social Research. He practiced psychoanalysis in New York City from 1955 to 1982.
        He leaves no immediate survivors.
        Correction:  March 30, 2002, Saturday  An obituary on Wednesday about Ernest van den Haag, a Dutch-born conservative commentator on social issues, misidentified the regime by which he told friends he had been detained in the 1930's. It was the Fascist regime in Italy, not the Nazis in the Netherlands.
        The obituary also gave an incomplete version of Dr. van den Haag's account of his escapes from internment and misstated the sequence of events. In the account, supplied by National Review from his coming obituary, Dr. van den Haag said he escaped from the Fascists at 19 and fled to France. He also said that the French interned him as an enemy alien after the start of World War II, but that he escaped to Portugal and then to the United States. He did not tell of having reached the United States directly from the Netherlands.
      