
        Milton C. Rose, a partner at the Wall Street law firm of Mudge Rose Guthrie Alexander & Ferdon, died on Tuesday at his home in Alford, Mass. He was 97 and had worked as a lawyer for over 60 years.
        The Mudge Rose firm closed in 1995 but not before gaining fame, and considerable business, after Richard M. Nixon joined the firm in 1963. Mr. Rose was instrumental in bringing Mr. Nixon into the firm after he had lost the election for governor of California.
        A mutual friend, Charles Bobst, a former chairman of the Warner-Lambert Corporation, helped persuade Mr. Nixon to join Mudge Rose, where Mr. Rose had been handling legal work for Mr. Bobst. Mr. Nixon's arrival not only changed the name of the firm to Nixon Mudge Rose Alexander & Mitchell but helped establish its credentials as a solid Republican firm with an expertise in corporate law and municipal finance. Also adding to the firm's stature was a partner, John N. Mitchell, who became attorney general in the Nixon administration.
        Mr. Rose was one of the three architects, along with Randolph H. Guthrie and John Alexander, of the modern Mudge Rose, which traced its roots as far back as 1869. But in 1995, the firm closed after a clash of egos, a loss of business and an exodus of some top lawyers. By that time, Mr. Rose had retired, having worked there for over 60 years and working in his office well into his 80's.
        Milton Curtiss Rose was born June 5, 1904, in Lakewood, Ohio, to Benjamin Holly Rose Jr., a businessman, and Evelyn Curtiss Rose, an artist. Mr. Rose was a graduate of Phillips Exeter in 1923, Williams College in 1927 and Harvard Law School in 1930. He became an expert in trusts and estates, a practice that brought him into close contact with many prominent New Yorkers, including Dorothy Whitney and Stewart Mott. Through these personal connections, Mr. Rose was able to attract corporate clients to the firm.
        He collected art and antiques, particularly Shaker furniture. Part of his collection of prints was donated to the Cleveland Art Institute and to the Williams College art museum, which has a room bearing his name.
        Mr. Rose is survived by his wife of 72 years, Emily Mason Rose, and her sister, Helen Moore, as well as by three sons, Stephen, of New York; Mason, of Alford; and Jonathan, of Hanover, N.H.; eight grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      