
        Walter J. Rockler, a Washington lawyer who was the first director of the Justice Department agency that identifies and deports former Nazis, died on March 8 at his home in Rockville, Md. He was 81.
        The cause was lung cancer, his daughter, Julia Tillery, said.
        Mr. Rockler, who helped prosecute war criminals at the Nuremberg trials in the late 1940's, was appointed in 1979 to head the Office of Special Investigations, which has been responsible for 54 deportations. Mr. Rockler served until 1980. During his tenure, the office initiated 75 investigations. His work included traveling to the Soviet Union to negotiate access to evidence in determining candidates for investigation.
        Walter James Rockler was born in Minneapolis in Nov. 25, 1920, to Russian immigrants. He grew up in Chicago, where his father ran a fur store.
        At 16, he won a full scholarship to the University of Chicago, where he earned a bachelor's degree in social sciences in 1940. He enrolled at Harvard Law School before enlisting in the Navy in 1942.
        He was given Japanese language training and was commissioned a lieutenant in the Marine Corps and stationed in the Pacific, where he gathered intelligence from prisoners.
        After the war, Mr. Rockler returned to Harvard, completing his law degree in 1946. He answered an advertisement seeking lawyers to prosecute war criminals, thinking he might be able to use his Japanese. Instead, he was selected to join the Office of Chief Counsel as a prosecutor at Nuremberg in 1947. He returned to America in 1949 to work at various law firms, including Arnold & Porter in Washington, where he became senior partner and later head of the tax department.
        In 1980, after leaving the Office of Special Investigations, Mr. Rockler joined the legal team that wrote the appeal pro bono for the Wilmington 10, a group of 9 black men and a white woman who were jailed on charges of firebombing a food store in a week of racial violence in Wilmington, N.C. The group members insisted they were being framed, and the charges were dropped.
        Besides his daughter, of Derwood, Md., survivors include his wife, Aino Allekand Rockler; a brother, Allan Rockler of Los Angeles; three sons, Elliot of Derwood, James of Boulder, Colo., and Nicolas of Boston; and nine grandchildren.
      