
        Bernard Green, who began hawking newspapers on the streets and subways at 11 and never quite got over being a newsboy -- even when he became the owner of one of New York City's biggest chains of newsstands -- died on Saturday in Manhattan. He was 91.
        His son Michael said he died at the Jewish Hospital and Home.
        To many thousands of commuters streaming into Grand Central Terminal in the 60's and 70's, Mr. Green was the elegantly dressed, gray-haired man lording over the piles of newspapers near the elevators of the Pan Am Building each afternoon from 4 to 6.
        ''Late papers, here!'' Mr. Green would bark. ''What'll you read! Final market! All late, final papers!''
        From time to time, Mr. Green would step aside and confer with someone about leasing opportunities and other facets of the million-dollar business he had built on his shrewd appreciation of real estate and people's compulsion to read. His Eastern Newsstand Corporation and Eastern Lobby Shops took advantage of the new market for newsstands created by the city's postwar skyscraper boom.
        In 1984, the stand in the Pan Am Building (now the Met Life Building) was perhaps the biggest and busiest in the nation, an article in The New York Times said in that year. For two hours a day, it doubled as Mr. Green's executive office. More important, it allowed him to do what he loved best.
        ''In his own mind, he was always that 10-year-old kid selling newspapers,'' Michael said.
        His proudest achievement was the sleek, modern appearance he brought to a business once typified by dark shops selling cigars, with newspapers strewn on the floor and dim lights. He spoke of his zeal for ''making the shop look picture-perfect every day.''
        Attention to detail was his trademark. When it cost 5 cents to ride the subway, he told his clerks to be sure that each customer's change included a nickel. When the fare went up to 15 cents, he bought tokens by the thousands, and gave them out with 10-cent afternoon newspapers in return for a quarter.
        Bernard Horace Green was born on Dec. 10, 1910, in London, the son of a tailor. By the time he was 11, he was selling newspapers in New York City. When the truck with The Daily News stopped at the Intervale Avenue subway station in the Bronx, he bought 50 papers and paid a nickel fare to ride to four or five stations, turn around and repeat the process until the papers were all sold.
        The papers were priced at 2 cents, but no one asked for change for a nickel, so he took in $2.50. His expenses were 70 cents for the papers and the nickel fare, because it was hard to jump a turnstile carrying 50 papers. Net profit: $1.75
        In remembrances for his family, written in the present tense, he recalled the result of this early success, ''I have a proud and happy smile.''
        He passed up registering for high school because it interfered with making money at a newsstand. At 15, he was at work on a ferry crossing the Hudson River to New Jersey until the completion of the George Washington Bridge eliminated his job.
        By the time he was 17, he was hawking papers on the Sandy Hook steamer between Wall Street and summer homes on the Jersey Shore. He set up card tables so commuters could enjoy two hours of playing bridge. Each of 20 tables left him a 25-cent tip. Two trips a day gave him $10 in tips.
        ''I feel like a millionaire!'' he wrote.
        Next he worked for a newsstand company, Garfield News. His first responsibility was opening seven news shops in the new Parkchester housing development in the Bronx.
        He then joined Union News, one of Garfield's competitors, and was made a ''train butcher,'' selling candy, drinks and sundries on excursion trains to Atlantic City. Union News promoted him to manager of the Jersey Central Railroad ferry house in Jersey City, where he set up displays of toys and other items not usually found at newsstands.
        At 34, Mr. Green opened his first newsstand at the enormous St. George Hotel in Brooklyn. He offered all the papers and ''a good 5-cent cigar.''
        In 1946, he opened a newsstand in the new community of Levittown on Long Island. That somehow led to a big supermarket that sold drugs, groceries and many other things besides newspapers. As Levittown grew, he eventually owned seven such stores there.
        By the early 1950's, the stores were threatened by competition, and he sold them. He saw an opportunity in a literally changing horizon.
        ''Office-tower construction is about to boom in New York City and across the country and I want to get in, literally on the ground floor, with my newsstands,'' he wrote.
        He started with the Standard Oil of New York (later Mobil) building, which was going up at 42nd Street and Lexington Avenue. He approached the developer with a 2-foot-by-4-foot drawing of his concept of the newsstand of the future and won the concession.
        He would eventually have 120 stands in New York and dozens of others in cities like Chicago, San Francisco and Atlanta. And he steadily added merchandising gimmicks as well as newsstands.
        In the article in The Times in 1984, he said: ''Magazines sell best from a pile or a full-cover display. The higher the pile, the fresher it looks. It's like groceries. You take a big pile of lettuce or oranges. They're going to sell better than a couple of oranges stuck in the corner.
        ''There are tricks, of course, like building up a magazine's pile with surplus stock of other magazines. You put 3 copies up top and 200 of something else underneath.''
        Mr. Green decided to retire at about the time he realized that cigarette sales were going down. He sold his company to Restaurant Associates in 1976 but agreed to stay on for two years to manage his stands. He ended up staying for 10.
        He retired in 1986, though he remained a consultant to his son Martin of Point Lookout, N.Y., who had started his own newsstand company. He is also survived by his wife of 66 years, Freeda; his son Michael, of Chicago; a daughter, Susan Green of Manhattan; his sisters Ann Blumberg of Manhattan and Bea Gottfried of Torrance, Calif.; five grandchildren; and one great-granddaughter.
        His son Michael said his father enjoyed his retirement -- walking around the Central Park Reservoir each day and once scoring a hole in one on the golf course -- but could not help stopping to straighten things up a bit at almost every newsstand he passed. His most eagerly anticipated moment of the day was the phone call from the manager of his one remaining stand, in Atlanta, with the daily sales figures.
        Sometimes, perhaps at a country club or resort, he ran into people who thought they knew him. He would ask if they remembered the guy selling newspapers in the Pan Am Building.
        Correction:  March 27, 2002, Wednesday  An obituary on March 1 about Bernard Green, a founder of the Eastern Newsstand Corporation, omitted the names of his partners. He was not the sole founder; Stanley M. Jordan, who died in 1979, was a partner in various enterprises, including Eastern Newsstand, from 1947 until 1976. They had another partner, Harry Diamond, from 1950 to 1953.
      