
        The Rev. Carl McIntire, a fiery radio evangelist who preached an amalgam of fundamentalist Christianity and hawkish patriotism, died Tuesday in Voorhees, N.J. He was 95.
        His daughter Marianna Clark said he had lived in the same house in Collingswood, N.J., since 1939.
        Mr. McIntire used his daily broadcast, once heard on more than 600 radio stations, mainly in the South and the Midwest, to deliver his stern message: most Protestant churches leaned toward Communism; the lust for power by the ''fascist'' Roman Catholic Church had to be stopped; and any attempt to coexist with Communists was doomed.
        Even other fundamentalists were targets. He said that Billy Graham had become ''a cover for the apostates'' and that Southern Baptists were ''soggy'' compromisers.
        The shows went into swift decline after the Federal Communications Commission agreed in 1970 with protesters in Media, Pa., that the radio station there did not meet its fairness doctrine, requiring the opportunity to present opposing views. It refused to renew that station's license. (His daughter said he had always offered the opportunity but no one took him up on it.)
        Within two months, more than 200 other stations had dropped him. At the end, Mr. McIntire was heard on a single station, in Camden, N.J. But he fought his losing battle with flair. In 1973, he tried to broadcast from a pirate station on a former mine sweeper 12 miles off the New Jersey coast. What he called ''Radio Free America'' went off the air after it interfered with another signal.
        At his peak, his influence and that of the Bible Presbyterian Church he founded were amplified by his weekly newspaper, The Christian Beacon; his own seminary; and a resort and conference center on the Jersey Shore.
        Mr. McIntire -- a large man who liked to be called doctor on the strength of his honorary doctorates -- was a master of spectacle. He picketed meetings of mainstream religious groups like the World Council of Churches. With the Rev. Billy James Hargis, another fundamentalist, he sent balloons carrying pages of the Bible across borders to lands behind the Iron Curtain.
        Seemingly no stand was too controversial. In 1948, he said the United States had a moral responsibility to strike the Soviet Union with atomic weapons.
        Carl Curtis McIntire was born on May 17, 1906, in Ypsilanti, Mich. He grew up in the Oklahoma Territory, where his father was a Presbyterian minister and his mother a missionary to Indians.
        He attended Park College in Parkville, Mo., but followed his father to the seminary. After receiving his degree from Westminster Theological Seminary in Philadelphia and being ordained, he immediately began criticizing the church's liberal missionaries. An ecclesiastical court found him guilty of ''sowing dissension within the church'' and withdrew his credentials as a minister.
        After the Presbyterian Church U.S.A. dropped him, he left group after group in a search for purity. He started the Bible Presbyterian Church, a new denomination, in a revival tent. He left the National Council of Churches and formed the American Council of Christian Churches. His answer to the World Council of Churches was the International Council of Christian Churches, which continues to flourish.
        In support of this search for purity, he often cited St. Paul's letter in II Corinthians 6:17: ''Wherefore come out from them, and ye be separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing.''
        His first wife, Fairy Davis McIntire, died in 1992. He is survived by his wife, Alice; his two daughters, Marianna Clark of Cherry Hill, N.J., and Celeste McIntire Bashaw of Pennington, N.J.; his son, Thomas, of Toronto; 13 grandchildren; and 10 great-grandchildren.
      