
        Astin Jacobo, a community advocate who played an important role in the renewal of his problem-ridden Bronx neighborhood, Crotona, died on March 20 in Manhattan. He was 73 and had lived in Crotona, in the central Bronx, since 1970.
        The cause was a heart infection, said Heidi Hynes, executive director of the Mary Mitchell Family and Youth Center in Crotona.
        Besides doing volunteer work and serving as an organizer, Mr. Jacobo, who was known in the Bronx as Jacob, worked for decades as the custodian of St. Martin of Tours elementary school in Crotona. He retired from that job two years ago. He also won the unofficial title of Mayor of Crotona.
        In his years there, Crotona's problems included fires, depopulation, underused, decrepit and unoccupied apartment buildings, and insufficient housing for low-income families.
        As founder of the Crotona Community Coalition, Mr. Jacobo helped organize residents in their own defense against crime, arson and the loss of housing and drew the attention of government officials and investors to the neighborhood's problems and possible solutions, especially involving housing.
        Mr. Jacobo, who was born and raised in Consuelo, in the Dominican Republic, became a community leader there and also scouted young Dominican baseball players for the Houston Astros.
        After moving to Crotona, he used his knowledge of sports to form children's sports teams. He got to know parents, brought residents together and helped found the Community Coalition in the mid-1970's.
        The coalition soon strove successfully to keep the city from tearing down six blocks of partly occupied apartment buildings.
        When the city decided to tear down a building on East 181st Street that was home to only one family, he and another neighborhood organizer got housing officials to visit. Then, Mr. Jacobo persuaded half a dozen more people to move into the building until after the visit. The stratagem succeeded. By 1996, the building was an immaculate low-income co-op.
        In the years after the coalition's founding, Mr. Jacobo was consulted by political figures on matters of policy involving the Bronx.
        Mayor Edward I. Koch made frequent visits to Crotona after Mr. Jacobo challenged him to do so at a 1983 town hall meeting. The two men became friends.
        The coalition also created tenant associations to get apartment buildings repaired and worked with the city to renovate unoccupied city-owned apartment buildings and build new houses for low-income families.
        It worked with a private developer to build a small shopping center on East 180th Street in Crotona, helping revive business there.
        One of Mr. Jacobo's priorities was expanding services for teenagers. He pressed the city to convert vacant lots into two baseball fields and to create the Mary Mitchell Family and Youth Center, which is supported by federal and city funds and donations from foundations.
        Assemblyman José Rivera of the Bronx recalled, ''Jacob would bring youngsters to City Hall to demonstrate for the need for parks and the opportunity for summer jobs for the youngsters, and he would never leave City Hall until he bumped into'' whichever mayor was in office.
        Mr. Jacobo also got neighborhood residents to convert a number of vacant lots into gardens.
        A prime problem in Crotona beginning in the 1970's was fires: fires in fragile tenements, fires from crack pipes and even fires resulting from gunfire. At the time of the worst fires, many people moved out of Crotona.
        After the buildings burned, he recalled in 1996, ''We put the kids into them so people wouldn't strip them of the pipes.''
        In 1990, 87 people died when fire destroyed the nearby Happy Land social club. Many of the dead were Honduran immigrants, and Mr. Jacobo and his neighbors worked together and laid out a soccer field for newly arrived Hondurans.
        Mr. Jacobo is survived by his wife, Altagracia; three daughters, Anna, Amarelis and Astrid, all of the Bronx; a son, Astin Jr., of the Bronx; three grandchildren; three brothers in the Bronx and three brothers in Santo Domingo in the Dominican Republic.
        In later years he was joyful about the neighborhood's rebirth. Out for a walk there in 1998, he turned down one street, where newly built brick row houses adjoined a community garden. Smiling, he said to a reporter for The New York Times: ''Such elegance. Every time I see this I feel like I hit the lotto. Ten years ago, this community had gone to ashes, but now there is a return to green. We're emerging.''
      