
        James B. McKenzie, the longtime executive producer of the Westport Country Playhouse in Westport, Conn., where he lived, and a force in regional and summer theater throughout the country, died on Feb. 20 at a hospital in Norwalk, Conn. He was 75.
        The cause was cancer and recurring pneumonia, said his wife, Philisse Barrows.
        As head of the Westport playhouse, the American Conservatory Theater in San Francisco and the Peninsula Players in Fish Creek, Wis., Mr. McKenzie was responsible for hundreds of shows and package tours.
        At Westport alone, where he was executive producer for 41 years, he produced some 440 plays, 108 of them new works, said his wife, who was his assistant for 30 years. More than 20 of his shows went on to Broadway.
        Mr. McKenzie, who was born in Appleton, Wis., joined the Westport in 1959. In 1973, he founded the nonprofit Connecticut Theater Foundation to produce plays in Westport.
        In 1984, the theater was put up for sale and Mr. McKenzie organized its purchase with a group of investors including the novelist Robert Ludlum and the actress June Havoc. He retired from the playhouse in 2000.
        His Broadway productions included ''The Girl in the Freudian Slip'' (1967), ''And Miss Reardon Drinks a Little'' (1971) and ''The Secret Affairs of Mildred Wild'' (1972).
        ''Miss Reardon'' won two Tony Awards: the best-actress prize for Estelle Parsons and the supporting-actress award for Rae Allen. The American Conservatory Theater, which Mr. McKenzie led from 1962 to 1982, was awarded the Tony for regional theater in 1979.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by their daughter, Agatha H. Barrows-McKenzie of Canyon Lake, Tex.; three children from a previous marriage, David J., of Norwalk; Kevin J., of Lake Worth, Fla.; and Amy, of Sturgeon Bay, Wis.; two brothers, Tom and John, of Wisconsin; two sisters, Helen Fieweger of Sherwood, Wis., and Mary Pownall of Olean, N.Y.; and two grandchildren.
      