
        Warren J. Harding, a legend among rock climbing aficionados since his years of dogged assaults on the towering ramparts of Yosemite Valley, died Feb. 27 at his home in the mountain and lake country near Anderson, Calif. He was 77.
        He began climbing in the early 1950's, when popular interest in the activity was in its infancy. He continued through the 1970's, making 30 first ascents in Yosemite National Park.
        By then rock climbing was evolving from an esoteric pursuit into a sport. Since the 1980's it has attracted hundreds of thousands of devotees, with international competitions, crowds of spectators and prize money.
        Mr. Harding attracted notice when he took part in the first conquest of El Capitan, a stark granite monolith rising 3,600 feet.
        On their way up, Mr. Harding and two companions, George Whitmore and Wayne Merry, retreated for a while to a perch on a narrow ledge at 2,100 feet. Fighting frost, they went on carving footholds at night by the light of miners' headlamps. The party reached El Capitan's summit in freezing weather on Nov. 12, 1958.
        Mr. Harding was first over the rim after a 24-hour struggle past what he called a ferocious overhang. The ascent, via an approach called the Nose, had taken 13 days, after more than a year of preparation.
        In 1970, Mr. Harding, then 46, and another climber, Dean Caldwell, drew a national audience as they edged up El Capitan's southeast face. They had planned to spend 12 days scaling the rock face, known as the Wall of the Early Morning Light. While hundreds had made it up the monolith by then, none had ventured that way.
        They maneuvered past the Great Roof, a 15-foot overhang, but a rainstorm pinned them to the rock day after day. The feat turned into a marathon followed daily by the news media across the country.
        They ran short of food but waved off rescue by the National Park Service. The weather finally turned splendidly autumnal, and the pair, bearded and grinning, completed their conquest on the 27th day.
        ''I feel great,'' Mr. Harding said as the men hugged their friends and enjoyed fried chicken and Champagne provided by a greeting party.
        Not all climbers approved of Mr. Harding's techniques. Scaling sheer rock formations, he used the traditional spikes for safety ropes, but he also drilled holes for expansion bolts on blank stretches, a more controversial practice because it damages the rock.
        Warren Harding, who was called Batso for hanging off rock walls like a bat, was born in Oakland, Calif. In World War II he was a propeller mechanic in Sacramento.
        Later, he was a surveyor, first for the state and then in private construction before retiring in 1985. His home was something of a mecca for the new generation of rock climbers.
        He is survived by a sister, Ardeth Barker of West Sacramento.
        Climbing magazine eulogized Mr. Harding as ''Yosemite's venerated master of wine, women and walls.'' It said that in recent months ''many of his friends from the Golden Age of Yosemite'' had come to call, including his old climbing partner Mr. Whitmore.
      