
        Thomas Griffith, who began his journalism career as a police reporter in Seattle and went on to become one of the most powerful editors at Time Inc. during a 30-year career there, died Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan.
        Once called the ''house liberal'' in an organization known for the conservative politics of its outspoken founder, Henry Luce, Mr. Griffith succeeded in winning and maintaining Mr. Luce's respect and friendship through tumultuous interoffice clashes on major news stories of the 1950's and 60's.
        These included the rise and fall of Joseph R. McCarthy, the senator from Wisconsin whose public hunt for Communists defined a heady era in journalism and politics; the perjury trial of Alger Hiss, the former high-ranking State Department official accused by Whittaker Chambers, a Time magazine editor, of being a spy for the Communists; the Korean War; and the dismissal of Gen. Douglas MacArthur by President Truman in 1951.
        He began his career at Time in 1943 as a reporter and went on to hold many of the editorial jobs in the magazine. In 1963, he became the senior staff editor, holding the No. 2 position, succeeding Otto Fuerbringer, who was ailing, and answering only to the editor in chief, Hedley Donovan. From 1967 until it stopped publishing weekly in 1972, he was the editor of Life magazine. He retired that same year. In 1968, Life had a circulation of 8.5 million.
        As the senior editor of Time, which was founded in 1923 and rose to a circulation of more than 4 million, he held the post where ''most of Time's political battles were fought,'' according to ''The World of Time Inc., 1960-1980'' by Curtis Prendergast with Geoffrey Colvin (Atheneum, 1986). But even before then, his personal politics made him a lightning rod, and he soon became known as the company's ''house liberal,'' an epithet he deplored as unfair. In July 1951, following a bitter internal dispute over Time's coverage of the Truman-MacArthur clash, in which the magazine had favored MacArthur, Mr. Griffith made clear his belief that the magazine should not take sides, and he was transferred to the less politically charged foreign news department. But he never lost Mr. Luce's respect and friendship, and soon was back in the thick of political contention as assistant managing editor of national coverage.
        Robert Manning, a friend and long-time associate at Time, recalled those turbulent days: ''He piloted the magazine through the presidential election months of 1960 with an evenhandedness and fairness that eschewed the magazine's traditional pro-Republican bias and astonished many Time critics.''
        According to ''The World of Time Inc.,'' Mr. Luce began to refer approvingly to Mr. Griffith as ''the loyal opposition.'' He also faced internal opposition when it was suspected that he favored Kennedy over Nixon in the 1960 presidential race.
        Mr. Griffith admitted that he supported Kennedy but said he was determined to make the magazine's coverage of the campaign scrupulously fair.
        Born on Dec. 30, 1915, in Tacoma, Wash., Mr. Griffith was abandoned by his widower father at an early age and was raised in a local boardinghouse. After graduating from high school in Seattle, he entered the University of Washington, where he majored in journalism and political science, graduating in 1936.
        He began his career as a police reporter at The Seattle Times. Then came a stint at Collier's magazine and a Nieman Fellowship at Harvard. He next joined Time as an editor of the articles that usually ran toward the back of the magazine.
        He wrote three books, ''Harry and Teddy: The Turbulent Friendship of Press Lord Henry R. Luce and his Favorite Reporter, Theodore H. White'' (Random House, 1995); ''The Waist-High Culture'' (Harpers, 1959); and ''How True: A Skeptic's Guide to Believing the News'' (Atlantic-Little, Brown, 1974). In ''How True,'' Mr. Griffith explained how he had directed the coverage of the Kennedy-Nixon campaign.
        ''There were office cynics who were sure that I'd soon have to get smart,'' he wrote. ''I think they were right that in the old days such evenhandedness would not have been tolerated. My own attitude was that if Luce wanted partisanship, he'd have to raise the subject with me.''
        Mr. Luce never asked for any such change.
        When the last issue of the magazine before the election went to press, Mr. Luce called Mr. Griffith to say how pleased he was with the political coverage and ordered Mr. Griffith to tell the entire staff ''that the real winner of the election was Time.''
        Nevertheless, the publisher decided that Mr. Griffith's talents would be more suitable as the editor of Life magazine.
        Mr. Griffith, who is survived by his wife, Caroline, was also an outspoken critic of the press when he thought it had gone astray. In ''How True,'' he took issue with the prevalent notion that the journalist was a sort of tape recorder or camera, mindlessly recording the words of newsmakers and reporting events as they appeared to happen.
        It is this kind of thinking, Mr. Griffith contended, that produced the McCarthy era.
        ''The true relationship between a journalist's beliefs and his reporting is something like that of a juror's desire to reach an impartial verdict,'' he wrote. ''Jurors are not required to be empty minds, free of past experience or views; what is properly demanded of them is a readiness to put prejudices and uncorroborated impressions aside in considering the evidence before them. As much is asked of the journalist.''
      