
        Paul Runyan, who twice won the P.G.A. Championship in the 1930's, the second time routing Sam Snead in match play for one of golf's most stunning upsets, died Sunday in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 93.
        ''I've taken some pleasure out of being the little guy who has beaten the big fellow,'' Runyan once said.
        Only 5 feet 7 inches and 125 pounds, he was generally outdriven by his opponents, but Runyan mastered irons play and putting. His superb short game brought him the nickname Little Poison.
        A member of the World Golf Hall of Fame, Runyan had 29 PGA Tour victories. Only Byron Nelson, Ben Hogan and Snead had more tournament victories in a single year than Runyan's nine in 1933, a total matched by Tiger Woods in 2000.
        Runyan won seven tournaments in 1934, when he captured the P.G.A. Championship for the first time, defeating Craig Wood in the final. In 1938, he beat the long-driving Snead in the most one-sided final of the tournament's 39 years of match play.
        Playing out of Metropolis Country Club in White Plains for most of his career, Runyan was a member of the 1933 and 1935 Ryder Cup teams. He played in the first Masters, in 1934, finishing in a tie for third place, two shots behind Horton Smith, and was among the top four finishers in the Masters four times. He won the P.G.A. Seniors Championship in 1961 and 1962.
        Born July 12, 1908, in Hot Springs, Ark., Runyan learned to play while a caddie at the country club across from his father's dairy farm.
        ''My father whipped my fanny several times for going over there,'' Runyan once said. ''He saw it as frivolity. Golf wasn't work. I finally looked him in the eye and said, 'Dad, you can whip me if you want, but it won't do you any good, because I'm going over to the golf course, and I'm going to become a golf professional.' ''
        By age 18, Runyan was the head pro at the Concordia Golf and Country Club in Little Rock, and a few years later, he came East as assistant pro at the Forest Hill Field Club in Bloomfield, N.J., working under Wood.
        In the 1934 P.G.A. Championship final at the Park Country Club in Williamsville, N.Y., near Buffalo, Runyan was tied with Wood, one of the era's longest hitters, after 36 holes. But Runyan holed an 8-foot putt on the second extra hole for a par 4 and the victory.
        At the 1938 P.G.A. final at Shawnee Country Club in Pennsylvania's Delaware Valley, Runyan was a heavy underdog against Snead, who outdrove him by up to 50 yards per hole. But Snead's approach shots were erratic and he had difficulty on the greens. Runyan beat Snead, 8 and 7, closing him out on the 29th hole. He lost only one hole, the sixth in afternoon play, when he had his only bogey of the day.
        ''On the drives, Runyan would be so far behind I'd lose sight of him at times,'' Snead said. ''On second shots, I'd still be far inside him, and then he'd beat me into the hole. He'd sink a shot from behind a bush or chip dead to the cup from a gully or make a pitching-iron recovery from a bunker that I'd have bet 50-1 against.''
        ''This isn't golf, it's magic,'' Snead told Runyan.
        Snead recalled how ''Runyan left me so bothered that after awhile I couldn't have sunk a putt in a bathtub.''
        That was precisely where Runyan was spending time en route to beating five opponents in match play during sweltering conditions.
        ''I was smarter than they were, all of them,'' Runyan recalled. ''It was 100, 102 with a humidity of 90, and it just wilted them. Before I'd go out to play in the morning, I'd soak in a tub of cold water. Before I had my lunch, I'd take another cool bath. I was getting stronger as the week went on, and they were all wilting.''
        Runyan was a supremely confident player and employed an unorthodox swing to compensate for his slight frame. ''I swayed way back behind the ball and lunged past it to get more leverage,'' he said. He never entered a strength-building program, fearing it would leave him musclebound.
        One of golf's foremost teachers, Runyan gave pointers to the leading pros, including Gene Littler, Phil Rodgers, Tommy Aaron and Mickey Wright. One day in 1958, a struggling Littler came to him. ''He had won $28,000 that year with the worst swing I ever saw,'' Runyan said. He moved Littler's hands on the club in a 10-minute lesson, helping him regain his form. Three years later, Littler captured the United States Open.
        ''I saw him play some marvelous shots around the green,'' Littler recalled upon Runyan's death. ''I learned a lot from him.''
        Runyan is survived by two sons, Jeff and Paul, and two grandsons.
        Runyan received the PGA of America's Distinguished Service Award at the 1998 P.G.A. Championship, held at the Sahalee Country Club in Redmond, Wash., which had hired him as the club's first pro in 1969.
        Sixty years after his stunning triumph over Snead at the P.G.A. Championship, Runyan, at 90, shot a 42 for nine holes at Sahalee the Monday before the tournament. Afterward, he said, ''I can still have a terrible game and beat my age.''
        Editors' Note:  March 28, 2002, Thursday  An obituary of the golfer Paul Runyan on March 19 omitted attribution for several quotations about his career, obtained from other publications. A detailed editors' note appears today on Page A28.
        Editors' Note:  March 28, 2002, Thursday  An obituary of the golfer Paul Runyan on March 19 reported on his upset victory over Sam Snead in the 1938 P.G.A. Championship and recalled that Runyan, a slightly built man generally outdriven by opponents, achieved 29 tour victories by relying on a superb short game.
        Quotations in the obituary -- from two books, a magazine article and The Associated Press -- appeared without attribution. The Times's policy requires acknowledgment of others whose reporting is reflected in its columns.
        These Runyan quotations were from ''Gettin' to the Dance Floor: An Oral History of American Golf,'' by Al Barkow (Atheneum, 1986):
        *''I've taken some pleasure out of being the little guy who has beaten the big fellow.''
        *''My father whipped my fanny several times for going over there. He saw it as frivolity. Golf wasn't work. I finally looked him in the eye and said, 'Dad, you can whip me if you want, but it won't do you any good, because I'm going over to the golf course, and I'm going to become a golf professional.' ''
        *''I was smarter than they were, all of them. It was 100, 102 with a humidity of 90, and it just wilted them. Before I'd go out to play in the morning, I'd soak in a tub of cold water. Before I had my lunch, I'd take another cool bath. I was getting stronger as the week went on, and they were all wilting.''
        From ''The Education of a Golfer,'' by Sam Snead, with Al Stump (Simon & Schuster, 1962):
        *''On the drives, Runyan would be so far behind I'd lose sight of him at times,'' Snead said. ''On second shots, I'd still be far inside him, and then he'd beat me into the hole. He'd sink a shot from behind a bush or chip dead to the cup from a gully or make a pitching-iron recovery from a bunker that I'd have bet 50-1 against.''
        *''This isn't golf, it's magic,'' Snead told Runyan.
        *''Runyan left me so bothered that after awhile I couldn't have sunk a putt in a bathtub.''
        From '' 'Little Poison' Heals Ailing Swings,'' by Jack Murphy in Golf Digest (July 1965), referring to Runyan's prowess as a teacher:
        *''He had won $28,000 that year with the worst swing I ever saw,'' Runyan said.
        From the A.P. obituary: ''I saw him play some marvelous shots around the green,'' Littler recalled upon Runyan's death. ''I learned a lot from him.''
        From an A.P. report on Aug. 11, 1998, referring to Runyan at 90: ''I can still have a terrible game and beat my age.''
      