
        John L. S. Holloman Jr., a doctor who in his private practice, in leadership roles with medical associations and as head of New York City's hospitals battled for health care for the poor, died on Wednesday in Queens. He was 82 and lived in East Elmhurst, Queens.
        The cause was a stroke, said his wife, Patricia.
        Dr. Holloman attacked racist practices in the American Medical Association and was a prominent early voice warning of the threat of AIDS among minorities, but he was best known as president of the city's public hospital corporation in the mid-1970's. At the time, he was reportedly the country's highest-ranking black person in health care.
        But his influence was also felt in prisons, where he strove for better care for inmates, and at conventions of the American Medical Association, where he picketed for more inclusion of minorities. It was most personally felt among his Harlem patients, many of whom knew him by his nickname, Mike.
        Representative Charles B. Rangel remembers how Dr. Holloman took care of people's feet during the voting rights march from Selma to Montgomery in 1965. ''Martin Luther King was leading the march but Mike Holloman was keeping us together,'' Mr. Rangel said.
        Sore feet were nothing compared with the problems Dr. Holloman faced in 1974 after Mayor Abraham D. Beame appointed him the second president of the four-year-old hospitals corporation, after the first resigned under pressure. Dr. Holloman found himself under formidable pressure to close and curtail services, the last thing he wanted to do.
        He eventually found himself recommending the closing or curtailing of 9 of the 19 hospitals in the system, and laying off thousands of workers, but it was not enough to stem the hemorrhaging of money. After a report to the mayor called the system an ''unmitigated disaster,'' Mayor Beame engineered Dr. Holloman's removal in 1977.
        He left in tears, insisting that he was a scapegoat and vowing to lead the fight against any more cuts in health care.
        ''There was no other justification for my resignation than politics,'' Dr. Holloman said. ''There are those who would like to destroy the municipal hospital system.''
        But in some battles he succeeded against the odds.
        ''He promised to make Harlem Hospital a flagship of the fleet, and that meant a lot to us,'' former Mayor David N. Dinkins said. ''I think he did.''
        John Lawrence Sullivan Holloman Jr., the grandson of a slave, was born on Nov. 22, 1919, in Washington, where his father preached for 53 years at the Second Baptist Church.
        He attended segregated elementary schools and the integrated Dunbar High School. His yearbook motto reads: ''I will go. I will see. I will conquer.''
        After graduating from Virginia Union University, an all-black college, he went to medical school at the University of Michigan.
        His whole medical school class applied to join the Navy, mainly because the Dearborn Naval Station was nearby. He was rejected. A letter he kept said that there was no place for black commissioned officers in the Navy.
        He joined the Army Air Corps, serving along with Percy Sutton, the former Manhattan borough president. He was the medical officer in the unit headed by Benjamin O. Davis, the first black general. Mrs. Holloman remembers her husband's stories about the Bilbo Breakfast Club, a black soldiers' social group defiantly named for Theodore Bilbo, the Mississippi senator who urged sending blacks back to Africa. Each Sunday, club members desegregated the officers' club.
        After the war, Dr. Holloman completed his residency at Harlem Hospital Center and began a private practice in Harlem. He also established a laboratory to train black lab technicians.
        Inspired by Dr. King's march on Washington in 1963, he was a founder of the Medical Committee for Civil Rights, the medical arm of the civil rights movement.
        His first marriage ended in divorce, and he met his wife Patricia during the Selma march. He is also survived by four daughters, Charlotte, of Washington; Laura, of Queens; Ellen, of Manhattan; and Karin Madson of Denver; a son, Paul Leo of Denver; three sisters, Marjorie Parker, Grace Davis and Carolyn Troupe, all of Washington; and three grandchildren.
        Dr. Holloman never gave up his private practice. When he learned of his appointment as president of the hospitals corporation, he was seeing a patient, and told Mayor Beame that he would assume his duties as soon as he knew his patients were well taken care of.
        After the city job, he taught public health at the University of North Carolina; was a consultant to the Harlem Health Task Force of the federal Health, Education and Welfare Department, and was a staff member of the Health Subcommittee of the House Ways and Means Committee, among other things.
        He was one of the longest-serving board members of the State University of New York from 1966 to 1995.
        In his many medical leadership positions, including the presidency of the National Medical Association, he appealed to the medical profession to fight racial prejudice in the North as well as the South. In many forums he pressed for health care as a basic right, and he campaigned tirelessly for national health insurance.
        ''Until we take the profit motive out of it and provide health care for all of our citizens,'' he said in an interview with The Amsterdam News in 1995, ''we are always going to have somebody who's left out because there are so many people on whom there is no profit to be made.''
        He gave practical expression to this belief during 20 years as medical director of the William F. Ryan Community Health Center. He insisted that AIDS patients be treated with everyone else, even when that position cost him a federal grant.
        Until his first stroke in 1996, Dr. Holloman visited the homeless each week in an armory to offer medical care. He also continued to make house calls, saying he and his patients had grown old together.
        The stroke ended a dream. He and his wife, a nurse, had planned to join the Peace Corps. She said they had decided it was time to have some fun.
      