
        Marvin E. Frankel, an outspoken litigator, judge and legal scholar whose views helped to establish sentencing guidelines for the federal courts, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 81.
        The cause was prostate cancer, his daughter Mara said.
        In a career of more than 50 years Judge Frankel, a former member of the Federal District Court in Manhattan, made his mark as a widely traveled campaigner for human rights and as an advocate before the Supreme Court. He was instrumental in drafting the brief for The New York Times in the landmark First Amendment case, Times v. Sullivan, which set sharp limits on libel suits brought by public figures. His final appearance before the high court was last month.
        While on the bench, he wrote ''Criminal Sentences, Law Without Order'' with Gary Naftalis, a book that argued that judges seemed to mete out sentences with more caprice than rules. He once called federal sentencing ''a nonsystem in which every judge is a law unto himself or herself and the sentence a defendant gets depends on the judge he or she gets.''
        The book provided the intellectual impetus for federal sentencing guidelines, which, despite their many detractors, sought to bring order to the highly subjective sentencing process.
        In all, he wrote five books and more than 40 major articles, and there, too, he did not pull punches.
        In 1973, when President Nixon accused judges of being soft-headed and called for harsher sentences, Judge Frankel wrote: ''With all deference to the top Federal officer, his theories on reducing crime are open to serious question and his strictures against softness in judges are without basis in hard fact. His proposals for severity are neither new nor useful, but only invite us to official cruelties unlikely to accomplish anything beneficial.''
        Marvin Earle Frankel was born on July 26, 1920, in New York City. His father, Charles, was a salesman, and his mother, the former Anne Brody, was a beautician. He grew up in Newark and graduated at 16 from Weequahic High School, made famous by Philip Roth.
        He set off into the world on his own and soon joined the Civilian Conservation Corps, working in Lake Placid's zero-degree cold in the winter and in Las Vegas's 100-degree heat in the summer.
        He returned to the East Coast and began studying economics at Queens College. To pay for his schooling, he drove taxis and ice cream trucks and pushed clothes racks in the garment district of Manhattan.
        With World War II raging, he joined the Army in 1942 -- his Queens College diploma did not arrive until the following year. A badly damaged knee forced him to leave Officers Training School, but he rose to staff sergeant and spent much of the war doing supply work in Accra in West Africa.
        In 1945, he married Betty Streich. They were divorced in 1965, and that year he married the former Alice Kross, chief psychiatrist of child development of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services. She survives him, as does a daughter from his first marriage, Eleanor Perlman, of East Northport, N.Y., a daughter from his second marriage, Mara Wallace, of Palo Alto, Calif.; two stepchildren, Ellen Schorr of New York and David K. Schorr of Washington; a sister, Marjorie Frankel, of New York City, and six grandchildren.
        After the war he went to Columbia University to study political science, but he switched to the law school. He graduated in two years, in 1948, and was editor in chief of the law review.
        The following year, he went to work for the Solicitor General's office in Washington, helping to write briefs and argue cases before the Supreme Court. He argued his first case before the high court in March 1952.
        From 1956 to 1962, he was a partner in the New York law firm, Proskauer Rose Goetz & Mendelsohn. He began teaching at Columbia University Law School in 1962 and it was there that he came to play a major role in the Times v. Sullivan decision, helping the constitutional scholar Herbert Wechsler write a brief that was presented to the Supreme Court.
        In March 1960, with sit-ins and civil rights marches spreading across the South, The New York Times ran an advertisement seeking contributions for the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. and other civil rights leaders. The advertisement included several inaccuracies: it incorrectly said, for example, that a student dining hall had been padlocked to starve students into submission.
        A jury found the ad libelous, but the Supreme Court, in a unanimous 1964 decision, overruled that decision, saying the press could not satisfy the need for vigorous debate of issues if it had to prove the accuracy of every statement about a public official. Public officials, the court wrote, could win damages only by showing a libelous statement had been made with knowledge that it was false, or reckless disregard of whether it was false or not.
        With the backing of Robert F. Kennedy, he was nominated to the federal bench and took his place in New York's southern district in 1965. As a judge, he presided over a wide range of cases and was known for his penetrating but literary style in his decisions.
        He did not shrink from making controversial rulings. In 1973, he found that the Wood, Wire and Metal Lathers Union had discriminated against members of minority groups so he ordered the union to grant half its new positions to them.
        In 1976, he gave a four-month prison sentence to Bernard Bergman, a rabbi who was the central figure in a New York City nursing scandal, a sentence that prosecutors attacked as lenient.
        Judge Frankel surprised the legal community in 1978 by returning to private practice, at Proskauer Rose, until 1983. From that year until his death he worked as a partner at Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel, a Manhattan law firm, where he was litigation director for many years.
        After leaving the courtroom, he quickly transformed himself into a human rights crusader, becoming chairman of the board of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights. He traveled to the Soviet Union and criticized repression of Jews, and to Israel, where he said living conditions for political prisoners were ''quite terrible.'' He went to South Africa to criticize apartheid and to Argentina and Zaire to publicize kidnappings and murders by military regimes.
        In 1988, when he went to Kenya to attend an inquest into the death of an opposition leader who had perished in police custody, he was arrested for two days.
        ''He was a model for people who believe that law should be used as a tool to protect human rights,'' said Michael Posner, executive director of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights. ''He embodied everything we stood for so we tried to use him as much as we could.''
        Twelve days ago, using in a wheelchair because of his cancer, he made a last argument before the Supreme Court, saying that the use of school vouchers in Cleveland was an improper entanglement of church and state. That argument came just days before the 50th anniversary of his first argument before the court.
      