
        Jean-Paul Riopelle, one of Canada's most celebrated modern artists and an important figure in postwar French art, died on March 12 at his home on the Île aux Grues, an island in the St. Lawrence River east of Quebec City. He was 78.
        Living in France during the most productive decades of his career, Mr. Riopelle practiced a European variant of American Abstract Expressionism. He was inspired in the mid-1940's by the Surrealist idea of automatism -- painting intuitively without preconceived images or compositional ideas -- to create expansive, allover fields of gestural mark-making.
        His early, wildly expressionistic work was compared to that of Jackson Pollock, but in the early 1950's Mr. Riopelle began painting more methodically, using palette knives to build up thick, patchy surfaces in saturated colors, creating effects suggestive of stained glass and mosaics. In the 60's, he began to add images of birds, animals and landscapes, but retained the combination of physically assertive paint and luminous, decorative color.
        Mr. Riopelle was born on Oct. 7, 1923, in Montreal, where his father was an architect. He started painting at 8 and in the late 30's began to study architecture while attending the École Polytechnique. He soon returned to his first love, studying painting at the École des Beaux-Arts and École du Meuble in Montreal from 1943 to 1945. He first exhibited there in 1946 with a group of painters called Les Automatistes.
        Shortly thereafter he left for Paris, where he socialized with such luminaries of the European avant-garde as Alberto Giacometti, Joan Miró and Samuel Beckett. André Breton and Marcel Duchamp included him in the last major group show of the Surrealist movement in 1947.
        During a brief return to Canada in 1948, Mr. Riopelle became the co-founder of Refus Global, a group of Quebec artists who publicly rejected Canadian social conservatism, including the dictates of the Roman Catholic Church. In accordance with his atheism, his funeral on March 18, which was attended by more than 900 people, was a nonreligious ceremony that substituted jazz and rap pieces for traditional hymns.
        Mr. Riopelle's career peaked in the 50's. He was included in the Venice Biennale in 1952 (receiving the Unesco Prize that year) and in 1954. He received an honorable mention at the São Paulo Biennial in 1955, was awarded a Guggenheim International Prize in 1958, and exhibited paintings and large expressionistic bronze sculptures at the 1962 Venice Biennale.
        He also exhibited regularly at the Pierre Matisse Gallery in New York. In his later years he received many honors, including the Order of Canada and the Grand Prix de la Ville de Paris.
        Mr. Riopelle lived with the American Abstract Expressionist painter Joan Mitchell from 1955 to 1979, mostly in France. Over the years he revisited Canada with increasing frequency until resuming permanent residence there in the early 1990's.
        He is survived by his companion of 15 years, Huguette Vachon; a daughter, Yseult Riopelle of Montreal; and a son, Ian Fravalo-Riopelle of Paris.
        Correction:  March 29, 2002, Friday  An obituary of the Canadian artist Jean-Paul Riopelle on Sunday misidentified a project known as Refus Global and his involvement with it. It was a manifesto against Canadian social conservatism that he and other artists signed, not a group of which he was a co-founder.
      