
        Milton Berle, the brash comedian who emerged from vaudeville, nightclubs, radio and films to become the first star of television, igniting a national craze for the new medium in the late 1940's, died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 93.
        The uninhibited Mr. Berle almost single-handedly led the entertainment revolution that addicted the nation to the small screen by wobbling on his ankles while wearing high heels, flouncing in evening gowns, grinning to reveal blacked-out teeth, braying ''What the hey,'' being whacked silly with sacks of flour after shouting ''Makeup!'' and invariably thrusting himself into the routines of his guests.
        On Tuesday nights at 8 o'clock, families with new black-and-white television sets found themselves welcoming into their living rooms their less privileged neighbors to roar at the antics of Mr. Berle, first on the ''Texaco Star Theater,'' which ran from 1948 to 1954, and then for another year on the ''Buick-Berle Show.'' And before long, those neighbors, too, decided that owning a television set was a sine qua non of early post-World War II life and that to watch Milton Berle walk on the sides of his shoes each week was to laugh in paradise.
        Within two months after its debut on Sept. 21, 1948, the ''Texaco Star Theater'' was so popular that it was the only show not canceled to make way for presidential election coverage on the night that Harry S. Truman upset Thomas E. Dewey.
        Mr. Berle ruled Tuesday nights in America, dominating the new medium in a way no one else ever has and becoming perhaps the most famous man in America in the late 1940's and 50's. Life magazine reported that in 1947 there were 17 television stations in the United States broadcasting to 136,000 sets. As a consequence of Milton Berle's success by the end of 1948 there were more than 50 stations and 700,000 sets. At one point, his show's Hooper rating, the dominant gauge of viewership, was 80.7, or 28.9 points ahead of its nearest competition.
        ''Crazy things started happening all over the country,'' Mr. Berle recalled in ''Milton Berle: An Autobiography,'' written with Haskel Frankel (Delacorte, 1974). Nightclubs changed their closing to Tuesday nights from Monday because of the popularity of Mr. Berle's show. Restaurants were empty for the hour he was on the air and business in movie houses and theaters plummeted.
        ''In Detroit, an investigation took place when the water levels took a drastic drop in the reservoirs on Tuesday nights between 9 and 9:05,'' Mr. Berle wrote. ''It turned out that everyone waited until the end of the 'Texaco Star Theater' before going to the bathroom.''
        A Powerful Hour-ful
        America simply could not resist Mr. Berle and ''Texaco Star Theater.'' The show opened with four men costumed as gas station attendants singing the lyrics created by Buddy Arnold and Woody Kling (and set in part to Liszt's Hungarian Rhapsody No. 2):
        Oh, we're the men of Texaco,
        We work from Maine to Mexico.
        There's nothing like this Texaco of ours.
        Our show tonight is powerful.
        We'll wow you with an hour-ful
        Of howls from a showerful of stars.
        We're the merry Texaco men.
        Tonight we may be showmen
        Tomorrow we'll be servicing your cars.
        And then Mr. Berle appeared in some outrageous costume -- perhaps in Eskimo furs or done up like Carmen Miranda with his head swathed in a turban piled high with fruit, his wrists wreathed in multiple bracelets and his shoulders and chest tucked beneath a frilled blouse while he pursed his carmined lips, revealed his rabbity front teeth. Typically he would greet his viewers with the words: ''Good evening, ladies and germs.''
        Mr. Berle had his pick of contemporary stars to join him on his program, among them Tallulah Bankhead, Red Buttons, Ted Lewis, Lauritz Melchior, Basil Rathbone, the Nicholas Brothers, Martha Raye and Phil Silvers. After a virtual lifetime in show business, he could draw on a headful of jokes whose number he once put at 200,000.
        In the heyday of ''Texaco Star Theater,'' television was live, and some of the wild goings-on that left audiences roaring or goggle-eyed were unintended. When Mr. Berle reached out to rip a specially designed breakaway suit off Red Buttons, exposing him in his underwear, the underwear went, too.
        Ted Lewis, whose trademark was asking ''Is everybody happy?'' and bending his head to roll his top hat down his arm, managed to release his toupee, which flopped over his face. But perhaps the worst of Mr. Berle's adventures on live television came in the form of Ella the Elephant and Company, a troupe of flatulent pachyderms with digestive problems that nearly drowned out Mr. Berle's opening monologue, forced the camera to raise its sights when they appeared on stage and left the succeeding act, Jack Cole and his dancers, the Kraft Sisters, sliding across the floor.
        Somewhere along the way, Mr. Berle was sure to say, ''I swear, I'll kiwl you, a milwyun times.'' There would be a segment for the pitchman Sid Stone, whose ''I'll tell you what I'm gonna do'' became a part of the national vocabulary. And when the audience invariably would roar with laughter and then burst into applause, Mr. Berle would hold up one hand like a traffic cop to halt the applause, while his other hand, held down against his thigh, would beckon frantically, urging the audience to applaud still louder.
        And finally, there was the signoff, with the star singing: ''There's just one place for me,/Near you./It's like heaven for me to be/Near you./Let us make a date/Next Tuesday night at eight . . . ''
        Listen to Your Uncle Miltie
        One night in 1949, to fill some air time, he addressed himself to the children in his audience, saying: ''Since this is the beginning of a new season, I want to say something to any of you kiddies who should be in bed, getting a good night's rest before school tomorrow. Listen to your Uncle Miltie and kiss Mommy and Daddy goodnight and go straight upstairs like good little boys and girls.'' And almost in a twinkling, he was everybody's Uncle Miltie.
        But he was even more. At the age of 40, after 35 years in show business, he was an overnight sensation. He was Mr. Television, at the pinnacle of a career that began long before, in his boyhood, one Halloween in Harlem.
        Milton Berle was born Milton Berlinger , one of five children of the former Sarah Glantz and Moses Berlinger, on July 12, 1908, in a five-story walkup in Manhattan at 68 West 118th Street, between Fifth and Lenox Avenues.
        On that pivotal Halloween, he put on his father's suit, adorned the lapel with a paper chrysanthemum plucked from a vase, clapped a derby stuffed with paper on his head, cut a piece out of his mother's muff to fashion a mustache, took his father's cane and set out as a midget Charlie Chaplin.
        ''Mothers nudged one another and made clucking sounds of approval, men patted me on the head and the pennies poured in,'' he wrote in his autobiography.
        That night, he was followed home by a man who asked Mrs. Berlinger to enter Milton in a children's Chaplin contest he was running in a theater he owned in Mount Vernon.
        The Berlingers were poor. Mr. Berlinger, who had lost his father's paint store, drifted through a succession of jobs: house painter, contractor, salesman of paints and varnishes, traveling salesman in millinery, night watchman and more. Sarah, known as Sadie, sold notions at Wanamaker's department store, worked as a store detective and even ran her own detective agency.
        Born for Show Business
        Milton won the Chaplin contest in Mount Vernon. What was just as good in his mother's eyes, he won $5. ''When I took the contest, she saw a door opening, and she was determined to get her whole family through to where it was safe and warm,'' Mr. Berle wrote.
        ''If a person can be born for something, I guess I was born for show business,'' Mr. Berle wrote. ''All I needed was just one little push.'' And Sadie Berlinger was a pusher. Once she shoved her son on stage in the middle of Al Jolson's act so that he could do his Jolson imitation right next to the real thing.
        Mrs. Berlinger began to find work for herself and her brood in silent movies, which then were often made in New York and across the Hudson River in Fort Lee, N.J. As extras, she and her children made $1.50 a day. Milton became a Buster Brown model. He entered the movies in ''The Perils of Pauline'' with Pearl White in 1914 and was terrified when he learned that the script called for him to be hurled from a speeding train. (At the last moment, a bundle of rags was tossed out instead.) That same year he was in ''Tillie's Punctured Romance'' with Mabel Normand, Marie Dressler and Charlie Chaplin himself. He even went to Hollywood, where he appeared in ''The Mark of Zorro'' in 1920 with Douglas Fairbanks.
        Formal education was hit and miss. For a time he attended the Professional Children's School in New York City with contemporaries like Ruby Keeler, Gene Raymond, Lillian Roth and Penny Singleton. Mr. Berle took dance lessons in Harlem and picked up $3 or $5 when he performed with a partner at local social clubs like the Masons or Elks.
        He charged the local youngsters a penny for backyard shows where he sang risqué numbers like ''They're Wearing 'Em Higher in Hawaii.'' ''I think it was while doing that last number that I learned that you can get laughs by leering,'' he said.
        When Mr. Berle was 10, his mother accepted an offer for her son to join a children's vaudeville act operating out of Philadelphia. He did an imitation of Eddie Cantor.
        In 1920, when he was 12, he changed his name when he formed a vaudeville act with a girl named Elizabeth Kennedy. Kennedy and Berlinger was simply too long. By 1921, they had achieved the dream of every vaudevillian. They were playing the Palace Theater on Broadway.
        But Mr. Berle was growing too big to continue their act, ''Broadway Bound,'' which was built around the idea of two child performers trying out an assortment of material while looking for work in the office of an impresario. He began experimenting with a solo routine, trying comedy out of a sense that comedy was right for him. He began to learn how jokes work. He also began experimenting with dressing in women's clothes, getting the idea from annual drag balls at the Rockland Palace on 155th Street near the Polo Grounds in Upper Manhattan.
        On Dec. 29, 1924, at the age of 16, he made his debut as a single at Loew's State Theater in Times Square, singing ''Swanee,'' doing card tricks, imitating Eddie Cantor and joking about married life, crossword puzzles and the income tax. His pay was $600 a week. The man who was then his manager gave him $275 and stole the rest.
        On Guilt and Adrenaline
        He was growing up. His mother, who was to become Sandra Berle, generally neglected her marriage and her other children to travel with Milton on the vaudeville circuit, oversee his affairs, fight overt and covert battles for him, sit in the audience leading the laughter and interfere in his relationships with women. Mr. Berle's response to all this was a combination of gratitude and guilt.
        He became a ladies' man, and over the years, his long list of partners included the former child bride Peaches Browning, the evangelist Aimee Semple McPherson and a starlet named Marilyn Monroe. But the woman he called Mama discouraged him from marriage. ''My life runs on guilt and adrenaline,'' he said once.
        As the years passed, he continued to polish his act in vaudeville, working as a single and acting as a master of ceremonies for the whole bill, just as he would do years later on ''Texaco Star Theater.'' He also appeared on Broadway as a headliner in ''Earl Carroll's Vanities'' and ''The Ziegfeld Follies'' in the 1930's.
        He actually made his television debut in 1929 in Chicago, he noted in his autobiography, at the request of F. A. Sanabria, the owner of the United States Television Corporation. Mr. Berle estimated he was seen by perhaps a dozen people who had television sets.
        At the start of the 1930's, as the growth of talking pictures was killing vaudeville, Mr. Berle appeared on Rudy Vallee's coast-to-coast radio show. He made his first talking picture, ''Gags to Riches'' for Warner Brothers Vitaphone. And as he began to be known as the youngest master of ceremonies in vaudeville, he also began to banter and upstage the acts he introduced.
        ''It got laughs and made both the act and me look good, '' he wrote in defense of his style. ''The audience thought it was all ad lib and that I was pretty pushy for horning in, but the acts always knew what was going to happen because they had rehearsed the 'ad libs' with me. It was the beginning of what I was to do years later on the 'Texaco Star Theater.' ''
        In 1931, he played the Capitol theater on Broadway with Bing Crosby and Eddy Duchin. That same year, in the depths of the Depression, Mr. Berle could command $1,500 a week for a nightclub appearance.
        'The Thief of Bad Gags'
        He was famous enough be subjected to hard knocks. Fellow comics accused him of stealing their jokes, and the powerful gossip columnist Walter Winchell dubbed him ''The Thief of Bad Gags.'' Mr. Berle denied the accusation and resolved to exploit it the way Jack Benny used his reputation for cheapness. So he would joke: ''God, I wish I'd said that, and don't worry, I will,'' and ''I laughed so hard I nearly dropped my pencil and paper.''
        Through the 1930's he played some of the top houses and nightspots in the country, toured in ''Life Begins at 8:40,'' was host of a radio show called the ''Gillette Original Community Sing'' and made his return to Hollywood in 'New Faces of 1937'' and ''Sun Valley Serenade'' (1941).
        In 1939, he was making $6,000 a week entertaining New York World's Fair visitors at the International Casino on Broadway. By 1946, he could command $10,000 and more weekly at Nicky Blair's new nightclub, the Carnival, in the Capitol Hotel on Eighth Avenue and 51st Street.
        Among other gigs, Mr. Berle had a radio program when television came along. ''Maybe it was because I had been around when the so-called brains of vaudeville had been laughing at silent movies as just a fad that the public would soon tire of, or maybe it was because I saw that television could give a visual entertainer the exposure he could never get from radio,'' Mr. Berle wrote. ''Whatever it was about television, it appealed to me.''
        Early in 1948, after Philip Morris dropped his radio show and declined to set him up in television, Myron Kirk, an advertising executive with the Kudner Agency, approached Mr. Berle about a new radio show for his client, the Texaco Company. So on Wednesday nights, between 9 and 10, Mr. Berle became the headliner of the ''Texaco Star Theater,'' whose writers included two brothers named Neil and Danny Simon.
        When the show was running smoothly, Mr. Kirk told Mr. Berle that Texaco was interested in building television's first big show around him for the fall of 1948.
        He wrote that when asked by his sponsors what he had in mind: ''I thought about it, and decided to take the advice I had given to so many others when their big break came. Don't go looking for something new. Do what you have done best, what got you your big break. So I suggested to the powers at Texaco a show in which I would serve as host, do some of my routines and introduce guest stars, who would do their specialties, and then I would mix it up with them for some comedy -- in other words, what I had been doing for years in vaudeville and nightclubs.''
        Texaco renewed his radio contract for the fall of 1948 and also scheduled him to be the host of ''Texaco Star Theater'' at 8 o'clock on Tuesday nights on NBC. So in 1948-49, Mr. Berle did 39 radio shows for Texaco on ABC and 39 television shows on NBC, or 78 live shows in a single season.
        His first television show went on the air on Sept. 21, 1948, from Studio 6B of the RCA building in Rockefeller Center. His guests included the comedian Phil Silvers, the vaudeville comedy team of Smith & Dale and Evelyn Knight and her magic violin.
        Facing Competition
        Mr. Berle's salary was $1,500 a week. But by 1950-51, it had risen to $11,500, and on May 3, 1951, he signed an unusual '' lifetime'' contract (actually 30 years) with NBC for $200,000 a year. That August, he performed at the Roxy theater in Manhattan for $35,000 a week.
        That fall, weary after three years of doing a live revue every week, he insisted on the right to take every fourth week off.
        ''And that was a big mistake,'' he conceded later. His ratings fell and rival shows with stars like Lucille Ball and Red Skelton began overtaking him. In September 1951, Mr. Berle's program was No. 1 in the Nielsen ratings. Between the following January and June, it slipped to No. 20.
        Texaco called for changes. Mr. Berle abandoned the vaudeville format and began to play a character named Berle caught up in the problems of putting on a weekly television show. Ruth Gilbert played his lovestruck secretary, and the cast included Fred Clark as his agent and the squeaky-voiced Arnold Stang.
        But he was not the Berle of the wild costumes and wilder antics that his audiences were accustomed to. ''I was everybody's straight man,'' he said.
        In 1953 Texaco ended its sponsorship, and in 1953, Buick presented the ''Buick-Berle Show.'' Ratings were high in October, but the show was fifth in the rankings, trailing ''I Love Lucy,'' ''Dragnet,'' ''The Colgate Comedy Hour'' and ''Racket Squad.''
        Mr. Berle began the next season second only to ''Dragnet,'' but new talent was coming along, tastes were changing, and Buick signed Jackie Gleason for the coming year.
        Mr. Berle's final show in the line that began in 1948 was broadcast on June 14, 1955. For the following season, he signed with Whirpool and Sunbeam to do ''The Milton Berle Show,'' the first color series from California.
        Las Vegas and Movies
        In 1958-59, Mr. Berle presided over the ''Kraft Music Hall'' but by 1960-61 he was considered overexposed, and he was reduced to being the host of ''Jackpot Bowling.'' And then the work dried up. Although he received television offers, Mr. Berle said his 30-year contract with NBC preventing him from accepting them. ''If I stop working, I die,'' he once observed. ''If there's another way of life, I don't know it.''
        So Mr. Berle played Las Vegas, made nightclub appearances, appeared on Broadway in ''The Goodbye People'' in 1968 and made movies like ''Let's Make Love'' in 1960 ''It's a Mad Mad Mad Mad World'' (1963) and ''The Loved One.'' He appeared in Woody Allen's ''Broadway Danny Rose'' in 1984 and ''Driving Me Crazy'' in 1990.
        As he grew older, Mr. Berle appeared as the master of ceremonies at celebrity roasts. He made guest apearances on television, often playing against type in dramas and striving for uncharacteristic modesty and restraint. He marketed videotapes of highlights of his old Texaco shows. He even put down his oversize cigar long enough to go to bat for the healthy life with ''Milton Berle's Low-Impact, High-Comedy Workout,'' an exercise video for the elderly.
        In one sequence, Mr. Berle, who was then 86, addressed a 91-year-old. ''So, you're 91, '' he said. ''How's your sex life?''
        ''Great,'' the man replied.
        ''You know, my wife and I have sex almost every day of the week,'' Mr. Berle said. ''Yes, almost Monday, almost Tuesday, almost Wednesday . . .
        Mr. Berle was 87 when he earned an Emmy nomination for his portrayal of an Alzheimer's patient on ''Beverly Hills, 90210.'' Asked why he continued to perform, he replied: ''Because I know nothing else. I live to work and I work to live.''
        He often said he would go crazy if he didn't work and shunned vacations. ''I've been to Spain, France, Greece and Italy, he said , and they were boring. When I go to a place like Paris, I look for a nightclub where I can go on stage and do something -- even card tricks.''
        Mr. Berle was married in 1941 to Joyce Matthews, a showgirl. They were divorced in 1947, and he married her again two years later. Why, he was asked. ''Because she reminded me of my first wife,'' he replied.
        Their second marriage also ended in divorce. They had a daughter.
        In 1953 he married Ruth Cosgrove, who died in 1989. They had a son, Bill, who also died in 1989. Mr. Berle is survived by his third wife, the former Lorna Adams, and his daughter, Vicki Walton.
        Throughout his career he was known for his appearances on behalf of charities. He was entertaining troops when he was 10 at Camp Upton in World War I and during World War II he performed at Army hospitals. He appeared at thousands and thousands of benefits. In 1949 he was the host of what may have been television's first telethon, a 16-hour program that raised more than a million dollars for the Damon Runyon Cancer Memorial Fund. In 1984, he was one of the first seven pioneers to be inducted into the Television Academy Hall of Fame.
        On his 88th birthday, he said he never felt better. He still enjoyed cigars (Dunhill's Larranagas with white lettering on the cellophane that said, ''Specially Selected for Milton Berle'') but he advised shunning red meat, liquor, and cigarettes and getting plenty of rest and exercise.
        ''Somebody asked me how do I feel today on my 88th birthday,'' he said in an interview. ''I said, 'I feel like a 20-year-old, but unfortunately there's never one around.''
        Correction:  March 29, 2002, Friday  Because of an editing error, the obituary of Milton Berle yesterday referred incorrectly to his son, Bill. Bill Berle did not die in 1989; he resides in Sherman Oaks, Calif., where he writes grants and raises money for a charity that helps the homeless.
      