
        Thomas M. Whalen III, mayor of Albany from 1983 to 1993, who moved it away from machine politics and helped revitalize its economy, died Monday evening when his car hit a tree near his home in Feura Bush in Albany County. He was 68.
        Mr. Whalen was driving alone in the car. The Associated Press reported that the police said he apparently had not been wearing a seat belt.
        As Albany's 92nd mayor, Mr. Whalen, a Democrat and a lawyer, oversaw reforms and the discarding of much of the political machine that had existed under his predecessor as mayor, Erastus Corning 2nd, also a Democrat.
        Mr. Corning was mayor from 1941 until he died in office in 1983. By then he had served in office longer than any other mayor of a major American city.
        Mr. Whalen was a former City Court judge and was quietly practicing law when Mr. Corning chose him as his successor and assured his nomination and election in 1981 as president of Albany's Common Council, the city's rough equivalent of a city council.
        Mr. Corning's death left a budget that had long been out of balance and a city government and political system that was under pressure to modernize by curbing patronage and closing the deficit.
        Mr. Whalen finished Mr. Corning's term as mayor, and was re-elected to two more terms. He did not run for re-election in 1993.
        Mr. Whalen chose John Dale to be Albany's police chief, the first black man to command the force. He improved the city's finances, appointed its first official budget director and won the 1988 Financial Leadership Award of the United States Conference of Mayors.
        By late in 1985, Albany was rebounding and enjoying an unparalleled cycle of commercial investment and development. Officials and private executives gave credit for the upswing to the aggressive business development programs initiated by Mayor Whalen, on top of an improved national economy and the commitment by two of the region's major financial institutions, Norstar Bancorp and Keycorp, to build or expand their headquarters there.
        A native of Albany, Thomas Michael Whalen III had schooling in the Albany area, graduated from Manhattan College and Albany Law School and served in the Army.
        After stepping down as mayor, he resumed practicing law and became chairman of the board of trustees of the Albany Law School.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Denis Marie O'Connor, whom he married in 1960; a daughter, Laura Whalen of Albany; and four sons, Thomas, of Seattle, Mark, of Albany and Matthew and Jonathan, both of Manhattan.
      