
        Howard Thompson, a movie reporter for The New York Times who turned to writing one-liner reviews in the newspaper's television section that amused, infuriated and astounded readers for more than 20 years, died on Sunday at his home in Cape Canaveral, Fla. He was 82.
        The cause was pneumonia, said Gail Sweet, his niece.
        Mr. Thompson once likened his mini-reviews to writing on the head of a pin. Of ''So This is Paris,'' the 1954 Tony Curtis musical, he said simply, ''Is it?''
        His praise was as concisely zestful as his pans. Of ''Angel,'' a 1937 film directed by Ernst Lubitsch that starred Marlene Dietrich and Melvyn Douglas, he pronounced: ''Angel cake. Delicious.''
        Even when he thought a film was truly great, he hardly ran on. Of ''The Grapes of Wrath,'' John Ford's 1940 classic, he said, ''The American scene at its peak.''
        He labored anonymously, but became such a local legend that in 1971 The Village Voice called him ''the Virgil of TV guides.'' Those few able to link the name with the oeuvre spoke of ''Howardisms'' and ''Tiny Thompsons.''
        Mr. Thompson was born in 1919 in Natchez, Miss., where he was weaned on Saturday cliffhangers at the local cinema. By his own account, he was the only boy in his neighborhood who could spell the name the actress Minna Gombell.
        He studied journalism at Louisiana State University, leaving to join the Army to serve as a paratrooper. He spent six months in a German prisoner of war camp.
        He said he learned a valuable lesson from his internment: how to distinguish the heavies in war films.
        After the war he continued his journalism studies at Columbia, and in 1947 called on a second cousin, Turner Catledge, an editor at The Times and later its executive editor. Mr. Catledge called Bosley Crowther, the Times's film critic, and learned that there would soon be a clerk's position open in the movie section.
        In 1947, Mr. Thompson joined The Times as an office boy in the personnel department, and soon he moved over to the movie section in the promised job as a clerk. He advanced to reporter, winning recognition for his coverage of the movie business and his interviews with stars. He became a critic in the mid-1960's, while continuing to work as a reporter, and was chairman of the New York Film Critics.
        He was soon assigned to writing the capsule comments for the television listings.
        ''If you go by the sheer number of people he probably persuades to watch one flick and click off another,'' The Village Voice wrote,  ''Thompson is a major critic.''
        Mr. Thompson said he thought his assignment was ''a good way to learn how to say more in less.'' In addition, he was duty-bound not to drift from the original review -- unless the passage of time had turned an initially admired picture to ''pure corn,'' in a typical phrase.
        Mr. Thompson, who is survived by his brother, William, of Monroe, La., never had a credit card or learned to drive. A lanky man with a soft Southern accent and a taste for unfiltered cigarettes, he lived in the same Greenwich Village apartment for nearly 50 years. It was decorated with pictures of him with Marlon Brando and other movie stars.
        He retired from The Times in 1988, but signed a contract to continue to write the Critic's Choice column and his famous one-liners for the movie listings. He had a stroke in 1996.
        But he continued to watch late night movies, invariably delivering a typically brief commentary, his niece, Ms. Sweet, said.
        Good: ''Quite so.''
        Bad: ''Phooey.''
        Good, Bad and Ugly
        BIKINI BEACH -- Frankie Avalon, Annette Funicello. You're only young once. With this, be glad of it.  THE BORROWERS -- Eddie Albert, Tammy Grimes, Judith Anderson. Tiny people, the inches-high kind, at home. Paging King Kong.  THE GUNS OF NAVARONE -- Gregory Peck, David Niven, Anthony Quinn, Irene Papas. Allied commando mission. Strong on scenery but weighs 10 tons.  MAN IN THE MIDDLE -- Robert Mitchum, France Nuyen. Army trial in Far East. Slow, overpadded and yak, yak, yak.  MARRIAGE ON THE ROCKS Frank Sinatra, Deborah Kerr, Dean Martin. Slush on the half shell.  MATILDA -- Elliott Gould, Robert Mitchum, Harry Guardino. A boxing kangaroo. What the world needs now.  PAINT YOUR WAGON -- Clint Eastwood, Jean Seberg, Lee Marvin. Elaborate but rather squatty western with nice music, via Broadway. Clint sings like a moose.  THE PRIDE AND THE PASSION -- Cary Grant, Sophia Loren, Frank Sinatra. And the cannon, which they lug, lug, lug. That's the passion. Sophia looks fine, Cary uneasy, Frank starved.  PROMISES TO KEEP -- Robert Mitchum, Christopher Mitchum, Tess Harper. Father returns home after 30 years. Seems that long, too.  THE WRATH OF GOD -- Robert Mitchum, Rita Hayworth. They said it, we didn't and it's pretty close.
      