
        Dr. Roy Porter, the popular British author, commentator and historian whose prolific scholarship covered topics as diverse as the Enlightenment and the history of medicine, died on March 3 near his home in St. Leonards-on-the-Sea, England. He was 55.
        The cause appeared to be a heart attack, said Dr. Harold J. Cook, director of the Wellcome Trust Center for the History of Medicine in London. Dr. Porter, who said in a 1999 interview that he would like to die gardening, collapsed as he was bicycling to his vegetable garden. He had lived in the south of England since taking early retirement from the center in September.
        In addition to work on medicine and the Enlightenment, Dr. Porter in recent years researched and wrote about what he called ''the cultural, literary and symbolic identity'' of gout, perceptions of madness and the social history of London, where he grew up. His books sold widely and his voice was heard frequently on British radio and television.
        In one of his most ambitious projects, Dr. Porter wrote a general history of medicine from antiquity to the 1990's, ''The Greatest Benefit to Mankind: A Medical History of Humanity,'' published in 1998.
        He followed with ''Gout: The Patrician Malady'' the same year, in which he and his co-author, G. S. Rousseau, looked at the disease, the patient and the surrounding culture. Dr. Porter's book ''Madness: A Brief History'' was published this year in Britain and will be published in the United States in April by Oxford University Press.
        Dr. Simon Schama, a professor of art history and archaeology at Columbia University, became friends with Dr. Porter when they were students at Cambridge. There, they had been described as the two least likely to publish books, Dr. Schama said, but each eventually shook off that gloomy prediction. Dr. Porter became so prolific that the poet Michael Hofmann called him ''a one-man book factory.''
        In a review of ''The Creation of the Modern World: The Untold Story of the British Enlightenment,'' published last year, Nicholas Lezard wrote in The Guardian: ''My main quibble is with Roy Porter himself. He has written about a dozen books in roughly as many years. They are all ferociously learned yet utterly readable, and he hardly ever repeats himself as far as I can see.''
        Even after Dr. Porter retired, his writing continued apace. ''I wanted to make a clean break, but I can't afford to stop writing books,'' Dr. Porter said in November in an interview with The Times Higher Education Supplement, a weekly newspaper in Britain.
        ''I feel like the proverbial person with two monkeys on his shoulder,'' he continued. ''One is saying, 'It would be really good for you not to write a single word for the foreseeable future, because you'll either discover you never really liked writing, or you'll find you have an itch to compose words and sentences on a subject you really want to do.' Another monkey is saying, 'Remember the overdraft.' ''
        Roy Sydney Porter was born on Dec. 31, 1946, in Hitchin, England. Educated in the state system, he won a scholarship to Cambridge and received his bachelor's degree there in 1968 and his Ph.D. in 1974.
        ''He was one of the great enthusiasts I've ever known,'' Dr. Schama said.
        His generally rumpled appearance as a student evolved to a more unconventional style, with an earring, several days' growth of beard, hair that seemed to confound a comb and tight shirts unbuttoned to show gold chains. The Times Higher Education Supplement said it had become a cliché to say that ''never has a don looked less like a don.''
        Dr. Porter also evinced a self-deprecating humor. ''I remember an occasion I was on a train,'' he told The Times Higher Education Supplement, ''and I sat next to someone reading my book. I said, 'Ah, I see you're reading Porter's 'English Society in the 18th Century.' I'm Roy Porter. What do you make of it?
        ''He said, 'It's really boring.' ''
        Dr. Porter was married and divorced four times. He is survived by his companion, Natsu Hattori, and his mother, Gladys, of London.
        Despite the hours Dr. Porter spent studying about medicine, Dr. Schama said, ''Roy never ever went to doctors -- it's quite extraordinary.''
      