
        C. Farris Bryant, who straddled two eras in a four-year term as governor of Florida, died on Friday in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 87.
        Elected as a segregationist in 1960, Mr. Bryant helped transform the state by increasing financing for the highways and universities that helped attract tourists, new residents and businesses. He won by promising to postpone integration by lawful means.
        Although a Democrat, he denounced his party's platform and refused to endorse its presidential candidate, Senator John F. Kennedy of Massachusetts, who lost the state to Vice President Richard M. Nixon.
        Mr. Bryant was not a demagogue or obstructionist in the mold of Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama. While campaigning, Mr. Bryant said: ''The less said about segregation, the better. To talk about it merely incites people and doesn't solve the problem.''
        Shortly after his inauguration, he promised ''to maintain segregation without violence, anarchy or closing of schools.'' His efforts were evident in his handling of the Freedom Riders, who sought to test segregation laws. Mr. Bryant worked with the state police to persuade restaurants and bus depots to serve the demonstrators or close temporarily. When white mobs descended on civil rights protesters in St. Augustine in 1964, he ordered the National Guard to protect black demonstrators and arrest white lawbreakers.
        He eventually set up a panel to mediate the dispute between white hotel owners in the city and desegregation advocates but refused to meet with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., who had traveled to Florida to back the civil rights movement.
        Mr. Bryant's actions were in some ways determined by new realities in a state that was welcoming 700 new residents a day, many from Northern states, and that increasingly relied on tourism.
        At the same time, he pushed programs to help make the state more diverse and liberal. He propelled Florida to first place in federal highway financing; doubled the number of schools in its university system, to eight; promoted the expansion of Cape Canaveral to five times its original size; supported the cold war aim of airlifting Cuban refugees; courted the Walt Disney Company as it began considering the state as a home for its new theme park, and supported a reapportionment that increased urban representation.
        Florida law limited governors to one term, and when he ended his term, Mr. Bryant was appointed by President Lyndon B. Johnson as federal emergency planning director.
        Cecil Farris Bryant was born on July 26, 1914, in Ocala, Fla. He served in the Navy in World War II. After graduating from the University of Florida and the Harvard Law School, he was elected to five terms in the Florida House, starting in 1946 and becoming speaker in 1953. In 1970, he lost a Senate primary to Lawton Chiles. Then, until retiring in 1986, Mr. Bryant practiced law and ran an insurance company in Jacksonville.
        His wife, Julia, died in 1996. Surviving are three daughters, Julie, Adair and Cecilia.
        Mr. Bryant was recently reported to be concerned that his accomplishments as governor had been overshadowed by his attitudes on race. Still, he clung to anti-integration arguments from the early 60's, saying in an interview in 2000 in The Orlando Sentinel that equality would come faster ''by changing the minds of the white people, not by forcing them to do something by taking their property away from them.''
      