
        Norman S. Hirschl, a founder of the Hirschl & Adler Galleries in Manhattan and an American paintings expert, died at his home in Williamstown, Mass., on Tuesday. He was 86.
        Mr. Hirschl was born in New York on June 22, 1915, and grew up in Queens. He attended City College from 1932 until 1935, but never graduated. Beginning when he was a teenager, Mr. Hirschl worked for his uncle, Frederick Frazier, who ran a paintings gallery in Manhattan.
        In 1938 Mr. Hirschl opened his own art gallery in Manhattan, specializing in 19th-century American paintings, particularly the Hudson River and Ash Can Schools. Three years later he closed his gallery and became manager of the John Levy Gallery, where he stayed until 1952, when he and Abraham Adler, a friend and colleague, opened Hirschl & Adler Galleries.
        At first their gallery carried everything from old master paintings to contemporary art, but for the last 30 years it has been best known for its holdings in American art. Mr. Hirschl sold important artworks to museums and to some of the most celebrated collectors in the United States. In the late 1950's, for example, he sold Thomas Cole's ''Voyage of Life,'' a monumental four-panel depiction of the ages of man, to Paul Mellon with the understanding that it would eventually end up at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, which it did.
        Among the first exhibitions organized by the Hirschl and Adler team was ''Two Hundred Years of American Art,'' which featured works by some of the greatest American painters, including Thomas Eakins, John Singleton Copley, Winslow Homer and Edward Hicks.
        Abraham Adler died in 1985. Mr. Hirschl retired in 1982, but until then was active in many art organizations. From 1982 to 1984 he was president of the Art Dealers Association of America, and he helped found the Art and Antique Dealers League of America.
        Mr. Hirschl is survived by a daughter, Elaine Hirschl Ellis of Manhattan, four grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
        ''He came from the tail end of an era where a dealer would take a group of pictures to a town and rent a hotel suite to show them,'' recalled Stuart P. Feld, president of Hirschl & Adler Galleries. ''In advance of the visit he would call the local museums and collectors. He was an extraordinary salesperson. On a good trip he would generally sell at least half of what he brought.''
      