
        Byron R. White, the football legend who became one of the longest serving justices of the United States Supreme Court, died yesterday in Denver. He was 84, and the only living former Supreme Court justice.
        The cause was complications from pneumonia, a statement from the Supreme Court said.
        When Justice White stepped down nine years ago after 31 years on the court, he was the last veteran of the liberal era of Chief Justice Earl Warren. Though he was then the court's sole remaining Democrat, he was in many ways more at home in the conservative era of Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist.
        Joining the court in 1962 at the height of its liberal activism under Chief Justice Warren, Justice White was often in dissent during his early years as a justice and assumed a position of influence only after a series of appointments by Republican presidents shifted the court in a more conservative direction.
        ''Eventually, the court changed, society changed, the issues changed,'' Kate Stith Cabranes, a Yale Law School professor and one of his former law clerks, said after his retirement. ''Byron White didn't change.''
        He cast dissenting votes in Miranda v. Arizona, the 1966 landmark decision that required a police officer to inform a suspect of his right to remain silent and to consult with a lawyer, and in Roe v. Wade, the 1973 decision that established a constitutional right to abortion. Although he gradually came to accept the Miranda doctrine, Justice White never reconciled himself to Roe v. Wade and continued to dissent as the court applied and affirmed that decision over the years.
        He found himself much more at home in the conservative 1980's and 1990's, writing majority opinions that cut back on the scope of federal civil rights laws, that upheld state laws prohibiting homosexual sex between consenting adults, and that permitted the use of evidence obtained with defective search warrants.
        But no ideological label ever fit Justice White comfortably. Committed to the use of federal power to eradicate the legacy of school segregation, he wrote majority opinions upholding wide-ranging desegregation orders for Northern school districts and affirming the power of federal judges to order a school district to increase taxes to pay for the school improvements necessary to make an integration plan work.
        He also believed that with power came accountability, filing a strong dissent from a 1982 decision that gave presidents absolute immunity from suits for damages for their official actions. He dissented from the court's 1983 decision in the Chadha case, which invalidated the legislative veto, a device widely used by Congress to block executive branch actions. ''The history of separation-of-powers doctrine is also a history of accommodation and practicality,'' he wrote, objecting to the majority's insistence on maintaining the barrier between legislative and executive power.
        After his retirement, Justice White sat occasionally as a visiting judge on federal appeals courts and served in 1998 as the chairman of a special commission that studied the structure of the federal appellate system. Last year, in failing health, he closed his chambers in Washington and moved with his wife, Marion, to their native Colorado.
        A sports hero, Rhodes scholar, successful lawyer, triumphant political organizer and director of Robert F. Kennedy's Justice Department -- Byron R. White had been all of these before his friend John F. Kennedy named him to the Supreme Court in 1962.
        Only 44 at the time of his appointment, Justice White was one of the youngest people ever named to the court, and his 31-year tenure was one of the longest in the court's history; among 20th-century justices, only Hugo L. Black, William O. Douglas and William J. Brennan Jr. served longer.
        President Kennedy, calling his nominee ''the ideal New Frontier judge,'' said Byron White ''excelled in everything he has attempted.'' That was an understatement about a life that had a storybook quality -- so much so that his decades on the court sometimes appeared more an anticlimax than a crowning achievement.
        Juggling Athletic and Legal Worlds
        Raised in a small Colorado town by parents who never graduated from high school, Justice White was educated on scholarships, a gifted scholar-athlete who outshone the competition in both fields. He was the only person to become both a member of the College Football Hall of Fame, to which he was elected in 1954, and a law clerk to the Chief Justice of the United States.
        In the full glare of national publicity, he juggled his two worlds to a degree that would be inconceivable today. In 1938, having deferred his Rhodes Scholarship for a semester to play a season of professional football with the Pittsburgh Pirates (later called the Steelers), he received the National Football League's highest-ever salary, $15,800, and led the league in rushing, a feat he duplicated two years later, when he took a semester off from Yale Law School to play for the Detroit Lions.
        A stellar law school career, interrupted by Navy service in World War II as well as by football, was capped by a year as a law clerk to Chief Justice Fred M. Vinson during the court's 1946 to 1947 term. Only 15 years later, Byron White became the first Supreme Court law clerk to return as a justice.
        His own judicial legacy remained a complex and somewhat ambiguous one. He never achieved the stardom or public recognition on the Supreme Court that he had received earlier, not that he sought either at any point in his life. An authentic, if reluctant, celebrity in an era before fame became an everyday commodity, he viewed with intense distaste, for the rest of his life, the media speculation that attended his every move as a young man. His dislike of the nickname Whizzer, which the sportswriters had bestowed on him and which he could never quite manage to shake, was legendary.
        ''Byron would have been just as happy, I think he might have preferred -- if he played with 21 other players in an empty stadium,'' one of his University of Colorado teammates commented many years later to Justice White's biographer, Prof. Dennis J. Hutchinson of the University of Chicago Law School.
        A thesis of the biography, ''The Man Who Once Was Whizzer White'' (The Free Press, 1998), was that a driving force of Justice White's adult life was the effort to ''seal off his athletic past'' and to be accepted on his chosen terms, as a lawyer. The book's title referred to an incident early in 1961, when Mr. White, the deputy attorney general in the new Kennedy administration, was having lunch in a restaurant near the Department of Justice. ''Say, aren't you Whizzer White?'' the waitress asked. After a moment, he replied in a soft voice, ''I was.''
        The difficulty in categorizing him came in part from the fact that Justice White was motivated not by ideology but by a multifaceted vision of the American system that included a strong yet politically accountable federal government and, a Supreme Court that deferred to judgments reached by Congress and the executive branch. ''Judges have an exaggerated view of their role in our polity,'' he said once.
        Nicholas DeB. Katzenbach, a Yale Law School classmate who later served with him in the Justice Department, recalled in an article marking the justice's 25th anniversary on the court that his friend's hallmark both as a student and as a judge was ''a healthy skepticism -- a probing questioning of premises and an insistence on conclusions reached by small and visible steps in a rational process as opposed to giant leaps of faith.''
        Mr. Katzenbach wrote that Justice White's work on the court reflected his ''belief that hard work and determination can lead to success, and a lack of sympathy for those who abuse power and privilege as well as for those who whine about bad luck.''
        Justice White's own luck was splendid. As a young man, he encountered John Kennedy twice within a few years: once at Oxford, where both were studying just before World War II, and again in the Pacific in 1942, where both were Navy lieutenants. It was Lieutenant White, an intelligence officer, who was assigned to write the official report of the sinking of Kennedy's torpedo boat, PT-109, by a Japanese destroyer. The two men established a bond that eventually resulted in Mr. White's Supreme Court appointment.
        Byron Raymond White was born on June 8, 1917, in Fort Collins, Colo., and grew up in Wellington in northern Colorado. His father, Albert White, was a branch manager for a lumber supply company and also served as mayor. As a child, Byron worked in the nearby sugar beet fields.
        ''There was very little money around Wellington,'' Mr. White said at the time of his Supreme Court appointment. ''Everybody worked for a living. Everybody.''
        The University of Colorado offered a scholarship to the top student in the graduating class of every high school in the state, and Mr. White was first in his five-member senior class.
        At the university, he excelled both in class, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa in his junior year, and in sports, where he starred in basketball and baseball as well as football, winning a total of seven letters as well as all-conference honors in every sport he played. The Colorado football team was undefeated in his final season, and Mr. White, who was a star punter and passer as well as a halfback, led the nation in scoring, rushing and total offense. By the time he graduated, as valedictorian of the class of 1938, the national press had long since discovered Whizzer White and was filled with speculation about his prospects.
        To Oxford and Back
        Awarded a Rhodes Scholarship for study at Oxford, he deferred until the spring semester to play a season with the Pittsburgh Pirates. He led the National Football League in rushing, with 567 yards in 11 games.
        He began studying law at Oxford in January 1939 but returned to the United States soon after the war began in September. He entered Yale Law School that fall and earned the highest grades in the first-year class, but he turned down an editorship of The Yale Law Journal and took a leave of absence to play football with the Detroit Lions. He played for two seasons, and again led the league in rushing in 1940.
        Returning to Yale Law School after the war, he received his degree in 1946 and moved to Washington to begin his year as a law clerk. John Kennedy was also a new arrival to Washington in 1946, beginning his career in Congress, and the two men were soon reunited.
        Also that year, he married Marion Stearns, his college sweetheart. She was the granddaughter of a Colorado governor and the daughter of Robert L. Stearns, the dean of the law school at the University of Colorado and later the university's president. Mrs. White survives him, as do their children, Charles Byron White and Nancy White Lippe, and six grandchildren.
        In 1947, the Whites returned to Colorado. He joined a Denver law firm, Lewis, Grant, Newton, Davis & Henry (now known as Davis, Graham & Stubbs), remaining there for 14 years and thriving in a general commercial practice. His clients ranged from individuals with zoning disputes to IBM, and other major corporations.
        His partners liked to tell about Mr. White's first criminal case, in which he successfully defended a man charged with passing a bad check. He then accepted the client's thanks and his check, which was worthless.
        Mr. White resisted serious involvement in politics until Kennedy, now a senator, asked him for help in the early stages of his campaign for the White House in 1960. Mr. White organized Colorado-for-Kennedy clubs and brought the state's delegation to the Democratic National Convention into the Kennedy column. At the request of Kennedy's brother Robert, he then took charge of the national Citizens for Kennedy organization during the general election campaign.
        President-elect Kennedy offered Mr. White the job of deputy attorney general, the No. 2 position in the Justice Department that Robert Kennedy would head as attorney general. Mr. White was in charge of the day-to-day administration, recruiting lawyers for top positions, overseeing the department's initiatives in Congress, and taking an active hand in selecting nominees for 70 new federal judgeships.
        With the civil rights struggle accelerating in the South, Mr. White monitored federal efforts to quell the growing violence that accompanied the freedom rides, sit-ins and marches. He went to Alabama to supervise 400 federal marshals and deputies sent to restore order in the state in May 1961.
        When President Kennedy learned in March 1962 that Justice Charles E. Whittaker was about to leave the court, Byron White was his top choice as a nominee. Mr. White expressed little enthusiasm when first Mr. Katzenbach and then Robert Kennedy called him to test his interest, but he agreed.
        The Senate quickly confirmed the nomination and on April 16, Mr. White took his seat as an associate justice. When he retired 31 years later, he was the only remaining justice to have been appointed by a Democratic president.
        The change from his active life in the world of law and politics was abrupt. In a 1988 speech, Justice White said somewhat plaintively that life on the court had its ''excruciating'' aspects. ''Where else can one be so isolated and alone, yet turn from hero to heel or from heel to hero in just 10 pages or so?'' he asked. ''Where else does the telephone ring so seldom?''
        It took him barely two months to file his first dissenting opinion, in which he struck a tone and expressed a viewpoint from which he would hardly ever waver. The case was Robinson v. California, in which a 6-to-2 majority declared unconstitutional a California law that made it a crime for a person to be a narcotics addict, even in the absence of proof of the sale or possession of illegal drugs. Making the ''status'' of addiction itself a crime violated the Eighth Amendment's prohibition against cruel and unusual punishment, the majority ruled.
        It was the first time the court had used the Eighth Amendment to overturn a state criminal conviction. Justice White's dissenting opinion said, in part: ''I fail to see why the court deems it more appropriate to write into the Constitution its own abstract notions of how best to handle the narcotics problem, for it obviously cannot match either the States or Congress in expert understanding.''
        Justice White was often inclined to support the prosecution in criminal cases, but that was only one theme to emerge in this early opinion. The other was the court's duty to defer, except in the face of an express constitutional provision to the contrary, to the policy judgments reached by institutions of government that were directly responsive to majority will. At most, in his view, the court's job was to ensure that the rest of government functioned as it was intended to.
        A Warning in Dissenting Opinions
        In dissenting opinions, he often warned the court against ''the unrestrained imposition of its own, extraconstitutional value preferences,'' as he said in dissent in a 1986 case that reaffirmed the right to abortion. His original dissenting opinion in Roe v. Wade said: ''As an exercise of raw judicial power, the court perhaps has authority to do what it does today; but in my view its judgment is an improvident and extravagant exercise of the power of judicial review that the Constitution extends to this court.'' If he had any personal views on the abortion question, he never expressed them.
        In contests between federal authority and state power, he almost always voted for the federal side, perhaps applying lessons learned in the Justice Department dealing with recalcitrant Southern governors.
        In disputes between the government and the press, he took the government's side, writing a series of majority opinions in the 1970's that rejected any argument by the press of the need for special treatment. His opinion in Branzburg v. Hayes in 1972 rejected the argument that the First Amendment shielded journalists from having to disclose their confidential sources to a grand jury. A majority of the states subsequently passed laws providing such protection.
        Although he joined the majority opinion in New York Times v. Sullivan, the 1964 decision that created a First Amendment shield for the press against libel suits by public officials, he later said he regretted his vote. ''It is difficult to argue that the United States did not have a free and vigorous press before the rule in New York Times was announced,'' he wrote in a 1985 opinion.
        At the same time, he disagreed with the majority in a 1991 case, Barnes v. Glen Theatre, which upheld an Indiana law that banned nude dancing. In Justice White's view, the performances were a form of expression deserving of First Amendment protection. ''That the performances in the Kitty Kat Lounge may not be high art, to say the least, and may not appeal to the court, is hardly an excuse for distorting and ignoring settled doctrine,'' he wrote in a dissent. ''The court's assessment of the artistic merits of nude dancing performances should not be the determining factor in deciding this case.''
        The impatience that Justice White expressed in that opinion with efforts by the government to control private behavior was not apparent in his majority opinion in Bowers v. Hardwick, the 1986 decision that rejected a claim of constitutional protection for consensual homosexual acts. The 5-to-4 decision upheld a Georgia law making homosexual sodomy a crime. Given that half the states maintained similar criminal prohibitions, Justice White wrote, the argument for a fundamental constitutional right to engage in homosexual sex ''is, at best, facetious.''
        His opinion continued: ''Nor are we inclined to take a more expansive view of our authority to discover new fundamental rights imbedded in the Due Process Clause. The court is most vulnerable and comes nearest to illegitimacy when it deals with judge-made constitutional law having little or no cognizable roots in the language or design of the Constitution.''
        Bowers v. Hardwick was probably the one opinion of Justice White's that was best known to the general public. An opinion that was less well known, but that many scholars regarded as his most important in terms of the subsequent development of legal doctrine, came in 1976 in a racial discrimination case called Washington v. Davis.
        That case was a challenge to a standardized examination used by the District of Columbia Police Department for recruiting and promoting police officers. While there was no proof that the department intended to screen out black candidates, the test had a discriminatory effect, with blacks failing it at four times the rate of whites.
        The question for the court was whether this discriminatory impact violated the Constitution's guarantee of equal protection. The answer, provided in Justice White's majority opinion, was no; proof that the government was intentionally discriminating, not just taking action that happened to have a discriminatory effect, was an essential element of a violation of the Constitution's equal protection guarantee, the court said. Washington v. Davis was sharply criticized by civil-rights advocates. It proved to be an influential opinion in a variety of contexts, shifting the focus of the court's scrutiny of government behavior to the government's purpose rather than the ultimate result.
        A Presence on the Bench
        Justice White wrote important decisions in criminal law throughout his tenure on the court. He joined the majority in 1972 that invalidated the nation's death penalty laws, as well as the majority opinions four years later that permitted capital punishment to resume under state laws restructured to overcome the court's objections. In 1977, he wrote the majority opinion in Coker v. Georgia, holding that the death penalty was an unconstitutional penalty for rape.
        His majority opinion in United States v. Leon in 1984, permitting prosecutors to use some evidence that was obtained illegally but in ''good faith,'' accomplished a major objective of the Justice Department under President Ronald Reagan. But he also voted against the federal government often enough that his position could not be taken for granted. He wrote the majority opinion in a 1992 case, Jacobson v. United States, overturning a child pornography conviction on the ground that the government had induced the defendant into buying material that he would not have bought on his own.
        Justice White completed his opinion-writing assignments quickly and usually carried more than his share of the workload during a Supreme Court term. His majority opinions tended to be spare to the point of obscurity, devoid of the rhetorical flourishes that he seemed to save for his dissents.
        Virtually alone among the justices, he frequently dissented in writing from a decision not to hear a case. In another singular practice, he refused to read portions of his opinions from the bench, announcing only the result but sharing none of the rationale. Asked why he did not participate with the other justices in the public opinion-reading ceremony, he once replied that he considered it a ''waste of time.''
        He could be gruff and intimidating on the bench, asking probing and sometimes disconcerting questions of lawyers, and rarely tipping his hand on how he thought the case should come out. He often tried to help inexperienced lawyers focus their argument, but he could be exasperated if they did not even know enough to grasp his helping hand, swiveling in his chair to turn his back on the floundering lawyer. But a clever parry to one of his questions could bring an appreciative grin.
        Well into his 60's, he played basketball with his law clerks in the Supreme Court gym, and they described him as an aggressive and competitive player.
        Those very traits linked the justice that Byron White became to the athlete he had been, in the view of Prof. John C. Jeffries Jr. of the University of Virginia Law School. Writing in 1999, Professor Jeffries remarked on ''how closely White's strengths and weaknesses as a judge echoed his talents as an athlete.'' ''A keen sense of contest dominated both contexts,'' he maintained. '' In both, White was tough, hard-driving, and utterly purposive. In both, he shunned doubt. The openness, unguardedness, and sympathy for opposing concerns that were missing from White the judge would have disadvantaged White the athlete. The frank admissions of uncertainty or indecision so rarely encountered in White's opinions would have been seen as weakness in football -- or worse, as whining excuses for poor performance.''
        Justice White announced his retirement on March 19, 1993, choosing early spring rather than the traditional end-of-term announcement in late June to provide time for a successor to be comfortably seated in time for the next court term..
        Justice White broke with tradition in declining to hold a farewell news conference. Instead, he made public a letter to his colleagues, in which he thanked them for their friendship and announced his intent to sit from time to time on federal appeals courts. ''Hence, like any other Court of Appeals judge,'' he said, ''I hope the court's mandates will be clear, crisp, and leave those of us below with as little room as possible for disagreement about their meaning.''
        Correction:  April 30, 2002, Tuesday  An obituary of former Justice Byron R. White of the Supreme Court on April 16 misstated the circumstances under which he met John F. Kennedy in Europe before World War II. Mr. Kennedy was still an undergraduate at Harvard, not a student at Oxford, when the two first met -- in the spring of 1939 on the Riviera, where both were vacationing.
      