
        Ralph J. Marino, a courtly Republican from Long Island who served for 26 years in the New York Senate and was the state's most powerful Republican during 6 years as majority leader in the late 1980's and early 1990's, died Saturday at Mercy Medical Center in Rockville Centre, N.Y. He was 74.
        Mr. Marino, who lived in Oyster Bay, N.Y., was hospitalized last Tuesday, and his death was a result of tongue cancer, said his wife, Ethel.
        In a Senate career that spanned the tenures of five governors, from 1969 in the last years of Nelson A. Rockefeller, to 1995 shortly after George E. Pataki assumed office, Mr. Marino was known as a moderate Republican with progressive views. He sponsored penal and criminal reforms, championed open government and freedom of information laws and often opposed his party's more conservative vision of smaller, less active government and lower spending and taxes.
        ''He did not believe in slashing state programs and cutting taxes to the detriment of segments of the population,'' said Angelo Mangia, the senator's counsel for 12 years. ''The conservative wing of the party wanted to cut taxes and spending as its No. 1 priority. Ralph was from that school of thought that says government has a responsibility to work social change.''
        In 1989, Mr. Marino became the first downstate Republican to hold the Senate majority leadership, and over the next six years he and two Democrats -- Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and the speaker of the Assembly -- made up a powerful triumvirate that decided almost all the major legislative and budget priorities in Albany.
        But Mr. Marino opposed Mr. Pataki's nomination for governor in 1994, and his hold on power began to wane after Mr. Pataki's election. Within a month, Mr. Marino was ousted as majority leader by Senator Joseph L. Bruno, a conservative upstate ally of Mr. Pataki's. And on Feb. 8, 1995, Mr. Marino, stripped of all his committee and leadership positions, resigned his Senate seat.
        Ralph John Marino was born on Jan. 2, 1928, in Rochester. After Army service in 1946 and 1947, he enrolled at Syracuse University, where he met his future wife, Ethel Bernstein, in a political science class. He received a bachelor's degree in 1951 and a law degree from Fordham University in 1954.
        He married in 1954, and the couple settled in her hometown, Oyster Bay, on Long Island. There he opened a law practice, was elected to the town board and eventually became a protégé of Leonard Hall, a Long Islander who was the Republican national chairman during the Eisenhower administration.
        In 1968, with the support of the Nassau County Republican Party, one of the party's most powerful local organizations, Mr. Marino was elected to the State Senate from a district that included much of Nassau and part of Suffolk County. He soon became known as a guardian of Long Island interests in Albany.
        While Mr. Marino sided with Mr. Rockefeller on most issues, he clashed with the governor and Robert Moses, builder of many of the region's roads and other infrastructure, over a 1960's plan to span Long Island Sound with a bridge from Oyster Bay to Rye in Westchester County. It would have overwhelmed Oyster Bay with traffic and was never built. Last month, the Seaford-Oyster Bay Expressway -- which would have borne the bridge traffic -- was renamed for Mr. Marino.
        A tall, mild-mannered man -- so soft-spoken that his peers sometimes called him ''Mumbles'' -- Mr. Marino served 13 Senate terms, winning elections easily. In 1973, he became chairman of the Crime and Correction Committee, and over the years he was known as a spokesman for penal reforms and the sponsor of legislation on organized crime, child pornography and other criminality.
        Among the laws he sponsored was a 1984 measure that for the first time gave crime victims and families of homicide victims the right to be heard in criminal prosecutions. His Organized Crime Control Act of 1986 was a state version of the federal anti-racketeering statutes.
        Mr. Marino sponsored the state's Freedom of Information Law of 1974, which provided for public access to government documents, and the Open Meetings Law of 1976, which opened government meetings to public scrutiny.
        After 20 years in the Senate, Mr. Marino succeeded Warren M. Anderson of Binghamton as majority leader. He first clashed with Mr. Pataki in 1992, when Mr. Pataki, then an assemblyman, defeated one of Mr. Marino's allies for a Senate seat. Later, Mr. Pataki deepened the feud by casting the only Republican vote against budgets negotiated by Mr. Marino in 1993 and 1994.
        Mr. Pataki yesterday praised Mr. Marino as ''a distinguished New Yorker,'' adding: ''While we had our differences over the years, Senator Marino was a dedicated public servant who worked on behalf of the people of this state for many years.'' Mr. Bruno also acknowledged disagreements with Mr. Marino, but said he respected his advice.
        In contrast to his difficulties with Mr. Pataki, colleagues said, Mr. Marino had a good working relationship with Governors Malcolm Wilson, Hugh L. Carey and Mario M. Cuomo. In 1991, when Mr. Cuomo was contemplating a run for the presidency -- and had a plane waiting to fly him to New Hampshire to begin his campaign -- the governor surprised supporters by announcing, inscrutably, that he could not make the race because he was working on a budget with Mr. Marino.
        After he stepped down, Mr. Marino continued to practice law and, for a time, was a lobbyist for the beer and soda industries.
        Mr. Cuomo and Mr. Bruno are scheduled to give eulogies at Mr. Marino's funeral tomorrow at 11 a.m. at St. Dominic Roman Catholic Church in Oyster Bay.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Marino is survived by a daughter, Judith Marino, of Oyster Bay; two sons, James, of Chicago, and Robert, of Armonk; his mother, Catherine, of Rochester; three sisters, Mildred LoVecchio, Gloria Camuso and Santa Pullano, all of Rochester; and three grandchildren.
      