
        Dr. Fredrick J. Stare, a leading nutritionist who wrote extensively about healthful eating and was among the first to conduct scientific studies of the links between diet and heart disease, died last Thursday at his home in Wellesley, Mass. He was 91.
        An emeritus professor of nutrition and the founding chairman of the department of nutrition at the Harvard School of Public Health, Dr. Stare conducted studies that showed that regular physical activity helped prevent disease of the main arteries supplying blood directly to the heart.
        In 1942, when he started the nutrition department, it was among the first at any modern school of medicine or public health.
        Dr. Stare began with a staff of three, but by the time he retired, in 1976, it exceeded 150 people and the department was a leader in nutrition research.
        Dr. Stare defined the four basic food groups and was an early champion of drinking at least six glasses of water a day. He also advocated fluoridation of water.
        After retiring, Dr. Stare remained active, spending at least part of his days at the university and establishing its Nutrition Education Fund to support postdoctoral students in the field.
        Fredrick John Stare was born in Columbus, Wis., and received his bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees from the University of Wisconsin and his medical degree from the University of Chicago.
        He founded Nutrition Reviews, a journal of research, and for many years wrote a syndicated newspaper column, Food and Your Health.
        Several of his books remain in print, including ''Dear Dr. Stare: What Should I Eat?'' (1982), ''Adventures in Nutrition'' (1991) and, with Dr. Elizabeth M. Whelan, ''Fad-Free Nutrition'' (1998).
        Dr. Stare is survived by his wife, Dr. Irene Mackey Kinsey Stare; two sons and a daughter from an earlier marriage, Fredrick A., of Chicago, David, of Healdsburg, Calif., and Mary Wilkinson of Durham, Conn.; a brother, Robert, of Madison, Wis.; a sister, Susan Stare of Columbus; seven grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren. His first wife, Joyce Allen Stare, died in 1957.
      