
        Dr. Albert Edward Whitford, an astronomer who helped map the Milky Way galaxy and measure the brightness of stars in it and beyond it, died on March 28 in Madison, Wis., where he had returned in retirement six years ago. He was 96.
        Before moving back to Wisconsin, he was an emeritus professor of astronomy and astrophysics at the University of California at Santa Cruz and directed its Lick Observatory on Mount Hamilton from 1958 to 1968. Earlier, he headed the old Washburn Observatory of the University of Wisconsin for 23 years.
        Dr. Whitford was best known for his work with an instrument used to measure the intensity of light, the photometer. By enhancing the sensitivity of the instrument, he helped obtain the first precise measurements of the magnitudes and colors of faint stars, clusters and galaxies.
        He developed what became known as the Whitford reddening curve, which gauged interstellar light absorption and was a vital tool in mapping the distribution of stars in the Milky Way. He also explored the structures and dynamics of the spherical blobs of stars known as nuclear bulges at the centers of galaxies.
        As part of his role in the growth of astronomy in the United States, Dr. Whitford presided over several commissions on astronomical research and a 1953 conference that led to the national observatory system. He also headed the 1964 Whitford Report from the National Academy Sciences, which became the first of a series of 10-year plans for the field.
        In 1959, he oversaw the installation of what is still the Lick Observatory's primary research instrument, the Shane telescope, atop Mount Hamilton, near San Jose, Calif. Its 120-inch reflector gathers light from stars so distant that it takes their light a billion years to reach Earth.
        Dr. Whitford was born in Milton, Wis., and graduated from Milton College in 1926. He received his Ph.D. in physics at the University of Wisconsin in 1928, and after several years as an astronomical researcher in California and Wisconsin, he joined the astronomy faculty at the university in 1936.
        He directed its Washburn Observatory from 1948 until Wisconsin replaced it with its present Pine Bluff Observatory in 1958.
        Dr. Whitford was a past president of the American Astronomical Society and a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the National Academy of Sciences.
        Dr. Whitford is survived by a son, William C., of Madison; two daughters, Mary Graves of San Francisco and Martha Barss of Baltimore; and nine grandchildren. His wife of 48 years, Eleanor Bell Whitelaw Whitford, died in 1986.
      