
        Benjamin Harkarvy, director of the dance division of the Juilliard School since 1992 and an internationally respected ballet teacher, director and choreographer, died on Saturday at St. Luke's Hospital. He was 71 and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Harkarvy, who had been receiving treatment for a heart ailment, died of heart failure, said Joseph W. Polisi, president of Juilliard.
        The Juilliard dance division had offered both ballet and modern dance training since it was founded by Martha Hill in 1952. It therefore proved an appropriate pedagogical setting for Mr. Harkarvy, who was known for his eclectic tastes. At Juilliard, he established several new series of performances and workshops and, this season, organized programs celebrating the dance division's 50th anniversary. In a statement released on Monday, Mr. Polisi paid tribute to what he called Mr. Harkarvy's ''transformative effect'' on the division.
        Before arriving at Juilliard, Mr. Harkarvy had been artistic director of important companies like the Royal Winnipeg Ballet, Netherlands Dance Theater, the Dutch National Ballet, the Harkness Ballet and the Pennsylvania Ballet. A methodical and articulate teacher, he was constantly in demand by ballet schools around the world.
        Mr. Harkarvy was a native New Yorker and studied in New York at the School of American Ballet and with many leading teachers, including George Chaffee, Elizabeth Anderson-Ivantzova, Edward Caton, Antony Tudor and Margaret Craske. He made his debut at 18 as a dancer with the Brooklyn Lyric Opera and also performed in summer stock. Yet outside of these early appearances, he had almost no stage career, devoting himself instead to teaching and directing. A rotund bald man with seemingly endless energy, Mr. Harkarvy became known for his hearty manner in both dance studios and company offices.
        He was appointed director of the Royal Winnipeg Ballet in 1957. A year later, he became ballet master of the Netherlands Ballet, which was soon plunged into turmoil. Dissatisfied with that company's policies, he and several of its dancers left to form Netherlands Dance Theater in The Hague in 1959.
        This was not to be the last time Mr. Harkarvy was involved with troubled companies.
        For the next decade, he served as artistic codirector (with Hans van Manen) of Netherlands Dance Theater, attracting attention for requiring his dancers to be proficient in both ballet and modern dance and for inviting modern dancers -- including Anna Sokolow, Glen Tetley and John Butler -- to choreograph for the company. Yet his own works, including ''Recital for Cello and Eight Dancers'' (to Bach) and ''Madrigalesco'' (to Vivaldi), tended to be in a lucid classical style.
        Mr. Harkarvy left Netherlands Dance Theater in 1969 to be codirector (with Lawrence Rhodes) of the Harkness Ballet in New York. He found himself once more part of a company in turmoil. Rebekah Harkness, the Harkness Ballet's founder and principal benefactor, had become known for her frequent changes of mind and policies. In 1970 she suddenly dissolved her company in the middle of a European tour.
        Mr. Harkarvy next served as director of the Dutch National Ballet in Amsterdam, holding that post through 1971.
        He came to the Pennsylvania Ballet, in Philadelphia, in 1973, serving first as associate director and then as full director. He left in 1982, when the company was experiencing severe financial problems, and taught at many schools until he received his Juilliard appointment.
        Mr. Harkarvy is survived by a brother, Jerome C. Golden, of Merrick, N.Y.
      