
        Reginald Rose, the television playwright best known for writing and co-producing the movie ''Twelve Angry Men,'' died Friday at a hospital in Norwalk, Conn. He was 81.
        Mr. Rose stood out among writers in television's golden age for his willingness to tackle social and political issues. He won an Emmy Award in 1954 for best written dramatic material for the original television version of ''Twelve Angry Men,'' about one man swaying a jury debating the fate of a young man charged with killing his father. The script had ''the most intricate plot of anything I've ever written,'' he said. He received a nomination for an Academy Award in 1957 for the screenplay of the film version, which he produced with Henry Fonda, who was also the star. The movie was also nominated for best picture.
        Mr. Rose also won Emmy Awards for ''The Defenders,'' a series about a father-and-son lawyer team, portrayed by E. G. Marshall and Robert Reed, who took on morally complex cases, sometimes involving the issues of abortion, euthanasia and blacklisting.
        When the film version of ''Twelve Angry Men'' opened, A. H. Weiler wrote in The New York Times that it was ''difficult to recall a more incisively revealing'' courtroom drama, adding that the film ''clearly mirrors the mind and heart of a variety of citizens in our town.''
        The play was inspired by Mr. Rose's own stint on jury duty in the Foley Square courthouse in New York in 1954.
        ''It was such an impressive, solemn setting in a great big wood-paneled courtroom, with a silver-haired judge,'' Mr. Rose said in a 1997 interview with The Daily News. ''It knocked me out. I was overwhelmed. I was on a jury for a manslaughter case, and we got into this terrific, furious, eight-hour argument in the jury room. I was writing one-hour dramas for 'Studio One' then and I thought, wow, what a setting for a drama.''
        He said the play he wrote, however, had nothing to do with the trial proceedings he had heard in court.
        Reginald Rose was born Dec. 10, 1920, in Manhattan and attended City College from 1937 to 1938. He served in the Army from 1942 to 1946, attaining the rank of first lieutenant. He started writing for television in 1951 for CBS, but eventually worked for all the major networks.
        He wrote the CBS pilot for ''The Defenders'' in 1957 and wrote for the series from 1961 to 1965. He also wrote ''The Sacco-Vanzetti Story'' for NBC in 1960 and, in 1987, ''Escape From Sobibor,'' a CBS miniseries, which was nominated for an Emmy.
        His movie screenplays include ''The Wild Geese'' (1978) and ''Whose Life Is It Anyway?'' (1981) with Brian Clark.
        In a review of ''The Wild Geese,'' Janet Maslin of The Times called the writer ''an old-fashioned scenarist mindful of such old-fashioned niceties as pacing, clarity and economy.''
        Ms. Maslin called ''Whose Life Is It Anyway?'' ''a thoughtful, warm, touching film.'' Both ''Twelve Angry Men'' and ''The Defenders'' were revived in the late 1990's.
        Mr. Rose married Barbara Langbart in 1943; their marriage ended in divorce. In 1963 he married Ellen McLaughlin. He is survived by them and by six children: Andrew, Jonathan, Richard and Steven from the first marriage and Christopher and Thomas from the second.
        Correction:  April 22, 2002, Monday  An obituary yesterday about Reginald Rose, the television playwright who wrote ''Twelve Angry Men,'' included a survivor erroneously. One of his children, Andrew Rose, died in 1982.
      