
        Alan Dale, the Brooklyn-born baritone who crooned his way to popularity in the late 1940's and the 1950's with hits like ''Oh, Marie'' and ''Cherry Pink (and Apple Blossom White),'' died on Saturday at a hospital in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. Mr. Dale, who lived in Sheepshead Bay, was 73.
        His wife and sole survivor, the former Hedy Bachtinger, said he went into cardiac arrest after months of hospitalization with an infection that was never found.
        In his heyday, said Mike Gregorio, Mr. Dale's friend for 30 years, the singer recorded hundreds of singles, including ''The Darktown Strutters' Ball,'' a duet with Connie Haines; ''Sweet and Gentle,'' which helped to popularize the cha-cha, and the million seller ''Heart of My Heart'' with Don Cornell and Johnny Desmond.
        While still in his teens, Mr. Dale was the host of television shows on the Dumont and CBS networks, as well as the star of ''The Alan Dale Show,'' heard coast to coast on radio.
        In addition, he was a headliner at clubs like the Copacabana, La Martinique and Ben Maksik's Town and Country in New York, the Latin Quarter in Boston and the Mocambo in Los Angeles and at hotels like the Shamrock in Houston and the Sahara in Las Vegas.
        Teenage fans flocked to see him in classic New York movie palaces like the Roxy, the Strand and the Paramount. At the Paramount in 1957, when Mr. Dale sang upbeat numbers in the film ''Don't Knock the Rock,'' which also featured Alan Freed, Bill Haley and the Comets and Little Richard, thousands of teenage rock 'n' roll fans filled Times Square to see the movie and go wild at Mr. Freed's stage show while police were stationed inside and outside the theater.
        Only two years earlier, Mr. Dale complained that he had fallen on relatively hard times, his weekly salary down to $850 from $5,000 -- ''when I'm working.'' But he said that when he suffered a flat tire on the Belt Parkway and went to a nearby house to ask to use the phone, it turned out to be the home of Lou Capone, who managed the pop star Vic Damone. A week later, Mr. Dale had Mr. Capone as his manager and had cut ''Cherry Pink.'' His salary bounced back to $3,500.
        In the 1960's and 70's Mr. Dale remained a nightclub headliner, and in the 80's and early 90's appeared in dinner theater and gave concerts.
        A career in show business might have been predicted for Mr. Dale, whose started life as Aldo Sigismondi. Born on July 9, 1928, he was the only child of Agatha, a housewife, and Aristide Sigismondi, a comedian in Italian theater in New York.
        Mrs. Dale said that at 9, Aldo was taken to the theater by his father. ''And someone said, 'Do you want to come on and do something?' and he got up and ran on the stage and sang, and that was it.'' From then on, he went with his father to the theater every week and performed.
        In a 1955 interview in The Sunday News, Mr. Dale dated his love affair with show business to the summer when he was 17, a new graduate of Lafayette High School in Brooklyn who was singing in a nightclub on the boardwalk in Coney Island.
        The owner of the nightclub was a friend of the bandleader Carmen Cavallaro and told him, ''I have someone here I'd like you to see perform.''
        Mrs. Dale said, ''Carmen Cavallaro signed him on the spot, and his parents had to sign for him because he was underage.''
        Mr. Dale chronicled the ups and downs of his careers in a 1965 autobiography, ''The Spider and the Marionettes.''
        In the 1955 interview Mr. Dale said that when he told his mother he was bent on a career in show business, ''She gave me a look I didn't understand, but I learned what it meant soon enough. Because of my father, she knew the heartbreak that's almost inevitable in this business. And she was right.''
      