
        The Rev. Francis X. Murphy, who gave the public a frank and sometimes irreverent inside look at the deliberations of the historic Second Vatican Council under the pseudonym Xavier Rynne, died on Thursday in Annapolis, Md. He was 87.
        Mr. Murphy had been writer in residence since 1985 at St. Mary's Church in Annapolis.
        ''Vatican Council II,'' Xavier Rynne's 1968 book, was called ''a landmark history of the council'' by Gustav Niebuhr in The New York Times after a reprint edition was published in 1999 by Orbis Books.
        One significant act by the council, which lasted from 1962 to 1965, was its Declaration on the Relationship of the Church to Non-Christian Religions, which it adopted in 1965. That affirmation decried anti-Semitism and discarded as worthless the notion that the Jews could be blamed for Christ's death.
        Mr. Niebuhr wrote that Father Murphy's ''description of the debate over the declaration is a reminder of how controversial the document was at the time, many years before the Vatican would recognize Israel as a country.''
        When Vatican II began, Father Murphy, a Bronx-born Redemptorist priest, knew his way around Rome, having taught moral theology there since 1959 at the Lateran University, affiliated with the Vatican. He was already an experienced writer for the Catholic press when articles by Xavier Rynne began appearing in The New Yorker giving daring, behind-the-scenes reports on the conclave and its debates about changes in the Catholic Church.
        The name Xavier Rynne was a combination of Father Murphy's middle name and his mother's maiden name. The reporting, aimed at a general audience, became known for its insider's savvy and wryness.
        An obituary of Father Murphy from the office of communications of the Baltimore Province of the Redemptorists said, ''Keenly appreciating Pope John XXIII's declared intention in calling the Council, 'to open a window' and 'let in fresh air,' Father Murphy not only reported on the Church's view of the modern world, but in doing so, let the modern world see the workings of the Church.''
        Father Murphy's writings about the first of the council's four sessions were combined in a 1963 book, ''Letters from Vatican City: Vatican Council II.''
        Three other books, about the next three sessions, were published in 1964, 1965 and 1966. Father Murphy's work was revised and combined in the 1968 book ''Vatican Council II.'' He wrote more than 20 books under his own name and as Xavier Rynne.
        He studied at the Redemptorists' preparatory seminary in North East, Pa., was ordained in 1940 and earned a doctorate in medieval history at the Catholic University of America. He was a military chaplain and was rector of Holy Redeemer College in Washington from 1977 to 1981.
        His survivors include two sisters, Patricia Taylor of Scarsdale, N.Y., and Annabelle Loughlin of Hicksville, N.Y.
      