
        F. Kenneth Iverson, the former chief executive of the Nucor Corporation, who revolutionized the steel industry and turned his steel mini-mill into the nation's largest steel producer, died on Sunday in Charlotte, N.C.. He was 76.
        Daniel R. DiMicco, Nucor's chief executive, declined to disclose a specific cause but said Mr. Iverson had been in failing health.
        In an industry awash with bankruptcies, outmoded technologies and a history of labor turmoil, Mr. Iverson outdid the competition by recycling steel scrap into products through the smaller, cheaper and more cost-efficient mini-mills. Once on the fringes of a steel industry dominated by expensive blast-furnace technology, Mr. Iverson bucked industry trends and turned his company into a survivor while others fell by the wayside.
        Today, mini-mills produce more than half the steel made in the United States, with Nucor being the largest and most profitable. Nucor also stood apart from the steel industry under Mr. Iverson, who kept his labor force largely nonunion and who did not participate in the perennial industry cries for protection from foreign competition.
        Born in Downers Grove, Ill., a rural town west of Chicago, Mr. Iverson attended Northwestern University from 1943 to 1944 but left to serve in the Navy in World War II, reaching the rank of lieutenant. In 1946, he finished his studies at Cornell, where he earned a degree in aeronautical engineering. That was followed, in 1947, by a master's degree in mechanical engineering from Purdue.
        After several engineering jobs, Mr. Iverson joined the Nuclear Corporation of America's Vulcraft unit, which was based in Phoenix and made steel products. In three years, he made his steel division a success while the rest of the company headed for bankruptcy. In 1965, he was named president of Nuclear. In short order, Mr. Iverson shed the company's money-losing businesses, moved operations to Charlotte and focused exclusively on making steel using new mini-mill technology.
        In 1972, the company changed its name to Nucor and set out on a path that turned Mr. Iverson into an innovator, not only in making steel but also in corporate management. His philosophy was one that stressed having a small corporate staff -- Nucor has only about 50 headquarters employees, one of the smallest for a Fortune 500 company.
        He tied employee pay to corporate performance, put his plants in rural areas where labor costs were low and eschewed corporate perquisites like executive dining rooms, parking spaces and company cars.
        A popular speaker on the corporate lecture circuit, Mr. Iverson distilled his business philosophy into a book, ''Plain Talk: Lessons From a Business Maverick.'' One of his often-quoted maxims was that mistakes were as much part of his job as successes. ''My goal is to make the right decision 60 percent of the time,'' he said.
        At the beginning, mini-mills were little threat to big steel, which turned iron ore into steel. But by continually improving the technology of recycling, Nucor was able to turn scrap into an increasingly sophisticated product line and is now one of the biggest makers of steel for construction projects. While anti-Japanese sentiment was running high in the American steel industry in the mid-1980's, Nucor formed a joint venture with a Japanese steel maker that now dominates the market for construction beams.
        Mr. Iverson stepped down as Nucor's chief executive in 1996 and retired as Nucor chairman in 1998.
        He is survived by his wife of 56 years, Martha; a daughter, Claudia Sturges; and a son, Marc Miller, both of Charlotte.
      