
        Jay Chiat, the coolly cerebral and fiercely passionate executive who helped transform the advertising industry in the 1970's and 1980's with creative campaigns like ''1984'' for Apple and ''I Love L.A.'' for Nike died yesterday at his home in Marina del Rey, Calif. He was 70.
        Mr. Chiat, who also had a home in Sagaponack, N.Y., had been under treatment for prostate cancer.
        His low-key affability and casual dress masked an intense devotion to hard work summarized by the motto ''Good enough is not enough.'' He generated strong loyalty among employees who thrived on his brand of tough love and relentless striving for what he deemed the best, but distanced others frustrated by his reluctance to compromise even if it meant losing business.
        Mr. Chiat ''pushed us to the edge,'' wrote Lee Clow, his business partner, ''and when we got there, he challenged us to find a way to fly.''
        He was a rebel with a cause, advocating that advertising, even for prosaic products, ought to be infused with art, design, music and other popular culture, not only for aesthetic purposes but also because it could move more merchandise.
        His success at selling that approach to skeptical marketers enabled his agency, Chiat/Day, to grow from a regional shop with 50 employees and billings of $8 million at a single office in Los Angeles in 1968 to an international creative force with 1,200 employees and billings of $1.3 billion at its peak in the early 90's. ''How big can we get before we get bad?'' Mr. Chiat would famously ask.
        Though Chiat/Day became one of the most-honored agencies, it suffered a series of roller coaster rises and falls. Ill-fated expansion and significant debt resulted in Mr. Chiat's falling short of his ultimate goal, to guarantee the agency's independence after his retirement.
        Mr. Chiat's surname is pronounced SHY-et, rhyming with Hyatt, one of the few major marketers that Chiat/Day did not work for -- or was not fired by. Under Mr. Chiat, the agency was known for losing accounts as much as for landing them. Among the big brands that came and went were American Express, Apple Computer, Honda, Nike and Reebok.
        In later years, Mr. Chiat would say, ''My real talent was for losing clients.''
        The constant churn was another reason Mr. Chiat reluctantly went along with his senior managers in 1995 and agreed to relinquish control, selling to a Madison Avenue giant, the Omnicom Group, which merged Chiat/Day into the North American operations of TBWA International. The resulting agency, the TBWA/Chiat/Day division of TBWA Worldwide, is where the remains of the Chiat/Day legacy reside.
        Chiat/Day's forte was advertising that deftly blended rational and emotional sales pitches, echoing the background of Mr. Chiat, who grew up on the East Coast and found fame on the West Coast. ''What Jay combined was the aggressiveness of a New Yorker with the freedom of California,'' Mr. Clow, the agency's top creative person, told The Los Angeles Times.
        For Apple, Chiat/Day created the celebrated commercial ''1984,'' which ran during the 1984 Super Bowl, to introduce the Macintosh PC. The elaborate spot, borrowing from the George Orwell novel to depict the triumph of rebellion over conformity, popularized the concept of spectacular Super Bowl commercials.
        Steven P. Jobs, Apple's co-founder, called the work ''insanely great advertising.'' But a year later, Chiat/Day produced a widely derided Super Bowl commercial that portrayed executives who preferred I.B.M. as lemmings, which contributed to the agency's dismissal in 1986. (Apple now works with TBWA/Chiat/Day.)
        For Nike, Chiat/Day blanketed Los Angeles during the 1984 Summer Olympics with oversize posters of athletes and ran a commercial featuring the singer-songwriter Randy Newman performing a cheerily infectious version of ''I Love L.A.'' That campaign led America to believe Nike was the Games' official footwear, though Converse had paid $4 million for the privilege.
        His achievements helped the industry, once primarily centered in New York and Chicago, expand geographically by making advertisers consider the West Coast and other markets when assigning accounts.
        Mr. Chiat also introduced a British practice known as account planning, intended to make ads more effective by hiring employees who specialize in research that went beyond focus groups. ''No one had the vision to adopt it in the United States'' until Mr. Chiat, said Jane Newman, whom he hired from London in 1982 to introduce the concept.
        Morton Jay Chiat was born in the Bronx on Oct. 25, 1931, and grew up in Fort Lee, N.J. He graduated from Rutgers University. Service as an Air Force public information officer brought him to California, where, after his discharge, he worked on recruitment advertising for Aerojet-General, an Air Force contractor, then joined a small Orange County ad agency, the Leland Oliver Company, in 1958. He became creative director there before leaving in 1962 to open Jay Chiat & Associates.
        A self-made connoisseur of art and architecture, Mr. Chiat collected paintings and hired Frank Gehry to design offices.
        Mr. Chiat's first three marriages ended in divorce. He is survived by his fourth wife, Edwina Vongal; three children, Deborah Chiat, of Rome; Marc Chiat, of Hollywood, Calif.; and Elyse Chiat, of Petaluma, Calif.; and nine grandchildren.
        Chiat/Day opened in 1968 when Mr. Chiat merged his agency with another small Los Angeles shop, Faust/Day. The decision was made by Mr. Chiat and Guy Day -- who sought a partner when Tom Faust left -- in under an hour as they talked at a Los Angeles Dodgers game.
        The on-and-off relationship between Mr. Chiat and Mr. Day was legendary. Mr. Day left in 1976, returned in 1982 and left for good in 1986, later proclaiming of Mr. Chiat, ''The guy's a born gambler.''
        At Chiat/Day, Mr. Chiat, as chairman and chief executive, devoted himself to both business and creative affairs, rare in advertising. His immersion led to the agency's nickname, ''Chiat/Day & Night,'' for the long hours employees endured.
        The agency benefited from a boom fueled by the growth of two California phenomena, the technology industry and the American operations of Japanese marketers.
        Advertising Age named Chiat/Day agency of the year for 1980 and 1988, as well as agency of the decade. Mr. Chiat was named man of the year by the Western States Advertising Association of America in 1977 and its leader of the decade in 1990, and was elected to the One Club Creative Hall of Fame in 1994.
        By then, the end of Chiat/Day's independence was near. Problems began when the acquisition in 1989 of an Australian agency, the Mojo MDA Group, proved a costly failure. Efforts to expand into other services like design faltered.
        Chiat/Day was also struggling under a large debt load, the byproduct of a leveraged buyout in 1988. The difficulties led to negotiations with Omnicom in 1993, 1994 and again in 1995, when Chiat/Day was sold.
        Mr. Chiat left after the sale to play golf and invest in Internet start-ups. A second career emerged in 1998, when he became acting chief executive of Screaming Media, a content provider for Web sites; he became chairman in 1999.
        After hiring an ad agency for Screaming Media, Mr. Chiat said in an interview in 2000 with Adweek, ''Now that I'm a client, I understand what a jerk I was.''
        Correction:  April 26, 2002, Friday  An obituary of the advertising executive Jay Chiat on Wednesday misspelled his wife's surname. She is Edwina von Gal, not Vongal.
      