
        J. Russell Elkinton, editor emeritus of Annals of Internal Medicine, which he helped shape into a world leader among medical journals, died on Saturday in Concord, Mass. A resident of Bedford, Mass., he was 91.
        A former professor of medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, Dr. Elkinton edited the annals, the twice-monthly publication of the American College of Physicians, from 1960 to 1971. During that period, he made it a prime resource for practitioners of clinical medicine. Circulation more than doubled, to 53,000 copies, as did the number of manuscripts submitted for publication each year, to more than 1,100.
        The annals, founded by the doctors' group in 1927, now has a circulation of about 100,000, typically presenting several original articles along with editorials and other features.
        From the start, Dr. Elkinton made clear that the journal needed teamwork to succeed. To that end, he insisted on the right to submit to peer review every paper offered for publication, including those presented at the annual meetings of the parent organization.
        On his retirement, the college noted his thoroughness in seeking the views of his editorial board, which consisted of 18 professionals, each chosen for accomplishment in a field of specialization.
        Joseph Russell Elkinton was born in Moylan, Pa., near Philadelphia. He graduated from Haverford College in 1932 and Harvard Medical School in 1937, after which he was a research fellow and assistant professor at the Yale School of Medicine for three years, honing his expertise on body fluids and electrolyte physiology.
        In 1948, he joined the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine to form its chemical section and build it into a top research center in blood chemistry and kidney disease. He rose to full professor by 1962, turning young doctors into specialists in that field.
        He was co-author of a widely used textbook, ''Body Fluids: Basic Physiology and Practical Therapeutics'' (1955). Born into a Quaker family, he also wrote ''The Quaker Heritage in Medicine'' (1978). He published many research papers and essays on science and religion, plumbing the ethical and social issues raised in modern medicine.
        Dr. Elkinton's wife of 60 years, Mary Teresa Sturge Elkinton, died two years ago. He is survived by a daughter, Gwyneth E. Loud of Lincoln, Mass.; a son, Joseph S., of Amherst, Mass.; a brother, David C., of Newtown Square, Pa.; and five grandchildren.
        In retirement, Dr. Elkinton wrote ''The Bird on the Rocking Chair'' (1988) and ''Footnotes on the Sands of Time'' (1994), reflections on family life. He finished his final essay, on bureaucratic encounters with the Social Security Administration, just before he died.
        His last scientific paper was published in 1985. Its subject was migraine headaches, from which he suffered all his life.
      