
        Dr. Hans Neurath, a biochemist who advanced modern protein science to explain the makeup and workings of some of life's elemental building blocks, died on Friday in Seattle. He was 92.
        The founding chairman of the department of biochemistry at the University of Washington medical school, Dr. Neurath also started two scientific journals in his field. He edited one, Biochemistry, for the American Chemical Society from 1961 to 1991. That year, at 81, he started Protein Science, published for the Protein Society by the Cambridge University Press, and was its editor in chief until four years ago.
        Dr. Neurath was among the first to apply modern physical and chemical techniques in examining the composition and function of proteins. The field came to be known as protein science.
        Much of his research focused on a large class of proteins called proteases, which are enzymes that can digest other proteins in food or set off sequences of events that cause blood to clot.
        Born in Vienna, Hans Neurath received his doctorate in chemistry at the University of Vienna in 1933 and continued his studies in London and at the University of Minnesota. In 1938, he accepted an appointment at Duke University, where he established a research program in the physical chemistry of proteins.
        In 1950, the University of Washington asked him to take over the biochemistry department of the medical school, where he conducted much of his research. He retired in 1975 but continued his research and worked as the part-time scientific director at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle.
        In 1980, Dr. Neurath became the scientific director of the German government's Cancer Research Center in Heidelberg, a complex of nine institutes with more than 1,000 staff members. He returned to Seattle as professor emeritus late in 1981.
        Dr. Neurath was a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, as well as a foreign member of the Max Planck Society of Germany.
        He spent six decades teaching and researching, publishing more than 400 scientific papers. He also edited three volumes of ''The Proteins,'' a standard reference source published by Academic Press.
        Dr. Neurath is survived by his wife of 41 years, Susi Spitzer Neurath; a son from an earlier marriage, Peter F., of Seattle; a stepdaughter and stepson, Margaret Albrecht and Frank Meyer, both of Seattle; and three step-grandchildren.
      