
        Hugh Davis Graham, a scholar of modern American history who was co-director of a notable 1969 study for the National Commission on the Causes and Prevention of Violence, died on Tuesday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 65.
        The cause was complications from cancer of the esophagus, said his brother, Fred Graham.
        Dr. Graham was an associate professor at Johns Hopkins University when he was chosen by the commission, established by President Lyndon B. Johnson after the assassinations of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Senator Robert F. Kennedy, to help lead an inquiry into the roots of violence in America.
        The report found a strong tradition of violence in the United States, one it said had been obscured by ''a kind of historical amnesia'' that was probably the result of ''our historic vision of ourselves as a latter-day chosen people.'' It concluded that Americans had become ''a rather bloody-minded people in both action and reaction.''
        Dr. Graham was part of a group that sued the Bush administration last November to overturn an executive order that prevented the release of the Reagan White House papers. The group says the order violates the 1978 Presidential Records Act. The case has not been resolved.
        Dr. Graham wrote ''The Civil Rights Era'' (Oxford University Press, 1990), which focused on the part the federal government, particularly the executive agencies, played in the drive for equal rights. The book was nominated for a Pulitzer Prize in 1991. His final work, ''Collision Course: The Strange Convergence of Affirmative Action and Immigration Policy in America'' (Oxford University Press), was published this year.
        Hugh Davis Graham was born on Sept. 2, 1936, in Little Rock, Ark. He received a B.A. from Yale, and a master's degree and Ph.D. from Stanford, both in history. A former marine, he taught at the University of Maryland at Baltimore County and was a professor of history at Vanderbilt University and adjunct professor at the University of California at Santa Barbara at the time of his death.
        He is survived by his wife, Janet Gorman Graham; a son, Holter Ford Graham of Baltimore; and two brothers, Otis L. Graham Jr. of Wilmington, N.C., and Fred Graham of Washington, who is chief anchor for Court TV.
        Dr. Graham organized a conference of scholars on the Reagan presidency that convened two days after his death.
      