
        John Rohrbeck, who oversaw the television stations owned and operated by NBC from 1991 to 1997, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 62 and lived in Manhattan.
        He had bladder cancer, said Terry Kassel, a friend.
        From 1991 to 1997, Mr. Rohrbeck had the title of president of the NBC television stations division.
        In 1997, he was in charge of NBC's 11 stations, in Birmingham, Ala.; Chicago; Columbus, Ohio; Los Angeles; Miami; New York; Philadelphia; Providence, R.I.; Raleigh, N.C.; San Diego; and Washington. He reported to Robert C. Wright, NBC's president and chief executive.
        That same year, he was succeeded as president of NBC's station division by Scott Sassa. Executives said Mr. Rohrbeck was taking a sabbatical for personal reasons. At that time, the stations accounted for $500 million in annual revenue and had been experiencing strong growth.
        While Mr. Rohrbeck was running the stations, their ratings rose, they became more profitable and the division became more organized and centralized. He was also involved in developing new daytime programming in partnership with NBC's affiliated stations.
        He was born in Olympia, Wash., grew up there and received a degree in business administration from the University of Washington.
        After starting out with a Seattle advertising agency, Botsford, Constantine & McCarty, he became a Los Angeles-based account executive with ABC television network sales.
        Afterward he held a succession of advertising sales posts with NBC and with KNBC-TV in Los Angeles and advanced to become station manager in 1976. He went on to be general manager of WRC-TV, NBC's television station in Washington.
        He moved back to KNBC-TV in Los Angeles in 1984 and was its president and general manager for seven years. In 1991, KNBC was regarded as the most successful of the stations owned by NBC.
        After stepping down as president of the stations division, Mr. Rohrbeck was an NBC executive vice president for a time.
        He is survived by his wife, Sonnai Frock Rohrbeck; four children from two previous marriages: Diane Frawert, Darcy Hemstreet and Jani Spencer, all of Los Angeles; and Douglas, of Washington; and five grandchildren.
      