
        Dr. Oreste Piccioni, a combative and controversial pioneer in particle physics and one of the discoverers of the antineutron, died on April 13 at his home in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif. He was 86.
        Dr. Piccioni gained renown for important theoretical work and for an experiment he conducted in the basement of a Rome high school during World War II.
        But he felt he had been deprived of recognition for contributions to the discovery in 1955 of the antiproton -- the first known particle of antimatter, and in 1972 he sued the two physicists who had won the Nobel Prize for that achievement.
        ''He was very disappointed and somewhat bitter,'' said his son, Dr. Robert L. Piccioni of Westlake Village, Calif.
        A native of Italy, Dr. Piccioni received his doctorate at the University of Rome in 1938, studying under Enrico Fermi. In the wartime conditions of 1940's Rome, he had to make his own vacuum tubes so he and two other scientists could build their experiment. It tested the behavior of a newly discovered particle then known as the mesotron.
        At the time, physicists believed it to be the carrier of the so-called strong force -- which holds the nuclei of atoms together.
        But Dr. Piccioni's experiment showed that the mesotron flew past carbon atoms unimpeded and thus could not be the carrier of the strong force, which would be absorbed by the atoms.
        The mesotron turned out to be the muon, essentially a heavy version of the electron. The carrier of the strong force was discovered a few years later.
        In 1946, Dr. Piccioni immigrated to the United States. Dr. Leon M. Lederman, director emeritus of the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory, in Batavia, Ill., where Dr. Piccioni worked for a time, recalled him in those days as ''a brash young guy with a reputation already.''
        At the end of 1954, Dr. Piccioni, then working at Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island, visited the University of California at Berkeley and discussed with Dr. Emilio Segrè and Dr. Owen Chamberlain how magnets might be used to guide a beam of antiprotons to instruments that could detect them.
        The next year, Dr. Segrè and Dr. Chamberlain discovered the antiproton. They did not think Dr. Piccioni's suggestions were central and did not list him as an author on the paper announcing the discovery.
        Dr. Piccioni felt he had provided the blueprint for the experiment. He complained to colleagues for years, especially after Dr. Segrè and Dr. Chamberlain received the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1959.
        In 1972, Dr. Piccioni filed a lawsuit against Dr. Segrè and Dr. Chamberlain seeking $125,000 in damages and a public acknowledgment of his contributions. The courts dismissed the lawsuit, saying it had been filed too late.
        In 1956, with other researchers from Berkeley and Brookhaven, Dr. Piccioni participated in the discovery of the antineutron.
        ''He'd break down your front door and tell you he's got the best idea in the world,'' said Dr. William A. Wenzel, a senior scientist emeritus at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory who also worked on the antineutron experiment. ''Knowing Oreste, he has a lot of ideas; he throws them out a dozen a minute. Some of them are good, some of them aren't. Nevertheless, I felt he was a good physicist and he contributed to our experiment.''
        Later, Dr. Piccioni, along with Dr. Abraham Pais, developed a theory to explain unusual particles known as kaons. Kaons come in two varieties -- one that disintegrates almost immediately and one that lives much longer. But when long-lived kaons travel through matter, some transform into the short-lived variety.
        In 1960 Dr. Piccioni became a professor at the University of California at San Diego. He retired in 1986.
        In addition to his son Robert, Dr. Piccioni is survived by his wife, Marina; three other sons, Christopher, of San Diego; Julian, of Solana Beach, Calif.; and Richard, of Seattle; a daughter, Gabriella Piccioni, of San Francisco; a sister in Italy, Anna Piccioni; and four grandchildren.
      