
        Barry Took, a zany shining light of postwar British comedy who put together the team that became Monty Python's Flying Circus, died on March 31 in London. He was 73.
        Reports in the British press said that the cause was cancer of the esophagus.
        Mr. Took's long career included stints as a stand-up comic, radio and television scriptwriter, broadcasting executive and film critic. The British radio shows he wrote include ''Educating Archie,'' ''Bootsie and Snudge'' and ''Round the Horne,'' the last a collaboration with Marty Feldman that still has a cultlike following.
        ''The shows were a vital part of British life in the austere decades after World War II,'' according to Variety.
        But it was as comedy adviser to the British Broadcasting Corporation in 1969 that Mr. Took had perhaps his largest impact. He assembled six young comic talents, including John Cleese and Graham Chapman, and proposed a comedy show.
        A BBC executive originally christened the show ''Baron von Took's Flying Circus,'' alluding to Mr. Took's bossy manner. After months of discussing other names, including ''Owl Stretching Time,'' it became ''Monty Python's Flying Circus.''
        Whether the show fundamentally changed standard television comedy formulas has been debated. The conclusion of a book about the show, ''Monty Python Speaks!'' by David Morgan (St. Martin's Griffin, 1999), quoted Mr. Took as saying, ''Python wasn't influential at all.''
        But there is no doubt that the slapstick surrealism of ''Monty Python,'' with its Ministry of Silly Walks and absurdist jokes about dead parrots, gay lumberjacks and the Spanish Inquisition, certainly moved British viewers to laughter. Later, rebroadcasts on PBS gave Americans an appreciation of the sort of exquisitely twisted humor first honed by Spike Milligan on the 1950's radio series called ''The Goon Show.''
        Mr. Took was born on June 19, 1928, in Muswell Hill, North London, where his father was manager of the Danish Bacon Company -- ''another kind of ham altogether,'' the comedian said.
        He wrote in his autobiography, ''A Point of View'' (Duckworth, 1991), that his mother told him when he was 8 that his birth was unplanned, and that his father's worries about the cost of rearing him led to a nervous breakdown. He also wrote that be felt inferior to his brother, a physicist who worked with the American space program.
        ''I could not be the clever one in the family, so I decided to be the funny one,'' Mr. Took said. He spent years in intensive Freudian analysis.
        He dropped out of school at 15, and what turned out to be his most useful education was listening to the radio.
        He joined the Royal Air Force, in which he played an out-of-tune trumpet, organized musical revues and met his first wife, Dorothy Bird, also a member of the R.A.F. His marriages to her and later to the former Lynden Leonard ended in divorce.
        He is survived by two sons and a daughter -- Barry, David and Susan -- from his first marriage; and by a daughter, Elinor, from his second marriage.
        After his discharge, Mr. Took began a shaky career as a stand-up comic. At 6 feet 2 inches tall, he called himself the Lanky Londoner, London's Longest Laugh, but hardly proved the point. Once in Wolverhampton, he said, he did 12 shows without a single laugh.
        In 1954, on the outer edges of the old British music-hall circuit, he met the goggle-eyed comic Marty Feldman, perhaps best known as Igor in the movie ''Young Frankenstein.'' Feldman persuaded Mr. Took to wear onstage the funny-looking clothes he preferred in private life, and the two went on to fashion a dizzily prolific writing team.
        Their best-known work, ''Around the Horne,'' included a weekly gallery of grotesques that included Rambling Syd Rambo, a deranged folk singer; the paranoid religious maniac J. Peasmold Gruntfuttock, and the aging cinema heartthrobs Charles and Fiona. The series of 66 programs ran for three years.
        But the two split. Mr. Took later explained that writing partnerships were like marriages without sex, and rarely lasted more than 10 years.
        Mr. Took next became comedy consultant to the BBC, where he was midwife to the wacky comedy ''The Goodies,'' which also has a cult following, as well as to ''Monty Python.'' His genius was in bridging the gap between older Goon-inspired comedians and a new breed of Oxford- and Cambridge-educated comics.
        ''He was like an elder statesman to a younger generation of comics,'' said Barry Cryer, a scriptwriter, in an interview in The Daily Telegraph.
        Mr. Took then accepted an invitation to write for ''Rowan and Martin's Laugh-In,'' but he soon left the United States for London because his wife was homesick.
        He had other TV jobs, including one as host of a show on which he answered viewers' letters. He wrote movie reviews for Punch, and seven books, including his autobiography.
        ''I can think of no one better qualified to write his autobiography than Barry,'' said Michael Palin, one of the six Pythons.
        Several British newspapers noted that Mr. Took's death went relatively unnoticed because of the voluminous coverage of the death of the Queen Mother. The Times of London suggested that he might have appreciated the irony. ''Timing was his comic hallmark,'' it said.
      