
        Laurance P. Roberts, a scholar of Asian art who served as director of the Brooklyn Museum and later of the American Academy in Rome, died on March 10 at his home in Baltimore. He was 95.
        After working as assistant curator of Oriental art at the Philadelphia Museum of Art and studying the Chinese language and art in China, Mr. Roberts joined the Brooklyn Museum in 1934 as curator of its Oriental art department.
        In 1937 he married Isabel Spaulding, who was employed in the museum's education department.
        He was promoted to director of the Brooklyn Museums -- the Brooklyn Museum and the Brooklyn Children's Museum -- in 1938. After taking office, he said he wanted to expand the Brooklyn Museum's educational activities and augment its exhibitions. His work at the Brooklyn Museum attracted attention. After he died, the British newspaper The Independent recalled his lively and imaginative program.
        From 1942 to 1946, he served in Army Intelligence in Washington, and his wife was the museum's acting chief. From 1947 to 1960, he was the director of the American Academy in Rome, which awards competitive fellowships, with residence in Rome, for study and research in art history and other fields.
        Then he was briefly the first executive director of the New York State Council on the Arts, which was formed in 1960. He helped to plan the Council's programs in the visual and performing arts.
        In later years he and his wife lived in various European cities, and he made repeated journeys to Japan for scholarly activity and writing. The couple moved to Baltimore in 1988.
        His writings include three books that came out in those later years: ''Guide to Japanese Museums'' (1967), ''Dictionary of Japanese Artists'' (1977, Weatherhill) and ''The Bernard Berenson Collection of Oriental Art at Villa I Tatti'' (1991), which has been called the first book to document Mr. Berenson's cache of Oriental antiquities.
        Mr. Roberts was awarded an honorary doctor of arts degree by Princeton.
        Laurance Page Roberts was born in Bala-Cynwyd, Pa. He received a bachelor's degree in fine arts magna cum laude from Princeton and did a year's graduate work there.
        From 1930 to 1933 he worked at the Philadelphia Museum of Art and studied in Asia.
        He is survived by his wife.
      