
        Wylie F. L. Tuttle, an American real estate developer who played a major role in the construction of what was in 1972 the tallest office building in Europe, died on Friday at his home in Rock Hall, Md. He was 79.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Janet.
        Mr. Tuttle was president of the New York real estate firm of Collins Tuttle & Company from 1958 until he died.
        What became Europe's highest office building in 1972, the Tour Montparnasse in Paris, was his brainchild. He enlisted French co-promoters and a syndicate of 17 insurance companies and seven banks in the $140-million multiple-building project that included it.
        Mr. Tuttle and a Collins Tuttle associate, Herbert Papock, were partners in the project. They arranged financing from French investors, companies and banks.
        As the construction of the buildings progressed, Mr. Tuttle and Mr. Papock sold office space to future occupants. After the complex was finished, they managed it for a while, until all its space was sold. Then they turned it over to French real estate people.
        When the Montparnasse tower was topped off in early 1972, it was 680 feet tall. The tallest office building in Europe is now the Commerzbank tower in Frankfurt. It is 850 feet tall (984 feet with an antenna).
        Mr. Tuttle and Mr. Papock were involved in the construction of major buildings in Chicago, St. Louis and elsewhere, and developed shopping centers and office buildings around the United States. Mr. Tuttle was also a founder and the first president of the Young Men's Real Estate Association.
        A native New Yorker, Wylie Fay Leon Tuttle attended Columbia College and was a Navy pilot in the Pacific theater during World War II. After the war, he joined the real estate firm known then as Brown, Wheelock, Harris & Stevens in New York. He and Arthur Collins formed Collins Tuttle in 1954.
        Besides his wife, the former Janet Alexandra Scott, Mr. Tuttle is survived by a daughter, Amanda Tuttle of Rock Hall.
      