
        Raven Chanticleer, a fashion designer, dancer, sculptor, storyteller, bon vivant, and the founder, craftsman and proprietor of the Harlem African-American Wax and History Museum, died March 31. He was 72.
        The cause was lung cancer, his family said.
        For a dozen years, Mr. Chanticleer, dressed in African robes, led astonished visitors through one of New York's smallest but most unusual museums, an incense-scented basement space filled with 25 or so statues of ''heroes and sheroes'' like ''the Dusty Black Diva of the Underground Railroad, Harriet Tubman,'' the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. and Josephine Baker.
        Mr. Chanticleer had several careers as a culture-maker, but for all his creativity, his most extravagant invention was probably Raven Chanticleer himself, a strikingly handsome, larger-than-life figure who regaled stranger and friend alike in a carnival barker's voice with tales that enjoyed a sometimes shaky relationship with the truth.
        He was not, for instance, born in Harlem to a Barbadian concert pianist and her Haitian school-principal husband, as newspaper accounts contend. His parents were sharecroppers in Woodruff, S.C., where Mr. Chanticleer was born James Watson on Sept. 13, 1928, according to Helen Hamilton, one of his nieces.
        He did not earn a master's degree at the Sorbonne, although his family is pretty sure he studied there after attending the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York. He was not, ever, married.
        And it is probably a safe bet that Mr. Chanticleer did not, at the tender age of 5, win a $2,000 prize at the 1940 World's Fair for a folding chair he designed, if only because in 1940 he was 11 years old.
        But in the 1960's, Mr. Chanticleer did indeed found the Raven Chanticleer Dancers, said Maxine McCrey Montano, who was one of them. The troupe wore costumes made by Mr. Chanticleer and performed in nightclubs all over Manhattan.
        In the 1970's, Mr. Chanticleer, who had once designed clothes for Bergdorf Goodman, returned to fashion, this time working for himself. He was partial to plastic and see-through materials and once put on a show of clothes made from garbage bags. He made a splash designing what he called ''beautiful clothes for stout, voluptuous women.''
        And no one doubts that in 1985, Mr. Chanticleer bought a brownstone on a drug-infested stretch of West 115th Street. Four years later, he opened a wax museum in the basement of the building devoted to African-American heroes (though his claim that it was the first of its kind would probably be disputed by, for one, the Great Blacks in Wax Museum in Baltimore, which opened in 1983).
        Mr. Chanticleer's museum was inspired by a visit to Madame Tussaud's in London. He was amazed and offended to see no black figures there. As Mr. Chanticleer liked to tell it, ''I cornered the madame, and I said, 'Madame, I see no African black people here in the museum. Why?' And she said, 'I just don't have any.' ''
        For his museum, Mr. Chanticleer made the wax figures and sewed all their costumes. Some of them, like Malcolm X, are remarkably accurate. Others are more idiosyncratic. Magic Johnson is a few inches short of his playing height and wears a leisure suit rather than a basketball uniform. Duke Ellington has an oversize head and an unusually large jaw. And the civil rights advocate Fannie Lou Hamer wears a leopard-print evening gown.
        One of the most convincing statues is that of the great African-American artist Raven Chanticleer. Mr. Chanticleer explained in a radio interview last year that he included his own likeness ''just in case something should happen to me, if they didn't carry out my wishes and my dreams of this wax museum I would come back and haunt the hell out of them.''
        For all his bravado, Mr. Chanticleer was serious about teaching youngsters the importance of black history and economic self-sufficiency. He started a foundation called the Learning Tree that gave toys to needy children. And Mr. Chanticleer was passionate about fixing up Harlem, whether it meant chasing drug dealers off his doorstep or lobbying public officials.
        ''He learned how to mold the truth so that it could amuse us,'' City Councilman Bill Perkins said at Mr. Chanticleer's funeral on Saturday night. ''But I don't mean 'amusing us' in a denigrating way. I mean amusing us in a transforming way.''
        Mr. Chanticleer is survived by three nieces, three nephews, many more distant relatives and, for the time being, the museum, although its fate is uncertain.
        ''We are hopefully, once we get through all the legalities, going to try to see if we can keep it going,'' said Ms. Hamilton. ''That was something he wanted us to do.''
      