
        William Diebold, an economist who spent his career at the Council on Foreign Relations, shaping and studying the international economic order after World War II, died on Tuesday at his home in Upper Nyack, N.Y. He was 84.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        After joining the council in New York in 1939 just after graduate school, Mr. Diebold spent the war years working on wartime economic challenges and helping design a postwar economic system, both as a member of the council's War and Peace Studies Program and at the Office of Strategic Services.
        An orthodox liberal economist with a practical bent of mind, he was in regular contact with United States policy makers and strongly supported the Bretton Woods economic system, based on free trade, convertible currencies and fixed exchange rates, that came slowly into existence after the war ended.
        The Council on Foreign Relations published several of his books, including ''New Directions in Our Trade Policy'' (1941); ''Trade and Payments in Western Europe'' (1952); and ''The Schuman Plan: 1950-1959'' (1959), a study of Western Europe's first attempt at serious economic cooperation through the merging of the coal and steel industries of six nations to form the European Coal and Steel Community. He predicted that this initiative, when combined with the recently started European Common Market, would transform the European economy.
        Other works included ''The United States and the Industrial World'' (C.F.R. 1972); ''Alternatives to Monetary Disorder'' (McGraw-Hill 1977); and ''Industrial Policy as an International Issue'' (McGraw-Hill 1980).
        Born in New York City on March 23, 1918, Mr. Diebold studied at Swarthmore College and did graduate work at Yale and the London School of Economics. After retiring from the council in 1983, he continued to supervise its work on Canadian relations for several years.
        His wife, the former Ruth Brody Corcoran, died in 1996. He is survived by a daughter, Barbara Wick, of Northfield, Ill.; two sons, John, of Nyack, N.Y., and William, of Portland, Ore.; two stepsons whom he adopted, David Corcoran, of Northvale, N.J., and John Corcoran, of Tivoli, N.Y.; and a brother, John, of Bedford, N.Y.
      