
        John U. Monro, a white educator who gave up one of the most prominent jobs in academia, dean of Harvard College, to take a low-level, low-paying administrative and teaching job with an impoverished black college in Alabama, died on Friday in LaVerne, Calif. He was 89.
        Mr. Monro surprised the academic world in 1967 when he left Harvard for Miles College, an unaccredited institution on the outskirts of Birmingham. He was a Harvard graduate and had spent 21 years there as an administrator, nine of them as dean of the college.
        His friends and colleagues admired his courage and idealism but wondered just how he would fare in a place whose entering freshmen were not just materially wanting, but also suffered from the vicissitudes of poor public school training. Their reading skills were, on average, roughly equivalent to the ninth-grade level in Northern cities. The students at Miles also lacked basic knowledge of mathematics, history and many other areas that would be taken for granted in most colleges elsewhere, even mediocre ones.
        But once he got settled, Mr. Monro was a happy man, one who told friends and reporters alike that he was doing just fine and that he was learning much more from his students than they could ever learn from him.
        ''In 35 years of teaching, I've never known such rewarding students,'' Mr. Munro said in an interview.
        He fashioned an English and social studies curriculum for freshmen, taught 10 hours a week (more than some of his former colleagues at Harvard would teach in a month) and came to feel that Miles and colleges like it could do more to create opportunities for underprivileged young people than Harvard or any other mainstream institution.
        The core curriculum for first-year students survives to this day, said Diana Knighton, the college's chief financial officer, who was a student of Mr. Monro. She recalled that the enthusiasm and dedication he conveyed in the classroom helped win over those who might have been initially uncomfortable with, in fact, unaccustomed to, a white instructor.
        When Mr. Monro left Miles in the late 1970's, he continued to pursue his passion at Tougaloo College in Mississippi, another small black institution. There he taught English and was director of the college's writing center, which offers remedial instruction.
        He was a strong advocate of black studies. When some educators suggested that small, underfinanced black institutions should be permitted to fade from the scene, Mr. Monro called the notion ''idiocy.'' He said small colleges could create special curriculums that larger, traditional institutions would not and could not create. He thought the nation would profit if there were more colleges like Miles and Tougaloo.
        Earlier in his career, as financial aid director at Harvard, Mr. Monro helped develop the College Scholarship Service, the association that shares financial data on student applications for aid.
        After what some educators called the first major re-evaluation of the aid process in higher education, Mr. Munro determined that admissions offices, particularly in the Ivy League, offered aid haphazardly, often failing to meet the needs of deserving students or awarding more than was necessary to others.
        John Usher Monro was born in North Andover, Mass., on Dec. 23, 1912, to Claxton and Frances Sutton Monro. His mother was the daughter of a well-to-do mill owner; his father, a Harvard-educated chemist. The family was not rich.
        He attended Phillips Academy at Andover, Mass., on a scholarship and won another scholarship to Harvard.
        As an undergraduate in the 1930's, Mr. Monro attended seminars on Marx with great interest but always refused to join the Communist Party. He agreed with many of the party's views on the need for social justice but found that whenever he disagreed with the Communists, ''they'd try to bulldoze you.''
        He became an editor of The Harvard Crimson and was critical of what he saw as its conservatism. In April 1934, he led a revolt of Crimson editors and founded a new newspaper called The Harvard Journal. He was interested in journalism with a social purpose and put so much time and effort into the new journal that he dropped out of school for a year to avoid failing his courses. The Harvard Journal failed, but Mr. Monro succeeded in earning his baccalaureate degree in 1935.
        Mr. Monro married Dorothy Stevens Foster, his childhood sweetheart, in 1936. She died in 1984. He is survived by their daughters, Ann Monro of Winchester, Mass., and Janet Dreyer of Claremont, Calif., and three grandchildren.
        After graduation, he worked both for Harvard, writing news releases, and for The Boston Transcript, where he was a reporter. In World War II, he served in the Navy in the Pacific, winning the Bronze Star.
        When the war was ending, he was at work on a novel and thought he would like a job on PM, then a struggling left-leaning New York City daily. But a Harvard administrator persuaded him to return there as an adviser to veterans who were seeking educational benefits under the G.I. Bill of Rights.
        In the early 1950's, Mr. Munro reformed Harvard's financial aid program, and he became dean of Harvard College in 1958, a job he saw as representing the interest of Harvard undergraduates with the administration. In that capacity, he appointed the first black assistant dean in the college's history.
        In 1962, he went to the annual meeting of the American Teachers Association, an organization of black educators. There he met Lucius Pitts, the son of a tenant cotton farmer who had just finished his first term as president of Miles College. Mr. Pitts invited him to visit Miles and talk to the faculty.
        Mr. Munro became interested in Miles and its mission and arranged to go to Birmingham for three successive summers to teach there without compensation. He took several Harvard students with him each year. He became known as Harvard's ambassador to black education.
        He left Harvard for Miles in 1967. Despite his experience as an administrator, Mr. Monro did not want to be a dean or president. He sought no power, and Mr. Pitts gave him the title director of freshmen studies. Mr. Monro set about to reduce the 50 percent freshman-year dropout rate at the college.
        Miles, founded by the Christian Methodist Episcopal Church in 1905, had lost its accreditation in 1958 because of substandard libraries and a lack of teachers with doctorates. It had around a thousand students, and its faculty was then paid about half of what was paid by white colleges in the area. Miles won back its accreditation in 1969, and by the early 1970's had attracted a large number of teachers with doctorates.
      