
        J. William Stanton, a former Republican congressman from Ohio who went on to focus on development and international banking issues, died on Thursday at a hospital in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 78.
        The cause was complications from pulmonary fibrosis, his family said. Mr. Stanton lived in Madison, Ohio, but regularly spent the winter in Florida.
        For nearly two decades, ending in 1983, when he retired, Representative Stanton was known for a friendly, relaxed manner that often stood in contrast to acerbic, increasingly partisan debates. He was a Republican in a heavily Democratic region northeast of Cleveland, and once remarked that his grandfather would turn in his grave to learn he had joined the Republican Party.
        The son of a banker who ran a Ford dealership, Mr. Stanton began his career selling cars. He entered politics in 1955, as part of a bid to persuade Ford to locate a plant in nearby Mentor. Though that effort failed, Mr. Stanton gained recognition as a Lake County commissioner and became known as a friend of developers.
        In 1964, while Democrats were swept into office around the country, Mr. Stanton won a House seat in the 11th District. With ample financial reserves, he won comfortably on a traditional Republican platform, which focused on free market principles and cutting government waste.
        It was a theme Mr. Stanton emphasized throughout his career, especially as he rose to prominence as the ranking Republican on the Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee. He opposed the 1979 bailout of the Chrysler Corporation, arguing that it would set a bad precedent. He also opposed a $2 billion loan guarantee for New York City.
        He was a darling of business groups but also managed to win relatively high marks from organized labor, an important constituency in his blue-collar district.
        In 1980, he stepped into a partisan fight over red-lining, or the practice by which banks denied mortgage loans in poor areas, and pressed through a compromise that temporarily maintained strict disclosure requirements.
        Mr. Stanton began a second career after leaving the House. He spent a decade as counselor to the president of the World Bank. In that capacity, he traveled the world, investigating prospects for development projects. That work, he told associates, was the most exciting of his career.
        He is survived by his wife of 36 years, Peggy Smeeton Stanton; their daughter, Kelly Marie Fordon; and three grandchildren.
      