
        Ed Turner, who was instrumental in creating round-the-clock television news and making CNN a household name, died on Saturday at a hospital in Washington. A former resident of Atlanta, he was 66 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md.
        The cause was complications from liver cancer, CNN said.
        Mr. Turner, known as E. T. to colleagues, was among the small team hired by Ted Turner in 1980 to make 24-hour television news a reality. Ed Turner, who liked to introduce himself as Ed (No Relation to Ted) Turner, was a journalist of the old school with an instinct for news that helped breathe life into what was widely considered a dubious undertaking.
        He recruited and commanded the swelling staff of correspondents, editors, camera crews and technicians who took American viewers, and eventually international ones, into courtrooms and to history-making events from Washington to Poland to Iraq. He garnered eight Emmys and four Peabody Awards along with many other honors by the time he stepped down as executive vice president in charge of news gathering in 1998.
        Ed Sims Turner was born in Bartlesville, Okla., and graduated as a journalism major from the University of Oklahoma in 1957. He produced and directed documentary films at the university before going to work as a reporter for a television station in Oklahoma City in 1959.
        He was named vice president for news at WTTG in Washington in 1966 and started its 10 o'clock evening newscast. It was the time slot he was accustomed to while growing up in Oklahoma.
        From 1968 to 1974 he worked for Metromedia of New York City as corporate vice president for news with responsibility for all Metromedia stations. Later in the 1970's, he produced the ''CBS Morning News'' before the fledgling Cable News Network took him on as an editor, executive producer, Washington bureau chief and finally, in 1984, as executive vice president.
        Mr. Turner, married and divorced three times, is survived by a son, Christopher, of Atlanta. Other survivors include two brothers, Bill and John.
        ''It was a crusade, absolutely,'' Ed Turner once told the University of Oklahoma magazine about CNN. ''No one knew whether it would work, but the challenge was too great not to have a go at it.''
      