
        Randy Tufts, who with a friend stumbled upon Kartchner Caverns, an untouched subterranean wonderland of geological creativity, and then kept it secret for 14 years, until he was confident that it would be protected, died on April 1 in Tucson. He was 53.
        The cause was myelodysplastic syndrome, a disorder of the bone marrow, said his wife, Ericha Scott.
        In the last chapter of his life he focused his geological expertise on one of Jupiter's moons, Europa, discovering a 600-mile-long fault there that resembled the San Andreas fault in California. He had earned his doctorate in geosciences at 50.
        Mr. Tufts, who once said he was motivated by a longing to crawl through the next hole and see what was there, said he felt a responsibility to the human race when he first gazed at some phantasmagorical cave formations in the Arizona mountains on a cool November day in 1974.
        He and Gary Tenen, whom he had introduced to cave exploration, worried that announcing the discovery of the caverns would bring tourists who might help themselves to stalactites that grow one inch in 750 years.
        It took years of plotting to come up with another outcome: they persuaded Arizona to make the site into what is now Kartchner Caverns State Park. Since it opened in 1999, the first major cave made accessible to the public in the United States in decades, it has drawn 180,000 visitors a year. Visits are limited to fewer than 500 a day to protect the caverns.
        The caverns have stringent technical controls: heavy steel doors keep out hot desert air, a misting system maintains a relative humidity of at least 97.5 percent and low-intensity lights inhibit algae growth.
        ''It is a unique status to be a living discoverer of something,'' Mr. Tufts said in an interview broadcast on National Public Radio in 1999. ''I mean, Columbus is dead. We found this cave. We're still around. We can still exercise some influence over what happens to it.''
        Bruce Randall Tufts was born on Aug. 17, 1948, in Tucson. As a boy, he showed an early interest in underground spaces by digging a fallout shelter in his backyard. In 1967, when he was 18, he set the goal of finding a cave nobody else had seen.
        Some miners told him about a sinkhole in the Whetstone Mountains near the Mexican border. He found the pit and discovered a narrow crack leading into a jumble of rocks.
        ''We concluded it was a blind hole, going nowhere,'' he told The Arizona Daily Star. But he marked the location in his records.
        At the University of Arizona, he was student body president. After graduating with a degree in geology, he became a community organizer and then worked as a field officer for the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation, pressing banks reluctant to lend in minority neighborhoods.
        In 1974, he sought out the sinkhole that he seen seven years earlier. He spotted a horizontal hole 60 yards from the sinkhole and theorized that the two openings indicated cave passages between them. He told Mr. Tenen of his theory, and the two soon tested it.
        ''We went down to the bottom of the sinkhole, and everything seemed the same as before except for one thing: There was a breeze coming out of the crack we'd found before,'' he told The Star. ''It was warm, moist air -- and it smelled like bats!''
        The breeze and bat scent suggested that the narrow passage led to somewhere large enough for bat colonies. Mr. Tenen, who was smaller than Mr. Tufts, crawled through a 10-inch-wide crack first. Mr. Tufts then took off his shirt, exhaled and wiggled through.
        ''It was like being born all over again,'' Mr. Tufts said.
        They then crawled over a floor covered with bat guano and hackberry seeds, seeing no sign that a human had ever been there. After 25 feet, the tunnel stopped. With a three-pound sledgehammer, they broke through a bedrock barrier.
        They saw a multitude of stalactites, pointing to their mirror images, stalagmites. Some rock formations hung like draperies; extraordinarily thin stalactites resembled soda straws. The colors were dazzling: blood red, deep purple, delicate orange and yellow.
        Secrecy became almost an obsession for the two men. They sneaked into the area and carefully covered any caving gear left in their car. They hid from passing drivers and hunters.
        But the cave was near a road, and caving clubs were already exploring nearby. ''If we discovered it, somebody else could,'' Mr. Tenen said. ''It was inevitable.''
        They hit upon the seemingly paradoxical notion of protecting the cave by opening it to the public, but with scrupulous safeguards. They visited commercial caves and attended caving conferences.
        They learned that the land was owned by James Kartchner, a rancher, science teacher and superintendent of schools. He was amazed and pleased to learn about the cavern, having long noticed a hollow sound as he rode his horse over the site.
        The campaign to make the cave a state park included taking Gov. Bruce Babbitt -- who signed their standard secrecy agreement threatening violators with divine punishment -- to see the cave. In 1988, the State Legislature passed a bill approving the cave's purchase. The language was deliberately opaque, and only six legislators knew they were buying a cave.
        Mr. Tufts then turned his attention to Europa, using images from the Galileo spacecraft to study how tides cause shifts of the moon's crust.
        Richard Greenberg, a University of Arizona professor of planetary science and a member of the Galileo imaging team, said Mr. Tufts's work ''was central to showing that Europa is a place whose physical setting may well be hospitable to life.''
        Mr. Tufts is survived by his mother, Carol Tufts; his sister, Judy Rodin; and his wife, Ms. Scott, whom he married in October 2000, three days before he entered the hospital for a bone marrow transplant.
        Ms. Scott said he loved life and would interrupt a desert hike to reverently bury a dead bird. Just as he protected the cave, she said, he wanted to establish safeguards to protect whatever life might exist on Europa from damage by spacecraft.
      