
        Dean F. Bumpus, an oceanographer who for decades showered the Atlantic with tens of thousands of empty bottles to decipher its currents, died March 14 at his home in Woods Hole, Mass. He was 89.
        ''I'm the world's greatest litterbug,'' he once said.
        In fact, Mr. Bumpus had a nobler purpose. Over the years, as they washed ashore, his bottles told not the tales of shipwrecked sailors but the story of the ocean itself.
        ''This was the first comprehensive, direct measurement of the flow of the eastern continental shelf,'' said Dr. William Boicourt, a professor of physical oceanography at the University of Maryland.
        Comprehensive it was. Mr. Bumpus, a researcher at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, began sending bottles in the 1950's and continued through the 70's. No one knows how many went out in all from boats and planes along the East Coast, but in the 1960's alone, 165,566 were released, the institution said.
        Mr. Bumpus, known as Bump, enlisted the aid of colleagues and strangers alike for his task.
        ''All hands are respectfully requested (until further notice) to bring their dead soldiers to the lab and deposit them in the box just inside the gate,'' he wrote in a September 1959 memorandum. ''Whiskey, rum, beer, wine or champagne bottles will be used to make drift bottles. Any clean bottles -- 8 oz to one quart in size -- will be gratefully received. Bottoms Up!''
        Mr. Bumpus inserted notes in the bottles offering 50 cents to anyone who found them and returned a postcard reporting when and where they had washed up. He attached labels that read ''Break This Bottle.'' Then he pressed boxes of them into the hands of anyone he knew was bound for the sea.
        ''He would ask his friends to dump a bunch of bottles over the side for him,'' said Dr. Bruce Warren, a senior scientist at Woods Hole.
        The bottles, as well as seabed drifters that Mr. Bumpus used to measure bottom currents, traveled near and far. Because of the vagaries of the currents, some took years to go a few dozen miles. Others reached Europe. In all, about 10 percent of the bottles (and almost 20 percent of the seabed drifters) were found and reported. Many people sent back not just information about where the bottles had been found but personal anecdotes, poems, even demands for more money. Postcards are still coming in, Woods Hole officials said.
        The information has proved useful in numerous ways, experts said, including helping scientists track the weather and lending insight into nutrient flows and the fish movements that correspond to them.
        Dean Franklin Bumpus was born on May 11, 1912, in Newburyport, Mass., the son of Samuel Franklin and Edith L. Bumpus. He graduated from Oberlin College and then did further study at Brown and Harvard. He is survived by his companion, Marcia Wells of Woods Hole; a son, Peter, of Woods Hole; two grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren. Mr. Bumpus's wife, Katherine Sylvia Miner Bumpus, died in 1991.
        Mr. Bumpus began working at Woods Hole in 1937 and was promptly assigned to help the military find ways to allow submarines and ships to avoid detection by the enemy during World War II. He retired in 1979, and moved to inland Maine, far from the water.
        About 15 years later, asked if he missed the sea, he replied: ''I spent 40 years on it. I had my son on top of Mount Katahdin on his eighth birthday. I didn't want his sun to rise and fall with the tides.''
        But the ocean never lost its draw for Mr. Bumpus, the grandson of a New England whaler, or for his descendants. He spent his last years back in Woods Hole, where his son is shipbuilder and a grandson is a salvage diver.
      