
        Franklyn M. Branley, a persistent advocate for improving science education for children both as the chairman of the Hayden Planetarium and as the author of more than 140 books, died on Sunday in Brunswick, Me. He was 86.
        Dr. Branley took the helm of the planetarium at the American Museum of Natural History in Manhattan at the height of the space race. He threw the planetarium into the fight for better education, especially in astronomy, as America pursued science education as part of the Cold War.
        Dr. Branley helped originate a famous series of more than 100 books about science called Let's-Read-and-Find-Out science books. About 80 are still in print, and HarperCollins continues to publish about six each year.
        Franklyn Mansfield Branley was born June 5, 1915, in New Rochelle, N.Y. He attended New Paltz Normal School in New Paltz, N.Y., now SUNY at New Paltz; there he met Margaret G. Lemon, whom he married after graduation. She survives him, along with a sister, Marion Gray; a daughter, Mary Jane Day; and four grandchildren. Another daughter, Sandra Kay Bridges, died in 1987.
        He earned further degrees in education from New York University and Teachers College at Columbia University.
        Barred from much outdoor exertion by the aftereffects of polio, he raised his two daughters on primarily ''thinking activities,'' his daughter Mary Jane recalled.
        As a fourth-grade teacher in Spring Valley, N.Y., he persuaded his principal to let him introduce science to his classroom. Within a year, he was teaching science to the entire school.
        While teaching at Horace Mann, the prep school, he wrote two books on Mars that caught the fancy of the chairman of the Hayden Planetarium, and he began lecturing there in his off hours.
        Dr. Branley joined the planetarium full time in 1957 to build its educational programs, soon after the launching of the Soviet Sputnik satellite aroused fears that the United States was lagging in space exploration because of a science education gap. In response, Dr. Branley helped to establish courses at the planetarium for both teachers and students and sent astronomers to small colleges lacking their own astronomy departments.
        By the time he took over as the planetarium's chairman in 1968, the United States had surged ahead in the space race, and he was able to project onto the planetarium's dome live color pictures of the Apollo 11 astronauts' return from the moon.
        In 1960, he started the Let's-Read-and-Find-Out series with the educator Roma Gans and his editor, Elizabeth Riley, based on the premise that young readers knew more than most writers believed.
        Making his case in The New York Times Book Review in November 1961, he recalled watching two first graders: ''One argued that the earth was flat. The other said, 'It is not! Anybody knows that the earth is an oblate spheroid.' ''
        In 1972, he retired from the planetarium to devote himself to writing and moved to Sag Harbor, N.Y. He moved to a home for the elderly in Brunswick in 1998.
        His most recent book, ''The International Space Station,'' was released in 2000 and was named one of the magazine Booklist's top 10 science books for children for that year. Another of his books in the Let's-Read-and-Find-Out series is to be published this year.
      