
        Yevgeny Svetlanov, the renowned Russian conductor who led his nation's State Symphony Orchestra for 35 years and was a guest conductor of orchestras around the world, died Friday at his home in Moscow, The Associated Press reported, quoting Russia's NTV television. He was 73.
        A leading interpreter of Russian composers, Mr. Svetlanov's programs were hailed at home and abroad as disciplined, spirited expressions of Tchaikovsky, Shostakovich, Prokofiev, Rachmaninoff, Mussorgsky and Scriabin, but he also performed Mahler, Beethoven and others in the classic repertoire.
        One of Russia's most versatile musicians, he was known as a gifted pianist and as a composer of symphonies, instrumental chamber music and vocal pieces. But on tours that took him to Europe, Asia and the Americas, he often spoke of his affection for jazz, the big-band sounds of Glenn Miller, even the Beatles.
        Born in Moscow on Sept. 6, 1928, Yevgeny Fyodorovich Svetlanov was a child of the Bolshoi. His mother was an actress and his father a soloist with the company, and by the age of 7 he was playing the role of a Cossack boy in Dzerzhinsky's opera ''Quiet Flows the Don.'' He studied with Mikhail Gnesin and graduated from the Gnesin Institute in 1951, and studied conducting at the Moscow Conservatory.
        In a career that spanned the last decades of the Soviet Union and the vast changes in Russian life and culture of the post-Soviet era, Mr. Svetlanov began conducting for the Soviet All-Union Radio in 1953 while still a conservatory student. After graduation in 1955, he became an assistant conductor for the Bolshoi Theater, and was its chief conductor from 1963 to 1965.
        In 1965, he was named artistic director and chief conductor of what was then known as the Soviet State Symphony Orchestra.
        While his tours typically took him to cities across the Soviet Union and to the Communist bloc countries of Eastern Europe, he also performed in London, Stockholm, Paris, Australia and New Zealand. As cultural exchanges with the United States grew, he brought his orchestra to New York, Los Angeles, Chicago and other American cities.
        Reviewing Mr. Svetlanov and the Moscow Symphony performing Tchaikovsky's ''Pathetique'' at Carnegie Hall in 1969, Harold C. Schonberg, the music critic of The New York Times, wrote, ''In this work, there was discipline, there was power, and there was a spirit to the playing that made the work an absorbing experience.''
        Mr. Svetlanov's style was not flashy, and his work was praised as sensitive to detail, grasping and molding the music into a structure, with interpretations that were sometimes sentimental but more usually full of power and free of superficial showmanship. Occasionally, he made news outside the concert halls. In 1986, speaking to an interviewer on a visit to Washington, he denounced a performance at the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts by the pianist Alexander Torade, a Soviet defector, calling his Rachmaninoff a ''catastrophe.''
        While his remarks were criticized by American cultural leaders as those of a cold warrior, Mr. Svetlanov, who spoke no English, had often scolded the Soviet Ministry of Culture just as acidly. Two years ago, he was dismissed as chief conductor of the State Symphony after Mikhail Shvydkoi, the culture minister, said he was spending too much time conducting abroad.
        He had, indeed, partly because the Russian economy was in disarray. In the last two years, he had been an honorary conductor at the Bolshoi and a guest conductor for many orchestras abroad, spending much of his time in the Netherlands.
      