
        David Abrahamsen, a forensic psychiatrist, psychoanalyst and author who wrote book-length analyses of Richard M. Nixon and of David Berkowitz, the serial killer known as Son of Sam, died on Monday night at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 98.
        Dr. Abrahamsen, who was born in Norway and trained in Europe, came to the United States in 1940. He studied criminal psychopathology at prisons in New York and Illinois and taught at several major hospitals.
        He was drawn into the Son of Sam case in 1977, when Mr. Berkowitz was arrested and charged with committing a 13-month terror campaign in New York City in which he killed six young people at point-blank range with a .44-caliber revolver.
        Retained by the Brooklyn district attorney's office to help determine whether Mr. Berkowitz was mentally fit for trial, Dr. Abrahamsen examined Mr. Berkowitz and concluded that while he was mentally disturbed, he was nevertheless competent to face a jury.
        There was ''no thought disorder, no insanity, no deterioration of judgment,'' Dr. Abrahamsen said at the time. Rather, he argued, Mr. Berkowitz manifested a ''psychopathic personality.''
        The court agreed, but no trial took place, because Mr. Berkowitz pleaded guilty to murder and was sent to Attica to serve a series of life terms.
        Behind bars, Mr. Berkowitz continued to communicate with Dr. Abrahamsen. A result was Dr. Abrahamsen's biography of Mr. Berkowitz, called ''Confessions of Son of Sam'' (Columbia University, 1985), in which he described the complex of emotions and delusions that motivated Mr. Berkowitz.
        Dr. Abrahamsen found Mr. Berkowitz to be obsessed with death, fantasizing that he had been ordered to kill by demons that spoke through the voices of barking dogs, and gripped with the belief that killing young women would spare them the suffering they would otherwise experience if they learned -- as Mr. Berkowitz had -- that they had been born out of wedlock.
        For his book ''Nixon vs. Nixon: An Emotional Tragedy'' (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 1977), Dr. Abrahamsen interviewed Nixon's aunt, uncle, cousins and classmates at Whittier College, including a former girlfriend.
        Dr. Abrahamsen concluded that Nixon was, according to the novelist Patrick Anderson who reviewed the book for The New York Times Book Review, ''one of the most screwed up people who ever lived.''
        Dr. Abrahamsen was criticized for writing an analysis without having interviewed the subject, but he told an interviewer for The New York Times in 1977: ''I obtained the needed data from members of his family. I also had available the daydreams and fantasies in his own book, 'Six Crises,' which revealed the man in his own words.
        ''Even when the subject is not available for examination, analysis of the inner man is possible. In fact, second-hand material can sometimes reveal more than patients themselves.''
        Dr. Abrahamsen published a dozen books, including ''Men, Mind and Power'' (Columbia, 1945), a critique of Nazism; ''Our Violent Society'' (Funk & Wagnalls, 1970); and ''The Mind of the Accused'' (Simon & Schuster, 1984).
        Dr. Abrahamsen's wife, Lova, died in 1996. He is survived by two daughters, Inger McCabe Elliott of Stonington, Conn., and Anne-Marie Foltz of New Haven; a sister, Beile Hess of Amsterdam; two brothers, Aron of St. Augustine, Fla., and Abel of New York; five grandchildren; five great-grandchildren; and three step-grandchildren.
        David Abrahamsen was born on June 23, 1903, in Trondheim, Norway, a member of one of the earliest Jewish families to settle in that country. The experience of being a member of a small minority community led to the publication of his first book, ''I Am a Jew,'' which taught Jews about Norway and Norwegians about Jewish life.
        He received his medical training at the former Royal Frederick University in Oslo and graduated in 1929. After a brief stay in Copenhagen, he worked for the Tavistock Clinic in London and the London School of Economics.
        After coming to the United States, Dr. Abrahamsen worked in the field of psychiatry and general criminal psychopathology, first at St. Elizabeth's Hospital in Washington and then at the Illinois State Penitentiary in Joliet. Later, he worked at the Sing Sing Correctional Facility in Ossining, N.Y., and at the New York State Psychiatric Institute of Columbia University's College of Physicians and Surgeons. He was also a research associate in psychiatry at the College of Physicians and Surgeons and taught there for more than a dozen years in the 1940's and 1950's.
      