
        Walter Lord, the narrative historian whose books -- most notably ''A Night to Remember,'' a riveting account of the sinking of the Titanic -- were characterized by intensive research and exhaustive interviews, died on Sunday at his Manhattan apartment. He was 84.
        Mr. Lord, a onetime advertising executive, adeptly popularized the stories not only of the Titanic disaster of 1912 but also the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, the World War II evacuation of Dunkirk, the Battle of Midway, the fall of the Alamo, the War of 1812 and the enrollment of James Meredith as the first black student at the University of Mississippi.
        His usual approach to what he called living history was to combine historical research with journalistic methods, including ''you are there'' insights gathered in interviews with dozens of survivors and witnesses to the events he chronicled.
        Mr. Lord's writing technique, said Stanley Walker, reviewing ''A Night to Remember'' in the Book Review of The New York Herald Tribune, was based on ''a kind of literary pointillism, the arrangement of contrasting bits of fact and emotion in such a fashion that a vividly real impression of an event is conveyed to the reader.''
        David McCullough credited Mr. Lord as an inspiration for his own flourishing career as a writer of popular histories and biographies on such varied topics as the Brooklyn Bridge, the Panama Canal and most recently John Adams.
        ''He really knew how to do research and how not to use all the research he found,'' Mr. McCullough said yesterday from his home in Massachusetts. ''He was very good at knowing what to leave out, using what he knew to give the right atmosphere, without troweling it on.
        ''His 'Night to Remember' was the first nonfiction book that I ever read that left me spellbound, and I was in high school at the time. Later when I came to New York and was trying to become an author, I took 'A Night to Remember' and studied it and tried to understand its architecture.''
        Although not a precise model for his own work, Mr. McCullough said that the essence of Mr. Lord's book enhanced his own first effort, ''The Johnstown Flood'' (Simon & Schuster, 1968), which, like ''A Night to Remember,'' was ''a story about human mistakes and the compounding of false steps that brings on the disaster.''
        ''A Night to Remember,'' published in 1955 and the first of several of his Book-of-the-Month Club selections, became wildly successful and made Mr. Lord's reputation as a writer who could bring drama, terror and suspense to historical narratives. A successful television adaptation appeared in 1956, narrated by Claude Rains, and in 1958 the book was the basis for a popular British film of the same name directed by Roy Baker and starring Kenneth More and David McCallum.
        There are Titanic and movie buffs who regard ''A Night to Remember'' as the most accurate of the many film versions of the sinking that claimed 1,500 lives, including the Clifton Webb-Barbara Stanwyck ''Titanic'' of 1953 and James Cameron's blockbuster of 1997.
        Steven Biel, the author of ''Down With the Old Canoe'' (W. W.Norton, 1996), a cultural history of the Titanic disaster, said that the Titanic resurfaced in the collective imagination after World War II, a development clearly prompted by the appearance of Mr. Lord's book and the movie it inspired. Mr. Lord gave the disaster its fullest retelling since 1912, and he brought the Titanic's drama and significance alive for a modern audience.
        Michiko Kakutani, writing in The New York Times, said that in ''A Night to Remember'' Mr. Lord treated the sinking of the Titanic as a watershed event, an epochal dividing line between the certainties of the 19th century and the confusions of the 20th. ''What made Mr. Lord's nostalgia for the lost era of Titanic so contagious?'' she wrote. ''As Mr. Biel sees it, Titanic nostalgia had a lot to do with cold war anxieties: compared with the horrors of a nuclear war, the Titanic came to be seen as a 'quainter kind of disaster,' a symbol of lost innocence.'' Mr. Lord, whose account of the sinking has never been out of print, called the Titanic an ''unsinkable subject.''
        ''The appeal seems universal,'' he wrote. ''To social historians it is a microcosm of the early 1900's. To nautical enthusiasts it is the ultimate shipwreck. To students of human nature it is an endlessly fascinating laboratory. For lovers of nostalgia it has the allure of yesterday. For daydreamers it has all those might-have-beens.''
        ''A Night to Remember'' was ''really about the death of a small town,'' Mr. Lord once said. ''The Titanic was that big and carried that many people.'' His book and the revival of interest he helped to create rested on the question, ''How would I have acted?''
        Born Oct. 8, 1917 in Baltimore, Walter Lord was the only son of John Walterhouse Lord, a lawyer, and the former Henrietta Hoffman. He attended private schools in Baltimore and graduated in 1939 from Princeton University, where he majored in history.
        Mr. Lord was at Yale Law School at the outbreak of World War II. He went to work for the Office of Strategic Services, first as a code clerk in Washington, later as an intelligence analyst in London. In 1945 he returned to Yale to complete his law degree, although he had decided he did not want to practice. Instead he wrote business newsletters, books and with J. K. Lasser, the tax expert, ''Payroll Almanac.''
        Shortly after going to work for the J. Walter Thompson advertising agency in New York, Mr. Lord published ''The Fremantle Diary,'' edited and annotated from the journals of a British officer and Confederate sympathizer who toured the South for three months in 1863. It was a mild but surprising success in 1954, when Mr. Lord was well into completing ''A Night to Remember.''
        The success of ''A Night to Remember'' enabled Mr. Lord to leave advertising to write books full time, next taking on the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, 1941, with the same minute-to-minute technique he had used in the previous book. In ''Day of Infamy,'' published in 1957, he painstakingly reconstructed not just the ''why'' and the ''way'' of the attack but also, he said, ''how it happened, how people could have been so unaware of what might happen and so slow to grasp it when it did.''
        His next book was a panoramic view of history, ''The Good Years,'' published in 1960. It covered the ''period of optimism'' in the first 15 years of the century and included events like the San Francisco earthquake, the Wright brothers' flights, Peary's journey to the North Pole, President William McKinley's assassination and the panic of 1907.
        Mr. Lord returned to his pointillist method in 1961 with ''A Time to Stand,'' an account of the two-week siege of the Alamo. It was considered the first detailed telling of the story from the Mexican as well as the American side. The Alamo book was followed in 1963 by ''Peary and the Pole,'' which was praised for its thoroughness.
        ''The Past That Would Not Die''(1968) was about James Meredith, whose integration of the University of Mississippi in 1962 was accompanied by rioting and bloodshed.
        Mr. Lord was also the author of ''Incredible Victory'' (1967), the re-creation of the Battle of Midway; ''The Dawn's Early Light''(1972), concentrating on the Battle of Baltimore in which the British were repulsed in 1814; ''Lonely Vigil'' (1977), a tribute to the Allied coast watchers who spotted Japanese planes and ships in the Solomon Islands in World War II; ''The Miracle of Dunkirk'' (1982), about the evacuation of more than 338,000 British and French troops across the English Channel early in World War II; and ''The Night Lives On,'' a rumination on the Titanic tragedy published in 1986 to mark the 75th anniversary of the sinking the next year.
        In 1994 the Society of American Historians awarded Mr. Lord the Francis Parkman Prize for Special Achievement in recognition of his lifetime dedication to American history.
        He was involved in many civic enterprises in New York, among them service on the boards of the Union Settlement, the New York Society Library, the New-York Historical Society and the Authors Guild.
        Mr. Lord lived on the East Side of Manhattan. He never married and left no immediate survivors.
        In ''A Night to Remember,'' Mr. Lord said, ''I tried to get across the point that wealth, position, rank and the like have very little to do with whether a person is good or bad, quick or slow, brave or perhaps not so brave. We get all that somewhere else.''
      