
        Msgr. George G. Higgins, for decades a major adviser to the nation's Roman Catholic bishops, an outspoken supporter of organized labor and an influential figure in improving ties between Catholics and Jews, died yesterday in LaGrange Park, Ill. He was 86 and lived much of his life in Washington.
        Ordained a priest of the Archdiocese of Chicago in 1940, Monsignor Higgins completed a doctorate in labor economics at the Catholic University of America in 1944, then took a summer job in the social action department of the American Catholic bishops' Washington office.
        The summer job stretched into 36 years on the bishops' conference staff, lobbying for generally liberal legislation in Washington, negotiating in California on behalf of newly unionized farm workers and traveling to Poland to cheer the Solidarity labor movement as it struggled with a Communist government.
        In August 2000, President Bill Clinton awarded Monsignor Higgins the Presidential Medal of Freedom for championing workers' rights, civil rights and religious tolerance.
        At the Catholic Church's Second Vatican Council (1962-65), he was a consultant and spokesman for the American bishops. It was as an intellectual catalyst, however, that he influenced the passage of the council's landmark statements on religious liberty, the church in the modern world and the church's relations with other religions, especially Judaism.
        A 1984 biography of Monsignor Higgins, by Gerald M. Costello, described his role at the council as constantly ''encouraging and goading, convening and presiding, arguing and reconciling.''
        The description fit many of his other endeavors. Unlike religious leaders hailed for dramatic gestures or prophetic eloquence, Monsignor Higgins did much of his important work out of public sight, in small meetings, in judiciously worded speeches and articles, in statements drafted for others or in simply building personal relationships.
        He wrote extensively about Catholic-Jewish relations. But to consolidate the council's gains in that area, he also had a permanent office dealing with Catholic-Jewish relations created in the bishops' national bureaucracy.
        Last June, an international committee sponsored by the Vatican and Jewish groups honored him as one of eight great living pioneers of the Catholic-Jewish dialogue worldwide.
        Having long protested the plight of migrant farm workers, Monsignor Higgins endorsed the nationwide grape boycott led by Cesar Chavez in the 1960 to gain recognition for the United Farm Workers.
        But more significant were hundreds of long negotiating sessions that Monsignor Higgins, as consultant to a bishops' committee, held over four years with farm workers and growers up and down California's San Joaquin Valley.
        His success at those meetings and in arbitrating other disputes was often attributed to his imperturbable temperament, his sense of when to break off talks for a drink and his judgment about what was essential and what could be compromised.
        One point on which Monsignor Higgins never found room for compromise was the basic right of workers to unionize and bargain collectively.
        Although he sometimes accused the labor movement of complacency, corruption or racism, he constantly defended trade unions as indispensable to democracy and social welfare. He also insisted that Catholic institutions -- schools and hospitals in particular -- should welcome unionization and negotiate in good faith with their employees.
        George Gilmary Higgins was born on Jan. 21, 1916, in Chicago and reared in a strongly pro-union family in nearby LaGrange. He is survived by two sisters, Bridget Doonan of La Grange Park, and Ann Maronic of Chicago.
        He described his father, a night foreman at Chicago's central post office, as ''a blue-collar intellectual'' who implanted a love of reading and an appreciation of intellectual give-and-take.
        Monsignor Higgins's flow of ideas filled 56 years of a weekly column, ''The Yardstick,'' that appeared in many Catholic newspapers from 1945 until last year. He published one book, ''Organized Labor and the Church'' (Paulist, 1993), written with William Bole.
        Monsignor Higgins's contacts with labor's higher leadership dated from 1940 when, as a graduate student in labor economics, he was invited to what he expected would be a discussion of labor-management relations at the Washington apartment of Philip Murray, a Catholic who was president of the Congress of Industrial Organizations.
        ''The only formal education I received that evening was an undergraduate course in poker,'' Monsignor Higgins recalled. ''Mrs. Murray ended up with all the chips.''
      