
        James P. McFarland, who led General Mills through a period of robust growth before retiring in 1977, died on Friday at his home in Wayzata, Minn., a suburb of Minneapolis. He was 90.
        Mr. McFarland spent his entire career with General Mills, the Minneapolis food giant, which as recently as the 1960's had been primarily a flour miller and a maker of breakfast foods and cake mixes. He initiated diversification into other consumer markets, like toys, fashion and restaurants, and its business tripled to over $2.6 billion by 1976.
        As chief executive, he was responsible for making General Mills one of the first large manufacturers to pay attention to what consumers thought of its products. At his direction, the company set up a Consumer Response Center in 1973 with orders to answer every inquiry, complaint and compliment from the public.
        Today the company has more than $6 billion a year in sales. Its trademarks range from Adventure Pack yogurt, Betty Crocker and Rice Chex to Total Raisin Bran and Yummie Mummie cereal.
        James McFarland was born in Watertown, S.D. He graduated from Dartmouth College in 1933, received a master's at its Amos Tuck School of Business Administration the next year and joined General Mills.
        He started at the company's mill in Wichita, Kan., working as a grain accountant, and moved into merchandising. He served as a first lieutenant in the Army Air Corps in World War II. By 1952 he was a vice president and general manager of the grocery products division.
        He was elected executive vice president for all General Mills operations in 1964. He became a director in 1963 and president and chief operating officer in 1967. In 1968, he became chief executive; a year later, he was named board chairman.
        He stepped down in 1977 when he reached the mandatory retirement age of 65. But he remained a director and headed its executive committee until 1980.
        Mr. McFarland is survived by a daughter, Jill Wilburn of San Jose, Calif.; a son, Jeffrey, of Hollywood, Calif.; and three grandchildren. His wife of 57 years, Shirley MacGregor McFarland, died in 1996.
      