
        David Wood, a leading soloist with the Martha Graham Dance Company for 15 years and the founder of the dance program at the University of California at Berkeley, died at home in Berkeley on April 21. He was 77 and also lived in New York.
        The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease and muscular dystrophy, said his wife, Marnie Thomas.
        Mr. Wood, who joined the Graham company in 1953, originated many roles in Graham dances, among them the Messenger of Death in ''Clytemnestra'' and the Whip Master in ''Acrobats of God.'' Known for his strong dramatic presence and his high, light jump, Mr. Wood began his long and varied career as a dancer in 1949 with Hanya Holm. He also danced with most of the leading modern dance choreographers of the time, including Alwin Nikolais, José Limón, Doris Humphrey, the Dudley-Maslow-Bales Trio, Charles Weidman and Helen Tamiris.
        Mr. Wood was also an internationally known modern dance teacher, beginning that work with Holm and continuing in the Graham company, where he also served as a rehearsal director. He established the dance program at Berkeley in 1968 and founded the Bay Area Repertory Dance resident company, which performs throughout the United States and in Europe.
        Born in Fresno, Calif., Mr. Wood served in the Navy through World War II. Using the G.I. Bill, he studied acting at the Neighborhood Playhouse in New York, where he developed an interest in dance. He appeared on television as an actor and dancer, in Broadway musicals and with the Metropolitan Opera and New York City Opera. His choreography included dance for the 1988-89 Emmy Award-winning ''Nova'' production ''Superconductivity.'' His book ''On Angels and Devils and Stages Between'' was published in 1999 by Gordon & Breach.
        In addition to Ms. Thomas, his wife, Mr. Wood is survived by three daughters, Marina Marlowe-Wood of San Mateo, Calif.; Raegan Sanders of Montclair, N.J.; and Ellis Wood of New York; two sisters, Phyllis Anne Tidyman of Fresno and Barbara Crockett of Sacramento; and five grandchildren.
      