
        Peter Bauer, a British economist who challenged the utility of giving development aid to poor countries, believing that it often perpetuated their poverty, died on May 2 at his home in London. He was 86.
        The Cato Institute, a conservative research institution in Washington, was scheduled to give him the first Milton Friedman Prize for Advancing Liberty last Thursday, a week after his death. The $500,000 prize has now gone to his estate.
        Lord Bauer, who became a life peer at the instigation of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher in 1982, said he believed that the nature of a country's institutions and the abilities of its people, not an inflow of Western money, determined its economic progress.
        ''Where people's abilities, motivations and social and political institutions are favorable, material progress will occur,'' he wrote in ''Dissent on Development'' (Harvard, 1972). ''Where these basic determinants are unfavorable, development will not occur, even with aid.''
        Indeed, he said, aid can prove counterproductive, since it often serves to provide ''preferential treatment of the incompetent, the improvident and the dishonest'' and tends to promote the ''politicization of economic life,'' encouraging central planning and diverting a country's energy from economic to political ends.
        Lord Bauer, a professor of economics at the London School of Economics and a fellow of his old Cambridge college, Gonville and Caius, was one of three Hungarian-born British economists to win international acclaim.
        But although he was an instinctive conservative and close to Mrs. Thatcher, the other two, Lords Balogh and Kaldor, were socialists, advising successive British Labor governments and being ennobled by them.
        Lord Bauer's true intellectual affinity was with the Austrian economist Friedrich Hayek and the American Milton Friedman, who helped inspire the economic policies introduced by Mrs. Thatcher and Ronald Reagan that emphasized the importance of giving free play to market forces and rejecting the centralized planning and demand management associated with the Keynesian school of economics.
        Peter Thomas Bauer was born in Budapest on Nov. 6, 1915, the son of a bookmaker. When a family friend offered to pay for a British education, he set off for Cambridge University in 1934 with little English, persuading Gonville and Caius College to accept him as an undergraduate. He received a first-class degree in economics in 1937.
        He returned to Hungary to complete his law degree and military service but was back in Britain in 1939, when he got his first experience of economic life in the developing world by joining the firm of Guthrie & Company, a trading company with rubber interests in Malaya.
        Lord Bauer, who never married, began his academic life as a lecturer in agricultural economics at London University in 1947. He started studying the Malayan rubber industry, was impressed by the success of small peasant proprietors and published a book on the subject in 1948.
        He then turned his attention to West African trade, publishing a study in 1954. From 1948 to 1956, he was a lecturer in economics at Cambridge, then Smuts reader in Commonwealth studies there until 1960, when he became a professor at the London School of Economics. He took emeritus status in 1983.
        In his numerous academic writings, Lord Bauer challenged the widely accepted belief that development required extensive government involvement in economic life and large infusions of foreign aid, since so-called developing countries were trapped in a vicious circle of poverty, lacking the income needed to produce savings and investment capital.
        He argued that if these assumptions were true, the Western world would still be living in the Stone Age. Opportunities for private profit, not planning and aid, held the key to economic growth, he said, and the duty of government was merely to ensure individual freedom, safeguard private property and enforce contracts.
        He elaborated on these ideas in publications that included ''Economic Analysis and Policy in Underdeveloped Countries'' (Duke, 1957); ''The Economics of Underdeveloped Countries'' (Nisbet, 1957); ''Markets, Market Control and Market Reform'' (Weidenfeld & Nicholson, 1968); and ''Two Views of Aid to Developing Countries'' (Institute of Economic Affairs, 1966).
        Critics called his views extreme and exaggerated. But over the years Lord Bauer and his allies brought about a shift in the priorities of aid-giving institutions like the World Bank. Financing dams and other large development projects went out of fashion, replaced by a new emphasis on making developing countries more friendly toward private entrepreneurs by helping them foster an educated, healthy work force, provide basic infrastructure and, above all, ensure individual freedom, good governance and the rule of law.
      