
        Buster Brown, one of the last veteran tap stars who danced together as the Copasetics, died on Tuesday at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 88 and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Brown had a long and varied career as a teacher, a choreographer and a dancer on stage and television and in films. In recent years, he was a frequent performer in tap revues, where he danced occasionally but more often was paid informal tribute to by younger stars like Savion Glover, who acknowledged Mr. Brown as a major influence.
        He was a master dancer who was known for the speed of his dancing and up-tempo close polyrhythms. Even more, he was known and loved internationally for his wry, insouciant charm, engaging modesty and an equability that was rare in tap.
        In a typical performance, in a 1989 tap rendezvous at the Village Gate, he not only danced but told a corny joke about a man who imagined he was a light bulb and then did impressions of New York pedestrians of all kinds. Mr. Brown was also friendly with everyone in the often divided world of tap.
        ''There are no mixed reviews when it comes to Buster Brown,'' said Jane Goldberg, a tap star who performed with Mr. Brown and considered him a mentor. ''He had no mean words to say about anyone. And no one had mean words to say about him. He was a role model.''
        Mr. Brown served as a genial master of ceremonies for a weekly Sunday tap jam that began in 1997 at Swing 46, a club on West 46th Street, where everyone from vaudeville-era tap greats to dancing toddlers dropped in to perform. ''Buster just let dancers go, so they developed their own style,'' Ms. Goldberg recalled. ''He didn't criticize. He was always encouraging.'' Tap dancers repaid his kindnesses, she said, by taking care of him and bringing him meals during periods of sickness over the last three years.
        Born James Brown in Baltimore, he began his career dancing with the Three Aces and the Speed Kings, a trio known for its precision and rapid-fire taps, and toured with a show called ''Brown Skin Models'' before going out on his own as a solo dancer. He appeared in the 1943 Hollywood musical ''Something to Shout About.''
        Mr. Brown toured South America with the Cab Calloway Orchestra and was commissioned by the State Department to perform in several African countries. In Ethiopia, he gave a command performance for Haile Selassie and was awarded the Medal of Honor, the Lion of Judea Coin. Mr. Brown also toured as a soloist with the bands of Count Basie, Dizzy Gillespie, Duke Ellington and Jimmy Lunceford and was a featured dancer in Ellington's sacred concerts in the 1960's.
        On Broadway, he performed in the original casts of the musicals ''Bubbling Brown Sugar'' and ''Black and Blue.''
        He danced in the films ''Tap'' and ''The Cotton Club'' and on two PBS specials, ''Dance in America's Tap'' and ''Gershwin Gala.'' He taught master classes throughout Europe and the United States and conducted workshops at American tap dance festivals.
        This year, Mr. Brown received an honorary doctorate from Oklahoma City University, appearing in a program that honored tap greats.
      