
        J. Royden Stork, a flier in the Doolittle raid over Japan that thrilled an American home front reeling from the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, died on May 2 in Los Angeles, where he lived. He was 85.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Kay.
        On April 18, 1942, crewmen in 16 Army Air Forces bombers commanded by Lt. Col. James H. Doolittle flew from the aircraft carrier Hornet to carry the war to Japan for the first time.
        The low-level, daylight bombing runs by the twin-engine B-25's resulted in relatively light damage to military and industrial targets. But in providing a morale boost at a time of unbridled Japanese conquests, they produced some of the first American heroes of World War II. Colonel Doolittle received the Medal of Honor from President Franklin D. Roosevelt a month later. Americans vicariously experienced the raid's perils in the book and movie ''Thirty Seconds Over Tokyo,'' an account by Ted W. Lawson, one of the pilots.
        But it had been far from certain that Colonel Doolittle's bombers, designed for takeoff from land bases, could make it safely off the Hornet's deck, let alone penetrate Japanese air defenses.
        ''We were No. 10 to take off, and Doolittle started down the runway, and the next thing I knew he had popped right up in the air,'' Mr. Stork recalled last year in the National Geographic television program ''Pearl Harbor: Legacy of Attack.''
        He added, ''We were all holding our breath and, believe me, doing a Hail Mary, because if he did it, we knew damn well we could do it.''
        That 10th plane, piloted by Lt. Richard O. Joyce with Lieutenant Stork as co-pilot, bombed a steel works and factory complex in Tokyo while encountering Japanese fighters and antiaircraft fire that damaged the rear portion of its fuselage and a wing tip.
        The 16 bombers and their 80 airmen were to land in China because the Hornet's decks were too short to accommodate their return. But the planes were buffeted by a storm and ran low on fuel, forcing crash-landings or bailouts beyond the landing strips that killed three airmen.
        All five crewmen in Lieutenant Stork's plane parachuted safely.
        In an interview with The Los Angeles Times soon after the raid, Lieutenant Stork recalling bailing out with candy bars and cigarettes stuffed into his pockets.
        ''Those bars were flung in every direction, my parachute gave such a flip,'' he said. ''It was pouring rain, and in no time my chute was soaked with water, and I was falling very fast. I must have been knocked unconscious as I don't remember anything until I found myself lying against a tree. I lay in the rain until morning before starting out.''
        With the help of a Chinese official, Lieutenant Stork made it to a rendezvous point four days later. But eight crewmen from other planes were captured by Japanese forces in China. Three were executed, and another died of malnutrition.
        Mr. Stork, a native of Frost, Minn., later flew in the China-Burma-India theater and was discharged from the military as a captain in 1946. He worked for many years as a makeup artist for Hollywood motion pictures and television productions.
        His wife is his only known immediate survivor.
        ''I just consider myself as a lucky guy,'' Mr. Stork said in the National Geographic program. ''There were plenty of fellows I graduated with from flying school that ended up in the major league in England where they'd send out 100 B-17's and they'd get only 30 back. I'm not a hero.''
      