
        Dr. Charles M. Rick, whose encyclopedic knowledge of the evolution and genetics of the tomato enabled him and other botanists to produce healthier and tastier tomatoes through crossbreeding, died on May 5 in Davis, Calif., where he was a professor emeritus at the University of California. He was 87.
        Dr. Rick specialized in cytogenetics, which examines the behavior of chromosomes and genes in cells. He collected the seeds of hundreds of wild tomato species with vast genetic variations, which domestic tomatoes lack. In doing so, he contributed greatly to plant genetics, evolution, genome mapping and archiving the seeds of tomatoes and related plant species.
        His early efforts helped form the basis for molecular maps that have made the tomato genome one of the best known in the plant world. He provided a model for other scientists seeking to modify plants for commercial use.
        Dr. Rick contributed greatly to the field of plant evolution, and he advanced the understanding of the relationship between the geographic distribution of plant species and their ability to crossbreed.
        He was a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the American Academy for the Advancement of Science.
        Charles Madeira Rick Jr. was born in Reading, Pa., and grew up working in orchards. He graduated from Pennsylvania State University with a degree in horticulture in 1937 and received a doctorate in genetics at Harvard in 1940.
        He joined the faculty at the University of California at Davis the same year and soon began his effort to map the tomato's entire collection of genes. He was a founder of the Tomato Genetics Cooperative, an information exchange for researchers, and published its reports from 1951 until 1981.
        He established the Tomato Genetics Research Center at Davis and was its curator. The center, which now bears Dr. Rick's name, says it has the largest collection of tomato seeds in the world.
        He formally retired in 1985 but remained active until failing health began to hinder his field and laboratory work about two years ago.
        Dr. Rick is survived by a daughter, Susan R. Baldi, of Santa Rosa, Calif.; a son, John, of Menlo Park, Calif.; three grandchildren; and a great-grandson. His wife, Martha Overholts Rick, died in 1983.
      