
        Edward M. Carey, an oil industry executive who helped finance the political ambitions of his younger brother Hugh L. Carey, the former governor of New York, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 85.
        After founding the Peerless Oil and Chemical Company with his father in the late 1930's, Edward Carey started the New England Petroleum Corporation in the early 1940's. It became one of the nation's biggest privately owned petroleum refining and marketing companies.
        The company specialized in supplying petroleum products to East Coast electrical utilities, but also had interests in shipping as well as in oil exploration and production in North Africa, the Persian Gulf and the North Sea.
        New England Petroleum's success enabled Mr. Carey to become a big financial contributor to his brother's gubernatorial campaign, after Hugh Carey decided to end a 14-year career as a United States representative from Brooklyn and run for governor of New York. He served two terms, from 1975 to 1982, and now lives in Manhattan.
        In 1968, Edward Carey joined forces with Standard Oil of California to establish the Bahamas Oil Refining Company, which built and operated a $60 million refinery in the Bahamas. The refinery processed low-sulfur oil from Standard Oil's Libyan concession. New England Petroleum then sold this oil mainly to utilities in the Northeast, which were under pressure from the environmental lobby to reduce pollution by burning cleaner fuels.
        However, the Bahamas venture, which was largely financed by Standard Oil, got into difficulties after the oil-price explosion of 1973, when Libya also nationalized its foreign-held oil concessions.
        The result was a falloff in oil supplies to the refinery, as Standard Oil contested the Libyan move and a series of disputes between Mr. Carey and the giant oil company were further aggravated by the complex regulations the United States put in force to deal with the effects of rising worldwide oil prices.
        In a significant earlier offshore move, Mr. Carey founded the Commonwealth Oil Refining Company in Puerto Rico in 1953 under the so-called Operation Bootstrap development program for the island. The company ran a refinery and petrochemical plant at Ponce.
        Despite predictions his business would fail as a result of the difficulties in the Bahamas, and accusations that he had used his brother's political influence in Washington to obtain favorable treatment for his companies, Mr. Carey struggled on until 1979, when he sold his remaining oil businesses to the Charter Company of Jacksonville, Fla.
        Edward Michael Carey was born Oct. 12, 1916, in Brooklyn. He was a graduate of Saint Augustine's High School and attended Manhattan College and Saint John's University. In 1941 he married the former Elizabeth Ann Sullivan, who died in 2000.
        He is survived by his son, Edward C. Carey of Point Lookout, N.Y., and his daughters, Diane Cunningham of Point Lookout, and Jane Haswell of Apex, N.C.
      