
        Ida Milgrom, a teacher, economist and musician who helped to lead an international campaign to free her son, the Soviet dissident Anatoly B. Shcharansky, from prison, died on Wednesday in Jerusalem. She was 94.
        Her son, now called Natan Sharansky and a deputy prime minister of Israel, spent nine years behind bars and was released in 1986.
        Small and frail, Ms. Milgrom braved the Soviet secret police to fight for her son's release after he was arrested in 1977 on charges of espionage and treason for his outspoken efforts on behalf of Soviet Jews and human rights advocates.
        While Mr. Sharansky's wife, Avital, campaigned from abroad for his release, Ms. Milgrom and an older son, Leonid, struggled from within the Soviet Union to maintain contact with Mr. Sharansky and with foreign supporters.
        Ms. Milgrom visited her son in prisons and labor camps, complained when she was barred from seeing him, harassed Soviet authorities to improve his living conditions, sat through vigils on his behalf and reported to the world about his hunger strikes and what she described as the often frightful way he was being treated.
        On her return from the visits, Ms. Milgrom would telephone a Western reporter directly from the train station, demanding a meeting to describe what she had learned before going home to rest.
        Mr. Sharansky was finally released in 1986 as part of a prisoner exchange between East and West and crossed from East Berlin into West Berlin and freedom.
        He arrived in Israel shortly thereafter.
        Later that year, Ms. Milgrom was allowed to join her son and his family in Israel.
        She remained virtually by her son's side as he took the Hebrew name Natan Sharansky, became the head of a new-immigrants party, Yisrael Ba-Aliya, wrote and published his memoirs, rose in Israeli politics to become minister of trade and industry and returned for a visit to Russia in 1997.
        Ida Petrovna Milgrom was born in Balta, Ukraine, in 1908.
        As a promising pianist, she attended the Moscow Tchaikovsky Conservatory for a time.
        Explaining why she left, she said she was walking past an open rehearsal room and was struck by the extraordinary music coming from there. The other student, she learned later, was Vladimir Horowitz, and she decided that the piano was not for her.
        At the Odessa Polytechnic Institute, she was trained as an engineer-economist.
        She married Boris Shcharansky, a journalist from a Zionist background who worked for an industrial journal.
        After World War II, the couple -- acknowledged but not religious Jews -- moved to the Donets Basin region, where their two sons were born.
        Boris Shcharansky died in 1980. Besides her sons, Ms. Milgrom is survived by four grandchildren.
      