
        Antoine Riboud, the banker's son who built one of the biggest food groups in Europe and exercised a far-reaching and often paternalistic influence over its global empire, died at his Paris home early Sunday. He was 83.
        Mr. Riboud, who built the Danone group over several decades before handing the reins to his youngest son, Franck, in 1996, was a man of extremes. He engineered the first hostile takeover in France, in 1968, and bought and sold businesses the way chess players move pawns. Yet he made passionate appeals, often to the chagrin of other French capitalists, to allow social concerns alongside the profit motive in French business. When the Berlin Wall fell in 1989, Mr. Riboud, a music lover, mobilized his private plane to carry the cellist Mstislav Rostropovich, a friend, to perform in Berlin.
        Mr. Riboud went through several businesses in his lifetime, beginning with glass and packaging, then successfully moving to food products. He was a consummate salesman who always had a company candy bar in a side pocket to offer visitors. He had an instinctive appreciation for the value of a brand, and saw the Danone brand -- Dannon in the United States -- climb in recognition to rank second in Europe to Coca Cola.
        His critics, though they were not many, chided his paternalism in standing up for the rights of employees as well as shareholders. Moreover, he was bitterly attacked in 1996 when -- even though his family controlled only 1 percent of Danone shares -- he named his son to run the business on his retirement at age 77.
        But his force of personality and persuasive power persuaded Danone's main shareholders, including the Agnellis of Italy and the investment bank Lazard, to back him, and the decision was accepted.
        To his admirers, he was one of a generation of unconventional French captains of industry who moved along untrodden paths to bring France out of economic isolation and onto the world stage. Today Danone is a food giant, with global activities and 14 billion euros in annual revenue, ranking with Nestlé of Switzerland and the English-Dutch conglomerate Unilever among the world's biggest food companies.
        Born the fifth of seven children of a banker in Lyon on Dec. 24, 1918, Mr. Riboud was sent by his father during World War II to work at a family-owned glass company, Souchon-Neuvesel, where within seven years he worked his way up to be president. In 1966, Mr. Riboud, recognizing the demand for glass in the building and automobile boom of postwar France, persuaded the shareholders of a plate-glass manufacturer, Boussois, to merge with his company, forming a new glass-making group, Boussois-Souchon-Neuvesel, or BSN.
        In December 1968, Mr. Riboud did the unthinkable, making a hostile bid with the backing of the powerful Lazard banking house for the prestigious French glassmaker Saint-Gobain. After a bitter but unsuccessful battle, Mr. Riboud was forced to back off, but the audacity of the assault increased his notoriety.
        By the 1970's, Mr. Riboud began moving away from glass products, like bottles, into products that filled them. In 1972, BSN acquired the food businesses of the Evian bottled water company, then in quick succession the breweries Kronenbourg and Kanterbrau. That same year, he merged with Gervais-Danone, a pioneer in the mass production of yogurt; it had been founded before World War II by a Frenchman, Daniel Carasso.
        During the war, Mr. Carasso had fled to the United States, where he made and sold yogurt under the anglicized Dannon name. The business was later bought by the Beatrice Foods Company, which sold Dannon to Mr. Riboud in 1981, thus returning it to the French fold.
        After the second oil shock, in 1979, Mr. Riboud determined to move his activities completely out of glass and to focus on food products. After snapping up smaller French companies making everything from mineral water to cookies, in 1989 he took a decisive step out of France, acquiring the European activities of Nabisco.
        In the midst of this activity, Mr. Riboud became an outspoken proponent of a balance between profit and social responsibility. In 1972, he angered the French corporate elite when he championed his view in a widely publicized speech to the French employers association. In 1981, when a leftist government was voted into office, he became an occasional adviser to the new prime minister, Pierre Bérégovoy.
        By the early 1990's, however, when the company was still called BSN, Mr. Riboud realized his industrial strategy needed tuning. Recession enveloped Europe, and revenue and profit began contracting, beginning a slide that was not arrested until 1996. But in 1994, Mr. Riboud decided to change the company name to Danone, capitalizing on the fact that every day some 37 million containers of Danone, or Dannon, yogurt were consumed around the world. Two years later, Mr. Riboud again surprised the business world, announcing that he would step down and nominating Franck, then 40, to succeed him.
        Mr. Riboud is also survived by his wife, Lucette; two other sons, Patrice and Gilles; and a daughter, Christine Mital.
      