
        Paul Szasz, a longtime United Nations expert on international law who helped draft Constitutions for the new states of Namibia, in southwest Africa, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was carved out of the former Yugoslav Federation, died April 30 at his home in Germantown, N.Y. He was 72.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Frances.
        Mr. Szasz worked on both Constitutions after he had retired from regular United Nations service in 1989. That year he was sent out to Namibia as legal adviser to the United Nations Transition Assistance Group, which was arranging for the territory's independence from South Africa.
        His principal responsibility was to draw up a Constitution for the new country, which became an independent nation on March 21, 1990.
        From 1992 to 1995, Mr. Szasz was legal adviser to the two international mediators in the Yugoslav civil war, former Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance of the United States and Lord Owen of Britain, representing the European Union. It was in this capacity that he helped draft a Constitution for the new state of Bosnia and Herzegovina as it emerged from that conflict.
        Paul Charles Szasz was born June 12, 1929, in Vienna, Austria. In 1938 the family moved to Hungary, and in 1941 to the United States. He received degrees in engineering and law from Cornell University in 1952 and 1956.
        From 1958 until 1966 he was a legal officer with the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna, where he helped design the agency's safeguards system, aimed at preventing the misuse of civilian nuclear materials for military ends.
        Mr. Szasz then worked in the legal department of the World Bank in Washington from 1966 to 1971, becoming secretary to the newly established International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes; he drew up rules governing its arbitration and reconciliation procedures.
        In 1971 Mr. Szasz joined the United Nations legal department in New York, helping establish the International Fund for Agricultural Development and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization. He retired in 1989 as deputy to the United Nations legal counsel.
        He taught law at Pace University, the University of California at Berkeley, the University of Georgia and New York University. Since 1990 Mr. Szasz had been advising the World Health Organization on the formulation of a Framework Convention on Tobacco Control.
        Mr. Szasz is survived by his wife, Frances, whom he married in 1969; two stepdaughters, Catherine H. Dibble of College Park, Md., and Ree Brennin of Salinas, Calif.; and his sister, Veronica Roeser of Fairfax, Calif.
      