
        Mamo Wolde, who became a hero in Ethiopia when he won the marathon at the 1968 Mexico City Olympics, but who spent most of the past nine years in prison, died Sunday at his home in Addis Ababa. Wolde was unsure of his age, but was believed to be 70 or 71.
        He had a variety of ailments, including bronchitis and liver problems, Reuters reported.
        Wolde was jailed on charges he murdered a boy in the late 1970's while an army officer during a time of widespread killings and atrocities.
        Thousands turned out for his funeral yesterday. Leading Ethiopian athletes, including the 10,000-meter star Haile Gebrselassie, formed a guard of honor, dressed in green, yellow and red Olympic uniforms.
        After spending most of the past decade in prison -- all the while proclaiming his innocence -- Wolde was convicted last January of taking part in the killing of a 15-year-old during the regime of the dictator Mengistu Haile Mariam. He was sentenced to six years in jail but released because of the time he had already served. He returned to his wife and three children.
        Wolde had been among thousands imprisoned in the early 1990's after the takeover by a coalition government headed by the Ethiopian Peoples' Revolutionary Democratic Front. Its rise to power was preceded by a 17-year struggle for supremacy spawned by the overthrow of Emperor Haile Selassie in 1974.
        According to Amnesty International, tens of thousands were killed during the Ethiopian civil war.
        In 1999, the chief government prosecutor said in an interview that Wolde ''led an armed unit that picked up counterrevolutionaries when ordered to by the government, and executed them.''
        At that time, interviewed in prison, Wolde said, ''All I know is that I am accused of torturing and killing people and that I am innocent.''
        Mamo Wolde -- his given name was Degaga -- was born in a village 40 miles south of Addis Ababa, the capital. Both his father, a farmer, and his mother died when he was a youngster.
        He joined the army, was a member of Selassie's palace guard and took part in government-sponsored athletic events, hoping to emulate his countryman Abebe Bikila, who won gold in the 1960 and 1964 Olympic marathons and became his training partner at an air force base.
        ''Abebe Bikila made me want to run,'' Wolde once said. ''He was my guiding light.''
        Wolde first competed in the Olympics in Melbourne, Australia, in 1956, in the 800 and the 1,500 meters, but finished last in the heats. He ran in the 10,000 meters and in the marathon at the 1964 Tokyo Games without winning a medal.
        But he achieved adulation in his homeland when he won the marathon at the 1968 Olympics, the high altitude at Mexico City providing an edge to East Africans who had long trained on hilly terrain.
        Wolde, long overshadowed by Bikila, raced against him once more, but this time Bikila, having apparently injured a leg a few days before, stopped to walk early in the race. Wolde, then a sergeant in the Ethiopian army, drew away over the final six miles of city streets. Cheered on by two million spectators, he won by almost a mile in 2 hours 20 minutes 26.4 seconds on a late October day with temperatures in the 80's and the humidity high.
        He made a victory circuit of Olympic Stadium before the second-place runner, Kenji Kimihara of Japan, crossed the finish line. Wolde was the second Ethiopian, after Bikila, to win Olympic gold.
        Wolde finished second in the 10,000 meters at Mexico City. He took the bronze medal in the marathon at the Munich Olympics in 1972.
        In his victory in Mexico City, Wolde had been gracious toward Bikila. ''He was not well,'' Wolde said. ''If he was well, I could not have beaten him.''
        Upon his release from an Ethiopian prison last winter, Wolde was also magnanimous. ''Thank God, I am free at last,'' Reuters quoted him as saying. ''I bear no malice towards anyone.''
        Wolde was buried yesterday at St. Joseph's Cemetery in Addis Ababa, next to Bikila, his idol, who died in 1973.
      