
        Harry L. Sears, a lawyer and New Jersey Republican legislative leader who delivered a briefcase holding $200,000 in $50 and $100 bills from the financier Robert Vesco to President Richard M. Nixon's re-election campaign in 1972, died on Friday in Denville, N.J. He was 82 and lived in Mount Arlington, N.J.
        The cause was not given, but Dennis Conners, his son-in-law, said Mr. Sears had been ill for a short time.
        Mr. Sears was majority leader of the New Jersey Senate from 1970 to 1971 and helped pass legislation creating the Meadowlands sports complex and a state lottery. When he resigned from the Senate in 1971, a special committee was formed to investigate why men with Mr. Sears's ability and integrity were leaving the Legislature.
        The Associated Press said then that his name ''would undoubtedly be included on almost everybody's list of the 10 most decent men in New Jersey politics.''
        Two years later, Mr. Sears was indicted on charges of being part of a scheme to help Mr. Vesco -- a law client of Mr. Sears's -- buy his way out of an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
        Mr. Vesco was also indicted, as were two former Nixon cabinet officers, John N. Mitchell, the attorney general, and Maurice H. Stans, the secretary of commerce.
        Mr. Mitchell and Mr. Stans were acquitted. Mr. Vesco fled to a succession of countries, and was convicted of fraud by a Cuban court in 1996 and sentenced to 13 years in jail. Cuba has refused to extradite him to face the American charges.
        Mr. Sears was granted full immunity in return for testifying for the prosecution, but he did not help the prosecutors as much as they had hoped. At one point, prosecutors tried without success to have him declared a hostile witness, so they could cross-examine him rather than just examine him.
        Harry Lloyd Sears Jr. was born on Jan. 16, 1920, in Butler, N.J. He graduated from Tusculum College in Greeneville, Tenn., and Rutgers University Law School. He was elected to the General Assembly in 1961 and was re-elected every two years until he ran successfully for the Senate in 1967.
        News reports at the time suggested that his surprise resignation from the Senate came partly because he stood no immediate chance of becoming governor. Gov. William T. Cahill, also a Republican, was virtually certain to seek re-election. Mr. Sears had lost to Mr. Cahill in the gubernatorial primary in 1969.
        An imposing 6 foot 5, he continued to be active in party politics, becoming President Nixon's campaign manager in New Jersey in 1972.
        After the Vesco affair, Mr. Sears was suspended from practicing law for three years, and then resumed a private practice, specializing in land use and real estate law, until his retirement in 1992.
        He is survived by his wife of 55 years, Emma; a sister, Betty Manning of North Babylon, N.Y.; four daughters, Mary Ann Laroche of Mount Arlington, Barbara Conners of Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, Judy Schmidt of Rockaway Township, N.J., and Dona Kokora of Honolulu; a son, Ralph, of Baltimore; 13 grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      