
        Michael Bryant, a quietly virtuosic character actor who was a mainstay of the National Theater in England for the last 25 years, died on April 25 at his home in Richmond, Surrey. He was 74.
        With diligence and modesty, Mr. Bryant played characters of the widest range, in plays by Shakespeare, Chekhov and Tom Stoppard, from the sweet-tempered Badger in Alan Bennett's adaptation of ''The Wind in the Willows'' to the steely title role in Ibsen's ''Brand.'' He was one of a small group of English actors who elevated whatever production they happened to be in.
        Although he often played leading roles like Prospero and Uncle Vanya, he made an equally deep impression in roles that in other hands might be regarded as supporting -- as Enobarbus in ''Antony and Cleopatra'' and the Duke of York to Fiona Shaw's Richard II.
        When he played Polonius to Daniel Day-Lewis's Hamlet (in 1989), he stunned audiences with a pause. Giving instructions to an aide, he suddenly stopped speaking and searched his mind for his place in the play. After a long wait, he said, ''Where did I leave?'' The actor playing opposite him reminded him, and Mr. Bryant continued the dialogue.
        He had waited so long that the audience wondered if it was Polonius or Mr. Bryant who had forgotten his lines. Actually, Mr. Bryant was word perfect in his Shakespeare. As an actress said later, in admiration, ''Michael does that every night,'' and, in so doing, he added a new dimension to Polonius. No longer was he a fussbudget. In Mr. Bryant's interpretation, he was an immensely caring and distressed parent.
        Onstage, Mr. Bryant was swept away to a mysterious plane where theater was indistinguishable from life. As a result, he gave performances of intense identification. As Mr. Bennett recalled, when Mr. Bryant was rehearsing in ''The Wind in the Willows,'' he avoided classes in movement intended to show actors how to mimic animals. Instead he watched several videos depicting badgers in motion. The next day, he said he had studied the videos and discovered that badgers ''move exactly like Michael Bryant.'' In performance, the symbiosis was complete. Mr. Bryant became Badger.
        He was born in London and attended the Webber Douglas Academy of Dramatic Art. In London in 1958, he played the tutor in Peter Shaffer's ''Five Finger Exercise.'' When that play came to Broadway, Kenneth Tynan said that Mr. Bryant gave a performance of ''the most audacious subtlety.'' That was to remain the hallmark of his performances.
        Although he occasionally acted on television and in films, he was dedicated to the stage. At the National, he worked under the artistic direction of Peter Hall, Richard Eyre and Trevor Nunn. In 1996 he became an associate director there.
        In contrast to many of his peers, he avoided the spotlight, preferring a quiet home life. He is survived by his wife Judith Coke and four children from his first marriage.
        He did almost all his acting in London, but became a favorite with Americans who visited the National to see what Mr. Bryant was up to. In one season he was the misguided idealist Gregers Werle in ''The Wild Duck,'' an obsessive but mischievous Iago to Paul Scofield's Othello and an amusingly inept picnicker in Alan Ayckbourn's ''Sisterly Feelings.''
        Once, an American admirer noticed that in a ladies' room at the National, someone had written ''Michael Bryant Forever,'' words that should last as long as the memory of his performances.
        Fittingly, his last appearance at the National (in 2000) was as Firs in ''The Cherry Orchard,'' the aged servant who prefers to remain in the house deserted by the family. ''They've gone,'' he says. ''They've forgotten me.'' In character -- as always -- Mr. Bryant lay down on the floor. In the distance was the sound of axes chopping down the trees, symbolically ending an era.
      