
        Joseph Lowenbach Steiner, a co-founder of the company that made toys like the Bubble Rocket and the Easy-Bake Oven, died on Saturday at a hospital in a suburb of Cincinnati. He was 95.
        Mr. Steiner was born in Baltimore and was raised in Cincinnati. He obtained a bachelor's degree in economics at Harvard. After a brief stint in the office of budget at the State Department, Mr. Steiner returned to Cincinnati in the early 1940's to work in a business with his brothers.
        In 1946, Mr. Steiner, with his brothers, Philip and Albert, and a nephew, Robert, founded Kenner Products in Cincinnati as a soap, flavoring and extract business.
        The founders' research into bubbles led to their first toy, the Bubble Matic, a gun that shoots streams of soap bubbles. The toy led to the development of the Bubble Rocket, which sold over a million units in the company's second year.
        ''Homegrown talent and homegrown ideas accounted for much of the company's success,'' a nephew, Corky Steiner, said.
        Joseph Steiner took charge of the company's sales and marketing. He had traveled extensively throughout the country, promoting and selling Kenner toys. He also made trips to Europe, where he sought to license European products as well as to license Kenner's products to European toy manufacturers.
        During a trip to England, Mr. Steiner met Denys Fischer, who invented a toy that used circular templates and color pens to create intricate designs. Mr. Steiner talked his brothers and nephew into licensing the Spirograph and the company introduced it in 1967. The toy became one of the best sellers in Kenner's history.
        Throughout the 1960's, Kenner created toy versions of adult activities like the Easy-Bake Oven and the Close'n Play phonograph.
        The company was acquired by General Mills in 1967. Mr. Steiner and his two brothers retired in 1971 by agreement with General Mills. Robert Steiner remained with the company as president, retiring a year later. Kenner was a division of General Mills until it was spun off in 1985.
        Mr. Steiner is survived by a son, John Albert Steiner of Boulder, Colo.; two grandchildren, Elizabeth and Michael; and three nephews, Corky Steiner of Cincinnati, Robert L. Steiner of Washington, and Rick Steiner of Cincinnati.
      