
        Livingston L. Biddle Jr., a descendant of the storied Philadelphia family who wrote the legislation that led to the creation of the National Council on the Arts and the National Endowment for the Arts and was chairman of the endowment from 1977 to 1981, died today at a hospital here. He was 83 and lived in Washington.
        Mr. Biddle's daughter, Cordelia, said her father had heart problems and had been in failing health.
        Mr. Biddle drafted the arts legislation from 1963 to 1965, while working for Senator Claiborne Pell, the Rhode Island Democrat who was his prep school and college chum and longtime friend. In 1966 and 1967, Mr. Biddle was deputy to the first chairman of the endowment, Roger L. Stevens. From 1968 to 1970, he was a professor and the chairman of the arts division at Fordham University in New York City and in 1971 and 1972 he was chairman of the Pennsylvania Ballet Company.
        Mr. Biddle worked for Senator Pell again in 1973 and 1974. In 1975, he was Congressional liaison director for the endowment and in 1976 was director of a Senate subcommittee on education, arts and humanities.
        President Jimmy Carter named him chairman of the endowment in 1977. At the end of his four-year term, Mr. Biddle managed to save much of the endowment's financing from the budget cuts advocated by President Ronald Reagan.
        Mr. Biddle was born on May 26, 1918, in Bryn Mawr, Pa. His ancestors and relatives included William Biddle, a friend of William Penn; Nicholas Biddle, founder of the Second Bank of the United States; and Francis Biddle, attorney general under President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
        Family banking money enabled Mr. Biddle's father to spend much of his time writing poetry, hunting grouse and touring on his yacht, reputed to be the largest in the world.
        Mr. Biddle graduated from Princeton in 1940 and was briefly a reporter at The Philadelphia Bulletin. His poor eyesight kept him out of the military, and he became an ambulance driver for the American Field Service, serving in Africa.
        ''If I hadn't, I would've been a stuffy old Philadelphian,'' he said in 1988 in an interview with The Washington Post.
        Mr. Biddle was decidedly unstuffy in appearance, sometimes fastening rubber bands to his eyeglasses to keep them in place and sporting long sideburns and a mustache. He also poked fun at his social pedigree.
        ''Some Biddles wouldn't think of marrying anyone but another Biddle,'' he said in 1978 in an interview with The Los Angeles Times.
        Mr. Biddle wrote four novels, all set in the Main Line Philadelphia suburbs. They were ''Main Line,'' ''Debut,'' ''The Village Beyond'' and ''Sam Bentley's Island.'' He also wrote a nonfiction book, ''Our Government and the Arts'' (American Council for the Arts, 1988).
        Mr. Biddle's first wife, the former Cordelia Fenton, died in 1972. Surviving are his second wife, the former Catharina Baart, a painter; his daughter and a son, Livingston IV, from his first marriage, both of Philadelphia, and five grandchildren.
      