
        Otis Blackwell, who wrote ''All Shook Up,'' ''Don't Be Cruel,'' ''Great Balls of Fire,'' ''Fever'' and more than 1,000 other songs, and had a major part in shaping the sound of rock 'n' roll, died on Monday in a hospital in Nashville, where he lived. He was 70.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Sawnie R. Aldredge, an attorney in Nashville who has been handling Mr. Blackwell's affairs since he had a debilitating stroke in 1991.
        His songs joined the sentimentality of pop, the twang of country music and the propulsive rhythm of the blues, and his lyrics, even at their hottest, could be playful. As he wrote in ''Great Balls of Fire'':
        You shake my nerves and you rattle my brain
        Too much love drives a man insane
        You broke my will, but what a thrill
        Goodness gracious, great balls of fire!
        Mr. Blackwell was born in Brooklyn in 1931 and from an early age crossed a cultural color line. At home, his family gathered around the piano to sing gospel songs, but while working at a nearby movie theater he became obsessed with the singing cowboy movies of Tex Ritter.
        ''Like the blues, it told a story,'' he once said of country music. ''But it didn't have the same restrictive construction. A cowboy song could do anything.''
        He began his career singing in blues clubs, and in 1952 signed to RCA Victor with the help of the music publisher Joe Davis; the next year he switched to Davis's Jay-Dee label and released a hit, ''Daddy Rollin' Stone.''
        Davis paid him $25 a week, and to augment this allowance Mr. Blackwell began writing songs for other singers. Soon his songwriting career eclipsed his performing.
        One of the first songs he sold, ''Don't Be Cruel,'' turned out to be a major hit and a pop milestone. It was recorded on July 2, 1956, by a young Elvis Presley, and released less than two weeks later on a double-sided single with Jerry Leiber and Mike Stoller's ''Hound Dog.'' The single was No. 1 on the pop charts for 11 weeks -- and simultaneously stood atop the country and R&B charts for a time -- and went on to sell more than 3 million copies.
        It was a breakthrough for both Mr. Blackwell and Presley. ''Otis wrote in a style that came to define a new synthesis that Elvis was groping for,'' said Peter Guralnick, the author of a two-volume biography of Presley. ''From the first moment Elvis heard 'Don't Be Cruel,' he just snapped on it. It was a perfect song for him.'' Mr. Blackwell went on to write many more hits for Presley, like ''Return to Sender,'' though the two never met.
        Mr. Blackwell's songwriting legacy is complex because he sometimes used pseudonyms and split authorship credit with others. Many of the songs he wrote for Presley gave both men songwriting credit, because of an arrangement with Presley's management. ''I was told that I would have to make a deal,'' Mr. Blackwell later said. But with million-selling songs, he prospered.
        He also collaborated with other songwriters. ''Fever'' was written with Eddie Cooley and was co-credited to one John Davenport (a pen name used by Mr. Blackwell because at the time he was still under contract with Jay-Dee). ''Return to Sender'' was written with Winfield Scott and ''Great Balls of Fire'' with Jack Hammer.
        ''Great Balls of Fire'' was another blockbuster for Mr. Blackwell. He wrote the song for a 1957 teen film, ''Jamboree,'' and in Jerry Lee Lewis's piano-pounding performance the song, which was co-credited to Jack Hammer, became a No. 2 hit and sold five million copies. Mr. Lewis also sang Mr. Blackwell's ''Breathless,'' ''Livin' Lovin' Wreck'' and ''Let's Talk About Us.''
        Mr. Blackwell continued to write hits into the 1960's, among them ''Hey Little Girl,'' a hit for Dee Clark in 1959 that was written with Bobby Stevenson; and ''Handy Man,'' which was recorded by Jimmy Jones in 1960, Del Shannon in 1964 and James Taylor in 1977. (''Handy Man'' was also credited to Mr. Jones and Charles Merenstein.) But as the rock 'n' roll era became focused on groups that wrote their own material, his influence faded.
        In the late 1970's Blackwell recorded an album of his own hits and began to tour. He recorded in Nashville frequently and in 1990 moved there. A stroke the following year left him nearly unable to move; he communicated via computer.
        He is survived by his wife, Mamie Wiggins Blackwell of Nashville, and seven children: Otis Jr. and Leslie, of Nashville; Odette, of Manhattan; and Kimberly Scott, Michael Scott, Timothy and Ellen, all of Las Vegas.
        Though Mr. Blackwell had to split his songwriting royalties with Presley, he still collected his share, which was a great deal of money. And Mr. Blackwell, known as a bon vivant, spent it gladly.
        He once said, ''I wrote my songs, I got my money and I boogied.''
      