
        Dan Devine, a head football coach for 22 years at three colleges and for four tumultuous years with the Green Bay Packers, died yesterday at his home in Phoenix. He was 77.
        The cause was complications from heart surgery 15 months ago, his family said. He underwent quintuple bypass surgery and, while still in the hospital, developed an aneurysm in the aorta.
        Devine was head coach for three years (1955-57) at Arizona State and 13 years (1958-70) with Missouri, head coach and general manager (1971-74) with the Packers, then head coach for six years (1975-80) at Notre Dame.
        His college career record was 172-57-9, his teams won 7 of their 10 bowl games and his 1977 Notre Dame team won the unofficial national championship. In 1985, the first year he was eligible, he was elected to the National Football Foundation's College Football Hall of Fame.
        Yet for all that, he often had his share of critics. With the Packers, despite a division championship in his second season, he could not overcome the legend of Vince Lombardi, his once-removed predecessor. In his final season, some of his players were so disheartened they tried to organize a boycott of the last game. That team finished with a 6-8 record.
        At Notre Dame, he was frequently compared unfavorably to his immediate predecessor, Ara Parseghian.
        As The Washington Post said in 1980: ''Parseghian was emotional and easy to identify with. Devine is low-key and distant. Parseghian was colorful and glib. Devine is colorless and often fumbles for words.''
        Devine developed such standout college players as Johnny Roland and Roger Wehrli at Missouri and Joe Montana, Bob Golic and Ross Browner at Notre Dame. His assistant coaches included Roland, Bart Starr, Frank Kush, Vince Tobin and Perry Moss, all of whom became highly successful.
        When Devine became Arizona State's head coach at age 30, the university told him it wanted his players to get an education. He complied so well throughout his college career that 94 percent of his four-year players earned degrees.
        ''He knew who he was, what he wanted to do and how to get it done,'' said Joe Paterno, the Penn State coach, in the forward to Devine's 2000 autobiography, ''Simply Devine,'' written with Michael R. Steele (Sports Publishing Inc.). ''He always had a pleasant manner, but he had a steely character when necessary. His beliefs were strong, and he wouldn't let the clamor of the fans talk him out of his position.''
        Daniel John Devine was born Dec. 23, 1924, in Augusta, Wis., the second of nine children. The family was poor and his mother was ill, and the youngster was raised by an aunt and uncle in Proctor, Minn. After serving in the Army Air Forces during World War II, he earned a degree from the University of Minnesota, Duluth.
        For two years, he coached an unbeaten team at East Jordan (Mich.) High School. The next five years, he was a Michigan State assistant under Biggie Munn and Duffy Daugherty. After that came a head coaching career that he ended to spend more time with his wife, Joanne, who had multiple sclerosis. She died in 2000.
        He is survived by a son, Dan Jr. of Columbia, Mo.; six daughters, Jennifer Husain of Columbia; Lisa Creagan of Decatur, Mich.; and Mary Jo Carver, Sarah Avery and Diana and Jill Devine, all of Phoenix; 16 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren.
        For years, Devine stayed in shape playing golf and tennis. Once, at a National Collegiate Athletic Association function in Gatlinburg, Tenn., he arrived for a 6:30 a.m. outdoor tennis date wearing nothing warmer than a T-shirt and shorts, and chided his heavily dressed opponent. The temperature was 33 degrees.
        After coaching, Devine returned to Arizona State to become chief executive of its main booster club and then director of a new campus program to combat substance abuse. He later became athletic director at Missouri.
        His main regret was his tenure as the Packers' coach. As he told The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel in 1995:
        ''I'd be about 10 times better as a coach today than I was in 1972. I probably should have followed Lombardi's pattern a little more, the way he emphasized blocking and tackling. I thought that football at that level wasn't the same as college football. It is. If you can coach Notre Dame, you can coach the Packers, and if you can coach the Packers, you can coach Notre Dame.''
      