
        Dr. Gordon Randolph Willey, a Harvard archaeologist who broadened the study of vanished societies from the examination of the tombs of the elite to include the economic and social lives of ordinary people, died on Sunday in Cambridge, Mass. He was 89.
        A prolific scholar of pre-Columbian America, Dr. Willey pioneered what is known as settlement pattern studies, an approach he applied methodically in the Viru Valley on the northern coast of Peru in the 1940's.
        He investigated the artifacts of households and public works to open a new window on a society of long ago. The remains of its ancient settlements, he found, reflected their inhabitants' use of their environment and their relations with their neighbors.
        That, in turn, permitted the anthropologists of today to reconstruct the economic, political and social organization of ancient peoples.
        Dr. Willey, who was at Harvard for 36 years, distinguished himself with meticulously documented research at Maya archaeological sites in Belize, Guatemala and Honduras. He made substantive and theoretical contributions to the archaeology of the Americas and to comparative studies with the old civilizations of other continents.
        Before setting his sights on the Viru Valley, he reported important findings about the history of the Southeastern United States, using innovative methods to analyze pottery and reconstruct ancient cultures.
        Born in Chariton, Iowa, Gordon Willey graduated in 1935 from the University of Arizona and was selected for Phi Beta Kappa. He received a master's from Arizona the next year and a Ph.D. from Columbia University in 1942.
        Early in his career he worked for the Smithsonian.
        His book ''Archeology of the Florida Gulf Coast'' (1949), became an instant classic and remains in the backpacks of archaeologists working there. A reprint edition is now available.
        More than a dozen of Dr. Willey's books and monographs are still in print. Their topics include excavations at Seibal, Guatemala; the archaeology of Southern Mesoamerica; and the early classic period in the Maya Lowlands.
        With Jeremy A. Sabloff he wrote ''A History of American Archeology,'' which scholars consider a major work in the field, defending his settlement pattern approach to excavations. Its third edition was issued in 1993 and remains in print. Some of his writing was devoted to archaeological mystery novels, the first of which, ''Selena,'' was republished by Harlequin Books in 1995.
        Dr. Willey was named Harvard's first Charles P. Bowditch professor of Central American and Mexican archaeology in 1950. He served as department chairman later in the 1950's, became Bowditch professor emeritus in 1984 but continued as a senior professor of anthropology until 1987.
        He was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the National Academy of Sciences, and he was a past president of the American Archaeological Society.
        Dr. Willey is survived by two daughters, Alexandra Gurelnick and Winston Adler, and five grandchildren. His wife, Katharine Whaley Willey, died last year after 63 years of marriage.
      