
        Yves Robert, a popular French actor, director and producer best remembered for his 1961 movie about street urchins, ''The War of the Buttons,'' and his 1970's spy comedies, ''The Tall Blond Man With One Black Shoe'' and ''The Return of the Tall Blond Man With One Black Shoe,'' died today in Paris. He was 81.
        A tall, friendly man with a walrus mustache, Mr. Robert built his reputation around making warm-hearted comedies and directing children. Almost three decades after ''The War of the Buttons,'' he again scored hits in two films involving children, ''My Father's Glory'' and ''My Mother's Castle,'' based on Marcel Pagnol's memories of growing up in Provence.
        In a career that began during the German occupation of France, Mr. Robert directed more than 20 movies and appeared, often in small roles, in many more. In 1961, he formed a production company with the actress Danièle Delorme, whom he married in 1956. She survives him, as do two children from his first marriage, Anne and Jean-Denis.
        Born in Saumur on June 21, 1920, he started working at 15 as a typesetter, a profession that, he remarked many years later, ''taught me how to live.'' In 1942 he took up acting and made his living as a mime in postwar Lyon. He then moved to Paris and worked in Left Bank night clubs before René Clair cast him in the movie ''Les Grandes Manoeuvres'' in 1955.
        He then embarked on a screen career as both actor and director. But it was with the fifth movie he directed, ''The War of the Buttons,'' which sold close to 10 million tickets in France and also did well abroad, that Mr. Robert established his name as a director. A 1994 remake of the film, ''War of the Buttons,'' relocated the story in rural Ireland.
        After the success of ''The Tall Blond Man With One Black Shoe'' (1972), Mr. Robert made the sequel (1974), which was also released to some praise in the United States. In 1985, Tom Hanks starred in ''The Man With One Red Shoe,'' a remake of the first film that was far less enthusiastically received.
        In France, Mr. Robert will always be identified with ''The War of the Buttons.'' The movie, which takes its name from the buttons snipped off trousers by rival gangs of urchins, is an adaptation of Louis Pergaud's novel of the same title, which Mr. Robert had read as a child. Mr. Robert once explained that it was his own happy childhood that led him to make films about children.
        This was also true of his adaptations of Pagnol's bucolic memoirs, written when Pagnol, a playwright and screenwriter, was 62. Mr. Robert, who knew Pagnol well and who, like him, had a deep love of nature, was 69 when he made ''My Father's Glory'' and ''My Mother's Castle'' in 1989. ''I have followed the story line in detail,'' he said at the time. ''But in the joy of living of the children, there is a lot of me.''
      