
        Zypora Spaisman, who did everything to keep Yiddish theater alive, from producing plays to selling tickets to sweeping floors to her great love, acting (including not a few Jewish-mother roles), died on May 18 in Manhattan. She was 86.
        The Yiddish stage was the center of Mrs. Spaisman's life, from her girlhood in Poland to a Soviet labor camp to Paris and Montreal and finally to New York, where she became a principal force in maintaining the nation's only surviving Yiddish theater, the Folksbiene (People's Stage). She seems never to have made a penny for her efforts.
        ''Nearly single-handedly, she led the pack in the fight to keep Yiddish theater going,'' said Eleanor Reissa, the artistic director of the Folksbiene, for which Mrs. Spaisman was once in charge of productions.
        In 1914 there were 14 Yiddish theaters in New York, and avant-garde movements like naturalism, expressionism and Stanislavsky's Method often found their first expression there. But the combined effects of the Holocaust, the diffusion and assimilation of American Jews and the aging of the immigrant population gnawed away at audience numbers.
        A bitter, often-quoted joke in Yiddish circles is that each time one of the Yiddish theater's remaining audience members dies, a seat is removed so it will not look empty. But dwindling numbers only heightened Mrs. Spaisman's determination.
        ''My whole life has been about preserving the Yiddish language,'' she said in an interview. ''Hitler didn't kill it. Neither did Stalin.''
        Zypora Tanenbaum was born in Lublin, Poland, on Jan. 2, 1916. By the time she was 10, she was participating in town and school dramatic presentations in both Polish and Yiddish, a language that mingles Old High German and Hebrew, with Slavic and Romance elements.
        She graduated from nursing school, became a midwife in 1933, and married Joseph Spaisman in 1938. When the Nazis invaded Poland in 1939, she saw her sister shot. The Spaismans fled to the Russian part of Poland, and from there were taken to a labor camp in the Urals.
        Mrs. Spaisman delivered more than 1,000 babies while in the camp. Each Sunday, she would organize a Yiddish theatrical presentation in a different barracks, said her son, Ben-Ami, who survives her, along with his two children.
        When Mrs. Spaisman returned to Poland after the war, she learned that all the members of her family were dead, as were most of the country's Jews. She acted in the Yiddish theater in Lodz, working with the great Yiddish comedians Shimen Dzigan and Yisroel Shumakher. In Paris and Montreal, where she waited with her husband and son for permission to enter the United States, she also worked in the theater.
        The Spaismans came to New York in 1955, and she sought stage work at the Hebrew Actors Union, but was rebuffed. So she went to the Folksbiene, which she had heard about from a Polish director.
        The company, which opened in 1915, is now the oldest continually performing Yiddish theater in the world. Although Mrs. Spaisman never worked with the renowned actress Molly Picon, she appeared with many of the other luminaries of the Yiddish stage.
        She often created characters that combined surface humor with inner wisdom. The publication Back Stage called her ''the grande dame,'' and The Jewish Week referred to her as ''a national treasure.'' Reviewing ''The Land of Dreams'' in The New York Times in 1989, Richard F. Shepard called her ''the mistress of the glumly comic look and acerbic tongue.''
        Mrs. Spaisman's fans seemed to respond to her performances as if the characters she played were real. Once when she portrayed a shabbily dressed town gossip, two women met her outside the theater with new stockings and blouses.
        ''You make us laugh, you make us cry,'' they told Mrs. Spaisman, according to The Jerusalem Post. ''You're so poorly dressed, we brought you these things.''
        In 1989, Mrs. Spaisman appeared in the movie ''Enemies: A Love Story,'' directed by Paul Mazursky and starring Anjelica Huston and Ron Silver. During her acting career, she won an Obie Award, a Drama Desk Award and a New York City People's Choice Award.
        Mrs. Spaisman, who lived in Manhattan, supported herself by working as a recreation director at the Jewish Institute for Geriatric Care, first in Manhattan and then in New Hyde Park, N.Y. On a typical day, she left for work at 7 and returned at 5 to cook dinner for her husband and son. Then she went to rehearsal. Performances were on weekends.
        Mr. Spaisman died in 1997. In 1998, Mrs. Spaisman was shocked when the Folksbiene board eliminated her position -- executive producer -- to hire younger producers attuned to younger audiences. She refused to retire gracefully.
        ''They wanted to give me a nice party,'' she said in an interview in The Times in 2000, ''to get money in my name and give it to the Folksbiene. And I should step down. I have to be such an idiot?''
        Ms. Reissa said she wanted Mrs. Spaisman to remain as a valuable consultant; Mrs. Spaisman refused. With her death, the three people who long steered the Folksbiene are now gone: Benjamin Schechter, managing director, died in 1994, and Morris Adler, president, died in December at 107.
        After what Mrs. Spaisman insisted on viewing as her dismissal, she took the Folksbiene's mailing list with her and started a new Yiddish theater company, the Yiddish Public Theater.
        She cast herself in a starring role in November 2000 in its first and so far only production: ''Grine Felder'' (''Green Fields''). A review in Back Stage said that in her role as a mother, she ''proves that passing time cannot deter a real trouper.''
      