
        Keith Fuller, a newspaper reporter whose career took him from small-town Texas to the top job at the world's largest news agency, the Associated Press, died yesterday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 79.
        The cause was Alzheimer's disease, the Associated Press reported.
        Under Mr. Fuller's leadership as president, from 1976 to 1985, the A.P. greatly increased the number of its overseas bureaus and expanded the range of live broadcast news.
        The Associated Press is a cooperative owned by its member newspapers and radio and television stations in the United States. The news agency said yesterday that when Mr. Fuller became its chief executive, the A.P. served newspapers with just over 70 percent of the country's daily circulation. By the time he retired, the agency served 90 percent.
        To emphasize A.P.'s importance in international journalism, Mr. Fuller often led the board on visits to major world capitals, but earlier he had covered news much closer to home.
        He was the A.P. bureau chief in Little Rock, Ark., in 1957, when the federal government ordered Central High School desegregated and sent in the National Guard to enforce the order. A correspondent for the Associated Press, Relman Morin, won a Pulitzer Prize for his coverage of the events.
        During his tenure with the agency, Mr. Fuller was the company's personnel director, negotiating union contracts, and was in charge of Wide World Photos, the A.P.'s commercial photo division. He was supervising editor of ''The Torch Is Passed,'' A.P.'s report on the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, which sold five million copies in hardcover and was translated into eight languages.
        When Mr. Fuller succeeded Wes Gallagher as head of the A.P. in 1976, he accelerated the gathering and dissemination of news through computer and satellite transmission. Mr. Fuller's successor was Louis D. Boccardi, who remains president and chief executive.
        Edwin Keith Fuller was born on Jan. 19, 1923, on his family's 320-acre farm near Arlington, Kan. When his father died, he was sent to live with his older brother in Beaumont, Tex.
        There he edited the high school newspaper, and later while a student at Lamar College he worked as a reporter on the Beaumont Enterprise.
        After Pearl Harbor, Mr. Fuller enlisted in the Air Corps and was sent to Europe as a navigator and bombardier on a B-17. On his 10th mission with the 457th Bomb Group, his plane caught fire and he bailed out at 21,000 feet over Nazi-occupied Nancy, France. He spent 14 months as a prisoner of war.
        After the war, Mr. Fuller entered Southern Methodist University and served as a campus correspondent for The Dallas Times-Herald and later as a full-time reporter for The Dallas Morning News.
        He joined the Associated Press in 1949.
        After his retirement, he served for 10 years on the board of the Gannett Company.
        Mr. Fuller is survived by his wife, Mattisue Scott of Chevy Chase; a daughter, Barbara Jean Basler of Bethesda, Md.; and two sons, Geoffrey, of Ashburn, Va., and Andrew, of Arlington, Va.
      