
        Gen. Choi Hong Hi, widely acknowledged as the founder of tae kwon do, a martial art that began in Korea and spread rapidly to community centers and storefronts around the United States, died on June 15 in Pyongyang, North Korea. He was 83 and lived in Mississauga, Ontario, a suburb of Toronto.
        General Choi went home to die in Pyongyang after doctors in Canada determined his stomach cancer was inoperable, said Craig Stanley, an assistant to Jung Hwa, the general's son.
        Tae kwon do was developed by General Choi in the 1940's as a combination of a Korean form, taek kyon, and the Japanese discipline karate. It is a method of unarmed combat intended for self-defense that engages the mind and the body.
        General Choi's detractors, including officials in the South Korean government, say that the discipline is merely a repackaging of old Asian martial arts techniques. But even they credit General Choi with the name tae kwon do -- tae, meaning to kick with the foot, kwon, meaning to strike with the fist, and do, meaning art. He came up with it in 1955.
        Carol Davis Hart, the managing editor of Tae Kwon Do Times, a magazine published six times a year in Bettendorf, Iowa, said tae kwon do had proved popular because it offered not only physical benefits but also ''a whole philosophy behind it tied into courtesy, integrity, perseverance and spirit.''
        Ms. Hart said that tae kwon do surpassed karate as the most popular martial art in the United States sometime in the 1980's. The International Taekwon-do Federation estimates that 40 million people practice the discipline in more than 100 countries. Ms. Hart said it had become especially popular with families with young children because of the emphasis on discipline, focus and physical activity.
        With its family appeal, tae kwon do has proliferated through schools in shopping malls, with youngsters going to class on weekends and afternoons and adults at night.
        Pictures of General Choi, with black ribbons, have begun appearing at tae kwon do centers around the world. Many instructors are wearing black armbands in his memory.
        Tae kwon do was recognized as a medal sport at the Olympics for the first time at the 2000 Olympic Games in Sydney, Australia.
        Choi Hong Hi was born on Nov. 9, 1918, in the Myong Chun district of what is now North Korea. According to stories recounted by his followers, he was a sickly but willful child who was expelled from school at age 12 for leading a protest against the occupying Japanese. His father then took him to a tutor to study calligraphy and Chinese characters. Recognizing his frail physique, the tutor also instructed him in the Korean art of foot fighting.
        In 1937, he went to Japan, where he studied English, mathematics and karate. On his return to Korea in 1942, he was drafted against his will into the Japanese army. After attempting to escape to join the underground Korean Liberation Army, he was arrested and sent to Pyongyang prison on charges of treason. He was freed in August 1945, just days before he was to be executed.
        In 1946, General Choi was one of the founders of the South Korean army, in which he eventually became a general, training those under his command in the new martial art. Eventually he trained instructors in tae kwon do for the entire South Korean army. By the time he founded the International Taekwon-do Federation in 1966, there were associations throughout Asia, Western Europe and North America. It was practiced by the armies of several nations, and was taught at West Point.
        In 1971, the South Korean government, afraid that tae kwon do would be used against it, refused to let General Choi's federation teach tae kwon do in North Korea. General Choi, angry that the martial art was being treated as a political tool, went into voluntary exile and settled in Canada. South Korea established a rival association, the World Tae Kwon Do Federation, based in Seoul. It uses the name that General Choi coined, but many of its rules and procedures are different.
        In addition to his son, Jung Hwa, General Choi is survived by his wife, Choi Joon Hee; two daughters, Sunny and Meeyun; and several grandchildren.
      