
        Jacques Fauvet, who ran France's most prestigious daily newspaper, Le Monde, for more than a decade, died on Saturday in Paris. He was 87.
        He had been hospitalized several days earlier after a fall at home, said his daughter Laurence Rey.
        After joining the paper at the end of World War II, Mr. Fauvet became chief political correspondent in 1948 and then served as deputy editor from 1958 until 1963, when he was appointed editor in chief. In 1969 he became director general, the top job at Le Monde, upon the retirement of the paper's founder, Hubert Beuve-Méry. Mr. Fauvet held the job until 1982.
        Mr. Fauvet maintained the paper's traditional left-of-center stance as well as its austere appearance, publishing line drawings but never using photographs.
        In 1980, Mr. Fauvet and an editorial writer, Phillipe Boucher, were prosecuted under an obscure law on charges of ''attacking the authority and independence of the judiciary'' by publishing articles that criticized court rulings in a political scandal. The scandal arose over a reported gift of diamonds to President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing from Jean-Bedel Bokassa when he was dictator of the Central African Republic.
        The charges, brought by Alain Peyrefitte, Mr. Giscard d'Estaing's chief law officer, were dropped the following year, when a Paris court granted the two journalists amnesty without addressing the merits of the case.
        Earlier, in 1976, Mr. Fauvet was accused of trying to prevent publication of a book by a former Le Monde journalist charging that the paper showed a systematic left-wing bias. The author, Michel Legris, said Mr. Fauvet had threatened not to review future works from any publishing house that printed his book.
        Jacques Jules Pierre Constant Fauvet was born June 9, 1914, in Paris. He began his journalism career at L'Est Républicain, a newspaper in Nancy in eastern France. While serving as a tank officer during World War II, Mr. Fauvet was captured by the Germans and held prisoner for five years.
        In 1939 he married the former Claude Decroix, who survives him, along with two sons, Jean-Claude and Dominique, and two daughters, Laurence Rey and Sylvie Vauzel.
      