
        John A. Cella, who oversaw the development of such skin care products as Visible Difference and Millennium for Elizabeth Arden, died on June 8 in San Diego. He was 76.
        The cause was kidney failure, said his son Dr. John A. Cella III, a neurologist.
        The elder Dr. Cella began his career in 1950 as a medical chemist for Armour & Company, and three years later joined G. D. Searle & Company. In his years there, he led a team of researchers who invented and patented Aldactone, a diuretic popular in the 1960's that is now being used to treat congestive heart failure. The team also developed a manufacturing process for Enovid, the first oral contraceptive.
        From 1961 to 1963, Dr. Cella worked at Julian Laboratories, a division of Smith, Kline & French, as assistant to the president, but then moved to the cosmetics industry, spending 10 years at the Alberto Culver Company as a vice president.
        In 1973, he joined Elizabeth Arden, a subsidiary of Eli Lilly, and led its research into the biochemistry and mechanical properties of skin, which resulted in development of a line of anti-aging moisturizers that included Visible Difference and Millennium. The moisturizers increase the rate of cell renewal at the skin's basal layer, bringing new cells to the surface.
        Under Dr. Cella, Elizabeth Arden brought the scientific method of the pharmaceutical industry to the field of cosmetics. ''The claims that these cosmetics products made weren't puffery, but had a scientific foundation,'' said Eileen Paley, senior vice president for marketing and product development at Georgette Klinger, who worked with Dr. Cella at Elizabeth Arden.
        Dr. Cella also oversaw programs that developed Lip Fix, a line of sun-care products, Chloe perfume and computers that analyzed skin types.
        He retired from Elizabeth Arden in 1986 and became a consultant to companies involved in cosmetics and skin care, and developed a patented fragrance-enhancing product, Savore, with his son.
        In addition to his son John, of San Diego, Dr. Cella is survived by his wife, Marie F. Cella of Rancho Bernardo, Calif.; another son, William U. Cella of Nashville; two daughters, Mary Lee Cella of Irvine, Calif., and Leslie A. Johnson of East Hanover, N.J.; a sister, Rosemary Geyer, of North Carolina; and five grandchildren.
      