
        R.R. Palmer, a historian through whose eyes generations of college students have learned to see modern history, died on June 11 at his home in Newtown, Pa. He was 93.
        This year, the ninth edition of Dr. Palmer's textbook, ''A History of the Modern World,'' was published, and overall sales are approaching two million. First published in 1950, it has been translated into six languages and is used in more than 1,000 colleges and universities as well as many high school advanced placement courses.
        Dr. Palmer's wife, Esther, mentioned the obvious: it is a very heavy book, now at more than a thousand pages detailing historical currents since before the Reformation, with an emphasis on European politics.
        ''I feel sorry for the students who have to carry it around,'' she said.
        Some reviews by readers on Amazon.com agree, citing another kind of heaviness. One went so far as to recommend it for masochists. Another said, ''I'll be perfectly honest; this book is not an easy read.''
        Other reviewers, especially serious historians, have been far kinder. In 1987, The New York Times put it on its list of the 19 classic textbooks of all time, in all disciplines. The Washington Post in 1996 called it ''the first book to be elevated to the textbook hall of fame.''
        To Dr. Palmer and his collaborators -- Joel Colton beginning with the second edition in 1956 and Lloyd Kramer in the most recent edition -- readability was hardly an afterthought.
        ''It's both scholarly and readable,'' Dr. Colton said of the book, which was first published by Knopf and then by McGraw-Hill, since the late 1970's. ''It was never intended to be only a textbook. It was meant to be a book to be read.''
        In addition to the textbook, Dr. Palmer's work included seven other books and translations of five.
        Isser Woloch, a history professor at Columbia, said the books generally reflect an ''optimistic liberal vision of French and European history,'' which he compared with that of the historian Richard Hofstadter. He said one of Dr. Palmer's earliest books, ''Twelve Who Ruled'' (Princeton University Press, 1941), may be the best book on the French Revolution written by an American.
        ''You read that book and you really understand some of the most paradoxical and even mystifying aspects of the French Revolution,'' Dr. Woloch said.
        Other books by Dr. Palmer concerning the French Revolution were ''Believers and Unbelievers in 18th Century France'' (Princeton, 1939); ''The Coming of the French Revolution'' (Princeton, 1967) and ''The World of the French Revolution'' (Harper, 1971).
        In his two-volume ''The Age of Democratic Revolution: A Political History of Europe and America, 1760-1800'' (Princeton, 1959, 1964), Dr. Palmer pioneered the comparative study of revolutions on both sides of the Atlantic. His thesis that the French Revolution was a result of the American one made him well known but hardly beloved in France. The work won him the Bancroft Prize for American history .
        Robert Roswell Palmer was born on Jan. 11, 1909, in Chicago. His mother died when he was 10, and he was mostly brought up by his father, a financial officer for a painting company, Mrs. Palmer said.
        He excelled in Chicago public schools, and a play he wrote in Latin won a citywide Latin contest. The prize was a four-year scholarship to the University of Chicago. He earned his doctorate from Cornell in 1934.
        He taught at Princeton for nearly three decades, the last as Dodge professor of history.
        He left Princeton in 1963 to become dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences and history professor at Washington University in St. Louis, where he stayed for three years. He then taught at Yale until his retirement in 1977.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his sons, Stanley Palmer of Arlington, Tex., and Richard Palmer of California; a daughter, Emily Palmer, of Boulder, Colo.; and four grandchildren.
        Dr. Colton said he was sometimes amazed at the wide influence of the big textbook he wrote with Dr. Palmer. He pointed to Ross Thomas's 1989 mystery novel ''The Fourth Durango.'' The protagonist, interrupted by his wife while reading in his library, ''puts down the book, Palmer and Colton's 'History of the Modern World,' the Fifth Edition,'' to learn of certain dramatic events.
        A murder, of course.
      