
        Nathan Smith, the raspy-voiced manager at the Sunshine Hotel, one of the Bowery's last flophouses, died on Sunday at a hospital in Queens. He was 65.
        The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Brenda Smith Johnson.
        Mr. Smith gained a measure of unlikely fame by hanging on to a job in a hotel that is itself just hanging on. The Bowery, less than a mile long, is no longer the nightly home to tens of thousands of men, many of them drifters and alcoholics. The last rummy bar, Al's, closed in 1993.
        Mr. Smith was featured in a 1998 documentary on National Public Radio, and in the book ''Flophouse: Life on the Bowery,'' published two years later. Last year, he narrated the audio tour for a show on the Bowery by the New-York Historical Society.
        He ended up at the Sunshine Hotel, between Prince and Stanton Streets, in standard fashion: he quit his job and his wife left him on the same day, and one thing pretty much led to the next. If chance led him to the Sunshine, a genuine affection for the place apparently kept him there for more than 16 years.
        ''He saw a lot of beauty there that a lot of us couldn't see,'' his daughter said. ''I got a true sense it was his home. He was happy doing what he was doing.''
        The Sunshine is one of a handful of a Bowery ''flops'' that have somehow remained pretty much what they always were, even as the famous street has become best known for lighting fixtures and restaurant equipment. The hotels offer some of the cheapest housing in New York city: cubicles the size of prison cells with just a bed, a locker, a bare dangling light bulb and a chicken-wire ceiling, all for $10 a night.
        Mr. Smith, known as the ''emperor'' of the Sunshine, worked the day shift in the lobby on the second floor, where all Bowery lobbies seem to be. His assignment was to sit in a metal cage from 5 a.m. to noon, Saturday through Thursday, but in reality he was available pretty much anytime.
        He did everything from handing out toilet paper to answering the hotel's one phone to helping men find jobs, homes and drug treatment programs. He learned Yiddish to talk to the old-timers.
        And it was his feeling for people and words that got him noticed.
        ''Mostly, I get along with everybody,'' he said in the radio documentary. ''I've had 'em all here, from a priest to a murderer. We've had two Jesus Christs since I've been at the Sunshine. Long white beard, rope, sandals. The whole nine yards. One of them used to live in 2A.''
        Sometimes he could be almost sociological in his descriptions.
        ''You see, up here in the Sunshine, we're totally isolated from the rest of the world, so we create our own little society, anything you want, you can get it from another tenant,'' he said.
        Nathan Levilt Smith was born in Norfolk, Va., on Nov. 26, 1936. His father left home when Nathan was very young, and the family moved to Brooklyn. His mother worked as a visiting nurse.
        He served in the Army and then held various jobs, driving a cab for a long time. He married Genevieve Strothers, from whom he separated in the early 1970's.
        In addition to his daughter, who lives in Hercules, Calif., he is survived by a son, Paul, of San Ramon, Calif., and a brother, Marcus, of Wappingers Falls, N.Y.
        Mr. Smith once seemed to suggest that he might leave the Sunshine sometime. Or maybe not.
        ''I'm looking forward to the day I can fly away like Superman -- because I'm not Father Flanagan and this is not Boys Town,'' he said. ''This is the Sunshine Hotel at 241 Bowery -- and if you've got $10, I'll sell you a room.''
      