
        John Alec Entwistle, the bass player for the Who, died yesterday in Las Vegas, where the Who was preparing to start a United States tour today. Mr. Entwistle was 57.
        The cause appeared to be a heart attack, said Bob Leinbach, a spokesman for the Clark County Fire Department. An emergency medical crew found Mr. Entwistle dead in his hotel room with no signs of drugs or alcohol in the room, Mr. Leinbach said.
        Ron Flud, the Clark County coroner, said no official cause had been determined, and added that ''we are not investigating this as a criminal case.''
        The Who began as the band most closely associated with the Mods of mid-1960's London, playing what it called ''maximum R and B'' that was rooted in blues and soul. But by the mid-1960's, the Who had pioneered what would become heavy metal and punk.
        As the Who's bassist since the group formed in 1964, Mr. Entwistle played the introvert surrounded by extroverts. His precisely articulated bass lines provided the unswerving foundation for Pete Townshend's brash power chords on guitar, Roger Daltrey's leather-lunged vocals and Keith Moon's explosive drumming.
        The Who supercharged rock's attack and set the precedent for instrument-smashing concert finales. It also spearheaded rock opera with ''A Quick One'' in 1966, ''Tommy'' in 1969 and ''Quadrophenia'' in 1973.
        Onstage Mr. Entwistle was the Who's still point, barely moving anything beyond his fingers and calmly looking on while Mr. Daltrey strutted and swung his microphone and Mr. Townshend jumped around and windmilled through chords. Mr. Entwistle also wrote songs for the Who, such as ''My Wife'' and ''Boris the Spider,'' that revealed a sly and sometimes macabre sense of humor. As a side project, and between reunions of the Who, he led his own bands, among them the Ox and Rigor Mortis, touring and releasing albums into the 1990's.
        Mr. Entwistle was born in Chiswick, England, and grew up in Shepherds Bush, a working-class section of London. He learned to play trumpet, fluegelhorn and piano as well as bass. In 1959 he played trumpet in a traditional jazz band that also included Mr. Townshend on banjo. Mr. Daltrey recruited Mr. Entwistle in 1962 for his band, the Detours. By 1964 Mr. Townshend had joined the Detours on guitar and Moon had taken over on drums. (Moon died in 1978 of a drug overdose.) The group was renamed the Who, though it made its first recordings as the High Numbers in 1964. Mr. Entwistle worked as a file clerk at the Inland Revenue Service, the tax collection agency in Britain.
        As the Who, the band quickly earned a reputation for loud, furious shows, often culminating in Mr. Townshend destroying his guitar and Moon upending his drums. Mr. Townshend was writing songs -- like ''The Kids Are Alright'' and ''Anyway, Anyhow, Anywhere'' -- that spoke for the frustration and idealism of his audience. The Who's tumult was captured in a 1965 single, ''I Can't Explain,'' and after British television viewers saw Mr. Townshend smash a guitar, the song reached the English Top 10; Mr. Entwistle quit his day job. By the end of 1965, the Who had released what became a 1960's youth anthem, ''My Generation,'' with its vow of ''Hope I die before I get old.''
        The Who first toured the United States in 1967, including a guitar-splintering appearance at the Monterey Pop Festival in California.
        Mr. Entwistle married his first wife, Alison Wise, in 1967; their son, Christopher, survives him.
        The Who's music grew more ambitious, as Mr. Townshend explored longer forms with his self-described miniopera ''A Quick One'' and then ''Tommy.'' Mr. Entwistle wrote songs with the nasty characters of Cousin Kevin and Uncle Ernie and played French horn on the album.
        After Moon's death, the Who took on a new drummer, Kenney Jones, before announcing its retirement in 1982.
        But the Who continued to regroup. It appeared at the Live Aid benefit concert in 1985 and for other benefit events. Mr. Entwistle auctioned off part of his collection of more than 200 basses in 1988. In the 1990's and until this year, when it performed in Europe, the Who toured periodically with Zak Starkey, Ringo Starr's son, on drums. Mr. Entwistle also led his own bands and toured with Mr. Daltrey's band and with the Ringo Starr All-Star Band. An Entwistle anthology, ''Thunderfingers,'' was released by Rhino Records in 1996, and the John Entwistle Band released ''Music From Van-Pires'' in 1997.
      