
        J. Carter Brown, the eloquent, populist, patrician museum director who, as head of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, did as much as anyone to reshape art museums during the second half of the 20th century, died on Monday at a Boston hospital. He was 67.
        Mr. Brown, who underwent treatment last year for multiple myeloma, a terminal blood cancer, died of pulmonary failure after having been hospitalized since early May, according to his family.
        ''He transformed the museum world from an ivory tower into an immensely popular place,'' Earl A. Powell III, Mr. Brown's successor as director at the gallery, said yesterday. ''He was a great aristocrat, but a real populist.''
        Along with the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, the National Gallery under Mr. Brown helped create the modern blockbuster. From King Tut to ''Treasure Houses of Britain'' to Andrew Wyeth's ''Helga'' nudes to ''Circa 1492,'' Mr. Brown oversaw many of the shows most talked about, for better and worse, throughout the 1970's, 80's and early 90's, and on which he frequently spared no expense when it came to opulent installation.
        Under him, the gallery's East Building was opened in 1978. As I. M. Pei's best-known American work, a modern mecca for global tourists, the new wing hastened the transformation of the art museum of the late 20th century into something like what Gothic cathedrals were during the Middle Ages: great architectural symbols of the era and vast, de facto civic centers.
        Curly-haired, lean and blue-eyed, an elegant, smooth-talking salesman, whether pitching plans for an exhibition, acquisition or new building to corporate donors, foreign dignitaries or senators on Capitol Hill, Mr. Brown seemed to fit the role of the globe-trotting, boardroom-savvy art museum director as naturally as he fit into his bespoke suits. Appropriately, his office in the East Building had a sweeping view of the nearby Capitol.
        An aristocrat by upbringing, as Mr. Powell said, he was in one sense an unlikely figure to champion mass culture, with which he was eternally fascinated but sometimes charmingly unfamiliar. A colleague remembers once taking him to McDonald's and handing him a Big Mac. ''Carter was mystified by the packaging,'' the colleague recalled. ''It was like we'd just landed on a space station.''
        He was gracious and surprisingly forthcoming with the public, although he could seem remote in private to some associates. ''I worked very closely with Carter for eight years,'' John Walker, his predecessor as director, said, ''and I didn't know him any better at the end than I did at the beginning.''
        Part Barnum, part Albert Schweitzer, Mr. Brown clearly relished his job as America's ''unofficial minister of culture,'' as U.S. News and World Report once called him, and also his ability to do it well. Between the time he took over the gallery at 34 in 1969, until he retired, somewhat surprisingly, in 1992, at 57, he made what had been a fairly sleepy, albeit grand gallery of old master paintings where few exhibitions happened into a legitimate rival of the much bigger, older Met as the nation's premier art attraction.
        Building a National Showcase
        Mr. Brown was also expert at leveraging the gallery's status as the nation's representative art museum to appeal to the patriotism of donors and, more or less aggressively, to twist the arms of foreign governments and United States presidents. He had an unsettling although hypnotic way of speaking at times, his voice dropping to an almost inaudible level and his eyes closing, as if he were in a trance, intoxicated with his own words. But clearly it worked.
        Over the years he persuaded Congress to increase annual federal spending on the gallery from $3.2 million to $52.3 million. The endowment grew from $34 million to $186 million. He induced Armand Hammer, a frequent behind-the-scenes collaborator in bilateral negotiations for loan shows from the Soviet Union, to donate his old master drawings. The gallery acquired more than 20,000 works during Mr. Brown's tenure, including the entire 20th-century collection. Jackson Pollock's ''Lavender Mist'' and Barnett Newman's ''Stations of the Cross'' were among the conspicuous ones.
        Despite what he frequently said to the contrary, the collection and other aspects of the gallery that came about or grew exponentially under him -- conservation, education, the research center and library -- never seemed as much his passion as the blockbuster show or the East Building, where most of the blockbusters happened.
        One of the influential works of public architecture to be completed in the United States since World War II, the East Building inspired museums around the world to commission architectural projects that also sometimes competed with the art they were created to display. The building laid the groundwork for, among other museums, the Getty Center in Los Angeles designed by Richard Meier, and the Guggenheim in Bilbao, Spain, by Frank O. Gehry.
        Mr. Brown followed the lead of the gallery's prime patron, Paul Mellon, in selecting Mr. Pei to design the building. Supported by money from Mellon and his sister, Ailsa Mellon Bruce, it evolved into a radically eccentric (admirers have always said ingenious) plan. Its budget eventually ballooned to $94 million, which made headlines at the time but no longer seems remarkable. The building consists of two connected triangles with a soaring, multilevel, open-tiered, glass-roofed atrium, Mr. Pei's boldest stroke, for which Mr. Brown commissioned works by Miró, Calder and others.
        The commissions, on the whole, did not turn out to be great; the space Mr. Pei provided pushed exhibitions into loftlike galleries, adaptable but occupying remote sides and corners of the awkwardly triangular structure. Still, the design was brilliantly exploited by Mr. Brown's team of exhibition designers, notably Gaillard F. Ravenel and Mark Leithauser, whom Mr. Brown credited as crucial to the gallery's success and to whom he gave unparalleled authority.
        Those two transformed the building for one show after another, miraculously, in ways that made other, poorer or less venturesome museums envious and critics sometimes question whether Mr. Brown was sacrificing substance to style. The public had no doubts. Nearly a million people saw ''Treasure Houses,'' the gallery's most sumptuous show, before it closed in 1986 (almost 9 million people attended the gallery that year); one million saw ''Rodin Rediscovered'' in 1981 and 1982; 684,000 saw a show of Chinese archaeology in 1974 and 1975; and 620,000 saw ''The Splendor of Dresden,'' the maiden show of the East Building, in 1978.
        Competing With the Met
        Mr. Brown liked to tell the story of the back-room negotiations for the Dresden exhibition. Having learned in 1975 that the United States and East Germany might normalize relations, he broached the idea of a show of masterworks from Dresden with the United States State Department. ''We went quite far down that road,'' he said, ''until the State Department asked us to hold back.'' It was worried that the East Germans might assume a quid pro quo.
        Meanwhile, Thomas Hoving, the Met's director, Mr. Brown's archrival, was negotiating straight with the East Germans, who by then thought the National Gallery had lost interest. Mr. Brown was incensed. ''Do nice guys finish last?'' he asked the State Department. Mr. Hoving refused to let Mr. Brown re-enter the negotiations. ''I realized that as long as that scamp Tom Hoving was involved, it was never going to work out,'' Mr. Brown said. So he organized a meeting with the Met's chairman, C. Douglas Dillon, a former Treasury secretary. Mr. Hoving attended, too. David Rockefeller, whose name Mr. Brown had seen in State Department cable traffic from East Germany, refereed at his house in Seal Harbor, Me.
        The Treaty of Seal Harbor, as their agreement came to be known, resulted in a joint undertaking. The Dresden show, like the Tut exhibition, another testy collaboration with the Met, would start its tour at the gallery (Mr. Brown insisted all big shows start there) and end at the Met.
        John Carter Brown was born on Oct. 8, 1934, in Providence, R.I. His formidable family instilled in him an early interest in art and a sense of public service. His mother was Anne Kinsolving, brilliant and fearsome. She was the daughter of the rector of Old St. Paul's Episcopal Church in Baltimore, a former violinist with the Baltimore Symphony, former music critic for The Baltimore News and a scholar of military uniforms, an arcane interest that resulted from her desire, as a child, to determine whether the uniforms in her and her brother's collection of tin soldiers were authentic.
        She insisted that her children learn to play instruments. They were taught French by a governess. Mr. Brown grew up in a great 18th-century house (now an American studies center, decorated with the family's furnishings, donated to Brown University), surrounded by art, antiques and music. He recalled sitting in his pajamas on the staircase silently conducting the chamber music concerts his mother organized.
        Deep Roots in the Nation
        Browns had arrived in Rhode Island before the 1630's. They were well-to-do traders a century before the Revolution. The Brown textile factory in Pawtucket, R.I., built in the 1790's, signaled the start of the Industrial Revolution in America. The Brown family endowed what became Brown University.
        John Nicholas Brown, J. Carter Brown's father, was dubbed ''the world's richest baby'' by newspapers in 1900 when the family fortune ($10 million) fell to him after his father and uncle died within three weeks of each other. A tall, angular, warm and high-spirited man, he led the life of a gentleman, studying and collecting art, establishing the Byzantine Institute of America to sponsor the uncovering and preservation of ancient mosaics in Istanbul, and giving money away. President Harry S. Truman made him assistant secretary of the United States Navy. Carter remembered visiting his parents in Washington on a vacation from boarding school and, seeing the massive pink Tennessee marble facade of the National Gallery from a passing taxi, telling them he wanted to work in a place like that someday.
        He attended boarding schools, including Stowe in England, which he later said piqued his interest in British country houses. He graduated from Groton, then Harvard, then -- this was an unusual step at the time for someone interested in the arts -- from Harvard Business School. It served him well later in managing a big staff, he said. After a couple of years traveling through Europe, looking at art and studying for several months with the connoisseur Bernard Berenson in Florence, he took classes at the Institute of Fine Arts in New York.
        Assigned by a professor to find an object for $125 or less worthy of showing at the Met, Mr. Brown skipped the uptown galleries and poked around an old fabric shop where he found shreds for $25, which he pieced together on canvas. He had discovered a rare 18th-century Indian fabric with a Louis XIV design.
        John Walker, then director of the National Gallery, who knew Mr. Brown as a boy because, like the Browns, he spent summers on Fishers Island, N.Y., lured him from the institute before Mr. Brown had finished his doctoral degree. He hired him to be his assistant in 1961. Mr. Brown became assistant director in 1964. By 1967 he was helping to negotiate the purchase of Leonardo da Vinci's ''Ginevra de' Benci'' and in charge of planning the East Building. Two years later Mellon wrote to Mr. Brown asking if he would replace Mr. Walker, who would retire.
        Mr. Brown's first big show was of African sculpture, a huge leap for a gallery that collected only old masters. He hired a design consultant, had the rooms painted black and the objects dramatically spotlighted. Ghanaian dancers and musicians performed and African food was served at the opening. The gallery's purview, at least for exhibitions, would no longer be limited to Western art. And there would now be a premium on spectacle and mass appeal.
        Mr. Brown's tenure was not without controversy. A debate about the restoration of a Rembrandt caused a brief rupture between Mr. Brown and Mellon. The gallery was widely criticized for showing the Helga paintings, on aesthetic grounds, and because a minor scandal came about when Mr. Wyeth's wife, Betsy, as if to promote interest in the show, seemed to imply, then denied, that an affair had taken place between her husband and his model, Helga Testorf. A show of the collection of Emil Bührle, a Swiss industrialist who sold arms to the Nazis, also raised a few eyebrows. But mostly, remarkably, Mr. Brown managed to avoid the sort of career-ending crises that undid venturesome directors elsewhere.
        In 1971 Mr. Brown married Constance Mellon Byers; they were divorced two years later. He married Pamela Braga Drexel in 1976, in a service at Westminster Abbey in London. They were divorced in 1991. He is survived by their two children, a son, John Carter Brown 4th of Washington, who graduated from Princeton University last year and is planning to work for a nature conservancy in China, and a daughter, Elissa Lucinda Rionda Brown, a student at Brown University. He is also survived by a brother, Nicholas, of Newport, R.I., a former director of the National Aquarium in Baltimore and a former executive director of Preserve Rhode Island; a sister, Angela B. Fischer of Boston, a former chairwoman of the Rhode Island Statehouse Restoration Society; and by his fiancée, Anne Hawley, the director of the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston.
        When he arrived at the National Gallery one of his first projects was to make a film, ''The American Vision.'' He remained fascinated by the possibilities of film and television for the promotion of art and music. After leaving the gallery, he oversaw Ovation, the arts cable network that he helped found. The ''cable revolution,'' he said, ''is one of the biggest things since Gutenberg's movable type.''
        At the gallery, one of his most significant achievements had been to help persuade Congress to pass an act indemnifying art on loan from abroad. This relieved American museums of the increasingly impossible burden of insuring borrowed art, the costs of which skyrocketed over the years. Although the public paid little attention to the indemnity act, it did as much as anything to pave the way for the age of blockbusters at the gallery and elsewhere.
        When he left the gallery he organized ''Rings: Five Passions in World Art,'' a $4.2 million blockbuster of objects from 44 countries for the Olympic Games in Atlanta, which included Munch's ''Scream,'' Rodin's ''Kiss'' and Matisse's ''Dance.'' Detractors called it Carter's Five-Ring Circus. Mr. Brown was taken aback.
        ''The things I'm doing now are extrapolations of what I did,'' he said at the time. ''I come from a great line of preachers. I believe in the arts and I have a sort of messianic zeal about broadening their audience.''
        Committed to Public Service
        Mr. Brown served on many boards and committees, including those for the World Monuments Fund, the National Geographic Society, the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts and the Commission of Fine Arts, of which he was a member for 30 years. On that commission he helped significantly reshape official Washington with projects like the Vietnam Veterans Memorial. He also backed the design for a World War II Memorial on the Washington Mall, near the Vietnam memorial. Mr. Brown helped obtain Congressional and presidential approval for the design, which bitterly divided veterans' groups, architectural experts and others. He was sensitive to the criticism. He also served on the jury for the Pritzker Prize for architects.
        In the hospital, he kept up with e-mails from the many organizations he was associated with, and worked on a book about himself and his father.
        Asked why he had left the gallery, he said: ''Because I'd been there 32 years, my only full-time employment. It was pretty hard to top what I'd been up to.''
      