
        Lew R. Wasserman, the former chairman and chief executive of the Music Corporation of America, who was arguably the most powerful and influential Hollywood titan in the four decades after World War II, died yesterday in Beverly Hills. He was 89.
        The man considered the last of the legendary movie moguls, Mr. Wasserman began as a theater usher, became an MCA agent for entertainers and eventually changed the face of the movie business.
        Working on behalf of his film-star clients in the late 1940's, he put an end to the ironclad long-term contracts that turned even big-name actors into high-paid serfs of the major studios.
        In the 1950's, he forced a reluctant Hollywood to accept television, then a new medium, as a potential cash cow rather than as a feared competitor.
        In the 1960's, he demonstrated the political influence that Hollywood could wield by organizing huge fund-raising campaigns, particularly for the Democratic Party. And in the 1970's, his deft marketing of Steven Spielberg's ''Jaws'' and other movies was credited with creating the summer blockbuster.
        Curiously, Hollywood's need to produce ever more expensive blockbusters ignited a series of mergers and takeovers that led to Mr. Wasserman's decline. Surrounded by new media giants like Time Warner and the News Corporation, Mr. Wasserman sold MCA to the Matsushita Electric Industrial Company of Japan in 1990. Though he stayed on to manage MCA, he effectively lost control of it to Matsushita, with which he fought bitterly.
        Then, in 1995, without even informing Mr. Wasserman, Matsushita sold MCA to the Seagram Company, the conglomerate controlled by the Bronfman family of New York and Montreal. MCA was renamed Universal Studios by its new president, Edgar Bronfman Jr. Though Mr. Wasserman was retained by Universal as a media consultant, his impact on Hollywood had effectively been diminished.
        'Publicity Is for Clients'
        Throughout his long career, Mr. Wasserman avoided the limelight and rarely sat for interviews. ''Publicity is for clients, not for us,'' he often told his MCA subordinates. As a result, he was not as well known as Sam Goldwyn, Louis B. Mayer, Jack Warner and the other pioneering movie moguls whose later years overlapped his own reign at the top. Yet, all these larger-than-life figures often confined their power to their studios, while Mr. Wasserman's influence was felt across the entire industry.
        ''He became the godfather of the film industry for many years,'' the actor Charlton Heston said of Mr. Wasserman in ''The Last Mogul,'' a 1998 biography of the MCA chairman by Dennis McDougal. In a 1995 interview with The Washington Post, Jack Valenti, the movie industry's chief Washington lobbyist, described the man who got him his job as a god rather than a mere godfather: ''What you have to understand is if Hollywood is Mount Olympus, Lew Wasserman is Zeus.''
        The talent Mr. Wasserman had under contract to MCA included Bette Davis, James Stewart, Judy Garland, Henry Fonda, Myrna Loy, Fred Astaire, Ginger Rogers, Gregory Peck, Gene Kelly, Billy Wilder, Alfred Hitchcock, Jack Benny and George Burns and Gracie Allen. Among the many blockbuster movies produced by MCA's film subsidiary, Universal Studios, under his reign were ''Airport,'' ''E.T.: The Extraterrestrial,'' ''Jurassic Park'' and ''Back to the Future.'' The hit series produced by MCA for television included ''Alfred Hitchcock Presents,'' ''Marcus Welby, M.D.,'' ''Magnum P.I.,'' ''Miami Vice'' and ''Murder, She Wrote.''
        Tall, gaunt, with white hair, oversize black-rimmed glasses and his usual dark suit, Mr. Wasserman inspired love, fear, respect and loathing in Hollywood. ''He is so sharp that he would call me with matinee figures on opening day and then accurately project the film's ultimate performance'' at the box office, Mr. Spielberg told Variety in 1995. In ''The Last Mogul,'' Tony Curtis praised Mr. Wasserman for turning him into a matinee idol in the early 1950's and said he had always ''trusted him and every piece of advice he ever gave me implicitly.''
        But Shirley Temple, America's most beloved child star, remembered Mr. Wasserman less fondly; he fired her as a client after she outgrew her children's roles. Ms. Temple set down this exchange with him in her 1988 autobiography, ''Child Star'':
        ''Why?'' I yelped.
        ''Because you're through.'' His eyes were unwavering, inky black. ''Washed up.''
        I started to cry.
        ''Here,'' he said, pushing a Kleenex box across the desktop. ''Have one on me.''
        Mr. Wasserman's temper tantrums were legendary. ''You have not been chewed out until Lew Wasserman chews you,'' Jerry Adler, an executive with MCA's television production company, Revue, was quoted saying in ''The Last Mogul.'' Stories circulated of executives who fainted or vomited in the midst of Wasserman tirades.
        Nonetheless, his many admirers felt Mr. Wasserman fully deserved his 1973 special Oscar for humanitarianism. It was given for his philanthropy and his involvement in promoting civil rights. Mr. Wasserman was a generous contributor to Jewish causes and gave so much to Catholic charities that Pope John Paul II asked to meet with him during his visit to Los Angeles in 1987. Later in life, Mr. Wasserman donated liberally to higher education for members of minority groups. In 1995, he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the country's highest civilian honor, by President Bill Clinton at a White House ceremony.
        It was a quantum leap from very humble beginnings. Lew R. Wasserman was born on March 22, 1913, in Cleveland. His parents, Isaac and Minnie, were immigrants from Russia who failed time and again in their efforts to run a small restaurant profitably. While still in high school -- his education went no further -- he worked as an usher from afternoon until almost midnight. In those days, movie theaters booked touring vaudeville acts between film showings, so the young Mr. Wasserman was able to meet future radio, film and television stars like Eddie Cantor and Edgar Bergen.
        In 1936, he took over public relations for a Cleveland nightclub. Most of its bookings were made through an agency called the Music Corporation of America, which was founded in 1924 by Dr. Jules Stein, an ophthalmologist. Dr. Stein hired Mr. Wasserman on the recommendation of executives who were impressed by his efficient yet sympathetic handling of their clients. At MCA, Mr. Wasserman did so well that he was entrusted with the most delicate tasks -- like ensuring that the agency's top client at the time, the bandleader Tommy Dorsey, would go on stage even if he had been drinking only hours before a show.
        In 1938, Mr. Wasserman and his wife, Edie, the former Edith Beckerman, moved to California, where Dr. Stein wanted MCA to expand its agency business beyond bands and vaudeville performers to film stars and directors. Two years later, the Wassermans' only child, Lynne Kay, was born. She was named after the band leader Kay Kyser, an MCA client. Mr. Wasserman is survived by his wife and daughter and two grandchildren.
        Changed Image of Agents
        By 1946, Mr. Wasserman had risen to president of MCA. Dr. Stein retained his chairmanship but allowed the hard-charging Mr. Wasserman, who put in 16-hour days, seven days a week, to virtually run the growing company. Mr. Wasserman insisted that MCA agents rid themselves of their image of ''flesh peddlers,'' to use his own phrase. Instead of plaid suits and bright-colored shirts, he made them dress as he did -- dark suits, white shirts, dark narrow ties, black oxfords -- and emulate his long work hours, keeping themselves available to clients at any time.
        After World War II, MCA's client list grew to include almost every major actor. Mr. Wasserman brought them on board by providing for their welfare in ways large and small. He managed to keep out of the news Clark Gable's arrests for drunken driving and Betty Grable's premarital pregnancy and hurried wedding to Harry James.
        Reshaping Hollywood
        But it was Mr. Wasserman's successful assault on the seven-year contract system that endeared him most to many stars. He used Bette Davis as his vehicle, backing her decision to walk out on Warner Brothers in 1950. Jack Warner, the head of the studio, threatened to have Ms. Davis blackballed in Hollywood. But that same year, Mr. Wasserman landed her the lead in 20th Century Fox's ''All About Eve'' for $130,000 -- almost a record amount at the time for an actress.
        Mr. Wasserman then showed his stars who broke with the long-term contract system how to incorporate themselves and avoid high personal income taxes. Soon, besides receiving much greater incomes, MCA stars were able to choose their films, order script changes, approve directors and other cast members and sometimes demand a percentage of box-office revenue.
        These new arrangements brought enormous power and additional profits to MCA as well. Mr. Wasserman forced the film studios and the radio networks to pay his agency a percentage of their gross and 10 percent of every salary of MCA clients who were hired -- a practice called packaging. Mr. Wasserman virtually controlled the radio business, advancing his clients on network shows.
        In time, he decided to involve his agency directly in film and television production. ''I felt our organization was capable of earning more than 10 percent, and that we could do better on the other side of the table,'' he said of his strategy to The New York Times.
        This represented an obvious conflict of interest because MCA would be hiring actors and directors whom it was supposed to be representing. But in 1952, Mr. Wasserman obtained from the Screen Actors Guild a blanket exemption from union rules that forbade talent agencies from involving themselves in production. It helped that Ronald Reagan was president of the guild at the time: he was an MCA client grateful to Mr. Wasserman for having recently negotiated a long-term million-dollar contract for him with a studio.
        Mr. Wasserman also saw an opportunity to gain advantage from the refusal of the major film studios to license their movies for television. In 1957, he paid $50 million for Paramount Pictures' pre-1948 library of 750 films, thus providing MCA with another source of profits from television stations that were eager for programming. In 1958, MCA bought Universal's back lot for $11.3 million -- a formidable coup not only for film and television production work, but also because it sprawled over 367 acres of almost undeveloped Los Angeles real estate.
        Over the next decade, as Universal fell under MCA control, the lot would become the site of MCA's studios, the Universal Studios amusement park, a shopping complex and MCA's headquarters. Taking his cue from Disneyland, Mr. Wasserman turned the Universal lot into a profitable theme park, and then also pioneered the studio tour as an additional source of revenue from visitors.
        Trouble From Washington
        By 1960, MCA had been nicknamed the Octopus by resentful rival studios and agencies, and Washington began to take notice. In 1962, the Justice Department under Robert Kennedy as attorney general began antitrust proceedings against the company. At first, Mr. Wasserman fought back, organizing demonstrations and petitions from pro-MCA unions representing more than 20,000 Hollywood employees.
        But facing an antitrust suit, MCA agreed to give up its talent agency and keep the rest of its entertainment business, including Universal, Revue and Decca Records, which it had recently acquired. MCA could afford to lose the talent agency -- it accounted for only $8.5 million of the company's net income in 1961, compared with production profits of more than $72 million.
        But the battle with the Justice Department convinced Mr. Wasserman of the need to involve Hollywood in politics to safeguard its interests and MCA's profits. With Arthur Krim, the chairman of United Artists, he created the President's Club, giving business executives access to the president in exchange for generous campaign contributions. Mr. Wasserman's fund-raising for the Democratic Party made him a favorite of President Lyndon B. Johnson, who sounded him out about joining his cabinet as secretary of commerce. Mr. Wasserman declined the offer. Instead, in 1966, he persuaded Mr. Valenti, a close Johnson aide, to become president of the Motion Picture Association of America, the Washington lobby for the film industry.
        The 1970's were another boom era for MCA and Mr. Wasserman. In television, he pioneered production of the mini-series and one-hour police dramas. In the movies, he created the summer blockbuster, starting with ''Jaws'' in 1975. Until then, conventional wisdom in Hollywood called for the release of a new film first in New York and Los Angeles, and then slowly, as word-of-mouth and favorable reviews spread, through the rest of the country. But for ''Jaws,'' Mr. Wasserman took out prime-time television commercials for weeks before the movie was screened, and then had it released simultaneously in nearly 1,000 theaters nationwide. The same type of sweeping national publicity campaign was used with equal success for other MCA blockbusters, like ''Star Wars,'' ''Indiana Jones'' and ''E.T.'' Rival studios took notice and began marketing their big films the same way.
        Woes on Wall Street
        But even years of windfall profits did not immunize Mr. Wasserman during periods of declining earnings. In 1983, MCA share prices were falling, and there were whispers in Hollywood and Wall Street that at 70 Mr. Wasserman's days at the top were numbered. Then Steve Wynn, the casino entrepreneur, began buying the company's stock, apparently intending a takeover. Mr. Wasserman arranged for strong financial backing from other investors and banks, putting an end to the threat posed by Mr. Wynn.
        Wall Street was not impressed for long. MCA share prices lagged those of other, larger entertainment conglomerates -- Time Warner, Walt Disney, the News Corporation's Fox and the Sony Corporation's Columbia -- that were being created in part to deal with the mounting costs and risks of the blockbuster movies that Mr. Wasserman had been midwife to. Investment analysts began to view Mr. Wasserman's go-it-alone strategy as an obstacle to MCA's renewed profitability.
        In 1990, MCA agreed to be acquired by Matsushita, the Japanese industrial giant known for consumer electronics products with the trade names Panasonic, Quasar and Technics, for $6.13 billion. At the time, it was the largest takeover of an American company by a Japanese investor and the biggest in Hollywood history, and it gave foreign owners control over four of the seven major Hollywood studios. The deal also instantly created what was then the largest entertainment conglomerate in the world.
        Rather than be paid in cash and expose himself to huge tax liabilities, Mr. Wasserman received Matsushita preferred stock with a face value of $327 million and a guaranteed 8.75 percent annual dividend. His longtime MCA colleague, Sidney Sheinberg, received $90 million in cash.
        Matsushita signed them both to five-year contracts to continue managing MCA. Initially, Mr. Wasserman was optimistic that with the backing of plentiful Japanese capital, he and Mr. Sheinberg would soon restore MCA to the front ranks of the entertainment world. But the more conservative Japanese rejected Mr. Wasserman's proposals to expand MCA by making acquisitions that would keep pace with moves by other entertainment conglomerates. After arguments continued, Mr. Wasserman and Mr. Sheinberg told Matsushita executives that they would not renew their management contracts unless they were ceded more control over MCA.
        Matsushita responded by secretly negotiating the sale of 80 percent of MCA to Seagram in 1995 for $5.7 billion. What made the transaction all the more shocking was that Matsushita did not inform Mr. Wasserman, who for the last half-century had a reputation for keeping abreast of everything in the media business before it happened.
        Edgar Bronfman Jr., who took over as the new chairman of MCA and renamed it Universal Studios, kept Mr. Wasserman on as a consultant at $1 million a year with no defined responsibilities.
        At Universal Studios, which became part of Vivendi Universal when Vivendi of France acquired Seagram last year, Mr. Wasserman continued to show up for work every day at the studio headquarters building that had been named in his honor. He accepted with some humor his nebulous consultancy assignment, acknowledging that he did not do much to earn his salary.
        But, he told Variety in a 1998 interview, ''I am under contract here for the rest of my life, and I don't think they would throw me out of my office -- my name is on the building.''
      