
        Timothy Findley, the prolific Canadian author whose complex novels and intricately layered plays often probed the madness and immorality of the last century, died on Thursday in a hospital in the south of France. He was 71.
        Mr. Findley fractured his pelvis in a fall in early spring and died from related complications, said Iris Tupholme, his longtime editor and the publisher of HarperCollins Canada. He was also a heavy smoker and had congestive heart failure.
        For decades, Mr. Findley had been one of Canada's best-selling and most honored authors, though fame in the United States eluded him. Along with popular novels like ''The Piano Man's Daughter'' (Crown, 1996) and ''Pilgrim'' (HarperCollins, 1999), he produced memoirs, short stories and plays. His latest drama, ''Elizabeth Rex,'' about a meeting between William Shakespeare and Elizabeth I, opened in Birmingham, England, a few weeks ago.
        The theater was Mr. Findley's first love. He pursued acting for 15 years before Thornton Wilder and the actress Ruth Gordon convinced him that his real talent was writing. But even after becoming a best-selling author, he remained fascinated by the theater.
        In recent years, he and William Whitehead, his companion of more than 35 years, divided their time between Provence, France, and Stratford, Ontario, where Mr. Findley had first appeared onstage in the 1950's. That town is the setting for his most recent novel, ''Spadework'' (HarperCollins, 2001).
        Although his personal life was gentle and low-key, his novels often conveyed an emotional and visual power derived from his experience onstage and in writing television dramas early in his career. He created characters that struggled with a broad range of challenges and problems.
        ''His books, novels and plays reached a wide range of people,'' Ms. Tupholme said. ''He had an empathy about the dispossessed and the lonely.''
        Writing several years ago in The Globe and Mail, the Toronto daily, another Canadian writer, Neil Bissoondath, said Mr. Findley was ''a writer of prodigious talents who, through an uncalculated modesty, maintains the illusion that he is a simple spinner of tales.''
        ''And yet it is through this modesty that he achieves a quiet grandeur,'' Mr. Bissoondath added.
        Mr. Findley's books were popular in France, Germany and Italy as well. But though he was critically acclaimed in the United States, he never attracted a big following here, a problem he shared with a whole generation of Canadian writers who emerged in the 1960's and 70's.
        Mr. Findley's work resists classification. His novels are set in a variety of eras and places, and each has its own style. Writing of ''Pilgrim'' in The New York Times Book Review, James Polk called it ''an intense, bewitching mix of mystery, religion, history, psychology and philosophy that challenges and provokes while still managing to entertain.''
        Mr. Findley himself could not describe his inspiration. ''Without apology, I must admit that I cannot imagine why I have written what I have,'' he wrote in a biographical essay included in ''Contemporary Novelists'' (St. James Press, 2001). ''It does occur to me, however, that a thread runs through all my work that has to do with unlikely people being confronted with uncommon events.''
        Timothy Irving Frederick Findley, known throughout his life as Tiff, was born Oct. 30, 1930, in Toronto, the second son of Allan Findley, a domineering stockbroker, and his wife, Margaret. Weakened by recurring bouts of childhood illnesses, Mr. Findley spent long days confined to bed. During his convalescences, he scribbled romantic adventures.
        His illnesses interrupted his formal education so frequently that he stopped attending school after the 10th grade. He studied acting and, determined to make his mark onstage, became a charter member of the Stratford Festival in the early 1950's. He apprenticed with Alec Guinness and toured the United States and Britain with Ruth Gordon in Wilder's ''Matchmaker.''
        To settle an argument with her over whether young people were unduly pessimistic, he wrote a short story that he thought refuted her point and showed it to her and Wilder. Both encouraged him to put more time and energy into writing, which he decided to pursue full time.
        Mr. Findley wrote his manuscripts in longhand. Mr. Whitehead, a documentary writer he met in the 1960's, then typed them.
        At first, Mr. Findley turned out screenplays and documentaries for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. His first two novels achieved only modest success. It was not until he published his third novel, ''The Wars,'' a sweeping epic about the emotional breakdown of a soldier during World War I, that he won the wide audience that pushed him into the top ranks of authors.
        In 1977, ''The Wars'' won the Governor General's Award for fiction, Canada's most important literary prize. It was later made into a movie.
        In his literary career, Mr. Findley experimented with various forms. ''Not Wanted on the Voyage'' (Delacorte, 1985) is a dark tale about dissension on Noah's Ark, while ''The Telling of Lies'' (Dell, 1988) won an Edgar Award from the Mystery Writers of America.
        In all, Mr. Findley wrote 12 novels, 2 short story collections, 2 memoirs and 4 plays, with another, ''Shadows,'' nearing completion, Ms. Tupholme said. He won every major Canadian literary award and in 1997 was made a Chevalier de l'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres by France.
        Mr. Findley was married briefly in the 1950's to the Canadian actress Janet Reid. The marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by Mr. Whitehead.
      