
        Col. Henry A. Potter, who navigated the lead bomber in the United States' first attack on Japan in World War II, died on Memorial Day in Austin, Tex., where he lived. He was 83.
        Four months after Pearl Harbor, the Doolittle raid, named for the pilot of the lead plane, Lt. Col. James H. Doolittle, proved to a demoralized America that victories against Japan were possible.
        ''It was the first good news of the war for America,'' said Col. Carroll V. Glines, the historian for the Doolittle Raiders Association and author of three books about the raiders. ''We needed to offset the disaster at Pearl Harbor and the defeats that we had in the taking of Guam and the overrunning of the Philippines.''
        One by one on the morning of April 18, 1942, 16 B-25 bombers took off from the Hornet, an aircraft carrier lying in rough seas about 800 miles off Japan. In the navigator's position on the first plane was Lieutenant Potter, who was 23.
        At that time, Colonel Glines said, ''the navigator's job was to plot a course and to give corrections to that course to the pilot during the flight and to keep account of time and distance and wind drift corrections as best he could.''
        The planes were not able to return to the Hornet because its flight deck was too short to permit safe landing. The raiders were to take off 450 to 650 miles off Japan, bomb selected targets in and near Tokyo and fly to airfields in China, an ally.
        But the Hornet was spotted by a Japanese patrol boat, and the raiders had to take off sooner than expected -- too far from the airfields in China to land as they had intended.
        ''We didn't plan it for a suicide mission,'' Colonel Potter, who was known as Hank, said in an interview with The Minneapolis Star Tribune in 1992, ''but we essentially had no hope of making it to a safe landing when we took off.''
        Most of the men, including Lieutenant Potter, parachuted to safety in China. When Lieutenant Potter landed in a field, armed Chinese captured him and others from the plane and marched them along a road until a passing schoolteacher was able to speak to them in English.
        ''We were able to explain to him who we were,'' Colonel Potter recalled in 1992. ''He convinced his countrymen we were allies and he took us home and gave us breakfast.''
        Of the 80 men in the raid, two drowned swimming to shore after ditching their plane off the China coast and one was killed bailing out of his plane. Eight were captured. Of those, three were executed, one died in captivity and four were released after three and a half years.
        ''I don't think we exhibited any more courage than anyone else,'' Colonel Potter said in an interview with The Associated Press in 1990. ''I don't think any of us thought about anything other than that we were doing our jobs.''
        Eleven of Doolittle's Raiders died later in the war. Colonel Doolittle, who was awarded a Medal of Honor for the raid and was a lieutenant general when he retired, died at 96 in 1993. Twenty-one Doolittle's Raiders are still alive; they meet every year to remember the raid.
        Lieutenant Potter was made a major and retired from the Air Force in 1970 with the rank of colonel. He settled in Austin and raised money for the Confederate Air Force, now the Commemorative Air Force, a nonprofit group that preserves World War II-era combat aircraft.
        Colonel Potter's wife, Adell Theresa Potter, died in 1986. He is survived by two sisters, Lois Ackerman and Doris McMurtry, both of Eugene, Ore.; his son, Steven; five daughters, Teresa White, Karen Pardue, Cheryl Potter-Sharp, Cindy Gilchrist and Monica Love; 10 grandchildren; and a great-granddaughter.
        In 1990, Colonel Potter joined an expedition to the Zhejiang Province of China to search for wreckage of five Doolittle raid bombers that crashed there.
        The expedition was organized by Bryan Moon, a historian and an artist; two years later Mr. Moon reintroduced Colonel Potter to Zhu Xuesan, the schoolteacher who had translated for the young navigator 50 years earlier.
        ''It's a thing I never would have thought would happen,'' Colonel Potter said at the time. ''To be able to meet the man who helped me so much when I was wandering and tired and cold. It's just amazing.''
      