
        R. W. B. Lewis, the literary critic and Yale scholar who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1976 for his biography of Edith Wharton, died on Thursday at his home in Bethany, Conn. He was 84.
        Professor Lewis taught English and American studies at Yale from 1959 to 1988, but his knowledge and interests ranged over American and European literature and history. He established his scholarly reputation with his first book, ''The American Adam: Innocence, Tragedy and Tradition in the 19th Century'' (University of Chicago, 1955), a seminal work in the evolving discipline of American studies.
        He achieved equal distinction in literary criticism before a late career shift brought him perhaps greater eminence as a biographer. ''Edith Wharton: A Biography'' (Harper & Row, 1975) was immediately recognized as a masterpiece of literary biography -- ''one of the very best we have of an American writer,'' Quentin Anderson wrote in The New York Times Book Review.
        Along with the Pulitzer Prize in biography, the book received the Bancroft Prize for American history and the first National Book Critics Circle Award for nonfiction. It also revived critical and popular interest in Wharton, whose novels ''The Age of Innocence'' and ''The House of Mirth'' were later adapted as films.
        Professor Lewis's book on the family of Henry, William and Alice James, ''The Jameses: A Family Narrative'' (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 1991), was a finalist for the National Book Award. In The Times Book Review, Sergio Perosa praised its ''great compositional skill, relying on the latest psychological findings, mingling narrative ease with sensible interpretations of the works.''
        In recognition, Professor Lewis was awarded a gold medal for biography in 2000 by the American Academy of Arts and Letters. He had been elected to the academy in 1982.
        ''Dick Lewis bridged the academic world and the wider realm of letters,'' Richard C. Levin, the president of Yale, said in a statement. ''Though he wrote masterworks of criticism, he was also a literary figure who brought his sense of the romance of literature and literary biography to the classrooms of New Haven.''
        A popular lecturer at Yale, Professor Lewis was an easily recognizable figure on campus, with his shock of silver hair and neatly trimmed goatee. Students affectionately nicknamed him Colonel Sanders.
        Richard Warrington Baldwin Lewis was born on Nov. 1, 1917, the son of Leicester Crosby Lewis, an Episcopal minister, and Beatrix Baldwin Lewis. He graduated from Harvard with a degree in Renaissance history and literature and received his master's degree in late medieval and Renaissance cultural history from the University of Chicago in 1941.
        He served in Army intelligence in World War II in North Africa and the Middle East, then in Italy, where he served in a joint effort with British military intelligence to round up escaped Allied prisoners of war. His role abruptly switched from rescuer to refugee on his 26th birthday, when his nocturnal sea patrol was attacked by Germans. He swam to shore and was sheltered for six weeks by Italian families until he could walk 70 miles to where the British Eighth Army was fighting along the Sangro River.
        He was discharged with the rank of major in 1946 and resumed his studies at the University of Chicago, but with radically different interests. While stationed in Florence in the last months of the war, he read ''Moby-Dick.''
        ''Culturally speaking, it turned me around,'' Professor Lewis later wrote, making him ''wonder for the first time about the phenomenon of being an American.'' The result was his doctoral thesis, which became ''The American Adam.'' It argued that the defining myth of the United States ''was that of the authentic American as a figure of heroic innocence and vast potentialities, poised at the start of a new history.''
        Professor Lewis traced how writers and intellectuals ''rejoiced in and deplored'' this ''ideal of newborn innocence,'' a cultural theme that he said had persisted in novels like Ralph Ellison's ''Invisible Man,'' J. D. Salinger's ''Catcher in the Rye'' and Saul Bellow's ''Adventures of Augie March.''
        Professor Lewis taught at Bennington College from 1948 to 1950 before serving as dean of the Salzburg Seminar in American Studies from 1950 to 1951. He then taught at Smith College from 1951 to 1952 and at Rutgers University from 1954 to 1959, before moving to Yale. He married Nancy Lindau in 1950.
        His other books include ''The Picaresque Saint'' (1959), ''Trials of the Word'' (1965) and ''The Poetry of Hart Crane'' (1967). His tenure as a commissioner of the National Portrait Gallery, which began in 1986, led to ''American Characters'' (Yale University Press, 1999), a book in which paintings, photographs and drawings from the gallery were paired with commentary by Professor and Mrs. Lewis.
        Such inclusiveness also characterized the influential textbook Professor Lewis edited with two colleagues at Yale, Cleanth Brooks and Robert Penn Warren, ''American Literature: The Makers and the Making'' (1973). This two-volume survey included works by American Indians, women and black writers and argued for the centrality of such writings long before the first shots of the ''canon wars'' were fired.
        Professor Lewis's survivors include his wife, Nancy; a son, Nathaniel, of Burlington, Vt.; two daughters, Sophie, of Cambridge, Mass., and Emma, of Washington; and two granddaughters.
        ''Dante'' (Lipper/Viking, 2001), his last book, part of a series of short biographies, was a labor of love, combining his admiration for ''The Divine Comedy'' and the city of Florence, which he had often visited.
        In 1992 Professor Lewis wrote that ''my own view about literary canon-making in our American culture, or any other,'' could be set forth ''unequivocally: in the real life of literature, where it really counts, it is not the theorists, academic or otherwise, who determine the canon, but the writers themselves.''
      