
        Jack C. Montgomery, who won the Medal of Honor by storming three German positions in the Battle of Anzio in World War II, died on June 11 in Muskogee, Okla. He was 84.
        Two hours before dawn on Feb. 22, 1944, in pitched fighting near the small town of Padiglione, Italy, Lieutenant Montgomery's platoon faced three enemy positions, at 50 yards away, 100 yards and 300 yards. The closest had four machine guns and one mortar and threatened the immediate security of the platoon.
        He grabbed an M1 rifle and several hand grenades and left his platoon behind a stone wall. According to his award citation, he crawled up a ditch to within hand-grenade range of the enemy.
        ''Then climbing boldly onto a little mound, he fired his rifle and threw his grenades so accurately that he killed eight of the enemy and captured the remaining four,'' the official account said.
        He returned to his platoon and called for artillery fire on a house, the most distant enemy position. He then attacked the second position, killing three Germans and capturing seven. By the time he approached the house, it was daylight, but he ''ran fearlessly'' toward the position the citation said. His actions accounted for 11 dead, 32 prisoners and an unknown number of wounded.
        Jack Cleveland Montgomery was born near Long, Okla., on July 23, 1917. He was part Cherokee and attended public and Indian schools. He enrolled in what was then Bacone Junior College, founded to educate Indians. As a student there, he enlisted in Company I, 180th Infantry of the 45th Division of the Oklahoma National Guard.
        The division included Indians from more than 50 tribes and was integrated at a time when blacks and Asians were in segregated units. Its symbol was a Thunderbird, and members won eight Medals of Honor in World War II.
        Mr. Montgomery, a star running back on the football field, left the unit to accept a scholarship to the University of Redlands in Redlands, Calif., where he earned a physical education degree.
        When he returned to Oklahoma, the 45th Division was being mobilized. Mr. Montgomery re-enlisted and served for the required year. The unit trained at Fort Sill, Okla. He was discharged as a sergeant in September 1941.
        Immediately after Pearl Harbor, Mr. Montgomery enlisted again. He found himself going to war with friends from Bacone, which is now a four-year college.
        ''I knew them from the days when we'd go out and raise hell in the beer joint and things like that,'' he said in an interview with The Sunday Oklahoman in 1994. ''All of them were good soldiers, dependable,'' he said. ''If you went forward and said to somebody, 'Cover me,' you never looked back.''
        He saw action in Sicily as a platoon sergeant, and received a battlefield commission as a second lieutenant shortly before participating in the invasion of Salerno.
        On Jan. 22, 1944, he took part in another landing in Italy, this one near Anzio. That invasion cost the Allies more than 72,000 casualties, nearly five times the number suffered at Normandy. Though the invasion had stalled, by the last week in February, Allied troops were vigorously retaliating.
        ''The swift cutting edge of the greatest German onslaught in the Italian campaign has been blunted and stopped by the Allies on the beachhead below Rome,'' The New York Times reported on Feb. 22, the day Lieutenant Montgomery performed his heroics.
        That night, while aiding another unit, he was hit by mortar fragments and seriously wounded. In addition to the Medal of Honor (one of 22 awarded for the Anzio fighting), he earned the Silver Star, the Bronze Star and the Purple Heart with Cluster.
        After the war, Mr. Montgomery worked for the Veterans Administration in Muskogee and nearby towns. One day, the woman he was dating noticed something hanging on his office wall.
        ''Oh, that's just something I did back during the war,'' he said of his Medal of Honor, mentioning it for the first time. The woman, Joyce Magness, became his wife, and survives him, as do his sisters, Syble Claymore of Marksville, S.D., Hazel Johnson of Chickasha, Okla., and Okemah Arey of Tulsa.
        Mr. Montgomery loved fishing, watching wildlife and eating hamburgers with friends. His modesty was legendary.
        ''I was just doing the job I was supposed to be doing,'' he said. ''It just happened that I got lucky.''
      