
        Dr. Harold M. Visotsky, a psychiatrist who revamped the Illinois mental health system, creating a model that was adopted in much of the nation, died on June 16 in Park Ridge, Ill. A resident of Evanston, he was 78.
        The cause was bone marrow cancer, his wife, Gladys, said.
        In the 1960's, when Dr. Visotsky became the Illinois mental health director, the state offered little psychiatric care in general hospitals and provided no local psychiatric clinics, so patients were often treated at state hospitals far from their homes.
        Believing that patients would benefit from shorter stays at hospitals and being closer to their homes and families, Dr. Visotsky led a campaign to create psychiatric units in general hospitals and to build mental health clinics around the state.
        ''He was the conscience of Illinois during the 60's,'' said Dr. Norris Hansell, a former professor of psychiatry at Northwestern University. ''He advocated a basic change in the design of psychiatric care and set a pattern for other states to follow. He realized that the most important aspect of care is that it is local. But, in addition to having the intellectual idea, he also went around the state and advocated that it be done.''
        Although Dr. Visotsky's project took several years to complete, Dr. Hansell said, by the early 1980's the shift to local care in Illinois was mostly complete, and the major role played by state hospitals had diminished.
        Dr. Visotsky's success in Illinois was noticed around the country, leading other states to emulate his new system.
        After spending nearly two decades working to improve psychiatric care in the United States, Dr. Visotsky shifted his focus to reports of psychiatric abuse abroad.
        In the early 1980's, as chairman of the American Psychiatric Association's Committee on the Abuse of Psychiatry and Psychiatrists, he spoke out against the Soviet Union for placing mentally healthy political and religious dissidents in psychiatric hospitals.
        Facing accusations of abuse and under heavy pressure to provide information about psychiatric treatment of political dissidents, the Soviet All-Union Society of Psychiatrists and Neuropathologists suddenly quit the World Psychiatric Association in 1983.
        Though many of his colleagues reacted to the Soviet move with surprise and regret, Dr. Visotsky was steadfast, and called it ''an admission of guilt.''
        Four months later, when the comparable psychiatric group in Czechoslovakia followed the Soviet lead, Dr. Visotsky refused to back down, saying: ''We can't have a scientific body without ethics. It would have been unconscionable if we had refused to look at these abuses.''
        Dr. Hansell said, ''The committee he headed used the influence of the United States to get the Soviet Union to stop using hospitals to punish political activists.''
        Harold Meryl Visotsky was born on May 25, 1924, in Chicago. His education at the University of Illinois was interrupted when he served in World War II. He was among the first American soldiers to land in Normandy and also fought in the Battle of the Bulge.
        He returned home in 1945, and went on to receive his medical degree from Illinois.
        In 1969, he became chairman of the department of psychiatry at Northwestern's medical school. He was later president of the American College of Psychiatrists and the American Orthopsychiatric Association, among others.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Jeffrey, of Glencoe, Ill.; a daughter, Robyn Visotsky of Chicago; and two grandchildren.
      