
        John A. Murphy, the president of the Miller Brewing Company at the time it began brewing different beers for different people, started advertising on sports broadcasts and introduced Miller Lite, died on Sunday at a hospital in his hometown of Glen Cove, N.Y. He was 72.
        He died of complications after surgery for a ruptured aneurysm in his aorta, his son, John A. Murphy Jr., said.
        A year after Philip Morris acquired the Miller Brewing Company in 1970, Mr. Murphy was named its chief executive. He became president of the company in 1972.
        Under his leadership, Miller Brewing rose from seventh largest in American beer sales to second, a perch from which it challenged the industry leader, Anheuser-Busch.
        Much of Miller's growth was attributed to Mr. Murphy's decision to transform the company's beer business from one that was focused on a single brand to one that made different beers for various segments of the drinking public.
        Besides new products and packaging for each new beer, Mr. Murphy used Philip Morris's big advertising budget to promote the Miller brands. Ads for Miller High Life, which had long been sold as the ''champagne of bottled beer,'' were redirected to appeal to blue-collar workers.
        ''John was the one who said Miller High Life had to come out of the champagne bucket and into the lunch bucket without spilling a drop,'' a spokeswoman at Miller Brewing Company, Patti Brash McKeithan, said. ''He was the one who realized that we had to transition that whole image of Miller High Life into the working man's beer.''
        For several years, Mr. Murphy bought commercial time on television network sports programs and used football players to promote his products.
        Perhaps most notably, he is credited with creating the low-calorie beer category in 1975 with the introduction of Miller Lite. He worked closely with advertisers who would later link the slogan, ''It's Miller Time,'' with the product.
        At the height of Miller's battles with Anheuser-Busch, Mr. Murphy was said to have had a rug under his desk with the Anheuser-Busch logo, on which he wiped his feet.
        After 13 years at Miller, Mr. Murphy was named president of Philip Morris in 1984, a post he held until 1991, when he became vice chairman of the parent company. During his tenure, Philip Morris became the largest American tobacco company in Africa, Latin America and Europe.
        In 30 years at Philip Morris and its subsidiaries, Mr. Murphy was also an executive vice president overseeing Miller, the Seven-Up Company and the Mission Viejo Company, a California-centered real estate subsidiary.
        Mr. Murphy retired from Philip Morris in 1992.
        John Arthur Murphy was born on Dec. 15, 1929, in the Bronx, a son of Irish immigrants. He graduated from Villanova University in 1951 with a bachelor's degree in accounting and received a law degree from Columbia University in 1953.
        He went to work for the law firm of Conboy, Hewitt, O'Brien & Boardman before joining Philip Morris in 1962 as an assistant general counsel.
        Mr. Murphy received a number of awards during his career. In 1977, he was named ''ad man of the year'' by the editors of Advertising Age magazine. In 1979, Sales and Marketing Executives International designated him its ''marketing statesman of the year.''
        In addition to John Jr., of Oconomowoc, Wis., Mr. Murphy is survived by his wife, Carole; his sons, Kevin, of Highlands Ranch, Colo.; Robert, of Bethesda, Md.; and Timothy, of Morrow, Ohio; his daughters, Kellyann Jones, of Milwaukee, and Kathleen Conran, of Glen Cove; and 20 grandchildren.
        Although Mr. Murphy had long retired from Philip Morris, he went to the company's Manhattan offices at least once a week, his son, John, said.
        His son said the family would probably conduct a true Irish wake.
        ''He was a Miller Lite man,'' John said. ''He would like to make sure that at the end of the Mass, everybody would raise a glass of beer to him. I think we'll all just propose a toast. He always said, 'An Irishman's dream is to die and go to heaven and run a brewery.' ''
      