
        Joseph Garba, a Nigerian soldier turned diplomat who helped organize a military coup that briefly restored civilian rule to his country, died on Saturday in the capital, Abuja. He was 58.
        No cause of death was given in The Associated Press report of his death.
        On July 29. 1975, Colonel Garba and a number of other middle-ranking army officers, led by Brig. Murtala Ramat Muhammad, overthrew the Nigerian military government of Gen. Yakubu Gowan in a bloodless coup and set themselves a four-year timetable for restoring democracy.
        In this transition period, General Garba, as he became in 1979, was Nigeria's foreign minister, first under the provisional government formed by General Muhammed, as he became, and then, after his assassination in 1976, under the government of Gen. Olusegun Obasanjo.
        As foreign minister, General Garba served as president of the Organization of African Unity meeting of foreign ministers on economic issues, and then as leader of the Nonaligned Conference in Colombo, Sri Lanka, in 1976; and as chairman of the organization's Good Offices Committee on the Arbitration of Disputes from 1975 to 1978.
        In 1987, General Garba published an account of these years, ''Diplomatic Soldiering''( Spectrum Books), which opened with an arresting description of the 1975 coup, ''The senior officers were late arriving in Lagos, and I was fed up listening to my voice, over and over again on the radio,'' announcing the takeover.
        In 1978 a National Constituent Assembly approved a new democratic constitution for Nigeria. In elections the next year, Alhaji Shehu Shagari was elected federal president and Dr. Alex Ekwueme vice president. But in 1983 a group of senior military officers under Gen. Muhammadu Buhari seized power.
        The next year, General Garba, who had retired from the army in 1980, was appointed Nigeria's permanent representative at the United Nations, serving there until 1989. As chairman of the Special Committee Against Apartheid, he led the fight at the United Nations against racial discrimination in South Africa. In 1989 he was elected president of the 44th United Nations General Assembly.
        Joseph Nanven Garba was born July 17, 1943, at Langtang, on the Jos Plateau in central Nigeria. After military training in Nigeria and Britain, he became, at 19, the youngest officer in the Nigerian Army.
        He rose to command the elite Brigade of Guards at Dodan Barracks in Lagos and was in charge of General Gowan's personal security at the time when Colonel Garba and the others ousted him, in despair over whether General Gowan would ever return the country to civilian rule.
        ''The army had become so unpopular we used to drive to work in civilian clothes and change at the barracks,'' he recalled in a 1989 interview.
        After leaving the army, General Garba earned a master's degree in public administration at Harvard. After his work at the United Nations, he returned to Nigeria and became a political analyst.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Evelyn Okon Edem, a son and five daughters.
      