
        Martin Esslin, a drama critic, teacher and author of ''The Theater of the Absurd,'' a seminal book that identified and codified experimental playwrights with a tragicomic view of what he called ''a world that has gone mad,'' died on Feb. 24 in London. He was 83.
        For many years, Mr. Esslin was a producer for BBC radio and he wrote books on various theatrical subjects. But it was his invention of the term Theater of the Absurd and the publication of the book with that title that certified his position as one of the most influential critics of the second half of the 20th century.
        In his book, he linked Samuel Beckett, Jean Genet, Arthur Adamov and Eugène Ionesco with younger playwrights like Harold Pinter, Edward Albee and Fernando Arrabal at a time -- 1961 -- when they were regarded as artistic outsiders. Eventually, with the encouragement of Mr. Esslin and others, they were accepted as theatrical innovators.
        As he wrote, ''The Theater of the Absurd strives to express its sense of the senselessness of the human condition and the inadequacy of the rational approach by the open abandonment of rational devices and discursive thought,'' and it does so through ''a poetry that is to emerge from the concrete and objectified images of the stage itself.''
        Mr. Esslin was neither didactic nor dogmatic in his analysis, stressing the differences as well as the similarities among the playwrights in his canon. He was well aware that his book provoked dissent. The year after it was published, he wrote: ''Having -- to coin a phrase -- 'coined a phrase,' I am in two minds about it whether I should feel a thrill of pride every time I read a reference to the Theater of the Absurd in a newspaper or a book; or whether I should not rather hide my head in shame. If terms like this were copyright and I got a royalty payment every time the phrase is used, I should be a rich man by now.''
        In the preface to the second edition, he said that the expression had become a catch phrase and had been treated ''as though it corresponded to an organized movement, like a political party or a hockey team.'' The term, he said, was simply ''a working hypothesis.''
        As a critic and essayist, Mr. Esslin had rigorous standards, but he was always open to new experiences, a trait that led him to champion playwrights like Mr. Beckett, Mr. Pinter and Tom Stoppard early in their careers. He wrote astutely about them and others, including Bertolt Brecht in his book, ''Brecht: The Man and His Work'' (Doubleday, 1960). His other books included studies of Antonin Artaud and Mr. Pinter.
        In ''The Field of Drama'' (Methuen, 1987), he reached out to analyze the semiotics of drama in movies and television as well as theater. In all its forms, he said, ''drama provides some of the principal role models by which individuals form their identity and ideals, sets patterns of communal behavior, forms values and aspirations and has become part of the collective fantasy life of the masses.''
        Mr. Esslin was born Julius Pereszlenyi in Budapest in 1918 and grew up in Vienna. He studied at the University of Vienna and at Max Reinhardt's seminar of dramatic art, preparing to become a theater director. But when the Nazis came to Austria, he fled to Belgium and then to England, where he changed his name to Martin Julius Esslin and began to work for the BBC as a scriptwriter and producer. Eventually he became head of the BBC radio drama department and presented plays by many of his favorite playwrights, including Beckett, whose ''Rough for Radio II'' was performed by Mr. Pinter, Patrick Magee and Billie Whitelaw.
        In 1947, Mr. Esslin married Renate Gerstenberg, who collaborated with him in translating plays from German into English. She survives him, along with their daughter, Monica; both live in London.
        The publication of ''The Theater of the Absurd'' changed his life. As it became a standard text in colleges as well as theaters, he was frequently invited to lecture and write essays. For several decades, he taught theater at Florida State University and Stanford University, dividing his time beween the United States and England. He also wrote reviews and articles for The New York Times and for English publications.
        Writing about Jan Kott, a fellow critic and European émigré, Mr. Esslin placed him in a grand tradition as one of the ''truly creative thinkers whose contributions set in motion new lines of speculation and research,'' words that could also be applied to Mr. Esslin himself.
      