
        Leslie Midgley, a newspaperman who overcame his skepticism about television and became producer of 1,500 programs for CBS News, including coverage of the Kennedy assassination, its aftermath and the fall of Saigon, died yesterday in White Plains. He was 87.
        The cause was pneumonia, said his daughter, Leslie Rand Midgley. He was admitted to White Plains Hospital last Saturday after falling at his home in Hartsdale, N.Y.
        Mr. Midgley joined CBS News in the mid-1950's, when the division's stars included Charles Collingwood, Alexander Kendrick, Eric Sevareid and Walter Cronkite. He produced programs for all of them, and was executive producer of ''The Evening News,'' with Mr. Cronkite, from 1967 to 1972.
        Mr. Midgley won numerous Emmy, Peabody and other broadcasting awards for programs notable in the television news coverage of American history.
        He produced the four evenings of CBS news programming after the Kennedy assassination, pioneering what became known as ''the instant special.'' His decadelong coverage of the Vietnam War culminated in a three-hour review on the night Saigon fell in 1975.
        His four-part documentary analyzing the Warren Commission report on the killing of President Kennedy was considered among the most substantive and balanced of its kind. He and his colleagues, including Mr. Cronkite, found no conspiracy -- try as they might.
        ''Everyone hoped we would find a conspiracy, and we never could,'' he said in a Variety interview. ''Walter and I used to say, 'Wouldn't it be great if we uncovered a conspiracy; we'd be big heroes in journalism.' ''
        Leslie Grant Midgley was born on Jan. 18, 1915, in Salt Lake City to J. George Midgley, an insurance salesman, and his wife, Ann. He attended Latter-Day Saints College and the University of Utah before dropping out to take a job as a cub reporter with The Deseret News in Salt Lake City.
        He became an old-fashioned newspaper journeyman, moving from paper to paper as a reporter, makeup editor or rewrite person, with stops in Denver, Louisville, Washington and Chicago. One day in Chicago, he decided to take the 20th Century Limited to New York, where nine newspapers were locked in spirited competition.
        ''New York is the big town,'' he wrote in his memoir, ''How Many Words Do You Want?'' (Birch Lane Press, 1989) ''To make it, you have to make it there. Nothing else really counts.''
        He ended up at The New York Herald Tribune, socializing with such writers as John Lardner, A. J. Liebling and James Thurber. In the late 1940's, he was assigned to The Herald Tribune in Paris.
        He next worked for magazines, including Look, for which he was foreign editor and managing editor.
        He joined CBS in 1954, and his first job was working as a writer on a pilot project for a new morning program, ''F.Y.I.'' The other writer was Andy Rooney.
        Next, Mr. Midgley was producer of a half-hour news program with Mr. Sevareid. In 1956, he began to produce special broadcasts on international breaking news. One was ''The World in Crisis,'' covering the Hungarian revolt and the Suez invasion. Another, ''The Face of Red China,'' won Emmy and Peabody Awards.
        In 1959, he was appointed producer of ''Eyewitness to History'' -- later shortened to ''Eyewitness'' -- which provided a detailed report on a major story of the week. He made creative use of the new combination of videotape and jet airplanes to cover events anywhere in the world for broadcast the same day. The series produced 148 programs.
        At the time of the Kennedy assassination, Mr. Midgley was responsible for all the prime-time coverage and Don Hewitt, the producer of ''60 Minutes,'' produced the daytime broadcasts. Mr. Midgley then turned his attention to the Vietnam War until his appointment to produce the evening news. He returned to documentary production in 1972.
        In 1980, at 65, he joined NBC News as vice president for special programs, his first job on the corporate side of a news organization. It did not suit him, and he turned to teaching and consulting.
        A tall, dignified man with a sometimes intimidating demeanor, Mr. Midgley expected competence, assuming, for example, that a cameraman would know exactly what to do without being told.
        ''Don't tell 'em nuthin,'' said a sign on his office door. In his memoir, he expressed the concern that network news was ''not getting better in editorial quality, despite dazzling technical advances.''
        Mr. Midgley's first wife, the former Jean Burke, died in an accident in 1965. Mr. Cronkite introduced Mr. Midgley to the television reporter and consumer advocate Betty Furness, whom he married in 1967; she died in 1994.
        Mr. Midgley is survived by two daughters, Leslie Midgley of Hague, N.Y., and Andrea Connors of Cortlandt Manor, N.Y.; a son, Peter, of Mesa, Ariz.; a stepdaughter, Babbie Green of Sherman Oaks, Calif.; two sisters, Ann Gowans of Columbia, Mo., and Joy Orr of Salt Lake City; a brother, Grant, of Salt Lake City; two grandchildren; and a step-granddaughter.
      