
        Douglas Glenn Colvin, better known as Dee Dee Ramone, the founding bassist and songwriter of the pioneering punk band the Ramones, died on Wednesday in Los Angeles of an apparent heroin overdose. He was 50, and lived in Hollywood.
        The Los Angeles County Coroner's Office said that his wife, Barbara, came home and found him unconscious on a couch with drug paraphernalia nearby. A rescue team confirmed that he was dead at 8:40 p.m. Capt. David Campbell of the coroner's office said the cause of death appeared to be an accidental drug overdose. An autopsy was performed yesterday and toxicological tests are being done.
        Mr. Ramone was the punkiest member of the Ramones, the four-man band from Queens that defined punk rock. The band's lead singer, Joey Ramone, died of cancer last year. This year, the first year they were eligible, the Ramones were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. ''I'd like to congratulate myself,'' Mr. Ramone said then.
        Johnny Ramone, the band's guitarist, said in a statement after his bandmate's death: ''Dee Dee and I started the Ramones in 1974 and have been friends since 1969. In 33 years, we have been through a lot. This is very shocking to me. He was a star and the most influential punk-rock bassist. I believe he has influenced every kid playing bass that saw him perform.''
        He had a gift for writing the kind of terse, tuneful songs that made the Ramones a worldwide influence on rock. He wrote punk-rock standards including ''Teenage Lobotomy'' and ''Rockaway Beach,'' songs that distilled frustration, humor and pleasure into a few words and a few chords. His later songs, like ''Poison Heart'' and ''Too Tough to Die,'' grew darker but no less concise. After he left the Ramones in 1989, tired of touring, he continued to write songs for the Ramones, even as he recorded solo albums.
        Mr. Ramone also had a volatile personality and a long history of drug use, though in recent years his friends thought he had left heroin behind. ''He was really the ultimate punk,'' said Arturo Vega, the Ramones' art director. ''He always did what he wanted, and he never settled for anything. He should be remembered as somebody that showed us how much fun it was and how much it hurt to be a real punk.''
        Legs McNeil, who started Punk magazine in the 1970's, said yesterday: ''Dee Dee was very charming, he was very cute. He was the Paul McCartney of the Ramones. But you never knew when he was going to go off. I think it takes really disturbed people to make great rock and roll, and Dee Dee was a greatly disturbed person. I don't think he had a peaceful day on the planet.''
        Douglas Colvin was born in Fort Lee, Va. His father was in the United States Army, and the family spent time in Korea, Japan and then Germany, where Douglas grew up. His autobiography: ''Lobotomy: Surviving the Ramones'' (Thunder's Mouth Press, 2000), says both his parents were heavy drinkers and that his father regularly beat him and his sister, Beverly. She survives him along with his mother, Tony, who left Mr. Colvin in the late 1960's.
        Tony Colvin moved her children to New York in the late 1960's. They settled in Forest Hills, Queens, where Douglas met the future members of the Ramones, described in ''Lobotomy'' as ''the obvious creeps of the neighborhood.'' He began using LSD and then heroin and dropped out of high school. He tried petty crime as a drug dealer and mugger.
        He and John Cummings, who became Johnny Ramone, decided to start a band; Jeffrey Hyman (Joey Ramone) started out on drums and became the group's lead singer, and their manager, Tommy Erdelyi (Tommy Ramone), became the drummer. A new club on the Lower East Side, CBGB, booked them.
        ''The first time they played it was terrible,'' Hilly Kristal, the owner of CBGB, recalled recently. ''They didn't get good for a few months. But when they did, they played 20 songs in 17 minutes without stopping and that caused a sensation.''
        From 1976 to 1978 the Ramones turned out four albums -- ''Ramones,'' ''Leave Home,'' ''Rocket to Russia'' and ''Road to Ruin'' -- that became punk cornerstones. Radio stations ignored the music, but the Ramones toured and recorded constantly, a routine that wearied the band even as it persevered.
        In 1989 Mr. Ramone made a rap album, ''Standing in the Spotlight.'' Soon afterward, he quit the Ramones, tired of years touring and bickering with the other members. He made solo albums for independent labels: ''I Hate Freaks Like You'' in 1995, ''Zonked!!'' in 1997 and ''Greatest and Latest'' in 2000, and he toured on his own. He wrote his autobiography, ''Lobotomy,'' and a novel, ''Chelsea Horror Hotel'' (2001). Another novel, ''Legend of a Rock Star,'' is to be published by Thunder's Mouth Press in the fall. On May 4 he performed Ramones songs at the Roseland Ballroom for a BookExpo America party with C. J. Ramone, who replace him on bass, and Marky Ramone, Tommy Ramone's successor on drums. He met his wife, Barbara Zampini, in Argentina, and they married in 1997.
        He also began collaborating with Mr. Vega on paintings in a style they called Minimalist Nihilism; to Mr. Vega's geometric shapes, Mr. Ramone added words and drawings. For their first collaboration, a square divided into black and white rectangles, he drew a ''good Dee Dee'' and ''the other Dee Dee,'' who had devil's horns.
        ''He was a demon in angel's disguise,'' said Danny Fields, the Ramones' first manager. ''He was a true rock star.''
      