
        Truck Parham, a Chicago bassist who became known throughout the country playing with some of the biggest names in jazz during seven decades and crossing stylistic boundaries, died on June 5 in Chicago, where he lived. He was 91.
        Although he came of age in the early days of jazz and was usually thought of as a traditionalist, Mr. Parham was at home in many different contexts. In the 1950's he demonstrated his versatility by working with the Dixieland cornetist Muggsy Spanier, the swing drummer Louis Bellson and the bebop saxophonist Gigi Gryce.
        Mr. Parham, whose original name was Charles Valdez Parham, was born in Chicago on Jan. 25, 1911. He acquired his nickname in the early 1930's while working with the Zack Whyte band in Cincinnati. Although he had begun his career in 1928 as a tuba player, he joined the Whyte band as a singer and doubled as a valet, helping the musicians carry their instruments -- hence the name Truck.
        He also briefly pursued careers as a boxer and a football player in an all-black league before deciding to concentrate on music.
        The string bass was rapidly replacing the tuba in jazz bands in the 1930's, and Mr. Parham was one of the first tuba players to make the transition. The Kansas City-based jazz bassist and bandleader Walter Page, best known for his work with Count Basie, was living in Cincinnati at the time, and he gave Mr. Parham bass lessons in exchange for his services as a bodyguard.
        In 1935 Mr. Parham moved back to Chicago, where he studied with Nate Gangursky, a bassist with the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, and worked with groups led by the drummer Zutty Singleton, the pianist Art Tatum and the trumpeter Roy Eldridge. His powerful and buoyant bass lines -- and his ability to meet the harmonic challenge of accompanying virtuosos like Tatum and Eldridge -- made him a mainstay of the busy Chicago jazz scene.
        He became known across the country when the Chicago pianist Earl Hines hired him in 1940. His records with the Hines band included ''Jelly Jelly,'' featuring a vocal by Billy Eckstine, which became a sizable hit. After two years with Hines, Mr. Parham joined Jimmie Lunceford's big band, with which he toured and recorded extensively until Lunceford's death in 1947.
        He then returned to Chicago, which remained his home for the rest of his life. In 1957 he began an association, which lasted more than two decades, with another local musician who specialized in traditional jazz, the pianist Art Hodes. Mr. Parham remained active on the Chicago jazz scene, occasionally making appearances at jazz festivals all over the world, until health problems slowed him down a few years ago.
        Mr. Parham's wife, Treopia, died in 1998. He is survived by two daughters, Lynn Shelton and Rita Banks, and three granddaughters.
      