
        Dr. Donald S. Fredrickson, the former director of the National Institutes of Health and the Howard Hughes Medical Research Institute who discovered two genetic disorders and was a leading researcher on the links between lipids and fats and heart disease, died on Friday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 77.
        Dr. Fredrickson's wife, Henriette, found him floating in their backyard pool. Rescue workers could not resuscitate him. Foul play was not suspected, the police said.
        Dr. Fredrickson spent more than 20 years at the institutes where, in 1965, he and colleagues developed a system to classify a group of abnormalities of fatty substances known as lipids by studying how they bind to proteins in the blood. The system is now used throughout the world.
        After Dr. Fredrickson became director of the N.I.H. in 1975, he said he was unprepared for the battles over the safety of recombinant DNA technology and genetic engineering. About that time, the City Council in Cambridge, Mass., debated a ban on such gene splicing technology in laboratories there. From his office, Dr. Fredrickson mediated the dispute and helped develop guidelines on the research by the health institutes. That calmed fears of the technology, which went on to create a way to discover and develop protein-based drugs like human insulin and erythropoietin.
        Dr. Fredrickson, who was criticized for protecting scientists' interests, was forced by the secretary of health, education and welfare, Joseph A. Califano Jr., to expand an advisory panel to include a number of nonscientists. The action helped defuse the issue.
        In 1984, Dr. Fredrickson became the first full-time president of the Howard Hughes Medical Research Institute in Bethesda. The organization supports scientists and medical laboratories. He was forced to resign in 1987 after an investigation found an unauthorized $200,000 account and other financial irregularities that involved his wife. The couple strongly denied wrongdoing.
        Donald Sharp Fredrickson was born in Canon City, Colo. In World War II, he enlisted in the reserves at the University of Colorado before transferring to the University of Michigan. He wanted to learn languages, but he studied engineering instead, because Army tests showed that he had an aptitude for it. After another aptitude test, he chose medicine and received his degree from Michigan in 1949. He trained in Boston.
        On a European bike trip, Dr. Fredrickson met his future wife, Henriette Priscilla Dorothea Eckhof, a law student in her native Netherlands. They married in 1950.
        The genetic disorders that Dr. Fredrickson found were Tangier disease, which results from the absence of a type of lipoprotein, high density, and cholesterol ester storage disease, which results from a deficiency of a lysosomal enzyme.
        In 1974, Dr. Fredrickson first left the N.I.H., where he had been a researcher and an administrator, to be president of the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences. He returned when President Gerald R. Ford appointed him director, a post he held until 1981.
        Survivors include his wife and two sons, Eric Henderikus of Columbus, Ohio, and Rurik Charles of Bethesda.
      