
        John B. Keane, an Irish writer who recorded the voice of a disappearing generation from his pub in County Kerry, died on Thursday in his beloved hometown, Listowel. He was 73.
        Mr. Keane died of complications from prostate cancer, which he had been battling for eight years and had mentioned in his writings.
        Known to his friends as John B., he wrote 18 plays and 32 works of prose and poetry, including ''The Field,'' which was made into a Hollywood film in 1990.
        Mr. Keane's death came on the eve of the annual Listowel Writers' Festival, a weeklong event at which he had long been a dominating and avuncular presence, holding court at the famous watering hole that bears his name. He gathered the voices for his characters over its counter and wrote on a manual typewriter in an office above the bar.
        While Mr. Keane's novels met with popular success, it was his stage writing that struck a nerve in Irish society. Plays like ''Sive'' and ''Big Maggie'' offered an intimate yet unromantic view of Irish country people, reaching mass theater audiences in an era when few Irish had television sets.
        While Mr. Keane embraced the power of myth and the irrational, he explored the complicated psychology of the Irish countryside through straightforward tales: a matchmaker who sells a young girl to an old farmer; a domineering matriarch vainly fighting against her age; a farmer who confronts an outsider over rights to his land.
        ''What made him a genuine folk dramatist was his refusal to take on face value the notion that Irish country people were simple, devout creatures,'' the critic Fintan O'Toole wrote in The Irish Times. ''He imagined their world as an almost medieval one, in which the forces of darkness and of light, the devils and the angels, were at war. Monsters from the psychic deep . . . interested him far more than the angst of modern living.''
        Born in Listowel in 1928, Mr. Keane grew up in a family of 10 children. He came to adore Kerry, a fiercely proud and independent county that juts out into the Atlantic on Ireland's southwest coast. His parents had been actively involved in Ireland's struggle for independence from Britain and its subsequent civil war in the 1920's. He remained a lifelong supporter of Fine Gael, the party founded by Michael Collins.
        He lived briefly in England in the 1950's, but returned to live the rest of his life in Listowel. A road that circles the town's outskirts is named after him.
        Mr. Keane wrote ''Sive,'' his first play, when he was 30. It was rejected by Ireland's national theater, the Abbey, but the play put him on the map when it won first prize at the amateur All-Ireland Drama Festival in 1959. He then wrote at a breakneck pace, producing seven plays over the next four years. His output slowed somewhat in the mid-1970's and 80's, but a 1986 novel, ''The Bodhran Makers,'' won new audiences and is regarded as among his best work. A lighthearted stage comedy, ''Matchmake-Me-Do,'' had its debut in 2000.
        In a 1994 interview about ''The Bodhran Makers,'' he said, ''I was writing about people I knew, people who lived about two miles from Listowel, and that I'd grown up with. They're all gone now, but they made me their spokesperson and I felt a responsibility to tell their story, to preserve a wonderful tradition in written form.''
        Mary McAleese, the president of Ireland, and the prime minister, Bertie Ahern, both offered tributes to Mr. Keane after his death was announced.
        As he wished, his death did not stop the annual writers' festival in Listowel. A performance of a Keane play quickly sold out on Thursday evening, and the atmosphere in the town has been described as a lingering wake celebrating his life.
        Mr. Keane is survived by his wife, Mary; three sons, Billy, Conor and John; a daughter, Joanna; and a large extended family.
        A nephew, Feargal Keane, a reporter for the BBC, recounted Mr. Keane's advice on writing in an article in The Irish Times: ''Don't mind the big fellows. They can look out for themselves. Listen out for the small man. He'll tell you the truth.''
      