
        Ralph Shapey, a composer whose idiosyncratic style combined the astringent angularity and structural rigor of Serialism with a Romantic passion for lush textures, grand gestures and lyrical melodies, died yesterday at a Chicago hospital. He was 81 and lived in Chicago.
        His wife, Elsa Charlston, said the cause was heart and kidney failure.
        Mr. Shapey was a singular force in American composition. Stocky with shocks of unruly white hair and a full beard, he could be outspoken. He regularly railed against the public's indifference to complex contemporary works -- not least his own -- and he was so embittered by his inability to win a large following in the 1960's that for several years he discouraged performances of his works and claimed that he had abandoned composition.
        Actually, he continued to compose, and he did nothing to stop performers like the violinist Paul Zukofsky, who ignored the ban.
        Despite his perpetual sense of having been slighted, Mr. Shapey had long been regarded as one of the most important and original contemporary composers. Nor did his work go unrewarded. In 1982 he received a MacArthur Foundation grant of over $400,000. At the time, he was so used to being passed over that when someone from the foundation called with the news, Mr. Shapey asked, ''Which of my friends or enemies put you up to this?'' and slammed down the telephone. He also won first prize in the Kennedy Center Friedheim Competition in 1990, and he had works commissioned by the Philadelphia Orchestra and the Chicago Symphony.
        Still, he was disappointed never to have won a Pulitzer Prize, for which he was a candidate several times. In 1992 the music jury voted to give him the prize for his hourlong ''Concerto Fantastique.'' But at the last minute, the Pulitzer board overruled its jury and awarded the prize to Wayne Peterson, another composer with atonal leanings.
        Mr. Shapey was tremendously influential as a teacher. Soon after he joined the University of Chicago in 1964, he founded the Contemporary Chamber Ensemble, a new-music group that earned national prominence for its performances of the full range of contemporary styles, including those that Mr. Shapey didn't like much but considered important.
        ''Look, I bluntly admit, I hate John Cage and company,'' he said in 1981. ''I've conducted that music, but I hate it; I think it's monstrous; I despise it. I really don't love the 12-tone boys, either. They don't love me and I don't love them. But I've done Schoenberg and Babbitt and Carter.''
        His own music, which he composed prolifically, was full of conflicting impulses. Typically, he would begin a work with a daunting patch of bleakness or angularity, which would gradually and inexorably melt into warm and sometimes tender lyricism. In that regard, Mr. Shapey's personality often seemed directly reflected in his work: beneath a gruff and craggy veneer lurked a Romanticist who would shine through when given the chance.
        Mr. Shapey was born in Philadelphia and began his musical studies as a violinist. When he was 16 he began conducting the Philadelphia Youth Orchestra, but was also becoming increasingly interested in composition. In 1945 he moved to New York to study composition with Stefan Wolpe, a student of Arnold Schoenberg who had developed a richly personalized style that was rooted in Serialism, but was also indebted to everything from jazz and Jewish music to the sweeping Romanticism of the late 19th century.
        Mr. Shapey was profoundly influenced by Wolpe's expressive breadth, and charted his own path in the same spirit. He did not make immediate headway as a composer in New York, so he supported himself by teaching at the Third Street Settlement and working as a file clerk. He did, however, become friendly with artists like Willem de Kooning, for whom the Expressionist currents in Mr. Shapey's work struck a sympathetic chord.
        In addition to composing and teaching, Mr. Shapey conducted the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, the London Symphony and the London Sinfonietta.
        He is survived by his wife; a son, Max, of Evanston, Ill.; a stepson, Eric Charlston of New York; a step-daughter, Rondi Charleston of Westport, Conn.; and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  June 21, 2002, Friday  An obituary of the American composer Ralph Shapey on Saturday misidentified a teacher with whom one of his own teachers -- Stefan Wolpe -- studied. Mr. Wolpe's teacher was Anton Webern, not Arnold Schoenberg. (Mr. Webern, in turn, studied with Mr. Schoenberg.)
      