
        Gino Merli, who was awarded the Medal of Honor in World War II for operating a machine gun that blocked a German advance at a United States Army outpost in Belgium, died last Tuesday at his home in Peckville, Pa. He was 78.
        He had heart and kidney problems and Parkinson's disease, his family said.
        Mr. Merli fought with the First Infantry Division in two epic battles. On June 6, 1944, he took part in the D-Day invasion of Normandy, going ashore at Omaha Beach. In December 1944, he was in the Battle of the Bulge.
        But it was a firefight outside a Belgian town, midway between those two campaigns, that brought him the nation's highest award for valor.
        On Sept. 4, 1944, Private Merli was a machine-gunner with the First Infantry Division's 18th Infantry when 14 men from his company set up a roadblock near the village of Sars la Bruyere, a few miles from the French border.
        At least 100 German soldiers came down a cobblestone road, and their fire knocked out one of the Americans' two machine-gun positions. Private Merli and his assistant gunner killed several members of the German patrol from the surviving machine-gun position, but then Private Merli's assistant was killed by return fire.
        The remaining members of his unit retreated or were killed, wounded or captured.
        Refusing to abandon his position, Private Merli was alone in his foxhole at midnight, and he held off several more German attacks, expending about 2,000 rounds of ammunition.
        Once, when continuing to fire would have given Private Merli's position away, a group of Germans approached his foxhole and saw what appeared to be two dead soldiers inside. The body of Private Merli's assistant gunner was on top, and he was lying below, pretending to be dead.
        The Germans prodded Private Merli in the buttocks with their bayonets, inflicting four wounds, but he did not cry out. Satisfied that he was dead, the German soldiers departed. Then Private Merli began firing again.
        At daybreak, the remnants of the German patrol surrendered after American troops opened a counter-assault. Private Merli then jumped from his gun pit, having survived with a finger wound and the four bayonet wounds.
        He was wounded on two other occasions, in October 1944, when he was caught in a shelling near Aachen, Germany, and in the Battle of Bulge, when he suffered leg and wrist wounds.
        On June 15, 1945, Private Merli received the Medal of Honor from President Harry S. Truman. The citation noted ''the losses and confusion'' that Private Merli had inflicted on the enemy and told of the aftermath of his long night at his machine gun at Sars la Bruyere: ''On the battlefield lay 52 enemy dead, 19 of whom were directly in front of the gun.''
        Gino Joseph Merli, a native of Scranton, Pa., and the son of a coal miner, left military service at the war's end. He spent more than three decades as an administrator at the Veterans Administration Medical Center in Plains Township, Pa.
        In 1994, when he visited Sars la Bruyere, the townspeople honored him with a marker.
        Mr. Merli is survived by his wife, Mary; two sons, Geno, of Haddon Heights, N.J., and Phillip, of Greenville, N.C.; a daughter, Maria Zeitz of San Antonio; a brother, Joe, and a sister, Emma Antenori, both of Peckville; and six grandchildren.
        Recounting the events of September 1944 in an interview for ''The Greatest Generation Speaks'' by Tom Brokaw, Mr. Merli said, ''I can vividly remember now every move, every second from eight that evening to nine the next morning.''
        He also recalled how, after his ordeal ended, he received permission to go to the town church.
        ''I asked Sergeant Patinski if he wouldn't mind if I went and prayed for the dead -- our dead and their dead. No matter how bitter you were against the enemy, you still had the heart to pray for him. Because he was in the same boat as you and I.''
      