
        Laszlo Tauber, a Hungarian-born surgeon who saved other Jews in the Budapest ghetto during World War II, then made a real estate fortune in Washington and became a major philanthropist while remaining virtually unknown to the public, died on Sunday at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 87.
        Immediately after becoming a physician at the outset of the war, the young Dr. Tauber found himself drafted to be chief of surgery at the hospital serving the Jewish community of Budapest. He remained there throughout the war, rescuing many Jews not only with medical attention but as well with forged papers that forestalled their deportation.
        Some 600,000 Hungarian Jews were ultimately rounded up and sent to concentration camps in the last years of the war. Dr. Tauber escaped that fate, apparently because his hospital belonged to the Red Cross, which after the war gave him its highest distinguished service award.
        When the war ended, Dr. Tauber went to Sweden, where he studied neurosurgery before coming to the United States in 1947. Besides tending to his private practice, he taught at George Washington University.
        He also started dabbling in real estate. He began by building small apartment buildings. But over time he came to specialize in constructing office buildings, which he leased to the rapidly growing federal government. He eventually became one of the government's largest private landlords, with a real estate empire valued at close to $1 billion.
        In 1965 he founded his own hospital, Jefferson Memorial in Alexandria, Va., where he was both medical director and chairman of the department of surgery.
        He then turned to philanthropy, giving away tens of millions of dollars, particularly to medical research, education and Jewish causes. He created a $15 million scholarship fund for the descendants of the United States' World War II veterans; made major gifts to Boston University, George Washington University, Georgetown University Medical School, Brandeis University, where he established the Tauber Institute for the Study of European Jewry, and the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum; created a scholarship fund in honor of Raoul Wallenberg, the Swedish diplomat who had rescued many Hungarian Jews; and made significant donations in Israel to Ben-Gurion University and Bar-Ilan University.
        Laszlo Nandor Tauber was born on Feb. 18, 1915, in Budapest. After secondary school, he graduated in 1938 as a medical doctor from the Royal Hungarian Peter Pazmany University School of Medicine.
        A first marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Diane; a son, Alfred I., of Boston; a daughter, Ingrid D. Tauber of San Francisco; and a stepdaughter, Rachael Tauber, also of San Francisco.
        Dr. Tauber never sought public recognition, remaining a relatively obscure figure, little known outside his immediate circle. In rare public remarks, when making a gift to the European Jewry institute at Brandeis in 1980, he said of those who had died at the hands of the Nazis: ''We cannot bring them back. But I would like to see people educated to the realization that it can happen anywhere, any time, again.''
      