
        James Lee, an unsuccessful actor who found his calling as a writer for the stage, screen and television, died on Tuesday at a Santa Monica, Calif., nursing home. He was 79 and lived in Brentwood, Calif.
        The cause was heart failure and emphysema, said his daughter, Megan Copeskey of Los Angeles.
        Among his most acclaimed works was ''Career,'' the fifth play he wrote, which opened in 1957 Off Broadway. He got the idea for it while walking home after acting in ''The Seven Year Itch.''
        When ''Career,'' about a young man trying to get ahead on the stage, opened at the Seventh Avenue South Playhouse, the critic Brooks Atkinson wrote in The New York Times that the play was ''fundamentally knowledgeable and discerning.''
        ''Obviously, Mr. Lee knows what he is writing about,'' Atkinson wrote ''-- the spurious enthusiasm for old friends, the cynicism and squalor, the ruthless competition, the corruption of personal character, the affront to personal dignity.''
        Mr. Lee also wrote the script for the 1959 movie adaptation of ''Career,'' which starred Anthony Franciosa, Dean Martin and Shirley MacLaine.
        Mr. Lee and William Blinn won a 1977 Humanitas Prize from the Human Family Institute for writing the fourth episode of the television series ''Roots,'' adapted from the book by Alex Haley. The 1977 miniseries was watched by more than 70 million people.
        Mr. Lee also received Emmy Award nominations for outstanding writing achievement in a drama for his work on the fifth ''Roots'' episode, and on the 1980 documentary ''This Year's Blonde,'' about Marilyn Monroe, and for his original 1963 drama ''The Invincible Mr. Disraeli,'' presented on ''The Hallmark Hall of Fame.''
        Other movie scripts he wrote include an adaptation of ''Huckleberry Finn.''
        James Henderson Lee III was born and grew up in Pleasant Ridge, Mich. He graduated from Harvard and was a stage actor in New York City for a time before deciding to write plays to make roles for himself. Writing became his reliable way to earn income.
        In addition to his daughter, he is survived by his wife, the actress Neva Patterson; a son, Filippo, of Grasse, France; and six grandchildren.
      