
        Clark Gesner, the composer and lyricist of ''You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown,'' the good-natured and oft-produced musical based on the ''Peanuts'' comic strip, died on Tuesday on a visit to the Princeton Club in Manhattan, of which he was a member. He was 64.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Page Gesner, his niece.
        A series of vignettes featuring six of Charles M. Schulz's big-headed characters and a 14-song score, ''You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown'' was the breakout hit of 1967, opening at the 179-seat Theater 80 in the East Village and going on to run for nearly 1,600 performances. It spawned six national tours and countless productions at high schools, colleges and community theaters across the country and around the world.
        With a cast that included Gary Burghoff (as Charlie Brown) and Bob Balaban (Linus), the musical offered a light, but still slightly subversive take on childhood at a time of enormous social and political upheaval. Writing in The New York Times, Walter Kerr said Mr. Schulz and the show's creators had accomplished a small miracle by ''opening up one end of his comic strip frame and letting his people out.''
        That small miracle did not come easily; Mr. Gesner was, in fact, skeptical early on that the project would work. ''It was just a little private project,'' Mr. Gesner told The St. Paul Pioneer Press in 2000 before a local production there. ''Me and the songs and the strip.'' In the end it was the project that defined his career.
        Born and raised in Augusta, Me., Mr. Gesner headed south to Princeton in the fall of 1956. While at Princeton, he became an actor, writer and composer at the Triangle Club, the undergraduate theater troupe known for its often ribald and tuneful revues. Mr. Gesner remained active in the club as a graduate trustee until his death.
        Shortly after graduating from Princeton, Mr. Gesner took a job as a staff writer for the children's television show ''Captain Kangaroo.''
        When Mr. Gesner first began working on ''Charlie Brown,'' he had problems obtaining permission from the strip's syndicator to use the characters in a show. So Mr. Gesner contacted Mr. Schulz directly, sending a five-song demonstration tape. Weeks later, Mr. Schulz called Mr. Gesner and offered his blessing.
        The show opened on a $16,000 budget on March 7, 1967, at Theater 80, which was a converted nightclub; more than four years and thousands of tickets later, the show made make a brief leap to Broadway, where it lasted less than a month. A 1999 Broadway revival did only marginally better, lasting 149 performances.
        ''Charlie Brown'' and its myriad productions made Mr. Gesner a healthy living for the rest of his life. And while he remained active in the theater as a writer and actor, he never matched this success.
        ''The Utter Glory of Morrissey Hall,'' his musical about an English boarding school, lasted just one night in 1979. His later credits included performances in regional productions of ''1776,'' ''Lend Me a Tenor'' and ''Carnival!'' As a composer, he continued to write cabaret and theater songs, many of which were included in a 1998 revue at the York Theater Company, ''The Jell-O Is Always Red,'' in which Mr. Gesner also performed.
        He was a longtime resident of Brooklyn Heights and never married. In addition to Page Gesner, he is survived by another niece, Amber Gesner, of Philadelphia; and a nephew, Eli Gesner.
        In the 2000 interview in The St. Paul Pioneer, Mr. Gesner seemed happy with the subtle satisfaction his show provided.
        ''It leaves you with -- well, I won't say a warm and fuzzy feeling -- but at least it's a feeling,'' he said. ''If you watch these people going about their business, you understand it.''
      