
        Frederic Mohs, a surgeon at the University of Wisconsin who invented a surgical technique for treating certain skin cancers that bears his name and is practiced worldwide, died on Monday at his home in Madison. He was 92.
        Mohs surgery, originally also known as chemosurgery, allows the physician to map and remove not just the visible parts of a skin cancer but also its cancerous roots, which can spread into the body along blood vessels, nerves and cartilage.
        The initial technique usually employed a chemical paste containing zinc chloride to destroy cancerous tissue layer by layer under delicate microscopic control. But the approach evolved in the 1950's to continue the microscopic analysis with less use of chemicals.
        Mohs surgery allows the surgeon to root out the cancer completely while sparing the greatest possible amount of healthy tissue and minimizing scarring.
        In 1985, President Ronald Reagan had a skin cancer removed from his nose using the Mohs method.
        Dr. Hubert T. Greenway, president of the American College of Mohs Micrographic Surgery and Cutaneous Oncology at Schaumburg, Ill., which Dr. Mohs founded in 1967, said that Mohs techniques, ''while initially controversial, are now a recognized treatment which can have a cure rate of up to 99 percent for certain skin cancers.''
        Mohs surgery, however, is usually used to treat only what are called accessible cancers that appear on the outside of the body and has not been widely used against those developing on internal organs.
        Frederic Edward Mohs was born on March 1, 1910, in Burlington, Wis. His father died when he was 3 months old, and the family moved to Madison, where his mother ran a boarding house.
        After first wanting to become a radio engineer, he switched to medical studies in college.
        Dr. Mohs began developing his treatment in the 1930's, experimenting on rats and other animals.
        The breakthrough came when he discovered that treating cancerous and surrounding rat tissue with zinc chloride allowed it to be removed surgically and examined under a microscope. He treated his first human patient on June 23, 1936.
        Dr. Mohs, who spent his working life at the University of Wisconsin, was a tireless advocate for the surgical procedure he had devised and taught it to doctors from all over the world.
        In 1943 he married Mary Ellen Reynolds, who died in 1995. He is survived by two sons, Frederic and Thomas, of Madison; and a daughter, Jane Shimming of Jupiter, Fla.
      