
        Ed Runge, an American League umpire from 1954 through 1970 and the father and grandfather of major league umpires, died Friday at a hospital in San Diego. He was 87.
        His son, Paul Runge, was a National League umpire from 1974 through 1997 and, for the next two years, the National League's executive director of umpires. When Paul's son, Brian, became an umpire in 1999, the Runges became the only three-generation family of major league umpires.
        Paul Runge said his father taught him that baseball was more than balls and strikes.
        ''He gave me those years of experience,'' he said by telephone. ''I never knew him to get mad, and that served him well as an umpire. He taught me not to scream because someone could always scream louder. He taught me that I had to listen to players to some degree.''
        In 1991, Ed Runge explained his philosophy to U.S. News & World Report: ''An umpire is just a judge. He should never go in for that nose-to-nose stuff. He ought to hear the man out for a reasonable while, then turn and walk away. Unless a player or manager uses bad language, there's no need to chase him.''
        Edward Paul Runge was born in Buffalo on May 12, 1915, his son said, although the record books show 1918. He grew up in Buffalo; St. Catharines, Ontario; and San Diego. He played semipro baseball and worked in the family paint-contracting business before becoming a professional umpire in 1947 in the Big State League in Texas.
        In the American League, he earned a reputation as a pitcher's umpire. He did not disagree, contending that if the batter could reasonably reach the ball, he should swing.
        Of the 4,500 games he estimated he umpired in his career, the most famous was a 1956 World Series meeting between the Yankees and the Brooklyn Dodgers in Yankee Stadium. He was the right-field umpire when Duke Snider of the Dodgers hit a fourth inning 2-0 fastball off Don Larsen along the right-field foul line into the lower seats.
        Runge quickly called it foul ball and later said it was clearly foul ''by six inches.'' Larsen then threw a called third strike past Snider and went on to complete the only perfect game in World Series history.
        Runge's major league career included three World Series and five All-Star Games. He lived in San Diego, and after he retired as an umpire, he worked for the San Diego Padres as a speaker and as a liaison to community groups.
        He is survived by his wife, Viola; his son, Paul, of El Cajon, Calif.; a daughter, Lynn Runge of Lakeside, Calif.; two grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
        In reflecting on being an umpire, he once said, ''Umpiring is the only occupation where a man has to be perfect his first day on the job and then improve over the years.''
      