
        Meyer Reinhold, an author and scholar of classical studies, died on Monday in Nashville. He was 92.
        Dr. Reinhold, who was born in Brooklyn, was a firm believer in popularizing the classics by teaching them in translation. In so doing, he parted company with more traditional scholars. ''The age-old grammar-translation method of teaching Latin and Greek is giving way to more imaginative and innovative approaches,'' he wrote in a 1973 article supporting such innovation.
        Dr. Reinhold fell in love with the classics after reading Virgil's ''Aeneid'' as a student at Bushwick High School in Brooklyn. He went on to City College and then to Columbia, where he received his Ph.D. in ancient history in 1933. He then spent two years as a fellow at the American Academy in Rome.
        Upon his return to New York, he began teaching the classics at Brooklyn College and remained there until, at the height of the McCarthy era, he was forced to resign when he refused to answer questions about his political views and associations. In 1987 Brooklyn College formally apologized to Dr. Reinhold and others who lost their jobs during that period.
        Suddenly without work, he took a position in the advertising firm of his brother, Louis, all the while continuing his writing and research about the ancient world.
        In 1965 Dr. Reinhold re-entered academia as a professor of Greek, Latin and ancient history at Southern Illinois University at Carbondale. Two years later, he moved to the University of Missouri, where he later became the Byler Distinguished Professor of Classical Studies.
        After retiring from Missouri in 1980, he became a visiting professor at Boston University, where he founded the Institute for the Classical Tradition and The International Journal of the Classical Tradition. In 1995 he moved to Nashville, where he became a visiting scholar at Vanderbilt University.
        Dr. Reinhold was the author, co-author or editor of 23 books, including the two-volume ''Roman Civilization,'' written with Naphtali Lewis, which was published by Columbia University Press in 1951 and remains in print. His last book, ''Studies in Classical History and Society,'' was published this spring by Oxford University Press.
        Dr. Reinhold is survived by his brother, Louis; a daughter, Helen Reinhold Barrett of Nashville; and two grandchildren. His son, Robert, a former reporter for The New York Times, died in 1996.
      