
        Esphyr Slobodkina, a prominent abstract artist better known for her down-to-earth children's book ''Caps for Sale,'' a tale about a peddler and a band of mischievous monkeys, died on Sunday at her home in Glen Head, N.Y. She was 93.
        ''Caps for Sale'' was first published in 1938 and still sells steadily, as generation after generation of children demands that the cheerfully repetitive words be read and reread.
        In ''Caps for Sale,'' a cap salesman awakes from a nap to find that monkeys have taken his wares up a tree. He angrily shakes his finger at them, but they respond by shaking their fingers back and saying ''Tsz, tsz, tsz.'' No matter what he does, they imitate him. Finally, in exasperation, the peddler throws down his hat, and the rest is history.
        She went on to write and illustrate numerous other books, including ''The Wonderful Feast,'' (1955), ''The Clock'' (1956), ''The Long Island Ducklings'' (1961) and ''Pezzo the Peddler and the Circus Elephant,'' which was first published in 1967 and was reissued this year as ''Circus Caps for Sale.''
        The original ''Caps for Sale'' has sold more than two million copies since it was first published, according to Ms. Slobodkina's publisher, HarperCollins. In sales it ranks with such classics as ''Good Night Moon,'' though well below books like ''Pat the Bunny,'' ''The Cat in the Hat'' or ''The Tale of Peter Rabbit,'' according to lists compiled by Publisher's Weekly.
        Even as Ms. Slobodkina found success in writing and illustrating books, she continued her paintings, textiles and sculptures. She was a founding member of a group called the American Abstract Artists, established in 1936 to promote the emerging genre, which included artists like Josef Albers, Ad Reinhardt, Ilya Bolotowsky, Willem de Kooning, Jackson Pollock and David Smith.
        Her work is represented in numerous collections, including the Whitney Museum of American Art, the Corcoran Gallery and the Philadelphia Museum of Art.
        Reviewing a retrospective of her work at the Kraushaar Galleries in Manhattan earlier this year, Grace Glueck wrote in The New York Times that Ms. Slobodkina's varied works were ''all of a creative piece, and a pleasure to behold.''
        Esphyr Slobodkina (the name is pronounced ess-FEER sloh-BOD-kee-nah) was born in the small Siberian town of Cheliabinsk on Sept. 22, 1908, and came to America at 20.
        She started in children's books by necessity. During the Depression, she was short on money and worked in her mother's dress shop. A friend introduced her to Margaret Wise Brown, the author of ''Good Night Moon'' at the Bank Street Writers Laboratory in Greenwich Village. Ms. Slobodkina went on to illustrate several of Brown's other books, including, ''The Little Fireman,'' ''The Little Cowboy'' and ''Sleepy ABC'' .
        In a memoir published on her Web site, www.slobodkina.com, Ms. Slobodkina wrote, ''When Margaret died, I was left without a writer, and since she always insisted that she liked the way I told my stories, I took a deep breath and began to send them to my agent.''
        Ms. Slobodkina married Mr. Bolotowsky, a fellow artist, in 1933. They were divorced three years later. She married William Urquhart in 1960. He died in 1963.
        Her survivors include a sister, Tamara Schildkraut, who lived with her in Glen Head; a stepdaughter, Charlotte Van Stolk of Cleveland; and several stepgrandchildren.
        Ms. Slobodkina took her responsibility as a children's book author seriously. In her memoir she wrote: ''The verbal patterns and the patterns of behavior we present to children in these lighthearted confections are likely to influence them for the rest of their lives. These aesthetic impressions, just like the moral teachings of early childhood, remain indelible.''
      