
        Charles Burton, a British explorer who took part in the first expedition to circumnavigate the globe from pole to pole, died on Monday at his family home in the English village of Framfield in Sussex. He was 59 and had suffered a heart attack, said his brother, Richard.
        Setting off down the Thames in a bright red boat on Sept. 2, 1979, from the east London borough of Greenwich, the expedition sought to circle the world, but not by an east-west route. Instead, Mr. Burton and his colleagues followed the imaginary meridian line that connects the Royal Observatory in Greenwich -- from which longitude and Greenwich Mean Time are calculated -- to the North and South Poles.
        The expedition was led by an old Etonian baronet, Sir Ranulph Twisleton-Wykenham-Fiennes, and besides Mr. Burton comprised Sir Ranulph's wife, Ginnie, the family terrier, Bothy, and a former beer salesman, Oliver Shepard. The expedition's patron, the Prince of Wales, described its members as ''refreshingly mad'' as he bid them farewell.
        During the next three years Mr. Burton and other members of the Transglobe Expedition, as they called it, were scorched by the desert sun, trapped in snow crevasses, attacked by a polar bear and marooned on an ice floe before finally returning to Greenwich, according to the numerous press accounts of their journey.
        At the outset, the team turned south, traveling across France, Spain and the Sahara to Cape Town, where they took a boat for the snowy wastes of Antarctica. After several months conducting scientific experiments on the coast, the three men set off on a 900-mile trek to the pole, leaving Lady Fiennes behind to maintain radio contact.
        When they reached the South Pole on Dec. 15, 1980, they were only the third British expedition ever to do so, following in the footsteps of Robert Scott in 1912 and Sir Vivian Fuchs in 1958. But they were the first polar explorers ever to a play a cricket match there. When they finally arrived at Scott's old base at McMurdo Sound on the other side of the continent they were greeted by a Scottish piper.
        As the expedition prepared to turn north, Mr. Shepard's wife persuaded him to give up. When they reached Australia, Mr. Burton summoned his his fiancée, Thelma Petts, from England and married her. She survives him.
        From there, Mr. Burton with Sir Ranulph and his wife sailed across the Pacific and up the west coast of North America, negotiated the Yukon and Mackenzie Rivers and entered Canada's New Territories, where the two men again left Lady Fiennes at a base camp on Ellesmere Island and began their assault on the pole.
        Disaster was always close. Sir Ranulph was nearly killed when his snowmobile crashed through the ice and a fire ravaged their base camp, destroying much of the supplies they depended on, but he survived and is still living.
        On Easter Sunday 1982, they finally reached the pole accompanied by Bothy the terrier, comfortably ahead of a Norwegian expedition that had challenged them to a race. A reporter from a British tabloid flew in to greet them with a bottle of Jack Daniel's and a letter from Mr. Burton's wife.
        Then followed a race against time to reach the Spitzbergen islands before the Arctic ice melted. Stranded on an ice floe drifting slowly south, they were attacked by a polar bear, which they shot in the leg.
        They reached their ship and were deposited on dry land to the strains of Land of Hope and Glory and the Eton Boating Song, booming over loud speakers.
        The Prince of Wales welcomed them back to Greenwich on Aug. 29, 1982, after a 52,000-mile, three-year journey.
        Charles Robert Burton was born in Cape Town, South Africa, on Dec. 13, 1942. He attended the Millfield school and then joined the army, serving with the elite Special Air Service and then with various private security firms.
        He and Sir Ranulph spent some four years organizing the Transglobe Expedition and raising money. Afterward, Mr. Burton returned to the security business. He never made another expedition.
      