
        Benny Peled, who commanded the Israeli Air Force at two historic junctures -- the Middle East war of 1973 and the rescue of Israeli hostages in Entebbe, Uganda, in 1976 -- died on Saturday in Israel. He was 74.
        The cause was emphysema, the Israeli press reported.
        Mr. Peled, a retired major general, was among the founding fathers of Israeli air power. ''He was the embodiment of the Israeli pilot,'' said Michael B. Oren, author of ''Six Days of War'' (Oxford University Press, 2002), a book about the Arab-Israeli war of 1967. ''He was at the forefront of every great air victory and every setback.''
        The 1973 war was among the setbacks. In that conflict, Egypt and Syria carried out surprise attacks on the Suez Canal in the south and in the Golan Heights in the north. The Israeli Air Force lost more than 100 planes, especially from Soviet antiaircraft missiles massed on the Egyptian front.
        Mr. Peled defended the air force. ''The problem,'' he said in a 1998 interview with The Jerusalem Report, ''was not where was the air force, but where was the intelligence the air force should have received.''
        In the aftermath of the war, Mr. Peled carried out a series of changes. Most significant, he established an intelligence agency as part of the air force, making it independent of the ground forces and intelligence corps.
        He also commanded the air force during the surprise raid on Entebbe on July 4, 1976, when more than 100 hostages, most of them Israeli, were freed. Transport rather than fighter jets were used in that operation, which resulted in only a few casualties.
        Mr. Peled was born in Tel Aviv in 1928 and began his military service as an airplane mechanic. He later became one of the air force's first jet pilots. A fighter jet he piloted was shot down in the Sinai campaign of 1956. Wounded, he hid until another Israeli pilot picked him up as Egyptian soldiers were closing in.
        He studied aeronautics in the early 1960's at an Israeli university and went on to command a strategic air base during the 1967 war. He was one of the architects of the airstrike in the early hours of the war that decimated the Egyptian Air Force while most of it was still on the ground.
        Mr. Peled became commander of the Israeli Air Force in 1973, just five months before war began that year, and served until 1977. After retiring from the service, he worked in the military industry.
        He is survived by three children, including two pilots, and eight grandchildren.
      