
        Michael McLaughlin, who wrote close to a dozen cookbooks and contributed to as many more after collaborating on the groundbreaking ''Silver Palate Cookbook'' in 1982, was found dead last week at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 53.
        His family said he died of natural causes around June 25.
        Mr. McLaughlin was a part owner and the original chef of the Manhattan Chili Company when the restaurant opened in Greenwich Village in 1984, but he was best known for his flair in the test kitchen. Susan Friedland of HarperCollins, the editor of his last published work, ''The Jimtown Store Cookbook'' (2002), written with Carrie Brown and John Werner, said that he had two talents: His recipes were just wonderful, and he had the ability to write them down.
        Mr. McLaughlin's most noteworthy project under his name alone was ''Manhattan Chili Company Southwest American Cookbook,'' published in 1986 and featuring such unorthodox creations as lamb chili with jalapeños and hominy. Eight months in the spotlight promoting it persuaded him to give up the anonymous grind of a restaurant kitchen, said one of his partners, Bruce Sterman. But he was generally perceived as more of a strong supporting actor than a star, and he sometimes had to push for credit in reviews, particularly those that praised a book's recipes as being personal.
        On his own, Mr. McLaughlin compiled ''The New American Kitchen,'' ''The Back of the Box Gourmet,'' ''Cooking for the Weekend'' and other books, most devoted to a single subject, like mushrooms or sandwiches. His collaborations included Pamela Morgans Flavors and six books with W. Park Kerr of the El Paso Chile Company. He was also a prolific contributor to Bon Appétit, Food & Wine, House Beautiful and many other magazines. At his death he was working on a book on ice cream for Harvard Common Press.
        ''The Silver Palate Cookbook,'' written with Sheila Lukins and Julee Rosso, owners of the Manhattan takeout shop of the same name, has sold more than two million copies.
        Mr. McLaughlin's survivors include his father, Jim McLaughlin of Wray, Colo., and two brothers, David, of Anniston, Ala., and Mark, of Haxtun, Colo.
      