
        Dr. W. Maxwell Cowan, an internationally known neurobiologist and a retired vice president of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, died June 30 at his home in Rockville, Md. He was 70.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said the Robert A. Pumphrey Funeral Home in Bethesda, Md.
        As the chief scientific officer of the Hughes Institute, Dr. Cowan played a central role in determining how millions of dollars for biomedical research was directed from 1987 to 2000. The institute, which was founded by Howard Hughes and has an endowment of about $11 billion, employs about 350 university scientists known as Hughes investigators and finances their research.
        Scientists do not apply to be Hughes investigators, they are chosen. Dr. Cowan doubled the number of investigators during his tenure, surprising many researchers with support for their work.
        Dr. Eric R. Kandel of Columbia University, a senior Hughes investigator and a Nobel Prize winner in medicine in 2000, said Dr. Cowan had ''really elevated the level of recruitment dramatically'' and ''democratized the distribution of the Hughes position so that many new universities had an opportunity to have representation.''
        Hughes investigators have been involved in many advances in research on cancer, heart disease and muscular dystrophy, among other illnesses.
        Dr. Kandel said, ''There's no question in my mind that I was proposed to win the Nobel Prize because of the opportunities that Hughes provided me to move into molecular biology, and Max supported that fully.''
        Dr. Cowan, who was also distinguished professor of neuroscience at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, did pioneering work in neurobiology and was best known for his research into how the wiring of the brain develops, and his efforts to integrate neuroanatomy, neurochemistry and neurophysiology as a discipline.
        William Maxwell Cowan was born on Sept. 27, 1931, in Johannesburg. He graduated from the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg in 1952, and continued his studies in England at Oxford University, from which he received a doctoral degree in 1956 and his medical degree in 1958. He was on the Oxford faculty from 1953 until 1964.
        He immigrated to the United States in 1966 and was on the faculties of the University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Washington University in St. Louis. He was the vice president of the Salk Institute from 1980 to 1986, when he became the provost and the executive vice chancellor of Washington University.
        After retiring from Hughes he renewed his association with the Salk Institute and became an adjunct professor for the University of Texas's Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas. He also was a founding member of the Dana Alliance for Brain Initiatives, a nonprofit organization of more than 200 scientists who work to improve public knowledge of brain research.
        The author of many scientific papers and editor of numerous books, Dr. Cowan was managing editor of The Journal of Comparative Neurology from 1969 until 1980. He was editor-in-chief of The Journal of Neuroscience from 1980 to 1987 and editor of The Annual Reviews of Neuroscience.
        He is survived by his wife, Margaret, of Rockville, Md.; two sons, Steven, of St. Louis, and David, of San Diego; a daughter, Margaret Ruth Cowan of Seaford, England; and two grandchildren.
      