
        Adm. Robert L. J. Long, who led the commission that found senior military officials responsible for security lapses in the Beirut barracks attack that killed 241 marines in 1983, died on Thursday at the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Md. He was 82 and lived in Annapolis, Md.
        In the summer of 1983, Admiral Long, a submariner, had just retired after 40 years of commissioned service. His last post, from a base in Hawaii, had been as commander of all American military forces in the Pacific, from 1979 to 1983.
        But after the Beirut bombing, in October 1983, a call from Defense Secretary Caspar W. Weinberger took him back to the Pentagon to lead the special commission.
        In a seven-week investigation, Admiral Long and the four other commission members pressed American military officers in Washington, Europe and Lebanon to explain why security had not been better at the compound when a terrorist drove a truck laden with explosives into it.
        In late December 1983 the commission issued a report that won praise for being tough and direct. The report was sternest in criticizing the notion that the Marines' presence in Beirut could by itself shore up the beleaguered pro-Western government of President Amin Gemayel.
        The commission concluded that serious command failures by Marine officers in Beirut and military commanders above them in Europe had contributed to the compound's inadequate security.
        The report also said that the Marine commander in Beirut ''was not provided with timely intelligence.''
        The commission made no recommendations about punishment. But after the report was made public, President Ronald Reagan said on Dec. 27 that he did not think the local Marine commanders should be punished and that ''if there is to be blame it properly rests here in this office and with this president.''
        Robert Lyman John Long was born in Kansas City, Mo., and grew up there. He graduated in 1943 from the Naval Academy, served on the battleship Colorado in the Pacific and entered the submarine service after World War II. He saw combat in the Vietnam conflict and commanded the Sea Leopard, a diesel-powered submarine, and the Patrick Henry and the Casimir Pulaski, nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarines.
        He also commanded the Submarine Force, United States Atlantic fleet; Submarines, Allied Command; and Submarine Force, Western Atlantic area. He was executive assistant and naval aide to the under secretary of the Navy; deputy chief of naval operations and vice chief of naval operations.
        He is survived by his wife, Sara; and three sons, Charles, William and Robert.
      