
        Richard Flusser, an opera director and music teacher whose diminutive After Dinner Opera Company was a mainstay in the margins of the opera world for more than 50 years, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 75.
        From its founding in 1949, the After Dinner Opera worked on a shoestring budget to present contemporary American works for small casts. Over the years it has performed at least 77 chamber operas, many of them premieres, including works by Lukas Foss, Judith Lang Zaimont and Seymour Barab, who wrote more than 15 comic operas for the company.
        Mr. Flusser was born in Manhattan and, in the summer after his junior year at Queens College, went to Tanglewood, where Leonard Bernstein and Aaron Copland encouraged him to start a company devoted to contemporary American opera. That fall, he started After Dinner, so named because its first performances took place at private homes.
        The company made a name for itself during the 1950's for its scrappy, energetic performances of new and offbeat chamber operas like ''The Jumping Frog of Calaveras County,'' Mr. Foss's adaptation of a Mark Twain story, and Meyer Kupferman's ''In a Garden,'' based on a Gertrude Stein play. After appearing at the Edinburgh Festival in 1956, the company toured Europe. Back in New York, it began a busy American touring schedule that continued for several decades.
        In 1964 the company's performance of Benjamin Britten's ''Noye's Fludde,'' a children's opera based on an old miracle play about Noah's ark, was televised by CBS. Later highlights for the company include a program of early American operas that the company performed throughout the 1970's and 80's. One of the pieces on that program, a complete short opera from 1778 by Raynor Taylor called ''Buxom Joan,'' was discovered by Mr. Flusser's wife, Beth, in the archives of the New York Public Library.
        Mr. Flusser was a professor of music at Queensborough Community College from 1969 to 1995 and held opera workshops at the New School. He frequently brought his company into schools, where the children were enlisted for small roles.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Jennifer-jo Moyer of Manhattan; a son, Matthew, of Gardiner, N.Y.; and two grandchildren.
      