
        Lt. Gen. Benjamin O. Davis Jr., who broke color barriers and shattered racial myths as the commander of the Tuskegee Airmen, the pioneering black fighter pilots of World War II, died on July 4. He was 89.
        He died at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, an Air Force spokesman said yesterday.
        General Davis, son of the Army's first black general, Benjamin O. Davis Sr., was the first black cadet to graduate from West Point in the 20th century and one of the first black pilots in the military. His leadership of America's only all-black air units of World War II helped speed the integration of the Air Force, and in 1954 he became its first black general.
        Like his father, General Davis struggled against racism. He was ostracized at West Point and then was prevented from commanding white troops and turned away from segregated officers' clubs.
        The airmen commanded by General Davis compiled an outstanding record in combat against the Luftwaffe in the European theater during World War II. They shot down 111 enemy planes and destroyed or damaged 273 on the ground at a cost of more than 70 pilots killed in action or missing. They never lost an American bomber to enemy fighters on their escort missions.
        As the leader of dozens of missions, General Davis was highly decorated, receiving the Silver Star for a strafing run into Austria and the Distinguished Flying Cross for a bomber-escort mission to Munich.
        In his autobiography, ''Benjamin O. Davis Jr.: American,'' General Davis told of the pressures that he and the fliers who came to be known as the Tuskegee Airmen encountered in the face of racism. ''We would go through any ordeal that came our way, be it in garrison existence or combat, to prove our worth,'' he said. ''Our airmen considered themselves pioneers in every sense of the word.''
        Benjamin Oliver Davis Jr. was born on Dec. 18, 1912, in Washington. He entered the United States Military Academy in 1932. In his four years at West Point, no one would room with him and no one would speak to him outside the line of duty. But he surmounted the bigotry and graduated 35th in a class of 276, only the fourth black graduate in the military academy's history.
        When he was commissioned as a second lieutenant in 1936, the Army had a grand total of two black line officers -- Benjamin O. Davis Sr. and Benjamin O. Davis Jr.
        Cadet Davis applied for the Army Air Corps, but was rejected because it did not accept blacks. Instead, his first posting was with the all-black 24th Infantry Regiment at Fort Benning, Ga. He was not allowed into the base officers' club there, a snub he would regard one of the most insulting actions taken against him in 37 years of military life.
        He was later assigned to teach military tactics at the black Tuskegee Institute in Alabama, something his father had done years before. It was the Army's way to avoid having a black command white soldiers.
        Early in 1941, responding to pressures for broader black participation as war approached, the Roosevelt administration told the War Department to create a black flying unit.
        Captain Davis was assigned to the first training class at Tuskegee Army Air Field, and in March 1942 he was one of five black officers to complete the flying course. In July -- having been promoted to lieutenant colonel -- he was named commander of the first all-black air unit, the 99th Pursuit Squadron.
        The fighter squadron went to North Africa in the spring of 1943 and on June 2, operating out of Tunisia, saw combat for the first time, a dive-bombing mission against the German-held island of Pantelleria.
        In September, Colonel Davis was called back to the United States to command the 332nd Fighter Group, a larger all-black unit preparing to go overseas.
        But soon afterward, it seemed that the military was about to scuttle its use of black pilots in combat. The top brass of the Army Air Forces recommended to the Army chief of staff, Gen. George Marshall, that the 99th be removed from tactical operations because it had performed poorly.
        ''The Negro type has not the proper reflexes to make a first-class fighter pilot,'' one Army Air Forces officer maintained.
        General Marshall ordered a top-level inquiry, but permitted the 99th squadron to continue fighting. Months later, the inquiry rated the 99th's performance as comparable to those of other air units in the Mediterranean theater. But questions about the squadron had essentially been put to rest in late January 1944, when its pilots downed 12 German fighter planes in two days over the Anzio beachhead in Italy.
        Colonel Davis and his 332d Fighter Group arrived in Italy soon after that. Based at Ramitelli, and nicknamed the Red Tails for the distinctive markings on its planes, the four-squadron unit compiled an outstanding record on missions deep into German territory.
        In the summer of 1945, Colonel Davis took over the all-black 477th Bombardment Group, which was stationed at Godman Field, Ky.
        In July 1948, President Truman signed an executive order providing for integration of the armed forces. Colonel Davis helped draft an Air Force blueprint on integration that went into effect the following year, the wartime performance of his fliers having already created a climate for ending segregation.
        He served at the Pentagon and in overseas posts for the next two decades. He gained the three stars of a lieutenant general in May 1965, when he was the chief of staff for American forces in South Korea. In December 1998 President Bill Clinton awarded him a fourth star, the military's highest peacetime rank.
        General Davis retired in 1970, and was briefly director of public safety in Cleveland. He then spent five years at the Department of Transportation, directing anti-hijacking efforts.
        Correction:  July 9, 2002, Tuesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Sunday and in some editions on Saturday about Benjamin O. Davis, who commanded the Tuskegee Airmen during World War II and was an advocate for an integrated military, misstated his rank in some copies. While he indeed retired as a lieutenant general, he was later promoted to full general by President Bill Clinton.
      