
        Suliman S. Olayan, a Saudi billionaire whose energy, insurance and consumer goods businesses as well as investments made him one of the richest men in the world, died Thursday night at his home in Manhattan. He was 83.
        His primary residence was in Riyadh, the Saudi capital, but he also maintained homes in New York, London and Lucerne, Switzerland.
        Mr. Olayan was the founder and chairman of the Olayan Group, which began as a Saudi trucking business in 1947 and grew into more than 50 companies with offices around the world. The company did everything from helping build the Saudi international airport and major oil pipelines to introducing Kleenex and Burger King to the Arab Middle East.
        Associates said that Mr. Olayan was unusual among successful Saudi businessmen in that he had no blood ties to the royal family, which controls the Saudi government.
        Mr. Olayan often made the lists of the richest men in the world. Last year, Forbes's annual list put him at No. 38, with $8 billion, just above the publisher Rupert Murdoch, with $7.8 billion.
        Mr. Olayan had a reputation for avoiding the glare of business and social life. He even turned down offers for board seats at numerous corporations, although he served as a director of two international companies, the Mobil Corporation and CS First Boston.
        He also sat on numerous charitable, advisory and educational boards, among them the board of the American University of Beirut. He rarely gave interviews to the press.
        Suliman Saleh Olayan was born in the desert village of Unayzah, some 150 miles from Riyadh, on Nov. 5, 1918. His mother died a few months after he was born, and his father, a successful spice merchant, died when he was 6. A few years later, his brother, Abdullah, took him by camel to the Arabian Gulf coast and then by boat to Bahrain, where he attended a missionary school and first learned English.
        On his return to Saudi Arabia, he took a job with the California Arabian Standard Oil Company, which later became the Arabian American Oil Company, also known as Aramco. With the oil industry expanding rapidly, he set out on his own and established the General Contracting Company, which later struck a deal with the Bechtel Corporation to help build the Trans-Arabian Pipe Line, linking the oil wells of Saudi Arabia with terminals in Lebanon. He went on to play a central role in developing Saudi Arabia's earliest insurance, electrical power and gas companies.
        In the 1950's, with thousands of Westerners flooding the country to work in the oil industry, Mr. Olayan opened a food and consumer distribution business that eventually became the exclusive distributor for Kimberly-Clark, General Foods, Pillsbury and Atlas Copco. Other joint ventures with major multinationals followed.
        The Olayan Group eventually became an influential participant in global equity and financial markets, particularly in the United States and Europe, but also in Japan and Australia. In the United States, the group has substantial minority holdings in public companies like Coca-Cola, the Thermo Electron Corporation, Occidental Petroleum, J. P. Morgan Chase and MetLife. The investments in each company are generally kept below 5 percent, a threshold that would require a public filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
        Mr. Olayan is survived by his wife, the former Mary Perdikis, and four children, each of whom is an executive of the Olayan Group. They are a son, Khaled, who is chairman of the Olayan Financing Company, and three daughters: Hayat, vice president of the financing company; Hutham, president of the Olayan American Corporation; and Lubna, chief executive of the financing company.
        The company announced yesterday that Khaled Olayan would succeed his father as the chairman of the Olayan Group.
      