
        Clifford Possum, who painted some of the masterpieces of Australian aboriginal art, died on June 21 in Alice Springs in the Australian desert, an ancient landscape he depicted in the mythical terms central to his heritage. He was about 70, art historians said.
        In accordance with tribal tradition, details of his death, the long illness that preceded it and his exact age were not disclosed by his family.
        Mr. Possum, known among the Ammatyerre people as Kumuntjayi Tjapaltjarri, was the first Australian aboriginal artist to gain international recognition. He cleared the paths to artistic and economic success that many indigenous painters have followed since the 1970's by invoking sources and spiritual beliefs thought to be many thousands of years old.
        Since 1974 Mr. Possum's paintings, mixing symbolism and abstraction, have been shown in solo and group exhibitions and sold to major galleries and collections in Australia, the United States, Europe and Asia.
        His work had its first public exhibition in the United States in 1980, in Los Angeles. His first major New York exhibition was in a group show at the Asia Society in 1988.
        In the United States his work is in the collections of the Kelton Foundation in Santa Monica, Calif., the Lowe Art Museum at the University of Miami and the Pacific Asia Museum in Los Angeles.
        On June 24 five of his works were sold in Melbourne at Sotheby's Australia for more than $20,000 each; one, ''Love-Sun Dreaming,'' was bought for $60,000.
        The record auction price for a Possum painting is $68,000, paid by an Australian public gallery last year for one of his earliest works, a 1972 landscape. At the time he painted it, some of his depictions of what is known as the Dreaming, a legendary time akin to creation or Genesis in other cultures, were selling for less than $50.
        Mr. Possum, who adopted that name for nontribal use after a stay in the 1940's at a Christian mission where he was nursed for malnutrition, began painting after 15 years of work on a cattle ranch.
        At Papunya, a remote government settlement for the desert people, a teacher, Geoffrey Bordon, encouraged aborigines to counter feelings of alienation by recording traditional images and themes in modern media, like acrylic paint on hardboard and later on canvas. This was the cradle of the Desert Painters movement in aboriginal art.
        Dr. Vivien Johnson, a historian of indigenous art at Macquarie University in Sydney, wrote that Mr. Possum quickly showed himself to be ''an accomplished and inventive artist, an exponent of striking multilayered visual effects, meticulously rendered.''
        Tim Klingender, director of the indigenous art department of Sotheby's Australia, said that many collectors and galleries rated Mr. Possum ''high in the pantheon of aboriginal painters'' for his ''innovative visual language and complex narratives of myths.''
        In June the Australian government awarded Mr. Possum the Order of Australia medal for his service to the art movement and to the indigenous people.
        Critics and collectors rate his numerous works since the 1980's below his achievements in the 1970's, and his scarcer earlier canvases draw higher prices.
        Mr. Klingender estimated that several such works in private American collections would bring about $500,000 each if sold at auction now.
        Mr. Possum's survivors include two daughters, Gabriella and Michelle; a son, Lionel; and 11 grandchildren.
      