
        John Wallach, a former senior editor with Hearst Newspapers who founded Seeds of Peace, a summer camp in Maine that brings together children from opposing sides of conflicts around the world, died on Tuesday in New York. He was 59.
        The cause was lung cancer, Seeds of Peace said.
        Mr. Wallach, whose parents escaped from Nazi Germany, often talked of the camp's mission as a last chance, and perhaps the best chance, to teach peaceful coexistence. It began in 1993 by inviting Arab and Israeli teenagers and has since expanded to include young people from other war-torn areas.
        ''The only answer to me,'' he once said of the camp, ''was one that would bring the next generation of Arabs and Israelis together before they had been poisoned by the climate of their region.''
        In the last few years, the camp has been opened to Turks and Greeks from Cyprus; Serbs, Bosnians and Croats from the Balkans; Indians and Pakistanis; and this year, for the first time, children from ethnic factions in Afghanistan.
        To date, 2,000 boys and girls have participated in the camp's activities, which include organized opportunities for reflection and discussion as well as arts and sports programs. Campers, who must speak English and be 14 to 16, are chosen with the cooperation of their governments. Each of three summer sessions at the camp, which is in Otisfield, in southern Maine, lasts about three and a half weeks.
        In 1999, Mr. Wallach enlarged the program by founding the Seeds of Peace Center for Coexistence in Jerusalem to promote understanding between Israeli and Arab children year-round. Children from around the Middle East work there on various cooperative projects and visit one another's schools. The center publishes a magazine, The Olive Branch. Because the current violence makes travel difficult and dangerous, the center has turned increasingly to the Internet and video messaging in its effort to help the children reach each other.
        John Paul Wallach was born June 18, 1943, in New York City and educated at Middlebury College and at the New School for Social Research in Manhattan.
        After working briefly as a radio reporter, he joined Hearst Newspapers in 1968, rising to become foreign editor. He appeared regularly on television news programs and in 1980 the BBC named him as its first visiting foreign affairs correspondent.
        Mr. Wallach made an earlier attempt to foster international understanding at a more official level by promoting face-to-face contacts between American and Soviet officials. The first meeting, in cooperation with the Chautauqua Institute, took place in 1985, when he brought a Soviet delegation to Chautauqua, in upstate New York, to debate in public with senior Reagan administration officials at a time of growing tension between the two countries. Similiar meetings continued in various places until 1991.
        Seeds of Peace was born out of Mr. Wallach's frustration at the intractable nature of the Palestinian conflict, and its connection with the World Trade Center bombing in February 1993.
        Shortly afterward, at a reception in Washington for Shimon Peres, the Israeli foreign minister, he suddenly challenged Mr. Peres as well as the Egyptian and Palestinian representatives to send 15 of their teen-agers to a summer camp he would organize later that year.
        That August the first campers -- 45 Palestinian, Egyptian and Israeli children -- arrived in Maine.
        In 1995 Mr. Wallach left Hearst Newspapers to become executive director of the Elie Weisel Foundation for Humanity in New York, which seeks to promote human rights. He resigned the following year to devote himself full time to Seeds of Peace.
        In 1997 King Hussein of Jordan awarded him a decoration of that country's Legion of Honor. That year he also began a two-year term as a senior fellow at the United States Institute of Peace, which published his book ''The Enemy Has A Face: The Seeds Of Peace Experience.''
        Mr. Wallach was also co-author of three books with his wife, Janet: a biography of Yasir Arafat, ''Arafat: In the Eyes of the Beholder''(Carol Publishing), ''Still Small Voices'' (Harcourt) and ''The New Palestinians''(St. Martin's).
        Besides his wife, he is survived by two sons, Michael, of New York City, and David, of Hoboken, N.J.
      