
        John Mosler, a former chairman and chief executive of the Mosler Safe Company, which made vaults used for guarding the nation's wealth at Fort Knox and protecting the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution and the Bill of Rights in Washington, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was heart problems, and he had been in declining health, his family said.
        Mr. Mosler was a philanthropist and active in nonprofit organizations. He was in the fourth generation of Moslers to run the safe company, which was founded in 1848 in Cincinnati by Gustave Mosler, his great-grandfather.
        Mosler Safe was the largest safe-making company in the world when it was sold in 1967 to American Standard Inc., a diversified concern. In 1986, American Standard sold the company to a new concern whose main owners included Mosler managers.
        For most of the two decades that John Mosler spent with the company, it had its headquarters in Manhattan. He was also executive vice president and then president of the company and an executive of several subsidiaries.
        In later years, he was a vice president and a director of American Standard.
        He was also chairman and chief executive of Holmes Protection Inc. and the Holmes Protection Services Corporation and an executive of other concerns. His work included investment counseling and financial planning.
        Mr. Mosler was chairman of the John Mosler Foundation, a member of the Metropolitan Opera's National Council and president of the New York Urban League. He was also active in the National Urban League.
        He was interested in foreign affairs, was president of the American-Romanian Flood Relief Committee and carried out diplomatic missions to Mauritius and Zambia. He received honorary degrees from Fordham and Duquesne Universities.
        He retired in the late 1980's.
        John Mosler was born in Manhattan, attended Princeton and was in the Army from 1943 to 1946, largely in the Pacific. He served in counterintelligence and attained the rank of sergeant.
        His marriage to Sheila Sanders ended in divorce.
        He is survived by two sons, Bruce E., of Manhattan, who is president of the United States operations of the real estate services firm Cushman & Wakefield, and John Jr., of Manhattan; a daughter, Michele Mosler, of Krakow, Poland; and two grandchildren.
      