
        Alan Shulman, a composer and cellist whose works were performed by orchestras, chamber groups and jazz ensembles, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Hudson, N.Y. He was 86.
        Two of Mr. Shulman's most frequently performed scores are the sweetly Neo-Classical Theme and Variations for Viola and Piano -- a staple of the viola repertory in its original version and in an orchestral expansion -- and ''A Laurentian Overture,'' which received its premiere from the New York Philharmonic in 1952, with Guido Cantelli conducting.
        The Philharmonic also gave the premiere of Mr. Shulman's Cello Concerto, with Leonard Rose as the soloist and Dmitri Mitropoulos conducting. The violinist Jascha Heifetz and the jazz clarinetist Artie Shaw are among those who performed and recorded Mr. Shulman's work.
        Mr. Shulman was born on June 4, 1915, in Baltimore, where he studied the cello at the Peabody Conservatory until 1928, when his family moved to Brooklyn.
        He continued his studies on a New York Philharmonic scholarship, and enrolled at the Juilliard School in 1932. His principal teachers were the cellist Felix Salmond and the composer Bernard Wagenaar. After graduating from Juilliard in 1937, he studied privately with the cellist Emanuel Feuermann and the composer Paul Hindemith.
        In 1937, Mr. Shulman became a founding member of Arturo Toscanini's NBC Symphony Orchestra, and he performed with it until 1942, when he joined the United States Maritime Service, which provided training for the merchant marine. He returned to the NBC Symphony in 1948 and performed with it and its successor, the Symphony of the Air, until 1957.
        He also played with several chamber ensembles, including the Stuyvesant String Quartet, which he formed with his brother, Sylvan Shulman, a violist, in 1938. The Stuyvesant ensemble, which performed until 1954, gave the American premiere of the Shostakovich Piano Quintet at Carnegie Hall in 1941, and was known for its performances and recordings of contemporary works.
        Another ensemble in which the Shulman brothers performed was the New Friends of Rhythm, a symphonic jazz group that made many recordings from 1939 to 1947, and included some of Mr. Shulman's original works and arrangements in its repertory. He was also a member of the Philharmonia Trio from 1962 to 1969, and the Haydn Quartet from 1972 to 1982.
        Mr. Shulman taught at Sarah Lawrence College, the Juilliard School, the State University of New York at Purchase, Johnson State College in Johnson, Vt., and the University of Maine in Orono. He was a founding member of the Violoncello Society in 1956, and its president from 1967 to 1972.
        A collection of Mr. Shulman's orchestral works is to be released by Bridge Records this month. The compendium includes Cantelli's 1951 recording of ''A Laurentian Overture''; Emanuel Vardi's account of the Theme and Variations; a recording by Leonard Bernstein of Mr. Shulman's 1949 arrangement of ''Hatikva,'' the Israeli national anthem; and several string works conducted by Milton Katims.
        Mr. Shulman is survived by two sons, Jay, of Claverack, N.Y., and Marc, of Manhattan, and two daughters, Laurie, of Dallas, and Lisa, of Tuckahoe, N.Y.
        Correction:  July 26, 2002, Friday  An obituary of the composer and cellist Alan Shulman on July 13 misstated his age and the year when his work ''A Laurentian Overture'' was recorded with Guido Cantelli conducting. He was 87, not 86; the recording was made in 1952, not 1951.
        The article also misidentified the instrument played by his brother Sylvan Shulman, with whom he formed the Stuyvesant String Quartet. It was the violin, not the viola.
      