
        Harold Haley Haskin, a marine biologist who championed the cause of the oyster, died June 23 at his home in Cape May Court House, N.J., on the banks of his beloved Delaware Bay. He was 87.
        He was best known for his co-discovery of MSX, the parasite that nearly wiped out the once lucrative Delaware Bay oyster beds, and for breeding a strain of oysters resistant to it. He also helped the oyster navigate treacherous political waters by earning the trust of government authorities and the bay's oystermen, a crusty lot not overly fond of regulation.
        ''If you asked about oyster management in Delaware Bay, it would all come back to Hal Haskin,'' said John Kraeuter, the associate director of Rutgers University's Haskin Shellfish Research Laboratory in Bivalve, N.J. (The laboratory was named for Dr. Haskin in 1991.) ''What Hal said, or what he convinced the oystermen about, was the way it happened.''
        Dr. Haskin was born Harold Haley in Niagara Falls, N.Y., on Jan. 3, 1915. His parents died in the flu epidemic of 1918, and he was adopted by a family friend, Frederick J. Haskin, who moved with him to Salem, N.J., near Delaware Bay.
        While studying at Rutgers College, he got a summer job on the Jersey Shore studying the biology of the oyster drill, a snail that eats oysters. After serving in the Army during World War II and earning his Ph.D. from Harvard in the physiology of algae (the oyster's favorite food), he returned, in 1946, to the Rutgers zoology department, and stayed for the rest of his career.
        Dr. Haskin is survived by his wife, Peggy; their five children, Kathleen Haskin of New York City; Jean Haley of North Kingstown, R.I.; Elizabeth Haskin of Cape May Court House; Frederick James Haskin of Piscataway, N.J.; and Mary D. Haskin of Washington; and four grandchildren.
        Working in a succession of laboratories, from a houseboat to the modern facility named for him, Dr. Haskin devoted himself to studying the oyster and its habitat.
        During the first half of the 20th century, oyster schooners brought up to 2.4 million bushels a year into Bivalve, one of the nation's oyster capitals. But the industry relied heavily on young ''seed oysters'' transplanted from other waters, and by the 1950's, the combination of overfishing and deterioration of the seed beds was depleting stocks.
        Dr. Haskin persuaded the state management agency to start collecting data on oyster populations and convinced oystermen that the harvest needed to be restricted. He and his wife also lobbied state officials to preserve water quality throughout the Delaware River Basin.
        ''He started worrying about oyster biology and the populations and the fisheries 40 or 50 years ago, when it really wasn't the trendy thing to be doing,'' said Sandra Shumway, the editor of The Journal of Shellfish Research.
        After the parasite MSX (for multinucleated sphere unknown) killed almost all the oyster of Delaware Bay in 1957, Dr. Haskin helped guide the industry to recovery, but in 1990, another parasite, Dermo, again wiped out large numbers of oysters.
        The Delaware Bay oyster industry is still alive, though struggling, bringing in about 50,000 bushels a year. To the end of his life, Dr. Haskin continued to work to bridge economic and ecological interests and train the next generation of oyster researchers.
        ''I am not one of those who believes in keeping everything just the way it is in the name of conservation,'' he once said. ''I think we can arrange things to serve many different needs, but we have to recognize we have a very valuable, renewable resource here, and the pressures on it are already great.''
      