
        Mark McGarrity, who wrote a popular series of richly detailed mystery novels set in Ireland under the pen name Bartholomew Gill, died in a fall late last Wednesday night or early last Thursday morning outside his home in Morristown, N.J. He was 58.
        He fell and hit his head while trying to climb into his apartment through a window, apparently because he had forgotten his keys, said Detective Mark Slockbower of the Morristown police. A neighbor called the police just after midnight on July 4 and Mr. McGarrity was pronounced dead at the scene at 2:34 a.m.
        In the crowded and competitive world of mystery fiction, where every successful series needs a hook, Mr. McGarrity found one in his ancestral homeland. He drew a loyal and consistent following with a series detailing the exploits of an endlessly resourceful police detective named Peter McGarr. (Bartholomew Gill was the name of Mr. McGarrity's grandfather, who was a great storyteller.)
        Starting in 1976 with ''McGarr and the Politician's Wife,'' Mr. McGarrity published 15 of the books, with a 16th, ''Death in Dublin,'' due in January from William Morrow.
        The McGarr mysteries were praised by critics for their clever plots and vivid depictions of contemporary Irish life.
        In his sleuthing career, McGarr encountered the country's poor itinerant ''tinkers,'' the shady underworld of Irish heroin dealers, Irish immigrants in New York, and the Irish Republican Army. Sometimes the inspector's knowledge of Irish esoterica could be astounding. In one book, the plot hinged on the name of an obscure ethnomusicologist
        In ''Death of a Joyce Scholar,'' a murder occurs on Bloomsday, June 16, and Inspector McGarr must bone up on ''Ulysses'' in order to trace the killer's steps and solve the crime. ''Death of a Joyce Scholar'' was nominated in 1989 for an Edgar Award, the mystery world's highest honor.
        Mr. McGarrity was born in Holyoke, Mass., and graduated from Brown University in 1966. He studied for his master's degree at Trinity College, Dublin, and never tired of mining the country for material.
        ''One of the things they gave me,'' he once said of his books, ''is a chance to go back to Ireland time and time again to do research.''
        He was also an avid outdoorsman, and since 1996 worked at The Star-Ledger of Newark as a features writer and columnist under the McGarrity name, specializing in nature and outdoor recreation. While continuing to produce McGarr novels, sometimes at the rate of one a year, Mr. McGarrity produced several articles a week for the newspaper. He wrote about a variety of topics ranging from environmental issues to the odd characters he encountered in his travels, like an Eastern European immigrant who grew up watching cowboy movies and found his dream job playing Wyatt Earp in an amusement park in rural New Jersey.
        Mr. McGarrity also published five novels under his own name, including ''White Rush/Green Fire'' (Morrow, 1991) and ''Neon Caesar'' (Pocket Books, 1990).
        His marriage to Margaret McGarrity ended in divorce. He is survived by a daughter, Madeleine, of Andover, N.J., and a brother, George, of Lancaster, Pa.
      