
        Sid Avery, a Hollywood photographer who was known for capturing the private moments of stars like Elizabeth Taylor, Rock Hudson, James Dean and Audrey Hepburn, died on July 1 in Los Angeles. He was 83.
        Mr. Avery's work in the 1950's and 60's was a departure from the glamorized, soft-focus portraits of an earlier Hollywood era when images of the stars were tightly controlled by the major studios. Mr. Avery showed celebrities on the movie set between takes and away from the job, relaxing with the family or engaged in household chores. ''He shot them as people rather than as icons,'' said David Barentholtz, the owner of Apex Fine Art, a Los Angeles gallery that represents Mr. Avery's work.
        Among his candid photographs are ones of Marlon Brando taking out the garbage, Rock Hudson emerging from the shower to take a phone call and Audrey Hepburn riding her bike at Paramount Studios with a shaggy Yorkshire terrier in the basket.
        Mr. Avery's work appeared frequently in Life, Look, Colliers and The Saturday Evening Post. A collection of his work, ''Hollywood at Home: A Family Album 1950-1965,'' was published by Crown in 1990.
        But, as Mr. Avery later acknowledged, the pictures were not always as natural as they seemed. In an interview in 1990 with ''CBS This Morning,'' Mr. Avery told of a photo shoot in Mr. Brando's home.
        ''I finally got to the point where I said, 'I'd like to take a picture of you in the kitchen, but your kitchen is so dirty.' It was up to your chest in old bags and paper cartons and ants and a lot of other things. I don't think he'd ever cleaned it, and I hinted, 'If you'd just clean up your act a little bit, then we could take pictures.' ''
        Among the results were the photo of Brando and the garbage.
        Sid Avery, one of six children, was born on Oct. 12, 1918, in Akron, Ohio, and moved to Los Angeles with his family when he was a year old. He was introduced to the darkroom by an uncle, Max Tatch, a landscape and architectural photographer. As a teenager, he found an old camera in the trash, cleaned it up and began a lifelong obsession.
        During World War II, Mr. Avery served in the Army Signal Corps and was stationed in London and Paris, where he helped establish the photo processing agency for film from the European theater of operations. After the war, he returned to Los Angeles, where he took on commercial assignments and started doing celebrity shots.
        Mr. Avery is survived by his wife, Diana; three children, Sandra Guttman of Valencia, Calif.; Marc of Sedona, Ariz.; and Ron of Winnetka, Calif.; and three grandchildren.
        In the preface to Mr. Avery's 1990 book, the critic Richard Schickel wrote that Mr. Avery's photographs were not normalcy but Hollywood's effort to ''mime normalcy,'' what Mr. Schickel called representations of ''our own dreams of success as the atmosphere of the 50's formed those dreams.''
        ''This is how we would live, this is how we would behave, if fortune smiled upon us: in a kind of suburbia raised to flash point, a place where the sun always shined, the kids were always happy, and we could modestly, tastefully indulge our material fantasies -- for a swell car, a swimming pool, maybe even an oceangoing sailboat.''
      