
        Maritta M. Wolff, a novelist who burst onto the literary scene in 1941 with what Sinclair Lewis called ''the most important novel of the year'' and proceeded to write a string of vibrantly raw best sellers, died on July 1 at her home in Los Angeles. She was 83.
        The novel, ''Whistle Stop,'' Ms. Wolff's first, became a movie of the same name starring George Raft and Ava Gardner. She wrote five more novels, then, without public explanation, stopped writing.
        She married Leonard Stegman, who was in the costume jewelry business. She collected trinkets and bric-a-brac. For the final four decades of her life, her writing consisted of letters, many to fans who never tired of discussing the nuances of her plots and characters, Laura Stegman, her daughter-in-law, said.
        It was not the destination that seemed likely when Ms. Wolff, at 22, wrote an 830-page story for a composition class at the University of Michigan and began her journey to the summits of the literary world. In 1940, the story won her the Avery Hopwood Prize, awarded along with $1,000 for excellent writing by University of Michigan students.
        In 1941, the work appeared as ''Whistle Stop,'' trimmed to 450 pages and bubbling with gritty, robust dialogue. It surged through five printings and a miniaturized armed forces edition that so captivated soldiers and sailors that many sent fan letters. They particularly yearned to know the nature of the relationship between the sibling characters Kenny and Mary.
        ''We in Barracks No. 2 have examined the situation from all angles -- and I do mean all angles -- and we can reach no satisfactory solution,'' a soldier wrote in 1945.
        The answer was that what seemed to be incest was exactly that, but subtly portrayed. It was typical of Ms. Wolff's work: she pulled no punches, yet exhibited the gifted storyteller's delicate, essentially indescribable grasp of human nature.
        Edith H. Walton wrote in her review of ''Whistle Stop'' in The New York Times Book Review: ''Because this is a very unusual book, and a strongly individual one, I am conscious that I have not really succeeded in conveying its flavor. That flavor is acrid, tangy, humorous, robust -- yet beneath all the humor there is a bitter and genuine emotion.''
        Ms. Wolff's feel for the rhythms of speech -- developed in coffee shops and bars -- had much to do with the impact. A sample passage from her first novel:
        ''Well, I gotta get dressed up all beautiful. Who knows, tonight, I might meet a great big beautiful man with a job and an automobile and he might take just one look at me and say, 'Baby, I'm nuts about you,' and I might just take one good look at him and say . . .''
        Orville Prescott, in a 1942 review in The New York Times of ''Night Shift,'' Ms. Wolff's second book, called her feel for the American language phenomenal.
        ''One feels certain that this is a scientifically exact record of the speech of factory workers in an automobile bumper plant, of taxi drivers, waitresses in cheap restaurants, beautiful dumb women and beautiful smart ones who haunt small-time night clubs,'' Mr. Prescott wrote.
        Maritta Martin Wolff was born on Dec. 25, 1918, on a farm near Grass Lake, Mich., and grew up watching people, including those at the one-room country school she attended.
        ''My one hobby was developing, as far back as I can remember, an inordinate interest in people and anything and everything happening to them,'' she wrote.
        As soon as she learned penmanship, she began to write. Or, as she later put it, take dictation.
        ''My characters have a habit of getting their own ideas,'' she told The Akron Beacon Journal in 1944. ''They tell me mine are goofy. They run away and do as they please.''
        As did she. She refused to publicize her books, becoming more adamant as her career progressed and publishers demanded more of authors. Family lore says that was why she stopped writing.
        At the University of Michigan, she met Hubert Skidmore, whom she married. Mr. Skidmore had written six novels by the time he was 30, including ''Hawk's Nest,'' about an industrial accident in West Virginia.
        He died in a house fire in 1946. The next year, Ms. Wolff married Mr. Stegman, who survives her, as does their son, Hugh, of Los Angeles.
        The reaction to ''Whistle Stop'' could hardly have been more enthusiastic, not least because of her searing language and hotter plots. A review by Clifton Fadiman in The New Yorker said, ''If she can write this way at 22, she should be good for a banning in Boston before she's 25.''
        She wrote more books: ''About Lyddy Thomas'' (1947), ''Back of Town'' (1952), ''The Big Nickelodeon'' (1956) and ''Buttonwood'' (1962).
        Then Ms. Wolff disappeared. Her writing seemed limited to correspondence and detailed records of repairs and oil changes for the silver Jaguar she loved to drive.
        Her refrigerator has contained a complete, unpublished novel for years, her family said.
      