
        Frederick O'R. Hayes, New York City's budget director for four years in the early, optimistic days of the administration of John V. Lindsay, died on Sunday in Utica, N.Y. He was 78 and lived in Utica.
        The cause was cancer of the esophagus, his family said.
        Mr. Hayes came to New York City to join the Lindsay administration in 1966 from Washington, where he was a rising star in the Bureau of the Budget. He joined Lindsay's inner circle, which attracted bright and accomplished idealists from around the country who wanted to solve the problems of the inner city.
        Over the years, as the city's finances began to deteriorate, Mr. Hayes became a strong advocate for state and federal aid to cities, saying that the cities could not bear the burdens of poverty and municipal services alone.
        Later, when he left government for a career in consulting and teaching, Mr. Hayes continued to defend the Lindsay administration against charges that its spending and accounting practices led the city to the brink of bankruptcy in the 1970's.
        ''The fiscal problems of 1974,'' he wrote last year, ''were rooted not in 15 years of mismanagement but in the unexpectedly large decline in city revenues in 1970 and later years that resulted from the severe recession in the local economy that began in 1968 or 1969.''
        Frederick O'Reilly Hayes was born in Utica on Oct. 4, 1923. He graduated from Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y., and earned two advanced degrees from Harvard.
        He spent three years in finance jobs for New York State government before going to Washington, where for 10 years he was an economist at the Bureau of the Budget, which later became the Office of Management and Budget.
        In 1964, Mr. Hayes joined President Lyndon B. Johnson's task force on the war on poverty, where he was a senior member of the group that developed the Community Action Program. After the passage of the Economic Opportunity Act, Mr. Hayes joined the newly created Office of Economic Opportunity under Sargent Shriver.
        When Mayor Lindsay came calling in 1966, Mr. Hayes at first hesitated, concerned that the Johnson administration would not be happy about his working for a leading Republican figure like Lindsay. But the lure of a senior position in New York on Lindsay's team was in the end too strong and Mr. Hayes made the move.
        He was generally given credit for modernizing the city's Bureau of the Budget, introducing cost-effectiveness analysis as a basis for budget and policy decisions in the operating agencies as well as at the budget bureau.
        In the first two years of his four as director, Mr. Hayes managed to balance the city budget without borrowing to cover deficits. In the third year, the budget was balanced from reserves accumulated in the first two years. In the years that followed, the recession, coupled with rising expenses, led to the city financial crisis of the 1970's.
        Mr. Hayes was especially proud of the young people whom he helped bring into government, including Peter C. Goldmark Jr., chairman and chief executive of the International Herald Tribune, who had an earlier career in government. ''Fred was my mentor, that magical early boss who teaches you the important values, gives you your head, backs you through your early mistakes,'' Mr. Goldmark said.
        After he left city government in 1970, Mr. Hayes became a consultant on public policy and management issues.
        Mr. Hayes is survived by his wife of 53 years, Ann; three children, Sara of Oakland, Calif., Reilly F. of Mill Valley, Calif., and Christopher R. of Washington; and one grandchild. He also leaves two sisters, Alice Gorton of Utica and Sarah Cunningham of New Hartford, N.Y.; and two brothers, Richard and Peter, both of Utica.
      