
        Lionel Bernstein, a white South African Communist and anti-apartheid campaigner who stood trial for treason in 1963 alongside Nelson Mandela and seven others, died June 23 in his home in the English village of Kidlington in Oxfordshire. He was 82.
        The so-called Rivonia trial, named after the defendants' secret resistance headquarters near Johannesburg, ended in June 1964 with Mr. Bernstein's acquittal. He had been charged with planning a campaign of sabotage against the South African government. Mr. Mandela and the other defendants were sentenced to life in prison.
        Released, rearrested and then released on bail, Mr. Bernstein, who was known as Rusty, escaped with his wife, through Botswana to Britain, where he practiced as an architect in London. He did not revisit South Africa until 1992, after the ban on Mr. Mandela's African National Congress was lifted.
        Two years later, Mr. Bernstein returned again, to welcome the inauguration of South Africa's first full democratic government under the leadership of Mr. Mandela.
        Mr. Bernstein was born March 5, 1920, into a middle-class family in Johannesburg. He studied architecture at Witwatersrand University from 1937 to 1941. After briefly joining the South African Labor Party, which then supported segregation, he became a member of the South African Communist Party in 1938.
        In 1941 he married the former Helen Watts, who was also a Communist and who survives him, along with two sons, Patrick and Keith, and two daughters, Toni and Frances, all of whom live in England.
        He served in the South African Army during World War II.
        In 1946, he was charged with and convicted of sedition for actively supporting a black miners' strike, but was given a suspended sentence.
        When South Africa's Nationalist government banned the Communists in 1950, Mr. Bernstein and his fellow Communists went underground and threw themselves fully into the struggle against apartheid.
        He worked closely with leaders of the African National Congress and helped draft the Freedom Charter, approved by the congress in 1956, which called for a nonracial South Africa but also for the transfer of the country's mineral wealth, banks and industry to ''the ownership of the people as a whole.''
        He was arrested and charged with treason in 1956, along with 150 other African National Congress supporters, and was eventually found not guilty. But the government continued to harass him and to subject him to restrictions.
        On July 11, 1963, he and 10 others were arrested at Lilliesleaf Farm in Rivonia, and he was accused of planning sabotage. Rivonia was the headquarters of the Umkhonto we Sizwe, or Spear of the Nation, the African National Congress's military wing, which had been recently established by Mr. Mandela.
        But Mr. Bernstein was not a member of that wing, and in his 1999 autobiography, ''Memory Against Forgetting,'' he contended that he had opposed the decision to resort to violence.
      