
        Pete Gray, who became a major league outfielder despite the loss of his right arm in a childhood accident, appearing with the St. Louis Browns for a single season during World War II, died Sunday at a nursing home in Sheatown, Pa. He was 87.
        Playing in 77 games for the 1945 Browns -- at a time when major league rosters were depleted because of players' wartime military service -- Gray batted only .218 on a team that was contending for the pennant.
        But his achievement was viewed as an extraordinary testament to his determination and athleticism, and it resonated beyond the sports world. Gray was seen as an inspiration for thousands of veterans maimed in the war, and he visited Walter Reed Army Hospital in Washington to meet with amputees.
        He was also a role model for handicapped youngsters, and one day he posed in the Browns' dugout with a 4-year-old boy named Nelson Gary Jr., who had lost his right arm in an electrical accident.
        Gray was nonetheless a symbol of inferior wartime baseball and was presumably obtained as a box-office attraction for a franchise that had drawn only 508,644 fans to Sportsman's Park while winning the American League pennant in 1944.
        ''He didn't belong in the major leagues and he knew he was being exploited,'' his manager, Luke Sewell, recalled in ''Even the Browns'' by William B. Mead (Contemporary Books, 1978). ''Just a quiet fellow, and he had an inferiority complex. They were trying to get a gate attraction in St. Louis.''
        He was evidently resented by some teammates.
        ''Some of the guys thought Pete was being used to draw fans late in the season when the club was still in the pennant race and he wasn't hitting well,'' Don Gutteridge, a Browns infielder, told The St. Louis Post-Dispatch in 1994. ''But I certainly marveled at him. He could do things in the outfield that some of our other outfielders could not.''
        Gray was born Peter Wyshner in Nanticoke, Pa., one of five children of a coal miner. (He changed his name when he began playing pro baseball, his brother Joseph having boxed under the name Whitey Gray.)
        At age 6, he fell off a farmer's wagon and his right arm was caught in the spokes. The arm had to be amputated above the elbow.
        He grew determined to be a baseball player. A natural right-hander, he became a left-handed batter and removed almost all the padding from his glove to provide greater feel for catches and to help him draw the ball clear to throw after placing the glove under the stump of his right shoulder.
        Gray made his minor league debut in 1942 with Three Rivers of the Canadian-American League, batting .381. In 1944, his second year with the Memphis Chicks, he was named the most valuable player in the Southern Association. He batted .333 with 5 home runs, stole 68 bases and led the league's outfielders in fielding percentage. He was purchased by the Browns for $20,000.
        Gray had 51 hits in 234 at-bats for the Browns, including six doubles and two triples. He drove in 13 runs, scored 26 runs and stole 5 bases. A high point came at Yankee Stadium, when he was cheered by a crowd of 36,000 as he took his spot in the outfield.
        Pitchers had difficulty throwing fastballs by him; he struck out only 11 times. But infielders played in to take away Gray's skillful bunting and he could be fooled on changeups, using a 35-ounce bat that he put in motion early to compensate for his disability.
        Defensively, he allowed runners an edge in that brief extra moment it took him to transfer the ball from his glove to his hand for a throw from the outfield. He threw out three runners but committed seven errors, playing 61 games in center or left field.
        After the 1945 season, in which the Browns finished third, dozens of major leaguers returned from military service and he was sent back to the minor leagues. He played in the minors through the 1949 season, then returned to Nanticoke.
        Gray's career was dramatized in the 1986 television movie ''A Winner Never Quits,'' in which he was portrayed by Keith Carradine, and his glove was obtained by the Baseball Hall of Fame.
        But he did little with his life after baseball. He shunned public attention and spent his time quietly with the townspeople in Nanticoke. He never married and had no immediate survivors.
        Gray was once asked how good he might have been if he had not lost an arm.
        ''Who knows?'' he said. ''Maybe I wouldn't have done as well. I probably wouldn't have been as determined.''
      