
        Pete Seibert, who transformed a sheep pasture in the Colorado Rockies into the Vail ski resort, died July 15 at his home in Edwards, Colo. He was 77.
        The cause was cancer, said Jennifer Brown, a spokeswoman for Vail Resorts.
        In 2000, Ski magazine placed Mr. Seibert third on its list of history's 100 most influential skiers for building one of the first and largest of the new breed of postwar American ski resorts, with all the amenities of European skiing villages.
        Mr. Seibert's early inspiration came from pictures he saw of an idyllic Austrian ski resort when he was 10, Skiing magazine reported in 1999. He had already been skiing for three years on a pair of his mother's wooden skis.
        Mr. Seibert served as a combat soldier on skis in World War II and was wounded so badly that doctors said he might never walk again, let alone ski. Three years later, he placed third in the giant slalom at the United States Nationals.
        On March 19, 1957, he saw a skier's promised land when Earl Eaton, a sometime uranium prospector, took him on a seven-hour climb through deep snow to the summit of a mountain whose bulk had not been visible from the valley below.
        Mr. Seibert was awed. It was an almost perfect hill, with slopes all around that permitted skiing in all directions, at different degrees of steepness; skiers of almost any level would be able to get down safely. The peak was 3,000 feet above a valley that seemed perfect for a ski village. At an elevation of 8,000 feet above sea level, the valley was just below the timberline, so the trees minimized the problem of high winds.
        ''My God, Earl, we've climbed all the way to heaven,'' Mr. Seibert said, according to articles in Denver newspapers over the years.
        Mr. Seibert gave Mr. Eaton credit for finding Vail, which Mr. Seibert named for Charles Vail, chief engineer of the Colorado highway department from 1930 to 1945.
        But most people give Mr. Seibert credit for the next critical steps. He secretly bought the land, telling anyone who asked that he was building a rod and gun club. He found people willing to invest in the still-unproven postwar ski industry. He organized construction and found a gondola lift in the Alps.
        Scant snow was on the ground when the resort opened in December 1962, so he hired Ute Indians to perform a snow dance. A blizzard materialized.
        ''Everybody else thought we were crazy, but we thought we could do any damned thing we decided to do,'' Mr. Seibert said in an interview with Sports Illustrated in 1989.
        The result, with bed, board and bars close at hand, established a style that has since become familiar at American ski resorts.
        It happened fast. In 1964, Sports Illustrated reported that ''never in the history of U.S. skiing has a bare mountain leaped in such a short time into the four-star category of ski resorts.''
        Peter Werner Seibert was born on Aug. 7, 1924, in Sharon, Mass. He spent much of his youth in the White Mountains of New Hampshire, where he practiced with Austrian instructors who had left Europe as war seemed imminent. By 15, he was winning races.
        In 1943, Mr. Seibert, then 18, joined the Army and volunteered for the 10th Mountain Division. In 1945, he saw combat in the Apennine Mountains of northern Italy, where he was hit by small-arms fire and two mortar shells, one of which blew off his right kneecap. He spent 17 months undergoing surgery and convalescing.
        With the dream of starting a ski resort, Mr. Seibert headed for Colorado. Other members of the 10th Mountain Division did the same thing, forming the nucleus of the postwar skiing industry.
        Though Mr. Seibert had to tape himself from his hip to his ankle and strap on a homemade leg brace, his skiing progressed to the point that he qualified for the 1950 United States Alpine ski team. But he wanted to get into the resort business, and he used the G.I. Bill to study hotel management at a school in Switzerland from 1951 to 1954.
        He returned to Colorado to take a job with the Aspen Ski School and in 1955 became manager of the Loveland Ski Area. After three years, he moved back to Aspen as assistant manager of the Aspen Highlands resort. After discovering what would become Vail Mountain in 1957, he devoted himself to his dream. With the help of a small group of partners, he paid $55,000 for 520 acres.
        The land was in the White River National Forest, and the Forest Service required him to come up with $1.8 million by December 1961 to cover construction costs. He decided that each investor of $10,000 would get four free lifetime lift passes. For $500 more, investors would get land for a home site.
        The lots are now worth millions.
        Mr. Seibert never realized a fortune from Vail. In March 1976, a frayed cable caused two gondolas carrying skiers up the mountain to plunge 125 feet to the ground. Four were killed and eight injured. Fearing lawsuits, Mr. Seibert sold his stake in Vail.
        He later put together the group that developed Snow Basin, a ski resort in Utah. A cash squeeze resulting from a recession forced him to sell again. After working on several other ski developments, he returned to Vail as a consultant.
        Mr. Seibert was president of the American Ski Federation and the National Ski Areas Association, and was inducted into the United States National Ski Hall of Fame.
        He is survived by his sons, Peter Werner Seibert Jr. of Edwards, Brant Albert Seibert of Boulder, Colo., and Calvin Pardee of Manhattan.
        As recently as last March, Mr. Seibert was poking around Colorado, looking for another mountain to develop.
      