
        Rosco Gordon, a rhythm-and-blues singer and piano player from Memphis who influenced rock 'n' roll and reggae, died on July 11 at his home in Rego Park, Queens. He was 74.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his daughter Victoria.
        Mr. Gordon had a string of hits in the 1950's, including ''Booted,'' ''No More Doggin,' '' ''Do the Chicken'' and ''Just a Little Bit,'' in a signature shuffling beat that came to be known as ''Rosco's rhythm.''
        But for years he earned no royalties for his songs. He was paid $250 for ''Just a Little Bit,'' which became one of the most popular rock and R&B standards of the 1960's, selling more than four million copies in cover versions by the Beatles, Etta James, Elvis Presley and Jerry Butler.
        ''When I found I had lost the rights to over 300 songs,'' he once said, ''it felt like someone was choking me when I tried to sing.''
        He quit the music business in the early 1960's, moved to New York and bought a stake in a dry cleaning business after winning a poker game with a pair of deuces.
        Mr. Gordon, who often skimmed at least six years off his age, was born in Memphis and became a fixture on the booming blues scene there during the early 50's. With Johnny Ace, Bobby Bland, B. B. King and others, he had an informal group, the Beale Streeters, that recorded and broadcast radio shows.
        He made his first solo recordings with Sam Phillips in 1951 and later recorded for Mr. Phillips's Sun label, home to Presley and Jerry Lee Lewis.
        Mr. Gordon toured widely in the late 50's, reaching South America and the Caribbean, where his offbeat rhythmic style helped shape the sound of early ska and reggae. ''No More Doggin' '' became a hit in Jamaica, inspiring reggae singers like Laurel Aitken.
        In 1969 Mr. Gordon started the record label Bab-Roc, which he operated from home. But he did not play concerts again until 1981. After the death of his second wife, Barbara, in 1984, he began to tour again. He released the album ''Memphis, Tennessee,'' with Stony Plain, a Canadian roots-music label, in 2000.
        In addition to Victoria, of Chicago, he is survived by two other daughters, Deborah, of Crenshaw, Miss., and Ruby Bolton, of Clarksville, Tenn.; three sons, Marrc, of Springfield Gardens, Queens, Rosco III, of Dillsburg, Pa., and Keith, who is in the United States Army and stationed in Germany; a sister, Ella Gordon Jefferson, of Altadena, Calif.; and 10 grandchildren.
      