
        Max Schneier, whose daughter's manic-depressive illness inspired him to wage a relentless crusade for better treatment for the mentally ill, died on June 17 in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 85 and lived in Lauderhill, Fla., and Rawdon, Quebec.
        Mr. Schneier, a layman who knew little about psychiatry before his daughter's illness, became so well versed in the field that his opinions were sought by mental health professionals and policy makers. Challenging the professionals' tendency to protect their turf, he established group homes, organized lobbying groups for families, and played a role in closing the notorious Willowbrook institution on Staten Island.
        ''He was the foremost, bigger-than-life consumer and family advocate for people with mental illness,'' said Dr. Ronald W. Manderscheid, chief of the survey and analysis branch of the federal Center for Mental Health Services. ''For 35 years, he operated on his own, with no federal money, and did most of these things by sheer force and persistence.''
        Mr. Schneier was a clothing manufacturer in New York in 1969 when his daughter Denise was about to be discharged from a mental hospital and left to fend for herself. Angered by the lack of services for her, Mr. Schneier searched the country before finding a rehabilitation program in California.
        The experience led him to turn his business over to his son Jeffrey and become a full-time, unpaid advocate for the mentally ill. As a founder and president of the Federation of Parents Organizations for the New York State Mental Institutions, he loudly complained about conditions at large institutions like Pilgrim State Psychiatric Center on Long Island. And he said state mental health officials were wedded to ''cruel, shortsighted and ineffective policies.''
        In 1972, Mr. Schneier asked the television reporter Geraldo Rivera to investigate the Willowbrook State School for the Mentally Retarded. The way Mr. Schneier told it to his son Jeffrey, he had been alerted by workers and patients to abuse and neglect at the vast institution, which had 4,000 residents. After someone slipped him a key, he led Mr. Rivera and a TV crew into a building there, scuffled with a guard and confronted the director, all on camera.
        Mr. Rivera's reports on the conditions led to the closing of Willowbrook and a precedent-setting promise by the state to provide supervised housing for needy retarded people in the community, not in institutions.
        Mr. Schneier also established a nonprofit corporation called Transitional Services for New York, which in 1975 opened a halfway house in Queens for patients discharged from mental institutions. In 1979, he helped found the National Alliance for the Mentally Ill, still a powerful lobbying group.
        He served on federal advisory committees on health and mental health, and in recent years he concentrated on lobbying a wide circle of policy makers and program directors for improving treatment of people with both mental illness and drug addiction. He argued that treatment was hindered by the government's insistence on separate financing for the conditions.
        Max Schneier was born Oct. 17, 1916, in New York City. He attended St. John's University, served in the Army in World War II and went into the garment business with his father. In 1986, when he was 69, he earned a law degree from the University of West Los Angeles.
        He is survived by two daughters, Deborah Bassman of Hollywood, Fla., and Denise Schneier-Coke of Baltimore; two sons, David, of Odessa, Ukraine, and Jeffrey, of Lancaster, Pa.; a brother, Dr. Monroe Schneier of Newburg, Pa.; 10 grandchildren and 9 great-grandchildren.
        ''A senior federal official once told me that Max Schneier was the biggest pain he had ever met in his life,'' E. Clarke Ross, executive director of Children and Adults with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder, told Mental Health Weekly. ''Then he said: 'But you know what? He's almost always right.' ''
      