
        Chaim Potok, a scholar and ordained rabbi whose best-selling novels about Hasidic Judaism explored the wrenching decision to forsake a close-knit parochial community for the world outside, died yesterday at his home in Merion, Pa. He was 73.
        He had been ill with cancer for some time, his wife, Adena Potok, said.
        Mr. Potok came to international prominence in 1967 with his debut novel, ''The Chosen'' (Simon & Schuster). Unlike the work of the novelists Philip Roth and Saul Bellow, which dealt largely with the neuroses of assimilated secular Jews, ''The Chosen'' was the first American novel to make the fervent, insular Hasidic world visible to a wide audience.
        Reviewing the novel in The New York Times Book Review, Hugh Nissenson wrote: ''Long afterwards, it remains in the mind, and delights. It is like those myths that, as C. S. Lewis reminds us, do not essentially exist in words at all.''
        Set in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn just after World War II, ''The Chosen'' tells the story of a brilliant young man struggling to reconcile his obligation to become a rabbi with his desire for a more secular life.
        The novel was on The New York Times best-seller list for more than six months and was a finalist for a National Book Award. In 1981 ''The Chosen'' was made into a feature film starring Rod Steiger, and in 1988 it had a brief run as a Broadway musical. There are currently more than a million copies of the novel in print in paperback, a spokeswoman for Ballantine Books said.
        A bearded man with a scholarly mien, Mr. Potok wrote in a straightforward prose that some critics found unpolished and others likened to that of an urban Hemingway. In his books, he drew readers -- Jews and non-Jews alike -- into a world that few had ever encountered. There, bearded, black-garbed men kept alive an ecstatic brand of Judaism, born in 18th-century Eastern Europe, that centered both on a charismatic spiritual leader, often called a tzaddik (Hebrew for ''righteous one'') and on an individual's direct relationship to God.
        In almost painterly detail, Mr. Potok conjured up a universe of men in dark caftans and fur-trimmed hats; Sabbath dinners awash in candlelight; the sounds of Yiddish in the streets and Hebrew in the synagogues; the wild abandon of a wedding dance; the Talmudic explications delivered with knife-edge precision in a neighborhood shul packed to overflowing.
        Mr. Potok's heroes, mostly adolescents on the brink of manhood, feel both sustained and, increasingly, suffocated by their traditional communities. Though they never consider abandoning Judaism, they agonize over whether they dare seek lives in the larger world, knowing full well that if they do, they will be branded apostates.
        It was a conflict that Mr. Potok returned to almost compulsively throughout his career. In ''The Chosen,'' it plays out in the friendship of two boys, Reuven Malter and Danny Saunders. Reuven, 15, lives with his widowed father, a gentle scholar with a rationalist approach to the study of sacred texts. The Malters are observant Jews -- what today would be called Modern Orthodox -- but their life is a world apart from that of Reuven's friend Danny.
        Danny's father, whom he both adores and fears, is a tzaddik, a dynastic rabbi revered by the Hasidic community he leads. As the elder son, Danny is obliged to succeed him. But Danny, who secretly reads forbidden secular books, including Freud, longs to become a psychologist, agonizingly aware of the devastation that this will bring to his father.
        Similarly, in ''My Name Is Asher Lev'' (Knopf, 1972) the title character, a brilliant artist, deeply wounds his family through his paintings of nudes and crucifixion scenes. ''In the Beginning'' (Knopf, 1975), concerns the hero's desire to practice modern Bible scholarship, a scandalous choice in a community where Scripture is looked on as the revealed word of God rather than a literary text open to multiple critical interpretations.
        These young men's struggles were Mr. Potok's own. Herman Harold Potok was born in the Bronx on Feb. 17, 1929. (Throughout his life, Mr. Potok was customarily called by his Hebrew name, Chaim -- meaning ''life'' or ''alive'' -- which he also used professionally.) His parents, Benjamin Max and Mollie Friedman Potok, were deeply traditional Hasidic Jews, immigrants from Eastern Europe.
        For young Chaim, daily life centered, just as it had for Jewish boys in the Old World, on the local yeshiva, or parochial school, where in addition to state-mandated secular subjects, the primary focus was on the study of Jewish sacred texts. The secular world intruded only from time to time, usually in the person of the Lone Ranger, caught fleetingly on the radio at home.
        ''It was essentially a fundamentalist atmosphere, which by definition is both joyous and oppressive simultaneously,'' Mr. Potok said in an unpublished 1992 interview. ''Joyous in the sense of knowing you belong to some cohesive community that will care for you; in whose celebrations you can participate fully; and who will help you mourn if you need a support group in time of personal tragedy. And repressive because it sets boundaries, and if you step outside the boundaries, the whole community lets you know.''
        As a boy, Chaim displayed a gift for drawing and painting, and dreamed of becoming an artist. This did not find favor at home. In the Orthodox tradition, the arts were disdained as narishkeit -- Yiddish for ''foolishness'' -- which described any pastime that detracted from the study of Torah and Talmud. Furthermore, visual art was a violation of the Second Commandment's taboo against the making of graven images.
        He turned instead to literature. By the time he was in his teens, Chaim, like Danny Saunders, was devouring secular books in secret at the public library. The first title he took from the shelf, almost at random, was Evelyn Waugh's ''Brideshead Revisited,'' followed in quick succession by James Joyce's ''Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man.'' Those two novels by Roman Catholic authors, Mr. Potok later recalled, would chart the course of his future.
        While his parents tolerated his interest in literature -- the written word, after all, was the foundation of Judaism -- it was, they made clear, no fit vocation. ''You want to write stories?'' Mr. Potok recalled his mother's telling him. ''That's very nice. You be a brain surgeon, and on the side you write stories.''
        By the time he was an undergraduate at Yeshiva University, an Orthodox Jewish school in Upper Manhattan, Mr. Potok was privately deconstructing Hemingway on the 20-minute bus ride to and from campus, determined to learn the novelist's craft through a near-Talmudic dissection of the master's text. He had also begun to write short stories of his own, and as he entered his final year of college -- he graduated summa cum laude from Yeshiva in 1950 -- he knew that a rupture with his family was imminent.
        ''No one can work with the novel and remain inside any fundamentalist sect,'' Mr. Potok told The Philadelphia Inquirer in 1973.
        He made his way to the Jewish Theological Seminary, a Conservative Jewish institution near Columbia University. ''I thought at the seminary I would get a nonfundamentalist reading of the Jewish tradition,'' Mr. Potok said in 1992. ''I thought that I owed that to myself as a writer.''
        But to his family and friends, his choice was almost as great a defection as becoming a gentile. ''When I left the parochial school system,'' Mr. Potok said in a 1981 interview, ''I had to rebuild my world literally from zero. And to this day there are people from the old world who won't speak to me.''
        Mr. Potok received his master's degree in Hebrew literature from the seminary in 1954. With it came ordination as a Conservative rabbi, though he considered taking a pulpit, he later said, ''for about five minutes.'' He did serve as a United States Army chaplain in Korea from 1955 to 1957, an experience that informed his novels ''The Book of Lights'' (Knopf, 1981), about a Jewish chaplain increasingly drawn to the mystical Cabalist tradition; and ''I Am the Clay'' (Knopf, 1992), one of his few novels not centered in the Jewish world, which told the story of a Korean peasant family.
        After his Army service, Mr. Potok went on to earn a Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Pennsylvania in 1965. He taught at the University of Judaism in Los Angeles from 1957 to 1959, and from 1965 to 1974 served as editor in chief of the Jewish Publication Society. As his literary reputation grew, Mr. Potok was able to devote himself to writing full time. He also returned to painting.
        Besides his wife, whom he married in 1958, Mr. Potok is survived by by two sisters, Charlotte Hering, of Boynton Beach, Fla.; and Bella Sobolofsky, of the Bronx; two daughters, Rena, of Merion; Naama, of Manhattan; a son, Akiva, of Los Angeles; and two grandchildren.
        His other books, all published by Knopf, include the novels ''The Promise'' (1969), a sequel to ''The Chosen''; ''Davita's Harp'' (1985); ''The Gift of Asher Lev'' (1990); and ''Old Men at Midnight,'' published last year; as well as the nonfiction works ''Wanderings: Chaim Potok's History of the Jews'' (1978) and ''The Gates of November''(1996), a multigenerational chronicle of one Soviet Jewish family.
        Reviewing his career in 1992, Mr. Potok recalled that no one was more surprised than he by the wild success of ''The Chosen.''  ''I thought 500 people might be interested in reading this story about two Jewish kids,'' he said.
        But as he came to realize, he had tapped into something far more universal. Although some critics would fault him for revisiting again and again the struggle between faith and secularity, it was his repeated exploration of this tension, he would say, that allowed him to explore a range of additional questions: familial obligation, the role of religion in contemporary society, the meaning of human suffering.
        ''While this tension is exhausting,'' Mr. Potok once said, ''it is fuel for me. Without it, I would have nothing to say.''
      