
        Annie Snyder, a leader of efforts to prevent the development of land near the site of the Civil War battles of Bull Run in northern Virginia, died on July 19 in Manassas, Va. She was 80. She and her husband had a farm near the battlefield.
        The cause was pneumonia, The Associated Press reported.
        By 1988 Mrs. Snyder had been involved, by her count, in six efforts in 30 years to prevent developers from encroaching on what she called the ''hallowed ground'' of the battlefield. She said then that she had lost only one confrontation, when a power company strung lines near the field.
        In an interview in The New York Times in 1988, she said, ''When we first moved here it was easy to imagine at night that you heard the creaking of leather saddles as General Longstreet's advanced guards arrived to help Stonewall Jackson as he held on to that railroad embankment over there.''
        At the time, she was leading conservationists and Civil War enthusiasts in opposing developers who wanted to build a giant shopping mall next to the battlefield. She also generated backing for her side of the issue in Congress, where legislation was passed to buy and protect the land where the mall was to have been built. The confrontation over the plan for a shopping mall has been called the Third Battle of Bull Run.
        Earlier, she had prevailed against federal officials who wanted to rearrange roads near the battlefield. Other victories included helping to thwart plans to build a Great America theme park near the historic site.
        In the 1950's she championed civil rights in Virginia and was active in the Republican Party.
        Born in Pittsburgh, Anne Delp Snyder attended the University of Pittsburgh's law school. In World War II she was one of the first female officers in the Marine Corps, serving in the United States as a recruiter and a quartermaster.
        Her survivors include her husband, Waldon Peter Snyder, known as Pete, a former Marine Corps aviator; six children; six grandchildren; and a great-grandchild.
      