
        Wallace Carroll, a retired newspaper editor and publisher who campaigned against the Vietnam War and led his paper to a Pulitzer Prize for environmental reporting, died on Sunday in a nursing home in Winston-Salem, N.C. He was 95.
        Mr. Carroll had first joined The Winston-Salem Journal and Sentinel in 1949 as executive editor but left in 1955 to serve eight years as news editor of the Washington bureau of The New York Times. He returned to Winston-Salem as editor and publisher from 1963 to 1973.
        Under his direction, the paper favored gun control and busing to integrate public schools, positions unpopular with many North Carolinians. Articles about environmental protection -- particularly a series on strip mining -- earned the paper the 1971 Pulitzer Prize for public service.
        On March 17, 1968, he published a signed editorial in Winston-Salem under the headline ''Vietnam -- Quo Vadis?'' that argued that United States policy in Southeast Asia was misguided and irrelevant to the goal of thwarting Soviet expansion.
        Dean Acheson, the former secretary of state and an adviser to President Lyndon B. Johnson, showed the editorial to Johnson and stood by while the president read it. Later that month, Johnson announced that he would not run for re-election and would begin peace negotiations with North Vietnam. In an article about events leading to Johnson's announcement, The Washington Post reported that Mr. Carroll's editorial had influenced his thinking.
        Two years later, Mr. Carroll wrote in another article: ''What we are losing is something more serious than the loss of any war or territory. It is the soul of America that is being lost in Vietnam. It is time for us to save the soul of America.''
        Wallace Carroll was born in Milwaukee on Dec. 15, 1906, and graduated from Marquette University. He began his journalism career as a reporter with The United Press in Chicago, and the news agency sent him to Europe to cover the Nazi advances.
        After the United States entered the war, Mr. Carroll became director of the United States Office of War Information in London.
        He was friendly there with James Reston, then a war correspondent in London for The Times. Mr. Reston wrote in his memoirs, ''Deadline,'' that Mr. Carroll emphasized ''with his usual common sense'' the importance of explaining United States policy to Americans and people in the allied countries but was often rebuffed by his superiors.
        After the war, he wrote a book about his work, ''Persuade or Perish,'' and became executive editor in Winston-Salem.
        Mr. Carroll maintained his friendship with Mr. Reston, and in 1955, Mr. Reston, as Washington bureau chief of The Times, hired Mr. Carroll to be his deputy with the title of news editor. Mr. Carroll was in charge of day-to-day coverage.
        In his history of The New York Times, ''The Kingdom and the Power,'' Gay Talese wrote that James Reston offered to make Mr. Carroll bureau chief if he would stay at The Times. But Mr. Carroll declined the offer and in 1963, he returned to Winston-Salem to be editor and publisher.
        Mr. Carroll's wife, Margaret, died last year. He is survived by a son, John S. Carroll, the editor of The Los Angeles Times, as well as by three daughters, Margaret Carroll of Washington, Rosamond Carroll of Kenfield, Calif., and Patricia Carroll of Arlington, Va.; four grandchildren and two great grandchildren.
        After he retired in 1973, Mr. Carroll lectured for several years at Wake Forest University.
        Although Mr. Carroll spent most of his career as a news executive, Reston wrote that he had ''a studied respect for the English language'' and ''could have edited Lincoln's Gettysburg Address and improved it.''
      