
        Dr. Martin Deutsch, a pioneer in the preschool education of disadvantaged children who helped form the national Head Start program, died on June 26 at Norwalk Hospital in Connecticut. He was 76.
        The cause was renal failure, said his wife, Dr. Cynthia Deutsch.
        In 1962, Martin Deutsch started a pilot program in New York for pre-school-age children from disadvantaged backgrounds. The program, a predecessor to Head Start, was created to put underprivileged children on a more equal level with their future classmates.
        Dr. Deutsch believed that the gap stemmed from lack of experiences as basic as using a pencil.
        ''These kids have normal potential,'' Dr. Deutsch said in an article in The New York Times in 1964. ''What we are really dealing with are caste factors. It's not that they don't comprehend as well, but that they have a restricted number of labels for things. It's only a poverty of experience.''
        Dr. Deutsch developed pre-kindergarten classes in Harlem with an emphasis on giving underprivileged 3-  and 4-year-olds an early knowledge of music, art and books. The children learned through songs, they were taught how to compare, and there were even ''dress-up corners'' because some had never seen themselves in mirrors.
        Each class was small (15 students) and was led by two teachers -- one a Board of Education-licensed teacher, the other an assistant who had a college degree but no regular license.
        Project Head Start was soon adopted nationwide, becoming one of the more popular Great Society programs. Long-term studies published in the early 1970's showed that children who participated were better able to keep pace with their classes, scored higher on achievement tests and were less likely to end up in special classes for failing students.
        ''Many people thought that if children came from underprivileged homes then education couldn't do anything for them,'' said Dr. Kurt Salzinger, the executive director for science at the American Psychological Association. ''But he showed that if you teach them early and make up for what they've been missing, they become more responsive to teachers and therefore will learn faster and more effectively.''
        In 1958, Martin and Cynthia Deutsch founded the Institute for Developmental Studies at New York Medical College to study the way children's environment influenced their learning.
        The institute later merged with New York University's School of Education, and he continued as its director through the rest of his career. He also was a professor of early childhood education and applied psychology.
        Born in New York, Martin Deutsch received his undergraduate, master's and doctorate degrees from Columbia. He served in the Navy from 1943 to 1945 and held teaching positions at Brooklyn College and Columbia, among others.
        He lived in Weston, Conn.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Benjamin, of Maplewood, N.J.; a brother, Stanley, of New York; and one grandchild.
      