
        STEVEN BANKS, a Legal Aid Society lawyer who represents the homeless, sits at the large kitchen table with his wife, a housing court judge whose hair is still damp from the shower. His 11-year-old daughter is slurping up Lucky Charms cereal, while his 14-year-old son, arms folded, is making wisecracks about his workaholic father.
        Mr. Banks, 45, with his neatly trimmed beard and oval glasses, seems so gentle. Yet he is a bulldog. He's been battling the city's homeless policies for years, most recently to prevent homeless children and their parents from bouncing from one overcrowded shelter to the next, and sleeping on the floor of the Emergency Assistance Unit in the Bronx.
        The Bloomberg administration is learning that Mr. Banks is not someone you can easily bypass. He is due back in court tomorrow to fight the city's decision to house homeless families in a former jail, a remedy announced unexpectedly and promptly assailed by Mr. Banks and others.
        On a recent early morning, though, Mr. Banks is barely making a peep. He's listening indulgently to the talk around him in the family's three-story limestone town house in Windsor Terrace, Brooklyn, a placid neighborhood with an abundance of police officers, firefighters and American flags fluttering by the windows.
        His cellphone goes off incessantly. ''This is Steve Banks,'' he answers in the same steady tone. He sips white grape juice. He doesn't drink coffee. It's as if he's naturally wired.
        You learn that he seriously considered becoming a rabbi after studying European history at Brown University. Instead, he chose law school at New York University to have a greater impact.
        ''I have a motivation that comes from my religious background,'' says Mr. Banks, who was raised a Reform Jew. ''Pursuing justice was the highest calling. I felt an obligation to give back to society and to help those who need help.''
        Mr. Banks has been in overdrive lately. There was the troubled teenage boy who committed suicide early this month in a homeless shelter. Now there's the jail business. And this from a new mayor, whose top people seemed to be making the right noises, says Mr. Banks, sounding affronted.
        ''This is my fourth mayoral administration and there's been periods of compliance and noncompliance, and this is obviously a period of extreme noncompliance,'' he says. ''But I'm a perennial optimist. I couldn't be a Legal Aid lawyer for 21 years if I wasn't an optimist.''
        Mr. Banks has been hurling lawsuits against the city since 1983, trying to get the city to close welfare hotels and barracks-style shelters, winning many of them. He began with the Legal Aid Society in a neighborhood office in Staten Island, and since March has been the associate attorney in chief; the No. 2 lawyer in the organization.
        With so much going on, Mr. Banks has not been at home much.
        What this is like for his family. ''Do you want the answer that we were told to be nice and fluffy,'' his son, Harry, pipes up cheerfully.
        ''He's planning a career in comedy,'' Harry's father says hastily.
        Harry merrily continues: ''He shows up around midnight and eats the leftovers, right out of the box, standing over the sink.''
        His father looks on, not seeming upset. His children, who attend public schools, seem accustomed to inquiring adults. Mr. Banks is a soccer dad; Harry says his father is the only parent who doesn't yell at his games.
        ''I'm just there to support my son,'' says Mr. Banks, who grew up outside of Boston, in Brookline. His father was an orthopedic surgeon and dean of the Tufts University medical school, and his mother stayed home with three children. Mr. Banks played soccer and won regional wrestling championships.
        ''I don't think he knows how to do something halfway; he can't,'' says his wife, Jean T. Schneider, from the kitchen of the rambling house, which they moved into from a TriBeCa loft five years ago. They met on a picket line during a Legal Aid strike 20 years ago.
        O.K. Now, it is Mr. Banks' turn. Does his work take a toll?
        ''Look, certainly my family makes sacrifices so we can do the work we do,'' he says, adding however that his family inspires him to keep up the fight.
        ''The ability to get on the subway and walk down my block and come into my house and be with my family makes it possible to get up the next morning and go back at it,'' he says.
        SO, the guy's a Hallmark card. But last year, Mr. Banks flirted with the dark side. He ran unsuccessfully for the City Council in the 39th District, in Brooklyn, coming in second in the primary out of six candidates. He says he was encouraged to do so after he stopped the Giuliani administration from shutting a mental health center in Cobble Hill.
        ''The uniqueness of term limits and the change in government created an opportunity for people to try to make a difference,'' he says. ''I don't have any regrets about that, but the work I do at Legal Aid is incredibly important. I feel like my actual name is Steve Banks of the Legal Aid Society. It's hard to separate. That's who I am. That's my identity.''
        He's heading to work now. And when you arrive, you see a temporary office, relocated from Church Street to Brooklyn Heights after Sept. 11, that is a mess. There are no file cabinets. Boxes filled with court records are everywhere. The phone rings.
        The lawyer is at home. ''This is Steve Banks,'' he says.
        PUBLIC LIVES
      