
        Kyle Rote, an all-American back at Southern Methodist who became a star receiver with Giants teams that went to four N.F.L. championship games in the 1950's and early 60's, died yesterday at a hospital in Baltimore. Rote, who lived in St. Michaels, Md., was 73.
        The cause was pneumonia following hernia surgery on Aug. 4, his wife, Nina, said.
        On a mid-January day in 1951, Steve Owen, the Giants' longtime coach, placed his left hand into a hat and drew out a ticket giving the Giants the bonus selection in the N.F.L. college draft -- the right to pick a player ahead of the regular selection process. The Giants chose Rote, who had been runner-up for the Heisman Trophy as college football's top player.
        It was a piece of exceedingly good fortune. When Rote retired after the 1961 season, he had become the Giants' career leader in pass receptions (300), receiving yardage (4,795) and touchdown receptions (48). He was second-highest in total touchdowns (52) and the fifth-leading scorer (312 points) and had been named to the Pro Bowl four times.
        Rote was also a leader on teams brimming with talent, having been a Giants captain and a player so admired by his teammates that many named their sons Kyle.
        He was a founder of the National Football League Players Association in the mid-1950's and its first elected president.
        Rote excelled despite suffering knee injuries early in his career that curtailed his speed and forced his conversion from running back to receiver.
        ''The outstanding backs of that era were Alex Webster and Frank Gifford,'' Wellington Mara, the Giants' co-owner, said yesterday. ''Before Kyle hurt his knee, he was as powerful a runner as Webster was and as smooth a runner and as good a receiver as Gifford was.
        ''He was a great receiver without having that much speed anymore. But he made some great moves on people. We had many pictures of him going one way and the defender going the other way.''
        Y. A. Tittle, who succeeded Charlie Conerly as the Giants' quarterback late in Rote's career, remembered him yesterday as having ''a great offensive mind.''
        Kyle Rote, a native of San Antonio, teamed up in the Southern Methodist backfield with Doak Walker, the 1948 Heisman Trophy winner.
        Rote's greatest collegiate moment came as a junior tailback, against undefeated Notre Dame, the nation's No. 1 team, in the final game of the 1949 season. Rote ran for 115 yards, threw for 146 yards and scored all three S.M.U. touchdowns in a 27-20 loss. Notre Dame was so impressed that it later made him an honorary member of its championship team, and the Texas Sportswriters Association voted Rote's performance the finest by a Texas athlete in the first half of the century.
        Rote remembered how his fellow Texans had bet heavily on S.M.U. to beat the point spread.
        ''Notre Dame was a 27 1/2-point favorite,'' he recalled in a 1995 interview with The Baltimore Sun. ''After the game, a newspaper ran a great headline, 'S.M.U. Wins, 20-27.' The oil market was thriving in Texas then. All the oilmen took the points, so from that standpoint we won big.''
        In 1950, his senior year, Rote was runner-up to Vic Janowicz of Ohio State in the Heisman balloting.
        During Rote's years with the Giants, they were Eastern Conference champions four times. They won the N.F.L. championship game in 1956, defeating the Chicago Bears, then lost to the Baltimore Colts in the memorable 1958 overtime game and in 1959, and to the Green Bay Packers in 1961.
        After retiring as a player, Rote was a Giants backfield coach for two seasons, then worked as a sportscaster for WNEW Radio and for NBC. He was elected to the College Football Hall of Fame in 1964.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by four children from a previous marriage, Kyle Jr., of Memphis, a star in the North American Soccer League during the 1970's, Gary, of Waco, Tex., Christopher, of Corpus Christi, Tex., and Elizabeth Dickson, of Denver; four stepdaughters, Linda Lebelle, of Salisbury, Md., Laurie Gilkenson, of Silver Spring, Md., Carla Dant, of Middletown, Md., and Nina Rote, of Stockholm; and 12 grandchildren. He was a cousin of the pro football quarterback Tobin Rote, who died in 2000.
        Rote signed his first Giants contract at Toots Shor's, the Manhattan sporting-crowd restaurant. It was only his second time in the big city.
        In reflecting on Rote's football smarts yesterday, Mara remembered how Rote had his wits about him off the field as well. ''I remember his introduction to New York,'' Mara said. ''He was driving in a car, I think, through the Holland Tunnel, and a guy came up to the car and said, 'Hey, Whitey, you want to buy a watch?' He was smart enough that he didn't buy the watch.''
      