
        Eduardo Chillida, a Basque sculptor internationally celebrated for his graceful, monumental abstractions in steel, wrought iron, stone and concrete, died on Monday at his home near San Sebastián, Spain. He was 78.
        His family said that he died after a long illness.
        In the 1950's Mr. Chillida created open configurations of linear and planar forms akin to early works of the American sculptor David Smith. But he came of age as a sculptor in the 60's, when he turned to more condensed, blocky forms reflecting the trend toward geometric simplification in much new sculpture of that period.
        Never a Minimalist, however, Mr. Chillida typically worked to combine formal opposites. A rectangular block of steel, for example, would divide into curving bars; a seemingly solid, monolithic form would have cavities cut into it, suggesting a mysterious interior; a massive sculpture might be suspended in defiance of gravity; and large public works in concrete and steel would project architectural severity while offering shelter and, in the form of decorative curves or circular additions, poetic lyricism.
        An architect by training, Mr. Chillida developed public sculptures that related to their man-made or natural environments. While unmistakably modern, his public works can evoke feelings of antiquity, calling to mind ancient sites like Stonehenge.
        Major public works by Mr. Chillida are in Barcelona, Paris, Frankfurt and Dallas. One of his most admired works is ''Comb of the Winds,'' an arrangement of three sculptures on the rocky coast overlooked by his seaside home.
        Born in San Sebastián on Jan. 10, 1924, Mr. Chillida had a brief career as goalkeeper for the town soccer team before studying architecture at the University of Madrid from 1943 to 1946. In 1947 he abandoned architecture for art, and the next year he moved to Paris, where he set up his first studio and began working in plaster and clay.
        In 1950 Mr. Chillida married Pilar Belzunce and returned to the San Sebastián area, first to the nearby village of Hernani and in 1959 to the city of his birth, where he remained.
        After his first solo exhibition at the Clan Gallery in Madrid in 1954, Mr. Chillida exhibited his work in more than 100 one-man shows. He also participated in many international exhibitions, including the Venice Biennale (1958, 1988 and 1990); the Pittsburgh International, where he received the Carnegie Prize for sculpture in 1964 and, in 1978, shared the Andrew W. Mellon Prize with Willem de Kooning; and Documenta II, IV and VI.
        His sculptures have been collected by major museums, including the Museum of Modern Art and the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York; the Tate Britain in London; the Spanish Museum of Contemporary Art in Madrid; the Kunsthalle Basel in Switzerland; and the National Gallery in Berlin.
        Mr. Chillida is survived by his wife, their eight children and 26 grandchildren.
      