
        Charles M. Lichenstein, who as America's No. 2 envoy at the United Nations 20 years ago offered to wave ''a fond farewell'' to the world body if its members chose to leave the United States, died on Thursday in Washington. He was 75.
        The Heritage Foundation, a conservative research organization where he worked, said Mr. Lichenstein had died of complications during heart surgery.
        His provocative remarks came on Sept. 19, 1983, at a meeting of the United Nations committee overseeing relations with its host country.
        On Sept. 1, Soviet fighter jets shot down a Korean airliner that had strayed over Soviet territory, killing all 269 on board, including an American congressman.
        In response, the legislatures of New York and New Jersey voted to ban Soviet aircraft from landing in their states.
        The United States, which opposed the legislation, offered the Soviet Union landing rights at a military base so its foreign minister, Andrei A. Gromyko, could fly in for the General Assembly meeting.
        But the Soviets refused. When the United Nations committee met to review the situation, the Soviet delegate, Igor I. Yakovlev, said the ban on landing ''raises the question of whether the United Nations should be in the United States.''
        A furious Mr. Lichensteinreplied that if member states felt ''they are not being treated with the hostly consideration that is their due,'' they should consider ''removing themselves and this organization from the soil of the United States.''
        ''We will put no impediment in your way,'' he continued, ''The members of the U.S. mission to the United Nations will be down at the dockside waving you a fond farewell as you sail off into the sunset.''
        His remarks produced a flurry of speculation -- immediately denied -- that the Reagan administration might want the United Nations to move out of the United States. Mr. Gromyko boycotted the fall meeting.
        Later the White House said that Mr. Lichenstein, who was alternate representative at the United Nations from 1981 to 1984, when Jeane J. Kirkpatrick was the ambassador, had sought unsuccessfully to resign from his post two weeks earlier in frustration at the United Nations' bureaucracy.
        Charles Mark Lichenstein was born Sept. 20, 1926, in Albany. He graduated from Yale University and later helped establish the Chubb Fellowship, which encourages students to pursue careers in public service.
        He worked for Richard M. Nixon's 1960 presidential campaign and 1962 gubernatorial campaign in California and for Senator Barry Goldwater's presidential campaign in 1964. In 1964 and 1965 he was research director for the Republican National Committee.
        He served in the administrations of Presidents Nixon and Ford in public information, policy development and congressional and political liaison.
        From 1975 to 1979 he was senior vice president of the Public Broadcasting Service in Washington, the national program distributor for United States public television.
        He is survived by three nephews.
      