
        Junius Scales, who in the postwar anti-Communist fervor was the only American sent to prison for being a member of the Communist Party, died Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived in Manhattan and Pine Bush, N.Y.
        He died of heart failure and the effects of a stroke, said his daughter, Barbara.
        His conviction was upheld by the Supreme Court, but his sentence was later commuted by President John F. Kennedy.
        With his privileged Southern upbringing, Mr. Scales was an unlikely Communist. He joined the Communist Party in 1939 while he was at the University of North Carolina, saying that he saw in the party an opportunity to right the wrongs done to blacks and poor working people.
        Mr. Scales rose quickly within the party to coordinate civil rights and labor organizing activities in several Southern states. He took his operations underground when party leaders were being trailed and harassed by federal authorities.
        Mr. Scales was arrested by the F.B.I. in Memphis in 1954 on charges of violating the Smith Act of 1940, which made it a felony to lead or be a member of a group that advocated the violent overthrow of the United States government.
        While a handful of others were prosecuted for leadership roles in the party, Mr. Scales was the only one convicted and sent to prison under the clause in the law that made it a crime to be a member of such a group. He was not charged with being involved in violent or subversive activities, as were other leading Communists, like Gus Hall and Angela Davis.
        The Scales trial wended its way through state and Federal courts for almost seven years. Mr. Scales maintained his party membership through the early years of the proceedings, but when Khrushchev acknowledged Stalin's crimes in 1956, he left the Communist Party.
        In his memoir, ''Cause at Heart: A Former Communist Remembers,'' written with Richard Nickson (University of Georgia Press, 1987), Mr. Scales wrote of that moment of revelation:
        ''Stalin -- my revered symbol of the infallibility of Communism, the builder of socialism in one country, the rock of Stalingrad, the wise, kindly man with the keen sense of humor at whose death I had wept just three years before -- Stalin had been a murderous, power-hungry monster!''
        He added, ''My idol had crumbled to dust forever.''
        Despite his repudiation of the party, Mr. Scales refused to reveal names of other party members, a stand that he maintained led to the government's refusal to drop the prosecution of his case. In 1961, the Supreme Court upheld his conviction in a 5-to-4 decision, and he was sentenced to six years in prison.
        Many prominent Americans petitioned President Kennedy to commute the sentence. These included James A. Wechsler, the editor of The New York Post; the labor leader David Dubinsky; and the theologian Reinhold Niebuhr. In an editorial on June 14, 1962, The New York Times called Mr. Scales ''a misguided idealist'' and urged his release.
        ''There is something un-American in having even one political prisoner in the United States,'' the editorial added.
        President Kennedy commuted Mr. Scales's sentence on Dec. 24, 1962. He had served 15 months of his six-year sentence.
        Junius Irving Scales was born on March 26, 1920, in Greensboro, N.C. His great-uncle, A. M. Scales, had been governor of the state. He was brought up on the family estate and said that the only black people he knew were the servants.
        Mr. Scales's wife, Gladys, died in 1981. He is survived by his daughter, who lives in Montreal, and one granddaughter.
        As a young Communist Party member, he enlisted in the Army during World War II. Military intelligence, aware of his party membership, would not send him overseas until the end of the war, when he was sent to southern Italy, well away from the front lines.
        In January 1963, shortly after his release from prison, Mr. Scales took a job as a proofreader at The New York Times. His daughter said he worked the overnight shift as part of an effort to ''withdraw from the world,'' spend more time with his family during the day and work on his memoir. He retired in 1983.
        Mr. Scales's story became a drama called ''The Limits of Dissent,'' by Lou Lipsitz, a professor at the University of North Carolina, Mr. Scales's alma mater. The play, based on the transcripts of the Scales trial, was performed in several North Carolina courthouses in the 1970's. As part of the drama, nine members of the audience would serve as jurors and render a verdict on Mr. Scales.
        The play explored issues of free speech, tolerance of unpopular views and the dangers of getting caught up in the passions of the day.
      