
        Bill Wassmuth, a former Roman Catholic priest who waged a vigorous battle against white supremacist hate groups in northern Idaho, died on Tuesday at his home in Ellensburg, Wash. He was 61.
        The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, commonly known as Lou Gehrig's disease, said Eric Ward, who succeeded Mr. Wassmuth as the head of the Northwest Coalition for Human Dignity.
        Mr. Wassmuth was a priest in Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, in the early 1980's when the Aryan Nations set up a neo-Nazi headquarters on a 20-acre compound in nearby Hayden Lake.
        Mr. Wassmuth, using his church as a base, became a leader in the Kootenai County Task Force on Human Relations and spoke against racism, anti-Semitism and sexism.
        On Sept. 15, 1986, his enemies struck back. They blew up the back of his house with a pipe bomb as he sat in his living room. Three other bombs exploded in Coeur d'Alene, but no one was hurt. Three Aryan Nations members were convicted in the bombings.
        Eventually, Mr. Wassmuth left the priesthood and married. He is survived by his wife, Mary Frances Dondelinger, and two sisters.
        He resettled in Seattle and devoted his time to fighting hate groups. His organization, the Northwest Coalition Against Malicious Harassment, later became the Northwest Coalition for Human Dignity. The group is active in Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Washington and Wyoming.
        In his book, ''Hate Is My Neighbor'' (Stand Together Publishers, 1999), written with Tom Alibrandi, Mr. Wassmuth said, ''To ignore hate groups, even though they usually include relatively small numbers of people, is to miscalculate the impact that they can have on a community.''
        William Wassmuth, one of nine children, was born in Greencreek, Idaho, on July 19, 1941. He described Greencreek as an all-white farming community and said he never saw blacks until a group of inner-city children came to a Job Corps program nearby. He recalled that his father, Henry, a farmer who in winters managed a skating rink, defied neighbors when they sought to bar the black children from the rink.
        Mr. Wassmuth graduated from St. Thomas Seminary in Kenmore, Wash., and served in several Idaho parishes before St. Pius X Catholic Church in Coeur d'Alene in 1979.
        He was a prime mover of a legal action that in 2000 led to a $6.2 million judgment against the Aryan Nations, bankrupting the group and forcing it to abandon its compound.
      