
        Stephen G. Cary, who ran public-service work camps filled with fellow conscientious objectors during World War II and later became the leader of the American Friends Service Committee, the national Quaker humanitarian organization, died on Tuesday at his summer home in Chatham, Mass., on Cape Cod. He was 86 and lived in Haverford, Pa.
        Mr. Cary, who worked for the service committee most of his professional life, assumed its top post, designated simply as clerk, in 1979. He also spent 13 years as an administrator, including one year as acting president, at Haverford College, founded by Quakers in 1833.
        Mr. Cary's activities during World War II were featured in a documentary that was shown this year on public television. The film, ''The Good War and Those Who Refused to Fight It,'' described how the government allowed about 12,000 members of pacifist churches like the Quakers and the Mennonites to perform national service in civilian work camps rather than be drafted into the military. Mr. Cary headed two of those camps, in the southern Oregon town of Elkton and in Big Flats, N.Y., outside Elmira.
        Though the conscientious objectors were performing national service as manual laborers, they were often subjected to discrimination, derided as unpatriotic, even traitorous.
        In the film, Mr. Cary recalled that the men had been given no pay, no support for their families and no work that was meaningful. Like Penelope waiting for Odysseus, ''we were knitting all day and unraveling all night,'' he said, ''and nobody was happy.''
        But, he said, they did talk about the choices they had made, looking at war, even just war, from every perspective. ''Out of that crucible,'' he added, ''came people who really knew why they were pacifists.''
        Stephen Grellet Cary was born to a Quaker family in Philadelphia on Sept. 21, 1915. He never forgot, he once said, that his father abruptly quit a good job when the company he worked for accepted a military contract. Mr. Cary got his bachelor's degree at Haverford and a master's in international administration from Columbia.
        After receiving his draft notice in 1942, he declared himself a conscientious objector and served out the war in a number of the civilian work camps.
        When the war was over, he went to Europe to work in the relief effort. From 1946 to 1948, he was chief of the America Quaker Relief Operations in Europe, overseeing work in 10 countries. For their humanitarian efforts in Europe, the Quakers were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1947.
        On his return to the United States, Mr. Cary worked in various administrative posts at the American Friends national office in Philadelphia. Over the years, he was a member of Quaker good-will teams that visited the Soviet Union and Vietnam. He was also active in the civil rights movement, and went to jail for 15 days in 1968 for civil disobedience at a Washington demonstration of the Poor People's Campaign.
        He was named a vice president at Haverford College in 1969 and was acting president during the 1977-78 academic year, when the college was preparing for the transition from an all-male institution to coed.
        After his election to clerk of the American Friends in 1979, Mr. Cary served in the top post until 1991.
        He is survived by his wife of 54 years, Elizabeth; a son, Charles, of Princeton, Mass.; two daughters, Anne Sampson of Larchmont, N.Y., and Dorothy Cary of Philadelphia; a sister, Comfort Richardson of Kennett Square, Pa.; and seven grandchildren.
        In the documentary this year, Mr. Cary reflected on the destiny of his central ideals.
        ''I have no illusions that my pacifist views are going to prevail, none at all,'' he said. ''But every great change in expanding the dimensions of human freedom has come from very small original beginnings: somebody said no.''
      