
        Justin R. Meyer, a founder and for almost three decades president and winemaker at Silver Oak Cellars, one of California's most prestigious wineries, died on Tuesday while vacationing with his wife in the Sierra Nevada mountains, near Lake Tahoe. He was 63 and lived in Oakville, Calif.
        The cause was a heart attack, a spokesman for Silver Oak said.
        Almost from the first vintage, 1972, Silver Oak cabernet sauvignon was an outstanding success. Year after year, it continues to be one of a handful of the most sought-after American red wines in the nation's luxury restaurants. Mr. Meyer attributed his wine's popularity to his early decision to make only cabernet sauvignon. At the time, wineries were expected to make a range of wines, sometimes three dozen or more, to capture space on retailers' shelves.
        ''Only one wine can be your best,'' he told an interviewer in the mid-1990's, ''and I felt that cabernet was what we did best in Napa and Sonoma.''
        In fact, Silver Oak makes two cabernets, one from the Napa Valley and a second from the Alexander Valley, in Sonoma County, about 30 miles north of the Napa winery. The Napa wine is made mostly from purchased grapes; the Sonoma wine mostly from Silver Oak's 200 acres of vineyards there.
        Justin Raymond Meyer was born Nov. 11, 1938, in Bakersfield, Calif. Just out of high school he joined the Brothers of the Christian Schools, or Christian Brothers, a Catholic teaching order. After college, while Mr. Meyer was teaching Spanish at a Christian Brothers high school in Sacramento, the order apprenticed him to its famous winemaker, Brother Timothy, at their winery in the Napa Valley.
        ''At one point,'' Mr. Meyer once said, ''we had six wineries and were the largest brandy makers in the world.''
        After 15 years, he left the order to marry and have children. That year he met Ray Duncan, a Coloradan in the gas and oil business, who had just invested in 600 acres in the Napa and Alexander Valleys. Mr. Meyer joined him and Silver Oak was born. The 1972 was made at the Christian Brothers winery.
        In 1975, the two bought the bankrupt Franciscan winery adjacent to their Napa vineyards. Mr. Meyer became president and winemaker at Franciscan and made Franciscan and Silver Oak there. They sold Franciscan, with their Napa Valley vineyards, in 1979, but continued to make Silver Oak there through 1986.
        Last year, Mr. Meyer sold his half interest in Silver Oak to Mr. Duncan and retired. But he kept his hand in, calling himself the ''consulting taster.''
        Mr. Meyer is survived by his wife, Bonny; two sons, Chad and Matt; and a daughter, Holly. He met his wife-to-be when they were studying winemaking at the University of California at Davis. He was still a Christian Brother at the time. They were married several years later after he left the order. With his youngest son, Matt, Mr. Meyer produced wines at a separate venture, Meyer Family Cellars, in Mendocino County.
      