
        Darrell Porter, the All-Star catcher who overcame drug and alcohol addiction to become the most valuable player of the 1982 World Series with the St. Louis Cardinals, was found dead Monday at a park outside Kansas City, Mo. He was 50.
        The police in the suburb of Sugar Creek said that a motorist had spotted Porter's body near his car, its motor still running, during the late afternoon. Donna Newton, a police dispatch supervisor, said in a telephone interview that the car had become stuck after it was pulled off a roadway and that Porter might have been trying to free it when he collapsed. Temperatures in the Kansas City area were in the high 90's on Monday.
        An autopsy by the Jackson County Medical Examiner's office could not determine the cause of death; the results of further tests are awaited.
        Known for outstanding defensive skills and the ability to hit for power, Porter played in the major leagues from 1971 to 1987, spending six seasons with the Milwaukee Brewers, four with the Royals, five with the Cardinals and his last two with the Texas Rangers. He had a .247 career batting average and 188 home runs. He played in three consecutive All-Star Games while with Kansas City.
        Porter's best season was 1979: he batted .291 for the Royals, hit 20 home runs, drove in 112 runs and led the league in walks with 121. But he entered a substance-abuse clinic in Arizona during 1980 spring training after listening to a talk about addiction by Don Newcombe, a former pitcher for the Dodgers and the Reds who was a recovering alcoholic.
        Porter spent six weeks in rehabilitation, returned to the Royals in late April, then joined the Cardinals in 1981, playing again for Whitey Herzog, who had managed him in Kansas City before becoming the St. Louis manager.
        Porter was named M.V.P. in the 1982 National League Championship Series and World Series, in which the Cardinals defeated the Brewers in seven games. Porter delivered key hits in the World Series and was cited for his handling of the Cardinals' pitching staff.
        When he went to New York to be honored as the World Series M.V.P., Porter told of his addiction.
        ''I didn't even drink in high school,'' he said. ''But when I got into baseball I was suddenly batting .204 and I found that four or five beers tasted terrific. I began using alcohol, which is a drug, and uppers and downers and cocaine, and I smoked a lot of marijuana cigarettes. It started as a social thing, but after a while being high became the reality. After a while baseball was the only thing left.''
        He wrote of his struggle against substance abuse in ''Snap Me Perfect! The Darrell Porter Story'' (Thomas Nelson, 1984).
        Porter, who lived in the Kansas City suburb of Lee's Summit, is survived by his wife, Deanne, and three children, Lindsey, Jeff and Ryan.
      