
        King-lui Wu, an architect whose students at the Yale School of Architecture over four decades included some of the most prominent designers of their time, died on Aug. 15 at Yale-New Haven Hospital. He was 84 and lived in Hamden, Conn.
        As his first principle in architecture, Professor Wu prized daylight, which he called the ''most noble of natural phenomena'' in the synopsis of his long-running course ''Daylight and Architecture. It may sound unexceptionable now, but his emphasis on using natural light in the design of buildings came during an era dominated by fluorescent fixtures and artificial illumination.
        ''Architecture had become completely energy dependent,'' recalled one of his former students, Robert A. M. Stern. ''The way one lit a building was that one flipped a switch. He emphasized that buildings needed to breathe and that natural light brought them to life.''
        The breathing was not just metaphorical. James Stewart Polshek, another former student, recalled an influential home designed by Professor Wu for Benjamin Dupont in Woodbridge, Conn., in which the windows were sealed and the ventilation was handled by hinged panels below the glass, allowing for almost total freedom in the windows' size and placement.
        Professor Wu was born in Guangzhou, China, and received his bachelor's and master's degrees from Harvard. He began teaching architecture at Yale in 1945 and continued until 1988 -- ''one of the great threads of the school,'' said Mr. Stern, who is now the dean.
        His long, quiet tenure and courtly manner contrasted with a changing cast of large and sometimes clashing egos on the faculty. ''I don't think the school of architecture would have maintained its stability if it wasn't for him,'' said Charles Gwathmey, another former student. ''Really, he was the rock through all the transitions, all the ups and downs.''
        In his own practice, Professor Wu collaborated with the artist Josef Albers on the Dupont house and the Mount Bethel Missionary Baptist Church in New Haven. In 1962, he designed the headquarters of Manuscript, the only senior society at Yale to be housed in a Modernist building.
        Professor Wu is survived by his wife, Vivian Wei-Chu Wu; two daughters, Yeng-Tse Wu of Manhattan and Mai-Tse Wu of New Haven; and a son, Pei-Tse Wu of Manhattan.
      