
        Dick O'Connell, the Red Sox executive who revived a floundering franchise and built Boston's pennant-winning teams of 1967 and 1975, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Lexington, Mass. He was 87.
        In September 1965, when Mr. O'Connell succeeded Pinky Higgins as general manager, the Red Sox were en route to losing 100 games and finishing in ninth place in the American League.
        They lost 90 games in 1966, again finishing ninth, but the next year they captured the franchise's first pennant in 21 years. They beat out the Minnesota Twins and the Detroit Tigers by one game apiece and the Chicago White Sox by three games in ''the Impossible Dream.''
        Mr. O'Connell hired Dick Williams to manage the '67 team, which was led by outfielder Carl Yastrzemski, the batting triple crown winner, and pitcher Jim Lonborg, who won 22 games. The team included younger players like Tony Conigliaro, the victim of a severe beaning in August, George Scott, Mike Andrews, Rico Petrocelli, Joe Foy and Reggie Smith, and veterans obtained during the season: Ken Harrelson, Jerry Adair, Elston Howard and Gary Bell.
        Mr. O'Connell hardly expected that pennant victory.
        ''We figured we'd be better, but not that much better,'' he told The Sunday Telegram of Worcester, Mass., in 1997. ''I had no idea where we'd finish. I know we won something like 10 in a row in July, and I was down in Carolina the whole time scouting one of our minor league teams. When that happened, I figured I'd better get back to Boston. We might have a chance to win this thing.''
        The Red Sox won the 1975 pennant behind the hitting of Yastrzemski, Carlton Fisk, Fred Lynn, Jim Rice and Dwight Evans, all produced by the Boston farm system.
        But like all the other Red Sox general managers since 1918, Mr. O'Connell could not win a World Series championship. The Red Sox were beaten by the St. Louis Cardinals in the 1967 World Series and by the Cincinnati Reds in 1975, each time in seven games.
        Richard H. O'Connell, a native of Winthrop, Mass., graduated from Boston College, served in the Navy during World War II, then joined the Red Sox organization.
        Mr. O'Connell remained as the Red Sox general manager until 1977, the year after the death of Tom Yawkey, their longtime owner. He was fired by Yawkey's widow, Jean, and the other two trustees of his estate while the franchise was being sold.
        He is survived by his wife, Ethel; two sons, Kevin, of North Conway, N.H., and Stephen, of San Francisco; and a daughter, Dr. Kathleen O'Connell, of Wilton, Conn.
      