
        Anthony P. Savarese Jr., a former assemblyman from Queens who played a central role in outlawing wiretapping and legalizing bingo before becoming a justice on the State Supreme Court, died on Monday in Port Washington, N.Y. He was 85.
        He was first elected to the Assembly as a Republican in 1948, a year when six Republican assemblymen and three Republican senators went down to defeat. As a result he arrived in Albany with his political reputation already made.
        In 1955, he became chairman of the Joint Legislative Committee to Study Illegal Interception of Communications, which the Legislature set up after two wiretapping scandals.
        An investigation into the unsolved murder of Serge Rubenstein, a dubious financier, turned up evidence that he had made a practice of tapping the telephones of his business rivals. It also revealed that he had placed a secret radio transmitter in the apartment of a young woman that broadcast conversations there to a private detective waiting outside in a car.
        At the same time, news leaked out that the police and telephone company officials had recently raided a New York City apartment on Sutton Place at East 55th Street and found it was being used as a base for wholesale telephone wiretapping.
        The committee's investigation concluded that unauthorized interception of communications had reached intolerable levels in New York State and recommended a new law establishing a ''right of privacy of communications.''
        This law, drafted and shepherded through the Legislature by Mr. Savarese, made it an offense for any third party to listen into or intercept other people's private communications without a court's permission.
        In the 16 years he served in the Assembly, ending in 1964, Mr. Savarese also played a significant role in a successful campaign to legalize and regulate bingo games. He also sponsored legislation to tighten the regulation of horse racing.
        Anthony Peter Savarese Jr. was born in Queens on July 24, 1917, the son of another Judge Savarese, who had presided over the Queens County Surrogate Court for 28 years.
        He was educated at Rutgers University and at Harvard Law School.
        In 1967, Mr. Savarese, who had become a civil court judge in Queens that same year, was named by Mayor John V. Lindsay to be the city's legislative representative in Albany, effectively acting as a lobbyist for the city with the Legislature. He held the position until 1969.
        He became a criminal court judge in 1969, serving until his retirement in 1991. From 1973 to 1976 he was also an administrative judge and from 1976 to 1979 he served as an acting Supreme Court justice.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Joan O'Dwyer, a retired judge on the New York State Court of Claims and a niece of William O'Dwyer, a former mayor of New York City; and by a daughter from an earlier marriage, Judith Militare of Montauk, N.Y.
      