
        The Rev. Dr. Edwin Louis Cole, whose experience with an abusive father inspired him to build a worldwide Christian ministry that demanded sexual and social responsibility from men, died on Tuesday in Grapevine, Tex. He was 79 and lived in nearby Southlake.
        The cause was bone-marrow cancer, said his son, the Rev. Paul Louis Cole.
        Dr. Cole founded the Christian Men's Network in 1979. The network, a conservative organization based in Texas, has offices in 70 nations. It is widely credited with spawning popular evangelical men's ministries like the Promise Keepers. The founder of the Promise Keepers, Bill McCartney, said of Dr. Cole, ''for me personally, he's a mentor.''
        Although the Promise Keepers deals largely with American Christian men, often through ecstatic stadium rallies, the Christian Men's Network focuses on building churches, especially abroad, Paul Cole said. He explained that strong men created strong families that in turn created strong churches.
        In recent months, the network has sponsored missions in Singapore; London; Jakarta, Indonesia; Lima, Peru; Kampala, Uganda; and Harare, Zimbabwe.
        Dr. Cole's ministry put men at the head of the family, a role that came with great responsibility. He said marriages were saved and relationships healed through that approach. But feminist critics said it had dangers.
        Dr. Cole described his style as confrontational, telling men to ''repent of sex sins'' like adultery, pornography and habitual masturbation.
        He wrote 14 books, including ''Maximized Manhood,'' ''Strong Men in Tough Times'' and ''The Irresistible Husband,'' and produced more than 200 instructional videotapes, according to the network.
        Edwin Louis Cole was born on Sept. 14, 1922, in Dallas. He described his father as a heavy drinker and a compulsive gambler who could turn physically and verbally abusive. When Edwin was 5, he moved with his mother to Los Angeles, where they attended the Angeles Temple to hear the sermons of the Depression-era evangelical preacher Aimee Semple McPherson. Dr. Cole was an actor in her ''illustrated sermons'' and later played trumpet in a street-corner witnessing team.
        In World War II, he served in the Coast Guard, where he met and married Nancy Corbett, who died in 2000. Dr. Cole was ordained in the Assemblies of God and received his doctorate as a correspondence student from the New Covenant International University in New Zealand.
        He was the pastor of numerous churches in California before leaving to work full time on the men's ministry. ''I believe God has called me to speak with a prophetic voice to the men of this generation,'' he said.
        He was a popular speaker on the Christian circuit and was known for statements like, ''Being male is a matter of birth, being a man is a matter of choice,'' ''Manhood and Christ-likeness are synonymous'' and ''God never quits on you, don't quit on God.''
        In addition to his son, Paul, of Colleyville, Tex., his survivors include two daughters, Joann Cole Webster of North Richland Hills, Tex., and Lois Cole Bivins of Southlake; nine grandchildren; and a great-grandchild.
      