
        Charles Poletti, a son of Italian immigrants who served as governor of New York in the final weeks of 1942, then played a major role in the United States Army's reconstruction of Italy after the fall of Fascism, died Thursday at his home in Marco Island, Fla. He was 99.
        On Dec. 27, 1942, the Office of War Information beamed a short-wave radio address to the Italian people, urging them to ''throw out both Hitler and Mussolini.'' Charles Poletti, who broadcast that appeal at the government's request, was someone the Italians could view with pride. The previous Dec. 3, he had become the first person of completely Italian ancestry to serve as a governor.
        Mr. Poletti had not been elected to the Statehouse in Albany. He moved up from lieutenant governor when the outgoing governor, Herbert H. Lehman, resigned to direct American war-relief efforts in Europe. Mr. Poletti served as governor for only 29 days before giving way to the newly elected Thomas E. Dewey.
        In January 1943, Mr. Poletti was named a special assistant to War Secretary Henry L. Stimson, and three months later received an Army commission. Mr. Poletti landed in Sicily with troops of the American Seventh Army in July 1943 and was installed as a senior officer in the Allied Military Government of Occupied Territory, with the task of restoring essential public services.
        As British and American troops swept through Italian regions in their drives northward, Lieutenant Colonel Poletti would follow, overseeing restoration of water supplies, transport and electricity and seeking to provide equitable food supplies in the face of widespread black-market operations. There were longterm objectives, too: the restoration of press freedom, restructuring of an educational system that had glorified Mussolini and the Fascist state, and creation of a free labor movement.
        After serving as the United States Army's administrator for Sicily, Colonel Poletti directed civil affairs operations in Naples, Rome and Milan at a time of chaos and misery, the occupation period described by John R. Hersey in his Pulitzer Prize-winning novel ''A Bell for Adano.''
        As Colonel Poletti joked in Italian and drank wine while listening to the pleas of Italians visiting his offices, he evoked a common touch akin to Mr. Hersey's fictitious occupation officer Maj. Victor Joppolo. But the bureaucratic hurdles and cultural misunderstandings were considerable, as Colonel Poletti made clear in telling an Associated Press correspondent what had happened one day at a town in Sicily:
        ''The Army wanted 500 laborers and called on us to help. We sent the town crier around to announce that jobs were open, but then had to send an officer along to protect him because when crowds gathered around to hear him, the military police started to arrest him for creating a disturbance. They did not know that that's the way you tell news in Sicilian towns where there are no newspapers.''
        In ''Mussolini and Fascism: The View From America'' (Princeton University Press, 1972), John P. Diggins, a historian at the University of California at Irvine, characterized the Allied military government as ''a pasticcio of agencies hampered by red tape, jurisdictional conflict and brass-hat bureaucracy.'' But, he added, ''A rare find in any war, Poletti had the right personal touch and the knowing heart.''
        Mr. Poletti could easily identify with the harsh times he saw in Italy, having been raised as the son of a stonecutter who labored in a granite quarry. Charles Poletti was born on July 2, 1903, in Barre, Vt. His father came from the Piedmont region in Italy and his mother from Lombardy.
        Mr. Poletti planned to manage a bakery after graduating from high school, but his principal encouraged him to attend college. He won a scholarship to Harvard, graduated Phi Beta Kappa, and then attended the University of Rome. He returned to study at Harvard Law School, graduating in 1928.
        Mr. Poletti joined the New York law firm of John W. Davis, the unsuccessful Democratic candidate for president in 1924; worked in the 1928 presidential campaign of his political hero, Al Smith, and then, in 1932, became counsel to the Democratic National Committee.
        Governor Lehman named Mr. Poletti as his counsel in 1933 (he had been recommended by Felix Frankfurter, then a professor at Harvard Law School).
        Mr. Poletti was elected to the State Supreme Court in 1937, but left the bench the following year when he was elected lieutenant governor, running on the Democratic ticket with Governor Lehman, who won a fourth term. When World War II began, Mr. Poletti directed civil defense efforts in New York State.
        In November 1942, Mr. Poletti was narrowly beaten in his bid for a second term as lieutenant governor, a casualty of Mr. Dewey's landslide gubernatorial victory over the Democratic state attorney general, James J. Bennett. But when Mr. Lehman resigned a month before his term expired, Mr. Poletti became governor.
        After being discharged from military service in November 1945 as a full colonel, Mr. Poletti became senior partner in a Manhattan law firm, and he served from May 1946 to June 1947 as an arbitrator for labor disputes in New York City's coat and suit industry. Mr. Poletti was appointed by Gov. W. Averell Harriman to the New York State Power Authority in 1955 and he oversaw foreign pavilions at the 1964-65 New York World's Fair, in both instances working for Robert Moses.
        The Power Authority's plant in the Astoria section of Queens is named for Mr. Poletti.
        He is survived by his wife, Elizabeth; a son, Dr. Charles Poletti of Avon, Conn.; two daughters, Carla Tidmarsh of Switzerland and Joanna Todisco of Marco Island; and four grandchildren. His first wife, Jean Ellis Poletti, died in 1973.
        Through his long career in public life, Mr. Poletti could usually count on his political instincts. They served him well in the military. One time, as he told the story to The Associated Press, he found himself alone as the only American in the Sicilian city of Favara, which American troops had taken moments before, then abandoned as they swept on to their next objective.
        Mr. Poletti went to the chief of police and told him what he wanted.
        ''Then I made a speech to a mass of people crowded around City Hall and explained that there would be no difficulty if they obeyed the military regulations. They applauded and cheered as I drove away. It was just like a political meeting back home.''
      