
        Chick Hearn, the radio and television voice of the Los Angeles Lakers for 42 seasons, whose vivid broadcast phrases were credited with adding ''slam dunk'' and ''air ball'' to the lexicon of professional baskeball, died Monday night at Northridge Hospital Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 85.
        The cause was complications from a head injury sustained last Friday in a fall in the backyard of his home. He had a brain hemorrhage and, despite two operations to relieve swelling and remove blood clots, he fell into a coma, his doctors said.
        The only regular play-by-play broadcaster the Lakers had after moving from Minneapolis for the 1960-61 season, Mr. Hearn called a record 3,338 consecutive Lakers games over 36 years -- from Nov. 21, 1965, the day after bad weather forced him to miss a flight, to Dec. 16, 2001, after which he had surgery for a blocked heart valve.
        While recovering, he fell and broke his hip, but returned to work on April 9 and broadcast the Lakers' playoff run to their third straight National Basketball Association championship. He had planned to continue broadcasting through next season.
        With Marty Glickman, who announced for the Knicks, and Johnny Most, the longtime gravel voice of the Boston Celtics, Mr. Hearn was a pioneer in sports broadcasting, as well known to Lakers fans as Jerry West, Elgin Baylor, Wilt Chamberlain, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Magic Johnson, Shaquille O'Neal and other stars whose exploits he chronicled.
        With dazzling imagery and a deep resonance reflecting early work in radio, Mr. Hearn caught rapid-fire action: ''Magic back and forth like a windshield wiper with the dribble drive. . . . He throws up a prayer: air ball! Rebound left side taken by McAdoo, he goes right back up -- a frozen rope that time, no arch, but it melted right in the hole. . . . Lucas fakes and puts James Worthy deep into the popcorn machine. He's covered with salt!''
        Mr. Hearn's ''slam dunk'' was coined to describe the power of a monstrous basket stuff by the 7-foot-1-inch Chamberlain, according to ''The Language of Sport,'' by Tim Considine; the phrase has been picked up in other contexts to convey forcefulness. ''Air ball,'' a shot that misses everything, and ''The mustard's off the hot dog,'' a flashy play going awry, were other Hearnisms.
        Francis Dayle Hearn was born in Buda, Ill., on Nov. 27, 1916, but grew up in Aurora. He was a talented athlete as a young man, but a car accident ended his semipro basketball career in the 1930's. During his Aurora playing days, his affable response to a practical joker's dead chicken in his locker won him the nickname Chick, and it stuck.
        He was a pharmaceutical salesman for a time, served in the Army in the South Pacific during World War II and after the war became a sportscaster in Aurora and Peoria, Ill. In 1956, he moved to Los Angeles to cover college football and basketball for CBS radio and NBC television outlets.
        Joining the Lakers in their first season in Los Angeles, he was soon the toast of sports entertainment in Southern California. He eventually became the voice for nine N.B.A. championships. Pat Riley, the celebrated coach, spent two years beside Hearn in the broadcast booth, and credited Hearn with being his early mentor. Hearn also broadcast college and professional football, track meets, auto and horse racing, boxing, tennis, golf and other sports, and appeared in television and movie cameos, usually as a broadcaster.
        For seven years in the 1970's, he was an assistant general manager of the Lakers, advising on contracts and personnel. He was a member of the Basketball Hall of Fame and the American Sportscasters Hall of Fame. Last June, accepting a Los Angeles Emmy for lifetime achievement, he told his audience he had never been a Laker cheerleader.
        ''My main objective when I get behind the microphone is to entertain, yes, but to be honest,'' he said. ''If Jerry West threw the ball up in the second row and hit some old lady drinking a beer, that's tough. You got to report it.''
        He is survived by his wife, the former Marge Jeffers; one granddaughter; and one great-granddaughter. A son, Gary, died in 1972, and a daughter, Samantha, died in 1991.
      