
        Leslie Slote, former press secretary to Mayor Robert F. Wagner and Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, died on Friday at the hospice at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was liver cancer, said his son, Samuel.
        As press spokesman to two New York political figures in the 1950's and 60's, Mr. Slote was often quoted by name in newspaper articles on matters like Mr. Wagner's efforts to preserve the 15-cent subway fare and Mr. Rockefeller's prospects for the presidency.
        At City Hall, where he worked from 1956 to 1966, Mr. Slote's desk was often right across from Mr. Wagner's. In a 1964 profile in The New York Post, Mr. Slote was described as the mayor's ''listening post and running block, diplomat and interpreter of city policy.''
        In 1966, at the end of the Wagner administration, Mr. Slote became the spokesman for Governor Rockefeller in Albany. In 1968, he headed the team of Rockefeller aides who went to Miami to work toward the Republican presidential nomination, which went to Richard M. Nixon that year.
        A year later, Mr. Slote became a vice president at the RCA Corporation. He retired in 1982.
        Leslie Slote was born Jan. 9, 1924, in Brooklyn. He graduated from Erasmus High School and the University of Missouri. In World War II, he was a Navy lieutenant in the Pacific. Before going into government, he worked as a reporter for The Chief, the weekly newspaper for civil service workers.
        In addition to his son Samuel, who lives in Buffalo, Mr. Slote is survived by his wife of 42 years, the former Lea Ben Boaz, and a daughter, Louisa, of Lynn, Mass.
        Mr. Slote also had a notable career as a writer who fronted for television writers blacklisted in the anti-Communist hysteria of the 1950's. While he was at The Chief, a childhood friend, Walter Bernstein, who had been blacklisted, asked him if he could use his name on a script.
        ''He explained that every once in a while I would get money from CBS,'' Mr. Slote said in an interview with Jeff Kisseloff in his book, ''The Box: An Oral History of Television, 1920-1961.'' He passed on all the money to the actual writers, he said, though some fronts charged a fee.
        Mr. Bernstein went on to write the script for the 1976 movie ''The Front.'' One of Mr. Bernstein's scripts was a 1957 television adaptation of Mark Twain's ''Prince and the Pauper.'' The script won a Christopher Award, and when Mr. Slote accepted the plaque, Mr. Bernstein insisted that he keep it. He used it as a paperweight.
      