
        Allen R. Myerson, an assistant business and financial editor of The New York Times and a former national correspondent for the paper, died yesterday. He was 47 and lived in Glen Ridge, N.J.
        Mr. Myerson fell from a parapet above the 15th floor of the newspaper's building, at 229 West 43rd Street, landing on the roof of an adjacent parking garage, said the police, whose preliminary finding was suicide.
        At The Times, Mr. Myerson was in charge of Business Day's weekend operations, directing news coverage and editing business news that developed on Saturdays and Sundays.
        Mr. Myerson joined The Times in 1989 as a copy editor. From 1993 to 1999 he was the paper's business correspondent in Dallas, traveling throughout the Southwest and writing about the oil and energy business, corporate takeovers and transportation.
        He also wrote for other sections. In a 1998 Week in Review article, he compared the wealth of John D. Rockefeller with that of Bill Gates. He found that Mr. Gates was richer, because Rockefeller barely reached a billion dollars. Adjusting the figures for inflation, he found Mr. Gates still ahead -- $25.6 billion for Rockefeller, $46 billion for Mr. Gates.
        Mr. Myerson continued: ''But who, then, has lived better? Judging from their homes, it's Rockefeller, though Mr. Gates has only begun to compete.''
        As an editor, he continued to write. His last major article, about the National Cowgirl Museum and Hall of Fame in Fort Worth, appeared on June 2.
        Mr. Myerson also edited a book, ''The New Rules of Personal Investing: The Experts' Guide to Prospering in a Changing Economy'' (Times Books, 2002).
        Allen Reuben Myerson was born in Manhattan on April 13, 1955. He grew up in New Rochelle, N.Y., and graduated from Harvard, where he was an editor of The Independent, a weekly news magazine, and played trombone in the marching band.
        Mr. Myerson spent three years at The Globe-Times in Bethlehem, Pa., then moved to The Lexington Herald, in Kentucky, and later to The Dallas Morning News.
        He was also a staff writer at Georgia Trend, a monthly business magazine.
        He is survived by his wife, Carol Cropper Myerson; his mother, Natalie Myerson of New Rochelle; and two sisters, Jean Myerson of White Plains and Dr. Merle Myerson of Cooperstown, N.Y.
      