
        Fred Darrington, who was to British sand castles what Sir Christopher Wren was to London churches, died Aug. 16 in his home in Esher, Surrey. He was 91.
        For nearly 70 summers, Mr. Darrington delighted visitors to the beach at Weymouth, a resort town on the southern coast, with magnificent constructions of sand and water -- castles, of course, and very large and well fortified ones to be sure, but much more as well.
        In 1982 there were life-size models of the Prince and Princess of Wales. There were pyramids and sphinxes, depictions of the Last Supper, a group of four monkeys playing poker, sculptures of successful race-horses and bowls of fruit. Sometimes he added paint for verisimilitude.
        Mr. Darrington first won outside recognition in 1962, when he was asked to build a sand castle for a travel exhibition at Olympia Stadium in London. Weymouth -- whose earlier claim to fame was as port of entry for the Black Death in 1348 -- honored Mr. Darrington by allocating a special portion of beach for him, with his own hut. He would work away there all summer, while tourists threw coins into a spare sand pail.
        The secret of his success, he used to say, lay in Weymouth's unusually coarse sand, which binds together firmly with the addition of a little water. But Britain's famously damp summers also helped preserve his edifices against drying out and crumbling.
        Mr. Darrington's preferred method was to mix a pint of water with two pounds of sand and then use this sloppy mixture to start building from the ground up in successive layers, which he then sculptured with a knife or lollipop stick.
        Frederick George William Darrington was born on Aug. 28, 1910, in Andover, in central southern England, the son of a railway worker. He started building sand castles as a boy, and by the time he left school at 14, he was collecting useful sums of money from his hobby during the summer.
        In 1936 he took an engineering job with Rolls-Royce in London, but continued traveling down to Weymouth at every available opportunity during the summer to tend to his works.
        During World War II he worked at an American army camp and afterward took up electrical engineering work at Esher, but he continued with his sand sculptures. After his retirement he was able to devote himself full-time to his hobby, staying for months at a time with a daughter who conveniently lived in Weymouth.
        His wife, the former Violet Clifford, died last year. Mr. Darrington is survived by three daughters and a grandson, Mark Anderson, who is also a full-time sand-castle builder, having abandoned a career in banking.
        Six years ago, after his grandfather suffered a stroke, Mr. Anderson, 37, took over his site on Weymouth beach, earning enough during the summer to pay his mortgage and buy himself an air ticket out to Manly Beach in Sydney for the Australian summer.
        Visitors to Weymouth last weekend were greeted by a magnificent display of ancient Egyptian sphinxes and pyramids, sculptured by Mr. Anderson as a farewell tribute to his grandfather.
      