
        John Roseboro, an outstanding catcher for the Dodgers who was remembered as the victim of an astonishing bat-wielding attack by the Giants' star pitcher Juan Marichal during a game in 1965, died Friday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 69.
        Roseboro had been treated for a heart ailment, prostate cancer and strokes, The Associated Press reported.
        In 1958, the Dodgers' first year in Los Angeles, Roseboro became the team's regular catcher after Roy Campanella was paralyzed in an auto accident. He played on three Dodgers teams that won the World Series and was an All-Star three times with the Dodgers and once with the Minnesota Twins.
        But he was known most of all for one of the most shocking incidents in baseball history.
        It came during a Dodgers-Giants game at San Francisco's Candlestick Park on Sunday, Aug. 22, 1965.
        The previous Friday night, Maury Wills, the Dodgers' shortstop, hit the glove of the Giants' catcher, Tom Haller, on a backswing, and in the next inning, the Giants' Matty Alou hit Roseboro's glove on a swing. Roseboro believed that Alou was deliberately trying to hit his bare hand.
        On Sunday afternoon, Marichal was the Giants' starting pitcher, matched against the Dodgers' ace Sandy Koufax. Early in the game, Marichal threw close to Wills and to Ron Fairly, the right fielder. In the second inning, Koufax threw a pitch high over Willie Mays's head.
        While Marichal was batting in the third inning, Roseboro whizzed the ball close to Marichal's head as he returned a pitch to Koufax. Then Roseboro, still wearing his mask, moved toward Marichal, who responded by unleashing at least two overhead swings of his bat, hitting Roseboro on the head. The attack opened a bloody two-inch gash and raised a large lump. Roseboro grabbed Marichal, and the players poured from both benches in a scuffle that lasted 15 minutes.
        Marichal, who was ejected from the game, apologized the next day but said that Roseboro had nicked his ear on the return throw to Koufax and that he thought Roseboro was going to hit him with his mask.
        ''I think he was scared and he flipped the panic button,'' Roseboro said the next day.
        Marichal was suspended for eight playing dates and fined $1,750 by the National League. He missed two starts, something that might have cost the Giants the pennant because they finished two games behind the Dodgers.
        Roseboro returned to the lineup only three days after the attack, but he sued Marichal later that year for $110,000 in damages. The case was settled in February 1970, with Roseboro reportedly receiving $7,500.
        The attack tarnished the reputation of Marichal, who nonetheless was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1983.
        Roseboro, a native of Ashland, Ohio, made his debut with the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1957. He remained with the Dodgers through 1967, played two seasons for the Minnesota Twins and one year with the Washington Senators. A left-handed hitter, he had a career batting average of .249 with 104 homers.
        He was voted to the National League All-Star team in 1958, 1961 and 1962 and to the American League All-Star team in 1969. He was the starting catcher in the 1959, 1963, 1965 and 1966 World Series, with the Dodgers winning the championship the first three times.
        He was later a coach with the Senators and the California Angels and a minor league instructor for the Dodgers.
        He is survived by his wife, Barbara, and a daughter, Morgan.
        After years of bitterness, Roseboro and Marichal appeared together occasionally at old-timers' games and golf tournaments.
        ''Our friendship is very good,'' Marichal said in 1990, on the 25th anniversary of the bat attack.
        Roseboro told The Los Angeles Times on that occasion that he had begun speaking to Marichal in the early 1980's because he felt the violent episode was keeping Marichal -- a winner of 243 games -- out of the Hall of Fame unjustly.
        ''There were no hard feelings on my part, and I thought if that was made public, people would believe that this was really over with,'' Roseboro said. ''So I saw him at a Dodger old-timers' game and we posed for pictures together and I actually visited him in the Dominican. The next year, he was in the Hall of Fame.
        ''Hey, over the years you learn to forget things.''
      