
        Robert F. Borkenstein, who revolutionized enforcement of drunken driving laws by inventing the Breathalyzer to measure alcohol in the blood, died last Saturday at his home in Bloomington, Ind. He was 89.
        The Breathalyzer is a portable device that can determine whether the person being tested is legally drunk. It measures the proportion of alcohol vapors in exhaled air, a proportion that reflects the content of alcohol in the blood.
        Before widespread use of the device, police officers investigating an accident or noticing a weaving car looked for symptoms like a flushed face, slurred speech and bloodshot eyes. If the suspect then went to sleep in the police station, they might have sufficient basis for charges.
        Getting a conviction was harder still. Defense lawyers might say the suspect had been staggering because of the long hours he worked, and bring in friends to say he had had no more than two beers. The defendant might maintain that his eyes had been red as a result of allergies.
        But the Breathalyzer provided scientific evidence of intoxication.
        ''This technological innovation enabled traffic enforcement authorities to determine and quantify blood alcohol concentrations with sufficient accuracy to meet the demands of legal evidence,'' the National Safety Council said in naming Mr. Borkenstein to its Safety and Health Hall of Fame International in 1988.
        The ratio of breath alcohol to blood alcohol is 2,100 to 1, meaning that 2,100 milliliters of exhaled air will contain the same amount of alcohol as one milliliter of blood.
        For many years the typical legal standard for drunkenness across the United States was 0.10, meaning 0.10 gram of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood. Many states have now adopted 0.08 as a standard, and the federal government has pushed others to do so.
        Robert Frank Borkenstein was born in Fort Wayne, Ind., on Aug. 31, 1912. His youthful passion was science experiments, and he went to work in a photography shop after graduating from high school. He developed a new color printing process, which was sold to other businesses.
        He started working for the Indiana state police in 1936, did early research on the development of the lie detector and rose to captain in charge of laboratory services.
        He collaborated with Dr. R. N. Harger of the Indiana School of Medicine to develop the Drunkometer, one of the first instruments that accurately measured blood alcohol. This led to Mr. Borkenstein's independent invention of the smaller, easier-to-use Breathalyzer in 1953. Subsequent, even more accurate devices to detect drunkenness use infrared radiation, among other means.
        Mr. Borkenstein received a bachelor's degree in forensic sciences from Indiana University in 1958 and then joined the faculty there as chairman of a newly formed department of police administration.
        Over the years he was chairman of the National Safety Council, consultant to the President's Task Force on Highway Safety, president of the International Committee on Alcohol, Drugs and Traffic Safety, and president of the Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences.
        His wife, the former Marjorie K. Buchanan, died in 1999. He had no immediate survivors.
        In 1981, Mr. Borkenstein supervised a study, financed by the liquor industry, whose findings suggested that a driver who had had less than two ounces of alcohol might be less dangerous than one who had had none. He theorized that some alcohol might help a driver's performance behind the wheel by relaxing him.
        Nonetheless, Mr. Borkenstein continued to advocate abstinence before driving. He also lamented the effects of alcohol consumption on the job, which in 1995 he estimated cost American employers $115 billion a year.
        ''One way to keep from sacrificing our standard of living is to keep our people sober at work,'' he told The Associated Press. ''If we can make life better simply by controlling alcohol, that's a very small price to pay.''
      