
        Steven P. Yokich, the recently retired president of the United Automobile Workers whose salty language and zeal for confrontation accompanied a keen understanding of the automobile industry, died here today. He was 66.
        The cause was a stroke that he suffered on Thursday, a spokesman at the St. John Hospital Medical Center said.
        Mr. Yokich (pronouced YO-kitch) stepped down in June as president of the 672,000-member U.A.W., whose ranks have dwindled by more than half from the 1978 peak of 1.5 million as United States automakers have closed dozens of plants and eliminated hundreds of thousands of jobs in the face of changing consumer tastes and foreign competition.
        In his last address as president, on June 6, Mr. Yokich told a union convention in Las Vegas to remember the passion of leaders who had formed the organization more than 60 years ago.
        Since Mr. Yokich became president, in 1995, members of the United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers have achieved ground-breaking job protection and generous benefits, even as their ranks continued to shrink. Mr. Yokich, who said he loved bargaining, promised to offset the erosion of jobs here by organizing factories built by Japanese and European auto companies, primarily in nonunion Southern shops.
        ''You can run, but you can't hide from us,'' Mr. Yokich thundered in June 1995 in his inaugural address at the union convention in Anaheim, Calif.
        Despite repeated organizing efforts, the union was unable to persuade workers at the foreign-owned plants to join, even though Mr. Yokich was named to a seat on the supervisory board at DaimlerChrysler after the merger between Chrysler and Daimler-Benz in 1998.
        Nor did Mr. Yokich achieve another of his major goals, a merger that would have involved his union, the United Steelworkers of America and the International Association of Machinists. That merger would have formed a superpower labor organization with more than two million members. The plan, announced in his first week as president, dissolved before it could take effect in 2000.
        Mr. Yokich was born here on Aug. 20, 1935, six days before the U.A.W. was formed. A third-generation union member whose grandparents emigrated from Lebanon, Mr. Yokich did not finish high school. Instead, he went to work alongside his father as an apprentice at the Heidrich Tool and Die factory in Oak Park.
        With a ready grin and twinkling eyes, he rose quickly through union positions, catching the eye of Walter P. Reuther, the union president from the late 1940's until his death in 1970. Mr. Yokich joined the executive board of the union in 1977 and was elected a vice president in 1980.
        Surviving are his wife, Tekla: a son, Stephen; and a daughter, Tracey, a former member of the Michigan House.
        When Ms. Yokich ran her first campaign in 1990, her father, a member of the Democratic National Committee, called her every day at dawn to ask her to list 10 goals that she hoped to accomplish. He telephoned again before bedtime to ask whether she had addressed them.
        Keenly interested in politics, Mr. Yokich put in full shifts as a poll worker on election days even after becoming president of the union.
        He never shrank from criticizing politicians who acted against the interests of the union. Among his targets were President Bill Clinton and Democratic members of Congress who supported the North American Free Trade Agreement, which the union opposed.
        Mr. Yokich had a comfortable relationship with industry officials, attending golf outings and black-tie functions as their guest, but he was not unwilling to set up picket lines.
        Elected as vice president in charge of the Ford division in 1983, Mr. Yokich called two brief strikes at plants in Moraine, Ohio, in 1985 and Atlanta in 1986 to emphasize his points to the Ford executive in charge of labor relations, Peter J. Pestillo. The tactic worked.
        ''All Steve had to do was strike me twice, and I got the message,'' said Mr. Pestillo, who has become chief executive of Visteon, a parts supplier.
        Afterward, Ford and the union reached an unusual level of labor-management cooperation. The chief executive of Ford, William Clay Ford Jr., described Mr. Yokich today in an e-mail message to employees as ''a good friend and adviser.''
        Mr. Yokich had a similarly blunt encounter in 1992 with Jack Smith, newly named chief executive at General Motors.
        When Mr. Smith asked him why relations between G.M. and the union were historically so bad, ''I told them they cheat, lie and steal,'' Mr. Yokich recalled in an interview. ''He got kind of red when I told him that.''
        The two leaders subsequently developed a warm relationship. Mr. Smith, now chairman of the company, said today that he was ''deeply saddened'' by Mr. Yokich's death.
      