
        Harry Walker, founder of the speakers' agency that represents former Presidents Bill Clinton and Gerald R. Ford and many other celebrities who can earn five- and six-figure fees for each appearance, died on Saturday in Burlington, Mass. He was 85 and lived in Lawrence, N.Y.
        He died of complications from surgery, said his son, Don, the president of the Harry Walker Agency.
        The company, founded by Harry Walker in 1946, is one of the top such agencies in the nation. Mr. Clinton earned more than $9 million for 59 appearances in 2001.
        The agency's charge ranges from 20 to 30 percent, Don Walker said.
        The agency also represents former heads of foreign states, including Helmut Schmidt of Germany, Benazir Bhutto of Pakistan and Ehud Barak of Israel, and former cabinet secretaries, including Henry A. Kissinger, Jeane J. Kirkpatrick and William J. Bennett. The agency also represents Beverly Sills and the journalists Bill Moyers and Bill O'Reilly, among other celebrities.
        Harry Walker, one of 12 children, was born on Sept. 22, 1916, in Czestochowa, Poland. His family emigrated to the United States when he was 4, and settled in Manhattan.
        After graduating from Yeshiva University he earned a master's degree in social work from the Jewish Institute of Religion and was hired as the executive director of the Jewish Community Center of Quincy, Mass. In that post, he occasionally brought in a puppeteer to put on children's shows based on Jewish themes.
        One year, when he was turned down for a raise, he quit and began to market puppet shows for other Jewish Community Centers around the country. The puppeteer got $30 and he took $5, his son recalled.
        In 1948, the year that Israel became a nation, Mr. Walker signed his first big client, the American-Christian Palestine Committee, a Zionist group whose speakers were in demand.
        The modern era of guest speakers began in the wake of the Nixon and Ford presidencies, Don Walker said. ''My father's genius was to get them into the marketplace of ideas,'' he said. Harry Walker made these notable people available to large corporations for what he called ''mind stretching programs.''
        ''That meant instead of talking to Coca-Cola executives about bottling -- which is what they used to hear about -- talk to them about what's happening in the world,'' Don Walker said.
        Don Walker took over as president of the agency in 1985. His father remained a consultant and honorary chairman of the board.
        In addition to his son, Harry Walker is survived by his wife, Esther; two daughters, Judith Samet of Jerusalem, and Arlene Goldberg of Far Rockaway, N.Y.; two brothers, William, of Riverdale, and Jack, of Brooklyn; two sisters, Deborah Moscovitz and Florence Sofer, both of Lawrence, N.Y.; 16 grandchildren; and 45 great-grandchildren.
        In an interview in The New York Times in 1979, Mr. Walker said that the rabbis he met as a young man had profoundly influenced him.
        ''I remember as a child listening to the Bialystoker Rebbe,'' he said. ''That's where I probably got my love of speakers. He used to hypnotize me with his beautiful anecdotes and stories that always fascinated me.''
      