
        John G. Zimmerman, an innovative sports photographer who was among the first to use remote-controlled cameras to give the public the view from the hockey net, the basketball hoop and the bottom of the swimming pool, died Aug. 3 in Monterey, Calif. He was 74 and lived in nearby Pebble Beach.
        The cause was lymphoma, said his wife of 44 years, Delores.
        The issue of Sports Illustrated dated tomorrow has a six-page tribute to Mr. Zimmerman, showing some of his most notable work, including a 1956 photograph of Canadiens goalie Jacques Plante and a 1960 picture of Wilt Chamberlain, shot from the backboard.
        Another photo, using five strobes in sequence, captures Jenni Chandler, a United States Olympic diver, as she springs off the board, twists, turns and then swims underwater toward the camera. It was taken in 1980.
        Mr. Zimmerman was a pioneer in the use of motor-driven camera sequences, slit cameras and double-shutter designs to show athletes in motion.
        He did 107 covers for Sports Illustrated. He also worked for Time and Life magazines and the Saturday Evening Post.
        ''This guy could do anything, from sports action to the swimsuit issue, which is a totally different art form,'' said Neil Leifer, a longtime photographer who is now a filmmaker. Many of Mr. Zimmerman's techniques are widely used today, although ''they were unheard of in 1960'' when Mr. Zimmerman came up with them, Mr. Leifer said.
        John Gerald Zimmerman was born in Los Angeles on Oct. 30, 1927. He first learned about photography and lighting from his father, who was a gaffer, or lighting technician, for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios.
        After high school, he joined the Navy, where he worked as a photographer. After graduating from a junior college, he began to work for magazines. He worked at Sports Illustrated from 1956 to 1962 and then continued to do freelance work for it and other Time-Life publications until he retired in 1991.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Zimmerman is survived by three children, Darryl, of Pacific Grove, Calif., Greg, of Monterey, and Linda, of Manhattan; a brother, Edward, of San Pedro, Calif.; and a sister, Margaret Bishop, of Torrance, Calif.
      