
        Gerald Gunther, a constitutional scholar and the author of the definitive biography of his own mentor, Judge Learned Hand, and a legal educator who was sometimes mentioned as a Supreme Court prospect, died on Tuesday night at his home in Stanford, Calif. He was 75.
        The cause was cancer, said his son Daniel, a lawyer who lives in San Francisco.
        One of the nation's foremost scholars of constitutional law, Professor Gunther had been on the faculty of the Stanford Law School since 1962. He wrote ''Constitutional Law,'' a 1965 volume of case studies that is the standard text on the subject in most American law schools; the latest edition was written with Kathleen Sullivan.
        Professor Gunther was a teacher and mentor of judges, including one who made it to the Supreme Court. In a telephone interview last night, Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said: ''Gerald Gunther was my teacher, my adviser, my friend, our nation's leading constitutional law scholar and judicial biographer. His commentary and counsel I retain in my mind will continue to guide me through all my days on the bench.''
        Justice Ginsburg said that when she graduated from Columbia Law School in 1959, she had two strikes against her in her search for a position as a law clerk.
        ''I was a woman and I had a 4-year-old child,'' she said.
        Professor Gunther, who was then on the Columbia faculty, ''got me my clerkship by pressuring every judge in the Southern District,'' Justice Ginsburg said. She said that Professor Gunther had to promise that ''if I didn't work out, he would find a male lawyer to replace me.'' She was hired by Judge Edmund L. Palmieri of the Southern District.
        Professor Gunther's constitutional views were nonpartisan but liberal in their effect. When Justice Ginsburg was working for the American Civil Liberties Union, he advised her on ways to extend constitutional rights to classes, like women, not specifically mentioned in the law.
        Professor Gunther also wrote ''Learned Hand: The Man and the Judge'' (Alfred A. Knopf, 1994), which a reviewer for The New York Times called ''the fullest, most sensitive, most penetrating of judicial biographies.'' The Supreme Court Historical Society gave the book its triennial award in 1995 for ''the best original work pertaining to Supreme Court history.''
        Professor Gunther, who fled Nazi Germany as a boy, served in 1953 and 1954 as a law clerk to Judge Hand, who sat on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. He also was a clerk for Chief Justice Earl Warren in 1954 and 1955, during the time that the Brown v. Board of Education school desegregation decision was handed down by the Supreme Court. Chief Justice Warren credited his clerk with significant contributions to his writing of the decision.
        Professor Gunther spent more than 20 years researching and writing the 818-page biography of Judge Hand. He said in an interview that one major advantage he had was that the judge had ''a nice upstate New York Calvinist-Presbyterian'' aversion to throwing anything away. Professor Gunther read about 40,000 of the judge's letters and 4,000 of his legal opinions.
        Judge Hand, who died in 1961 at age 89, was often said to be ''the greatest judge to never sit on the Supreme Court.'' In his book, Professor Gunther disclosed that despite protestations to the contrary the judge had been deeply disappointed at having been passed over for a seat on the Supreme Court. Twice he came close, in 1930 and 1942, but he never got the call.
        Like his subject, Professor Gunther had also been mentioned for possible nomination to the Supreme Court. In 1987, when the National Law Journal asked a group of lawyers who was most qualified to serve on the Supreme Court, Professor Gunther's name emerged as the No. 1 choice.
        Gerald Gunther was born on May 26, 1927, in Usingen, Germany, a town near Frankfurt. His son Daniel said that the family, which had roots in the town going back three centuries, was reluctant to leave despite Nazi laws against Jews, but finally did so after seeing the town synagogue destroyed by fire. The family arrived in New York in 1938 and settled in Brooklyn.
        Professor Gunther graduated from Brooklyn College and then Harvard Law School. Daniel Gunther said that his father chose constitutional law as a specialty because of his youthful experience in Germany. ''He was passionate about civil liberties because he had experienced firsthand their absence,'' Mr. Gunther said.
        After serving clerkships, Professor Gunther worked briefly at a Wall Street firm and then joined the Columbia law faculty. In 1962, he moved to Stanford, where he became the William Nelson Cromwell Professor of Law in 1972. He retired in 1995, but continued teaching on a part-time basis. During his final illness, he was still grading papers from his seminar on constitutional law, his son said.
        In addition to his son Daniel, Professor Gunther is survived by his wife of 53 years, Barbara; another son, Andrew, of Santa Cruz, Calif.; a brother, Herbert Gutenstein of the Bronx; and two grandchildren.
        In a New York Times Op-Ed column on Dec. 1, 2000, when the Supreme Court was about to hear a Florida case that could, in effect, decide whether George W. Bush or Al Gore would be president, Professor Gunther gave this warning:
        ''If the justices do rule on the case, they should strive for a unanimous, clear decision. Otherwise, this divisive election could end up corroding not only the political process, but the court as well.''
        The court did not take his counsel. In a 5-to-4 ruling it overruled the Supreme Court of Florida and stopped the Florida recount, and Mr. Bush became president.
      