
        Enos Slaughter, the Hall of Fame outfielder whose base-running feat known as the Mad Dash gave the St. Louis Cardinals the 1946 World Series, died yesterday at a hospital in Durham, N.C. He was 86.
        The cause was complications of colon and stomach surgery, his family said.
        Playing 13 seasons with the St. Louis Cardinals, then six with the Yankees, the Kansas City Athletics and the Milwaukee Braves, Slaughter had 2,383 hits and scored 1,247 runs.
        He was best remembered for a single run, the product of a 270-foot dash that gave the Cardinals a 4-3 victory over the Boston Red Sox in Game 7 of the 1946 World Series.
        With the Cardinals and the Red Sox tied at 3-3, Slaughter led off the bottom of the eighth inning at Sportsman's Park in St. Louis with a single to center, but stayed on first as the next two batters were retired. Then Harry Walker lofted a hit to short center. Slaughter, running on the pitch, knew that Leon Culberson, the Red Sox center fielder who had replaced an injured Dom DiMaggio, had a weak arm. He was determined to make it from first to home.
        When shortstop Johnny Pesky took Culberson's relay, he was astonished to glimpse Slaughter rounding third. Pesky hesitated, then relayed the ball to catcher Roy Partee, too late to catch a sliding Slaughter.
        ''If they wanted me at the ball park at 8 in the morning, I'd be there,'' Slaughter told Tom Wicker in ''The Ultimate Baseball Book'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1979). ''I asked no odds and I give none. A guy got in my way, I run over him. If they knocked me down at the plate, I said nothin'. You can't steal first base, but if they hit me, I'm on first. And if you don't get on first, you can't score a run.''
        Slaughter had a career batting average of .300 and played in 10 All-Star Games, but he wasn't selected for the Hall of Fame until 1985, 26 years after his playing days ended, when he was voted in by the Committee on Veterans. There was speculation that the baseball writers had spurned him in the regular balloting because of suspicions he actively opposed black players' entrance into the major leagues. When Jackie Robinson broke the color barrier with the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1947, there had reportedly been sentiment among some Cardinals players that the team go on strike rather than face Robinson.
        ''I've never in my life spoke against a black player,'' Slaughter said when asked about the issue at the Cooperstown induction ceremonies. ''I was accused of spiking Jackie Robinson, but I stepped on a lot of players.''
        Enos Bradsher Slaughter was born April 27, 1916, in Roxboro, N.C., one of five sons of a tobacco farmer. He chopped wood and milked cows as a youngster, bringing him his nickname, Country.
        Slaughter, a left-handed batter, hit .276 in 1938, his rookie season with the Cardinals, but then had five straight years batting .300 or better. In 1942, he led the National League in hits, with 188, and combined with Stan Musial and Terry Moore to form a superb outfield. In Game 5 of the World Series that year, he hit a home run as the Cardinals won the championship over the Yankees.
        Returning from three years in the Army Air Forces, he led the N.L. in runs batted in in 1946 with 130 as the Cardinals won the pennant in a playoff against the Dodgers.
        In Game 4 of the '46 World Series, Slaughter caught a drive at the Fenway Park bullpen, then made a spectacular throw to the plate to cut down Rudy York. In Game 5, he was hit on the elbow with a pitch from Joe Dobson and was told that if he were injured there again, he risked a hemorrhage that could require an amputation. Slaughter remained in the lineup, singled home a run in the Cardinals' winning rally in Game 6 -- although batting almost one-handed -- then staged his Mad Dash in Game 7.
        During spring training of 1954, Slaughter was sold to the Yankees. He was traded by them to Kansas City in May 1955, then returned to the Yankees the following season. Feisty as ever, he played a prominent part in a Yankees-White Sox brawl in June 1957, tangling with Walt Dropo, Chicago's 6-foot-5, 220-pound first baseman. Dropo, nicknamed Moose, was eight inches taller, 30 pounds heavier and seven years younger. He ripped Slaughter's jersey, resulting in a well-remembered photo of Slaughter with his cap turned backward and his chest bare.
        Slaughter finished his career with the Milwaukee Braves in 1959 and later managed in the minors and coached the Duke University baseball team before retiring to his Roxboro farm.
        He is survived by four daughters, Gaye Currier and Sharon Slaughter, of Roxboro; Rhonda Slaughter Underwood of Glen Allen, Va., and Patricia Wilson of Denver; a brother, Robert, and a sister, Helen Walker, of Roxboro; four grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
        Slaughter traced his derrring-do to an afternoon in 1936 when he was with a Cardinals farm club at Columbus, Ga. He used to come running from right field after each inning and would then walk from the baselines to the dugout. ''Son, if you're tired, I'll get some help,'' his manager, Eddie Dyer, who went on to manage the 1946 World Series champion Cardinals, said to him.
        ''Those words made a tremendous impression on me, and from 1936 until I finished my career, I never walked on a ball field,'' Slaughter remarked in ''Baseball Between the Lines'' by Donald Honig (Coward, McCann & Geoghegan, 1976). ''I left the dugout running and I hit the top step running coming back. And I always ran out everything I hit.''
        In a 1983 interview, Slaughter had some thoughts on the modern ballplayer. ''I played baseball at the best time in history,'' he said. ''I've been to a lot of old-timers' games and, staying at the hotels with the visiting teams, you never see two players going out together. They're all too busy worrying about their money to have a good time.''
      