
        James C. Thomson Jr., a Far Eastern specialist in the Kennedy and Johnson administrations who left government in 1966 because of his opposition to the United States' growing involvement in the Vietnam War, died on Sunday in Newton, Mass. He was 70 and lived in Cambridge, Mass.
        The cause was respiratory failure and cardiac arrest, his family said.
        After leaving the government, where he worked for the State Department and the National Security Council, Mr. Thomson taught in the history department at Harvard.
        He later became curator of the Nieman Foundation, which awards yearlong fellowships at Harvard for midcareer journalists, serving from 1972 to 1984.
        He later taught international relations, history and journalism at Boston University. He retired in 1997.
        In 1968, Mr. Thomson published an indictment of the government's Vietnam policy in the Atlantic Monthly called ''How Could Vietnam Happen?''
        The article won an Overseas Press Club award for the best magazine reporting on foreign affairs and has been reprinted in several anthologies about the war.
        He also wrote frequently about the East Asia, advocating greater ties between the United States and China. He was the author of ''While China Faced West'' (Harvard University Press, 1969), and was an author with Peter W. Stanley and John Curtis Perry of ''Sentimental Imperialists'' (Harper & Row, 1981).
        James Claude Thomson Jr. was born on Sept. 14, 1931, in Princeton, N.J.
        He said his views on Asia were shaped by a boyhood spent in China, where his father taught science and chemistry at a college in Nanjing.
        He received a bachelor's degree from Yale in 1953 and a doctorate from Harvard in 1961.
        Mr. Thomson's wife, the former Diana Butler, died in 2000. He is survived by two stepchildren, Dr. Anne Butler of Brookline, Mass., and Lawrence D. Butler of Ashland, Mass.; two sisters, Nancy Waller of Cherry Valley, N.Y., and Sydney Thomson Brown of Palo Alto, Calif.; and four stepgrandchildren.
      