
        Elias Bredsdorff, the biographer of Hans Christian Andersen, who said that his mission was to liberate Andersen from the nursery bookshelf and establish him as a serious author, died Aug. 8 at his home in Copenhagen. He was 90.
        Mr. Bredsdorff, who taught at Cambridge University for 30 years before retiring to Copenhagen, wrote ''Hans Christian Andersen: The Story of His Life and Work, 1805-75'' (Charles Scribner's Sons, 1975).
        The book was part biography and part critical analysis of Andersen's literary output, which included poetry, travel books, several novels and more than 150 fairy tales. Among the tales were ''The Emperor's New Clothes,'' ''The Child in the Grave,'' ''The Red Shoes'' and ''The Little Match Girl.''
        Mr. Bredsdorff, who showed how Andersen injected details from his own troubled life into his work, complained that the tales in particular were bowdlerized and sweetened by Victorian British translators.
        ''The British and Americans have done to Andersen what the world has done to Swift and Defoe: They've pushed him into the nursery and locked the door on him,'' he wrote in the preface.
        Mr. Bredsdorff added that in Denmark, ''as indeed in many other parts of the world,'' Andersen is considered ''a very great writer whose appeal is as great to adults as it is to children.''
        Elias Bredsdorff, the son of a high school headmaster, was born in Copenhagen on Jan. 15, 1912. He studied English language and literature at Copenhagen University and later at University College London. Drawn in his youth to left-wing politics, he was briefly a member of the Danish Communist Party but resigned when the Soviet Union invaded Finland.
        In 1942, two years after the Germans occupied Denmark, he joined the resistance group Frit Denmark and became editor of its underground newspaper. At the end of the war he took a lectureship in Danish at University College London. In 1949 he accepted a teaching post at Cambridge, where he later became head of the Scandinavian studies department. He remained at Cambridge until his retirement in 1979.
        In addition to the biography of Andersen, Mr. Bredsdorff wrote ''Danish: An Elementary Grammar and Reader'' (Cambridge University Press, 1984), still a standard text, and for 15 years edited The International Journal of Scandinavian Studies. He continued to publish in retirement. Writing in Danish, he completed two volumes of autobiography, a book on Oscar Wilde and numerous columns for the Danish newspaper Politiken.
        He is survived by his wife, Annelise Neckleman; two children, Jan, of Bali, and Eva, of Copenhagen; three stepchildren, Kristine Rothenborg, Judith Rothenborg and Peter Hjort, all of Copenhagen; and several grandchildren.
        In taking the unsentimental view of the beloved Hans Christian Andersen, Mr. Bredsdorff knew he was working against some powerful forces. In the United States, many people know Andersen through the 1952 Hollywood musical ''Hans Christian Andersen,'' which starred Danny Kaye. The ever-enthusiastic Kaye sings his way through tales with songs like ''The Ugly Ducking'' and ''Thumbelina'' but captures neither Andersen's propensity toward depression nor the dark side of his stories.
        A longtime friend of Mr. Bredsdorff, Dorothy Wedderburn, a retired professor at the Imperial College, London, said last week, ''Elias's bête noire was Danny Kaye.''
      