
        Richard I. Queen, an American diplomat among those taken hostage by Iranian militants in 1979, who was released early when he developed multiple sclerosis, died on Aug. 14 at his home in Falls Church, Va. He was 51.
        The cause was complications of multiple sclerosis, his brother, Alexander, said.
        On Nov. 4, 1979, Mr. Queen, who had started work as a vice consul about four months earlier, was one of 66 people seized by Iranian students at the American Embassy in Tehran. Later five women and eight men were freed, leaving 53 in captivity.
        On July 10, 1980, after Mr. Queen had been in captivity for 250 days, the Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the spiritual leader of the revolution, ordered his release on humanitarian grounds. He had already been moved to a Tehran hospital because of an illness then unspecified.
        Mr. Queen, who was suffering from partial paralysis, hearing loss and balance problems, was immediately flown to Switzerland for medical examination and then to Lindsay Air Force Base in Wiesbaden, Germany. There physicians diagnosed multiple sclerosis, a degenerative disease of the nervous system, but said they believed it was of a ''mild and transient'' variety.
        At first, Mr. Queen gave a very measured public account of his treatment in captivity, evidently because he did not wish to endanger those still being held. He said he had access to an embassy library and spent much of his time reading English classics and studying French.
        He said the militants had made no effort to brainwash him or force him to admit errors in the United States' policy toward Iran, and he maintained that the hostages had not been physically abused, except on one occasion when several were put up against a wall and had rifles pointed at them.
        But Mr. Queen also said he could not speak with authority on the fate of all his companions because he was separated from many of them.
        The remaining American hostages were finally freed on Jan. 20, 1981, after 444 days in captivity.
        Later that year, Mr. Queen published a book about his experiences, ''Hostage to Iran, Hostage to Myself'' (G. P. Putnam) In the book, which he wrote with Patricia Hass, he made it clear that captivity was far more of an ordeal than he had at first described it.
        Reviewing the book in The New York Times, James Fallows called it ''powerful and riveting'' and said it ''awakens a sense of outrage about the effects of eight months' captivity.''
        Richard Ivan Queen was born in Washington on Aug. 7, 1951. He graduated from Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y., in 1973 and then studied Balkan history at the University of Michigan. He joined the diplomatic service in October 1978 and was sent to the consulate in Isfahan, Iran. It was closed as the revolution heated up, and he was reassigned to Tehran.
        After the hostage crisis, he went briefly to London as a consular official in 1981 and the next year was sent to Toronto, where he served until 1985. He then returned to Washington. He resigned from the Foreign Service because of ill health in 1995.
        In addition to his brother, Alexander, of Stone Ridge, N.Y., he is survived by his mother, Jeanne Volkoff Queen, of Woodstock, N.Y.
      