
        Clemens Heller, who at the end of World War II established the Salzburg Seminar, a meeting point for students and intellectuals from the United States and Europe that was sometimes called the Marshall Plan of the Mind, died last Friday in Lausanne, Switzerland. He was 85.
        Later Mr. Heller, an American academic of Austrian descent, joined forces with the French historian Fernand Braudel to found Maison des Sciences de l'Homme, a Paris-based institution fostering international research in the social sciences.
        At the end of the war, while he was still a doctoral candidate in history at Harvard, Mr. Heller got together with two other students to create the Salzburg Seminar in American Studies, as it was formally called, to serve as a center for intellectual exchange after the devastation of war.
        Denied funds by Harvard University, which considered his plan impractical, Mr. Heller persuaded the student council there to finance the project. In 1947, Helene Thimig, widow of the Austrian theatrical impresario Max Reinhardt, presented him with the Schloss Leopoldskron, an 18th-century Rococo palace on the outskirts of Salzburg, as a permanent home for the seminar.
        At its first session, Mr. Heller assembled luminaries like the literary historian F. O. Matthiessen and the anthropologist Margaret Mead to lecture students from all over Europe and the United States.
        While the State Department supported the seminar, the United States Army, then occupying Salzburg, did not, feeling that it tended to question American values too much. In 1948, a compromise was reached: The seminar was allowed to continue, but Mr. Heller was removed as its director.
        Later, the Salzburg Seminar evolved into a meeting place for intellectuals from the Communist and non-Communist worlds and more recently into a forum for global exchanges of all kinds. Since 1947 about 23,000 people from more than 150 countries have attended its meetings.
        Moving to Paris in 1949 to finish his doctoral thesis and lecture at École Practique des Hautes Études, which specialized in history and the social sciences, Mr. Heller became friendly with Mr. Braudel.
        In 1965 he and Mr. Braudel got money from the Ford Foundation to form Maison des Sciences de l'Homme. Mr. Heller was Mr. Braudel's deputy from 1965 to 1985 and then head of the institution from 1986 until his retirement in 1992.
        Clemens Heller was born in Vienna on July 6, 1917, the son of Sigmund Freud's publisher, who was also a friend of Reinhardt. The family emigrated to the United States in 1938, the year Hitler annexed Austria, and Mr. Heller studied at Oberlin College, Ohio State University and Harvard.
        He is survived by his wife, Marie Louise, and two sons, Yvan, of Geneva, and Michael, of Lausanne.
      