
        Kim Hunter, whose eclectic 60-year career included an Oscar, two Emmy nominations and a Broadway triumph with her portrayal of Stella in the legendary 1947 debut of ''A Streetcar Named Desire,'' died on Wednesday at her New York apartment. She was 79.
        A founding member of the Actors Studio whose screen career was temporarily derailed by the Hollywood blacklists of the 1950's, Ms. Hunter was recently hospitalized for a fall and had been in declining health. She died of a heart attack in her apartment above the Cherry Lane Theater in the West Village, said her daughter, Kathryn Emmett.
        Ms. Hunter caught the acting bug in elementary school and was never a snob about the roles she chose, mixing highly demanding parts with smaller ones in B-movies, long stints in regional theater, television guest appearance and even a running role on an ABC soap opera, ''The Edge of Night,'' in 1979 and 1980.
        But without doubt the roles for which she is most remembered are Stella Kowalski, Marlon Brando's passionate and beleaguered wife in the stage and film versions of Tennessee Williams's ''Streetcar Named Desire,'' and Dr. Zira, the coquettish simian with a fondness for Charlton Heston in the 1968 film ''Planet of the Apes.''
        The role of Stella also won her an Academy Award for best supporting actress when the director Elia Kazan adapted his Broadway production to the screen. The scenes of an anguished Stanley Kowalski (Mr. Brando), disheveled and grimy, screaming up to his wife -- ''Stella!'' -- in the backyard of their seedy New Orleans home, and of Ms. Hunter's sexually charged descent on a winding staircase into his arms, have become iconic cinematic moments.
        Feisty, occasionally profane, Ms. Hunter frequently told interviewers that she had no use for the trappings of Hollywood stardom that had always eluded her.
        ''The work itself has been my life,'' she said in 1999. ''I was never in this for jazzy stardom, and as far as that's concerned, I've never had it. Doesn't matter to me.''
        Ms. Hunter was born in Detroit, and her father died four years later. Her mother and stepfather moved the family to Miami Beach when she was 10, and there she developed a taste for the theater.
        ''I was lonely growing up,'' she said. ''My only brother was nine years older and had little time for me. So I picked friends out of books and played let's-pretend games, acting out their characters before a mirror.''
        Before long she had an acting coach and made her stage debut at 17 in the title role of ''Penny Wise'' at the Miami Women's Club. Later she took roles with stock companies around the country. At the Pasadena Playhouse in California, in ''Arsenic and Old Lace,'' she was spotted by a talent scout and signed to a contract with the producer David O. Selznick.
        For her 1943 screen debut, Selznick loaned her to the horror-film producer Val Lewton, for whom she played a young woman battling devil worshipers in ''The Seventh Victim.''
        Shortly afterward, Ms. Hunter took a supporting role in the Ginger Rogers film ''Tender Comrade,'' about young women living communally during World War II, a film that struck some as pro-Soviet. It was cited, years later, as a reason that her name appeared in ''Red Channels,'' a 1950's pamphlet naming suspected Communist sympathizers.
        Ms. Hunter, a liberal Democrat, had been a vocal supporter of civil rights, though she never belonged to the Communist Party. She said she traced her problems with the blacklist to a world peace symposium that she helped sponsor in 1949. No one ever announced that she was on a blacklist, she said.
        ''Gradually it became sort of clear,'' she said. ''I think CBS was first. I was on the blacklist at CBS. No more CBS television. Then I think ABC dropped out and then, finally, it was NBC. And then by that time, I won my Oscar for the movie of 'Streetcar,' but I could not work in films. The last film I made was in 1951.''
        Her hiatus from the screen lasted until 1956, when she appeared opposite Bette Davis in ''Storm Center,'' about book-burning. ''I thought, uh-oh, here we go again,'' she said. But her political problems did not reignite.
        Ms. Hunter was one of the few forgiving voices when many in Hollywood rebelled against awarding Mr. Kazan a special Oscar in 1999. He had never apologized for naming names to Congressional investigators during the blacklist days.
        ''The whole business is dumb,'' she told one interviewer. ''Artistic achievement and the mistake someone made years ago don't belong together.''
        The ''Streetcar'' role came about because Selznick's wife Irene remembered the actress when it came time to cast the role of Stella. The play opened at the Ethel Barrymore Theater in New York, but rehearsals were held on the roof of the New Amsterdam Theater.
        ''Tennessee sat way in the back and when he had a thought about something, he'd write a note and come down to where we were working, reach over and tuck the note into Kazan's coat pocket,'' Ms. Hunter said.
        Reviewing the production in The New York Times, Brooks Atkinson praised the entire cast. ''All act not only with color and style, but with insight,'' he wrote.
        Ms. Hunter's 1944 marriage to William Baldwin ended in divorce in 1946. The couple had one child, Kathryn, now of Stamford, Conn., who took the name of Ms. Hunter's second husband, Robert Emmett. Emmett, also an actor, died in 2000. The couple had a son, Sean Robert, also of Stamford, and Ms. Hunter is survived by six grandchildren.
        As for her other most celebrated role, Ms. Hunter said ''Planet of the Apes'' was a project she respected. ''I thought it was a damned interesting script and a challenge for all of us,'' she said.
        She spent hours at the Bronx Zoo, she said, studying primate behavior. But the project turned out to be more of a challenge than she had anticipated, largely because of the cumbersome makeup. ''The only part of me uncovered was my eyeballs,'' she said. ''I had to breathe through my upper lip. It was wild.''
        Ms. Hunter also appeared opposite Humphrey Bogart in the 1952 drama ''Deadline USA,'' and drew critical praise in ''Lilith'' (1964) and ''The Swimmer'' (1968), among other roles. More recently, she had a small role in ''Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil'' (1997).
        ''Acting is my life,'' she said in 1994. ''It doesn't get easier. It gets harder. I find it more challenging as I do it and realize how much more has to go into it. But I thank God I am in a profession where there is no retirement age.''
      