
        J. Lee Thompson, the director of ''The Guns of Navarone,'' the original ''Cape Fear'' and dozens of other films in England and the United States, died on Friday at his summer home in Sooke, British Columbia. He was 88 and lived in Los Angeles.
        Mr. Thompson, who was born in Bristol, England, had a long career in theater and film, beginning as an actor and playwright. He had two plays produced in London before he was 20; one of them, ''Murder Without Crime,'' went to Broadway and was the first film he directed, in 1950.
        While working in England during the 1950's he directed ''Yield to the Night'' (released in the United States as ''Blonde Sinner''), ''Ice Cold in Alex,'' ''Tiger Bay'' (with a young Hayley Mills in her first major role) and other dramas, winning the Berlin Film Festival's International Critics Award in 1957, '58 and '59.
        But his big break came when he was picked to direct ''The Guns of Navarone,'' a 1961 World War II adventure starring Gregory Peck, Anthony Quinn and David Niven that had one of the highest budgets of the time, at more than $5.6 million.
        In a review in The New York Times, Bosley Crowther called it ''one of those muscle-loaded pictures in the thundering tradition of DeMille,'' and added, ''J. Lee Thompson has directed it with pace and has seen to it that the actors give the impression of being stout and bold.''
        The film was nominated for seven Academy Awards, including best director. (It won only for best special effects.)
        After ''Navarone,'' Mr. Thompson moved to the United States and directed Mr. Peck in ''The Chairman'' and ''Cape Fear,'' co-starring Robert Mitchum. He also made ''What a Way to Go!'' and ''John Goldfarb, Please Come Home,'' both with Shirley MacLaine; ''Conquest of the Planet of the Apes'' and ''Battle for the Planet of the Apes'' (the fourth and fifth films in the ''Planet of the Apes'' series); and nine pictures with Charles Bronson, from ''White Buffalo'' in 1977 to ''Kinjite: Forbidden Subjects'' in 1989, his last film.
        Mr. Thompson's marriages to Florence Bailey and Joan Henry ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his wife, Penny; a daughter, Lesley Sullivan of Falmouth, Mass.; and a granddaughter. A son, Peter Lee Thompson, died in 1997.
      