
        The Rev. John C. Harper, who for three decades was the rector of St. John's Episcopal Church on Lafayette Square across from the White House, known as the Church of the Presidents, died on Friday at Sibley Hospital here. He was 78.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Dr. Harper helped shift St. John's from a ''society church,'' with pew rentals and a congregation composed of only the most socially prominent, to a church that played an important role in the community. The church organized programs to feed and clothe the needy, to house the homeless in local hostels and to counsel drug and alcohol addicts.
        The changes came gradually in the first two decades he led services at the church, where every president since James Madison has attended. From 1963, when Dr. Harper arrived, until 1993, when he retired, he preached to eight presidents.
        Lyndon B. Johnson, as the nation's new president in 1963, went to St. John's the day after President John F. Kennedy was assassinated. President Lincoln went to the church, designed in the early 1800's by Benjamin Latrobe, to meditate in the Civil War.
        While seeking to preserve the historic nature of what Kennedy once called ''the little yellow church across the square,'' Dr. Harper abolished pew rentals, which had been a major source of income for the church and a status symbol for the city's elite. He also challenged his congregation to meet the needs of the city's sick and destitute.
        His goal, he often said, was to draw the downtown church into the mainstream of city life.
        John Harper was born in Winthrop, Mass., on July 17, 1924. His father was an Episcopal minister. He graduated from Harvard College in 1946 and from the Episcopal Theological School in Cambridge, Mass., in 1953.
        He served in the Navy in World War II, and on the boards of the Harvard Alumni Association and the Protestant Episcopal Cathedral Foundation of the District of Columbia.
        Dr. Harper is survived by his wife of 49 years, Barbara Quarles Harper of Washington; three children, Deborah Harper Hailey of Rockville, Md., Jeffrey Rhodes Harper of McLean, Va., and Elizabeth Harper Danello, also of Washington; and 10 grandchildren.
        During the Vietnam War, when many downtown businesses and churches were shuttered, Dr. Harper opened the church to protesters for refuge. From his office, he witnessed antiwar rallies and the tear-gassing of demonstrators, encampments of the poor and homeless in Lafayette Park and civil rights demonstrations.
        In his book, ''Sunday, a Minister's Story,'' published in 1974, he wrote: ''Demonstrations in front of the White House on Lafayette Square, danger in the streets and in the square itself at night, vandalism and robbery are very real threats to St. John's. Yet, in another sense, they are part and parcel of our religious, or theological, concern. The church does not exist merely for its own members but for those outside its walls.''
      