
        Florence Lessing, a favorite dancer of the influential jazz-dance choreographer Jack Cole and a featured dancer on the Broadway stage and in nightclubs and films, died on Sept. 5 at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. She was 86 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was kidney failure, said her son, Eric Canepa.
        Ms. Lessing began to work with Cole, who died in 1974, soon after he spotted her as a teenager in an East Indian dance class. The two of them, along with the teacher, Anna Austin, formed a professional trio that performed at the Rainbow Room in 1938.
        The next year the three went to Hollywood to perform Cole's choreography in the musical ''Moon Over Miami,'' which starred Betty Grable. Because of her exotic appearance, Ms. Lessing often performed femme fatale roles. The variety of dance forms she had studied helped make her an instrument for the development of Cole's eclectic style.
        Ms. Lessing also worked with leading modern-dance choreographers of the time on the concert stage and in stage and film musicals. In 1943 Doris Humphrey created ''El Salón México'' for Ms. Lessing and José Limón to the Aaron Copland score. John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, singled out Ms. Lessing in 1943 for her performance in the Humphrey work and for her nightclub dancing with Charles Weidman and Peter Hamilton at the Versailles nightclub.
        Ms. Lessing was featured in many Broadway shows, among them ''Windy City,'' choreographed by Katherine Dunham; ''Sailor Beware,'' choreographed by Cole and starring Mary Martin; and ''Kismet,'' also choreographed by Cole. She danced in the 1952 film musical ''Just for You,'' choreographed by Helen Tamiris and starring Bing Crosby and Jane Wyman. Ms. Lessing also choreographed two of her own nightclub acts in the mid-1940's.
        She taught dance at several schools, including the New York Academy of Ballet, which she founded in 1960 and which closed in 1991. In the 1970's she was important in reconstructing Cole's choreography for the American Dance Machine.
        In addition to her son, of Manhattan, Ms. Lessing is survived by her husband, Tito Enrique Canepa, also of Manhattan, and a daughter, Dr. Cathy Canepa of White Plains.
      