
        Albert J. Costello, former chairman, president and chief executive of W. R. Grace & Company, died on Tuesday while playing golf at the Arcola Country Club in Paramus, N.J. He was 66 and lived in Franklin Lakes, N.J.
        The cause was evidently related to heart problems he had had, said his son, Peter.
        Mr. Costello held his high posts at Grace, a specialty chemicals and health care company, from 1995 through 1998, and then retired. Its headquarters were in Boca Raton, Fla., during that period and are now in Columbia, Md.
        By May 1996, Grace's stock had risen over 40 percent. Late in his tenure as chairman, in 1998, Grace had annual sales of about $1.5 billion.
        In August 1997, Grace said it would divest itself of its packaging business. The deal essentially involved a purchase of Grace's Cryovac packaging business by another large packaging company, the Sealed Air Corporation, in a transaction valued at $5 billion.
        The Grace name was to be retained by the specialty chemicals business.
        In October 1997, Mr. Costello had a heart attack, and Larry Ellberger was named to act as chief executive during his recovery.
        Before joining Grace, Mr. Costello was chairman and chief executive of the American Cyanamid Company, a chemicals company based in Wayne, N.J., for 18 months. He was hired in 1957 as a chemist. In 1994 he presided over the roughly $9.6 billion takeover of American Cyanamid by American Home Products.
        Albert Joseph Costello was born on Sept. 4, 1935, in Manhattan and received a bachelor's degree in 1957 from Fordham and a master's degree in 1964 from New York University, both in chemistry.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Barbara Antolotti; three sons, Dr. Gregory A., of Franklin Lakes; Peter M., of London; and Albert J., of Wycoff, N.J.; five grandchildren; his mother, Lena Costello, of Manhattan; and two brothers, Ronald, of Tequesta, Fla.; and John, of Palm Beach Gardens, Fla.
      