
        Johnny Unitas, who rose from a $6-a-game sandlot player to become perhaps professional football's greatest quarterback, died yesterday in suburban Baltimore. He was 69.
        Unitas had a heart attack while working out at a physical therapy center in Timonium, Md., Vivienne Stearns-Elliott, a spokeswoman for St. Joseph Medical Center in Towson, told The Associated Press.
        Unitas had triple bypass surgery in 1993 after a heart attack.
        When he retired after the 1973 season after 18 years in the National Football League -- the first 17 with the Baltimore Colts -- Unitas had a big part of the record book to himself. He led the Colts to three N.F.L. championships. He was the first quarterback to pass for more than 40,000 yards in a career. From 1956 to 1960, he completed at least one touchdown pass in each of 47 consecutive games, still the record.
        He completed 2,830 of 5,186 passes for 40,239 yards and 290 touchdowns, monumental figures for an era in which the rules did not benefit quarterbacks the way they do now. With his crew cut and high boots and stiff-armed passing, he was a symbol of a bygone era.
        In 1979, he was inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame. In 1969, when the N.F.L. celebrated its 50th anniversary, he was voted the best quarterback ever. In similar voting in 2000, he again was named the best quarterback. His colleagues agreed.
        ''Johnny Unitas is the best quarterback ever to play the game,'' Sid Luckman, the star quarterback of the Chicago Bears in the 1940's, once said. ''He was better than I was, better than Sammy Baugh, better than anyone.''
        Unitas had an uncanny ability to find soft spots in an opposing defense, and his coaches with the Colts, first Weeb Ewbank and later Don Shula, relied on his astute play calling. As John Mackey, who played tight end for the Colts, said, ''It's like being in a huddle with God.''
        Ernie Accorsi, the Giants' general manager, was the public relations director of the Colts for Unitas's last three seasons with the team.
        ''What made him the greatest quarterback of all time wasn't his arm or his size,'' Accorsi said. ''It was what was inside his stomach. I've always said the purest definition of leadership was watching Johnny Unitas get off the team bus.''
        Unitas was born in Pittsburgh on May 7, 1933. He was 5 when his father died, and his mother supported the four children by working at two jobs.
        Football success did not come easily. When the quarterback at St. Justin's High School in Pittsburgh broke his ankle, Unitas inherited the job. He learned the entire offense in less than a week.
        After high school, he wanted to go to Notre Dame, but it was wary of a 6-foot quarterback who weighed only 138 pounds. The University of Pittsburgh offered a scholarship, but he failed the entrance examination. He accepted an offer from the University of Louisville and did well enough to be taken by the Pittsburgh Steelers in the ninth round of the N.F.L's 1955 draft.
        The Steelers had four quarterbacks, and Unitas never got into a preseason game. By the time the Steelers dropped him, it was too late to be picked up by another team, so he took a construction job. He also played football for the Bloomfield Rams, a semipro team in the Pittsburgh area that played on dirt, not grass, and sprayed the field with oil before a game to keep the dust down.
        The next year, the Colts signed him. Ewbank once told how it happened.
        ''We received a letter from a fan telling us there was a player in Bloomfield deserving a chance,'' Ewbank said. ''I always accused Johnny of writing it.''
        The Colts gave Unitas a $7,000-a-year contract with the condition that he had to survive the entire season to earn it all.
        He survived and more. He got his chance in the fourth game of the season after George Shaw, the starting quarterback, broke a leg against the Chicago Bears. Unitas's first pass was intercepted and returned for a touchdown. He fumbled on his next two possessions. But the starter was hurt, the other backup chose law school over football, and Unitas kept his job.
        By now he was bigger (he would eventually weigh 200 pounds) and soon he was a star. In 1958, he led the Colts to a 23-17 victory over the Giants in sudden-death overtime in an N.F.L. championship game still regarded by many as the greatest game ever played. In 1959, he set an N.F.L. season record of 32 touchdown passes and led the Colts to a 31-16 triumph over the Giants in the title game.
        In 1971, his Colts beat the Dallas Cowboys, 16-13, in the Super Bowl.
        In the 1969 Super Bowl, the Jets upset the Colts, 16-7, behind Joe Namath, a new-era quarterback star. Earl Morrall played most of that game at quarterback for the Colts, but a hobbling Unitas scared the Jets in the final minutes.
        After 17 years with the Colts, he played a final season for the San Diego Chargers. When he left football, he had three Most Valuable Player trophies and 10 Pro Bowl trips.
        Unitas's later years were troubled. He did not fare well as a pioneer television analyst. He had numerous business setbacks. The Colts dropped him as a consultant because he handicapped games for a gambling tip sheet. As his brother Leonard once said, ''He was too trusting.''
        Like most players, Unitas took a physical beating from football, and he had both knees replaced. His right arm was so injured in a 1968 preseason game against Dallas that in recent years he could not pick up a fork and feed himself with that hand.
        He played golf by strapping his gloved right hand to the club shaft with a Velcro strip. The middle three fingers on his right hand did not work, and to sign autographs he held a pen between his thumb and little finger and wrote slowly.
        In 1997, he underwent five hours of surgery on the arm. The condition did not improve. He hoped to receive league-financed disability payments but learned that because he was receiving a monthly pension, he could not also collect disability because he had not filed for it by age 55, as the pension-fund rules required.
        He was recently a tutor for Chris Redman, who played at the University of Louisville, Unitas's old school, and is now the starting quarterback for the Baltimore Ravens.
        Unitas's survivors include his wife, Sandra; six sons, John Jr., Kenneth, Robert, Christopher, Joe and Chad; and two daughters, Janice Ann Unitas-DeNittis and Paige Unitas. His first wife, Dorothy Jean Unitas, died in May.
        ''The most important thing of all about Unitas,'' Ewbank said, ''is that he had a real hunger. This was a kid who wanted success and didn't have it so long that he wasn't about to waste it when it came.''
        Bubba Smith, the celebrated defensive end and a Unitas teammate, told this story about him:
        ''A guy broke through the line, hit him, pushed his head in the ground. He called the same play, let the guy come through and broke his nose with the football. I said, 'That's my hero.' ''
        Another compliment came from Raymond Berry, Unitas's main receiver. What made Unitas so good and so different, Berry said, ''was his uncanny instinct for calling the right play at the right time, his icy composure under fire, his fierce competitiveness and his utter disregard for his own safety.''
      