
        Karl L. Brown, a pioneer in the development of compact linear accelerators used for cancer treatment, died on Aug. 29 in Stanford, Calif. He was 76 and lived in Menlo Park, Calif.
        The cause was heart failure, according to Stanford University, where he was an emeritus professor of applied research at its linear accelerator center.
        In the 1950's, Dr. Brown was part of a team of researchers at Stanford that designed the first linear accelerator in the United States to treat a cancer patient, said Dr. Gregory Loew, deputy director of the linear accelerator center.
        In the 1960's, Dr. Brown worked with Varian Associates on developing the first commercial line of small accelerators for radiotherapy called the Clinac series.
        The machines are widely used today to aim highly precise radiation beams at tumors while minimizing exposure to healthy surrounding tissues. More than 100,000 people around the world are treated with the machines each day.
        In 1958, Dr. Brown was one of the first scientists to use matrix algebra for calculations involving charged particle spectrometers, used by scientists to analyze atomic particles. He designed a computer code that could control the shape and size of a beam of particles to ensure it would travel through Stanford's two-mile-long accelerator.
        The computer code, called Transport, is now widely used by physicists to help predict and control the paths of particle beams through accelerators.
        Dr. Brown began using magnets with six poles in the spectrometers at the Stanford linear accelerator center in the early 1960's. The magnets improved the resolution of spectrometers used at the accelerator's terminus, where scientists conducted experiments with beams of high-energy electrons that were striking stationary atoms.
        The six-pole, or sextupole, magnets are used in many accelerators to keep particles tightly packed within beams, similar to the way a lens is used to focus light.
        Born in Coalville, Utah, Karl Leslie Brown earned his bachelor's, master's and doctorate degrees from Stanford.
        He taught at Stanford for most of his career and traveled extensively to help design spectrometers and accelerators in other countries.
        Dr. Brown's first marriage, to Anadel Smith-Law, ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his wife of 25 years, Vera Lüth; five children, David, of Danville, Calif.; Dennistoun, of Billings, Mont.; Jeremy, of Los Altos, Calif.; Andrew, of Mountain View, Calif.; and Adriana Cassani of Lindon, Utah; and 14 grandchildren.
      