
        Derek Davies, an editor of the Far Eastern Economic Review for 25 years who built the magazine into a major source of news and comment on the region despite his love-hate relationship with its prickly rulers, died on Sept. 15 in Antibes. He was 71 and lived in the south of France.
        The cause was liver cancer, his daughter, Sian, said.
        The Far Eastern Economic Review was little more than a single sheet of newsprint when Mr. Davies joined the staff in 1963. He became editor two years later and developed it into a magazine that resembled The Economist in its seriousness of style and range of interests.
        When he left in 1990, the review had a circulation of about 75,000 and was providing news, comment and analysis of political, economic and business developments in the region as well as coverage of the cultural and artistic scene.
        The magazine was edited in Hong Kong, which throughout Mr. Davies's tenure was a British crown colony where its editorial independence was respected. But relations with other regional governments, unused to independent reporting on their activities, were often difficult. This was particularly true of Singapore, which was run by strongman Lee Kwan Yew during all Mr. Davies's time as editor of the Review and with whom he had an almost constant quarrel.
        In 1977, after a barely contested election in which his People's Action Party won every seat in the legislature, Mr. Lee moved against journalists and human rights activists who had irritated him during the campaign. Ho Kwon Ping, the Review's Singapore correspondent, was accused of endangering national security and fined $3,000.
        Later the government accused Mr. Davies of participating in ''a diabolical international Communist plot'' to poison relations between Singapore and neighbouring Malaysia. Mr. Davies denied this, but Mr. Ho was arrested again and sent to prison.
        In the 1980's Mr. Lee banned the Review in Singapore after it published an article about the detention of Roman Catholic church workers.
        In China the Review's correspondent, Serge Ivanovitch Kost, was arrested during the Cultural Revolution and sentenced to 15 years' imprisonment. He later emigrated to Australia.
        Mr. Davies also quarreled with Western governments over their tendency to discriminate against Asia's supercompetitive export industries. In 1971 he vigorously attcked the Nixon administration's threat to impose new restrictions on American textile imports unless Asian countries agreed to voluntary export restraints.
        ''The Japanese, Taiwanese, South Koreans and the people of Hong Kong are together going to contribute to the campaign funds which President Nixon hopes will get him re-elected next November,'' Mr. Davies wrote scathingly in the Review.
        Born in London on March 9, 1931, Mr. Davies was educated at Cambridge University. He went to work for the Reuters news agency, and in 1957 he joined the British foreign service and was sent to Hanoi and then Vienna. It was in Austria he met Shizue Sanada, a Japanese music student. They decided to marry, but his employers objected, so he left the foreign service.
        After a year studying Mandarin at the School of African and Oriental Studies in London, he joined the Far Eastern Economic Review. He left the Review in 1990. and after a year as journalist in residence at the East West Center in Hawaii, he retired in 1992.
        Mr. Davies is survived by his wife, two sons, Nicholas of London and Robin of Tokyo, and his daughter, Sian, of London.
      