
        Jerry Boyd, a boxing trainer whose search for literary recognition ended two years ago when he published a book of short fiction under the name F. X. Toole, died on Sept. 2 of complications after heart surgery at a hospital in Torrance, Calif. He was 72.
        Mr. Boyd's picaresque life as a bartender, bootblack, longshoreman, private detective, teamster, actor and bullfighter (he said bulls gored him three times) sounded fictional. And his talent for dramatization could easily be turned on himself. During his life, he said, ''I was close to the seven deadly sins at all times.''
        For most of his adult life, he wrote -- novels, plays, short stories, screenplays -- quietly, fitfully, hopefully, but always unsuccessfully.
        ''I'd submit things and I'd be destroyed when they were rejected, but then I'd crawl back to the typewriter to do some more,'' he said.
        In his late 40's, he began to indulge his love of boxing by becoming a fighter, and showed an aptitude for it. Health concerns eventually caused him to quit punching, but he remained in the raffish world as a trainer and cutman, the cornerman who stops fighters' bleeding.
        With boxing as his focus, he quit writing for a while. Yet the craft and science of boxing -- and the personalities of the small-time fighters, cornermen and promoters he knew -- became his source material when his need to write was reawakened after heart surgery in 1988.
        ''One night, sitting in bed,'' he said, ''I looked across the room and saw a story. I got to the point in my life that if I can see the story, I can write it.''
        Boyd told no one in boxing that he was a writer; he devised his pseudonym, Francis Xavier Toole, while writing a play. The nom de plume, he said, ''let me write determindedly Irish-Catholic.''
        His break came in 1999 when he sent a story to a literary journal, Zyzzyva, in San Francisco, and it was published. Seeing the tale in Zyzzyva seemed to Mr. Boyd to be the pinnacle of his career, yet an agent, Nat Sobel, read the story and wrote Boyd seeking more material.
        Mr. Sobel brought Mr. Boyd's stories to Ecco Press, an imprint at HarperCollins. Ecco sent out ''Rope Burns,'' a collection of five short stories and a novella with an unusually large first printing of about 35,000. It has sold well, said Daniel Halpern, editorial director of Ecco.
        Mr. Boyd's writing is spare, raw, profane, stylized, violent, filled with dialect and infused with the atmosphere of dimly lighted gyms, the struggles of boxers and the venality of promoters.
        In a semiautobiographical passage in one story, he wrote, ''The cut man was a slick old white man, was Con Flutey. He had white hair and wore trifocals. He was in the fight game because of the beauty of it, a game where old men could still go to war. It was in his bones, the fight game. He'd been in it a long time. He'd been in the game of living a long time, too, and there were parts of himself that were so different from the other parts that he could not understand how they could all be in his one self. But there they were, and though the disparate parts often surprised him, he'd come to enjoy the merry-go-round that was his soul.''
        A month before he died, Mr. Boyd sold the film rights to one of his stories to the production company of Albert Ruddy. He had also nearly completed a novel, tentatively called ''Pound for Pound,'' when he died.
        ''He was writing gangbusters for a while, then he got stuck, and at the end, he said he was just finishing loose ends between the middle and the end,'' his older son, Gannon Boyd, said. In his apartment in Redondo Beach, Calif., Mr. Boyd also left behind boxes of manuscripts dating to the 1950's.
        Mr. Boyd was married and divorced three times. He is survived by a daughter, Erin, two sons, Ethan and Gannon, and three grandchildren.
        Describing his writing process, Mr. Boyd said: ''When you're on a roll, baby, there ain't nothing like it, like a guy who can throw six or eight punches, and can come out unscathed, and can do it again and again and again. When I'm writing, I can blow myself up to the ceiling.''
      