
        Sheldon H. Harris, an American historian who helped establish that the Japanese army conducted biological warfare experiments in occupied China during the Second World War and that the United States knew about this but tried to cover up the evidence, died on Aug. 31 in Los Angeles. He was 74.
        The cause was a blood infection, his daughter, Robin, said.
        Four days before Dr. Harris died, a Japanese court ruled that Japan had, in fact, conducted germ warfare in China but rejected compensation claims by the victims, thus ending decades of official obfuscation and denial.
        In 1994, Dr. Harris published ''Factories of Death: Japanese Secret Biological Warfare, 1932-1945, and the American Cover-Up'' (Routledge), in which he set out the findings of two decades of research, including 12 field trips to China.
        He concluded that a special Japanese Army unit, known as Unit 731, conducted large-scale biological warfare experiments in World War II, particularly in China. He found that 10,000 to 12,000 prisoners died in the experiments, as well as at least 250,000 civilian men, women and children, and that for a long time afterward periodic outbreaks of plague occurred in those areas of China were the experiments had been carried out.
        Other authorities do not dispute that the biological experiments took place but question the high number of victims in Dr. Harris's conclusion and the success of the experiments.
        Dr. Harris and others found that American authorities had long known about the experiments but kept that knowledge secret in return for the data.
        For decades the Japanese government simply denied any World War II involvement with biological weapons, while the United States did its best to obstruct Dr. Harris's access to its records.
        Sheldon Howard Harris was born in Brooklyn on Aug. 22, 1928, and was educated at Brooklyn College, Harvard and Columbia. He taught history at the University of Massachusetts from 1958 to 1963, when he became a professor at California State University at Northridge and at the University of California at Los Angeles.
        He retired in 1991 and is survived by his wife, Sheila, and his daughter and a son, David, both of San Francisco.
      