
        Helen Giuliani, the mother of former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, died yesterday morning at Mount Sinai Medical Center. She was 92 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        Mr. Giuliani was at his mother's bedside when she died at 1:30 a.m., along with his children, Andrew, 16, and Caroline, 13; his companion, Judith Nathan; and several cousins, said Sunny Mindel, a spokeswoman for Mr. Giuliani.
        Mrs. Giuliani died as her son was preparing for a week of somber, solemn memorials to the victims of the attack on the World Trade Center marking the anniversary of Sept. 11. Her death added a sharp private dimension to the long-planned week of public grief and reflection.
        A private wake was held for Mrs. Giuliani last night on the Upper East Side, and the family was planning a funeral for tomorrow.
        Mr. Giuliani canceled a trip scheduled for today to Washington, where he had planned to attend the taping of ''Concert for America'' at the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, which is to be broadcast on Wednesday on NBC, and the opening of an exhibit about Sept. 11 at the Smithsonian Institution, Ms. Mindel said.
        But Mr. Giuliani will participate, as planned, in New York City's commemoration of the attack on Wednesday, she said.
        Helen D'Avanzo was born on Sept. 26, 1909, in Brooklyn, one of seven children. She was a strong student and longed to become a teacher. But her father died when she was 15, so after high school she had to go to work to help support the family.
        In 1936 she married Harold Giuliani, a barkeeper, and the couple had Rudolph Giuliani, their only child, in 1944. Harold Giuliani died in 1981.
        Although Mrs. Giuliani never fulfilled her ambitions of becoming a schoolteacher -- she worked as a secretary for a medical group in Garden City, N.Y., among other jobs -- Rudolph Giuliani credited her with raising him on a steady diet of reading, learning history and discussing current events. He sometimes called himself her only pupil.
        Mr. Giuliani spoke glowingly of his mother's family, and how her three brothers on the police force and another brother in the Fire Department instilled a love of the city's uniformed services in him.
        Friends and associates said that Mr. Giuliani sometimes credited his mother with fostering his interest in politics at an early age.
        ''We'd talk about current events with her for hours, hours,'' recalled Peter J. Powers, a boyhood friend of Mr. Giuliani's who went on to become his first deputy mayor. ''She was an incredibly intelligent woman who had an incredibly strong grasp of current events and politics.''
        Mr. Giuliani sometimes reminisced to associates about watching political conventions and the McCarthy hearings on television with his mother, and about her habit of reading six daily newspapers and underlining important parts of them with a pen.
        Mrs. Giuliani took a small, but active role in her son's campaigns for mayor. In 1993 she starred in a commercial that was designed to soften the image of Mr. Giuliani, the hard-boiled former prosecutor. ''All I know is he's a good person,'' she said in it.
        And just before Mr. Giuliani was sworn in to office for a second term as mayor on New Year's Day in 1998, Mrs. Giuliani, who was then 88, told reporters, ''Some day I will see him sworn in as president.''
        The next day the mayor, a powerful politician but still a son, was asked about the remark. ''My mother is, you know, a mother,'' he explained. ''She's always had very, very high objectives for me.''
      