
        Bob Hayes, a pigeon-toed sprinter who broke world records, won two gold medals in the 1964 Tokyo Olympics and then became a feared pass receiver for 11 seasons in the National Football League, died Wednesday night in his hometown of Jacksonville, Fla. He was 59.
        The cause was complications from prostate cancer and heart and kidney ailments, the Dallas Cowboys said. In March 2001, Hayes underwent surgery for prostate cancer, and for many years after he retired from football he had drug and alcohol problems.
        During the 1960's and 70's, Hayes had electrifying speed as both a sprinter in track and a wide receiver in the N.F.L. His big-play ability had a lasting impact on pro football. Until his day, defenses covered receivers man to man. Hayes was so fast and got behind his defender so often that teams started playing zone defenses against him, always trying to keep a safety behind him as well as a cornerback with him. Since then, the zone has become a staple of professional football defenses.
        Dick Lynch, the Giants' broadcaster and a former cornerback, recalled yesterday how difficult it was to cover Hayes.
        ''He changed the game on offense just the way Lawrence Taylor would change it on defense,'' Lynch said. ''Fans used to boo me when he got behind me, but how can you cover him running backward when he's the fastest guy in the world.''
        Hayes first drew notice as a runner. In an era of sleek sprinters, he seemed an intruder. He was 5 feet 11 inches and 190 pounds. His chest and thighs were massive, his ankles and calves seemed too small for the bulk they had to support.
        He ran with his knees high, his elbows pointed out. His toes were so pointed in that he once confessed: ''I have spiked myself 10 or 11 times. Usually, it's my big toe that gets it.''
        Bud Winter of San Jose State, one of the world's leading sprint coaches, once recalled, ''Bob Hayes ran like he was pounding grapes into wine.'' Still, Hayes became a sprinter for the ages, ranked with Jesse Owens from an earlier era and Carl Lewis from a later era.
        In 1963, as a 20-year-old at Florida A&M, Hayes won the 100-yard title in the Amateur Athletic Union national championships in St. Louis. His time of 9.1 seconds established a world record that stood for 11 years.
        The following winter, he equaled the world indoor record of 6.0 seconds for the 60-yard dash four times in four weeks. Then came history in the 1964 Olympics.
        Over a soft cinder track, he won the gold medal at 100 meters, the Olympic distance, in 10.0 seconds, breaking the Olympic record and matching the world record. His winning margin of seven feet was the largest in Olympic history.
        Then, in the 4x100-meter relay, the United States team was fifth when Hayes got the baton for the anchor leg. In perhaps the most memorable 100 meters in track and field history, he roared by everyone and turned a two-meter deficit into a three-meter victory. The winning time of 39.0 seconds was a world record, and Hayes's leg was timed unofficially in 8.6 seconds, still the fastest ever.
        After that race, the French anchor runner, Jocelyn Delecour, turned to Paul Drayton, who had run the leadoff leg for the United States, and said bitterly, ''You haven't got anything except Hayes.''
        To which Drayton smiled and said, ''That's all we need, pal.''
        By this time, Hayes had earned the unofficial title of World's Fastest Human. But in those days, even someone as good as Hayes could not make a living as a runner, so in 1965 he joined the Cowboys as a wide receiver (he had been a fullback in college). He played 10 seasons for the Cowboys and finished in 1975 with the San Francisco 49ers.
        He was named to the All-Pro team every year from 1965 through 1968 and won a Super Bowl ring in January 1972. When he left the Cowboys, he was their career leader in touchdowns (71), yards receiving (7,295), average yards per catch (20.0) and average yards per punt return (11.1).
        Robert Lee Hayes was born Dec. 20, 1942, in Jacksonville. He once said of his high school days: ''Everybody used to run, and the guys would bet a nickel to see who could run the fastest. One day, there was the top sprinter on the track team and we raced. I beat him by five yards.''
        Hayes joined the track team and quickly became a star. Jake Gaither, Florida A&M's legendary football coach, recruited him as a football player first. Hayes liked that.
        ''I get a big kick out of football,'' he said. ''I like to see a guy get hit hard and get up and try again. That proves you are a man.''
        After the football season, the crunching fullback became a pigeon-toed track sprinter. When Dick Hill, Florida A&M's track coach, was asked why he did not change Hayes's running style, he said: ''If you were a baseball man, you wouldn't tell Stan Musial to come out of that ridiculous batting crouch, would you? You wouldn't tell Tom Heinsohn that a basketball shot must be arched and not thrown like a line drive.''
        So Hayes kept running his way, fast enough to win Olympic glory. In 1973, on the International Track Association's short-lived pro circuit, he won 14 of 15 races and retired again. In 1976, he was elected to the United States Track and Field Hall of Fame.
        He is survived by a son, Bob Jr. of Dallas; four daughters, Glenda Moore and Dr. Westine Lodge of Jacksonville, Veronica Jenkins of Somerville, N.J., and Adrienne Thomas of Dallas; his mother, Mary Robinson; a brother, Ernest; a sister, Lena Johnson, all of Jacksonville, and eight grandchildren.
        After track and football, Hayes worked in real estate with a company owned by Roger Staubach, a Cowboys teammate, and he was involved in many businesses. In 1994, he finished his last six credits for his degree from Florida A&M.
        In 1978, he was arrested on three charges of selling cocaine and Quaaludes to an undercover agent. The next year he pleaded guilty, was sentenced to five years and paroled after 10 months. Later, he said he was innocent and had been set up, but had pleaded guilty on the advice of his lawyers. The legal problems probably cost him election to the Pro Football Hall of Fame.
        Dr. John T. Holbrook, a psychiatrist who had examined Hayes, told the court: ''Bob Hayes is a victim of his own existence as a celebrity. He has a difficult time sustaining himself as a person of value.''
        Hayes lived with his regrets. Years later, he said:
        ''It's not fair to make role models of us. I understand a kid wanting to be just like so-and-so, but that's not our responsibility. It's enough pressure trying to perform out on the field. But once that's done with, we should be allowed to go about our own business and be ourselves. God, imagine where I'd be now if all this hadn't happened. I'd still be Bob Hayes, gold medal winner and football star.''
      