
        Glen Rounds, who was born in a sod house near Wall, S.D., and worked as a mule skinner, cowboy and carnival medicine man before beginning a long career as an author and illustrator, died yesterday in Pinehurst, N.C. He was 96.
        His last work, ''Beaver'' (Holiday House), was published in 1999.
        His dozens of books include tall tales and realistic stories about life and nature on the plains, particularly in Montana, where he was reared, and North Carolina, where he lived.
        Although published for children, many of his books also appealed to adults. The first, ''Ol' Paul, the Mighty Logger,'' contains 10 stories about Paul Bunyan, for whom Mr. Rounds claimed he worked. It appeared in 1936 and is still in print. Years later he admitted the stories were made up, not researched.
        The 11 titles in the ''Whitey'' series, about a young cowboy and his cousin, were published from 1941 to 1963 and remained popular for years with children 7 to 10.
        Mr. Rounds's family moved from South Dakota to Montana in a covered wagon the year after he was born, and he grew up on ranches, drawing the people, animals and daily life he saw. Both before and after attending the Kansas City Art Institute, he drifted through many odd jobs. Reaching New York in 1930, he took night classes at the Art Students League. In the mid-1930's he visited publishers' offices in late morning, somehow getting a good lunch even if his drawings seemed too coarse. Once he began to be published, however, he proved indefatigable.
        In 1989 severe arthritis in his right arm forced him to stop drawing. ''Rather than take up horseshoeing,'' he said in an interview, he used the summer to learn to draw left-handed and went back to work. The illustrations in the books of his last years, especially ''Sod Houses on the Great Plains'' (1995) and ''Beaver,'' have a distinctive rough spareness.
        Mr. Rounds was divorced from his first wife, Janet Barber, in 1927. His second wife, Margaret Olmsted, died in 1968. He married Elizabeth High in 1989; she died in June at the age of 58. His son, William, and two granddaughters survive him.
        Correction:  October 3, 2002, Thursday  An obituary of the author and illustrator Glen Rounds on Saturday misidentified his first wife. She was Mary Lucas; Janet Barber was his mother's maiden name.
      