
        Bern Laxer, creator of Bern's Steak House in Tampa, Fla., one of the country's more unusual and most popular restaurants, died on Saturday at his home in Tampa. He was 78. He died after a long illness, his son, David, said.
        Bern's, which opened in 1956, quickly grew into a major Florida attraction. In season and on a busy night, it can draw 1,000 customers.
        The huge menu offers three pages of steak choices -- 16 cuts of steak and 50 ways to prepare them.
        Three 1,200-gallon tanks in the kitchen each hold 650 pounds of live local fish. At least 20 kinds of caviar are available. The 179-page wine list features 6,500 labels, and more than 500,000 bottles are stored in the restaurant and in four warehouses nearby.
        The restaurant's current wine list, the 49th edition, is a scaled-down version of a 2,500 page list Mr. Laxer offered into the mid-1990's. That list was chained to the dining room tables to keep it from becoming a guest's souvenir.
        Mr. Laxer was born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan and grew up in the Bronx. He served in the Army in World War II and operated a small advertising agency in New York with his wife, Gertrude, who survives him. They met as undergraduates at New York University.
        They moved to Tampa in 1951. Mr. Laxer worked in a cigar factory for a time, wrote advertising and published a newsletter for gardeners. In 1953, the Laxers opened a small restaurant in Tampa called Bern and Gert's Little Midway. Two years later they moved the restaurant to a strip shopping center on the edge of town, calling it Bern's. Over the years they bought the other shops in the mall, increasing the number of dining rooms to eight. One of the shops was a liquor store with a small wine section. It was the start of the restaurant's immense collection.
        Mr. Laxer was seriously injured in an automobile accident in 1993 and had lived quietly at home since. He retired in 1996, turning the business over to his son, who soon added a restaurant next door called Side Bern's. A separate liquor store, Bern's Wines and Spirits, was opened in the late 1990's.
        In addition to his wife and son, Mr. Bern is survived by a daughter, Julia Laxer, and two grandchildren.
      