
        Glenn E. Watts, who as president of the Communications Workers of America led a three-week strike of 525,000 workers against the American Telephone and Telegraph Company in 1983, died on Aug. 30 in Washington. He was 82 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md.
        The cause was complications after gastrointestinal surgery, union officials said.
        Mr. Watts led the union from 1974 until he retired in 1985. He repeatedly negotiated contracts with A.T.&T. that covered more workers than any other union contract in the nation. When the company was broken up in 1984, he negotiated a contract that softened the blow to workers by providing better severance payments and money for job retraining.
        A moderate on the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s executive council, Mr. Watts was one of the nation's most outspoken union leaders. He strongly supported President Jimmy Carter and was a frequent critic of President Ronald Reagan, business leaders and George Meany, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s longtime president until 1979.
        Mr. Watts was sometimes called a pragmatic progressive. He pushed for equal wages for the women in his union, which represented operators, telephone installers, technicians and equipment makers. In the early 1980's he created a Committee on the Future to help protect his members from the vast changes that would come with government deregulation and technological advances.
        Mr. Watts was a champion of labor-management cooperation, leading some union leaders to say that he was too cozy with management. He helped to establish ''quality of work life'' committees at A.T.&T., and the ideas that came from their meetings helped improve morale and productivity.
        Glenn Ellis Watts was born on June 4, 1920, in Stony Point, N.C., where his grandfather ran a cotton-spinning mill. When the Depression wiped out the business, his family moved to Washington.
        He went to work for the Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company for 25 cents an hour in 1941, after several workers installing a telephone at the Y.M.C.A. where he worked told him they had a good job
        He became a telephone installer and joined the National Federation of Telephone Workers, the predecessor to the communications workers union. He became active in the union, moved up through the local and became a member of the national executive board in 1948. That year he left the phone company to work full time for the union.
        In 1941, he married Bernice Elizabeth Willett. He is survived by his wife; two daughters, Sharon Perlmutter of Washington, and Marianne Erickson of Damascus Va.; and seven grandchildren. His son, Glenn, died in 1997.
        Mr. Watts was so close to President Carter that he once joined him at a meeting with President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt. His interest in Middle East peace led him to help set up the Glenn E. Watts Cultural Center in Jerusalem, which encourages understanding between Jews and Arabs in Israel's labor federation.
        He was thrown into the national spotlight during the 1983 strike, when he disparaged A.T.&T.'s offer of a 3.5 percent raise in the first year of a three-year contract. Eventually the company agreed to 5.5 percent raise in the first year.
      