
        John P. Frank, a lawyer and law professor who helped shape the argument in the landmark Brown v. Board of Education case and represented Ernesto Miranda in the United States Supreme Court, died on Saturday in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 84.
        Mr. Frank advised Thurgood Marshall of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund Inc., who argued the Brown case and later joined the court. Richard Kluger wrote in ''Simple Justice,'' a history of the 1954 decision striking down segregation, that Professor Frank, then at Yale Law School, was ''perhaps more familiar with the constitutional and legislative history involved in the segregation cases than any of the N.A.A.C.P.'s other advisers.''
        Along with several other professors, Mr. Frank wrote a friend-of-the court brief on behalf of almost 200 professors in Sweatt v. Painter, a challenge to segregation at the University of Texas Law School heard by the Supreme Court in 1950. The court held the practice unconstitutional. The case laid some of the legal groundwork for the Brown decision four years later.
        Mr. Frank wrote 11 books, including a study of the Supreme Court and a biography of Justice Hugo L. Black, for whom he had been a clerk. His 1961 book on Abraham Lincoln, ''Lincoln as a Lawyer,'' was called ''a classic'' by Herbert Mitgang in The New York Times.
        He earned undergraduate and law degrees from the University of Wisconsin and an advanced degree from the Yale Law School, where he taught from 1949 to 1954.
        Mr. Frank then moved to Arizona, joining the Phoenix firm of Lewis & Roca. At the firm, he represented all sorts of clients, including the Democratic Party of Arizona, unions and corporations.
        But his most famous client was probably Mr. Miranda, who was convicted on kidnapping and rape charges based largely on his signed confession.
        In 1966, the Supreme Court overturned the conviction, holding that the confession had not been voluntary because it was not preceded by the now-familiar warnings against self-incrimination, beginning ''You have the right to remain silent.''
        Mr. Frank asked a law partner, John J. Flynn, to argue the case. ''It was a mark of John's unselfishness,'' said Mary M. Schroeder, the chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, who worked at the firm. ''He told John Flynn: 'This case will make your reputation. I have already argued before the Supreme Court.' ''
        Mr. Frank was an expert in civil procedure and standards for judicial disqualification. In 1947, he defended Justice Black against the accusation that he had acted improperly in hearing a case argued by a former law partner.
        In 1969, he crossed an ideological divide to defend Judge Clement F. Haynsworth Jr., who had been nominated to the Supreme Court by President Richard M. Nixon. Mr. Frank said Judge Haynsworth's ownership of an interest in a company that did business with a party to a lawsuit before him did not raise ethical questions.
        Judge Haynsworth's nomination failed by a vote of 55 to 45. Mr. Frank later called the vote ''a sort of legislative murder.''
        In 1987, Mr. Frank testified against the nomination of Robert H. Bork to the Supreme Court.
        Mr. Frank was an adviser to Anita F. Hill, whose accusations of sexual harassment against Clarence Thomas threatened his Supreme Court nomination in 1991. Justice Thomas was confirmed.
        Over the years, Mr. Frank acted as a mentor and counselor to young lawyers.
        ''He really worked to open the legal profession to women and minorities,'' said Janet Napolitano, who is the attorney general of Arizona and a candidate for governor of the state. Ms. Napolitano worked with Mr. Frank at Lewis & Roca.
        Chief Judge Schroeder said, ''He made my career, by making me the first woman associate and then the first woman partner at a major Phoenix firm.''
        Prof. John Q. Barrett, writing in the Yale Law and Policy Review this summer, described an invitation Mr. Frank extended in 1950 to A. Leon Higginbotham Jr., a black Yale law student who would go on to become a distinguished federal appeals court judge.
        Mr. Frank thought his student would be interested in the argument of the Sweatt case. He paid Mr. Higginbotham's way to Washington from New Haven and arranged for a seat for him in the overflowing courtroom. Judge Higginbotham later described Mr. Frank's gesture and the experience of seeing Thurgood Marshall argue the case as the turning point in his life.
        Mr. Frank is survived by his wife, Lorraine; five children, John Peter Frank of Jefferson, Wis., Gretchen Frank of Los Angeles, Karen Frank of Oakland, Calif., Andrew Frank of San Diego, and Nancy Frank of Oakland; and six grandchildren.
      