
        David Grene, whose translations of ancient Greek spoke with such clarity that the writer Saul Bellow suggested he was on a first-name basis with Sophocles and Aristophanes, died on Sept. 10 in Chicago. He was 89.
        Mr. Grene's two residences reflected his seemingly separate lives: for more than 50 years, he spent half his year on a working farm (he did the work) in Ireland and the other half teaching at the University of Chicago's Committee on Social Thought with luminaries like T. S. Eliot, Marc Chagall and Mr. Bellow.
        To him, the two worlds were one. He said that one reason he was drawn to the Greek historian Herodotus, whose ''History'' he translated, was his shrewd advice on farming.
        In earlier days, when he owned a farm in the Chicago suburbs, he would show up with mud and manure on his boots to teach classics and literature classes that continued to attract students long after they had received their doctorates. Chances were that he had been on a morning ride on one of the spirited, maverick horses he had bought cheap and then trained himself.
        But his scholarship was of such quality that ''The Complete Greek Tragedies,'' which he edited with Richmond Lattimore and which was first published in 1954 by the University of Chicago Press, sold more than one million copies over many printings. He did many of the translations.
        When the Herodotus book was printed by the University of Chicago Press in 1987, Peter Levi in The New York Times Book Review called Mr. Grene ''one of those who have made the classics live for this generation.''
        Hannah Arendt, who like another fellow University of Chicago intellectual, Allan Bloom, liked to sit in on Mr. Grene's lectures, said she had known no one with the innate sense of Greek that Mr. Grene had.
        William David Grene was born in Dublin on April 13, 1913. Half Irish and half English, he said the seemingly odd spelling of his name was the way Chaucer had spelled it in the 14th century. His father, an accountant, ran the Dublin office of an English insurance company.
        He was a superb student, learning Latin at 8 and Greek at 10. But the joy of his youth was summers spent in County Tipperary on the farm of a distant cousin where he loved to herd cows.
        He won scholarships and academic medals and graduated from Trinity College at the University of Dublin in 1934. He taught in Vienna and then Harvard, which he told Wendy Doniger, a religion professor at the University of Chicago, was ''fake and puffed up.''
        His own quirks could provoke colleagues, including the chairmen of the classics and English departments at Chicago, who fired him the same day. He marched straight to the brilliant and autocratic university president, Robert Maynard Hutchins, who had clearly anticipated such events. He pulled a note from his file.
        ''This man is not to be fired without my permission,'' it said.
        Mr. Hutchins decided the safest course was to steer Mr. Grene clear of formal departments altogether. He made him one of the five founding members of the Committee on Social Thought, an interdisciplinary group that Mr. Grene himself called ''an odd nest of birds.''
        He met his first wife, Margerie Glicksman, who now lives in Blacksburg, Va., under the Classics Arch at the university. They had two children, Ruth Grene, now of Blacksburg, and Nicholas Grene, a professor at Trinity College in Dublin.
        Mr. Grene, who had earlier bought a farm outside Chicago, decided to pursue his long dream by buying a farm in County Wicklow, Ireland. Part of his motivation was to educate his children outside the United States, whose educational system he disdained.
        He eschewed modern agricultural improvements and continued using his hands to milk and horses to plow into the 1960's. When doctoral candidates from Chicago visited him, he enlisted them to bale hay.
        During the academic year, Mr. Grene, a short, burly man, dazzled students with his animated teaching style, popping exuberantly from the front of the room to the back. His intellect was even more impressive: on one occasion, he said a definition in a dictionary of an ancient Greek word was wrong, and proved it by reciting from memory all eight times the word was used in texts.
        After a divorce, he married the former Ethel Weiss, now of Wilmette, Ill., with whom he had twin sons, Andrew of Mineola, N.Y., and Gregory of Manhattan. His former wife got the farm and he got half the cows. He bought another Irish farm, this one in County Cavan.
        He was separated from his second wife and is survived by his companion, Stephanie Nelson of Boston, as well as by his children and 10 grandchildren.
        Dr. Donigar, who regularly rode horses with Mr. Grene, said his interests sometimes veered to more popular pursuits. She said he was such a fan of Dick Francis, who writes mystery novels set in the world of horse racing, that he lined up in a Chicago bookstore for an autograph. Mr. Grene himself once competed in the prestigious spring horse show in Dublin.
        When it came to his beloved Greek, he was a stickler for detail. Dr. Donigar cited a play by Aeschylus that she and he were producing for the Court Theater in Chicago. There is a scene in which eagles rip open a pregnant hare. For decidedly idiosyncratic poetic reasons, he insisted on using ''gravid'' for pregnant and ''leveret'' for hare.
        ''Do you want pregnant bunny rabbits?'' Mr. Grene scoffed.
        Dr. Donigar wanted something in between. But when the play was presented, the actors used Mr. Grene's words. They liked the way they sounded.
      