
        Ed Warner, who was a star forward for the City College basketball team that won the National Invitation Tournament and N.C.A.A. tournament championships in 1950 but shattered his career in the point-shaving scandal that engulfed the game, died Saturday at his home in Harlem. He was 73.
        His death was reported by Charles DeCicco, director of public relations for City College, who said he did not know the cause.
        In the winter of 1950, City College, ranked nowhere near the top of college basketball's elite, became the only team to capture both major postseason basketball championships in the same season. And the Beavers did it by defeating Bradley, the No. 1 ranked team, in both finals at the game's showplace, Madison Square Garden.
        First, City College, coached by Nat Holman, known as Mr. Basketball, won the N.I.T., then the nation's most prestigious basketball tournament, by defeating Bradley, 69-61. Warner was named most valuable player of the tournament. After that, City triumphed over Bradley by 71-68 in the N.C.A.A. final.
        But in 1951, players from powerhouse teams, including City College, Long Island University, Bradley and the University of Kentucky, were arrested. They were charged with taking part in a scandal in which gamblers bribed athletes to either lose games in which they were favored or to keep the margin of victory below the point spread established to attract bettors.
        In November 1951, Warner, who was among a host of former players sentenced in the fixing, received a six-month term.
        Warner, who played high school basketball at DeWitt Clinton in the Bronx, was City College's co-captain and second-leading scorer on the double-championship team. He averaged 14.8 points a game in the regular season, as a sophomore, and 21.7 points in the N.I.T.
        Although often matched against taller players, Warner, at 6 feet 3 inches, used his body well and maneuvered defenders out of position.
        Warner and others in the scandal were barred from the National Basketball Association, but he and two teammates who were among those involved, Floyd Layne and Ed Roman, often drove together on weekends to play basketball in the Eastern League.
        ''The scandal formed our bond,'' Warner told Dave Anderson of The New York Times in 1988 at a memorial service for Roman, who died of leukemia at age 57.
        In the 1960's, Warner was imprisoned after pleading guilty to attempting to sell heroin.
        ''I had a problem,'' he said. ''I was trying to play Superfly. I got two and a half to four in Greenhaven. But Eddie and Floyd came to see me and when I got out and started refereeing, they would come to see me work. Eddie would laugh and tell me, 'You've got to move more; you're standing on a dime.' ''
        Warner had worked as a high school basketball referee, but in April 1984 he was partly paralyzed when his automobile was struck from behind in Upper Manhattan.
        Until last year, he was an observer of officials for New York City's Public Schools Athletic League, and he was also a recreational supervisor in Harlem.
        Warner is survived by three sons, Dana Warner, Edward Warner Jr. and Kwamee Rozier, all of New York, City College said.
        Layne was the City College basketball coach in the 1970's and 80's, and Roman earned a doctorate in adolescent psychology.
        ''We weren't seasoned criminals,'' Warner said of the scandal. ''We didn't receive the guidance we should've. And we weren't the only team doing it. There were several that escaped. But we paid the price.''
      