
        W. Clement Stone, who parlayed $100 in savings into an insurance empire that financed millions of dollars of contributions to the campaigns of Richard M. Nixon and hundreds of millions to charities, died on Tuesday in Evanston, Ill. He was 100 and lived in Winnetka, Ill.
        Mr. Stone's contributions of more than $2 million to President Nixon's re-election campaign in 1972 -- on top of even greater donations to Mr. Nixon in 1968 -- were cited in Congressional debates after Watergate as a reason for instituting campaign spending limits.
        Mr. Stone lived his life as a prime exponent of his own version of Norman Vincent Peale's ''Power of Positive Thinking'' and Napoleon Hill's ''Think and Grow Rich.'' He emphasized using a ''positive mental attitude'' to make money, both for himself and for the millions of people who became his disciples through the self-help books and magazines he wrote, edited and published.
        He said his support for Mr. Nixon had begun with his admiration for the strength that Mr. Nixon had shown in overcoming his defeats for the presidency in 1960 and the California governorship in 1962.
        A short man with a pencil-thin mustache, Mr. Stone made a striking appearance as he gave the inspirational speeches he loved. He wore patterned vests, vibrant suspenders and sometimes spats, and he said he always tried to keep a smile in his voice. ''Bingo!'' he would shout if attention lapsed even slightly.
        He began each day, and demanded that his employees follow suit, by exclaiming: ''I feel happy! I feel healthy! I feel ter-r-r-ific!''
        His most famous saying hints at the reason: ''What's a few million dollars? Everything's relative.''
        He bought three warehouses of Cuban cigars just before the Cuban revolution. His ease with great wealth also let him give more than $275 million to charities, which ranged from mental health to evangelical Christian to youth welfare groups.
        ''All I want to do is change the world,'' he once said.
        William Clement Stone was born in Chicago on May 4, 1902. His father died when he was 3, leaving the family impoverished by gambling losses. At the age of 6, he began hawking newspapers on Chicago's South Side, while his mother worked as a dressmaker. At 13, he owned his own newsstand.
        When he was 16, he went to Detroit to help his mother in the insurance agency she had opened there. He went from office to office, making cold calls (he called them ''gold calls'') to sell casualty insurance, and he was soon making $100 a week. He devoured the Horatio Alger stories, in which poor boys make good.
        He dropped out of high school to concentrate on insurance, though he eventually received a diploma from the Young Men's Christian Association Central High School in Chicago. The rest of his formal education consisted of a few courses at Detroit College of Law and Northwestern University.
        He built the Combined Insurance Company of America through the constant expansion of the single agency he started in Chicago in 1922. By 1930, he had 1,000 agents across the United States selling insurance for him as representatives for large casualty companies.
        At a time that other insurance agencies were diversifying, his agencies sold a narrow line of low-priced accident and life-insurance policies. His biggest seller was the ''little giant,'' a six-month travel accident policy that sold for $3.
        He hired people with limited educations -- delivery truck drivers and soda jerks -- and had them memorize the sales pitch. One of his 3,500 sales representatives sold 340 ''little giants'' in a single day, according to The Wall Street Journal.
        He acquired other insurance companies by means of ''O.P.M.'' (other people's money) which, with ''P.M.A.'' (''positive mental attitude''), formed the basis of his philosophy of success. For example, he bought the Pennsylvania Casualty Company by borrowing from the Commercial Credit Company of Baltimore, which owned the company he was buying.
        His combined company eventually merged into the Ryan Insurance Group in 1982. It changed its name to the Aon Corporation in 1987.
        Mr. Stone teamed up with Mr. Hill, an experienced author of inspirational books, in developing a series of lectures called ''P.M.A. Science of Success'' and in founding Success Unlimited, a monthly digest magazine. In 1960, the two wrote ''Success Through a Positive Mental Attitude.''
        In 1962, Mr. Stone, by himself, wrote ''The Success System That Never Fails.'' In 1964, he collaborated with Norma Lee Browning to write ''The Other Side of the Mind.''
        On June 16, 1923, Mr. Stone married Jessie Verna Tarson, whom he had met at 16 and vowed to marry at 21. In addition to his wife of 79 years, he is survived by his son Norman, of San Francisco; 12 grandchildren; and 13 great-grandchildren. His older son, Clement, died in 1986, and his daughter, Donna, died in 1985.
        Stories abound suggesting that Mr. Stone strove to live up to his oft-proclaimed ideals. For example, he noticed the enthusiasm of the young man cutting the grass in front of his office, and that young man eventually became his executive vice president.
        When Mr. Nixon showed up as a surprise at a ceremony in 1980 honoring Mr. Stone, he said that nobody had given him more and asked less. He had perhaps forgotten Mr. Stone's far-from-secret hint that he would have made a fine ambassador to London.
        Despite Watergate, Mr. Stone's belief in positive thinking continued. He appointed Dwight Chapin publisher of his Success Unlimited magazine after Mr. Chapin had served eight months in prison for orchestrating the ''dirty tricks'' squad of the Nixon re-election campaign.
        Mr. Stone even saw something positive in Watergate, calling it a ''wonderful thing'' in a 1985 speech.
        ''Because of Watergate,'' he explained, ''attorney generals and state's attorneys now will press charges against public officials if they're warranted. Before President Nixon's time, they'd sweep those charges under the rug.''
      