
        Edmund Taylor Pratt Jr., a former chairman of Pfizer Inc., whose long executive tenure bolstered the company's role in research and operations worldwide, died on Thursday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 75 and lived in Port Washington, N.Y.
        He suffered a brief illness, his family said.
        In more than 30 years with the company, Mr. Pratt rose from controller to president and, in 1972, chairman and chief executive. He retired from the company in 1992 but continued as a director and chairman emeritus until five years ago.
        ''During his 20-year tenure as C.E.O., Ed Pratt transformed Pfizer from a diversified manufacturing company to a research-based pharmaceutical company,'' said Henry A. McKinnell, the current chairman and chief executive. Pfizer, founded in 1849 as a fine-chemicals business, most recently put its annual revenue at nearly $30 billion. The company has 85,000 employees.
        Mr. Pratt was also given credit for helping to keep Pfizer's headquarters in New York City; he was honored for that effort by the Regional Plan Association in 1978. He was cited for leading the company in promoting minority job training and opportunity programs and working to improve the economic and social climate of the city and region.
        To that end, Mr. Pratt allocated company resources to improve the neighborhood of Pfizer's birthplace as a manufacturer in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn. He allied Pfizer with other companies and public agencies in the 1970's to build affordable housing and reverse urban decay.
        Edmund Pratt was born in Savannah, Ga., and grew up in Elkton, Md., where his father worked for the Army Corps of Engineers. He graduated magna cum laude with a degree in electrical engineering from Duke University under a Navy program in 1947 and received an M.B.A. from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania in 1949.
        He served as a lieutenant in the Navy during the Korean War after starting his business career with I.B.M. in 1949. There he rose to controller of the I.B.M. World Trade Corporation, a post he held from 1958 to 1962.
        He joined the Kennedy administration in 1962 as assistant secretary of the Army for financial management, but soon returned to the private sector as controller at Pfizer in New York. He was in charge of the company's international operations before being named president of the parent organization in 1971.
        Mr. Pratt is survived by his wife, Nancy Rhodes Pratt, and two sons, Randolf R., of Plandome, N.Y., and Keith T., of Brighton, Mich.
      