
        Paul Tripp, a Pied Piper of early children's television who created the musical fantasy ''Tubby the Tuba'' and appeared as the host of his own show, ''Mr. I. Magination,'' died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 91.
        It was while serving in the Army in China during World War II that Mr. Tripp dreamed up ''Tubby the Tuba,'' the orchestrated story that would make him famous and help to open the way for the integration of story and symphonic music in childrens' records.
        The finished record became an almost instant hit when it was released in 1945.
        ''Tubby the Tuba'' told the story of Tubby, an orchestral instrument who is disheartened because he, unlike the other instruments in his orchestra, did not have a melody of his own. He was relegated to playing Oom-pah.
        Eventually, Tubby meets a friendly bullfrog who shares his melody with him. The melody, in turn, is picked up by other instruments in the orchestra and at the end the whole orchestra triumphantly plays Tubby's melody.
        With music by George Kleinsinger, ''Tubby the Tuba'' was often compared with Prokofiev's ''Peter and the Wolf,'' in which a series of characters are given a distinctive musical motif.
        Critics heaped praise on the production.
        The record sold eight million copies, making it one of the best-selling children's records of its time. Renditions were played in concert halls around the world conducted by artists like Eugene Ormandy, Leonard Bernstein and Arthur Fiedler and narrated by performers like Danny Kaye and Carol Channing.
        ''Mr. I. Magination'' came next. Running as a weekly show on CBS TV from 1949 to 1952, the showshowed Mr. Tripp on a toy train dressed in the striped overalls of a railroad engineer. Surrounded by young children on the train, Mr. Tripp, with a wide smile and careful, almost exaggerated enunciation, would tell stories from history and literature -- Rip Van Winkle, for example, or the life of P. T. Barnum.
        Jack Gould described Mr. Tripp in The New York Times in 1951 as a ''gifted'' writer who created episodes that were ''thoroughly engaging.''
        Some young actors, including Richard Boone and Walter Matthau, got their start on the show, and Yul Brynner directed some episodes.
        Two more children's shows followed, with Mr. Tripp most often serving as writer, director and star. ''On the Carousel'' was an educational variety show telecast by CBS TV from 1954 to 1959. ''Birthday House,'' an NBC-TV children's show, used a birthday celebration as its format.
        He also wrote four children's books.
        Paul Tripp was born in Manhattan on Feb. 20, 1911. A precocious student, he entered City College at 14 but dropped out before graduating. He then entered the Brooklyn Law School but again dropped out before receiving a degree.
        Attracted to the stage, he played several bit parts on Broadway, the most notable of which was a minor part in a revival of Rostand's ''Cyrano de Bergerac'' starring Walter Hampden.
        He served in the Army during World War II. Before going overseas, Mr. Tripp directed a Broadway and national production of John Golden's ''The Army Play by Play.''
        After the war Mr. Tripp appeared in many of the dramatic series produced in New York, including ''Studio One,'' ''Kraft Television Theater'' and ''Philco Playhouse.''
        Mr. Tripp is survived by his son, David, of Stuyvesant, N.Y.; a daughter, Suzanne Jurmain of Los Angeles; and two grandchildren.
      