
        Wesley Naylor, a creator and composer of the long-running gospel musical ''Mama, I Want to Sing'' as well as two sequels, died on Aug. 25 at his home in Brooklyn. He was 44.
        Mr. Naylor was found dead in his apartment. The cause is still under investigation, said his brother Wendell, who added that the police had found no evidence of a crime.
        Mr. Naylor was born into a religious family in Hattiesburg, Miss. His training in the gospel and gospel music began at an early age in the local Antioch Missionary Baptist Church, where his grandfather was the minister.
        He showed an instant affinity for the piano, beginning to study at 4 and performing in public at 12. When he was 15, Mr. Naylor received a scholarship to the North Carolina School for the Performing Arts; after graduating, he attended the University of Southern Mississippi and Oberlin Conservatory to continue his piano studies.
        His professional career began when he headed to New York, though his music never strayed far from the church. He served for nearly 25 years as the music director of the historic Bethany Baptist Church in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn.
        In 1985, Mr. Naylor met and became friends with Vy Higginsen and her husband, Ken Wydro, who were the writers, directors and producers of a low-budget gospel musical called ''Mama, I Want to Sing.'' It had been running at the tiny Heckscher Theater on Fifth Avenue and 104th Street in Manhattan since March 1983. The story of minister's daughter who leaves the church to become an international singing star, the musical instantly struck a chord in Mr. Naylor, who soon signed on as the musical director and began revamping the score, adding his own compositions.
        ''Mama'' eventually became one of Off Broadway's longest-running musicals, playing 2,213 performances before it was closed down by a lease dispute between producers and the city, which owned the Heckscher. Mr. Naylor, however, had already moved onto other projects, including a 1990 sequel, ''Mama, I Want to Sing II,'' which ran for a year Off Broadway; he also played and arranged music for gospel greats like Shirley Caesar, Cee Cee Winans and Aretha Franklin. A second sequel, ''Born to Sing!,'' also composed by Mr. Naylor, opened and ran for five months in 1996.
        In 1995, Mr. Naylor composed a completely original score for a London production of ''Mama, I Want to Sing'' and was the only African-American composer represented in the West End at the time. That production, which ran for six months, proved to be the definitive version. A national tour next year, celebrating the show's 20th anniversary, will be billed as ''Composed and arranged by Wesley Naylor.''
        In addition to his brother Wendell, of Memphis, Mr. Naylor is survived by his mother, Nareatha Woullard Naylor, of Jackson, Miss.; his father, Walter Jerome Naylor of Hattiesburg; a sister, Frances Johnson, of Jackson; and two other brothers, Walley Naylor, of Madison, Miss., and Rashad Naylor, of New York.
      