
        Representative Patsy T. Mink, a liberal Democrat from Hawaii who was likely to be elected to a 13th term in November, died Saturday at the Straub Clinic and Hospital in Honolulu. She was 74.
        The cause was viral pneumonia brought on by chickenpox, said Andy Winer, a spokesman for the Democratic Party of Hawaii.
        As a member of Congress from 1965 until 1977, and again from 1990 until her death, Ms. Mink was a champion of women's rights, education, civil rights and labor unions.
        One of her primary legislative achievements came in 1972, when she was one of the sponsors of Title IX of the federal Education Amendments, which mandates equal financing for women's athletics and academics at institutions receiving federal money.
        ''It's rare as a legislator that you fight for legislation you believe in and stay around or live long enough to see it come to fruition,'' Ms. Mink said in 1995, in a meeting with some of the nation's top female basketball players.
        Ms. Mink was known as articulate and strong-willed, and willing to fight for causes large and small.
        In 1967, she and two other congresswomen tried to get into the House gym, after hearing about a form letter inviting members to use what was at the time an exclusively male preserve. They were turned away by the gym's director, who news reports said was ''horrified'' by their transgression.
        Several years later, she took on Dr. Edgar F. Berman, a member of the Democratic Party's committee on national priorities, who claimed that women's ''raging hormonal imbalance'' made them unfit for executive positions in business and politics. Dr. Berman eventually resigned from the committee.
        Ms. Mink, however, stopped short of associating herself with the women's liberation movement.
        ''Just because I'm interested in women doesn't mean I'm for women's liberation,'' she told The New York Times in 1970. ''I support all groups when what they do coincides with what I believe in.''
        Patsy Takemoto was born in Paia, a sugar plantation town on the island of Maui, on Dec. 6, 1927. As a senior at Maui High School she was elected student body president, and by the time she graduated from the University of Hawaii in 1948, her interests had shifted from medicine to the humanities.
        In 1951, she graduated from the University of Chicago Law School. That same year, she married John F. Mink, a doctoral student in geology. The couple moved to Honolulu, where Ms. Mink opened a law office and became the first Japanese-American woman licensed to practice law in Hawaii, Mr. Winer said.
        In 1956, Ms. Mink was elected to the Hawaii Territorial Legislature. In 1958, she was elected to the Hawaii Senate.
        In her first period in Congress, Ms. Mink was an early critic of the Vietnam War, prompting some opponents to call her Patsy Pink.
        In 1972 she and Representative Bella S. Abzug of New York traveled to Paris, where they met with North Vietnamese officials to discuss the prospects for peace.
        In 1967, in a speech before the House of Representatives, Ms. Mink argued against harsh punishments for people who burned the American flag.
        ''America is not a country which needs to punish its dissenters to preserve its honor,'' she said. ''America is not a country which needs to demand conformity of all its people, for its strength lies in all our diversities converging in one common belief, that of the importance of freedom as the essence of our country.''
        In 1976, after 12 years in Congress, Ms. Mink sought a seat in the United States Senate. She lost the Democratic primary to Spark M. Matsunaga. In 1977, President Jimmy Carter appointed her assistant secretary of state for oceans and international, environmental and scientific affairs.
        Ms. Mink returned to Congress in 1990 after winning a special election for the seat vacated by Daniel K. Akaka, a Democrat, who was appointed to the Senate after Mr. Matsunaga's death. She discovered that many of her fellow Democrats had shifted toward more centrist positions.
        ''She saw it as an opportunity to teach lessons,'' said Representative Neil Abercrombie, Democrat of Hawaii. ''She never thought for a moment of not working with people who didn't agree with her ideologically.''
        In her final term, Ms. Mink raised questions about the creation of the Homeland Security Department, saying she feared that the new legislation could be used to undermine civil rights.
        ''She had already been through that as a Japanese-American, seeing people put into detention camps on the basis of what they supposedly were as opposed to what they had actually done,'' Mr. Abercrombie said.
        Ms. Mink is survived by her husband; their daughter, Gwendolyn; and a brother, Eugene Takemoto.
      