
        Henri Rol-Tanguy, one of France's most decorated Resistance heroes, who organized the popular uprising against the German occupation of Paris and, a few days later, joined the Gaullist general, Philippe Leclerc, in taking the surrender of German forces stationed here, died Sunday. He was 94.
        Mr. Rol-Tanguy, a lifelong Communist, emerged as the leader of the Communist-led Francs-Tireurs et Partisans, or Snipers and Partisans, in the Paris region after other Resistance figures had been arrested and shot. Working from a base in the catacombs of Paris, he called on Parisians to take up arms against the occupiers one week before the liberation of Paris, on Aug. 25, 1944.
        President Jacques Chirac, who will lead a homage to Mr. Rol-Tanguy at the Invalides on Thursday, described him as ''one of the greatest figures of the Resistance.''
        Mr. Chirac added: ''An actor and a witness in unforgettable events has died. But his example will live on an example of will, courage, patriotism and love of liberty and the republic.''
        Born as Henri Tanguy in Morlaix, Britanny, on June 12, 1908, he left school at 14 to become a metallurgical worker outside Paris. In 1925, still only 17, he joined the Communist Party, an affiliation that in 1936 led him to be named secretary of the Union of Metallurgical Workers of the Paris region. That same year, with the outbreak of the Spanish Civil War, he organized support for the Republican side fighting Franco's rightist rebellion.
        In 1937, Mr. Rol-Tanguy joined the International Brigades fighting with the Republicans in Spain and, the following year, was wounded in battle. Coincidentally, a close friend, Théo Rol, was killed in combat. Two years later, after serving briefly in the French army and escaping detention when Germany occupied France in May 1940, Mr. Rol-Tanguy took his friend's name as his nom de guerre.
        In 1939, he married Cécile Le Bihan, who joined him in the Resistance activities that followed. Mr. Rol-Tanguy is survived by his wife and their four children, Hélène, Jean, Claire and Francis.
        From October 1940 to August 1941, he and other Communist leaders helped organize resistance to the occupation in the Paris region. He was then assigned to build the underground in the Anjou area, before being recalled to Paris in 1943. He was named first captain and then colonel of the Forces Françaises de l'Interieur, the French Forces of the Interior, which had a tense relationship with de Gaulle's London-based Free French Forces.
        After the Normandy landings on June 6, 1944, the Resistance began preparing for the liberation of Paris, with Mr. Rol-Tanguy head of the Paris underground. As Allied forces approached Paris, he ordered a popular uprising. Allied forces then assigned Leclerc to lead French troops into Paris. But Mr. Rol-Tanguy stood alongside him when the German governor of Paris, Dietrich von Choltitz, surrendered at the Montparnasse railroad station on Aug. 25, 1944.
        A few months after the liberation of Paris, Mr. Rol-Tanguy joined the French army with the rank of colonel and took part in the final campaigns of World War II. He remained in the army after the war, but his continuing membership of the Communist Party proved a complication during the cold war and, in 1962, he was retired from the armed forces.
        From 1964 to 1987, he was a member of the central committee of the French Communist Party. He wrote numerous books about the liberation, including ''The French Communist Party in the Resistance'' (1967) and ''The Truth About the Liberation of Paris'' (1971). Mr. Rol-Tanguy received most of France's medals of valor, including the Croix de Guerre and the Grand-Croix de la Légion de l'Honneur.
        Correction:  September 12, 2002, Thursday  Because of an editing error, an obituary of the French Resistance leader Henri Roi-Tanguy yesterday misstated the name of a medal he was awarded. It is the Grand'Croix de la Légion d'Honneur, not the Grand-Croix de la Légion de l'Honneur.
      