
        Dr. Orvan W. Hess, an obstetrician and gynecologist who pioneered the development of the fetal heart monitor and was instrumental in the first successful clinical use of penicillin, died on Sept. 6 at Yale-New Haven Hospital, his family said. He was 96.
        The fetal heart monitor has been credited with reducing the number of stillbirths and with helping hospitals run more efficiently, because it allows nurses to monitor more than one patient at a time.
        ''Other than ultrasound, it is probably the most widely used technique in all of obstetrics,'' said Dr. Joshua Copel, a professor of obstetrics, gynecology and pediatrics at the Yale University School of Medicine. But in recent years, Dr. Copel noted, there has been debate about whether continuous monitoring of fetal heartbeat in labor has led to an unnecessary increase in Caesarean sections.
        The idea for the fetal heart monitor sprang from Dr. Hess's early frustration with what he called the ''watch and wait and pray'' method of childbirth, in which the doctor had no way to determine if the fetus was in distress. The only tool doctors had to detect the heartbeat of a fetus was a stethoscope, but it also picked up the heartbeat of the mother, and when the mother was having contractions -- the time of most stress for the fetus -- it was impossible to detect a fetal heartbeat.
        ''Before these monitors were invented, the uterus was literally a black box,'' Dr. Copel said. ''We knew the babies were in there, and they came out.''
        Dr. Hess began work on a way to electronically measure fetal heart activity in the 1930's when he was a resident in New Haven and a research fellow at the Yale medical school. His work was interrupted by World War II service as a surgeon in the front-line hospital attached to Gen. George S. Patton's Second Armored Division in the invasions of North Africa, Sicily and Normandy.
        When Dr. Hess returned to Yale in 1949, he resumed his work, along with Dr. Edward Hon, a postdoctoral fellow. In 1957, using a six-and-a-half-foot-tall machine, they became the first in the world to detect and record electrical cardiac signals.
        In the 1960's, working with Wasil Kitvenko, the chief of the medical school's electronics laboratory, Dr. Hess continued to improve on the equipment, introducing telemetry and reducing the monitor's size.
        This was not Dr. Hess's first involvement in a pioneering medical moment. In 1942, one of his obstetrics patients contracted scarlet fever, which caused a miscarriage and subsequent streptococcus infection.
        ''Doctors had done everything possible, both surgically and medically,'' Dr. Hess said in a 1998 interview with Katie Krauss, the editor of Yale-New Haven Magazine and one of the many babies Dr. Hess delivered. ''I went to see her and knew she was dying.''
        Dr. Hess wanted to talk to her internist, Dr. John Bumstead, and found him asleep in the library. ''While I was waiting for him to wake up,'' Dr. Hess said, ''I sat and read the latest Reader's Digest, in which there was an article called 'Germ Killers From Earth,' about the use of soil bacteria to kill streptococcal infection in animals.''
        He asked Dr. Bumstead, ''Wouldn't it be wonderful if we had something like this gramicidin mentioned in the Reader's Digest?'' This prompted Dr. Bumstead to speak with some colleagues who were studying penicillin and to obtain some for the patient, Anne Miller. The day after her first injection, Mrs. Miller's fever broke. She lived to be 90 years old, dying in 1999.
        A few months later in St. Louis, where doctors were discussing streptococcal septicemia, Dr. Hess stood to tell of the success with penicillin.
        ''They listened politely,'' Dr. Hess recalled, ''and then the moderator said, 'That's fine, son, now you continue with your studies -- and keep us informed.' He just brushed my comments aside.''
        Orvan Walter Hess was born on June 18, 1906, in the farming community of Margaretville, N.Y.
        When he was in high school a graduate of the Yale medical school who had moved to the community to found a hospital encouraged him to attend college and become a doctor.
        He graduated from Lafayette College in 1927, then earned his medical degree from the University of Buffalo. After an internship at Children's Hospital in Buffalo, Dr. Hess moved to New Haven, where he had a residency at New Haven Hospital and then became a fellow and clinical instructor at Yale.
        In 1979, he received an American Medical Association scientific achievement award for his contributions to clinical research. He was president of the Connecticut State Medical Society and was director of health services for the Connecticut Welfare Department in the early days of Medicaid and Medicare.
        His wife, the former Carol Maurer, died in 1998. He is survived by two daughters, Dr. Katherine Halloran of Lexington, Mass., and Carolyn Westerfield of Hamden, Conn.; five grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  October 6, 2002, Sunday  An obituary on Sept. 16 about Dr. Orvan W. Hess, obstetrician and gynecologist, misstated the significance of his work with the fetal heart monitor in 1957. He and Dr. Edward H. Hon were at the forefront of the development of clinically useful devices to record fetal heart rate patterns continuously during delivery to identify patterns that indicated fetal distress. They were not the first to detect and record electrical cardiac signals from the fetus.
      