
        Dr. Eugene T. Reed, a Long Island dentist who was a militant leader of the civil rights movement in the 1950's and 60's -- staring down rifle-bearing farmers in Mississippi and leading protests in New York -- died last Wednesday at his home in Amityville, N.Y. He was 79.
        The cause was a heart attack, his daughter, Dorothy Reed, said.
        Dr. Reed held top posts at the local, state and national levels of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, habitually siding with its more militant factions.
        He was one of the principal organizers of boycotts, picketing and sit-ins against de facto segregation in the New York City schools in the 1960's and, with other militants, strongly criticized the N.A.A.C.P. for not mounting a national protest when Representative Adam Clayton Powell Jr. of Harlem was denied a seat in the House of Representatives and when the heavyweight boxing title was taken away from Muhammad Ali. Crosses were burned in front of his dental office.
        In the late 1960's, he was one of the self-described Young Turks who tried to take over the N.A.A.C.P., a mainstream civil rights organization. They favored more visible anger over the slow pace of integration, even at the expense of sacrificing white support.
        In 1968, Dr. Reed resigned from the board after a particularly angry confrontation with more-moderate members. But he returned and for the second time became president of the N.A.A.C.P.'s New York State conference, a position he held from 1960 to 1965.
        His second election was partly a tribute to his success in increasing membership in his first term, to more than 50,000 from 20,000.
        During his career, Dr. Reed accepted government jobs without curbing his criticism of government. As special consultant to a high-level committee on civil rights for Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller in the mid-1960's, he criticized the governor for membership in a segregated club before learning that the club was, in fact, integrated.
        As a consultant on affirmative action to the supervisor of the Town of Babylon, on Long Island, in his later years, he repeatedly urged a change in the town's system of electing council members, in order to increase minority representation.
        Eugene Tyree Reed was born on Jan. 9, 1923, in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn. In 1930, his family moved to Glen Cove, where his father, Albert Edward Reed, was the first black full-time dentist on Long Island. Dr. Reed said in an essay he wrote in 1999 that his mother, the former Dorothy Tyree, commuted to New York City to teach school because there were no black public school teachers on Long Island.
        He studied dentistry at Howard University and graduated in 1946. He enlisted in the Army in 1948 and served in Germany, where he protested segregation in Army dental clinics.
        After his discharge, he moved to Amityville in 1951; he abandoned a quiet life of dentistry after a civil rights activist was murdered in Florida that Christmas Day. He joined the Babylon branch of the N.A.A.C.P. and was elected president in 1953. After years of work at the state level of the organization, he headed the state organization from 1960 to 1965.
        He became a Freedom Rider in the South, pushing for integration of hotels, lunch counters and other public facilities. Days after the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, he was part of a group that showed up at the King Edward Hotel in Jackson, Miss., a favorite of legislators and politicians, and were served at a lunch counter.
        In Philadelphia, Miss., where he was part of an N.A.A.C.P. committee investigating the murders of three civil rights workers -- James E. Chaney, Andrew Goodman and Michael H. Schwerner -- he was surrounded by a group of farmers carrying shotguns. Another participant remembered him as being the calmest man there, The New York Times reported in 1971.
        Some battles were nearer home. In 1963, he was thrown to the ground during a protest against racial imbalance at Woodfield Road School in Malverne, on Long Island.
        After his retirement in 1991, Dr. Reed was active in Democratic politics in Suffolk County and the Town of Babylon.
        In addition to his daughter Dorothy, of Amityville, Dr. Reed is survived by his wife of 58 years, the former Jane Dwin; his son, Eugene Jr., of Washington; another daughter, Tobi Reed Connors of Oakland, Calif.; his sister, Dorothy Reed Granger of Sag Harbor, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
        In the 1999 essay on his life, he said that his mother became active in civil rights so her children would be spared the stinging prejudice she had known. He ended it by saying: ''It is my prayer that in 2099 there will be no more racism.''
      