
        Chuck Rayner, the Hall of Fame goaltender who starred for usually lackluster Rangers teams in the decade after World War II, died last Sunday at his home in Langley, British Columbia. He was 82.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Playing 10 seasons in the National Hockey League -- his first two with the hapless Americans, who shared Madison Square Garden with the Rangers, and his last eight with Rangers teams that made the playoffs only twice -- Rayner was nonetheless a premier goalie of his era.
        In 1950, he became the first goaltender in two decades to win the Hart trophy as the N.H.L.'s most valuable player. That year, he took a mediocre Rangers team to Game 7 of the Stanley Cup finals against the Detroit Red Wings before yielding the winning goal in double overtime. He was an All-Star three times and was elected to the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1973.
        Though relatively big for a goalie at 5 feet 11 inches and 190 pounds, the bushy-browed Rayner produced acrobatic saves. He was an innovator, roaming from his crease a decade before the Montreal Canadiens' Jacques Plante flourished with that style.
        He faced all those flying pucks behind porous defenses at a time when goalies wore no masks, and he shared a philosophy concerning protective gear with his successor, Gump Worsley.
        As John Halligan, the N.H.L. historian, recalled it, Rayner once remarked: ''I never really felt I needed a mask. Gump said it best: 'My face is my mask.' ''
        Claude Earl Rayner, a native of Sutherland, Saskatchewan, made his N.H.L. debut with the New York Americans in the 1940-41 season after playing with the Springfield Indians of the American Hockey League.
        He credited his development to Eddie Shore, the Boston Bruins' Hall of Fame defenseman, who owned and coached the Springfield team.
        ''He was the greatest goaltending coach I ever had,'' Rayner recalled in ''A Breed Apart,'' by Douglas Hunter (Viking, 1995). ''Before that, there wasn't such a thing as a goaltending coach. Nobody told you anything.''
        Shore insisted on skating hard at practices.
        ''I had to skate with everybody,'' Rayner recalled. ''I went around and around that rink until I'd just about drop. He figured skating gave you balance.''
        Rayner also developed strength in his stick hand, thanks to Shore.
        As Rayner remembered it, ''He used to dump a pail of pucks and I had to keep shooting them against the boards until my wrists got so sore, I couldn't move them.''
        Rayner showed his skating and stick-handling ability while playing for a Canadian armed forces team during World War II against an amateur squad from Victoria, British Columbia.
        ''I stopped a shot and the puck bounced straight out,'' he recalled. ''I skated out to get clear, found myself alone and went the rest of the way. When I got about 15 feet from the other goal, I shot and scored.''
        Upon joining the Rangers in 1945, Rayner alternated with Sugar Jim Henry in a two-goalie system that was unusual for that era. He became the Rangers' No. 1 goalie in 1948 after Henry was traded to Chicago.
        The Rangers won the Stanley Cup in 1940 but seemed an afterthought at Madison Square Garden in Rayner's years with them. In their rare trips to the playoffs, their home games were played at neutral sites because the circus was at the Garden.
        But in 1949-50, Rayner had his marquee season.
        Not one Ranger was in the league's top 10 in scoring, and the team finished at 28-31-11 in the regular season, gaining the fourth and final playoff spot. But the Rangers defeated the Canadiens in a five-game semifinal series, then went to the Stanley Cup finals against the Red Wings.
        Five games were played at Detroit and two at the neutral Maple Leaf Gardens in Toronto. But the Rangers took the Red Wings to a decisive Game 7 at the Olympia in Detroit. The score was tied at 3-3 after three periods. Then, in the ninth minute of the second overtime, the Wings' Pete Babando took a feed off a face-off and fired the puck into the Rangers' net. Rayner was screened and, he said later, the puck probably deflected off a Rangers defenseman.
        Rayner, who had six regular-season shutouts and a 2.62 goals against average in 1949-50, became the first goalie to win the Hart M.V.P. award since Roy Worters of the Americans in 1929.
        He never again got into a playoff series, and the Rangers did not win another Stanley Cup until 1994.
        After Rayner's playing days, he joined with Henry, his former goalie teammate, in running a boys' camp in Ontario. One of their pupils was Glenn Hall, a future Hall of Fame goalie with the Chicago Blackhawks.
        Rayner is survived by his wife, Ina; a daughter, Roberta Bend, of Surrey, British Columbia; a brother, Jud, of Saskatoon, Saskatchewan; a sister, Bernice Taylor, of Langley; and two grandsons.
        Though he performed at a time when players wore no helmets and goalies donned no masks, Rayner remembered a genteel aspect of the N.H.L., at least as far as fellow goaltenders went.
        ''The guys I played with -- Bill Durnan, Jim Henry, Turk Broda, Frankie Brimsek -- were all good friends,'' Rayner told The Winnipeg Free Press in 1995. ''We had a bench-clearing brawl with Montreal in 1948. Everybody got into it except Durnan and myself. He skated over and said: 'Look at those idiots. Seems like a good time for a visit.' He was right. We talked for 20 minutes before they got the game going again.''
      