
        Richard T. Foster, an architect who collaborated with Philip Johnson in reshaping the New York University campus in the 1970's, died on Sept. 13 in Danbury, Conn. He was 83 and lived in Wilton, Conn., in a revolving house of his own design.
        A round house was no departure for Mr. Foster, whose buildings with Mr. Johnson were full of curves at a time when many architects thought in right angles. There were concave columns at N.Y.U., convex columns at Yale, gentle arcs at the Kreeger Museum in Washington and a 190-foot circle for the New York State Pavilion at the 1964-65 World's Fair.
        In 1982, Dr. John Brademas, then the president of N.Y.U., called Mr. Foster ''a man who more than any other has changed the face of New York University in recent years,'' as he presented the architect with a citation. Mr. Foster's work for the university included the 1977 renovation of the Institute of Fine Arts, in the former James B. Duke mansion at Fifth Avenue and 78th Street.
        Dr. Brademas said three buildings around Washington Square -- the Elmer Holmes Bobst Library (1972), Tisch Hall (1972) and the Hagop Kevorkian Center (1973) -- had ''contributed greatly to defining the public identity of New York University as an institution that is part of the modern city, yet at home with the older atmosphere of the square.''
        Not everyone agreed. Many Greenwich Villagers deplored the Bobst Library, a ruddy sandstone box around a 150-foot atrium.
        ''There is a kind of arrogance to the building's huge form towering over Washington Square,'' said Paul Goldberger, the architecture critic of The New York Times, in a 1973 appraisal. Acknowledging that the atrium was spectacular, Mr. Goldberger said that Mr. Johnson and Mr. Foster ''seemed unwilling to let a powerful space alone -- they tried to make it pretty.''
        Their work was more austere on Yale's Science Hill, where they designed five structures, most notably the 14-story Kline Biology Tower of 1965, their first high-rise, framed in heavy brick-clad cylinders.
        They also designed the David Lloyd Kreeger house on Foxhall Road in Washington (1968), now the Kreeger Museum. Their fanciful World's Fair pavilion -- the Tent of Tomorrow and three mushroomlike towers -- still stands like a Jet Age ruin near the Unisphere in Flushing Meadows Corona Park.
        ''What you see from the 1960's is very much the influence of the two of them together,'' said Hilary Lewis, author of the opening essay in the new monograph ''The Architecture of Philip Johnson'' (Bulfinch Press).
        Born in Pittsburgh, Mr. Foster served in the Army Air Forces in World War II. He was Mr. Johnson's prize student in the late 1940's, wrote Franz Schulze in ''Philip Johnson: Life and Work'' (Alfred A. Knopf, 1994) and was hired by Mr. Johnson after graduating from Pratt Institute in 1950. He remained with Mr. Johnson until 1962 and was coaxed back to collaborate on the N.Y.U. program.
        Mr. Foster is survived by his wife, Eleanor; his sons, Robert, of Newtown, Conn., Dr. Craig, of Ridgefield, Conn., and Bradley, of Norwalk, Conn.; five grandchildren and a brother, Ralph, of Grove City, Pa.
        His family was the client for Mr. Foster's most inventive work: the revolving house of 1968. ''We press the buttons when we want to change the view,'' the architect explained.
        The movement is said to be indiscernible from within as the glass-walled structure, 72 feet in diameter, pivots around a 14-foot ball-bearing assembly in the stair core. Nine rooms radiate like pie sections.
        Mr. Foster was assured during construction that the ball bearings would last 87 years. So far, so good.
        ''It still revolves,'' Robert Foster said yesterday. ''It can go forward and backward, between 45 minutes and four hours. Whenever you want.''
      