
        Eddie Hausner, a photographer for The New York Times whose subjects over a five-decade career ranged from poor people in the South to Joe Namath with a white llama rug, died on Saturday at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 76 and lived in Fair Lawn, N.J.
        The cause was a stroke, said his son, Clifford Hausner.
        Mr. Hausner's 1950 photograph of a rumpled umbrella salesman was among his favorites, and he received acclaim from the photographer Edward Steichen for it.
        Mr. Hausner's 1968 photo of an allegorical statue of ''Day,'' taken from the facade of Pennsylvania Station and dumped upside down in a landfill in Secaucus, N.J., was described by David W. Dunlap of The Times as ''probably the most evocative single image of the demolition of Pennsylvania Station.''
        Mr. Hausner was named a senior photographer at The Times in 1990.
        His work is in the permanent collection of the Museum of Modern Art and was shown there in a 1996 exhibition called ''Pictures of the Times: A Century of Photography from The New York Times.''
        Several of his photographs are currently on view in the traveling exhibition ''The Tumultuous Fifties: A View from the New York Times Photo Archives,'' organized by the Albright-Knox Art Gallery.
        Edward Hausner was born on July 2, 1926, the son of John Jacob Hausner and Betty Schwartz, both of the Bronx.
        In 1941 he graduated from Metropolitan High School in Manhattan. From 1941 to 1943 he worked for Paramount Pictures as a film inspector, and for 20th Century Fox, in advertising sales.
        In 1944 he fought with the Seventh Regiment, Third Infantry Division, as a rifleman, seeing action in France and Germany.
        After the war, he was transferred to the E.T.O. Army Pictorial Service, where his first assignment was the ceremony honoring the war hero Audie Murphy's departure for home.
        Mr. Hausner joined the staff of The Times in 1946, working five years on the night shift.
        In 1952 he married Ruth Ray Hyman. She died in 1995.
        He received awards from the Newspaper Guild of New York and the New York Press Photographers Association, and recently served on the association's board.
        Mr. Hausner retired from The Times in 1991, but continued to take pictures for the paper until recently on a freelance basis, particularly for the ''If You're Thinking of Living In'' feature in the Real Estate section.
        In addition to his son, he is survived by three daughters, Meryl Stollar, Audrey Hausner, and Judy DelPrete; and six grandchildren
      