
        Aileen Riggin Soule, a diver and swimmer who at age 14 became the youngest American Olympic gold medalist and later became the oldest living American female gold medalist, died Thursday in a nursing home in Honolulu. She was 96.
        At the 1920 Olympics in Antwerp, Belgium, Riggin won the first gold medal awarded in women's springboard diving and became, at 4 feet 7 inches and 65 pounds, the smallest American Olympic champion. In the 1924 Olympic Games in Paris, she became the only woman to win medals in swimming and diving in the same Olympics, taking the silver medal in springboard diving and the bronze medal in the 100-meter backstroke.
        In 1974, in one of the many articles she wrote on her career, she said:
        ''My most unforgettable experience would have to be as the youngest member of the first American women's Olympic swimming and diving team in 1920. I was a very small 14-year-old. Until two months before the tryouts, we had no idea of the dives required, and some were entirely new. Lacking precedent, we learned as we went along, yet practice was uncertain as the boards were not standardized.
        ''When the book of rules arrived, it was in French and sent us to the dictionary to discover what a 'coup de pied à la lune' was. It turned out to be a gainer [a dive now known as a reverse]. There were also 12 dives instead of the usual 10, two of which to be drawn from a hat just before the contest.''
        Last-minute preparation was the story of her career. She was born May 2, 1906, in Newport, R.I., and reared in New York City. Her father was a Navy paymaster, and she traveled extensively with her parents.
        She learned to swim at age 6, in Manila Bay. In 1918, she came down with influenza during the epidemic that swept the United States during World War I. On her doctor's recommendation that she swim for her health, she joined the celebrated Women's Swimming Association team in New York.
        In 1919, when she took up diving, there were no indoor pools with diving boards available to women. Many people thought women should not dive at all because it would injure their health.
        The only place to practice in the metropolitan New York area was a tidal pool on Long Island, an hour from the city. When the tide rose, the board was about 10 feet above the surface, about the height of a 3-meter springboard. When the tide was out, the drop was 14 feet, so the divers tried to time their practices for high tide in warm weather on weekends.
        Even with those poor training conditions, Riggin finished second in the United States Olympic trials behind Helen Wainwright, who was also 14. But until the day before the boat sailed for Antwerp, they were not sure they would be able to compete in the Olympics because many officials did not want women, much less two 14-year-olds. But because Riggin and Wainwright had also made the Olympic team as swimmers, they went.
        For 13 days, they sailed on a battered military transport ship, where training was a nightmare. Riggin recalled: ''I remember the javelin throwers could tie a rope around their javelin, throw them out to sea and pull them back. The shooters used clay pigeons until they ran out. After a while, the sea gulls were looking pretty good.''
        In a tiny canvas tank filled with seawater, the swimmers, one at a time, swam 5 to 10 minutes, held in place by a belt around the waist. Divers could not train at all.''
        In Antwerp, a city still recovering from World War I, the swimmers and divers competed in a moat-like canal. Ethelda Bleibtrey, the American who won gold medals in all three women's races, told King Albert I of Belgium, ''I swam in mud, not water.''
        The diving board was a plank with no spring, and, Riggin said, ''the water was black and icy cold.'' Without a coach there, the American women swept the medals, with Wainwright winning the silver and Thelma Payne the bronze. After that, American women won every gold medal in Olympic springboard diving until 1960.
        In 1924, Riggin was an Olympian again, joining American teammates like Johnny Weissmuller, who later gained fame playing Tarzan, and a Yale rower named Benjamin Spock.
        ''Being 18 and being in Paris was wonderful,'' she said. ''The sun was shining, we read Hemingway and we were just carried away.''
        She was in the first underwater swimming film in 1922 and the first slow-motion swimming and diving films in 1923. She turned professional in 1925, giving diving exhibitions and swimming demonstrations in England and Wales.
        In 1926, she played three weeks at the Hippodrome in New York, diving into a glass tank, into six feet of water. After her former swimming teammate Gertrude Ederle became the first woman to swim the English Channel, Riggin and Ederle toured for six months. In 1937, at the Cleveland Exposition, Riggin helped organize and star in the first Billy Rose Aquacade.
        She toured the world, appeared in movies and wrote a sports column for The New York Evening Post and articles for national magazines. In 1967, she was inducted into the International Swimming Hall of Fame. She never stopped swimming or lecturing or writing about it, and at 85 she broke six world records for her age group in the world masters championships.
        She and her husband, Howard Soule, who died several years ago, moved to Hawaii in 1957 and lived in a Diamond Head apartment in Honolulu. Even into her 90's, she swam three miles a week in the ocean.
        She is survived by a daughter, Yvonne May of Zurich; a stepdaughter, Patti Anderson of Honolulu; and two stepsons, Bruce Soule of Newport Beach, Calif., and Wallace Soule of Bakersfield, Calif.
        In 1996, when asked if she had any goals in addition to attending the Atlanta Olympics, she replied: ''Yes. I'd like to continue -- life in general, that is.''
      