
        Marvin A. Krauss, one of Broadway's leading general managers, whose career spanned more than four decades and nearly 100 shows, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 74.
        The cause was a bacterial infection, said his daughter Robin Plevener.
        A tough negotiator and natty dresser with a keen business sense, Mr. Krauss was a behind-the-scenes player in many major Broadway productions during the last 40 years, including ''Butterflies Are Free'' (1969), ''Godspell'' (1976), ''American Buffalo'' (1977), ''Dreamgirls'' (1981) and ''La Cage aux Folles'' (1983), which he also produced. During the 1990's he managed ''The Will Rogers Follies,'' ''Passion'' and ''Grand Hotel.'' His final credit was Arthur Miller's ''Ride Down Mount Morgan'' in 2000.
        A Bronx native, Mr. Krauss discovered the theater in the same place as many old-time Broadway veterans: City College. Originally an engineering student, Mr. Krauss found himself drawn to song and dance -- he once performed for Cole Porter in a student revue -- and went on the establish the college's dramatic society.
        Mr. Krauss earned bachelor's and master's degrees from the college and immediately headed into the theatrical work force as a stage manager. Putting his performing days behind him, Mr. Krauss soon found himself on the road working on national tours, putting shows into theaters all over the country and using an early computerized system -- a precursor to today's Telecharge and Ticketmaster services -- to streamline the ticketing process.
        His Broadway debut came in 1957 at the Winter Garden Theater as the stage manager of four plays by a French repertory troupe, the Jean-Louis Barrault and Madeleine Renaud company. Although he spoke no French and the troupe members spoke little English, the shows came off without a hitch.
        Mr. Krauss soon graduated from stage manger to general manager, taking over responsibility for almost every contractual and practical concern for the daily operation of a Broadway show. His long and busy career also included Off Broadway credits (''You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown'') and national tours (''Little Shop of Horrors,'' ''West Side Story'').
        He also managed concerts and events featuring many of the biggest stars of Broadway and Hollywood, including Diana Ross, Bette Midler, Bing Crosby, Frank Sinatra, Liza Minnelli and Count Basie.
        In addition to his daughter Robin, Mr. Krauss is survived by his wife, Elaine; an aunt, Irene Gold of Manhattan; a brother, Richard Krauss of Manhattan; and two other daughters, Anne Krauss of Amherst, Mass., and Nina Krauss Herter of Forest Hills, Queens.
        Correction:  October 29, 2002, Tuesday  An obituary yesterday about Marvin A. Krauss, a general manager for Broadway shows, omitted a survivor. He is Mr. Krauss's son, Seth, of Manhattan.
      