
        Msgr. James J. Murray, the executive director of the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York from 1973 to 2000, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 76.
        Monsignor Murray was ordained by Cardinal Francis Spellman in 1956. He was secretary to Cardinal Terence Cooke from 1969 to 1973 and executive director of Catholic Charities, the social services branch of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, from 1973 until he retired in 2000. For years he was also secretary of the organization's board of trustees.
        While he was executive director, Catholic Charities broadened its activities. It had formerly concentrated on aiding the underfed, the homeless, the disabled and other impoverished and vulnerable people.
        But Monsignor Murray took the lead in new initiatives to address the growing needs of victims of AIDS, refugees, immigrants, old people and those with drug problems. By the late 1990's, his organization's programs included job training for the sightless and for young people with Down syndrome.
        Monsignor Murray also handled security for the visit of Pope John Paul II to New York City in 1979.
        When Monsignor Murray died, he was director of pastoral care at the Mary Manning Walsh Home, a nursing home in Manhattan. He was a former president of its board.
        He was born in Manhattan, the second of six children. His parents had come from Ireland early in the 1900's. He served in the Army in Europe during World War II and received a bachelor of arts degree and a doctorate in law, both from Fordham University.
        Then he studied for the priesthood at St. Joseph's Seminary in Yonkers. While he was a student there, he worked two summers as a lawyer with the New York State Crime Commission. He received a master's degree in social service from Fordham in 1956.
        In his early years, he was assistant pastor of the Church of Our Lady of Loretto in Manhattan.
        He is survived by two sisters, May Houlihan of Bronxville, N.Y., and Sister Mary Rose Murray, a nun of the Ursuline Order, of Rhinebeck, N.Y.; and two brothers, John T., of Highlands, N.J., and Patrick W., of Smyrna, Del.
      