
        The Rev. Anthony C. Campbell, a Baptist minister who gained international acclaim for his powerful oratory and his pluralistic message, died on Sept. 27 at a Boston hospital, three days after a stroke, his family said. He was 63 and lived in Boston.
        Mr. Campbell grew up steeped in the oratory of the black church. But he gained wide acceptance outside the Baptist church and often preached at Methodist, Episcopal and Congregational churches around the world.
        In 1997, he was asked to preach at Westminster Abbey in London. Six years ago, he was named a distinguished visiting scholar at Oxford University.
        He was active in the National Baptist Convention, the nation's largest African-American Baptist organization, but always insisted there was not a black Gospel or a white Gospel.
        He made frequent television appearances, discussing religious topics with an imam and a rabbi.
        A professor of homiletics, or preaching, at Boston University for two decades, Mr. Campbell was known for his extraordinary and sometimes fiery oratory, and for challenging his listeners to broaden their definitions of religion and race.
        He was twice appointed a canon in the Episcopal church, which means he was given honorary status by two Episcopal bishops at different cathedrals. He often told his audiences that God does not necessarily favor one religion.
        ''If you only preach to your kind of people, with your thoughts and theology, you're already defeated,'' he liked to say. ''You might as well sell insurance.''
        Anthony Cardova Campbell was born on April 14, 1939, in Anderson, S.C., and grew up in Detroit. As a youngster, he traveled around the world with his father, the Rev. Steven Campbell, who was a leader of the National Baptist Convention and the pastor of the Russell Street Baptist Church in Detroit.
        During that time, he told friends, he became fluent in Yiddish and Lithuanian.
        He attended Morehouse College and received a bachelor's degree from Howard University in 1961. Four years later, he earned a theology degree at Boston University, which had a reputation for developing prominent ministers, including the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
        Mr. Campbell was also one of the earliest members of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, the civil rights group, which was formed in the 1960's.
        Mr. Campbell succeeded his father as pastor of the Russell Street Baptist Church. He was also pastor at the Eliot Congregational Church in Roxbury, Mass., and the chaplain to the Boston Police Department.
        He taught preaching and was preacher in residence at Boston University from the 1980's until his death. He preached in 27 countries, including Australia, where he spent summers working in Anglican churches.
        His marriage to the former Mabel Forsythe ended in divorce. He is survived by two sons, Samuel and Paul, of Boston; a daughter, Jocelyn of Washington; three brothers, Finley, of Chicago, and Major and Russell, of Maryland; a sister, Ansonia Walls of Detroit; and two grandchildren.
        Colleagues said he rarely wrote out what he would preach and could deliver a mesmerizing sermon spontaneously. His views are difficult to categorize.
        For instance, he once criticized black conservatives for suggesting that blacks could simply pull themselves up by their bootstraps without assistance. But he also said in a conference on the plight of black males many years ago that they were isolating themselves in a culture that lacked meaningful language, music, values or social memory.
      