
        Geraldine of Albania, who as the wife of King Zog was for one year her adopted country's first and only queen and the only member of European royalty with American blood, died on Tuesday in Tirana, Albania's capital. She was 87.
        Her story reads as if it were a Hollywood fantasy. Though she was a countess, her family's fortunes had plunged so far that at 20 she was selling postcards in the Budapest National Museum. Then King Zog, who had been desperately seeking a bride, saw her picture. They met on New Year's Day 1938, and 10 days later were engaged.
        The wedding was triumphant. Her veil trailed from a high diadem of orange blossoms and her white satin gown was embroidered with pearls. Fifty thousand children in native costumes applauded, and enemy clans shared wine. The wedding gifts included a Mercedes from Hitler.
        The plot turned. Just a year later, Italy invaded Albania, and Geraldine, still bleeding after giving birth, fled with her infant son in an ambulance over tortuous mountain roads to Greece. The king and 115 members of his court, carrying 10 heavy cases of valuables, followed.
        Geraldine's dreams of founding a dynasty were dead. The tall, graceful queen turned down an offer to be in movies. The couple began the long country-to-country odyssey -- this month a chateau at Versailles, next month a palace in Egypt -- so drearily familiar to banished royalty.
        At the time of his escape, King Zog was believed to have made his situation easier by adding Albania's gold reserve to his large personal fortune, previously deposited in Swiss and English banks. His last act before fleeing was to broadcast an appeal to his people ''to fight to the last drop of blood for Albanian independence.''
        Geraldine Apponyi was born a countess in Budapest on Aug. 6, 1915. Her father was the Hungarian nobleman Count Gyula Apponyi de Nagy-Appony and her mother was the former Gladys Virginia Stewart, a member of an old Virginia family. Geraldine's grandfather had been a high official of the Hapsburg Court.
        But Central European royalty had lost thrones, money and prestige after World War I. Geraldine's father died in 1924, and her mother remarried a French officer. The family insisted that Geraldine and her two sisters be educated in Hungary.
        Circumstances dictated that the young women learn shorthand and typing, but they still went to balls. When she was 17, Geraldine's photograph was taken several times at a ball given by Hungarian monarchists. One of those pictures would change her life.
        Meanwhile, King Zog, who had advanced from tribal chief to prime minister to president to Albania's first monarch and who was sometimes called the Balkan Napoleon, was miserable. He barely escaped assassination in 1931 as he left the Vienna Opera House, and his mother kept watch over the royal kitchen to make sure his food was not poisoned.
        It said he offered a ''handsome fee'' to a marriage broker to find him an attractive bride with an income of $1 million a year. Then he saw the photo. The Muslim king fell in love with a penniless Roman Catholic.
        He invited her to Albania, and she arrived after Christmas in 1937. She was made a princess after accepting his New Year's Day proposal.
        Geraldine charmed the Albanians. When the country's vice president gave her a velvet pocketbook containing the equivalent of $500,000, she directed that it be given to the National Albanian Charities, The New York American reported.
        Geraldine remained a Catholic and was wed in a civil ceremony on April 27, 1938. The circumstances of the wedding hinted at the scheming politics that would abruptly end Geraldine's fairy tale in a year's time. The New York Herald Tribune observed that Geraldine, then 22, ''seems to be marrying the Rome-Berlin axis as well as her king.'' It added that she was ''certainly marrying Mussolini's foreign policy.''
        But in April 1939, Italian troops invaded and the king and queen fled. Count Galeazzo Ciano, the Italian foreign minister, who had been King Zog's best man, arrived in a bomber. The immediate pretext for the invasion was the Italian accusation that the king was misusing Italian money, but many suggested that Mussolini was jealous of Hitler's conquests and that Albania was nearby.
        The crown passed to King Victor Emmanuel II of Italy, and the couple's wandering began. They passed through Greece, Turkey, Romania, Poland, the Baltic states, Sweden, Belgium and France before landing at the Ritz Hotel in London. Then they moved to Egypt, where King Farouk welcomed exiled royalty.
        When Farouk was overthrown in 1952, they moved to Paris, where King Zog, who had survived numerous assassination attempts, died in 1961. Geraldine then lived in Spain and South Africa before returning to Albania at the invitation of Parliament four months ago.
        She is survived by her son, Leka, who returned to try to take the Albanian throne in 1997, but was rejected 2 to 1 in a referendum.
      