
        Nancy Stephenson Nichols, an executive recruiter who helped stellar educational and cultural institutions find stellar executives to lead them, died last Wednesday in Rhinebeck, N.Y. She was 57 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and in Clinton Corners, N.Y.
        The cause was complications of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, commonly known as Lou Gehrig's disease, her family said.
        Dr. Nichols was a managing partner of Heidrick & Struggles, a worldwide executive search firm based in Chicago, which she joined in 1996. Working in its New York office, she headed its education/nonprofit section until illness forced her to take a leave this summer.
        Dr. Nichols helped bring together Vartan Gregorian, a former president of Brown University and the New York Public Library, and the Carnegie Foundation, of which he became president in 1997. In 2000, she played matchmaker between Lawrence M. Small, former vice chairman of Citicorp, and the Smithsonian Institution, where he is now secretary.
        She helped the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation find its new president, Joan E. Spero, in 1997. Another match she worked on was that of the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington and Michael M. Kaiser, who took over as president in 2001 after serving as executive director of the Royal Opera House in London.
        She assisted the boards of many other museums, universities, foundations and the like in filling vacancies at the top, poring over the fine print in résumés and soliciting references from scores of people who worked with or for prospective candidates.
        She also received assignments from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, Cooper Union and Public Broadcasting Service. Her museum clients included the Metropolitan, the Whitney and the Museum of Modern Art in New York, the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art and the Israel Museum in Jerusalem.
        Nancy Stephenson was born in Wilmington, Del., and graduated from Smith College in 1966. She received M.A. and Ph.D. degrees in Islamic fine arts at Harvard University and spent a year as a Fulbright fellow in Turkey in 1979-80.
        At Harvard, she worked at the Institute for International Development and the John F. Kennedy School of Government. Derek Bok, the president of Harvard, made her his special assistant for Harvard's offshore programs.
        In the early 1990's, she was the vice president for planning and development in New York for the American University in Beirut, Lebanon. She then spent three years with Norman Broadbent International, an executive recruiter based in London, before joining Heidrick & Struggles.
        Dr. Nichols is survived by her husband, Rodney W. Nichols; two daughters from a previous marriage, Courtney T. Pyle of Manhattan and Lindsey S. Pyle of Austin, Tex.; a stepson, Christopher McK. Nichols of Charlottesville, Va.; her parents, Thomas and Elizabeth Stephenson of Boston; a brother, Thomas F. Stephenson of Atherton, Calif.; and a sister, Susan S. Gates of Winston-Salem, N.C.
      