
       Whitfield Connor, an award-winning Broadway actor and longtime theatrical producer in Denver, died of respiratory complications on Saturday in Norwalk (Conn.) Hospital. He was 71 years old, and had recently undergone stomach surgery.
        Whitfield Connor, an award-winning Broadway actor and longtime theatrical producer in Denver, died of respiratory complications on Saturday in Norwalk (Conn.) Hospital. He was 71 years old, and had recently undergone stomach surgery.
        For the last 23 years, Mr. Connor was executive producer of the Elitch Theater in Denver. His wife, the actress and producer Haila Stoddard, served as associate producer. In 1967, he was elected president of the Council of Stock Theaters. After ill health curtailed his activities in 1985, a stepson, Christopher Kirkland, continued as producing director at the Elitch.
        Mr. Connor began his career as a radio actor in 1937 with the original company of ''The Lone Ranger'' in Detroit. He also was heard on radio in Jack Webb's ''Dragnet.''
        He made his Broadway debut in 1945 as Horatio in the Maurice Evans production of ''Hamlet,'' and continued playing roles in the classics for the next few years. After playing Antonio in Elizabeth Bergner's production of ''The Duchess of Malfi'' in 1948, he received a Theater World award for his portrayal of Macduff in a ''Macbeth'' that starred Michael Redgrave. Acted in All Media
        Mr. Connor appeared on Broadway in ''Lunatics and Lovers,'' ''Six Characters in Search of an Author,'' ''The Disenchanted,'' ''There Was a Little Girl'' and in the Lincoln Center production of ''In the Matter of J. Robert Oppenheimer.''
        He acted in a dozen Hollywood films, including ''Tap Roots'' in 1948 and ''Butterfield 8'' in 1960. On television, he was seen in the major dramatic shows and also served as the commercial spokesman for the Gulf Oil Corporation.
        Mr. Connor was born in Rathdowney, Ireland, in 1916, and came to the United States in 1923. After studying at Wayne State University, he received a master's degree in speech and theater from the University of Michigan in 1941. During World War II, he served as a lieutenant in the Coast Guard in the Pacific.
        He is survived by his wife, who lives in Weston, Conn.; a daughter, Erin Connor of Los Angeles; a stepdaughter, Robin Kirkland MacDonald of New York; and two stepsons, Tarquin Jay Bromley of New York, and Mr. Kirkland, of Denver.
      