
       John W. Galbreath, who raced two Kentucky Derby winners and who owned the Pittsburgh Pirates from 1946 to 1985, died today at his Darby Dan Farm, west of Columbus. He was 90 years old.
        John W. Galbreath, who raced two Kentucky Derby winners and who owned the Pittsburgh Pirates from 1946 to 1985, died today at his Darby Dan Farm, west of Columbus. He was 90 years old.
        Richard Pickett, executive vice president of the John W. Galbreath Company, said Mr. Galbreath had died of heart problems. He said that Mr. Galbreath had recovered from a heart attack a few years ago, but that his health had not been good for the last few weeks and had been failing noticeably the last few days.
        Mr. Galbreath, who made a fortune as a real estate developer, won World Series championships with the Pirates in 1960, 1971 and 1979. He was also a major booster of athletics at Ohio State University, helping to recruit Jerry Lucas, the basketball player who became the key to the school's national championship in 1960. He Loved the Track
        But he said racing was always his first love. He won the Kentucky Derby with Chateaugay in 1963 and Proud Clarion in 1967. Another Galbreath horse, Little Current, won the Preakness and the Belmont Stakes in 1974.
        ''You haven't lived until you've crossed over the track to the infield to get a plate or a trophy,'' he said in a 1986 interview. ''There isn't any sport like it.''
        Mr. Galbreath was born on Aug. 10, 1897, in Derby, Ohio, south of Columbus, the second youngest of six children of a farm family. He graduated from Mount Sterling High School and Ohio University.
        In 1920, he joined a college fraternity brother in the real estate business in Columbus. He later acquired major holdings in New York, Pittsburgh, Los Angeles and Columbus.
        In 1986, Forbes magazine estimated the fortune of Mr. Galbreath and his son, Dan, at $400 million.
        Mr. Galbreath bought Darby Dan Farm in 1935. The farm grew to 4,000 acres as Mr. Galbreath's interest in racing heightened.
        As the former chairman of Churchill Downs in Lousiville, home of the Kentucky Derby, Mr. Galbreath became involved in horse racing in the 1930's. Owned Epsom Derby Winner
        In addition to owning two Kentucky Derby winners, he won the Epsom Derby in England with Roberto in 1972, becoming the only owner ever to win the two classic races. Roberto was named for Roberto Clemente, the Pirates' captain.
        As chairman of the Greater New York Association in the early 1950's, he supervised the construction of the new Aqueduct race track and the rebuilding of Belmont Park.
        With three partners, including Bing Crosby, Mr. Galbreath purchased the Pirates on Aug. 8, 1946. He was named president of the team in July 1950 and kept that title until 1969, when he was succeeded by his son, Dan. The Galbreaths sold their interests in the club on Oct. 2, 1985. Recruiting Role Recalled
        Fred Taylor, the former Ohio State basketball coach, remembered Mr. Galbreath's role in the recruiting of Jerry Lucas.
        ''When we were trying to recruit Lucas, Luke and I went fishing on a Sunday morning out at Darby Dan Farm,'' Mr. Taylor said. ''Mr. Galbreath came by asking if we were doing any good. Jerry told him we weren't. We were using fly rods and Mr. Galbreath said we had to have worms for bait. So he went over to a barn and dug us up some worms for bait.
        ''Jerry ended up catching a 10-pound catfish. I always figured that was a good omen for Ohio State. Here it was a Sunday morning and Mr. Galbreath went out and dug up the worms himself.''
        Mr. Galbreath's first wife, Helen Mauck, died in 1946. He married Dorothy Bryan Firestone in 1955; she died two years ago. Survivors in addition to his son, Dan, include a daughter, Joan Galbreath Phillips, also of Columbus, and seven grandchildren.
      