
       Mark Boxer, an editor and cartoonist who drew under the pen name Marc, died of a brain tumor Wednesday at his London home. He was 57 years old.
        Mark Boxer, an editor and cartoonist who drew under the pen name Marc, died of a brain tumor Wednesday at his London home. He was 57 years old.
        A butterfly and a gadfly, Mr. Boxer delighted in London's social world, of which he was very much a part. But he also relished satirizing that world in his witty, savage cartoons, which often bit the hand he had kissed the night before.
        His cartoons appeared in nearly all the British papers, including The Times, The Guardian, The Observer and The Daily Telegraph.
        He created a social-climbing couple, the Stringalongs, as representatives of that species - indigenous to every international capital - that adopts and drops each new cause as it comes into and goes out of fashion. The couple's raison d'etre was simple - to be In, and to be in gossip columns.
        Mr. Boxer, named Charles Mark Edward at birth, attended King's College at Cambridge University, but was expelled for writing a slightly irreverent poem. He reportedly left the university in a hearse, with classmates as mourners. An Editor, Too
        He was also a highly esteemed editor. He was the founding editor of The Sunday Times color magazine, in 1962. Using the talents of such people as David Hockney, Lord Snowdon and the top writers of the day, Mr. Boxer created a splashy and influential publication. He left after three years, but returned in 1966 to work under Harold Evans, who was then the editor. Mr. Boxer was in charge of the paper's cultural section for 12 years, from 1967 to 1979.
        ''During that time he was very creatively contrary,'' said Mr. Evans, who is now editor of The Traveler. ''He was always challenging and provocative.''
        Meanwhile, Mr. Boxer pursued his career as Marc, lampooning English society, particularly the trendy young people and the media world. ''He made people wince, and laugh,'' Mr. Evans recalled.
        From 1980 to 1983 Mr. Boxer was an editor at Weidenfeld & Nicholson, the publishers. In 1983, he became editor of Tatler, a British monthly, and was appointed editorial director of Conde Nast Publications Ltd. in 1987.
        He is survived by his wife, Anna Ford; three daughters, Henrietta, Claire and Katherine, and a son, Charles, all of London.
      