
       Dr. Herbert Lawrence Anderson, a physicist who was a pioneer in the development of nuclear energy and the atomic bomb, died of berylliosis on Saturday at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 74 years old and had contracted the lung disease in early nuclear experiments with radon and beryllium.
        Dr. Herbert Lawrence Anderson, a physicist who was a pioneer in the development of nuclear energy and the atomic bomb, died of berylliosis on Saturday at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 74 years old and had contracted the lung disease in early nuclear experiments with radon and beryllium.
        For his achievements in nuclear physics Dr. Anderson received the Department of Energy's highest scientific honor, the Enrico Fermi Award, from President Reagan in 1983.
        Dr. Anderson, who received a doctorate in physics from Columbia University in 1940, was a close associate of Enrico Fermi, recipient of the 1938 Nobel Prize in Physics, who was one of the chief architects of the atomic bomb.
        As a graduate student at Columbia University, Dr. Anderson participated in the design and construction of the Columbia's first particle accelerator, a 37-inch cyclotron, and in 1939, as a research assistant there, he interested Mr. Fermi in duplicating nuclear fission experiments that had been done in Berlin the year before. He used the cyclotron and an ionization chamber and linear amplifier he had also designed to begin the experiments in nuclear fission in this country. They would be in a race with other nations of the world to control nuclear energy.
        In early 1942, as the United States began experiments to develop the atomic bomb , Dr. Anderson joined the newly established Metallurgical Laboratory at the University of Chicago. On Dec. 2, 1942, together with about 40 other scientists, he participated in the first man-made, self-sustained nuclear chain reaction in an experiment conducted at a converted indoor squash court at the University of Chicago's Stagg Field. He had designed and built the uranium and graphite pile used to conduct the experiment. Research at Los Alamos
        In 1944 he was transferred to a new laboratory at Los Alamos, N.M. and participated in research that resulted in the explosion of the first atomic bomb at Alamogordo in 1945. His task during the tests was to determine the explosive force of the bomb, which measured about 20 kilotons, the equivalent of 20,000 tons of TNT.
        He returned to the University of Chicago in 1946 and began the design and construction of a 170-inch, 460-million electron volt synchrocyclotron, the most powerful accelerator of its time.
        Dr. Anderson, who was a leading authority on high-energy atom smashers, was named a professor of physics at the university in 1950 and later served as director of the Enrico Fermi Institute for Nuclear Studies there from 1958 to 1963.
        In recent years, despite failing health, he continued his work on sub-atomic particle experiments with lepton conservation and muon decay.
        He was a Fellow of the Los Alamos National Laboratory and a member of the National Academy of Sciences.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary Elizabeth (Betsy) Anderson, three sons by a prior marriage, Clifton, of Sunnyvale, Calif., Kelley, of Salt Lake City, and Dana, of Boulder, Colo., and a stepdaughter, Faith Campbell, of Sonoma, Calif.
        DR. HERBERT ANDERSON DIES AT 74
      