
       William Carter, a dancer and choreographer, died of AIDS on Thursday at Mt. Sinai Hospital. He was 56 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        William Carter, a dancer and choreographer, died of AIDS on Thursday at Mt. Sinai Hospital. He was 56 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Carter was best known as a leading dancer with the American Ballet Theater, where he played characters as diverse as the genial Champion Roper in Agnes de Mille's ''Rodeo'' and the mysterious Charlatan in Michel Fokine's ''Petrouchka.'' Critics described him as an eloquent, eminently serious artist who could bring distinction to the most lifeless roles. But Mr. Carter also had an unusually varied dance career, performing as a principal with the New York City Ballet and Ballet Theater, as a modern dancer with the Martha Graham Dance Company and with Pearl Lang, and as a Spanish dancer with Maria Alba. He was also a founder of the First Chamber Dance Quartet and headed his own ballet and flamenco touring company in the early 1980's.
        Born on March 21, 1935, in Durant, Okla., Mr. Carter began to study dance with Coralane Duane at the age of 12 to try to strengthen his legs, which had been weakened by polio. He went on to study with Carmelita Maracci, a noted ballet teacher in Los Angeles. Mr. Carter moved to New York in 1957, joining Ballet Theater that year and leaving when it disbanded briefly. Roles in Graham Company
        He joined City Ballet in 1959, dancing with that company until 1963, when his work with the First Chamber Dance Quartet became too demanding. He rejoined Ballet Theater in 1970 and danced with the company nine years. With the Graham company, he danced roles that included Tiresias in ''Night Journey,'' the figure of death in ''Clytemnestra'' and the Dark Beloved in ''Deaths and Entrances.'' He was also known for his dancing of Channon, the possessed lover, in Miss Lang's ''Dybbuk.''
        Mr. Carter choreographed for many companies in the United States and abroad, among them the Milwaukee Ballet and the Athens Opera and Athens Opera Ballet. He created the ballet for the 1975 film ''In the Rehearsal Room,'' starring Cynthia Gregory and Ivan Nagy. In 1986, Mr. Carter was named acting artistic director of the Rome Opera Ballet, where he served with Vasilis Iracledes, his companion of 19 years.
        Mr. Carter is survived by a brother, Robert, of Greenville, Tex.
      