
       Dr. Geoffrey H. Bourne, an anatomist and expert on primates, died of heart failure Tuesday at Bellevue Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 78 years old and maintained homes in Atlanta and on the island of Grenada.
        Dr. Geoffrey H. Bourne, an anatomist and expert on primates, died of heart failure Tuesday at Bellevue Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 78 years old and maintained homes in Atlanta and on the island of Grenada.
        At his death Dr. Bourne was vice chancellor and professor of nutrition at St. George's University School of Medicine in Grenada. He had served as director of the Yerkes Regional Primate Center at Emory University in Atlanta from 1962 to 1978.
        He was a prolific writer for scientific journals and he popularized his experiences with apes and other primates in numerous books, including ''Ape People,'' 1971; ''Primate Odyssey,'' 1974, and ''Gentle Giants - The Gorilla Story,'' in 1975, all published by G. P. Putnam. He appeared on the ''Johnny Carson Show'' on television, describing how he taught chimpanzees to communicate by typing on a computer.
        Dr. Bourne was born in Perth, Australia, and came to the United States in 1957 to become a professor and chairman of anatomy at Emory University. He was named director of the Yerkes facility shortly after it was designated as a regional primate center by the National Institutes of Health. He Took Grenada Post in 1978
        He retired in 1978 and then took the position at the 1,500-student medical school in Grenada. He was there in 1983 when a coup by a revolutionary council brought an invasion by United States military forces. President Reagan cited the rescue of the students, most of them Americans, as a reason for the invasion.
        Before going to Emory, he had been an anatomist and biochemist in Australia and was said by an associate at Yerkes to be the first person to demonstrate the presence of Vitamin C in cells. He had also taught histology at the University of London and physiology at Oxford University, from which he received a doctorate in 1943.
        In World War II he was a nutritional adviser to the British forces in Burma and held the rank of lieutenant colonel.
        He was a fellow of the Royal Society of Medicine, the American Gerontology Society and the Zoological Society of London. He was a founder and president of the Zoological Society of Atlanta.
        He is survived by his wife, Dr. Nelly Golarz-Bourne, of Atlanta and St. Georges, and two sons, Dr. Peter Bourne of Washington, who was an adviser to President Carter on drugs, and Merfyn Bourne, a barrister in London.
      