
       Joshua L. Logan, the director of some of Broadway's most enduring and prestigious hits, among them ''South Pacific,'' which won the Pulitzer Prize, and ''Mister Roberts,'' died yesterday afternoon at his Manhattan home. He was 79 years old and had suffered for many years from supranuclear palsy, a debilitating disease.
        Joshua L. Logan, the director of some of Broadway's most enduring and prestigious hits, among them ''South Pacific,'' which won the Pulitzer Prize, and ''Mister Roberts,'' died yesterday afternoon at his Manhattan home. He was 79 years old and had suffered for many years from supranuclear palsy, a debilitating disease.
        Mr. Logan frequently served as co-author and producer or co-producer as well as director of plays. He was also that uncommon phenomenon, the theater director who was also successful in films - with such hits as ''Sayonara'' and ''Paint Your Wagon.''
        While he attempted the classics only once, with ''The Wisteria Trees'' - his own version of Chekhov's ''Cherry Orchard'' - and did not seek out innovative or avant-garde drama, he was a consummate theatrical craftsman, possessing great emotional force that he was able to transmit to the actors he directed.
        His long string of successes really began with the musical ''I Married an Angel'' (1938) and included ''Knickerbocker Holiday'' with Walter Huston the same year, ''Annie Get Your Gun'' (1946), ''Picnic'' (1953), ''Fanny'' (1954), ''The World of Suzie Wong'' (1958) and the movie of ''Camelot'' (1967). Some Failures, Too
        He did have his failures, notably ''Miss Moffat,'' a musical version of ''The Corn Is Green,'' starring Bette Davis. It closed in Philadelphia before reaching New York, when Miss Davis withdrew from the cast. Another was ''Rip van Winkle,'' a 1976 musical for which he wrote both book and lyrics as well as provided the direction. It closed before its New York opening. ''Ensign Pulver,'' a 1964 film, was not a success, nor was ''Look to the Lilies,'' in 1970.
        Mr. Logan was notable for his candor in discussing manic depression, the mental illness in which manic elation alternates with profound depression. He had the condition for many years before it was discovered that it could be controlled by the drug lithium carbonate.
        It had been rumored for years that Mr. Logan's ups and downs of mood were occasionally excessive, and that he required hospitalization for extended periods, which in fact he did on two occasions.
        After January 1969, when he learned of lithium and began taking it as a preventive, Mr. Logan decided, he wrote in ''Movie Stars, Real People, and Me,'' that he would talk about it. Telling What He Knew
        ''I had been ignorant all my life about such things,'' he said, ''at least I could tell others so they would never be as ignorant as I was.''
        He took part in medical seminars, appeared on television and talked and wrote about his illness. But he also made it clear that he felt its manic phase contributed to his creativity:
        ''Without my illness, active or dormant, I'm sure I would have lived only half of the life I've lived and that would be as unexciting as a safe and sane Fourth of July. I would have missed the sharpest, the rarest and, yes, the sweetest moments of my existence.''
        Joshua Lockwood Logan was born Oct. 5, 1908, in Texarkana, Tex. His father died when he was 3 years old; six years later, his mother married an Army officer who was later on the staff of the Culver (Ind.) Military Academy.
        It was when he was 8 years old that Joshua saw his first professional play, ''Everywoman,'' in Shreveport, La. It was, he wrote in his autobiography, ''Josh,'' a case of ''love at first sight.'' It was during his five years at Culver, Mr. Logan wrote, that he entered his first dramatics class and ''felt my life swerve and suddenly steady itself.'' Studied With Stanislavsky
        He chose to go to Princeton because of its Triangle Club show that toured the country, and he entered the university in 1927. The previous year, he recalled, he saw his first Broadway play, ''What Price Glory?''
        He became president of the Triangle Club in his senior year; he also became involved with the intercollegiate summer stock company, the University Players, whose members included Henry Fonda, Margaret Sullavan and James Stewart.
        Mr. Logan never graduated from Princeton; during his last year he won a scholarship that made it possible for him to go to Moscow to study with Konstantin Stanislavsky.
        He said later that he used what he had learned in Moscow continually; much of what he did as the director of ''South Pacific,'' he owed to Stanislavsky, he said. And in 1953, he did receive a degree from Princeton, an honorary Master of Arts.
        The University Players did not survive long in the lean years of the Depression. Mr. Logan, after staging two productions in London and directing a touring revival of ''Camille,'' worked as an assistant stage manager, progressing on to directing.
        After a stint in Hollywood, he returned to Broadway to direct ''On Borrowed Time,'' which ran for more than a year. Then, in 1938, he directed ''I Married an Angel,'' his first great success; it was then that he began his long association with Richard Rodgers, the composer of ''South Pacific.'' 'South Pacific' His Biggest Hit
        Other successes in that period included a revival of ''Charley's Aunt'' with Jose Ferrer and ''By Jupiter,'' a musical.
        In 1942, he was drafted into the Army and served as a public-relations and intelligence officer. During the war, he provided ''additional direction'' for the Irving Berlin revue ''This Is the Army.'' After his discharge with the rank of captain, his first directorial assignment, in 1946, was the musical ''Annie Get Your Gun.''
        Among other long-running Logan hits were ''Happy Birthday'' and ''John Loves Mary,'' but ''South Pacific'' was perhaps the greatest hit of all.
        He was the co-author, co-producer and director of the 1949 musical, which contained elements unusual for its time: the male star, Ezio Pinza, was middle-aged; it had a wartime setting, and the issue of miscegenation was a central one. For all its success, however, there were bitter moments for Mr. Logan.
        First, his name was omitted as co-author in the early editions of the enthusiastic review in The New York Times. But far worse, the 1950 Pulitzer Prize for drama, which he admitted to having coveted, was awarded to Rodgers and Hammerstein, but not to Mr. Logan.
        The mistake was corrected by the Pulitzer committee, but as Mr. Logan wrote in his autobiography: ''I knew then why people fight so hard to have their names in proper type. It's not just ego or 'the principle of the thing,' it's possibly another job or a better salary. It's reassurance. My name had been so minimized that I lived through years of having people praise 'South Pacific' in my presence without knowing I had had anything to do with it.'' 'A Royal Good Time!'
        Mr. Logan directed the movie version of the musical in 1958.
        Less than a year before ''South Pacific,'' Mr. Logan directed ''Mister Roberts,'' of which he was also the co-author with Thomas Heggen. It was an immediate hit.
        ''Thank you, Mr. Heggen and Mr. Logan, for a royal good time!'' wrote Brooks Atkinson in The Times. This was the first script on which Mr. Logan had done ''actual playwriting instead of just helping other authors anonymously,'' he wrote. ''For all these years I had been suppressing what I most wanted to do - write - and now I had done it.''
        One of the most remarkable expositions of his talents involved the 1952 musical ''Wish You Were Here,'' of which he was director, co-author with Arthur Kober and co-producer. The musical, which is now chiefly remembered for its title song and the fact that it featured a real swimming pool, opened in June and was, in his words, ''a crying flop.'' But Mr. Logan was determined to rescue the show.
        While the show limped through its first days, he wrote and directed 54 pages of new material, and by the ninth performance, ''we really began to see a new show,'' he said. By Thursday of the fourth week, the theater was sold out -and remained so for two years.
        He once opened a play - ''Kind Sir,'' in 1953 - in the unorthodox location of New Orleans for several reasons that were a mixture of shrewdness and emotion typical of him, and of his success.
        ''I wanted to be far away while we made changes,'' he wrote in his autobiography, ''and I also knew that opening in such an unusual place would collect us some national publicity. Deep down, I had a childish motive. I wanted to show off a bit.''
        ''And,'' he continued, ''have all my aunts, uncles and cousins read about me in their local newspapers. There was also the pleasure of playing in a city with great restaurants. The whole venture so excited me that I found myself unable to sleep.'' Autobiography Published in '76
        The opening of ''Kind Sir'' coincided with one of Mr. Logan's periods of hospitalization. The show was not a great success. It was followed a year later, however, by ''Fanny,'' of which he was once again director and co-author and co-producer. It was a hit, and Mr. Logan also produced and directed the film version in 1961.
        From the early 1960's on, however, Mr. Logan was unable to find hits of the same magnitude as ''Picnic'' or the film ''Sayonara.''
        His autobiography, ''Josh,'' was published in 1976. ''Movie Stars, Real People, and Me,'' a collection of extended anecdotes about his life in the theater and some of the many stars he had known, was published in 1978.
        In 1945, Mr. Logan married Nedda Harrigan, an actress and the daughter of Ned Harrigan, the vaudevillian. They led a comfortable, indeed glittering, social life in New York, at their country house in Connecticut and in London. His first marriage, to Barbara O'Neil, ended in divorce.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Thomas Heggen Logan; a daughter, Harrigan Logan; a stepdaughter, Ann Connolly; three grandchildren, and a great-grandchild.
        Mrs. Logan said that burial would be private and that a memorial service would be announced.
      