
       Dr. Harry H. Gordon, a pediatrician who pioneered in the fields of neonatology and child development, died on Wednesday after emergency heart surgery at the Jack D. Weiler Hospital of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx. He was 81 years old and lived in Rye, N.Y.
        Dr. Harry H. Gordon, a pediatrician who pioneered in the fields of neonatology and child development, died on Wednesday after emergency heart surgery at the Jack D. Weiler Hospital of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx. He was 81 years old and lived in Rye, N.Y.
        Dr. Gordon, who joined the Einstein faculty in 1962 as a professor of pediatrics, was dean of the medical school from 1967 to 1970. In 1965, he became the founding director of Einstein's Rose F. Kennedy Center for Research in Mental Retardation and Human Development, which he headed until his retirement in 1972.
        Dr. Gordon was the author of more than 100 scientific papers on neonatology - the treatment of newborn infants - pediatrics and child development, and he received many honors. He was the first recipient, in 1944, of the Borden Research Award of the American Academy of Pediatrics, and he later received awards from the National Association for Retarded Children and the American Pediatric Society, of which he was a past president. He also headed the Society for Pediatric Research.
        In 1985, a special school in the Bronx for the care of low-birthweight infants and children was named the Harry H. Gordon School of the New York League for Early Learning. Last year, the Harry H. Gordon, M.D., Neonatal Intensive Care Unit was dedicated at the Bronx Municipal Hospital Center, where Dr. Gordon served for a quarter-century as an attending pediatrician. 'Combined the Best Qualities'
        ''Harry Gordon was that rare physician who combined the best qualities of scientist, teacher, healer and humanitarian,'' Dr. Dominick P. Purpura, dean of Einstein, said yesterday. He said that for more than half a century, Dr. Gordon had advocated ''comprehensive and compassionate programs to address the needs of rich and poor alike'' and that Dr. Gordon's research had ''created an early awareness of the special needs of premature infants.''
        Dr. Gordon, who was born in Brooklyn, held a bachelor's degree from Cornell and his M.D. from the Cornell Medical College. He was a senior specialist in maternal and child health with the Children's Bureau of the United States Department of Labor before serving during World War II in the Army Medical Corps, where he rose to the rank of lieutenant colonel.
        After the war, he taught at the University of Colorado Medical School and at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and served as pediatrician-in-chief at Colorado General Hospital, Denver General Hospital and Sinai Hospital in Baltimore during his tenure at those schools. He also taught at his alma mater, Cornell Medical.
        Surviving are Dr. Gordon's wife, Fayga; a son, Charles, of Ottawa; a daughter, Deborah Evans, of St. Paul; a brother, David, of Larchmont, N.Y., and a grandson.
      