
       Jackie Presser, the president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, the nation's largest union, died last night at a hospital in the Cleveland suburb of Lakewood. He was 61 years old and had been suffering from brain cancer.
        Jackie Presser, the president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, the nation's largest union, died last night at a hospital in the Cleveland suburb of Lakewood. He was 61 years old and had been suffering from brain cancer.
        His death was announced late in the evening by John Kerezy, a spokesman at Lakewood Hospital, where Mr. Presser had been admitted late last month with a blood clot on the right lung.
        Mr. Kerezy said the immediate cause of death was cardiac arrest. Achieved New Merger
        Mr. Presser had led the long-besieged teamsters' union back into the mainstream of American labor. Last fall the teamsters were readmitted to the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations, which had ousted them three decades earlier over corruption charges.
        That success notwithstanding, Mr. Presser had been able to do little to stem his union's reputation for ties to the underworld.
        Only 12 days ago the Justice Department filed suit in an effort to oust him and other senior leaders of the teamsters and put the union under the control of a Government trustee. The suit alleged a decades-long ''devil's pact'' between the teamster leadership and organized crime.
        And at his death Mr. Presser himself faced a Federal trial on charges of siphoning union money with which to pay organized crime figures for jobs they did not perform. Image-Conscious Leader
        An eighth-grade dropout and onetime jukebox delivery boy, Mr. Presser became an influential and image-conscious union leader. When he took over the teamsters' top job in 1983, he promised to end the union's strong-arm reputation, which was as much a part of union lore as allegations that top teamster officials had ties to organized crime.
        It was an elusive goal. By the time he came to power, the union had been a subject of Federal investigations for 30 years. Previous teamster presidents had run into trouble dealing with both government and gangsters. Three of Mr. Presser's four predecessors had been indicted, and he got his chance at the teamsters' presidency only because his immediate predecessor, Roy L. Williams, stepped aside after a bribery-conspiracy conviction in Chicago.
        Mr. Presser soon found himself facing charges that he was a front man for organized crime and that the Mafia served as the teamsters' ''shadow governing body.'' James Fratianno, a convicted Mafia assassin, testified: ''The Cleveland family moved Presser up. And he knows without them people, he wouldn't last two minutes in the teamsters' union.''
        Unlike members of the steel and mineworkers' unions, the teamsters rank and file never got to vote for their president. Under union rules, Mr. Presser was elected by delegates chosen by the members, although each teamster paid $4 a month to support Mr. Presser and the other national officers. This amounted to a $75-million-a-year bonanza that Federal investigators said was spent mostly on six-figure salaries, luxury cars and expense accounts for Mr. Presser and his top aides.
        Mr. Presser was the nation's highest-paid union official, earning $530,000 from the teamsters in 1984. But he seemed unconcerned that he took home more than many of the chief executive officers of the companies his members worked for. 'Million Thhrough the Union'
        ''I'm a millionaire,'' he said. ''So what? I can't be induced with bribes under the table. I can make a million through the union.''
        In his effort to lead the union on its uphill climb to respectability, he shed the pinky rings and diamond bracelets that he had worn as a union organizer in Cleveland and traded loud sports jackets for conservative, custom-tailored suits. He also tried diet after diet in a mostly unsuccessful effort to keep from tipping the scale at more than 300 pounds.
        The grandson of a Jewish immigrant from Austria who fought on picket lines in the New York garment district, Jackie Presser was born in Cleveland on Aug. 6, 1926. His father was William Presser, a nationally known teamster leader and a protege of Jimmy Hoffa, and Jackie's ambition was always to head the teamsters.
        ''Yes, my hunger in the beginning was for what my father had achieved in his lifetime, and I felt I could fill those shoes,'' Mr. Presser said in 1983. But he added, ''The time comes when you suddenly find those shoes are really too tight for you.''
        His father was ultimately elected leader of the Ohio teamsters and emerged as a major figure within the International Brotherhood. But when Jackie Presser was young, his father was a poorly paid organizer. The father stuffed newspapers in shoes he could not afford to have repaired and shuttled his family from apartment to apartment, moving in at the beginning of the month and moving out at the end of the same month because he did not have rent money. Back From the Navy
        Jackie Presser joined the Navy at age 17 and got his first union job when he came home after World War II. He signed on as a staff member of Local 10 of the Hotel and Restaurant Employees Union in Cleveland.
        In only three years, he became president of Local 10 and quickly moved to expand his power base, arranging speedy mergers with other locals.
        But the strategy backfired almost as quickly. After a dispute with members he had brought in, he was ousted.
        In 1952, he went to work as a teamster organizer. Mr. Presser held a series of nonelective teamster jobs before arranging a real estate deal in 1964 for a sports club and restaurant in suburban Cleveland. Despite a $1.1 million loan from the Teamsters Central States Pension Fund, the project failed, costing the pension fund more than $265,000 when Mr. Presser defaulted. Move Up in '76
        In 1966, Mr. Presser took the first step toward establishing himself as a power within the teamsters. With a charter granted by his father, he set up a new local, Teamsters Local 507, with headquarters between a freeway and the campus of Cleveland State University. Starting with a dozen paint-company workers, he expanded Local 507 until it represented workers in dozens of plants and warehouses.
        Mr. Presser joined the ranks of the International Brotherhood's leadership in 1976, when his father resigned and he was nominated to succeed him.
        Mr. Presser urged the union to stop ignoring allegations of corruption and pushed to go on the offensive with public relations techniques he had tried out in Ohio. Beginning in 1976, the union spent $250,000 a year to sponsor football games on radio. The advertisements Mr. Presser commissioned for broadcast at halftime described gains the union had won for its members.
        In 1977, Mr. Presser moved into a huge new public relations center in the teamsters' headquarters in Washington, further expanding the union's public relations campaign and strengthening his standing within the national organization. Under his desk was a button that controlled draperies that opened to reveal a panoramic view of the Capitol.
        Back home in Cleveland, where he hung on to his post as secretary-treasurer of Local 507 while serving as head of the International Brotherhood, his office was lined with plaques and photographs, including a framed picture of President Reagan.
      