
       James W. Silver, a professor of American history at the University of Mississippi for more than 30 years whose outspokenly liberal views on racial equality stirred controversy throughout that state, died of complications from emphysema yesterday in Tampa, Fla. He was 81 years old.
        James W. Silver, a professor of American history at the University of Mississippi for more than 30 years whose outspokenly liberal views on racial equality stirred controversy throughout that state, died of complications from emphysema yesterday in Tampa, Fla. He was 81 years old.
        Dr. Silver in 1962 made a point of befriending James Meredith after the riots in which two men were killed before Mr. Meredith became the first black to attend ''Ole Miss.'' He was also the author of ''Mississippi: The Closed Society,'' in which he condemned the state for not having ''the moral resources to reform itself.''
        That volume brought out a barely buried cache of hatred and resentment of Dr. Silver in Mississippi when it was published in 1964. His enemies in a White Citizens Council began a campaign to force the state to dismiss him. He finally rendered that effort moot when he took a leave in 1965 to teach at Notre Dame University, and never returned. He left Notre Dame in 1969 to teach history at the University of South Florida in Tampa. He retired six years ago.
        As a history professor and chairman of the University of Mississippi history department from 1946 to 1957, Dr. Silver, whose enthusiasm for his subject was as boundless as his devotion to the concept for justice for all, was once called ''the oldest, living, practicing example of academic freedom in Mississippi.''
        He served as teacher and mentor to scores of distinguished Mississippians, including former Gov. William Winter and former United States Representative Frank E. Smith. After Mr. Meredith entered the university, with the protection of 23,000 Federalized troops and with considerable bloodshed, Dr. Silver lunched with the young black man at his lonely cafeteria table.
        When he played golf with Mr. Meredith, he said years ago, ''my best friend told me to get lost.'' For years, because of constant threats he slept with a loaded shotgun under his bed.
        James Wesley Silver was born June 28, 1907, in Rochester, N.Y. His family moved to North Carolina when he was 12 years old. He was educated at the University of North Carolina, at Peabody College and received his doctorate in history in 1935 at Vanderbilt University. His specialty was the Confederacy and three of his six books concerned the Old South.
        His most notable book, ''Mississippi: The Closed Society,'' grew out of his farewell address as outgoing president of the Southern Historical Society. In the address and book he said: ''Mississippi has been on the defensive against inevitable social change for more than a century. The all-pervading doctrine then and now has been white supremacy, whether achieved through slavery or segregation rationalized by a professed adherence to states rights and bolstered by religious fundamentalism.''
        In equally strong words he predicted, correctly, that white Mississippians would have to yield a good measure of political power to blacks, who outnumber whites in the state, and accept, if not welcome them, into an open society.
        In 1984 Dr. Silver's long estrangement ended when he returned to the campus at Oxford, Miss., to deliver an enthusuiastically received address as the library accepted his papers for its collection.
        He recalled that when people asked him years ago why he wanted to stay in Mississippi when there was such a clamor for his departure, his old friend and fishing companion, William Faulkner, who lived in Oxford, ''once tapped out for me on a scrap of paper: 'We will not sit quietly by and see our native land, the South, wreck and ruin itself twice in less than a hundred years over the Negro question. We speak now against the day when our Southern people will say: Why didn't someone tell us this before? Tell us this in time.' ''
        Dr. Silver is survived by his wife, the former Margaret Thompson, three children, James William Silver, of San Francisco, Elizabeth Little of Arlington, Va., and Dr. Gail Ellis of Tampa, and three grandchildren. His body will be cremated and no service was planned.
      