
       Gabriel Dell, who began acting on Broadway as one of the Dead End Kids and went on to a wide-ranging stage and film career, died of leukemia Sunday at his home in North Hollywood, Calif. He was 68 years old.
        Gabriel Dell, who began acting on Broadway as one of the Dead End Kids and went on to a wide-ranging stage and film career, died of leukemia Sunday at his home in North Hollywood, Calif. He was 68 years old.
        Mr. Dell - who was born in Brooklyn and whose original name was Gabriel del Vecchio - was catapulted to fame on Broadway in 1935 in Sidney Kingsley's ''Dead End,'' an examination of slum life and its contribution to crime.
        The play was a success, and the six young actors who came to be known as the Dead End Kids were brought to Hollywood to star opposite Humphrey Bogart in the movie version, which was directed by William Wyler and received four Academy Award nominations. Same Group, Other Names
        The Dead End group, sometimes appearing under such names as the Bowery Boys and the Eastside Kids, went on to make many other movies, including ''Angels With Dirty Faces'' with James Cagney, ''Crime School'' with Bogart, ''They Made Me a Criminal'' with John Garfield, ''Angels Wash Their Faces,'' ''Little Tough Guy,'' ''Hell's Kitchen,'' ''You're Not So Tough,'' ''Give Us Wings,'' ''Dress Parade'' and ''Hit the Road.''
        Mr. Dell's Broadway credits included ''Luv,'' ''The Goodbye People,'' ''The Sign in Sidney Brustein's Window,'' ''Fun City,'' ''Anyone Can Whistle,'' ''Something Different,'' ''Ankles Aweigh,'' ''Tickets Please'' and ''Prisoner of Second Avenue,'' as well as such Off Broadway productions as Elaine May's ''Adaptation'' and John Ford Noonan's ''Where Do We Go From Here,'' among other plays. Work in Musicals
        Mr. Dell also appeared in musicals, including ''Can-Can,'' ''Wonderful Town'' and ''Oklahoma!'' at City Center. Among Mr. Dell's films were ''Earthquake'' and ''Who Is Harry Kellerman and Why Is He Saying Those Terrible Things About Me?''
        At the news of Mr. Dell's death, another of the original Dead End Kids, Dr. Bernard Punsley, said, ''That leaves two of us.'' The other surviving member is Huntz Hall, an actor.
        Mr. Dell is survived by two sons, Gabriel Jr. and Michael, both actors, and a sister, Ethel Dell.
      