
       Anthony Holland, an actor who was known best for his comic performances in theater, film and television, committed suicide early Sunday morning in his apartment in Manhattan, his cousin, Jessica Holland, said.
        Anthony Holland, an actor who was known best for his comic performances in theater, film and television, committed suicide early Sunday morning in his apartment in Manhattan, his cousin, Jessica Holland, said.
        She said that Mr. Holland, who was 60 years old, had been suffering from AIDS.
        Mr. Holland was a member of the original Second City comedy troupe, which he joined after graduating from the University of Chicago and studying acting with Lee Strasberg, during the 1960's. The company was known for its irreverent brand of political humor and included Mike Nichols, Elaine May and Alan Arkin.
        Mr. Holland made his Broadway debut in 1963 in Lillian Hellman's comedy ''My Mother, My Father and Me.'' His half-dozen subsequent Broadway roles included ''Division Street'' and ''We Bombed in New Haven.'' He appeared in many regional-theater productions, as well as Off Broadway productions of Brendan Behan's ''Quare Fellow,'' Eugene Ionesco's ''Victims of Duty'' and Samuel Beckett's ''Waiting for Godot'' Used Voice and Body
        He gave one of his best performances in ''The Hunger Artist,'' Martha Clarke's 1987 adaptation of several stories by Franz Kafka. ''His soft voice, unpretentiously conversational in tone yet mesmerizingly grave, could be Kafka's,'' Frank Rich wrote in The New York Times. ''The civilized Old World cadences of Prague are accelerated just a bit by the gallows humor of the paranoid Jewish ghetto comic. The actor lets his middle-aged body work for him, too.''
        Mr. Holland's screen credits include ''All That Jazz,'' ''Klute'' and ''The Tempest.'' He appeared on many television series, ranging from ''The Mary Tyler Moore Show'' and ''M*A*S*H'' to ''Hill Street Blues'' and ''Cagney and Lacey.''
        Mr. Holland was also a painter, and taught art classes at the University of Chicago. He also wrote three comedies with William M. Hoffman, the author of ''As Is.''
        Mr. Holland is survived by his mother, Edith Holland, and his brother, William, both of Chicago.
      