
       David Atlee Phillips, who spent 25 years undercover for the C.I.A. and resigned as chief of Latin American and Caribbean operations to plead the agency's case in print and on the lecture circuit, died Thursday at his home in Bethesda, Md. Mr. Phillips, who had been suffering from cancer, was 65 years old.
        David Atlee Phillips, who spent 25 years undercover for the C.I.A. and resigned as chief of Latin American and Caribbean operations to plead the agency's case in print and on the lecture circuit, died Thursday at his home in Bethesda, Md. Mr. Phillips, who had been suffering from cancer, was 65 years old.
        When he retired early in 1975, morale was at a low in the Central Intelligence Agency over charges that it had engaged in illegal domestic spying. Mr. Phillips made himself a public defender of the C.I.A., rebutting what he termed ''snowballing innuendo.''
        To support that effort, he formed the Association of Former Intelligence Officers, recruiting members from various intelligence services to explain to the public what the work was all about. Mr. Phillips - who had been involved in clandestine operations in Guatemala, Cuba and Chile from the 1950's to the early 1970's - became its founding president. Worked Against Allende
        The organization has its headquarters in northern Virginia, not far from the C.I.A. At Fort Langley. Mr. Phillips strongly denied insinuations that his new group was just a covert ploy financed by his former employer, saying that his income was derived from lectures and his writing.
        In 1970, Mr. Phillips was called to Washington to lead a special task force assigned to prevent the election of Salvador Allende as President of Chile. President Allende was killed in a military takeover in 1973, but Mr. Phillips said when he resigned that the C.I.A. played no role in the coup.
        Mr. Phillips said the decision to retire was influenced by a personal concern. He and his second wife were raising seven children, and the time had come to tell another 15-year-old that her father was not really a businessman or in the Foreign Service. 'Misconception About the C.I.A.'
        It was the fifth time around, and his admission to a cloak-and-dagger existence, he reported, drew the response, ''But that's dirty.'' Mr. Phillips said the four older children had seemed pleased to have an intelligence agent for a father and the reaction of the fifth seemed ''part of the current misconception about C.I.A., period.''
        David Atlee Phillips was born in Fort Worth, Texas. He attended William and Mary College and Texas Christian University.
        Tall and ruggedly handsome, he became an actor in New York, but World War II intervened. He served as a nose gunner in the Army Air Forces, was shot down over Austria but made it back to Allied lines after escaping from a German prison camp. Recruited in Chile
        After the war, he resumed his studies in Chile and was recruited by the C.I.A. during a brief stint as an editor of an English-language paper. By 1950, he later confirmed, he was working full time for the agency.
        Mr. Phillips was present when the C.I.A., with President Dwight D. Eisenhower's blessing, toppled the Government of Jacobo Arbenz Guzman in Guatemala in 1954. He was a lecturer in Havana and a businessman in Lebanon before going to Washington in 1960 when the C.I.A. planned to duplicate the Guatemalan feat in Cuba - an effort that foundered in the Bay of Pigs.
        Mr. Phillips served as station chief in the Dominican Republic and in Rio de Janeiro. His last assignment was as the head of the Western Hemisphere division, during which, he said, he ordered agents in Chile to distance themselves from the people then plotting the overthrow of President Allende, a Marxist.
        He wrote a breezy, anecdotal account of his career in ''The Night Watch, 25 Years of Peculiar Service,'' which appeared in 1977.
      