
       Lewis Bergman, a former editor of The New York Times Magazine, died of pneumonia at New York Hospital yesterday. He was 70 years old and had been ill since February when he began to undergo chemotherapy for lymphoma.
        Lewis Bergman, a former editor of The New York Times Magazine, died of pneumonia at New York Hospital yesterday. He was 70 years old and had been ill since February when he began to undergo chemotherapy for lymphoma.
        As the editor of The Times Magazine from 1964 until 1975, Mr. Bergman dealt with many distinguished contributors, including John Hersey, Bruno Bettelheim, Norman Mailer, Betty Friedan, Ted Morgan, Nora Ephron, Jan Morris, Robert Sherrill, Gay Talese and James MacGregor Burns.
        His last project for The Times was the preparation of a special issue of the magazine to commemorate the Bicentennial in 1976. The cover story of that issue examined life along the San Andreas fault in California. The article, written by Mr. Morgan, was conceived by Mr. Bergman as symbolic of living a comfortable life amid the potential dangers that lay ahead for the country as a whole. A Story of Strange Predictions
        In 1969, Mr. Bergman briefly returned to writing and published a humorous year-end article in The Times Magazine predicting events in the 1970's, including the Food and Drug Administration's giving monosodium glutamate a clean bill of health but banning parsley, sage, rosemary and thyme, and the legalization of marijuana cigarettes with a warning label that reads: ''Caution: marijuana smoking is dangerous to your health; it may lead to tobacco smoking.''
        Mr. Bergman was born in New Rochelle, N.Y., on Feb. 11, 1918, the son of a postal supervisor. He attended high school in New York City and joined The Times in 1936 as an 18-year-old copyboy. In the evenings, he attended night school, learned shorthand, became fluent in French and studied history, world affairs and literature. He also began writing occasional articles for The Times Magazine.
        Soon after the outbreak of World War II, Mr. Bergman enlisted in the Army and spent four years in the Pacific. During his years in service he also contributed occasional articles to The Times. Chief Editor in 1964
        After the war, Mr. Bergman returned home and went to work at The Times as a writer for The Week in Review, where he became chief summary writer. In 1952, he joined the staff of the magazine and became its executive editor before becoming its chief editor in 1964. He acquired the additional title of assistant Sunday editor in 1972.
        After retiring from The Times, Mr. Bergman became editor of Across the Board, the monthly magazine of the Conference Board, a nonprofit economic and business research organization in New York. He retired from that post in February 1983.
        He is survived by his wife, Marybeth Weston Bergman; a son, Nicholas, of New York; a daughter, Eliza Condon Krause of Santa Monica, Calif., and a grandson. His first wife, Fifi, died in 1984.
        A private service is to be announced.
      