
        Ben Plucknett, a king-sized Midwesterner who broke the world record in the discus throw twice within seven weeks in 1981 only to have both records thrown out because of a positive drug test, has died at his farmhouse in Essex, Mo. He was 48.
        Visitors to his home Sunday found him unconscious, and he was pronounced dead. Officials of the Nunnelee Funeral Chapel in Sikeston, Mo., said that doctors at the scene said Plucknett had suffered a brain aneurysm.
        At 6 feet 7 inches and 305 pounds, often wearing a reddish brown beard, Plucknett looked fierce. Actually, he said, he was the opposite. In 1981, he told The New York Times:
        ''I'm a nice guy, Gentle Ben. Part of my trouble in throwing is that I'm gentle. I'm not aggressive enough in the ring.''
        He became aggressive that year when he set world records of 233 feet 7 inches on May 16 in Modesto, Calif., and 237-4 on July 7 in Stockholm. That was especially impressive because he had never finished in the top three in the national or N.C.A.A. championships and never competed in the Olympics.
        Less than a week after the second record, track and field's world governing body, then known as the International Amateur Athletic Federation, announced that he had tested positive at a meet the previous Jan. 31 and Feb. 1 in New Zealand. It said the drug was nortestosterone, a bodybuilding anabolic steroid banned partly because of potentially dangerous side effects.
        The federation nullified both world records, the first time it had thrown out a record because of a positive drug test. It banned Plucknett from competition for life, although he could petition for reinstatement after 18 months.
        The Athletics Congress, then the American governing body, allowed him to compete in domestic meets. His 237-4 throw was recognized as the American record and still stands.
        The I.A.A.F.'s suspension was later reduced, and he returned to international competition in August 1982.
        Walter Harrison Plucknett was born April 13, 1954, in Beatrice, Neb., and was raised there. After graduation from the University of Missouri, he moved to San Jose, Calif., in 1977 to train with the nation's best discus throwers.
        He supported himself there as a nightclub bouncer. When he turned away two under-aged youths, they returned and fired seven shots, two into his stomach. That cost him a year of training.
        A marriage ended in divorce, and he had no children. He is survived by his mother, Mary Jane Plucknett of Boise, Idaho; a sister, Dr. Jan DeRoin of Boise, and a brother, John, of Ogallaga, Neb.
        His drug suspension left him bitter. In 1982, after his return, he told the monthly Track and Field News:
        ''I had a definite way of thinking about track before the suspension. It was an innocent view, one of sportsmanship. I felt if I didn't harm anyone, they wouldn't harm me. But I feel I was made an example.
        ''I have to look out for only myself now. I trust very few people. I had a certain way of life, and a certain way of looking at things and doing things, before the ban. But that has all changed now. I learned that you sign a pact with the devil before you shoot for No. 1.''
      