
        H. Taylor Howard, a pioneer in satellite television and a radio communications specialist for NASA, died on Wednesday when the single-engine plane he was flying crashed shortly after takeoff from Calaveras County Airport in California.
        He was 70 and lived in San Andreas, Calif.
        Mr. Howard was an electrical engineering professor at Stanford University in 1976 when he designed a large dish-shaped antenna system in the backyard of his home. He used the dish to pick up programs that cable television content providers were broadcasting via satellite to cable companies for distribution to subscribers.
        After watching movies from Home Box Office, Mr. Howard wrote to HBO, enclosing a $100 check to pay for the programming. HBO sent the check back with a note that it dealt with large cable companies, not individuals.
        Mr. Howard then wrote a technical book, ''The Howard Terminal Manual,'' explaining the technology to his fellow engineers. He also helped to start Chaparral Communications, which built and sold the receivers and related equipment. The receivers soon became common in rural areas like San Andreas, which is in the Sierra Nevada foothills.
        Eventually, HBO and other companies responded to the growing threat of customers' receiving programming directly without paying for it by scrambling their signals. The new business then stalled until engineers figured out how to compress signals enough for homeowners to pick them up with much smaller and cheaper receivers. That paved the way for the growth of subscriber-based satellite television companies like DirecTV.
        Mr. Howard also frequently worked with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. He aided the agency's effort to track Sputnik during its pioneering space flight and oversaw experiments probing the atmospheres of Venus, Mercury and Jupiter, according to the Satellite Broadcasting and Communications Association, a trade group that Mr. Howard helped to start in 1987.
        Henry Taylor Howard was born April 5, 1932, in Peoria, Ill. He was the son of Henry Howard, an executive with Caterpillar, and Florence Finlay. He became a researcher at Stanford after completing his undergraduate work in 1955. He joined the faculty in 1973 and became professor emeritus in 1982.
        Mr. Howard began flying as a teenager. His stepson, Bryan Files, 37, was also killed in the crash of Mr. Howard's Beechcraft.
        Mr. Howard is survived by his wife, the former Ann T. Kerr; a son, Craig, of Seattle; two daughters, Gail Benton, of Seattle, and Leslie Howard, of Palo Alto, Calif.; a stepdaughter, Christa Files, of El Dorado Hills, Calif.; and two grandchildren.
        Mr. Howard's hobbies reflected his fascination with communications technology. In recent years, he had been a member of an informal group of 250 or so people who communicate by bouncing microwave signals off the moon, said Allen Katz, editor of the group's newsletter.
      