
        Andre De Toth, a Hungarian-born movie and television director whose loss of an eye as a youth robbed him of depth perception yet didn't prevent him from making the most highly regarded of all 3-D films, died on Sunday at his home in Burbank, Calif.
        The cause was an aneurysm, friends said.
        In recent publications and interviews, Mr. De Toth gave the year of his birth as 1913, making him 89. But The Los Angeles Times said it found some listings as early as 1910. He was also unforthcoming about the loss of his eye, saying only that it happened when he was young.
        Mr. De Toth was best known for ''House of Wax'' (1953), one of the few jewels to emerge from the 1950's 3-D movie craze, which required audiences to wear colored glasses to see the three-dimensional effects. But the film was in many ways atypical of his work as a director.
        His most enduring legacy, especially to later directors and film students, was a series of superb B movies -- mostly westerns and crime dramas that he made in the late 1940's and 1950's. They were gritty, psychologically acute and unflinchingly violent.
        Many critics consider his finest film to be ''Pitfall,'' a 1948 film noir starring Dick Powell as an insurance investigator who falls into the clutches of a femme fatale, played by Lizabeth Scott. Another favorite is ''Crime Wave,'' a 1954 film noir starring Sterling Hayden, which was shot largely at night in seedy locations around Los Angeles.
        Most of Mr. De Toth's genre films were westerns, and he worked with many of the top stars of the period, including Joel McCrea in ''Ramrod'' (1947), Gary Cooper in ''Springfield Rifle'' (1952), and Kirk Douglas in ''The Indian Fighter'' (1955).
        His longest working relationship was with Randolph Scott, with whom he made six well-respected westerns in the 50's: ''Man in the Saddle'' (1951), ''Carson City'' (1952), ''The Stranger Wore a Gun'' (1953), ''Thunder Over the Plains'' (1953), ''Riding Shotgun'' (1954) and ''The Bounty Hunter'' (1954).
        McCrea's co-star in ''Ramrod'' was Veronica Lake, who was married to Mr. De Toth from 1944 until their divorce in 1952. In his 1994 autobiography, ''Fragments: Portraits From the Inside,'' Mr. De Toth wrote about his marriage to Lake, who died in 1973, their bankruptcy court battles and his subsequent marriages to six more wives.
        Among his survivors is his wife Ann Green. The Associated Press said that Mr. De Toth had 19 children, including two with Lake, and some stepchildren, but was unable to say how many survived him.
        He was born Sasvrai Farkasfalvi Tothfalusi Toth Endre Anral Mihaly in Mako, Hungary, and grew up in wealth and comfort, the son of a civil engineer and former Hussar, who was crushed when his son did not also join his elite regiment. Mr. De Toth studied law in Budapest, but was drawn to acting, photography, sculpture and painting.
        As a teenager, he also wrote stage plays, and although none were produced, one of them, ''Discreet Bond,'' introduced him to Ferenc Molnar, Hungary's most famous playwright of the time, who in turn introduced the young man to Hungary's leading artistic and film circles.
        He became a director in 1938 and made five films before he was assigned to make Nazi propaganda films and chronicled the German invasion of Poland in 1939. Later that year, Mr. De Toth left for England, where he quickly found work as a writer and second-unit director with the producer Alexander Korda, who took him to Hollywood in 1942.
        His first film was ''Passport to Suez'' (1943), about war intrigue in North Africa. Although later directors like Martin Scorsese, revered Mr. De Toth for his raw style, he was widely considered a B movie specialist for most of his career.
        ''House of Wax,'' in which Vincent Price played the crazed owner of a wax museum who dipped his murder victims, was by far his most prominent film. Although popular with audiences and celebrated for its groundbreaking technical effects, it was not a critical favorite.
        Bosley Crowther wrote in his review in The New York Times: '' 'House of Wax,' the historic production unveiled at the Paramount yesterday in as wild a display of noise and nonsense as has rattled a movie screen in years, may well cause a dazed and deafened viewer, amazed and bewildered, to inquire in wonder and genuine trepidation: What hath the Warner Brothers wrought?''
        Mr. De Toth earned his only Academy Award nomination for writing, with William Bowers, the story upon which the 1950 Gregory Peck film 'The Gunfighter'' was based.
        In later years, Mr. De Toth also worked in television, directing episodes of series like ''Maverick'' and ''77 Sunset Strip.'' His last major Hollywood film was ''Play Dirty'' (1968), a dark-edged and cynical war film starring Michael Caine.
        Although later directors who were trained at film schools revered Mr. De Toth, he had little use for that kind of education. He much preferred his own adventurous method, which included racing fast cars and flying planes. He bragged about his adventures in war zones, including once being mistaken in the Middle East for the Israeli war hero Moshe Dayan, who also wore an eye patch.
        ''Film schools teach you absolutely nothing,'' Mr. De Toth wrote. ''The psychology of being a director, it's not mechanics -- either you've got it or you ain't. The No. 1 requirement is understanding. A film director works with the most sensitive instrument, human beings.''
      