
        Hadda Brooks, the smoky-voiced torch singer and pianist who was known in the 1940's as the Queen of the Boogie and came out of retirement in the late 1980's to gain new popularity with younger audiences, died on Thursday at 86.
        She died at White Memorial Hospital in Los Angeles, a few weeks after undergoing open-heart surgery, said Russ Paul, her manager.
        Trained as a classical pianist, Ms. Brooks began recording boogie-woogie instrumentals in 1945 for Modern Records, which soon became the West Coast's premier rhythm-and-blues label. In the late 1940's and 50's she scored a number or hits as a torch singer, including ''That's My Desire,'' ''Trust in Me'' and ''Dream.''
        She played singers in several films, and won a role singing to Humphrey Bogart in the film ''Out of the Blue'' after beating Ella Fitzgerald and Sarah Vaughan in auditions. She toured with the Harlem Globetrotters, and in 1951 became the first black woman in the country to host her own television variety show.
        Born Hadda Hapgood in Los Angeles in 1916, she begged her father for piano lessons at the age of 4, and stretched her tiny hands on a board for a week until they could reach across an octave.
        She started out playing at rehearsals for a tap dance coach, Willie Covan, with clients like Fred Astaire, Eleanor Powell, Gene Kelly and Shirley Temple. Mr. Covan was friendly with the Globetrotters' players and in 1941 Ms. Brooks married another basketball player, Earl Morrison. He died a year later of pneumonia at 21.
        Early on in her career, she became close friends with Billie Holiday, whom she met in a nightclub ladies' room when Ms. Holiday reportedly opened the door to her stall and offered Ms. Brooks a puff on her marijuana cigarette.
        Ms. Brooks's big break came when a jukebox repairman named Jules Bihari overheard her playing a piano in a Los Angeles record store in the mid-1940's. He said he had only $800, but if she would work up a boogie in two weeks he would record it. She did, and the result, ''Swinging the Boogie,'' became her first hit, in 1945.
        In the 1950's, she drifted into obscurity, singing and playing in Europe, Hawaii and Australia, and in 1971 she retired.
        But in 1987 she sang at a supper club in Los Angeles and drew rave reviews. By the mid-1990's, she had been discovered by the younger generation, and was playing in the actor Johnny Depp's Viper Room in Los Angeles, along with quieter locales like the Oak Room of New York's Algonquin Hotel.
        ''Her voice, velvety and drenched with an after-hours smokiness, is familiar with deep emotions,'' wrote the critic Peter Watrous in The New York Times in 1989.
        In 1993, the Rhythm and Blues Foundation gave her its Prestigious Pioneer Award in a ceremony at the Hollywood Palace.
        In 1995, she recorded a new CD titled ''Time Was When'' for Virgin/Pointblank Records, which has also issued a new 50-year retrospective of her work, ''I've Got News for You.''
        Ms. Brooks is survived by a sister, Kathryn Carter, and two nephews, Kent and Darryl Carter.
        ''I try not to put anything new into my songs,'' she told an interviewer in 1989. ''I go back 20 years to find me.''
        Correction:  November 26, 2002, Tuesday  An obituary of the singer and pianist Hadda Brooks in some copies on Sunday misidentified the film in which she sang to Humphrey Bogart. It was ''In a Lonely Place,'' not ''Out of the Blue.''
      