
        Jay D. Hair, a conservationist and former professor who helped build the National Wildlife Federation into a powerful lobby for environmental causes, died on Friday at his home in Seattle. He was 56 and had moved there from Washington several years ago.
        The cause was bone-marrow disease, the organization said.
        Dr. Hair was the federation's president and chief executive from 1981 to 1995, during which membership grew to a peak of 6 million; it is now about 4.5 million.
        He was also president, from 1994 to 1996, of the similarly influential World Conservation Union, based in Switzerland.
        When Dr. Hair was recruited in 1981 to lead the National Wildlife Federation, founded in 1936, it was regarded as a big, somewhat right-leaning club of hunters, fishermen and other outdoors enthusiasts jealous of their space.
        Dr. Hair worked to broaden the group's focus and bring its paying membership's weight to bear on conservation and environmental issues in general. That meant wielding considerable influence over the development and enforcement of policies on the local, national and international levels.
        Early in his tenure, he had personal confrontations with President Ronald Reagan over the appointment of the business-minded James G. Watt as secretary of the interior. A survey of members showed that while most had voted for Mr. Reagan, even more indicated strong disapproval of Mr. Watt.
        Dr. Hair joined a coalition of environmentalists demanding Mr. Watt's resignation, which came in 1983 and left Dr. Hair with a reputation as a vociferous master of public relations.
        He used the federation's legal muscle and the pages of National Wildlife, its magazine, to take increasingly strong stands on a wide variety of issues, like shielding wetlands from development and protecting bald eagles.
        Under his guidance, the federation pressed strongly for strengthening the Clean Air Act, cutting toxic discharges into the Great Lakes and returning wolves to Yellowstone National Park. He was also concerned with the impact of international trade and finance policies on the environment and established talks with businesses to strengthen and promote common interests.
        Dr. Hair was born in Miami and graduated with a degree in biology in 1967 from Clemson University, where he received a master's in zoology two years later. He spent two years as an Army officer and public health adviser in Vietnam and completed a Ph.D. in zoology at the University of Alberta in 1975, focusing on wildlife diseases.
        He was an assistant professor of wildlife biology at Clemson in the 1970's and an adjunct professor of zoology and forestry at North Carolina State University from 1982 to 1995. He was also a research and management consultant with the South Carolina Wildlife and Marine Resources Department and a special assistant to the United States Department of the Interior.
        His growing involvement in conservation led him to attend a meeting of the National Wildlife Federation in 1974. He joined and quickly gained recognition as a leader in the Carolinas. To fill the national leadership spot, he went back to school for business management studies.
        Dr. Hair is survived by his wife of nine years, Leah Knapp Hair; two daughters, Catherine W. Hair, known as Whitney, of Apex, N.C., and Lindsay Hair of Manhattan; his mother, Ruth A. Johnson of Newark, Del.; a brother, Col. Dwight Hair of Elkton, Md.; a sister, Paulette Pyle of Avondale, Pa.; and two stepsons, Colin and Benjamin Patton of Seattle. His first marriage, to Rebecca McDaniel, ended in divorce.
        In his honor, the federation named the education center at its new headquarters in Reston, Va., after him. At his death he was the founding secretary general of the International Council on Mining and Metals of London, a group promoting sustainable development of resources.
      