
        James R. Hendrix, who received the Medal of Honor for single-handedly capturing 13 German soldiers and rescuing fellow G.I.'s while under fire in the Battle of the Bulge in World War II, died last Thursday at his home in Davenport, Fla. He was 77.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        The D-Day invasion of June 6, 1944, raised Allied hopes that Germany would surrender by Christmas. But a surprise attack on American and British forces in the Ardennes region of Belgium and Luxembourg in December, the Battle of the Bulge, halted their advance and inflicted severe casualties.
        Three days before Christmas, the 101st Airborne Division, surrounded at Bastogne, Belgium, received a German surrender ultimatum. The acting division commander, Brig. Gen. Anthony C. McAuliffe, issued a single-word retort that became Army legend: ''Nuts.''
        The division's survival of that onslaught resulted from numerous acts of bravery, among them the actions of Private Hendrix, son of an Arkansas sharecropper who was 19 and all of 5 foot 6 and 125 pounds.
        On Dec. 26, Private Hendrix's unit in the Fourth Armored Division was approaching Assenois, Belgium, a few miles south of Bastogne, in a drive to break through to the airborne division. He spotted two 88-millimeter German gun emplacements and saw two enemy soldiers in a foxhole.
        ''I crawled on up through the hedgerow without them hearing nothing,'' he told The Saturday Evening Post a year later. ''I wasn't being brave, and if I had ever heard of the Medal of Honor, I didn't pay it no mind. A feller just figures if it's his time, it's his time, and that's all there is to it.''
        After briefly taking shelter in a crater made by an artillery shell, Private Hendrix charged ahead.
        As he recalled it, he could see the two men and he swung his rifle point-blank at them and shouted a close approximation of ''kommen heraus,'' or ''come out'' in German.
        ''I may not know how to spell it,'' Private Hendrix said, ''and maybe it don't sound like German, but one of them sure as hell stuck his head up, and I let him have it, and he fell down. By that time the other German ducked, and when he did, I rushed in and hit him over the head with the butt of my M-1.
        ''I got their guns and got back in my shell hole and started hollering, 'kommen heraus,' again, and sure enough, them Germans began coming out from around the different foxholes, and 13 gave up.''
        Later that night, still uninjured, Private Hendrix helped rescue two wounded soldiers by silencing a pair of German machine-gun positions, and he helped a soldier trapped in a burning armored vehicle while under sniper fire.
        For what the citation called his ''superb courage and heroism,'' he received the Medal of Honor from President Harry S. Truman at the White House on Aug. 23, 1945.
        But the day before the ceremony, there was an encounter that received national attention. The Willard Hotel in Washington -- an official host for Medal of Honor winners arriving in Washington for a mass awards ceremony at the White House -- had refused the Hendrix family entry to its Crystal Room for dinner. The headwaiter maintained that Mr. Hendrix's father was not wearing the required sports jacket and tie.
        James Hendrix, by then a sergeant, was quoted by United Press as saying his father had, in fact, worn a coat and tie, but the family settled for eating at a nearby cafeteria. The incident brought many letters of support for the Hendrixes from around the country.
        James Richard Hendrix was born and reared in Lepanto, in Northeast Arkansas, and dropped out of grade school to help his family work the cotton fields. He was drafted in 1943, and he remained in the military after the war, joining the paratroopers.
        In September 1949, he survived another harrowing experience, receiving only minor bruises after a fall from 1,000 feet when his two parachutes failed to open during training at Fort Benning, Ga. He managed to land on his back when he hit a newly plowed field.
        Mr. Hendrix served in the Korean War and retired from the military in 1965 as a master sergeant.
        He is survived by his wife, Helen; four daughters, Jackie Dunnahoe of Winter Haven, Fla., Rosemarie Rogers of Haines City, Fla., Marilyn McGaugh of Scottsboro, Ala., and Virginia Selby of Lake Hamilton, Fla.; two sisters, Zora Flanery of Lake Alfred, Fla., and Blanche Phillips of Lake Hamilton; eight grandchildren; and eight great-grandchildren.
        A mural honoring Mr. Hendrix is in Lepanto.
      