
        George Christian, the last of four press secretaries for President Lyndon B. Johnson and a witness to the president's agony over racial rioting and the Vietnam quagmire, died on Wednesday night in his hometown of Austin, Tex. He was 75.
        Mr. Christian, who grew up in Texas, where he eventually served two governors and counseled generations of state politicians, learned in October 2001 that he had lung cancer. He died at Seton Medical Center in Austin with a number of family members present, said his son-in-law Bruce Todd, a former mayor of Austin.
        Mr. Christian became President Johnson's spokesman in January 1967, replacing Bill Moyers, who left to become publisher of Newsday. Mr. Moyers's predecessors were Pierre Salinger and George Reedy.
        Mr. Christian came to the White House in May 1966, first to work for Walt Rostow, the president's special assistant for national security affairs, and then for Mr. Moyers.
        With his Texas roots, Mr. Christian seemed ideally suited for the job. He was born George Eastland Christian Jr. on New Year's Day 1927 in Austin, where his father was a district attorney and later a member of the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals, the highest state court for criminal matters. The Johnson and Christian families knew each other for decades.
        Mr. Christian, who long ago dropped the junior after his name, studied English and journalism at the University of Texas before and after service in the Marine Corps in World War II. After a brief term as sports editor for The Temple Daily Telegram in Texas, he worked for seven years for the International News Service as a sports reporter and later a political correspondent.
        In 1957, he became press secretary and executive assistant to Gov. Price Daniel. In 1962, Mr. Daniel lost the Democratic primary to John B. Connally, who was sufficiently impressed with Mr. Christian that he hired him when he became governor. Mr. Christian worked for Mr. Connally until getting a call from the White House early in 1966.
        At the time, Mr. Christian was happy working for Mr. Connally. His wife, Jo Anne, was practicing law in Texas, and the couple had just hired an architect to do some remodeling on their Austin home. But Lyndon Johnson was known for persuading people to do what he wanted.
        He was also known as a hard man to work for, but Mr. Christian insisted that the reputation was undeserved. ''The only thing he ever asks is efficiency, integrity, 'Do what you're supposed to do and don't look back on it,' '' Mr. Christian said in early 1967.
        Mr. Christian sat in on meetings of the cabinet, National Security Council and presidential conferences with Congressional leaders. He said he wanted to be thoroughly informed so he could ''strike a happy medium'' between satisfying journalists' appetites for news and serving the president.
        Most reporters liked Mr. Christian for his affability and intelligence, and for not holding grudges, but as one White House correspondent put it in May 1967, ''George believes in the people's right to know only as much as L.B.J. thinks is good for them.''
        In the summer of 1967, when the Johnson presidency was becoming consumed by the Vietnam conflict and the president himself was sometimes accused of obfuscation or outright deception, Mr. Christian insisted in a television interview that Lyndon Johnson was ''a very candid man'' and ''rather open in his discussions with the press.'' As for the so-called credibility gap, Mr. Christian said it was simply ''the difference between what the president said and what some people wanted him to say.''
        That summer, serious racial riots broke out in Detroit, Newark and other cities. President Johnson convened a special panel, the National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders, better known as the Kerner Commission, to investigate the causes. In early 1968, the commission issued its report, warning that ''our nation is moving toward two societies, one black, one white --separate and unequal'' and blaming ''white racism'' for the gulf.
        Days passed, and there was no comment from the president on the report he had commissioned. Mr. Christian was asked on March 5, 1968, if he found that strange.
        ''Well, it'll just have to strike you as strange,'' Mr. Christian replied.
        There was much conjecture that President Johnson, who had successfully pushed for civil rights legislation and an array of Great Society programs to help the poor and minority groups, felt that he had unfairly become a target of criticism. Then, too, the president was agonizing over whether to run for re-election, something Mr. Christian and only a few others knew. On March 31, he announced that he would not run.
        After leaving the White House in January 1969, Mr. Christian returned to Austin, where he worked in public relations.
        Mr. Christian's first wife, the former Elizabeth Brown, died in 1957. They had two daughters: Elizabeth, who is married to Mr. Todd, and Susan Goulding of Seal Beach, Calif. In 1959, Mr. Christian married Jo Anne Martin, with whom he had four sons: George Scott and John, both of Austin; Brian Johnson, of Round Rock, Tex., and Robert Bruce, of Boston. He is also survived by 11 grandchildren.
      