
        Glen Seator, a highly regarded sculptor who became known in the 1990's for work that replicated architectural situations with uncanny verisimilitude, died on Dec. 21 at his home in Brooklyn. He was 46.
        He was working on the chimney of his three-story house when he fell to his death, his sister Patricia Seator said.
        One of the most talked-about works in the 1997 Whitney Biennial was Mr. Seator's ''B.D.O.,'' which consisted of a large wooden box within which he had reconstructed a life-size, seemingly ordinary office. The whole structure was tilted at a 45-degree angle so that people who looked into it experienced a startling feeling of dizziness and disorientation.
        There was another, conceptual dimension to that piece because the office was the Whitney's director's office, salvaged from the museum's fifth floor, where staff offices had been scheduled for removal to make room for new exhibition galleries.
        Like Robert Gober and Charles Ray, artists to whom he was often compared, Mr. Seator created works that not only adroitly blended realism and surrealism but also obliquely commented on social issues. In 1999 he transformed the Gagosian Gallery in Beverly Hills, Calif., into a check-cashing store, painstakingly replicating the street facade, interior, lighting and signs of an actual business in a Latino neighborhood on Sunset Boulevard. The project drew protests from residents, who viewed it as an eyesore and said it violated local building codes.
        Glen Seator was born on June 5, 1956, in Beardstown, Ill., and spent his early years in the nearby small town of Mount Sterling. He attended high school in Jacksonville, Ill. Graduating a year early, he spent nine months traveling the world on money he had earned from various minimum-wage jobs.
        In 1984, after receiving a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree from the Massachusetts College of Art, Mr. Seator moved to Brooklyn, where he bought a house and supported himself finding vintage clothing and selling it to high-end stores. He also earned a Master of Fine Arts degree from the State University of New York at Purchase in 1989.
        Mr. Seator's first solo exhibitions were in New York at the Sculpture Center and at Art in General in 1991. Exhibitions followed in Warsaw, Vienna, San Francisco, London and Basel, Switzerland.
        In 2000 and 2001 Mr. Seator was a scholar in residence at the Getty Research Institute in Los Angeles, which produced a daylong symposium on his art. Most recently he had been working on large-scale photographs.
        Mr. Seator is survived by his mother, Dr. Lynette Hubbard Seator of Jacksonville, Ill.; and in addition to his sister Patricia, of Colorado Springs, his sisters Penelope Seator of Oakland, Calif., and Dr. Pamela Seator of Kansas City, Mo.
      