
        Charles E. Fraser, a developer who took Hilton Head Island -- a woody, sparsely populated barrier island off the South Carolina coast -- and turned it into a haven of expensive homes, golf courses and tennis courts, died in a boating accident on Sunday in the West Indies. He was 73.
        Mr. Fraser and his wife, Mary, were on a chartered 29-foot boat in the Turks and Caicos Islands when the stern exploded, his daughter Wyman Fraser Davis said. Mr. Fraser was dead when his body was recovered. Mrs. Fraser suffered minor injuries.
        They lived in Brevard, N.C., but maintained a home on Hilton Head.
        Mr. Fraser's development of Hilton Head began when he persuaded his father, an Army general, to sell him the southern third of the island, which was named for a British sea captain who explored it. At the time the island had a population of about 600, mostly the descendants of slaves, who after the Civil War earned the rights to the rice plantations on which they had worked.
        The two men were able to persuade the state to build a two-lane bridge in 1956 before beginning the 5,000-acre project, named Sea Pines Plantation, the next year.
        Sea Pines became one of the first projects to combine golf and real estate development in a planned community, one of the first to use covenants and deed restrictions to protect the environment, and one of the first to promote intergenerational recreation in the same enterprise.
        In 1994, Mr. Fraser received one of only five Heritage Awards ever presented by the Urban Land Institute. The award, which recognizes the lasting importance of projects, had previously been given to Rockefeller Center.
        Sea Pines -- with its gated subdivisions, golf courses lined with multimillion-dollar homes of weathered wood and town square -- was far different from previous beach communities along the South Carolina coast. Small cottages perched atop cinder blocks had been the traditional accommodations.
        To Mr. Fraser, its greater significance was as a model of planned growth for many resort and retirement developments to come, some that he built himself. The homes were built away from the oceanfront and designed to blend in with the pine forests. Hundreds of acres of parks and nature preserves were also established.
        Mr. Fraser, a Yale-trained lawyer, thought sellers of property should be more aggressive in writing deed restrictions and covenants to enforce good overall planning. In the face of considerable skepticism, the covenants have been upheld by South Carolina courts.
        ''I felt you could be economically successful developing this beach either way, ugly or beautiful,'' he said in an interview with Southern Living magazine. ''There's no law of economics that says ugliness pays. I selected beauty and set out to make it work economically.''
        His instinct for quality became legendary. At great expense, he reduced the size of the yacht basin to save a single oak tree. He established policies to protect alligators without needlessly endangering people. His lighthouse on Hilton Head, built in 1968, was the first put up on the East Coast for more than 70 years and was initially called Fraser's Folly. It would become a symbol for the state.
        In 1969, he persuaded the Professional Golfers Association to begin the Heritage Classic on Sea Pines as a regular tour stop -- this on an island that had been home to several hundred people, at most, less than 20 years earlier.
        Charles Elbert Fraser was born on June 13, 1929, in Hinesville, Ga., where he grew up. His father, Gen. Joseph B. Fraser, served in both world wars and the Korean War and was commander of the South Carolina National Guard. He was also active in the timber business.
        In the 1940's, his father joined with two partners to form the original Hilton Head Company, and they bought the island, one of the largest islands on the East Coast. They began cutting timber.
        With the general away during World War II and the Korean War, he and his partners divided the island. General Fraser received the southern part. During the summer of 1950, Charles Fraser explored it and began to formulate development plans. He visited oceanfront communities from Maine to Florida for ideas.
        Mr. Fraser, who had already graduated from the University of Georgia, went on to Yale Law School, where a professor coached him on the concept of protective covenants and deeds he would use so effectively. His father sold him his part of the island on a 20-year note.
        Mr. Fraser went on to develop other projects, including Amelia Island Plantation in Florida, Kiawah Island Resort in South Carolina and the Palmas del Mar resort in Puerto Rico. He also consulted for Walt Disney's new town of Celebration, Fla., among other clients.
        Besides his wife, the former Mary Wyman Stone, and his daughter Wyman, who lives in Atlanta, he is survived by another daughter, Laura Lawton Fraser, of Brevard; his brother Joseph, of Hilton Head, and six grandchildren.
      