
        William H. Gleysteen Jr., an expert on China who was United States ambassador to South Korea in a period of acute political turbulence there in the late 1970's, died on Dec. 6 in Washington. He was 76.
        The cause was acute leukemia, according to the Council on Foreign Relations, where he had worked after leaving the diplomatic service.
        As ambassador to Seoul, Mr. Gleysteen personally helped persuade President Jimmy Carter, during a presidential visit to the country in 1979, to reverse his election campaign pledge to pull American troops out of South Korea. Richard Holbrooke, then assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs, recalled in an interview how after a difficult meeting with the South Korean leadership, President Carter drove back to the ambassador's residence accompanied by Mr. Gleysteen, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, who also opposed troop withdrawal, and the national security adviser, Zbigniew Brzezinski, who favored it.
        ''The limousine drew up at the front door and nobody got out,'' said Mr. Holbrooke. ''So we looked in through the window and saw Bill Gleysteen talking, talking, talking.''
        The upshot of that prolonged argument in the presidential limousine was that President Carter reluctantly agreed to reconsider his withdrawal pledge.
        Toward the end of his tenure in 1981, Mr. Gleysteen faced another delicate task as he sought to persuade South Korea's military leaders not to execute the opposition leader, Kim Dae Jung, who had been condemned to death for political offenses. Today he is his country's president. In between these two crises, Mr. Gleysteen's duty had been the difficult one of managing America's relationship with a close ally in the grip of a severe political crisis.
        The year after Mr. Gleysteen's arrival in Seoul as ambassador, President Park Chung Hee was assassinated by leaders of his intelligence service. A military coup followed, provoking unrest and a popular uprising that was brutally suppressed.
        William Henry Gleysteen was born on May 8, 1926, in Beijing, the son of Presbyterian missionaries. He was fluent in Chinese. He was interned with his parents and his brother Dirk by the Japanese for part of World War II, but was exchanged for Japanese interned in the United States.
        Returning to America, he received his bachelor's from Yale in 1949 and a master's in 1951, the year he entered the foreign service.
        He is remembered as one of those who helped rebuild the State Department's expertise in Chinese affairs after many of its best sinologists had fallen victim to Senator Joseph McCarthy's anti-Communist campaign.
        He is survived by his wife, Marilyn Wong Gleysteen, and four children, Thea Clark of Bethesda, Md., Guy Gleysteen of Fairfield, Conn., Michael Gleysteen of Ashburn, Va., and Anna Wong Gleysteen, of Bethesda.
      