
        Roone Arledge, the television industry executive and producer whose creativity, leadership and technical innovations revolutionized the presentation of both news and sports, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 71.
        The cause was complications from cancer, said ABC, his professional home for decades.
        Mr. Arledge, who served first as president of ABC Sports and then as president and chairman of ABC News, was the most important behind-the-scenes figure in the television coverage of the major events of the last half century, from the Olympics to the boxing matches of Muhammad Ali in the 1960's to the Iranian hostage crisis of 1979-80.
        During the first half of his career, Mr. Arledge built ABC Sports into the most important division of that network. One of his most significant achievements was leading sports programming out of the limited window of weekend television and into the prime-time hours, which he did first with the Olympics from Mexico City in 1968 and then with ''Monday Night Football'' in 1970.
        The latter move had an enormous effect on the future of American sports. It paved the way for sports events of all kinds to be moved into prime time. The year after ''Monday Night Football'' became a success, baseball moved one game of the World Series into the night hours. In that sport's entire previous history, all the games had been played during the day. Only a few years later all the World Series games were at night as networks recognized the opportunity to get more viewers and advertising revenue.
        Dick Ebersol, one of many protégés of Mr. Arledge who went on to prominence in television, ultimately as chairman of NBC Sports, said, ''Roone was surely the only television executive of his time who would have dared to put sports in prime time.'' In so doing, Mr. Ebersol said, Mr. Arledge opened the door to the entire era of sports as big business. ''All of the money the athletes are making, all the big money in sports, none of that would be happening if not for Roone,'' Mr. Ebersol said.
        Nowhere was his leadership more influential than in the transformation of the Olympics from an event of minimal interest to the most potent programming of any kind on television. When Mr. Arledge acquired his first Olympics for ABC -- the 1964 Winter Games from Innsbruck, Austria -- he paid $200,000 for the American television rights. NBC paid $545 million for the rights to the 2002 games in Salt Lake City.
        Mr. Arledge had a similar impact on television news. When he gained control of ABC News in 1977, it was performing poorly and was lightly regarded in the industry. By the late 1980's it was the dominant news department in television.
        Mr. Arledge created or popularized a long roster of the most successful and critically acclaimed television shows of the last generation, including ''Wide World of Sports'' and ''Monday Night Football'' in sports and ''World News Tonight,'' ''20/20'' and ''Nightline'' after he shifted to news. All those programs are two decades old or more and are still televised.
        A Lifetime-Achievement Emmy
        During a ceremony in September, when Mr. Arledge was awarded the first lifetime- achievement Emmy Award, his 37th Emmy over all, Don Hewitt, the creator of the CBS News program ''60 Minutes,'' said, ''Just about everything that's good in television has a Roone Arledge trademark on it.''
        An avid believer in the power of a star system in drawing and holding television audiences, Mr. Arledge established or fostered the careers of many of the most familiar television names of the last four decades, including Jim McKay, Frank Gifford and Howard Cosell in sports and Peter Jennings, Barbara Walters, Diane Sawyer and Ted Koppel in news.
        Ms. Sawyer said Mr. Arledge had a special talent for handling the egos of the stars he made. ''The art of managing anchor monsters is a very refined one, and Roone was a past master,'' she said.
        Unlike almost every television executive who preceded him and most who work in the industry today, Mr. Arledge's true home was not in the executive suite but rather behind a console of monitors inside a broadcasting truck. ''The image that ultimately appears on the tube is what TV is all about,'' Mr. Arledge said. ''So for me the most rewarding and exciting part of my job is making pictures and words that move people.''
        That talent was never more in evidence than during the 1972 Olympic Games from Munich, when ABC Sports, led by Mr. Arledge, was forced to shift from covering the games to bringing to the world the most dramatic news story of that year -- the invasion of the Olympic Village by Arab terrorists, who took 11 Israeli athletes hostage.
        Mr. Arledge supervised ABC's coverage over the next 17 hours, right through the announcement that all the hostages had been killed. ABC was the only news outlet in the world with close access to the unfolding events. Mr. Arledge later told Marc Gunther for his 1994 biography of Mr. Arledge, ''The House That Roone Built,'' that as he monitored the story from the ABC control room he remembered that in 1963 NBC had been the only network with a live camera in the Dallas police headquarters when Jack Ruby shot Lee Harvey Oswald. He made up his mind to stay with the story live until it ended. ''The cardinal error is to be there with the only live camera and then miss whatever might happen,'' he said.
        ABC, Mr. McKay, and especially Mr. Arledge were showered with praise for their work in Munich, which won a never-matched total of 29 Emmy Awards for both news and sports coverage. Although he continued to lead ABC Sports, it was the events in Munich that first led Mr. Arledge to believe he could expand his vision to include the far more challenging and serious world of news.
        A Hunger for Facts
        Mr. Arledge had been raised to be a serious man. Born July 8, 1931, in Forest Hills, Queens, Roone Pinckney Arledge Jr. grew up in Merrick, on Long Island, in a family consumed by the events of the day, which were transmitted into the Arledge home by radio. His father, a lawyer for Equitable Life Assurance, led discussions about developments in World War II around the family dinner table, instilling in his son a lifelong hunger for facts and information. His mother, Gertrude, pressed him to excel, which he did both academically and in every other pursuit in his school days.
        Mr. Arledge attended Columbia University, beginning in 1949, and came under the influence of some of the outstanding faculty in the English department, notably Lionel Trilling and Mark Van Doren.
        Two of the signature touches that Mr. Arledge brought to the programs he later produced he learned in these courses: the importance of narrative and the role of the hero. Years later the announcers of ABC Sports were taught to emphasize what Mr. Arledge called the story line of whatever game they were covering and to focus on a star whose personal story could transcend the outcome of the events itself. The 'up close and personal' biography of an athlete, which ABC's Olympic coverage invented to introduce viewers to obscure foreign athletes, became the template for personalizing the stories of stars in every sport.
        ''So much of what Roone did from 'Wide World of Sports' to the Olympics to 'Monday Night Football' was about the storytelling,'' said Don Ohlmeyer, another of Mr. Arledge's protégés who went on to run NBC's entertainment division.
        Athletes once obscure to Americans, like the skier Franz Klammer and the gymnast Olga Korbut, became magazine-cover celebrities after they received the up-close-and-personal treatment during Olympic coverage staged by Mr. Arledge.
        After college, Mr. Arledge landed a short-lived job at the Dumont network in 1952. After that network failed, he did a stint in the Army, returning to television in 1955 when he moved to Channel 4 in New York. There he got his first assignment as a producer -- for a puppet show. The star was Shari Lewis and in 1959 Mr. Arledge managed to win his first Emmy for his work.
        By this time Mr. Arledge had married his first wife, Joan Heise, a marriage that ended in divorce shortly after he left her alone on a planned Hawaiian vacation while he produced an Arkansas-Texas football game in 1971. It was the first of three marriages. He married Ann Fowler, a former Miss Alabama, in 1976. They divorced in 1984. Mr. Arledge married Gigi Shaw in 1994. He is survived by her and his four children from his first marriage, Roone, Elizabeth, Susan Weston and Patricia Looney.
        In the mid-1950's the first Mrs. Arledge was, fortuitously, working as a secretary to David Sarnoff, the head of NBC. Thanks to that connection, Mr. Arledge, collaborating with a friend from Columbia, Lawrence Grossman, later the president of both PBS and NBC News, was able to get a proposal for a program onto the desk of Sylvester Weaver, NBC's president and the creator of the ''Today'' show.
        That program, called ''Masterpiece,'' aimed to dramatize stories from the world of high art, like the creation of the Sistine Chapel. It was rejected. So was his next, far less grandiose idea, ''For Men Only,'' a mix of jazz and man-talk modeled after Playboy magazine.
        But the failure of ''For Men Only'' proved to be a turning point. The program was spotted by an executive named Edgar J. Scherick, who was running the sports arm of the fledgling ABC television network. Mr. Scherick thought the show had a spark of originality and inquired about who had produced it. The inquiry led to a meeting at which Mr. Scherick asked the young producer if he knew anything about sports.
        He did. The young Mr. Arledge was able to identify every picture of every athlete on Mr. Scherick's office wall. He was hired.
        In April 1960, Mr. Arledge became an assistant on a new package of college football games that Mr. Scherick had acquired for ABC. Mr. Scherick had no way of realizing at that time exactly how ideally he had matched man and milieu.
        Putting the Camera in Motion
        Sports television at that time consisted of little more than a fixed camera recording events from afar. No imagination or style had been invested on what networks considered the toy department of their business. That changed when Mr. Arledge took command of college football on ABC. Before his first season began he composed a memorandum, whose prescience proved to be startling.
        After describing a host of production techniques that would be brought to coverage of the games, including cameras on jeeps, hand-held cameras, boom microphones for sound, and even the use of helicopters, Mr. Arledge effectively summed up his philosophy, one that would ultimately transform television. ''In short, we are going to add show business to sports,'' he said.
        In an interview with Sports Illustrated in 1966, Mr. Arledge said: ''What we set out to do was get the audience involved emotionally. If they didn't give a damn about the game, they might still enjoy the program.''
        The program that allowed Mr. Arledge to put his defining stamp on the entire range of global sports was a weekly production of a collection of events, some as conventional as the Indianapolis 500, some as odd as Irish hurling, that he created with Mr. Scherick in 1961: ''ABC's Wide World of Sports.'' With Mr. McKay as host, the show filled a latent hunger for sports in an entire generation of viewers by ''spanning the globe'' in the phrase that Mr. Arledge and Mr. McKay came up with, to bring viewers ''the human drama of athletic competition: the thrill of victory, the agony of defeat.''
        Under Mr. Arledge, ABC dominated television sports for the next two decades. In the turbulent 1960's the network developed a close association with Mr. Ali, both in his battles in the ring and also in his legal fight to regain the heavyweight title stripped from him after his refusal to accept induction in the Armed Forces.
        Some of Mr. Ali's most memorable moments on television came in ''Wide World of Sports'' interviews, in which he jousted with Mr. Cosell. Mr. Cosell became one of Mr. Ali's few defenders in the sports world and Mr. Arledge permitted Mr. Cosell, a lawyer by training, to express his conviction that Mr. Ali had been treated unlawfully.
        Mr. Cosell owed his career to Mr. Arledge, who ignored a torrent of opposition against the announcer, some from within his own network. Before Mr. Arledge came to sports television, networks always permitted the leagues they covered to approve their announcers. Mr. Arledge pointedly refused to abide by that rule; he and he alone would select ABC's announcers. Mr. Cosell was the main beneficiary of that stand.
        But it was his presence on ''Monday Night Football'' that elevated Mr. Cosell to the status of star. The show became a national phenomenon, and the team of Mr. Cosell, Frank Gifford and Don Meredith became the most celebrated announcing crew in the history of American sports. The program itself was the defining validation of the Arledge sports credo: the game was no longer the thing; the show was the thing.
        Mr. Arledge began adding every major sports event he could acquire: the Triple Crown horse races; baseball on Monday nights; three of the four grand slam golf tournaments; N.B.A. basketball; even big-game hunting in the outdoors show he invented, ''The American Sportsman.'' In every case, he pushed ABC's engineering department to add more technical innovations: instant replays, isolated replays, slow-motion replays, cameras in race cars, cameras on skiers' helmets, microphones on fresh kill being devoured by a lion.
        As a manager, Mr. Arledge was loose in style but in total control in practice. He put off innumerable decisions, before flying into action to solve everything all at once. He installed special red phones in every broadcast truck -- known as Roone phones -- which allowed him to call in instructions during every game.
        He quickly showed an avid interest in receiving credit for everything ABC Sports put on television -- each ABC sports show ended with the same mantra: ''The executive producer of ABC Sports is Roone Arledge.'' Some, including Mr. Scherick, bristled at what they perceived as credit-grabbing, and Mr. Arledge did display a lifelong, somewhat inexplicable tendency toward embellishing his already towering achievements.
        ABC Sports developed a swagger to it that emanated from the force of Mr. Arledge's increasingly larger-than-life personality. He forswore suits for safari jackets, let his carrot-orange hair go long, wore aviator glasses and big jewelry. Though in many ways a shy man in social settings, Mr. Arledge mixed frequently with celebrities from the worlds of politics, finance, sports and art.
        He often exasperated his staff with his unpredictable habits, sometimes being out of touch for hours or even days only to show up in a production truck right before kick-off. He developed an enduring aversion to returning phone calls, a trait that served only to increase the value of his in-person time. Staff members who complained about never hearing from him would become charmed whenever he turned his attention to them. ''After not being able to get your calls returned, you'd meet him for lunch and he'd give you four hours,'' Ms. Walters said.
        Eventually, however, Mr. Arledge grew restless in sports. His production of two Olympics in 1976, from Innsbruck and Montreal, helped elevate ABC to the top of the network ratings race for the first time in its history. A stab at expanding into entertainment with a variety show starring Mr. Cosell failed in 1975. He told The Daily News in the fall of 1976, ''I would much rather have it on my tombstone that I did something important.''
        One Man in Two Demanding Jobs
        Mr. Arledge prevailed on ABC's management to let him run the network's troubled news division in 1977. In a first -- and last -- for the television industry, he continued to lead ABC Sports as well.
        But his achievements in sports meant little in the world of television news, the one place in network television where seriousness was sacrosanct. The reaction to Mr. Arledge's appointment ranged from skepticism to outright scorn. Time magazine suggested that the movie ''Network,'' about a television company without conscience, might be coming true. The headline in the article in The New York Times announcing Mr. Arledge's appointment read: ''Arledge Will Head ABC News: Disclaims Theatrical Flourishes.''
        Inside ABC News, the situation was, if anything, worse. ''Our reaction when Roone came in was hostility, suspicion,'' Ted Koppel said in 1989. ''We saw Roone as something of an interloper.''
        The reaction stunned Mr. Arledge, who believed he had proved himself in sports. ''I felt that my whole emphasis had been to elevate it,'' he told The Los Angeles Times in 1992. ''Getting rid of announcer approval, introducing journalism to it.''
        Mr. Arledge threw himself into news as he had into sports, spending lavishly to bring in new correspondents, anchors and producers, creating new programs.
        Mr. Arledge engaged in several personal campaigns to rebuild ABC News around an identifiable star. He first pursued Dan Rather of CBS, who was tempted by the force of Mr. Arledge's personality to jump networks. The wooing forced CBS to offer Mr. Rather its anchor job and to ask Walter Cronkite to step down six months early.
        After losing out on Mr. Rather, Mr. Arledge tried unsuccessfully to lure Tom Brokaw from NBC News. Those efforts, along with a later successful wooing of Diane Sawyer away from CBS, set off an escalation in the salaries of television's biggest news stars, which took the pay of a network anchor from about $650,000 for Walter Cronkite in 1980 to about $10 million for network anchors today.
        The ''60 Minutes'' correspondent Mike Wallace often said, ''Roone freed the slaves.''
        Without a star anchor to build around, Mr. Arledge emulated his ''Monday Night Football'' approach and went instead with three. He renamed ABC's newscast ''World News Tonight'' and put Frank Reynolds in Washington, Max Robinson in Chicago and Mr. Jennings in London. After a slow start, the show began to build a following. Mr. Arledge said to colleagues at the time that all he needed to break through was a big story.
        He found it in the fall of 1979, when a group of militant students seized the American Embassy in Tehran, Iran. Moving faster than the other networks, ABC got a correspondent, Bob Dyk, to the site, and for days had exclusive pictures of the unfolding events.
        But it was about 10 days later that Mr. Arledge seized control of the opportunity the situation presented. Struck by how many people in life, from his elevator man to people on the street, wanted to know everything they could about the events in Iran, he persuaded ABC's management to give him time to produce a news special every night at 11:30 on the crisis.
        Titled ''America Held Hostage,'' the program became a breakthrough for television news. Mr. Arledge had carved out a new beachhead, 30 minutes extra every night for his news division. When the Iran crisis ended more than 400 nights later, Mr. Arledge had his second program established, as well as a new star in the show's anchor, Mr. Koppel, whose skills in international reporting had found an outlet. Renamed ''Nightline,'' it went on to become one of the most critically praised programs in the history of television news. ''I'm prouder of that show than of almost anything I've ever done,'' Mr. Arledge said in a Newsweek interview.
        Mr. Arledge also created ABC's first newsmagazine, ''20/20,'' and made it a success after an infamously stumbling start, finding a home for another of ABC's news stars, Ms. Walters.
        Convinced that the traditional Sunday morning political talk show format was stale, he scrapped ''Issues and Answers'' and in 1981 instituted a new format built around his latest recruit, David Brinkley, the longtime NBC anchor. The new program quickly assumed leadership on Sundays.
        Finding the Profit in News
        Another change wrought by Mr. Arledge was in the expectation that a network news division could never turn a profit. Previously news divisions had been acceptable loss leaders for networks. But Mr. Arledge, with his expanding roster of successful programs, made money with ABC News, about $70 million a year by 1990, and the divisions at other networks were soon asked to do the same.
        Still, his success did not entirely protect him. When Capital Cities Communications bought ABC from its founder and owner Leonard Goldenson in 1985, a round of cost-cutting began, curbing Mr. Arledge's free-rein style. More significantly, the new management removed Mr. Arledge from his 25-year leadership of ABC Sports, which was then suffering financial losses.
        Mr. Arledge recovered from that blow to lead ABC News into its greatest period of prominence. By the start of the 1990's a new newsmagazine, ''Prime Time Live,'' had overcome another rocky start to become established as a second valuable entry on ABC's prime-time lineup and ''World News Tonight,'' anchored solely by Peter Jennings, was the top-rated newscast. ''Nightline'' remained the most prestigious news show in television.
        The success began to ebb in the mid-90's. Mr. Arledge's prerogatives were more and more challenged by the Capital Cities management. He suffered a number of reverses in his health, beginning with prostate cancer. He began to withdraw from day-to-day control of the division.
        After the Walt Disney Company acquired ABC in 1996, Mr. Arledge stepped back further. In 1998, the company appointed David Westin president of the division, with Mr. Arledge as chairman, functioning mainly in a consulting role.
        His contact with former colleagues in news and sports became sporadic, but always charmingly idiosyncratic. After not hearing from him for years, Mr. McKay got a call at midnight the first night of the 1992 Barcelona Olympics, the first time the Games were being covered by NBC, not ABC. Mr. McKay recalled that Mr. Arledge wanted to analyze NBC's coverage.
        ''The first thing he said was: 'You know what's missing? You.' He asked if we could talk every few nights about what was happening on NBC. Then, of course, he never called back,'' Mr. McKay said.
        But Mr. Arledge's imprint on the division, as well as all of the news and sports industry remained undimmed. ''He was always seeing just beyond the horizon,'' Ms. Sawyer said. ''You always felt if you could just follow his gaze, you could stay ahead of everyone.''
        Mr. McKay said Mr. Arledge's career achievements were ''huge and outsized, like the man himself.'' He added that they were also easy to sum up: ''He was the very best at what he did that there ever was.''
      