
        Sidney Glazier, the producer of the 1968 film comedy ''The Producers,'' died on Saturday in Bennington, Vt. He was 86.
        The movie, which earned an Oscar for Mel Brooks, its scriptwriter, tells the bizarre story of two crooked theatrical producers whose fraudulent moneymaking scheme requires that their new musical fail. But against all expectations, it turns out to be a hit and lands them in jail.
        The stage version on Broadway is based on the film.
        In 1965 Mr. Glazier produced ''The Eleanor Roosevelt Story,'' which won an Oscar that year for the best documentary feature.
        Other successful films produced by Mr. Glazier included ''Take the Money and Run'' (1969), starring Woody Allen, and ''Twelve Chairs'' (1970), with another Mel Brooks script, which was based on a satirical Russian novel.
        Less notable efforts were ''Quackser Fortune Has a Cousin in the Bronx'' (1970), with Gene Wilder, and ''Glen and Randa'' (1971), an oddity about a post-nuclear-disaster society.
        In 1973 Mr. Glazier turned his hand to television and produced ''Catholics,'' a drama about the clash between traditionalism and reform in the Roman Catholic Church after Vatican II, which won a Peabody Award.
        Born on May 29, 1916, in Philadelphia, Mr. Glazier was brought up in an orphanage there after his father died and his mother married another man who did not want her children in the house.
        After working as a theater usher and eventually manager, he joined the Army during World War II, serving in Australia and New Guinea. He then became an apprentice jeweler and ran a bar in New York City. Later his success as a saleman for State of Israel bonds led to his appointment as executive director of the Eleanor Roosevelt Cancer Foundation, and he became a friend of Mrs. Roosevelt.
        His two marriages ended in divorce. He is survived by an elder brother, Tom, of Philadelphia, and a daughter, Karen Shepard, of Williamstown, Mass.
      