
        Allan Frumkin, a distinguished dealer in European and American modern art who had galleries in New York and Chicago for more than 40 years, died Monday at a Manhattan hospital. He was 75.
        The cause was complications from Crohn's disease, his family said.
        A wiry man and a cigar smoker who never shied from expressing opinions, Mr. Frumkin cultivated a curmudgeonly veneer beneath which lurked a friendly sense of humor and a vast amount of information. His taste ran from West Coast Funk to European modern masters, the connecting thread being strong, often maverick sensibilities with overt drawing skills. He seemed equally at ease championing unknown or overlooked contemporary artists and sharing his expertise on Matisse drawings or Beckmann prints.
        In the early 1950's, his Chicago gallery was instrumental in introducing the European Surrealists. In one or both cities, he mounted first or early shows of H. C. Westermann, Peter Saul, Robert Arneson, Philip Pearlstein, Leon Golub and William T. Wiley; showed early Mondrian landscapes, Munch prints, Miró drawings and Matta pastels; and displayed African and pre-Columbian art.
        Like many dealers, he was also a collector. Two weeks ago, the St. Louis Art Museum acquired his collection of 382 prints by the German Expressionist Max Beckmann.
        Mr. Frumkin was born in Chicago in 1927. His parents gave him a lifetime membership to the Art Institute of Chicago, whose excellent drawing collection became a haunt. ''Drawing has been my touchstone,'' he said, ''and if an artist can't show me a good drawing, I get very uneasy.''
        He graduated from the University of Chicago and first intended to become an architectural historian. He took classes at the Chicago Institute of Design, where an invitation to organize the school's annual art auction gave him his first hands-on experience.
        Around 1950, setting out to familiarize himself with modern art, he visited Paris, Italy and England, and found that many doors were open to a young, green but interested American. He met, among many others, Matta, Léger, Henry Moore and Giacometti, some of whom became longtime friends. One thing led to another: Matta, whom he met in Italy, gave him a letter of introduction to Joseph Cornell, whom he visited in New York. Two months and about $2,000 later, he returned home with suitcase full of prints and drawings and ambitions to start a ''New York style painting gallery'' in Chicago.
        He opened in 1952, giving Cornell and Matta their first Chicago shows during his first season. He soon gave solo shows to Walter Murch, Franz Kline, Golub, Richard Diebenkorn, Saul Steinberg, June Leaf, Paul Klee and Emile Nolde.
        He opened his New York gallery in 1959 at 32 East 57th Street. He also took on the realist painters William Beckmann, James McGarrell and Jack Beal and the California artists Robert Hudson, Roy De Forest and Joan Brown.
        In the 1970's he joined forces with William Struve to form Frumkin-Struve in Chicago, which closed in 1980. In New York, he and his gallery director, George Adams, formed Frumkin-Adams, which became the George Adams Gallery in 1995. After retirement, Mr. Frumkin, continued to deal privately and also to look at the work of young artists.
        Mr. Frumkin is survived by his wife, Jean Frumkin; a sister, Reva Logan, of Chicago; two sons, Robert, of Brooklyn, and Peter, of Lincoln, Mass.; and three grandsons.
      