
        Warwick Charlton, a dreamer and schemer who got the idea that the world needed an exact replica of the Mayflower and made it happen, died on Dec. 10 in Bournemouth, England. He was 84.
        The cause was a heart attack, his son Randal said. He lived in a modest castle in Ringwood, Hampshire.
        Mr. Charlton bounced around Fleet Street, the British Broadcasting Corporation and the worlds of book publishing and public relations, but his heart was consumed with a grand vision. In 1945, he decided he wanted to thank the United States for its help in World War II by presenting a life-size facsimile of the Mayflower to Americans.
        He realized his dream on June 25, 1957, when the Mayflower II ended a 57-day voyage at Plymouth, Mass. Ever afterward, he always seemed at a bit of a loss about what to do next.
        One good idea was the International Award for Valor in Sport, which generated lots of publicity. Recipients included the first man to walk across the North Pole alone, and a man who hang glided from the summit of the world's second-highest mountain.
        But an amusement park in which visitors could travel back through the history of Merry England -- meeting knights, jugglers and such -- never quite made it, and neither did a museum on the meaning of time.
        The Mayflower triumph was impressive enough. Mr. Charlton had no money of his own, but raised what would today be the equivalent of several million dollars. He fought on despite angry creditors, striking shipyard workers, jealous keepers of the Pilgrims' torch in Massachusetts and ingrates who suggested his motives were less than pure -- meaning commercial. He loved the whole glorious mess.
        ''My father was, frankly, a wild man,'' Randal Charlton said. ''He offended at one time or another almost everybody he came into contact with.''
        Warwick Michael John Charlton was born in London on March 8, 1918. His father, also Randal, was a journalist and something of a dandy who wore morning coat, brocaded waistcoat and top hat as he made his reportorial rounds. His mother, an actress who had immigrated from Russia, died when he was 13.
        He went straight to Fleet Street after leaving boarding school at 18. He had already worked for several papers when he enlisted in the Royal Fusiliers just before his 20th birthday. He was transferred to intelligence, where he edited newspapers for British troops.
        He once faced a court-martial for his exposés on such things as the inadequacy of military pay to the poor quality of cigarettes. He was acquitted, but was transferred to the staff of Lord Mountbatten in India.
        His gratitude to America was for its help to the British war effort well before the United States had declared war itself. The specific Mayflower idea arose as he took an American troopship home after the war and found only one book to read, ''Of Plymouth Plantation 1620-1647,'' by William Bradford, the governor of the colony.
        Mr. Charlton returned to Fleet Street, and also started a BBC radio program on working people's concerns. He immediately began soliciting publishers and others for money for rebuilding the Mayflower. Most thought it was a good idea at lunch, but less inspired by teatime.
        His breakthrough was getting a £500 contribution from Felix Fenston, a businessman and yacht enthusiast. Mr. Fentson later gave far more, before parting with Mr. Charlton in a dispute over finances.
        Another fund-raising device was selling ''treasure chests'' containing a variety of British industrial products. He also persuaded the Mayflower moving company to pay for promotional rights.
        Mr. Charlton was surprised to discover that another group was simultaneously working on a Mayflower replica. Plimoth Plantation, which preserves and promotes Pilgrim history, a mission reflected by its use of the old spelling of the colony's name, had employed a naval architect to begin a design. The two organizations pledged to work together, with the British supplying the money and the Americans the historical research and design work.
        ''It is difficult to believe that in the mid-20th century there would be any group seriously interested in recreating a full size early 17th-century ship,'' William A. Baker, the architect who designed Mayflower II, wrote in his book ''The New Mayflower: Her Design and Construction (Barre Gazette, 1958). ''That there should be two such groups with the same ship in mind is almost inconceivable -- this is the fairy tale part of the project.''
        The merely 106.5-foot-long vessel faced one severe storm on its trans-Atlantic crossing, but Mr. Charlton was convinced it would end safely. His insurance was his insistence that the owner of the shipyard would accompany his creation, which was built with the same kind of tools used in the 17th century -- also at Mr. Charlton's insistence.
        More than 30 million people have visited the Mayflower at its anchorage at Plymouth. After traveling around the United States for three years giving lectures for the Mayflower moving company, Mr. Charlton went back to England, penniless. He worked in magazine journalism and wrote several books and plays.
        In addition to his son Randal, who lives in Detroit, Mr. Charlton is survived by his wife of 33 years, Belinda; his sons Michael of Rochester, Minn., and Alexander of London; his daughters Victoria Charlton of London, Rachel Anderson of Southend, England, Thea Charlton of Norfolk, England, and Caroline Charlton of London, 18 grandchildren and 5 great-grandchildren.
      