
        Dr. Emanuel Martin Papper, the founding chairman of the department of anesthesiology at Columbia University, died on Tuesday in Miami. He was 87 and had lived in Miami since moving from Riverdale, N.Y., in 1969.
        The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, his family said.
        The anesthesiology department at Columbia University was only the fourth such independent medical-school department when it opened 50 years ago; the others were at New York University, the University of Wisconsin and Oxford University in England. When Dr. Papper took over on Jan. 1, 1952, he was the youngest chairman of a medical department at Columbia.
        During his tenure, Dr. Papper built a strong reputation for research and training, with 38 of his students going on to lead the anesthesiology departments at universities across the United States and overseas. He strengthened his department's clinical stature by setting up anesthesiological subspecialties of pediatrics, obstetrics and neurosurgery.
        A native New Yorker, he was born to immigrant parents in a Harlem tenement. A scholarship helped him graduate from Columbia College in 1934, and he received his medical degree four years later from New York University, specializing in physiology.
        Dr. Papper did his residency at Bellevue Hospital in anesthesiology, then a fledgling clinical discipline. He spent World War II in military hospitals in the United States and returned to Bellevue as first assistant to the director of anesthesiology.
        In 1949 he was named director of anesthesiology service within the department of surgery at Columbia's College of Physicians and Surgeons. Appointed chairman of the separate new department, he stayed in that position until 1969.
        He left to become dean of the University of Miami School of Medicine, retiring after 10 years. He was a founding member of the Columbia Presbyterian Health Sciences Advisory Council in 1989 and a principal consultant to the Institute of General Medical Sciences of the National Institutes of Health.
        Dr. Papper's first wife, Julia Fisher Papper, died in 1974. He is survived by his wife of 27 years, Patricia Meyer Papper; two sons, Richard Papper of Manhattan and Patrick Goldstein of Los Angeles; a daughter, Amy Goldstein of Los Angeles; four grandchildren; and a great-granddaughter.
      