
        Edgar J. Scherick, a longtime film and television producer and executive, whose credits ranged from ''ABC's Wide World of Sports'' to films like ''The Stepford Wives'' and ''Rambling Rose'' and the recent HBO mini-series ''Path to War,'' died on Tuesday in Los Angeles. He was 78.
        The cause of death was complications of leukemia, said his publicists, Warren Cowan Associates.
        Mr. Scherick's career included successes in advertising, sports television, network entertainment programming and theatrical and television moviemaking.
        Known for his intensity and sometimes volatility, Mr. Scherick became a leader among independent Hollywood producers, defending the rights of television and movie producers when they were challenged in the mid-1990's. He spoke out against efforts by government leaders like former Senator Paul Simon of Illinois to impose restrictions on what the mediums could show.
        Many well-known figures in television and film got their starts working for Mr. Scherick, including Roone Arledge of ABC, who died on Thursday, and the film producers Scott Rudin and Brian Grazer.
        A native of New York, Mr. Scherick was an Army meteorologist in World War II and graduated with honors from Harvard after the war. He joined the Dancer-Fitzgerald Advertising Agency in 1950 and quickly began to specialize in sports television. He helped create the first weekly national telecasts of baseball with Dizzy Dean in the mid-1950's.
        After starting his own independent production company, Sports Programs Inc., in 1957, Mr. Scherick took an idea to ABC for a program that would go around the world, covering both famous and obscure sports events. The show was ''Wide World of Sports,'' and Mr. Scherick altered the future of both the program and television when he hired Mr. Arledge, eventually television's most influential sports executive, to become its lead producer.
        His company merged with ABC Sports in 1961, and in 1963 he became the network's chief programming executive. He brought several memorable shows to ABC, including ''Batman,'' ''The F.B.I.'' ''Bewitched'' and ''Peyton Place,'' television's first prime-time soap opera. He also produced a long list of successful films, including Woody Allen's ''Take the Money and Run,'' Neil Simon's '' Heartbreak Kid'' and the film version of the hit play 'Sleuth.''
        After he began to focus on television movies and mini-series, he earned a reputation for projects involving highly publicized events and books, including the rape trial of the boxer Mike Tyson, the Israeli raid on the Entebbe airport in Uganda and Doris Kearns Goodwin's biography ''The Kennedys of Massachusetts.''
        In an interview earlier this year in The Los Angeles Times, Mr. Scherick said he never stopped thinking of his next project. ''It's the impetus of my life,'' he said.
        He is survived by three sons, Gregory, Jay and Bradford; a daughter, Christine O'Brien; and seven grandchildren.
      