
        John Crosby, an impresario and occasional conductor who founded the Santa Fe Opera in 1957 and built it into one of the country's most important opera companies during his 44 seasons as its general director, died on Sunday at Eisenhower Memorial Hospital in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 76 years old and lived in Palm Springs and Santa Fe.
        Joyce O. Idema, a spokeswoman for the Santa Fe Opera, said the cause was complications following surgery for appendicitis.
        Mr. Crosby, whose career also included a decade as president of the Manhattan School of Music, starting in 1976, was revered in opera for his vision and adventurous spirit. At a time when there were few summer music festivals in the United States, he started a summer opera series that, although far from the urban centers where classical music flourished, quickly drew audiences from around the world.
        Making a virtue of necessity, he filled his casts with young, promising singers, many of whom went on to successful careers. He also started the now common practice of hiring fledgling singers as apprentices, to cover the lead roles, sing secondary ones and perform in the company's chorus.
        Although Mr. Crosby was famously soft-spoken, he knew how to bring attention to his company. In its first season, he invited Igor Stravinsky to Santa Fe to oversee a production of ''The Rake's Progress,'' a coup that immediately put the company on the international operatic radar screen. New and rarely heard works, in fact, were a central element in Mr. Crosby's plan for the company. Starting with Marvin David Levy's ''Tower,'' during the first season, he presented the world or American premieres of nearly 50 works during his tenure.
        Because Mr. Crosby was fascinated with the music of Richard Strauss, several of his less frequently heard operas had their American premieres at Santa Fe, with Mr. Crosby conducting.
        ''I felt that it would not make sense to try to run a museum of opera in a small mountain town like Santa Fe,'' Mr. Crosby told The New York Times at the time he announced his retirement from the company, in 2000. ''You can have all the 'Bohèmes' and 'Carmens' you want in New York, all winter, with brilliant international casts, and you don't have to come here to see them. But if you have an interest in some ususual thing,s then you will come along.''
        John O'Hea Crosby was born in New York on July 12, 1926, and attended schools in New York and Connecticut until, at age 13, he enrolled at the Los Alamos Boys School, in New Mexico, because he had asthma. He studied music at Yale University (where he was a student of Hindemith) and at Columbia University.
        While at Columbia in the late 1940's, he developed a passion for opera and began spending his evening in the standing-room section at the Metropolitan Opera. By the mid-50's, he began thinking about starting his own company. ''I was a youngster in New York,'' he said, ''one of this pool, if you will, of youngsters interested in music who did things like opera workshops. I played the violin in orchestras, I got to know singers and I knew instrumentalists. And we were talking about finding something to do in the summer in a nice place.''
        Santa Fe occurred to him as a possibility, he said, because the city was known for being hospitable to the arts -- particularly sculptors, authors and painters -- yet it had virtually no musical life. With $200,000, provided by his father, he bought a ranch, seven miles north of Santa Fe, in the Sangre de Cristo mountains. He built a 480-seat wooden theater on the grounds, hired a company of about 65, including singers, orchestra players and crew, and opened the company's first season with a performance of Puccini's ''Madama Butterfly'' on July 3, 1957, a few days short of his 31st birthday.
        The total budget for the first season was $110,000, of which about half was raised in donations, and the rest covered by ticket sales. By the time Mr. Crosby retired as general director, in 2000, the company had a payroll of 550, and an annual budget of $11 million. It was also on its third theater: the original burned down in 1967. A second, which seated 1,890, was the company's home for 30 years. It was replaced by a 2,130-seat house in 1998.
        The house affords a breathtaking view over the mountains; often during productions, the audience cansee electrical storms in the distance. Mr. Crosby personally oversaw the aesthetic aspects of his domain. In the early years he made his patch of the New Mexico desert green by planting lawns, poplar trees and white petunias, the latter chosen so that they could be seen at night.
        Mr. Crosby's work in Santa Fe helped opera spread to other cities. Most notably, the Opera Theater of St. Louis, also a summer festival that specializes in new works and rarities, was founded in 1976 by Richard Gaddes, who had worked as an administrator at Santa Fe.
        ''That was not a coincidence,'' said Mr. Gaddes, who returned to Santa Fe in 1988, and was appointed Mr. Crosby's successor in 2000. ''I always say that John Crosby sired the Opera Theater of St. Louis. The whole concept was modeled on Santa Fe.''
        After his retirement Mr. Crosby returned to Santa Fe as a guest conductor. His last appearance was in the pit for Verdi's ''Traviata'' this past summer. In addition to his work at Santa Fe and at the Manhattan School, he was president of Opera America from 1976 to 1980. He was awarded the National Medal of the Arts in 1991, and the Officer's Cross of the Federal German Order of Merit in 1992.
        Mr. Crosby is survived by a brother, James O'Hea Crosby, of Coral Gables, Fla.
      