
        Noel Regney, who helped write the beloved Christmas song ''Do You Hear What I Hear?'' died last Sunday in Brewster, N.Y. He was 80.
        He wrote the seasonal standard with Gloria Shayne, then his wife, in 1962. It was recorded by Bing Crosby and Perry Como, among others, in more than 120 versions, in musical styles ranging from jazz and New Age to funk and reggae.
        But Mr. Regney wrote it as a clear and plaintive plea for peace at the time of the Cuban missile crisis, in October 1962. His favorite version was Robert Goulet's. When Mr. Goulet came to the line ''Pray for peace, people, everywhere,'' he almost shouted the words.
        ''I am amazed that people can think they know the song -- and not know it is a prayer for peace,'' Mr. Regney said in an interview in The New York Times in 1985. ''But we are so bombarded by sound and our attention spans are so short that we now listen only to catchy beginnings.''
        Mr. Regney was drafted into the Nazi army despite being a Frenchman. He soon deserted and joined a group of French resistance fighters. While still with the Germans, he once intentionally led his platoon toward a group of French partisans and was shot, his stepdaughter, Patricia Spiegel, said in an interview with The Associated Press.
        Mr. Regney was born in Strasbourg, France, and studied at conservatories in Strasbourg, Salzburg and Paris. War interrupted his education in classical music.
        After the war, he was musical director of the Indochinese Service of Radio France from 1948 to 1950 and worked as director of the Lido nightclub in Paris. In 1951, he left France to take a world tour as musical director for the French singer Lucienne Boyer.
        In 1952, he settled in Manhattan, working for early television shows as an arranger, composer and conductor. He also wrote radio jingles.
        One day he wandered into the dining room of a Manhattan hotel and saw a beautiful woman playing popular music on the piano. He introduced himself, and in a month he was married to Ms. Shayne, according to ''Stories Behind the Best-Loved Songs of Christmas'' by Ace Collins (Zondervan, 2001).
        The couple began writing songs, including ''Rain, Rain, Go Away,'' ''Sweet Little Darlin','' ''Goodbye, Cruel World'' and ''What's the Use of Crying,'' which were sung by Jo Stafford, Eddie Fisher, James Darren, Bobbie Vinton, Danny Kaye, Doris Day and Marlene Dietrich, who sang Mr. Regney's ''Another Day, Another Love.''
        With Soeur Sourire, known as the Singing Nun, Mr. Regney wrote ''Dominique,'' a hit song in 1963. He also wrote other Christmas songs, mainly with Ms. Shayne, including ''I Sing Noël'' and ''Three Wise Men, Three.''
        ''Do You Hear What I Hear?'' had its origin when Mr. Regney was asked to write the flip side of a single that was expected to become a hit, according to an interview he gave in The Ridgefield Press in Connecticut.
        He wrote the lyrics, based on his vision of a newborn lamb. He handed it to his wife and asked her to write the tune, the reverse of their usual procedure. She was shopping at Bloomingdale's when she thought of the first music line.
        The finished version of the song moved the two creators so much that at first they could not sing it. ''It broke us up,'' she said in the interview with The Ridgefield Press.
        Regent Publishing Company bought the song after the flip-side deal fell through. The Harry Simeon Chorale recorded it, and it sold more than 250,000 copies in a week. Bing Crosby's version in 1963 sold more than a million copies.
        The couple moved to Ridgefield in 1969 and were divorced several years later. Mr. Regney later lived in South Salem, Bethel and, most recently, Danbury, all in Connecticut.
        He is survived by his wife, Susan Petrie Spiegel-Regney; two sons, Matthieu, of Bethel, and Paul, of Bangkok; a daughter, Gabrielle Regney, of the Bronx; a stepdaughter, Patricia Spiegel, of Danbury; a brother and a sister who both live in the Alsace-Lorraine region of France; and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  December 14, 2002, Saturday  An obituary on Dec. 1 about Noel Regney, who wrote the Christmas song ''Do You Hear What I Hear?'' misspelled the surname of the chorale arranger and conductor whose group recorded it. He was Harry Simeone, not Simeon.
      