
        It is not at all hard to see why Billy Pearson, the jockey, art expert, big-time television quiz show winner, bon vivant and gallery owner who died at 82 on Thanksgiving Day, attracted the friendship and admiration of people like the director John Huston, the singer Andy Williams, the actor Sterling Hayden and the columnist Herb Caen, not to mention the six women Mr. Pearson married.
        It was also not surprising that his friend the playwright Sam Shepard dedicated ''Fool for Love'' to him.
        His last wife, Margaret Pearson, whom he wed 21 years ago, said he died from pneumonia in Kingston, N.Y. She said news of his death was not made public until last week because it took time for his far-flung family to assemble in Kingston and because the family was in private mourning. Mr. Pearson is also survived by four daughters: Mia, Enrica, Sarah Luck and Cody Pearson.
        In his younger days, Mr. Pearson would no doubt have scorned any suggestion that he would live as long as he did. Not only had he suffered many racetrack injuries, but he also passionately defended his devil-may-care way of life. He called his 1958 autobiography ''Don't Look Back,'' a prescription for living both on and off the track. In a profile in Parade magazine, ''How I Squandered a Million Dollars,'' he declared, ''I am reconciled to the fact that I will never get out of this life alive, and while I'm still breathing, I'm going to live it up.''
        He smoked, he drank and he gambled. As Huston wrote in the preface to Mr. Pearson's autobiography, ''He's just hard to kill, I guess.'' Mr. Pearson seemed to get away with everything. He won 826 races around the world, though he never hid his contempt for horses. ''They are dumber than canaries and don't know a thing about art,'' he told Caen, of The San Francisco Chronicle.
        He started collecting antique quilts and became an expert. That led to studying and acquiring more American folk art. A high school dropout, he started teaching himself about art and artists, learning from art lovers who owned some of his mounts, among them Huston and Baron Philippe de Rothschild.
        In 1956 Mr. Pearson's knowledge of art gained him national fame when his answers in the isolation booth to questions on art won the top prize on ''The $64,000 Question.'' He became one of the stars of the show, whose popularity ultimately faded after disclosures that some contestants had been coached. No such allegations ever touched Mr. Pearson, who used part of his prize to buy an early version of Edward Hicks's painting ''The Peaceable Kingdom.''
        The rest of his winnings were spent elsewhere. As he told Art Buchwald, ''I had obligations to bookies, dice tables, Ferraris, imported wines and friends I had never met before.''
        In fact, he said, other obligations, to the Internal Revenue Service, forced him to appear on ''The 64,000 Challenge,'' where he won the top prize again.
        With Huston's help he opened galleries in La Jolla, Calif., and San Francisco that specialized in pre-Columbian art. They prospered, and Mr. Pearson gradually appeared more willing to burn his candles at only one end. He amassed much-admired collections of painted Hungarian dowry chests, Navajo blankets and photographs from World War I in addition to American folk art. In 1996 he was named one of the top 100 collectors in America by Art and Antiques magazine.
        In his 40's, Mr. Pearson would often say that what he really wanted was to collect houses. In the 1980's he started to do just that, buying and restoring an abandoned farmhouse 75 miles north of San Francisco. It was the first of 17 houses that he acquired, rebuilt and filled with art.
        Three of these homes were featured in Architectural Digest: that first farmhouse, on the Russian River, which Mr. Caen described as ''a traffic stopper if there were any traffic''; an old house in Dordrecht, the Netherlands, where Mr. Pearson and his wife, also a collector and art dealer, lived for six years; and the 1730 stone house in Kingston, to which the family moved in 1993.
        Bill Austin Pearson was born in Chicago in 1920 and was raised in Pasadena, Calif. During the Depression he was in the Civilian Conservation Corps. At 5 foot 2 and 105 pounds, he was advised to give up boxing and try his luck with horses. He began as an exercise rider and became a jockey racing on tracks around the world. It was while he was recovering from a serious accident in 1941 that a fellow jockey sent him a book on quilts as a dark joke, suggesting that his future lay in sewing. He returned to racing but started buying quilts.
      