
        Grote Reber, a pioneering radio astronomer who built the first substantial radio telescope dedicated to astronomy and put it in his backyard in Wheaton, Ill., died on Friday in Tasmania, Australia, his home for some 50 years. He was 90.
        Mr. Reber was an engineering student in 1931 when Karl Jansky of Bell Telephone Laboratories, using a large antenna system, made his famous discovery of cosmic radio waves emanating from beyond the solar system.
        Mr. Jansky's results received little attention from other scientists at the time, but Mr. Reber, who was also a ham radio operator, set out to determine whether the waves were coming only from the galaxy or from other celestial objects.
        In 1937, using about a half-year's worth of salary he had saved from jobs at various radio manufacturers, Mr. Reber erected his telescope.
        But much like Mr. Jansky's accomplishment, Mr. Reber's invention went relatively unnoticed, garnering the attention only of his puzzled neighbors.
        ''Jansky's discovery that the galaxy was giving off radio waves was considered such a strange finding at the time that no one appreciated it or followed up on it, except for Reber,'' said Dr. Woodruff Sullivan, an astronomer and a historian of science at the University of Washington.
        ''The two of them were the pioneers of radio astronomy,'' Dr. Sullivan said. ''Before Reber, there was no radio astronomy -- just 'astronomy' because people only used optical telescopes.''
        Mr. Reber based his design for the telescope on a simple optical mirror, but on a much larger scale. A curved, or parabolic, dish was used to focus a wide range of radio frequencies. Made of sheet metal, the dish had a diameter of 31.4 feet and could focus radio waves to a point 20 feet above it.
        A radio receiver that could amplify faint cosmic signals by a factor of several million was attached to the telescope, making the waves strong enough to be recorded and charted.
        After two years of developing and testing receivers and roaming the sky with his telescope nightly, Mr. Reber published ''Cosmic Static,'' a series of articles in The Astrophysical Journal that many scientists today use to mark the birth of intentional radio astronomy.
        In 1944, he created the first contour radio map of the sky, with brighter areas indicating richer radio sources, the brightest being the center of the Milky Way.
        Mr. Reber made increasingly detailed measurements and published them over the years in many prestigious journals, like Nature and The Journal of Geophysical Research.
        The results of his surveys helped establish radio astronomy as a major field after World War II and his seminal radio telescope paved the way for the landmark discoveries of quasars, pulsars and the remnant glow left over from the Big Bang.
        Mr. Reber went on to receive a number of major awards usually reserved for professional astronomers, including the American Astronomical Society's highest honor in 1962 and several lectureships.
        Grote Reber was born in Chicago in 1911 and earned his bachelor's degree from the Armour Institute of Technology, now the Illinois Institute of Technology. He worked for the National Bureau of Standards in the late 1940's, before leaving for Hawaii and, ultimately, Tasmania to study the cosmos through holes in the layer of charged particles, or ionosphere, in the earth's atmosphere.
        Mr. Reber's original radio telescope is on display at the National Radio Astronomy Observatory's site in Green Bank, W. Va., alongside a full-scale replica of Mr. Jansky's antenna.
      