
        Ralph Turner Millet, who helped Saab of Sweden establish itself in the American market when it began building cars almost a half-century ago, died on Friday at a hospital in Middletown, Conn. He was 85 and had lived in Old Saybrook.
        The cause was heart disease, his family said.
        Both Mr. Millet and Saab came to cars through aeronautics, Saab having been a Scandinavian builder of fighter aircraft and Mr. Millet an importer of aviation gear, including Saab's.
        With the fighter-plane market at an ebb after World War II, Saab -- short for Svenska Aeroplan Aktiebolaget, or the Swedish Aircraft Corporation -- tinkered with the idea of building a small car in the image of the Volkswagen Beetle, which was hitting its stride in the United States.
        Over dinner in Minneapolis after a trade meeting of parts suppliers, Saab's president met with Mr. Millet, then the company's American purchasing agent, to plot the move into car manufacturing.
        The first Saab car, which had a peculiar two-cycle engine and front-wheel drive, faced an uncertain start. But the new producer received a decent welcome at the 1956 New York International Auto Show, some dealers came forward, and Mr. Millet, who became president of Saab Motors Inc., was in business.
        The company's initial success in this country stalled a decade or two later, when Japanese and then American automakers introduced their own models of small cars.
        Saab in time reinvented itself as a maker of more sleek, upscale vehicles, and Mr. Millet was given much of the credit for securing the brand's niche as a favored traveling companion over the wintry roads of New England.
        Today, the Saab car unit is owned by General Motors, which bought full control of the unit in 2000.
        Mr. Millet, a longtime spokesman for his industry, was a past president and chairman of the Automobile Importers of America. Having emphasized safety as a main selling point for Saab, he joined the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration's advisory council when the issue of auto safety became a concern in the late 1960's.
        He often testified before legislative bodies, speaking for the importers. He also continued as a consultant to Saab and until recently represented it in the trade group, now called the Association of International Automobile Manufacturers.
        Mr. Millet is survived by his wife of 41 years, Gunlog Jansson Millet; two sons, Francis N., of Clinton, Conn., and Charles G., of Dedham, Mass.; two daughters, Kristine R. Millet, also of Dedham, and Stella Bearse of Alexandria, Va.; and two grandsons. His first wife, Elsie Johnston Millet, died in 1959.
        A native of Boston, Ralph Millet graduated from the Boston Latin School and received an advanced degree in aeronautical engineering from M.I.T. in 1940. He served in the Army Air Corps, rising to the rank of lieutenant colonel.
        After mustering out, he went into business handling procurements, like trying to find body presses for Saab cars. He saw the first prototype in 1948, but it took several years to put the concept on wheels and, with his help, into the American market.
        In the 1980's, he also helped introduce the company's Scania trucks and buses in this country. Mr. Millet attended Saab dealer and owner conventions in the United States and abroad, traveling as recently as last summer to meetings in Sweden and Cincinnati.
      