
        Nani Palkhivala, a leading Indian constitutional lawyer and civil rights advocate who vigorously opposed the state of emergency imposed by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi from 1975 to 1977 and was rewarded with the Washington ambassadorship when she fell from power, died on Wednesday in Bombay. He was 82.
        He died after a heart attack, The Associated Press reported.
        When Mrs. Gandhi's 1971 election to the lower house of the Indian Parliament was challenged by her defeated opponent on the ground of corruption, Mr. Palkhivala agreed to lead her legal defense team out of principal, even though he had been a staunch opponent of her government and belonged to no political party himself.
        After the High Court of Allahabad ruled against Mrs. Gandhi on June 11, 1975, but granted her a 20-day stay for an appeal to the Supreme Court, opposition leaders started a civil disobedience campaign to try to force her to resign. But when she responded on June 26 by declaring a state of emergency, Mr. Palkhivala immediately resigned as her lawyer.
        During the 19-month suspension of civil liberties that followed, Mr. Palkhivala fought Mrs. Gandhi's suspension of constitutional rights. After she lost the 1977 election, the new prime minister, Moraji R. Desai, appointed Mr. Palkhivala to be India's ambassador to the United States.
        The selection of so well-known an opponent of the state of emergency for this post was widely seen as a sign that the new Indian government was seeking better relations with President Jimmy Carter and the United States in general, now that the country was once again the world's biggest democracy.
        After Mrs. Ghandi's electoral defeat, Mr. Palkhivala wrote that ''the gruesome nightmare is over.'' But two years later, in 1979, he was recalled after a scandal erupted in India, when he was photographed helping Lillian Carter, Mr. Carter's mother, put on a shoe. This was deeply shocking to many Indians, who regard shoes as unclean.
        Nani Adeshir Palkhivala was born in Bombay on Jan. 16, 1920. He was educated at St. Xavier's College in Bombay and then at the Government Law College there.
        He became an unusual figure in Indian life, working as a private lawyer and businessman while earning widespread popular respect for his views on current events.
        Every year thousands of people would pack a Bombay cricket stadium to hear him expound in flowery English on that year's Indian budget. Mr. Palkhivala also wrote a number of books, mainly on tax law. He was a director of several prominent Indian companies, including the Tata group, one of the country's largest privately owned industrial conglomerates.
        In his later years, Mr. Palkhivala became increasingly critical of the way India was being governed, attacking its administration as bloated and sclerotic and pointing to its failure to raise basic living standards more quickly, to privatize state-owned companies and to limit population growth.
        In 1990, he wrote that ''the most persistent tendency in India is to have too much government but too little administration; too many laws and too little justice; too many public servants and too little public service; too many controls and too little welfare.''
        His wife, Nargesh H. Matbar, died two years ago. They had no children.
      