
        Hank Luisetti, who changed the game of basketball with his running one-handed shots while playing for Stanford in the 1930's, died last Tuesday in San Mateo, Calif. He was 86.
        On the night of Dec. 30, 1936, a crowd of 17,623 turned out at the old Madison Square Garden to see Long Island University, the nation's No. 1 team, oppose Stanford, the defending Pacific Coast Conference champion.
        L.I.U. had a 43-game winning streak, but there was another reason the Garden was packed. The crowd had come to see Luisetti, Stanford's 6-foot-2, 185-pound sophomore, shoot the ball with one hand while he hung in the air, in defiance of basketball style. At the time, everyone else was shooting two-handed set shots or hook shots.
        Luisetti executed his strange new maneuver on the run, lifting the ball away from his ear. He would navigate past a defender, reach the foul line and launch the ball.
        Although Stanford ended the L.I.U. winning streak with a 45-31 victory, something more important happened. The resulting publicity surrounding Luisetti's shooting style changed the game forever.
        Over the years, Luisetti's simple one-handed push shot led to the graceful deception of Earl Monroe, the showmanship of Julius Erving, the long-range consistency of Larry Bird and the acrobatics of Michael Jordan.
        Luisetti appeared to be everywhere in that L.I.U. game, stealing the ball, rebounding it, passing it with accuracy and lofting his one-handers from every angle.
        ''My first basket came after a fake and a pivot near the foul line,'' he once recalled. ''It was over one of their big men. He looked at me and said, 'You lucky so-and-so.' He didn't say another word when the next one dropped in.''
        When Luisetti left the game having scored 15 points, the crowd stood and cheered.
        But even as Luisetti's shooting style was spreading throughout the East, the establishment felt it was not the right way to play.
        ''That's not basketball,'' Nat Holman, the City College coach, said at the time. ''If my boys ever shot one-handed, I'd quit coaching.''
        Five years later, Joe Lapchick, the St. John's coach, said: ''I can't be persuaded that two on the ball doesn't make for far superior shot control and a greater percentage of hits.''
        As the years went by, more jump shooters emerged and coaches changed their thinking.
        ''Hank was an amazing marksman,'' Holman said later. ''He also was a spectacular dribbler and an astonishingly deft passer. He was one of the finest and most complete players I ever saw.''
        Luisetti was the college player of the year in 1937 and 1938 and finished his Stanford career with a four-year total of 1,596 points, a record at the time.
        He finished second to George Mikan in an Associated Press news media poll to select the best player in the first half of the 20th century. He was elected to the Basketball Hall of Fame in 1959.
        After college, he played for the Phillips 66ers, an outstanding amateur team. He was a regional president of a San Francisco area travel business until his retirement in 1985.
        Luisetti is survived by his companion, Nancy Gommeringer; a son, Steven, of Sacramento; a daughter, Nancy, of St. Louis; and several grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
        Angelo Enrico Luisetti, a native of San Francisco, was already using his one-hand shot while leading Galileo High School to city championships in the early 1930's.
        ''Shooting two-handed, I just couldn't reach the basket,'' The San Francisco Chronicle quoted him as once having said. ''I was lucky with my coaches in high school and college, I guess, because I made the baskets, they left me alone and didn't try to change my shots.''
      