
        Bobby Joe Hill, who led Texas Western's all-black starting five to the 1966 National Collegiate Athletic Association men's basketball championship with its victory over Kentucky's all-white team, died last Sunday at a hospital in El Paso. He was 59.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his daughter, Michelle Shetfield.
        The game made a lasting impression on many, including Rick Majerus, then 18, who went on to become the University of Utah coach. ''It was one of the most meaningful victories in the history of sports -- the Schmeling-Louis fight of college basketball,'' he said in 1996.
        In the era when Hill played, few important college teams started more than two or three black players.
        When Don Haskins, coach of Texas Western, was asked if he had a racial quota, he said: ''No. No one I worked for has ever mentioned it.''
        Years later, Haskins said: ''I guess I really didn't give much thought to it, and I didn't give a lot of thought to it before we played Kentucky for the national championship. I just thought about beating them. I really didn't know until after the game, and I got bushelsful of hate mail, how important that game was. All I did was play my best people. It was that simple.''
        Hill was the 5-foot-9 point guard for Texas Western, now the University of Texas-El Paso. The championship game, matching teams with 26-1 records, was played at the University of Maryland's Cole Field House, and Texas Western won, 72-65. Hill set the tempo in the first half when he stole the ball on two consecutive possessions and scored on layups. He was the game's leading scorer with 20 points and was chosen for the all-tournament team.
        Kentucky had never had a black player (it would a few years later). Its crusty coach, Adolph Rupp, had said, ''No five blacks are going to beat Kentucky.'' But Texas Western, with most of its players from the inner-city areas of Detroit, New York and Chicago, did.
        After the game, when Rupp was asked about Hill, he said, ''He's a good little boy, but there's a lot of good little boys around this year.''
        Haskins was proud of his team, saying that 10 of the 12 players earned degrees and all had successful lives after college. For years, Hill had close relationships with many teammates, notably Dave Lattin and Willie Worsley, and there were laughs and tears when the team had a reunion in February.
        Tyrone Bobby Joe Hill was born June 12, 1943, in Highland Park, Mich., in the metropolitan Detroit area, and grew up in Highland Park. After college, he worked for 30 years for the El Paso Natural Gas Company, retiring in 1996 as executive senior buyer.
        In addition to his daughter, an assistant district attorney in El Paso, he is survived by his wife, Waltina; three sisters, Patricia Donaldson, Loretta Pough and Shirley Taylor; a brother, Virgil; and his mother, Etta, all of Highland Park.
        Hill regretted that the race issue overshadowed his team's accomplishments.
        ''That whole year was about the team,'' he said. ''I didn't look at any guys as black or white.''
        At least one member of that Kentucky team shared his view. In 1997, when Haskins was elected to the Basketball Hall of Fame in Springfield, Mass., he had received a letter of recommendation from a star of that Kentucky team who later became an outstanding professional coach, Pat Riley.
      