
        Orlando Villas-Boas, the last survivor of three pioneering brothers who were instrumental in exploring Brazil's vast interior in the 1940's and protecting the native Indians they found there, died today after a long illness. He was 88.
        Mr. Villas-Boas, who was born Jan. 12, 1914, in Santa Cruz do Rio Pardo, a sleepy town in São Paulo State, was dubbed ''the Indians' friend'' for his role in establishing the 46,000-square-mile Xingu Indigenous National Park, Brazil's first protected area for Indians.
        The reservation became synonymous with Brazil's efforts -- successful there, if not everywhere -- to protect indigenous peoples. The park was a byproduct of the Roncador-Xingu expedition, which started in 1943 and continued for 17 years, reaching into the heart of the Amazon and yielding contacts with more than 100 indigenous tribes.
        With his brothers, Cláudio and Leonardo, Mr. Villas-Boas was among the pioneers who helped open 1,000 miles of jungle paths, chart six previously unknown rivers and discover at least 18 Indian villages.
        Under orders from President Getúlio Vargas, they also built airstrips to consolidate control over the vast, untamed tropical territory known in Portuguese as the Sertão.
        The brothers were initially rejected by expedition leaders as too scrawny. In an interview last year, Mr. Villas-Boas recalled how they then followed the pioneers into the bush. At base camp, they were spotted as literate, and immediately hired as camp secretary, warehouse manager and personnel chief.
        The brothers were all admirers of Cândido Rondon, a military man who hunted big game with Theodore Roosevelt and founded Brazil's first Indian protection agency. They followed Mr. Rondon's motto for outsiders coming into contact with indigenous tribes, ''Die maybe, kill never.''
        ''Then, the old idea that the Indian was a beast was common currency,'' Mr. Villas-Boas said in the interview at his São Paulo home last year. ''But what we showed to Brazilian society was that we had made contact with communities that were at peace, full of joy.''
        At the end of the expedition, in 1960, the brothers began to lobby the government to create a reservation where Indians could live and defend their traditions against the encroachment of modern Brazil.
        They cleared an airstrip and built a medical station, staffed in 1963 by a young nurse, Marina, who became Mr. Villas-Boas's wife. She treated diseases such as influenza and measles that were fatal to the Indians.
        The brothers' main rules for the reservation were: keep other Brazilians and tourists out; do not impose white man's logic; do not meddle in village affairs, and, in more recent times, keep the medicinal knowledge of traditional healers out of the hands of so-called biotech pirates who sell such knowledge to pharmaceutical companies.
        After Leonardo's death in 1961, the two surviving brothers were nominated in 1971 and again in 1975 for the Nobel Peace Prize. Cláudio died in 1998 and two years later, after being fired unceremoniously in a fax as a consultant to Funai, the government Indian protection agency, Mr. Villas-Boas settled down to write his memoirs, adding to a series of books about Indian traditions that the three brothers had written over the years.
        Last year, on the death of novelist Jorge Amado, Mr. Villas-Boas stood for election to Brazil's Academy of Arts and Letters, but lost out to the mystic writer Paulo Coelho.
        During his stay in the interior, Mr. Villas-Boas suffered at least 287 attacks of malaria and, later in life, a stroke, but it was after a fall at his home in 2000 that his health started downhill. He was hospitalized in Albert Einstein Hospital in São Paulo on Nov. 14 and died of multiple organ failure brought on by an intestinal infection, according to a medical report.
        He is survived by his wife and two sons, Orlando Jr. and Noel.
      