
        Charley Lupica, a Cleveland grocer who became something of a national celebrity when he perched atop a flagpole for 117 days in the summer of 1949 hoping to inspire his beloved Indians to win the American League pennant, died Tuesday at a nursing home in Westlake, Ohio. He was 90.
        The old-time Boston Red Sox had their Royal Rooters, the Brooklyn Dodgers had Hilda Chester and her cowbell, but Lupica may have been the ultimate baseball fan.
        It all began when he argued with some Yankee rooters in Cleveland.
        ''These four fellows were hollering about how lousy the Indians are, and how the Yankees were going to beat them in '49,'' Lupica told The Plain Dealer of Cleveland in 1995. ''So I spoke up and said, 'If you love the Yankees so much, why don't you move there?'
        ''And they said, 'Well, if you like the Indians so much, why don't you sit on a flagpole until you die up there?' ''
        Lupica built a four-foot-square platform, attached it to a flagpole atop his grocery and vowed to remain perched 60 feet in the air until the Indians took first place or were eliminated from the pennant race.
        He climbed his flagpole on May 31, when Cleveland was seven games behind the first-place Yankees.
        Newspapers soon learned of the stunt, Lupica recalled, ''and then I was stuck.''
        ''They had me all over the front page,'' he said. ''I couldn't come down if I'd wanted to.''
        Restaurants donated food, and businesses provided him with a radio, a television and a phone. The Boston Braves, beaten by the Indians in the 1948 World Series, sent a pair of red pajamas, and Indians pitcher Satchel Paige paid a visit. Life magazine dispatched a photographer.
        Temperatures sometimes reached more than 100 degrees and youngsters bombarded Lupica with firecrackers on the Fourth of July. But he stayed put, even when his wife, Augustine, give birth to Charles Jr., their fourth child, on Aug. 7.
        But the Indians never caught the Yankees, who won the pennant in a battle with the Red Sox. Bill Veeck, the Indians' owner and a master of promotional flair, severed the flagpole and transported Lupica, still atop it, by truck to Municipal Stadium for Cleveland's final home game of the season, on Sept. 25. Lupica descended to cheers from a crowd of 33,977, kissed home plate and received a new automobile from Veeck.
        On Oct. 3, 1993, when the Indians played their last game at the stadium before moving to Jacobs Field, Lupica was a guest of the club.
        In addition to his son Charles Jr., of Fairview Park, Ohio, Lupica is survived by a son Carl, of North Olmsted, Ohio; two daughters, Margaret Izzo, of North Olmsted, and Nicoletta Chicwak, of Cleveland; two sisters, Ann Colagiovanni, of Shaker Heights, Ohio, and Josephine Fazio, of Deland, Fla.; 20 grandchildren; and 28 great-grandchildren.
        The Indians have yet to win a World Series in the years since Lupica staged his airborne cheerleading, but he remained the dedicated fan.
        ''He watched or listened to every single game this year,'' his grandson Giovanni Izzo said Thursday. ''He kept saying, 'They're going to do it again.' ''
      