
        John Downing Weaver, a writer whose research set right a historical wrong done to 167 black infantrymen in Brownsville, Tex., 96 years ago, died on Dec. 4 in Las Vegas, where he moved from Los Angeles 10 years ago. He was 90.
        Angelenos celebrated him as their chronicler. He devoted much of his writing to his adopted city and, among other things, wrote its entry in the current edition of the Encyclopaedia Britannica.
        Nationally, he was best known for ''The Brownsville Raid: The Story of America's Black Dreyfus Affair'' (Norton, 1970). The book recalled the incident of 1906 in which an all-black Army unit stationed at nearby Fort Brown was blamed for a burst of gunfire that left a white resident dead and another wounded.
        Unit commanders said they thought all their men were in their barracks at the time, and the men denied knowing anything. The Brownsville mayor and others testified otherwise and produced spent rifle shells to prove their case.
        There was evidence that the shells had been planted to frame the men, but investigators accepted the words of the accusers. President Theodore Roosevelt affirmed an order to cashier 167 soldiers for conspiring to remain silent.
        A United States Senate committee upheld the president's action in 1908, and there the Brownsville affair rested for many years. It came to the fore again with the civil rights movement.
        Mr. Weaver took up the subject because of things told to him as a child and long forgotten. His father, Henry B. Weaver, the official reporter for the House of Representatives, had served earlier as the government's reporter in the rather perfunctory Brownsville inquiry.
        His interest piqued, John Weaver revisited the case and its piles of dusty records; his painstakingly documented book reopened the argument for the men's innocence. The Army followed up with a new investigation and, in 1972, ordered the men's honor posthumously restored.
        Mr. Weaver was born in Washington and graduated from the College of William and Mary in 1932. He received an M.A. from George Washington University in 1933 and served in the Army Signal Corps in World War II.
        He held jobs with the National Recovery Administration and worked as a reporter, feature writer and editor at The Kansas City Star before becoming a freelance writer in 1940. He wrote articles, book reviews and short stories for national publications and was West Coast editor for Holiday and Travel & Leisure magazines in the 1960's and 1970's.
        His portraits of Los Angeles were presented in ''Pueblo Grande: Los Angeles From the Brush Huts of Yangna to the Skyscrapers of the Modern Metropolis'' (1973) and ''Los Angeles: The Enormous Village'' (1980).
        He edited ''Glad Tidings: A Friendship in Letters: The Correspondence of John Cheever and John D. Weaver, 1945-1982'' (1993), and wrote several other books, including a 1967 biography of Earl Warren, the 15th chief justice of the United States.
        Mr. Weaver's first wife, Harriett Sherwood Weaver, died in 1988. His survivors include his second wife, Chica; a brother, William, of New York City; and two sisters, Jane Poulton of Durham, N.C., and Ann Naylor of Chapel Hill, N.C.
        Correction:  December 25, 2002, Wednesday  A picture caption on Monday with the obituary of the author of ''The Brownsville Raid: The Story of America's Black Dreyfus Affair'' misstated his middle name. As the article said, he is John Downing Weaver, not Browning.
      