
        Gabriel A. Almond, a political scientist who did groundbreaking research on comparative politics, political development and political culture, died on Dec. 25 in Pacific Grove, Calif. He was 91.
        His son Peter said the Almond family was gathered for its annual Christmas retreat at Asilomar, a conference center in Pacific Grove, when he fell ill. He lived in Palo Alto, Calif., where he had once been chairman of the political science department at Stanford University.
        Dr. Almond incorporated sociology, psychology, anthropology and other social sciences into his political science studies. His research subjects included the politics of nations that had become independent since World War II, Communism and how American public opinion affects foreign policy.
        His last essay, ''Foreign Policy and Theology in Ancient Israel,'' and the eighth edition of his textbook ''Comparative Politics Today'' are to be published this year, Lisa Trei, a spokeswoman for Stanford, said.
        This year, the University of Chicago Press will publish ''Strong Religions,'' part of a series of books on fundamentalist religions on which Dr. Almond had collaborated in recent years.
        Dr. Almond's work resulted in 18 books, many written with others, and many articles. In 1965 and 1966 he was president of the American Political Science Association. He also taught at Brooklyn College, Yale and Princeton, and lectured at universities in England, Japan, Brazil and Ukraine.
        Richard Dahl, a political scientist, said Dr. Almond's 1963 book, ''The Civic Culture,'' helped anchor the idea of a political culture -- a concept that includes national character and how people choose to govern themselves -- as a fundamental aspect of society.
        Gabriel Abraham Almond was born in Rock Island, Ill., on Jan. 12, 1911. His father was a rabbi, and the family, which also had three daughters, was often short of money. Gabriel edited his high school newspaper and was an avid student of the Old Testament, which he quoted in his writings.
        He attended the University of Chicago and worked at odd jobs, including reporting for a jewelry journal and taking welfare complaints as a caseworker. He gave up his dream of becoming a novelist after receiving a teaching fellowship from the University of Chicago.
        He earned his doctorate in political science in 1938, but his thesis, ''Plutocracy and Politics in New York City,'' was not published until 1998. It contained unflattering references to John D. Rockefeller, a benefactor of the University of Chicago. The thesis had remained in the stacks of the university library, where it had become an underground classic among scholars. It was finally published by Westview Press.
        During his research for the thesis at the New York Public Library, Dr. Almond met Maria Dorothea Kaufman, a student at Columbia Teachers College, and they married in 1937. She died in 2000.
        In addition to his son Peter, of Los Angeles, Mr. Almond is survived by another son, Richard, of Palo Alto; his daughter, Susyn, of Palo Alto; five grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
        In World War II, Dr. Almond led the Enemy Information Section at the Office of War Information, analyzing enemy propaganda.
        After the war, he worked for the United States Strategic Bombing Survey, interviewing Gestapo and Nazi Party members and German resistance fighters about the psychological effects of carpet bombing. The results of his work became part of the debate over bombing North Vietnam in the Vietnam War.
        From time to time, he became involved in politics, signing a letter along with other academics urging the election of John F. Kennedy as president in 1960, and advising Senator Eugene J. McCarthy on foreign policy in his presidential campaign in 1968.
        As president of the political scientists' organization, Dr. Almond fought to stop American intelligence agencies from financing academic research on the ground that this made it more difficult for American scholars working in developing countries.
        Peter Almond said that Dr. Almond liked to play the blues on his harmonica, grow vegetables and go to baseball games.
      