
        Riley D. Housewright, a microbiologist who helped direct United States research in biological warfare from World War II until 1970, died on Saturday at an assisted living center in Frederick, Md. He was 89.
        One of Dr. Housewright's projects in the 1960's was developing agents that could kill or incapacitate large numbers of Cubans in preparing for an invasion of Cuba. In an interview for the book ''Germs: Biological Weapons and America's Secret War'' (Simon & Schuster, 2001), written by Judith Miller, Stephen Engelberg and William J. Broad, reporters for The New York Times, he said such an action would be ''a good thing'' because it would save American lives.
        ''It was not the same as putting an atomic bomb down their throat, which would have been just as easy or easier to deliver,'' he said. ''It was a humane act.''
        Dr. Housewright was scientific director of the United States Army Biological Laboratories at Fort Detrick, Md., from 1956 to 1970, when President Richard M. Nixon banned offensive biological weapons. The laboratory was converted to defensive research.
        Under Dr. Housewright's leadership, the laboratory did pioneering studies on germs and viruses, some involving human guinea pigs. He strongly defended the work at scientific meetings and Congressional hearings as necessary to defend American combatants. Before going into war zones, military personnel still receive vaccines his team created.
        But the extreme sensitivity of the work worried even some scientists. In March 1969, Dr. Joshua Lederberg, a Nobel Prize-winning microbiologist, wrote to Dr. Housewright, raising what he called substantial issues about the biological weapons work.
        ''Where will it all end?'' Dr. Lederberg asked, delicately raising the possibility of the use of biological agents for terrorism.
        ''I am very worried about this,'' he wrote, ''but hardly dare mention it for fear of putting an evil idea in someone's head.''
        Riley Dee Housewright was born on Oct. 17, 1913, in Wylie, Tex. His one sibling was a twin brother, Wiley. His father, Jick, owned a feed store.
        He earned a bachelor's degree from North Texas State College and a master's from the University of Texas and then taught in public schools for several years. After earning his doctorate from the University of Chicago, he was commissioned as a Navy lieutenant in 1944 and assigned to Fort Detrick. He had been in the Naval Reserve.
        Scientists at Fort Detrick worked on agriculture blights that could destroy German potatoes and Japanese rice, as well as anthrax for use against enemy troops.
        In 1946, he was named to the civilian post of chief of the microbial physiology and chemotherapy branch at Fort Detrick. Beginning in 1950, he was chief of the medical bacteriology division, until becoming scientific director six years later.
        The scientists at Fort Detrick developed anthrax spores, botulinum toxin and viruses like encephalitis and yellow fever. Ultimately about 50 viruses and other agents were identified at Fort Detrick as good candidates for germ warfare.
        After the Cuban missile crisis in 1962, the scientists worked on developing a mix of incapacitating biological agents. The idea was that once the Cuban population was incapacitated, Americans would invade after the sickening mist had dispelled.
        In 1970, he accepted a job with a private company, Microbiological Associates of Bethesda, Md. He was then project director and principal staff officer of the National Academy of Sciences, where he was responsible for publishing four volumes on safe drinking water.
        In the early 1980's, he was executive director of the American Society for Microbiology, of which he had earlier been president. He was the only person to hold both positions.
        Dr. Housewright's first wife, the former Marjorie Bryant, died in 1962.
        In addition to his brother, who lives in Tallahassee, Fla., he is survived by his wife, the former Artemis Jegart; his son, Kim; two stepdaughters; and two grandchildren.
      