
        Leon van Speybroeck, an astrophysicist who designed a multifaceted X-ray eye for NASA to use to scan the universe, died on Dec. 25 at a hospital in Newton, Mass. He was 67 and lived in nearby Natick.
        The cause was melanoma, said the Chandra X-Ray Observatory Center, in Cambridge, Mass.
        Dr. van Speybroeck, the center's telescope scientist, led the team that supplied the X-ray vision for the Chandra satellite, launched by the space shuttle Columbia in July 1999. He contributed the satellite's nest of four pairs of ultraprecise mirrors, giving them what the center described as unequaled smoothness.
        Since it went into orbit, Chandra has provided a stream of spectacular X-ray images of heavenly bodies, near and far: close-ups of comets, exploding stars, gases jetting from around black holes and awesome quasars about 10 billion light-years from Earth.
        Data sent back by the observatory have given scientists new insights into the topography of the universe and the evolution of stars and galaxies.
        ''Leon was one of the master mirror designers of our time,'' said Harvey D. Tananbaum, the Chandra project's director at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, who called Dr. van Speybroeck's work essential to the success of the mission.
        Leon Paul van Speybroeck was born in Wichita, Kan., and graduated in 1957 from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he received his Ph.D. in 1965.
        He worked as a research associate in high-energy physics at M.I.T. and as an X-ray astronomer at American Science and Engineering Inc. There he was associated with Riccardo Giacconi, who shared a Nobel Prize in physics last year, in designing X-ray mirrors for Skylab, the first American space station.
        After joining the Center for Astrophysics at Harvard in 1973, he developed the mirrors for the Einstein X-Ray Observatory, the forerunner to Chandra. His work earned him the Bruno Rossi Prize of the American Astronomical Society last year.
        Dr. van Speybroeck is survived by his wife of 43 years, Erin Harrington van Speybroeck; a daughter, Elaine van Speybroeck Carmichael of Long Grove, Ill.; two sons, David D., of Portland, Ore., and Alexander, of Los Angeles; a brother, John, of Eureka, Calif.; a sister, Saundra Rongish of Lawrence, Kan.; and twin granddaughters.
      