
        George W. Waters, an executive who turned the American Express card into a global brand, died Saturday at his home in Fair Haven, N.J. He was 87.
        His son-in-law, Marc Galligan, said that Mr. Waters had been in failing health and, in December, had been in a hospital with heart problems.
        American Express hired Mr. Waters as general manager of its credit card division in 1961. At the time, credit cards were accepted primarily by restaurants, and Visa and MasterCard did not yet exist. Diners Club was the card that had the most members.
        Mr. Waters gave the American Express card a significant lift by persuading American Airlines to drop its credit card and begin accepting the American Express card. Other airlines soon followed.
        To strengthen the credit card division, Mr. Waters significantly increased its annual fee, reduced the number of delinquent accounts and improved its accounting system.
        Under his leadership in the 1960's and 1970's, the American Express card became a global brand and the flagship product of the American Express Company.
        George Wilbur Waters was born on Jan. 9, 1916, in Madison, Ind., the youngest of six children.
        He graduated from the University of Indiana in 1938 and was hired by I.B.M. in its sales and marketing program.
        In World War II, he joined the Army Air Forces where he served as deputy chief of staff in the Office of Statistical Control. Many noted postwar executives came out of that office, including Robert S. McNamara and others who became known as the whiz kids.
        During the war, Mr. Waters used some of the earliest computers to keep track of planes, the weather and results of combat missions. He was promoted to colonel and received the Legion of Merit.
        After the war, Mr. Waters was hired as president of the Massachusetts Steamship Line, which operated a ferry service to Nantucket and Martha's Vineyard. Later, he became vice president and director of Colonial Stores, a supermarket chain based in Atlanta.
        In 1975, while working at American Express, Mr. Waters was appointed to the National Commission on Electronic Funds Transfers. The commission was a panel of bank executives who studied the impact of electronic transfers on the global banking industry.
        After retiring in 1981, Mr. Waters enjoyed playing golf in Barbados, where he owned a home.
        He is survived by his wife of 60 years, Polly; two daughters, Diane Harter, of Charlotte, N.C., and Millie Galligan, of Rumson, N.J.; a son, Larry, of Highlands Ranch, Colo.; six grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      