
        Françoise Giroud, a widely admired French journalist who co-founded the political weekly L'Express and later served as France's first minister of women's affairs, died Sunday in the American Hospital of Paris. She was 86.
        Her daughter said the cause of death was head injuries suffered when she fell last week.
        Ms. Giroud was a slim, elegant woman known for both her charming manner and her piercing commentaries on France, the status of women and life in general. She continued working until just days ago, writing a weekly column in Le Nouvel Observateur, serving on the jury of a leading literary prize and appearing frequently on television.
        Ms. Giroud was not a militant feminist in the manner of, say, Simone de Beauvoir but, as both a pioneering journalist and editor and as a cabinet minister, she served as a role model for two generations of French women seeking a more prominent role in French society. She made a particular point of encouraging young women in journalism.
        While women are now highly visible in both news organizations and politics, though, she also recognized that sexual equality did not yet exist in France. In a 1996 interview, she noted: ''It's an illusion to believe that, because there are women ministers, women play a role in public affairs. There have been enormous changes, positive changes, but women still have a long way to go.''
        Born in Geneva on Sept. 21, 1916, to parents of mixed Russian and Turkish extraction, France Gourdji -- as she was then called -- began working at 16 as a stenographer and then became a script-girl for several French movie directors, including Marc Allégret and Jean Renoir. During World War II, she worked as a go-between for the French Resistance, but was arrested by the Gestapo in 1943 and imprisoned at Fresnes until liberation the following year.
        After the war, she began her journalistic career in the monthly magazine Elle, rising quickly to the position of news editor. Then, in 1953, with Jean-Jacques Servan-Shreiber, she founded L'Express, France's first American-style news weekly, and served as its news editor and later as editor. One measure of its influence is that the founding editors of its two competitors today, Le Nouvel Observateur and Le Point, came from L'Express.
        During the 1950's, Ms. Giroud was married briefly and had two children. She is survived by her daughter, Caroline Eliacheff.
        In 1974, during the center-right presidency of Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, she was named to the new post of minister of women's affairs by Jacques Chirac, who was prime minister at the time. She moved to the culture minister's job and held it until the following year.
        In 1981, her own political views moved to the left: rather than backing either Mr. Giscard d'Estaing or Mr. Chirac, she endorsed the Socialist candidate, François Mitterrand, in his successful effort to win the presidency.
        Ms. Giroud never returned to politics, but her weight as a commentator gave her considerable political influence. She also became a prolific author of biographies, including those of Marie Curie and Alma Mahler, and of books of political and personal reflection. In one of her first, ''The Comedy of Power'' (1977), she recounted her experience in government. In 1997, she published her autobiography and, in 2001, a collection of essays, ''Profession Journalist.''
        Only one of her books, ''Si Je Mens,'' was published in the United States, in 1974, as ''I Give You My Word'' (Harcourt), but it is no longer in print.
        Her books had a loyal readership in France, not least because they were packed with well-aimed commentaries on life.
        ''God, how the French love rules,'' she noted in one book, ''The Rumor of the World.'' ''They put them everywhere, even where they have no place: in literature.''
        In ''Journal of a Parisian,'' she offered, ''Indifference is an ailment of the spirit and the heart.'' In the same book, she concluded: ''Youth is short. It is life that is long.''
      