
        Maurice Gibb, who wrote songs and sang harmonies in the Bee Gees through decades of hits and more than 120 million albums sold worldwide, died early yesterday at a hospital in Miami. He was 53 and lived in Miami.
        He had collapsed at his home, and a statement released to Reuters by the hospital, Mount Sinai Medical Center, said that he experienced cardiac arrest before emergency surgery for an intestinal blockage.
        Mr. Gibb had performed with his fraternal twin brother, Robin, and their older brother, Barry, as the Bee Gees (for Brothers Gibb) since 1958, and many Bee Gees songs, including their biggest hits, were credited to all three brothers.
        The Bee Gees' career crested twice. With their first string of hits, from 1967 to 1971, they harmonized on ballads like ''How Can You Mend a Broken Heart.'' And in the mid-1970's they surged to even greater popularity as they rode Miami funk rhythms and falsetto harmonies to some of the biggest hits of the disco era, among them ''You Should Be Dancing'' and ''Stayin' Alive.''
        Their songs dominated the soundtrack album for the 1977 movie ''Saturday Night Fever,'' which sold more than 15 million copies in the United States and an estimated 40 million worldwide to become the best-selling album of its time (though it was later surpassed by Michael Jackson's ''Thriller'' and the Eagles' ''Their Greatest Hits 1971-1975'').
        Mr. Gibb was born in 1949 on the Isle of Man in England and was encouraged to sing with his brothers. Their father, Hugh Gibb, was a drummer and bandleader, and their mother, Barbara, was a singer.
        The brothers began singing together in 1955, and when the family moved to Brisbane, Australia, in 1958 they began appearing at talent shows as the Bee Gees. As teenagers they signed to Festival Records in Australia and had local hits; they were also hosts of a weekly television show. But their international career began after they moved back to England in 1967.
        They sang gentle songs in turbulent times. Their string of hits began with ''New York Mining Disaster 1941'' in 1967 and continued with love songs like ''To Love Somebody,'' ''I've Gotta Get a Message to You,'' ''I Started a Joke'' and ''Lonely Days.'' In 1969 Mr. Gibb married the pop singer Lulu, but they were divorced in 1973, in part because of his alcoholism.
        In the mid-1970's the Bee Gees and a new producer, Arif Mardin, reshaped their music, putting ebullient Miami funk rhythms behind hits like ''Jive Talkin' '' and ''Nights on Broadway'' for the 1975 album ''Main Course.'' The movie and soundtrack for ''Saturday Night Fever'' carried their music to a much larger audience, and the Bee Gees -- in white suits and big smiles -- became synonymous with disco as a pop fad. From 1975 to 1983, every Bee Gees album sold at least a million copies.
        Maurice Gibb married Yvonne Spenceley, his second wife, in 1975. She survives him along with their two children, Adam and Samantha, the other Bee Gees and his mother, Barbara Gibb.
        The Bee Gees separated in the mid-1980's and reunited in 1987 for the album ''E-S-P.'' A year later their younger brother, Andy Gibb, a pop singer, died at 30 of myocarditis.
        During the 1980's and 90's the Bee Gees' albums and singles continued to sell well in Europe, though American audiences showed less interest until 1997, when the Bee Gees released ''Still Waters'' and were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. Their most recent album, ''This Is Where I Came In,'' was released in 2001.
        Correction:  January 20, 2003, Monday  An obituary last Monday about Maurice Gibb, singer and songwriter with the Bee Gees, referred incorrectly to the Isle of Man, where he was born. It is a dependency of the British crown, not part of England.
      