
        Valery Brumel, a Russian who during the cold war became perhaps the best high jumper in history but had his world-class career end when he almost lost a leg in a motorcycle accident, died Sunday in a Moscow hospital. He was 60.
        Russian news agencies said Brumel had suffered from a prolonged illness.
        From 1961 through 1963, Brumel raised the world outdoor record six times, starting at 7 feet 3 3/4 inches and working up to 7-5 3/4. His last record stood for eight years. He also broke the world indoor record twice.
        He won the silver medal in the 1960 Rome Olympics and the gold in the 1964 Tokyo Olympics, each time edging out his young American rival, John Thomas. From 1961 through 1965, he was ranked first in the world among high jumpers.
        Perhaps Brumel's most memorable moment came during the 1962 meet in Palo Alto, Calif., between the United States and the Soviet Union. During this time of tension between those nations, 80,000 fans packed Stanford Stadium and cheered wildly for the home team. But when Brumel set a world record of 7-5, he received a five-minute standing ovation.
        ''I was filled with inexpressible joy,'' he said.
        The son of a Siberian miner, Brumel was handsome, graceful and a showman as well, refusing to watch his rivals jump.
        He liked fast cars, fast motorcycles and fast living. In 1965, on Moscow pavement slick from heavy rain, he was a passenger on a motorcycle that skidded out of control at high speed at night, throwing him into a lamppost.
        His right shin and ankle were shattered. The leg was saved only by 29 operations, and for three years it remained in a cast. When he finally started climbing stairs without crutches, the leg gave way.
        After more operations, he trained lightly for three months and tried jumping again. The first day, he cleared 6-6 3/4. In his first meet, he did 6-9 3/4. He never regained world-class level, but he said that ''every centimeter is a victory for me.''
        Until the injury, he enjoyed a storybook career. He competed in three meets in Madison Square Garden in 1961 and two in 1963, beating Thomas every time. As Howard Schmertz, the co-meet director of the Millrose Games, said yesterday, ''Brumel against Thomas was the greatest duel ever in the Garden, and they packed the house every meet.''
        Thomas, now athletic director at Roxbury Community College in Massachusetts, said he and Brumel became friends.
        ''I went to Russia six or seven times and stayed at his house,'' Thomas said. ''The last time I talked to him was three years ago. They were celebrating the 40th anniversary of his first Olympic medal, and they invited me. I spent about a week there. We talked a lot, not about sports, but good-old-buddy talk. We worked out together at a gym and at a school. We were still the best of friends.''
        Before high jumpers flopped over the bar back first, Brumel was a physical marvel. At 6-1 (not tall for a high jumper) and 175 pounds, he could run 100 meters in 10.6 seconds and squat 385 pounds. With his remarkable vertical lift, he could kick a basketball rim.
        He explained his strength by saying, ''The barbell and I are particular friends.'' Jim Tuppeny, an American coach, said of Brumel's quickness, ''With his speed, he is actually sailing.''
        In his prime, Brumel, as a Master of Sport, lived in a three-room apartment, drove a Mercedes and received an extra 120 rubles a month, all beyond the dreams of the average Soviet athlete. He later coached and wrote a novel, a play and an opera libretto, all based on his life.
        He was married three times, the second time to Lyudmila Turisheva, the Olympic gold medal gymnast. He is survived by his third wife, Svetlana, a physician; a son, Aleksandr; a stepson, Viktor; and a granddaughter.
        His greatest pride came from his recovery from his accident. As he told Amateur Athlete magazine in 1971, ''Sports fans like persistent people who will not tolerate defeat in a single battle. I want to . . .  I can . . . I must jump.''
      