
        Hisashi Shinto, one of Japan's most prominent postwar industrialists, who was caught up in a bribery scandal late in his career, died on Sunday in Tokyo. He was 92.
        A confidant of high-ranking businessmen and leading politicians, Mr. Shinto is best known for helping privatize the Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation, the world's largest telecommunications company, in 1985.
        At most turns, Mr. Shinto faced stiff resistance from older N.T.T. executives; from the company's powerful union, which represented many of its 300,000 workers; and from the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications, which regulates the industry. He introduced more modern financial planning, helped reduce the company's huge debts and made the company focus more on the global marketplace.
        ''He revolutionized Japan's business culture,'' said Kenichi Imai, the director of the Stanford Japan Center in Kyoto and a member in the 1980's of a government advisory panel on industrial restructuring. ''Shinto was the first person to introduce private business practices into a public corporation.''
        Ultimately, though, his extensive connections marred his reputation. Mr. Shinto was forced to resign as chairman of N.T.T. in 1988 just months before being arrested for accepting bribes.
        He denied accepting shares in a real estate company called Recruit Cosmos before the company was listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
        Several leading politicians, including Kiichi Miyazawa, Yasuhiro Nakasone and Noboru Takeshita, who was prime minister at the time, were also implicated in the scandal. But after a 20-month trial, Mr. Shinto became one of the few leading figures to be convicted of wrongdoing.
        He received a two-year jail term and was fined $170,000. The sentence was suspended because of his age and his ''contribution to the business world.'' Still, Mr. Shinto's conviction in October 1990 effectively ended his more than half a century in business.
        He returned to N.T.T. in 1997 as an adviser, a mostly honorary post, and resigned in March 2001.
        Born in Fukuoka Prefecture on July 2, 1910, Mr. Shinto studied shipbuilding at Kyushu University. After graduating in 1934, he joined Harima Shipbuilding. The shipbuilding industry was instrumental not only to reviving Japan's economic fortunes after the Depression, but also in arming the country to fight in China and the rest of Asia.
        After World War II, he returned to Harima to focus on building ships, then one of the most prosperous industries in the nation. He directed the shipping department when Harima merged with Ishikawajima in 1960 to become Ishikawajima-Harima Heavy Industries, or I.H.I., one of Japan's largest conglomerates.
        Along the way, he developed a new way to build ships by constructing compartments of the boat and assembling the pieces later. The method cut construction times sharply and improved productivity in the industry. For his efforts, Mr. Shinto received awards from the governments of Japan and France, where he was made a member of the Legion of Honor in 1977.
        He became president of I.H.I. in 1972 and soon had to restructure the company after the OPEC oil embargo buffeted the global economy. Growing competition from companies in Europe and Asia forced him to resign in 1979, when the company's condition weakened.
        Although he was known for his tirades, Mr. Shinto's energy and leadership skills kept him in the spotlight. In 1981, the country's leading business lobby recruited Mr. Shinto to take over N.T.T. and ultimately privatize it. He was the first outsider chosen to head what was then the government's telephone monopoly.
        Mr. Shinto is survived by his wife, Michiko; two sons; and a daughter.
      