
        John P. Thompson, the leader of the Dallas family who built an ice business into 7-Eleven, the world's largest convenience store chain, died on Tuesday at his home in Dallas. He was 77.
        The cause was brain cancer, according to the company.
        Among the Dallas elite, the Thompson family stood out as one of the few whose fortune did not come from oil and gas. Mr. Thompson's father, Joe C. Sr., started selling blocks of ice to refrigerate food in 1927.
        A smart dock employee added bread, eggs and milk at times when grocery stores were closed. The initiative inspired the family's company, Southland Ice, to operate a growing chain of Tote'm convenience stores. In 1946, they were renamed 7-Eleven for their new hours -- 7 a.m. to 11 p.m., seven days a week.
        Mr. Thompson was the eldest of three sons, all employed at Southland. Mr. Thompson worked in the dairy division after graduating from the University of Texas in 1948.
        He became president in 1961, just before his father's death, when the chain had grown to 600 stores and had embarked on an ambitious expansion into new markets. By 1969, when Mr. Thompson was named chairman and chief executive, the number had risen to 3,800, including Gristede's supermarkets and Barricini candy stores, in 35 states and Canada.
        Southland's dairy division took over producers, processors and distribution centers in 22 states. The company also moved into chemicals to make food stabilizers, colors and flavorings and began to franchise 7-Eleven stores.
        Under Mr. Thompson's guidance, 7-Elevens sprang up in Mexico, the Far East, Australia and Europe in the 1970's and 1980's. The company expanded into corporate aviation, trucking, auto parts, hosiery, paper products and advertising and acquired Citgo Petroleum and Pate Foods. It established a ground transport system for itself and others and set up innovative regional distribution centers to deliver merchandise to stores more swiftly.
        In the late 1980's, the expansion ran its course. Accumulated debt forced Southland to seek bankruptcy protection in 1990. It was rescued with infusions of capital by the Ito-Yokado Company, the Seven-Eleven Japan Company and an investors' group led by Carl C. Icahn.
        Mr. Thompson stepped down as chairman in 1991 but remained vice chairman until 1996 as Southland spun off all its businesses except the 7-Eleven stores. It officially changed its name to 7-Eleven Inc. in 1999, when it was operating 21,000 stores in the United States and 16 other countries, according to the company. By the end of last year, it had 24,434 stores in 19 countries and American territories. Sales were $31 billion in 2001, the latest figures available.
        Mr. Thompson was a leader in Dallas philanthropy, supporting the University of Texas, Goodwill Industries International and the Salvation Army. Nationally, he was a major contributor to the Muscular Dystrophy Association and the National Wildlife Federation.
        He is survived by his wife of 28 years, Debra Rutherford Thompson; their daughter, Mary Ann Frenk; a daughter and two sons from a previous marriage, Peggy Wolf, H. Douglas and John Jr.; his brothers, Jere W. and Joe C. Jr., all of Dallas; and eight grandchildren.
      