
        Friends, colleagues and Broadway itself celebrated the life and work of Al Hirschfeld yesterday at private funeral services at the Frank E. Campbell chapel on Madison Avenue. Hirschfeld, who drew his inimitable caricatures of people in the performing arts for more than 75 years, died on Monday at 99.
        In the audience was a cross-section of the world of the arts, including Lauren Bacall, Zoe Caldwell and John Guare. Arthur Ochs Sulzberger Jr., the publisher of The New York Times, and Howell Raines, its executive editor, were among representatives of the paper, in which many of Hirschfeld's drawings appeared.
        All seats at the service were filled, and many of those attending stood, including Woody Allen, one of dozens in the chapel who had been immortalized by Hirschfeld's pen.
        Speaking for himself and for his fellow artists, Jules Feiffer honored Hirschfeld as a master of his profession.
        ''Al's drawing has become not a comment on the show, but the show itself,'' he said, ''live theater made out of newsprint, and we the readers of the Sunday Times are not readers anymore, we are the audience with front-row seats in the Al Hirschfeld Theater, which, in truth, opens only officially in June. It's been in place for us to applaud for more years than most of us in the room have lived.''
        Susan W. Dryfoos, who directed the documentary ''The Line King: The Al Hirschfeld Story,'' traced her relationship with Hirschfeld from the early 1980's, when she began interviewing him.
        Bel Kaufman, the author of ''Up the Down Staircase'' and a longtime friend, said she had written many poems for Hirschfeld for special occasions and read one from 1997, when he was honored by the Jewish Council for the Aging in Rockville, Md.
        One verse read:
        He does not need a drink or shrink
        But just a simple pen with ink
        To capture in a line or two
        A character complete and true.
        Others who spoke included Arthur Gelb, former managing editor of The Times; Martin E. Segal, chairman emeritus of Lincoln Center; Rocco Landesman, president of Jujamcyn Theaters, which on June 21 will rename the Martin Beck Theater the Al Hirschfeld Theater; Nina Hirschfeld West, the artist's daughter; and Louise Kerz Hirschfeld, his widow.
      