
        Dean Amadon, a renowned authority on birds of prey and former Lamont curator of birds at the American Museum of Natural History, died Sunday at his home in Tenafly, N.J. He was 90.
        Starting in 1937, Dr. Amadon spent his professional life with the museum, traveling to exotic places for field work, writing books and articles and giving his expert advice well into retirement. He was Lamont curator from 1955 to 1973 and was active in the museum's work and as a consultant after taking emeritus status.
        During his tenure, he was responsible for the museum's bird research center and custodian of the million bird specimens of the museum collection. From 1957 until 1973, he was also chairman of the department of ornithology.
        The author or co-author of 400 publications, he had his name on books considered classics by naturalists and bird lovers. Among them was the two-volume ''Eagles, Hawks and Falcons of the World'' (McGraw-Hill, 1968), an encyclopedic treatment of the raptors' behavior and natural history.
        He compiled ''Birds Around the World: A Geographical Look at Evolution and Birds'' (Natural History Press, 1966). He was co-author of the richly illustrated ''Land Birds of America'' (McGraw-Hill, 1953).
        Born in Milwaukee, Dean Amadon graduated from Hobart College in 1934 as a member of Phi Beta Kappa and received his Ph.D. from Cornell University in 1947. He was studying ornithology at Cornell in 1937 when he got a museum job cataloging birds' eggs.
        He spent World War II with the Army Medical Corps in the Pacific. His duties in pest control left time for his ornithological research in Hawaii and the Philippines. The evolution of Hawaii's honeycreepers became the subject of his doctoral thesis.
        Dr. Amadon did field research in Africa, Australia and the South Pacific. He spent weeks in the Galapagos Islands, and in Mexico with the wildlife artist Don R. Eckelberry.
        He was a past president of the American Ornithologists' Union, the John Burroughs Memorial Association and the Linnaean Society of New York. He was a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and a director of the Explorers Club.
        Dr. Amadon is survived by his wife of 62 years, Octavia Gardella Amadon; two daughters, Susan A. Wilt of Manhattan and Emily A. Bengelsdorf of Port Washington, N.Y.; and two grandchildren.
        Dr. Amadon was called to the scene 10 years ago when a pair of red-tailed hawks took perches on an upper Fifth Avenue co-op, sharing residency with Mary Tyler Moore. The species was known to hunt only in wild and rural country.
        ''Amazing,'' observed Dr. Amadon. ''Maybe the male had a screw loose somewhere.''
      