
        Edward Farhat, who as the Sheik more or less single-handedly escalated the violence and commercial appeal of professional wrestling in the early years of television, died on Jan. 18 in Williamstown, Mich. He was 78.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        Starting in his native Detroit in the late 1940's, Mr. Farhat shaped a lucrative persona as a win-at-any-cost son of the Arabian desert who was always ready to waive any and all rules of the game in favor of more punitive and effective strategies. As one wrestling fan noted admiringly in an Internet posting after Mr. Farhat's death, ''He was the first great heel in the professional wrestling business.''
        Mr. Farhat's style and skills carried him to riches and to many titles in an enterprise that in its early days had proliferating and overlapping championships. For instance, on several occasions the Sheik held something known as the National Wrestling Association's Heavyweight Championship Detroit Division. But as he flaunted his reputation for dirty fighting and battled nationally known wrestlers like Antonino Rocca, Bobo Brazil and Buddy Rogers, he, too, became nationally recognized in the growing number of households drawn to wrestling by the new medium of television.
        The Sheik's pioneering sadism clearly established his credentials. When Mr. Farhat was inducted three years ago into the Professional Wrestling Hall of Fame, Steve Slagle, a student of wrestling, wrote in The Ring Chronicle that ''perhaps no other wrestler is more responsible for influencing the current generation of 'hardcore' wrestling than the one and only Arabian madman known as the Sheik.''
        Continuing in his assessment of Mr. Farhat's contribution and career, Mr. Slagle wrote, ''Famous worldwide as the most insane, violent, bloodthirsty competitor in pro wrestling (and that's saying something), the Sheik was 'hardcore' decades before anyone had come up with a term to describe his style.''
        In his fighting years, the Sheik, a strong man just under 6 feet tall who then weighed 247 pounds, would enter the ring in robes with a Bedouin-style headdress. He sneered at the booing crowd, but he never spoke directly to the audience members who had paid to vent their hatred at him. Indeed, the only words he uttered in the ring were ostensibly in Arabic.
        With the help of his handlers, Mr. Farhat stuck to a fictional biography describing him as the son of a wealthy and aristocratic Middle Eastern family who came to the United States eager for fame and glory. In fact, he was born in Detroit in 1924, one of 10 children of Lebanese parents. He was unable to speak real Arabic and his exclamations in the ring were faked.
        How fake Mr. Farhat's assaults on his opponents may have been seems to be a matter of conjecture. One of his ploys was to conceal items like a jagged piece of wood and use them to stab away at his rivals. One of his opponents, Dory Funk, recalled that during a bout in Lubbock, Tex., the Sheik pulled some sulfurous substance out of his tights and threw an ''orange ball of fire'' at him, scalding his face. On that occasion the fans protested and the Sheik was disqualified, but every future appearance of the Sheik in Texas was sold out.
        Though hated by the fans, Mr. Farhat was apparently admired by his fellow wrestlers for his business sense and for the way he engaged a growing audience by enraging it. He became the head of the Big Time Wrestling syndicate, running its television program from Detroit from 1964 to 1980, the year he stopped fighting.
        He also had a reputation for always remaining in villainous character, even when spotted by fans while in plainclothes. When asked for his autograph, he would snarl, ''What do I get for it?'' Sometimes he would suggest $5 or something to eat.
        In the ring he was not inclined to be merciful to any of his wrestling opponents, but he revealed a particular hostility to a wrestler called Abdullah the Butcher, presumably resenting him for infringing on the territory he had carved out.
        In later years, when professional wrestling came to include other Middle Eastern heavies, including one who calls himself the Iron Sheik, he protectively amended his own nickname on his official Web page. There he is listed as Ed (the Original Sheik) Farhat.
        He is survived by his wife, Joyce, his sons, Edward and Thomas, and four grandchildren.
        Correction:  February 5, 2003, Wednesday  An obituary on Jan. 26 about Edward Farhat, an early professional wrestling villain known as the Sheik, misstated the place of his death. It was Williamston, Mich., not Williamstown.
      