
        Du Burns, a Democratic grass-roots politician who rose through party ranks to become the first African-American mayor of Baltimore, died on Sunday in Baltimore. He was 84.
        In January 1987, as City Council president, he automatically became mayor when the incumbent, William Donald Schaefer, left to become governor of Maryland. But Mr. Burns narrowly lost the mayoral primary later that year to the state's attorney, Kurt L. Schmoke, who went on to serve three terms as Baltimore's first elected African-American mayor.
        In his 11 months in office, Mayor Burns organized the city's first program for the homeless. He also started a housing program and increased financing for schools and libraries without new taxes.
        His campaign bumper stickers proclaimed ''Du Knows Baltimore,'' and he had learned the city's politics from the bottom up.
        The son of a laborer, Mr. Burns was educated in segregated schools and served as a staff sergeant in the Army Air Corps in World War II. He studied music and became an aficionado and record collector of New Orleans Dixieland.
        Born Clarence H. Burns, but known by his nickname, Du, as in ''get things done,'' Mr. Burns was a native of East Baltimore, where he sold newspapers and vegetables as a youngster. He became a precinct worker getting the vote out for Mayor Thomas J. D'Alesandro Jr., a power in Maryland and national politics.
        He got a city job as a high-school locker room attendant and a start in politics. He went on to become district leader and won his first election to the City Council in 1971.
        In 1977 he rose to vice president of the City Council and in 1982 was voted president when his predecessor, Walter S. Orlinski, resigned in a bribery scandal. He was the council's first black president and won his only citywide election for that office the next year.
        Mr. Burns is survived by his wife of 53 years, Edith Phillips Burns; a daughter, Cheryl Turner of Parkville, Md.; two sisters, Mary Futrell and Selena Hines of Baltimore, and a granddaughter.
      