
        Will Cloney, a former sportswriter and journalism professor who transformed the Boston Marathon from an all-amateur rite of spring to a world-class prize-money production and lost his job as race director doing it, died Thursday in a hospital in Weymouth, Mass. He was 91 and lived in Duxbury, Mass.
        In Dorchester, Mass., where Mr. Cloney was born and raised, he played high school football, baseball and hockey (''all very poorly,'' he said), but he never ran a race of any kind. Still, as a master organizer, he was the race director from 1946 to 1982 of the Boston Marathon, the world's most famous footrace. From 1947 until its demise in 1982, he was also the director of the Boston Athletic Association's annual indoor track meet and its accompanying high school meet. For the three events, he drew a total salary of $1,500 a year.
        The Boston Marathon was first run in 1897 and takes place on Patriots Day, the third Monday in April, a Massachusetts holiday commemorating the British attacks at Lexington and Concord that touched off the American Revolution. The race covers 26 miles 385 yards from suburban Hopkinton to the Back Bay section of Boston.
        In Mr. Cloney's early years with the marathon, only a few hundred men competed. A few were international stars, mostly from Finland and Japan and subsidized by expatriates. Most were colorful back-of-the-pack characters with names like Bricklayer Bill, Milkman Joe Smith and Cigars Connors.
        In those days, there was no prize money and no expense money. In the 1950's, it cost less than $2,500 to put on the marathon. One year the total bill was $1,326.
        ''That's all changed,'' Mr. Cloney told The New York Times in 2000. ''I'm proud that Boston has evolved into a world-class event. It used to be more parochial, more local. We kept going on a shoestring. Nobody got anything, including the athletes. I have very mixed emotions about it now. But we were the forerunner of all the top marathons in the world now, so that's good.''
        As the 1980's began, the Boston race was in trouble. The elite amateurs who competed for a trophy and a laurel wreath were now professionals who could earn significant prize and appearance money in other marathons. As the sportswriter Tom Derderian wrote:
        ''Of all the vicissitudes the Boston Marathon has survived since 1897, including two world wars, two lesser wars and a major economic depression, it was the 1980's, peace and money that nearly killed it.''
        In 1981, track and field's international federation opened the doors for today's professionalism by authorizing trust funds. Mr. Cloney, facing the economic realities, urged the Boston Athletic Association, which owned the marathon, to offer cash prizes. But the tradition-bound association, as a last bastion of pure amateurism, held firm.
        Mr. Cloney, fearing the race would die, made a deal with the Boston lawyer Marshall Medoff that gave him exclusive rights to sign commercial sponsors for the race. The marathon would get a fixed amount of money ($400,000 the first year), and Mr. Medoff would keep the rest.
        Although sponsorship money did come in, the Boston Athletic Association directors sued Mr. Medoff, and his contract was ruled illegal. Meanwhile, despite all his work over the years to keep the marathon afloat, Mr. Cloney was eased out of his job.
        Eventually, everything he fought for became reality. The race got a full-time paid director. The best runners received expense money and a chance to win prize money, and some would earn more than $100,000 a year from this race alone. John Hancock Financial Services became the major sponsor. The annual budget reached $5 million. Despite rigid qualifying standards, the race attracted 10,000 starters each year.
        As Geoff Smith of England, who won in 1984 and 1985, said when prize money was first offered in 1986: ''The money is the greatest thing that's ever happened to Boston. It makes the marathon part of the 20th century again. Otherwise, Boston would have become a nonevent with no name runners.''
        While Mr. Cloney agreed, he was never fully comfortable with prize money. In a 1994 interview with the sportswriter and marathon runner Hal Higdon, he said: ''It's very difficult for me to adjust to the fact that the first 15 or 20 finishers have been hand-picked and paid appearance money and huge prizes. It's a business to those people, and thousands of other people run just for the sake of running the Boston Marathon and getting a certificate like a college degree. Just getting it is an honor for them. But if you are going to have a world-class race, you have to have world-class runners, so how do you draw the line?''
        William Thomas Cloney was born Oct. 29, 1911, and earned a degree from Harvard in 1933. While attending graduate school there, he taught at a private school, coached football and hockey there and worked as a sportswriter for The Boston Herald. With all that, he could not stay awake in graduate school, so he dropped out after a year and a half.
        He spent 26 years, starting as a college freshman, as a sportswriter for The Herald and The Boston Post; 20 years as vice president of Keystone Custodial Funds, an investment company; 17 years as a journalism professor at Northeastern University; 18 years as president of the Boston Athletic Association; 4 years in the Army during World War II; and 2 years as president of the Boston Rotary Club.
        He married Arline Lynch in 1937. He is survived by his wife; two daughters, Mia Benjes of Marshfield, Mass., and Kathleen Dodge of Omaha, Neb.; nine grandchildren; and 13 great-grandchildren.
        At 88, Mr. Cloney was still a sportswriter at heart.
        ''I still watch games on TV every night,'' he said. ''I write the story in my head, and the next day I read the paper to see what the guy covering the game did with the story.''
      