
        Dr. Neville Colman, a prominent New York hematologist and forensic DNA expert as well as the founder of the West Side Soccer League, a boon for thousands of young Manhattan players, died Tuesday at New York Presbyterian Hospital.
        He was 57 and lived in Morningside Heights.
        The cause was metastasized gastric cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Colman was chief of diagnostic pathology and clinical medicine for Continuum Health Partners, a conglomerate of St. Luke's-Roosevelt and Beth Israel Hospitals.
        He took on the department chairmanship at St. Luke's-Roosevelt in 1994, became chairman of the department at Beth Israel four years later and helped to mesh their operations when they became affiliated. He was also a professor and vice chairman of pathology at Columbia's College of Physicians and Surgeons.
        Born in Johannesburg, he received doctorates in medicine and pathology there at the University of the Witwatersrand. He did postgraduate work in mathematics and statistics in Pretoria as well as in nuclear medicine in the mid-1970's, at Mount Sinai School of Medicine.
        While still in South Africa, he drew international attention with his research on folate or folic acid, a B vitamin, and the widespread medical disorders its deficiencies caused in his country. A shortage can bring about a type of anemia as well as damage to the nervous system and serious birth defects, including spina bifida.
        He found that the traditional diet of the indigenous people, relying on maize, which has low levels of folate, and rice, which lost much of the nutrient in traditional long cooking methods, did not have the vital levels of the vitamin. His method for fortifying the folate content of bread, parboiled rice and maize before they went to the consumer met dietary needs and helped lead the way to the fortification of many cereals with folate, which is endorsed by the World Health Organization and the United States Food and Drug Administration.
        He also developed a technique for delivering supplementary vitamin B-12 with a self-administered nasal gel to those with Crohn's disease, a digestive system disorder.
        Dr. Colman furthered the acceptance of DNA as a forensic tool in the 1980's. Unlike the use of DNA in medical laboratories and hospitals, which was rigorously regulated, the use of DNA as evidence in criminal cases had little oversight and few standards.
        His expert testimony and writings encouraged the use of the same quality controls in criminology laboratories that were expected from laboratory medicine.
        He summed up his work in quality control of DNA testing in a major article in Scientific American in 1990. The National Research Council of the National Academy of Sciences issued its own policy on rigor and oversight in forensic science two years later.
        Neville Colman was an outstanding athlete in high school, a competitive swimmer, golfer and soccer player on a boys' team representing what was then Transvaal Province. Later, at the University of Johannesburg, he became active in student protests against South Africa's white apartheid regime.
        His first academic appointment in the United States came in 1974 as a research pathologist at Columbia, where he rose to full professor in 1994. He also held leading positions at Mount Sinai Medical Center and the blood and nutrition laboratories at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in the Bronx.
        In the 1980's, visiting his family in Southern California, he discovered the American Youth Soccer Organization and the motto ''everyone plays.'' He sought the same goal in Manhattan in 1987 when he started the West Side Soccer League as a local A.Y.S.O. affiliate.
        The league began with fewer than 100 5- and 6-year-old players. He served for 10 years as regional commissioner, chief recruiter and administrator while it grew to 2,300 participants. The league now accounts for about 4,500 children kicking balls on fields in Riverside Park, Central Park and Wards Island. It describes itself as the largest all-volunteer sports organization in the city. The players are about 5 to 15 years old, and the league's organization relies heavily on parents as volunteers.
        Dr. Colman is survived by his wife, Dr. Glenys Lobban Colman; his mother, Pearl Colman of Thornwood, N.Y.; two children, Jessica and Stephen; and two brothers, Dr. Martin, of Galveston, Tex., and Robin, of Thornwood.
      