
        Ronald L. Ziegler, the White House press secretary whose dogged defense of President Richard M. Nixon through the travails of Watergate made him the public face of a presidency struggling for survival, died of a heart attack on Monday at a hospital in Coronado, Calif., where he had a home. He was 63.
        Mr. Ziegler, a onetime advertising executive and a protégé of Nixon's chief of staff, H. R. Haldeman, became the youngest-ever White House spokesman at 29, and is credited with coining the term photo-opportunity to describe a news event staged to produce flattering photographs.
        But it was Mr. Ziegler's blunt pronouncements on Watergate that made him a figure of ridicule among many White House reporters and lodged indelibly in the public mind. First came his dismissal of the 1972 break-in at Democratic headquarters as a ''third-rate burglary,'' and later his acknowledgment, under relentless questioning as the affair began to unravel, that his and Nixon's past statements denying any White House involvement were ''inoperative.''
        At one point, a study team from American University and the National Press Club complained that ''the White House press secretary has been reduced to a totally programmed spokesman without independent authority or comprehensive background knowledge of administration policies'' and declared that Mr. Ziegler ''has misled the public and affronted the professional standards of the Washington press corps.''
        But unlike many of Nixon's other senior aides, Mr. Ziegler was never charged with a crime and years later described himself as one of Watergate's victims, because, he said, he ''was not told what the facts were.'' He remained intensely loyal to Nixon, even after the president publicly shoved him at a veterans' convention in New Orleans in 1973, saying, ''I don't want any press with me, and you take care of it!''
        Dan Rather, the CBS anchor who covered the Nixon White House, recalled today: ''Ron was faced with an extremely difficult job under constant pressure, and what got lost in a lot of the reporting, including some of my own at the time, was the following: He was smart.''
        Mr. Rather added, ''I don't recall seeing anybody in public life at that level with such consistent pressure who met it so consistently with the affability of Ron Ziegler.''
        Mr. Ziegler's former deputy, Gerald L. Warren, said of the turmoil of the Watergate era: ''I don't think he understood -- I certainly didn't as his deputy -- what was going on. We were limited to be able to point out what the president wanted pointed out. It was his deal, his crisis. So it put Ron in a very bad position.''
        At one news briefing in 1974, Mr. Ziegler confessed: ''If my answers sound confusing, I think they are confusing because the questions are confusing and the situation is confusing -- and I'm not in a position to clarify it.''
        Mr. Ziegler was born in Covington, Ky., the son of a production manager for a metal company and a public health nurse. He played fullback at Dixie Heights High School, where his future wife, Nancy Lee Plessinger, was a cheerleader. After attending Xavier University on a football scholarship, he transferred to the University of Southern California, graduating in 1961.
        In college, he worked part-time at Disneyland, piloting a boat on the Jungle Cruise 33 times a day. Years later, he would repeat his spiel for reporters: ''Watch out for the crocodiles! They always want to get a head.''
        He became active in Republican politics and joined Nixon's unsuccessful 1962 gubernatorial campaign, where he worked as an assistant to Nixon's longtime press aide, Herb Klein. He then joined Mr. Haldeman at the Los Angeles office of the J. Walter Thompson advertising firm, representing clients like French's mustard and Black Flag insect repellent. He went to work on Nixon's successful 1968 presidential campaign, and despite his youth was named White House press secretary, bypassing Mr. Klein, who was far more experienced and became White House communications director.
        ''Nixon hated the press so much, he didn't even want to have a press secretary,'' said Martin F. Nolan, who covered the White House for The Boston Globe. ''So there's poor Ziegler, stuck at being a junior staff assistant. It was like the lowest rung they could find on the payroll for him, which reflected Nixon's utter contempt for the press. I don't think he ever deliberately tried to lie.''
        In a telephone interview today, Mr. Klein said he had insisted to Nixon and Mr. Haldeman that Mr. Ziegler could not operate without access to Nixon, ''so they made it happen.''
        In Nixon's second term, as senior aides resigned and faced indictment, Mr. Ziegler spent more time with the president, and flew with Nixon to San Clemente, Calif., when he resigned on Aug. 9, 1974, then spent months helping him set up his retirement office. A planned paid lecture tour of colleges fell apart after several withdrew their invitations.
        In 1975, Mr. Ziegler joined Syska & Hennessy, the engineering business. He served as president of the National Association of Truck Stop Operators from 1980 to 1987, then as president of the National Association of Chain Drug Stores, before retiring in 1998. For years, friends had urged him to write a book about his years with Nixon, and he talked of doing so, but never did.
        ''A lot of people are like the quarterback, constantly reliving that 80-yard run,'' said Leonard Garment, who was Nixon's counsel. ''In his case, I think he was constantly reliving the 80-yard run in reverse, back over his own goal line. I didn't see him as somebody who was bitter, but he was shaken to the core by those years, and I think his life afterwards was a bundle of wounds and scar tissue.''
        Besides his wife, of Alexandria, Va., Mr. Ziegler is survived by his mother, Ruby Ziegler of Cincinnati; two daughters, Cindy Charas of New Canaan, Conn., and Laurie Albright of Denver; three grandchildren; and a sister, Anita Macadam.
        Mr. Nolan, the former Boston Globe reporter, recalled that Mr. Ziegler was a deft spin doctor before the term was coined.
        ''Once we played touch football against the staff in the sand at Laguna Beach, and he didn't do so well,'' Mr. Nolan recalled. ''Our side won by something like three touchdowns.'' When another White House aide asked Mr. Nolan who had won, he replied, ''We clocked them,'' and she said, ''Ron said the game was tied.''
      