
        Dr. Elliott S. Shapiro, an educator and psychologist whose fight against public school squalor and bureaucratic lethargy drew wide attention in the 1960's, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 91.
        Dr. Shapiro, a veteran of the tumult over racial integration and the decentralization of the New York City public school system, came to the fore as principal of Public School 119 in Harlem.
        When Mayor Robert F. Wagner visited P.S. 119, a 1,200-student school, in May 1961, newspaper reports focused on the dilapidated building and its dearth of classroom essentials.
        At one point, a teacher and students chased something with a broom. Dr. Shapiro said it was a rat that scurried under a radiator before the mayor could see it; the rat hole was obvious enough. The school, according to the staff and pupils, was full of them.
        Exterminators took care of the rat problem but, more lastingly, protests by parents and Dr. Shapiro's perseverance helped persuade the city to tear down the school, which was on West 133rd Street, and build a new one nearby on West 134th Street, the Mary McLeod Bethune School, now P.S. 92.
        People of the neighborhood honored Dr. Shapiro for his years of ''outstanding service to the children and parents of the Harlem community'' with a dinner in 1964 at Riverside Church. The event drew 450 guests and helped start a college scholarship fund for black students.
        Elliott Seymour Shapiro was born on March 15, 1911, in Washington Heights, Manhattan. His family moved to Brooklyn when he was a small child and as a youth he excelled in sports, particularly boxing and fencing.
        While he attended Erasmus Hall High School, from which he graduated in 1929, he held various jobs, including delivering newspapers in the morning and working in a steam laundry and a shoe factory.
        After his father's death in 1927 and his graduation from high school, he went to work in an ironworks to help keep the family afloat. He was laid off in the Depression and began to take courses at a teachers college in Brooklyn while working nights and weekends at a subway newsstand.
        At City College he earned enough credits for a teaching license and in 1935 started out as a reading teacher at a Brooklyn public school. He then taught in the children's psychiatric ward at Bellevue Hospital and in 1937 moved to the adolescent section, where he remained for 11 years.
        He received a bachelor's degree in education in 1937 and a master's in guidance and administration in 1946, both from New York University. In 1959, he earned a Ph.D. in clinical psychology from its school of education.
        In 1948, he became principal of a school for troubled children that was housed at Kings County Hospital. There he organized a school for children who might otherwise have been confined at other state institutions.
        He was put in charge of P.S. 119 in 1954, he told Nat Hentoff in a 1966 article in The New Yorker, with the presupposition that its children presented ''problems similar to those manifested in neurotic children.'' Instead, he said, he found children as normal as could be, but burdened with ''overwhelming problems to deal with'' and too little help.
        Dr. Shapiro left Harlem in 1966 to become director of an educational center in Rochester. After returning to New York a year later at the urging of community leaders, he was a district superintendent in Lower Manhattan for several stormy years but retired in 1972.
        Until he went to Rochester, Dr. Shapiro practiced part time as a therapist and was a founding member of the New York Institute for Gestalt Therapy 50 years ago.
        Over the years he taught psychology and education at the institute, at Brooklyn College, City College, Columbia University, the University of California at Berkeley, and, until the late 1970's, at Yeshiva University.
        Dr. Shapiro is survived by a son, George S., of Brooklyn; a daughter, Ellen S., of Manhattan; and two grandchildren. His wife, Florence Fishkin Shapiro, died in 1998.
      