
        Johnny Paycheck, one of the most influential country singers of the last 40 years and yet for stretches of his career a Nashville pariah who became more famous for what he did spectacularly wrong than what he did right, died yesterday at 64.
        The cause was respiratory failure, and Mr. Paycheck had been in a health care center in Nashville since April for emphysema, asthma and a lung infection.
        Though he made his first records in 1958, it was not until the mid-1970's that a movement came along that could accommodate his rowdy, jail-prone life. Suddenly, when certain country singers were marketed as Outlaws, it became acceptable for them to look like hippies and act like pirates.
        Mr. Paycheck fit right in next to Waylon Jennings, Kris Kristofferson, and David Allan Coe. He wrote songs in the 1960's like ''(Pardon Me) I've Got Someone to Kill'' and ''I Drop More Than I Drink,'' and he had experienced prison and advanced-stage alcoholism. His fan base was built on counterculture and blue-collar listeners.
        In 1977 he recorded the song ''Take This Job and Shove It,'' written by Mr. Coe, and it became a national anthem of working-class resentment, staying at the top of the country charts for two weeks.
        Despite his brawling image -- one of his best friends was Sonny Barger, a Hell's Angels leader -- he became a family man in the last two decades. With Sharon Paycheck, his wife since the late 1960's, he increasingly clung to privacy, living in Georgia since his last incarceration.
        He is survived by his wife; a son, Jonathan; two daughters; and a brother, Jeff Lytle.
        Born Donald Eugene Lytle in Greenfield, Ohio, the son of a barge worker, Mr. Paycheck began playing in talent shows and clubs at age 9, and left home at 15 to roam the country on freight trains. He enlisted in the Navy and served on an aircraft carrier's gasoline crew; six months later he was sentenced to 18 years in prison for assaulting a superior officer.
        While under arraignment, he escaped twice. His sentence was reduced, and in 1959 he was released after serving two years.
        That same year he arrived in Nashville, and got a songwriting deal with Tree Publishing as Donny Young. He also began playing bass with George Jones, who was then an unknown honky-tonk singer. He also played as a sideman with the singers Faron Young, Porter Wagoner and Ray Price.
        In 1962 he met Aubrey Mayhew, a producer and executive at Pickwick Records, and was soon recording as Johnny Paycheck.
        (His name, changed legally in 1963, was borrowed from a heavyweight boxer who was knocked out in two rounds by Joe Louis in 1940. In the mid-1990's he began capitalizing the C.)
        He had his first modest hit in 1965 with Hank Cochran's song ''A-11.'' The singles that Mr. Mayhew produced with Mr. Paycheck were calculatedly blaring, with Lloyd Green's loud steel guitar, two fiddlers and a driving shuffle rhythm.
        Mr. Paycheck's voice was high, searing and unusual: he bent vowels into a curious mixture of mid-South and Cockney, resulting in locutions like noit-spawt for nightspot.
        Urged on by Mr. Mayhew, Mr. Paycheck wrote bizarre, hallucinatory honky-tonk masterpieces about love, depression and revenge in the 1960's, like ''(Like Me) You'll Recover in Time.''
        In 1967 he left Nashville for San Diego, and his relationship with Mr. Mayhew ended. He quickly ended up on the skids in Los Angeles, playing for beer money. His savior was Billy Sherrill, the CBS Records producer, who sent a colleague to look for him. When Mr. Paycheck turned up in Denver after being unfindable for a year, according to his own story, he weighed 103 pounds and was broke.
        Mr. Sherrill turned Mr. Paycheck into a singer of love ballads like ''Don't Take Her, She's All I Got'' and ''Slide Off Your Satin Sheets,'' which intimated the pleasure, rather than the torture, of romance. Mr. Paycheck had a steady run of hits through the 1970's but still, he found trouble.
        He was charged with forging a check in 1973 and he later filed for bankruptcy. After another image-retooling, his hits started up again, first ''I'm the Only Hell (Mama Ever Raised)'' and then ''Take This Job and Shove It.''
        The attention of a No. 1 song only made his life more untenable. On the cover of his 1983 ''Biggest Hits'' album, photographed with a beard, long hair and brown leather vest, he looked haggard and sallow.
        In 1981 he was accused of slander after a fight with a stewardess, then later charged with sexual assault of a 12-year-old girl after a concert in Wyoming. (Mr. Paycheck denied the charges, but admitted that the incident started with a drug deal.)
        CBS/Epic dropped him from its roster in 1982. He was out of favor in Nashville, excluded by the new formats of country radio, absent from the Grand Ole Opry and the Billboard charts.
        His worst legal scrape came in 1985, when he was drinking at a bar in Hillsboro, Ohio, near Greenfield, where he intended to visit his mother for Christmas. Two men recognized him and sat near him. In the legal proceedings that followed, Mr. Paycheck said the men were taunting and threatening him.
        One of the men, Larry Wise, testified that Mr. Paycheck became enraged after being offered a home-cooked meal of deer meat and turtle soup, yelling, ''What do you think I am, a country hick?'' Mr. Paycheck then shot Mr. Wise with a .22-caliber pistol, grazing his head.
        After three years of appeals, Mr. Paycheck was sent to a medium-security prison in 1989, but not before becoming a born-again Christian and quitting alcohol, drugs and cigarettes.
        In 1991 Ohio Gov. Richard F. Celeste commuted his sentence, and Mr. Paycheck moved to Georgia. Country music embraced him: he was welcomed back as a member of Nashville's self-protective society, he was invited to join the Grand Ole Opry cast in 1997, and he was inducted into the Country Music Hall of Fame.
        Little of the music he made since the arrest has come to light. In the late 1980's he was working on an autobiographical project tentatively called ''The Album of a Life,'' an attempt to sum up his life in 10 songs. It never was released. Nor was an album that he was under contract for in 1998 with Sony Music Nashville's Lucky Dog Records. For a time he performed regularly in Branson, Mo., but finally became too ill to work.
        A number of recent-vintage country singers, from Randy Travis to Tracy Byrd to Daryle Singletary, praised Mr. Paycheck in recent years, and two of his albums of earlier material were released to critical acclaim, ''The Real Mr. Heartache'' (Country Music Foundation Records, 1996) and ''The Soul and the Edge'' (Sony Legacy, 2002).
        ''I'm a man who believes that right is right and wrong is wrong,'' he said in a 1988 interview. ''Treat me right, and I will give you my all. Treat me wrong, and I will give you nothing. They don't like me for that, but that's the way I am.''
        Correction:  February 21, 2003, Friday  An obituary of the country singer Johnny Paycheck yesterday credited him with one distinction erroneously in some copies. He was not inducted into the Country Music Hall of Fame.
      