
        Richard C. Lee, the former mayor of New Haven whose urban renewal programs in the 1950's and 1960's earned national recognition and created a template for decades of future city revitalization projects, died on Sunday. He was 86.
        Mr. Lee had suffered from diabetes and heart disease and was living most recently in a continuing care center near here.
        Mr. Lee, whose formal schooling ended when he graduated from Hillhouse High School in New Haven in 1934, was an intuitive, street-smart politician with a keen eye for public relations. He became the driving force behind many of the city's largest building projects.
        As mayor from 1954 to 1970, Mr. Lee, a Democrat, leveraged hundreds of millions of dollars from the state and federal governments to raze blighted city neighborhoods, feats documented in national magazines and newspapers.
        Under his leadership, a shopping center and a sports and music coliseum were built downtown, and a path was cleared for the construction of the Interstate highways that put his city at the crossroads of southern New England.
        ''More than any American mayor in that era, he made the best possible use of the federal and state laws that were then available for rebuilding a center city and improving the lives of its people,'' said Joel Cogen, executive director of the Connecticut Conference of Municipalities, an organization that Mr. Lee founded in 1966.
        ''He had the vision to see that there were many things that the cities and towns could do better together than they could do separately,'' Mr. Cogen added. ''He had the leadership skills to bring them together and make it happen.''
        Richard Charles Lee was born on March, 12, 1916. He grew up in a cold-water apartment in the working-class Newhallville neighborhood. His father, Frederick, worked at the Winchester Repeating Arms Company.
        After high school, Mr. Lee took a job as a reporter with The New Haven Journal-Courier after bluffing his way through an interview.
        ''The newspaper editor asked Lee if he could type,'' said Raymond Wolfinger, a political science professor at the University of California at Berkeley who spent a year working at City Hall near Mayor Lee in 1957 and 1958. ''He said yes, which was a complete lie. But that was a Friday, and between Friday and Monday he borrowed a typewriter and taught himself typing.''
        At 21 he became a member of the Democratic Party. Soon he was elected an alderman and helped draft the first budget for the city's Planning Commission. After winning three more terms and, in 1943, after a medical discharge from the Army because of ulcers, Mr. Lee was hired by Yale University, first to handle its wartime news digest and later to head its public relations bureau. It was there that he learned to connect with people from every walk of life.
        ''Dick was always perfectly comfortable with people who had greater educations than he,'' said Robert A. Dahl, a Sterling professor of political science emeritus at Yale and author of a 1963 book, ''Who Governs? Democracy and Power in the American City,'' which documented the changes Mr. Lee was making in New Haven. ''You never felt that he was manipulating you. He was, probably, but he was always listening.''
        Mr. Lee is survived by his wife, Ellen Griffin Lee; two daughters, Sarah A. Lee and Tara Lee Croke; and a son, David Lee.
        After two failed mayoral campaigns -- the second of which he lost by two votes -- Mr. Lee beat the Republican mayor in 1954 and kept the job for 16 years, still a New Haven record. But New Haven was a city that was losing its industrial job base and whose inner city was expanding because of an influx of Southern blacks.
        One of his first actions was to convene a committee of residents to come up with ways to reinvent New Haven, a northeastern city that despite Mr. Lee's emphasis on redevelopment has continued to struggle with more than its share of poverty and unemployment.
        ''We are taking the town out of the 18th century and projecting it into the 21st,'' he once told his constituents. And if Mayor Lee was anything, his friends said, he was a pragmatist who knew who to get to know and how to get things done.
        In 1957, John F. Kennedy, then in the Senate, traveled to New Haven to campaign for Mr. Lee. To shore up New Haven's large Italian electorate, the mayor brought in Rocky Marciano, the boxer. He won that election by a two-to-one margin.
        By the end of the 1950's, New Haven was receiving far more federal aid per capita than any other city in in the county, Professor Wolfinger said.
      