
        Orville L. Freeman, who as secretary of agriculture under Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson aggressively promoted food assistance for poor people and exports of American farm goods, died on Thursday in Minneapolis. He was 84.
        Mr. Freeman, the governor of Minnesota from 1954 to 1960, had lived in Minneapolis since 1995 and died of complications from Alzheimer's disease, his family said.
        Mr. Freeman was a close friend of Hubert H. Humphrey. While governor, he was co-chairman (with Senator Eugene J. McCarthy of Minnesota) of Senator Humphrey's campaign for president in 1960. After Senator Humphrey dropped out of the race, Mr. Freeman backed Senator Kennedy, placing his name in nomination at the Democratic National Convention and campaigning for him.
        When Kennedy's Roman Catholicism became an issue, Mr. Freeman, a Lutheran deacon, went on television to declare that religious bigotry had no place in Minnesota politics. Kennedy narrowly carried Minnesota over Vice President Richard M. Nixon, but Mr. Freeman was defeated in his own quest for a fourth two-year term.
        The new president asked Mr. Freeman to join his cabinet. Mr. Freeman was an odd choice, in a way. At 42, he was the youngest agriculture secretary ever. And he had grown up in Minneapolis, son of a clothier who went bankrupt in the Depression. His only link to the soil was his remembrance of boyhood summers on his grandfather's farm.
        As secretary, Mr. Freeman helped to establish food stamps and school-breakfast programs for the poor. He pushed to expand global markets for American farmers, promoted loans and grants for water and sewer systems in rural areas and lobbied Congress to strengthen food-safety protections.
        His political philosophy fit President Johnson's as well as President Kennedy's, and Mr. Freeman remained as secretary until the end of the Johnson presidency in 1969.
        That year, an editorial in The Minneapolis Tribune lamented that Mr. Freeman had been no better than his predecessors at reining a bureaucratic behemoth and had been unable to end the Agriculture Department's ''ineffectual wrestling with surpluses and the problems of low-income farmers.'' But Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman said today that Mr. Freeman would be remembered as ''a friend of the American farmer'' and had made ''a significant impact on the entire food and agriculture system.''
        Orville Lothrop Freeman was born on May 9, 1918, and became a close friend of Hubert Humphrey in the 1930's at the University of Minnesota, where he supported himself working as a janitor. The two young men, members of the debating team, were interested in politics and agreed that the Democratic and Farmer-Labor parties in Minnesota should be merged.
        The parties did merge in 1944, largely to bolster the re-election campaign of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, but internal feuds persisted.
        Humphrey was then mayor of Minneapolis, and in 1945 he named Mr. Freeman a special assistant for veterans' affairs. Mr. Freeman had just been discharged from the Marine Corps after many months of rehabilitation for a jaw wound inflicted by a Japanese sniper bullet.
        Mayor Humphrey and Mr. Freeman worked to stomp out the brush fires in the new Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party. Mr. Freeman, by then practicing law in Minneapolis, became a party leader and in 1948 managed Humphrey's successful campaign for the Senate.
        In 1950, Mr. Freeman ran unsuccessfully for state attorney general. Two years later, he ran for governor, losing badly in the Republican landslide led by Dwight D. Eisenhower.
        But in 1954, with Humphrey leading the Democratic-Farmer-Labor ticket in his successful campaign for re-election, Mr. Freeman was elected governor. He won again in 1956 and again in 1958. He attributed his 1960 defeat partly to his decision the year before to establish martial law in a town torn by a bitter strike at a meatpacking plant.
        After leaving the Johnson administration, Mr. Freeman was chief executive of EDP Technology, a consulting company, then headed Business International Corporation, a New York-based consulting firm, from 1971 to 1985. From 1985 to 1995, he worked for a Washington law firm. Upon his return to Minneapolis in 1995, he became a visiting scholar at the Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs at the University of Minnesota.
        He is survived by his wife of 61 years, Jane; a son, Michael, of Minneapolis; a daughter, Constance, of Nairobi, Kenya, and three grandchildren.
      