
        Harry Jacunski, a member of the Fordham football team's line known as the Seven Blocks of Granite, died Thursday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford of congestive heart failure. He was 87.
        The nickname was originally applied to Fordham linemen during the 1929-30 seasons and revived five years later, when Fordham and Pittsburgh, two of the nation's strongest teams, played scoreless ties in three successive games at the Polo Grounds from 1935 to 1937.
        Jacunski was a left end in the 1936 and 1937 seasons, playing on a line with center Alex Wojciechowicz and right guard Vince Lombardi. Jacunski was a co-captain of the Rams in 1938, and in his three varsity seasons, Fordham was 18-2-5.
        By then Jacunski had enough of football and he told the New York Giants not to waste a pick by drafting him. But jobs were still scarce in 1939 and two months after graduation, Jacunski had not found one.
        ''I went out to Chicago to play in the College All-Star game,'' Jacunski said in an article in Pro Football Weekly two years ago. ''A coach for the Green Bay Packers came around and asked if I'd be interested. By then I was.''
        Jacunski played six seasons for the Packers, the National Football League champions in 1939 and 1944. He was largely overshadowed by the team's other end, Don Hutson, a charter member of the N.F.L. Hall of Fame, whom Jacunski called ''the best football player I ever knew.''
        ''We were good,'' he said of those Packers. ''Although we only made about $100 a game, the Packers took care of us. We had a team doctor and a trainer. Money was tight. We had to buy our own shoes. I always felt it was just a job.
        In the off-season, Jacunski returned to New Britain, Conn., and worked in construction.
        ''I picked up iron rods used to reinforce concrete and moved them around eight hours a day,'' he said. ''That's what made my legs strong.''
        Jacunski stayed with football, though, and in 1945 he began a coaching career that lasted 35 years, the last 33 at Yale under four head coaches.
        He was Carmen Cozza's freshman coach for 16 seasons, and his teams had a record of 59-37-3. ''He was a kind of fatherly figure who touched the lives of a lot of kids when they needed it most,'' Cozza said.
        Jacunski is survived by twin sons, Robert of Wallingford, Conn., and Richard of Brooklyn; two daughters, Carol Fiore of Exeter, N.H., and Margaret Monaco of Norristown, Pa.; 14 grandchildren; and 12 great-grandchildren. His first wife, Anne, died in 1984 and his second, Grace, died last October.
      