
        Marcello Truzzi, a sociologist whose research interests included parapsychology, flying saucers and witchcraft, died on Sunday at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 67.
        The cause was cancer, a son, Kristofer, said.
        Dr. Truzzi, a professor, writer, magician and juggler, approached subjects like telepathy and the Abominable Snowman with skepticism, but he contended that such reports deserved full investigation. He coined the word ''pseudoskeptics'' for people who prejudge claims, even apparently outrageous ones.
        Some skeptics thought the widespread acceptance of seemingly outlandish notions demanded prompt and forceful rebuttals by scientists.
        ''We feel it is the duty of the scientific community to show that these beliefs are utterly screwball,'' Lee Nisbet, executive director of the Committee for the Scientific Investigation of Claims of the Paranormal, said in 1977.
        Dr. Truzzi helped found the committee in 1976 but resigned because he considered it more propagandistic than scientific.
        In 1981, he founded and became director of the Center for Scientific Anomalies Research, which is dedicated to investigating unusual phenomena.
        Dr. Truzzi's more open position, and a flair for showmanship, brought invitations to meetings of psychics and to appear on television talk shows. He was a friend of many self-proclaimed psychics, including Uri Geller, but still doubted Mr. Geller could bend spoons with his mind.
        Mr. Truzzi's wife, Patricia, said that in a lifetime of looking, her husband had encountered only one paranormal phenomenon he thought might have scientific merit: some experiments in psychic communication at Duke University.
        Mr. Truzzi, the son of a celebrated juggler, Massimiliano Truzzi, was born in Copenhagen on Sept. 6, 1935. That was where the Circus Truzzi, his family's circus, was playing. His family moved to the United States in 1940 after Massimiliano Truzzi was hired to juggle in the center ring of the Ringling Bros and Barnum & Bailey Circus.
        The young Marcello worked as a clown, sold tickets and learned magic tricks. He majored in sociology at Florida State University and studied law at the University of Florida before switching to sociology and earning a master's degree.
        Dr. Truzzi received a doctorate from Cornell University, where he delved deeply into the university's large collection of books about witchcraft. The way odd subjects fade in and out of scientific respectability fascinated him, his wife said.
        He taught at Cornell, the University of South Florida and the University of Michigan before becoming chairman of the sociology department at Eastern Michigan University in Ypsilanti. One of his early papers was ''The Decline of the American Circus.''
        In the late 1960's, at the University of Michigan, he began a newsletter for sociologists. It was mimeographed, paid contributors nothing and cost nothing. But its irreverence drew mention in The New York Times in 1970.
        The Times reported that one issue included ''The Game of the American Sociological Association.'' The guide for players included instructions like ''Your book negatively reviewed, lose 1 point'' and ''Your plagiarism proved, lose 5 points.''
        In 1976, Dr. Truzzi was in the news again when he resigned from the Committee for the Scientific Investigation of Claims of the Paranormal.
        ''I don't doubt that 99 percent of occultism is empirically false,'' he said in an interview with The Times, ''but the approach to it has to be based on an examination of the evidence by people qualified to do that, not on outright condemnation.''
        Dr. Truzzi's other works included textbooks on sociology and a cookbook for witches that called for ingredients like eye of newt.
        In 1991, Dr. Truzzi and Arthur Lyons wrote a book about the use of psychics by police departments, ''The Blue Sense: Psychic Detectives and Crime'' (The Mysterious Press). They concluded that most psychic detectives were frauds, but left open the possibility that some might not be.
        Besides his wife and his son Kristofer, of Ann Arbor, Dr. Truzzi is survived by another son, Gianni, of Seattle, and a granddaughter.
      