
        David E. Feller, a lawyer and law professor who researched and argued important civil rights and labor cases, including more than a dozen that went to the Supreme Court, died on Monday in Oakland, Calif. He was 86 and lived in Berkeley, Calif.
        In the 1950's, Mr. Feller was on a panel of lawyers who advised and assisted Thurgood Marshall, who was then general counsel for the N.A.A.C.P., in preparing legal action against the racial segregation of schools. Mr. Feller was involved in drafting friend-of-the-court briefs in Brown v. Board of Education and other crucial civil rights cases.
        Mr. Feller was general counsel for the United Steelworkers of America from 1960 to 1965. He also held that post with the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s industrial union department and for other labor unions.
        As the steelworkers' general counsel, Mr. Feller was involved in what has become known as the Steelworkers' Trilogy, three cases decided by the Supreme Court on June 20, 1960.
        William B. Gould IV, a former member of the United Auto Workers staff who is now emeritus professor of law at Stanford University, said that in those cases, ''The broad issue was whether the courts would involve themselves in the interpretation of collective-bargaining agreements or labor contracts, or whether they would foster the role of arbitrators in interpreting such agreements.''
        ''Feller argued that the courts should do the latter,'' Mr. Gould said, ''that they should foster and promote the arbitration process, and that is what the Supreme Court did.''
        The steelworkers' current general counsel, Paul Whitehead, said those three decisions had established the institution of labor arbitration under United States labor law and gave labor and management a way of resolving disputes in a forum that is fairer, quicker and less expensive than the court system.
        As a relatively young lawyer, Mr. Feller wrote briefs in Youngstown Sheet & Tube Company v. Sawyer. The case was brought by a number of steel companies against Charles Sawyer, President Harry S. Truman's secretary of commerce, and was decided by the Supreme Court in 1952. The court ruled that President Truman had exceeded his presidential powers when he took control of the country's steel industry after the steelworkers had threatened to strike.
        Mr. Feller was John H. Boalt professor of law at the University of California at Berkeley School of Law until he retired from that post in 1987. He was on the school's faculty for more than 35 years.
        Mr. Feller also worked as an arbitrator and was a past president of the National Academy of Arbitrators.
        A native of New York City, David Edward Feller received bachelor's and law degrees, both magna cum laude, from Harvard and was an editor of the law review.
        Later Mr. Feller was a lecturer at the University of Chicago on law and economics and served in the Army, winning the Bronze Star. He worked for the Department of Justice and clerked for Chief Justice Fred M. Vinson.
        Mr. Feller is survived by his wife of 55 years, Gilda; four sons, Fred, of Berkeley, Daniel, of Albuquerque, Joseph, of Phoenix, and Jonathan, of Mill Valley, Calif.; a brother, Oscar, of Palm Desert, Calif.; and four granddaughters.
      