
        Robert St. John, a journalist and prolific author who was beaten by Al Capone's thugs, wounded by Nazis in the Balkans and competed against Edward R. Murrow in London, died on Thursday at his home in suburban Maryland. He was 100.
        Mr. St. John, who wrote 23 books, worked for many news organizations before losing his NBC job in the Red Scare of the 50's and becoming a full-time author. He was an old-fashioned reporter who banged out his books with two fingers on a manual typewriter.
        His steel nerves were apparent in NBC's New York studio in the last hours of World War II. The network rang five bells to signify big news, 10 for something earthshakingly important.
        In an interview with National Public Radio in 2001, he recalled the scene that day: ''I am sitting in the broadcasting booth talking to the entire NBC network when suddenly I hear the bells.''
        He stalled until he heard six rings. ''Ladies and gentlemen, World War II is over,'' he announced without waiting further. ''The Japanese have agreed to our surrender terms.''
        His gamble resulted in a 20-second scoop. Afterward, a colleague asked what he would have done if the president had been assassinated instead.
        ''I would have put on my hat and coat, walked out of that broadcasting booth, out of the NBC newsroom,'' he said. ''I wouldn't have even stopped to collect my pay.''
        After his announcement, Mr. St. John stayed in the broadcasting booth for 117 hours -- sleeping only 10 hours -- according to ''Now the News: The Story of Broadcast Journalism'' by Edward Bliss Jr. (Columbia, 1992).
        Robert William St. John was born in Chicago on March 9, 1902. He grew up in Oak Park, Ill., where he was in a writing class with Ernest Hemingway, according to an interview with The Washington Times in 1994. Their teacher kept both after class to tell them they had no future in writing, he said.
        He lied about his age and joined the Navy at 16 to fight in World War I. He was expelled from Trinity College in Hartford for his excesses as a student journalist.
        Mr. St. John then became publisher of The Cicero Tribune near Chicago. Its exposés of Capone earned him a beating.
        Mr. St. John joined The Associated Press and covered Franklin D. Roosevelt's first presidential campaign, then farmed for six years.
        In the late 1930's, he went to Paris and then to Hungary to look for a job as a war reporter. Showing up at the AP bureau in Budapest, he was hired on the spot.
        ''The Luftwaffe is bombing Warsaw,'' his new boss barked.
        Mr. St. John reported from the Balkans until he was wounded in the right leg by shrapnel when the Germans bombed a troop train he was on.
        He returned to New York to write a book about Yugoslavia, ''From the Land of the Silent People'' (Doubleday, 1942). It became a bestseller.
        NBC Radio then hired him to head its London bureau. He covered the blitz for a year before returning to New York to broadcast general war news.
        In 1948, he published another book on Yugoslavia, ''The Silent People Speak.'' C. L. Sulzberger, in The New York Times Book Review, suggested that his reliance on Communist sources made him ''a subconscious follower of the 'party line.' ''
        Mr. St. John was fired by NBC after Red Channels, a publication devoted to exposing Communist sympathizers in radio and television, mentioned him.
        His wife, Ruth, insisted yesterday that he had never liked Communism.
        He wrote eight books about the Middle East, including well-reviewed biographies of David Ben-Gurion and Gamel Abdel Nasser. Mr. St. John traveled the world, doing research for The World Book Encyclopedia and making radio broadcasts.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. St. John is survived his half-brother, Richard.
      