
        Ernst Kitzinger, one of the 20th century's foremost historians of Byzantine, early Christian and early medieval art, died at his home in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., on Jan. 22. He was 90.
        Dr. Kitzinger, who taught at Harvard for many years, was one of the last surviving members of an influential generation of German art historians who fled their country with the rise of Nazism. Others included Ernst Gombrich, Erwin Panofsky, Rudolf Wittkower and Julius Held. Along with them Dr. Kitzinger brought to the study of art a methodologically rigorous and intellectually ambitious attention to iconography, style and factual evidence that affected the practice of art history in the English-speaking world. At the same time, the lucidity and grace of Dr. Kitzinger's writing in English, his second language, offered his scholarship to a wide audience.
        The virtue of Dr. Kitzinger's work, said Dr. Irving Lavin, professor emeritus at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton and one of Dr. Kitzinger's first students in the United States, was its ability ''to connect what was happening visually to what was happening conceptually; the history of art became a history of ideas.'' Writing on subjects like the floor mosaics of early Christian churches, the phenomenon of iconoclasm and medieval art in northern England, Dr. Kitzinger traced ''a fundamental shift from a humanistic to a spiritual view of the world.'' His work transformed the conventional view of art of the Middle Ages as an incoherent decline from the art of classical antiquity.
        Born in Munich on Dec. 27, 1912, Ernst Kitzinger studied at the universities of Munich and Rome. He received his doctorate in 1934 for work on Medieval painting and mosaics in Rome. Shortly afterward, he went to England, where he was hired by the British Museum. There he immersed himself in the Anglo-Saxon arts of northern England and southern Scotland, and in 1940 he published ''Early Medieval Art at the British Museum,'' still considered one of the best introductions to the art of the Middle Ages.
        At the start of World War II, Dr. Kitzinger was interned as an enemy alien and sent to Australia. After his release in 1941, he came to the United States, where he became a junior fellow at the new Center for Byzantine Studies at the Harvard Dumbarton Oaks Research Library and Collection in Washington. During the war he was a research analyst for the Office of Strategic Services in Washington and London.
        Returning to Dumbarton Oaks in 1946, he became a professor of Byzantine art and archaeology and from 1955 to 1966 director of Byzantine studies. During his tenure, Dumbarton Oaks became the world's leading institution for Byzantine studies. In 1967 he went to Harvard's campus in Cambridge, Mass., to teach until his retirement in 1979.
        Among Dr. Kitzinger's many honors was his appointment as Slade Professor of Fine Art at the University of Cambridge. In 1974 and 1975 he gave a series of lectures that became a widely read book, ''Byzantine Art in the Making'' (Harvard University Press). In 1976 a collection of his published articles appeared as ''The Art of Byzantium and the Medieval West: Selected Studies'' (Indiana University Press).
        Dr. Kitzinger continued to work after retirement, dividing his time between the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton and Oxford. In his 80's he finished a lifelong project with a six-volume photographic survey of the Norman mosaics of Sicily.
        Dr. Kitzinger's wife, the former Margaret Susan Theobald, whom he married in 1944, died in 2000. He is survived by his children, Stephen Anthony Kitzinger of London, Margaret Rachel Kitzinger of Poughkeepsie, N.Y., and Adrian Nicholas Kitzinger of Manhattan, and by three grandchildren.
      