
        Mary Ellis, the young opera singer for whom Rudolf Friml wrote ''Rose-Marie'' in 1924 and who later became the queen of musicals in London, died there on Thursday at her home on Eaton Square. She was 105, including the three years that Hollywood publicists subtracted in the 1930's.
        Her title role in the operetta ''Rose-Marie,'' her first venture into musical theater, was one of the biggest Broadway hits of the 1920's, running for 558 performances. Arthur Hammerstein, the producer, ordered it written especially for her, and long before Jeanette MacDonald's hit version of ''Indian Love Call'' from the 1936 film adaptation, critics universally hailed Miss Ellis's highly trained singing.
        Her dramatic career lasted until she was 97, although she appeared exclusively in England after the 1930's, partly because of a breach with Hammerstein that kept her permanently off the American musical stage.
        Her London stage consort, the composer and actor Ivor Novello, a leading rival of Noël Coward, called her his inspiration and built several hits around her. She also had a major London success with Jerome Kern's ''Music in the Air.''
        Miss Ellis's glamorous circle included Fred and Adele Astaire, Harpo Marx and George Gershwin, with whom she fell fruitlessly in love. In her Hollywood career, Fritz Lang and Marlene Dietrich were her great friends. Her personal life was chronicled, husband by husband, in the press. ''We were all mad and in love with life and work, and each other,'' she wrote in her autobiography, ''Those Dancing Years'' (John Murray, 1982).
        Miss Ellis was born May Belle Elsas on June 15, 1897, at 131 West 95th Street in Manhattan. Her name, considered too German sounding, was changed when she joined the Metropolitan Opera.
        Her father, who had arrived from Germany with only a few coins in his pocket, eventually became president of Consolidated Paper Mills. Her mother showed promise as a concert pianist before her marriage.
        Miss Ellis's parents wanted her to be a painter, but after hearing Geraldine Farrar sing, she once said, ''there was nothing in my mind but opera.''
        At 18, she signed a four-year contract with the Met. She had important roles, including Mityl in the premiere of Albert Wolff's ''Blue Bird.'' She sang a minor part with Enrico Caruso in one of his last performances, in Donizetti's ''Elisir d'Amore,'' in Brooklyn in 1920.
        Against all advice, she left the Met to act in Shakespearean productions on Broadway for the actor and producer David Belasco. That work led to ''Rose-Marie,'' originally about a sweet French-Canadian girl and her love for a fur trapper wrongly accused of murder. (The Canadian mountie, a minor role in the stage version, became the love interest in the movie, in which he was personified by Nelson Eddy.)
        Miss Ellis left the show after a year to appear in ''The Dybbuk,'' a dramatic production at the Neighborhood Playhouse on the Lower East Side, where she happily traded a weekly paycheck of $500 for one of $10. Arthur Hammerstein was furious and forced her to sign an agreement preventing her from singing for any management but his. She never sang onstage in the United States again.
        Miss Ellis had already been divorced twice when she began appearing with Basil Sydney, an English matinee idol, in productions that included a long-running modern-dress version of ''The Taming of the Shrew. They married on a whim in 1929.
        There were professional tensions between the two, some caused by the offers she received to act in plays and films for which her husband was turned down. They appeared together in many plays in London until their marriage collapsed in a highly public divorce. But she was always busy with her own career, including a deal to make three pictures for Paramount.
        Though her movies, including ''All the King's Horses'' (1934), were considered mediocre at best, her own acting and singing voice drew praise. Graham Greene lamented ''the waste of her sensuous appeal, her Bacchanalian gleam'' in that film.
        She also appeared successfully in dramas, like the London production of ''Strange Interlude'' in 1931. But her greatest fame was in musicals, and by the late 1930's, she was one of the most popular stars of the West End, appearing in shows created by Novello and in costumes by Cecil Beaton. Some of the shows Novello wrote for her included ''Glamorous Night'' and ''The Dancing Years.''
        During World War II, Miss Ellis spent three years working as an ambulance driver and a practical nurse. She went on to win excellent reviews for a string of postwar roles, including a leading part in Terence Rattigan's hit drama ''The Browning Version.''
        She retired from the stage in 1970 but continued to act on television and in radio plays. Her last role, in 1994, was in the Sherlock Holmes television series starring Jeremy Brett.
        Miss Ellis leaves no immediate survivors. Her last husband was Jock Muir Stewart Robinson, whom she married in 1938 after a hectic courtship. He was an enthusiastic pilot, skier and climber, and although she hated mountain climbing, she willingly accompanied him. He died in a climbing accident in 1950. She never married again.
      