
        Jack Brodsky, who combined a career as a marketing and publicity executive at a half-dozen movie studios with a second career as a movie producer, died on Tuesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 69.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Tom Sherak, a former head of distribution at Fox.
        In 1963, as a publicist on the Elizabeth Taylor-Richard Burton movie ''Cleopatra,'' Mr. Brodsky had a good view of the torrid Taylor/Burton love affair, which wrecked two marriages, and of the extravagance that almost sank 20th Century Fox. (The movie's $44 million cost would be equivalent to $300 million today.) He turned his knowledge into a book, ''The Cleopatra Papers,'' which he wrote with another publicist for that movie, Nathan Weiss.
        Among the films that Mr. Brodsky produced were ''Summer Wishes, Winter Dreams'' (1973), which won Joanne Woodward the New York Film Critics Award as best actress; Jules Feiffer's ''Little Murders'' (1971); and ''King Ralph'' (1991). He was executive producer for Michael Douglas on ''Romancing the Stone'' (1984) and ''Jewel of the Nile'' (1985) and for Woody Allen on ''Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex'' (1972). His last work as a producer for was ''Daddy Day Care,'' starring Eddie Murphy and scheduled for release this year.
        Born in Brooklyn in 1932 to a vaudeville comedian, Mr. Brodsky entered the movie industry in 1957 under the wing of the head of advertising and publicity at Warner Brothers, Charles Einfeld.
        Mr. Brodsky was also a high-level marketing executive at Filmways, Columbia, Morgan Creek and Rastar.
        He is survived by his mother, Shirley; his wife, Dorothy; his sons Richard and Peter; and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  March 3, 2003, Monday  An obituary of the Hollywood producer and publicity executive Jack Brodsky on Feb. 21 misidentified the studio where he worked under Charles Einfeld, once the head of publicity for Warner Brothers. It was 20th Century Fox, not Warner.
      