
        Walter L. Pforzheimer, one of the founding fathers of the Central Intelligence Agency and the creator of its historical archives, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 88.
        Mr. Pforzheimer was one of a small number of men who started working for the intelligence agency at its creation in 1947 and kept serving it, even in retirement, until the century's close.
        Though he retired in 1974, he was the agency's institutional memory -- an unusual role at an institution that tends to prefer its past shredded.
        He was a short, round man whose mind was sharp and whose tongue was sharper. In one of the two apartments he kept at the Watergate in Washington -- he lived alone in one, his enormous collection of books and intelligence artifacts occupied the other -- he would usually be found with fellow retired intelligence officers, sipping Scotch and telling stories from the cold war. These sessions lasted well into his 80's, until he suffered several strokes.
        ''He was for me the embodiment of institutional memory -- he knew the agency, all the events that mattered, all the people that mattered,'' said John C. Gannon, a former deputy director for intelligence at the C.I.A.
        After his retirement, Mr. Pforzheimer often taught and lectured young intelligence officers. Whether told over a lectern or over a cocktail, his stories were endless, and ''all of them had elements of truth,'' said Hayden Peake, the curator of the Historical Intelligence Collection, housed at the agency and founded in 1956 by Mr. Pforzheimer.
        Mr. Pforzheimer's story was a classic tale of a young, wealthy man who went to Yale (class of 1935) and wound up after World War II at the C.I.A. The college's unofficial anthem, the ''Whiffenpoof Song'' (''We are poor little lambs who have lost our way . . .''), was the soundtrack of the war for that well-bred class of officers. Many were present at the creation of the intelligence service.
        In the war, he played two roles. One was at Army Air Force Intelligence Headquarters in Europe, where his chief of operational intelligence was Col. Lewis W. Powell, the future Supreme Court justice.
        His other role was laundering significant sums of money for the Office of Strategic Services, the C.I.A.'s forerunner. The cover organization for the money laundering was called the Yale Library Project. The story was that the money was being spent on the university's collections. Mr. Pforzheimer had the perfect alibi: He was on the governing board of the Yale Library Associates, and later became its longest-serving trustee.
        Mr. Pforzheimer was always a headquarters man, never overseas. In the C.I.A.'s first decade, he was the agency's liaison to Congress. This was a heady job because the agency had started work without a legislative charter and was running covert operations around the world before it had the slightest legal authority to do so.
        ''It wasn't a case of wanting a law changed -- there was just no law,'' Mr. Pforzheimer recalled. In 1949, Congress passed legislation authorizing the agency's secret budget and, by implication, its secret operations.
        In those days, Congress asked few questions of the agency. In 1955, Senator Leverett Saltonstall of Massachusetts stated the prevailing wisdom: ''It is a question of our reluctance, if you will, to seek information and knowledge on subjects which I, personally, would rather not have.''
        Mr. Pforzheimer pithily summed up the agency's relationship with Congress in those days: ''Amusing. Amusing. The word is amusing.''
        In 1956, the director of central intelligence, Allen Dulles, asked Mr. Pforzheimer to set up the C.I.A.'s historical intelligence collection. Mr. Pforzheimer's father and uncle had been in the rare book business, and he had begun his own collections of intelligence books and memorabilia.
        Mr. Pforzheimer, born in Purchase, N.Y., was single and is survived by no immediate relatives. He donated more than 15,000 books to Yale in 2001.
      