
        Vincent G. Chin, who founded one of the world's largest reggae record labels, died on Feb. 2 at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 65.
        The cause was complications from diabetes, said his son Randy.
        Mr. Chin, who was also known as Randy, was born in Kingston, Jamaica. He got his start refilling jukeboxes with new records around Jamaica in the mid-1950's, and by 1958 had opened a store in Kingston, Randy's Records, with his wife, Patricia. Soon they opened Studio 17, where they recorded reggae legends like Bob Marley, Peter Tosh and Gregory Isaacs. They also had a small record label called Randy.
        The Chins fled political unrest in Jamaica during the 70's and moved to Jamaica, Queens. They opened a store on Jamaica Avenue and 171st Street in 1979 called V. P. Records, after their first initials. They imported records from their store in Kingston and began licensing music for American release, and soon they had a national distributorship.
        In 1993 the Chins established a reggae record label, also called V. P., which capitalized on the popularity of dance hall music, a fast, raplike style that has become the dominant form of reggae. The V. P. roster includes all the major stars of the last decade, like Beenie Man, Beres Hammond, Buju Banton, Sizzla and Sean Paul.
        V. P. released three of the five albums nominated for 2002 Grammy Awards in the reggae category, releases from Bounty Killer, Capleton and Freddie McGregor. Last year the company began a partnership with Atlantic Records to distribute and market releases.
        Though Vincent and Patricia Chin retired from day-to-day operations, V. P. remains a family-run business. Mr. Chin's sons Randy and Christopher run the label and another son, Clive, has his own reggae label. Clive's son Joel is an artist-and-repertory representative for V. P.
        Other survivors include a daughter, Angela Chung of Fort Lauderdale, who runs a V. P. distribution branch in Miramar, Fla.; three sisters, Rita Henry of Brooklyn, and Molly Feliciano and Daphne Lyew, both of Fort Lauderdale; and 13 grandchildren.
      