
        Evelyn Trout, a pioneering aviator who flew in the first Powder Puff Derby and held many records, including becoming the first woman to fly all night, died on Jan. 24 in San Diego. She was 97.
        Known as Bobbi for her bob hairstyle, she had an international pilot's license signed by Orville Wright in 1929 that was carried into space in 1995 by Eileen Collins, the first woman to be the pilot of an American spacecraft.
        Miss Trout set many records for endurance and altitude; became the fifth woman to earn a transport license, allowing her to fly for hire; and was one of the first women to be a pilot for the Los Angeles Police Department.
        In 1929, she was one of 19 participants in the first National Women's Air Derby, a California-to-Ohio race that Will Rogers famously called the ''first Powder Puff Derby.''
        She had two hard landings on the trip. After the second, 70 miles short of Cleveland, she did her own repairs, using ''old tin and baling wire,'' according to a 1999 interview with The Los Angeles Times. When she reach Cleveland, officials scolded her for taking such a risk.
        ''I told them, 'It got me here, didn't it?' '' she said. She was the last survivor of the famous race.
        Her fame, like that of other early daredevils, was such that Walt Disney hired her in 1928 to publicize Mickey Mouse, not yet a famous character, by taking aloft a planeful of Mickey Mouse dolls.
        Remembering the glories of her youth in an interview with The Los Angeles Daily News in 1999, Miss Trout said, ''People thought we were nuts.''
        Miss Trout was born in Greenup, Ill., on Jan. 7, 1906, and spent much of her childhood moving with her family around the country, staying with relatives. Her early ambitions were to be a cowgirl or a motorcycle racer, but when she was 16, she had her first plane ride in a Curtiss Jenny and was captivated.
        She was adept at mechanics, but administrators at her Los Angeles high school made her take home economics, which she told The Los Angeles Times was a ''sissy course.'' While still in high school, she persuaded her parents to buy a service station for her to run. Soon the station was so successful that her father quit his job with the phone company to help her run the business.
        She said in an interview with The San Diego Union-Tribune that after high school she weighed the options of studying architecture in college or learning to fly. She decided to use her earnings from the service station for flying lessons.
        The federal government gave her license number 2,613, meaning that just 2,612 pilots had been licensed before her. On Jan. 1, 1929, she received her international pilot's license, signed by Orville Wright, then chairman of the International Aeronautic Federation.
        Miss Trout had a $35-a-week job demonstrating a new monoplane called the Golden Eagle, and she set her first record on Jan. 2, 1929, when she stayed aloft for 12 hours and 11 minutes to beat Viola Gentry's women's endurance record of eight hours. The New York Times reported that she carried concentrated food and a bottle of hot chocolate.
        On Jan. 31, 1929, Elinor Smith beat Miss Trout's time by an hour. The battle was on. On Feb. 13, Miss Trout stayed up for 17 hours, 5 minutes to regain the record and become the first woman to fly all night. Miss Trout said in an interview with The New York Times that she had only lent the record to Miss Smith for a couple of weeks.
        On June 16, 1929, Miss Trout climbed to 15,200 feet in a new 90-horsepower Golden Eagle Chief. This set an altitude record in light aircraft for women.
        In November 1929, Miss Trout and Miss Smith joined forces to set an endurance record. They hoped to stay up for a month by refueling from a gas hose lowered by a refueling plane. They lasted 42 hours, 3 1/2 minutes, but that was a record.
        On Jan. 1, 1931, Miss Trout and Edna May, another pilot, set another record by flying for more than 122 hours.
        In the 1930's, Miss Trout was a flying instructor and commercial photographer. In World War II, she invented a machine to sort unused rivets that were being scrapped by aircraft companies and developed a device for smoothing the edges of machined metal. Also in the war, the Los Angeles Police Department hired her and four other women to do aerial surveillance.
        Miss Trout was single, and no immediate family members survive. In her later years, she sold real estate and insurance and participated in events honoring the pioneers of aviation.
        Correction:  February 6, 2003, Thursday  A picture caption on Sunday with an obituary of the pioneer aviator Evelyn Trout misidentified the plane shown with her. It was a Curtiss Pusher, not a Curtiss Robin.
      