
        Daniel Toscan du Plantier, a French movie producer who over the last 15 years has presided over Unifrance, the French movie promotion agency, collapsed and died of heart failure here today while attending the Berlin film festival. He was 61.
        With his long gray hair and military mustache, Mr. Toscan du Plantier was a familiar and dashing figure at international film festivals. Although his career as a movie producer led him to work with many of the great European directors of the last quarter-century, in the French movie industry he was best known and appreciated as a tireless ambassador of French film.
        ''His death is a loss for cinema and culture,'' France's prime minister, Jean-Pierre Raffarin, said in a statement in Paris. ''This tireless worker had put all his energy into the promotion and development of French cinema.''
        The French actor Pierre Arditi spoke of Mr. Toscan du Plantier's great affection for cinema. ''He was a little like the producers from 30 or 40 years ago who made movies because they wanted to have a kind of love affair with films,'' Mr. Arditi told a French radio station. ''They produced out of desire. They weren't doing it for business.''
        Born on April 7, 1941, in Chambéry, France, Mr. Toscan du Plantier began working in publicity, but he was drawn to movies and in 1975 became deputy director-general of the French movie giant Gaumont. In this post, he provided financial backing for movies by Ingmar Bergman, Federico Fellini, François Truffaut, Joseph Losey and Francesco Rossi.
        Mr. Toscan du Plantier's strong affection for opera led him to involvement in producing Mr. Losey's ''Don Giovanni,'' Mr. Rossi's ''Carmen,'' Frédéric Mitterand's ''Madama Butterfly' and, most recently, Benoît Jacquot's ''Tosca,'' starring Roberto Alagna and Angela Gheorghiu. In 1983 he even directed a stage version of ''Don Giovanni'' at the Monte Carlo Opera in Monaco.
        In 1985 he left Gaumont and took over Erato Disques and Erato Films, but this was not a successful venture. From 1988, however, as president of Unifrance, he emerged as France's international movie spokesman and, as such, created numerous French film festivals around the world, most recently in Marrakesh, Morocco. He also resumed work as an independent producer.
        Mr. Toscan du Plantier's second marriage ended in tragedy in 1996 when his wife, Sophie, was murdered in southern Ireland. The case has still not been solved by Irish police. In 1998 he married Melita Nikolic, who survives him along with five children from his earlier marriages.
      