
        Joseph Coors Sr., who helped make his family's beer a nationwide brand and who used his fortune to support conservative causes, notably the Heritage Foundation and Ronald Reagan's climb to the presidency, died on Saturday at his home in Rancho Mirage, Calif., where he had moved in retirement. He was 85 and formerly lived in Golden, Colo.
        The cause was lymphatic cancer, his company said.
        A grandson of the company's founder, Adolph Coors, Joe Coors was a former president, chief operating officer and vice chairman of the Adolph Coors Company, based in Golden. He retired from management in 1987 and from the company board in 2000.
        With his elder brother, William, Mr. Coors challenged the industry giants, Anheuser-Busch and Miller Brewing, for their national position. Until the 1970's, Coors beer was a regional Western beer, selling around 300,000 barrels a year. Going national, the Coors brothers produced more than 20 million barrels annually by the time Joe Coors retired from the business.
        The growth, which made Coors the country's third-largest beer producer, did not come without its detractors. Coors's nonunion policies drew the ire of organized labor and a long and bitter boycott that was eventually ended in the late 1980's. And Coors money aroused controversy when it spilled into the political arena.
        In the 1970's, Joseph Coors lent his influence and financial power to start the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research institute in Washington, with an initial gift of $250,000. Within 10 years, with the help of much larger contributions from other conservative businessmen, notably Richard Mellon Scaife, the foundation had an annual budget of more than $10 million and was supporting influential studies by more than 100 scholars and researchers.
        ''Without Joe Coors, the Heritage Foundation wouldn't exist,'' its president, Edwin Feulner, said, ''and the conservative movement it nurtures would be immeasurably poorer.''
        He also became a mainstay of an array of other conservative bodies, like the Free Congress Foundation, the Mountain States Legal Foundation and the Leadership Institute, training grounds for politically ambitious young conservatives with its headquarters in Arlington, Va.
        Mr. Coors met Mr. Reagan in Palm Springs, Calif., in 1967 and promptly enlisted in the campaign to propel Mr. Reagan, then the new California governor, into the White House. By 1980, he was a key member of Mr. Reagan's inner circle that guided his transition team and helped determine the makeup of his administration.
        Mr. Coors was a strong supporter of several Coloradans who won Reagan appointments, including James G. Watt, the president of the Mountain States Legal Foundation who became secretary of the interior, and Anne M. Gorsuch, a Denver lawyer who became head of the Environmental Protection Agency.
        Joseph Coors was born in Golden and raised in the shadow of the family brewery, where he did odd jobs during summer breaks. He attended public schools and graduated with a degree in chemistry from Cornell University in 1940. He also received a master's degree in chemical engineering at Cornell in 1942, the year he was named to the board of Adolph Coors.
        In 1946, he took charge of the company's porcelain division, which had helped it survive Prohibition. He worked in the clay pits outside Golden and was credited with innovations in producing ceramics. The company, which now makes ceramic components for technical uses like electrical systems, was spun off and is now called Coorstek.
        His chemical engineering background also came in handy when he and his brother refined the company's cold-filtered brewing technology. The brothers also had a role in the introduction of aluminum beer cans and, later, in recycling them, when Coors began to offer a penny for each can's return in 1959, long before recycling became a nationwide priority.
        Besides his brother, Mr. Coors is survived by his wife, Anne, and the five sons from his first marriage to Holly Coors, of Golden: Jeffrey H., Peter H., now the chairman of Coors, Joseph Jr., Grover and John, all of Golden; 27 grandchildren, and 8 great-grandchildren.
      