
        José Márcio Ayres, a zoologist who sought to save large swaths of rain forest in the Amazon Basin by enlisting the self-interest of its indigenous people in the effort, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 49 and lived most of the time in Belém, his native city, at the mouth of the Amazon.
        The cause was lung cancer, said the Wildlife Conservation Society, where he was the senior conservation zoologist. The society operates New York City zoos, the New York Aquarium and more than 350 conservation projects in 53 countries.
        Dr. Ayres coordinated the creation of a protected zone bigger than all of Costa Rica, in the heart of the Amazon. Its more than 20,000 square miles teem with thousands of species of fish and birds, with local people benefiting from their survival and having a say in how to assure it.
        Dr. Ayres, who held the society's Carter chair in rain forest ecology, set up the Mamirauá Sustainable Development Reserve in 1996, followed by the Amanã Sustainable Development Reserve next to it two years later. The process involved coordinating the efforts of the wildlife society, the local Brazilian state and the actual residents of the area: in contrast to traditional national parks, the reserves encouraged its dwellers to stay as custodians.
        A scientific team assembled by Dr. Ayres delineated protected zones for fish to spawn, others for commercial fisheries and some for catching fish for subsistence only. Local residents became their co-managers.
        The two reserves, which were quickly recognized by the Brazilian government, inhibited poaching and restocked valuable food fish and wildlife. In 1998, the government linked both reserves to Jaú National Park, thus protecting more than 22,000 square miles of unbroken habitat in all.
        José Márcio Ayres found his avocation at 19 in a German zoo where he came face to face with another denizen of the Amazon, a rare uakari monkey, with white hair and a bald, bright red pate. He decided to learn all about this fellow Brazilian.
        He received a bachelor's degree in biology in 1976 and a master's in primate socioecology in 1981 at the University of São Paulo. He worked at the São Paulo Zoo and at the National Institute for Amazonian Research, investigating the socioecology of the region's primates.
        He received his doctorate in primatology at Cambridge in 1986 with a thesis ''The White Uakaris and the Amazonian Flooded Forest.''
        He joined what was still the New York Zoological Society in 1990. In 1992 he became senior zoologist and coordinator of its Brazil program, working with Brazilian national and Amazon state research institutions and as general director of the Mamirauá Institute for Sustainable Development.
        He was also an adjunct professor for the New York Consortium for Evolutionary Primatology, a joint undertaking of Columbia, New York University, the American Museum of Natural History, the State and City Universities of New York and the Wildlife Conservation Society.
        Dr. Ayres is survived by his wife, Carolina Diniz Ayres; two sons, Daniel and Lucas; his parents, Manuel and Iza Ayres of Belém; a brother, also Manuel, of Rio de Janeiro; and a sister, Helena Ayres of Belém.
      