
        Jean-Luc Lagardère, a customs inspector's son who built one of France's largest industrial empires, reaching from publishing to missiles and telecommunication satellites, died late Friday in a hospital here. He was 75.
        The cause was a rare neurological condition affecting the immune system, his company said. Mr. Lagardère, who had surrendered day-to-day operations of his businesses about two years ago, had been ailing since undergoing hip surgery in late February.
        President Jacques Chirac, a close friend, described Mr. Lagardère as a ''tireless entrepreneur,'' and praised his universality as ''looking toward Europe and open to the world.''
        Mr. Lagardère, who built the Lagardère Group over several decades before handing control to his only son, Arnaud, in 2001, was a self-made man of broad interests and bold risk-taking, beginning his career in the aerospace industry, where he worked with great postwar pioneers of the business like Marcel Dassault. Yet fearing for the French government's acquisitive designs on military contractors, he branched out in the 1980's into publishing, acquiring Hachette, best known for the women's magazine Elle and the photo magazine Paris Match.
        Mr. Lagardère also knew setback. One of his most disastrous ventures came in 1990, with his decision to invest in a private television channel, La Cinq. By the time the station collapsed in 1992, troubled mostly by plunging advertising revenue and costly regulatory restrictions on its programming, the venture had cost Hachette almost $645 million. The loss effectively crushed Mr. Lagardère's ambition to compete with the likes of the News Corporation, Bertelsmann and Time Warner as a media group of global stature.
        But Mr. Lagardère made a characteristic rebound. In 1993, he acquired the Matra defense business that he had run earlier in his career, using its ample cash flow to help bail out Hachette. In the late 1990's, Mr. Lagardère emerged as one of the key figures in the creation of a unified European aerospace company, after he merged Matra with Aerospatiale, a state-owned maker of aircraft and missiles. He was then instrumental in bringing the Aerospatiale-Matra combination into a single company with the aerospace business of DaimlerChrysler in Germany and Spain's Casa to form the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, or EADS, the world's biggest aerospace group after Boeing. The Lagardère Group owns 15 percent of EADS.
        Born Jean-Lucien Lagardère in Aubiet in the southwest of France on Feb. 10, 1928, he was left by his father, who moved frequently for his work, to be raised by his grandparents, and had a strict upbringing in a country setting with which he identified through his life.
        ''I am a man of the land, a good Gascon peasant, and when a peasant is 80 or 85 he is still planting trees,'' he once told The New York Times in an interview, giving a glimpse of his attachment to his roots. ''The trees are his heritage, even if he knows he will never see them fully grown.''
        After obtaining a degree in Paris in electrical engineering, Mr. Lagardère began his career in 1952 as an engineer with Avions Marcel Dassault, which was then developing the aircraft that would form the backbone of French military policy. In 1963, he left Dassault to run Matra, a competing aerospace and arms business. By the early 1970's, after France ended its colonial activity in North Africa, Mr. Lagardère wagered that French military spending would decline and decided to add several more strings to his industrial bow.
        He first pushed Matra away from arms and into the business of making equipment for space exploration, like satellites, then into the design and manufacture of automobiles, beginning a long cooperation with Renault that lasted until earlier this year, when Matra shut down its auto business because of slack sales of the Renault models it built.
        In 1980, fearing that France's new Socialist government would nationalize private military companies like Matra, he acquired Hachette. Even before the debacle at La Cinq, Hachette had embarked on a major expansion in the United States as the keystone of a plan to create a world media empire, buying publishers of books and magazines, including Car and Driver, Road & Track and Woman's Day. The investment came just as the advertising market slumped. Undaunted, Mr. Lagardère hit upon the idea of merging Matra with Hachette, creating a bizarre missiles-to-magazines hybrid.
        With the end of the cold war in the early 1990's, European governments sought to merge their fragmented military industries to compete in scale with American giants like Boeing, Raytheon and Northrop Grumman. Mr. Lagardère was a moving spirit behind the creation of EADS, whose biggest asset, Airbus, has gradually eroded the market share of Boeing.
        With EADS up and running, Mr. Lagardère handed over day-to-day control of his businesses in 2001 to his son, who survives him together with Mr. Lagardère's wife, Elizabeth, known as Betty.
        Under Arnaud Lagardère, who will be 43 on Tuesday, the Lagardère Group gradually clawed its way back to the top of the media business. It acquired the French chain of Megastores formerly owned by the Virgin Group of Britain, and acquired radio stations and cable television channels. In October, it agreed to pay $1.2 billion for the European and Latin American publishing assets of Vivendi Universal, making Lagardère the largest book publisher in France.
        But by this time, Mr. Lagardère was dedicating himself to his private passions, one of which was horsemanship and the breeding of horses.
        To the end he remained a devotee of diversification. ''People say you have to have a single business -- tires or cars or food,'' he once told an interviewer. ''But I believe that today an industrial group has to be widely diversified. This is the best way to guard against the impact of business cycles.''
      