
        Stan Brakhage, one of the leading figures in American experimental cinema, died on Sunday in Victoria, British Columbia. He was 70.
        The cause was cancer, his wife, Marilyn, said in a statement.
        In a career that in the early 1950's and continued until the last weeks of his life, Mr. Brakhage made about 400 films. He also wrote about film and taught extensively.
        Like the work of many artistic radicals, his is often described in terms of what it is not: working in a photographic medium most commonly defined by storytelling and the reproduction of real-world objects and events, Mr. Brakhage made films that usually had no narrative, were often not representational and at times even dispensed with photography altogether. With a few exceptions, his films were also made without sound, which he felt might spoil the intensity of the visual experience.
        An admirer of Ezra Pound and a close associate of poets like Kenneth Rexroth, Robert Creeley and Robert Duncan, Mr. Brakhage preferred to think of his films as metaphorical, abstract and highly subjective -- as a kind of poetry written with light.
        ''He was a painter or poet in cinema,'' said P. Adams Sitney, a film historian at Princeton University, ''not a novelist like everybody else.''
        Mr. Sitney continued, ''In the entire history of the medium, when all the pop-culture interests have faded, a hundred years from now, he will be considered the preeminent artist of the 20th century.''
        Mr. Brakhage's work is as notable for its variety as for its quantity: some of his films last only a few seconds, while others are epic in scope and duration; they include meditations on sexuality and domestic life, as well as wholly abstract compositions made by scratching, dyeing and otherwise altering the celluloid itself.
        In ''Window Water Baby Moving'' (1959) he unflinchingly documented the birth of one of his children long before camcorders became standard delivery-room accessories. In ''Mothlight'' (1963) he sandwiched leaves, petals and insect parts between strips of perforated tape and then transferred their images to film. In ''The Text of Light'' (1974) he examined the shadings and refractions of light filtered through a heavy glass ashtray.
        But for all their differences of mood, style and formal method, Mr. Brakhage's films were the expression of a singular and uncompromising aesthetic program, which he articulated in numerous lectures, interviews and essays.
        ''Imagine an eye unruled by man-made laws of perspective,'' he wrote in ''Metaphor on Vision,'' first published in the journal Film Culture in 1963, ''an eye unprejudiced by compositional logic, an eye which does not respond to the name of everything but which must know each object encountered in life through an adventure of perception.''
        The idea that the physical act of seeing could be separated -- liberated, even -- from the shape and nature of the things seen, and from our preconceptions about them, was the basis of much of Mr. Brakhage's art.
        Stan Brakhage was born Robert Sanders in a Kansas City, Mo., orphanage on Jan. 14, 1933, and adopted two weeks later by Ludwig and Clara Brakhage, who named him James Stanley. He performed on radio as a boy soprano, attended high school in Denver and dropped out of Dartmouth after two months. In 1952 he made his first film, ''Interim.''
        Among his early influences were Jean Cocteau and the Italian neo-realists but, after arriving in New York in 1954, he gravitated toward the flourishing avant-garde film scene, drawing inspiration from artists and filmmakers like Maya Deren and Marie Menken and with Joseph Cornell, with whom he collaborated on several occasions.
        In 1957 he married Jane Collom, and the details of their lives together, and the lives of their five children, would figure prominently in his work. They divorced in 1987. In 1989 Mr. Brakhage married Marilyn Jull, with whom he had two sons.
        He is survived by Marilyn, their sons, Anton and Vaughn; the children from his first marriage, Myrrena Schwegmann of Aurora, Colo., Crystal Brakhage of Longmont, Colo., Neowyn Bartek of Denver, Bearthm Brakhage of Denver and Rarc Brakhage of Selmer, Tenn.; and 14 grandchildren.
        Mr. Brakhage's work, beginning with ''Anticipation of the Night'' (1958), which he at one point considered ending with a scene of his own suicide, soon placed him at the center of the underground film movement.
        Jonas Mekas, a fellow filmmaker, longtime friend and director of Anthology Film Archives in Manhattan, recalled on Monday that, before Mr. Brakhage, ''the avant-garde was very much in the classical French/German tradition, and here comes this guy in his 20's from Colorado with this electrifying personal style, very open and free, and that was really the beginning of the American avant-garde.''
        Mr. Mekas compared Mr. Brakhage to Willem de Kooning and the other Abstract Expressionist painters. In the 1980's, with ''painted films'' like Mr. Brakhage's ''Dante Quartet,'' this affinity would become even more explicit, as though Mr. Brakhage had been able to transform the implicit velocity of action painting into actual, literal movement.
        According to Marilyn Brakhage, Mr. Brakhage's doctors believed that the coal-tar dyes that he used in making those films may have contributed to his bladder cancer, which was diagnosed in 1996.
        Although the centers of experimental filmmaking in the 60's and 70's were San Francisco and New York, Mr. Brakhage spent much of his working life in Colorado, where he lived from 1960 until last year, when he moved to Canada.
        From 1969 to 1981 he taught for one semester each year at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago. (His lectures there, on his colleagues and precursors, were collected in the book ''Film at Wit's End.'') From 1981 until his retirement last year, he taught at the University of Colorado at Boulder.
        Mr. Mekas said that in his final months Mr. Brakhage was still working on film, softening the emulsion on pieces of celluloid and scratching it with his fingernail.
      