
        Fred Danback, a former janitor and lover of the Hudson River who started one of the earliest successful battles against industrial pollution of the river, died on Monday at his home in Putnam Valley, N.Y. He was 79.
        The cause of death was an aortic aneurysm, his son Bruce said.
        In the 1960's, long before protection of the environment became a fashionable cause, Mr. Danback, a janitor for the Anaconda Wire and Cable Company at its Hastings-on-Hudson plant, began complaining to his employers about their dumping of copper filings, waste oils and sulfuric acid into the river.
        Mr. Danback had lived alongside the river all his life, and had come to know many of its shad fishermen when he was a member of the United States Volunteer Life Saving Corps, which still operates on the river.
        The pollution problem came to his attention when the fishermen told him that not only was their catch dwindling, but also that the shad they were bringing in were frequently so polluted by chemicals that they could not be sold as food.
        Mr. Danback prepared detailed maps of the plant, showing all the pipes through which the company was releasing pollutants. But the company did not change its ways, and Mr. Danback found himself being denied promotions.
        He became union president at the plant, which continued to release pollutants. In 1969, he gave up his job with Anaconda, since the union contract forbade union members from suing the company, and joined forces with the Hudson River Fishermans Association.
        Together they pressed the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York to take legal action against Anaconda under the Refuse Act of 1899, an obscure piece of legislation Mr. Danback had discovered that said nothing could be dumped into a river except storm drainage and water.
        At first, judging from the amount of pollution taking place along the banks of the Hudson, Mr. Danback assumed the law must have been amended. He wrote to the federal government and was told that the law was still in force, unamended.
        In 1971, the United States attorney charged Anaconda with 100 counts of violating that act. Two years later the company paid a $200,000 fine, at that time the largest ever imposed on an American company for polluting.
        The 1899 act provided for up to half the fine to be paid to those who had provided the information leading to a conviction. But the court awarded only $20,000 to the Hudson River Fishermans Association, which in turn gave $10,000 to Mr. Danback.
        Encouraged by this successful use of the law, Mr. Danback, the association and other concerned groups began suing other corporations that were releasing pollutants into the river, including the Yonkers Contracting Corporation, General Motors, Ciba-Geigy and General Electric.
        Frederick Adam Danback was born and raised in Yonkers. He is survived by his wife, Anne; two sons, Fred Jr., of New Fairfield, Conn., and Bruce, of Yorktown, N.Y.; and three daughters, all of New York State, Jerri Bonura of Mahopac, Arlene DeRonda of Verplanck and Diana Mahon of Putnam Valley.
      