
        Sylvia K. Burack, a retired editor and publisher of a magazine that offered advice to budding writers, died on Feb. 14 in Boston. She was 86 and lived in Brookline, Mass.
        For nearly 40 years Ms. Burack and her husband, A. S. Burack, published The Writer, as well as another magazine called Plays and how-to books on writing. Early contributors included Isaac Asimov and Phyllis A. Whitney. ''She was the first one who paid any attention to me,'' Ms. Whitney said.
        After Mr. Burack's death in 1978, his wife took over as editor and publisher. ''We're not going to make anyone a Pulitzer Prize winner,'' Ms. Burack told The Boston Globe in 1987. ''But we can tell writers about the basics -- the dos and don'ts.''
        Authors like Sue Grafton and Stephen King contributed articles about the writing life, on subjects as diverse as writer's block and the secrets of romantic conflict. After reading the magazine, Sidney Sheldon sent Ms. Burack a congratulatory letter, ''and she asked me to write, so I started writing,'' he recalled. Mr. Sheldon contributed an advice column for about five years.
        Born in Hartford, Ms. Burack graduated from Smith College in 1938. She served as a trustee for the Massachusetts state college system and the University of Massachusetts and was president of the Friends of Boston University Libraries. She retired from The Writer in 2000 and sold the company to Kalmbach Publishing, which continues to publish the magazines and related books. She is survived by three daughters, Ellen Toker of Pittsburgh; Elizabeth Chapman of Palo Alto, Calif.; and Susan Finer of Hanover, N.H.; and nine grandchildren.
        Not all contributors to Ms. Burack's magazine were well known. Wendy Dager, a columnist for The Ventura County Star and self-published author of ''The Gorgeous and Brilliant Guide to Freelance Writing,'' wrote an article on creating greeting cards. Ms. Burack sent her a personal acceptance letter, ''typed on a typewriter, with Wite-Out and all,'' Ms. Dager said. ''She and The Writer treated us lesser-known writers as if we were just as important as those with household names.''
      