
        Claus Helberg, a hero of the Norwegian resistance in World War II and principal architect of his country's mesh of year-round mountain trails, died last Thursday. He was 84.
        He suffered a heart attack, the Norwegian press reported from Oslo.
        Mr. Helberg, a lifelong skier and mountain guide, took part in the Telemark commando strike of February 1943, which denied the occupying Germans a source of material they might have used to build an atomic bomb.
        In peacetime, he became a legend for building a network of trails and slopes and lodges. After his formal retirement from the Norwegian Mountain Touring Association in 1982 he remained a volunteer guide. Queen Sonja of Norway and her guest, Queen Margrethe of Denmark, were among his best-known clients. He became the favorite mountain guide of Scandinavian royalty, and, on his 80th birthday, he ate dinner with a queen on either side of him at the table.
        Claus Helberg was born in Rjukan, in Telemark County in southeastern Norway, a region of lakes and mountain scenery. Growing up, he gained a reputation as a pathfinder and, in 1938, the touring organization enlisted him in its efforts to make the mountains less forbidding for visitors.
        The mountains also sheltered Norsk Hydro, a plant at Vermonk, that was of interest to the Nazis because of a byproduct it produced. In making hydrogen for use in fertilizer, the plant produced deuterium oxide, known as heavy water, which was deemed vital for preparing uranium-235.
        When war broke out, German troops invaded Norway ''preventively'' in early 1940 to keep it out of British hands.
        British intelligence concluded that the heavy water at Vermonk could serve a German effort to build an atomic bomb, but the mountainous site was ill situated for an air assault.
        Mr. Helberg went on the mission to reconnoiter the ground approach and joined the band of saboteurs who managed to dynamite the plant in February 1943, hobbling it for the rest of the war.
        He was captured by the Germans, escaped, and shuttled precariously to Sweden and Britain and back to Norway on reconnaissance missions. He joined the Company Linge, a unit of Norwegian exiles who distinguished themselves gathering intelligence, organizing the resistance and sabotage.
        Mr. Helberg was credited with laying out a network of trails and tracks along with a national system of year-round self-service log cabins. Situated along the hikes, they have no staff, but offer room and board, including canned foods and firewood, and a box for hikers to leave a check before moving on in the morning.
        Oystein Dahle, chairman of the Mountain Touring Association, said, ''I'm sure his soul has already settled down at the top of Mount Gausdal, which he loved so much.''
      