
        Dr. Alexander R. Stokes, the scientist and mathematician who discerned in 1950 that DNA is helical in shape and provided a solid foundation for the discovery of the double helix three years later, died in Welwyn Garden City, a London suburb, on Feb. 5. He was 83.
        When Dr. Francis Crick and Dr. James D. Watson published their historic findings on the double helix in the journal Nature on April 25, 1953, their work was supported by an accompanying article by Dr. Stokes, Dr. Maurice Wilkins and Dr. Herbert Wilson describing the experimental evidence for the double helix.
        Dr. Watson attributed the discovery in part to Dr. Stokes. In Dr. Watson's book ''The Double Helix'' in 1968 he wrote, ''Stokes had solved the problem in the train while going home one evening and had produced the theory on a small sheet of paper the next morning.''
        An expert in the study of crystals, Dr. Stokes was a member of a team at King's College London headed by Dr. Wilkins, who later shared the 1962 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Dr. Crick and Dr. Watson.
        Dr. Wilkins's research involved the difficult task of extracting samples of DNA and subjecting them to X-ray analysis. He had his first success in 1950, producing images of DNA showing a clear pattern of spots.
        It was Dr. Stokes, using his extraordinary grasp of mathematics, who interpreted the pattern to be that of a helix or spiral ladder.
        Dr. Stokes and the rest of the Wilkins team could not tell, though, whether the pattern was a single, double or triple helix, nor did they know whether the helix was right-handed or left-handed.
        Later, Dr. Rosalind Franklin, a colleague at King's College London who also reported on DNA in the same issue of Nature, used a similar technique to produce the famous ''Photograph 51,'' the X-ray image that galvanized Dr. Watson and Dr. Crick to resume their attack on the structure of DNA.
        Dr. Stokes, who graduated from Trinity College Cambridge, continued to study large biological molecules at King's College, retiring as a senior lecturer in 1982. His books include ''The Theory of the Optical Properties of Inhomogeneous Materials'' (1963) and ''The Principles of Atomic and Nuclear Physics'' (1972).
        Alexander Rawson Stokes was born in Macclesfield, Cheshire. He is survived by his wife, Margaret; two sons, Gordon and Ian; and a daughter, Jean
        Whenever it was suggested that he should have shared the Nobel Prize, he always insisted that his contribution to the discovery of the structure of DNA had been too small.
        ''I sometimes think that the result was worth perhaps one five-thousandth of a Nobel Prize,'' he wrote in a publication for King's College London. ''But they do not divide out the Nobel Prize in that way. If they did, there would be a long queue of claimants.''
      