
        Peter Stone, whose sophisticated wit in films like ''Charade'' and zeal for historical accuracy in Broadway musicals like ''1776'' helped him become the first writer to win an Oscar, an Emmy and a Tony, died on Saturday in Manhattan. He was 73 and had homes in Manhattan and in Amagansett, on Long Island.
        The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, said his wife, Mary.
        ''I'm a political person, although I don't mean that in the Washington, D.C., sense,'' Mr. Stone said in a 1997 interview. ''I'm interested in the dissemination of information.''
        Even in his most urbane comedies, Mr. Stone -- a former broadcast journalist and the son of a history teacher -- struggled to pack in the historical details that so fascinated him.
        In a 1969 review of the musical ''1776,'' Walter Kerr wrote in The New York Times: ''The show makes you feel smarter than you used to be, which is a gracious thing for librettist Peter Stone to have arranged, and smarter without having had to slave for it.''
        Mr. Stone, whose Oscar came for an original screenplay -- for the 1964 Cary Grant comedy ''Father Goose,'' an award he shared with S. H. Barnett and Frank Tarloff -- was actually more widely known for his adaptations.
        In 1969 he adapted for the screen the musical ''Sweet Charity,'' which had itself been adapted from Federico Fellini's ''Nights of Cabiria'' (1957). He also adapted the George Bernard Shaw play ''Androcles and the Lion'' for NBC television in 1967, Billy Wilder's ''Some Like It Hot'' (1959) for Broadway as the musical ''Sugar'' (1972) and John Godey's novel ''The Taking of Pelham One, Two, Three'' for the movies in 1974.
        Twice he worked on adaptations of Spencer Tracy and Katharine Hepburn classics, transforming George Cukor's ''Adam's Rib'' (1949) into a 1973 television series starring Ken Howard and Blythe Danner, and George Stevens's ''Woman of the Year'' (1942) into a 1981 Broadway musical starring Lauren Bacall.
        Mr. Stone's father, the history teacher, had moved his family to Los Angeles in the 1920's, where he became a producer and screenwriter at Fox Studios, specializing in cowboy movies starring Tom Mix.
        After attending Bard College and the Yale School of Drama, Mr. Stone worked in Paris as a writer and news reader for CBS radio and television.
        His first writing jobs outside of journalism were in television. In 1956 he wrote an episode for the ''Studio One'' series. His Emmy came for a 1962 episode of ''The Defenders,'' a highly regarded series about a father-and-son team of lawyers that often delved into social issues.
        On Broadway he was not initially so successful. He wrote the books for two musicals, ''Kean'' (1961) and ''Skyscraper'' (1965), neither of which did well at the box office, although they were critically praised. Not until ''1776'' did he have a major stage hit, but by then he was already a celebrated screenwriter.
        ''Charade'' (1963), his first screenplay, was a major success for the director Stanley Donen and its co-stars, Cary Grant and Audrey Hepburn. It was not until the next year, though, and ''Father Goose'' that he received his first and only Oscar nomination. Some felt that the honor was, in part, a delayed tribute for the overlooked ''Charade'' script.
        Mr. Stone, who sometimes wrote under the pseudonym Pierre Marton, tried to duplicate his ''Charade'' success with other convoluted but less successful thrillers like ''Mirage'' (1965) and ''Arabesque'' (1966), both starring Gregory Peck. After his success with ''1776,'' he began to spend more of his time on Broadway efforts.
        He was nominated six times for a Tony and won three of them -- best musical for ''1776'' and best book of a musical for ''Woman of the Year'' and for ''Titanic'' (1997), a $10 million blockbuster about the sinking of the famous ocean liner.
        In recent decades he worked only sporadically in film, with his credits including ''Who Is Killing the Great Chefs of Europe?'' (1978), with George Segal and Jacqueline Bisset, and ''Just Cause'' (1995), starring Sean Connery. Both are adapted from novels.
        In 2002 he took the pseudonym Peter Joshua for his part in the script for ''The Truth About Charlie,'' a remake of ''Charade'' that was a box-office flop.
        Mr. Stone, who had perhaps his greatest successes writing the books for musicals, always felt that it was an underappreciated art.
        ''A book is a concept and a structure, and dialogue is the smallest part,'' he once said. ''You can have the best score in the world, but if the book is weak, it won't work. On the other hand, if the book is good, it can carry a mediocre score.''
        Besides his wife, he is survived by a brother, David, of Los Angeles.
      