
        Michael Stillman, a founder of Monitor Records, a label known for its remarkably eclectic musical mix, died on April 15 at his home in Somers, N.Y. He was 87.
        Mr. Stillman and his partner, Rose Rubin, founded Monitor in 1956 to fill a gap they perceived in the music available to the American public: music from what was then the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe and other parts of the world. They began with classical Russian music and expanded to include belly-dancing standards and Hawaiian lullabies.
        Their first records were of Soviet artists like the pianist Sviatoslav Richter, until then almost unavailable in the United States, and the cellist Mstislav Rostropovich. Soon, their catalog expanded to include folk songs by Russian gypsies, the Soviet Army Chorus and Band, Russian Orthodox hymns and a record combining the balalaika, the accordion and other traditional Russian instruments.
        Later offerings seemed to have even less in common. Monitor issued records of British martial music, Greek folk dances, Yves Montand's songs about Paris, German drinking songs, Rambling Jack Elliott's folk songs, the revolutionary songs of the Chilean singer Victor Jara and Polynesian hulas.
        Among the label's most popular entertainers was George Abdo, who played music for Middle Eastern belly dances.
        In 1999, when Mr. Stillman and Ms. Rubin donated Monitor's holdings to Smithsonian Folkways Recordings, part of the Smithsonian Institution, there were more than 250 recordings in the catalog.
        ''One of my objectives is to preserve remarkable material from the stubborn-minded people who started record labels in this country,'' Anthony Seeger, director and curator of Smithsonian Folkways, said at the time. ''Independent labels have done some of the most interesting things in music, yet when these labels cease to exist, the tapes often disappear.''
        Mr. Stillman was born in Saratov, Russia, on Nov. 1, 1915, and was at first known as Mischa, the Russian diminutive of Mikhail, or Michael. His family immigrated to Manhattan when he was 5.
        His father, Mitya, was first violist for the NBC Symphony Orchestra.
        Michael, an accomplished amateur pianist, graduated from New York University as a history major. He joined the Army and served as a clerk and typist in a military hospital. After the war, he worked for Leeds Music, a sheet music company that did considerable business with the Soviet Union.
        He met Ms. Rubin, who had worked with the Russian-American Institute and in Russian war relief in World War II. They shared an interest in Russian music, and in December 1956 founded Monitor.
        Mr. Stillman's marriage to Harriet Wingreen ended in an amicable divorce. His survivors include his second wife, Beatrice, and a son, Paul, from his first marriage.
      