
        Ambaji Shinde, who brought design sensibilities honed under the maharajahs to the grandeur of the pieces he created as the principal designer at the New York jeweler Harry Winston, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 85.
        Until two years ago, Mr. Shinde, who set jewels for Indian maharajahs, Hollywood stars and the trophy wives of modern moguls, did his own housework and rode the bus to work from his Queens apartment.
        His pieces constituted the core of Harry Winston's business, necklaces and earrings that for all their inherent ostentation were a great deal more than diamond headlights. The Winston firm's signature wreath necklace was Mr. Shinde's design. So was the $175,000 necklace that Gwyneth Paltrow wore to the Academy Awards ceremony in 1999; the 45.52-carat blue Hope Diamond reset by Mr. Shinde and worn, at different times, by Michelle Pfeiffer and Georgette Mosbacher; and many of the glittering baubles that have tantalized the ordinary mortals who press their noses against the glass at Harry Winston's Fifth Avenue store.
        Mr. Shinde was born in Goa, India, and trained in the fine arts at the J. J. School of Art in Bombay. The son of a bangle maker, he made an early decision to forgo a career as a painter for one designing jewels.
        His first job was with Nanubhai jewelers, suppliers of parures, turban pins and pearl ropes to the Indian nobles whose hard-spending habits at times outpaced even their stupefying wealth. His first designs were diamond bracelets for the maharajah of Porbander, and he went on to arrange gems for many princely Indian families, including that of the Nizam of Hyderabad, once reputed to be the wealthiest man in the world.
        When India gained independence in 1947, many pieces of jewelry were dismantled, and the gems they contained were dispersed, hidden or sold to pay debts. Mr. Shinde was then approached by the American jeweler Harry Winston with an offer of work. Although married with six children, Mr. Shinde accepted that job in a country he had never seen, leaving behind his wife, whose frail health prevented her from ever traveling to the United States, and his children. Of the six, his sons Shyam of Freemont, Calif.; Dilib of Terre-Haute, Ind.; and Suresh and Anil of Bombay, India, survive him.
        For 40 years Mr. Shinde's job brought him into contact with the richest people on the planet and also some of its most exceptional mineral treasures. Simon Teakle, who runs the jewelry department at Christie's, said yesterday that Mr. Shinde's talent lay in his understanding ''of the way stones are cut, his sense of proportion and scale, and his way of offsetting one stone against the other'' so that gems seemed to ''float and dance.''
        Added Mr. Teakle, ''He took his Indian jewelry and cultural heritage and background and used them to create distinctly Western pieces.''
      