
        Abraham Fuchsberg, the senior partner in Fuchsberg & Fuchsberg, a New York law firm that is nationally recognized for its success in representing plaintiffs in personal injury cases, died last Tuesday in Miami. He was 87.
        Mr. Fuchsberg (pronounced FYOOKS-burg) established the firm in 1950 with his brother Jacob after obtaining a law degree from St. John's University.
        In 1963, the partnership became the first law firm in the United States to win a million-dollar compensation payment for a personal injury victim when a 13-year-old boy named Martin Ergas was awarded $1.1 million for head and spinal injuries suffered when a store sign fell on him in Manhattan.
        Among many other cases, Mr. Fuchsberg represented the victims of the Chiclets gum factory explosion in Long Island City, Queens, in 1976. He also represented some victims in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing case, which remains unsettled.
        Mr. Fuchsberg was born in New York on July 6, 1915, and graduated from the College of the City of New York before serving in the Army during World War II.
        He was president of the American Trial Lawyers Civil Justice Foundation and the New York State Trial Lawyers Association. Mr. Fuchsberg was also a member of the board of governors of the American Trial Lawyers Association.
        He published three legal books, ''Modern New York Discovery,'' ''New York Evidence'' and ''Poetic Justice,'' and wrote many articles for the New York Law Journal and the American Trial Lawyers Association Magazine. Mr. Fuchsberg was editor in chief of The Trial Lawyers Quarterly, associate editor of the National Trial Lawyer and a contributing editor at Medical Malpractice Law and Strategy.
        He is survived by his wife, Shirley Fuchsberg, of Sunny Isles, Fla., and his daughters, Irene Minkoff of Long Island and Rita Fuchsberg of New York, a grandson and a granddaughter.
        Mr. Fuchsberg was also president of an organization created by the New York State Trial Lawyers Association to patrol the streets and notify New York City of potholes. The organization, originally called the Big Apple Pothole and Sidewalk Protection Committee, was formed in response to a 1979 law that required advanced notification of the presence of potholes before the city could be sued.
      