
        Helen Honig Meyer, one of the first women to break into the men's club of publishers, rising from a 16-year-old clerk to be president of Dell Publishing, died on Monday in Livingston, N.J. She was 95 and had lived in South Orange, N.J., and, most recently, in Verona, N.J.
        Mrs. Meyer started working at the fledgling Dell in 1923 and became a guiding spirit behind its growth. She helped it move from pulp magazines into comic books and paperbacks and, eventually, hardcover books. She was president and chief executive from the early 1950's until 1976, when George T. Delacorte, the founder, sold Dell to Doubleday & Company.
        Mrs. Meyer stayed on as Dell's co-publisher and a consultant to Doubleday until 1982, when her contract there ended. She then worked as a consultant to some of her Dell hardcover authors, notably James Clavell; she negotiated an eyebrow-raising $5 million advance for Mr. Clavell in 1986.
        (Around that time, Doubleday became part of the Bertelsmann publishing empire, which merged it with Bantam and later reshuffled them into Bantam Doubleday Dell. The Dell imprint survives in the Bantam Dell Publishing Group, a division of Random House.)
        Helen Honig was born in Brooklyn and attended public schools. She worked briefly at Popular Science and McCall's magazines before joining a handful of employees at Dell.
        Dell was founded in 1921 by George T. Delacorte Jr., a lawyer's son and a Columbia graduate with no taste for the law.
        He started with two employees and one title, I Confess, and soon turned out dozens of pulp magazines filled with penny-a-word detective stories and articles about the movies.
        Ballyhoo, a highly popular satirical magazine, began Mr. Delacorte's swift rise. He hired Helen Honig in 1923, and she became an inseparable part of his and the company's success.
        Well before women were given responsible positions in publishing, Mrs. Meyer rose to the top of a highly visible and profitable enterprise, becoming a major figure not only at Dell but in American publishing as a whole.
        She pushed through many of Dell's novel and lucrative publishing ideas.
        The pulp magazines were joined by a line of enormously lucrative -- and wholesome -- comic books featuring Woody Woodpecker, Bugs Bunny and the whole Walt Disney menagerie, among them Mickey Mouse, Pluto and Donald Duck. Dell's comics sold as many as 300 million copies a year.
        When comic books were accused of corrupting America's youth in the 1950's, Mrs. Meyer defended them in Congressional hearings, asserting that ''Dell comics are good comics.'' That became the slogan on all Dell comic books.
        Dell increasingly made its mark in paperbacks. Largely to secure a continuing source of material for the paperback division, Mrs. Meyer led Dell into hardcover publishing with Delacorte Press.
        Besides Kurt Vonnegut, James Baldwin and James Clavell, the authors signed up for Delacorte hardcover and their subsequent Dell paperback editions included Irwin Shaw, James Jones, Danielle Steel, Belva Plain and Robert B. Parker.
        Years later, as a consultant, Mrs. Meyer joined Michella Clavell, the author's daughter, in operating a literary agency, Foreign Rights Inc., which auctioned the rights to Mr. Clavell's 1,147-page Asian saga ''Whirlwind.''
        It drew a record guaranteed $5 million author's advance. The publisher, William Morrow & Company, committed $500,000 more for advertisements and promotion. (A Literary Guild selection, it topped the best-seller lists for more than 20 weeks but did not net Morrow a profit.)
        Mrs. Meyer was a past director of the Association of American Publishers and of United Cerebral Palsy. She was inducted into the Publishers Hall of Fame in 1986.
        Her husband, Abraham J. Meyer, a member of the New York Stock Exchange, died in 1993. They were married for 64 years. She is survived by a daughter, Dr. Adele M. Brodkin, of Florham Park, N.J.; a son, Robert L., of Manhattan; six grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
        George Delacorte, who died in 1991 at 97, was well into his 90's when he recalled how his partnership with Mrs. Meyer had taken hold more than 60 years earlier.
        ''I'm a great believer in hiring women,'' he said. ''If you hire a capable man and your competitors know about it, they'll start propositioning him. Women are more loyal.''
      