
        Harry Ellis Dickson, an old-school musician and personality who was a first violinist of the Boston Symphony Orchestra for five decades and a conductor of the Boston Pops for nearly as long, died on Saturday after a brief illness. He was 94.
        A witty raconteur, Mr. Dickson served for many years as a highly visible ambassador for classical music in the Boston area, founding the Boston Symphony Orchestra's youth concert series in 1959 and serving as music director of the Boston Classical Orchestra after his retirement from the Boston Symphony in 1987. He was also the father-in-law of Michael S. Dukakis, the former Massachusetts governor.
        During his son-in-law's unsuccessful presidential campaign in 1988, Mr. Dickson was vocal about his desire to participate in the first-ever celebration of a Seder in the White House.
        He joined the Boston Symphony Orchestra as a first violinist in 1938 and played with the orchestra for 49 seasons, regretting only that management suggested he retire before he hit the milestone of his 50th. His other enduring orchestral relationship, with the Boston Pops, began when he stepped in to conduct as Arthur Fiedler's assistant in 1955; it lasted 44 years. His friendship with Fiedler became the subject of his 1984 book, ''Arthur Fiedler and the Boston Pops,'' subtitled ''An Irreverent Memoir.''
        ''I was probably as close to Arthur Fiedler as anybody ever got,'' he said once in an interview, ''and that wasn't very close.''
        Mr. Dickson also wrote two other memoirs of his life in music, ''Gentlemen, More Dolce, Please'' and ''Beating Time'' (Northeastern University Press, 1995). Both were equally irreverent.
        Born in Cambridge, Mass., the child of immigrants from Ukraine, he began violin lessons at 6 and was playing professionally by 14. He studied at the New England Conservatory and at the Hochschule fuer Musik in Berlin, where he lived from 1931 to 1934. Later, after auditioning for Serge Koussevitzky and starting with the Boston Symphony Orchestra, where he served under five music directors, he studied conducting with Pierre Monteux.
        Among his extensive awards and honors, which included having a Boston city park named after him, he was especially proud of being awarded the title of chevalier of arts and letters by the French government. He was also wryly pleased with his longevity. ''I've been around so long the statues in Symphony Hall were little boys when I started,'' he quipped at a Boston Symphony Orchestra tribute to him last spring.
        His wife of 43 years, Jane K. Williams, died in 1977. He is survived by his daughters, Kitty Dukakis of Brookline, Mass., and Jinny Peters of Pocasset, Mass.; and six grandchildren.
      