
        Rose Augustine, a former chemistry teacher who with her husband revolutionized the world of the classical guitar by developing the nylon guitar string and who commissioned new works and underwrote concert series and competitions, died on April 21 in Manhattan. She was 93 and lived in Manhattan.
        Trained as a pianist and passionate about the harpsichord, Mrs. Augustine often said that she did not much care for the guitar and its repertory. Yet anyone who has regularly attended guitar recitals in New York has probably encountered her: she was as likely to be seen at a debut as at a concert by a famous player, and chances are she helped pay for the concert.
        The Spanish guitarist Andrés Segovia lived with Mrs. Augustine and her husband, Albert, for 11 years, starting in the late 1940's. Julian Bream, the greatest guitarist of the post-Segovia generation, never stopped in New York without visiting her Greenwich Village town house and leaving with a year's worth of Augustine Imperial guitar strings. And when she spotted young players who she felt were carrying on the Segovia tradition, she threw her influence behind their careers.
        Mrs. Augustine was born in the Bronx in 1910 and earned a bachelor's degree at Hunter Colleger and a master's at Columbia University. She became a high school science teacher but went into the string business after World War II when her husband, a guitar maker, found that the gut strings traditionally used for the guitar's three treble strings were in short supply.
        Mr. Augustine began experimenting with fishing line and eventually got in touch with an engineer at DuPont, who was skeptical about the filament's musical utility. The first samples were said to have had a metallic sound. But when Segovia commissioned a guitar from Mr. Augustine in 1946, he also expressed interest in nylon strings. The Augustines found a grinding machine, originally meant to make binoculars, at a war surplus store on Canal Street and reconfigured it to grind nylon guitar strings to the right thickness and consistency.
        Segovia quickly became a champion of the new strings, which lasted longer and could be kept in tune more reliably than the strings guitarists had used for centuries. His use of the strings created a demand among both amateur and professional guitarists, and the Augustines began selling them in packages adorned with Segovia's picture and an endorsement over his signature. Other companies began using nylon as well, and it quickly supplanted gut as the standard for classical guitar treble strings.
        Mrs. Augustine kept her teaching job during the early years of the family company, Albert Augustine Ltd., but worked nights filling orders. After her husband died in 1967, she took over the company, regularly updated its manufacturing processes and established a thriving market for her strings around the world.
        During the 1980's Mrs. Augustine, who has no immediate survivors, began underwriting concerts, paying for series at the 92nd Street Y and at the Manhattan School of Music as well as festivals and competitions throughout the United States and in Europe. She also commissioned guitar works from about 20 composers.
      