
        Philip Yordan, an Oscar-winning writer, died on March 24 in San Diego, his family said. He was 88.
        Although he was most active in movies, Mr. Yordan's breakthrough came on Broadway in the 1940's with his play ''Anna Lucasta.''
        It was the first Broadway production to feature an all-black cast in a drama unrelated to racial issues. Similar to Eugene O'Neill's ''Anna Christie,'' it told the story of a prostitute fighting her way back to respectability.
        The play was first produced by the American Negro Theater in Harlem, and moved to Broadway in 1944.
        Mr. Yordan made two film versions of ''Anna Lucasta,'' one in 1949 with a white cast starring Paulette Goddard, and another in 1958 with Eartha Kitt and Sammy Davis Jr.
        Mr. Yordan, who was known to overextend himself with conflicting writing commitments, also became known as the name of record for blacklisted writers during the ''red scare'' of the 1950's. Some writers were grateful for the work they received under Mr. Yordan's name, but the small extent of his efforts as a frontman led some writers to feel that the credit he got was undeserved.
        Among the screenplays he fronted was ''Johnny Guitar,'' the 1954 western starring Joan Crawford and directed by Nicholas Ray. Many film encyclopedias now list Ben Maddow as screenwriter for the film, which is widely seen as an allegory of the Hollywood witch hunts.
        Mr. Yordan, many of whose 61 films tell the story of lone heroes or villains acting in lawless worlds, won an Oscar for his story ''Broken Lance,'' a 1954 film starring Spencer Tracy as a Lear-like cattle baron.
        Mr. Yordan received Oscar nominations for two other films: ''Dillinger'' (1945), starring Lawrence Tierney, and ''Detective Story'' (1951), starring Kirk Douglas and William Bendix.
        During the 1950's, Mr. Yordan was involved in movies featuring the era's biggest stars, including Humphrey Bogart in his last film, ''The Harder They Fall'' (1956).
        Mr. Yordan left Hollywood in the early 1960's to join the producer Samuel Bronston in Spain, helping him create the epics ''El Cid'' (1961) and ''55 Days at Peking'' (1962), both starring Charlton Heston.
        Later in the decade, he turned to disaster films, including ''Krakatoa, East of Java'' (1969), about an eruption of a volcano that, as critics and geographers immediately pointed out, is actually to Java's west.
        Mr. Yordan is survived by his wife, Faith, of San Diego; five children from previous marriages, Daniel, of Los Angeles; Philip Jr., of San Diego; Juliet, of Carlsbad, Calif.; Philice, of Paris; and Byron, of San Diego; and two grandchildren.
      