
        Emanuel Tobier, a New York economist and urban planner who was an outspoken authority on the metropolitan area's vital signs, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 73 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was a stroke, his family said.
        Dr. Tobier (pronounced TOE-beer) was a professor emeritus of economics and planning at the Wagner Graduate School of Public Service of New York University. At the time of his death, he was teaching a course on immigration policy. Since joining the faculty in 1971, he also had helped shape government policy in several assignments.
        He analyzed the historic development and interaction of sectors of the city economy, including Wall Street, the garment district and tourism.
        He studied and wrote extensively about urban and regional economics as they related to matters like immigration policy and the school system. He was an expert on housing and demography and examined the economic effect of state and local taxes.
        In recent years, Dr. Tobier focused on the evolution of Manhattan's central business district. The changes in the region's labor market wrought by recent waves of immigrants were another area of interest.
        An advocate of New York City and its economic health, he issued periodic diagnoses, backed by statistics and his own expertise, that did not always please whoever was mayor at the time.
        Emmanuel Tobier was born in the Bronx and graduated in 1952 from N.Y.U.'s College of Arts and Science. He received his doctorate in economics from N.Y.U. in 1968.
        By then he had served four years as chief economist of the Regional Plan Association of New York. He began his academic career as an associate professor of economics at Queens College and the Graduate Center of the City University of New York in 1969.
        Two years later he was appointed a professor of economics and planning at the Robert F. Wagner School, where he was also chairman of the urban planning program.
        He was chairman of the Rent Guidelines Board under Mayor Abraham D. Beame and was on the economic advisory panel in the Office of Management and Budget during Mayor Edward I. Koch's tenure.
        Over the years he was a consultant to the city's Economic Development Corporation, the National Committee Against Discrimination in Housing, the United States Civil Rights Commission, the Mayor's Committee on Criminal Justice, the Housing and Development Administration of New York, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and other agencies.
        Dr. Tobier is survived by his wife of 37 years, Nina Gero Tobier; a son, Nicholas, of Alfred, N.Y.; a daughter, Amanda Tobier of Seattle; and a brother, Arthur, of Manhattan.
      