
        Michael Jeter, a Tony and Emmy Award-winning actor who played nebbishy characters with a Chaplinesque flair, was found dead on Sunday in Los Angeles. He was 50.
        The cause of death was unknown, said his publicist, Dick Guttman. Mr. Jeter had H.I.V., but was said to be in good health and recently passed a physical for a new film, ''The Polar Express,'' for which he had completed most of his scenes, Mr. Guttman said.
        Mr. Jeter was born in Lawrenceburg, Tenn., and landed his first film role in Milos Forman's ''Hair'' in 1979. He had small parts in film and television and was a frequent performer Off Broadway during the early 1980's. He appeared onstage in ''Alice in Concert'' and ''G. R. Point,'' and in 1982 was a cast replacement in Caryl Churchill's ''Cloud 9'' at the Lucille Lortel Theater, which was directed by Tommy Tune.
        Seven years later Mr. Jeter got a part in a musical adaptation of the film ''Grand Hotel,'' also directed by Mr. Tune. He played Otto Kringelein, the dying bookkeeper who goes on one last night on the town, releasing a lifetime of pent-up emotion in a frantic Charleston dance to ''We'll Take a Glass Together.''
        In a review of the show in The New York Times, Frank Rich said, ''Mr. Jeter lets loose like a human top gyrating out of control -- literally breaking out of his past into a new existence.''
        Mr. Jeter won a Tony for best supporting actor for the role, and was soon a frequent face in film and television, though he was rarely the star. In ''The Fisher King'' (1991), he played played a homeless man who does a spirited Ethel Merman impression, and he was nominated three times for an Emmy for his role in the CBS series ''Evening Shade'' (1990-94), in which he played a wimpy but high-strung high school math teacher, Herman Stiles, who finds himself the assistant football coach under Burt Reynolds.
        He won the award in 1992 and was nominated twice more, for guest roles on ''Picket Fences'' and ''Chicago Hope.''
        Mr. Jeter's film credits include ''Patch Adams,'' ''Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas,'' ''Welcome to Collinwood,'' ''Jurassic Park III,'' ''Jakob the Liar'' and ''The Green Mile,'' in which he played a kindhearted death row inmate named Del.
        Since 2000 he also had a recurring role on ''Sesame Street'' as Mr. Noodle, who was the brother of a previous character also named Mr. Noodle.
        He is survived by his partner, Sean Blue; his parents, Dr. William and Virginia Jeter of Lawrenceburg; a brother, William K. Jeter; and four sisters, Virginia Anne Barham, Amanda Parsons, Emily Jeter and Larie Wicker.
      