
        Daniel Patrick Moynihan, naval gunnery officer and four-term United States senator, was buried today at Arlington National Cemetery with full military honors.
        The graveside ceremony followed a funeral mass at St. Patrick's Church, the oldest Roman Catholic church in Washington and the parish where Mr. Moynihan worshiped before his death last Wednesday at 76.
        ''Pat Moynihan was a man of quiet faith,'' Msgr. Peter J. Vaghi told the mourners. ''For him, this found expression in his long commitment to the body politic, the pursuit of the common good and his special care for the poor, the family structure and the most needy in our midst.''
        The several hundred mourners included dozens of former aides, senators past and present, including Robert Dole, Charles E. Schumer and Hillary Rodham Clinton, and one prominent Bush administration figure, Donald H. Rumsfeld, the secretary of defense. Before they entered the sanctuary, mourners crossed a green marble shamrock embedded in the floor of the church vestibule.
        After the mass, the hearse carrying Mr. Moynihan's coffin made its way to the Russell Senate Office Building and then down Pennsylvania Avenue, whose revitalization he championed for four decades as an aide to Presidents Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon and Ford and then in 24 years as a senator from New York.
        His burial place at Arlington was earned by his Navy service from 1944 to 1947. At the cemetery, a band played the ''Navy Hymn'' and led a horse-drawn caisson that was followed on foot by his widow, Elizabeth Brennan Moynihan, and their children, Maura, John and Timothy.
        Seven sailors fired three rifle volleys. A bugler sounded ''Taps.'' The Navy Band played ''America the Beautiful.''
        Maura Moynihan read from Dylan Thomas:
        ''Do not go gentle into that good night,
        ''Old age should burn and rave at close of day;
        ''Rage, rage against the dying of the light. . . .''
        She explained later that she chose the verse because her father knew Mr. Thomas and sometimes drank with him at the White Horse Tavern in Greenwich Village.
      