
        David Bloom, the co-anchor of the weekend edition of NBC's ''Today'' show, collapsed yesterday and died while covering the war in Iraq for the network. He was 39.
        NBC said yesterday that the cause was apparently a blood clot, and that the death was not combat-related.
        Mr. Bloom had been reporting on the United States Army's Third Infantry Division, Second Brigade, and its push in recent days toward Baghdad. He was the sixth journalist to die in Iraq since the fighting started there about two weeks ago, and the second American. There are about 600 journalists traveling with the American and British forces.
        While in Iraq, Mr. Bloom had provided frequent reports including one in which his armored vehicle came under Iraqi fire as the camera rolled. His dispatches were delivered from a specially rigged mobile satellite platform, which could transmit sharp pictures even while traveling at 50 miles per hour.
        Mr. Bloom's coverage offered viewers a feeling for the hardships under which he worked. He appeared at all hours of the day and night, on both the network and its two cable outlets -- MSNBC and CNBC -- and was sometimes seen in goggles delivering reports through driving sandstorms. He sometimes slept curled up in his studio-vehicle, which had previously been an M88 tank recovery vehicle.
        Mr. Bloom grew up in Edina, Minn., and attended Pitzer College in Claremont, Calif.
        He got his start in television news as correspondent and anchor for WKBT-TV in La Crosse, Wis. He moved to television stations in Wichita, Kan., and Miami before joining NBC News as its Chicago correspondent in 1993. While working in Miami, for the NBC-owned television station WTVJ, he won awards for his coverage of Hurricane Andrew, and of South Florida's role in the shipment of arms to Iraq.
        He later covered the civil and criminal trials of O. J. Simpson.
        After becoming the network's White House correspondent in 1997, Mr. Bloom covered the Monica Lewinsky scandal, the impeachment of President Clinton and the NATO-led bombing of Kosovo.
        Mr. Bloom is survived by his parents, Harold and Laura Bloom of Edina; his wife, Melanie; his daughters, Nicole, Christine and Ava, of New York; and two brothers, John, of Edina, and Jim, of Seattle.
      