
        Sir Graham Stuart Thomas, whose passionate knowledge and love of plants placed him among the world's greatest gardeners, died on April 16, in a hospital near his home in Woking, England. He was 94.
        Born in Cambridge in 1909, Sir Graham was awarded the Order of the British Empire in 1975 for his 30 years of supervising the restoration of great gardens for the National Trust. He was an indefatigable nurseryman who introduced hundreds of nearly forgotten roses, hostas, crocosmias and many other plants to both British and American gardens.
        He was also an accomplished writer and artist, whose 19 books on gardening, from ''Old Shrub Roses,'' published in 1955, to ''The Garden Through the Year'' (Sagapress, 2002), capture the essence of plants, not only in precise words but also in drawings and watercolors depicting the budding blossom of a Cornelian cherry or the peculiar pale green of a hellebore flower.
        During World War II, while working at T. Hilling & Co., a nursery in Surrey, Mr. Thomas began collecting old climbers and shrub roses from private gardens and nurseries, and propagating and promoting them in his prose and pictures. Eventually, he planted hundreds of these roses at Mottisfont Abbey, in Hampshire, a garden run by the National Trust.
        Sir Graham, who never married, devoted his life to plants, the company of his friends and music. ''He sang madrigals with a group, and he had a beautiful tenor voice,'' said his nephew and only living relative, Anthony Thomas.
        Mr. Thomas began gardening at age 6, when his godfather gave him a fuchsia. At 16, he apprenticed himself to the Cambridge Botanic Garden, where he weeded the rock garden and attended free botany lectures at Cambridge University. He also propagated many seeds brought back by explorers, including the Himalayan blue poppy.
        After the war, Mr. Thomas and a friend, James Russell, took over Sunningdale Nursery, west of London, and turned it into a showplace. The art carried on what he had learned from his own mentor, Gertrude Jekyll, the Victorian garden designer who quizzed him on plants at her garden at Munstead Wood, Surrey.
        He disliked ornaments like painted poles and colored bridges, ''anything that distracted from the plants he loved,'' said John Elsley, the director of horticulture at Klehm's Song Sparrow Perennial Farm, in Avalon, Wis. ''Though he loved the well-placed urn, the beauty of the garden lay in the plants.''
        Correction:  April 30, 2003, Wednesday  An obituary of the British horticulturalist Graham Stuart Thomas on Monday misstated the title he held in the Order of the British Empire. He was an officer, not a knight.
      