
        J. Paul Getty Jr., the remote American-born heir to an oil fortune who made Britain his home and beneficiary, died yesterday in London. He was 70.
        Mr. Getty was admitted to the private London Clinic on Monday and was being treated for a recurrent chest infection, the Associated Press reported.
        Often in the public eye as a hedonistic young man, then long out of view as an older and retiring benefactor, Mr. Getty inherited the riches that flowed from his father's oil business. He came to be highly regarded in his adopted country later in life -- he was knighted as Sir Paul -- after a raucous period of drug use that became grist for gossip columns.
        Since establishing a home in Britain 25 years ago, his often quiet philanthropy eventually eclipsed his notoriety. He donated more than $200 million to numerous causes, charities and institutions, including the National Gallery in London.
        His donations could be small and anonymous or large enough to surprise the art world. He could spend huge amounts to keep gems of Britain's patrimony from foreign buyers, or make thoughtful, modest donations that provided a concert artist with a grand piano or saved a seal family marooned in a storm.
        His philanthropy could be quirky, too, and aimed at contentious causes. When a bitterly fought miners' strike battered the British economy in the mid-1980, he subsidized dissident miners who refused to join the strike.
        He seldom spoke in public, but pronounced himself ''privileged to be the heir to huge wealth.'' He said he regarded himself ''as custodian of that money for the benefit of people who need it more than I do.''
        His adoptive country rewarded his charity with an honorary knighthood in 1986. But because he was not a British subject, people mindful of such subtleties could not call him Sir Paul. He rectified that situation in 1998 by changing his nationality.
        John Paul Getty Jr. was born on Sept. 7, 1932, the third of five sons of J. Paul Getty. His father, Jean Paul, known as Oklahoma Crude, made a fortune in the oil fields, building on the business his father started.
        J. Paul Getty Jr. spent time at the University of San Francisco and in the United States Army before being posted to Rome as manager of Getty Oil Italia in 1959. Although he worked there until 1970, he did not take it seriously, telling his father that he had little regard for the business.
        In Rome he fell into a life of drugs and partying. In 1966 he was divorced from his first wife, Gail Harris, whom he had married in 1956. They had two daughters and two sons. (She later sued him, charging that he failed to pay into the trust fund for their children.)
        The year of his divorce he married his second wife (and mother of his third son), Talitha Pol, a Dutch-born model and film actress. Living estranged from him, she died accidentally of a heroin overdose in Rome in 1971.
        Her death signaled a new kind of life for Mr. Getty. He moved to London in 1972 and honed an interest in art and philanthropy, living reclusively for years in a well-guarded mansion along the Thames. He was married a third time, in 1994, to Victoria Holdsworth, the daughter of a Royal Army commander. Mr. Getty credited her with being a steadying influence.
        Much of his wealth derived from a family trust created with the sale of Getty Oil to Texaco in 1984 -- most of it beyond his control, but estimated to be worth as much as $2 billion. Having fallen out with his father, he inherited little directly from the paternal fortune.
        When he died in Britain in 1976, the elder J. Paul Getty was considered the world's richest man, with stakes in as many as 200 companies and as much as $4 billion to his name. He, too, had spent his last 25 years as an expatriate in Britain, shuttered in a 16th-century mansion.
        Mr. Getty Sr. endowed the J. Paul Getty Museum, a Roman-style villa built on a hill in Malibu, in Southern California. One of the world's richest museums, it houses art treasures from throughout the world.
        The younger Mr. Getty donated well over $50 million to the National Gallery in 1985. It was that museum's largest such bequest since its founding in 1824. He also gave millions to the British Film Institute.
        His family and its wealth were in the news for months in 1973 with the abduction of his son J. Paul 3rd, a 17-year-old called the golden hippie by the Roman scandal press because of his reddish-blond hair. The kidnapers demanded $3.4 million.
        Speculation abounded; the grandfather refused to pay, fearing that his other 18 grandchildren might become targets; and various sums were mentioned and haggled over until the Calabrian kidnapers mailed an ear severed from the boy. (Years after his release, in 1981, the son suffered a stroke from an overdose that left him severely impaired.)
        Mr. Getty is survived by his wife and his children: John Paul 3rd, Mark, Ariadne, Aileen and Tara.
        Regally invested with a knighthood at Buckingham Palace in 1998, he received full honors. ''When I heard the national anthem played, I felt very proud to be British -- it's my national anthem now,'' he said after that.
      