
        Albert Pratt, a retired senior partner of Paine Webber, former governor of the New York Stock Exchange and an assistant secretary of the Navy in the Eisenhower administration, died May 16 at his summer residence in Osterville, Mass. He was 91 and also had a home in Key Largo, Fla.
        A native of Newton, Mass., he graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Harvard in 1933 and was commissioned into the Navy at the same time. He got a law degree magna cum laude from Harvard in 1936 and went into practice in Boston.
        Called to active duty in 1940, he spent five years on the battleship Texas, on the staff of Admiral Chester W. Nimitz in the Pacific, and at the Naval War College, assisting in its reorganization. He then was a staff officer on a mine squadron in the Pacific, attaining the rank of commander.
        Mr. Pratt joined the investment banking firm of Paine, Webber, Jackson & Curtis in Boston in 1946 and became a partner in 1950. He also continued in reserve assignments for the Navy and competed in blue-water sailing events.
        He became Navy assistant secretary for personnel and reserve forces in September 1954 and served through January 1957.
        In 1955 he was on a 10-member Pentagon committee that drew up a new code of conduct for prisoners of war. The Advisory Committee on Prisoners of War heard from scores of experts, including former prisoners. It recommended ways of training active-duty personnel to defend against brainwashing and other physical and mental stresses.
        Returning to Paine Webber -- now UBS PaineWebber -- Mr. Pratt was a founder of a subsidiary, Paine Webber Properties, and helped build it into a leading real estate investment operation. He directed the firm's investment banking division and was a vice chairman, chairman of Paine Webber International and a director and finally president of Paine Webber Properties before retiring in 1984.
        He was a past president of the Investment Bankers Association and was on the exchange's board of governors from 1963 to 1966. He was a visiting member of the Harvard Board of Overseers and a director of the Harvard Alumni Fund.
        Mr. Pratt's first wife, Alice Lee Pratt, died in 1976 after 36 years of marriage. He is survived by his wife of 25 years, Fanny Gray Little Pratt; four daughters, Lally Pratt, of Shelburne Falls, Mass.; Cornelia P. McClure, of San Francisco; Nina L. Pratt, of Narragansett, R.I.; and Kate P. Lapping, of Ashfield, Mass.; a son, Frederick H., of Hadley Mass.; 12 grandchildren; and 6 great-grandchildren. Also surviving are his widow's four children, Catherine A. Peltier, of Arlington, Va.; Henry Morgan, of Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.; Polly M. Timken, of Old Saybrook, Conn.; and Joan Morgan, of Washington.
      