
        Dr. Jeff Schell, a Belgian microbiologist who developed some of the first procedures for introducing artificial genes into plants to increase their hardiness and improve their ability to grow, died at his home in Brussels on April 17. He was 67.
        The cause was progressive supranuclear palsy, said his wife, Dr. Elizabeth Schell, a physician.
        A founder of the Max Planck Institute for Plant Breeding Research in Cologne and a professor at the University of Ghent, Dr. Jeff Schell worked extensively with Agrobacterium, a soil microbe that produces cancerlike growths in plants that it infects. In 1973, he succeeded in altering the genetic structure of the bacterium, deleting the genes that govern tumor production while preserving those that instruct the recipient plant to incorporate beneficial foreign materials into its cells.
        Ten years later, he created an artificial light-sensitive gene that could be turned on and off like natural genes.
        In an experiment giving tobacco plants the readily detectable trait of resistance to antibiotics, he spliced a gene necessary for photosynthesis to one from an enzyme that deactivates the antibiotic chloramphenicol; he then spliced this hybrid to the altered Agrobacterium and inserted it into tobacco seedlings. The resulting plants resisted the antibiotic only when they received light. Though the experiment had no practical value for the tobacco plant, it was an important step in developing genes that act only in specific plant tissues or in specific parts of growing plants.
        Today, biotechnology is used to endow plants with resistance to disease, environmental stresses and chemicals, creating crops that can survive in harsher environments and produce greater yields. Genetic engineering of food, however, has drawn widespread opposition, especially in Europe.
        Dr. Schell, who was also known as Jozef, was born in Antwerp in 1935. He received his undergraduate degree and Ph.D. in microbiology from the University of Ghent, and published almost 650 articles and a number of books, including, in 1982, ''Molecular Biology of Plant Tumors.''
        He received the Humboldt Prize in 1985, the Wolf Prize in 1990 and the Japan Prize for Biotechnology in 1998.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his sons Peter, of Brussels, and Bart, of Bonn, and four grandchildren.
      