
        William J. Goode, a sociologist who did research on family life, marriage and divorce, died on Sunday in Washington. He was 85 and had homes in East Hampton, N.Y.; Cambridge, Mass.; and Fairfax, Va.
        The cause was a blood clot, said his wife, Lenore J. Weitzman, a Clarence J. Robinson professor of sociology and law at George Mason University in Fairfax.
        At his death, Dr. Goode -- who was known as Si and whose last name rhymes with food -- was a professor emeritus of sociology at Stanford and associated with George Mason University.
        Dr. Goode's books included comparative and cross-cultural studies of divorce patterns. One of his early works, ''After Divorce'' (Free Press, 1956), was a systematic investigation of the social and economic consequences of divorce for women.
        His early findings related especially to American conditions, but he did more universal studies like ''World Changes in Divorce Patterns'' (Yale University Press, 1993). It remains in print, as do several of his other works, including ''Family'' (Prentice Hall, 1982), and two articles in the American Sociological Review: ''The Theoretical Importance of Love'' (1959) and ''The Protection of the Inept'' (1967).
        He was a former president of the American Sociological Association, which in 1982 named its annual award for the best book in family sociology in his honor.
        William Josiah Goode, who was born on Aug. 30, 1917, in Houston, received his bachelor's and master's degrees in sociology from the University of Texas at Austin. He received a Ph.D. from Pennsylvania State University in 1946 after serving in the Navy as a radar operator on a transport vessel in the Pacific.
        His first academic appointment was as an assistant professor at Wayne State University. In 1950 he moved to Columbia University, taking part in sociological analyses of the professions in the United States, and in 1954 taught for a semester at the newly created Free University in Berlin. He was promoted to full professor in 1965, was chairman of sociology for several terms and became Giddings professor in 1975.
        Dr. Goode was a professor of sociology at Stanford from 1977 to 1986, and taught at Harvard from 1986 to 1992. He was also a visiting professor at Hebrew University of Jerusalem in 1991 and 1992.
        Marriages to Josephine Cannizzo of Silver Spring, Md., and Ruth Rosenbaum of Chapel Hill, N.C., ended in divorce.
        In addition to Dr. Weitzman, Dr. Goode is survived by two sons, Erich Goode of Silver Spring, and Andrew Josiah Goode of Shingle Springs, Calif.; a daughter, Barbara Goode Baldwin of Washington; a sister, Rosalie Grizzle of Magnolia, Tex.; and five grandchildren.
      