
        David W. Rubin, a longtime Steinway & Sons executive whose deep love of the piano compelled him to spend his career prodding talented musicians to try even harder as he matched them with their concert instruments, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 83.
        He had lung cancer, his friend the pianist Grant Johannesen said.
        As a pianist, Mr. Rubin realized early on that while he had an immense knowledge of musical history and could explain to a listener the roots of a particular piece of music, he did not have the talent to match his expertise. So he became a backer of others, first as an agent for up-and-coming performers from 1945 to 1956, including Mr. Johannesen, Giorgio Tozzi, Ania Dorfman and others, but then moving into the corporate world, where his concern was as much for the pianos as for the performers.
        First for several years with the Baldwin Piano Company, and then for more than three decades at Steinway & Sons in New York, Mr. Rubin made his mark on New York's classical music scene. He was a behind-the-scenes presence whose name was unknown to the general music public, but he was essential to some of the most notable performers of the century, including Vladimir Horowitz, Arthur Rubinstein and Rudolf Serkin.
        He oversaw the care and safekeeping of some 300 Steinway pianos, worth around $21 million, and matched the piano to the artist. If a performer used a Steinway piano, as more than a 1,000 artists do, Mr. Rubin made sure that the right piano showed up for a performance.
        Some artists would demand that two or three different Steinways be taken to their performing stage, and then would sit down and select one, just before the concert started. Mr. Rubin would accommodate this, and other demands, but he had one of his own: a requirement of excellence, no matter the site.
        ''He was sometimes a little tough on performers, when they were not at the real level they should be.'' said Mr. Johannesen said, who was Mr. Rubin's first client. ''He had strong feelings.''
        The result, said Carnegie Hall's former executive director, Stewart Warkow, was ''a love-hate relationship'' between Mr. Rubin and the artists.
        Mr. Rubin, who had degrees from Rutgers and Princeton Universities, was born on Nov. 18, 1919, to Russian immigrants in Elizabeth, N.J.
        He is survived by his companion, Susan Zeckendorf; a daughter, Capers Kuhnert, of Berlin; a sister, Isabelle Naturale, of Mountainside, N.J.; and two grandchildren.
        After he retired in 1986 as senior vice president of concerts at Steinway, Mr. Rubin returned briefly to his first employer, Baldwin Piano, as a consultant.
        He lived on West 57th Street for much of his life, a block away from Steinway Hall and across the street from Carnegie Hall.
        Friends said his imperial, almost regal manner and tendency to demand perfection could be trying at times. In 1982, he was one of two finalists for the deputy chairmanship of the National Endowment for the Arts, and many saw the selection of the other candidate, Hugo Southern, head of the Theater Development Fund for New York City, as a triumph of the popularization of music over elitism.
        Mr. Rubin did not dispute the characterization, telling an interviewer then, ''The purpose of the artist is to create art, not bring in audiences.''
      