
        Sir William Gunn, an Australian sheep farmer and businessman who generated a wool boom in his country and was the father of the Woolmark symbol, died on April 17 in Brisbane, Australia. He was 89 and lived in Goondiwindi, a town about 200 miles west of Brisbane.
        He was knighted in 1961 for his services to industry.
        As chairman of the Australian Wool Board from 1963 to 1972, he developed the Woolmark label to advertise all-wool or part-wool products.
        A competition was held for the invention of a symbol that would demonstrate what an Australian publication, The Weekly Times, called ''wool's inherent quality and superiority.'' Francesco Saroglia, an Italian graphic artist, came up with the Woolmark trademark. It was first used in 1964, and by 1997 more than $1 billion was said to have been spent in promoting it.
        Sir William was also chairman of the International Wool Secretariat from 1961 to 1973. In that role, he sought financing for a global marketing effort to compete with the growing success of synthetic fibers.
        Sir William spurred a wool boom in Australia by inducing sheep farmers to establish a minimum price for their wool, something considered controversial at the time. The minimum wool price was finally set in 1970, after he had long argued that it was the sole effective means of protecting Australian sheep farmers against monopolistic international business groups.
        The ''floor price'' system, as it was also known, was overseen by the Australian Wool Corporation. Under the arrangement, excess or substandard wool was held back if the price could not be met on the market.
        The system functioned efficiently for two decades, but was dropped in 1991 when the wool industry was burdened with debt and a large backlog of unsold wool that took years to find buyers.
        William Archer Gunn was born in Goondiwindi into a well-to-do, livestock-owning family.
        Within a year after he left boarding school in his late teens, he was in charge of a large expanse of Gunn family ranch land, a grazing area for thousands of sheep.
        In 1939, he married Mary Haydon; she died last year. His survivors include a son, Bill; a daughter, Mary; and a number of grandchildren.
      