
        Albert Hakim, a businessman who wove an intricate web of Swiss bank accounts and dummy corporations in the Iran-contra arms-for-hostages deal, died on Friday in Inchon, South Korea. He was 66.
        The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Hakim had moved to Inchon several years ago to be near the aging parents of his wife, Soony Oh.
        In 1990 Mr. Hakim pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge of making an illegal payment of $13,800 for a security fence for the home of Lt. Col. Oliver L. North, who was involved in running the program for the Reagan White House. Mr. Hakim was sentenced to two years' probation and fined $5,000.
        He had been charged with five felony counts of conspiracy to divert funds to anti-Marxist rebels in Nicaragua and theft of government property for his part in the Iran-contra scheme of the mid-1980's to sell weapons to Iran at inflated prices and use the profits to supply the rebels, or contras, and pay for other secret operations. As a result of the arms sales, Iran arranged for three American hostages in Lebanon to be freed.
        In accepting Mr. Hakim's plea agreement, Judge Gerhard A. Gesell of Federal District Court in Washington commended Mr. Hakim for his help in negotiating for the hostages' release. He cited a letter from one hostage, David P. Jacobsen.
        ''I would be in my fifth year of captivity had it not been for his extraordinary efforts in negotiating with the Iranian representatives,'' wrote Mr. Jacobsen, who at the time of his kidnapping was a hospital administrator in Beirut. ''Other American negotiators had given up, but Mr. Hakim continued.''
        Judge Gesell also noted that Mr. Hakim had lost money on a deal for which the government had recruited him.
        ''You're the only one who at some stage of this matter was not an officer or former officer of the United States government,'' the judge said. ''Indeed, you were brought into the situation you find yourself in by the United States government.''
        Mr. Hakim's hope was to make a profit in a deal in which other participants were pursuing political aims.
        Mr. Hakim was born in Beirut to Iranian parents in 1936. He came to the United States in 1955 to attend California Polytechnic Institute at San Luis Obispo, but was deported three years later because he had failed to attend enough classes.
        Back in Iran, he sold advanced technology and equipment to less-developed countries and to the Middle East. He developed a reputation for being able to avoid export-licensing procedures.
        The New York Times in 1987 mentioned a proposal by his companies in the 1970's to help the Iranian Army obtain advanced electronic surveillance systems through exporting the system piecemeal.
        The ouster of Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi in 1979 hurt Mr. Hakim's businesses, but the election of Ronald Reagan as president in 1980 improved them. He moved to Los Gatos, Calif., and set up an international security business.
        In 1983, he started a new business in the Virginia suburbs of Washington, the Stanford Technology Trading Group International, with Maj. Gen. Richard V. Secord, retired, of the Air Force as a partner. Colonel North, a staff member of the White House's National Security Council, asked the businessmen to help with the covert supply of weapons to the contras.
        The arms sales to Nicaragua were illegal because they violated Congressional limits on the amount of American aid that could be given to the contras.
        The three men called their idea ''the enterprise.'' The first need was to raise money, which they did by selling weapons at inflated prices to Iran. A Senate Intelligence Committee report in 1987 suggested that Mr. Hakim was the first to suggest using these Iranian profits for the Nicaraguan operation.
        There were protracted and unsuccessful efforts by Congress and a special prosecutor, Lawrence E. Walsh, to link President Reagan to the scandal.
        General Secord was sentenced to probation. Colonel North was convicted of lesser charges, including obstructing justice, and John M. Poindexter, President Reagan's national security adviser, was convicted of five counts of lying to Congress. The convictions were overturned because Congress had granted the men immunity for their testimony.
        Mr. Hakim is survived by his wife; two daughters from an earlier marriage, Monica H. Bowman of Santa Cruz, Calif., and Jessica Hakim of Capitola, Calif.; and two grandchildren.
      