
        Skunder Boghossian, an Ethiopian-born artist who played an important role in introducing European modernist styles into Africa and who, as a longtime resident of the United States, became one of the best-known African modern artists in the West, died on May 4 at Howard University Hospital in Washington. He was 65.
        No cause of death was released, but he had been ill for some time and was found unconscious in his apartment, said Kimberly Mayfield, a spokeswoman for the National Museum of African Art in Washington.
        Mr. Boghossian, whose original first name was Alexander and who used the name Skunder professionally, was born in Addis Ababa in 1937. In 1955, on a scholarship from the Ethiopian government, he enrolled at the Slade School of Fine Art in London, and two years later moved to Paris, where he taught at the Académie de la Grande Chaumière. In Paris, he became associated with the Senegalese philosopher Cheikh Anta Diop and other figures in the Pan-African and negritude movements. His art combined European media like oil paint, crayon and ink with bark and animal skins. Often hallucinatory in quality and filled with intricately detailed figures and patterning, his work was influenced by Paul Klee, Max Ernst and the Cuban artist Wifredo Lam, but more strongly by Coptic and West African art.
        In 1966, he returned to Ethiopia to teach at the School of Fine Arts in Addis Ababa. He stayed only three years, but his presence helped revolutionize contemporary art in the country. In 1969 he moved to the United States, where he became artist in residence at Atlanta University and instructor at the Atlanta Center for Black Art. He taught painting at Howard University from 1974 through 2000. Several of his Ethiopian students, including Zerihun Yetmgeta, Wosene Worke Kosrof and Tesfaye Tessema, followed him to America. His influence in Ethiopia itself remained strong.
        Mr. Boghossian was the first contemporary Ethiopian artist whose work was bought by both the Musée d'Art Moderne in Paris (1963) and the Museum of Modern Art in New York (1965). The National Museum of African Art in Washington owns several of his paintings. A few of them are included in the group exhibition ''Ethiopian Passages: Dialogues in the Diaspora,'' on view at the museum through Oct. 5. He is represented in New York by the Contemporary African Art Gallery.
        Mr. Boghossian is survived by a daughter, Aida, of Jessup, Md.; a son, Edward, of Bloomington, Minn.; and a sister, Aster, of New York City.
        Correction:  May 25, 2003, Sunday  An obituary last Sunday about Skunder Boghossian, an Ethiopian-born modern artist, misstated his affiliation with the Académie de la Grande Chaumière in Paris in 1957. He was a student, not a teacher.
      