
        Martha Scott, who created the role of the sweet, ethereal Emily in the original Broadway production of Thornton Wilder's ''Our Town'' and was nominated for an Oscar for repeating it in the film version, died on Wednesday in Los Angeles. She was 88.
        Miss Scott's trademark was warm sincerity in an era when glamour-girl artificiality reigned. She appeared in more than 20 movies, at least that many Broadway productions and a variety of television shows. She also produced plays and movies.
        She loved to point out that she had played Charlton Heston's mother twice in films, in ''The Ten Commandments'' (1957) and ''Ben-Hur'' (1959) and his wife twice onstage: in ''Design for a Stained Glass Window'' (1950) and ''The Tumbler'' (1960).
        But her most sparkling accomplishment was when, as a 23-year-old novice, she was chosen at the last minute for the part of Emily Webb in ''Our Town,'' Wilder's classic about the cycles of birth, love and death in Grovers Corners, a small New England town.
        A previous actress had been fired for not capturing the character in the final act, when Emily appears after death.
        In an interview with The New York Times in 1969, Miss Scott recalled her brief audition with Jed Harris, the original producer and director of ''Our Town.'' He was desperate because the play was about to open in Princeton, N.J.; she had been recommended for the part by several of his colleagues.
        ''He just pushed back my hair, looked at me and said, 'You've got the job,' '' she said. ''Then he said, 'How many years' experience have you had?' I told him five years. He said, 'You're gonna get a chance to prove it.' ''
        She did. In his review in The Times in February 1938, Brooks Atkinson praised her interaction with John Craven, who played her husband, saying, ''Some of their scenes are lovely past all enduring.''
        She was also praised for her performance as Emily in the film version, but lost the Academy Award to Ginger Rogers, who won for ''Kitty Foyle.''
        In 1940, Miss Scott also appeared in ''The Howards of Virginia,'' which many critics consider Cary Grant's worst movie. Her other films included ''In Old Oklahoma'' (1943) with John Wayne and ''The Desperate Hours'' (1955) with Humphrey Bogart.
        Martha Ellen Scott was born on Sept. 22, 1914, in Jamesport, Mo. Her father later opened a garage in Gallatin, Mo., and went on to become an engineer for a paint firm in Kansas City. Her parents disapproved of acting, but a sympathetic aunt reportedly lent her $2,500 so she could study acting at the University of Michigan. She repaid the loan.
        She then appeared in Shakespearean parts at the 1933-34 Chicago World's Fair. By the winter of 1937-38, she was making the rounds in Manhattan and was asked to audition for the role of Emily.
        Miss Scott's long career kept veering back to the stage, which she loved best. In 1991, she played the doomed Rebecca Nurse in ''The Crucible,'' the first production of Tony Randall's National Actors Theater in New York.
        Among her many television roles were Sue Ellen Ewing's mother on ''Dallas'' and a mysterious grandmother on ''General Hospital.''
        She also produced plays. In 1968, she joined Henry Fonda and Robert Ryan in forming the Plumstead Playhouse, which produced classical revivals with all-star casts in New York. It later became the Plumstead Theater company in Los Angeles.
        Her first marriage, to Carlton Alsop, a radio and film producer, ended in divorce in 1946. She later married the composer Mel Powell, who died in 1998.
        She is survived by her son, Scott Alsop; her daughters Mary Powell Harpel and Kathleen Powell; and her brother, Charles Scott.
        Miss Scott asked to be buried in the cemetery in Jamesport, where she rehearsed Emily's graveyard scene.
      