
        Frank Elijah Taplin Jr., a lawyer, arts patron and amateur pianist who as president of the Metropolitan Opera raised a large endowment fund in the 1970's, died on Sunday in Princeton, N.J. He was 87.
        At his death Mr. Taplin was a trustee emeritus of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, trustee emeritus of Lincoln Center and an honorary director of the Met, whose board he had joined in 1961. He served as president of the opera from 1977 to 1984.
        Mr. Taplin, whose fortune came from the North American Coal Corporation of Cleveland, was a prominent supporter of arts, education and environmental causes. He was a former board member of and remained on the advisory panel of Environmental Defense, formerly the Environmental Defense Fund.
        He raised money for the Cleveland Institute of Music, the Cleveland Orchestra, the Marlboro Music Festival, Sarah Lawrence College and the Lincoln Center Chamber Music Society.
        The opera company's budgeting had been a perennial cliffhanger. Mr. Taplin set up shop at Lincoln Center and organized a $100 million drive.
        Mr. Taplin was born in Cleveland. His mother, Edith Smith Taplin, nurtured his love of music and encouraged him to put it to practice. He graduated from Princeton in 1937 and went to Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar. He received a master's degree in jurisprudence at Oxford in 1939 and a law degree at Yale in 1941. In World War II he became a lieutenant commander in Navy intelligence in the Pacific.
        He practiced law in Cleveland, tended to private investments and sat on corporate boards at concerns including NACCO Industries. He was board chairman of Scurry-Rainbow Oil Ltd. from 1954 to 1974.
        He was a former president of the Cleveland Orchestra and of the Cleveland Institute of Music.
        The Taplin name remains on the Princeton Auditorium and the Met company's cafeteria, which he provided when he noticed that the staff had none. He started the Met's Golden Horseshoe, a society to recognize major donors.
        His first marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Margaret Eaton Taplin; two daughters and a son from his first marriage, Caroline Ruschell of Lexington, Ky., Jennifer Jerome of West Dummerston, Vt., and David F., of South Strafford, Vt.; three stepdaughters, Jennifer Dickerman of Charlotte, Vt., Martha Kelley of Brattleboro, and Susan Sichel of Marlboro, Vt.; a brother, Thomas, of Denver; a sister, Clara Rankin of Cleveland; 12 grandchildren; and 6 great-grandchildren.
        Mr. Taplin enjoyed appearing on the Met stage as a supernumerary. He studied the piano at the Marlboro Music School in the 1960's.
        When Mr. Taplin was Met president, he played at the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine in 1984. An article by Harold C. Schonberg of The New York Times recalled other presidential pianists, like Truman and Nixon.
        ''The difference is,'' Mr. Schonberg reported, ''that Mr. Taplin plays the piano well. Really well -- well enough to play things like the Elgar or Dvorak piano quintets with professional musicians and hold his own.''
        He played hot jazz as well, Mr. Schonberg wrote, ''without arousing scorn among the jazz critics.''
      