
        Dave DeBusschere, the Hall of Fame forward whose tenacious defensive play, rebounding prowess and timely scoring helped propel the Knicks to their only two N.B.A. championships, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 62.
        DeBusschere had a heart attack on a street in Lower Manhattan and died at New York University Downtown Hospital, a spokesman for Madison Square Garden said.
        In the early 1970's, the Knicks dazzled New York with brilliant team play and a host of great players. Coached by Red Holzman, they featured DeBusschere and Bill Bradley at forward, Willis Reed at center and Walt Frazier, Earl Monroe and Dick Barnett at guard.
        The Knicks won the N.B.A. championship in 1970 and 1973. If their glory years could be traced to a date, that was Dec. 19, 1968, when their general manager, Eddie Donovan, obtained DeBusschere from the Detroit Pistons for center Walt Bellamy and guard Howard Komives.
        DeBusschere once described himself as having been ''on the brink of senility by pro basketball standards'' when the trade was made, but he provided a key element for the Knicks.
        When the Knicks had Bellamy at center, they were forced to use Reed at forward, where his strengths were sometimes minimized by playing away from the basket. When Bellamy departed, Reed became a force at center, dominating on defense as well as on offense, and teaming with DeBusschere, a natural forward at a solid 6 feet 6 inches, to give the team a powerful physical presence in the frontcourt.
        The Knicks won more games than any other N.B.A. team from 1969 to 1974. In addition to their two championships, they played in the N.B.A. finals in 1972.
        Playing 12 seasons in the N.B.A., DeBusschere was an All-Star eight times and was named to the all-N.B.A. defensive squad six times. In 1996, he was named one of the 50 greatest players in the league's first half-century. He was inducted into the Basketball Hall of Fame in Springfield, Mass., with Bradley, in 1983.
        DeBusschere averaged 16.1 points a game for his pro career and pulled down 9,618 rebounds. But he also prized elements not reflected in the box score, particularly defensive play. ''In basketball, for one, the statistics don't mean a thing -- there is no real value in that scoresheet,'' he wrote in The New York Times in October 1974. ''Sure, it says that so-and-so had 30 points and 15 rebounds, but it certainly doesn't show that the man he was guarding may have scored 40 points.''
        ''Dave was a blue-collar type of player who led by example with his tenacity on the court,'' Frazier said in a statement yesterday.
        ''Dave DeBusschere is the complete basketball player,'' Holzman told John Devaney for a 1971 profile on DeBusschere in Sport magazine. ''Sometimes he'll score only 4 or 6 points in 40 minutes. If he can get the rebounds and play good defense, we got the other guys on this team who can shoot.''
        ''Dave was the strong, silent type,'' Phil Jackson, the Los Angeles Lakers' coach and DeBusschere's former Knicks teammate, wrote in ''Maverick''(Playboy Press, 1975). ''Even though he often played with nagging injuries, I never once heard him complain.''
        A native of Detroit, DeBusschere starred in basketball and baseball at the University of Detroit. He averaged 24 points a game in basketball, helping Detroit reach the National Invitation Tournament twice and the N.C.A.A. tournament once. He pitched the university to three N.C.A.A. baseball tournament berths.
        DeBusschere was drafted by the Detroit Pistons as a territorial pick -- outside of the regular N.B.A. draft order -- in 1962. The Knicks had the second choice in that draft and had hoped to pick him.
        DeBusschere became a regular quickly on the Pistons, and in the off-season pitched for two years with the Chicago White Sox.
        After the first 11 games of the 1964-65 season, the Pistons named DeBusschere their player-coach. At age 24, he was the youngest coach in N.B.A. history. He remained as coach until late in the 1966-67 season, without taking the team to the playoffs, then returned to a sole role as a player.
        DeBusschere retired as a player after the 1973-74 season, then became a vice president and general manager of the Nets, who were then in the American Basketball Association. The Nets, who were defending champions, were eliminated in the first round of the playoffs that season.
        DeBusschere became commissioner of the A.B.A. in May 1975 and helped bring about the league's merger with the N.B.A. after the 1975-76 season.
        He served as director of basketball operations for the Knicks from May 1982 to January 1986. The Knicks won the first N.B.A. draft lottery and picked Patrick Ewing as the No. 1 choice in the 1985 draft, but they could not win a championship with him.
        DeBusschere, who lived in Garden City, N.Y., is survived by his wife, Geri; two sons, Peter and Dennis; and a daughter, Michelle.
        DeBusschere wrote of the Knicks' first championship season in ''The Open Man: A Championship Diary,'' edited by Paul D. Zimmerman and Dick Schaap (Random House, 1971), the title coming from Holzman's credo to find the open man.
        When DeBusschere and Bradley were selected to the Hall of Fame, Bradley recalled his teammate's unselfish play.
        ''Both of us, Dave and I, were most interested in the success of the group, much more than individual success,'' Bradley said. ''We believed in hard work and teamwork.''
        Reed once recalled how DeBusschere served as an inspiration to his teammates, even before the Knicks were champions of the N.B.A. and the toast of New York.
        Reed recalled the time the Knicks were eliminated from the N.B.A. playoffs by the Boston Celtics in the Eastern Division finals.
        ''Back in 1969, on a Friday night in April at the Boston Garden,'' Reed said. ''I remember it really raining. It was Bill Russell's last year. It had been a tough game and our season was over.
        ''We were all sitting there, in the dressing room, feeling pretty bad. All of a sudden, DeBusschere starts up. 'Guys, I'll tell you something. Next year is our year.' It turned out he was right.''
      