
        Dr. Ira Herskowitz, a geneticist who advanced the understanding of the way cells differentiate and a pioneer in the effort to learn how genetic differences among people influence the effectiveness of drugs, died on Monday at his home in San Francisco. He was 56.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his twin brother, Dr. Joel Herskowitz, a pediatric neurologist.
        Known for his ability to clarify the most complicated biological questions, Dr. Herskowitz, a professor at the University of California at San Francisco, focused his research on Saccharomyces cerevisiae, commonly known as baker's yeast. It is the simplest single-cell organism that operates in a manner similar to a human cell.
        Yeast cells come in two types, comparable to male and female sexes, and are capable of changing from one type to the other. Dr. Herskowitz figured out how yeast manages to make this switch, and described it with a metaphor now known as the ''cassette model.''
        He compared the cell's mechanism to a tape recorder. Each cell possesses a library of cassettes -- a collection of male and female genes -- and can change types by plugging a different cassette into the deck.
        ''I called him Metaphor Man,'' said Dr. Gerald Fink, a professor of genetics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''Ira's great gift was to be able to look at a large set of completely confusing and contradictory data and come up with a metaphor that put it all together in a magnificent way.''
        Dr. Herskowitz's insight into yeast genetics had implications for human biology. It helped scientists understand how human cells, originally identical, can differentiate to create the many different organs and tissues in the body.
        In the early 1980's, he and a colleague worked out a strategy for getting yeast cells to manufacture human proteins of all kinds. Their patented process is now used to produce insulin for diabetics, among other substances. Dr. Herskowitz consistently donated half his share of the patent income to finance scholarships and fellowships for students in his laboratory.
        In the mid-1980's, he turned his attention to cell biology, studying how genes govern cell division.
        And in the late 1990's, his interest in mining basic science for new techniques of medical practice led him into the expanding field of pharmacogenetics, the study of the way genes can influence a person's response to drugs.
        Dr. Herskowitz's two most recent papers, describing the variation in so-called transporter genes among people of different ethnic groups, were published in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences on the day he died.
        Transporter genes work to allow drugs into cells -- or, in some cases, to keep them out. They may account for discrepancies in the way antidepressants, for example, or chemotherapy agents work in different people.
        Ira Herskowitz was born in Brooklyn seven minutes before Joel. The boys were mirror-image identical twins. Ira was left-handed, and Joel right-handed. They even parted their hair on opposite sides.
        The family moved to New Orleans and then to Bloomington, Ind., where the boys developed a love for both basketball and science, Joel Herskowitz said. There, at Indiana University, they would visit the genetics laboratory of their father, himself a biology professor, and were fascinated by the fruit flies he experimented with and by the smell of the ether that was used to kill the flies.
        After graduating from high school in the family's next hometown, St. Louis, Ira Herskowitz went to the California Institute of Technology, where he studied math and science. His twin went to Princeton.
        Ira's early work in genetics focused on lambda, a virus. But in graduate school at M.I.T., he turned his attention to yeast. After getting his Ph.D. in 1971, he taught at the University of Oregon. He moved to California-San Francisco in 1981, and in 1987 was awarded a MacArthur Fellowship, commonly called a genius grant.
        A member of the Institute of Medicine and the National Academy of Sciences, and a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Dr. Herskowitz received many honors, including, in April, the 2003 Lewis S. Rosenstiel Award for Distinguished Work in Basic Medical Research.
        In addition to his twin, Joel, of Natick, Mass., he is survived by his parents, Dr. Irwin H. Herskowitz, an emeritus professor of biology at Hunter College in New York, and Reida Postrel Herskowitz, both of Lake Worth, Fla.; another brother, Alan, of Palenville, N.Y.; and a sister, Mara Herskowitz of New York City.
        Of Dr. Herskowitz's work, particularly his teaching at the San Francisco campus, Dr. James D. Watson, president of the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory on Long Island, said: ''He was one of the people who made U.C.S.F. the most exciting place in the world for a younger scientist to be. A talk by Ira was always fun to listen to. And he approached science with a certain degree of idealism.''
        He also brought a certain degree of levity. Dr. Herskowitz enjoyed playing guitar and singing rock, blues and folk songs. He wrote and performed parodies like ''I've Been Workin' on the Genome.''
        He was well known for performing a song written by his twin called ''Double Talking Helix Blues,'' done in the talking style of Woody Guthrie. The lyrics describe how DNA works: ''How it is when you're born you're not a rabbit or an ear of corn.''
      