
        Ella King Torrey, former president of the San Francisco Art Institute and an innovative arts administrator, died Wednesday at her home in San Francisco. She was 45.
        Her family did not disclose the cause of death.
        Ms. Torrey, who was called by both her first and middle names, and was the fifth-generation Ella King in her family, was inspired most of her life by the importance of individual artists and grass-roots artistic collaborations. She pursued this interest in several ways, from organizing exhibitions and writing to frequently participating on panels for the National Endowment for the Arts.
        ''Her whole focus was creating opportunities for artists,'' said John Killacky, an officer at the San Francisco Foundation. ''In every situation, she was an animator, a cultural animator.''
        Ms. Torrey was born in 1957 in Bronxville, N.Y., and grew up in Evansville, Ind., and Philadelphia. She graduated cum laude in 1980 from Yale University, where she majored in art history and wrote her senior essay on the effect of Barbie dolls on popular culture. Her interest in contemporary folk art took her to the University of Mississippi, where she wrote her master's thesis on Theora Hamblett, a little-known visionary folk painter, and became deeply involved with black quilt-makers. She was charter president of Afro-American Quilters Inc., a nonprofit cooperative in Oxford, Miss.
        In 1985, she became a program officer at the Pew Charitable Trusts in Philadelphia, where her projects included rehabilitating buildings for artists' subsidized housing. Pushing the Pew to support individual artists as well as institutions, she founded and headed the Pew Artists Fellowship Program, which awards 12 $50,000 grants to artists annually.
        Ms. Torrey became president of the San Francisco Art Institute in 1995, when it was in physical and financial disarray. Widely credited with raising this art school's national and international profile, she more than tripled its endowment, oversaw the renovation and expansion of its landmark building, added several new trustees, re-established its visiting artists' program and also established an exchange program with Oxford University.
        In early 2001, an auditing firm found irregularities in the way the institute's chief financial officer and comptroller had been keeping its books. In April 2002, Ms. Torrey resigned. ''I felt I had accomplished much of what I set out to do,'' she told The San Francisco Chronicle. Several board members then resigned in protest.
        Ms. Torrey is survived by her mother, Ella Russell Torrey of Philadelphia; a sister, Elizabeth L. Torrey of Washington; and a brother, L. Russell Torrey of Villanova, Pa.
        Correction:  May 17, 2003, Saturday  An obituary on May 3 about Ella King Torrey, a former president of the San Francisco Art Institute, misstated its fiscal situation in 1995, when she took the post. While the institute had often run a deficit, sometimes amounting to half its annual budget, it had begun to reduce deficits since the mid-1980's and to address many of its structural problems. It was not in financial or physical disarray.
      