
        Charlie Tolar, the star fullback for the Houston Oilers of the old American Football League who was known as the Human Bowling Ball for charging at massive linemen on his 5-foot-6 frame, died on Monday in Houston. He was 65.
        The cause was cancer, according to Northwestern State University of Louisiana, his alma mater.
        In the early 1960's, when the A.F.L. was challenging the long-established National Football League, the Oilers were a marquee team.
        Led by the passing of the former Chicago Bears star George Blanda, the running of Tolar and the Heisman Trophy winner Billy Cannon from Louisiana State, and the receiving of Tolar's fellow Northwestern State alumnus Charlie Hennigan, the Oilers won their league's first two championships, in 1960 and 1961.
        After starring in football for Northwestern State of Natchitoches, La., his hometown, Tolar was picked in the 1959 N.F.L. draft by the Pittsburgh Steelers. He was released by them, then signed by the Oilers.
        Barreling ahead, his helmet with the oil derrick logo bouncing off defenders, Tolar was a fan favorite with the Oilers from 1960 to 1966.
        Tolar weighed perhaps 210 pounds, but he gained 3,277 yards on 907 carries in his career and scored 21 rushing touchdowns. In 1962, when the Oilers lost to the Dallas Texans in the A.F.L. title game, Tolar led the league in carries with 244 and was third in rushing with 1,012 yards. He caught 175 passes for 1,266 yards and was named an All-Star in 1961 and '62.
        ''Charlie could do just about anything,'' Bud Adams, the founder of the Oilers and owner of their successors, the Tennessee Titans, told The Houston Chronicle.
        Tolar was fearless but he also had an advantage being so small, Adams recalled.
        As Adams told it, ''The defensive players couldn't see him about half the time because he ran so low to the ground.''
        Bob Talamini, an all-league guard and another of the original Oilers, told The Chronicle, ''The only thing Charlie didn't have was breakaway speed, but he'd run through a brick wall to get 1 yard.''
        Tolar had a home in Houston and ran a family farm near Natchez, La. He is survived by his wife, Barbara; three daughters, Debbie Howery, of Magnolia, Tex., Sharon Tolar, of Pearland, Tex., and Brenda Brown, of Alexandria, La.; a sister, Betty Jean Gobin, of Nevada, Mo.; four grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
        While he wasn't confounding defensive players who towered over him, Tolar took on another perilous task. One off-season, the Oilers obtained a job for him working with Red Adair, who was internationally known for fighting oil well fires.
        As Adams remembered it: ''He came to me and said: 'Mr. Adams, that's dangerous. Sometimes, I had to run for my life. I'd rather run from defensive linemen.' ''
      