
        Sam Lacy, a sports reporter for black newspapers for almost 70 years who struggled with the segregation and racial intolerance experienced by the black athletes he covered, died last Thursday morning at a hospital in Washington. He was 99.
        Since 1943, he had been the sports editor and columnist for the Afro-American Newspapers, a group of weeklies based in Baltimore.
        Mr. Lacy chronicled Jackie Robinson's debut in 1947 with the Brooklyn Dodgers as major league baseball's first black player, and for much of Robinson's first three seasons he and Mr. Lacy stayed in the same black hotels and ate together in black restaurants.
        Early in his career, Mr. Lacy was barred from many baseball and football press boxes because of his color. When that happened in several cities during spring training when Robinson was playing for the Dodgers, Branch Rickey, the Dodgers' general manager, told Mr. Lacy he could report from the Dodgers' dugout.
        Once, when Mr. Lacy was barred from a New Orleans baseball press box, he took a chair and sat on the press box roof and was soon joined by several white sportswriters from New York.
        In addition to Robinson, Mr. Lacy was close to Joe Louis, Jesse Owens, Arthur Ashe and other prominent black athletes, but never hesitated to criticize them.
        In his six decades at the Afro-American Newspapers, Mr. Lacy became a mentor and a resource to many African-American journalists who drew from his experiences in overcoming segregation.
        Samuel Harold Lacy was a short, wiry man with the sharp features of his mother, a Shinnecock Indian. He was born on Oct. 23, 1903, in Mystic, Conn. He grew up in Washington, five blocks from Griffith Stadium, the home of the old Washington Senators baseball team. As a youngster, he shagged balls in the outfield during batting practice, ran errands for players and worked as a vendor in the stands. He watched many games, some with his father, but only from the ''colored-only'' section in right field.
        After receiving a bachelor's degree in education from Howard University, he did sports commentary on television and radio and played, managed and coached in semipro baseball and basketball.
        He started working full time in 1930 for The Washington Tribune and became the managing editor and sports editor. He also worked for The Chicago Defender as assistant national editor.
        Mr. Lacy is survived by his son, Samuel H. (Tim) Jr. of Columbia, Md.; a daughter, Michaelyn Harris of New York City; and four grandchildren. His wife, Barbara, died in 1969.
        In 1948, he became the first black member of the Baseball Writers Association of America. In 1997, the day before he turned 94, he was named winner of the J. G. Taylor Spink Award for meritorious contributions to baseball writing. That placed him in the writers and broadcasters wing of the Baseball Hall of Fame.
        Mr. Lacy was a strong proponent of integrating the major leagues, and in 1940 he tried unsuccessfully to meet with baseball's first commissioner, Kenesaw Mountain Landis, to push his cause. Some blacks criticized Mr. Lacy for his campaign, saying integration would destroy the Negro Leagues (it did).
        He responded, ''The Negro Leagues were an institution, but they were the very thing we wanted to get rid of because they were a symbol of segregation.''
      