
        Dr. Vincent J. Freda, a winner of a Lasker Award for medical research who helped develop a vaccine to prevent a disease that killed thousands of babies each year, died on May 7 at Columbia-Presbyterian Center in Manhattan. He was 75.
        The cause was respiratory failure, his family said.
        Nearly everyone who has given birth in the last 40 years is familiar with Dr. Freda's most famous work, which resulted in a vaccine, now known as Rhogam, that has allowed women who have Rh-negative blood to deliver healthy babies.
        In addition to the major blood types, there is an Rh factor, which is a protein found on red blood cells. More than 85 percent of people are Rh positive: they have the protein.
        Yet for women who are Rh negative, having a baby with an Rh-positive father can pose huge risks. If the fetus is Rh positive, when its blood cells mix with its mother's blood, the mother's body will make antibodies that attack the fetus's Rh-positive blood, causing a potentially fatal condition called hemolytic disease.
        In 1963 in a Columbia University laboratory, Dr. Freda and Dr. John G. Gorman discovered that if an Rh-negative woman was given an injection of the substance that causes Rh disease, her body would not attack the fetus's blood cells.
        The findings were especially important to women who had already given birth because Rh problems are often minimal with the first baby but worsen with subsequent ones as the mother develops higher levels of the dangerous antibodies earlier in pregnancy. The vaccine was first tested on volunteers at the Sing Sing Correctional Facility in Ossining, N.Y.
        For Dr. Freda, a young obstetrician whose colleagues scorned his work, according to his Lasker Award citation, the finding was a way to save infants' lives before they were ever in danger. Within a decade, the vaccine was common in hospitals across the country. Pregnant mothers now routinely get an Rh blood test as part of their prenatal care.
        Dr. Freda established a pioneering clinic for Rh-negative mothers in the United States and became a leader in the field of fetal medicine.
        A former Air Force flight surgeon who turned his attention to obstetrics, Dr. Freda was one of the first doctors in the country to perform amniocentesis and was at the forefront of fetal surgery, officials at Columbia-Presbyterian said.
        Dr. Freda's first operation on a fetus, at 27 weeks, involved a blood transfusion needed because of Rh incompatibility. The mother went into labor after surgery, performed in 1964, and the fetus did not survive, although Dr. Freda said at the time that the surgery on the fetus had been technically successful.
        In 1980, Dr. Freda, Dr. Gorman and three others who had roles in identifying and treating the Rh factor shared the Albert Lasker Award for clinical research and its $15,000 prize. A research fellowship and a symposium have been created in his honor at Columbia's College of Physicians and Surgeons.
        Born in New Haven, Vincent J. Freda graduated from Columbia and the New York University School of Medicine.
        He spent his entire career at what is now Columbia-Presbyterian. He lived in Alpine, N.J.
        Dr. Freda is survived by his wife, Carol Ury; a daughter, Dr. Pamela U. Freda; two sons, Andrew and Bradley; and three grandchildren.
      