
        Joseph Doria Sr., who with his wife founded and operated Grace's Marketplace, a thriving Upper East Side food center, died on May 17. He was 68 and lived in Old Westbury, N.Y.
        His son Dino said that Mr. Doria had a heart attack in his office at the store.
        Mr. Doria and his wife, Grace Balducci Doria, left Balducci's during a bitter family battle and built Grace's Marketplace, at Third Avenue and 71st Street, into a rival that outlived the family store in Greenwich Village. At Grace's, they were assisted by five of their six children.
        Grace's Marketplace was the first Italian specialty food store of its caliber on the Upper East Side. It spread around the corner, adding a restaurant with a sidewalk cafe, Grace's Trattoria. The Dorias also set up a school of Italian cookery, using the kitchen on the premises.
        Recently Mr. Doria was developing a new site for their uptown Grace's Wholesale Marketplace on Park Avenue at 121st Street in East Harlem. His plan to include a smaller retail outlet there will go forward, the family said.
        Having been thoroughly schooled by Louis Balducci, his father-in-law, Mr. Doria was a hands-on president of Grace's Marketplace who oversaw all the buying for the retail business. He scoured the Hunts Point Market in the Bronx well before his customers got out of bed and spent more time over the produce after it reached the store.
        He was involved in every aspect of the business, ensuring freshness and dealing with customers, while other family members tended to specific areas like catering.
        Joseph Doria was born in Corato, in southern Italy, on Aug. 22. 1934, and arrived in the United States at age 13. In 1955, at 21, he went to work as a produce man in the store Louis and Maria Balducci had started in Greenwich Village to serve their Italian neighbors.
        He also met Grace Balducci, who worked at the cash register after school and learned the produce trade from her parents. The couple were married in 1957 and worked together at Balducci's until rancor among the three Balducci siblings prompted the couple's departure in 1985.
        The Maryland supermarket chain that took control of Balducci's in 1999 closed the store in early January. A few weeks later, Citarella, an upscale West Side market with branches on the East Side and in the Hamptons, announced that it would take over the site on Avenue of the Americas at Ninth Street.
        The Dorias were denied the use of the name Balducci when they opened Grace's; the name is now owned by Sutton Place Gourmet, a chain that employs no members of the Balducci family.
        In addition to his wife and his son Dino, of Syosset, N.Y, Mr. Doria is survived by his sons, Frank J., owner of Frankie & Charlies restaurant in Great Neck, N.Y.; Louis M., of Wantagh, N.Y.; and Joseph Jr. of Roslyn Heights, N.Y.; two daughters, Pina Soares of Fresh Meadows, Queens, and Maria Pacheco of Flushing, Queens; two brothers, Louis, of Plainview, N.Y., and Dominick of Roslyn Heights, N.Y.; and eight grandchildren.
      