
        Mark H. McCormack, who created the sports marketing industry and turned his company, IMG, into the largest of its kind in the world and a billion-dollar-a-year business, died yesterday at a nursing home in New York. He was 72.
        Mr. McCormack had been in a coma after a heart attack on Jan. 16.
        Mr. McCormack was the sole owner, chairman and chief executive of IMG, formerly International Management Group, which represents athletes and sponsors and owns tournaments. Its broadcast division is the largest producer of televised sports programming, other than the networks, and the largest seller of sports television rights.
        Before Mr. McCormack, athletes who made appearances and television commercials were customarily rewarded with watches or supplies of products or small amounts of money. Starting with the golfer Arnold Palmer, Mr. McCormack changed that. Mr. McCormack helped Palmer become golf's first television celebrity athlete, maximizing his natural charisma and popularity. Palmer, his first full-time client, saw his annual income of $50,000 rise to $500,000 within three years and eventually to more than $10 million.
        IMG negotiated Tiger Woods's five-year endorsement contract with Nike in 2000 for $100 million and shortstop Derek Jeter's 10-year deal with the Yankees in 2001 for $189 million. Clients have generally paid IMG 20 percent of endorsement money, 10 percent of prize money and 3 percent of salary.
        By 2002, IMG, with headquarters in Cleveland, had more than 2,000 employees in 85 offices in 35 nations. It is the largest marketing consultant to major corporations, and its branches develop golf courses and represent authors, classical musicians and fashion models. It owns 21 sports academies in the United States, Europe and Asia.
        In 2002, Forbes listed Mr. McCormack as the 209th richest American, estimating his worth at $1 billion. Golf magazine called him ''the most powerful man in golf.'' Tennis magazine said he was ''the most powerful man in tennis.'' Sports Illustrated cited him as ''the most powerful man in sports.'' And The Times of London wrote that he was ''one of the 1,000 people who have most influenced the 20th century.''
        Business Age said in 1994: ''McCormack invented the sports business. It was he who first realized that, within the golden triangle of sport, sponsorship and television, lay vast wealth, just waiting to be tapped.''
        It said that ''without his ruthlessness and marketing skills,'' his clients ''would be a great deal poorer.''
        Besides Palmer and Woods, IMG's client list includes current or former sports figures like quarterback Joe Montana; the tennis players Serena Williams, Venus Williams, John McEnroe and Jennifer Capriati; the figure skater Scott Hamilton; the golfer Annika Sorenstam; the broadcasters John Madden and Bob Costas; the sprinter Michael Johnson; and the racecar driver Jeff Gordon. Outside of sports, the list includes the former General Electric chairman Jack Welch, the model Tyra Banks and the violinist Itzhak Perlman. McCormack, IMG said, also handled special projects for world leaders like Margaret Thatcher and Pope John Paul II.
        IMG also represents Wimbledon, the United States Golf Association, the United States Olympic Committee, the Nobel Foundation, Oxford University, the Grammys, the Kennedy Space Center and the Smithsonian Institution.
        In 1958, as a young Cleveland lawyer, Mr. McCormack began booking exhibitions for the golfer Gene Littler. Other professional golfers soon asked him to review endorsement contracts.
        In 1960, he made a handshake deal with Palmer, whom he knew from college days when Mr. McCormack played for William and Mary and Palmer played for Wake Forest.
        With that, Mr. McCormack became a full-time athletes' representative. He soon added two other young golfers: Jack Nicklaus, who had just turned pro, and Gary Player of South Africa.
        ''If they had all shot 80 from that moment on,'' Mr. McCormack said years later, ''I wouldn't be sitting here today.'' Instead, they dominated golf for years, and McCormack's business grew.
        Mr. McCormack emphasized IMG's broad horizons.
        ''I am not an agent,'' he told The Saturday Evening Post in 1968. ''An agent is someone who books bands. I'm a manager, not only of people, but of things, of concepts, ideas.''
        Mark Hume McCormack was born Nov. 6, 1930, in Chicago. When he was 6, he was hit by a car and fractured his skull, and his doctor barred him from contact sports. His father, a well-to-do publisher of a farm journal, introduced him to golf, and he played occasionally with his godfather, the poet and historian Carl Sandburg. In college, Mr. McCormack played in the United States Open, the United States Amateur and the British Amateur championships.
        He earned a bachelor's degree in French from William and Mary in 1951 and a law degree from Yale in 1954. He served in the Army in 1955 and 1956 and was hired by a Cleveland law firm in 1957 for $5,400 a year.
        His success with IMG led to criticism that he was a brutal competitor. Hughes Norton, an IMG executive, said: ''We're I.B.M., the 1927 Yankees, whatever. Everybody hates us.'' Mr. McCormack shrugged off that image, saying, ''We're a business without any competition, really.''
        Along the way, Mr. McCormack wrote books about business management and golf, including ''What They Don't Teach You at Harvard Business School'' (Bantam, 1984), which sold more than a million hardback copies worldwide.
        His workload never diminished. He arose at 4:30 in the morning and immediately started to work. He did not use computers or e-mail, instead keeping his daily schedule and notes on a yellow legal pad. He traveled extensively around the world for business meetings and maintained six homes, the main one in Orlando, Fla., in the same gated community in which Woods lives.
        His first marriage, in 1954 to Nancy Breckenridge, ended in divorce. He was married in 1986 to the tennis player Betsy Nagelsen, twice an Australian Open doubles champion. He is survived by his wife; three children from his first marriage, sons Breck of Hong Kong and Todd of Newton, Mass., and a daughter, Leslie, of London, all IMG employees; and a daughter from his second marriage, Maggie.
        In later years, Mr. McCormack resisted overtures to sell IMG. In 2002, he told The Times of London: ''People say, 'Why don't you retire?' I say: 'Because I get to play golf with Arnold Palmer and Tiger Woods, tennis with Monica Seles and I get to go to Wimbledon and Paul McCartney's wedding. I do every day what most people retire to do. So why retire?' ''
      