
        Elizabeth Neuffer, the award-winning foreign correspondent for The Boston Globe who died on Friday in in an automobile accident in Iraq, had traveled there to cover the aftermath of the war. She was 46.
        Ms. Neuffer was a passenger in a car that apparently struck a guardrail near Samarra, about halfway between Tikrit and Baghdad, The Globe said in a statement.
        She was returning from an overnight trip to Tikrit, Saddam Hussein's ancestral home, where she had been reporting on efforts to dismantle the Baath Party apparatus that had helped enforce Mr. Hussein's government.
        Her translator, Waleed Khalifa Hassan al-Dulami, was also killed.
        Ms. Neuffer became European correspondent of The Globe, based in Berlin, in 1994, and spent much of her time reporting on fighting in the lands that once made up Yugoslavia. That assignment led to ''The Key to My Neighbor's House: Seeking Justice in Bosnia and Rwanda'' (Picador, 2002). The book, which was well received, grew out of a 10-part series in The Globe on war crimes in those countries.
        Ms. Neuffer used two case studies, one of a Bosnian Muslim searching for information about his massacred family and the other about a Tutsi who testified about the rapes she endured in Rwanda, to study the meaning of atrocity.
        In 1997, the series won the Novartis Prize for Excellence in International Journalism from the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies. Paul D. Wolfowitz, then dean of the school and now deputy defense secretary, said the series demonstrated ''exceptional qualities of reportorial perseverance, courage and commitment and brought important, unresolved issues to the public's attention.''
        In 1998, Ms. Neuffer won a Courage in Journalism Award from the International Women's Media Foundation. In its citation, the foundation referred to a bomb explosion in a marketplace in Sarajevo in 1994 that killed 68 people.
        ''She helped pick up the bodies and then wrote her story,'' the citation said.
        In 1998 and 1999, Ms. Neuffer was an Edward R. Murrow fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.
        She was born on June 15, 1956, in Quincy, Mass., and grew up in Wilton, Conn. She graduated from Cornell and received a master's in political philosophy from the London School of Economics and Political Science. Then she became deputy press secretary to Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut.
        Ms. Neuffer moved to London, where she wrote freelance articles for The New York Times and other publications. She then worked as a reporter trainee at The Times before joining The Globe, where her first beat was federal court in Boston.
        Surviving are her brother, Mark, and her companion, Peter S. Canellos, Washington bureau chief of The Globe.
      