
        David Keh, a pioneering restaurateur who helped introduce New York City to a world of Chinese cooking beyond egg rolls and fried rice, died Monday in his home in Manhattan. He was 69.
        He had been in poor health for several years after suffering two strokes, said a son, William Keh.
        Mr. Keh (pronounced kay) was instrumental in transforming the stereotypical image of Chinese food and restaurants. In three restaurants he opened in the late 1960's, he introduced authentic Sichuan cooking to New York, helping to make cold noodles with sesame sauce almost as much a symbol of the city as pastrami and bagels. He was also one of the first to bring Hunan cooking to New York, and his restaurant Uncle Tai's received four stars from The New York Times in 1973.
        His grandest restaurant was David K's at Third Avenue and 65th Street. There he introduced elegant European-style service to the Chinese dining room, and the menu was priced accordingly.
        While Mr. Keh knew his way around a kitchen, he was not a chef. He had an uncanny ability to find expert Chinese cooks, like Wen Dah Tai, a steller Hunan cook for whom Uncle Tai's was named. At Pig Heaven, which he opened on the Upper East Side with Ed Schoenfeld in 1984, he hired a man who had been the personal dumpling maker for Madame Chiang Kai-shek.
        ''David was a master at putting skilled master chefs together,'' said Mr. Schoenfeld, a restaurant consultant and a partner with Mr. Keh in three other restaurants. ''He was the equivalent of the general manager of the Yankees. He could choose a good player at every position.''
        Mr. Keh was born in Anhui province in central China on May 23, 1934.
        After the Chinese Revolution, Mr. Keh and his family moved to Taiwan. He came to the United States in 1964 to study at Seton Hall University, said Jean Keh, his former wife. In addition to his son William, Mr. Keh is survived by another son, John Keh; his wife, Hai Ying Keh; and a sister, Grace Chaung.
        To support his studies, Mr. Keh took a job as a waiter in Chinatown. When several other waiters and he decided they wanted their own place, Mr. Keh found an exceptional Sichuan chef, and they opened Szechuan Taste near Chatham Square in Chinatown.
        ''To my mind, that was the first Sichuan restaurant in North America,'' Mr. Schoenfeld said. ''You could go to Shun Lee and eat Sichuan shrimp, but you couldn't go there for a Sichuan menu.''
        Around 1970, Mr. Keh took Sichuan food out of Chinatown, first opening Szechuan near Broadway and 96th Street, an intersection that became known as Sichuan Gulch, and then Sichuan East on the Upper East Side.
        By the mid-1980's, though, Mr. Keh's savvy seemed to desert him. Later restaurants like Java, a Thai restaurant, David K's Noodle Road and Shanghai 1933 never seemed to catch on. Of all his restaurants, only Pig Heaven, long under different ownership, remains.
        By all accounts Mr. Keh was a charming man, skilled at smooth-talking salesmanship. At the height of his success, he was a man about town, Mr. Schoenfeld recalled, fond of driving a Rolls-Royce and wearing a mink coat. In the late 1970's, when an effort to unionize Chinese restaurants focused on Uncle Tai's, Mr. Keh reached an agreement promising that any Chinese restaurant on the site would be unionized. He promptly closed Uncle Tai's and opened a Mexican restaurant instead, Cafe Marimba.
        Though Mexican cooking seemed far afield for him, Mr. Keh's skill at selecting chefs did not desert him. He gave Zarela Martinez her first job as chef at Cafe Marimba.
        ''He was a total innovator,'' said Ms. Martinez, who went on to critical fame at Zarela's on Second Avenue. ''He knew how to pick people and let them create.''
      