
        Otto Edelmann, a leading Austrian bass-baritone of the postwar period particularly known for his interpretations of Wagner and Strauss roles, died on Wednesday in Vienna, where he lived. He was 86.
        Mr. Edelmann had a long association with the Vienna State Opera, where he sang for 30 years, and also had a close relationship with the Metropolitan Opera, where he made his debut in 1954 as Hans Sachs in Wagner's ''Meistersinger'' and sang until April 1976.
        His final Met role was Baron Ochs in Strauss's ''Rosenkavalier,'' one of his signature roles, which he first performed in 1952 at La Scala with Elisabeth Schwarzkopf and Herbert von Karajan. That performance is still available as an audio recording; there is also a video of a Salzburg production with the same principals.
        Born in Brunn am Gebirge, Austria, in 1917, Mr. Edelmann studied in Vienna with Theodor Lierhammer and Gunnar Graarud and had his first engagement in Mozart's ''Nozze di Figaro'' in Gera, Germany, at the age of 20. He was subsequently engaged as a company bass in Nuremberg, where he sang his first Waldner in ''Arabella'' under the baton of the opera's composer, Richard Strauss. In World War II he was conscripted into the German army and spent two years as a Soviet prisoner of war before returning to the stage in 1947, first in Graz, Austria, and soon thereafter with the company of the Vienna State Opera, with whom he made his debut as the Hermit in Weber's ''Freischütz.''
        A ''Falstaff'' in 1950 under Clemens Krauss, followed by appearances in the first postwar Bayreuth festival as Hans Sachs and in the Beethoven Ninth under Wilhelm Furtwängler, sealed Mr. Edelmann's status as a leading bass-baritone of his day. While his European career included Italian roles like Verdi's Falstaff and King Philip in ''Don Carlo,'' and French ones like Mephistopheles in Gounod's ''Faust,'' the Met kept him to the German repertory, presenting him as Sachs, Wotan, King Marke and, of course, Baron Ochs. As Ochs, he also opened the rebuilt Festspielhaus in Salzburg in 1960.
        In December 1976 Mr. Edelmann sang his last performance, a final Waldner in Vienna, and turned to teaching at the Vienna Music Academy. Among his students were his two sons, Peter Edelmann and Paul Armin Edelmann, who have growing careers as lyric baritones, separately and together -- they will both appear in Johann Strauss's ''Fledermaus'' in San Francisco in 2005.
        Mr. Edelmann married Ilse-Marie Straub in 1960. He is also survived by a daughter.
      