
        Leonard Michaels, a novelist and short-story writer whose precise, highly literary style illuminated weirdly realistic human predicaments, died on Saturday in Berkeley, Calif. He was 70 and had homes in Italy and Berkeley.
        The cause was complications from bowel surgery, a friend, David Reid, said.
        Mr. Michaels, who taught English for 24 years at the University of California at Berkeley, was perhaps best known for his male-consciousness-raising novel, ''The Men's Club,'' which was made into a film in 1986. His short stories were also widely praised.
        ''I think Leonard Michaels is the most impressive new American writer to appear in years,'' Susan Sontag said after his first collection of short stories, ''Going Places'' (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 1969). She called the book heartbreaking, but added, ''Its energy is healing, even redemptive.''
        Mr. Michaels was particularly acclaimed for his attention to minute detail, particularly the nuances of language. ''He worked at the sentence level, like a poet,'' Wendy Lesser, editor of The Threepenny Review, a literary journal in Berkeley, said in an interview. ''He heard the rhythms of his own sentences and he knew how to use them.''
        His plots took ordinary people and placed them in extreme, even surrealistic situations. Among the bizarre incidents in his early stories were a naked boy denied entrance to the subway for lack of a token and a Talmudic scholar who slips on an icy street and is assumed to be a drunken derelict.
        ''The fiction of Leonard Michaels is not easily described -- it resist categories,'' the 2001 edition of ''Contemporary Novelists'' pronounced. ''It is realistic, but its dominant feature is irrationality of plot, sometimes comic, sometimes tragic, sometimes both at once.''
        Mr. Michaels was born in Manhattan on Jan. 2, 1933, and grew up on the Lower East Side. His parents were Jews who had immigrated from Poland, and Deborah Treisman, the fiction editor of The New Yorker, suggested in an interview that his evocation of this background added grit, vigor and humor to his work.
        He spoke only Yiddish until he was 6, when his mother bought a complete set of Charles Dickens to introduce her son to English prose. He studied painting in high school and entered New York University as a pre-med student. He made two failed attempts at graduate school in literature at the University of Michigan and at Berkeley, then came to New York, where he began to write stories. As summarized by Ms. Lesser, literary influences were wide: ''Kafka, Lord Byron with a big chunk of Wallace Stevens in between.''
        He was 29 when he sold a story to Playboy for $3,000. His stories were widely printed in literary journals like the Massachusetts Review, and he began to win prizes, including two Quill Awards, the O. Henry Prize and a National Foundation on the Arts and Humanities Prize. Several of the stories, all set in a phantasmagoric New York, appeared in ''Going Places,'' which was nominated for the National Book Award.
        Mr. Michael's second collection of stories, ''I Would Have Saved Them if I Could'' (Farrar, Straus) was listed among the top six works of fiction in 1975 by The New York Times Book Review. His work also included a fictionalized memoir of his marriage to his first wife, the former Sylvia Bloch, who committed suicide.
        Other works included his last collection of short stories, ''A Girl With a Monkey'' (Mercury Press, 2000), and ''To Feel These Things,'' a book of essays (Mercury, 1993).
        Mr. Michaels, who lived in Italy during his final years, is survived by his fourth wife, the former Katharine Ogden; his daughter, Louisa Michaels of Berkeley; his sons, Ethan of Alameda, Calif., and Jesse of Berkeley; his sister, Carol Foresta of the Bronx; and his brother, David, of Storrs, Conn.
        Mr. Michael's novel, ''The Men's Club'' (Farrar, Straus, 1981), portrays men who gather in what might be called a consciousness-raising group and end up spending much of their time fantasizing about women. When one character complains that he did not get the point of another's story, the narrator expresses a view that might apply to all of Mr. Michael's fiction:
        ''Doesn't matter . . . I don't get it either. I could tell other stories that have no point. This often happens to me. I start to talk, thinking there is a point, and then it never arrives. What is it, anyhow, this point? Things happen. You remember. That's all.''
        Correction:  May 15, 2003, Thursday  An obituary of the novelist and short-story writer Leonard Michaels on Tuesday misstated his graduate-school record and omitted a survivor. Mr. Michaels indeed received a doctorate in English, from the University of Michigan in 1967. He is survived by his mother, Anna Michaels of New York.
        Correction:  May 20, 2003, Tuesday  An obituary of the writer Leonard Michaels last Tuesday omitted attribution for a two-paragraph passage describing his male-consciousness-raising novel, ''The Men's Club'' (Farrar, Straus, 1981). The passage was from the reference work ''Contemporary Novelists.''
      