
        James Franklin Fulton, an industrial designer and former board chairman of the Pratt Institute, died on Tuesday at his home in Charlestown, R.I. He was 73 and had lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y., until four years ago.
        The cause was brain cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Fulton was the owner of Fulton & Partners Inc., a Manhattan planning and design consultancy firm, which he founded in 1966 and operated for 25 years. Among his corporate clients were Hess Oil and Owens-Corning Fiberglas, whose company logo he redesigned.
        He was a 1951 graduate of Pratt, where he studied industrial design under Alexander Kostellow, Rowena Reed and Eva Zeisel. He joined the Pratt board in 1969 and was chairman from 1992 until 2000.
        Mr. Fulton was long active in the Industrial Designers Society of America, serving as president and chairman in the late 1970's. In 1988 he joined some colleagues in rescuing their field's faltering journal, ID Magazine.
        He was a co-founder and former chairman of Design Publications. His most recent project was Places: The Journal of Environmental Design.
        James Fulton was born in Cincinnati. After his graduation from Pratt, he worked as a designer for the Towle Sterling Company in Newburyport, Mass., and for Owens-Corning in Toledo, Ohio.
        In the late 1950's he worked for Raymond Loewy's design studio in Paris, then joined the Loewy/Snaith design firm in New York in 1960 as director of product design. In 1987 he helped form the Design History Foundation to acquire materials of the Loewy estate for donation to the Library of Congress.
        Mr. Fulton is survived by his second wife, the former Priscilla Lambert, to whom he was married for 30 years; a son, James F. Jr. of Redway, Calif; five daughters, Martha Brozski of Bedford, N.Y., Laurel Fulton of Denver, Alexa Lambert of Manhattan and Lauren and Hilary Lambert of Santa Monica, Calif.; a brother, Robert, of Toledo; a sister, Marian Hatfield of Cincinnati; and seven grandchildren.
      