
        Dr. Richard A. Gardner, a psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who developed a theory about parental alienation syndrome, which he said could lead children in high-conflict custody cases to falsely accuse a parent of abuse, died on May 25 at his home in Tenafly, N.J. He was 72.
        The cause was suicide, said Dr. Gardner's son, Andrew, who said his father had been distraught over the advancing symptoms of reflex sympathetic dystrophy, a painful neurological syndrome.
        Dr. Gardner, who testified in more than 400 child custody cases, maintained that children who suffered from parental alienation syndrome had been indoctrinated by a vindictive parent and obsessively denigrated the other parent without cause.
        In severe cases, he recommended that courts remove children from the homes of the alienating parents and place them in the custody of the parents accused of abuse.
        His theory has provoked vehement opposition from some mental health professionals, child abuse experts and lawyers. Critics argue that it lacks a scientific basis, noting that the American Psychiatric Association and the American Medical Association have not recognized it as a syndrome.
        They also say that the theory is biased against women, as allegations of abuse are usually directed at fathers, and that it is used as a weapon by lawyers seeking to undermine a mother's credibility in court.
        Dr. Gardner, who was a professor of child psychiatry at the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University from 1963 until his death, wrote extensively about divorce.
        His ''Boys and Girls Book About Divorce,'' published in 1970 when divorce was becoming much more common in America, offers children advice on coping with its stresses and tips on handling their parents. The book is now in its 28th printing.
        In 1973, he created one of the first therapeutic board games, ''The Talking, Feeling and Doing Game,'' for use in child psychotherapy.
        In the 1980's, he became increasingly interested in cases of false accusation of sexual abuse, which he considered a product of a deepening national hysteria.
        He wrote ''The Parental Alienation Syndrome and the Differentiation Between Fabricated and Genuine Child Sex Abuse'' in 1987 and ''Sex-Abuse Hysteria: Salem Witch Trials Revisited'' in 1991, each self-published.
        He worked with the legal team that represented Kelly Michaels, a teacher at the Wee Care Day Nursery in Maplewood, N.J., who was convicted of child abuse in a highly publicized trial. Her conviction was overturned in 1993, after she had spent five years in prison.
        Reporters sought Mr. Gardner's views on accusations of child sexual abuse in a custody dispute between Mia Farrow and Woody Allen in 1992. Supporting Mr. Allen, he told Newsweek that ''screaming sex abuse is a very effective way to wreak vengeance on a hated spouse.''
        Richard Alan Gardner was born in the Bronx on April 28, 1931. A graduate of Columbia College and the Downstate Medical Center of the State University of New York, he served in the Army Medical Corps as the director of child psychiatry at an Army hospital in Germany.
        His marriage to Lee Gardner ended in divorce. In addition to his son, of Cherry Hill, N.J., he is survived by two daughters, Nancy Gardner Rubin of Potomac, Md., and Julie Gardner Mandelcorn, of Newton, Mass.; his mother, Amelia Gardner of Manhattan; eight grandchildren; and his partner, Natalie Weiss.
        Correction:  June 14, 2003, Saturday  An obituary on Monday about Dr. Richard A. Gardner, a psychiatrist and psychoanalyst, misstated his position at Columbia University. He was a clinical professor of psychiatry in the division of child and adolescent psychiatry -- an unpaid volunteer -- not a professor of child psychiatry.
      