
        Richard Wingard Wallach, a New York state appeals court justice for the last 17 years, died Sunday at Bellevue Hospital Center. He was 75 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
        He died after a weeklong coma following an aortic aneurysm, his law secretary, Peter A. Berkowsky, said.
        Justice Wallach was scheduled to retire at the end of this year as an associate justice in the Appellate Division's First Judicial Department, where he sat on cases originating in Manhattan and the Bronx. He was appointed to the appeals bench by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo in 1986 after seven years on New York City's Civil Court and nine years as a justice of State Supreme Court in Manhattan.
        One of Justice Wallach's most noted majority opinions, in 1997, ended the challenge of the Bronx district attorney, Robert T. Johnson, to Gov. George E. Pataki's defense of the death penalty laws. In a decision written last month and scheduled for publication in The New York Law Journal this morning, he sided with the Yankees against an employee who claimed he had been fired because he was gay rather than, as the team said, because of larcenous mischief around the clubhouse.
        While on the bench, Justice Wallach was an adjunct professor at Fordham University, Cornell, Emory, Harvard, Hofstra, the National College of the Judiciary in Reno, Nev., the University of Wyoming and Wadham College at Oxford.
        A student of Samuel Johnson, 18th-century English law and literature, his writings included essays like ''Johnson and Boswell: Treasure House of the Law.'' He was a frequent contributor of articles and book reviews to The New York Law Journal and other legal publications.
        A native New Yorker, Richard Wallach was the valedictorian of the class of 1945 at the Fieldston School in the Bronx.
        He graduated magna cum laude from Harvard in 1949, majoring in English literature. He received his law degree at Harvard in 1952 and went into private practice after a short period working as a reporter for The Boston Post.
        He joined the Civil Court bench in 1970 and was elected to State Supreme Court, New York County, in 1977. He was the first justice of the Appellate Division in Manhattan to die in office since Leonard H. Sandler died in 1988.
        Justice Wallach's survivors include his wife, Anne Tolstoi Wallach, also of Manhattan; two sons from an earlier marriage, Roger, of St. Louis, and Jon, of Forestburgh, N.Y.; and five grandchildren.
      