
        Leonard Koppett, a sportswriter and author known for an analytical approach that went beyond the frenzy of the sports moment, died Sunday at a concert in San Francisco. Mr. Koppett, who lived in Palo Alto, Calif., was 79.
        The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Suzanne, said.
        In a career of more than 50 years, Mr. Koppett specialized in baseball and basketball. He was a reporter for The New York Herald Tribune, The New York Post and The New York Times, covering the Yankees, Dodgers, Giants and Mets at varying times, as well as the Knicks. He later wrote for West Coast papers.
        Mr. Koppett might cite the fortunes of a long-defunct baseball league or draw upon an elusive statistic to explain the sports events of the day. He was a member of the writers wing of the Baseball Hall of Fame and a recipient of the Curt Gowdy Media Award from the Basketball Hall of Fame.
        At a time when many sports articles were confined to the events on the field, Mr. Koppett explored larger issues. As he told The Stanford Daily in a 1998 interview: ''It started in the 1950's with the Congressional hearings on baseball's antitrust laws. I would be the one who was sent because that was the side of the boat it fell on. Then the player unions are starting and so you've got to write about that because it's part of the beat. After a while, the courtroom becomes your beat, so I got good grounding in that.''
        After the fourth game of the 1969 World Series between the Mets and the Baltimore Orioles, Mr. Koppett reported that the Mets' winning run in a 2-1, 10th-inning victory had been scored on an illegal play not detected by the Orioles or the umpires. He wrote how the Mets' base runner, J. C. Martin, was not in the proper lane heading to first base when his left wrist deflected a thrown ball. Mr. Koppett reached that conclusion by finding an Associated Press photo showing that Martin was running inside of the assigned lane.
        Mr. Koppett carried a large black satchel crammed with books and other reference sources when he climbed to the baseball press boxes. He used statistics in a creative manner to buttress his points, but he took a wide-angle view as well.
        In a ''Views of Sport'' article he wrote for The New York Times in July 1987, he sought to determine whether baseballs were more lively that season. He supplied statistics from past seasons but wrote it was not easy to draw conclusions.
        As he put it: ''Home runs are affected by many interrelated factors -- changes in ball parks, in batting fashion, in the caliber and style of pitching, in the supply of exceptional sluggers, in strategic and tactical philosophy, in types of bats, and even (perhaps especially) in weather, wind and atmospheric conditions from year to year. Just saying that 'more and longer homers means the ball is livelier' is too simplistic.''
        Among the many books he wrote were ''24 Seconds to Shoot: An Informal History of the National Basketball Association'' (Macmillan, 1968), ''A Thinking Man's Guide to Baseball'' (Dutton, 1967) and ''Koppett's Concise History of Major League Baseball'' (Temple University Press, 1998).
        Mr. Koppett was born in Moscow and grew up in New York City, graduating from Columbia University in 1946 after serving in the Army.
        He worked for The New York Herald Tribune from 1948 to 1954, The New York Post from 1954 to 1963 and The New York Times from 1963 to 1978. He was later sports editor and editor in chief at The Peninsula Times Tribune of Palo Alto, wrote a column for The Sporting News and The Oakland Tribune and wrote a weekly column for The Seattle Post-Intelligencer at the time of his death.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Koppett is survived by a son, David, and a daughter, Katherine Richter, both of San Francisco, and one grandchild.
      