
        Yevgeny Kolobov, a conductor who was a founder of one of Moscow's most popular opera theaters, the Novaya Opera, died here on Sunday. He was 57.
        The cause was a heart attack, the Russian press reported.
        Mr. Kolobov, who was chief conductor and artistic director of the Novaya theater, was born in Leningrad (now St. Petersburg). He began his career in the city of Sverdlovsk (now called Yekaterinburg) in the Ural Mountains, where he graduated from the Ural State Conservatory.
        In 1981, he was invited to conduct at the Kirov Theater in Leningrad, now known by its original name, the Mariinsky Theater of St. Petersburg. He became musical director of Moscow's Stanislavsky and Nemirovich-Danchenko Musical Theater in 1987.
        He was known for an iconoclastic style that angered some and made him immensely popular with others. His independence even led him to turn down an offer to direct the Bolshoi Opera.
        Instead, Mr. Kolobov focused on building the Novaya Opera (or New Opera), which he founded with others in 1991. He liked to focus on operas previously unknown in Russia, like Donizetti's ''Maria Stuarda'' and to offer new interpretations of beloved classics, like Tchaikovsky's ''Eugene Onegin'' and Glinka's ''Ruslan and Lyudmila.'' Mr. Kolobov staged ''Eugene Onegin'' with the sparest of scenery and restored Tchaikovsky's original ending. He abridged ''Ruslan and Lyudmila,'' performing it at less than half its full length.
        When the Novaya Opera was started Mr. Kolobov immediately instituted a contract system, which had been impossible for theaters in Soviet times, and which helped allow experimentation in the repertory, since he could choose from a variety of performers, including the young performers he often encouraged.
        The Novaya Opera spent its first years in cramped, rundown quarters, but at the orders of Yuri Luzhkov, Moscow's powerful mayor, a graceful new theater in the Art Nouveau style was built for the opera in a picturesque park in the city center.
        Mr. Kolobov took his company on extensive tours through the Russian provinces. He also toured with them in Europe and the United States, and led them in performances of ''Eugene Onegin'' on Broadway, at the Martin Beck Theater in 1997.
      