
        Victor Perera, a memoirist, journalist and novelist fascinated by the enduring cultures of Sephardic Jews and the Maya Indians, died on June 14 at his home in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 69.
        The cause was a stroke, said Bernard Taper, a friend.
        Mr. Perera, who was born in Guatemala City in 1934 and moved to Brooklyn with his parents and sister when he was 12, told the story of his ancestors' global wanderings in his well-reviewed 1995 memoir, ''The Cross and the Pear Tree: A Sephardic Journey'' (Alfred A. Knopf). Tracing the Perera name back to the home of the Sephardim, medieval Spain, the book follows the family's migrations through Portugal, France, Italy and Greece to 19th-century Jerusalem.
        It was there that Mr. Perera's great-grandfather issued an edict prohibiting his descendants from leaving the Holy Land. Mr. Perera's grandfather, the Sephardic rabbi of Hebron, obeyed the injunction; his father did not, moving to Guatemala to start a family.
        Mr. Perera believed he suffered the consequences: his own marriage ended in divorce, and he had no children, thus terminating his branch of the family line.
        Mr. Perera is survived by a nephew, Daniel Perera of San Francisco.
        Victor Haim Perera continued the journeys of his family. After graduating from Brooklyn College, he received an M.A. in English literature from the University of Michigan. He was a fact checker at The New Yorker in the 1960's, then in 1972 moved to California, where he was a lecturer in literature, writing and journalism at the University of California at Santa Cruz. In 1993 he became a lecturer at the graduate school of journalism at the University of California at Berkeley.
        He remained closely connected to Guatemala, especially to the plight of the country's indigenous Mayas. In ''Unfinished Conquest: The Guatemalan Tragedy'' (University of California Press, 1993) he documented the campaign by that country's army that resulted in the deaths of close to one-third of the nation's 85,000 Mayas.
        He presented the killings as the latest in a long line that began with the Spanish conquistadors in 1524.
        ''Unfinished Conquest'' also portrays the lives of contemporary Mayas, who cling to their traditional gods and customs. In ''The Last Lords of Palenque: The Lacandon Mayas of the Mexican Rain Forest'' (Little, Brown, 1982), written with the anthropologist Robert D. Bruce, he documented the lives and culture of a small, remote tribe he believed to be directly linked to ancient Maya theocrats.
        He also wrote a novel, ''The Conversion'' (Little, Brown, 1970), about an American Jew's search for his roots in Spain, as well as ''Rites: A Guatemalan Boyhood'' (Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1986), a fictionalized account of his childhood.
      