
        Peanuts Hucko, a jazz clarinetist who worked with Glenn Miller and Louis Armstrong but was probably best known for his association with Lawrence Welk, died on Thursday in Fort Worth. He was 85 and lived in Denton, Tex.
        Jazz aficionados admired Mr. Hucko, whose style was modeled closely on that of Benny Goodman, another one of the well-known bandleaders with whom he worked in the course of a career that began in the 1930's and ended when he retired in 1999. (Mr. Hucko, who started out as a saxophonist, played tenor saxophone rather than clarinet in Goodman's band, which never had room for more than one clarinetist.)
        He also reached millions of non-aficionados as a regular on Lawrence Welk's popular television show from 1970 to 1972. Welk made his name as a purveyor of wholesome, bouncy, middle-of-the-road music, but traditional jazz was always part of his show's mix, and he gave Mr. Hucko a weekly opportunity to blow some uninhibited Dixieland.
        Michael Andrew Hucko was born on April 7, 1918, in Syracuse, and worked locally as a saxophonist while in his teens before moving to New York. His first high-profile job was with Glenn Miller's Army Air Forces band. He was originally in the infantry, but Miller was so eager to have him in his band that he arranged to have him transferred.
        Mr. Hucko continued to perform with the band after Miller's plane was lost over the English Channel in 1944. The Glenn Miller ensemble outlived its namesake, and Mr. Hucko returned briefly in the 70's to lead it.
        After the war, Mr. Hucko was active on the New York jazz scene for three decades. He worked occasionally as a leader but was primarily a sideman, most notably with Louis Armstrong's sextet from 1958 to 1960. He also worked as a studio musician for both ABC and CBS.
        In the 70's Mr. Hucko and his wife, Louise Tobin, a singer who frequently performed with him, moved to Denver. He owned and operated a nightclub there and became a fixture at the annual invitation-only Colorado Jazz Party.
        The couple later moved to Texas, where in 1998 Gov. George W. Bush dedicated the first annual Texas Big Band Jazz Festival to Mr. Hucko in honor of his 80th birthday.
        In addition to Ms. Tobin, Mr. Hucko is survived by two stepsons, Harry James of Dallas and Tim James of Nacogdoches, Tex.; a sister, Irene Martin of Syracuse; eight grandchildren; and eight great-grandchildren.
      