
        John Henry Redwood III, a playwright, actor, librettist and lyricist whose work reflected different racial and ethnic experiences in America, died on June 17 at his home in Philadelphia. He was 60.
        The cause was heart disease, said John Essay, his New York manager.
        Mr. Redwood gained national recognition with his bittersweet romantic comedy ''The Old Settler,'' which became a theater staple in the late 1990's. Another success was ''No Niggers, No Jews, No Dogs,'' which opened in 2000 in Philadelphia and was nominated for a Barrymore Award for best new play. It was presented Off Broadway in 2001.
        As an actor, Mr. Redwood toured the country in ''Looking Over the President's Shoulder,'' a one-man show written by James Still. In it, Mr. Redwood portrayed Alonzo Fields, a White House butler and observer of four presidents. He was scheduled to appear in it at a theater in Malvern, Pa., in July and at Ford's Theater in Washington in February, Mr. Essay said.
        After many appearances in films and in Broadway and Off Broadway plays, Mr. Redwood became a playwright fairly late in life because, he said, he could not find enough satisfying parts as a black actor.
        He was born in Brooklyn, and graduated from Thomas Jefferson High School there. He left the University of Kansas, served in the Marines and returned to New York, where he graduated from St. John's University and earned a master's degree at Fordham University.
        Tall and imposing, with a rich bass-baritone voice, he also took acting classes and soon found himself with a theatrical career. He appeared on Broadway in a ''Guys and Dolls'' revival, in ''The Piano Lesson'' and in many regional theater productions, including the one-man show ''Paul Robeson.'' He also provided Robeson's voice for the PBS special ''I'll Make Me a World.''
        His ''Old Settler,'' about a woman battling spinsterhood, opened in Manhattan in 1998 at Primary Stages. It received an American Theater Critics Association Award, among other honors, and was listed in American Theater magazine as one of the 10 most-produced plays in the United States for the subsequent two seasons.
        Mr. Redwood is survived by two sons, Kevin M. of Clifton, N.J., and Juma L., a sailor based at Rota Naval Base in Spain; two daughters, Rhonda Redwood-Ray of Mitchellville, Md., and Shashu A., of East Orange, N.J.; and two grandchildren.
        In an interview in The New York Times in 2000, while he was appearing in ''A Lesson Before Dying,'' Mr. Redwood recalled how he had shifted to the theater while working on his doctoral thesis at Fordham.
        ''I saw a book called 'How to Survive Your Ph.D. Dissertation' in the library,'' he said, ''and one of the things it suggested was playwriting.
        ''They shouldn't have books like that in the library.''
      