
        Dr. Robert Alan Good, a founder of modern immunology and a pioneer in bone marrow transplantation, died on Friday at his home in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 81.
        The cause was esophageal cancer, his family said.
        A pediatrician, microbiologist and pathologist, Dr. Good gained international recognition in nearly 30 years of research at the University of Minnesota Medical School. He documented the importance of the thymus gland, gave the misunderstood tonsil its due and, in 1968, performed the first successful human bone marrow transplant.
        He was a winner of the Albert Lasker Medical Research Award in 1970, recognizing his pioneering work in solving the mysteries of immunity and applying the findings to fatal diseases.
        In the 1970's, Dr. Good became the chief scientist, president and director of the Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research in New York, as well as a professor of medicine, pediatrics and pathology at Cornell University Medical College. At his death he was the physician in chief and director of research at All Children's Hospital in St. Petersburg, and a distinguished research professor at the University of South Florida.
        He was a founding member of the National Institutes of Medicine. He was author, co-author or editor of more than 2,000 papers and book chapters, received more than a dozen honorary degrees, and trained hundreds of students in immunology.
        Dr. Good began his work in immune research in the 1940's, and helped identify types of cells that work together to fight off infections.
        He first drew notice nationally when he reported his findings on the thymus gland to the annual meeting of the Federation of American Societies of Experimental Biology in 1962. He identified the gland, near the base of the throat, as a primary source for the body's defense mechanisms. (At that meeting he was cited for outstanding research by a scientist under 40.)
        Next, in 1965, he reported evidence that the tonsils, widely regarded as useless, actually performed important functions in the very young. They had a role, he found, in developing the immune defense systems of mammals, including humans, and he advised even then that they should be removed only if involved in some serious health problem.
        Dr. Good was one of a number of researchers whose work laid the foundations for transplanting healthy bone marrow, the part of the body in which many of the cells that make up the body's defenses are produced, into people with diseased or damaged immune systems. He referred to it as cellular engineering.
        The 1968 transplant involved a 5-month-old boy with a profound immunal deficiency that had killed 11 male members of his extended family. Dr. Good led a team that corrected his fatal condition with bone marrow transplanted -- that is, extracted and infused intravenously -- from his 8-year-old sister.
        Today, bone marrow transplants are commonly used for a wide variety of conditions. They now allow patients to recover from treatment with chemotherapy so strong that it wipes out the patient's immune system along with the malignancy.
        The infant who received the 1968 transplant grew up to healthy adulthood. He is reported to be alive and himself a father.
        Robert Good was born in Crosby, Minn. He graduated in 1944 from the University of Minnesota, where he received both a Ph.D. and an M.D. in 1947. He started teaching at Minnesota in 1944 and was made an instructor in pediatrics at its medical school in 1950 after a stint as an investigator at Rockefeller Institute in New York. His career advanced in Minneapolis at the university hospitals and medical school, where he was named a professor of microbiology in 1962 and regents' professor in pediatrics and microbiology in 1969.
        He was a member of President Richard M. Nixon's cancer panel in 1972 when he was recruited as president of the Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research. The position allowed him, aided by his trainees from Minnesota, to continue his research into the body's defenses against the invasion of foreign organisms, particularly cancer.
        His tenure at Sloan-Kettering was marred by the discovery in 1974 of an academic fraud perpetrated by a former associate at his Minnesota laboratory, Dr. William T. Summerlin. Dr. Summerlin drew wide attention when he announced a breakthrough in skin transplantation. Actually, Dr. Summerlin's efforts to graft skin from a black mouse onto a white mouse had failed, but he used a dark pen to make the experiment appear to be a success.
        Dr. Good ordered an immediate investigation of the matter, which gained notoriety as the case of the painted mice. But he was criticized as having failed to supervise Dr. Summerlin closely and, thus, having lent credence to his claims.
        At Children's Hospital in Florida, Dr. Good developed a bone transplantation program for treating ailments including leukemia, aplastic anemias, and inborn errors of the metabolism. His recent research involved the influence of nutrition on longevity and diseases of old age, as well as the practical aspects of bone-marrow and stem-cell transplantation and related forms of cellular engineering.
        Dr. Good is survived by his wife of 17 years, Dr. Noorbibi K. Day-Good; 3 sons, Robert, of Minneapolis, Mark, of Grand Marais, Minn., and Alan, of Ossining, N.Y.; 2 daughters, Margaret E. Baird of Minnetonka, Minn., and Mary E. Good of Smithville, Me.; 2 stepchildren; and 17 grandchildren.
        Correction:  July 16, 2003, Wednesday  An obituary on June 18 about Dr. Robert Alan Good, a founder of modern immunology, misstated the hometown of a surviving daughter, Mary E. Good. It is Smithfield, Me., not Smithville.
      