
        Leighton Rees, an imposing Welshman who became the world's first professional dart-throwing champion, died on June 8 in Pontypridd, South Wales. He was 63.
        The cause of death was cardiac arrest, said his wife, Debbie.
        In 1978, before the finals of the first Embassy World Professional Darts Championship in Nottingham, a tournament named after the cigarette brand sponsoring it, Mr. Rees went through his usual warming-up routine, downing two pints of lager and a brandy. He then announced that he was ready ''to give John Lowe'' -- his opponent -- ''a headache,'' according to The Daily Telegraph, and proceeded to do so with a stream of well-aimed darts, winning the championship and £3,000 in prize money.
        As always, he relied on his celebrated ''cobra'' throw, a seemingly effortless gesture in which he let his arm flop limply to his side, like a snake's head, after launching each dart.
        The 1978 triumph was never to be repeated, however.
        The previous year Mr. Rees was a member of the Welsh team that won the first World Darts Federation World Cup. In 1970, 1974 and 1976, he won the Welsh individual championship.
        Although he reached the finals of the second Embassy world championship in 1979, once again facing Mr. Lowe, he lost. He never again reached the final, though he took part in these championships until 1990.
        Leighton Rees was born on Jan. 17, 1940, at Mountain Ash in South Wales. He left school in nearby Pontypridd at 15, with one of his teachers saying he was good ''only for reading the sports pages of The South Wales Echo,'' and took a job at a motor vehicle parts company, where he worked for the next 21 years.
        His skill at throwing darts soon became evident in the local pubs and workingmens' clubs, however. After teaming up with another talented player, Alan Evans from nearby Rhondda, he started entering darts competitions and playing exhibition matches in pubs all over Wales. By 1976, he was making enough money at darts to give up his job and turn professional.
        Mr. Rees was helped as the sport grew in popularity in the 1970's and 80's on British television and in the United States. It was casting off its proletarian booze-and-cigarettes image and briefly became a spectator sport, dominated by high-earning professionals with loyal fans. More recently, it has lost its popular appeal in Britain.
        Beginning in the late 1970's, Mr. Rees was a regular visitor to the United States and its darts competitions, his wife said. He spent up to three months a year in the country, playing regularly in the North American Open at Las Vegas and entering competitions in California, Arizona, Florida, New York and elsewhere.
        In 1980 he met Debbie Ryle while visiting the former ocean liner Queen Mary, by then berthed at Long Beach and converted into a tourist attraction. She herself was a talented dart thrower from Anaheim, Calif., who played for her hometown.
        His courtship was hindered, however, by a strong Welsh accent, which Ms. Ryle said she had difficulty understanding at first. With this obstacle overcome, they married in 1980 in Las Vegas while Mr. Rees was playing in a competition there. He is survived by his wife and a stepson, Ryan.
      