
        Johnny Miles, a grocery deliveryman from Nova Scotia who came out of obscurity to win the 1926 Boston Marathon in one of distance running's greatest upsets, died last Sunday in Hamilton, Ontario. He was 97 and the marathon's oldest surviving winner.
        When he arrived in Boston in April 1926, accompanied by his mother and father, Miles had never competed in a marathon. He had run through often-snowy hills along a streetcar line near his home for his distance training.
        But Miles became a two-time winner of the Boston Marathon and a memorable figure in the history of the race, alongside Clarence DeMar, Bill Rodgers and the two John Kelleys. In 1983, he received the Order of Canada, its highest civilian award.
        ''Everybody told me I was crazy to enter the Boston,'' Miles told The Globe and Mail of Toronto in 2001. ''But I knew I could do it.''
        Miles grew up in the town of Sydney Mines on Cape Breton Island, Nova Scotia. When he was 11 years old, he worked in coal mines to help support his mother and three other children while his father served in World War I.
        He won local races as a teenager, captured a national five-mile race in Halifax, Nova Scotia, in 1925, and then began a job delivering groceries in the countryside by horse and wagon. Determined to stay in race shape, he devised overlength reins and made his rounds by running behind his wagon in heavy boots.
        Miles's neighbors raised a few hundred dollars to send him by train to Boston for the 1926 marathon. Wearing a red maple leaf with the letters ''NS'' for Nova Scotia on his homemade jersey and a pair of 98-cent sneakers, and fortified by a sandwich of cold steak prepared by his mother, he arrived for the start in Hopkinton so awed by the huge crowd that his knees were knocking.
        The field of 112 included the two most accomplished distance runners of the time, Albin Stenroos of Finland, who had won the Olympic marathon at Paris in 1924, and DeMar, who had won the Boston Marathon four times. Miles idolized Stenroos and had carried a newspaper photo of him in his wallet since the 1924 Games.
        When Stenroos broke into a clear lead after the first few miles and DeMar drifted back, Miles stayed with the Finn and intended to remain close behind for much of the race.
        But his plans changed on the last of the Newton hills.
        ''When we came to Heartbreak Hill, I looked at Stenroos and his eyes were sunken, his face was kind of pulled in, and I figured this was the time to pass him,'' Miles told The Boston Globe in 1996.
        ''I was afraid to look behind me again for fear he was coming,'' Miles recalled of the moments when he gained the lead.
        Miles crossed the finish line in 2 hours 25 minutes 40 seconds, winning over Stenroos by a full four minutes. Miles's time was so fast that the course was remeasured and turned out to be 176 yards short of the standard 26 miles 385 yards.
        Miles became an instant celebrity in Boston, making many appearances over the next two days, and rode aboard a fire engine in a victory parade when he arrived home.
        He returned for the 1927 Boston Marathon, but dropped out in the early going. His father had shaved down the soles of his running shoes to make them lighter, hoping to give him an edge, but it was a hot day and the new tar surface bloodied Miles's feet.
        Miles competed in the marathon in the 1928 Amsterdam Olympics, finishing well back, then returned to Boston for the 1929 marathon, which he won in 2:33:08. DeMar, who had won the two previous marathons, making him a six-time winner, finished ninth.
        Miles competed in the 1932 Olympic marathon in Los Angeles, again failing to win a medal, and then left competitive running and became an executive for International Harvester while making his home in Hamilton.
        His wife, Bess, died in 1997. They had no children.
        Miles had not been forgotten by his fellow Canadians almost eight decades after his stunning victory in Boston. The Nova Scotia premier, John Hamm, paid tribute to him upon his death. And on the day he died, a premier race in Atlantic Canada was held in New Glasgow, Nova Scotia: the Johnny Miles Marathon.
      