
        Gregory Peck, whose chiseled, slightly melancholy good looks, resonant baritone and quiet strength made him an unforgettable presence in films like ''To Kill a Mockingbird,'' ''Gentleman's Agreement'' and ''Twelve O'Clock High,'' died early yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 87.
        In a career that spanned half a century, Mr. Peck often played morally anguished heroes who displayed grace under fire. In his most memorable role, as Atticus Finch in the 1962 film ''To Kill a Mockingbird,'' he won the Academy Award as best actor for his performance as a gentle Southern lawyer who incurs the wrath of his fellow townsfolk when he defends a black man accused of raping a white woman.
        In this and other movies his persona as the embodiment of American decency made him a persuasive advocate for the liberal candidates and causes he supported.
        Over the decades Mr. Peck remained a popular movie hero who skillfully projected courage, wholesomeness and vulnerability in a wide range of films. His 46th performance, in the 1977 film ''MacArthur,'' about Gen. Douglas MacArthur, was praised by Vincent Canby of The New York Times, who wrote that Mr. Peck ''not only looks and sounds like the general, he also makes the character disgracefully appealing, even when he is being his most outrageous.''
        Mr. Peck turned in some of his finest performances in the late 1940's. In Alfred Hitchcock's thriller ''Spellbound'' (1945), he played an amnesiac with whom his psychiatrist (Ingrid Bergman) falls in love. As the father in ''The Yearling'' (1947), Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings's tale of a young boy and his love for a deer, he displayed the warmth and parental understanding that would endear him to audiences in ''To Kill a Mockingbird.''
        In ''Duel in the Sun'' (1946) Mr. Peck took a holiday from decency, playing the murderous son of a cattle baron. Although Mr. Peck and his co-star, Jennifer Jones, provided sizzling scenes that had to be cut when moral watchdog groups objected, the film, a lavish Technicolor western produced by David O. Selznick, failed at the box office. Mr. Peck returned to form as a journalist battling anti-Semitism in ''Gentleman's Agreement'' (1947) and as a commanding officer of a bomber unit in ''Twelve O'Clock High'' (1949).
        During the 1950's and 60's Mr. Peck appeared in roles as various as the burned-out gunslinger in ''The Gunfighter'' (1950) and the amiable journalist who courts Audrey Hepburn in the romantic comedy ''Roman Holiday'' (1953), a step into Cary Grant territory that caught many critics by surprise. Other roles included the button-down, harried advertising executive in ''The Man in the Gray Flannel Suit'' (1956), the obsessed Captain Ahab in ''Moby Dick'' (1956), the conscience-stricken military officer in the Korean War film ''Pork Chop Hill'' (1959) and the idealistic officer in ''The Guns of Navarone'' (1961).
        Of Ahab, he said in a 1998 New York Times interview, ''I think I should have been more ferocious in pursuit of the whale, more cruel to the crew, and I think I'd have a better grasp now of what Melville was talking about. Ahab focused all his energies on avenging himself against the whale, but he was trying to penetrate the mystery of why we are here at all, why there is anything. I wasn't mad enough, not crazy enough, not obsessive enough. I should have done more.'' He paused, took a long breath, and added: ''At the time, I didn't have more in me.''
        From time to time, in interviews, he acknowledged being a ladies' man on and off screen. He remembered Ava Gardner as ''a woman so beautiful'' that when the two of them would leave the MGM sound stage for lunch, crew members would stop ''dead in their tracks to stare as she walked by.'' In various interviews over the years, he discreetly dropped other names, including Sophia Loren, Greer Garson, Ingrid Bergman and Audrey Hepburn.
        Although Mr. Peck was nominated as best actor for ''The Keys of the Kingdom,'' ''The Yearling,'' ''Gentleman's Agreement'' and ''Twelve O'Clock High,'' he did not win an Oscar until ''To Kill a Mockingbird,'' which dealt seriously with racism and social injustice at a time when the civil rights movement was gaining national attention.
        ''For Peck, it is an especially challenging role,'' a critic wrote in Variety, adding, ''He not only succeeds, but makes it appear effortless, etching a portrayal of strength, dignity and intelligence.''
        Mr. Peck called ''To Kill a Mockingbird'' the picture ''closest to my heart and the high point of my career.''
        Reflecting on Atticus Finch in a Saturday Evening Post interview nearly 30 years later, Mr. Peck said, ''It was easy for me to do. It was just like putting on a comfortable, well-worn suit of clothes.
        ''I identified with everything that happened in that story, with the small-town life which reminded me of the California town where I grew up,'' he said in the interview. ''And I think that Atticus Finch was a popular man. For a long time I was a very busy fellow on the freeways, waving back to well-wishers at red lights, who would grin and yell, 'Hi, Atticus,'' and I would grin right back.''
        By all accounts, Mr. Peck and Mr. Finch were a perfect blend. Publicly and privately, throughout his adult life, he had maintained outspoken, liberal positions on public affairs.
        A staunch advocate of nuclear disarmament, he said in an interview on the ''Today'' program: ''I would give up everything I do and everything I have if I could make a significant difference in getting the nuclear arms race reversed. It is the No. 1 priority in my life.''
        When he received the American Film Institute's Life Achievement Award in 1989, he warned of the dangers in having ''all pictures and television'' made by ''two or three of these behemoths who happen also to own magazines, newspapers and cable stations.''
        He continued: ''If these Mount Everests of the financial world are going to labor and bring forth still more pictures with people being blown to bits with bazookas and automatic assault rifles with no gory detail left unexploited, if they are going to encourage anxious, ambitious actors, directors, writers and producers to continue their assault on the English language by reducing the vocabularies of their characters to half a dozen words, with one colorful but overused Anglo-Saxon verb and one unbeautiful Anglo-Saxon noun covering just about every situation, then I would like to suggest that they stop and think about this: making millions is not the whole ball game, fellows. Pride of workmanship is worth more. Artistry is worth more.''
        His stature in the film community gave his words the intended weight.
        ''When there are a hundred people in a room or in a scene,'' Angie Dickinson told People Magazine in 1987, ''you look at him. But it's more than so-called star quality. There's a quiet power in his being that is almost awesome.''
        One of Mr. Peck's heroes was Abraham Lincoln, whom he portrayed in a 1982 CBS miniseries, ''The Blue and The Gray.''
        ''He has what Lincoln had,'' Anthony Quinn told People Magazine. ''Reticent majesty.''
        Gregory Peck was born on April 5, 1916, in La Jolla, Calif. Gregory was his middle name. He would say later that his mother, Bernice, picked his first name, Eldred, out of a phone book. His father, Gregory, a pharmacist, and his mother separated when he was 3 and divorced soon after. He was brought up primarily by his maternal grandmother, Kate Ayres. He attended St. John's Military Academy in Los Angeles and the University of California at Berkeley, where he majored in English and drama and paid his way as a janitor, waiter and dishwasher. While performing in ''Anna Christie'' and other productions at the university's Little Theater, he resolved to become an actor.
        After earning a bachelor's degree in 1939, he moved to New York. While struggling to gain a foothold on Broadway, he worked as a barker at the 1939 World's Fair, an usher at Radio City Music Hall, a tour guide at the NBC studios and a model. He won a scholarship to the Neighborhood Playhouse, where he studied Method acting with Sanford Meisner. An injury exempted him from military service during World War II.
        Mr. Peck played two seasons of summer stock and won a best actor award from the Barter Theater in Abingdon, Va., in 1940. His Broadway debut was in Emlyn Williams's ''Morning Glory,'' in 1949.
        ''I was scared to death the first time I went out there,'' Mr. Peck told Charles Champlin in The Los Angeles Times in 1991. ''The critics then -- Wolcott Gibbs of The New Yorker, George Jean Nathan, Brooks Atkinson, Richard Watts Jr. -- were called Murderers' Row. There were seven daily papers in New York then. Boy did I ever want to burrow through the cement in my dressing room and head for Mexico.''
        He appeared in only three Broadway shows, none of which did well. But his notices were favorable, and he was offered a lead in the 1944 film ''Days of Glory,'' in which he played a Russian partisan in World War II. It was criticized by some after the war as Soviet propaganda.
        His second picture, ''The Keys of the Kingdom'' (1944), won him stardom and his first Academy Award nomination, for his portrayal of a noble maverick priest.
        Eligible leading men were in short supply during World War II, so Mr. Peck's stock soared. From the start he chose roles carefully, resisted typecasting and stayed independent by refusing to sign long-term contracts. On one celebrated occasion, he reduced Louis B. Mayer to tears by turning down a contract at MGM. Mr. Peck was one of Hollywood's Top 10 box-office stars for several years, and by 1962 he usually earned at least $1 million a movie.
        Among his other films were ''David and Bathsheba'' (1951), ''The Snows of Kilimanjaro'' (1952), ''On the Beach'' (1959), ''The Omen'' (1976), ''The Boys From Brazil'' (1978), ''Old Gringo'' (1989) and ''Other People's Money'' (1991). In 1991 Mr. Peck made a cameo appearance as a devious lawyer in Martin Scorsese's remake of ''Cape Fear'' (1962). In the original version he plays an upright lawyer whose family is threatened by a sadistic criminal bent on revenge.
        Mr. Peck was active in charitable and film industry causes. He was a longtime member of the National Council on the Arts. He was governor of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences for 15 years, and the academy's president from 1967 to 1970. He also served on the board of the American Film Institute, and was its founding chairman from 1967 to 1969.
        His name was perennially prominent on lists of Hollywood figures who backed liberal political causes. Most famous, perhaps, was his opposition, in 1987, to President Reagan's nomination of Judge Robert H. Bork, a judicial conservative, to the Supreme Court.
        Mr. Bork's supporters were incensed by the campaign against their candidate, reserving much of their criticism for a 60-second television spot, paid for by People for the American Way, in which Mr. Peck said of Judge Bork, among other things: ''He defended poll taxes and literacy tests which kept many Americans from voting. He opposed the civil rights law that ended 'whites only' signs at lunch counters. He doesn't believe the Constitution protects your right to privacy.''
        Although the validity of the assertions was hotly debated, Mr. Bork's nomination failed.
        His honors included the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian award in the United States, and the movie academy's Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award. In his leisure time he supervised the training of his thoroughbred racehorses.
        Even after he became a movie star, he occasionally appeared at the La Jolla Playhouse, which he founded with Dorothy McGuire and Mel Ferrer in 1947. Late in his life, he toured in a one-man show, ''A Conversation With Gregory Peck,'' reminiscing about his movie career and his private life and answering questions from the audience.
        His first marriage, to Greta Rice, ended in divorce in 1955. He is survived by his second wife, the former Véronique Passani; his sons Stephen and Carey from his first marriage; a son, Anthony, and daughter, Cecilia, from his second marriage; and six grandchildren. Another son, Jonathan, a television reporter, committed suicide at 30.
        Mr. Peck said he thought that an actor's main obligation was to entertain, never to bore, and to perform with precision, professionalism and charm. ''Overacting,'' he once said, ''is a self-indulgence, while underacting comes either through a lack of talent or a lack of courage.'' Asked why he usually played sympathetic characters, he replied, ''I don't think I could stay interested for a couple of months in a character of mean motivation.''
        Correction:  June 16, 2003, Monday  An obituary of Gregory Peck on Friday misidentified the business of the character he portrayed in ''The Man in the Gray Flannel Suit.'' It was public relations, not advertising.
        Correction:  June 20, 2003, Friday  The obituary of Gregory Peck last Friday characterized the response to one of his movies, ''Duel in the Sun'' (1946), incompletely. While widely disparaged by critics, it was a box-office success, not a flop.
        Because of an editing error, the article also misstated the name and year of Peck's first Broadway show. It was ''The Morning Star'' in 1942. (''Morning Glory'' was a 1933 film starring Katharine Hepburn, not a 1949 play.)
      