
        Natalya Reshetovskaya, a Russian chemist who twice married the dissident writer Aleksandr I. Solzhenitsyn, and questioned the famous account he gave of Stalin's prison camps in ''The Gulag Archipelago,'' died in Moscow on May 28. She was 84.
        In her 1974 memoir, ''Sanya: My Life with Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn'' (Bobbs-Merrill), she wrote that she was ''perplexed'' that the West had accepted ''The Gulag Archipelago'' as ''the solemn, ultimate truth,'' saying its significance had been ''overestimated and wrongly appraised.''
        Pointing out that the book's subtitle is ''An Experiment in Literary Investigation,'' she said that her husband did not regard the work as ''historical research, or scientific research.'' She contended that it was, rather, a collection of ''camp folklore,'' containing ''raw material'' which her husband was planning to use in his future productions.
        Natalya Alekseyevna Reshetovskaya was born at Novocherkassk in 1919 and studied at the universities of Rostov and Moscow. She first married Mr. Solzhenitsyn in 1940, four years after they had met as students.
        From the start, she wrote, there was tension between them over Mr. Solzhenitsyn's refusal to have children out of fear that they would interfere with his work.
        In 1941, he was sent to fight the Germans as an artillery officer, after the only year they spent together in their first 16 years of marriage.
        That same year he was arrested for criticizing Stalin's war strategy and sentenced to eight years' imprisonment, first in Lubyanka Prison in Moscow and then in the labor camps of Kazakhstan.
        At first Miss Reshetovskaya visited the Neskuchny Gardens, near Lubyanka, every day, hoping to catch a glimpse of him, The Independent said in its obituary; she was allowed to write every month but could receive only two letters from him a year.
        In 1952, she was sent to Ryazan, south of Moscow, where she worked at the city's agricultural institute for the next 30 years. There she met Vsevolod Somov. Eventually she and Mr. Solzhenitsyn divorced, so she could marry Mr. Somov.
        In 1956, just as she and Mr. Somov were about to marry, Mr. Solzhenitsyn was released from the gulag and returned home to woo her with poetry, The Telegraph said in its obituary.
        She went ahead with her second marriage to Mr. Somov, but soon left him and returned to Mr. Solzhenitsyn, whom she remarried in 1957.
        For a while they lived quietly together, with her typing his secret manuscripts. But she wrote that the marriage started to go wrong in 1962 after the publication of his highly successful story ''One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich,'' which brought him a flood of new admirers.
        He began a series of love affairs with younger women and when Miss Reshetovskaya protested, she wrote that he replied: ''I have to describe lots of women in my novels. You don't expect me to find my heroines at the dinner table, do you ?''
        He eventually left her for Natalya Svetlova, a young mathematician.
        Miss Reshetovskaya went to a railway station intending to throw herself under a train. But she drew back at the last moment.
        The two were divorced in 1970. She later married Konstantin Semyonov, who edited the last volume of her memoirs, The Independent reported.
        In 1974, when Mr. Solzhenitsyn was living in exile in the United States and preparing to publish ''The Gulag Archipelago,'' the Soviet authorities persuaded Miss Reshetovskaya to intervene with her former husband to try to get him to stop publication.
        In an interview several years ago, recounted in The Telegraph, Miss Reshetovsakya said she had never stopped loving Mr. Solzhenitsyn. She spent her last years in a small Moscow apartment crammed with his photos and mementos.
        After his return to Moscow, he lived only a short distance away, but they never communicated directly, though he helped her financially.
        The Associated Press cited a 2002 interview with the newspaper Argumenti i Fakti in which she said: ''It's possible that it may seem strange and even improper to someone, but, alas, I love him right up to this moment. And the thought never leaves me -- will I really never see him again?''
        Correction:  June 28, 2003, Saturday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on June 6 about Natalya Reshetovskaya, the first wife of the author Aleksandr I. Solzhenitsyn, misstated the year of his arrest for criticism of Stalin's war strategy. It was 1945, not 1941.
      