
        Leon Uris, the high school dropout who became a brand-name novelist with his best-selling ''Exodus,'' the 1958 historical pageant about the founding of modern Israel, died on Saturday at his home on Shelter Island, N.Y. He was 78.
        The cause was renal failure, his former wife, the photographer Jill Uris, said yesterday.
        Mr. Uris's fiction, about a dozen novels, was painstakingly researched and compulsively readable, and it mattered little to millions of fans that some critics found it wanting in characterization or literary grace. Preparing to write ''Exodus,'' for example, he read nearly 300 books, underwent a physical-training program in preparation for about 12,000 miles of travel within Israel and interviewed more than 1,200 people.
        ''I was tough,'' he told The Associated Press in a 1988 interview looking back on his life. ''I used everything to my advantage. I could be very ruthless.''
        The resulting work became an extraordinary best seller. By 1965 its American paperback version had already placed among the top 10 New York Times best sellers , with more than five million copies sold by then. The hardcover version was on the best-seller list for more than a year, with 19 weeks at No. 1.
        Reviewing a later novel by Mr. Uris in The New York Times Book Review, Pete Hamill wrote in 1976: ''Leon Uris is a storyteller, in a direct line from those men who sat around fires in the days before history and made the tribe more human. The subject is man, not words; story is all, the form it takes is secondary.'' He continued: ''So it is a simple thing to point out that Uris often writes crudely, that his dialogue can be wooden, that his structure occasionally groans under the excess baggage of exposition and information. Simple, but irrelevant. None of that matters as you are swept along in the narrative.''
        What swept Mr. Uris along in his narratives was a passionate determination to work his own experience and that of his European forebears into the historical fabric of his fiction.
        Leon Marcus Uris was born on Aug. 3, 1924, in Baltimore, the second child and only son of Wolf William Uris, a shopkeeper, and Anna Blumberg Uris. Both his parents were Jews of Russian-Polish origin; his mother was a first-generation American, and his father was an immigrant from Poland who on his way to America had spent a year in Palestine after World War I and had derived his surname from Yerushalmi, meaning man of Jerusalem.
        After attending public schools in Norfolk, Va., Baltimore and Philadelphia and making up his mind to become a writer despite being failed three times by one of his English teachers, Mr. Uris quit high school shortly after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor (he was halfway through his senior year) and joined the Marine Corps. He served as a radio operator in the campaigns on Guadalcanal and Tarawa.
        While recuperating from malaria in San Francisco he met Betty Katherine Beck, a Marine sergeant, and married her in January 1945. They had three children, Karen Lynn, Mark Jay and Michael Cady, all of whom survive him. They were divorced in 1968, and he then married Margery Edwards, who died in 1969, an apparent suicide. In 1970 he married Jill Peabody, a photographer, with whom he had two children, Rachael Jackson and Conor Uris. They were divorced in 1989. Mr. Uris's sister, Esther Kofski, who lives in Baltimore, also survives him.
        After World War II, Mr. Uris stayed in San Francisco and took a job managing a home-delivery district with The San Francisco Call-Bulletin. Writing magazine articles in his spare time, he found his work rejected until 1950, when Esquire bought an article on the selection of the All-American football team. Rejuvenated by the $300 check, he set to work on ''Battle Cry,'' a novel based on his Marine experiences, which was published in 1953 by G. P. Putnam's Sons, after being rejected by a dozen other publishers. The book's patriotic spirit, in contrast to war novels by Norman Mailer, James Jones and Irwin Shaw, made ''Battle Cry'' a commercial success. Warner Brothers bought the film rights, and Mr. Uris moved to Hollywood to write the screenplay for the movie, which was released in 1955.
        Settling in Hollywood, he wrote more screenplays but was unsuccessful until the producer Hal Wallis hired him to write a western about Wyatt Earp to be directed by John Sturges for Paramount. The result, ''Gunfight at the O.K. Corral'' (1957), was praised by critics and film historians as an archetypal film.
        Mr. Uris published a second novel, ''The Angry Hills'' (1955), based loosely on the diary of an uncle who had fought in World War II in Greece as a member of the British Army's Palestine Brigade. This focused Mr. Uris's attention on Israel and eventually led to ''Exodus.'' To finance his research he sold the film rights in advance. While researching the book he wrote articles about the Sinai campaign in the fall of 1956. The novel, published by Doubleday & Company two years later, was translated into several dozen languages and was secretly distributed in Communist countries.
        Continuing to mine this mother lode, Mr. Uris worked on the screenplay of the movie (released in 1960) until he clashed with the producer Otto Preminger; he collaborated with the Greek photographer Dimitrios Harissiadis on a nonfiction book, ''Exodus Revisited'' (1960), about places mentioned in ''Exodus''; from the novel's account of the Warsaw Ghetto uprising he produced his third novel, ''Mila 18'' (1961), which forced the novelist Joseph Heller to change the title of his World War II novel from ''Catch-18'' to ''Catch-22.'' He described ''Mila 18'' as his favorite among his books; its title came from the address of the command post for the Jewish resistance in Warsaw. In 1971 a musical version of ''Exodus,'' variously known as ''Ari'' and ''Exodus: the Musical,'' with music by Walt Smith and William Fisher, was produced on Broadway; it ran for two weeks.
        In his later work Mr. Uris continued to turn out what reviewers liked to call variously ''nonfiction novels,'' ''propaganda novels'' and outright ''journalism'': ''Armageddon: A Novel of Berlin'' (1964), about the city's various crises from the end of the war until the airlift; ''Topaz'' (1967), about Russian espionage during the Cuban missile crisis; ''Trinity'' (1976), about Ireland's 19th-century struggle for independence''; ''The Haj'' (1984), about the birth of Israel as viewed by a Palestinian Arab; ''Mitla Pass'' (1988), about his own experiences in the 1956 Sinai campaign; ''Redemption'' (1995), a sequel to ''Trinity,'' and ''A God in Ruins'' (1999), about an Irish Catholic presidential candidate opposed to guns who turns out to be Jewish.
        Almost all of these books became best sellers, several were made into films, a few led to lawsuits, one of which, Mr. Uris told an interviewer for a publicity folder when ''Topaz'' was published by Bantam, gave him the most satisfaction of his career. This suit, which became the longest libel proceeding in British history, was brought by a Polish doctor, Wladislaw Dering, for having been named in ''Exodus'' as someone who committed atrocities against the inmates of Auschwitz.
        Advised to settle, Mr. Uris chose to fight the suit. His solicitor took two years to collect evidence and witnesses. The trial itself lasted a month in 1968. Although the court ruled in favor of Dr. Dering, he was awarded only a halfpenny for damage and ordered to pay the legal costs of both sides, amounting to about $88,000.
        Mr. Uris told the story in his seventh novel, ''QB VII'' (1970), the name taken from Queen's Bench, Courtroom No. 7, where the fictional trial takes place; it became a best seller and was adapted in 1974 as a television movie.
        His latest novel, ''O'Hara's Choice,'' a love story involving the history of the Marines, is scheduled for publication in October by HarperCollins.
      