
        William Marshall, a character actor who performed for more than 40 years on Broadway, on television and in movies, died on June 11 in Los Angeles. He was 78.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Sylvia Jarrico, his partner of 42 years.
        Mr. Marshall, a serious actor who also played Shakespearean roles including Othello, was best known as Blacula, an African prince bitten by Dracula. Blacula turns into a vampire and centuries later is released in Los Angeles in the cult film ''Blacula'' (1972) and its sequel, ''Scream, Blacula, Scream!'' (1973).
        His last role was as a riverboat poker player in the 1994 film ''Maverick,'' starring Mel Gibson.
        Mr. Marshall was born in 1924 in Gary, Ind. He studied at the Actors Studio in New York and had operatic training. When he was 8, a backstage visit to the original production of ''The Green Pastures'' helped inspire him to become an actor, and in 1951 he played the lead part of De Lawd in a Broadway revival.
        He went on to play Othello in Europe and the United States, the title role in Oedipus Rex and Paul Robeson. He also taught acting at California State University at Northridge.
        He made notable television appearances in the original ''Star Trek'' series in 1968 and in ''The Jeffersons'' and ''Pee-Wee's Playhouse.'' In 1983 he appeared in a one-hour, one-man show for PBS called ''Frederick Douglass, Slave and Statesman,'' which he adapted for the theater as ''Enter Frederick Douglass.'' He performed the piece at schools and colleges in Los Angeles and other cities for more than a decade until falling ill with Alzheimer's disease in 1994.
        He was featured in 10 movies in the last half-century, including ''Lydia Bailey'' (1952), ''Demetrius and the Gladiators'' (1954) and ''Something of Value'' (1957).
        He is survived by Ms. Jarrico of Los Angeles; a daughter, Gina Loring of Los Angeles; and his sons Claude, of San Francisco, and Malcolm and Tariq, both of Los Angeles.
      