
        Sir Bernard Williams, the lightning-witted Oxford professor who is credited with reviving the field of moral philosophy and was considered by some to be the greatest British philosopher of his era, died on Tuesday in Oxford. He was 73 and lived at All Souls College, Oxford.
        No cause of death was announced but he said in 1999 that he had cancer.
        Steering clear of monolithic system building, Sir Bernard viewed moral codes and writings as inseparable from history and culture, and questioned what he called the ''peculiar institution'' of morality, pronouncing it a particular development of the ethical system worked out by modern Western philosophers. Indeed, in ''Ethics and the Limits of Philosophy'' (1985), considered his best book, he argued that ethical concepts are so embedded in history that they are often incapable of being shared by subsequent cultures, although they can be understood to some extent through study, and he held that the simple goals of truth were worth pursuing.
        With this in mind, he argued in a later book, ''Shame and Necessity'' (1993), a study of ancient Greece, that Hellenic ethics allowed for a wider scope of praise and blame than did Christian-based morality, concluding that the sense of shame can be more in tune with our intuitions than moral guilt, and permits more latitude for living a whole life well.
        In his philosophical work, he rejected the nearly mathematical positivism predominant when he was a student and the utilitarian views that morality lay in seeking the greatest good for the greatest number.
        Bernard Arthur Owen Williams was born in Westcliff, Essex, on Sept. 21, 1929, the son of Owen Pasley Denny Williams, an architect and surveyor, and Hilda Amy (Day) Williams, a secretary. He attended Chigwell School and went on to read classics at Balliol College, Oxford, where he was already considered a prodigy. He later was given many honorary degrees but did not earn a doctorate. According to a profile in The Guardian of London by Stuart Jeffries, Sir Bernard's mentor at Oxford, Gilbert Ryle, later said of him, ''He understands what you're going to say better than you understand it yourself, and sees all the possible objections to it, all the possible answers to all the possible objections, before you've got to the end of your sentence.''
        According to a Guardian obituary by Jane O'Grady, Sir Bernard neglected the historical aspect of the classics to the degree that he claimed to have used part of his history finals' time to learn history; he arrived 29 minutes late for the exam wearing a white magnolia in his buttonhole.
        He graduated with a congratulatory first-class degree, a highly unusual honor in which the examining professors ask no questions about the candidate's written work but simply stand and applaud.
        Sir Bernard then did his national service in the Royal Air Force and excelled as a fighter pilot. He later said that the year he spent flying Spitfires in Canada was the happiest of his life. While on leave in New York City, he went out with Shirley Brittain, later a prominent British politician, who was then studying at Columbia University. He had known her when they were students in England, and they married in 1955. The marriage ended in 1974, The Daily Telegraph reported. They had a daughter, Rebecca, who survives him along with his second wife, Patricia Law Skinner, whom he married in 1974 when she was Cambridge University Press's philosophy editor, and their sons, Jacob and Jonathan.
        After returning to England at age 22 he was made a fellow at All Souls but left Oxford. first for University College, London, and later Bedford College (now defunct), reportedly to serve the political ambitions of his wife, who later became Baroness Williams of Crosby, a leader of the Liberal Democrats in the House of Lords. The couple and their newborn daughter lived in a large house in Kensington with the literary agent Hilary Rubinstein, his wife, their four children and various boarders, an arrangement that remained amicable for 17 years.
        Sir Bernard's academic career flourished. He went on to become Knightsbridge Professor of Philosophy at Cambridge from 1967 to 1979, and then provost of King's College, Cambridge, from 1979 to 1987, where he was earlier responsible for its being the first Cambridge college to admit women. He was knighted in 1999, The Daily Telegraph reported.
        At the same time he became a virtuoso of public commissions, producing in November 1979 a masterly report on obscenity and film censorship, which concluded that pornography could be made available at designated sites, as long as it was not thrust upon children and unsuspecting members of the public. These recommendations were ignored after Margaret Thatcher's ascent to power, although most of them were later adopted piecemeal.
        In the late 1980's he left England in disgust over the Thatcher government to teach at the University of California, Berkeley, with which he remained connected almost to the end of his life, although he eventually returned to Oxford, announcing that he did not really feel at home in America.
        All the while he continued to turn out significant books written with great clarity, although their underlying ideas are considered sometimes forbiddingly compressed and obscure. But in his last, ''Truth and Truthfulness'' (2002), he sought to speak plainly, and took on the post-modern, politically correct notion that truth is merely relative, particularly as it is expressed in the work of by his former colleague Richard Rorty, who argues that truth is dispensable and that its pursuit is a form of substitute religion and as such a delusion.
        In contrast, Sir Bernard tried to show in his book that in any human society truth will be valued, and the twin virtues of truth, sincerity and accuracy, held dear. As he said in a San Francisco Chronicle interview last year when asked about the philosophical value of psychoanalysis, there was ''a level of self-deception more subconscious than unconscious that can be dealt with by the virtues of accuracy and sincerity.''
        ''That's what we have those virtues for,'' he concluded.
        Correction:  June 24, 2003, Tuesday  An obituary of the British moral philosopher Sir Bernard Williams on June 14 misstated the original name of his first wife, now Baroness Williams of Crosby. She was Shirley Vivienne Teresa Brittain Catlin, not Shirley Brittain. The obituary also misstated his place of death. He was on vacation in Rome, not at his home in Oxford.
      