
        Charles E. Heming, a former president of the New York State Bar Association who advocated simplifying the legal system, died on Friday at his home in Scarsdale. He was 77.
        The cause was complications from pneumonia, his wife, Barbara, said.
        Mr. Heming was a specialist in trusts and estates law and an active participant in professional associations, including the City Bar Association and the American Bar Association, where he was a former member of the house of delegates.
        His one-year term as president of the New York State Bar Association included efforts to impose new ethics rules on lawyers who were state officials and to streamline the complex state trial court system.
        When he became the association's president in June 1986, he said that altruistic motives, combined with the perfectionism of lawyers and legislators, had made laws far too numerous and complicated. ''We should at some point settle for simplicity,'' he said, ''which may be short of perfection, but in the long run is better.''
        He was a partner of the Manhattan law firm Wormser, Kiely, Galef & Jacobs. Before he joined that firm in 1982, he practiced for many years at his own firm, Damon & Heming, which was also in Manhattan.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Heming is survived by three children, Michael C. Heming of Larchmont, Lucy Hutchinson of Alexandria, Va. and Amanda Minsky of Santa Barbara, Calif.; six grandchildren; and two sisters, Delia Cantor of Scarsdale and Harriet Simpson of San Francisco. His first marriage, to Olga Landeck Rothschild, ended in divorce.
        Mr. Heming lived in Scarsdale for 50 years, where he was active in local affairs and was a former village trustee. He also had a home in Fayston, Vt., where he was an avid skier into his 70's, his wife said. He was a former president of a group near his Vermont home, the Amateur Ski Club of New York, which includes New York skiers who, as he did for most of his adult life, frequented the Mad River Glen ski area.
        At the age of 50, after he had a heart attack, Mr. Heming took up running. His wife said he was particularly proud that, though he began in middle age, he completed six marathons. His best time, she said, was three hours and 28 minutes.
      