
        Sir Denis Thatcher, steadfast husband of former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and a man who embraced his role as second fiddle with aplomb and humor, died today in a London hospital.
        Sir Denis, 88, who had been in frail health, died with his wife and twin children, Carol and Mark, by his side, five months after undergoing heart bypass surgery.
        Once described by Lady Thatcher as the ''golden thread'' that ran through her life, Sir Denis was hailed today by his admirers and friends for showing his wife unswerving loyalty in public and offering wise counsel in private.
        Lady Thatcher herself frequently acknowledged the debt she owed her husband. ''I could never have been prime minister for more than 11 years without Denis by my side,'' she wrote in her autobiography, ''The Downing Street Years.'' ''He was a fund of shrewd advice and penetrating comment. And he very sensibly saved these for me rather than the outside world.''
        At the same time, Sir Denis, who was made a baronet in 1990, was celebrated for the charm and ease he so often displayed as the first male consort to Britain's first female prime minister. He once described himself as the ''most shadowy husband of all time,'' The Associated Press reported.
        ''Margaret Thatcher wasn't just the first woman prime minister, he was also the first prime minister's husband, which in many ways was as difficult a job, which he did terribly well,'' John Whittingdale, Mrs. Thatcher's former political secretary and now the Conservative culture secretary, told reporters. ''He was always there to give support, but he was always happy to remain two or three paces behind her.''
        Lady Thatcher, 77, a Conservative, became British prime minister in 1979, earning the tag the ''Iron Lady'' for her political astuteness and proud stubbornness. She was named a baroness in 1992.
        Prime Minister Tony Blair, head of the Labor Party, called Sir Denis a ''kind and generous-hearted man, a real gentleman who had many friends here and abroad.''
        A retired millionaire oil executive, Sir Denis was routinely caricatured in the British press as gin swilling, cigarette puffing and golf obsessed, a portrait he did not exactly disavow. His daughter, Carol, recently remarked playfully that it was her father's ''copious'' intake of gin that helped him recuperate from heart surgery in January.
        He was most famously lampooned in the satirical weekly magazine ''Private Eye,'' which ran a series of ''Dear Bill'' letters from Sir Denis addressed to his friend and golf partner in real life, Lord Deedes, the former editor of The Daily Telegraph. The letters from Sir Denis, who was famously right-wing, were often sprinkled with references to ''pinkos'' at the BBC and complaints about being upbraided by ''the Boss.''
        Although Sir Denis never gave interviews, he enjoyed the camaraderie of reporters and preferred to sit in the more raucous section at the back of the plane on press trips. ''Avoid telling them to sod off,'' was his advice on how to handle reporters. ''It makes them cross.''
        Reporters liked him mostly because when Sir Denis decided to speak his mind, he did so without tiptoeing. He was quick with a quip and unabashed about telling off-color jokes.
        Asked once the secret to his slim figure, he replied, ''Gin and cigarettes.'' And, on the day he became a baronet, he accepted congratulations, saying: ''Thanks. But more important than that, I have just been elected a member of Sunningdale golf club.''
        After a bomb set by the Irish Republican Army destroyed part of the Thatchers' hotel suite during the Conservatives' convention in 1984, he commented: ''It was quite a thump. And you should have seen the bathroom.''
        Sir Denis, a gentleman of the old school, almost always accompanied his wife on her trips abroad, chatting amiably with the wives of other leaders. In developing countries, however, he sometimes grew famously cranky.
        In a village outside Delhi one day, he was once forced to wear the local costume -- an oversized pink turban. ''These blighters are trying to make me look like a fool,'' he complained.
        A World War II veteran, he inherited his grandfather's paint and chemical company, Atlas Preservatives, which he later sold to Burmah Oil. He met his future wife, 25-year-old Margaret Roberts, in 1950 at a Conservative Party function. One year later, they were married.
        The Conservative leader, Iain Duncan Smith, said today that he was devastated by the death of ''one of the most decent, determined and kind people that we have known.''
        ''In a world that so often seems to have lost its manners, Denis Thatcher represented so much of what was best in the wartime generation,'' Mr. Duncan Smith added.
        Lady Thatcher's former press secretary, Sir Bernard Ingham, said the death of Sir Denis would be a great blow to the former prime minister, who suffered several small strokes last year. ''She's not all that well in herself in terms of memory,'' Sir Bernard told Sky Television. ''Therefore, I don't think she's going to find it easy to recover.''
      