
        Vance Hartke, a three-term Democratic senator from Indiana best known for his criticism of the American involvement in the wars in Southeast Asia, died on Sunday in Fairfax, Va. He was 84 and lived in Falls Church, Va.
        The apparent cause was a heart attack, said his family, who said he had been working at his law office the day before.
        Mr. Hartke, a former mayor of Evansville, arrived on Capitol Hill in 1958, the first Democrat in 20 years to win a Senate seat from Indiana. Backed by organized labor, he won after campaigning for more jobs, civil rights and action on flood controls.
        A liberal, he entered a Senate still heavily influenced by conservative Southern Democrats. He served on the Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee and the Finance Committee and in the 1970's he led the Senate Committee on Veterans' Affairs.
        Mr. Hartke lent strong support to the agenda of the Kennedy and Johnson administrations. He was a mainstay in the legislative fights for landmark social programs like Medicare and Medicaid, as well as the 1964 Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act of 1965.
        He developed a personal rapport with President Lyndon B. Johnson but broke with him over Vietnam as early as 1965, before the American troop buildup and war casualties on both sides reached their peaks.
        In 1972, he unsuccessfully entered the New Hampshire primary for the Democratic presidential nomination. His central theme was total and unconditional American withdrawal from Indochina.
        He had more success as a sponsor of the International Executive Service Corps, a volunteer body patterned after the Peace Corps. He also helped lay the foundations for the United States Institute of Peace, a nonpartisan institution set up by Congress in 1984, and the Inter-American Development Bank.
        Mr. Hartke had a reputation as a lucky candidate, having first been elected in a Democratic landslide year when Republicans were beaten across the country. He was re-elected in the Johnson landslide of 1964. The next time around, in 1970, his margin over a conservative Republican was a mere 6,400 votes.
        In 1976, his luck ran out. He squeaked by in the Democratic primary after a nasty battle with a freshman representative, Philip H. Hayes. That bruising contest depleted his resources but left plenty of ammunition for his well-financed Republican challenger in the November election.
        Mr. Hartke lost to Richard G. Lugar, the former mayor of Indianapolis who is now chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Mr. Hartke left the Senate in January 1977.
        Rupert Vance Hartke was born in Stendal, a mining town in Pike County. He was active in school sports and president of the student government at Evansville College, where he graduated in 1941. He served in the Coast Guard and the Navy until 1946, rising from seaman to lieutenant, and received a law degree with honors at Indiana University in 1948. He practiced law in Evansville and served as mayor of Evansville from 1956 until his election to the Senate.
        After his departure from Capitol Hill, he was a principal in the law firm of Hartke & Hartke in Falls Church and the Hartke Group. He was engaged in general practice law as well as consulting work for American and international agencies and business interests.
        He wrote four books, including ''The American Crisis in Vietnam'' (Bobbs-Marrill, 1968).
        Mr. Hartke is survived by his wife of 60 years, Martha Tiernan Hartke; three daughters, Sandra Garcia of Boonsboro, Md., Anita R. Hartke of Gainesville, Va., and Nadine J. Hartke of Reston, Va.; four sons, Jan A. of Reston, Wayne R. of Clifton, Va., and Keith L. and Paul V. of Reston; and 16 grandchildren.
      