
        Najeeb E. Halaby, who was once a leader in the airline industry and was known more recently as the father of Queen Noor of Jordan, died today at his home in McLean, Va. He was 87.
        Mr. Halaby, formerly of Alpine, N.J., had lived in McLean in recent years. He also had a home on Martha's Vineyard, Mass.
        At various times in his life, Mr. Halaby was a skydiver, test pilot, lawyer and businessman, most notably at Pan American World Airways. He started as a senior vice president at Pan Am in 1965, became president in 1968, chief executive in 1969 and then chairman the next year.
        In 1972, he was forced to resign as chairman and chief executive when the board blamed him for the line's worsening financial crisis. Mr. Halaby's tenure coincided with one of the worst slumps in the airline industry, compounded by a general recession, inflation, increased competition and the high cost of introducing the Boeing 747.
        Mr. Halaby had championed the jumbo jet, predicting correctly that it would become a mainstay of air travel. ''A chief executive likes to leave a company better than when he found it,'' Mr. Halaby said upon his departure. ''I believe I have.''
        After leaving Pan Am, Mr. Halaby wrote a book, ''Crosswinds: an Airman's Memoir'' (Doubleday, 1978), ran an international law practice and headed a company that provided aviation technology to Arab countries.
        Mr. Halaby became the father-in-law to royalty in 1978, when his daughter Lisa wed King Hussein and became Queen Noor al-Hussein. Ms. Halaby had studied architecture at Princeton University and had met the king a year earlier, at a ceremony in Amman marking the delivery of the Jordanian airline's first Boeing 747.
        At 42, the king was 16 years older than his bride. Mr. Halaby later acknowledged some initial unease over the romance. But he said the king's vigor, directness and charm had won him over.
        Mr. Halaby first became well known when President John F. Kennedy named him administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration in 1961. News reports of the era called him the first Arab-American to rise so high in government. In fact, he was already a veteran of government service, having been a foreign affairs adviser to the Pentagon and then a deputy assistant secretary of defense from 1948 to 1952.
        Nor did the term ''Arab-American'' fit Mr. Halaby neatly. ''I have always wanted to be an American, not a hyphenated,'' Mr. Halaby said in a 1979 interview. His father, Najeeb Elias Halaby, was a Lebanese-Syrian who came to the United States as a youth. His mother, Laura, was a native of Texas.
        Najeeb Halaby, often called Jeeb, was born in Dallas on Nov. 19, 1915, an only child. After his father's death in 1928, he lived in Los Angeles and Santa Barbara, Calif. He spoke a little Arabic as a boy, but ''lost it'' after his father died, he recalled later.
        Mr. Halaby was an indifferent student at Stanford University, where he was active in debating, acting and golf. He graduated in 1937 and attended the University of Michigan and Yale law schools, graduating from Yale in 1940.
        An avid flyer since he was a teen-ager, Mr. Halaby was a Navy test pilot in World War II. ''I had a really fascinating war,'' he said jokingly years later. ''Instead of slugging it out at Guadalcanal with the Marines, I was at Patuxent, Md., slugging it out with the elements, with aerodynamics and thermodynamics.''
        His 1946 marriage, to Doris Carlquist, ended in divorce in 1977. In 1980, he married Jane Coates, who died in 1996. In 1997, he married Libby Cater, who survives. In addition to Queen Noor, he is survived by a son, Christian, of Atherton, Calif., a daughter, Alexa, of Washington, and 10 grandchildren.
        Mr. Halaby was, rather atypically for many businessmen of his era, an avowed liberal. He was outspoken about his political and philosophical leanings. He pressed for equal treatment for air crews of Hispanic descent and other minorities, including crew assignments on flights to South Africa.
        Mr. Halaby's old airline, Pan Am, is no more. A prediction he made in 1971, while president of Pan Am, has not come true. ''We know that worldwide supersonic flight will become as commonplace in the decades ahead as jet travel is today,'' he wrote. The Concorde supersonic transport is now in its final days of flight.
        But Mr. Halaby was more prescient in other ways. In September 1970, after a wave of airplane hijackings by Arab commando groups, Mr. Halaby said Pan Am would cooperate with stricter security requirements, including armed guards aboard planes if necessary.
        Correction:  July 4, 2003, Friday  An obituary yesterday about Najeeb E. Halaby, the former airline executive and federal aviation official, misstated the name of the agency he was named to lead in 1961. It was the Federal Aviation Agency; it later adopted the name Federal Aviation Administration.
      