
        Honey Craven, the longtime manager and ringmaster of the National Horse Show in Madison Square Garden, the Devon Horse Show in Pennsylvania and almost every other major horse show in the United States, died Tuesday in a nursing home in Guilford, Conn. He was 98.
        Mr. Craven had been associated with the National Horse Show, the nation's showcase equestrian competition, since 1927. He was the one wearing the red jacket and sometimes-checkered jodhpurs who sounded the coaching horn to summon the horses and the riders.
        He started working with horses at age 12. After school, he would pick up horses from nearby estates and take them to a blacksmith's shop, sometimes riding bareback. He left high school after his freshman year to gallop racehorses, then worked for a man who trained hunters and jumpers for horse shows.
        He began at the National Horse Show as assistant ringmaster, earning $10 a day and generous gratuities. Once, an owner tipped him $500 for pinning a blue ribbon on his horse, which would have received it, tip or not.
        In 1928, Mr. Craven was promoted to ringmaster. He held that job for 30 years and served as the show's manager for the next 25. From 1983 until his death, he held the title manager emeritus, even though he retired from the show in 1991.
        He endured the lean years of 1989 to 1995, when the show, after steadily declining attendance, moved to the Meadowlands from the Garden. In 1996 it returned, and Mr. Craven told The New York Times: ''It had to come back to the Garden or it would have died. Moving it to New Jersey was the biggest mistake ever made. Some nights, there weren't even enough people in the stands to start a bridge game.''
        At Devon, as in Madison Square Garden, he would serve successively as ringmaster, manager and manager emeritus. He began there in 1936, when there was no public-address system. He would announce the class judging, then determine when the next class would start, then mount a polo pony and race to the barns to pass along the information. Then he would return to the ring.
        He was inducted into the Madison Square Garden Hall of Fame in 1996 and the Show Jumping Hall of Fame last March. USA Equestrian, the sport's national governing body, gave him its lifetime achievement award.
        Clarence Leo Craven was born Sept. 10, 1904, in Brookline, Mass., and was raised there. He said his nickname came from an old vaudeville song, ''Honey Boy.'' Before and during his horse-show jobs, he worked in Boston for the London Harness Shop, selling saddles to Gen. George Patton and working for the Vanderbilts and other society families.
        His wife of 50 years, the former Eileen Griffin, died in 1980. He is survived by a daughter, Carol Robinson of Madison, Conn., three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
        Sallie Sexton, a longtime exhibitor at the National Horse Show, once said of Mr. Craven: ''He knew how to police that ring. Most horse shows are nasty little wrestling matches between bad sports, but Honey wouldn't permit any second-rate behavior.''
        Mr. Craven always had trouble producing an ideal sound from his horn, but he was imaginative enough to persuade Doc Severinsen, the band leader, to do the job one night.
        ''He hit the high notes and brought the house down,'' Mr. Craven recalled. ''My board of directors wanted him to come back every night, the heck with me.''
      