
        The Rev. Dr. Preston R. Washington, a prominent Harlem minister who led efforts to build housing and cope with the AIDS epidemic, among many other challenges, died on June 25 at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 54 and lived in New Rochelle, N.Y..
        The cause was heart failure, his wife, the Rev. Renee F. Washington, said. Dr. Washington, as senior pastor of Memorial Baptist Church at 141 West 115th Street, was a founder of Harlem Congregations for Community Improvement, an interfaith consortium of more than 90 congregations.
        The group, of which Dr. Washington was variously chairman, president and chief executive officer from 1986 to 2001, organized the Bradhurst Plan, a privately coordinated project that spent $200 million developing 1,300 housing units in the Bradhurst section of north central Harlem.
        The plan also developed more than 30 retail stores and a $1.7 million education and housing program for people with H.I.V. and AIDS, among other initiatives.
        Dr. Washington was known for pushing churches beyond traditional roles into larger and larger missions, for which he was particularly successful in securing money from the administration of Mayor David N. Dinkins. His programs included managing three city parks and job skills training.
        ''We want to get beyond soup kitchens and care packages,'' he said in an interview with Mother Jones magazine in 1997.
        Preston Robert Washington was born on Aug. 26, 1948, in Manhattan. He grew up on East 99th Street in Spanish Harlem and went to a storefront church as a child. He attended public schools in New York City and graduated summa cum laude from Williams College. He earned a Master of Divinity degree from Union Theological Seminary and a doctorate in education from Teachers College, Columbia University.
        In 1976, he became senior pastor of Memorial Baptist Church, which he led with his wife. A moderate-sized church, it grew in prominence and became a regular Sunday morning stop for politicians, including Michael R. Bloomberg during his campaign for mayor in 2001.
        Dr. Washington opened his church to tourists who arrive by the busload to hear gospel music. He used part of the money they contributed to renovate his church. He also changed the church's order of service by starting the preaching during the service's second hour after the tourists, many of whom did not understand English, left.
        In an interview with National Public Radio in 1996, he said members joked that the church was a European church on Sunday morning and a clandestine black church at nights during the week. He defended his encouragement of the tourist invasion by suggesting that visitors were probably experiencing their most intimate encounter with black culture.
        ''It's very different from seeing a Michael Jackson or Max Roach up on stage,'' he said.
        Dr. Washington became a performer when he played himself on the NBC situation comedy ''Emeril'' in 2001. He also wrote articles and books, including ''From the Pew to the Pavement: Messages on Urban Outreach'' (Aaron Press, 1986) and ''God's Transforming Spirit: Black Church Renewal'' (Judson Press, 1988).
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his sons Jamel, Devon, Nicholas, Preston Jr. and Brandon; two adopted sons, Keith Gay and the Rev. Jonathan R. Staples, three grandsons and his father, Preston.
        In recent years, Dr. Washington focused passionately on helping people with AIDS. He told Mother Jones magazine in 2000 that he was motivated by his deep disappointment that some churches condemn people with the disease, as well as by the death of a close friend from it.
        ''What kind of damn God is this that allows this damn stuff? Babies dying of AIDS?'' he said in the Mother Jones interview. ''I have to constantly check my own faith because this disease threatens every aspect of faith.''
      