
        Gary MacEoin, a onetime candidate for the priesthood who turned to writing and lecturing about Latin American social conditions and the Roman Catholic Church, died on July 9 in a rehabilitation center in Leesburg, Va., where he had been recuperating from a fall. He was 94 and a resident of San Antonio.
        A frequent visitor to the countryside -- from Mexico to the tip of South America -- Dr. MacEoin (pronounced McOwen) wrote, edited and contributed to more than two dozen books over nearly 50 years. The last he edited was ''The Papacy and the People of God,'' published in 1998.
        His final appearance as an author was with ''The People's Choice: Bishop Samuel Ruiz of Mexico and Why He Matters,'' published in 1996. It described the bishop's role as a people's priest and a leader who kept the church alive in Chiapas.
        Dr. MacEoin touched on the church's role in a world of poverty and injustice in ''Sanctuary: A Resource Guide for Understanding and Participating in the Central American Refugees' Struggle,'' ''Unlikely Allies: The Christian-Socialist Convergence'' and ''The Papacy and the People of God.''
        Dr. MacEoin was born in Curry, County Sligo, Ireland, and was educated at the University of London, where he graduated in 1941. He received a master's degree at National University of Ireland in 1942 and a Ph.D. there in modern languages in 1951.
        He had studied for the priesthood and was admitted to the Irish bar in 1943. But he worked mainly as a reporter, feature writer and critic in Dublin and London and took a job as editor of a paper in Trinidad in 1944.
        Conversant in several languages, he subsequently held editorial positions at Spanish and Portuguese publications in New York. He also contributed to Time and Life magazines, Reuters and other news agencies and newspapers, served as an adjunct professor at Fordham and Fairleigh Dickinson and lectured at Columbia as well as many other universities.
        He was the United Nations representative of the International Catholic Press Union, an organization of Roman Catholic journalists, from 1954 to 1963, and wrote for the National Catholic Reporter. Among his books were two memoirs, ''Nothing is Quite Enough,'' which traced his intellectual and spiritual formation as a religious man, and ''Memoirs and Memories.'' His coverage of the Second Vatican Council became another book, ''What Happened at Rome?'' He was a supporter of the sanctuary movement founded by American Catholic nuns offering shelter to refugees from Central America in the mid-1980's.
        Dr. MacEoin's wife, Josephine Delaney MacEoin, died in 1985 after 38 years of marriage. He is survived by a son, Donald, of Leesburg, Va.; a stepdaughter, Kristina Jackson of Winchester, Va.; three sisters, Kitty and Ita Johnson, both of Dublin, and Fanny Dykes, of Bath, England; and three grandchildren.
      