
        James P. Shenton, a Columbia University history professor who combined serious scholarship with a gregarious command of lecture halls, television and other public forums, died on Friday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Paterson, N.J., a hospital spokeswoman said yesterday. He was 78.
        A vividly animated lecturer who took an extraordinary interest in his students, Professor Shenton extended his classroom to summer sessions, carrying much more than the normal load; to public television, where in the 1960's he taught a 76-hour survey course, ''The Rise of the American Nation''; and to the streets of New York City, where he conducted walking tours of Chinatown, Ellis Island, the Lower East Side and elsewhere to teach the city's immigrant and ethnic history.
        His publishing output was substantial, including ''History of the United States to 1865'' (Doubleday, 1963), and ''History of the United States From 1865 to the Present'' (Doubleday, 1964) and ''These United States'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1978), among more than a half-dozen others. He was particularly knowledgeable about the Civil War, Reconstruction, the history of radical movements, immigration and World War II.
        Yet teaching remained his cause, whether by leading summer seminars at Columbia sponsored by the National Endowment for the Humanities for college and secondary school teachers, or by inspiring a host of graduate students to follow his trail into historical scholarship.
        Among the more noted scholars he influenced are Eric Foner '63, DeWitt Clinton professor of history at Columbia, and Sean Wilentz '72, Dayton-Stockon professor of history at Princeton.
        James Patrick Shenton was born March 17, 1925, St. Patrick's Day, in Passaic, N.J., the oldest of four children of Walter G. Shenton and Lillian Spitzel Shenton. Their ethnic backgrounds, despite their son's middle name and birth date, were respectively English and Slovakian. Professor Shenton never married, and spent most of his adult life living with his mother in Passaic.
        He is survived by a brother, Walter, and two sisters, Edna Hughes and Joan Shane.
        After graduating from high school in 1943, he was drafted into the military, and as a committed pacifist joined the United States Army Medical Corps. He served for three years in Europe, and was one of the first Americans to enter the Buchenwald concentration camp.
        He entered Columbia in 1946 on the G.I. Bill of Rights, commuted to campus while living at home and working nights for a Frigidaire service company. He completed a bachelor's degree in just three years, and went on to earn a master's in 1950 and a Ph.D. in 1954. In 1951, on the way to his doctorate, he joined the Columbia faculty as an associate professor of history and in 1967 was promoted to professor of American history.
        He joined the 1965 civil rights march in Selma, Ala. During the war in Vietnam, he flew to Sweden to counsel a former student who had fled military service after being reassigned to Vietnam.
        During the campus unrest at Columbia in the spring of 1968, Professor Shenton joined other faculty members in physically interposing themselves between charging police officers and radical students occupying campus buildings. Beaten by the police, he returned the next day, his head bandaged and his arm in a sling, to conduct a tearful interview on national television.
        Correction:  August 1, 2003, Friday  An obituary on Monday about James P. Shenton, a Columbia University history professor, omitted attribution for an anecdote about a beating he suffered during the 1968 campus unrest at Columbia and, because of an editing error, omitted credit for accounts of other aspects of his career. All were obtained from an article by Eric Wakin in the summer 1996 issue of Columbia College Today. The obituary also misspelled the name of an endowed chair at Princeton held by Sean Wilentz, whom Dr. Shenton influenced. It is the Dayton-Stockton chair, not Dayton-Stockon.
      