
        C. C. Wang, a Chinese-American artist and collector, who sold important and sometimes controversial examples of classical Chinese painting to many American museums and who was viewed by admirers as the last in a centuries-old line of Chinese scholar-artists, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 96 and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Wang (pronounced wong) was born Wang Jiqian near Suzhou in 1907. In his teens he began developing the interrelated skills of painting, collecting and selling traditionally associated with the Chinese art expert. In his view, knowledge of classical Chinese painting was most successfully shaped through a personal mastery of painting techniques, particularly the use of brush and ink.
        After studying both law and painting in Shanghai, Mr. Wang decided to devote himself to art. In 1936 he was asked to be an adviser to the committee organizing the ground-breaking London exhibition of art from the Palace Museum in Beijing. This allowed him to examine all the paintings in the imperial collection, something no private citizen had ever done. ''Not yet 30 years old,'' Arnold Chang wrote in 1997, ''Wang Jiqian had already studied more important Chinese paintings than virtually anyone alive.''
        In 1949, to escape the political chaos of postwar China, he moved to the United States. Settling in Manhattan, he took courses at the Art Students League and, deeply influenced by Abstract Expressionism, began to work in a highly colored abstract mode derived, in part, on calligraphic forms.
        In New York he supported his family by teaching, consulting at Sotheby's, dealing in real estate and collecting and selling art. In 1973 the Metropolitan Museum of Art bought 25 Song and Yuan paintings from him and eventually acquired some 60 works, including the colossal hanging scroll ''Riverbank.'' Although the Met attributed the painting to the 10th-century painter Dong Yuan, some scholars dismissed it as modern fabrication.
        He is survived by a son, S. K. Wang, and two daughters, Hsien-chen Wang Chang and Yien-koo Wang King, all of New York City, and 11 grandchildren.
        His own art, which has made him a cultural hero in China, was included in numerous museum exhibitions. A show titled ''Mind Landscapes: The Paintings of C. C. Wang,'' was organized by Jerome Silbergeld for the Henry Art Gallery in Seattle in 1989.
        Mr. Wang viewed a life in art as a total-immersion experience, with varied but intertwined rewards. He wanted to be remembered above all as an artist.
        Although he rarely spoke publicly about his work, what he said of the 14th-century scholar-painter in exile Ni Zan, he might have said of himself: ''He does not have an elaborate story to tell, but mainly wants to express his thoughts and feelings.''
      