
        Frances Stevens Reese, a founder and chairwoman emeritus of the environmental group Scenic Hudson and a veteran of the fight to keep a power plant from being built on Storm King Mountain, died last Wednesday in Valhalla, N.Y. She was 85 and lived in Hughsonville, a village in Dutchess County, N.Y.
        She was fatally injured in a car accident on Wednesday on Route 9 near Cold Spring when her driver lost control of the car and struck a utility pole, according to the Putnam County sheriff's office. The driver, Pedro S. Arce, 48, of Hughsonville, survived with lesser injuries.
        To members of her organization and to many Hudson River preservationists, she was known as the grande dame of the Hudson Valley.
        Franny Reese, as she was known, was a spark plug in a movement that began 40 years ago with a handful of local gentry who sought to check the unbridled development of the Hudson River Valley.
        Their immediate cause was to forestall a projected dig for the world's largest hydroelectric power plant, which would have forever changed the dramatic face of Storm King Mountain, looming above the Hudson in Orange County. Her little band won legal standing in 1965 to take on the Federal Power Commission and the developer, Consolidated Edison.
        The movement became today's Scenic Hudson, a potent force in the national environmental movement. It was the group's victory in the Storm King case that established the principle that citizens could intervene in court cases affecting the environment even if those individuals were not in danger of sustaining damages to their properties.
        The Storm King fight was the first in which a group of such citizens was granted court access in a site-licensing decision. Language derived from that precedent was incorporated into the 1969 National Environmental Policy Act, which established the Environmental Protection Agency and mandated environmental impact studies for such construction projects. Scenic Hudson helped secure passage of other important legislation, like the Clean Water Act of 1977 and the 1980 Superfund Law.
        Mrs. Reese remained a mainstay of Scenic Hudson as it helped create dozens of riverfront parks and preserves from Manhattan north to the foothills of the Adirondacks.
        As chairwoman from 1966 to 1984, she also oversaw the group's legal and educational work. She attended board meetings until her death and remained cheerfully active as a strategist for policy and litigation, a liaison to state and federal governments and one of the organization's leading fund-raisers.
        Frances Stevens was born in Manhattan. She attended Barnard College, majoring in playwriting and English, and Yale Art School. In 1937, she married Willis Livingston Meier Reese, who shared her interests in conservation and historical preservation in the Hudson Valley.
        Mrs. Reese was a longtime trustee and benefactor of Marist College.
        Her husband, who was a Charles Evans Hughes Professor of Law at Columbia, died in 1990. She is survived by a daughter, Frances R. Olivieri of Manhattan; three sons, John R., of Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., George B., of Manhattan, and Alexander S., of Hughsonville; six grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
      