
        Lord Shawcross of Friston, who was Britain's chief prosecutor of Nazi war criminals at Nuremberg in 1945 and who, as attorney general, also conducted treason trials against infamous British spies and turncoats, died yesterday at his home in Cowbeech, south of London. He was 101.
        Among the spies he prosecuted were Klaus Fuchs and Alan Nunn May, both of whom served long prison sentences after they were convicted of giving atomic secrets to the Soviet Union.
        Lord Shawcross also successfully handled the Crown's case against William Joyce, a British subject who made propaganda broadcasts for the Germans during World War II and who was widely known as Lord Haw-Haw.
        Lord Shawcross later said he had developed a special hatred for Lord Haw-Haw that he had never felt toward the Nazis whom he prosecuted at Nuremberg. ''That fellow gave me the utter creeps,'' he said. ''I never had quite the same reaction with respect to the Nuremberg defendants, perhaps because none of those fellows pretended to be English.''
        But it was his work before the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg when he was 43 that received the most international recognition. Among those who joined him in the prosecution were Justice Robert H. Jackson of the United States Supreme Court, François de Menthon of France and Gen. R. A. Rudenko of the Soviet Union.
        The trial lasted 216 days. In an eight-hour opening statement delivered over the course of two days, Sir Hartley Shawcross, as he was then known, outlined the case as established by the four powers in an agreement in London in August 1945. The agreement amounted to a new international code that defined aggressive war as a crime against the world and included the classification ''crimes against humanity.''
        As to individual responsibility, he said, ''There comes a point when a man must refuse to answer to his leader if he is also to answer to his own conscience.'' In demanding death for all the defendants, he said, ''This trial must form a milestone in the history of civilization.'' His thesis was that the accused were part of a careful campaign of deception, treachery and murder.
        ''How can any of them now say he was not a party to common murder in its most ruthless forms?'' he asked.
        When the proceedings concluded, a dozen Nazis were sentenced to death by hanging, three were sentenced to life imprisonment and four received sentences ranging from 10 to 20 years. Three others were found not guilty.
        Herman Göring, Hitler's air force chief and one of those convicted, killed himself an hour before he was to be executed in 1946. When it was suggested to him that Göring had defeated justice, Lord Shawcross replied that as far as he was concerned it did not matter how the Nazis died. ''Hanging,'' he said, ''was a disagreeable business.''
        He remained opposed to capital punishment. Late in life he noted, to his dismay, that the Nuremberg trials ''did not deter the odious crimes of Idi Amin, Pol Pot, the Khmer Rouge.''
        Knighted in 1945, Lord Shawcross was attorney general from 1945 to 1951, and in the mid-1950's he served in Parliament as a member for the Labor Party, representing St. Helens in Lancashire. He resigned from Parliament in 1958, saying he wanted no further part of politics, and in 1959 was made a life peer. He continued to espouse many principles dear to the Labor Party, but was out of sympathy with Labor's desire at that time to further nationalize parts of British industry.
        From 1945 to 1949, he was also principal British delegate to the United Nations. Over the years, he served various government commissions on such things as coal mining, defense and air raids. In 1951, he served as president of the British Board of Trade, but lost the job when the Labor government of Clement Atlee was defeated in an election.
        After his retirement from public life, he turned to business and sat on the boards of various British companies, including communications, oil and banking concerns.
        Hartley William Shawcross was born in Germany on Feb. 2, 1902, to John and Hilda Shawcross. At the time of Hartley's birth, his father, who normally taught at Liverpool University, was a visiting professor of English at Giessen University. Both parents were quite liberal, and his mother, a dedicated suffragist, believed strongly in socialism. His parents moved back to England when their son was barely 2 months old. As a boy, Hartley preached the virtues of socialism on street corners.
        He was educated at Dulwich College, the London School of Economics and the University of Geneva, and joined the Labor Party as a student. After obtaining a law degree he became senior law lecturer at Liverpool University, a post he held until 1934.
        He did not serve in the military in World War II; he had suffered a spinal injury in a climbing accident when he was a boy and was not judged to be physically able. His back gave him trouble throughout his life.
        By the time he was appointed attorney general under Mr. Atlee, he had developed a formidable reputation as a trial lawyer in a number of headline criminal cases. He had also gained wide visibility in the 1930's for his representation of coal-mine owners after an explosion that killed hundreds of miners.
        Lord Shawcross was married three times. His first wife, Rosina Alberta Shyvers, died in 1943; his second wife, Joan Winifred Mather, died in 1974. He is survived by his third wife, Monique; her son, Hume; a daughter, Joanna; and a son, William, the writer and historian who, on Wednesday, was named official biographer of the late Queen Mother Elizabeth.
        Correction:  July 14, 2003, Monday  Because of a production error, a photograph on Friday with the obituary of Lord Shawcross, Britain's chief prosecutor at the Nazi war crimes trial in Nuremberg, was reproduced in mirror image. The pocket handkerchief should have appeared at the right.
        Correction:  July 15, 2003, Tuesday  An obituary on Friday about Lord Shawcross, Britain's chief prosecutor at the Nuremberg trials of Nazi war crimes, misidentified the mother of a surviving son, Hume. She was Lord Shawcross's second wife, Joan Winifred Mather -- not his third, Monique. The article also misspelled the surname of the Labor prime minister whose landslide victory in 1945 helped carry Lord Shawcross into the House of Commons. He was Clement Attlee, not Atlee.
      