
        Nicolas Freeling, the British detective novelist whose popular Inspector Van der Valk and later Detective Henri Castang unmasked crime in modern Europe, died on Sunday in France, the London press reported. He was 76 and lived in Schirmeck, a village in Alsace.
        Mr. Freeling produced nearly 40 books, mostly mysteries but some of an introspective and critical nature. His Dutch hero, Van der Valk, was on the job in 13 of his crime novels, and his French protagonist, Castang, in 16 more.
        Mr. Freeling's fiction, ever mindful of the social realities in which its events took place, also explored the psychological roots of both criminals and their pursuers.
        He was an unabashed admirer of the prolific Belgian-born French detective novelist Georges Simenon, who returned the regard. Mr. Freeling's idiosyncratic Amsterdam police inspector, Piet Van der Valk, seemed a worthy successor to Simenon's Commissaire Jules Maigret. Van der Valk's sleuthing was the basis for British television series, which ran from 1972 to 1992.
        To the dismay of his fans, Mr. Freeling allowed Van der Valk to be killed by Dutch street thugs in 1973 and let his wife, Arlette, carry on the suspense in Strasbourg (''The Widow,'' Pantheon, 1979). Henri Castang then got his turn as a perpetually rueful French detective, beginning in ''A Dressing of Diamond,'' published by Harper in New York in 1974.
        Mr. Freeling did not turn to writing until his 30's after a career as a chef. His first published book was ''Love In Amsterdam,'' which has an alternate title, ''Death in Amsterdam,'' published by Gollancz in London in 1961, and in New York by Harper a year later.
        His second novel ''Because of the Cats'' (Gollancz, 1962; Harper, 1963) was rereleased by Arcadia Books in 2000 and remains in print. It was made into a 1973 movie that had censorship problems when it was released, in part because of the graphic rape scene that opens it, and now has a cult following in Europe. Another novel became the movie ''Amsterdam Affair'' in 1968.
        Nicolas Freeling was born in London but lived most of his life on the Continent. His socially conscious writing prompted some critics to compare him to John le Carré, whose yarns of espionage similarly enhanced that genre.
        He served in the Royal Air Force just after World War II. He had been a voracious reader as a boy and attended Dublin University but dropped out and headed for southern France, where he discovered his knack for cooking. He made a living for a dozen years as a sous chef in seaside hotels. He was the chef at an Amsterdam hotel when the police, investigating an underworld ring, took him in for questioning and inadvertently inspired his writing career.
        A foreigner in police custody, he was fascinated by the interrogation and began to weave it into what became the first story about Van der Valk, the worldly wise detective intrigued by the why's as much as by the whodunits. Van der Valk met his own fate because his creator was tired of writing about him and longed for a change in scenery and character. Mr. Freeling's readers took umbrage at Van der Valk's death, but the author resisted suggestions that he contrive a resurrection.
        He also wrote ''Criminal Convictions: Errant Passages on Perpetrators of Literary License'' (Godine, 1994), a collection of essays on the crime element in the work of his own favorite novelists, and ''The Kitchen: A Delicious Account of the Author's Years as a Grand Hotel Cook'' (Harper, 1970), currently in print as ''The Kitchen Book: Cook Book'' (Godine, 1991).
        Other works still in print in the United States include ''Not as Far as Velma'' (Mysterious, 1989), ''Sand Castles'' (Mysterious, 1990), ''The Seacoast of Bohemia'' (Warner, 1996), ''A Dwarf Kingdom'' (House of Stratus, 2001) and ''The Village Book'' (Arcadia, 2002). Another novel, ''The Janeites,'' about devotees of Jane Austen, was published in Britain last year.
        In 1954 Mr. Freeling married Cornelia Termes. According to The Guardian of London, she survives, as do their four sons and one daughter.
      