
        Gerald Stanley Hawkins, a British-born astronomer who theorized that the Stonehenge megaliths on Salisbury Plain were a Stone Age astronomical computer of sorts, died on May 26 at his farm in Rappahannock County, Va. He was 75 and also had a home in Washington.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Julia.
        His death was reported at the time in The Rappahannock News; the delay in a wider announcement stemmed from his wish that there be no obituary or memorial service.
        Dr. Hawkins was well established as an astronomer at Boston University and the Harvard-Smithsonian Observatory when he first expounded a new theory about Stonehenge. Surmises about its function cropped up before and since; it has been interpreted as a Druidic place of worship, a contrivance of the wizard Merlin or, according to a recent Canadian study, as an immense fertility icon.
        In 1963 Dr. Hawkins wrote about Stonehenge in the British scientific journal Nature. Based on new computer analyses of midsummer sunrises and moonrises around 1500 B.C., he proposed that the ancient array of rough-hewn stone blocks must have served as an astronomical calendar.
        He explained how Stonehenge could have been used as a computer to predict eclipses. In his view, the ancestral Britons switched sets of marker stones in an outer ring of holes to keep track of the moon's movements throughout the years.
        Collaborating with John B. White, Dr. Hawkins wrote the highly popular ''Stonehenge Decoded'' (Doubleday, 1965), in which the authors enlisted modern computers to demonstrate that the huge stone slabs and archways on Salisbury Plain were lined up to form a sophisticated observatory.
        He followed up with ''Beyond Stonehenge'' (Harper, 1973), which the critic Elizabeth Janeway called an ''appendage'' to his earlier study. Still, Ms. Janeway wrote in The New York Times, ''the attempt to reinforce his vision of early man as a competent astronomer is not only legitimate but welcome.''
        That vision was endorsed by no less an authority than the astronomer Fred Hoyle, who wrote his own book, ''On Stonehenge,'' in 1977.
        Gerald Hawkins was born in Great Yarmouth, England. He was educated at the University of London and the University of Manchester, where he received a Ph.D. in 1952. He came to the United States in 1954.
        After doing classified work in England, he became the scientist in charge of the radio meteor program at Harvard College Observatory. He was a researcher and teaching professor at Harvard and Boston University, where he led the astronomy department in the late 1960's. From 1969 to 1971 Dr. Hawkins was dean of the college at Dickinson College.
        He was also associated with the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory in Cambridge and the Air Force Cambridge Research Laboratories in Bedford, Mass.
        His other books were ''Splendor in the Sky'' (Harper, 1961); ''Meteors, Comets, Meteorites'' (McGraw, 1964); ''The Life of a Star'' (Holt, 1965); and ''Mindsteps to the Cosmos'' (Harper, 1983). He contributed to ''Pathways to the Gods: The Mystery of the Andes Lines'' (Harper, 1978) and to a CBS television special, ''The Mystery of Stonehenge.''
        He wrote more than 60 articles on interplanetary matter and cosmology in science journals. Since his formal retirement in 1989, his research and writing indulged his longtime fascination with archeoastronomy.
        Dr. Hawkins is survived by his wife, a writer known professionally as Julia M. Dobson, whom he married in 1979; two daughters, Lisette La Fortune of San Antonio and Carina White of Southborough, Mass.; and a grandson. His first marriage, to Dorothy Willacy-Barnes, ended in divorce.
        His research extended to crop circles, to which he applied Euclidean geometry; the Amun Temple of Karnak in Egypt; and the Nazca Lines of Peru, magical animal and geometric figures drawn on the desert floor.
        Ms. Dobson said Dr. Hawkins had just finished a new book, being published in Britain, ''Stonehenge, Earth and Sky.''
      