
        Leela Chitnis, an actress whose half-century-long 40-film career in India progressed from romantic roles to the motherly ones for which she is best remembered, died on Monday at a hospital in Danbury, Conn. She was 93. She had been living in Connecticut for many years to be near her family.
        Ms. Chitnis began her acting career onstage at a time women seldom worked as actors. Her son Manavedra Chitnis said that women who did act were regarded as prostitutes, and so Ms. Chitnis was shunned by Brahmans, the priestly caste of which she was a member.
        She did not care, her son said, nor was she abashed by these prejudices when she moved on, in the 1930's, to India's large and lively movie industry in Bombay, now known as Bollywood. She began playing romantic leads and became one of the best-known heroines in the country.
        From 1948 into the 1980's, she worked as a character actor, becoming famous in the 1950's and 60's for her portrayals of mothers. In these roles, she developed an image of sober probity, underlined by gold-rimmed glasses and white saris.
        ''Whenever I think of her, I still shake with awe,'' said Jyotirmoy Datta, the senior arts editor for News-India Times, an English-language weekly published in New York. ''She seemed to be always right and prepared to follow the straight path of virtue.''
        In a review of her work in 1997 in India-West magazine, published in Emeryville, Calif., R. M. Vijayakar called Ms. Chitnis the Duchess of Depression, not least because of her characteristic cough.
        ''If she appeared on screen it was to cough consumptively, gobble spoonfuls of syrup from bottles perched so precariously on bedside tables that they overturned and crashed to the floor when there was no money to buy another,'' he wrote.
        Ms. Chitnis was born on Sept. 9, 1909, in a small town near Bombay. Her father was an English professor who adhered to Brahmo Samaj, a religious movement that rejected caste.
        She married a much older man at 15 or 16, and quickly had four children. The couple supported India's struggle for independence from Britain and once risked arrest by harboring Manabendra Nath Roy, a Marxist freedom fighter.
        After they divorced, she worked as a schoolteacher and began acting onstage in melodramas typical of the time. She appeared in several movies, and went through a Bombay university in order to be hired by a major studio, Bombay Talkies; it hired only college graduates.
        She soon made three hit films -- ''Kangan,'' ''Bandhan'' and ''Jhoola'' -- with Ashok Kumar, who became one of India's top male stars. In a much-remembered scene in ''Kangan'' (1939), she overhears the playwright with whom she is in love declaring his love to another woman -- unaware that he is reading lines from his latest play. The Hindustan Times, in its obituary, said her acting in the movie ''epitomized rustic beauty in mainstream Hindi cinema.''
        Ms. Chitnis began playing mothers in 1948 with the patriotic film ''Shaheed.'' Her best known maternal role, according to The Hindustan Times, was in ''Awaara'' (1951), in which she is deserted by her husband for suspected infidelity.
        Her last movie was ''Dil Tujhko Diya,'' in 1985.
        For older Indians, Ms. Chitnis is remembered as the first Indian movie star to endorse Lux soap, in 1941. Foreign celebrities had previously been the ones to endorse this and other consumer products.
        In addition to her son Manavendra, Ms. Chitnis is survived by her sons Benoy and Raj, and by three grandchildren.
      