
        Celia Cruz, the Cuban singer who became the queen of Latin music, died yesterday at her home in Fort Lee, N.J. She was 77.
        The cause was complications after surgery for a brain tumor, said a spokeswoman, Blanca Lasalle.
        Onstage, Ms. Cruz was a petite woman who wore tight, glittering dresses and towering wigs, dancing in high heels and belting songs that she punctuated with shouts of ''Azucar!'' (''Sugar!''). She was a vocal powerhouse, with a tough, raspy voice that could ride the percussive attack of a rumba or bring hard-won emotion to a lovelorn Cuban son.
        ''When people hear me sing,'' she said in an interview with The New York Times, ''I want them to be happy, happy, happy. I don't want them thinking about when there's not any money, or when there's fighting at home. My message is always felicidad -- happiness.''
        In a career that began in the 1940's, Ms. Cruz sang with every major Latin bandleader and recorded more than 70 albums. She sang a full spectrum of Afro-Cuban music, from the religious chants of santería to mambos and cha-chas to modern salsa. Yet unlike many of the Latin musicians in her wake, she didn't court a crossover audience. She recorded in Spanish, modestly saying that her English was not good enough.
        Ms. Cruz was born in Havana to a poor family, and she regularly sang her brothers and sisters to sleep. She won a radio talent contest after a cousin took her to the radio station García Serra; first prize was a cake. She went on to study at the Havana Conservatory and to sing on radio programs. In 1950, she joined La Sonora Matancera, Cuba's most popular band. ''I wanted to be a mother, a teacher and a housewife,'' she told The New York Times. ''But when I began to sing with La Sonora Matancera, I thought, 'This is my chance, and I'm going to do it.' ''
        She toured with the group constantly, sometimes singing five sets a day; they were also headliners at Havana's most celebrated nightclub, the Tropicana, and performed on radio and television. But in 1960, a year after Fidel Castro took power in Cuba, she was touring Mexico with La Sonora Matancera and decided not to return to Cuba. Years later, Cuba refused permission for her to attend her father's funeral.
        Ms. Cruz moved to New York in 1961, and later to Fort Lee. In 1962, she married Pedro Knight, a trumpeter from La Sonora Matancera who became her musical director and manager. He survives her, along with two sisters, Gladys Becquer and Dolores Cruz.
        In New York, she held on to her Cuban roots while adding some of the city's Puerto Rican and later Dominican elements to her music. She sang with Tito Puente's orchestra in the 1960's, a collaboration she periodically renewed through the next decades, and in the 1970's she also sang with bandleaders like Johnny Pacheco, Willie Colón and Ray Barretto. She performed with the Fania All-Stars at Yankee Stadium in 1975.
        ''Women are afraid to sing salsa,'' she once said. ''I don't know why. Maybe they think it's for men.'' She added, ''But I think everybody can sing everything.''
        She continued to modernize her music, working with Miami-based producers like Willy Chirino and Emilio Estefan and with Sergio George in New York, who produced her most recent albums. She also collaborated with many of the musicians who admired her, among them Luciano Pavarotti, Gloria Estefan, David Byrne of Talking Heads and the Brazilian songwriter Caetano Veloso.
        In 1989, Ms. Cruz won a Grammy award for best tropical Latin performance for an album in collaboration with Mr. Barretto, ''Ritmo en el Corazón.'' In 1989, Yale University awarded Ms. Cruz an honorary doctorate (alongside Stephen Hawking), and in 1990 the main street of Little Havana in Miami, Calle Ocho, added the name Celia Cruz Way. In 1994, President Clinton gave her the National Medal of Arts. She won the first Latin Grammy Award for best tropical album in 2000. Until last year, Ms. Cruz continued to perform and record constantly on an international circuit that included jazz festivals and arena concerts along with Latin clubs.
        She had surgery for a brain tumor in December 2002, but in February she returned to the studio to record an album, ''Regalo de Alma,'' that is due for release Aug. 5 on Sony Discos. That same month, her 2002 album, ''La Negra Tiene Tumbao,'' won the Grammy Award for best salsa album. In March, the Telemundo network broadcast a live concert tribute to Ms. Cruz, in which she performed alongside other Latin stars, including Marc Anthony, to raise money for the Celia Cruz Foundation for Hispanic students to study music. It will give its first five grants on her birthday this year, Oct. 21.
      