
        Ivan Allen Jr., who as mayor of Atlanta led racial integration efforts in the 1960's at a time when other Southern cities were erupting in violence, died yesterday in Atlanta. He was 92.
        Mr. Allen, the grandson of a Confederate cavalryman, came from a wealthy and distinguished Georgia family and overcame his original segregationist beliefs. This personal transformation allowed him to lead Atlanta to integrate schools, its municipal work force and its businesses with such deftness that the city gained a national reputation for racial tolerance during his service as mayor, from 1962 to 1970.
        ''Over the turbulent waters of the 1960's, Ivan Allen was the human bridge from the old South to the new in Atlanta,'' said Gary M. Pomerantz, author of ''Where Peachtree Meets Sweet Auburn'' (Scribner, 1996), which chronicles the Allen family history.
        ''Literally on his own back, he carried the city's white establishment to a more enlightened day,'' Mr. Pomerantz continued at the interview yesterday.
        The trajectory of the journey of Mr. Allen and his city is suggested by the fact that in his first Democratic mayoral primary, his opponent was Lester Maddox, the segregationist who died last week. The second mayor to succeed him, only four years after he served, was Maynard H. Jackson Jr., the city's first black mayor, who received strong backing from blacks and whites alike. Mr. Jackson also died last week.
        As Mr. Allen desegregated swimming pools and hired Atlanta's first black fireman, among many similar moves, he presented his actions as necessary to preserve the city's reputation for moderation. He told Mr. Pomerantz that ''business pragmatism'' was how he cast his racial message.
        The surging 1960's Atlanta economy, reflected by the soaring atriums of the local architect John Portman, was the pleasant backdrop to Mr. Allen's two four-year terms. The mayor used the city's glossy image to attract professional baseball, football and basketball teams to the city.
        But his friendship with prominent blacks, particularly the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., became an increasingly important part of his life. The dinner he held in 1964 to honor Dr. King for his Nobel Peace Prize, attended by the city's elite, was seen as a pivotal moment for race relations in the city.
        Ivan Earnest Allen Jr. was born in Atlanta on March 15, 1911, and was the only son of the owner of a successful office-supply company. The older Mr. Allen served as a state senator.
        Ivan Jr. joined the family company in 1933 after graduating from the Georgia Institute of Technology, and in 1936 began his public service by serving as a treasurer of the state's Housing Authority. In World War II, he served in the Army Quartermaster Corps in the United States.
        In 1946, he became president of the family company, and its sales increased to $8 million from $1.3 million in five years. He found time in 1945 and 1946 to serve as executive assistant to Gov. Ellis Arnall, a political moderate.
        In 1957 Mr. Allen ran for governor as a segregationist, but dropped out because of lack of support. He became president of the Atlanta Chamber of Commerce, which worked closely with William B. Hartsfield, mayor of Atlanta for 25 years, to smooth racial tensions and portray the city to outsiders as more progressive than the rest of the South.
        In March 1961, as chamber president, Mr. Allen brokered an agreement between white merchants and black leaders for the desegregation of the city's lunch counters at the same time schools were to be integrated, starting in the fall.
        Mr. Allen won almost all of the black votes in the mayoral election, enough to overcome Mr. Maddox's majority of white voters, Mr. Pomerantz said. In his first term, in December 1962, blacks and liberal whites criticized him for erecting a fence between a black and a white neighborhood, but he refused to back down until forced to do so by court order. Blacks also criticized his demolition of a black neighborhood to make way for a sports stadium.
        That same December, an air crash in Paris killed 200 Atlanta cultural leaders. Mr. Allen flew to France to help identify bodies.
        ''This was my generation,'' he said. ''My friends.''
        In 1963, Mr. Allen appeared before the Senate Commerce Committee to testify in favor of the Kennedy administration's civil rights bill, the only major Southern politician to do so.
        The mayor was swayed to speak in favor of the bill by a call from President John F. Kennedy, whom he admired so much that his office chairs were modeled after Kennedy's famous rocker.
        ''It will not only not defeat you, but it will help you get re-elected,'' Kennedy said of Mr. Allen's appearance.
        Mr. Allen won a second term with majorities of voters of both races. In 1966, he walked into a racial riot in Atlanta's Summerhill section. He chatted with the rioters, even asking one for a cigarette. The policemen were wearing helmets, but he refused one.
        ''Cover up all this gray hair?'' he said.
        After his second term, Mr. Allen returned to his business and many civic pursuits, including Boy Scouts. He is survived by his wife, Louise Richardson Allen, and two sons, Hugh Inman and Beaumont. His eldest son, Ivan III, died in 1992.
        Correction:  July 8, 2003, Tuesday  An obituary on Thursday about Ivan Allen, mayor of Atlanta from 1962 to 1970, misstated the date and the number of casualties for the 1962 Paris plane crash that killed many Atlanta cultural leaders, whom he flew to Paris to help identify. It occurred on June 3, 1962, not in December; 130 people (not 200) died, including 124 members of the Atlanta Art Association.
      