
        Norman Lewis, a British travel writer of the old school, who described the world he saw before the proliferation of Club Med and McDonald's, died on Tuesday in Saffron Walden, Essex, England. He was 95.
        Mr. Lewis was also a novelist of distinction. As a professional literary traveler he was unsurpassed, being able, Cyril Connolly observed, to ''write about the back of a bus and make it interesting.''
        Similar accolades came to him from peers like V. S. Pritchett and Graham Greene, who deemed him one of the finest -- albeit underrated -- authors of the 20th century. Mr. Lewis himself was singularly averse to that contemporary world and the industrial civilization it spawned.
        From his first published book in 1938, and especially in the 1950's through the 1980's, his reputation spread in Britain and America, as well as on the Continent through translations of his books.
        He journeyed to exotic, even sinister, places and conveyed their nature in a subtle style of detached irony as his prose transported the reader from Indochina to India, Indonesia and Burma, Latin America to Spain and Sicily.
        Norman Lewis was born in Enfield, North London, the son of a chemist enamored of spiritualism. He was raised by relatives in Wales but later worked as an assistant to his father and took to motorcycling.
        In traveling he developed an ear for languages.
        An early venture to the Middle East led to ''Sand and Sea in Arabia'' (1938), with text and photographs by him. He served in the British Army Intelligence Corps from 1939 to 1945, after which he took up traveling in earnest as a writer.
        Considered outstanding among his nonfiction was ''Naples '44'' (Pantheon, 1978), which recounted his wartime experiences in Italy, where he served as a liaison officer with the local population. He later gained much-cited insights into Sicilian organized crime and related them in ''The Honored Society: A Searching Look at the Mafia'' (Putnam, 1964).
        Other well-reviewed travel books included ''The Changing Sky: Travels of a Novelist'' (Pantheon, 1959), ''A Dragon Apparent: Travels in Indochina'' (Scribner, 1951) and ''Golden Earth: Travels in Burma'' (Scribner, 1952).
        He wrote a number of suspense novels, among them ''Cuban Passage,'' (Pantheon, 1982), set in Batista's Havana; and an autobiography, ''Jackdaw Cake'' (Hamish Hamilton, 1985). Beyond his two dozen books, he contributed to newspapers and magazines as a roving correspondent, covering, among other things, the Algerian struggle for independence from France.
      