
        John Vasil Krutilla, an economist who reckoned the dollars and cents of environmental preservation, died on June 27 at his home in McLean, Va. He was 81.
        The cause was lung cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Krutilla spent most of his professional career, from 1955 to 1988, with Resources for the Future, a nonprofit research center based in Washington that he helped establish. There, he became an architect of natural-resource economics.
        He provided cost-benefit data that underpinned his organization's pronouncements on issues ranging from forestry and fisheries to biodiversity, solid waste and land use.
        A paper he wrote in 1967, ''Conservation Reconsidered,'' provided a conceptual framework for estimating the intrinsic value of undisturbed nature. Published in the American Economic Review, it became a benchmark in the economics of conservation.
        Assisted by a team of researchers, Dr. Krutilla found that the preservation of wilderness areas had economic value that could be destroyed by certain types of development.
        In the 1960's and 1970's, this methodology helped to halt a hydroelectric dam project on the Snake River in Hells Canyon, at the border of Idaho and Oregon, by showing it to be economically unwise.
        In 1990, he and a colleague, Allen V. Kneese, were awarded the first Volvo Environment Prize. It cited their work to identify and quantify the consequences of water, noise and solid-waste pollution, and to develop plans to overcome them.
        Dr. Krutilla was born in Tacoma, Wash., and grew up poor on a farm. He served in the Coast Guard in World War II, graduated from Reed College with a degree in economics and went to Harvard University on the G.I. Bill of Rights, earning a master's degree in 1951 and a Ph.D. the next year, both in economics.
        He is survived by his wife of 49 years, Shirley Weindl Krutilla, two sons, Dr. Kerry, of Bloomington. Ind., and Kirk, of Superior, Mont.; a daughter, Kim Krutilla, of San Mateo, Calif.; and two sisters, Eva Petersen of Seattle, and Ludmilla Bloom of Tacoma.
      