
        Dr. Lazarus Astrachan, a geneticist who conducted a famous experiment in the field of molecular biology, died on Sunday while visiting Israel. He was 78.
        The cause was cancer, family members said.
        Dr. Astrachan's experiment, performed with Dr. Elliot Volkin at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee, at first greatly puzzled biologists, but it eventually led to the discovery of messenger RNA, a pivotal actor in the operation of living cells.
        At the time of his experiment, in 1957, the foremost problem in biology was to figure out how the hereditary information encoded in DNA was used by living cells to synthesize the proteins that are their working parts.
        The structure of DNA, which resides in the nucleus of cells, had been discovered four years earlier by James Watson and Francis Crick. But proteins were known to be synthesized on miniature factories known as ribosomes, which are found outside the nucleus.
        The belief at the time was that the ribosomes must be made in the nucleus, each imbued by the DNA with the information to make a certain kind of protein, and then exported to the cell's periphery. The chief ingredient of ribosomes is RNA, a close chemical cousin of DNA, which seemed capable in principle of carrying the same information.
        The Volkin-Astrachan experiment showed that there were two kinds of RNA, a long-lived type found in the ribosomes and a transitory kind whose role was unclear. They also showed that the transitory kind was made when a virus invaded bacteria and that it resembled the virus's DNA, not the bacterium's.
        Dr. Astrachan was then just 32, with a newly minted doctorate. His findings were not warmly embraced because they did not fit in with prevailing theory. But he and Dr. Volkin repeated their experiment several times, and the result seemed solid, even though anomalous.
        At a meeting in Cambridge, England, in April 1960, Dr. Crick and his colleague Dr. Sydney Brenner were comparing notes on the protein synthesis problem with their French colleague François Monod.
        During the conversation, Horace Freeland Judson wrote in his history of molecular biology, ''The Eighth Day of Creation,'' Dr. Brenner realized there must be a missing ingredient that carried information from the DNA in the cell's nucleus to the ribosomes in its periphery.
        This ingredient, he conjectured, must be the same as the transitory form of RNA seen in the Volkin-Astrachan experiment.
        Dr. Astrachan moved in 1961 to Case Western Reserve University, where he spent the rest of his career, retiring in 1990.
        He was married for 50 years to Myrtle Bergman Astrachan, a psychologist. After her death he became friends with Dr. Nancy Caroline, a pioneer in the training of emergency medical technicians and the founder of the Hospice of the Upper Galilee in Israel. They were married in 2002, a few months before she died.
        Dr. Astrachan is survived by his sons, Eric, of Wooster, Ohio, and Paul, of Austin, Tex.; a sister, Edith Schindler, of Palm Harbor, Fla.; and two grandchildren.
      