
        David Webster, a former high official of the British Broadcasting Corporation who helped many of the countries of Eastern Europe develop independent broadcasting services, died on Wednesday at his home in Washington. He was 72 and also lived and worked in Manhattan.
        The cause was heart failure, his wife, the journalist and author Elizabeth Drew, said.
        Mr. Webster was founder and chairman of the Trans-Atlantic Dialogue on Broadcasting and the Information Society, an organization he created in 1988 to promote a debate between Europe and the United States on broadcasting and information issues after France started limiting the number of American programs shown on its television.
        After the collapse of Communism, the dialogue group also began helping many former Soviet satellites in Eastern Europe draft broadcasting charters that would protect their television and radio services from government interference and guarantee a free flow of information.
        In particular, it played an important role in drawing up broadcasting regulations for the newly democratized Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, Hungary and Macedonia.
        For eight years until his retirement in 1985, Mr. Webster was a member of the BBC's board of management, which includes the highest officials of the corporation and sets overall policy.
        Mr. Webster was born in Taunton in the west of England on Jan. 11, 1931, and attended Ruskin College at Oxford University. He joined the BBC in 1953 as a trainee and edited its flagship television current affairs program, ''Panorama,'' from 1967 to 1969.
        He was the BBC's representative in the United States from 1971 to 1976 before returning to become controller of information services and acting secretary of the corporation. In 1977 he became director of public affairs with a seat on the board of management.
        In 1981 he moved back to the United States to take the new post of BBC resident director while keeping his seat on the management board.
        Besides his wife, his survivors include two sons, Daniel, of San Francisco, and Alexander, of Cherry Valley, N.Y.; his sister, Sheila Kitzinger, of Oxford, England; and three grandchildren.
      