
        Haroldo de Campos, who transformed words into whimsical diagrams and subtle critiques of formal poetry as a founder of the 1950's Concrete poetry movement in Brazil, died Aug. 16 in São Paulo. He was 73.
        The cause was complications of diabetes, the newspaper O Globo reported.
        Mr. de Campos was perhaps the best known of the Brazilian Concrete poets, who often arranged the letters of the words in their poems in shapes that would lend them multiple meanings.
        The Concretists arrived on the international literary scene as Brazil, imbued with the modernism that also resulted in the completion of the planned capital Brasília in 1960, flirted with different artistic forms.
        With his brother, Augusto, and with Décio Pignatari, Mr. de Campos formed a group that sought to create a new form of expression by removing stereotypical traces of Brazilian culture from their work.
        One result was a cosmopolitan body of writing that reflected the pragmatic, gritty industrialism of São Paulo and that drew visual inspiration from European artists like Mondrian and Brancusi.
        The Cuban writer Severo Sarduy called Mr. de Campos the ''Pound-like patriarch'' of the Concrete poets, in reference to the poet Ezra Pound.
        Haroldo Eurico Browne de Campos was born to a middle-class family in São Paulo in 1929 and graduated from the University of São Paulo with a law degree. He shunned the legal profession, however, preferring to risk his hand at literary experimentation.
        A prolific essayist, translator and polyglot, Mr. de Campos translated works into Portuguese from Chinese, German, Spanish, Greek, Hebrew, English, Italian, Japanese, Russian, Latin and Provençal. In doing so, he often adopted a freewheeling practice called transcreation, which allowed him to intersperse translations with his own ideas.
        Mr. de Campos's translations sometimes took the form of literary collaborations, as in ''Transblanco,'' a 1986 work in which he drew on correspondence and discussions with the Mexican poet Octavio Paz to produce a Brazilian version of Paz's poetry.
        The Mexican government awarded Mr. de Campos the Octavio Paz Prize in 1999.
        Mr. de Campos had widespread influence on Brazilian popular music, with composers like Caetano Veloso basing songs on his poems.
        Mr. de Campos is survived by his wife, Carmen, and a son, Ivan.
      