
        George W. Marquardt, an Army Air Forces pilot who took part in the World War II atomic bomb raids on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, died Aug. 15 at a nursing-care center in Murray, Utah. He was 84.
        He had Parkinson's disease for many years, his wife, Bernece, said.
        On the morning of Aug. 6, 1945, Major Marquardt flew a B-29 Superfortress carrying photographic equipment over Hiroshima.
        His bomber -- designated No. 91 but later called Necessary Evil by its crew -- was part of a seven-plane mission that accompanied Col. Paul W. Tibbets Jr.'s Enola Gay when it dropped the atomic bomb.
        Three days later, Major Marquardt substituted for Colonel Tibbets as pilot of the Enola Gay and flew it to conduct weather reconnaissance over Kokura, Japan, the primary target for the second atomic bomb raid.
        When smoke from previous bombing obscured that city, Major Charles W. Sweeney's plane, Bock's Car, diverted to Nagasaki and dropped the second bomb.
        Japan surrendered five days later, ending World War II.
        George William Marquardt, a native of Princeton, Ky., and the son of a veterinarian, left Illinois Wesleyan University in March 1941 to enter the military and later joined the 509th Composite Group, which trained for the atomic bomb missions under extraordinary secrecy at Wendover Field, Utah.
        On the 50th anniversary of the Hiroshima attack, Mr. Marquardt attended a reunion of the 509th at the New Mexico site where the atomic bomb was tested in July 1945, and he recalled the moment of the Hiroshima blast.
        ''It seemed as if the sun had come out of the earth and exploded,'' he told The Salt Lake Tribune.
        ''Smoke boiled around the flash as it rose,'' he said. ''It felt as if a monster hand had slapped the side of the plane.''
        For the Hiroshima mission, scientists from the Manhattan Project, which built the bombs, put sophisticated photography equipment aboard Major Marquardt's plane to capture images of the fireball and record ground damage.
        But the plane's navigator, Russell E. Gackenbach, said on Thursday from his home in Melbourne, Fla., that the crew had been told the film could not be developed.
        Mr. Gackenbach, a second lieutenant at the time, said he did not know the nature of the technical problem.
        Mr. Gackenbach had his own camera on the Hiroshima mission, an Agfa 620, and he took two surviving photographs of the fireball.
        ''Every time I flew, I had a camera, and I did that here,'' he said.
        Mr. Marquardt left the military soon after World War II, settled in the Salt Lake City area and became an executive with the Allen Steel Company.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his sons Steven, of Draper, Utah; Michael, of Murray; and Chris, of Lehi, Utah; a daughter, Michelle Judy, of Murray; two sisters, Vera Renfro of Florida, and Mary Marshall of Ellsworth, Me.; 11 grandchildren; and 11 great-grandchildren.
        In the face of longstanding controversy, Mr. Marquardt remained steadfast in defending President Harry S. Truman's decision to use the bomb.
        ''I have never for one moment regretted my participation in the dropping of the A-bomb,'' he told The Salt Lake Tribune in 1995. ''It ended a terrible war.''
      