
        Nizar Hamdoon, who had been Iraq's ambassador to the United States and the United Nations, a deputy foreign minister of his country and under secretary of its Foreign Ministry, died on July 4 in Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 59.
        The cause was pneumonia, and he also had non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, Arab diplomats said, The Associated Press reported.
        In the 1980's and 1990's, Mr. Hamdoon was an important representative of Saddam Hussein's government. During Mr. Hamdoon's career, he had to adapt to a reversal in United States policy toward Iraq. During the Iran-Iraq war, from 1980 to 1988, the United States supported Iraq against the Iranian government of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini.
        But after Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990, the United States and its allies fought Iraq in the Persian Gulf war of 1991.
        Mr. Hamdoon was Iraq's ambassador to the United States from 1984, when diplomatic ties that had been severed after the 1967 Middle East War were restored, until 1988.
        During his time in Washington, he was a popular figure in the capital's diplomatic circles.
        He was there during crucial periods of the Iran-Iraq war. In 1988 he became a deputy foreign minister, based in Baghdad.
        From 1992 to 1998, he was ambassador to the United Nations. There he worked to try to end economic sanctions imposed on Iraq in the wake of Iraq's invasion of Kuwait.
        In 1999 he became under secretary of the Iraqi Foreign Ministry.
        In 2001 he was one of a number of Iraqi officials involved in diplomacy who left their posts in a government shake-up. He later retired, citing health problems.
        A son of a cavalry general, Mr. Hamdoon was a Sunni Muslim with roots in the city of Mosul in northern Iraq. He attended an American Catholic school in Baghdad and received a degree in architecture from Baghdad University.
        He also became the chief of the Iraqi Baath Party's section in Syria for a time.
        His survivors include his wife and two daughters, all of Baghdad.
      