
        Kirk Varnedoe, the articulate, courtly and wide-ranging art historian who as chief curator of painting and sculpture at the Museum of Modern Art helped to reshape the museum's collection and philosophy and in so doing created a broader public understanding of modern art, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 57 and lived in Manhattan and Princeton.
        The cause was colon cancer, said his wife, the sculptor Elyn Zimmerman. Mr. Varnedoe had been fighting cancer for seven years, during which he had left the Modern to accept a position on the faculty of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton. That gave him time to write the Mellon Lectures for the National Gallery of Art in Washington, which he delivered this spring. His subject was abstraction since 1945, not the most popular topic ordinarily, but overflow crowds lined up hours beforehand to hear him speak.
        ''He loved life in its most tangible forms, and so for him art was as physical and pleasurable as being knocked down by a wave,'' said Adam Gopnik, the writer and a former student of his who collaborated on Mr. Varnedoe's first big show at the Modern, ''High & Low.'' ''Art was always material first -- it was never, ever bound by a thorny crown of ideas. His incredible faith in real things for him found its highest expression in art, but extended way beyond to include everything from an Elvis record to a bottle of Krug, and it brought to life, every day, the ordinary existence of everyone around him.''
        Chuck Close, the painter, said yesterday: ''As an artist, it was thrilling to have Kirk describe your work. He was a dazzling speaker, but it was not just wordsmanship. He got to the heart of things fast. He had a genuine rapport with artists. He even married one. When he asked me to do a show choosing works from the museum's collection, his support was total in the service of taking a fresh look at the collection. And personally, he was instrumental, after I became paralyzed, in having my work seen not as the work of a handicapped artist but as the work of an artist with a handicap. I can't tell you how important that was. Then when he became ill he never allowed himself to be defined by cancer.''
        Among the many acquisitions for which Mr. Varnedoe was responsible at the Modern was one of van Gogh's great portraits of Joseph Roulin, the bearded postmaster the artist befriended in Arles, France. Mr. Varnedoe was finishing a book about the painting when he died. He also acquired for the museum a sketch by Picasso for ''Les Demoiselles D'Avignon.'' Above all, he helped to build the collection of art from the 1960's and 70's, which had been underrepresented at the Modern. The museum acquired James Rosenquist's enormous, iconic pop mural ''F-16,'' Andy Warhol's famous suite of soup-can paintings and major works by Richard Serra, Rauschenberg, James Turrell, Cy Twombly and others.
        His exhibitions included the hugely successful Jackson Pollock retrospective in 1998, which he organized with Pepe Karmel, a former student, and retrospectives of Jasper Johns (1996) and Mr. Twombly (1994). With Mr. Gopnik he did ''High & Low'' in 1990, a historical survey of the traffic between high modern art and popular culture. Mr. Varnedoe's first big undertaking as curator, it was a brave debut because it predictably caused much debate, and some bitter criticism, while the contemporary art world was sharply divided. With time, the breakdown of traditional artistic hierarchies and the book that came out of the exhibition have been increasingly accepted and influential.
        Before then, as a guest curator at the museum, Mr. Varnedoe helped to organize, with William Rubin, who previously headed the painting and sculpture department, the equally contentious ''Primitivism'' show (1984), which traced the influence of so-called primitive art on Western artists from Gauguin to the present. And by himself he put together the much-praised, popular ''Vienna 1900: Art, Architecture & Design'' (1986).
        Less conspicuously, but very significantly, as curator he initiated the Artists Choice series. Artists -- Scott Burton, Elizabeth Murray, Chuck Close, John Baldessari, Ellsworth Kelly -- were invited to organize exhibitions of works from the museum's permanent collection. Mr. Varnedoe explained, ''I would really like the public to see the collection through the eyes of the people to whom it means the most.''
        His marriage to an artist, Ms. Zimmerman, had helped alert him to the value of including the views of living artists at the museum. Before Mr. Varnedoe arrived, the museum had increasingly come to be perceived within much of the contemporary art world as disconnected from, even hostile to, new art. These modest shows not only reconnected the museum with the contemporary scene but also helped to establish terms for a long overdue reconsideration of the presentation of modern art history at the museum.
        This reconsideration took place mainly through Mr. Varnedoe's reinstallation of the collection. He progressively turned what had been a hard and narrow view of the course of modern painting and sculpture, focused almost exclusively on France and then the United States, into a more flexible and inclusive narrative without undoing what he believed was essentially right and elegant about the old view.
        His installations gave new prominence to Russian, German and Italian art before the war and to a wide array of art since 1960, including art by women. The galleries were literally opened up so that they were no longer arranged as an inescapable sequence of rooms dictating a single story. It was a judicious, diplomatic reappraisal, not a drastic overhaul, reflecting his personality. Naturally, conservative critics and more radical revisionists fumed anyway, but the changes have come to be widely accepted and imitated.
        Mr. Varnedoe's willingness to rethink, tweak and tinker with the history of art at the world's most influential modern art museum came from a vitality and a large curiosity that expressed themselves before he arrived in books about underappreciated and occasionally oddball figures like the French painter and collector Gustave Caillebotte, the Scandinavian artists Vilhelm Hammershoi and Eugene Jansson, and the American superrealist Duane Hanson.
        Some of these books resulted from exhibitions. Mr. Varnedoe organized a Caillebotte retrospective for the Houston Museum of Fine Arts in 1976, as well as ''Northern Light: Realism and Symbolism in Scandinavian Painting'' for the Brooklyn Museum in 1982, while he was still a professor at the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University. They helped to bring him to the attention of the Modern as a scholar of independent inclinations who could put together popular exhibitions and write smartly and accessibly for a wide audience.
        The jury for the MacArthur Foundation Fellowship noticed these qualities, too, and granted him one of its genius prizes in 1984. Among other things, he used the grant to write a history of modernism, ''A Fine Disregard: What Makes Modern Art Modern.'' He borrowed the title from a plaque near the Rugby School in England honoring William Webb Ellis, ''who, with a fine disregard for the rules, invented the game of rugby.'' Mr. Varnedoe, a rugby player and avid athlete, proposed Ellis's mad dash with the ball as a metaphor for artistic innovation. It was an anti-Hegelian, anti-Marxist position, wherein art was regarded not as an inevitable unfolding of progressive events but as a variety of inspired inventions by remarkable and imaginative people. It was also, importantly for Mr. Varnedoe, a visceral and immediate experience.
        John Kirk Train Varnedoe was born on Jan. 18, 1946, the youngest of four children, into an old, distinguished family from Savannah, Ga. In addition to his wife, he is survived by two brothers, Sam, a photographer from New York City, and Gordon, an arts administrator from Savannah, and a sister, Comer, also from Savannah.
        As a boy, Mr. Varnedoe had a flair for drawing and painting, and at St. Andrews, a prep school in Delaware, his caricatures ran in the school yearbook. He became one of many museum professionals to have graduated from Williams College, where, he recalled, Lane Faison Jr. was one of the professors who opened his eyes to art history. ''You were encouraged to believe that you should look hard at paintings and that what you had to say about them would be worthwhile,'' Mr. Varnedoe said, ''which in a sense was a false hope, because many people had said thousands of things about these pictures before. But it was very salutary.''
        As a doctoral student at Stanford under Albert Elsen, the Rodin scholar, he gained access to hundreds of previously unseen drawings by Rodin, which caught the attention of J. Carter Brown, director of the National Gallery, and the result was his first major exhibition, of Rodin drawings, in Washington in 1971.
        For years, he taught at Columbia University and at the Institute of Fine Arts, where his lectures routinely attracted huge audiences of students and the public. Even in one-on-one conversation, his speaking style was custom-made for the lecture hall: astonishingly fluent, easy and organized in perfectly formed, complex paragraphs that seemed to flow naturally and without hesitation. In person he had no time for idle charm, but people who sometimes found him brusque at first came in time to recognize shyness, loyalty, an occasional naïve streak about art world politics, and empathy. Typically, he ceded some of the dictatorial power that had been exercised by predecessors at the Modern, and shared more responsibilities with junior colleagues who had different interests and strengths.
        For him, modern art was like modern life, Mr. Gopnik added. It was not a religion but a way of experiencing the world.
        ''Modern art writ large,'' Mr. Varnedoe once wrote, ''presents one cultural expression of a larger political gamble on the human possibility of living in change and without absolutes, and also on the individual human consciousness, for all its flaws and deforming optics, as our prime resource and treasure.''
        Correction:  August 22, 2003, Friday  An obituary on Friday about Kirk Varnedoe, former chief curator of painting and sculpture at the Museum of Modern Art, misstated the title of the James Rosenquist mural that the museum acquired while Mr. Varnedoe was there. It is ''F-111,'' not ''F-16.''
      