
        Bhupen Khakhar, a painter of social and personal narratives who was one of the most influential artists of his generation in India, died on Aug. 8 in Baroda, India. He was 69.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said a spokesman at Bose Pacia Modern, a Manhattan gallery that has shown his work.
        Mr. Khakhar studied accounting and explored art in his spare time. After meeting the painter Gulammohammed Sheikh in 1958, he decided to attend art school in Baroda, where he joined a circle of contemporaries who were shaping a new Indian art, among them Mr. Sheikh, Nilima Sheikh, Nalina Malani, Vivan Sundaran and the critic Geeta Kapur.
        In 1962 Mr. Khakhar was introduced to Pop Art. It, as well as the work of Henri Rousseau, David Hockney and early Italian Renaissance painting, had a lasting effect on him, as did earlier Indian modernism, Rajput miniature painting, popular religious art and his own observation of urban street life.
        Largely self-taught, Mr. Khakhar developed a cleanly executed, richly colored style in oil, watercolor and gouache. His focus on narratives, which combined daily life and fantasy, stood in contrast to the abstraction and expressive figuration that prevailed among progressive artists of an older generation. He set himself further apart from the earlier generation in the 1980's when he made his homosexuality a chief subject of his art.
        This move, which was particularly audacious in a conservative South Asian context, coincided with the rise of identity politics as a defining feature of a multicultural art world. His work began to be included in big international exhibitions. In 1986 he had a solo show at the Pompidou Center in Paris. A career retrospective was organized by the Reina Sofía National Art Center in Madrid last summer and traveled to Britain.
        Mr. Khakhar, who published short stories and a play, was the subject of a book by the British artist Timothy Hyman and a film by Judy Marle. Among his friends he was known for his self-deprecating attitude toward his art. He had so little confidence in its value that he maintained a full-time job as an accountant until he was well into his 50's.
        His companion, Vallarbhai Shah, died on July 30. Mr. Khakhar has no immediate survivors.
      