
        Albert Field, the designated expert in divining when the surreal is real, at least in the work of Salvador Dalí, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital of Queens. He was 86.
        Dalí, whose precisely realistic renderings of fantastic images like melting watches are very popular with art collectors both casual and serious, once said that he awoke ''wonderstruck'' at the thought of the prodigious things he would do that day. The problem was that countless Dalí counterfeiters had a disturbingly similar thought.
        That is where Mr. Field came in: Dalí appointed him to be the arbiter of which Dalís were really Dalís.
        Mr. Field, whose title was official archivist, proceeded to catalog thousands of authentic Dalí works and fakes. As a result, he was drafted as an expert in 20 art fraud investigations. His services were also sought by auction houses, museums and individuals, who for $150 could find out if a $3,000 Dalí was what they fervently hoped it was.
        ''I have found 17 kinds of fraud,'' he said in a newspaper interview with The St. Petersburg Times, in Florida, in 1987, and that excluded what a salesman might tell a customer to make a sale.
        Forgers were drawn by Dalí's awesome output, which made single copies hard to pinpoint, and by his easy-to-forge signature, among other things. Some accounts have suggested that even Dalí's wife and friends were not above abetting counterfeiters.
        Dalí had his own theory. ''Someone who is subjected to forgery the way I am must really be fantastically good,'' he said.
        An eccentric genius, Dalí found a kindred spirit in Mr. Field, who was not exactly bound by convention himself. A thin, spectral figure with a wispy white beard, he lived and worked in a crammed row house in Astoria, Queens, decorated with large old subway signs and, of course, Dalís.
        ''Don't walk on that! That's a Dalí rug,'' Mr. Field screamed at a reporter for The New York Times in 1998. ''Still Life by the Light of the Moon,'' to be specific.
        Mr. Field, a former schoolteacher, collected playing cards, and had reason to think that his 6,000 decks might be the world's largest agglomeration of them. He climbed the Matterhorn and Mount Fuji and was on his way to having scaled the tallest peak in each of the 50 states.
        He combined his interests in nudism and hiking by trekking the Appalachian Trail in the nude. He sang bass with the Oratorio Society of New York for 53 years.
        He never had the slightest interest in any artist besides Dalí, said Frank Hunter, a friend and business associate.
        George Albert Field Jr. was born on Nov. 8, 1916, in Maplewood, N.J., where he grew up in affluence. He graduated from Columbia as an English major and earned a master's degree in English from Harvard. He taught English and science at Columbia Grammar and Preparatory School, then mathematics, English and science at public junior and senior high schools in New York City.
        Mr. Field fell for Dalí's work when he went to his ''Dream of Venus,'' a Surrealist fun house at the 1930 World's Fair. His visit to the first major retrospective of Dalí works at the Museum of Modern Art in 1941 deepened his passion.
        He eventually met Dalí in the early 1940's, and the artist responded to his adulation. During the three or four months of each year that Dalí would spend in New York, the two would meet on Sundays at the St. Regis Hotel. Mr. Field would take along photographs of works attributed to Dalí. When they were fakes, the artist would write ''fals'' on the photos, leaving off the final ''e,'' Mr. Hunter said.
        In 1955, Dalí asked Mr. Field to be his official archivist. Since Dalí could not type, Mr. Field typed a letter formalizing his appointment. Dalí signed it.
        Mr. Field eventually decided to concentrate on prints rather than on paintings and other art forms, because he figured he had a chance to get through prints in his lifetime. He traveled to Europe 40 times in his quest to pin down the authenticity, whereabouts and provenance of Dalí's outpouring of prints.
        He even got to know all but one of the major forgers personally. In 1998, he put the results, complete with color pictures, in his self-published ''Official Catalog of the Graphic Works of Salvador Dalí.''
        A. Reynolds Morse, chairman and former director of the Salvador Dalí Museum in St. Petersburg, wrote in the book's introduction, ''Only the labors and scholarship of Mr. Field can begin to restore any kind of order to the vast world of Dalí reproductive prints,''
        Mr. Field bequeathed all his research material to the museum. He visited Dalí many times at his home in Spain and was granted the privilege of watching him paint.
        Once, for no reason Mr. Field ever learned, Dalí's wife, Gala, poured a bottle of Champagne over his head. Mr. Field preferred to get wet in Dalí's swimming pool, comfortably nude.
        Correction:  August 13, 2003, Wednesday  An obituary on Sunday about Albert Field, the designated authenticator of the artwork of Salvador Dalí, misstated the year of the World's Fair at which Mr. Field admired Dalí's ''Dream of Venus'' installation. It was 1939, not 1930. The obituary also misstated the meaning of a mark made by Dalí on photographs of fakes. ''Fals'' is the Catalan word for fake or false, not a truncation of the English word.
      