
        Jack Arnold Shaffer, a Manhattan investment banker who specialized in major real estate deals like the sale of the Plaza Hotel, died on Monday in Norwalk, Conn. A resident of the East Side of Manhattan, he was 73 and had a weekend home in Westport.
        The cause was complications of kidney cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Shaffer, who worked as a broker or real estate investment banker on many trophy real estate transactions in the United States and abroad, was a principal and managing partner of the New York real estate firm of the Sonnenblick-Goldman Company for more than 30 years.
        In 2001, he set up shop on his own as Jack A. Shaffer & Company, a concern investing in overseas properties, which he operated in partnership with Trinity Investments Trust.
        He became prominent in the 1980's with the influx of European and Japanese investors looking for bargains in what was then a depressed property market in New York City. Private and institutional investors from abroad bought up pricey properties and helped finance the construction of office buildings, shopping malls and other projects in New York and other American commercial hubs.
        At the time, Mr. Shaffer was associated with Sonnenblick-Goldman. He was its chief broker dealing with Japanese clients in the 1980's as the firm grew into the country's largest lender for major real estate transactions.
        Jack Shaffer was born in Chicago and graduated with a business degree from the University of Miami in 1951 and Northwestern University's law school in 1953. At the end of the Korean War, he served in the Army's judge advocate general branch, rising to captain.
        He took an interest in the Far East and international deals, eventually conducting business in the Middle East and Europe as well. He oversaw Sonnenblick-Goldman's operations in California before becoming managing partner in charge of international investments.
        The deals he arranged over the years were often worth hundreds of millions of dollars, starting with the sale of the Hyatt Regency Maui to a Japanese group. In 1987 he represented Robert M. Bass and the Aoki Corporation in their $1.5 billion purchase of the Westin Hotel chain, and he represented the Bass Group again that year in its sale of the Plaza Hotel to Donald J. Trump.
        He had a hand in ownership changes at prime London hotels like Claridge's and the Connaught, and in Marriott International's acquisition of Ritz-Carlton Hotels.
        He was an adviser in the sale of Hyatt Hotels throughout the country and represented Universal Studios in a joint venture with Loews Hotels for lodgings at the Universal theme park.
        Mr. Shaffer supported charities including UJA-Federation and the St. Thomas Aquinas School in the South Bronx, on whose board he served.
        Mr. Shaffer is survived by his wife of 30 years, Kelly; three daughters from an earlier marriage, Andrea Collins of Bronxville, N.Y.; Dana Hayden of Purchase, N.Y.; and Stephani Wolff of Burbank, Calif.; a sister, Nicole Rothschild, of Oregon; and 10 grandchildren.
      