
        Robert J. Ward, a senior federal judge in New York, who presided over nationally prominent lawsuits that included charges of illegal interference with abortion rights and accusations of plagiarism by a best-selling author, died on Tuesday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital. He was 77 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, said a daughter, Acting Justice Laura A. Ward of State Supreme Court in Manhattan.
        Judge Ward served on the United States Court for the Southern District of New York since 1972, when President Richard M. Nixon appointed him. The court is based in Manhattan and has jurisdiction over federal cases in that borough as well as in the Bronx and several counties north of New York City.
        Before that, he had been an assistant district attorney in Manhattan; an assistant United States attorney in the Southern District, rising to chief of the civil division; and a lawyer in private practice.
        In the abortion case, Judge Ward issued an injunction in 1989 that ordered the anti-abortion group Operation Rescue to cease blocking the entrances to abortion and family-planning clinics during protests. The injunction, intended to keep the protesters from preventing women from entering the clinics, preserved the protesters' rights to make speeches, counsel women and hand out pamphlets.
        But soon after the ruling, protesters, in demonstrations run by Operation Rescue, linked arms and blocked the entrances at five Manhattan clinics. Judge Ward responded by fining the group and 10 individuals a total of $450,000. ''I know these are large fines,'' Judge Ward said, but he noted that earlier fines were ignored and had not stopped the entrance blockages. ''It was necessary to take coercive action,'' he added.
        The high-profile plagiarism case he presided over, in the late 1970's, involved an accusation by a novelist, Harold Courlander, that the world-renowned book ''Roots,'' by Alex Haley, contained some striking similarities to Mr. Courlander's book ''The African.''
        Mr. Haley said that his book, which sold millions of copies and spawned a widely watched television series, was based on extensive research into seven generations of his family. Mr. Courlander's novel, which sold 14,000 copies in hard cover and 130,000 in paperback, explored the transition of Africans from tribal freedom to slavery.
        During the trial, Judge Ward proposed a settlement, but Mr. Haley's lawyers rejected the proposal. Later, however, as the trial neared an end after six weeks, the parties did settle. Mr. Haley denied plagiarism but conceded that three brief passages in his book had apparently come from Mr. Courlander's and said somebody had probably had given the passages to him without attributing them to ''The African.''
        As with any federal district judge of long tenure, Judge Ward presided over a large number of cases in which the spotlight was local rather than national.
        In 1983, for example, he overturned a ban on night flights at Westchester County Airport in Purchase, N.Y. County officials had enacted the ban in response to noise complaints by residents in the suburban area around the airport, but Judge Ward called the ban ''an unreasonable, arbitrary, discriminatory and overbroad exercise of power by the county.''
        In another ruling, in 1978, he reined in New York City when he ruled that the city had exceeded its authority in trying to keep Columbia University from operating a 250-kilowatt nuclear reactor for teaching and research purposes on its Morningside Heights campus.
        He said the federal government had pre-empted the area of nuclear regulation, rending void a 1976 city ordinance that required operators of nuclear reactors to obtain a city as well as a federal license. The city had acted amid opposition to the Columbia reactor in Morningside Heights and Harlem.
        Robert Joseph Ward was born in New York City in 1926. He graduated from Harvard College and Harvard Law School and served in the Navy from 1944 to 1946.
        He is survived by his wife, Renee; his daughters, Laura Ward of Manhattan and Carolyn Ward of Washington; a sister, Joan W. Hill of Manhattan; and five stepchildren: Lawrence and Jonathan Roberts of Manhattan, Judith Sokolow of Manhattan, Jeffrey Sokolow of Atlanta and Jonathan Sokolow of Waterford, Va.; and nine stepgrandchildren. His first wife, Florence, to whom he was married 42 years, died in 1994.
      