
        William Woolfolk, a novelist, television writer and comic book author who wrote stories for many popular wartime comic-book characters, including Captain Marvel and Blackhawk, died on July 20 in Syracuse, where he lived. He was 86.
        Mr. Woolfolk was chief scriptwriter for the television courtroom drama ''The Defenders,'' starring E. G. Marshall, which ran from 1961-65. One 1965 episode he wrote, ''All the Silent Voices,'' was one of the first to deal with birth control.
        Mr. Woolfolk began his career as a comic-book writer in the early 1940's, after graduating from New York University. He was a friend of Seymour Reit, the creator of Casper the Friendly Ghost, who suggested that he write for Will Eisner and Jerry Iger's company, which produced the Spirit and Blackhawk comics. At a time when comics were still a crude, amateurish art form, the Eisner stable included the artists Jack Cole, Lou Fine and Reed Crandall, known for their impeccable craft and their work's fine line and proportions. Mr. Woolfolk became their collaborator.
        Cole went on to create the character Plastic Man, which combined super-hero action and surrealism, for Police Comics, a line for which Mr. Woolfolk also wrote stories. He was one of the most highly paid writers of the era, earning $300 a week when an average weekly salary was about $30. He wrote for several different companies at once, including DC (Superman and Batman); Timely, the precursor to Marvel comics (Sub-Mariner and Captain America); and Fawcett (Captain Marvel, Captain Marvel Jr. and Bulletman).
        Long before Pearl Harbor, American comic-book writers and publishers, many of them Jewish, decided that the United States belonged in World War II. Their comic-book heroes continued to fight during the war. Military Comics No. 13, dated November 1942 and written by Mr. Woolfolk (he used the name Bill Woolfolk), featured the intrepid Polish ace Blackhawk fighting a sadistic Nazi officer named the Butcher. The stories of derring-do, which blended realism and comic-book hyperbole, were popular.
        When Mr. Eisner went into the service in spring 1942, Mr. Woolfolk took over writing The Spirit, along with the noted pulp author Manley Wade Wellman. Lou Fine, who was known for drawing just like Eisner, called Woolfolk ''the Shakespeare of comics.'' The Spirit is celebrated as one of the most influential comics, with its dense, witty plotting, nuanced characters and film-noir style storytelling techniques.
        Mr. Woolfolk did not create new characters, but said he coined one of the most famous lines in comics: Captain Marvel's exclamation ''Holy Moley!'' ''He created that so Captain Marvel would have something to say when Captain Marvel was particularly astonished,'' said Joanna Martine Woolfolk, his third wife. They were divorced in 1999. Mr. Woolfolk and his second wife, Dorothy, who is deceased, had a daughter, the author Donna Woolfolk Cross, best known for her novel ''Pope Joan.'' Ms. Cross, of Syracuse, survives him, along with a stepson, Dr. Donald Woolfolk, of Williamsburg, Va., and four granddaughters.
        Although Mr. Woolfolk's novels, including ''The Beautiful Couple,'' a best seller in 1968, were frequently romans à clef based on show-business personalities like Richard Burton and Elizabeth Taylor, his interests were varied. His 1969 novel, ''The Builders,'' based on the construction of the Seagram building, featured a character based on the Modernist architect William Lescaze.
        ''Comics have outlasted my writing efforts in other media,'' Mr. Woolfolk said in an interview last year.
      