
        Donald J. Winn, an influential senior official of the Federal Reserve Board for two decades, died on Thursday in Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 66 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md.
        He had pancreatic cancer, his son Daniel said.
        As chief lobbyist for the board since 1979, Mr. Winn helped Alan Greenspan, the chairman, and Paul A. Volcker, who preceded Mr. Greenspan as chairman, fend off critics in Congress who sought to limit the Fed's independence, said Virgil Mattingly, the general counsel and a colleague of Mr. Winn for 29 years.
        The Federal Reserve, which sets key interest rates and regulates the nation's banks, is an independent agency; it reports to Congress rather than to the White House.
        Mr. Winn, a former aide to the House banking committee, had a role in shaping many banking laws, including the 1999 Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which repealed the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933, making it easier for commercial banks, investment firms and insurers to enter one another's businesses.
        ''The Fed was involved in every kind of banking legislation,'' Mr. Mattingly said, ''and Don was involved in every single piece of it.''
        In a statement, Mr. Greenspan called Mr. Winn ''a gentle man of great humor whose vast knowledge about Congressional and legislative issues has proven invaluable to the board and the entire Federal Reserve System.''.
        Mr. Winn was born in Woonsocket, R.I., in 1937. A Jesuit seminarian for 12 years, he received philosophy degrees from Boston College in 1961 and 1962 and a divinity degree from Weston College in 1968, after teaching at Holy Cross College in Worcester, Mass.
        He left the Jesuit order in 1968 and moved to Washington, where he received a law degree from Georgetown University Law School.
        He liked to recite Latin proverbs to urge officials to inform members of Congress promptly and fully. He read philosophy and theology books in five languages, Daniel Winn said, but he also was an early user of personal computers. He brought home his first computer in 1987.
        He joined the Fed's Office of Congressional Liaison in 1974, and became acting director in 1979 at a time when interest rates were rising sharply after the Fed tightened its requirements for bank reserves.
        Mr. Winn was appointed director of Congressional liaison in 1980 and, in addition, director of the Office of Board Members in 2001, with responsibility for public affairs and administrative aides.
        In addition to his son Daniel, who lives in Kirkland, Wash., he is survived by his wife, Barbara of Chevy Chase; a son, Matthew, and a daughter, Laura Caitlin Winn, both of Chevy Chase; two brothers, Neal of Honolulu and James of Woonsocket; and a sister, Marcia W. McCaffery of Arlington and Onancock, Va.
      