
        Peter Schwed, a former editorial chairman and trade books publisher at Simon & Schuster and an author in his own right, died last Thursday at Beth Israel North Hospital in Manhattan. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Schwed began his career at Simon & Schuster in 1945 as an editor. He was named executive editor and a vice president in 1957, was the publisher of the trade books division from 1966 to 1972 and retired as chairman emeritus of the editorial board in 1984.
        Known as a working editor, he shepherded books to publication for well-known authors, some of whom became friends. He dealt with P. G. Wodehouse and Irving Wallace, David McCullough and Cornelius Ryan.
        An avid tennis player, he also earned a reputation as an editor of books by well-known sports figures and their ghost writers. Among them were Jack Nicklaus, Rod Laver, Bill Tilden, Chris Evert, Bjorn Borg, Roger Angell and Ted Williams.
        He wrote or contributed to more than a dozen books, and was co-author, for example, of the autobiography of Nancy Lopez, ''The Education of a Woman Golfer'' (Simon & Schuster, 1979).
        He was a frequent contributor to sports publications, especially those devoted to tennis, and his book ''How to Talk Tennis'' (Galahad, 1996) remains in print.
        Peter Schwed, a native New Yorker, graduated from the Lawrenceville School. He left Princeton as a junior to go to work at a bank and help support his family through the Depression.
        In World War II he served in the Army and saw combat in Europe, earning a Bronze Star. He was discharged as a captain in 1945, when he began his career at Simon & Schuster.
        Mr. Schwed is survived by his wife of 56 years, Antonia Holding Schwed; two daughters, Katharine H. Wood of Princeton and Laura S. Schwed of Manhattan; two sons, P. Gregory and Roger E., both of Manhattan; and six grandchildren.
        After dropping out of Princeton, Mr. Schwed worked for 10 years at the Provident Loan Society of New York, rising to assistant vice president. The company, which makes loans on jewelry and other values, was established in 1894 by wealthy New Yorkers to help those hurt by the financial panic of 1892.
        Mr. Schwed told of that chapter in his life in a critically well received book, bursting with anecdotes of old New York, ''God Bless Pawnbrokers'' (Dodd, Mead, 1975).
      