
        Ed Townsend, a singer and songwriter who with Marvin Gaye produced and wrote the 1973 hit ''Let's Get It On,'' one of the most enduringly erotic songs of the R&B era, died on Aug. 13 at a hospital in San Bernardino, Calif. He was 74 and lived in Sun City, Calif.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his publicist, Ruth G. Inniss.
        Mr. Townsend had an earlier hit in 1958 with ''For Your Love'' and had written songs for Nat King Cole, Etta James and others when he was recruited by Gaye to collaborate on the follow-up to his 1971 album ''What's Going On.''
        That album's mix of spiritual and political themes had taken Gaye far from mainstream pop, and he was eager to return. With Mr. Townsend he found a new sound that merged the complexity and sophistication of ''What's Going On'' with an unabashed sensuality that would be imitated by R&B singers for decades.
        ''Let's Get It On'' climbs to powerful emotional heights on simple repeated chords, with Gaye's clear tenor singing lyrics that are direct and unmistakable:
        Don't you know how sweet and wonderful life can be
        I'm asking you baby to get it on with me
        I ain't gonna worry, I ain't gonna push
        So come on baby, stop beating around the bush
        Let's get it on.
        Mr. Townsend produced the album and with Gaye wrote the whole first side -- four of the album's eight songs -- as a boudoir set piece, ending with ''Keep Gettin' It On.''
        The song ''Let's Get It On'' was a No. 1 pop hit for two weeks in the summer of 1973 and was on the top of the R&B charts for six weeks.
        Mr. Townsend wrote several songs with Gaye on Gaye's 1978 album ''Here, My Dear,'' a revealing account of Gaye's divorce, but otherwise they did not work together again. In 1974 Mr. Townsend wrote and produced ''Finally Got Myself Together (I'm a Changed Man)'' for the Impressions, that group's first hit after the departure of Curtis Mayfield. This time Mr. Townsend took a cue from Gaye's confessional style and wrote about the struggle to recover from alcoholism.
        Born the son of a minister in Fayetteville, Tenn., he sang in his father's church and graduated from Arkansas State College. He joined the Marines and served in Korea for two years. When he returned, he worked as a television host in Los Angeles and began his song-writing career.
        ''For Your Love,'' his most successful solo song, began as a demo recording for another singer, but at the suggestion of an executive at Capitol Records he recorded it on his own. It was No. 7 on the R&B charts.
        He is survived by his companion, Janice Carbonniere of Sun City; sons Edward David and Clef Michael, both of Reseda, Calif.; a daughter, Kathryn Griffin of Houston; a brother, Earl, of Los Angeles; a sister, Helen McDonald of Sun City; three grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
        His marriage to Charrigale Townsend ended in divorce.
      