
        Marion Hargrove, the hapless G.I. whose light-hearted account of Army basic training, ''See Here, Private Hargrove,'' became a No. 1 best seller in 1942 and transformed him into a World War II celebrity, died on Saturday in Long Beach, Calif. He was 83.
        The cause was complications from pneumonia, his family said.
        When reveille sounded, Private Hargrove snored. When his fellow trainees turned left, Private Hargrove turned right. When weekend passes were snapped up, Private Hargrove peeled potatoes.
        But as a lanky, boyish-looking G.I. at Fort Bragg, N.C., in the summer of 1941, he made good use of his time when he wasn't on punishment Kitchen Police duties. He wrote vignettes of life in the barracks and sent them to The Charlotte News, where he had been features editor in civilian life. In the summer of 1942, the columns were brought together in book form.
        An Army guidebook of sorts at a time when millions of young men were going off to war, ''See Here, Private Hargrove'' became a publishing phenomenon. Henry Holt & Company issued 12 hardcover printings in 1942, selling 410,000 copies. Pocket Books sold 2.2 million copies in a 25-cent paperback edition.
        ''Civilian America, tired of reading what other people's sons were doing on other continents, took to its heart Private Hargrove's unassuming stories of what American boys were doing in American training camps,'' Lewis Gannett, the daily book critic of The New York Herald Tribune, observed in 1945 in a survey of wartime publishing.
        A movie version of the book appeared in March 1944, and its sequel, ''What Next, Corporal Hargrove?,'' appeared a year later. Robert Walker played Hargrove in both films, which were from the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer studio.
        Private Hargrove offered this advice to his fellow G.I.'s at the end of his first chapter: ''Watch your attitude, do your work, respect your superiors, try to get along with your fellow soldiers, keep yourself and your equipment clean at all times, and behave yourself. Do these and you won't have any trouble with the Army.''
        But then he added: ''For what happens when you don't do them, let us now look into the case of Private Hargrove, U.S.A.''
        Edward Thomas Marion Lawton Hargrove Jr. was born on Oct. 13, 1919, in Mount Olive, N.C., the son of a railway mail clerk. He worked on his high school newspaper in Charlotte, where the family settled, while he held a part-time job at The Charlotte News.
        In his senior year in high school, he showed early signs of a contrary streak, refusing to take his geometry exam, a rebellion that cost him his diploma. (It was later bestowed when he had become a celebrity.)
        The Charlotte News rehired him in 1939, and he became features editor while also serving as obituary editor, women's page editor, hospital editor, rewrite man, tourist guide for visiting schoolchildren and, in his words, ''the butt of the office jokes.''
        He was drafted on July 17, 1941, and soon the joke was on the Army.
        In February 1942, Maxwell Anderson went to Fort Bragg seeking color for ''The Eve of St. Mark,'' a play he was writing about military life. Marion Hargrove -- by then having somehow been promoted to corporal and assigned to the post's public relations office -- introduced the playwright to crap games and other soldierly endeavors.
        The G.I. showed Anderson some of the columns he had written for The Charlotte News.
        Anderson liked them and passed them on to Holt, which compiled them in book form and suggested the title.
        Before publishing the vignettes, Holt showed the manuscript to the War Department's Bureau of Public Relations, which voiced no objections.
        ''See Here, Private Hargrove'' was a good-natured look at Army ways, its early portions making the Army seem like a boys' camp. Private Hargrove and his buddies irritated their sergeants endlessly but were punished with nothing worse than stints polishing garbage cans.
        But later in the book, Marion Hargrove wrote of the pride the trainees developed in marching smartly, and he related how -- to his consternation -- he was becoming a soldier. The book described the anxiety among the young men on the Sunday the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor and told how once-green recruits were leaving Fort Bragg as soldiers prepared to make war.
        Private Hargrove wrote: ''You can see their faces tightening a little, and a gently melancholy look come into their eyes. Home and whatever else was dearest to them a few months ago are still dear, but a soldier has to push them into the background when there's a war to be fought.
        ''An old sergeant, kept in the Replacement Center to train the men whose fathers fought with him a generation ago, stands on the side and watches them with a firm, proud look.
        '' 'Give 'em hell, boys,' he shouts behind them. ''Give 'em hell.' ''
        Marion Hargrove was later assigned to the G.I. publication called Yank. He supervised its China-Burma-India edition and also wrote for Yank from its New York office.
        After being discharged from the Army in October 1945 as a sergeant, he gave lectures criticizing abuses in the court-martial system and the disparity in living conditions between officers and enlisted men. Appearing before a military panel looking into such matters in April 1946, he called for a soldier's bill of rights that the G.I. could carry in his pocket.
        He became embroiled in a controversy in September 1946, when the American Legion post he commanded in New York City, containing many former soldiers who had written for Yank and Stars and Stripes, had its charter revoked by the legion on the grounds that some post members had belonged to the Communist Party. Mr. Hargrove countered that the legion's action was, in fact, ''a test of strength between the bureaucracy of the legion and World War II veterans.''
        Mr. Hargrove continued his writing career after the war, but felt the burdens of fame.
        ''I was just an ordinary guy, writing for a small audience,'' he told the New York newspaper PM in January 1947. ''Suddenly, success picked me up and threw me way out there somewhere, and there were two or three million people with some idea of what to expect from me next. It's a paralyzing feeling. I'm no Thomas Wolfe. I have no message from the mountaintop. I'm lucky to have come through it without ulcers.''
        He took a light look at radio programming with his novel ''Something's Got to Give''(1948) and portrayed the peacetime Army in the novel ''The Girl He Left Behind'' (1956), which was made into a movie starring Tab Hunter. He wrote the screenplay for the movie version of the stage musical ''The Music Man'' and was a writer for the television series ''Maverick,'' ''I Spy'' and ''The Waltons.''
        He is survived by his wife, Robin Hargrove; their children James, of Los Angeles; Edward, of Oakland, Calif.; and Martha Haeseler, of Long Beach; his children from his first marriage, to the former Alison Pfeiffer, Christopher, of West Hollywood, Calif.; Stephen, of Los Angeles; and Penelope Hargrove, of Santa Cruz, Calif.; a stepdaughter, Julianna Roosevelt, who lives in Mexico; a sister, Cheryl Wolf, of Chapel Hill, N.C.; and eight grandchildren.
        In August 1964, 23 years after Marion Hargrove collided with the Army, his son Christopher arrived at Fort Gordon, Ga., having read his father's book three times before enlisting so he would know what to expect.
        Pfc. Christopher Hargrove later told an interviewer that he had encountered no trouble mastering the M-14 rifle, the bayonet and the proper way to salute. And unlike his father, he had never insulted the mess sergeants.
        As he explained it, ''I am not a Private Hargrove.''
      