
        Louis Lasagna, a clinical pharmacologist who pioneered the study of placebos and wrote an alternative Hippocratic oath, died last Thursday at Newton-Wellesley Hospital in Newton, Mass. He was 80 and lived in Newton.
        The cause was lymphoma, said a spokeswoman at Tufts University, where Dr. Lasagna was dean emeritus of the Sackler School of Biomedical Sciences.
        Beginning with his 1954 paper ''A Study of the Placebo Response,'' Dr. Lasagna's research included the study of psychological responses to drugs and the development of clinical trials. He was best known for his findings on the placebo effect, in which he showed how the act of taking a drug, even one with no active ingredients, could cause a response in a patient. ''This revolutionized how we develop drugs and assess their effectiveness,'' said Dr. David Greenblatt, chairman of the department of pharmacology and therapeutics at the Tufts School of Medicine.
        Dr. Lasagna taught pharmacology, and wrote two books, ''The Doctors' Dilemma'' (1962) and ''Life, Death and the Doctor'' (1968), and many newspaper and magazine articles. An advocate of stricter rules on drug approvals, he testified before Congress many times, most notably at the 1962 Kefauver hearings, which led to new requirements for the use of controlled clinical trials in proving a drug's effectiveness.
        Dr. Lasagna's popular writing covered many subjects, including medical education and the philosophical underpinnings of euthanasia. He criticized misleading drug advertisements and medical fads, and questioned the ethics of the pharmaceutical industry and the gullibility of doctors and the news media. In a 1962 article in The New York Times Magazine, he wrote that ''most of us are amenable to suggestion, and the ability of sugar pills or water injections to alleviate all kinds of real or imagined ills has often been demonstrated in clinical experiments -- and just as often forgotten by physicians in their enthusiasm for new remedies.''
        Dr. Lasagna wrote in The Times Magazine in 1964 that ''the new doctor has lost a sense of continuity with the past without gaining a bond with his contemporaries'' and called for a worldwide competition for an updated Hippocratic oath. His own entry asks that doctors remember ''that warmth, sympathy and understanding may outweigh the surgeon's knife or chemist's drug.'' It is still read at some medical school graduation ceremonies.
        Louis Lasagna was born in Queens in 1923. He graduated from Rutgers in 1943 and earned a medical degree from Columbia in 1947. He was a clinical research fellow in anesthesia at Harvard and taught pharmacology at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine before becoming a professor of pharmacology, toxicology and medicine at the University of Rochester in 1970. In the early 1970's he established the Center for the Study of Drug Development, now affiliated with Tufts. He was named dean of the Sackler School there in 1984.
        He is survived by his wife, Helen, of Newton; seven children, Nina Patry of Rutland, Vt.; David of Hanover, N.H.; Maria of Fairfield, Iowa; Krissy of Charlottesville, Va.; Lisa of Victoria, British Columbia; Peter of Auburn, Me.; and Christopher of Crozet, Va.; and eight grandchildren.
        Although Dr. Lasagna valued the march of science toward curing and preventing disease, he also saw its limitations. ''It would seem important,'' he wrote in ''The Doctors' Dilemma,'' ''to devote more of the energies of man toward improving the quality of life, so that it may be joyous, or noble or creative. Otherwise, existence is nothing but the bored molecular unwinding of a dismal biological clock.''
        Correction:  August 13, 2003, Wednesday  An obituary on Monday about Dr. Louis Lasagna, a clinical pharmacologist at Tufts University who pioneered the study of placebos, gave an incorrect date supplied by the university for his death. He died last Wednesday, not Thursday.
      