
        Judge Fred I. Parker, of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Burlington, Vt., died in Burlington on Tuesday, his office said. He was 65.
        He had been undergoing a procedure to adjust a pacemaker, The Associated Press reported.
        Judge Parker, named to the federal court in Burlington by President George W. Bush in 1990, was presiding judge of the United States District Court for Vermont in 1994 when President Clinton elevated him to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which is based in Manhattan.
        Judge Parker, who won Senate approval within two months, frequently sat on three-judge panels that dealt with cases sent up from the district courts in the three-state circuit (Connecticut, New York and Vermont) before they reached the full Circuit Court of Appeals.
        Colleagues and lawyers appearing before the bench had high regard for his legal abilities and remarked on his even-tempered fairness and clear legal prose.
        It was a measure of Judge Parker's reputation that he was chosen by a Republican president and promoted by his Democratic successor. The two presidents acted with the approval of Senator Patrick J. Leahy, a Democrat, and James M. Jeffords, a Republican at the time, and now an independent member of the Senate.
        Judge Parker served as a deputy attorney general of Vermont from 1969 to 1972 under Mr. Jeffords, then as the state's attorney general.
        Judge Parker and Senator Leahy attended law school at Georgetown University. ''He was an independent, moderate Republican who set aside all political leanings in the greater service to the law,'' Senator Leahy said.
        Fred I. Parker was born in Boston, the son of a plumber and a homemaker, the A.P. said, and attended trade school for two years and worked for an electronics concern before entering college.
        He graduated from the University of Massachusetts in 1962 and in 1965 received his law degree at Georgetown, where he was editor of the law review.
        He practiced law in Boston, then moved to Vermont, where he became deputy attorney general in 1969 under Mr. Jeffords. He took part in some prominent cases, including one against the International Paper Company in Ticonderoga, N.Y., over pollution in Lake Champlain.
        When Mr. Jeffords left office as attorney general, Judge Parker stepped down and became a partner in the Middlebury office of what is now the firm of Langrock Sperry & Wool.
        Judge Parker's survivors include his wife, Barbara, and two sons.
        In an interview with The Associated Press, Senator Leahy described an event leading up to President Clinton's endorsement of Judge Parker's nomination to the appeals court. Two days before, Judge Parker called Senator Leahy to say that he had just ruled that parts of the Brady gun control bill that Mr. Clinton had championed were unconstitutional.
        ''I said to Fred, 'You couldn't have waited a couple of days?' the A.P. quoted Mr. Leahy as saying. ''He said he didn't think it would be honest to do that and if the president changes his mind, so be it.''
        When Mr. Clinton was told of the ruling, Mr. Leahy recounted that the president said that if the judge had the courage to make the ruling while his appointment was pending, he deserved to be on the bench.
        Correction:  August 20, 2003, Wednesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Thursday about Judge Fred I. Parker of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in Burlington, Vt., misidentified the president who named him to the federal bench in 1990. It was not the current president but his father, George Bush.
      