
        Charles W. J. Scaife, a chemistry professor who took everyday props like Alka Seltzer and balloons and roamed the nation's classrooms to promote the initially bizarre notion that science is fun, died last Sunday at his home in Schenectady, N.Y. He was 65.
        The cause was liver cancer, said his wife, Priscilla.
        Dr. Scaife, who taught at Union College in Schenectady, became a Johnny Appleseed of science after helping a student develop an experiment -- growing crystals in space -- to be performed on the Challenger space shuttle in 1986. After the explosion of the spacecraft, the professor was invited to speak to students in elementary and middle schools about the shuttle and the experiment.
        He discovered two things: teachers were afraid of science and, as a result, they were not doing a good job teaching it.
        His answer was to perform imaginative experiments with students. In one, they passed a magnet through a breakfast cereal to show that it did, in fact, contain iron.
        ''One of the things people don't know is that science is fun,'' Dr. Scaife said in an interview with USA Today in 2000. He certainly dressed cheerfully enough, wearing a lab coat adorned with hearts, snakes and scribbled equations.
        In 1994, he applied for the first of several sabbaticals to take his science show on the road, a journey that eventually took him and his wife, a social worker, to visit 30 states and more than 40,000 students.
        They traveled in their blue Plymouth Voyager with their dog, held evening meetings with parents and teachers in addition to daytime classroom sessions, and stayed in the homes of teachers. They asked no fee.
        When Dr. Scaife first proposed a traveling science show for his sabbatical, Leslie Hull, the chairman of Union College's chemistry department, suggested it was an unscholarly and ''amorphous'' project. But the enthusiasm Dr. Scaife generated in audiences and the accolades of school principals changed Dr. Hull's mind.
        ''Charlie has the character of a born-again preacher,'' Dr. Hull said in an interview with The Wall Street Journal in 1994.
        Dr. Scaife also impressed the National Science Foundation and the Dreyfus Foundation, which, with other contributors, helped pay for his mission.
        Not that it was expensive; most of his experimental materials came from the grocery store or the trash bin. Nor was the name of the program hard to remember: it was KIDS, an acronym for ''Kids Involved! Doing Science!''
        Charles Walter John Scaife was born in Williamsport, Pa., on Jan. 27, 1938. His father taught middle-school mathematics, and he wanted to be a mathematics teacher until he encountered an inspiring chemistry professor at Cornell, where he earned his undergraduate degree in 1959 and his doctorate in 1965.
        He served in the Navy from 1959 to 1961 and was a National Science Foundation Postdoctoral Fellow at the University of York in England in 1967. He taught at Middlebury College before moving to Union in 1972.
        He specialized in physical inorganic and analytical chemistry before retiring in 2001 to devote his full time to working with younger students.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Scaife is survived by his daughters, Rebecca Sanders of Lyndon, Vt., and Jennifer Craig of Lakeville, Conn., and seven grandchildren.
        Dr. Scaife thought one of the biggest problems with science teaching was that rote memorization was stressed too often. He favored creativity and, particularly, a willingness to take risks.
        ''If you're like me, you'll be wrong most of the time, and that's O.K.,'' he said in an interview with The Syracuse Post-Standard in January.
      