
        Roberto Marinho, a journalist who built his father's newspaper, O Globo, into Brazil's most powerful media company that shaped culture and politics for much of its owner's career of seven decades, has died. He was 98.
        Mr. Marinho died late Wednesday at Samaritano hospital in Rio de Janeiro, where he had been taken after suffering a stroke at home, according to GloboNews, his group's cable news channel.
        Often considered Brazil's most influential man thanks to his television channel's reach -- TV Globo's 113 stations and affiliates are broadcast into more than 99 percent of Brazilian homes -- Mr. Marinho was a friend and maker of presidents.
        At its zenith in 2000, his personal fortune was estimated to be worth $6.4 billion, largely because of Globo's 77 percent share of Brazilian television advertising revenue.
        President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, a former adversary turned admirer, declared three days of national mourning and canceled official engagements today to fly to Rio, where Mr. Marinho was being buried at his family's mausoleum in the St. John the Baptist cemetery.
        ''Brazil has lost a man who spent his life believing in Brazil,'' Mr. da Silva said in a statement.
        Relations between Mr. da Silva and Mr. Marinho, however, were not always so cordial. In 1987, Mr. da Silva, then a labor leader preparing for his first presidential candidacy, said Brazil was ''a country where history is written by Globo.'' At the time, he accused Mr. Marinho of ''doing nothing else but lie to the people.''
        But Mr. da Silva's election victory last year, the first time a working-class Brazilian was chosen to run this country of 175 million, was helped by what most consider to have been sympathetic coverage by Globo.
        Though undoubtedly Brazil's mightiest media mogul, Mr. Marinho was shy of the public and always claimed to be first and foremost a journalist.
        Born in Rio on Dec. 3, 1904, he started in the news business at 20, when his father's death left him in charge of O Globo, the Rio newspaper his family had founded just three weeks earlier.
        Instead of taking over as publisher, Mr. Marinho insisted on learning the business as a reporter and editor. Only six years later, in 1931, did he take over as editor in chief.
        Mr. Marinho never shied from taking political sides -- he supported the 1964 military coup that ousted leftist President João Goulart and overtly courted favorite politicians -- but he always described himself as a patriot. He fiercely guarded O Globo's independence.
        Once, he famously refused to deliver up left-wing journalists the military government said had infiltrated the newspaper, saying: ''I will take care of my own Communists.'' Not one reporter was delivered up, fired or disciplined -- merely edited.
        A mix of pragmatism and stubbornness helped him build his empire. In 1957, already with Radio Globo under his belt, he won his first television concession from President Juscelino Kubitschek. By 1962, he had signed a publishing deal with Time-Life. He put Channel 4 on the air in Rio in 1965.
        A defender of Portuguese-language programming, Mr. Marinho took pleasure in seeing his station's ''telenovelas.'' or melodramatic soap operas, such as ''The Slave Girl Isaura,'' take the world by storm.
        Before the group bet heavily on cable TV and the Internet in the 1990's, Globo owned 115 TV channels, a nationwide network of radio stations; O Globo, which today is Brazil's third-largest daily; the business daily Valor Econômico; and a plethora of magazines and record labels.
        But the new businesses started to bleed the group's resources, just as Mr. Marinho handed the reins over to his three sons, Roberto Irineu, 55, João Roberto, 49, and José Roberto, 47. Last September, the Marinhos' holding company Globopar had debts exceeding $1.3 billion and announced a drastic restructuring.
        In 2003, Mr. Marinho failed to make Forbes magazine's annual list of billionaires. He was until the end, however, an avid patron of the arts and his death left vacant seat No. 39 at the prestigious Brazilian Academy of Letters.
        Beside his three sons, Mr. Marinho leaves Lili de Carvalho, his third wife.
      