
        Walter Taussig, a vocal coach and conductor who prepared generations of singers for their roles at the Metropolitan Opera, the Salzburg Festival and elsewhere, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 95.
        Coaches are the unseen motors of the opera house, conduits of invaluable musical knowledge, but visible to the audience only in reflection, in the performances of the singers they work with. Mr. Taussig was involved in the genesis of many notable performances, from Birgit Nilsson's ''Elektra'' to Plácido Domingo's ''Parsifal.'' ''I am the phantom of the opera,'' he said in an interview in 1996.
        If the audience could not appreciate Mr. Taussig's behind-the-scenes role, the singers certainly could. In a 1998 interview Birgit Nilsson recalled a letter she had written to Mr. Taussig's wife, Lore, whom he married in 1942. ''Dear Mrs. Taussig,'' the letter read. ''I have a confession to make. I have had a child with your husband. She is very beautiful, and I call her 'Elektra.' I am absolutely sure he is the father, because I have not been with anybody else.''
        Indeed, she had not. Unlike many coaches who prefer singers to master the basics of a role before coming to them for fine-tuning, Mr. Taussig liked to start from scratch. So Ms. Nilsson began ''Elektra'' cold. She said that she learned the whole thing in 18 hours of hard work.
        Mr. Taussig arrived at the Met in 1949 armed with experience and musical tradition. Born in Vienna on Feb. 9, 1908, he studied at Music Academy in Vienna, working on harmony, composition and piano with Franz Schmidt, the composer, and conducting with Robert Heger. He also studied theoboe. His musical idols included Richard Strauss, whom he venerated as a conductor, and Arturo Toscanini, whose Verdi Requiem he once cited as one of the greatest musical experiences of his life.
        After graduating in 1928, Mr. Taussig worked as a conductor and coach in a number of theaters, from Finland through Germany and even to Istanbul, but Vienna remained home base. However, the climate in the German-speaking world was not healthy for a Jewish conductor, even one who had been baptized as a Lutheran as a safeguard, and Mr. Taussig ultimately crossed the Atlantic, conducting the Havana Philharmonic (where he was succeeded by Erich Kleiber). He then worked at the Montreal Opera, the Chicago Opera and the San Francisco Opera. He also had a daughter, Lynn, who, along with his wife, survives him.
        After 1949, when he became its assistant chorus master, the Metropolitan Opera was his main employer. He went on to the post of associate conductor (and was so often responsible for leading offstage instrumentalists there that James Levine christened them the Taussig Philharmonic).
        For 18 years, starting in 1964, he was also an assistant conductor at the Salzburg Festival, working with longtime friends and colleagues Herbert von Karajan and Karl Böhm. He was also a coach for the record company Deutsche Grammophon.
        Unlike many participants in singing's golden age, Mr. Taussig, who remained active at the Met through the 2001-2 season, was positive about the current state of singing. ''The average American singer today is better educated vocally and musically than the average singer I worked with in the old days,'' he said in 1996. As an example, he offered the Italian bass Ezio Pinza, who, he said, ''could hardly read music!'' ''There are two theories about old people,'' he said at his 90th birthday party in 1998. ''One is that old people should move aside to make way for the young, which is a very valid theory. The other is that old people have valuable experience that cannot be replaced. Fortunately for me, the Met has clung to the second theory.''
      