
        Jack P. Eisner, who used the millions he made in the import-export business to tell the story of how he survived the Holocaust in a book, play, movie and many public appearances, died on Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 77.
        The cause was colon cancer, his friend Dan Chasin said.
        Mr. Eisner -- who had homes in Manhattan, Israel and Nice, France -- also helped found several Holocaust remembrance organizations, endowed university chairs to teach about the subject and was a leader in promoting understanding between Jews and Christians. He met with the pope several times.
        It was all the result of his passion to use the fortune he amassed with his company, Stafford Industries, to preserve his worst memory. He sold the Manhattan-based company in 1978.
        ''I'm rich,'' he wrote in the introduction to his autobiography, ''The Survivor'' (William Morrow, 1980). ''I built up a $50 million import-export business. I own an apartment on Fifth Avenue in New York City and an estate in Connecticut. I have a yacht on the Riviera and I ride in a chauffeur-driven limousine. I know I seem persistent. I guess I am. I must seem arrogant. Perhaps I am that too.''
        As the Holocaust approached, he was a music student barely into his teens. Soon he found himself organizing a gang of youths to smuggle food and other necessities into the Warsaw ghetto. He later smuggled arms for the ghetto revolt that began on April 19, 1943. He estimated that he threw 200 Molotov cocktails.
        Mr. Eisner ended up in a series of concentration camps, including Majdanek, Budzyn and Flossenburg, and survived horrors that included torture. More than 100 of his family members died in the Holocaust, including all the other grandchildren of his two grandmothers, 30 in all.
        Aside from his business career, the balance of Mr. Eisner's life was almost completely devoted to keeping the memory of the Holocaust alive and battling for Jewish concerns. When World War II ended, he was a witness in trials of Nazis and helped the United States government in tracking down war criminals.
        In 1948, Mr. Chasin said, Mr. Eisner joined the Bricha, the organized movement to help Jews emigrate from Eastern Europe to Palestine before it became Israel, something that was then illegal.
        Later, he helped found the Warsaw Ghetto Resistance Organization, one of the oldest Holocaust survivors' groups. He established the Holocaust Survivors Memorial Foundation to tell the true story of the Holocaust, partly by endowing chairs at various universities.
        In the early 1980's, he gave money to a commission headed by Arthur J. Goldberg, a former associate justice of the United States Supreme Court, to examine the actions of American Jews during the Holocaust. He then withdrew his support because he believed that the wartime apathy of Jewish organizations was being whitewashed.
        In 1993, he installed a monument at the Jewish cemetery in Warsaw to commemorate the 1.5 million Jewish children killed by Nazis.
        In 1994, he led a group of survivors to meet with Pope John Paul II, part of the rapprochement between the Roman Catholic Church and Jews that had allowed the Vatican and Israel to establish diplomatic relations the year before.
        '' 'As a young boy growing up in prewar Warsaw, I feared crossing the sidewalk next to a church,' '' Mr. Eisner said to the pope, he recounted in an interview in The New York Times. '' 'Now, some 50 years later, the unthinkable is happening.' ''
        But his favorite activity, and the one with the most visibility, was telling his story in various forms. His book led the next year to a Broadway play of the same name, written by Susan Nanus. In 1985, a film version, ''War and Love,'' directed by Moshe Mizrahi, was released.
        Mr. Eisner was born Jacek Zlatka in Warsaw on Nov. 15, 1925. His strongest interest was music, and at 13, he won a scholarship to the Warsaw Music Conservatory. Soon after that, he and his family were herded into the ghetto.
        One day he managed to escape the ghetto to visit his grandmother, who lived near Warsaw. He found her alone in her bedroom. Suddenly, German soldiers came rushing up the stairs. She ordered him to hide under the bed and told him he must survive, words that became his inspiration in the camps.
        ''They threw her down the stairs like she was rubbish,'' he said in one of his many speeches, this one in Newport News, Va., in 1997.
        Immediately after the war, while living in displaced persons camps, he honed the black market skills he had developed in the Warsaw ghetto, Mr. Chasin said. He later used his business acumen to develop Stafford Industries, which did things like buying raw material in Romania to make T-shirts in Malta for sale in Canada.
        Mr. Eisner is survived by his wife, Sara; his daughter, Lee, of Manhattan; his sons, Philip, of Prague, and Arnold, of Guatemala City; and two granddaughters.
        Reviews for the book, play and movie based on his experience were almost uniformly bad. But the book was reprinted this year by the Kensington Publishing Corporation and drew raves from readers commenting on amazon.com. The play has become a staple of amateur and high-school productions in the manner of ''The Diary of Anne Frank.''
        Finally, it was the question that Mr. Eisner could not answer that most troubled him.
        ''Why me?'' he wrote in his book of his own survival. ''Why not Grandma Masha? Why not Hela, Lutek, Mrs. Grinberg? What about Schmeel, the shoemaker?''
      