
        Frederick L. Deming, an under secretary of the Treasury in the Johnson administration and a former president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, died Thursday in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 90.
        Mr. Deming, who had been a banker in the Federal Reserve system, was appointed under secretary of the Treasury for monetary affairs in 1965 by President Lyndon B. Johnson.
        Mr. Deming would hold this position until 1969, when he left to become a partner at Lazard Frères & Company.
        Mr. Deming joined the Treasury at a time when the traditional role of the United States as the linchpin of the global economy was beginning to change in line with the postwar maturation of the economies of Western Europe and Japan.
        As the administration's point man on matters of international finance, Mr. Deming played a leading role in developing the special drawing right, better known as the S.D.R., as an alternative to the dollar and gold as an international reserve currency to finance global trade.
        The concept of the unit was introduced in 1967 as the centerpiece of a broad monetary accord that Mr. Deming helped formulate between the United States and the developed nations of the time. Henry H. Fowler, the Treasury secretary at the time, called the signed agreement ''one of the great days in the history of financial cooperation.''
        While the currency unit's role as a reserve currency is now limited, it still serves as the primary unit of exchange for member countries of the International Monetary Fund.
        Born in Des Moines, and working most of his life in St. Louis and Minneapolis, Mr. Deming retained a loyalty to the Midwest despite his years as a globe-trotting technocrat in Washington and a banker in New York.
        ''If only New York City wasn't such a terrible place to live, I'd have enjoyed it more,'' he said in an interview in The New York Times in explaining why he was leaving his job at Lazard for a senior banking position in Minneapolis in 1971.
        Mr. Deming, who also spent eight years serving on the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee, prided himself on being a person who liked to allow those working for him creative leeway.
        In an interview for an oral history conducted in 1992, he recalled his first experiences working with Paul A. Volcker, a deputy of his at the Treasury, who would go on to be a chairman of the Federal Reserve. ''I can remember Volcker saying one day after about two months: 'You're totally different from Roosa . You let us do what we think ought to be done.' And I do, as long as they do it right.'' Robert Roosa was Deming's predecessor.
        Mr. Deming started his career as a researcher at the Federal Reserve Bank in St. Louis in 1941. From 1957 to 1965, he was president of the reserve bank in Minneapolis before he heeded the call to Washington.
        After a short stint as a banker in New York he returned to Minneapolis in 1972 to run a bank holding company.
        He attended Washington University in St. Louis, where he received his bachelor's and master's degrees in history and a Ph.D in economics.
        Mr. Deming is survived by his wife of 68 years, Inez Wilson Deming, of Sanibel, Fla.; and two sons, Frederick W., of Summit, N.J.; and Richard L., also of Sanibel.
      