
        Ward Bennett, a New York designer of furniture, houses and much more, whose clean lines and exquisite materials quietly defined an era, died on Wednesday in Key West, Fla. He was 85.
        At the height of his career in the 1960's and 70's, Mr. Bennett represented a distinctly American look as it gained confidence in the face of more dominant European styles. His belief in a sensual minimalism executed with elegance and a dash of industrial bravado -- a rubber base on a cocktail table -- have had a lasting impact on designers interested in achieving contemporary, understated luxury.
        His own apartment, carved in 1962 from a warren of maids' rooms tucked under the rooftop gables of the majestic Dakota building on the Upper West Side, was legendary in the world of New York interiors and was in the news every time he redecorated it.
        In 1964 George O'Brien, who reported on home furnishings in The New York Times Magazine called it ''the most exciting modern apartment in New York.''
        In a career spanning postwar austerity to 80's excesses, Mr. Bennett designed everything from furniture to dresses, from homes to jewelry. His clients included Gianni Agnelli, the Italian industrialist; David Rockefeller and the Chase Manhattan Bank; Tiffany's; and Jann Wenner, the publisher of Rolling Stone magazine.
        Mr. Bennett was born on Nov. 17, 1917, in Washington Heights in upper Manhattan. His father was a vaudeville actor, and the family rented furnished rooms at 124th Street and Broadway. At 13, Mr. Bennett headed for the garment district, where he quickly rose from shipping clerk at Chin Chin Crepe to the Hattie Carnegie house of fashion; there he designed costumes for Gertrude Lawrence to wear in ''Lady in the Dark'' in 1941.
        A trip to Europe in the 30's to do illustrations of the Paris fashion collections for use by American department stores fixed his resolve to become a designer. In 1937 he spent a year studying in Paris at the Académie de la Grande Chaumière, with the sculptor Constantin Brancusi.
        In later years Mr. Bennett, whose signature uniform was casual black-on-black accented with a Hemingwayesque beard, told friends that he came back from the Continent wearing riding breeches and sporting not only a clipped moustache but also a British accent. After a year in California as a window dresser for I. Magnin and Bullocks he returned to New York.
        A clothing designer and window dresser by day, he studied by night with Hans Hofmann and shared a studio with Louise Nevelson at the Sculpture Center on East 69th Street. His ceramic works were shown at the Whitney Annual Exhibition in 1944. His jewelry designs, made during a prolonged stay in Mexico, were exhibited in a one-man show at the Museum of Modern Art.
        Mr. Bennett began to make a name for himself as an interior designer in the mid-40's, when he decorated a Manhattan penthouse using built-in padded platforms, white lacquered bookshelves and cork floors. In a manner that would be associated with his work, Mr. Bennett combined crisp, simple lines in a subdued monochromatic palette with luxurious material accents, as in hand-dyed leather upholstery and fur bedspreads. Furnishings were few, allowing space itself to provide the poetry.
        He was one of the earliest American designers to introduce industrial materials into the home, well before the high-tech look became popular in the 70's.
        He gave a table an I-beam base (with a nod to practicality, it was made of cardboard) and turned a steel subway grate into a window sill. He also liked built-ins, becoming a pioneer of the conversation pit.
        Throughout the 70's Mr. Bennett was resident designer for Brickel Associates, the furniture company based in New York. Several of his vases and flatware designs are now part of the permanent design collection at the Museum of Modern Art.
        ''His work epitomized the minimal style of the 70's,'' said Liz O'Brien, a furniture gallery owner. ''It looked like nothing, but no one could copy that level of quality. It was the real thing.''
        By 1979 he had designed more than 100 chairs, including the University Chair, designed for the desk at the Lyndon B. Johnson presidential library in Austin, Tex. Johnson requested that the seat evoke a cross between a barroom armchair, a courtroom chair and a Western saddle.
        Mr. Bennett, who suffered from back pain himself, studied the ergonomics of sitting with John F. Kennedy's doctor, Dr. Janet Travell. Support for the lower back and a height that would keep both feet on the ground remained features in all his chair designs.
        Throughout his career Mr. Bennett worked with only an assistant and often out of his home. Much of his design process was spent simply contemplating an object, and he once spent a holiday at a Zen monastery in Japan.
        In addition to his studio apartment in the Dakota, which could be reached only by walking outside along the roof ridge, he had homes in Paris and East Hampton.
        Creating an authentic sense of place where life could be comfortably, but simply, lived was his chief priority. When he declared in 1976 that dining tables should be lowered to a height of 26 inches, he said it was to make people linger longer at the table after meals, talking.
        Mr. Wenner, for whom Mr. Bennett designed four houses as well as offices at Rolling Stone magazine, said that a Bennett room was uplifting to be in.
        ''There's a lot of serenity,'' Mr. Wenner continued. ''He closed off the extraneous and focused exactly on what counted in the view.''
        Mr. Bennett leaves no immediate survivors, said his longtime friend Robert Middleton.
        In his own homes, where he lived alone, the décor was pointedly simple.
        The East Hampton house, known as Springs, was a 40-foot-square box on a platform with one room inside and a 20-foot-square skylight covered with pleated bookbinder linen shades.
        In 1982, in an interview with Barbaralee Diamonstein for the book ''Interior Design: The New Freedom'' (Rizzoli, 1982), he said: ''I design interiors, and furniture and flatware, and so forth. But I think the way I live is maybe the most meaningful.''
      