
       Edward Bennett Williams, a celebrated trial lawyer and influential Washington insider whose clients ranged from the teamsters' leader James R. Hoffa to Senator Joseph McCarthy, died Saturday after a long illness. He was 68 years old.
        Edward Bennett Williams, a celebrated trial lawyer and influential Washington insider whose clients ranged from the teamsters' leader James R. Hoffa to Senator Joseph McCarthy, died Saturday after a long illness. He was 68 years old.
        Mr. Williams had been hospitalized since Wednesday at Georgetown University Hospital. His death followed a long and at times highly public battle against cancer that had spread after first being detected in his colon.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Williams presided over the Washington law firm of Williams & Connolly and was the owner of the Baltimore Orioles professional baseball team. He had also been president of the Washington Redskins professional football team for 20 years.
        Mr. Williams was well known to some of the most powerful figures in American public life. President Richard Nixon was overheard on one of the Watergate tapes saying that Mr. Williams should be ''fixed.'' The two men later reconciled.
        A large man with a fiercely pugnacious look and direct style, Mr. Williams was known to his friends for his personal toughness and resilience, both in his legal career and in the courageous manner in which he fought his illness.
        He learned of his colon cancer in the late 1950's when he came to work one morning feeling nauseated, he told one newspaper interviewer. After surgery, there followed a lengthy series of operations and hospital visits.
        Mr. Williams often discussed his illness as a contest. ''I don't like to lose,'' he said. ''Either it's going to beat me or I'm going to beat it.''
        Wizened clients like the organized crime boss Frank Costello expressed fondness for Mr. Williams. Mr. Costello once said, ''I've had 40 lawyers, but Ed's the champ.''
      