
       Eugene S. Daniell Jr., a champion of the underdog who was known for his oratory in the State Legislature, died Friday at a local hospital. He was 83 years old.
        Eugene S. Daniell Jr., a champion of the underdog who was known for his oratory in the State Legislature, died Friday at a local hospital. He was 83 years old.
        Marcia Hansen, a spokeswoman for Franklin Memorial Hospital, would not disclose the cause of death.
        Mr. Daniell, who served nine terms as a State Representative before retiring in 1986, practiced a stirring oratorical style often compared to that of William Jennings Bryan. But his politics were like those of Louisiana's populist United States Senator and Governor, Huey P. Long, with whom Mr. Daniell briefly worked until Mr. Long was assassinated in 1935.
        Throughout his career, Mr. Daniell fought for redistributing America's wealth. In 1933, he opened tear gas canisters near ventilators in the New York Stock Exchange and then waited to be arrested. Unable to come up with a $500 fine, he served 30 days in jail.
        ''As I saw it,'' Mr. Daniell said in an interview in 1985, ''that was the one institution that contributed more than anything to the imbalance.''
        After Senator Long's death, Mr. Daniell established a one-man law office in Franklin.
        In 1948, he was elected to his first of seven terms as mayor. In 1949, he was elected to the State Senate for one term. He was a Republican until 1952, when he switched to the Democratic Party to support Senator Estes Kefauver for the Presidential nomination against President Truman.
        Mr. Daniell first won election to the House in 1961. He also waged several unsuccessful campaigns for Congress.
        An ardent opponent of American involvement in Vietnam, he wore his Army uniform as he marched in anti-war demonstrations. In 1968 he was chairman of the state committee to draft Senator Robert F. Kennedy as the Democrats' Presidential nominee.
        After his wife, Eva, died in 1982 after much suffering, Mr. Daniell fought for legislation allowing people to sign a document barring the use of extraordinary means to continue life. The Legislature eventually overrode Gov. John Sununu's veto of the measure.
        Mr. Daniell is survived by a son, Eugene S. Daniell 3d of Concord.
      