
       James P. S. Devereux, a World War II hero and former Maryland Congressman, died Friday of pneumonia at Stella Maris Hospice in Baltimore. He was 85 years old and was a resident of Ruxton, Md.
        James P. S. Devereux, a World War II hero and former Maryland Congressman, died Friday of pneumonia at Stella Maris Hospice in Baltimore. He was 85 years old and was a resident of Ruxton, Md.
        As a slightly built Marine Corps major, Mr. Devereux won fame as commander of the poorly armed, 522-man Marine detachment that, with 1,200 American civilian construction workers, defended Wake Island against overwhelming Japanese forces in late 1941.
        After 15 days of fierce combat, Major Devereux surrendered to avoid a bloodbath and was interned for nearly four years in Japanese prison camps. His courageous actions won him the Navy Cross and brought him acclaim as ''the hero of Wake Island.''
        In the thick of the fighting, which aroused intense interest throughout the United States, Major Devereux was reported to have sent out the message, ''Send us more Japs,'' a phrase that became a wartime legend. But after his return to the United States, he denied the story, saying, ''We had all and more Japs than we could handle right then.''
        A modest man who always seemed surprised that his grim stand had won him public acclaim, Mr. Devereux retired from the Marine Corps as a brigadier general in 1948 and moved to a 200-acre colonial farm at Stevenson, north of Baltimore. Two years later, he entered politics, winning a seat in Congress as a Republican from a district that had sent only two Republicans to Washington since the Civil War.
        In Congress, he was a supporter of desegregation of the public schools and an advocate of ending racial discrimination in employment. He served four terms before giving up his seat in 1958 to run for Governor. He lost the election to J. Millard Tawes.
        Born in Havana, Cuba, where his father, a United States Army officer, was stationed, James Patrick Sinnott Devereux attended school in Washington, D.C., and in Lausanne, Switzerland, before enlisting in the Marine Corps in July 1923 at the age of 20. He received a commission as an officer eighteen months later and served in East Asia and in the United States before being assigned to Pearl Harbor in January 1941. Later that year, he assumed command of the Marines at Wake Island.
        In 1960, he was named Republican Party chairman in his district and was Baltimore County's Director of Public Safety from 1962 to 1966. He also operated horse farms in Stevenson, Md., and Glyndon, Md.
        Mr. Devereux's first wife, the former Mary Brush Welch, died shortly after his capture by the Japanese. His second wife, the former Rachel Clarke Cooke, died in 1977.
        He is survived by his third wife, the former Edna Burnside Howard; three sons, James P.S. Devereux 2d, of Alexandria, Va.; John Pierre Devereux 3d, of Upperco, Md.; and Francis Irving Cooke Devereux, of Parkton, Md.; a stepson, John Burnside Howard, of Ruxton, Md.; three stepdaughters, Ann Howard Davis, of LaPlata, Md.; Edith Howard Hogan, of Washington, D.C.; and Katherine Mulay, of Hopewell, Va.; 12 grandchildren, 9 step-grandchildren, and one step-great-grandchild.
      