
       Bill Vehr, an actor, playwright and film maker, died of AIDS on Tuesday at Beth Israel Hospital in New York. He was 48 years old.  Mr. Vehr, born in Green Hills, Ohio, had no formal training in theater. He became known, in the late 1960's and 1970's, as the underground film maker who created and directed such cult classics as ''Avocada,'' ''Brothel,'' ''The Mystery of the Spanish Lady'' and ''M.
        Bill Vehr, an actor, playwright and film maker, died of AIDS on Tuesday at Beth Israel Hospital in New York. He was 48 years old.  Mr. Vehr, born in Green Hills, Ohio, had no formal training in theater. He became known, in the late 1960's and 1970's, as the underground film maker who created and directed such cult classics as ''Avocada,'' ''Brothel,'' ''The Mystery of the Spanish Lady'' and ''M. M. for M. M.,'' all starring Mario Montez.
        Mr. Vehr was one of the original members of Charles Ludlam's Ridiculous Theater Company, as a playwright and an actor. Among his plays was ''Whores of Babylon,'' which had two productions by the company in the late 1960's. He was also something of a James Joyce scholar, giving public readings of ''Finnegans Wake'' throughout the city. Best Known as an Actor
        It was as an actor with the Ridiculous Theater that Mr. Vehr was best known, appearing in lead roles in such productions as ''Bluebeard,'' ''Eunuchs of the Forbidden City,'' ''Reverse Psychology,'' ''Stage Blood'' and ''Camille.'' He was a character and comic actor capable of playing roles as dissimilar as an unforgettably cringing Bob Cratchit in Mr. Ludlam's production of ''A Christmas Carol,'' an unctuous minister in Mr. Ludlam's ''Love's Tangled Web'' and a monstrous stage mother in Mr. Ludlam's ''Der Ring Gott Farblonjet.''
        Mr. Vehr was most of all a classical leading man, with a strong stage presence and classical voice, playing Armand Duval, the romantic lead, to Mr. Ludlam's ''Camille.'' He was considered a Brechtian actor with the ability to be in the character and comment on it at the same time.
        Mr. Vehr is survived by his parents, Bob and Marie Vehr of Cincinnati, and a sister. A memorial Mass is to be celebrated on Aug. 13 at 10 A.M. at St. Francis Xavier Church, 30 West 16th Street.
      