
       Roy Buchanan, who was once described on a television documentary as ''the best unknown guitarist in the world'' and who went on to produce two gold records, hanged himself in a jail cell Sunday night, the Fairfax County Sheriff's Department said today. He was 48 years old.
        Roy Buchanan, who was once described on a television documentary as ''the best unknown guitarist in the world'' and who went on to produce two gold records, hanged himself in a jail cell Sunday night, the Fairfax County Sheriff's Department said today. He was 48 years old.
        Mr. Buchanan was arrested Sunday night on a charge of public drunkenness and was placed alone in a receiving cell at the Fairfax County Adult Detention Center, said Carl Peed, Chief Deputy Sheriff.
        Mr. Peed said deputies checked on Mr. Buchanan, who lived in Reston, Va., about 10 minutes after he was incarcerated at 10:55 P.M., but when they made a second check at 11:16 P.M., he had hanged himself with his shirt, which he had tied to a window grate.
        Mr. Buchanan, who was influenced early in his career by the note-bending guitarist Jimmy Nolan, began playing in the early 1950's. He formed his own band in Los Angeles when he was 15, then he went to Oklahoma and met Dale Hawkins, with whom he toured and recorded for two years. In 1960, Mr. Buchanan joined a Canadian group that included Robbie Robertson, Rick Danko and Garth Hudson; it was the forerunner for the Band. Popular Backup Player
        Mr. Buchanan spent the next few years in recording studios backing a variety of pop and country-and-western singers. He then formed another group and started playing the Washington area.
        In 1971, Rolling Stone magazine printed a laudatory review of one of his performances. A public television documentary titled ''The Best Unknown Guitarist in the World'' followed, and Polydor records signed him to a contract. As a result, he moved from local club dates to the national circuit of theaters and auditoriums.
        His second of five albums for Polydor, ''Roy Buchanan's Second Album,'' sold half a million copies. He then put out three albums for Atlantic Records, including another gold album. His most recent recordings were made for Alligator Records.
        He is survived by his wife, Judy, seven children and five grandchildren.
      