
       Elmo R. Zumwalt 3d, son of the admiral who ordered the spraying of Agent Orange in Vietnam, and who was exposed to the defoliant himself, died of cancer today at his home. He was 42 years old.
        Elmo R. Zumwalt 3d, son of the admiral who ordered the spraying of Agent Orange in Vietnam, and who was exposed to the defoliant himself, died of cancer today at his home. He was 42 years old.
        The younger Mr. Zumwalt, a lawyer, said he never blamed his father for his disease. The two co-wrote a book titled ''My Father, My Son,'' published by Macmillan Publishing Company in 1986. It was made into a television movie with the same title.
        Adm. Elmo R. Zumwalt Jr. commanded naval forces in Vietnam from 1968-70, then served as Chief of Naval Operations until 1974, when he retired from active duty. His son served in Vietnam from June 1969 to August 1970 as a lieutenant junior grade commanding a patrol boat. Cancers and Child's Dysfunction
        The younger Mr. Zumwalt was diagnosed in January 1983 as having lymphoma, a cancer of the lymphatic system. In February 1985, during his ninth biopsy, physicians discovered he also had Hodgkin's disease, another form of lymphoma marked by the inflammation of lymphoid tissues, especially the spleen.
        Agent Orange contains highly toxic dioxin. Vietnam veterans contend that exposure to the defoliant causes cancer and other illnesses. They said it caused miscarriages by wives of servicemen and birth defects in their children.
        The younger Mr. Zumwalt's son, Elmo Russell Zumwalt 4th, who is 11 years old, suffers from a congenital dysfunction that confuses his physical senses. 'Love and Admiration for Dad'
        In an article published in The New York Times Magazine on Aug. 24, 1986, the younger Mr. Zumwalt said: ''I am a lawyer and I don't think I could prove in court, by the weight of the existing scientific evidence, that Agent Orange is the cause of all the medical problems - nervous disorders, cancer and skin problems - reported by Vietnam veterans, or of their children's severe birth defects. But I am convinced that it is.
        ''I realize that what I am saying may imply that my father is responsible for my illness and Russell's disability,'' he continued. ''I have the greatest love and admiration for Dad as a man, and the deepest respect for him as a military leader. I do not doubt for a minute that the saving of American lives was always his first priority. Certainly thousands, perhaps even myself, are alive today because of his decision to use Agent Orange.''
        On June 30, the Supreme Court removed the last legal obstacle to a $180 million settlement between Vietnam veterans and the manufacturers of Agent Orange. The justices let stand rulings that dismissed lawsuits by about 300 veterans who had challenged the 1984 settlement.
        The $180 million settlement now totals about $240 million with interest. As many as 250,000 people could receive money from the settlement. Father Would Not Change Order
        Admiral Zumwalt said he ordered Agent Orange sprayed over the Mekong Delta to kill vegetation and drive ''the Viet Cong back 1,000 yards off the water's edge.''
        In the New York Times Magazine article, the Admiral said: ''Knowing what I now know, I still would have ordered the defoliation to achieve the objectives it did, of reducing casualties. But that does not ease the sorrow I feel for Elmo, or the anguish his illness, and Russell's disability, give me.''
        In addition to his son, Mr. Zumwalt is survived by his father; his mother, Mouza; his wife, Katherine; and his daughter, Maya, 13.
        Correction:  August 26, 1988, Friday, Late City Final Edition
        A headline in some copies on Aug. 14 on an obituary of Elmo R. Zumwalt 3d, whose father ordered the spraying of Agent Orange in Vietnam, mischaracterized the younger Mr. Zumwalt's experience with the defoliant when he served there. He was exposed to it but said he could not prove that exposure was responsible for his illnesses.
      