
       Price Daniel, a former Governor of Texas and former United States Senator from Texas, who served along with Lyndon B. Johnson in the 1950's, died of a stroke yesterday at his ranch in Liberty, Tex. He was 77 years old.
        Price Daniel, a former Governor of Texas and former United States Senator from Texas, who served along with Lyndon B. Johnson in the 1950's, died of a stroke yesterday at his ranch in Liberty, Tex. He was 77 years old.
        Mr. Daniel, who also served as an aide to President Johnson and was a member of the National Security Council, was stricken at about 1 A.M. and was pronounced dead a short while later at the Yettie Kersting Memorial Hospital in Liberty.
        Mr. Daniel, a lawyer, resigned his Senate seat in 1957 to run unopposed for the governorship. He served three two-year terms as Governor, from 1957 to 1963, then lost a bid for an unprecedented fourth term.
        Before he was elected to the Senate in 1952 with Democratic and Republican endorsement, Mr. Daniel had made a record for himself by crusading against gambling in three terms as State Attorney General and by championing the state's claims to tideland oil deposits. He also won popularity with his ardent defense of segregation. He Backed Segregation Laws
        In 1948, Mr. Daniel, then Attorney General, upheld segregation laws and ruled that white students could not be legally admitted to the Texas State University for Negroes, a law school that had been established as a ''separate and equal'' facilty for black students. The school for blacks had been created after a black student was barred from attending the all-white University of Texas Law School.
        Mr. Daniel served in the Texas House of Representatives from 1939 to 1943 and had given up his legislative exemption to enlist in the Army as a private. When he left the service in 1946, he held the rank of Captain.
        After his loss in the 1963 Democratic gubernatorial primary to John B. Connally, Mr. Daniel headed the Texas Library and Historical Commission. He later served as an assistant to President Johnson from 1967 to 1969 and was a member of the National Security Council. He left Washington to become a Special Assistant Attorney General in Texas. He was appointed to the Texas Supreme Court in 1971, retiring eight years later to return to private law practice.
        Since then, he maintained his 3,000-acre ranch in Liberty, where he had just begun a herd of a new breed of cattle, Beefmaster. He was also involved in the development of the Sam Houston Regional Library and Research Center, a depository for public and private archives and historical artifacts. His personal papers will be housed there.
        Marion Price Daniel was born in Dayton, Tex., on Oct. 10, 1910, attended grade school in Liberty and high school in Fort Worth. He majored in journalism at Baylor University in Waco, Tex. He was president of his class and worked part time as a reporter for The Waco News-Tribune. He received an A.B. degree from Baylor in 1931 and an LL.B degree a year later.
        He is survived by his wife, Jean Baldwin Daniel; a daughter, Jean Murph, of Richardson, Tex.; two sons, Houston, of Liberty and John B., of Montreat, N.C.; a sister, Ellen Virginia Daniel, and a brother, Bill, both of Liberty, and seven grandchildren.
      