
       Franklin Delano Roosevelt Jr., a former United States Representative from New York and a son of the 32d President of the United States, died of lung cancer yesterday, his 74th birthday, at Vassar Brothers Hospital in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He lived in Millbrook, N.Y., and Manhattan.
        Franklin Delano Roosevelt Jr., a former United States Representative from New York and a son of the 32d President of the United States, died of lung cancer yesterday, his 74th birthday, at Vassar Brothers Hospital in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He lived in Millbrook, N.Y., and Manhattan.
        Mr. Roosevelt served three terms in Congress, from 1949 to 1955. He won his first term by defeating a Tammany Hall-backed Democrat for the 20th Congressional District seat on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He later served in two Presidential administrations - as Under Secretary of Commerce under President John F. Kennedy in 1963 and as the first chairman of the Equal Opportunity Commission, under President Lyndon B. Johnson, in 1965.
        Mr. Roosevelt resigned from the Johnson Administration in 1966 to pursue, for a second time, the governorship of New York State. It was from the Governor's mansion in Albany that Mr. Roosevelt's father had moved to the White House. In 1954, when the younger Roosevelt first sought the Democratic gubernatorial nomination, he seemed relatively sure of his success, telling a reporter for The New York Times, ''I am too young to be disappointed.''
        But disappointed he was, because W. Averell Harriman received the nomination instead. As a consolation prize, Mr. Roosevelt was nominated for attorney general and was subsequently defeated by Jacob K. Javits. Accepts Liberal Party Support
        In 1966, by then a 52-year-old grandfather, Mr. Roosevelt again sought the governorship. Thwarted in his earlier attempt and critical of the Democratic Party's nominating procedures, he stunned many political observers when he challenged the Democrats by accepting the Liberal Party's gubernatorial nomination. Many accused him of being a spoiler, and Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller defeated the field, including the Democratic candidate, Frank D. O'Connor, to win his third term.
        Mr. Roosevelt bore a striking resemblence to his father in appearance, carriage and speech. An aide once said that records of the younger Roosevelt's speeches often evoked a ghostly feeling in those who listened.
        Mr. Roosevelt was born Aug. 17, 1914, on his family's summer estate on Campobello Island, New Brunswick, when his father was Assistant Secretary of the Navy. He was the fourth of six children born to Franklin Delano and Anna Eleanor Roosevelt. Distinguished Naval Service
        Following family tradition, he graduated from the Groton School in Massachusetts in 1933, and from Harvard in 1937. He graduated from the University of Virginia Law School in 1940 and practiced law briefly in New York. In 1938, he entered the Naval Reserve and was called to active duty as an ensign in March 1941. By the time Mr. Roosevelt was discharged, he commanded a destroyer, the Ulvert M. Moore, and had won the Purple Heart, the Navy Cross and the Legion of Merit.
        Mr. Roosevelt joined the law firm of Poletti, Diamond, Rabin, Freidin & McKay after the war, but his main interest was politics. He worked for the American Veterans Committee and was elected vice chairman of Americans for Democratic Action when it was founded in 1948.
        In 1949, with Liberal Party support, Mr. Roosevelt won a seat in Congress by defying Tammany Hall, which had refused to back him in a special election in the 20th Congressional District. He was re-elected, with Democratic and Liberal backing and by successively wider margins, in 1950 and 1952. Mr. Roosevelt reached his political peak in 1954, when he was an early favorite for the Democratic nomination for Governor of New York, and political commentators talked of him for the Presidency. But Tammany Hall picked Mr. Harriman instead. Imported Automobiles
        Mr. Roosevelt settled for the attorney general's place on the ticket and was the only Democrat who lost in the statewide election. After that defeat, he retired from public life for several years and made only an occasional speech for Democratic candidates.
        In 1958, he moved from New York to Washington and became a principal importer of Fiat and Jaguar automobiles in the United States. He sold his distributorship, the Roosevelt Automobile Company, in 1970. At the time of his death, he was chairman of the Mickelberry Corporation, a holding company, and of the Park Avenue Bank, among other business affiliations.
        Mr. Roosevelt returned to active politics in 1960, when he campaigned in 45 states on behalf of Senator John F. Kennedy's Presidential candidacy.
        Mr. Roosevelt is survived by his fourth wife, the former Linda Stevenson Weicker; three sons, Franklin D. 3d, Christopher and John; two daughters, Nancy Suzanne Ireland and Laura Roosevelt; a stepdaughter, Linda Davidson Weicker, and eight grandchildren.
        There will be a private funeral service. A memorial service will be held Sept. 15 at 11 A.M. at the Church of the Heavenly Rest, Fifth Avenue at 90th Street. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt Institute, c/o the Roosevelt Library, Hyde Park, N.Y.
        Correction:  August 27, 1988, Saturday, Late City Final Edition
        An obituary Aug. 18 of Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr. omitted two survivors. They are his brothers, James, of Santa Ana, Calif., and Elliott, of Indian Wells, Calif.
      