
       Max A. Geller, an advertising executive for more than half a century who entered several other businesses when called upon to rescue companies in trouble, died of heart failure Sunday at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 89 years old.
        Max A. Geller, an advertising executive for more than half a century who entered several other businesses when called upon to rescue companies in trouble, died of heart failure Sunday at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 89 years old.
        At various times in his career, Dr. Geller - he earned a Ph.D. in government at New York University at age 52 and turned his doctoral dissertation into a best-selling book - was head of the Yoo-Hoo Chocolate Beverage Corporation, the New Haven Clock and Watch Company and Davega Stores. Dr. Geller was a lawyer before entering the advertising business, where he worked as a partner in Weiss & Geller for 45 years until he retired two years ago.
        Dr. Geller was born in a small village in Poland and came to the United States at the outbreak of World War I - a fact that he did not disclose to his wife and children until decades later. Fiercely proud of his adopted country, he listed his birthplace as ''N.Y.C.'' in ''Who's Who in America'' and other biographical sources.
        He received a bachelor's degree from City College in 1919, a law degree from New York University in 1920 and a Master of Arts in 1927. He practiced law for several years and in 1925, in a celebrated case, represented an advertising agency that contended it had been defrauded by the losing 1924 Democratic Presidential campaign of John W. Davis. Worked as a Sales Manager
        Soon Dr. Geller was headlong into the advertising business, working as a sales manager for Liberty and Cosmopolitan magazines. In 1941 he joined Ed Weiss, a Chicago advertising man, to form Weiss & Geller.
        After World War II, one of his clients, New Haven Clock, which had undertaken several Government contracts, was in financial trouble. He went to Washington and negotiated a loan from the Reconstruction Finance Corporation. As part of the deal, the agency insisted that he be made chairman and chief executive.
        At the urging of his children, he went back to N.Y.U., where he had been studying for his doctorate when he dropped out during the Depression. He earned his doctorate in 1951. His dissertation became the book, ''Advertising at the Crossroads,'' which debated the merits of Federal regulation against voluntary controls by the industry.
        In 1959 Dr. Geller headed a group that took over Davega Stores, the sporting-goods retailer, and operated it for several years. His most celebrated venture came a year later when he acquired Yoo-Hoo, forging a link with Yogi Berra, the sports star who became a symbol for the chocolate drink.
        At his death, Dr. Geller was a director emeritus of Iroquois Brands, the beverage company to which he had sold Yoo-Hoo some years earlier, and for which Weiss & Geller continued to handle the advertising.
        Dr. Geller's wife, the former Ida Wachstein, died in 1982. He is survived by a son, Jack, of La Jolla, Calif.; three daughters, Marjorie Levitan of Wayland, Mass., Harriet Greenfield of Danbury, Conn., and Genevieve Wyner of Brookline, Mass.; two brothers, David, of Freeport, L.I., and Jack, of Brooklyn; 15 grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
      