
       Sir Frederick Ashton, one of the greatest Classical choreographers of the 20th century and a former director of the Royal Ballet, died in his sleep Thursday night at his home in Sussex, England. He was 83 years old. Sir Frederick's death brings to a close an era in ballet shaped and presided over by three great innovators: George Balanchine, Antony Tudor and Sir Frederick.
        Sir Frederick Ashton, one of the greatest Classical choreographers of the 20th century and a former director of the Royal Ballet, died in his sleep Thursday night at his home in Sussex, England. He was 83 years old. Sir Frederick's death brings to a close an era in ballet shaped and presided over by three great innovators: George Balanchine, Antony Tudor and Sir Frederick.
        Mikhail Baryshnikov, director of American Ballet Theater, said yesterday: ''Working with Sir Fred was one of the most stimulating and inspiring times I have spent in the theater. Beyond his extraordinary and irreplaceable talent, he was a man of nuance, wit and cosmopolitan charm. I join with dancers the world over in expressing our sympathy, sadness and deep sense of loss.'' Helped Define National Style
        Gerald Arpino, artistic director of the Joffrey Ballet, which has presented nine Ashton works, said: ''Sir Frederick Ashton enriched all our lives through his artistry and his humanity, The ballets he created and entrusted to us are a special treasure of the Joffrey repertoire. His creative genius will continue to light our lives and the world, always.''
        Sir Frederick, who choreographed his last new work just two years ago, did much to develop a distinctively British balletic style characterized by elegance, lyricism and graciousness. A versatile choreographer, he created ballets that drew on or evoked literary sources, that told stories and that were simple responses to a musical score. To each of his dances, Sir Frederick brought a distinctively musical and humane perspective and an attention to detail that also helped to define the national style.
        Only Sir Frederick, perhaps, could have made a narrative ballet about a turning point in a composer's career, as he did in the Chekhovian ''Enigma Variations,'' a 1968 work based on Sir Edward Elgar's score of the same name. In that ballet, he evoked not only the loneliness of genius but Elgar's friends and family and the mood of England at the turn of the century as well, and evoked them with such simple details as the eating of an apple and arrival of a telegram.
        ''Only a poet could have conceived a ballet like 'Enigma,' '' David Vaughan, Sir Frederick's biographer, has written, ''and only the audacity of genius could have brought it off, this use of the resources of classic ballet to achieve a nobility of discourse and carry a weight of metaphor that many would say are beyond its scope - but it is his faith in those resources that makes Ashton a great poet.''
        Though often termed quintessentially English in temperament, Frederick Ashton spent his early years in South America and was mocked by classmates at a British boarding school for speaking with a Spanish accent. He was born in Guayaquil, Ecuador, on Sept. 17, 1904, to English parents. A few years later, the family moved to Lima, Peru, where he lived until he left for school in England at the age of 15. Marked by Pavlova and Duncan
        His interest in dance was stirred by a performance in Lima in 1917 by Anna Pavlova's ballet company and by an Isadora Duncan modern-dance program in London in 1921. Both artists left an indelible impression on him.
        His own dance career began in 1922 when he learned that Leonide Massine, one of the choreographers of Diaghilev's Ballets Russes, was teaching in London. He paid for his lessons from the salary he earned as a translator for an import-export company.
        During the 20's, he studied with several teachers, the most important being Dame Marie Rambert, a former member of the Diaghilev Ballet who had settled in London. A keen discerner of talent, it was she who encouraged him to try choreography. His first ballet, ''A Tragedy of Fashion,'' was a sketch presented in 1926 as part of ''Riverside Nights,'' a revue.
        Hoping to widen his knowledge of ballet and the world, he moved to Paris in 1928, where he joined the Ida Rubinstein Ballet, for which Bronislava Nijinska was choreographer. Nijinska's neoclassical ballets influenced him greatly.
        He returned to the Rambert company in 1929. Although its ever-demanding director called him ''bone lazy,'' he nevertheless choreographed more than 30 works in the next five years, among them ''Capriol Suite,'' ''Facade'' and ''Les Rendezvous.'' A Legendary Collaboration Sir Frederick was invited to New York in 1934 to choreograph ''Four Saints in Three Acts,'' an opera with music by Virgil Thomson and text by Gertrude Stein. It is remembered as one of the legendary collaborations of the 30's.
        Back in England, Sir Frederick joined the company then known as the Vic-Wells Ballet, a troupe directed by Dame Ninette de Valois that later became the Sadler's Wells Ballet and, still later, the Royal Ballet. Unlike the Rambert group, which specialized in chamber-ballet presentations, the Vic-Wells offered full-scale productions, ehich gave Sir Frederick more opportunities to do choreography.
        Among his important early ballets for the company were ''Apparitions,'' ''Nocturne,'' ''Horoscope'' and two enduring works, ''A Wedding Bouquet'' and ''Les Patineurs.''
        Speaking of the early years of ''The Wells,'' as the company was nicknamed, Michael Somes, one of its former stars, has said that Sir Frederick was known for his versatility. Mr. Somes said: ''Ninette would come along and say, 'Now, Fred, I want a romantic ballet at Christmas and then a 20-minute abstract ballet by Easter.' And he went away and did it. He doesn't ever have to wait for God to speak or any of that sort of thing.''
        During the 20's and 30's Sir Frederick's choreography was considered chic, and he never denied that he wished to entertain.
        ''I had a terror of boring people,'' he said. ''And I wasn't concerned with being profound. The 20's and 30's were a very frivolous period and I wasn't trying to correct this; I just went with it.'' Served in the Air Force
        However, the coming of World War II disturbed him greatly and inspired several ballets involving struggles between good and evil, including ''Dante Sonata'' and ''The Wise Virgins.'' After wartime service in the Royal Air Force, he returned to choreography in 1946 with ''Symphonic Variations,'' a luminous abstraction set to Cesar Franck.
        That ballet was also a choreographic manifesto. Sir Frederick said in an interview, ''I didn't like the tendency English ballet was taking when I came back from the war,'' for he felt that ballets were becoming excessively literary.
        ''I thought the whole thing was getting too far away from the main root,'' he said, the ''main root'' being Classicism. At first, he intended to express an allegorical theme in ''Symphonic Variations.'' But in an editing process that was typical of his working methods, he progressively simplified the allegory until all that was left was beautiful movement to music.
        ''Usually as I work I just reject and reject, and I purify everything until I get to the essence of what I really want,'' he said.
        From the late 40's onward, he choreographed such works as ''Scenes de Ballet,'' ''Cinderella,'' ''Daphnis and Chloe,'' ''Ondine,'' ''La Fille Mal Gardee'' and ''Monotones.'' As guest choreographer for the New York City Ballet, he created ''Illuminations'' and ''Picnic at Tintagel,'' and he choreographed an evening-long ''Romeo and Juliet'' for the Royal Danish Ballet. A Work for Fonteyn and Nureyev
        Many of his ballets for the Royal Ballet starred Dame Margot Fonteyn, whose limpid dancing style made her ideally suited to his choreography. And when Dame Margot established a partnership with Rudolf Nureyev, Sir Frederick choreographed ''Marguerite and Armand'' for them, a retelling of the ''Camille'' story that became one of their most popular vehicles.
        Sir Frederick, who was knighted in 1962, succeeded Dame Ninette as director of the Royal Ballet in 1963, and held that post until 1970. Despite administrative duties, he was able to choreograph the bittersweet ''Engima Variations.'' Then in 1971 he choreographed ''The Tales of Beatrix Potter,'' a dance film in which he played the comic role of Mrs. Tiggy-Winkle, a hedgehog.
        A skilled character dancer, he was admired as the sorcerer in ''Firebird,'' the witch in ''The Sleeping Beauty'' and one of the Ugly Sisters in his own ''Cinderella.'' A mimic in his private life, as well, Sir Frederick, according to Cecil Beaton, the stage designer, was wickedly amusing in his imitations of people. ''One laughs an awful lot in his company,'' Mr. Beaton said.
        After retiring as director of the Royal Ballet, Sir Frederick continued to choreograph, his creations ranging from brief divertissements to ''A Month in the Country,'' inspired by Turgenev. On April 19, 1983, his ''Varii Capricii'' had its world premiere at the Metropolitan Opera House during an York engagement by the Royal Ballet.
        His last major works were ''La Chatte Metamorphosee en Femme,'' part of an homage to the Viennese dancer Fanny Elssler in 1985, and ''Fanfare for Elizabeth,'' for a tribute to the Queen Mother in 1986. He continued to work on revivals until his death. Received Many Honors
        Among Sir Frederick's many honors were the Queen Elizabeth II Award from the Royal Academy of Dancing (1959), the Legion d'Honneur from France (1962), the Commander of the Order of the Dannebrog from Denmark (1964), the Dance Magazine Award (1970) and the Order of Merit (1977).
        Like George Balanchine, who was also born in 1904, Sir Frederick upheld the ideals of Classical dance. Moreover, he looked upon the world with a kindly, inquisitive eye, telling an interviewer, ''I never stop observing.'' In fact, while dining in restaurants he had the disconcerting habit of hopping from table to table simply to watch the behavior of people he found interesting.
        It was perhaps Sir Frederick's blending of lyricism with ordinary detail that made the critic Edwin Denby remark in an essay, ''The more trivial the subject matter, the deeper and more beautiful is Ashton's poetic view of it.'' Sir Frederick's ballets were choreographic tributes to nature, love, friendship and the joy of movement.
        He is survived by a nephew, Anthony Russell Roberts.
      