
       Henry John Heinz 2d, chairman of the H. J. Heinz Company and the father of Senator John Heinz, Republican of Pennsylvania, died today in Florida. He was 78 years old.  He died at the family's winter home in Hobe Sound after a short illness, a company spokesman, Mike Kelly, said in a brief statement.
        Henry John Heinz 2d, chairman of the H. J. Heinz Company and the father of Senator John Heinz, Republican of Pennsylvania, died today in Florida. He was 78 years old.  He died at the family's winter home in Hobe Sound after a short illness, a company spokesman, Mike Kelly, said in a brief statement.
        Mr. Heinz was the grandson of Henry J. Heinz, who founded the international food-processing company in 1869. He spent a quarter century as its chief executive, beginning in 1941. His tenure spanned an era of sweeping changes in the food industry marked by the emergence of supermarket chains and the development of new distribution and marketing systems.
        In 1935 Mr. Heinz, fresh out of Cambridge University in England, was dispatched by his father, Howard C. Heinz, to Australia to establish a new manufacturing plant. Heinz-Australia eventually became that country's biggest food processor. Role in Expanding Company
        Mr. Heinz further extended the company's international reach when he started subsidiaries in the Netherlands, Venezuela, Japan, Italy and Portugal.
        The hallmark of his tenure, however, was a series of acquisitions that included Star-Kist Foods Inc. and Ore-Ida Foods Inc., each of which has since been a top performer.
        Mr. Heinz resigned as chief executive officer and president of the company in 1966, turning over the day-to-day responsibilities of operating the business to R. Burt Goodkin.
        A lifelong Republican, Mr. Heinz was chairman of the United States Council of the International Chamber of Commerce from 1948 to 1951. In 1954, he was asked by President Eisenhower to serve as chief of a special mission to assess an emergency program of economic assistance to Pakistan.
        He was chairman of the United States delegation of the Economic Commission for Europe in 1958 and 1959. Honored by Queen Elizabeth II
        Mr. Heinz spent several months each year in Britain, and in 1979 Queen Elizabeth II invested him as an Honorary Knight Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire. In doing so, she cited him ''for significant contribution in the furtherance of British-American relationships, especially in the cultural, educational and economic fields.'' He also received decorations from Greece, France and Italy.
        He also served as chairman of the Howard Heinz Endowment, established by his father's will. As chairman, he directed the disbursal of more than $300 million in grants to Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania organizations in the arts, social services, health, education and urban and international affairs.
        In addition to his son, Mr. Heinz is survived by his wife, Drue, and three grandchildren.
        Mr. Kelly said a memorial service would be held later at Heinz Chapel in Pittsburgh.
        HENRY JOHN HEINZ 2D DIES AT 78
      