
       Petro G. Grigorenko, a Red Army general who became an outspoken critic of the Soviet Government, died in exile Saturday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan after a long illness. He was 79 years old and lived in Sunnyside, Queens.
        Petro G. Grigorenko, a Red Army general who became an outspoken critic of the Soviet Government, died in exile Saturday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan after a long illness. He was 79 years old and lived in Sunnyside, Queens.
        A decorated veteran of World War II, Mr. Grigorenko was barred from the Soviet Union in 1978 after more than a decade of criticism of the Communist Government. But little in his early life suggested that he would become a dissident. Born in 1907 in the Ukraine, Mr. Grigorenko was a youthful enthusiast of the Bolshevik Revolution.
        A graduate of the Military Engineering Academy in Leningrad, he began his long army career by serving with an engineers' battalion in Byelorussia.
        One assignment was to oversee the demolition in 1934 of the cathedral at Vitebsk, an ancient landmark whose five spires towered over the Western Dvina River. To the dismay of the Soviet authorities, riverboat travelers often fell to their knees and prayed as they sailed by. Later Proclaimed Faith in God
        Years later, after proclaiming his faith in God and becoming a regular worshiper at Russian Orthodox services in Manhattan, Mr. Grigorenko called the cathedral demolition ''one of the most flagrant instances of barbarism of our age.''
        Mr. Grigorenko got his first combat experience in 1939 in Mongolia, where an undeclared war had broken out with the Japanese. In World War II, he spent three years commanding an infantry division in the Baltic and was wounded twice.
        After the war, he served for 16 years as a professor at the Frunze Military Academy in Moscow. He called Stalin's death, in 1953, a great tragedy and said he was shocked, in 1956, when Khrushchev began criticizing Stalin's rule.
        Mr. Grigorenko became known as a dissident after he gave a speech at a party meeting in 1961 accusing Khrushchev of creating a class-divided society of privilege and power.
        He was quickly transferred to a less visible position in the Far East. Back in Moscow on leave in 1963, he distributed leaflets for the Alliance for Struggle for Rebirth of Leninism, a group he had started with the help of his son, Georgi. Confined in Mental Hospitals
        In the 1960's, he was confined in Soviet mental hospitals after campaigning for the right of Crimean Tatars to return home from Central Asia, where they had been exiled by Stalin. In the 1970's, he helped set up two organizations that unofficially monitored Soviet compliance with the human rights provisions of the Helsinki accords.
        Mr. Grigorenko came to the United States in 1977 for medical treatment and to visit relatives. While here, he was stripped of his citizenship by the authorities in Moscow, who accused him of ''carrying out actions incompatible with citizenship in the U.S.S.R.''
        In 1983 his 462-page autobiography, ''Memoirs,'' was published in this country.
        He is survived by his wife, Zinaida; five sons, Andrew, of Astoria, Queens; Oleg, of Sunnyside; Anatoly, Georgi and Viktor, who live in the Soviet Union, and seven grandchildren.
      