
       Stuart T. Saunders, a railroad merger specialist who was a driving force in the creation of the Penn Central Railroad and who served as its chairman, died Saturday of heart failure at Stuart Circle Hospital in Richmond, Va. He was 77 years old.
        Stuart T. Saunders, a railroad merger specialist who was a driving force in the creation of the Penn Central Railroad and who served as its chairman, died Saturday of heart failure at Stuart Circle Hospital in Richmond, Va. He was 77 years old.
        Mr. Saunders was chairman of the Penn Central, at the time the largest railroad in the nation, from its inception in 1968 until shortly before it filed for bankruptcy in 1970. Its operations were eventually taken over by Amtrak and Conrail.
        The failure of the Penn Central was a great disappointment to Mr. Saunders. As president of the Pennsylvania Railroad, he labored for many years to accomplish the merger with the New York Central Railroad.
        In the process, he had to convince the Justice Department, the Interstate Commerce Commission and, ultimately, the Supreme Court that the two railroads would better serve the public as one entity. Hope for a 'Happy Marriage'
        After all the approvals were in hand, Mr. Saunders' picture appeared on the cover of Time magazine. ''I have heard it said that a long courtship makes for a happy marriage,'' he told an interviewer, ''and I hope that it is true, for it will surely mean eternal bliss for the Penn Central.''
        After the bankruptcy of the Penn Central, Mr. Saunders, a lawyer, returned to private law practice and worked as a financial consultant. He shunned publicity and refused requests for interviews.
        According to his widow, the former Dorothy Davidson, Mr. Saunders broke his silence in an autobiography, published privately, that he left to his family. In a telephone conversation yesterday from Richmond, where the couple lived, Mrs. Saunders read an excerpt dealing with the failure of the Penn Central. A Loss of $700,000
        ''Because of the many years it took to consummate the merger,'' Mr. Saunders wrote, ''the morale of both railroads was badly disrupted and they were faced with unmanageable problems which were insurmountable.
        ''In addition to overcoming obstacles, the principal problem was too much governmental regulation and a passenger deficit which amounted to more than $100 million a year.''
        When the railroad filed for bankruptcy, several top officials were accused of selling their stock just before the company toppled. Some eventually paid heavy fines for trading on inside information.
        Mr. Saunders was not among those charged. According to his memoir and independent investigators, he owned 45,500 shares but did not sell them. He suffered a loss of more than $700,000.
        Without admitting any culpability, Mr. Saunders was among a group of former directors and officers who later contributed to a $12 million settlement to end litigation brought by shareholders of the bankrupt railroad. The lawsuits accused the railroad's management of dereliction of duty and of responsibility for issuing false financial statements and misleading proxy material over a period of years. Graduate of Harvard Law School
        Mr. Saunders was born on July 16, 1909, in McDowell, W. Va. His family moved to Bedford, Va., where he grew up in a house within sight of the tracks of the Norfolk & Western Railway. After finishing Roanoke College, he entered Harvard Law School, graduating in 1934.
        Mr. Saunders practiced law in Washington for five years before taking a job in Virginia with the legal department of the Norfolk & Western. He worked his way up in the company and became president in 1958.
        As president, he arranged a merger with the Virginian Railway. He also initiated the merger, completed in 1964, of the Norfolk & Western, Wabash and Nickel Plate railroads.
        Mr. Saunders was named head of the Pennsylvania Railroad in 1964 and embarked on a plan to diversify the company. Under his leadership, the company increased its holdings in real estate and energy. But his main mission was the pursuit of the merger with the New York Central. #40,000 Miles of Track When the merger was achieved, the newly formed Penn Central was a company of immense proportion. It operated 40,000 miles of track in 14 states and two Canadian provinces. It had total assets of $6.3 billion and annual revenues of nearly $2 billion.
        At the time, it was the largest merger in United States corporate history.
        As chairman, Mr. Saunders teamed with Alfred E. Perlman, the former president of the New York Central and an experienced railroad trouble-shooter. Mr. Perlman served as vice chairman of the Penn Central.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Saunders is survived by his daughter, Laurie Spratley of Richmond; his sons, Stuart T. Jr., Jesse D. and William T., all of Philadelphia; three sisters, Frances Hawkins of Hampton, Va., Rebecca Cutler of Downey, Calif., and Margaret Walton of Bedford, Va.; and six grandchildren.
        A graveside service will be held tomorrow in Bedford.
      