
       Dr. Frank A. Calderone, an authority on preventive medicine and on public health who was a leading figure in the World Health Organization in its formative years, died of emphysema on Feb. 10 at Doctor's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 years old and lived in Old Brookville, L.I.
        Dr. Frank A. Calderone, an authority on preventive medicine and on public health who was a leading figure in the World Health Organization in its formative years, died of emphysema on Feb. 10 at Doctor's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 years old and lived in Old Brookville, L.I.
        After World War II, Dr. Calderone became medical administrator at the headquarters of the World Health Organization, a group formed by the United Nations to address the world's most pressing health problems.
        Under Dr. Calderone's direction, the organization helped stem a cholera epidemic in Egypt in 1947. Cooperating with various governments around the world, the organization procured and shipped more than five million cubic centimeters of anticholera vaccine -enough to inoculate more than three million people.
        In 1948, Dr. Calderone became the chief technical liaison officer of the organization, which by then had grown to include 58 countries.
        He was later appointed medical director of the health service of the U.N. Secretariat, a diagnostic and referral service in the field of preventive medicine. He held that post from 1951 to 1954.
        Dr. Calderone was born on Manhattan's Lower East Side, the son of Salvatore Calderone, a pioneer theater builder on Long Island. Dr. Calderone graduated from Stuyvesant High School, Columbia University and New York University Medical School. He received a master's degree in Public Health from Johns Hopkins University in 1937.
        Early in his career, as an instructor of pharmacology at New York University, Dr. Calderone did research on the combined effects of barbiturates and ether. In 1943 he organized the American Public Health Association Conference in New York, which dealt with global health issues before the founding of the World Health Organization. From 1943 to 1946, he was first deputy commissioner in the New York City Department of Health.
        After leaving the U.N. Secretariat post in 1954, Dr. Calderone began working with the Long Island theater chain his father had started.
        He is survived by his wife, Dr. Mary Steichen Calderone, co-founder and former director and president of the Sex Information and Educational Council of the United States; two daughters, Francesca Calderone-Steichen of Old Brookville and Maria S. Calderone of Columbus, Ohio, and a granddaughter.
      