
       Alfred Lion, who founded the influential Blue Note Records jazz label, died last Monday of heart failure at Pomerado Hospital in the San Diego suburb of Poway. He was 78 years old.
        Alfred Lion, who founded the influential Blue Note Records jazz label, died last Monday of heart failure at Pomerado Hospital in the San Diego suburb of Poway. He was 78 years old.
        Almost every major jazz player through the late 1960's recorded for Blue Note at one time or another, either as a group leader or a sideman. Blue Note spawned the careers of such musicians as the pianists Herbie Hancock, the trumpeter Lee Morgan and the drummer Art Blakey, among many others.
        ''Any particular style of playing which represents an authentic way of musical feeling is genuine expression,'' Mr. Lion wrote in a 1939 brochure introducing the label. ''Hot jazz, therefore, is expression and communication, a musical and social manifestation, and Blue Note records are concerned with identifying its impulse, not its sensational and commercial adornments.''
        The label was known for the consistent high quality of its releases; unlike most other jazz labels, it paid musicians to rehearse before recording sessions. In the 1950's and 1960's, Blue Note made its reputation with soul- and gospel-tinged jazz - including such hits as ''Moanin' '' by Mr. Blakey, Morgan's ''Sidewinder'' and Horace Silver's ''Song for My Father'' - as well as the hard-swinging but structurally complex music of Mr. Hancock and such composers as the saxophonist Wayne Shorter and the pianist Andrew Hill. Born in Berlin
        Mr. Lion came to New York from his native Berlin in 1925 and spent most of his spare time at Harlem clubs and dance halls. In 1930, the Depression forced him to return to Germany, but six years later he and his mother fled from Nazism. He settled in New York in the late 1930's.
        Mr. Lion became a record producer ''almost by accident'' after hearing the boogie-woogie pianists Albert Ammons and Meade Lux Lewis at the 1938 ''Spirituals to Swing Concert'' at Carnegie Hall, according to his wife, Ruth.
        He was so impressed by the music that he arranged a studio recording session on Jan. 9, 1939, and ordered a few dozen pressings made for his friends. The demand was so great that he made other recordings of such traditional-jazz artists as the saxophonist Sidney Bechet, and the Blue Note label was born.
        In 1947, after Mr. Lion was discharged from the Army, he and a partner, Frank Wolff, started producing be-bop records with the pianists Bud Powell and Thelonious Monk.
        In the 1950's and early 1960's Blue Note recorded some of the earliest and most acclaimed work of the saxophonists Hank Mobley, Joe Henderson, Dexter Gordon and Mr. Shorter, the pianists Horace Silver and Mr. Hancock, the guitarists Grant Green and Kenny Burrell, and the trumpeters Freddie Hubbard, Clifford Brown and Morgan. Often, two or three albums' worth of material would be recorded for every long-playing record the label released. 'Knew Just What He Wanted'
        ''Alfred Lion knew just what he wanted and he took the time to get it,'' Rudy Van Gelder, the recording engineer on the majority of Blue Note sessions, said a few years ago. ''The other labels tended to be more casual.''
        Mr. Lion sold the company to Liberty-United Artists in 1966 after suffering his first heart attack, and the label became dormant in the 1970's. In 1985, it was revived by Manhattan Records, and many of its classic albums have been released again.
        Mr. Lion is survived by his wife and two stepdaughters.
      