
       Michael Burke, who when president of the New York Yankess got the city to refurbish Yankee Stadium and kept the team from moving to the New Jersey Meadowlands, died of cancer yesterday in Ireland. He was 70 years old.
        Michael Burke, who when president of the New York Yankess got the city to refurbish Yankee Stadium and kept the team from moving to the New Jersey Meadowlands, died of cancer yesterday in Ireland. He was 70 years old.
        Mr. Burke led the Yankees from 1966 to 1973, when the team was sold by CBS to George Steinbrenner.
        The ebullient and articulate Mr. Burke then assumed the duties of president of Madison Square Garden, where he was also president of the New York Knickerbockers, chairman of the New York Rangers, impresario of boxing and grand master of Holiday on Ice. Raised in Ireland
        Mr. Burke was born in Enfield, Conn., but was raised mostly by his grandparents in Ireland. He returned to the United States as a teen-ager and attended high school in Hartford, where he was a star athelete.
        He won a scholarship to the Universty of Pennsylvania, where he played on Penn's football team before World War Two. He was offered a professional football contract and joined the Eagles in 1941, but left shortly thereafter to serve with the United States Office of Strategic Services, the forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency.
        His activities took him behind enemy lines in Italy. He then infiltrated into France, where he joined the resistance to prepare for the D-Day invasion on June 6, 1944. He was awarded the Navy Cross, the Silver Star and the French Medaille de la Resistance. He Inspired a Movie
        After the war, he came home and went to Hollywood, where he helped in the production of a film based on his own life behind enemy lines called, ''Cloak and Dagger, which starred Gary Cooper.
        However, Mr. Burke was soon back in Europe, serving as an adviser to the United States High Commissioner in Germany, John J. McCloy, from 1951 to 1954.
        When he next returned to the United States, he became general manager of the Ringling Brothers Barnum and Bailey Circus.
        In 1956, Mr. Burke was hired by the Columbia Broadcasting System and was soon named vice president in charge of developing new areas of business expansion.
        One of his first recommendations was that CBS underwrite a new Broadway musical with an old George Bernard Shaw theme. The multi-million dollar hit was named ''My Fair Lady.''
        In the early 1960's, the New York Yankees were up for sale, and Mr. Burke suggested to CBS that it buy the team.
        CBS made the purchase in 1966 for $13.2 million.
        In September of 1966, he became president of the Yankees and took on the task of rebuilding the baseball club. When he left the club in 1973, his title was general partner and chief executiive officer.
        Mr. Burke's, as well as CBS's association with the Yankees, however, was disappointing. CBS sold the team in 1973 for $10 million after swallowing an operating loss of $11 million.
        ''The trouble was,'' Mr. Burke once said, ''We didn't go in and feel the goods. We bought a pig in a poke.'' Made Deal With Lindsay
        One of the better moments during Burke's leadership of the team occurred in 1972 when he closed a deal with the administation of Mayor John V. Lindsay. In return for keeping the Yankees in New York, the city agreed to rebuild the Yankee Stadium.
        Mr. Burke's leverage was a threat to move the Yankees to New Jersey, an offer the football Giants did not refuse.
        The Giants were subsequently savaged in the press for their move to the Meadowlands, while Mr. Burke's Yankees were grandly praised.
        The refurbishing of the stadium was to have cost $24 million, but ended up costing the city more than $100 million.
        Mr. Burke's tenure at Madison Square Garden was also filled with controversy and problems created by the growth and competition from the new sports complex in the Meadowlands.
        After his retirement from the Garden in 1981, he left the United States and traveled in Europe before settlng in Ireland where he owned a 500-acre farm in the village of Aughrim, 35 miles east of Galway.
        He purchased the farm in 1960 after visiting the region regularly as an escape from the hectic pace of his offices in Manhattan.
        During an interview at his farm in 1982, he said: ''I had an immensely happy time doing the Yankees and Madison Square Garden. I loved every minute of it. And I love New York. Top to bottom.
        ''It's just at this stage in my life, there is this strong pull that Ireland has on me - emotional and romantic, I suppose - but also because my family has been here for 800 years and there has always been a strong rush of Irish blood in my viens.''  MICHAEL BURKE DIES IN IRELAND
      