
       John M. Hightower, who won a Pulitzer Prize and other honors as a diplomatic correspondent for The Associated Press, died today of cancer. He was 77 years old.
        John M. Hightower, who won a Pulitzer Prize and other honors as a diplomatic correspondent for The Associated Press, died today of cancer. He was 77 years old.
        Mr. Hightower was a native of Coal Creek, Tenn. After attending the University of Tennessee, he began his news career at The Knoxville News-Sentinel in 1931. He joined the A.P. staff in Nashville in 1933 and was transferred to the Washington bureau in 1936.
        Mr. Hightower covered the Navy Department early in World War II, then switched to the State Department.
        In 1952, he was the first person ever to winthree top journalism awards in the same year, receiving the Pulitzer for his reporting of diplomatic affairs in 1951, the Raymond Clapper Memorial Award for meritorious work in reporting international affairs and the Sigma Delta Chi award for distinguished Washington correspondence.
        Mr. Hightower was cited for predicting the course of truce negotiations in the Korean War and the firing of Gen. Douglas MacArthur by President
        Truman.
        In 1964, Mr. Hightower became only the fifth A.P. staff member to be named a special correspondent for his outstanding performance.
        He retired from the A.P. in 1971 to teach journalism at the University of New Mexico in Albuquerque and to write a column for The New Mexican in Santa Fe, where he lived.
        In 1980, Mr. Hightower was elected to the Hall of Fame of the Washington chapter of the Society of Professional Journalists, Sigma Delta Chi.
        Former Secretary of State Dean Rusk, once said after a speech in Atlanta in which he discussed news coverage of the State Department, ''I want to tell you John Hightower is the most capable and best informed reporter I have ever seen.''
        Mr. Hightower is survived by his wife, Shelley; two sons, John Jr. of Santa Fe and James of Gaithersburg, Md. and a daughter, Leslie, who lives in Liberia. His first wife, Martha, to whom he was married for 41 years, died in January 1983.
      