
       David Susskind, the television producer and one of the country's earliest and best-known television talk-show hosts, was found dead, apparently of natural causes, yesterday afternoon in his hotel suite in midtown Manhattan. He was 66 years old.  Although Mr. Susskind had given up ''The David Susskind Show'' last September after nearly 30 years on the air, he was still active and had produced four television specials in the last year.
        David Susskind, the television producer and one of the country's earliest and best-known television talk-show hosts, was found dead, apparently of natural causes, yesterday afternoon in his hotel suite in midtown Manhattan. He was 66 years old.  Although Mr. Susskind had given up ''The David Susskind Show'' last September after nearly 30 years on the air, he was still active and had produced four television specials in the last year. Two of them, on Winston Churchill and Dwight D. Eisenhower, were shown last year, and the others, on Lyndon B. Johnson and Pope John XXIII, are to be broadcast this year.
        According to the police, Mr. Susskind had been under a doctor's care for a heart ailment and had been scheduled to enter Lenox Hill Hospital today.
        Unable to reach Mr. Susskind by telephone yesterday, a friend called his hotel, the Wyndham, at 42 West 58th Street, about 1:20 P.M., and a maid and a security guard entered his suite and found him face up on the floor of the bedroom, the police said.
        A police spokesman, Sgt. Raymond O'Donnell, said Mr. Susskind's body was examined by an assistant medical examiner, who said that there was no evidence of foul play and that death was apparently from natural causes.
        In a career that spanned more than 40 years and touched Hollywood, Broadway and a nation of television viewers, Mr. Susskind was a press agent, a talent scout, an impresario and a producer of films, plays and television programs ranging from classic drama and discussion shows to entertainment spectaculars.
        He put five shows on Broadway, including ''Rashomon,'' in 1959, and made 13 films, including ''Raisin in the Sun'' and ''Requiem for a Heavyweight'' in 1961. He also won many Emmy Awards and other honors for television productions, which included ''Look Homeward Angel'' in 1972 and ''Eleanor and Franklin'' in 1976.
        But it was as the earnestly combative moderator of his own talk shows -''Open End,'' a forum that sometimes ran for hours, which began in 1958; and of its successor, ''The David Susskind Show,'' after 1967 - that he became best-known to American audiences.
        Short, silver-haired, sincere, with a mellifluous baritone voice that sometimes rambled in its painstaking search for the right words, he interviewed thousands of guests over the years: Presidents and paupers, glittering stars and forgotten people, advocates and opponents of all kinds of controversial issues.
        Often, he engaged up to a dozen guests at a time, usually divided into two or more opposing camps, and he strived with probing questions and sometimes not-too-subtle suggestions, to accentuate differences and to illuminate areas of common ground. The Issues of the Times
        His subjects seemed to chronicle the issues of the times - civil rights, war, abortion, terrorism, drugs, crime, exotic life styles - and his subjects were as wide-ranging as his guests, who included Harry S. Truman, Nikita S. Khrushchev, Richard M. Nixon, Robert F. Kennedy, Vietnam veterans, a ski-masked professional killer and hosts of others.
        Many in his audiences found him an appealing quiz master, probing for telling details of his guests' lives, opinions and ideas, undaunted by their rebukes or his own lack of detailed knowledge about subjects under discussion.
        Others found his questions and comments naive, narrow, sophomoric or intrusive, especially when interviewing intellectuals or other people of great stature, and sometimes even when he was interviewing rather unextraordinary guests.
        Talking with four Roman Catholic nuns, for example, he referred to them as ''good sisters,'' noted that they were the first nuns he had ever met and said he liked to see nuns on airplanes and that he always admired their dedication. He also said he thought all nuns were beautiful and did not show their age. Much of the program was devoted to correcting his stereotypes.
        ''There's no truth to the rumor that David Susskind will be our next Secretary of State,'' the columnist Hy Gardner said after Mr. Susskind interviewed Khrushchev. And Jack O'Brian, the critic, observed after the encounter that Mr. Susskind had gone ''unarmed into the battle of wits.''
        Admirers of Mr. Susskind were quick to note, though, that he often raised stereotypes deliberately to have them knocked them down, and that his views, even if occsionally off the mark, reflected widespread notions that at least gained exposure and were openly challenged on his program.
        After an association of nearly three decades with Channel 5 in New York, the former WNEW-TV, which is now WNYW-TV, Mr. Susskind stopped producing the program last September because of its late-night time slot, from 1:30 to 3:30 A.M. Sunday nights, according to his daughter and fellow producer, Diana Laptook.
        David Howard Susskind was born in New York City on Dec. 19, 1920, the son of Benjamin and Frances Lear Susskind, and was raised in Brookline, Mass. After two years at the University of Wisconsin, where he married the former Phyllis Briskin in 1939, he enrolled in Harvard and graduated with honors in 1942. The 'Most Dynamic' Field
        He served in the Navy, saw action at Iwo Jima and Okinawa and was discharged in 1946. He then turned to show business, ''the most dynamic and interesting field I could get into,'' he recalled later.
        After a time as a press agent, he and Alfred Levy, a talent agent, formed Talent Associates Ltd. The new agency packaged programs for the young television industry and represented writers, directors and other creative personnel, rather than actors.
        The agency sold the ''Philco Television Playhouse,'' and within a year the Music Corporation of America hired Mr. Susskind as producer of the Philco program. He quickly developed a skill and an enthusiasm for the craft and produced the ''Kaiser Aluminum Hour,'' the ''Armstrong Circle Theater'' and others.
        He then expanded his production efforts to Hollywood and Broadway. His Broadway stage offerings included ''A Very Special Baby'' (1956), ''Kelly''(1965), ''All in Good Time'' (1965) and ''Brief Lives''(1967). His films included ''Edge of the City'' (1957), ''All the Way Home'' (1963), ''Lovers and Other Strangers'' (1969), ''Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore'' (1974), ''Loving Couples'' (1980), ''Fort Apache, The Bronx'' (1981).
        His television plays included ''The Bridge of San Luis Rey,'' ''The Glass Menagerie'' (1973), ''Caesar and Cleopatra'' (1976), ''Truman at Potsdam'' (1976). In the late 1950's, he was producing more live shows than the three television networks combined.
        Behind the credits was a hard-driving man with close-cropped wavy hair, a boyish smile and an irrepressible self-confidence.
        Despite his television success, he was one of the medium's most outspoken critics. But his critics accused him of deploring mediocrity while offering nothing better and of presenting safe, well-established successes rather than untried original scripts.
        In 1958, Mr. Susskind launched ''Open End,'' a late-night, New York City talk show without set time limits. The host and his guests simply talked until the subject - and the viewer, some critics said - was exhausted.
        In 1967, the open-ended format gave way to its two-hour successor, ''The David Susskind Show.'' Other talk shows veered to entertainment, but his kept the emphasis on serious matters, and it succeeded, eventually reaching more than a million viewers through 100 stations.
        Colleagues said he loved the clash of ideas, the effort to come to grips with issues, crises and human problems, and they praised his ability to attract outstanding guests and to draw them out.
        Over the years, his views on television evolved. ''I've grown up,'' he said in a 1978 interview after 20 years as host of his own show.
        ''I once idealized television,'' he said. ''I thought television could be much more of an illuminating beacon - informing, instructing, educating, taking the public by the hand and leading it. But American television was never that. I was a younger and more idealistic David Susskind. I am not a cynic today. I am simply pragmatic.''
        Mr. Susskind's marriage to Phyllis Briskin ended in divorce many years ago. He married the former Joyce Davidson in 1966; they were divorced last year. Mr. Susskind is survived by a son, Andrew, of Los Angeles; three daughters, Diana Laptook of Fort Lee, N.J., and Pamela Schaenen and Samantha Susskind of New York City; a sister, Dorothy Barron, of New York City, and a brother, Murray, of California, and five grandchildren.
        No funeral is planned. Burial will be private and a memorial service will be held at a date to be announced.
      