
       Sanders Kahn, head of Sanders A. Kahn Associates, a New York real-estate and financial consulting concern, died of a heart attack Thursday at St. Clare's Hospital. He was 68 years old and lived in Kinnelon, N.J.
        Sanders Kahn, head of Sanders A. Kahn Associates, a New York real-estate and financial consulting concern, died of a heart attack Thursday at St. Clare's Hospital. He was 68 years old and lived in Kinnelon, N.J.
        Mr. Kahn, an authority on urban redevelopment and valuation, founded his real-estate and planning service in 1954.It now has offices in New York City and Clifton, N.J., as well as representatives in London, Edinburgh and Cairo.
        He was director of the Citizens Housing and Planning Council of New York from 1964 to 1982 and manager of real-estate planning for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey from 1951 to 1954.
        In 1960 Mr. Kahn was appointed an independent appraiser by New York City's Department of Finance to help prepare the department's case for an increase in the assessments of city property. He also served as an appraiser for state and Federal agencies.
        Mr. Kahn was born in Brooklyn and graduated from City College in 1947. He received a master's degree in 1949 and a doctorate in 1962 from New York University.
        He began his realty career in 1938 with Adams & Company Real Estate and was also associated with Dwight-Helmsley from 1948 to 1949.
        In 1948 he became adjunct professor of real estate at the Bernard Baruch College of the City University. He later taught at New York University and Fairleigh Dickinson University and was director of education for the Real Estate Board of New York.
        Mr. Kahn was co-author of two books, ''Real Estate Appraisal and Investment'' and ''Principles of Right-of-Way Acquisition.'' In 1958 the International Society of Real Estate Appraisers published a collection of his articles called ''Down to Earth.''
        He is survived by his wife, the former Miriam Lefkowitz; a brother, Leonard, of Manhattan; three children, Leslie, of Newark; Susan, of Waldorf, Md., and Richard, of Stillwater, Pa., and a granddaughter.
      