
        Yukio Okutsu, who was awarded the Medal of Honor 55 years after single-handedly wiping out three German machine-gun positions in the battle for an Italian hill during World War II, died Aug. 24 in Hilo, Hawaii. He was 81.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        On April 7, 1945, Sergeant Okutsu's platoon in the Japanese-American 442nd Regimental Combat Team was halted by machine-gun crossfire during the fighting for Mount Belvedere, astride the road leading north to Bologna.
        Sergeant Okutsu crawled to within 30 yards of one enemy emplacement and killed its three gunners by hurling a pair of hand grenades. He dashed to the second position and threw another grenade, wounding two Germans and capturing two others. After being stunned by rifle fire glancing off his helmet, he charged several enemy riflemen with his submachine gun, forcing them to withdraw. Then he rushed the remaining machine-gun position and captured its crew of four, enabling his platoon to continue its assault.
        He received the Distinguished Service Cross, the Army's second-highest award for bravery.
        In 1996, a Congressional measure sponsored by Senator Daniel K. Akaka, Democrat of Hawaii, directed the Army to review the World War II records of highly decorated servicemen of Asian descent to see if bias had deprived them of the Medal of Honor, the highest award for valor.
        In 2000, as a result of that review, President Bill Clinton bestowed the Medal of Honor on Mr. Okutsu and 21 other soldiers of Asian background. Mr. Okutsu, a second-generation Japanese-American, was among seven surviving recipients in that group, which also included Senator Daniel K. Inouye, Democrat of Hawaii.
        Twenty of the 22 men had fought with the 442nd Combat Regimental Team or the 100th Infantry Battalion, Japanese-American units renowned for bravery.
        Mr. Okutsu, a native of Koloa, Hawaii, settled in Hilo after the war and was a supervisor for the County of Hawaii parking meter department.
        He is survived by his wife, Elaine; two sons, Wayne and Randal; three brothers, Seiji, Tsuneo and Paul; six sisters, Gladys Endo, Mitsuko Matsuura, Fuyuko Tanaka, Margie Shinn, Betty Thomas and Rachel Akazawa; eight grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  September 20, 2003, Saturday  An obituary on Sunday about Yukio Okutsu, who received the Medal of Honor for valor in the Italian campaign of World War II, misidentified the site of the action for which he was decorated. It was Mount Belvedere near the coastal village of Massa, not another mountain of the same name astride a road to Bologna.
      