
        Sidney J. Silberman, formerly head of the New York law firm of Kaye Scholer and a prominent philanthropist in Jewish community organizations, died on Friday at his home in White Plains. He was 81.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said his daughter, Judy Aqua.
        From 1977 to 1980, Mr. Silberman was chairman of the executive committee of what is now Kaye Scholer LLP; the name was shortened several years ago from Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hays & Handler. In that job he served as the chief executive officer of the firm, a large, versatile international law firm based in Manhattan.
        He was a corporate lawyer, representing both publicly owned companies and private companies. He was a partner in the firm for four decades, from 1952 until he retired in 1992.
        In 1952, the firm had fewer than 25 lawyers in one office in New York City; by 1992 it had about 400 lawyers and branch offices in Palm Beach, Fla., Washington, Los Angeles and Hong Kong.
        Mr. Silberman was also a longtime supporter of the UJA-Federation of New York, whose many philanthropic activities include caring for those in need in the New York City area, Israel and elsewhere in the world.
        He was chairman of the lawyers' division of the organization in 1979 and 1980. He was also involved with the annual Judge Joseph M. Proskauer Awards Dinner, which helps raise money for the organization. In addition, he was elected the unsalaried president of the Associated Y.M.-Y.W.H.A.'s of Greater New York, for three years beginning in 1970, helping to raise money and create policies for the organization's 17 centers.
        Sidney Joseph Silberman was born in Des Moines. When he was 5 years old, his family moved to Manhattan. He graduated from Townsend Harris High School, received a bachelor of arts degree in history in 1942 from Columbia and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa.
        During World War II he was in the Navy, mostly on board the battleship Nevada. He saw military action in the Pacific and elsewhere and rose to lieutenant.
        He received his law degree in 1947 from Columbia Law School and was on its law review. He was an associate at the the Manhattan-based law firm of Proskauer Rose Goetz & Mendelsohn from 1947 to 1952.
        His wife, Marjorie, died in 1994.
        In addition to his daughter, Judy Aqua, of New Rochelle, N.Y., he is survived by a brother, Charles, of Sarasota, Fla.; two grandsons; a granddaughter; and his companion, Helene Fagin.
      