
        Dr. Paul LoGerfo, a surgeon who helped advance the diagnosis and treatment of thyroid disease, died on Sept. 16 at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in New York. He was 64.
        The cause was cancer, said his brother Frank.
        Dr. LoGerfo, who lived in Manhattan, was best known for a procedure known as the thyroglobulin assay, which he developed in the late 70's for detecting recurrent thyroid cancer. It remains widely used.
        In the mid-80's, while chief of the surgical oncology unit at Columbia-Presbyterian, Dr. LoGerfo began to use local anesthesia in thyroid operations, which had previously been done under general anesthesia.
        He found the local anesthesia especially useful for patients with heart disorders and other serious ailments that left them vulnerable to general anesthesia. The local anesthesia also cut the recovery time and often allowed patients to go home the same day. ''Using light sedation and local anesthesia was a beneficial addition to thyroid surgeries,'' said Dr. Robert McConnell, a professor of medicine at Columbia-Presbyterian. ''He perfected it and was its most vocal advocate. It's not a standard procedure because it requires special training, but it's something that is definitely increasing in popularity.''
        Dr. LoGerfo was also a pioneer in the use of coarse needles for thyroid biopsies, which, he reported, helped provide more precise diagnoses and eliminated unneeded operations, compared with using fine needles.
        Dr. LoGerfo was born in Middletown, N.Y., in 1939. He received his bachelor's degree from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and his medical degree from the State University of New York Upstate Medical University in Syracuse.
        He did his residency at Columbia-Presbyterian in 1968 and went on to head its general surgery and surgical specialties divisions.
        In 1994, Dr. LoGerfo started a center at Columbia-Presbyterian for thyroid disease research and education, and he was its co-director with Dr. McConnell. He also began a registry of thyroid operations performed at the hospital to help researchers keep statistics on the outcomes.
        Dr. LoGerfo was an author or co-author of more than 100 scientific articles and several books, including ''The Thyroid Guide'' (2000), which helps people recognize the symptoms of thyroid disease and obtain proper treatment. In addition to his brother Frank, who lives in Boston, Dr. LoGerfo is survived by his wife, Kristin Larkin LoGerfo; two daughters, Susan Goetz of Maynard, Mass., and Cathy Haims of Madison, Conn.; his father, Paul, of Sarasota, Fla.; another brother, James, of Seattle; and three grandchildren.
      