
        John Michael Bailey, the former chief state's attorney and a scion of one of Connecticut's most famous and powerful political families, died today at his home in West Hartford. He was 59.
        Mr. Bailey, Connecticut's longest-serving chief state's attorney at nine years, resigned after he began to suffer health problems a little over a year ago; in October 2002 he learned he had Lou Gehrig's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, said his wife, Elizabeth Dee Bailey.
        Colleagues said that Mr. Bailey's approach to prosecuting crimes and abuse against senior citizens, as well as his work to rid the state of street gangs, influenced prosecutors across the country. During his tenure as chief state's attorney, Mr. Bailey would often show up at major crime scenes and take personal control of investigations.
        The chief state's attorney is the top law enforcement officer of Connecticut, and supervises more than 500 prosecutors, inspectors and staff members in the Division of Criminal Justice.
        Christopher L. Morano, the current chief state's attorney, said that Mr. Bailey had been a mentor to him.
        Mr. Bailey came from a family steeped in politics. His father, John Moran Bailey, was one of the most effective political bosses in the country for more than 25 years. He assumed control of the Connecticut Democratic Central Committee in 1946, worked for John F. Kennedy's presidential campaign in 1960 and became chairman of the Democratic National Committee after the election.
        One of John Moran Bailey's children, Barbara B. Kennelly, followed her father into politics, serving in the United States House of Representatives for 17 years. But her brother, John Michael Bailey, decided to make the law his career after failing to get the Democratic nomination to run for the House in 1974.
        Mr. Bailey graduated from Ashland College and also from the Columbus School of Law at Catholic University. He worked briefly in private practice, then in 1975 became deputy assistant state's attorney in Manchester. In 1993 he was appointed the chief state's attorney.
        ''He loved his job; every day he loved his job,'' Ms. Kennelly said today. ''He died too young.''
        Just as his father had drawn attention for his appearance, a look that even friends described as a Hollywood-perfect model for how a political boss should appear, Mr. Bailey was known for his stylish dress, slicked-back hair and deep tan.
        Mr. Bailey was able to make friends on both sides of the political aisle. When he retired last year, about 2,000 people came to a celebration to pay tribute to him. The governor, John G. Rowland, a Republican, today ordered all state flags to be flown at half-staff until the funeral on Thursday.
        Mr. Bailey is survived by his wife of 33 years as well as his two sons, John M. Bailey II of Hartford and Brian Bailey of New Haven.
      