
        Norma Storch, a white woman whose decision to have her 4-year-old mixed-race daughter raised by a black couple became the subject of an Emmy Award-winning documentary made by the daughter in adulthood, died on Aug. 28 at her home in Manhattan. She was 81.
        The cause was cancer, said the daughter, June Cross, the producer of the documentary, ''Secret Daughter,'' which PBS broadcast in 1996.
        The film was heralded as a searing look at race relations in the 1950's and 60's, and drew praise for its emotional rawness and the bravery of both mother and daughter. Other reviews suggested that the documentary's power came from a mother's willingness to reject her daughter and then rationalize it.
        Ms. Cross said in an interview last week that this impression properly reflected the documentary but not their real relationship. She said that tensions were exaggerated for dramatic effect.
        But for almost 35 years, Mrs. Storch and her husband -- the actor and comedian Larry Storch, who starred as Cpl. Randolph Agarn in the 1960's comedy series ''F Troop,''-- indisputably lived a lie. They told friends and acquaintances that the black girl who visited them at their Hollywood home was their adopted daughter, who lived with a black family for most of the year.
        The truth was that Ms. Cross was the child of an affair Mrs. Storch had had with Jimmy Cross, a black song-and-dance man who was Stump in the well-known performing team Stump and Stumpy.
        Mrs. Storch fled Mr. Cross soon after their daughter's birth in 1954, because of his drinking, drug use and violence toward her, she said. As June matured and her complexion darkened, she and her mother encountered racist reactions, including a petition from residents of their Manhattan building demanding that they leave.
        Mrs. Storch asked two friends, a middle-class black couple in Atlantic City, to raise June. After they took her in, Mrs. Storch cried every night, developed shingles and wrote daily letters to the girl, according to the documentary.
        Norma Greve was born on April 6, 1922, in Pocatello, Idaho. Her mother moved from place to place, married seven times or so, and from time to time vanished completely. From the time Mrs. Storch was 9 until her marriage, she used the last name Booth, the name of one of her stepfathers.
        Shortly after graduation from high school in Long Beach, Calif., Norma Greve married Jack May, a competitive surfer, with whom she had a son, Lary. After their divorce in 1945, she moved to Los Angeles to pursue an acting career, and became a member of the Circle Repertory Theater.
        In 1947, she had a brief romance with Larry Storch, and gave birth in 1948 to a daughter, Candace, whom they put up for adoption. Ms. Cross said that Candace and the Storches were reunited after Candace read an article about the documentary in People magazine.
        Mrs. Storch had placed Lary with various caretakers as she pursued her acting career. He is now a professor at the University of Minnesota and helped persuade his mother to participate in the documentary.
        In addition to June Cross and Lary May, Mrs. Storch is survived by her husband, who lives in Manhattan; her daughter Candace Herman of Los Angeles; and six grandchildren.
        Mrs. Storch was working as a hatcheck girl in Manhattan in 1959 when she renewed her relationship with Mr. Storch. They were married in 1961, and two years later moved to Hollywood, where she managed his career.
        June Cross spent many summers with them. For the couple's conservative friends, they concocted an elaborate story about having adopted June, who they said was the abused child of former neighbors. They said they had sent the girl to live with black friends of theirs, which was true.
        ''In those days, people were encrusted in prejudice,'' Mr. Storch said in an interview with People magazine in 1996. ''We saw no reason to rock the boat.''
        Neither did Ms. Cross, even after graduating from Harvard and making a successful career as a television producer, with PBS's MacNeil-Lehrer Report, then at CBS News and later with ''Frontline'' on PBS.
        She had one reunion with her father, months before he died of cancer in 1981. She told People magazine that she felt only ''detached curiosity.''
        But Ms. Cross said she came to appreciate the decision her mother had made when she was a little girl. In one scene in the documentary, she laughs nervously when her mother says she would have aborted her if she had had enough money.
        At another point in the film, she says, ''I think the truth of it is that she loved me enough to give me away.''
      