
        H. Erich Heinemann, an economist and financial writer who moved between careers for nearly 40 years, died in an automobile accident on Thursday in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 71 and lived in Great Neck.
        A cause of death has not been announced, pending a coroner's report, but Mr. Heinemann suffered from diabetes and an irregular heartbeat and may have died of a heart attack while driving, said his wife, Sally. The car he was driving struck two other cars, she said, but no one in them was injured.
        As an economist at Morgan Stanley, where he was a vice president from 1974 to 1982, Mr. Heinemann was known as a critic of the Federal Reserve, arguing that it must closely regulate the money available to the economy. He was also a member of the Shadow Open Market Committee, a group of economists that influenced the Federal Reserve.
        Most recently, Mr. Heinemann was an economist with Brimberg & Company, an institutional brokerage firm in New York. Earlier, he was chief economist of the investment firm Ladenburg Thalmann & Company, also in New York, and several other New York firms.
        Mr. Heinemann began his career at Business Week, where he was a financial writer for five years. He left to become an associate economist at the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, now a division of J. P. Morgan Chase.
        In 1965, he joined The New York Times as a banking reporter and assistant to the financial editor. In 1973, he became vice president for corporate planning at Franklin National Bank in New York, which closed in 1974. He briefly rejoined The Times in 1982 as an economics correspondent and assistant to the paper's business editor.
        Hans Erich Heinemann was born on July 8, 1932, in Norwalk, Conn. He graduated from Harvard College in 1954 and received an M.B.A. from Columbia University in 1958.
        His two previous marriages, to Robb Reavill of Bend, Ore., and Sally M. Dorst of New York, ended in divorce.
        In addition to his wife, the former Sally Rosensweig, he is survived by a son, Martin, of Portland, Ore.; two daughters, Kristina, of Washington, and Sabina, of Great Neck; a grandson, Ruben; and a sister, Marianne Russo, of Lincoln University, Pa. Another son, Daniel, died in 1983.
      