
        Sanford Solender, who held several top jobs in Jewish philanthropies and served on urban-policy advisory boards in New York City, died on Aug. 30 in Sarasota, Fla. He was 89 and lived in Sarasota.
        For five decades, Mr. Solender, a social worker by profession, was active in Jewish communal organizations and in other nonprofit groups.
        At various times he was executive vice president of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies and of the UJA-Federation of New York's Joint Campaign as well as chairman of a task force on a fiscal crisis in New York City, a panel of leaders of major voluntary agencies sponsored by the Community Council of Greater New York.
        Mr. Solender helped bring about the merger in 1986 of the Federation and the United Jewish Appeal of New York into the UJA-Federation of New York.
        Mr. Solender was executive vice president of the federation from 1970 to 1981, when he retired, and an executive of the UJA-Federation of New York's Joint Campaign from 1973 to 1981.
        Until 1973, the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies had raised money for use by Jews in greater New York, and the UJA-Federation of New York had raised money for Jews in Israel and throughout the world. After the Yom Kippur war in 1973, Mr. Solender helped create the Joint Campaign by merging the fund-raising operations of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies and of the United Jewish Appeal of New York.
        As co-executive vice president of the UJA-Federation Campaign, he oversaw the efforts to raise $100 million annually in the greater New York area during the late 1970's.
        Mr. Solender also helped organize the Task Force on the New York City Fiscal Crisis in 1975 and served as its chairman for five years. In that capacity, he studied problems and worked with officials of New York City. He was also chairman of the city's Council on Intergroup Relations while Edward I. Koch was mayor.
        Mr. Solender, who was born on Aug. 23, 1914, in Pleasantville, N.Y., received a bachelor's degree in education from New York University and a master's degree in education from Columbia. For a decade, he held social work positions in New York City and Cleveland.
        He was an executive with the National Jewish Welfare Board from 1948 to 1970 and its executive vice president from 1960 to 1970. In 1975 he was a member of a statewide task force on human services.
        Mr. Solender was a past president of the National Association of Jewish Center Workers.
        His wife, Ethel Klonick Solender, died in 1995.
        He is survived by 2 sons, Stephen, who also served as executive vice president of the UJA-Federation, and Peter; a daughter, Ellen Hirsch; 6 grandchildren; and 10 great-grandchildren. Another daughter, Susan Bailis, died three years ago.
      