
        Robert Koch, a decorative arts expert who helped make the name Tiffany one that every flea market browser wants to hear, died on Aug. 13 in Stamford, Conn. He was 85 and lived in Stamford.
        In 1958 Mr. Koch, freshly awarded a doctorate in art history from Yale, was curator for an exhibition of Louis Comfort Tiffany's work at the Museum of Contemporary Crafts in New York. That show set in motion a revival of interest in Tiffany's Art Nouveau glasswork designs, said Janet Zapata, an art historian and fellow Tiffany expert.
        Mr. Koch was the author of several books on Tiffany. The first, ''Louis Comfort Tiffany, Rebel in Glass,'' published in 1964, was based on research for his doctorate. He also wrote, with Ms. Zapata, ''Will H. Bradley, American Artist in Print, a Collector's Guide'' (Hudson Hills Press, 2003).
        He was a professor emeritus at Southern Connecticut State University in New Haven and also lectured widely, wrote articles on the decorative and graphic arts for antiques publications and donated rare Tiffany works to several museums.
        Mr. Koch and his wife, Gladys, who long lived in a Connecticut home filled with the Tiffany works they had acquired, also operated an antiques business. In 1972 they experienced the dream of all collectors while browsing at an unfamiliar antiques shop. A dilapidated stained-glass panel lying on the porch caught Mr. Koch's eye. The sale-minded shop owner offered that it ''might'' be a Tiffany, but Mr. Koch could see that it had none of the jewellike colors or grace typical of Tiffany's work. Despite that, he bought it. ''I had a hunch it might be something important,'' Mr. Koch recalled to an interviewer a few months later.
        It was important. Mr. Koch confirmed that it was a very early, and very rare, work of Tiffany that had probably been made by the designer personally. In 2002 Mr. Koch donated it to the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
        Mr. Koch was born in New York City and received a bachelor's degree from Harvard and a master's degree from New York University. He served in the United States Army from 1942 to 1945.
        He is survived by a daughter, B'rak Asher of Ulster Park, N.Y.; a son, Mitchell, of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.; four grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
      