
        Charles E. Bennett, a Florida Democrat who was a champion of ethical reforms in Congress and who sponsored the legislation that put ''In God We Trust'' on currency, died on Sept. 6 in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 92.
        Mr. Bennett spent 44 years in the House of Representatives, more than 40 of them without missing a vote on legislation.
        ''I'm not a brilliant person,'' he said in The New York Times in 1991. ''I do produce some good legislation. But I've never been accused of being a genius. But I feel that being there and making the vote is my duty and responsibility.''
        He said he had ducked out of funerals, bolted from hospital beds and defied snowstorms to get to the Capitol for a vote. He once rolled onto the House floor in a wheelchair.
        His legislation in 1955 required that the mint put ''In God We Trust'' on all currency; the words appeared only on coins beginning in the 1860's. The measure passed the House and Senate unanimously and was signed into law by President Dwight D. Eisenhower. The next year, Congress made the words the national motto.
        Mr. Bennett said America had to distinguish itself from other world superpowers. ''In these days when imperialistic and materialistic communism seeks to attack and destroy freedom, we should continuously look for ways to strengthen the foundations of our freedom,'' he said of his bill from the House floor in April 1955. ''At the base of our freedom is our faith in God and the desire of Americans to live by his will and his guidance. As long as this country trusts in God, it will prevail.''
        Nicknamed ''Mr. Clean,'' Mr. Bennett sponsored the legislation that created the House Ethics Committee and served as its first chairman.
        A sponsor of the landmark Americans With Disabilities Act, he walked with canes, the result of polio he contracted in the Army in World War II while leading guerrillas in jungles in the Philippines.
        Mr. Bennett, who received the Silver Star, returned hundreds of thousands of dollars in wartime disability checks to the Treasury.
        A lawyer by training, he was a leading advocate for the creation of a permanent Congressional ethics committee in the 1960's and declined to accept contributions from military contractors, even though he could have easily drawn such donations as a senior member of the Armed Services Committee. He also consistently voted against Congressional pay raises.
        Charles Edward Bennett was born in Canton, N.Y., on Dec. 2, 1910. He was raised in Tampa, Fla., and was a graduate of the University of Florida at Gainesville and its law school. He practiced law in Jacksonville until 1942, when he enlisted in the Army.
        He was discharged in 1947, as a captain, and was elected to Congress the following year representing the Jacksonville area. He wrote several books on the early history of Florida.
        In 1992, Mr. Bennett retired from Congress after his wife, Jean, suffered a stroke.
        Survivors include his wife of 50 years; three children, Lucinda Bennett of Jacksonville, Bruce Bennett of Lake Worth, Fla., and James Bennett of Glastonbury, Conn.; and three grandchildren.
        The death of a third son, Charles Jr., in 1977 from a drug overdose inspired him to push for antidrug legislation, including a measure to authorize the military, primarily the Navy, to help civilian law-enforcement agencies interdict drug traffic outside United States borders.
      