
        Byron V. Pepitone, who headed the Selective Service System during the final years of the Vietnam War and the transition to an all-volunteer military, died on Thursday in Port St. Lucie, in southern Florida, where he lived. He was 85.
        Mr. Pepitone, a retired Air Force colonel, directed the draft at a tumultuous time. He sometimes had to wade through protesters to get to his office in Washington.
        During his tenure as acting director from May 1972 to April 1973 and as director from April 1973 to July 1977, the military phased out the draft in favor of a force composed of volunteers.
        Lotteries for the draft continued through this period, until Mr. Pepitone canceled the last one, which had been scheduled for 1976. The service stopped calling up men in 1973.
        Mr. Pepitone, who was first appointed deputy director by President Richard M. Nixon, continued as director into the administrations of Presidents Gerald R. Ford and Jimmy Carter. In the Ford administration, he helped write the law giving draft evaders amnesty in exchange for alternative service and a pledge of allegiance.
        In 1977, he resigned in protest when President Carter fulfilled a campaign promise by granting draft evaders full and unconditional pardons with no requirement of alternative service.
        ''That was against my father's principles,'' Mr. Pepitone's son Byron II said. ''It weighed heavy on him.''
        Byron Vincent Pepitone was born in New Brunswick, N.J., on June 9, 1918. He joined the military just before World War II and served in the Army Air Corps, receiving the Distinguished Service Medal and the Army Commendation Medal. He remained in the service after the war and reached high positions in Air Force personnel management.
        When Curtis W. Tarr, who had been an assistant secretary of the Air Force, became the Selective Service director, he asked Mr. Pepitone, with whom he had worked closely in the Air Force, to be his deputy.
        When Mr. Tarr left to become an undersecretary of state, President Nixon appointed Mr. Pepitone acting director of the draft and then director the next year.
        After Mr. Pepitone resigned, he divided his year between Virginia and Florida, finally moving permanently to Florida.
        In addition to his son Byron, who also lives in Port St. Lucie, Mr. Pepitone is survived by his wife of 64 years, Marolynn; another son, James, of Plano, Tex.; four grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      