
        Benjamin Shimberg, an expert on how occupational testing, licensing and certifying can protect the public, died on Wednesday in Trenton. He was 85 and lived in Lawrenceville, N.J.
        He died as a result of a stroke he suffered on Sept. 18, his family said.
        Dr. Shimberg, a former senior research scientist at Educational Testing Service in Lawrence Township, N.J., was a founder of the Council on Licensure, Enforcement and Regulation, known as Clear, a leading professional organization dedicated to issues involving the licensing of professionals.
        His research is credited with reforming licensing procedures in many fields, including optometry, cosmetology, licensed practical nursing, insurance and real estate as well as for the selection of candidates to become officers in the Coast Guard and the sergeant examinations for the New York City Police Department.
        He went to work for Educational Testing Service in 1953 as assistant to the president. He became the director of occupational studies and programs in 1967 and was with the organization for 35 years before retiring.
        Dr. Shimberg advised officials and lawmakers in the United States, Europe, Asia and elsewhere on his research. He was an advocate of fair and valid procedures to protect the public and to treat candidates for licenses equitably.
        He was also a strong proponent of testing actual skills, not merely education, and emphasized the importance of requiring continuing education for licensed professionals to ensure their competence.
        Dr. Shimberg investigated how licenses and certification were issued in specialized realms from medicine to the Coast Guard. He was involved in the writing of virtually every test that was based on research he had done. He would say, ''I want the test to be directly connected to the skills needed for the job.''
        Dr. Shimberg was also concerned with training the licensing-board members and regulators themselves.
        His writings include the 1973 book ''Occupational Licensing: Practices and Policies,'' of which he was one of three co-authors.
        He was president of the Association for Measurement and Evaluation in Guidance from 1965 to 1967.
        He was born in Rochester on June 5, 1918, and received a bachelor's degree in 1941 from the University of Rochester, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. He earned his doctorate from Purdue University in 1949.
        Dr. Shimberg served in the United States Army Air Forces from 1942 to 1946, rising to technical sergeant.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Helen Koonce, whom he married in 1946; a son, David, of Charlotte, N.C.; a daughter, Barbara Harris, of Hamilton Square, N.J.; five grandchildren; two great-grandchildren; and a sister, Reva Sipser, of Sarasota, Fla.
      