
        Franklin L. Ford, who as dean of Harvard's Faculty of Arts and Sciences confronted student protesters in the 1960's, died on Sunday in Lexington, Mass. He was 82.
        He had been in ill health after a stroke, Harvard announced.
        Dr. Ford became an assistant professor of history at Harvard in 1953, rose through the ranks and became the McLean professor of ancient and modern history in 1968. He also wrote several books on European history.
        He was concurrently dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences from 1962 -- when he succeeded McGeorge Bundy, who had stepped down from the post to become an adviser to President John F. Kennedy -- until 1970.
        On April 9, 1969, 300 students protesting several university policies, some related to the war in Vietnam, gained control of Harvard's principal administration building. They threw out Dr. Ford and eight other deans and closed off the building's doors with bicycle chains.
        The building was seized after a short rally directed by the Students for a Democratic Society. That organization voiced six demands, among them the abolition of the Reserve Officers Training Corps units on the Harvard campus and the rollback of rent increases on university-owned apartments in Cambridge, Mass.
        Some hours after Dr. Ford was ousted from the building, he returned to the scene. He used a bullhorn to warn the students in the building that they would be subject to criminal trespass charges if they did not clear the building within 15 minutes.
        After the students had not obeyed warnings to leave the building or be forced out of it, the Harvard administration, led by President Nathan M. Pusey and Dr. Ford, made up its mind, not long after 10 p.m., to summon the police.
        Two hundred students were still holding the building early the next day, when 400 policemen, wearing helmets, arrived on the campus and took the demonstrators away.
        At the time, Dr. Ford declared that if the Harvard community did not ''recognize that what is at stake is the freedom to teach, to inquire and to learn,'' then ''there will be little point in pretending much longer that this is a real university.''
        ''The buildings will remain, but the soul will be gone,'' he said.
        Dr. Ford's writings include the books ''Robe and Sword: The Regrouping of the French Aristocracy After Louis XIV'' (Harvard, 1953); ''Strasbourg in Transition, 1648 to 1789'' (Harvard, 1958); and ''Europe, 1780-1830'' (Holt, 1969), part of Longman's General History of Europe series. His last book was ''Political Murder: From Tyrannicide to Terrorism'' (Harvard, 1985), a history of political murder from antiquity to modern times. He also contributed to historical journals.
        He became a professor emeritus in 1991.
        Franklin Lewis Ford was born in Waukegan, Ill., and went on to receive a bachelor's degree in 1942 from the University of Minnesota. After serving in the Office of Special Services in World War II, he received a master's degree in 1948 and his doctorate in 1950, both from Harvard. From 1949 to 1952 he taught at Bennington College.
        He is survived by his wife of 59 years, Eleanor, of Lexington; two sons, Stephen Joseph, of Louisville, Ky., and John Franklin, of Tubac, Ariz.; a granddaughter; and two sisters, Frances Ford and Florence Dart of Catonsville, Md.
      