
        Simon Breines, a New York City architect who was the first president of the Landmarks Conservancy of New York and the architect member of the Art Commission of New York City, died on Sept. 16 at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 97.
        Mr. Breines was a partner in the New York City-based firm of Pomerance & Breines, Architects, the designers of structures both public and private.
        His public projects include the Grand Concourse Public Library in the Bronx and the Lexington School for the Deaf.
        He criticized quickly executed architectural undertakings. He also opposed overscale buildings on narrow city streets both in his public statements and letters to the editor and in his advisory work on the revision in 1961 of the city's zoning resolution, a law adopted in 1916. At the time of the 1961 revision, he led the civic design committee of the American Institute of Architects' New York chapter.
        ''I have learned that large-scale, 'instant' projects leave little room for adjustment for errors or experience,'' he wrote in his Who's Who entry, adding, ''What architecture and planning need, in the future, are a more deliberate pace and a more human scale.''
        Mr. Breines was also an advocate of easing the way of pedestrians. He was the co-author, with William J. Dean, a lawyer and former executive secretary of the Citizens Union, of the book ''The Pedestrian Revolution: Streets without Cars'' (1974).
        Mr. Breines was also a co-author, with John P. Dean, a housing economist, of the ''The Book of Houses'' (1946), which offered practical advice to home buyers and builders on design pitfalls.
        Mr. Breines was born in Brooklyn on April 4, 1906, to Louis Breines and the former Anna Backrack. He received a bachelor's degree in architecture from Pratt Institute in 1941.
        He was a fellow of the American Institute of Architects and served on the boards of Citizens Union of the City of New York and the Municipal Art Society.
        He married Nettie Weissman in 1937, and she died in 2001. Surviving are two sons, Paul and Joseph, four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      