
        William Roy, a pianist, songwriter, singer, musical director and actor, died on Tuesday in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 75.
        The cause was respiratory failure after a series of small strokes, said his companion, Wayne Hosford.
        During the last two decades Mr. Roy was best known as the musical director and pianist for Julie Wilson, with whom he created a series of acclaimed cabaret tributes to great American songwriters, among them Cy Coleman. Mr. Roy, elfin and boyish on the nightclub stage, and Ms. Wilson, with whom Mr. Roy occasionally sang, suggested a pair of jolly, discriminating companions traveling through musical-theater history.
        Born in Detroit, Mr. Roy began singing on weekly children's radio programs when he was 3, and he later became a regular on ''The Lone Ranger'' and ''The Green Hornet,'' which were broadcast from Detroit.
        As Billy Roy, he began working in Hollywood at 12 and had roles in 20 films, including ''The Corn Is Green,'' ''Passage to Marseille,'' ''The Cross of Lorraine'' and ''It Happened in Brooklyn.''
        During that period in the 1940's he studied composition with the pianist Edward Kilenyi and began composing art songs, which were performed by Gladys Swarthout, Nan Merriman and others. He also wrote the music and lyrics for a short-lived 1953 Broadway show called ''Maggie'' (based on the play ''What Every Woman Knows''), and later wrote the book, music and lyrics for ''The Penny Friend,'' an Off Broadway show starring Bernadette Peters.
        For seven years he worked as a nightclub arranger and musical director for the Julius Monk revues at the Upstairs at the Downstairs and at Plaza 9 in the Plaza Hotel.
        He worked again with Ms. Peters as the writer, arranger and conductor of her nightclub act.
        He also worked with Rosemary Clooney, Dorothy Dandridge, Dolores Gray, Celeste Holm, Lisa Kirk, Linda Lavin, Mabel Mercer, Portia Nelson, Ginger Rogers, Sylvia Syms, Margaret Whiting, Chris Connor, Blossom Dearie, Carol Lawrence and Bobby Short.
      