
        Dr. Robert F. Kallman, a Stanford University scientist who did early research on the effects of radiation on cancer cells, helping to establish the practice as a standard treatment, died on Aug. 8 at Stanford Hospital in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 81.
        The cause was lung disease, said his daughter, Robin Kallman.
        In the mid-50's, Dr. Kallman and a colleague helped demonstrate in mice that using radiation to fight tumors worked better when the cancerous cells had higher levels of oxygen, a phenomenon called reoxygenation. Their research, which Dr. Kallman pursued through most of his career, helped lead to a better understanding of radiation therapy.
        ''He showed that when radiation kills tumor cells, it is more effective to have a good oxygen supply,'' said Dr. Malcolm Bagshaw, an emeritus professor of radiation oncology at the Stanford School of Medicine. ''He was one of the first radiobiologists to study full time how radiation works as a method of killing tumors.''
        Dr. Kallman became head of the new radiobiology division at Stanford in the late 50's. After securing financing from the National Cancer Institute, he founded a cancer biology program which developed a national reputation. The program, which thrives today with about 50 graduate students and a half-dozen postdoctorate workers, has been emulated at Yale and other major universities, Dr. Bagshaw said.
        Born in Brooklyn in 1922, Robert Friend Kallman earned his bachelor's degree at Hofstra. He went to Europe as an Army medic in World War II, then earned his Ph.D. from New York University in 1952.
        He joined Stanford's department of radiology in 1956 and remained there until his retirement in 1992. He was president of the Radiation Research Society in 1976.
        Dr. Kallman's first wife, Frances Green, known as Pat, died in 1966.
        He is survived by his second wife, Ingrid; a son and daughter from his first marriage, Timothy, of Cabin John, Md., and Robin Kallman of San Francisco; a son from his second marriage, Lars, of Stanford; a brother, Raymond, of Taos, N.M.; a sister, Nancy Rudolph of New York City; two grandchildren; and several nieces and nephews.
      