
        David B. Truman, a dynamic, popular dean and provost whose swift rise through the administrative ranks at Columbia University ended in a bitter swirl of recriminations after the student uprising of 1968, died on Thursday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 90.
        Widely expected to succeed Grayson L. Kirk as president of Columbia, Dr. Truman instead found himself a point man for an administration that twice allowed police officers in riot gear to swarm over the campus and end the uprising by force, with hundreds of arrests and injuries.
        The administration was widely blamed for inflexibility and insensitivity, and it soon became clear that Columbia would be looking elsewhere for a successor to Dr. Kirk. Dr. Truman resigned in January 1969 to become president of a much smaller, though prestigious, institution, Mount Holyoke College in Massachusetts.
        A distinguished political scientist and the author of two highly regarded books about American government, Dr. Truman had a soaring career at Columbia: full professor of government in 1951, at age 38; dean of the undergraduate college in 1962; and vice president and provost -- the No. 2 job on the 17,500-student campus -- in 1967.
        Short, stocky and heavy-browed, with a beret to shield him from the stiff winds on Morningside Heights, he seemed to embody the vigor and optimism of the Kennedy and early Johnson years.
        He presided over the liberalizing of ancient, unpopular rules, allowing Columbia men to close their doors when they had women in their rooms and instituting a two-day break between the end of classes and final exams. He spoke out for civil rights and against McCarthyism, and publicly challenged his colleague Jacques Barzun's famous assertion that the liberal arts were ''dead or dying.'' As dean, he liked to drop in and chat with students in their dorm rooms. At a college assembly in 1966, the students gave him a standing ovation.
        Columbia was starting to emerge from decades of administrative drift, and to many students, faculty members and trustees, Dr. Truman was the ideal figure to lead a $200 million fund-raising campaign, restore the flagging prestige of the undergraduate college, unify the campus's disparate schools and mend relations with the university's neighbors in Harlem.
        But on the afternoon of April 23, 1968, mounting student protests over Columbia's ties to the Vietnam-era Defense Department and the university's plan to build a gym in Morningside Park over neighborhood objections erupted into rebellion. Three hundred students barricaded a dean in his office. Within 72 hours, students had seized five buildings.
        After a week of tension and nonstop meetings in which faculty and student intermediaries tried to negotiate an end to the standoff, the administration opened the gates to 1,000 New York City police officers, who rushed into the five buildings and plowed into the protesters, swinging riot clubs and nightsticks. Twenty officers and 128 students were injured.
        Three weeks later, on May 22, a second occupation of Hamilton Hall, the college's main administration building, ended with a second police raid. This time, 17 officers and 51 students were injured.
        In an interview with Newsweek that month, Dr. Truman said the left-wing group Students for a Democratic Society, led by Mark Rudd, a 20-year-old junior, had forced the administration's hand by insisting on amnesty for the protesters. ''There was a collision course,'' he said. ''The amnesty demand had everything riding on it; we could not have given on amnesty without betraying not only Columbia but the whole of higher education. There were just two alternatives: either to give in, or to bring in the police.'' And he said of the S.D.S., ''They regard the universities as a soft spot in a society that they're trying to bring down.''
        But a commission appointed by Columbia's faculty to investigate the disturbances found later that year that ''the seizure of the buildings was not simply the work of a few radicals'' but ''involved a significant portion of the student body who had become disenchanted with the operation of their university.''
        In September 1968, J. Anthony Lukas wrote in The New York Times that many students and faculty members no longer saw Dr. Truman as an ally but as '' 'Kirk's hatchet man' -- virtually indistinguishable from the president on policy matters, but shrewder, tougher and therefore more dangerous.''
        David Bicknell Truman was born on June 1, 1913, in Evanston, Ill. He graduated from Amherst College in 1935, received his doctorate in political science from the University of Chicago and taught at Cornell, Bennington, Harvard and Williams, with time out for the Navy in World War II, before joining the Columbia faculty in 1951. In 1939 he married Elinor Griffenhagen, who survives him, along with his son, Edwin M. Truman of Chevy Chase, Md., two grandchildren and a great-granddaughter.
        His nine-year tenure at Mount Holyoke was more placid than his last year at Columbia, but he did lead the college through a wrenching debate over coeducation. Though a decision in 1971 to keep Mount Holyoke a women's college was the trustees', it was strongly supported by Dr. Truman, who said a woman on a coed campus ''feels she must both compete with men and for men'' and might find it easier ''to become a pom-pom girl.'' He retired in 1978 as the last male president in Mount Holyoke's history, then served as president of the Russell Sage Foundation, which sponsors research in social sciences, from 1978 to 1979.
      