
        Milton R. Konvitz, an influential constitutional scholar who prepared pioneering civil rights cases with Thurgood Marshall, inspired Ruth Bader Ginsburg when she was a student and helped write a constitution for Liberia, died on Friday in Monmouth, N.J. He was 95 and lived in Oakhurst, N.J.
        Dr. Konvitz, who taught at Cornell from 1946 to 1973, had broad interests, from examining the United States Constitution through the lens of the Torah to writing two books on Emerson.
        His writings were cited in Supreme Court opinions. For example, his 1946 book, ''The Alien and the Asiatic in American Law,'' was cited in three Supreme Court cases in the 1970's.
        During the administration of Lyndon B. Johnson, he was considered for a seat on the Supreme Court, according to Harold O. Levy, the former New York City schools chancellor and a longtime friend and former student.
        Dr. Konvitz worked for the NAACP Legal Defense Fund in the 1940's as the principal assistant to Mr. Marshall on cases involving police brutality, lynchings and segregation.
        His work on the Liberian legal system began when he was asked to write a new constitution for the country. He refused, saying Liberians should do it themselves. Starting in the mid-1950's, though, he led a team of Liberian lawyers in codifying the country's legal structure.
        As a teacher of a popular course on American ideals, he attracted students from all schools and majors at Cornell. He used the Bible, Plato and other texts to illuminate the intellectual underpinnings of the Constitution.
        One of those students in the early 1950's was Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who said in an interview this week that she was too shy to approach him at the time. They later corresponded, and after his death she counted 107 letters she had received from him. They covered subjects from the right to privacy to the anti-Semitism of one former Supreme Court justice, James Clark McReynolds.
        He helped found the monthly magazine Mainstream and the quarterly journal Judaism, was an editor of Jewish Social Studies and was on the editorial board of the Encyclopedia Judaica.
        Milton Ridvas Konvitz was born on March 12, 1908, in Safed in Palestine, now part of Israel. His father, Joseph, was a prominent rabbi, who was in the United States on business when World War I began. His wife, Welia, and five children joined him.
        The family lived in several towns in New Jersey, and Milton graduated from high school in Trenton at 16. He earned bachelor's and law degrees from New York University. He completed a Ph.D. in philosophy at Cornell in one year, including researching, writing and defending his dissertation.
        In 1933, he could not find an academic job, so he practiced law. He served as counsel successively for the Newark and New Jersey housing authorities before joining the NAACP Legal Defense Fund.
        In 1946, he began teaching at Cornell's law school and School of Industrial and Labor Relations. He also founded the university's department of Near Eastern studies and program of Jewish studies.
        Among many honors, he received honorary degrees from three of the nation's leading institutions representing the main branches of American Jewry: Jewish Theological Seminary, conservative; Yeshiva University, orthodox; and Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion, reform.
        Dr. Konvitz is survived by his wife, the former Mary Traub; a son, Josef, of Paris; a brother, Philip, of Elberon, N.J.; and two grandsons.
        Correction:  September 12, 2003, Friday  An obituary yesterday about Milton R. Konvitz, a constitutional scholar, misstated the number of letters he wrote to Ruth Bader Ginsburg when she was a student and misstated the name of the Zionist monthly publication he helped found. It was 10 to 20 letters, not 107. The publication is Midstream, not Mainstream.
        Correction:  September 13, 2003, Saturday  An obituary on Thursday about Milton R. Konvitz, a constitutional scholar, misstated the name of the Zionist monthly publication he helped found and misstated the number of letters he wrote to Ruth Bader Ginsburg. (A correction in this space yesterday misstated the timing of the correspondence.) The publication is Midstream, not Mainstream. Justice Ginsburg received 10 to 20 letters, not 107, and the correspondence took place long after she was a student, not while she was.
      