
        The Rev. Joseph T. Cahill, who as president of St. John's University for 24 years saw it grow into the largest Catholic university in the United States, died on Saturday in Manhattan. He was 84 and lived in Cape May, N.J.
        He died at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan; the cause was not announced.
        When he became the 14th president of St. John's in 1965, it had 13,000 students at campuses in Jamaica, Queens, and in Brooklyn.
        When he stepped down in 1989, the university listed a shortage of classroom space among its most serious problems.
        By then, St. John's had almost 20,000 students. It now has branch campuses on Staten Island and in Queens; eastern Long Island; Manhattan; and Rome, Italy.
        Joseph Thomas Cahill was born on June 1, 1919, in Philadelphia. He studied at St. Joseph's College in Princeton, N.J., and Mary Immaculate Seminary in Northampton, Pa. He was ordained in 1946 and became affiliated with the Congregation of the Mission in the Vincentian Community, the priestly order that founded St. John's.
        After his ordination, he began his career as a college teacher and rose to become president of St. Joseph's College in Princeton in 1962 and president of Niagara University in Niagara Falls, N.Y., in 1964.
        When he became president of St. John's, the faculty on the main campus, in Queens, demanded and later received a pledge that it would get a larger role in setting policies. The students backed the faculty, most of whose demands were met. There also were academic problems.
        But with Father Cahill in charge, the university's academic offerings were energetically shored up, and faculty members got raises.
        By 1989, when Father Cahill retired as St. John's president, relative harmony prevailed in its faculty, and the university's problems were not numerous.
        Father Cahill retired from the clergy in 1993.
        He also served on the boards of the New York Academy of Public Education, the Commission on Independent Colleges and Universities of the State of New York and the Council of Higher Educational Institutions in New York City.
        His survivors include two sisters, Rita Millman and Clair Marron; and two brothers, Leon and Richard.
      