
        Horace W. Babcock, an innovative astronomer who helped establish the Las Campanas Observatory in northern Chile and developed technology to improve the telescope, died on Aug. 29 in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 90.
        In the early 1960's, while director of the Mount Wilson and Mount Palomar Observatories in California, Dr. Babcock came up with the idea to build an observatory in a remote part of the world, where city lights would not obscure viewing of the stars, planets and galaxies.
        Though some other scientist criticized his plan and favored improvements at the Wilson and Palomar Observatories, Dr. Babcock prevailed, and Las Campanas Observatory was built in the Chilean Andes in the early 1970's with financing from the Carnegie Institution of Washington.
        Today, Las Campanas houses some of the world's most powerful telescopes and provides outstanding access to the Southern Hemisphere sky, including views of the heart of the Milky Way galaxy.
        ''He made a monumental contribution to astronomy by creating the Las Campanas Observatory,'' said Dr. George Preston, a colleague of Dr. Babcock and former director of the Carnegie Observatories. ''And he did it in spite of heavy criticism from people who thought the money should be spent on other things.''
        In the early 1950's, after having trouble studying distant stars and galaxies because their light blurred as it passed through Earth's atmosphere, Dr. Babcock conceived a system that could compensate for the distortion, a technique known as adaptive optics.
        But because of a lack of financing, the system was not developed for 20 years, until the Department of Defense decided to use the technology in conjunction with its high-powered lasers. Today, it is built into most telescopes as a standard feature.
        Also in the 1950's, Dr. Babcock and his father, Harold, who was at Mount Wilson as well, created the first solar magnetograph for measuring the intensity, direction and distribution of the Sun's magnetic field.
        Later, Dr. Babcock invented a device to measure magnetic fields in stars and created a ''seeing monitor'' to evaluate mountaintops as potential homes for telescopes.
        In 1969, he was recognized for lifetime achievement in his field with the Bruce Medal, the highest honor given by the Astronomical Society of the Pacific.
        Born in Pasadena, Calif., in 1912, Horace Welcome Babcock earned his bachelor's degree at the California Institute of Technology and his Ph.D. at the University of California.
        He joined the staff of the Mount Wilson and Palomar Observatories in 1946 and was their director from 1964 to 1978.
        Dr. Babcock is survived by two sons, Ken, of Santa Barbara, and Bruce, of Burbank, Calif.; a daughter, Ann Babcock of Santa Barbara; and a granddaughter.
      