
        Moe Biller, a union scrapper who battled postmasters and presidents to lead postal workers out of poverty with illegal strikes, protests and six decades of hard-nosed bargaining that made him America's best-known postal union leader, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87.
        Heart disease was the cause, said his son Steven.
        The postmaster general, John E. Potter, called Mr. Biller a forceful, innovative leader and ordered post office flags across the nation flown at half-staff until tomorrow. ''The American labor movement has lost a great leader today, and the Postal Service and its employees a committed champion and friend,'' he said.
        Mr. Biller was president of the 340,000-member American Postal Workers Union from 1980 until his retirement in 2001, when he was named president emeritus. As president, he negotiated a series of contracts that won higher wages and improved working conditions and benefits. Critics complained of an abrasive style; still, his popularity with the rank and file was unquestioned.
        But it was as president of the 25,000-member Manhattan-Bronx Postal Union in 1970 that Mr. Biller became nationally known, as a power behind an eight-day strike that spread from New York to 30 other cities and 200,000 postal workers. The strike defied injunctions and laws barring strikes by federal employees.
        It was the first strike in the history of the nation's postal service, and it virtually shut down America's postal operations in a crisis that prompted President Richard M. Nixon to call out federal troops to sort and deliver the mail.
        Ironically, it was a smaller union, a local of the National Association of Letter Carriers, that walked off the job in New York on March 17, 1970. But it was Mr. Biller's rhetoric, and his members' refusal to cross picket lines, that gave the strike its force and brought historic changes in the postal service.
        As a result of the walkout, Congress passed the Postal Reorganization Act of 1970, which created the United States Postal Service as a public corporation. The contract following the dispute raised wages 12 percent, and for the first time gave postal workers rights to bargain collectively and to seek binding arbitration in an impasse. The pact also included a no-layoff clause, still unique among federal workers.
        In a reaction to the reorganization of the postal service, the nation's five largest postal unions merged in 1971 to form the American Postal Workers Union. Mr. Biller became the northeast regional coordinator. On his watch, postal workers at a New Jersey mail center struck for four days with impunity in 1974. In 1978, when contract talks stalled under President Jimmy Carter's 5.5 percent cap on federal pay raises, Mr. Biller organized demonstrations and job actions. Two years later, he was elected president of the national union.
        Morris Biller, known to friend and foe as Moe, was born in Manhattan on Nov. 5., 1915, and graduated from Seward Park High School on the Lower East Side. He attended Brooklyn College and City College for two years, but began work in 1937 as a substitute clerk at a post office on the Lower East Side for $25 a week, with no vacations, no benefits, no sick leave and, as he put it, no respect. He recalled years later that you had to leave the building to go to the toilet.
        In his first days on the job, he was fired for a mistake he did not make, and fought a hard battle for reinstatement. It set the tone for his career. He joined the local postal union, and a year later, with little more than his own tenacity, negotiated a sick leave benefit for his co-workers. Rising in the union hierarchy, he became a sergeant-at-arms, chairman of the membership committee and then a local representative in the Manhattan-Bronx union.
        After service in the Army Adjutant General Corps from 1943 to 1945, he returned to his job and to the union. By 1952 he was executive vice president, and in 1959 he became president of the Manhattan-Bronx union, the post he held until he was elected president of the national union in 1980, at the age of 65.
        Mr. Biller rarely failed to speak his mind. He was incensed by President Ronald Reagan's efforts to cut the federal postal subsidy by $632 million, ending thousands of jobs. In 1985, a federal judge found that Mr. Biller and two other federal union leaders had engaged in partisan politics by supporting the presidential campaign of Walter F. Mondale in violation of the Hatch Act, which limits political activity by federal employees.
        His first wife, Anne Feifer, whom he married in 1940, died in 1978. His second marriage, to Colee Farris, ended in divorce. Besides his son Steven, of Woodmere, N.Y., he is survived by another son, Michael, of New York; a brother, Edward, of Great Neck, N.Y.; a sister, Mae Blecher, of Las Vegas; and two granddaughters.
      