
        Dr. Werner Goldsmith, an authority on the mechanics of collisions who went on to become a leader in the study of head injuries, died on Aug. 23 at his home in Oakland, Calif. He was 79.
        A professor of mechanical engineering at the University of California, Dr. Goldsmith published his classic textbook ''Impact: The Theory and Physical Behavior of Colliding Solids'' in 1960. The seminal text, which was reissued in 2001, examines the mathematics of impact theory and shows how different materials, like cars in crashes, react to rapidly applied stress.
        ''It was the first organized collection of work in the field,'' said Dr. Jerome L. Sackman, an emeritus professor of engineering science at Berkeley and a former colleague. ''The book had a tremendous impact when it was published because it was during the cold war and it had a lot of information on defense-related items -- ballistics and penetration of armor, for example. It was a huge hit and helped get a lot of people interested in the field.''
        By the mid-60's, Dr. Goldsmith had shifted his focus to the biomechanics of head and neck injuries, a new area of scientific inquiry. In 1966, he became chairman of the Head Injury Model Conference of the National Institutes of Health, a project with neurosurgeons to help understand the head's response to impact.
        In later years, he did extensive research on the symptoms resulting from violently shaking an infant or child.
        Because falls and chronic bleeding in the brain unrelated to an injury can also cause this type of brain damage, some people responsible for the care of children have been falsely accused of child abuse, Dr. Goldsmith reported.
        A sign that an infant was killed by violent shaking is soft tissue damage in the neck, his research showed. Medical examiners, he added, seldom checked for those injuries.
        As a result of his research, he became a highly sought expert witness, testifying for the prosecution in the Los Angeles police brutality case involving Rodney G. King in 1992, among many others.
        Born in Düsseldorf, Germany, in 1924, Werner Goldsmith immigrated to the United States by himself in 1938 to escape Nazi persecution. He earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Texas and his Ph.D. from Berkeley.
        He began teaching at Berkeley in the early 50's and retired in 1987, only to return shortly afterward to continue his research. On his 70th birthday, an entire issue of the International Journal of Impact Engineering was devoted to his work.
        He is survived by his wife, Penelope Goldsmith; a son, Stephen, of Santa Rosa, Calif.; two daughters, Andrea Goldsmith of Menlo Park, Calif., and Remy Margarethe Goldsmith of Oakland; and four grandchildren.
      