
        John Lowenthal, who interrupted his career as a law professor to make the 1980 documentary film ''The Trials of Alger Hiss,'' died on Sept. 9 in London. He was 78 and lived in London and Manhattan.
        The cause was esophageal cancer, said his daughter, Anne Hermans.
        Mr. Lowenthal was on sabbatical from Rutgers law school in 1978 when he decided to make his film about the famous spy case that helped boost the political career of Richard M. Nixon. Using newsreel footage and new interviews, the film focused on the 1949 and 1950 perjury trials of Mr. Hiss -- a former State Department official accused of passing information to the Russians -- and on the political and intellectual atmosphere in postwar America.
        The film also presented evidence supporting Mr. Hiss that had been withheld from the jury that sent him to prison. When shown the evidence on camera -- an F.B.I. memo asserting that a famous message supposedly typewritten by Mr. Hiss was a forgery -- one juror exclaimed, ''I say we were hoodwinked.''
        ''The Trials of Alger Hiss'' was praised by film critics, including Vincent Canby, who wrote in The New York Times that it displayed ''an appreciation for the uses of history that is rare in a documentary movie and virtually nonexistent in most of our contemporary fiction films.''
        John Lowenthal was born in Manhattan on May 14, 1925. He was a Navy veteran and a graduate of Columbia College and the Columbia University School of Law, where he worked as a volunteer for Mr. Hiss's defense.
        After completing his film, Mr. Lowenthal taught at the New School for Social Research in New York City and at the CUNY Law School at Queens College. He also performed widely as a cellist, last appearing at the Salzburg Music Festival in August 2003.
        He is survived by his partner, Patricia Lousada of London and Manhattan; his wife, Anne Lowenthal of Manhattan and Bridgewater, Conn.; his children, Anne Hermans of Bridgewater, and James, of Northampton, Mass.; his brother, David, of London and Berkeley, Calif., and sister, Betty Levin of Lincoln, Mass.; and three grandchildren.
      