
        Msgr. Robert P. Hupp, who led Boys Town, the Nebraska home for needy and troubled boys, through far-reaching changes including the admission of girls, died on Aug. 29 in Mausten, Wis. He was 88.
        The girls came in 1979, but Boys Town did not become Girls and Boys Town until 2000. But that historic change was arguably not the greatest, and was certainly not the earliest, of Monsignor Hupp's reforms.
        He assumed leadership in 1973 in the wake of a crisis after a Pulitzer Prize-winning report in The Omaha Sun that said Boys Town was amassing much more money than it was spending to take care of boys.
        In 12 years as executive director, Monsignor Hupp responded by spending money on a new hospital, a new high school, far-flung research into the problems of youths and a new system of suburban-style houses presided over by married couples.
        The houses replaced traditional dormitories dating back to the days when Boys Town was thought of as an orphanage.
        He also put a positive spin on Boys Town's aggressive campaigns to raise money, usually one or two dollars at a time from people who did not have much to give, arguing that solvency was no sin.
        But Monsignor Hupp did not defend a letter mailed nationally in 1971, which he said in an interview with The Omaha World-Herald in 1992 ''would give you the impression the kids wouldn't have anything to eat if they didn't have your donation.''
        Monsignor Hupp said his predecessor, Msgr. Nicolas H. Wegner, was ill and had signed the letter without reading it. In one of his first actions when he took over, Monsignor Hupp called a one-year halt to soliciting money.
        Boys Town was founded in 1917 by the Rev. Edward J. Flanagan; Father Flanagan was played by Spencer Tracy in an Oscar-winning performance in the 1938 movie ''Boys Town.''
        The home for abused, neglected, abandoned and handicapped boys was engraved on the American consciousness by a line from that film: ''He ain't heavy, Father. He's m' brother.''
        By the time Monsignor Hupp arrived, the poverty-stricken days of Father Flanagan's serving the boys a Christmas dinner of sauerkraut were a distant if hallowed memory. Boys Town had an endowment of $200 million, or $186,000 for each boy. It was also in turmoil, and people were taking bets on how long the new director would last.
        ''I said, 'Hey, I want in on some of that action,' '' Monsignor Hupp said in an interview with United Press International in 1983. He also said he had not wanted the job in the first place, because he was considering retirement.
        Robert Paul Hupp was born on July 3, 1915, on a farm in Wheeler County, Neb. He was born into a large family of farmers and ranchers and tamed wild horses as a youth.
        It was his big family he remembered when he had to decide exactly how many boys to put in Boys Town's new family-style houses: 10.
        ''I grew up with nine brothers and sisters, and I knew that was about the biggest family you could have,'' he said in an interview with The New York Times in 1977.
        Monsignor Hupp said he always considered himself a small-town country pastor.
        He decided to become a priest in high school, and went to a Catholic preparatory school in St. Louis, where he also attended the Kenrick School of Theology. He was ordained in Omaha in 1940.
        During World War II, he was a Navy chaplain on the aircraft carrier Corregidor, which shot down 32 kamikaze pilots. He said in an interview with The Omaha World-Herald in 1995 that ''we had no trouble with attendance at church services.''
        After the war, Father Hupp returned to Omaha, where he served at a church and was director of the archdiocese's Catholic Youth Organization.
        On his days off, he played tennis at Boys Town. One day in 1948, Father Flanagan asked him to stay for dinner. Father Flanagan told Father Hupp over dinner about his dream of having boys live together as families with a priest in each house.
        Father Flanagan died on a trip to Berlin several days later. A quarter-century later, Monsignor Hupp would put that plan into effect, substituting married couples for priests.
        In 1973, Monsignor Hupp was asked by Archbishop Daniel Sheehan to replace Monsignor Wegner. Monsignor Hupp, who had spent the previous eight years starting another Omaha church, Christ the King, told The World-Herald that he came in as ''a real rebel.''
        He fired some longtime employees and ended practices like having the executive director personally sign 700 checks.
        More important, he switched the emphasis from quantity to quality of care, reducing the number of youths in residence to 500 from the 787 who had been sheltered under Monsignor Wegner.
        This made it easier to set up the new free-standing houses with resident ''family-teachers.''
        Monsignor Hupp is survived by his sisters Marie Larson of Omaha and Mildred Pelster of Elgin, Neb., and his brothers, Maurice of Omaha, Andrew of Norfolk, Neb., and James, also of Norfolk.
        He said in an interview with The Associated Press in 1983 that he never let himself believe he could measure up to Father Flanagan.
        ''I can walk in his footsteps,'' he said. ''But I can't fill his shoes.''
        Correction:  September 11, 2003, Thursday  An obituary on Sunday about Msgr. Robert P. Hupp, who led Boys Town during a period of change, including the admission of girls, misspelled the name of the Wisconsin city where he died. It is Mauston, not Mausten.
      