
        Bishop Donal Lamont, a Roman Catholic missionary who fought efforts to create an apartheid state in the former British colony of Southern Rhodesia -- now Zimbabwe -- after it declared its independence from Britain in 1965, died on Aug. 14 in Dublin. He was 92.
        Bishop Lamont was appointed first bishop of Umtali (now Mutare) in the highlands of eastern Rhodesia in 1957. He long criticized the racist policies of the white Rhodesian government of Prime Minister Ian D. Smith, and was put on trial in 1976 for allowing nuns in his diocese to give medical treatment to antigovernment black guerrillas and for failing to report the guerrillas' whereabouts.
        He pleaded guilty to these charges to prevent anyone else from incriminating themselves by testifying on his behalf and was sentenced to 10 years' imprisonment. This was reduced on appeal to four years, with three suspended. Then in 1977, after a period of house arrest, he was stripped of his Rhodesian citizenship and deported.
        The day before his first sentencing, the Catholic Commission for Justice and Peace in Rhodesia, a group led by the bishop, publicly accused the Smith government of abducting and torturing its black political opponents who were fighting for majority rule.
        In an open letter to the prime minister, he said, ''Far from your policies defending Christianity and Western civilization, as you claim, they mock the law of Christ and make Communism attractive to the African people.''
        Donal Raymond Lamont was born in Northern Ireland in Ballycastle, County Antrim. He enrolled at Terenure College in Dublin, and entered the Carmelite Order in 1929. He studied at University College in Dublin, and at Collegio Sant'Alberto in Rome. He was ordained a priest in 1937.
        In 1946 he was sent with two other Carmelites to Southern Rhodesia, where they established a successful mission.
        Throughout his tenure as bishop of Umtali, he was an increasingly vocal critic of the white government's racial policies and its efforts to establish a racially segregated state on the South African model.
        In his first pastoral letter, published in 1959, when Rhodesia was still part of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland, and titled ''A Purchased People,'' he questioned the legitimacy of colonial rule, saying, ''Any violent seizure of territory which was at the time inhabited and cultivated by a native tribe and subject to the authority of its rulers constitutes unjust aggression.''
        After the breakup of the federation in 1963 and Prime Minister Smith's unilateral declaration of independence from Britain two years later, Bishop Lamont criticized the new segregationist Constitution and land apportionment acts, which divided the country into black and white areas, calling them ''a direct contradiction of the New Testament's teaching.''
        Bishop Lamont was also active in church affairs outside Rhodesia. At the Second Vatican Council, convened by Pope John XXIII in 1962, he emerged as a powerful advocate for the church's missionaries. And at the World Synod of Bishops in Rome in 1971, he questioned traditional church teaching on priestly celibacy, suggesting that ''suitable mature married men'' should be ordained when unmarried priests were in short supply.
        After his expulsion from Rhodesia, he based himself in Dublin and lectured extensively. He received honorary degrees from several American universities, including Notre Dame and Mount St. Mary's University in Maryland.
        After colonial Rhodesia became independent Zimbabwe in 1980 under an African government headed by Robert Mugabe, the bishop returned to his diocese but handed it over the next year to an African successor, Bishop Alexio Muchabaiwa. According to The Irish Times, Bishop Lamont's siblings died before he did, and he left no immediate survivors.
      