
        Former Representative William C. Cramer, the first Republican congressman from Florida since Reconstruction, died on Oct. 18 in South Pasadena, Fla. He was 81 and lived in nearby St. Petersburg.
        The cause was complications of a recent heart attack, his family said.
        Mr. Cramer, whose upset election to Congress in 1954 foreshadowed a Republican resurgence in the South, served in the House from 1955 to 1971 and became a builder of the party in his home state and across the region.
        Nearing the end of eight terms, when he was the Republicans' undisputed leader in Florida, he chose not to defend his seat. Instead, at the behest of President Richard M. Nixon, he ran for the Senate in 1970 but lost to Lawton Chiles, a Democrat, whom he had sought to paint during a harsh campaign as ultraliberal.
        Mr. Cramer did not seek elective office again, but he remained close to the center of Florida politics and the national Republican establishment. He represented Florida on the Republican National Committee for 20 years and was the committee's general counsel for six.
        In 1973, he was an unpaid adviser to his friend Gerald R. Ford during Mr. Ford's vice-presidential confirmation hearings. Mr. Cramer's law firm also acted as an intermediary in talks that led to Mr. Ford's pardon of Mr. Nixon, who had resigned at the height of the Watergate affair.
        William Cato Cramer, born in Denver, was barely 3 when his parents moved to St. Petersburg. He attended junior college there, enlisted in the Navy in 1943 and served as a gunnery officer in the invasion of France. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of North Carolina in 1946, received his law degree at Harvard two years later and then entered private practice.
        He also promptly entered politics. Having served as a Pinellas County attorney, he won election to the Florida Legislature in 1950. In Congress, he was ranking minority member of the House Public Works Committee.
        Mr. Cramer is survived by his wife of 11 years, Sara Bromelow Cramer; three sons, William C. Jr., of Panama City, Fla.; Mark C., of Charlotte, N.C.; and Allyn W., of Dothan, Ala.; two stepsons, Richard D. Hilber of St. Petersburg and Jason E. Hilber of Odessa, Fla.; and eight grandchildren. His first marriage, to Alice J. Cramer, a resident of Dothan, ended in divorce.
      