
        John J. Fay Jr., the New Jersey lawmaker who wrote legislation creating the post of ombudsman to monitor care of the elderly in institutions and then became the first to fill the job, died on Monday at his home in Metuchen, N.J. He was 76.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, his wife, Carol Brown, said.
        Mr. Fay was a friend and close adviser to Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey, helping him in his successful race for mayor of Woodbridge in 1991 and then in his victorious run for the State Senate two years later.
        John James Fay Jr. was born in Elizabeth, N.J., on June 8, 1927. The son of a fire chief, he enlisted in the Navy immediately after his graduation from St. Patrick's High School in Elizabeth, serving on an underwater demolition team. He then received bachelor's and master's degrees in political science and history from Seton Hall University. He taught world and United States history and economics at Linden High School in Linden, N.J., from 1958 until 1978.
        He was elected a councilman in Woodbridge in 1963 and served until 1966, when he was elected a Middlesex County freeholder. He won a seat in the State Assembly in 1968 and was elected a state senator in 1974.
        He was defeated in 1978 after his opponent branded him ''the father of the state income tax.''
        Described by The New York Times in 1977 as ''a man of sardonic wit and considerable erudition,'' Senator Fay sponsored legislation from campaign finance reform to protecting farmland from development.
        He was best known for his activism after a fire killed 23 people, mostly elderly, at the Brinley Inn in Bradley Beach. Senator Fay helped write two laws to clear up the tangle of regulations that governed the boarding and rooming houses where many disabled people, especially those discharged from mental institutions, were living. He also helped write a law creating the new Office of the Ombudsman for the Institutionalized Elderly.
        ''But even if we strive to make these places safe, the existence of these people is hellish at best,'' Mr. Fay said in an interview with The Times in 1981. ''It is not enough to come by and sing Christmas carols to them once a year.''
        Gov. Brendan T. Byrne appointed Mr. Fay as ombudsman after his defeat. He held the post from 1978 until 1984. From 1984 until 1989, he was executive director of the State Commission on Cancer Research, a state agency.
        Mr. Fay is survived by his wife, whom he married in 1992, and his brothers, Eugene, of Cranford, N.J., and Frank, of Elizabeth.
      