
        John Hart Ely, a constitutional scholar of dazzling originality and wide influence, died on Saturday in Miami. He was 64.
        The cause was cancer, his wife, Gisela Cardonne Ely, said.
        Professor Ely, who had taught law at Harvard and Yale and had been dean of the Stanford Law School, was best known for ''Democracy and Distrust: A Theory of Judicial Review'' (Harvard, 1980).
        ''It is the most important work of constitutional scholarship in the two generations from the time it was published to now,'' said Mark Tushnet, a law professor at Georgetown University, echoing a widely held view.
        The book proposed a distinctive middle ground between the conventional positions on the proper role of judges in interpreting the Constitution.
        Professor Ely rejected the view that the Constitution could be interpreted based solely on its text and history, saying that scholars who focused only on the original intent of its drafters were insensitive to the document's structure and the open-textured nature of some of its language. But he was equally impatient with those who maintained that judges might infer moral rights and values from it.
        Instead, he proposed that courts should infer only one sort of value from the Constitution, a procedural one. The Constitution, Professor Ely wrote, requires judges to protect and enhance the democratic process itself, ensuring that it remains open and fair.
        Judges interpreting the Constitution should be, he wrote, in an uncharacteristically ungainly phrase, ''participation-oriented, representation-reinforcing.''
        Professor Ely stressed the importance of giving disfavored minorities access to the political process, particularly in the face of unfair or artificial obstacles erected by the majority. He wrote with special concern about voting rights, free speech and racial discrimination.
        ''The approach to constitutional adjudication recommended here is akin to what might be called an 'antitrust' as opposed to a 'regulatory' orientation,'' he wrote in the book. ''Rather than dictate the substantive result, it intervenes only when the 'market,' in our case the political market, is systematically malfunctioning.''
        According to a study published in The Journal of Legal Studies in 2000, ''Democracy and Distrust'' was, by a considerable margin, the single book on the law published since 1978 most often cited by other legal scholars in their own work.
        A broader companion study found Professor Ely to be the fourth most frequently cited legal scholar of all time, as judged by references in legal scholarship since 1956. He trailed Richard A. Posner, Ronald Dworkin and Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr., in that order. Both lists excluded textbooks and treatises.
        Professor Ely's theory was both provocative and attractive because it proposed a solution to a vexing constitutional problem, that of how to reconcile an unelected judiciary with a democracy. It did so, moreover, without obviously taking sides in political and social debates.
        His work nonetheless displeased partisans on both ends of the political spectrum.
        Critics on the right said Professor Ely's approach was just a fancy way for judges to impose their wishes over the objections of democratic majorities.
        ''What is reinforced,'' Robert H. Bork wrote in 1990, ''is not democratic representation so much as it is judicial power to redistribute the polity's goods.''
        Critics on the left found the theory wanting because it did not protect rights they viewed as fundamental, notably the right of privacy.
        Born in New York City in 1938, Professor Ely was a graduate of Princeton and of Yale Law School. In 1962, after his second year at the law school, he worked as a summer clerk at Arnold, Fortas & Porter, a Washington law firm, assisting Abe Fortas, the future Supreme Court justice, in a landmark case. Professor Ely wrote a first draft of a brief on behalf of Clarence Gideon, a Florida drifter who had been tried and convicted without a lawyer.
        The next year, the United States Supreme Court ruled in Mr. Gideon's favor, holding that poor people accused of serious crimes are entitled to legal representation paid for by the government.
        After graduating, Professor Ely served as the youngest staff member of the Warren Commission, which investigated the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.
        He went on to work as a clerk to Chief Justice Earl Warren, whom he considered a hero.
        Professor Ely worked as a criminal defense lawyer in San Diego before joining the law faculty at Yale in 1968. He moved to Harvard in 1973 and then to Stanford, as the dean of its law school, in 1982. He continued to teach at Stanford for almost a decade after he stepped down as dean in 1987. He moved to the University of Miami School of Law in 1996 and was on its faculty when he died. The move to Florida was, friends said, prompted in part by a love of scuba diving.
        In 1975, he left academia briefly to be general counsel of the Department of Transportation.
        In addition to ''Democracy and Distrust,'' Professor Ely wrote two other books, ''War and Responsibility'' (Princeton, 1993) and ''On Constitutional Ground'' (Princeton, 1996).
        In addition to his wife, who is a state judge in Miami, he is survived by two sons, Robert, of New York City, and John, of Washington; and two grandchildren.
        ''Democracy and Distrust'' is dedicated to Chief Justice Warren, and the book is in one sense an effort to describe and explain the Supreme Court's jurisprudence during the Warren years, 1953 to 1969.
        Liberals welcomed this aspect of Professor Ely's work.
        ''It made the Warren Court intellectually respectable in circles that, while they may have had sympathy with its results, persisted in uneasiness about their legitimacy,'' said Eric M. Freedman, a law professor at Hofstra University.
        But Professor Ely's admiration for the Warren Court was not unbounded.
        ''The main strand of Warren Court liberalism was small-d democracy,'' Professor Tushnet said. ''There was another strand, of personal autonomy, which was 1960's stuff. Ely didn't agree with it.''
        Professor Ely expressed that disagreement most memorably in a caustic critique of the reasoning in Roe v. Wade, the 1973 decision finding a right to abortion in the Constitution. Earl Warren was no longer chief justice by then, but the Roe decision was rooted in a 1965 decision of the court.
        ''What is frightening about Roe is that this super-protected right,'' Professor Ely wrote in the Yale Law Journal in 1973, ''is not inferable from the language of the Constitution, the framers' thinking respecting the specific problem in issue, any general value derivable from the provisions they included, or the nation's governmental structure.''
        Professor Ely had said he supported the availability of abortion as a matter of policy. But he wrote that the Roe decision was untenable as a matter of intellectually honest jurisprudence.
        ''It is not constitutional law,'' he said of the decision, ''and gives almost no sense of an obligation to try to be.''
      