
        Emil Ludwig Fackenheim, a German-born philosopher and Jewish theologian who sought to place the Holocaust in the context of Judaism, died on Sept. 19 in Jerusalem, where he had lived after retiring from the University of Toronto in 1984. He was 87.
        Dr. Fackenheim narrowly escaped from Germany in 1939 and spent much of his working life in Canada trying to come to terms with what befell European Jews in that era. He chronicled that personal and intellectual journey in his latest book, ''An Epitaph for German Judaism: From Halle to Jerusalem.''
        An autobiography, it is scheduled to be published this year. (Halle was the city of his birth in Germany.)
        Professor Fackenheim investigated the essential meaning of Judaism in order to come to terms with the Holocaust. To him, the Holocaust became a rationale for Jewish survival.
        He emphasized this in his often-cited appeals to Jews not to grant Hitler posthumous victories by forgetting, or by assimilating. In his view, Jewish survival must be the paramount concern for Jews today.
        The evolution of his thinking manifested itself in numerous articles and books, many still in print, including ''What Is Judaism? An Interpretation for the Present Age'' (Syracuse University Press, 1999); ''The God Within: Kant, Schelling and Historicity'' (University of Toronto Press, 1996); ''Jewish Philosophers and Jewish Philosophy'' (Indiana University Press, 1996); ''To Mend the World: Foundations of Post-Holocaust Jewish Thought'' (Indiana, 1993); ''The Jewish Bible After the Holocaust: A Re-Reading'' (Indiana, 1991); and ''The Religious Dimension in Hegel's Thought'' (University of Chicago; reprinted 1982).
        He received his early education in Halle. He studied Judaism under Leo Baeck at the Hochschule für die Wissenschaft des Judentums in Berlin, and in 1937 he was the last Jewish student allowed to enroll at Martin Luther University in Halle.
        But he resumed his rabbinical studies in Berlin the following year. Arrested after the Nazi pogrom of Nov. 9, 1938 -- Kristallnacht -- he spent three months in a concentration camp outside Berlin. He was released on the condition that he leave the country.
        He managed to pass his rabbinical examinations and was ordained in Berlin before fleeing the country. He pursued his doctoral studies at the University of Aberdeen and was detained as an enemy alien of military age and deported to Canada, where he spent time in a prison camp in Quebec before gaining refuge.
        He earned a doctorate in philosophy at the University of Toronto in 1945 and served as the rabbi to a congregation in Hamilton, Ontario, before he joined the university faculty in 1948.
        Early on, he taught about the post-Kantian tradition in German philosophy and studied the writings of Kant, Hegel, Kierkegaard and even Heidegger, but he always returned to the Holocaust as the center of his philosophical thoughts.
        He was appointed university professor in 1979. After his retirement he continued to write and teach for several years at Hebrew University.
        Dr. Fackenheim's survivors include three sons and a daughter.
      