
        Joseph M. McCrane, who was instrumental in creating the Meadowlands sports complex and luring the New York Giants to New Jersey, died Sept. 28 in Napa, Calif. He was 79.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        In 1970, as state treasurer under Gov. William T. Cahill, Mr. McCrane pushed for the formation of the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, the state agency that built and operates the Meadowlands complex. Within a month of taking his cabinet post, he had begun persuading the Mara family, owners of the Giants, to move the team from Yankee Stadium to New Jersey. His original plan to attract the Yankees failed, but he had already set the process in motion that would turn a few hundred acres of northern New Jersey swampland into a sprawling center for professional sports, horse and harness racing and concerts.
        To avoid depending on taxpayer money for the project, Mr. McCrane had the idea of using the proceeds from the Meadowlands Racetrack to finance construction.
        ''Since there were no racetracks in the northern part of the state, this was a method of generating enough revenue to pay for the whole sports complex,'' said Jack Krumpe, the first director of the Sports and Exposition Authority. ''This was thought to be a kind of painless way to do it.''
        Mr. McCrane was no stranger to the racing industry, having served as general manager of the Garden State Race Track, which was owned by his father-in-law, Eugene Mori.
        Although construction on the Meadowlands complex began in 1972, Mr. McCrane -- who had been the finance chairman of Mr. Cahill's campaign -- resigned that year amid allegations of campaign fraud in the Cahill administration, and he could not see the project through. Federal prosecutors charged Mr. McCrane with a scheme of disguising campaign contributions as tax-deductible business expenses. In 1973, he was indicted one week on unrelated state bribery charges, which were later dropped, and the following week on the federal charges. He was convicted of federal charges and later sentenced to three years' probation and a $20,000 fine.
        Afterward, Mr. McCrane stayed in the private sector, where, among other things, he traveled extensively as vice president of a company that sold bulletproof limousines to presidents, generals and dictators.
        Joseph Matthew McCrane Jr. was born in Clifton, N.J., on July 11, 1924. He served in the Marine Corps in the South Pacific during World War II, and from 1946 to 1950 he attended the United States Military Academy at West Point, where he played football. Among his coaches were Earl (Red) Blaik and Vince Lombardi, both of whom would later join Mr. McCrane as partners in several unsuccessful bids for professional football franchises. Mr. McCrane stayed in the Army full time until 1955, and then continued on in the Reserves, eventually becoming a lieutenant colonel.
        Mr. McCrane was married twice, to Joan Mori, whom he divorced in 1982, and to Janet Shaheen, who died in 2000.
        He is survived by seven brothers, Joe, Jack, Kevin, Brian, Gerard, Brendan and Gregory McCrane; a sister, Mary Doherty; his first wife, Joan; three daughters, Maureen of Melbourne, Australia, Constance of Hamilton, Mass., and Siobhan of San Francisco; two sons, Joseph Matthew of San Francisco and David of Angwin, Calif.; and six grandchildren.
      