
        Rosalie Allen, who came out of Pennsylvania coal country to become a popular singing cowgirl and yodeler in New York, where she was also the city's only country D.J. for a while, died on Sept. 23 in Palmdale, Calif. She was 79.
        The cause was heart failure that followed diabetes and other ailments, said a friend, Alois Krtil. At the time of her death she used the name Julia Gilbert, with the surname being that of her last husband, Mr. Krtil said.
        Miss Allen became known as Queen of the Yodelers after winning a national yodeling contest in 1939. As a singer her style was likened to Patsy Montana, and one of her most successful recordings was a version for RCA Victor of Montana's hit ''I Want to Be a Cowboy's Sweetheart.''
        She was also known for her yodeling duets with Elton Britt. Two of their hits were ''Beyond the Sunset (Should You Go First)'' and ''Quicksilver.''
        In September 1947, Miss Allen was part of the first country concert at Carnegie Hall, along with Ernest Tubb, Minnie Pearl and others. In the mid-1940's she became a partner in Rosalie Allen's Hillbilly Music Center on West 54th Street, one of the first record stores in the United States to sell only country music.
        Miss Allen was perhaps best known to New Yorkers for playing host on the radio program ''Prairie Stars'' on WOV from 1944 to 1956. She parlayed her broadcast appeal into nightly live shows at the Village Barn, a national radio show, a local television show and an Armed Forces Radio Network show.
        In an article about her radio career, The New York Times in 1946 called Miss Allen ''a rare four-leafed clover in a field that was one of man's last strongholds.''
        Julia Marlene Bedra was born on June 27, 1924, in Old Forge, Pa. She was one of 12 children and her father was a chiropractor, according to The Comprehensive Country Music Encyclopedia.
        By the time she was 9 she was working as a dishwasher to help pay family expenses. Listening to the radio inspired her to learn to sing, yodel and play her brother's guitar. She made her radio debut in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., and then headed for York, Pa., where she was the featured vocalist with Shorty Fincher's Prairie Pals.
        In 1943 she came to New York to sing on Denver Darling's ''Swing Billies'' radio show. According to an article in The Daily News earlier this year, she stalled for three months because she was frightened of the big city. But the chance to raise her pay from $15 a week to $98 ended her hesitation.
        She moved in with a sister in Brooklyn and soon she was making $300 a week. In 1944 she became a regular on Zeb Carver's ''Hill Country Jamboree'' show, where her sunny personality prompted WOV to recruit her for a half-hour nightly show of her own.
        By 1946 she was on the air up to two hours a night, singing and presenting guests like Roy Rogers and Dale Evans, Eddy Arnold and Hank Williams. In the late 1940's she became host of a local country show on NBC-TV.
        As rock 'n' roll pushed country aside, she moved to Alabama and performed less, even though Montana urged her to return to the recording studio, according to Mr. Krtil. He said she was stopped by a combination of health and marital problems, as well as by disputes with Nashville producers.
        Miss Allen had strong opinions about country music and wrote articles and columns for publications like National Jamboree, Country Sound Roundup and Hoedown. For example, in the Times interview, she expressed regret that so much ''New York corn'' was being substituted for fine Southern mountain music in the local scene.
        She also differentiated between hillbilly and cowboy music, calling hillbilly a twangy novelty. She said, ''I think that people who don't like cowboy music are often those who can't face reality.''
        Among the fan mail she received were not a few marriage proposals. Her answer to these epistles was usually enough to dissuade potential suitors: Mrs. Malcolm McGlasson.
        She was unmarried at her death, and is survived by her daughter, Dorothy Bunch of Palmdale.
      