
        William Steig, whose insouciant cartoons of street-tough kids and squiggly drawings of satyrs, damsels, dogs and drunks delighted and challenged readers of The New Yorker for more than six decades, died Friday in Boston. He was 95.
        Mr. Steig was also the author of more than 25 children's books, about brave pigs, dogs, donkeys and other creatures. One of the most popular was ''Shrek!'' which was made into a movie in 2001 and won an Academy Award as the best animated feature film.
        The playful, blue-eyed, wire-haired Mr. Steig published his first New Yorker cartoon in 1930. It was a picture of one prison inmate telling another, ''My son's incorrigible, I can't do a thing with him.'' He followed up with more than 1,600 drawings for the magazine and 117 covers, many of which were later published in books of collected drawings.
        ''He's like Thurber: he doesn't have any offspring,'' said Lee Lorenz, the cartoon editor of The New Yorker for many years and Mr. Steig's biographer. ''His work is extremely personal.''
        In the mid-1930's, Mr. Steig began making ''symbolic drawings,'' pen-and-ink works expressing states of mind. Like the poems of E. E. Cummings, they were subconscious excursions rendered on paper. When these drawings came out, nobody had seen anything quite like them.
        Mr. Lorenz said cartoonists before him, like Peter Arno and George Price, would do drawings to illustrate a gag someone else had written. But Mr. Steig's humor was visual first and verbal second. Because of him, ''the next generation of artists felt a freedom they never had before,'' Mr. Lorenz said.
        Mr. Steig was also credited with changing the nature of the greeting card industry. His symbolic drawings were licensed to appear on cocktail napkins, glasses and cards. ''Greeting cards used to be all sweetness and love,'' he once told The Hartford Courant. ''I started doing the complete reverse -- almost a hate card -- and it caught on.''
        William Steig was born on Nov. 14, 1907, in Brooklyn, the son of Joseph Steig, a house painter, and Laura Ebel Steig, a seamstress. His parents, Polish-Jewish immigrants, soon moved their family to the Bronx.
        He graduated from high school when he was 15, and studied for two years at City College in New York, three years at the National Academy of Design and five days at Yale. He said he was more interested in swimming and playing touch football than in books and admitted that he had ''a defective education.''
        He had ambitions ''to be a professional athlete, or to go to sea like Melville.'' His parents, who were socialists, had ambitions for him, too.
        ''My parents didn't want their sons to become laborers, because we'd be exploited by businessmen, and they didn't want us to become businessmen, because then we'd exploit the laborers,'' he recalled. ''Since we couldn't afford to study professions, we were encouraged to be artists.''
        He said that his father could not find a job during the Depression. ''My two older brothers were married and my kid brother was a kid. So I became the breadwinner,'' he wrote. Mr. Steig began to sell his drawings, and they sold quickly. ''I earned $4,500 the first year, and it was more than our family, then four of us, needed,'' he said.
        Mr. Steig's most popular characters, which he drew starting in the 1930's, were tough little squirts who knew the streets and would not take any nonsense from adults. One of them announced from the dinner table, ''I say it's spinach and I say the hell with it.'' It was perhaps Mr. Steig's most oft-repeated line.
        Little Terrors, Wonderful Dreams
        When a book of his cartoons, titled ''Small Fry,'' was published in 1944, The New York Times said: ''What they prove to the parents and elders is that 8-year-olds do not change from one generation to another, that the world of childhood is compounded of miniature terrors and glorious daydreams, and that Mr. Steig -- not to put too fine a point upon it -- is wonderful.''
        The year 1936 was a pivotal one for Mr. Steig. He ended his career as a traditional gag cartoonist, spurning one-liners, and he married Elizabeth Mead, the sister of the anthropologist Margaret Mead. Soon after his marriage, he was stacking wood in a shed in Connecticut with his brother Henry when he started whittling figures out of some of the wood. He called all his male figures ''Jason'' and all the female ones ''Tessie.'' Three years later, he had his first one-man show, an exhibition of his carvings, at the Downtown Gallery.
        Also in 1936, Mr. Steig started making his ''symbolic drawings,'' line drawings of people enduring shame, embarrassment and other emotional troubles. He drew kleptomaniacs, amnesiacs, people with nausea and lassitude, and less defined characters like the ''one who would like to be left alone'' or the ''pleasant chap but never a friend.''
        But when Mr. Steig showed his symbolic drawings to The New Yorker, Mr. Lorenz recalled, the magazine was not interested. A memo written by Harold Ross, the editor, noted that the drawings were very interesting and that someday people would hail him as a genius, but that they were not right for The New Yorker. They were simply, Mr. Lorenz said, ''too personal and not funny enough.'' (This changed when William Shawn took over as the editor of The New Yorker in 1952.)
        Mr. Steig published his symbolic drawings in ''About People,'' (1939) ''The Lonely Ones'' (1942) and ''All Embarrassed'' (1944), books that were praised by Margaret Mead and the psychoanalysts Karen Horney and A. A. Brill.
        In the 1940's, Mr. Steig discovered Wilhelm Reich, who became a psychological mentor for him.
        Mr. Steig saw Dr. Reich for therapy 40 times and credited him with saving his life as well as his mother's. He also bought an orgone box, a booth made of cardboard, steel wire and metal that is supposed to collect the world's orgone, or orgasmic energy. He sat in his orgone energy accumulator every day. He also owned an orgone blanket.
        Long after Dr. Reich died in prison, convicted of mail fraud for using the United States mail to sell his orgone boxes, Mr. Steig still believed he would be vindicated one day. In the 1950's Mr. Steig illustrated one of Dr. Reich's books, ''Listen, Little Man!'' He also wrote ''Agony in the Kindergarten,'' dedicated to Dr. Reich, about the repressive comments parents make to or about their children.
        What Mr. Steig got from Dr. Reich was a confirmation of his belief that people should be emancipated from the inhibitions that society and government impose on children and adults. He himself did not seem to suffer much from inhibition, at least in his drawings.
        ''The Erotic has always been implicit in Steig's work,'' Brendan Gill wrote in his book ''Here at The New Yorker.'' ''Like Picasso, Steig celebrates the body both in ripeness and decay.'' For The New Yorker, Mr. Steig drew countless voluptuous matrons and lustful men, big-breasted shoppers and jealous satyrs as well as more tortured lovers.
        High Heels, Sharp Knives
        In 1950, Mr. Steig, who had been divorced from his first wife, married Kari Homestead. The next year he drew a wrenching series of lovelorn men and icy women for a book titled ''The Rejected Lovers.'' One drawing is of a tiny man smashed under the sole of a woman's shoe and clinging to her high heel. In another a knife is plunged into a man's gut; above his body the head floats with a quizzical expression. The caption reads, ''Sometimes I wonder if I really do want her.''
        Looking at some of these drawings, Mr. Steig once said, ''I think it should be obvious that I like women.'' Divorced again, he married his third wife, Stephanie Healey, in 1964. The marriage lasted two years. He stayed married to his fourth wife, Jeanne Doron, for the rest of his life.
        In 1967, Bob Kraus, another New Yorker cartoonist, started an imprint for Harper & Row, called Windmill Books, and he talked Mr. Steig into writing a book for children. In 1968, Steig came up with ''CDB!'' a book that uses letters to stand for words. CDB!, in other words, is ''See the Bee!''
        In 1968, Mr. Steig also wrote ''Roland the Minstrel Pig,'' about a pig who plays the lute and sings to entertain other animals but dreams of ''days of fame and wealth.'' When the pig goes off to seek his fortune he runs into Sebastian the fox, who decides to eat Roland. At the last moment, Roland saves himself by singing loudly enough to be heard by the king, the lion, and he is appointed minstrel to the court.
        Mr. Steig peopled most of his books with animals because he thought he ''could get crazier with animals and have them do stranger things.'' But the animals occasionally got him into trouble.
        In Mr. Steig's 1969 book, ''Sylvester and the Magic Pebble,'' a donkey turns into a stone and his parents go to the police, who are represented as uniformed pigs. Eventually, the donkey parents manage to reconstitute their son. The book was banned in places in 1970 because the International Conference of Police Associations thought Mr. Steig was calling policemen pigs.
        Mr. Steig disavowed any political intention. He told Time magazine that he viewed pigs as a good symbol for all mankind -- ''a creature surrounded with filth and danger, a victim of circumstances created by himself, unwilling and unable to do anything about his condition -- and even, perhaps, in a way enjoying it.'' But the controversy helped book sales.
        'Frank Oo Berry Mush'
        In the 1970's, Mr. Steig started working with Michael di Capua at Farrar Straus and writing novels for children, among them ''Dominic,'' about a dog; ''Abel's Island,'' about a mouse; and ''The Real Thief,'' about a goose. He continued writing children's books in the 1980's, including ''Doctor De Soto,'' about a dentist treating a fox, ''Spinky Sulks'' and a sequel to ''CDB'' titled ''CDC?'' which even some adults found challenging.
        Maurice Sendak once said that Mr. Steig was a natural writer for children: ''His use of crazy, complicated language is what's so charming, because kids love the sound of words.'' When Boris the whale was stranded on the beach, he was described as ''breaded with sand.'' The fox who got his teeth fixed by the mouse dentist, in ''Doctor De Soto,'' thanked him with the words ''Frank oo berry mush.'' Words like lunatic, sinuous, palsied, sequestration, ensconced, rubescent, cloaca and cleave are tossed about casually.
        Despite his success as an author, Mr. Steig often complained that he didn't like illustrating because he didn't like drawing the same characters more than once. He said he always drew from memory and worked best when he didn't know what he was going to do.
        Mr. Steig's books in the 1990's included ''Grown-Ups Get to Do All the Driving,'' ''The Toy Brother,'' ''Zeke Pippin,'' ''Doctor De Soto Goes to Africa,'' ''Spinky Sulks'' and ''Shrek!'' He collaborated with his wife on a number of books, including ''Alpha Beta Chowder,'' ''Consider the Lemming'' and ''The Old Testament Made Easy.''
        His last book, published in June, was ''When Everybody Wore a Hat,'' about his childhood.
        Although Mr. Steig drew almost every day of his life, sometimes he would just color in his old drawings. Mr. Lorenz said Mr. Steig was unsentimental about his cartoons, maintaining that ''I always said it was a dying art form, even way back when I started.''
        Mr. Steig once told Roger Angell, ''I've always felt that family was a nuisance'' and wished he had been freer. Nonetheless, his books often end with his animal characters returning to their devoted families.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two children from his first marriage, Lucinda, an artist and psychologist, and Jeremy, a jazz flutist, both of New York City; a daughter from his second marriage, Margit (Maggie) Laura, an actress and party planner, of Boston; and two grandchildren..
        ''I've always despised old people,'' William Steig once said. ''I got angry at my father when he began to show signs of age. I thought, 'Oh, come on, cut it out.' ''
        On another occasion he said: ''I think I feel a little differently than other people do. For some reason I've never felt grown up.''
        Correction:  October 7, 2003, Tuesday  The obituary of the New Yorker cartoonist and children's author William Steig in some editions on Sunday and some on Monday credited him erroneously with a famous 1928 cartoon. The drawing, of a child refusing a vegetable, was by Carl Rose, and the caption -- ''I say it's spinach, and I say the hell with it'' -- was by E. B. White.
        Correction:  October 27, 2003, Monday  An obituary of the writer and illustrator William Steig on Oct. 6 and in some copies on Oct. 5 misstated the charge that led to the imprisonment of the psychoanalyst Wilhelm Reich, who once treated him. It was contempt of court, not mail fraud.
      