
        Beryl Pritchard Graves, the second wife and enduring muse of Robert Graves, who as co-editor of his poetic legacy after his death helped give it the coherence it had lacked, died on Monday on the Spanish island of Majorca. She was 88.
        Mrs. Graves joined the scholar Dunstan Ward in shaping Graves's oeuvre from a sprawling proliferation of poems, published and unpublished, some in final form and some evolving in versions separated by years of his painstaking rephrasings.
        She was at his bedside in 1985 when Graves died at 90 at their village home in Deya, north of Palma, on Majorca. She had been at his side since the 1930's in a shared life of notable eccentricity on his part.
        Beryl, once the beautiful muse of some of his finest love poems, stayed to keep house and hold a growing family together. She bore three sons and a daughter and outstayed a number of other muses Graves claimed to need for inspiration, some of whom lived in the house with her and even became her friends.
        Her friends admired her grace, intelligence and even temper. She encouraged and eventually nursed Graves as he sank into senility.
        Graves became famous for his prose works ''I, Claudius'' and ''The White Goddess,'' but some of his poetry remained unpublished. After her husband's death Mrs. Graves worked with Mr. Ward, a lecturer at the University of London's British Institute in Paris, to sift through his writings. They compiled three annotated volumes, published in Britain by Carcanet Press in the 1990's.
        The complete collection of 1,202 poems in their final versions appeared in 2000, followed this year by a single-volume paperback edition from Penguin Classics.
        Mr. Ward described Graves as an ''inveterate reviser of poems'' who would have a dozen drafts as well as variants published here and there in magazines, periodic collections and anthologies. Mrs. Graves, he said, had a unique grasp of the entire range of Graves's work and the incisiveness to choose from among variations.
        She was the honorary president of the Robert Graves Society until her death.
        Beryl Antoinette Pritchard was born in London on Feb. 22, 1915. Her father, Sir Harry Pritchard, a well-to-do lawyer, insisted on a university education for all his children, and Beryl received hers at Oxford, and emerged a lifelong socialist.
        She met Graves in 1937 through Alan Hodge, a university friend and member of a circle with Graves and Laura Riding, a poet and co-founder with Graves of various literary ventures. By all accounts, there was an immediate attraction between Beryl Pritchard and the much older Graves, who was living with Riding though still married to his first wife, Nancy Nicholson, the mother of his first four children.
        Beryl Pritchard married Hodge, but Riding left Graves for a marriage of her own. Beryl eventually took Graves's name as their children were born. Then Nicholson gave Graves a long-desired divorce in 1949, clearing the way for Beryl to marry him in 1950.
        By then, their children, William, Lucia and Juan, were growing up. Their fourth, Tomas, was born in 1957. They survive her. Beryl also became friends with Graves's daughter Catherine, just seven years her junior.
        Beryl, often troubled by ill health, moved in 1946 from relative comfort in England to Deya, then a poor fishing village, where Graves and Riding had built the house from which they had fled at the outbreak of the Spanish Civil War.
      