
        Bill Sargent, a Hollywood showman whose highly promoted videotaped events were among the first closed-circuit theatrical specials and pay-per-view television showings, died on Oct. 19 in Caddo, Okla., where he was born and later lived in retirement. He was 76.
        The cause was a heart attack, said David Permut, a producer and associate, in Beverly Hills, Calif.
        Mr. Sargent, whose full name was H. William Sargent Jr., started in electronics, making a fortune, and entered the pay-television business in Los Angeles in the 1960's. He formed the Home Entertainment Company, followed by Subscription Television Inc., which offered sporting events fed to movie houses via closed-circuit broadcasts.
        He later founded Electronovision, which recorded live stage events on videotape and transferred them onto film for distribution. Its first production, in 1964, was ''Hamlet,'' with Richard Burton, videotaped during a regular performance on Broadway.
        In this fashion he recorded, among others, ''Stop the World, I Want to Get Off'' in 1966 and ''Give 'em Hell, Harry,'' with James Whitmore as Harry S. Truman, in 1975. He also produced ''The T.A.M.I. Show'' (for Teen-Age Music International), a 1964 rock and pop performance still seen on the cable circuit.
        Mr. Sargent called himself not a filmmaker but a ''recorder of live events.'' Not all his ventures, on Broadway or off, were successes. He once pursued the idea of having a pay-per-view ''Death Match'' pitting an Australian shark diver against a great white shark, to be shown in theaters around the world. The project sank amid official rejections and general revulsion.
        In 1977 Mr. Sargent formed Special Event Entertainment and offered the National Football League $400 million to show its playoffs, including the Super Bowl, through a national closed-circuit network for five years. The bid topped the money offered by the commercial television networks, but would have forced fans to pay for a seat at a movie theater to watch the games on the big screen. It did not happen.
        Instead, the company returned to other theatrical productions. Mr. Sargent's ''Richard Pryor Live in Concert'' was a critical and box-office success.
        Mr. Sargent's survivors include his wife, Helen; two daughters, Robin, and Serene Nicosia; three sons, Rusty, Randy and Rodney; two sisters, Patricia Sterner and Mary Fishbach; and a brother, Mike.
        Mr. Sargent caused considerable international excitement in 1976 when he offered $50 million to the Beatles if they reunited for just one concert. That, too, did not happen. Instead, he said later, the Beatles threatened him with a $60 million suit when he moved to keep alive the long-running Broadway show ''Beatlemania'' for videotaping and wide distribution.
        ''I'm always being sued,'' Mr. Sargent said in a 1980 interview. At that time he was working on a $20 million deal for Muhammad Ali to box in two fights that summer, part of a $300 million package of closed-circuit bouts. ''In 1965 I had 471 summonses delivered to me,'' he said. ''Funny, unless you're doing something, you don't get sued.''
      