
        Walter E. Washington, who in 1975 became the first elected mayor of Washington in more than a century, died yesterday at Howard University Hospital in Washington. He was 88.
        The great-grandson of a slave, Mr. Washington had earlier been appointed head of Washington's government by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1967, making him the first black chief executive of a major American city. President Richard M. Nixon reappointed him twice before the job became his by election.
        Mr. Washington's powers remained limited by Congress, and at the time of his mayoral inauguration, the first in the District of Columbia since 1871, he noted that the city still lacked representation in Congress, which still controlled its finances.
        ''The only cure for democracy is more democracy,'' he said in his inaugural address. ''When people ask me if I've had enough, I say, 'Hit me with some more of it.' ''
        Today, the district's government continues to lack significant powers that other city governments have.
        Walking a fine line between Congressional conservatives and black militants, Mr. Washington steered the city through some of the worst urban riots in the nation after the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. He also organized a new municipal bureaucracy and left a surplus in the city treasury when his term ended in 1978.
        ''Few men can boast that they received a burning city and left it on its way to recovery,'' Judge H. Carl Moultrie of Superior Court in the District of Columbia, a longtime civil rights proponent, said in an interview with The Washington Post in 1979.
        Walter Edward Washington was born on April 15, 1915, in Dawson, Ga. His father was a factory worker who later operated a valet shop in a hotel, and his mother was a former schoolteacher. He grew up in Jamestown, N.Y., where he was usually the only black child in his class.
        He attended Howard University in Washington, where he was ''thrilled and amazed'' by the black student body, he said in 1996 in an interview with Bar Report, a publication of the District of Columbia Bar. But he found Washington ''a totally segregated city,'' something that he said had an ''absolutely devastating'' effect on him.
        After graduating from Howard, where his majors were in public administration and sociology, he went on to American University to pursue a doctorate in the same fields. He had finished everything but his dissertation before deciding to go to law school instead.
        He eventually earned a law degree in 1948 by going to school nights while beginning a career in local government. He first worked for the city's Alley Dwelling Authority, which was begun to improve the servants' quarters that lined the alleys behind wealthy family's houses. The agency later became the National Capital Housing Authority.
        He became its first black executive director in 1961, when Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy came by unannounced to offer him the job. In his five years with the authority, he increased its low-income housing by 50 percent and tried to employ the best architects.
        In 1966, he told Bar Report, President Johnson asked him to become president of the board of commissioners that ran Washington's government. Mr. Washington refused the job when the president said that he would not have responsibility for the police and fire departments.
        ''President Johnson didn't like hearing that,'' Mr. Washington said. ''He became incensed and the conversation was terminated.''
        Mr. Washington then accepted an invitation from Mayor John V. Lindsay of New York to become chairman of the New York City Housing Authority. He tried to address the social needs of people living in public housing by offering day care centers, credit unions, financial counseling and youth recreation.
        Meanwhile, President Johnson was pressing a proposal in Congress to increase Washington's self-government, after failing to win passage of a much broader initiative two years earlier. His idea was to have a single commissioner who he hoped would be called mayor. Though Congress would oversee the city's budget and have the opportunity to veto its laws, Johnson believed that the new system would represent a large step toward genuine home rule.
        Harry S. Jaffe and Tom Sherwood, in their book, ''Dream City: Race, Power, and the Decline of Washington, D.C'' (Simon & Schuster, 1994) said that some powerful Washingtonians were pressing for a white mayor but that Johnson insisted on a black candidate. His first choice was Roy Wilkins, longtime chief of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, the book said, but Mr. Wilkins declined.
        Mr. Washington then became the top candidate, partly because he had joined the city's black elite through marriage. His wife was the former Benetta Bullock, daughter of the Rev. George O. Bullock, the influential pastor of the Third Baptist Church.
        She died in 1991, and Mr. Washington is survived by his second wife, Mary Burke, whom he married in 1994, and a daughter from his first marriage, Benetta Jules-Rosette.
        Some powerful Southern congressmen opposed Mr. Washington's nomination because they did not want him to control the police, but Johnson prevailed. To appease Congress, the president agreed to the title of mayor/commissioner, not simply mayor.
        Mr. Washington, who had served less than a year in his New York City job, took a pay cut to $28,500, from $35,000, to become Washington's first mayor. He took office in November 1967, and five months later, the city exploded in street violence after the King assassination.
        The new mayor angered some, including J. Edgar Hoover, director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, by his order that looters not be shot. But he won general praise for repeatedly walking through the raging ghetto and for the social programs he established to soothe tensions.
        In 1974, District of Columbia citizens elected their first government in more than 100 years, and Justice Thurgood Marshall swore Mr. Washington in on Jan. 2, 1975. He lost his 1978 re-election bid to Marion Barry.
        ''What I would like to be remembered for,'' Mr. Washington said in an interview with The Washington Post after the vote, ''is that Walter Washington changed the spirit of the people of this city.''
        Correction:  October 30, 2003, Thursday  An obituary on Tuesday about Walter Washington, the first mayor of Washington in modern times, misidentified President Lyndon B. Johnson's initial choice for an appointee before the job became an elective office. It was the historian and journalist Roger Wilkins, not his uncle Roy Wilkins, longtime head of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
      