
        Ernie Calverley, a basketball star at Rhode Island State who was remembered for a 62-foot game-tying shot in the 1946 National Invitation Tournament at Madison Square Garden, died Oct. 20 at a hospital in Providence, R.I. Calverley, who lived in Wakefield, R.I., was 79.
        The cause was complications of an infection after insertion of a pacemaker, his wife, Jeanne, said.
        Playing in a first-round game for Rhode Island State (now the University of Rhode Island) against heavily favored Bowling Green, led by its outstanding center, the 6-foot-11 Don Otten, Calverley took an inbounds pass in the backcourt in the waning seconds with his team trailing by 2 points.
        ''I can still see it very clearly,'' Calverley told The Providence Journal almost a half-century later. ''I knew I had to throw up a hoper, and I knew I had to go to the left, so I could avoid the scoreboard that was hanging over center court. I shot it two-handed, and I knew it was on line. But I never thought it was going to go in.''
        The shot swished through the basket with two seconds remaining in regulation, tying the score at 74-74.
        Rhode Island State, coached by Frank Keaney and known for its fast-break style, won in overtime, 82-79. The Rams almost pulled another upset in the N.I.T. championship game, but they lost to Kentucky, 46-45. The 5-10 Calverley, one of college basketball's leading scorers of the mid-1940's, was voted the N.I.T.'s most valuable player.
        Calverley, a native of Pawtucket, R.I., later played for pro basketball's Providence Steamrollers and served as basketball coach and associate athletic director at Rhode Island.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Ernest Jr., of Andover, Mass.; a daughter, Lynne Hunter, of Stuart, Fla.; two stepsons, Curtis Eaton, of Narragansett, R.I., and Howard Eaton, of Orlando, Fla.; three stepdaughters, Andrea Phelps, of Middletown, R.I., Sally Poland, of South Kingstown, R.I., and Linda Brown, of North Attleboro, Mass.; 17 grandchildren; and 2 great-grandchildren.
      