
        Israel H. Asper, the driving force behind Canada's largest media group and a prominent philanthropist, died on Tuesday in Winnipeg, Manitoba. He was 71.
        Mr. Asper became ill and was admitted to a local hospital earlier in the day, according to a spokesman for his company, who along with hospital officials and his family declined to disclose the cause of death.
        Mr. Asper, known as Izzy, was a colorful and controversial figure. ''He was every inch larger than life,'' said Christopher Dornan, the dean of the journalism school at Carleton University in Ottawa.
        On one hand, Mr. Asper won wide respect by parlaying a single television station he acquired with partners in 1975 into CanWest Global Communications, which owns Canada's Global television network and more than 60 newspapers, including The National Post and the main English-language papers in Montreal, Ottawa, Calgary and Vancouver. CanWest also controls broadcast operations in Australia, New Zealand and Ireland.
        But Mr. Asper's critics accused him of undermining Canadian culture by flooding this nation's living rooms with American sitcoms. Mr. Asper, a strong supporter of Israel and of the Liberal Party in Canada, was also accused by critics of imposing his political views on CanWest's media outlets.
        In ''Kings of Convergence,'' a book on Canada's media magnates published last year, Gordon Pitts, a journalist, described Mr. Asper as ''Canada's most formidable media tycoon, but he still sees himself as a kid from Minnedosa, Manitoba, with his nose always pressed against the window of the Canadian establishment.''
        Mr. Asper, born Aug. 11, 1932, used to joke that he got his start in the media business by removing chewing gum from the seats of the family-owned movie theater in Minnedosa, 125 miles west of Winnipeg. His parents settled on the Canadian prairie in the 1920's after fleeing pogroms against Jews in Ukraine.
        Mr. Asper, who was trained as a tax lawyer, was frustrated in a political career after being elected to the Manitoba's Legislative Assembly. He gained his first foothold in the media business in 1975 by buying the equipment of a struggling small television station in Pembina, N.D., with three partners. They dismantled the transmitter and other gear over the Labor Day weekend, and moved it north to Winnipeg, where they were quickly on the air.
        A year later, Mr. Asper and his partners bought the struggling Global TV network, based in Toronto. Global was rejuvenated mainly by attracting Canadian advertisers to such popular American shows as ''The Love Boat,'' ''Dynasty'' and ''Hill Street Blues.''
        When one local film producer a number of years ago referred to Mr. Asper and other private broadcasters as ''nothing but toll collectors between Canadians and their access to popular American shows,'' Mr. Asper sued, charging defamation. The case is still pending. Though described by Mr. Pitts as ''charming and affable,'' Mr. Asper also took several of his former business partners to court.
        CanWest Global expanded in 2001 by buying several stations in British Columbia, Alberta and Ontario. A few months later it acquired the Southam newspaper chain from the Hollinger Group of Conrad Black for $2.2 billion, including a half-interest in The National Post, a paper Mr. Black started in 1998 to challenge The Globe and Mail, which is based in Toronto. CanWest took full control of The National Post last year.
        Mr. Asper's goal was to stitch together a multimedia empire offering advertisers a spectrum of outlets. But CanWest Global, burdened by rising debt, has disposed of several newspapers and other assets in the last year and has suspended paying a dividend to shareholders.
        Mr. Asper and his sons, Leonard and David, who hold senior positions at CanWest Global, have been embroiled in several well publicized clashes with the staff of CanWest newspapers in recent years.
        The Aspers came under fire, among other things, for requiring all the papers to publish weekly editorials written at CanWest's head office in Winnipeg. The editorials frequently reflected Mr. Asper's pro-Israel stance and his support of Prime Minister Jean Chrétien of Canada.
        A group of former Southam publishers, editors and directors purchased full-page advertisements last year to criticize the policy of corporate editorials.
        Mr. Asper gave up his executive duties at CanWest earlier this year, though he continued as chairman of CanWest's board. The Asper family controls 45 percent of CanWest's stock.
        Mr. Asper was also active in community affairs, centered on Winnipeg, where he lived. He endowed the business school at the University of Manitoba, as well as a Holocaust center and the Asper Jewish Community Campus, a popular athletic club.
        Besides his two sons, Mr. Asper is survived by his wife, Ruth, who is known as Babs, and a daughter, Gail.
      