
        Fred Tuttle, a Vermont dairy farmer who in his late 70's won fame far beyond his fields by starring in a cult movie and winning the Republican nomination for United States Senate, died on Saturday. He was 84.
        Mr. Tuttle died of a heart attack on the same farm in Tunbridge, Vt., where he was born, his son Christopher said.
        In 1998, Mr. Tuttle -- known for his almost impenetrable New England accent (''ahyep''), farmer's overalls and a baseball cap that said Fred -- startled nearly everyone by handily winning the Republican primary and then doing more than respectably in the general election, losing to the incumbent Democratic senator, Patrick J. Leahy. He won nine towns even after asking Vermonters to vote for Mr. Leahy.
        Mr. Tuttle's political career, at first a pure publicity stunt, sprang from playing the role of Fred Herman Tuttle -- a familiar one, considering that he was born with this name on July 18, 1919 -- in the 1996 film ''Man With a Plan.''
        It was directed by John O'Brien, a Harvard-educated sheep farmer who was Mr. Tuttle's neighbor, and told the story of a down-and-out dairy farmer who is sick and broke and realizes that being elected to Congress could solve a lot of his problems. What other job would pay $129,000 to a 10th-grade dropout?
        The fictional Fred delivers lines like this: ''I spent all my time in the barn. I'd just like to spend a little time in the House.''
        The movie makes wicked fun of today's politics. Since it is Vermont, Fred kisses cows as well as babies. He gets contributions from a PAC -- of the Cub Scout variety, not a political action committee, $16.89 to be exact. He feels he has arrived when the opposition begins scouring his past for a sexual scandal.
        But in an interview yesterday, Mr. O'Brien suggested that it had been Mr. Tuttle's personality -- ''exhausted, introverted, sly, all in one'' -- that made the movie and the subsequent campaign work.
        ''People could tell here was a guy who wasn't wearing a mask or a putting on a smile because the occa
        A groundswell, a quite small one, began to form. In the 1996 general election, the 601 Tunbridge voters gave Mr. Tuttle 5 write-in votes for United States representative, 6 for governor, 1 for lieutenant governor, 3 for state treasurer, 2 for secretary of state, 1 for attorney general, 2 for state senator, 2 for state representative and a whopping 14 for high bailiff.
        ''I'm not sure what the high bailiff does,'' Helen O'Donnell, the town clerk, said at the time.
        Mr. Tuttle was part of the fourth generation to farm the land his family acquired in 1832, making him the opposite of a ''flatlander,'' the Vermont term for a person from another state. His opponent in the Republican primary, Jack McMullen, educated at Columbia and Harvard, had moved to Vermont from Massachusetts just a year earlier.
        In a debate, Mr. Tuttle emphasized this difference, scoring major points by asking his opponent how many teats a cow has, something not a few Vermonters know from long personal experience. Mr. McMullen answered six, two too many.
        Mr. Tuttle said the campaign was the most exciting time of his life since he marched into Paris as a soldier in World War II. His campaign slogan was, ''Why Not?'' and his bumper stickers read, ''Spread Fred.'' The issues he addressed included the highly regrettable end of girlie shows at the local fair.
        The race was not all that arduous. Mr. Tuttle, recovering from knee surgery resulting from all those years milking cows, campaigned mainly from his front porch and kitchen table. Nor was it expensive. He budgeted $251, one dollar for each town in the state. His biggest expenditure was for a portable toilet at a 5-cent chicken lunch he sponsored.
        One thing he enjoyed on the campaign trail was the way women kept coming up and kissing him. But that was not the reason his wife, Dorothy, opposed the effort. She publicly declared he was totally unqualified, and repeatedly said how much she hated Washington.
        After winning the primary with 54 percent of the vote, he got 23 percent in the race against Mr. Leahy, whom he had endorsed. It was enough for Mr. Leahy to say he was considering wearing a cap that said Pat.
        In addition to his wife of 42 years and his son Christopher, of Tunbridge, Mr. Tuttle is survived by his daughters, Debra Tuttle of Tunbridge and Kathy Nadeau of Randolph, Vt.; his son Donald Hilts of South Royalton, Vt.; five grandchildren; and eight great-grandchildren.
        Mr. Tuttle's last years were spent as a ''celebrity emeritus,'' Mr. O'Brien said. ''Fred'' videos and ''Fred'' CD's were a staple at the local general store, and he had bit part in Mr. O'Brien's next film, ''Nosey Parker.''
        ''He enjoyed being famous,'' Mr. O'Brien said. ''If anyone didn't know who he was, he was incredulous.''
      