
        James R. Lawson, who climbed to perches in towers -- including one in Riverside Church on the Upper West Side of Manhattan -- to make exquisite music by ringing bells, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Cody, Wyo. He was 84.
        Mr. Lawson was a carillonneur, one of the best known in the United States and one of only a handful of masters of the carillon, the largest musical instrument in the world and the only one played exclusively outdoors. It dates back more than five centuries.
        A carillonneur sits at a carved oak clavier, an organlike cabinet with shafts of wood, called batons, instead of keys. By pushing the keys with the side of his fist and pushing foot pedals, the player transfers mechanical force to clappers, which strike the stationary bells, which are tuned to specific notes. At Riverside Church, where Mr. Lawson presided over the carillon for more than a quarter of a century, the largest bell is the size of a baby elephant and the smallest weighs a few ounces.
        People outside hear the songs the bells create in a tradition that began in the lowlands of Holland, Belgium and northern France and flowered when Low Country and later English bell forgers learned to make bells that played specific notes, rather than trusting to chance. At Riverside Church, concerts have always been a bit more problematic because of the street noises.
        Mr. Lawson, celebrated and feared for his offbeat wit, counseled novice carillionneurs not to be hard on themselves.
        ''Oh, nobody listens,'' he said with a shrug. According to The Daily News in 1967, he liked to quote the Belgian saying that wrestling with the gargantuan carillon required just three things: ''a strong back, a weak mind and freedom from gout.''
        Mr. Lawson's achievements would tend to belie this. He held positions playing some of the foremost American carillons, including those at Stanford University, the University of Chicago and the Crystal Cathedral in Garden Grove, Calif. He gave concerts on the world's most famous carillons, recorded albums of carillon music, and inspired and trained a generation of carillonneurs.
        He even wrote a poem for carillon players that reads in part:
        This sport was meant for beasts
        Caged (as is proper) twixt earth and sky.
        Pounding, stomping, grunting, they storm heaven
        James Raymond Lawson was born on May 25, 1919, in Cody. As a boy, he worked at the Buffalo Bill Museum and in the office of his father, a telegraph operator. He majored in English at the University of Chicago, where he discovered the carillon that John D. Rockefeller Jr. had donated to the chapel.
        After graduation, he got a job playing the carillon at the Hoover Institution of War, Revolution and Peace at Stanford University. When Pearl Harbor was attacked, he went to the tower and played ''A Mighty Fortress Is Our God.''
        He returned to Stanford after Army service in World War II, then attended the Royal Carillon School in Belgium. After that, he spent a year at the University of London studying library science, then worked briefly as a librarian for the National War College in Washington.
        Mr. Lawson played the carillon at the University of Chicago from 1953 to 1960, when he took over at Riverside Church, and also taught music at Lehman College. He retired to Cody in 1989.
        In 1990, he came out of retirement to become the first carillonneur at the Rev. Robert Schuller's Crystal Cathedral. Part of the attraction was that the cathedral's bells were tuned to produce an overtone a major third above the main note (an E natural if playing a C), rather than the minor third overtone (E flat if playing a C) that is the usual characteristic of carillons.
        Most players prefer the melancholy timbre of the traditional tuning, but Mr. Lawson claimed he welcomed something new. Others cited his prickly nature.
        ''Because most carillonneurs were against it, he was happy to go and do just the opposite,'' said Robert Gift, a carillonneur, in an interview. ''Jim did a lot of things just to be provocative.''
        Linda Walker Pointer, another player, admired Mr. Lawson despite his ostentatious, probably feigned opposition to women as carillonneurs. In an e-mail message, she said he referred to her as a ''carillonuisance'' and sprayed his bench with disinfectant after he allowed her to play. He then invited her and her family to stay in his house.
        Joseph Davis, who eventually succeeded Mr. Lawson at Riverside, recalled in an interview the first time he saw his frenzied attack on the instrument.
        ''It's so violent,'' Mr. Davis remembered saying. ''He leered at me and said, 'Yeesss!' ''
        Mr. Lawson left no immediate survivors, but is remembered by the tens of thousands who were allowed to come up and watch him play at Riverside. As The Christian Science Monitor described him in 1984:
        ''His feet jump like puppies from pedal to pedal. His jowls shake and his eyes are bright. His lips pulse swiftly in and out. Above and beneath and to every side, the bells ring out their song. Lawson is in his glory. With every muscle straining, he seems very close to heaven.''
        He himself liked to describe his perch between heaven and earth a shade more prosaically. ''Old bell-ringers don't die,'' he liked to say. ''They just drop their clappers.''
      