
        Charlie Justice, the University of North Carolina's all-American tailback known as Choo Choo who was among college football's most celebrated players of the late 1940's, died Friday at his home in Cherryville, N.C. Justice, who had been in poor health in recent years, was 79.
        Zigzagging through defenders in his No. 22 powder-blue jersey, Justice thrilled crowds during the spectator-sports boom after World War II. He ran, he passed and he punted superbly.
        ''It was the perfect time,'' Justice told The Charlotte Observer in 2000, recalling those football autumns from 1946 to 1949. ''Carolina needed a star. Everyone had been through a war. Confined. There had been gas rations. The war was over, and people wanted to turn it loose a little.''
        A native of Asheville, N.C., Justice had played football during World War II at Bainbridge naval base in Maryland, where he gained his nickname.
        ''We were playing in a game, and an officer was sitting in the stands with Paul Minton, the editor of The Baltimore Sun,'' Justice told Touchdown Illustrated in 1988. ''The officer said: 'Look at that guy run. He looks like a runaway train. We ought to call him Choo Choo.' Minton picked it up and used it in the paper.''
        Playing in the single wing at North Carolina for four seasons, Justice ran or threw for 64 touchdowns and set a team total-offense record of 4,883 yards, which stood until 1994.
        He was runner-up twice in balloting for the Heisman Trophy, as college football's top player, finishing behind Doak Walker of Southern Methodist in 1948 and Leon Hart of Notre Dame in 1949. He led North Carolina to the Sugar Bowl twice and the Cotton Bowl once and is a member of the College Football Hall of Fame. Benny Goodman paid tribute in his recording of ''All the Way, Choo Choo.''
        ''The Lord blessed me with exceptional peripheral vision,'' Justice told The Greensboro News & Record in 1998. ''I could see the whole field and any tackler who wasn't directly behind me. It helped me know exactly when to cut or when to roll with the blow to avoid getting hurt.''
        Justice was the most valuable player with the College All-Stars in their 17-7 victory over the Philadelphia Eagles, the defending N.F.L. champions, in 1950. He gained 133 yards rushing, which was 48 more than the entire Eagles team.
        He went on to play four seasons for the Washington Redskins, showing flashes of brilliance as a runner, but was hampered by injuries.
        After retiring from pro football, he owned an insurance firm.
        He is survived by his wife, Sarah; a daughter, Barbara Crews, of Cherryville; his brothers Joe, of Geneva, Fla., Bill, of Clearwater, Fla., and Neil, of Conger, Ga.; two grandchildren; and a great-grandchild.
        Correction:  October 27, 2003, Monday  An obituary last Monday about Charlie Justice, a star tailback for the University of North Carolina in the late 1940's, misstated the name and title of the man who was instrumental in giving Justice the nickname Choo Choo. He was A. Paul Menton, not Paul Minton -- sports editor of The Evening Sun of Baltimore, not editor of The Baltimore Sun.
      