
        John T. Dunlop, a Harvard economics professor who was considered a foremost labor relations expert and served every president from Franklin D. Roosevelt to Bill Clinton, died on Thursday at the Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 89.
        President Harry S. Truman turned to Professor Dunlop to help prevent steel prices from soaring. President Dwight D. Eisenhower called on him to end rail strikes, and President John F. Kennedy asked him to prevent labor disputes at missile construction sites. President Richard M. Nixon also looked to him to help figure out wage and price guidelines.
        In 1958, Professor Dunlop wrote ''Industrial Relations Systems,'' a basic text for industrial and labor relations classes in the United States, Europe and Japan. Far better than previous books, it explained the distinctive nature of industrial relations in various industries, examining the interplay of technology, market forces and organized labor.
        ''He's one of those people who moved back and forth between the world of ideas and the world of doers,'' said George P. Shultz, a former secretary of state and treasury secretary who met Professor Dunlop when they were young labor economists in the 1940's.
        Professor Dunlop, a tough-minded, often gruff, man was famous for knowing how to push disputing sides to reach a solution. He was President Gerald R. Ford's first labor secretary. He resigned when Mr. Ford did not sign a bill that would have made it easier for unions to picket construction sites, a signature that Professor Dunlop had promised to organized labor. In exchange, the construction unions had promised to moderate their wage demands.
        President Jimmy Carter's labor secretary, Ray Marshall, said, ''I don't know of many people who resigned cabinet positions over a matter of principle, and John did it.''
        Mr. Clinton named him chairman of a commission that came to be known as the Dunlop commission, with the task of recommending ways to improve relations between corporate America and organized labor.
        Professor Dunlop, who began teaching labor economics at Harvard in 1938, was part of an elite group including Mr. Shultz, Arnold Weber, Clark Kerr and Derek Bok who became experts in labor relations in the 40's and 50's, when unions were a fast-growing and prominent part of the industrial landscape.
        He was known for a sharp tongue, willingness to argue a point and frequent airplane trips, often flying between Boston and Washington 50 times a year. His consulting, mediating and arbitrating made him a millionaire. But he also drove a secondhand compact Ford and lived in a modest house in Belmont, Mass.
        ''John was almost totally not interested in creature comforts or the trappings of prestige,'' said Mr. Bok, a former Harvard president who wrote a book with him in 1970, ''Labor and the American Community.''
        John Thomas Dunlop was born on July 5, 1914, in Placerville, Calif., the oldest of seven children. His parents, John Wallace and the former Antonia Forni, were Presbyterian missionaries who reared him in Cebu in the Philippines.
        After finishing high school there, he entered Marin Community College in California because prestigious four-year universities were reluctant to take a student from such a little-known high school. He transferred to the University of California at Berkeley, where he received a degree with highest honors in 1935. He received his doctorate in economics from there four years later.
        In 1937, he married Dorothy Emily Webb, who died last February. They had three children, John Barrett of Palo Alto, Calif.; Beverly Claire Donohue of New York; and Thomas Frederick of Belmont, who survive him, along with six grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
        In 1938, he began teaching economics at Harvard, becoming a full professor in 1950. From 1943 to 1945, he was research director for the National War Labor Board, which worked to maintain labor peace, moderate wages and increase productivity for the war.
        After the war, Mr. Truman named Professor Dunlop to the Atomic Energy Labor Panel, and from 1948 to 1957 he was chairman of the National Joint Board for Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes in the Building and Construction Industry. From 1950 to 1952, he was a public member of the Wage Stabilization Board, and from 1960 to 1962 he was on the presidential railroad commission.
        From 1940 to 1970, Professor Dunlop was working on respected books on industrial and labor relations, as a writer, a co-writer or an editor of nine books.
        ''Until he wrote 'Industrial Relations Systems,' most studies of collective bargaining and labor relations were just a long list of facts in search of some underlying way of understanding it,'' Thomas Kochan, a professor of management at M.I.T., said. ''He brought a structure to it.''
        From 1970 to 1973, Professor Dunlop was dean of arts and sciences at Harvard. In 1973, Mr. Nixon named him director of the Cost of Living Council, succeeding Donald H. Rumsfeld. It was a decade when inflation sometimes exceeded 10 percent, and anxious presidents named various commissions that either froze wages and prices or issued guidelines to follow.
        Decade after decade, Mr. Dunlop juggled responsibilities in government, academia and private business as a mediator and arbitrator.
        In 1979, Mr. Carter named him chairman of the Pay Advisory Committee. Labor experts said women's groups and black groups blocked him from becoming Mr. Carter's labor secretary because he did not support affirmative action strongly enough.
        From 1981 to 1984, Professor Dunlop was on President Ronald Reagan's National Productivity Advisory Committee. He took emeritus status at Harvard in 1985 and continued to teach there occasionally. From 1989 to 1991, he was also on President George H. W. Bush's Social Security advisory council.
        Last year, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. president, John J. Sweeney, asked Professor Dunlop to be a mediator to help persuade the International Brotherhood of Carpenters, to rejoin the labor federation after it had pulled out of the organization. Those negotiations are continuing.
        ''John was someone who was trusted by labor and management,'' Mr. Sweeney said.
        Professor Dunlop often reminded friends and interviewers that his father was a missionary who had him read and re-read Calvin's collected works. For enjoyment, he said, he took long walks while carrying a notepad so he could jot down his thoughts.
        Professor Dunlop could be acerbic and impatient, friends said, especially when a crisis was impending, because two feuding sides appeared to be dug in.
        ''Unless you can work out a consensus on a problem,'' Mr. Dunlop told Fortune Magazine in 1973, ''it's not a very good solution.''
      