
        Roy A. Anderson, who as chairman and chief executive of the Lockheed Corporation steadied and rebuilt the floundering company in the late 1970's and early 1980's, died on Saturday at his home in California. He was 82.
        Mr. Anderson had been in failing health for several years, said Barbara Reinike, the director for community relations at Lockheed Martin, the successor to Lockheed.
        Mr. Anderson began his career as an accountant at Lockheed and was named chairman and chief executive in 1977, when the company was mired in political and financial scandals that threatened its future. The company had already been forced to negotiate a federal loan guarantee, something with little precedent at the time. A company poll showed that the public associated it more with financial mismanagement than with any of the airplanes or military hardware that rolled off its assembly lines.
        But by the time Mr. Anderson retired as chief executive in 1985, Lockheed was reporting steady profit growth and had resumed paying dividends after a 15-year hiatus. The federal loan guarantee had been retired because Lockheed could obtain credit without the government's help. At the last annual meeting over which he presided, Mr. Anderson was able to describe winning more than $500 million in contracts for the federal government's Strategic Defense Initiative program, known as Star Wars, and was to predict that more than twice that amount was in the offing.
        He continued as a director until 1990 and was named chairman emeritus in 1987.
        Mr. Anderson became chief executive after several years of turbulence at Lockheed, much of it caused by reports that its senior executives had bribed government officials in at least 15 foreign countries. In Japan, the accusations of bribery eventually led to the ouster of the prime minister, Kakuei Tanaka.
        Lockheed had also earned a reputation for overrunning, by millions of dollars, the cost of building the C-5A cargo plane. In addition, its attempt to enter the commercial aircraft business, with the three-engine L1011 Tristar jet, foundered after Rolls Royce, the manufacturer of the jet engines, went bankrupt.
        As chief executive, Mr. Anderson eventually halted production of the jet, a crucial decision that took Lockheed out of the commercial aircraft business. Focusing on military hardware proved prescient after Ronald Reagan was elected president in 1980 and began a military buildup. Lockheed soon regained stature as a top Pentagon contractor, winning contracts for satellites, nuclear missiles, cargo jets, space shuttle maintenance and work on the stealth aircraft.
        After he retired, Mr. Anderson remained active in civic groups and causes, including the Los Angeles Music Center, the Salvation Army and various initiatives to strengthen police, schools and other public services in Los Angeles. When the Los Angeles-area United Way became embroiled in a financial scandal in 1986, he took over as its unpaid acting president and called for a more active board and greater diligence by the outside auditors.
        Mr. Anderson was also a trustee of Stanford University and Occidental College. With his wife, who survives, he established the Roy and Betty Anderson professorship in economics at Stanford. In 1994, he became chairman of the Weingart Foundation.
        Mr. Anderson was born in 1920 in Ripon, Calif., and served in the Navy during World War II and the Korean War. He studied accounting and economics at Stanford and earned a master's degree in business administration. He joined Lockheed in 1956 and became chief financial officer in 1971.
        In addition to his wife, who lives in La Canada, Calif., he is survived by two sons, Ross and Jim; two daughters, Karyn Anderson and Debra White; two brothers, Eugene and Howard; two sisters, Elizabeth and Eleanor; and five grandchildren.
      