
        Herbert Beckhard, who with Frank Richlan founded the New York architectural firm Beckhard Richlan Szerbaty & Associates, known as BRS+A, died on Sept. 11 at his home in Glen Cove, N.Y. He was 77.
        The cause was complications of a fall, said John Arbuckle, an associate in the firm. Mr. Beckhard died just 13 hours after Mr. Richlan, who died the day before at 61.
        Both men were once associated with Marcel Breuer, the internationally renowned architect who taught at the Bauhaus and Harvard. Mr. Beckhard joined Breuer as an associate in 1956 and became his partner and design coordinator in 1964.
        Mr. Beckhard and Breuer collaborated on projects in Europe and the United States, including the Washington headquarters of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the University of Massachusetts Campus Center in Amherst and the Strom Thurmond Federal Office Building and Courthouse in Columbia, S.C.
        They designed the St. Francis de Sales Church in Muskegon, Mich., and the Koerfer House in Ascona, Switzerland, for which they received awards from the American Institute of Architects. Projects resulting from their affiliation were featured in ''Architecture Without Rules: The Houses of Marcel Breuer and Herbert Beckhard'' (Norton, 1993).
        When Breuer retired in 1979, Mr. Beckhard worked with Breuer's other partners until 1982, when he joined Mr. Richlan, a Breuer senior associate, to form Herbert Beckhard Frank Richlan & Associates.
        The partners designed the New York School of Industrial and Labor Relations at Cornell University; the Earth and Engineering Sciences building at Penn State; and the Yogi Berra Museum and Learning Center in Montclair, N.J., among other projects.
        An associate, Michael Szerbaty, became a partner in 2000.
        Mr. Beckhard, a native New Yorker, graduated from Pennsylvania State University in 1949 and received an M.F.A. from Princeton in 1950.
        He is survived by his wife of 51 years, Eleanor Sabesin Sanders; three daughters, Susan, Karen and Jane; a son, Thomas; two sisters, Margo and Evie; his stepmother, Vera; and four grandchildren.
        Correction:  December 9, 2003, Tuesday  An obituary on Oct. 29 about Herbert Beckhard, a New York architect who worked early in his career at Marcel Breuer & Associates, misstated the circumstances of his death and his relationship to Breuer. He died after being hospitalized, not at home. He was a collaborator of Breuer's, not his design coordinator. This correction was delayed for detailed checking with family members.
      