
        Harry Clement Stubbs, whose rigorously worked out stories, published under the name Hal Clement, accentuated the science in science fiction, died on Wednesday in Milton, Mass. He was 81.
        Mr. Stubbs, who held degrees in astronomy, chemistry and education, had a dual career teaching high school science at Milton Academy in Massachusetts and writing science-fiction short stories and novels.
        His best-known work, ''Mission of Gravity,'' a novel serialized in Astounding Science Fiction in 1953, became an exemplar among science-fiction writers and readers for what is known as world-building -- the creation of a scientifically plausible planet as background for an extraterrestrial narrative in which every detail of plot and character is logically compatible with the setting.
        ''Mission of Gravity'' is set on a disc-shaped planet called Mesklin with a gravity 700 times that of Earth. No human could withstand such crushing force, but the low-slung natives of the planet evolved to survive under conditions in which a six-inch fall could be fatal.
        The plot, involving efforts by a Mesklinite crew to retrieve a crashed space vessel, provides a framework for demonstrating what life in such an odd environment might be like. As a feat of scientifically informed imagination, it remains a classic of hard science fiction, a subgenre that adheres closely to the laws and principles of the hard sciences like physics and chemistry.
        More than 18 Hal Clement books appeared during Mr. Stubbs's 62-year career. He chose his pen name in 1941, when he sold his first short story to Astounding Science Fiction while a Harvard undergraduate. Having just published two articles under his own name in astronomy journals, he feared his professors would disapprove of his appearance in a pulp publication. By the time he discovered that they had no objections, Hal Clement was a respected name in science fiction, so he kept it.
        Mr. Stubbs continued to publish science articles under his own name, and, in the last three decades of his life, he painted astronomical and science-fiction art using the name George Richard.
        Mr. Stubbs is survived by his wife, Mary Elizabeth Myers of Milton; sons George, of Melrose, Mass., and Richard, of Alexandria, Va.; a daughter, Christine O. Hensel of Westerville, Ohio; and a grandson.
      