
        Charles L. Brown, the former chairman of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company, who agreed to the historic breakup of the Bell system, died yesterday in Richmond, Va. He was 82 and had lived in Princeton, N.J., since 1975.
        Mr. Brown, a soft-spoken and reserved executive who preferred to be called Charlie, decided in 1982 to settle the government's long-running antitrust case against AT&T by agreeing to dismantle the company, which provided phone service to the entire nation and had roots stretching to 1887, when Alexander Graham Bell founded the Bell Telephone Company.
        The decision, which Mr. Brown called ''wrenchingly difficult,'' broke the world's largest corporation into seven ''Baby Bells'' on Jan. 1, 1984, and led to a new era of competition and innovation that allowed consumers to choose their telephone equipment and services.
        But the breakup, which left AT&T with its long-distance and equipment businesses, also led to widespread confusion among consumers and to a rash of investment and resulting overcapacity that plagued much of the industry in the late 1990's.
        After some consolidation, the local phone spinoffs are known today as the BellSouth Corporation, Qwest Communications International, the SBC Corporation and Verizon Communications Inc.
        When Mr. Brown agreed to the settlement, he said, ''It was time to act, time to put uncertainties behind us and to begin reshaping the Bell System to match the requirements of a new era.''
        But only a year later, he said in an interview that the breakup of AT&T had been ill-advised. ''I think the nation in the long run will be sorry it happened,'' Mr. Brown said. ''It wasn't broken, and it didn't need fixing. And if you try to fix something that doesn't need fixing, you don't know what's going to happen, especially when it's done in a hurried way.''
        James H. Evans, former chairman of the Union Pacific Corporation and a director of AT&T when it was broken up, said at the time that it pained Mr. Brown to settle the case.
        ''He no more wanted to preside over the breakup than Winston Churchill wanted to preside over the liquidation of the British empire, but Charlie's been perfect for this job,'' he said. ''He was flexible enough to see that it was time.''
        Mr. Brown, whose mother was an AT&T phone operator and his father a traffic manager for the company, retired from AT&T in August 1986 after overseeing the breakup and managing the largest reorganization in history as the company tried to remake itself from a lethargic monopoly into a competitive force establishing business units and partnerships in Europe and Asia.
        Mr. Brown was born in Richmond on Aug. 23, 1921. He graduated from the University of Virginia in 1943 with a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering. He then entered the Navy and served in the Pacific in World War II. He was discharged in 1946 with the rank of lieutenant.
        He joined the AT&T Long Lines department in Hartford. He progressed rapidly through a series of management positions of increasing responsibility, becoming vice president and general manager of Illinois Bell in 1963; six years later, he was elected chief executive of that company. He became executive vice president of AT&T in 1974, vice chairman and chief financial officer of AT&T in 1976, president of AT&T in 1977 and chairman in 1979.
        Mr. Brown served on the boards of several corporations, including DuPont, Metropolitan Life, Delta Air Lines, Chemical Bank and General Foods. He also was on the board of the Public Broadcasting Service and on the boards of other institutes and foundations. He was a member of the board of visitors at the University of Virginia and a trustee of the University of Chicago, Loyola University in Chicago and Lake Forest College in Illinois.
        Mr. Brown is survived by his wife, Ann Lee Saunders; a son, Dr. Charles A. Brown, of Kona, Hawaii; and a grandson, Alexander Lee Brown, of Bakersfield, Calif.
      