
        Dorothy J. Farnan, a high school English teacher whose friendship with the poet W. H. Auden and his companion, Chester Kallman, enabled her to write ''Auden in Love,'' a book about their life together, died on Oct. 23 in her Manhattan apartment. She was 84.
        Ms. Farnan bridged the worlds of the flamboyantly bohemian Greenwich Village of the 1940's and the conventional milieu of her job as an English teacher at Erasmus Hall High School in Brooklyn. At times her friend Auden, considered by many the best poet writing in English in the 20th century, even invited her students to tea.
        Through Mr. Kallman, who was about her age, Ms. Farnan met his father, Eddie, whom she eventually married.
        Edward Mendelson, a Columbia University professor and Auden's literary executor, said in an interview on Thursday that ''Auden in Love'' (Simon & Schuster, 1984) was important because it made it possible to understand the Auden-Kallman relationship, which endured for 34 years, ''in ways that would have been impossible without it.''
        The book progresses from the time when the poet, then 32, met Mr. Kallman, a brilliant college student of 18, and traces the peaks and valleys of their relationship, including an exchange of wedding rings and Auden's murderous rage when he was first betrayed by his mercurial lover. It ends not with Mr. Kallman, a poet and librettist, discovering Auden's corpse in a Vienna hotel in 1973, but with Mr. Kallman's own lonely end just 15 months later.
        Ms. Farnan had a special vantage point, and many but not all reviewers said she gave an unexpectedly detailed, intimate and accurate view of Auden's private life. ''What she remembered corresponded to things she could not have looked up,'' Professor Mendelson said.
        The book oozes gossip, and some reviewers criticized this quality, including Julian Symons, writing in The Times Literary Supplement in London in 1985. Nevertheless, Mr. Symons said the book was an important addition to what he termed ''the Auden biographical corpus.''
        Ms. Farnan argued that past Auden biographies had understated the importance of the Kallman relationship, and in so doing had ''discounted most of all Auden's need to love.'' She included a previously unknown Auden poem in the form of a letter written on Christmas Day 1941, in which the events of the Nativity are given outrageous counterparts in the relationship between Auden and Mr. Kallman.
        It reads, in part:
        Because mothers have much to do with your queerness and mine, because we have both lost ours, and because Mary is a camp name;
        As this morning I think of Mary I think of you.
        Dorothy Jeanne-Therese Farnan was born on June 29, 1919, in Winona, Minn., the only child of James Farnan, a lawyer, and the former Nanneta Von Starck. She earned bachelor's and master's degrees in English from the University of Michigan, where in 1941 she met Mr. Kallman, a graduate student, ''young, blond and deliciously arrogant,'' in her words.
        Mr. Kallman had met Auden in 1939 at a poetry reading in New York. The book's most memorable theme is Auden's determination to remain faithful to Mr. Kallman, even support him financially, as the younger man broke his heart again and again.
        ''Chester fell in love for the first time again'' is a phrase that repeats through Ms. Farnan's narrative.
        Mr. Kallman and Auden were living together in Michigan when Ms. Farnan met Mr. Kallman, and through him, Auden. Then she moved to Manhattan and lost track of both of them, until Mr. Kallman tapped her shoulder one day at the Waldorf Cafeteria. Soon, she and her best friend, Mary Valentine, were living a life of laughter and ideas, centered in Greenwich Village, revolving around Mr. Kallman, and liberally lubricated with wine of often dubious quality.
        ''Those years with Auden, there was a sense of them being golden years,'' the Rev. Carla Valentine Pryne, Mary Valentine's daughter, Ms. Farnan's goddaughter and an Episcopal minister, said in an interview on Thursday.
        Ms. Farnan fell in love with Mr. Kallman's father, Eddie, and married him -- ''somewhat illegally,'' she wrote in her book -- in 1948. After the death of Eddie's actual wife, they were legally married in 1975. He died in 1986.
        Meanwhile, Ms. Farnan -- a very tall woman with naturally platinum hair, a penchant for rescuing stray cats and a passion for the Latin Mass -- was gradually rising in the New York City public school system. In 1986, she became the first woman to be head of the English department at Erasmus.
        Veronica Warren, her successor in that job and now an assistant principal in New Jersey, recalled on Thursday how tough Ms. Farnan's standards were: even remedial-reading students had to study eight Shakespeare plays in their four years of high school.
        ''She refused to believe that every student couldn't learn the classics,'' Ms. Warren said in an interview. ''She even considered American literature inferior.''
        In her book, Ms. Farnan mentioned that she was only heeding Auden's advice: ''They don't need a paid teacher to learn to read Hemingway,'' he had told her.
        Correction:  November 17, 2003, Monday  An obituary on Nov. 2 about Dorothy Farnan, a New York City teacher who wrote ''Auden in Love,'' a book about W. H. Auden and his companion, Chester Kallman, misstated the year in which she became chairman of the English department at Erasmus Hall High School in Brooklyn. It was 1966, not 1986.
      