
        Richard B. Smith, a New York corporate lawyer with a long history of public service, including four years on the Securities and Exchange Commission, died last Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 75 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Smith was a senior counsel in the firm Davis, Polk & Wardwell, where he became a partner when he resigned from the S.E.C. in 1971. He was chairman of the Mayor's Committee on Taxi Regulatory Issues for Mayor Edward I. Koch in 1981 and 1982. He also was Gov. George E. Pataki's appointee to the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws from 1998 to 2002.
        Richard Blottenberger Smith was born in Lancaster, Pa., and graduated from Yale in 1949. He received his law degree from the University of Pennsylvania in 1953 and was an associate, and later partner, at Reavis & McGrath from then until 1967, when President Lyndon B. Johnson nominated him to fill a Republican vacancy on the S.E.C.
        As a young Republican Party activist, he was chosen in 1959 to help the Manhattan Republican organization regroup after the death of its leader, Thomas J. Curran. The following year he was a researcher in the state effort for Richard M. Nixon's presidential campaign.
        On the S.E.C., he took part in a study of institutional investors that led to new disclosure rules. He was outspoken in his criticism of corporate registration statements and prospectuses that ''almost defy understanding by even the experienced investor.''
        He also favored negotiated, rather than fixed, commissions for large stock transactions, a stance he made more palatable to Wall Street by supporting a strong central marketplace, like the New York Stock Exchange.
        Mr. Smith is survived by his wife, Patricia Hamilton Smith; three daughters, Landis Bernstein of Silver Spring, Md., Dr. Leslie McDaniel of Davis, Calif., and Eliza Smith of Santa Fe, N.M., and a son, Thompson, of Charlo, Mont., all from an earlier marriage; a stepdaughter, Elizabeth Cummins of New York City; four grandchildren; and a step-grandchild. A previous marriage ended in divorce.
      