
        Bishop Robert L. DeWitt, who helped change the face of the Episcopal Church in America with the ordination of women, died on Nov. 21 in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. He was 87.
        Over six decades as a churchman, he became a socially liberal activist widely known for outspoken advocacy in the pulpit and beyond. He served as bishop of the dioceses of Pennsylvania and, before that, Michigan.
        Within his church and confronting the public at large, he campaigned for women's rights and against social inequity, racism and the Vietnam War. His bluntness drew fire from conservative parishioners as well as from critics outside his denomination.
        For a parting shot as bishop, he upset the church hierarchy by taking part in the first consecration of women as Episcopal priests in 1974.
        The role of women had been debated for decades within the Episcopal Church, the American branch of the Anglican communion. It agreed in 1970 to ordain woman as deacons and continued to debate their qualification for the priesthood.
        Bishop DeWitt and three other bishops ordained 11 women to the priesthood in September 1974 and were sternly taken to task for it later that month by the House of Bishops. The rebuke to them was overwhelming, but the debate went on.
        In 1976, the church's General Convention reversed that centuries-old stricture and sanctioned the consecration of women as priests. That, in turn, opened the way to the consecration in 1989 of the Rev. Barbara Harris, a civil rights activist, as the first woman to become a bishop in the Episcopal Church, serving the Massachusetts diocese.
        Bishop DeWitt retired in 1976 as bishop of Philadelphia and became the editor of The Witness, an ecumenical journal founded in 1917. Close to the church but autonomous, it addresses issues of faith and social justice through art, book reviews, profiles and essays.
        He was its editor until he retired once again in 1981 to Isle au Haut, in the far reaches of Maine's Penobscot Bay. There he helped form a lobstermen's cooperative, tutored in the local school and organized musical events.
        Robert Lionne DeWitt was born in Boston and graduated from Amherst College in 1937. He studied for the priesthood at the Episcopal Divinity School in Cambridge, Mass., and was ordained in 1940.
        He served congregations in Michigan before being named suffragan bishop of Michigan in 1960. He became bishop of Pennsylvania four years later.
        When Bishop DeWitt arrived in Philadelphia, the city was so riven with racial tensions that some African-Americans called it the Birmingham of the North.
        He soon showed that his sermons were not the end of his activism.
        One midnight in early 1964 he and the dean of the law school of the University of Pennsylvania, Dr. Jefferson Fordham, drove to Harrisburg to rouse Gov. William W. Scranton from bed.
        There had been racial clashes with injuries and hundreds of arrests, foreclosing all dialogue about the city's segregated schools and deeper roots of racial unrest.
        The two men pleaded with Governor Scranton to intervene immediately, prompting him to order full-scale hearings by the State Human Relations Commission.
        Bishop DeWitt is survived by his wife of 64 years, Barbara DeYoe DeWitt; two daughters, Rebecca DeWitt of Saratoga Springs, and Kathrina DeWitt Yost of Philadelphia; three sons, Laurence, of Bethlehem, N.Y., and John and Robert L., of Isle au Haut; 14 grandchildren; and 14 great-grandchildren.
      