
        Donald Gratz, a craftsman in metal whose creative realizations transformed the renderings of artists and architects into objects of art, died on Nov. 22 at his home in Manhattan. He was 68.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Roberta Brandes Gratz.
        The owner of Gratz Industries, a custom metal-fabricating business in Long Island City, Queens, Mr. Gratz had a hand, quite literally, in the designs of some of the most influential artists, architects and designers of last half century, including Philip Johnson, Isamu Noguchi, Maya Lin, Richard Meier and Barnett Newman.
        In the art world, a fabricator is something of a midwife who gives an artist's conception solid form. As the materials of 20th-century art and design became more unwieldy and industrial, artists increasingly sought talented fabricators who could translate their ideas from paper to real dimensions without losing the design's integrity.
        Mr. Gratz, who studied chemistry at St. Lawrence University, in upstate New York, often educated his clients about the properties of alloys and suggested using different metals, said Lucy Minturn, an apprentice at Gratz Industries.
        Mr. Gratz, whose father founded the business with a partner, liked to participate in the creative process of his clients. And, Ms. Gratz, said, despite the fact that revisions he suggested might lengthen the time needed to complete a work, he never raised his initial price. He took his influence in stride, as he did his famous clients and their commissions, which included furniture designed by Mies van der Rohe, Mr. Johnson and L. Garth Huxtable for the Four Seasons restaurant, furniture commissions by Noguchi and Ms. Lin's timepiece in Penn Station.
        ''Somehow, the famous close up lose their aura,'' he said in an interview in The New York Times Home Design Magazine earlier this year. ''I've really never been intimidated by any of these people. But then they're in my shop, on my turf -- you know, home-field advantage.''
        Mr. Gratz was born in Manhattan on Dec. 7, 1934, to Frank and Irma Gratz and raised in an upper-middle-class family in Pelham, N.Y. As a boy, he spent much of his free time at the workshop on East 32nd Street in Manhattan that his father, an M.I.T.-trained engineer, had opened in 1929 with Harold Treitel.
        Early on, Treitel-Gratz established a solid reputation for quality metalwork and attracted high-profile commissions, including the interiors of Radio City Music Hall in 1932; it became the preferred metal shop for designers. In the Times interview, Mr. Gratz recounted how Frank Lloyd Wright asked his father to make chairs for the cafeteria at the Guggenheim Museum, an ill-fated proposition. His father, Mr. Gratz recalled, found the design flawed -- the chairs would be weak or uncomfortable or both. ''My dad said there was no point in making a chair like that,'' he said. ''Wright blew his top, of course, and that was that.''
        After graduating from college in 1955, Mr. Gratz joined the family business, which later moved to Long Island City and was renamed Gratz Industries. He saw the company continue its contract work manufacturing furniture and expanded it to do more custom work for sculptors.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Gratz is survived by two daughters, Laura and Rebecca Gratz, and four grandchildren.
      