
        Seymour Graubard, the chairman of the Anti-Defamation League in the 1970's and an outspoken opponent of anti-Semitism and advocate for Soviet Jews, died on Wednesday in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 92.
        Formerly of the Upper East Side, he lived in Seattle and Palm Beach after retiring from legal practice.
        He was a founding partner of the firm of Graubard Miller, which started in 1948 as Graubard & Moskowitz. He retired as a partner in 1985 but remained of counsel until 1992.
        Mr. Graubard became active in the Anti-Defamation League in the mid-1930's. He was national chairman from 1970 to 1976 and president of the league foundation from 1976 to 1980. He retained the title honorary chairman.
        He became politically active as a student at Columbia Law School, where he graduated in 1933. Affiliated with the American Labor Party, he helped organize what became the Fusion Party, which helped elect Fiorello H. La Guardia mayor.
        His expertise in municipal financing took him into government by way of the old Board of Aldermen, where he had several jobs. He was also law secretary to the city comptroller, Joseph D. McGoldrick. In World War II, he rose to major in the Army.
        In 1936, he helped rally young businessmen and professionals to counter Hitler sympathizers in New York. According to the Anti-Defamation League, some in his group infiltrated anti-Jewish groups and reported on their activities.
        He also took public service assignments on the city and state levels. He helped rewrite the City Charter as a member of Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller's Commission on Governmental Operations of the City of New York.
        In 1965, Mr. Graubard became chairman of the Anti-Defamation League's New York executive committee, then was elected national chairman in 1970. He was a highly visible defender of Jewish interests and regularly denounced what he saw as instances of anti-Semitism in government, education and society. He was also a prominent defender of refuseniks, Jews who had been refused the right to emigrate from the Soviet Union. In 1973 he accompanied Mayor John V. Lindsay to Moscow and Leningrad, helping to call attention to the issue.
        His wife, Blanche Kazon Graubard, died on Sept. 5 in Seattle after 62 years of marriage. He is survived by their daughter, Dr. Katherine Graubard Calvin of Seattle.
      