
        Tony Thompson, a drummer whose beat for Chic helped define both disco and hip-hop, died on Nov. 12 in Los Angeles. He was 48 and lived in Los Angeles.
        The cause was renal cell cancer, according to his family's Web site, tonythompsonfund.com.
        Mr. Thompson applied meticulous timing, subtle cymbal syncopations and ample muscle to the songs he recorded with his two best-known groups, Chic and the Power Station, and to sessions with Sister Sledge, Madonna and others.
        He was grounded in funk, rock and jazz, bringing a New York sophistication to music often dismissed as simple. Chic's ''Good Times'' was used as the foundation for the Sugar Hill Gang's ''Rapper's Delight,'' the pioneering hip-hop single, and it was sampled in Grandmaster Flash's 1981 turntable showcase, ''The Adventures of Grandmaster Flash on the Wheels of Steel.''
        Mr. Thompson was born in New York City on Nov. 15, 1954. His first prominent job was as the drummer for Patti LaBelle's band, and in the early 1970's he formed a rock band, the Big Apple Band, with Nile Rodgers on guitar and Bernard Edwards on bass. The band was unsuccessful, and after hearing some early disco hits the group changed its name to Chic and took on some female singers to make disco records.
        With violins atop the rhythm section, Chic had a touch of Cuban charanga in its lean funk arrangments; Mr. Thompson's drumming, not machines, kept the group's rock-steady beat. At the peak of the disco craze, Chic sold millions of albums and singles. Its first single, ''Dance, Dance, Dance,'' was released in 1977 and sold a million copies; the band's second and third albums, ''C'est Chic'' and ''Risqué,'' were million sellers including the hits ''Le Freak'' and ''Good Times.''
        The group disbanded in 1983, but its rhythm section was in demand for session work, often produced by Mr. Rodgers or Mr. Edwards with Mr. Thompson on drums. Mr. Thompson appeared on Sister Sledge's album ''We Are Family'' in 1979, David Bowie's ''Let's Dance'' in 1983 and Madonna's ''Like a Virgin'' in 1984, as well as albums by Diana Ross, Mick Jagger, Debbie Harry, Rod Stewart and Robert Palmer.
        In 1985, Mr. Thompson, Mr. Palmer, Mr. Edwards and two members of Duran Duran formed the rock band Power Station, which had a Top 10 hit with ''Some Like It Hot.'' Mr. Thompson also played drums for a reunion of the members of Led Zeppelin at the Live Aid benefit concert. Mr. Edwards and Mr. Thompson formed a band called the Distance in 1989, with less success.
        During the 1990's Mr. Thompson continued working, but his beat was most widely heard in samples of Chic songs used by rappers, including the Notorious B.I.G.
        He is survived by his wife, Patrice Jennings, and two children.
      