
        Derk Bodde, who began his academic career as the first Fulbright scholar and over more than 50 years wrote influential books on China that included an eyewitness account of Mao's revolution, died on Nov. 3 at a retirement home in Philadelphia. He was 94.
        Dr. Bodde, who taught at the University of Pennsylvania for 37 years, was known as an expert on the Qin dynasty of the late third century B.C., as the translator of Feng Youlan's huge history of Chinese philosophy, as an analyst of Chinese law of the 18th and early 19th centuries and as a shrewd observer of Chinese politics of the late 1940's.
        Inspired by his Russian-born wife, the former Galia Speshneff, he also wrote an analysis of how Chinese culture had influenced Tolstoy. That work, ''Tolstoy and China'' (Princeton, 1950), was described by a reviewer for The New York Times Sunday Book Review, Ernest J. Simmons, as ''solid and important.''
        Ms. Speshneff Bodde died two years ago, and their son, Theodore, died eight years earlier. Dr. Bodde left no immediate survivors.
        Dr. Bodde (pronounced BAH-da) was born in the ocean-side town of Brant Rock, Mass., about midway between Boston and Cape Cod, on March 9, 1909. He developed a lasting interest in the Chinese as a boy when he spent three years in China, where his father taught university physics.
        Unsuccessful in his search for a job after graduating from Harvard in 1930 as an English major, he decided to pursue Chinese studies there. One year later, he won a Harvard scholarship to study in China for four years; he stayed for two more.
        He earned a doctorate in Chinese studies from Leiden University in the Netherlands in 1938. He began teaching at the University of Pennsylvania that year and stayed until his retirement in 1975, except for sabbaticals and a wartime interruption to serve with the Office of Strategic Services and the Office of War Information.
        During the 1948-49 academic year, he was in Beijing as a Fulbright research fellow, the first Fulbright scholar, said a spokeswoman for the Council for International Exchange of Scholars, which administers the program. While there, Dr. Bodde saw power pass from the Nationalist government to the Communists. He kept a diary, which became the book ''Peking Diary: A Year of Revolution'' (Henry Schuman, 1950), the first full-length account of the Chinese revolution by a neutral observer.
        Dr. Bodde described a people who were not terribly excited about the revolution but who saw the change in government as a chance to end the country's economic and social stagnation. Early in Communist rule, he detected signs of the beginnings of a police state.
        One of his larger efforts was his translation of the ''History of Chinese Philosophy'' by Feng Youlan. The book, though now considered dated, introduced several generations of scholars and general readers to Chinese philosophy.
        Dr. Bodde's interest in world affairs was hardly limited to his scholarship on China, though. He protested what he saw as United States militarism in the period immediately after World War II, and as early as 1963 opposed the nation's involvement in Vietnam.
      