
        David Bar-Illan, a concert pianist, editor and media critic who served as chief spokesman for the Israeli government under Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, died yesterday in Jerusalem. He was 73.
        Mr. Bar-Illan died from complications of a heart attack he suffered in February 2000, according to The Jerusalem Post, the newspaper he led as executive editor from 1992 to 1996.
        A native of Haifa, Israel, who spent many years as a young man in the United States, Mr. Bar-Illan won international acclaim as a concert pianist. After graduating from the Juilliard School of Music in 1950, he was a soloist with orchestras in Europe, the United States, Latin America and elsewhere.
        He was perhaps most admired for his performances of work by Liszt. In a review of one recording of work by Liszt and Weber, Bernard Holland wrote in The New York Times in 1982 that Mr. Bar-Illan was ''fleet, powerful and above all, energetic in all this music.''
        But Mr. Bar-Illan's interests extended beyond music to embrace passionate views on politics, which frequency allied him with the Israeli right wing. In one example of his advocacy, he warned of the risks of direct negotiations with the Palestine Liberation Organization, in a 1989 Op-Ed article in The Times.
        ''When used as a ruse, talks, like the Washington negotiations with the Japanese in December 1941, can lead to a Pearl Harbor,'' he wrote.
        Mr. Bar-Illan became editorial page editor of The Jerusalem Post in 1990, and was appointed editor in chief in 1992. He became widely known for his weekly column ''Eye on the Media,'' in which he was a harsh critic of United States news outlets' coverage of Israel and the Middle East.
        He was then selected to serve as Mr. Netanyahu's chief spokesman, and in that role emerged as a tough and sometimes acerbic advocate of Israeli policies.
        ''David Bar-Illan was an Israeli Zionist patriot in his whole being,'' Mr. Netanyahu said last night in a statement to The Jerusalem Post. ''He was an outstanding artist who sacrificed years of wonderful musical creativity to engage in journalistic and public activity to help his land and his people.''
        ''He was a Renaissance man with an international education and an amazing writer whose power was in his deep faith in the righteousness of our people.''
        Mr. Bar-Illan's role as spokesman for Mr. Netanyahu was not without controversy. In one embarrassing episode, widely reported in the United States and Israel, Mr. Bar-Illan was quoted in a 1998 article in The New Yorker making unflattering comments about his boss's wife, Sara Netanyahu.
        He was quoted as describing her as ''not the most stable woman in the world.'' In the article, he was also quoted as commenting on infidelities by Mr. Netanyahu.
        ''One thing is to have an affair with a shiksa,'' a derogatory Yiddish term for a non-Jewish woman, ''but a married woman!'' the article quoted Mr. Bar-Illan as saying. He later said he had been misquoted, while The New Yorker said its quotes were accurate.
        Mr. Bar-Illan is survived by his wife, Beverly; three children, Kim, Daniela and Jeremy; and two stepsons, Anthony and Brian.
      