
        Christabel Burton Bielenberg, a well-born Englishwoman who wrote a best-selling memoir about saving her German husband, a Nazi resister, from the Gestapo, died on Sunday at the family's home in rural Ireland. She was 94.
        Her book, ''The Past Is Myself,'' published in 1968, was a runaway success and a Book of the Month Club selection as ''Ride Out the Dark'' (Norton, 1971). It formed the basis for a four-part television drama, called ''Christabel,'' written by Dennis Potter and starring Elizabeth Hurley, which was shown in this country on ''Masterpiece Theater'' on public television in 1989.
        Beautiful, headstrong and born to privilege in London, Mrs. Bielenberg spurned a scholarship at Oxford to study opera in Hamburg, Germany, where she fell in love with a dashing law student, Peter Bielenberg. They married in 1934, as Hitler came to power in Berlin. Ignoring advice to move to neutral Ireland, they stayed as he pursued his career as a lawyer and civil servant and their family grew.
        Their social circle comprised people who initially rejected Hitler's Nazis as boors and were too late to grasp the true dimensions of the horror that befell Europe. For the Bielenbergs, the moment of truth came when a close friend, Adam von Trott, took part in plotting the attempted assassination of Hitler on July 20, 1944, for which he was hanged.
        By January, Peter Bielenberg, suspected of complicity, was being held in a brig for recalcitrant S.S. men at Ravensbrück concentration camp. His wife pulled all the stops, using her well-connected British upbringing to plead for her husband at Gestapo headquarters in Berlin.
        As a result, he was spared from being shipped to the eastern front. He was sent to a punishment battalion but escaped to a refuge in the Black Forest, where the Bielenbergs awaited the end of hostilities. After the war, Peter Bielenberg was the first German to receive a postwar visa to Britain.
        Christabel Bielenberg reclaimed her British citizenship and, using her connections, returned to Germany briefly as a correspondent for The Observer. But the couple settled in Ireland in 1948, and she eventually became an Irish citizen.
        The Bielenbergs bought a decrepit farm, which they nursed to profitability. They lived quietly without dwelling on their wartime experiences until asked to help with a book about Mr. Trott. That prompted Mrs. Bielenberg to start one of her own. It remains in print as ''When I Was a German, 1934-1945: An Englishwoman in Nazi Germany'' (University of Nebraska Press, 2000).
        Peter Bielenberg died in 2001. Christabel Bielenberg is survived by their three sons, Nicholas, John and Christopher.
        Hailing from a politically involved family, she acknowledged that it was odd for her even in Hitler's Germany not to have spoken out early on.
        ''But it's true that we didn't protest soon enough about Hitler,'' she told an interviewer during the filming of ''Christabel.'' ''We just didn't know what had hit us. You read about horrors in the newspapers, but you don't really wake up to them until they touch you personally.''
      