
        Irv Kupcinet, the celebrity-adoring gossip columnist for The Chicago Sun-Times whose daily jottings amounted to a love letter to the city where he himself became a celebrity, died there on Monday. He was 91, and his last column ran on Thursday.
        Mr. Kupcinet was possessed of an old-fashioned love for a particular kind of old-fashioned journalism and for a particular city, Chicago, and its feistiness, its turmoil and occasional bawdiness. He liked to recite a saying attributed to a Midwestern farm boy leaving home: ''Goodbye, God, we're going to Chicago.''
        Known affectionately as Kup to his readers, he began writing ''Kup's Column'' in The Chicago Daily Times in January 1943, and easily weathered the absorption of The Daily Times into The Chicago Sun, which became The Sun-Times in 1948.
        Mr. Kupcinet had a wide-eyed love of celebrities -- movie stars, tycoons, popes, presidents, beautiful people, kings and potentates of every description, even princes of the underworld.
        He pursued those who ventured to Chicago by table-hopping at lunch, inviting some to his table at the Pump Room, inviting others to appear on his marathon Saturday night television show. And for those he could not reach personally, he relied on sources that included publicity agents, headwaiters, cabbies and even gangsters and their lawyers. Gangsters, he said, were often more reliable as tipsters than were respected citizens.
        He adored those he wrote about, and they adored him back.
        ''The thing about Kup that was unique is that he was a decent man,'' Studs Terkel said in an interview in The New York Times in August 2002. ''To write what is a gossip column and be a decent person is a rather unique trick.''
        Sometimes, though, there were newsy dust-ups.
        It was on Mr. Kupcinet's television show, for example, that Gen. Douglas MacArthur denied an accusation by President Harry S. Truman that the general wanted to drop a nuclear bomb on China.
        And it was in a 1979 column that he quoted Princess Margaret of Britain as saying that ''the Irish are pigs.'' Mr. Kupcinet said he personally heard the princess say that to Chicago's Mayor Jane M. Byrne at a dinner party. Mayor Byrne, ever the diplomat, explained that the princess was not referring to all the Irish, only those who engaged in terrorism.
        Mr. Kupcinet was the last of a breed. He had been a professional contemporary of Walter Winchell, Ed Sullivan and Hedda Hopper, but he continued writing long after they had passed from the scene. He outlasted even Herb Caen, another 60-year-veteran, who spent most of his career at The San Francisco Chronicle and who died in 1997.
        Irving Kupcinet (pronounced KUP-sin-ette) was born July 31, 1912, one of four children of Max Kupcinet, a truck driver for a bakery, and the former Anna Paswell. He grew up in Lawndale. At Harrison High School, where he played football, he took a journalism class and was fascinated by the potential for a life of writing for newspapers.
        But he got to that point with the help of football. After his high school graduation in 1930, he accepted a football scholarship to Northwestern University. Following college, he became a reserve player in the backfield of the Philadelphia Eagles, but he left the team soon after suffering a serious shoulder injury. He landed a job as a reporter for The Chicago Daily Times.
        ''Kup's Column'' was created because the paper decided it needed a gossip column, and ''Kupcinet's Column'' was not catchy enough.
        Mr. Kupcinet plunged into his work with vigor. His six columns a week each ran about a thousand words, and he made sure that everyone he wrote about got a copy of the page, which he regarded as ''an aid in maintaining out-of-town contacts which can lead to further column items.''
        He believed that each column should end with a dash of humor, but he never thought of himself as a humorist. So he welcomed the participation of ''amateur quipsters.'' One such source was known as Ivan Bunny, but Bunny's offerings were actually the work of two brothers, Jimmy and Ivan Colitz, the latter an auto parts supervisor. Mr. Kupcinet also used the work of a high school friend, Al Hamburg, and a druggist, Sam Tunick.
        Mr. Kupcinet became a celebrity himself, through not only his column but also his weekly television show on the Chicago CBS outlet, ''At Random,'' which he called ''a conversational show for controversial people.'' For a time, he also provided commentary for Chicago Bears football games.
        The job provided ''more glamour and adventure than I ever dreamed I could be a part of,'' Mr. Kupcinet said. He met with Pope Pius XII at the Vatican, as well as Presidents Truman and Franklin D. Roosevelt, and the comedian Bob Hope, with whom he sometimes traveled when Mr. Hope went on tour.
        In the past few years, as it grew more difficult for him to get out, he made the rounds in a wheelchair. Toward the end of his life, he spent most of his afternoons in bed, taking items from the cabbies and headwaiters who still loved to read him and talk to him. His column, by now written with Stella Foster, began to appear less often, twice a week, and was pushed toward the back of the paper.
        Mr. Kupcinet's wife of 62 years, Essee, died in 2001 and was, at her suggestion, buried with two packs of unfiltered Pall Mall cigarettes at her side. His daughter, Karyn Kupcinet, an actress, was slain in Hollywood in 1963. The case was never solved. Mr. Kupcinet and his wife established a playhouse at Shimer College in Waukegan, Ill., in her honor and also a school at the Weizmann Institute of Science in Israel.
        He is survived by a son, Jerry, and two grandchildren.
        A plaque in the lobby of The Sun-Times calls Mr. Kupcinet a ''chronicler of Chicago night life, companion to celebrities, confidant of presidents, friend to all.''
        But he seemed proudest of a more permanent memorial. In 1986, the Wabash Avenue Bridge over the Chicago River was renamed the Irv Kupcinet Bridge. He arranged to have it mentioned in his write-up in Who's Who.
        Correction:  November 21, 2003, Friday  An obituary of the Chicago gossip columnist Irv Kupcinet on Nov. 11 referred incompletely to his weekly television show. It began on CBS as ''At Random'' but later moved to ABC as ''Kup's Show.''
      