
        Cyla Mueller Wiesenthal, the wife of the Nazi hunter Simon Wiesenthal, died Monday in Vienna, where the couple lived after surviving concentration camps and separation in World War II. She was 95.
        Her death was announced yesterday by Vienna's Chief Rabbi, Paul Eisenberg.
        The Wiesenthals were married for 67 years; they were apart for three of them during the war as he came close to death as a concentration camp inmate and she did forced labor in Germany. Between them, they lost 89 family members in the Holocaust.
        Cyla Mueller and Simon Wiesenthal, who will be 95 next month, were married in 1936. He was an architectural engineer at the time in Lvov, Poland, now Lviv in Ukraine.
        With the Soviet-German nonaggression pact of 1939, Soviet forces occupied Lvov and purged the region of what it considered bourgeois elements. Members of the Wiesenthals' families were arrested, and Simon Wiesenthal -- who narrowly escaped deportation to Siberia -- was forced to close his business.
        When the Germans drove the Soviet authorities out in 1941, the couple were forced into a labor camp servicing the railroad system in the Lvov region. After Hitler unleashed his policy of genocide against Jews in 1942, Mr. Wiesenthal managed to obtain false papers for his wife and arrange for her escape; he was eventually taken to the Mauthausen concentration camp in Austria.
        With the help of the Polish underground, Cyla Wiesenthal assumed the identity of Irene Kowalska. She lived in Warsaw until she was sent for forced labor for the Germans in the Rhineland. Mr. Wiesenthal, near death, was liberated from Mauthausen by an American armored unit at the end of the war.
        The couple, each believing the other was dead, were reunited in late 1945. They had a daughter, Pauline, in Vienna the following year. Besides her husband, Mrs. Wiesenthal's survivors include their daughter, who lives in Israel.
        Mr. Wiesenthal, working from an office in Vienna, has been credited with bringing about 1,100 Nazi criminals to justice. He retired earlier this year, saying his job was done.
      