
        Mario Merz, an Italian artist whose installations exemplified the Arte Povera movement and its use of humble, often organic materials, died on Sunday at his home in Milan. He was 78.
        He died in his sleep, and no cause of death was announced.
        Mr. Merz belonged to a generation of artists who emerged following World War II and in different ways opened traditional painting and sculpture to a range of new mediums and forms. Born in 1925 in Milan, he was close in age to artists like Joseph Beuys, Robert Rauschenberg, Donald Judd, Yves Klein, Piero Manzoni, Lee Bontecou, Michelangelo Pistoletto, Yayoi Kusama and Andy Warhol.
        Most started working in oil on canvas and were drawn to the use of non-art materials or already existing objects or images in the pursuit of art that was more real, worldly and egalitarian. The Italian arm of this tendency, christened Arte Povera by the young Italian critic Germano Celant in 1967, included Mr. Pistoletto, Jannis Kounellis, Alighiero Boetti, Gilberto Zorio and a handful of other artists who exhibited together regularly during the late 1960's and early 70's and to this day maintain a coherence more usual to 19th-century and early-20th-century art movements.
        The artists' common ground included minimal forms combined with conceptual irreverence and a sense of rustic chic regarding materials and objects that was complemented by the centuries-old Italian buildings in which their work was often exhibited and photographed.
        Mr. Merz's installations -- permeated with ideas of growth and fecundity and spreading across floors, walls and ceilings -- had an exuberance that could be alternately carnivalesque or spare, pastoral and populist. He became identified with great spiraling cornucopia-like glass tables stacked with fruits and vegetables, and makeshift clamped-together igloos made of mud, bundled twigs, loaves of bread or irregular pieces of glass, wax or slate.
        In a 1967 interview Mr. Merz spoke of the importance of organic meaning and said, ''These are forms that stretch into space and therefore they are to be understood as a process of development.''
        Many of his installations were accented with words or numbers in neon. The numbers counted off the Fibonacci progression, the mathematical formula for growth patterns found in many forms of life, including leaves, snail shells, pine cones and reptile skins. (Both before and after he discovered the Fibonacci series, a frequent motif included lizards large and small, stuffed and painted.)
        It was not by chance that the Fibonacci progression was also the basis for the spiral, or that the igloo is a spiral in three dimensions. The igloo, as a form of habitation, was consistent with another preferred form, the table, with its connotations of eating and conviviality. In 1972 he illustrated the Fibonacci progression with a series of photographs of a factory workers' lunchroom and a restaurant progressively crowded with diners. His 1973 show at the John Weber Gallery in New York expressed the Fibonacci in a series of low modular tables.
        Mr. Merz was a burly, energetic man whose flowing hair and jagged profile gave him an operatic demeanor. He began drawing as a teenager, most seriously during the final months of World War II, when he was imprisoned for distributing anti-Fascist pamphlets in Milan. Upon his release, he spent several months in Paris, working as a truck driver in Les Halles and pursuing political activities. But he also visited the Louvre and learned about wider currents in the art world.
        He spent the next dozen years making art indebted to the French Informel painters, working with increasingly thick layers of paint in which he incised a spiral motif. From there he gradually moved to shaped canvases and then to wall pieces, the most original of which, from the mid-1960's, involved neon and jutting forms woven to his specifications by basketmakers. He made his first igloo in 1968, decorating it with a saying by Gen. Vo Nguyen Giap of North Vietnam: ''If the enemy masses his forces, he loses ground. If he scatters, he loses force.''
        Mr. Merz's art was ubiquitous in international exhibitions and figured prominently in historic surveys of Arte Povera, most recently one organized by the Tate Modern in London and the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis in 2001. He was the subject of numerous retrospectives, including one at the Guggenheim in 1989, and his work is included in museum collections around the world.
        He is survived by his wife of nearly 50 years, Marisa Merz, who is also an artist; his daughter, Beatrice Merz of Milan; and two grandsons.
      