
        Irving Richards, an entrepreneur who helped take modern design to the dinner table, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 96.
        Beginning in the 1930's, Mr. Richards sought emerging industrial designers and brought them together with manufacturers who produced their work -- tableware, furniture and other home accessories -- which he then promoted and distributed.
        Mr. Richards was best known for his collaboration with the designer Russel Wright in the creation of American Modern Dinnerware, a line of ceramics that was revolutionary in its unusual earthy colors, lack of decoration and sleek, rimless lines. Stores were at first so reluctant to carry the dishes, Mr. Richards said in a 1998 interview in Echoes magazine, that he offered to take them back if they did not sell. American Modern Dinnerware became one of the best-selling tableware lines in retail history and is now a collector's item.
        Its success helped Mr. Richards establish companies like the Raymor Corporation to court emerging designers and import home accessories. He helped promote designers like Ben Seibel, Eva Zeisel and Michael Lax. He also traveled extensively, importing ceramics from Italy and Mexico and furniture and accessories from Scandinavia.
        Irving Richards was born on May 17, 1907, in Manhattan. He began selling desk accessories in the late 1920's at a bookstore he owned on the Upper West Side. A few years later he closed the store and got a job as a lamp buyer for Lightolier.
        Mr. Richards's wife, Rosalind, died in 1998. He is survived by his companion, Marjorie Davis; two children, Lois Broido and Eric Richards, both of New York; two grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
        Donald Albrecht, co-curator of the Russel Wright exhibition at the Smithsonian Institution's Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in 2001, called Mr. Irving a ''merchandising tastemaker.''
        ''A designer like Russel Wright can make great things,'' he said, ''but unless they have business people like Irving Richards, they can't bring them to the broad public.''
      