
        Dr. Allan J. Erslev, who identified a hormone that is now widely used in its synthetic form to treat anemic disorders, and abused to enhance athletic performance, died on Nov. 12 at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 84.
        The hormone, erythropoietin, is made in the kidneys and can increase the body's ability to carry oxygen by prompting it to produce more red blood cells. Much like insulin, it is genetically engineered in the laboratory and has changed the lives of millions of people suffering from anemia brought on by kidney disease or chemotherapy, for example.
        Dr. Erslev's finding occurred while he was on the faculty at Yale in the early 1950's. There he determined that the rate of red blood cell formation in normal animals increased when they were injected with blood plasma from rabbits that had been made anemic in the laboratory.
        The anemic condition, he found, prompted an increase in the levels of a hormone that helps to generate new red blood cells and that must reside in the blood, conclusions that he explained in a 1953 paper.
        Years later, erythropoietin (pronounced eh-rith-roh-POY-eh-tin) was isolated from the blood in large quantities and genetically sequenced by other scientists. It quickly gained popularity as EPO, the genetically engineered drug developed by Amgen Inc. in the 1980's to treat chronic anemia in chemotherapy patients and in people with kidney failure. It is now widely sold as Procrit and Aranesp, among other brand names.
        Despite widespread bans as a performance enhancer, EPO has frequently been abused for that purpose by athletes who take it to raise their level of red blood cells. Overuse of the drug can cause the blood to thicken, and it has been implicated in the death of several professional athletes since the early 1990's.
        Allan Jacob Erslev was born in Copenhagen, earned a medical degree from the University of Copenhagen and emigrated to the United States in 1946. He trained at the Sloan-Kettering Institute in New York before moving on to Yale, Harvard and then, in 1959, Thomas Jefferson University in Philadelphia, a health sciences institution where he remained for more than 40 years.
        While at Thomas Jefferson, he continued his research on erythropoietin, pursuing ways to mass-produce it through genetic engineering. He also directed the university's Cardeza Foundation for Hematologic Research from 1963 to 1985.
        Two books he helped write, ''Hematology,'' in 1972, and ''Pathophysiology of Blood,'' in the mid-70's, have since been widely used to train medical students and doctors specializing in blood diseases.
        Dr. Erslev's wife of 50 years, Betsy Lewis, died in 1995.
        He is survived by his companion, Betty Bodine; a son, Eric, of Fort Collins, Colo.; three daughters, Wendy Erslev of Philadelphia, Carole Erslev of Durham, N.H., and Kim Erslev of Shelburne Falls, Mass.; and six grandchildren.
      