
        Dr. Paul Janssen, a Belgian doctor whose research led to the start of the international pharmaceutical company Janssen Pharmaceutica, now part of Johnson & Johnson, died on Tuesday at a hotel in Rome, where he was attending a conference.
        He was 77 and lived in Vosselaar, near his company's world headquarters in Beerse, Belgium.
        His death was announced by a Johnson & Johnson spokesman. The cause was not immediately given.
        Janssen Pharmaceutica, with a work force of 16,000, makes prescription medicines. It employs 1,500 in the United States, 1,000 of them at its American base in Titusville, N.J.
        Drugs developed by Dr. Janssen and his company treat a wide range of disorders, including psychoses, chronic pain and fungal infections. Among the best known in the United States are Risperdal, an antipsychotic; Duragesic, a skin patch to ease moderate to severe pain; and Sporanox, an antifungal agent. Janssen also makes Nizoral, a prescription antifungal agent that is used in a well-known over-the-counter dandruff shampoo.
        Paul Adriaan Jan Janssen, a researcher, pharmacologist and general practitioner, was born in Turnhout. He studied medicine first at the Catholic University of Louvain and received his medical degree magna cum laude from Ghent University in 1951.
        He received a postdoctoral degree in pharmacology in 1956 at Ghent, working part-time as an assistant to Corneille Heymans, winner of the Nobel Prize in Medicine in 1938. He also studied at the Institute of Pharmacology of the University of Cologne.
        He was a researcher in a family business, starting in 1953. Three years later, he founded his own laboratory, a forerunner of Janssen Pharmaceutica. His success in introducing products and his company's rapid growth made him seek a multinational partnership, and in 1961 his company became part of Johnson & Johnson.
        Dr. Janssen held more than 100 patents for drugs and other inventions, wrote many scientific papers and lectured widely in Dutch, English, French, German and Spanish.
        He retired as managing director of the company a few years ago but continued working for it as an adviser until his death.
        Dr. Janssen's survivors include his wife of 46 years, Dora Arts Janssen; two sons, Pablo and Herwig; three daughters, Yasmine, Maroussia and Graziella; and 13 grandchildren.
      