
        Gene Anthony Ray, who starred as Leroy, a street-smart urban teenager, in the 1980 movie ''Fame'' and the later television series, died on Friday in Manhattan. He was 41.
        The cause was complications of a stroke he had in June, and he was also H.I.V. positive, said Jean E. Ray, his mother.
        Mr. Ray was a natural fit when he was cast as Leroy in the film, which won Academy Awards for best song and original score. Like his character in the film, Mr. Ray had never had professional dance training but had a raw talent that dazzled choreographers.
        The actors who performed in the movie and in the television series ''Fame'' portrayed students at New York's High School of the Performing Arts, which Mr. Ray attended for a year before being kicked out. ''It was too disciplined for this wild child of mine,'' Mrs. Ray said.
        His journey into the spotlight began at Julia Richmond High School. He performed in a dance class there and later auditioned for Louis Falco, the choreographer for the film ''Fame.'' He skipped school the day of the first tryout, and ''Leroy Johnson was born,'' Mrs. Ray said.
        Mr. Ray also played Leroy in the NBC television series ''Fame,'' which made its debut in 1982. It was canceled by NBC because of poor ratings but was later picked up by MGM Television, which distributed it in syndication from 1983 to 1987.
        Born on May 24, 1962, in Harlem, Mr. Ray lived on on West 153rd Street. After he gained stardom for his roles in ''Fame,'' Mr. Ray left school to pursue his career.
        In 1982 he toured Britain, to perform with other ''Fame'' cast members in 10 concerts. ''The Kids From Fame,'' a television special about the tour, was broadcast in the United States a year later. His other film credits include ''Out of Sync'' (1995), which was directed by his ''Fame'' co-star Debbie Allen, and ''Eddie'' (1996), which starred Whoopi Goldberg.
        According to Selma Rubin, who managed Mr. Ray for 24 years, his last video project is a one-hour BBC ''Fame'' reunion documentary, ''Fame Remember My Name,'' which was taped in Los Angeles in April 2003 but has not yet been shown.
        Correction:  November 22, 2003, Saturday  An obituary on Wednesday about Gene Anthony Ray, featured dancer in the movie ''Fame,'' misspelled part of the name of the Manhattan high school where he auditioned. It was Julia Richman High School, now part of the Julia Richman Educational Complex (not Richmond).
      