
        Marvin Smith, who photographed the pageant of life in Harlem from anti-lynching demonstrations to Fats Waller at the piano to thousands of everyday babies and brides, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 93.
        Mr. Smith worked so closely with his identical twin brother, Morgan, who died in 1993, that neither was sure who took which picture, or so they claimed. But together they created incisive, poignant, simply beautiful images defining Harlem from the 1930's to the 1950's.
        ''Harlem spread itself before the cameras of Morgan and Marvin Smith like a great tablecloth, and eagerly they went about devouring what it had to offer,'' Gordon Parks, the photographer, wrote in the forward to ''Harlem: The Vision of Morgan and Marvin Smith'' (University Press of Kentucky, 1998).
        They shot everybody and everything, from Jackie Robinson teaching his young son how to hold a baseball bat to Nat King Cole dancing at his wedding to W. E. B. DuBois recording a speech in a studio. The New York Black Yankees live forever in their team photograph, as does Maya Angelou as a lightly clad modern dancer, long before she became a published writer.
        Dr. Deborah Willis-Kennedy, a photography professor at New York University, said in an interview yesterday that the Smiths introduced photojournalism to Harlem. Marvin's formal training as a painter helped.
        ''He understood the whole notion of what it meant to be an artist,'' she said. ''He knew how to look.''
        The threads running through all the Smiths' work are the dignity, decency and virtuous character of the people they photographed. The New York Amsterdam News in 1997 noted the Smiths' ''commitment to bring light to the positive happenings in Harlem, while competitors scurried to market photographs of darker times.''
        Chester Higgins Jr., a photographer for The New York Times and author of six books on photography, said in an interview that many photographers coming into Harlem can see only hustlers and other low-life types, ''not the majority of people who go to church.'' He said, ''Marvin and Morgan pried open the oyster to see what was inside.''
        In addition to their book, the twins exhibited their work at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture in Harlem as well as other museums in other cities. They were the subjects of a documentary broadcast on PBS stations in 1995.
        The sons of sharecroppers, the twins were born in Nicholasville, Ky., on Feb. 16, 1910. They took their first photographs in 1916 with a simple box camera. They practiced drawing by copying pictures in the Sears, Roebuck catalog.
        When the twins were teenagers, the family moved to Lexington, where they became the first in their family to graduate from high school. Both had a broad interest in the arts: Marvin traded painting lessons for chores. They took a bus to New York when they were 23 -- after first protesting at being forced to sit in the back -- and studied art in classes taught by the sculptor Augusta Savage. They met two sisters, also identical twins, in the art class and took them home for a double wedding. Three years later, on the same day, the couples divorced.
        Mr. Smith is survived by his niece, Monica Smith Bolden.
        Around 1937 the twins decided to devote themselves to photographing life in Harlem. Two years later they opened their own commercial photographic studio on 125th Street, next to the Apollo Theater. It became a meeting place for performers, artists and fashion models, many of whom they had already met as the Apollo's official photographers.
        Their friends included Joe Louis. He liked to date pretty women, and the stunning models regularly photographed by the Smiths were not averse to meeting the heavyweight champion of the world.
        Although the brothers' studio remained open until 1968, they both worked primarily as sound technicians in television until 1975, when they retired. Marvin, whose precise diction was described as Shakespearean, became so expert at needlework that he designed crocheting patterns for McCall's magazine.
        The brothers were so close that Marvin never used the pronoun ''I,'' much less claimed credit for a particular photo. After Morgan died of testicular cancer, Marvin had his own testicles removed.
        ''He continued to say 'we,' '' Dr. Willis-Kennedy said.
        Editors' Note:  November 19, 2003, Wednesday  An obituary last Wednesday about Marvin Smith, a leading photographer of Harlem who worked with his identical twin, Morgan, described the closeness of the two men -- it was said that they never used the pronoun ''I'' -- and recounted an anecdote about Marvin Smith's response to the illness that caused his brother's death, in 1993.
        The article said that Morgan Smith died of testicular cancer and that his brother, in response, had his own testicles removed. That account was given to The Times by a friend of both men. It should not have been published unless it could be verified and attributed.
        After the obituary appeared, Monica Smith, the daughter of Morgan Smith, told The Times that her father had had prostate cancer and that her uncle did not have his testicles removed.
      