
        James O'Gara, who led the influential Catholic magazine Commonweal for more than three decades and maintained it as a powerful voice of liberalism in the church, died on Oct. 22 in Catonsville, Md. He was 85.
        Mr. O'Gara joined Commonweal during the McCarthy era, guided it in the 1960's through the crucial years of the Second Vatican Council and its aftermath, and remained as editor well into the papacy of John Paul II.
        During his tenure, figures like Graham Greene, Reinhold Niebuhr, Mary Gordon, Hannah Arendt and Robert Penn Warren contributed to its pages.
        Commonweal reached a peak distribution of 46,000 in 1969 under Mr. O'Gara. But circulation dropped by nearly half in the decades that followed, because of a tailing off of enthusiasm among Catholics after Vatican II and a general decline in the American Catholic press.
        Nevertheless, its influence among Catholic intellectuals and shapers of opinion was far greater than its size, putting it in the category of The Nation and The New Republic.
        ''He was there at the center of what could be called the intellectual leadership of the Catholic Church from the decades of the early 50's to the late 80's,'' said Rodger Van Allen, a professor of theology at Villanova University who wrote two books on Commonweal.
        Mr. O'Gara joined the magazine in 1952 as managing editor, and from the start his writings and the magazine took on Senator Joseph R. McCarthy and his campaign to root out Communists from American society. Mr. O'Gara's effort bothered one of the magazine's owners, Philip Burnham, who tried to get him to back off.
        Instead, Mr. O'Gara helped organize his colleagues to threaten to quit, and persuaded another owner, the more liberal Edward Sklin, to acquire a controlling interest, said Mr. O'Gara's daughter Monica. He is also survived by another daughter, Margaret, and two grandchildren. His wife, the former Joan F. Smith, died in 2000.
        Mr. O'Gara, who became the magazine's editor in 1968, was a firm supporter of the promises of openness, modernization and lay involvement promoted by Vatican II.
        In an interview with The New York Times in 1973 on the 50th anniversary of the magazine's founding, Mr. O'Gara said: ''We're concerned with the redistribution of wealth, a better way to choose the pope, the limits of papal power and lay participation in all levels, including the highest. What we really want is a total reorganization of society and the church.''
        Mr. O'Gara was born on March 24, 1918, and grew up on the South Side of Chicago. His father was a streetcar motorman, his mother a homemaker. He became a follower of Dorothy Day and her Catholic Worker movement, but parted ways with the group's pacifist stance and joined the Army, serving in New Guinea. He was discharged after four years and went to Loyola University on the G.I. Bill.
        A longtime resident of Rockville Centre, N.Y., Mr. O'Gara had a streak of personal courage, his daughter said. In the 1960's, when as a way to increase sales turnover real estate agents were stoking fears about blacks moving into his neighborhood, he went from door to door with a Presbyterian minister, urging white families to stay, Ms. O'Gara said. Later, he went undercover to real estate offices in concert with a black couple to ferret out racist selling practices. And once, when the F.B.I. went to Commonweal offices in search of materials about the radical priest Daniel Berrigan, a contributor to the magazine, Mr. O'Gara threw them out despite the threat of a subpoena, she said.
        In his final column for Commonweal, Mr. O'Gara said that some critics used the term ''Commonweal Catholic'' as a label for someone with shaky theology or dubious loyalty. But he said he wore it as a badge of honor.
        ''The commitment of the 'Commonweal Catholic,' '' he wrote, ''was and is to a church that was open and pluralistic, not rigid and authoritarian, a church that was a visible manifestation of Jesus' presence in the world.''
        Correction:  November 11, 2003, Tuesday  An obituary on Nov. 1 about James O'Gara, a retired editor of Commonweal magazine, misspelled the surname of one of its former publishers. He was Edward S. Skillin, not Sklin.
      