
        Satoru Masamune, who developed a wide array of techniques for synthesizing organic molecules, including antibiotics, died on Nov. 9 in Newton, Mass. He was 75.
        The cause was complications from cardiac arrest, according to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where Dr. Masamune was a professor of organic chemistry for 22 years before retiring in 2000.
        In his field of organic chemistry, where practitioners top one another by finding novel ways to assemble increasingly complex carbon-based molecules, Dr. Masamune first came to prominence in 1964 when he synthesized intricate molecules with six interlocking rings, beating out more than 20 other competing research groups.
        ''It was at that time one of the most difficult problems that researchers were working on,'' said Dr. Rick L. Danheiser, a professor of chemistry at M.I.T., ''and Masamune achieved the synthesis of these complicated molecules before anyone else and, moreover, did it single-handedly in most cases.''
        Another feat was making a seemingly simple molecule consisting of a ring of four carbon atoms, each connected to a hydrogen atom. That combination, however, is extremely unstable, like a house of cards, and Dr. Masamune was the first to nudge the eight atoms into the desired configuration.
        Dr. Masamune also synthesized the antibiotic methymycin, ''a landmark achievement at the time,'' Dr. Danheiser said, and developed a strategy known as double asymmetric synthesis, which is widely used to synthesize drug compounds and other chemicals with complex three-dimensional structures.
        Born in Fukuoka, Japan, Satoru Masamune received a bachelor's degree in chemistry from Tohoku University and then earned a doctorate from the University of California at Berkeley. He joined the M.I.T. faculty in 1978.
        Dr. Masamune was a fellow of the Royal Society of Canada and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        Dr. Masamune is survived by his wife, Takako; a daughter, Hiroko Masamune of Noank, Conn.; a son, Tohoru, of Los Angeles; a sister, Michiko Hiyama of Hirosaki, Japan; and four brothers, Tadashi, of Sapporo, Japan; Osamu, of Akita, Japan; and Shinobu and Tsutomu, both of Tokyo.
      