
        Herbert Muschel, who created PR Newswire, the service that lets companies send press releases to news outlets electronically, died on Saturday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan.
        When Mr. Muschel started the business in 1954, companies had no way of ensuring that newspapers and other news organizations would receive announcements simultaneously. Their only hope was to rely on the mail or try to coordinate messengers, said David Steinberg, who worked closely with Mr. Muschel at PR Newswire.
        Mr. Muschel came up with the idea of distributing corporate releases using Western Union teleprinter equipment in the offices of news organizations. He sent the releases to a dozen news organizations in New York. Trans World Airlines was the company's first customer, Mr. Steinberg said.
        Over the next 15 or so years, Mr. Muschel ran the business out of the town house on East 60th Street that he shared with his wife, Dollie. ''He was always there,'' Mr. Steinberg said, and was involved in all aspects of the business. He handled copy, became a proficient teletype operator and personally called editors to let them know of breaking news, Mr. Steinberg said.
        The company was sold to Western Union in 1971 and is now a part of United Business Media of London.
        Mr. Muschel also came up with an idea to publish a listing of television programs, a forerunner of TV Guide. According to a biography of Walter H. Annenberg and his father, ''The Annenbergs'' by John Cooney, Mr. Muschel developed a publication called TeleVision Guide in the late 1940's. In an attempt to publish it, Mr. Muschel joined forces with Lee Wagner, a lawyer. But they had a falling-out, and Mr. Wagner later sold the guide to Walter Annenberg's Triangle Publications for $1.5 million. Mr. Wagner paid Mr. Muschel $10,000 for the idea.
        Mr. Muschel spent his later years traveling and pursuing his interest in various forms of communication, including computers. He had majored in journalism at New York University, where he graduated in 1941. He was a radio operator in the merchant marine during World War II.
        He is survived by his wife.
      