
        Bernard S. Cohn, who spent his life studying and writing about British influence on modern Indian culture and society, died here on Tuesday after a long illness. He was 75.
        Mr. Cohn, a professor of anthropology and history at the University of Chicago until he retired in 1995, was known for challenging his students' work with simple questions that could take their research in new directions. His offhand comments, which seemed to home in on specific points but actually questioned the fundamentals of research, could spark years of study, former students said.
        Though Mr. Cohn would openly challenge professionals in his field, he had a gentler touch with students, and some went on to become professors themselves. In his later years, when Mr. Cohn's eyes began to fail, they would read to him or record noteworthy books and passages.
        He wrote several highly regarded works, including the books ''India: The Social Anthropology of a Civilization,'' ''An Anthropologist Among the Historians and Other Essays'' and ''Colonialism and Its Forms of Knowledge: The British in India.''
        Mr. Cohn's works helped solidify his position as an authority on modern Indian culture. His interest in the subject grew from his discovery of a preponderance of litigation in small Indian villages, a clear example, he thought, of the influence of the British legal system on Indian society.
        ''He brought new understanding to the colonial entanglements in Indian society and the relationship with the British empire,'' said Alan L. Kolata, the chairman of the department of anthropology at the University of Chicago since 1987. ''He is an innovator in historical anthropology.''
        Born in Brooklyn in 1928, Bernard Samuel Cohn graduated from the University of Wisconsin. He did his graduate work at Cornell University and his postdoctorate at Chicago. During his career, he was the chairman of the anthropology departments at the University of Rochester and Chicago. He also was a visiting professor at New York University, the University of Michigan and the California Institute of Technology.
        Friends and colleagues said Mr. Cohn's sharp sense of humor and repertoire of jokes could bring levity to the most somber of occasions. When a group of former students held a meeting in his honor three years ago to talk about his dedication as a professor and his influence on their work, he could not resist breaking their seriousness.
        ''What shall I say?'' Mr. Cohn said after their speeches. ''I've had a hell of a good time.''
        He is survived by his wife, Rella Israly; three daughters, Jenny, Abigail and Naomi; a son, Jacob; a brother, David H. Cohn; and two grandchildren.
      