
        John Dreves, a master crystal maker and creator of the classic olive bowl design that Steuben Glass introduced at the 1939 New York World's Fair, died on Nov. 16, the company announced this week. He was 90 and lived in Corning, N.Y.
        The bowl, one of the many pieces he designed for Steuben, remains in production. It is among more than 200 crystal objects on view through April in ''Glass and Glamour: Steuben's Modern Moment, 1930-1960,'' an exhibition at the Museum of the City of New York that commemorates the company's centennial. .
        After its appearance at the World's Fair, the olive dish became one of Steuben's most popular items. It is one of the few designs from that era to remain in continuous production.
        Mr. Dreves created the bowl when he was 26, long before he became the company's second resident designer. He made the dish by blowing a glob of hot glass into a saucer shape. The design then took its special character from the handle: using a glassblower's bit-gatherer, he picked a piece of molten glass, placed it on the body of the dish and then pulled and curled it into a scroll.
        As in all such maneuvers, it was critical to judge the temperature of both pieces precisely. If it was not just right as the pieces were pulled together, strains developed inside the glass, causing it to break eventually.
        Mr. Dreves's other popular creations included a 1949 low-footed bowl, also still made, and a 1942 scroll-footed bowl, which was reissued this year for the Steuben centennial. He also made Steuben's original ''air-trap vase'' in the late 1940's, having devised a difficult technique to entrap an air bubble in its crystal base.
        As resident designer from 1945 until his retirement in 1972, Mr. Dreves was in charge of all glassmaking, cutting and engraving, and oversaw the production of Steuben crystalware from bowls to pitchers to vases. The results, promoted as valuable gifts for company presidents and heads of state, often appeared in major art exhibitions.
        John Dreves was born in College Point, N.Y. His father was an interior designer with a basement studio at home, where the young Mr. Dreves helped and made model ships. He graduated from Pratt Institute in 1935 and was working in advertising design when the crystal in the Steuben shop window on Fifth Avenue caught his imagination.
        He learned of a job opening in late 1938, was hired early the next year and soon appeared at the factory in Corning, taking along some of his own designs.
        But Mr. Dreves initially worked at Steuben's building in Manhattan, helping to set up the company's display at the World's Fair, including his own olive dish.
        Mr. Dreves's wife, Florence Bade Dreves, died before him. He is survived by three cousins.
      