
        William V. Roth Jr., a longtime senator who gave his name to a popular tax-sheltered retirement account and a 1981 tax cut, died here on Saturday. He was 82.
        Mr. Roth, a Republican who represented Delaware for 30 years in the Senate and 4 in the House of Representatives, lived in Wilmington, Del. He was visiting his daughter, Katharine K. Roth, in Washington on Friday when he complained of stomach pains and was taken to George Washington University Hospital, said Jim Courtney, his former press secretary. The cause of death was heart failure, Mr. Courtney said.
        Mr. Roth lost a re-election bid in 2000, in a race in which his age and health were an issue. After his defeat he continued to be active, as co-chairman of the U.S.-E.U.-Slovakia Action Commission, a private group seeking to help Slovakia's economic, security and foreign policy development. He had long been involved in trying to expand NATO into Eastern Europe.
        The term ''Roth I.R.A.'' appears in the American Heritage dictionary. The accounts, which were available beginning in 1998, differ from the original individual retirement accounts, which allow taxpayers to deposit income with taxes due only when the money is withdrawn. Money contributed to Roth I.R.A.'s is deposited after taxes, but the earnings are never taxed if certain restrictions are observed. The money can be used for education or first-time home purchases.
        Mr. Roth was also the co-sponsor of a proposal for steep tax cuts, known as Kemp-Roth, with Representative Jack F. Kemp, Republican of New York. A version of the plan was incorporated into a 1981 tax bill and signed into law by President Ronald Reagan.
        Mr. Roth served as chairman of the Senate Finance Committee from September 1995 until he left office in 2001.
        He was also an aggressive watchdog against wasteful government spending. In 1985, as chairman of the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee, he disclosed that the Navy was buying toilet seats for one of its aircraft models for $640 each. The seller, the Lockheed-California Company, said the seat was designed to be ''lightweight, corrosive resistant, thermo-formed, polycarbonate material, seamless and sufficiently durable to withstand repeated usage and aircraft landings.'' But Mr. Roth said, ''You can go into a mobile home and see something not much different.''
        Mr. Courtney said on Sunday that to show the waste of money, the senator and his staff had bought a Christmas tree and decorated it with a toilet seat, hammers, screwdrivers and other small articles that the Pentagon had paid too much for. The decorations cost the senator $210 but would have cost the Pentagon $1,100, Mr. Courtney said.
        Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., Democrat of Delaware, who served in the Senate with Mr. Roth for 28 years, said he was ''the person I trusted most in my public life.'' State political experts said that because of Mr. Roth's 34 years in Congress he had held statewide office longer than anyone else in Delaware.
        Mr. Roth was known for campaigning around Delaware with a St. Bernard. Mr. Courtney said that a candidate ''could stand out there and try and shake hands, and maybe people would stop.''
        ''You stand out there with a St. Bernard, and the kids come over; they want to pet the dog,'' he said. ''It gives you an opportunity to talk to the parents.''
        ''He had one for every campaign,'' Mr. Courtney said. At the time of his death, Mr. Roth had a St. Bernard named Wilhelm IV.
        Senator Roth was born in Great Falls, Mont., graduated from the University of Oregon in 1943 and joined the Army as a private. He served with an intelligence unit in the Pacific that specialized in psychological operations. He reached the rank of captain and was awarded a Bronze Star.
        In 1946, he used the G.I. Bill to go to Harvard, where he earned degrees in business and law. He was admitted to the bar in California and Delaware.
        In addition to his daughter, Mr. Roth is survived by his wife, Jane Richards Roth, a judge with the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit; a son, William V. Roth III, of Arlington, Va.; and four grandsons.
        Funeral services will be private, but a public memorial service is scheduled for 2 p.m. on Sunday in Newark, Del., at the University of Delaware's Clayton Hall.
      