
        Clark Kerr, who created the blueprint for public higher education in the United States while president of the University of California system in the 1950's and 60's, died yesterday afternoon in El Cerrito, Calif. He was 92.
        Although Mr. Kerr transformed the shape and the scope of public higher education, his contribution was partly eclipsed by the turbulent ending of his reign as chancellor of the Berkeley campus from 1952 to 1958 and as head of the full university from 1958 to 1967. His towering reputation as a leader of 20th-century American education was tarnished by his handling of the Free Speech Movement that swept the Berkeley campus in 1964. Caught in a crossfire from students on the left and politicians on the right, he was ousted in 1967 by the new governor, Ronald Reagan.
        At the time he quipped, ''I left the presidency just as I had entered it -- fired with enthusiasm.'' But he admitted to close friends that the dismissal hurt him deeply.
        Mr. Kerr remained a leading spokesman for higher education, especially known for his work as chairman and director of the Carnegie Commission on Higher Education. He is credited with originating the concept that every student should be entitled to a college education regardless of ability to pay. In 1972 Congress translated that idea into the Basic Educational Opportunity Act, which formed the basis for Pell Grants, the backbone of federal aid to needy students.
        ''Clark Kerr did for higher education what Henry Ford did for the automobile,'' said Arthur Levine, president of Teachers College, Columbia University. ''He mass produced low-cost quality education and research potential for a nation that hungered deeply for both.''
        The chancellor of Berkeley, Robert M. Berdahl, said yesterday, ''Clark Kerr is, without question, a legend in higher education.''
        As president of the University of California, Mr. Kerr created a multicampus public institution that became the model for the state universities across the nation.
        Under Mr. Kerr's plan, California created a three-tier system that became the largest and most admired in the nation; other states sought to emulate its structure and objectives. At the highest academic layer were campuses like Berkeley whose students came from the top 12.5 percent of the state's high school students. A second tier was the state colleges functioning as teaching institutions focusing primarily on undergraduate education, with some graduate courses; they enrolled a third of California students. Community colleges completed the system, offering two-year transfer and vocational programs open to every California high school graduate.
        It was an ingenious mixture of populism and elitism. And the timing was right; American culture was ready for a state-supported, widely spread educational supermarket to serve many different needs.
        Mr. Kerr's administration coincided with post-World War II optimism and the unprecedented growth of American higher education spurred by the G.I. Bill of Rights and later a concerned nation's response to the launching of Sputnik by the Soviet Union.
        Mr. Kerr coined the term ''multiversity'' in a series of lectures at Harvard and discussed it more broadly in his best-known book, ''The Uses of the University.'' He believed that the university was a ''prime instrument of national purpose.''
        In the book, published in 1963, he wrote, ''What the railroads did for the second half of the last century and the automobile for the first half of this century may be done for the second half of this century by the knowledge industry.''
        The term ''multiversity'' accurately described the practices of higher education in mid-20th-century America. A vast techno-educational complex had largely replaced the classic visions of the 19th-century teaching college and the pure research university. No longer an ivory tower, the academy influenced and was influenced by trends and forces in the outside world.
        Paradoxically, Mr. Kerr himself was to issue some of the most cogent warnings about giant multiversities. While maintaining that they were inevitable, he warned of the danger of ''knowledge factories'' whose neglect of students through large classes, the use of teaching assistants and the selection of faculty members based on their research expertise rather than instructional capacities could turn those students into an ''alienated'' class.
        With his well-known sense of humor, he said his job as a university president was ''to provide sex for the students, football tickets for the alumni and parking for the faculty.'' But to a growing number of students in the 60's, Mr. Kerr had become the apostle of the multiversity, the champion of a dehumanized giant. and they resented his factory imagery.
        Matters came to a boiling point in 1964 after the Berkeley administration barred all on-campus solicitation for political or civil rights demonstrations mounted off campus. Political activism at the university had begun to increase in the fall of 1964 after many of its leaders had worked in the civil rights movement over the summer.
        One group, the Free Speech Movement, staged organized demonstrations against the administration's decision that students would no longer be permitted to use a highly visible walkway at the entrance to the campus for their political activities.
        The confrontation at first looked like many he had handled earlier. But this was a new generation of students facing a middle-aged generation of administrators who were used to watching and waiting until student rioters graduated.
        Mr. Kerr dismissed the Free Speech Movement as ''a ritual of hackneyed complaints'' and suggested that its leaders, many of whom were not Berkeley students, were rabble-rousers dominated by Communists. The protesters who took part in a sit-in inside the main administration building ranged from socialists to Goldwater Republicans.
        The police arrested 800 of the demonstrators in a mass arrest. A week later, on Dec. 8, 1964, in the face of mounting protests, Mr. Kerr backed down and granted the students the right to unrestricted political protest on campus.
        The events of 1964 in Berkeley led to almost a decade of student unrest across the country and around the world, gathering intensity when the protests moved beyond campus issues to the war in Vietnam and social problems.
        Mr. Kerr's background might have seemed to prepare him to handle the Berkeley situation. Before his academic career, he had been a leading labor negotiator on the West Coast, and as chancellor at Berkeley, he was experienced in settling organizational disputes. He had also crusaded for social justice.
        One explanation, offered by Garry Wills in ''Certain Trumpets: The Nature of Leadership'' was that Mr. Kerr was ''unable or unwilling to get inside the minds of those who should have been his followers.''
        ''And because he had lost these followers, he was unable to put the unrest down -- which made him lose the regents and the legislature,'' Mr. Wills wrote.
        In 1965, Mr. Kerr tendered his resignation after the regents ordered him to take punitive measures against the student rebels. He disapproved of the students' actions, but he objected to the interference of the regents.
        The regents backed down for a time, but the campus situation remained unstable, and voters elected Mr. Reagan as governor two years later. Mr. Reagan had campaigned on a platform that included ''cleaning up the mess in Berkeley.'' He cut the university budget by 10 percent and proposed charging tuition. Mr. Kerr's response was to freeze admissions temporarily.
        He was dismissed as president at the Board of Regents' first meeting three weeks after Mr. Reagan's swearing-in, in 1967.
        Of his time at Berkeley and the University of California, Mr. Kerr told a reporter nearly 20 years later, ''All that effort, all that passion, all that turmoil was mostly for naught.''
        Mr. Kerr revisited the era in his memoir, ''The Gold and the Blue,'' published in two volumes in 2001 and 2003.
        Clark Kerr was born in Stony Creek, Pa., on May 17, 1911, a time when fewer than 5 percent of American 18-year-olds went to college. His father, Samuel, an apple farmer, was the first Kerr to attend college; he spoke four languages.
        Mr. Kerr attended a one-room school and went on to Swarthmore, graduating in 1932 with a Phi Beta Kappa key and three athletic letters.
        He became a Quaker and worked with the American Friends Service Committee, spending summers traveling with the organization's peace caravans and learning the economic problems of the country in the 1930's.
        He received a master's degree from Stanford in 1933, studied at the London School of Economics, taught economics at Antioch and received a Ph.D. from Berkeley in 1939. In 1934, while at a student congress, he met a striking red-head named Catherine Spaulding. She passed him a note: ''Are You a Communist?'' He replied: ''No.'' She wrote back: ''I'm not either.'' They were married nine months later on Christmas Day.
        He is survived by his wife; three children, Clark E. Kerr of Alamo, Calif.; Alexander (Sandy) Kerr of Mackay, Australia; and Caroline Kerr Gage of Orinda, Calif.; seven grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
        Mr. Kerr began a career as a labor negotiator in the 1940's, becoming one of the busiest on the West Coast. He also served on fact-finding boards for several presidents.
        In 1945, Mr. Kerr came to Berkeley to head the Institute of Industrial Relations. He gained wider attention in 1949, when the state regents issued a mandate that all professors sign loyalty oaths or be fired. Mr. Kerr signed the oath himself, but as head of the faculty committee on tenure, he was a powerful advocate for those who did not sign. In 1952, largely because of the respect he gained by his stand, he became Berkeley's first chancellor.
        In his tenure, Mr. Kerr eliminated vocational departments and used the money for academic research. Berkeley attracted students from all over the country.
        They came from the top of their classes. Berkeley doors were open to all who qualified; there was no tuition.
        When he took over as president of the University of California system in 1958, it was a patchwork of specialized campuses. By the time he left, eight general campuses dotted the state from Davis to San Diego and enrollment had doubled, to 87,000.
        In 1969, Mr. Kerr was speaking at Indiana University when a radical student dashed in from a side door and hurled a pie at his face, scoring a direct hit. Mr. Kerr removed his glasses and wiped them with his handkerchief. ''I'd like to ask for equal time,'' he said. The students gave him a standing ovation.
      