
        Phillip Y. Goldman, a Silicon Valley engineer and entrepreneur who was a co-founder of the Internet service WebTV and more recently of a company that provides a service to block junk e-mail messages, died at his home in Los Altos Hills, Calif., on Dec. 26. He was 39.
        The cause of death has not been determined, the Santa Clara County medical examiner-coroner's office said yesterday.
        WebTV was Mr. Goldman's best-known venture. Its products allowed people to surf the Internet from their televisions without owning a personal computer. Mr. Goldman and the other founders, Steve Perlman and Bruce Leak, sold that company to Microsoft in 1997 for $503 million.
        Mr. Goldman's latest company, Mailblocks Inc., helps customer deal with the rising flood of unwanted e-mail.
        Mr. Goldman, whom friends described as both quirky and inspiring, began his technology career at Apple Computer, where he helped develop Multifinder, a program that paved the way for modern personal computing by allowing the Macintosh computer to run more than one program at the same time.
        In the early 1990's, Mr. Goldman was an executive at General Magic, a communications products company formed by Apple and other high technology companies that was a playground for some of the most innovative thinkers in the industry. Mr. Goldman's dwarf rabbit, Bowser, which he took with him everywhere, became the company's official mascot and was portrayed on the company's T-shirts springing out of a magician's top hat
        In 1995, Mr. Perlman recruited Mr. Goldman to WebTV. The secretive founders set up the company under fictitious name, Artemis Research. A bare-bones Web site stated that ''The team at Artemis is committed to studying the results of sleep deprivation, poor diet and no social life for extended periods of time on humans and dwarf rabbits.''
        After Microsoft bought WebTV, Mr. Goldman and the other founders went to work for the company. As the product stalled within Microsoft, Mr. Goldman left in 2001, and founded Mailblocks in 2002.
        He is survived by his wife, Susan Goldman, and two daughters, and by his parents, Melvin and Bonnie Goldman of San Mateo, Calif., and by two brothers, Colin of Los Angeles and Tyler of Santa Monica. A sister, Alexa Goldman, died in 1985.
        Mr. Goldman graduated first in his class from Princeton University's school of engineering in 1986. Eleven years later, he became the youngest Princeton graduate to create an endowed professorship with a $2 million gift to the university's department of computer science.
        Mr. Goldman also served on the board of Brave Kids, a nonprofit organization that provided information and Internet technology to children with serious illnesses and their families.
        Tyler Goldman said that his brother was ''obsessed with technology'' from childhood, and filled page after page with lines of hand-written computer code.
        ''From a very early age, we didn't understand what he was doing,'' he said. He built his first computer by hand, and his parents later bought him an early Apple computer that stored data on magnetic tape. He began filling tapes that he found in the house with programs.
        ''Only after about six months,'' Tyler Goldman said, ''did my Dad realize that he lost his entire symphony collection.''
      