
        Isabelle Stevenson, the president of the American Theater Wing for more than 30 years, its chairwoman for the last five years and one of the best-known figures in the theater world, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan, her daughter Laura said. She was 90.
        She was perhaps best known to the public as the doyenne of the Tony Awards, Broadway's equivalent of the Academy Awards and the American theater's most widely recognized prize. The Tony Awards were founded by the Theater Wing in 1947 and named for Antoinette Perry, a former chairwoman who ran the organization during World War II. They are jointly administered by the wing and the League of American Theaters and Producers, the trade association of Broadway theater owners and producers.
        The Tony telecast, administered by a Tony Management Committee of five wing and five league representatives, means not only prestige but also money. It is shown each year just before summer vacation time, and the play that wins the Tony almost always enjoys extra tourist dollars. The Theater Wing's share of income from the award broadcast, along with fund-raising events, private contributions and membership fees, also supports its programs.
        Mrs. Stevenson was responsible for several major innovations in her long tenure at the wing, which is primarily a service and education organization, building audiences for the stage as well as honoring excellence in the theater.
        She inaugurated the series of ''Working in the Theater'' seminars, held twice a year at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York and shown on cable television. The seminars bring together leading performers, playwrights, directors, producers and scenic and costume designers.
        She also began a program of grants and fellowships to Off and Off Off Broadway theaters. Theater in Schools, begun under her auspices, sends professionals to high schools to talk about their craft and provides scholarships to high school graduates to further their theater training.
        Mrs. Stevenson nurtured other Theater Wing programs, including the Hospital Program, which takes plays and cabaret shows to hospitals, nursing homes and AIDS centers and, for many years, a Theater for Children, which produced plays for thousands of New York public-school students each year. Another program, Introduction to Broadway, provides Broadway theater tickets for $2.50 to high school students in an attempt to develop the audience of the future.
        For more than half a century, Tonys have been given only to Broadway plays and performers. For many of those years Mrs. Stevenson pressed for a change in rules that would permit Off Broadway plays to be eligible for Tony Awards. And for years she failed. ''When the Tonys started, there wasn't really any Off Broadway, so the rules said Broadway theaters,'' Mrs. Stevenson said frequently. ''That should be changed now. I think Off Broadway's contribution to the theater should not be ignored.'' At the time of her death, the rules still had not changed.
        Mrs. Stevenson was born Isabelle Lubow in Vineland, N.J., on May 15, 1913, the daughter of Sonia Lubow and Samuel Lieberman, who were married but lived separate lives. She and her two sisters took their mother's name. The family moved from Philadelphia to Far Rockaway when she was 10 and, several years later, to Brooklyn.
        At 14, to take off weight, she began dance classes in Manhattan and met Harry Foster, a producer from England who was interested in organizing a line of dancers. Young Isabelle was one of the 15 chosen for training. The group was later known as the Foster Girls and was a part of ''Earl Carroll's Vanities.'' She was picked up each night by her mother and taken home on the subway.
        When the show was taken on the road, Mrs. Lubow refused to allow her daughter to travel with it. So Isabelle began doing solo dance acts in vaudeville and a short time later, formed an act with two young male dancers. The trio, billed as Nice, Florio and Lubow, played the RKO circuit, including the Palace in New York. They also played Britain and took part in a command performance for Queen Mary and King George V. Mrs. Lubow accompanied her daughter everywhere.
        Mrs. Stevenson met her future husband during a booking in Australia. John Stevenson had come out from England and was working on a newspaper in Melbourne. He returned to New York as promotion manager of The New York Post, and they were married in 1937. Mr. Stevenson, later involved in marketing of books and records, died in February 2002.
        ''There was no question of my working -- I wasn't Katherine Cornell or Helen Hayes,'' Mrs. Stevenson recalled in a 1997 interview, when asked why she gave up her dancing career. ''I went to the Traphagen School of Design, took dance classes and courses in journalism and then I went to work for my husband as women's editor.'' By then, there were two daughters, as well as her sister's child, whom the Stevensons treated as their own. She is survived by her daughters, Susan Brown of Manhattan and Laura Maslon of Venice, Calif.; her niece and foster daughter, Francine Ringold-Johnson of Tulsa, Okla.; two grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
        In 1956 when all the children were in school, Mrs. Stevenson joined the board of the American Theater Wing, and when Helen Menken, then the president, died in 1965, she was elected president. She stepped down to become its chairman in 1998 and the next year was honored at a tribute at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel.
        The Theater Wing was known as the Stage Women's War Relief Fund when it was founded in 1917. It was renamed the American Theater Wing War Service Theater in 1939 and was known for its Stage Door Canteens in Manhattan and elsewhere. After the war, the wing established not only the Tonys Awards but also the Professional Training School, a theater school for returning soldiers, which existed from 1946 to 1965.
        In 1980 a caricature of Mrs. Stevenson became the 1,000th likeness to join the gallery of theatrical figures at Sardi's Restaurant. In 1999 she received a special Tony Award for lifetime achievement.
        ''I stood on the sidelines for half a century and watched other people receive Tony Awards,'' she said, ''and now at last I get my own.''
      