
        Ruben Gonzalez, the Cuban pianist who came out of retirement in his late 70's and unexpectedly rose to international fame, died on Monday in Havana. He was 84.
        He had been suffering from lung and kidney problems, said David Bither, the senior vice president of Nonesuch Records, which distributes Mr. Gonzalez's albums in America.
        Mr. Gonzalez was a formidable presence on the Cuban music scene from the 1940's to the 1980's. But he did not record as a leader until 1996, when he was offered a contract with the British company World Circuit as a result of his work on an album with a loosely knit group of veteran Cuban musicians known as the Buena Vista Social Club.
        These men had been all but forgotten in Cuba, their prerevolutionary music widely seen as passé. But thanks to their album, which won a Grammy Award, and to a documentary film directed by Wim Wenders, they became worldwide stars.
        Mr. Gonzalez was retired and suffering from arthritis when the American guitarist and producer Ry Cooder arrived in Havana in 1996 to record with local musicians. At first he was told that Mr. Gonzalez was dead. When he found him, he discovered he did not own a piano and had not played in almost a decade. But after a week of intense practicing, he eagerly resumed his career. His most recent album was ''Chanchullo,'' released in 2000.
        Mr. Gonzalez's formidable technique and distinctive style owed as much to modern jazz as to Cuban musical traditions. Mr. Cooder compared him to Thelonious Monk and called him the best piano soloist he had ever heard.
        Ruben Gonzalez was born in Santa Clara, Cuba, in 1919 and briefly studied medicine before deciding to become a professional musician. Shortly after moving to Havana in 1941, he began working with the influential bandleader, composer and multi-instrumentalist Arsenio Rodríguez.
        He joined the violinist Enrique Jorrín's band in the early 60's and took over as leader after Jorrín, considered the father of the cha-cha, died in 1987. Troubled by arthritis, he retired shortly afterward, by which time his Afro-Cuban music had fallen out of fashion. As it turned out, his greatest fame lay ahead of him.
        Mr. Gonzalez is survived by his wife, Eneida Lima.
      