
        Oscar Schachter, who helped frame the legal underpinnings of the United Nations and taught at Columbia University Law School for the last 28 years, died on Saturday in Manhattan.
        He was 88 and lived on the Upper East Side.
        The cause was complications of heart disease, his family said.
        He held leading legal positions at the United Nations from its inception, joined the Columbia faculty in 1975 and, at his death, was Hamilton Fish professor emeritus of international law and diplomacy. He continued to teach until the spring semester of 2003.
        ''Professor Schachter did more than any other official of the United Nations to help shape the rule of law,'' Secretary General Kofi Annan said, adding that he was the ''architect of the legal framework which has guided United Nations peacekeeping for more than 50 years.''
        Professor Schachter went to the United Nations from the State Department and was a counsel and drafting officer for the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration until 1946.
        He then became deputy director and in 1953 director of the United Nations general legal division and legal advisor to a succession of secretaries general of the United Nations.
        From 1966 until 1975 he was the deputy executive director of the Institute for Training and Research, which trains United Nations personnel and people sent by their governments to do work relating to the international organization.
        Professor Schachter wrote books and dozens of monographs and articles on international law and institutions, legal philosophy, world peace and security, and international resources.
        Oscar Schachter, a native New Yorker, graduated Phi Beta Kappa from City College in 1936 and from Columbia Law School, where he was a Kent scholar and first in his class of 1939.
        He was in private practice and worked for other federal offices before the State Department employed him in 1942 as an advisor on wartime economic controls and liberated European areas.
        A counsel for the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration beginning in 1944, he was sent on missions to Poland and Russia the following year. In 1946 he joined the United Nations as a legal counselor.
        Professor Schachter also served as a guest lecturer at Yale Law School from 1955 to 1971. He was appointed a professor at Columbia's law school and faculty of international affairs in 1975, was named Hamilton Fish professor in 1980 and given emeritus status in 1985.
        He was a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and a past president of the American Society of International Law.
        Professor Schachter is survived by Dr. Muriel L. Sackler; two daughters, Dr. Judith Schachter of Pittsburgh, and Ellen S. Leventhal of Manhattan; a brother, Marvin, of Pasadena, Calif.; a sister, Honey Zimmer of Brooklyn; and four grandchildren. His first wife, Mollie Miller Schachter, died in 1980.
      