
        Frank P. Schubert, America's last civilian lightkeeper, who for six decades maintained the beacons of New York Harbor for the safe passage of seafarers in a ghostly armada of merchantmen, warships and ocean liners, was found dead on Thursday at the Coney Island lighthouse he had tended since 1960. He was 88.
        Mr. Schubert, who in recent years had lived alone with his spaniel, Blazer, at the station overlooking Gravesend Bay and the lower harbor, was found by his daughter, Francine Goldstein. She said he died of natural causes.
        Tall, lean, plain-spoken, a gentle old salt who lived by the rhythms of the tides and the transit of ships, Mr. Schubert was never very far from the sea he loved, his family said. He grew up on Staten Island, served aboard harbor buoy tenders in 1937 and 1938 and joined the new Coast Guard Lighthouse Service in 1939.
        Aside from two years of World War II military service, mostly aboard landing craft in the Pacific, he tended lighthouses all his adult life: 3 years at old Orchard Light on a ledge south of Staten Island, 16 years at Governors Island and 43 years at Coney Island Light Station, at Norton's Point on the western tip of Sea Gate, Brooklyn.
        There, he lived in a cottage with his wife and three children. In a graceful 85-foot cone of cast iron and steel, he operated radio transmitters, foghorns and a revolving beacon visible for 14 miles. It was the first glitter of New York that sailors saw far out at sea, and the last glimmer on the horizon from the taffrail as they shipped out.
        From his cockpit 87 steps up, amid the bull's-eye lenses and six-sided prisms that focused and magnified a 1,000-watt bulb, he observed a procession of ships from around the world and some of the world's best scenery: the distant city, the great blue curve of the Atlantic, awesome hurricanes and dazzling sunsets.
        It is not possible to calculate the lives spared by a light or a horn that steers seafarers off rocky coasts or channel shallows in the night or in a fog. But Mr. Schubert helped to save many lives. In 1973, when a cargo ship rammed a tanker in the harbor and set off an explosion and fire, he summoned the Coast Guard, and fireboats and other emergency craft rushed to the scene. Ten seamen died and six were lost, but 63 others were rescued.
        He also witnessed the passing of an era of lighthouse technology, as crude kerosene lamps floating in mercury and revolving mechanisms driven by hand-set gravity pulls gave way to new electric revolving drives and lights that automatically turned on at dusk and off at dawn. Indeed, after 1979, when the Coney Island light was automated, Mr. Schubert became more caretaker than keeper.
        He saw many things: beached whales, small boats on the rocks, tugboats and fireboats shooting water plumes skyward, processions of tall ships, the building of the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge.
        By the 1980's, automation of the nation's 450 lighthouses had left only two still manned -- Boston Light, kept by the Coast Guard, and Coney Island light, a black and white tower built in 1890. As America's last civilian lightkeeper, Mr. Schubert kept the grounds, deterred vandals and reset the automated light mechanism after storms.
        ''It's a very quiet life,'' he said a few years ago. But not an isolated one. Although he and his wife, Marie, who died in 1986, never took a vacation (he said they never needed one) and he rarely left his post except to go bowling once a week, he had thousands of visitors: children on class trips, sightseers, lighthouse buffs, fishermen, Coast Guard personnel and the occasional historian, writer or photographer.
        Frank Peter Schubert was born on Staten Island on Sept. 13, 1915. After high school, he worked as a lifeguard. But in 1937, he became a civilian crew member on the buoy tender Tulip. In 1939, when America's lighthouses were transferred from the Commerce Department to the Coast Guard, he joined as a civilian lightkeeper.
        He raised his children at Coney Island light, and they returned often, with their children, to visit. Besides his daughter, who lives in Staten Island, Mr. Schubert is survived by two sons, Thomas, of Rio Rancho, N.M., and Kenneth, of Brooklyn; a brother, Peter, of Staten Island; seven grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
        He made a trip to Washington in 1989, on the 50th anniversary of his service, and with his family met President George Bush at the White House.
        After being interviewed in the National Public Radio program ''All Things Considered'' last year, he was swamped with reporters, television crews and curiosity seekers. He said he preferred fishing, reading, making the inlaid furniture called marquetry, and his work.
        ''I wouldn't want to retire,'' he told a visitor. ''I like this too much.''
      