
        David P. Weikart, who did important studies of early childhood education that are widely cited as evidence that programs like Head Start can have long-term benefits, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Saline, Mich. He was 72.
        The cause was leukemia, his son James said. Dr. Weikart lived in Clinton, Mich.
        A study by the foundation Dr. Weikart founded, High/Scope Educational Research Foundation in Ypsilanti, Mich., has played a large role in debates about Head Start and other early childhood programs for a generation. It concluded that the benefits of preschool can be measured in dollars as a child ages.
        ''David Weikart is one of the true fathers of early childhood education in America,'' Edward Zigler, director of the Yale Center in Child Development and Social Policy, said in an interview.
        Dr. Zigler said Dr. Weikart took a courageous chance that his experiment would sabotage his own faith in early education.
        In 1962, in what was known as the Perry Preschool Project, Dr. Weikart took 123 low-income 3- and 4-year-olds and placed 58 in a preschool with highly trained, well-paid teachers who made weekly visits to parents. The rest received no extra attention.
        He then followed the children through life, regularly checking on them. A report on the former preschoolers at the age of 40 is to be released in the spring.
        The results have been consistently impressive. The former preschoolers were more likely to own homes and earn more than $2,000 a month, less likely to receive welfare or be arrested for crimes. Mothers were more often married.
        Dr. Weikart's economic analysis was new to the field. He found that $15,000 in inflation-adjusted dollars was spent on each child, while the savings to schools, welfare, prisons and potential crime victims exceeded $145,000.
        These results were duplicated in studies in North Carolina and Chicago, and the findings became a major element in the national discussion about Head Start, the federal preschool program begun in 1964.
        James Heckman, a University of Chicago economist and Nobel laureate, in preparing a forthcoming book on the economic effects of human development, said in an interview that Dr. Weikart's work was unprecedented in the duration and intensity of its observations. In particular, he said, it proved the importance of teaching character traits like responsible decision-making at a very early age.
        ''We have yet to fully draw from his vision,'' Dr. Heckman said.
        David Powell Weikart was born on Aug. 31, 1931, in Youngstown, Ohio, and graduated from Oberlin College. After serving in the Marines, he oversaw special education in Ypsilanti, a Detroit suburb, while pursuing a Ph.D. at the University of Michigan. He began his research to find out why some students needed remedial education.
        An early difficulty was persuading parents to let their children participate. At the time fewer than 10 percent of America's children, few of them poor, were in any sort of preschool, Dr. Barnett said.
        Another breakthrough was taking a longer perspective on success or failure, Dr. Zigler said. Preschool's sole goal then was readiness for school.
        Dr. Weikart and his colleague Dr. Lawrence J. Schwienhart did the same experiment on five succeeding waves of children, satisfying themselves and many others that early education mattered immensely.
        Dr. Weikart next studied different educational models for preschools, settling on one that emphasized social and emotional development. His foundation spread it around the world.
        Even as Dr. Weikart expanded his research to adolescents, he never lost track of his initial subjects. ''If he had to fly to Germany to get a kid, David put somebody on a plane and sent them over there,'' Dr. Barnett said.
        Dr. Weikart is survived by his wife, the former Phyllis Saxton; four daughters, Cynthia Embry of Clinton, Catherine Yeckel of Hamden, Conn., Jennifer Danko of Vermilion, Ohio, and Gretchen Weikart of Howell, Mich.; two brothers, Hubert, of Lake St. Louis, Mo., and James, of Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.; a sister, Emily Burde of Plattsburgh, N.Y.; and six grandchildren.
        Partly on the strength of Dr. Weikart's research, Georgia and Oklahoma have established preschool for all 4-year-olds. Dr. Weikart strove to make it universal, but only if financing, particularly teachers' pay, is sufficient.
        ''Otherwise we will have wasted the money,'' he said in an interview with Fortune in 1987, ''and we should've built prisons instead.''
      