
        Johnny Cunningham, one of the great Celtic fiddlers of his generation as well as a producer and composer, died on Monday at the apartment of his girlfriend, Trisha McCormick, in New York. He was 46, and had a home in New Bedford, Mass.
        The cause was a heart attack, Ms. McCormick said.
        Mr. Cunningham was born in Portobello, Scotland, and his playing was rooted in Scottish traditions. Playing traditional reels and jigs, he was acclaimed for his dazzling speed and his light-fingered touch, and in slow airs he was known for his rich singing tone. But Mr. Cunningham did not confine himself to Scottish or traditional music. He sat in with rock bands and with songwriters, and wrote music for theater and dance groups. Onstage he was as celebrated as a raconteur and joker as he was as a musician.
        Mr. Cunningham began playing fiddle when he was 7 after less success with harmonica, accordion and piano. ''For some reason,'' he recalled in a 1993 interview for the magazine Dirty Linen, ''the first day I had it, I was knocking tunes out of it. It was just right.'' He left home at 14 to become a musician in Edinburgh. The guitarists Gordon Jones and Bob Thomas, who ran the Triangle Folk Club, discovered him and started a group with him, Silly Wizard.
        Along with groups like the Boys of the Lough and the Bothy Band from Ireland and Steeleye Span from England, Silly Wizard was part of a Celtic revival across the British Isles. Mr. Cunningham's younger brother, Phil Cunningham, joined the group on accordion, and they thrilled audiences by zooming through traditional tunes. ''That's nothing,'' the group's singer, Andy Stewart, used to say onstage. ''When they play really fast, only dogs can hear them.''
        In the early 1980's Johnny Cunningham left the group and moved to Massachusetts, although he rejoined Silly Wizard intermittently during the 1980's. He also performed in other groups, among them Relativity (with Phil Cunningham and the Irish siblings Triona ni Dhomhnaill and Micheal O Domhnaill, from the Bothy Band) and Nightnoise, with the O Domhnaills. In Boston he joined the Raindogs, which made its first album in 1990.
        In the early 1990's Mr. Cunningham began touring with Kevin Burke, from Ireland, and Christian LeMaître, from Brittany, as the Celtic Fiddle Festival. He also wrote the music and lyrics for ''Peter and Wendy,'' an adaptation of the Peter Pan story by the Mabou Mines theater company for which he shared an Obie award for best production in 1997. He produced albums for the Irish traditionalist groups Solas and Cherish the Ladies and for the songwriter Brooks Williams. He also sat in with many traditional groups and played recording sessions for the songwriter Bill Morrissey. He collaborated with Jean Butler and Colin Dunne of Riverdance, and Seamus Egan of Solas in the show ''Dancing on Dangerous Ground'' at Radio City Music Hall in 2000.
        In October 2002 he broke his wrist in an accident, but he was playing again within a few months. He toured and recorded this year with the singer Susan McKeown.
        Mr. Cunningham played a World Music Institute concert with his brother, Phil, at the Thalia Theater in Manhattan on Oct. 14, and he had been working in the studio on Monday with Ms. McKeown when he began feeling ill. He had planned to record a duo album with his brother in January.
        In addition to his brother and Ms. McCormick, Mr. Cunningham is survived by his mother, Mary; a sister, Laura; and his grandmother, Martha Knowles.
      