
        Lewis M. Allen, the producer of hit Broadway shows that included ''Annie'' and ''Master Class,'' died on Monday in New York. He was 81.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, the writer Jay Presson Allen.
        Mr. Allen's biggest hit by far was ''Annie,'' which, while it is now recognized as a major pop cultural phenomenon, was not, perhaps, an obvious candidate for a Broadway staging. The idea for the show had been circulating around town throughout the 70's, and the original production, at Goodspeed Musicals in East Haddam, Conn., received less than enthusiastic reviews.
        But Mr. Allen fell in love with it, and decided to take the risk. It paid off. After he persuaded Mike Nichols to become a co-producer, the musical, which opened in 1977, went on to run for six years and 2,377 performances, becoming the 18th-longest-running show in Broadway history and inspiring a popular 1982 movie adaptation and a less popular revival in 1997.
        In more than five decades of show business, he produced around a score of shows on Broadway, was nominated for seven best-play Tony Awards and won three, for ''Annie'' in 1977, ''I'm Not Rappaport'' in 1986 and ''Master Class'' in 1996. His final Broadway production was the 2002 revival of ''I'm Not Rappaport.''
        Mr. Allen, who formed close relationships with writers like Sam Shepard, Horton Foote and Herb Gardner, gained a reputation for making theatrical decisions driven first by personal passions, not commercial interests. Such choices made him part of the dying breed of gentleman producers, personified by his friend and frequent collaborator Robert Whitehead.
        While he was known on Broadway for high-quality productions, his taste was eccentric enough to avoid easy characterization. ''The Iceman Cometh,'' which he revived in 1985, could interest him as much as the story of a redheaded orphan.
        Mr. Allen also produced several shows Off Broadway, including ''A Lie of the Mind'' by Mr. Shepard and ''Vita and Virginia'' by Eileen Atkins. He also had a fairly prolific film career that began with a bang with Francis Ford Coppola's Oscar-nominated film ''The Connection'' in 1974. He also worked on films like ''Farenheit 451,'' ''Lord of the Flies,'' ''Swimming to Cambodia'' and ''The Miss Firecracker Contest.''
        Born on June 27, 1922, Mr. Allen was the son of a doctor and grew up in a well-to-do family in Berryville, Va. He attended the University of Virginia, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. During World War II, he served with the American Field Service, where he met Mr. Whitehead, who worked in his unit.
        After the war, Mr. Whitehead, who died in June 2002, gave him a position in his office, which he took, his wife said, because he needed a job to make his mother happy. Mr. Whitehead was also responsible for introducing Mr. Allen to his wife, who wrote the screenplay for ''Cabaret'' and ''Marny'' and also wrote a string of Broadway productions; she collaborated with her husband on ''The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie,'' ''Tru'' and ''Big Love.''
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Brooke; two brothers, Howard and Douglas; and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  December 13, 2003, Saturday  An obituary on Wednesday about Lewis M. Allen, a theater and film producer, misidentified a Tony Award won by his production of ''Annie.'' It was for best musical, not best play. The obituary also included a credit erroneously. The producer of the play ''The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie'' was Robert Whitehead.
        The obituary also referred incorrectly to the movie ''The Connection,'' which Mr. Allen produced, and misstated its year. It was not a Francis Ford Coppola film and was not nominated for an Oscar. It was released in 1962, not 1974. (''The Conversation,'' by Mr. Coppola, was a 1974 movie that was nominated for Oscars.)
        The obituary also misspelled the title of the Alfred Hitchcock movie written by Mr. Allen's wife, Jay Presson Allen. It was ''Marnie,'' not ''Marny.''
      