
        Herman Keiser, who achieved one of golf's greatest upsets when he defeated Ben Hogan by a single stroke to win the 1946 Masters, died last Wednesday in suburban Akron, Ohio. He was 89.
        His death was reported by his daughter, Diane Parker, The Associated Press said.
        When the Masters resumed at Augusta National in April 1946 after a three-year interruption because of World War II, the big names included Hogan, Sam Snead, Byron Nelson and Jimmy Demaret.
        Keiser, a native of Springfield, Mo., came to the Masters ninth on the 1946 Tour money list with two second-place finishes. But he was little known and had been away from golf for three years while serving in the Navy. As the head pro at the Firestone Country Club in Akron, his biggest success before entering military service had been a victory in an international four-ball event in Miami in 1942, playing with Chandler Harper.
        Keiser, known as the Missouri Mortician for his serious demeanor, played a few practice rounds for the 1946 Masters with Horton Smith, a two-time winner of the tournament who was a friend and also from Springfield.
        ''He gave me a tip about playing the course that turned out to be the best advice I ever got,'' Keiser recalled in an interview with The Plain Dealer of Cleveland a half-century later. ''He told me to watch carefully how the ball rolled on those greens, particularly on shots from about 100 yards out. The breaks on the greens, he said, were not as severe as a lot of people thought.''
        Keiser held a five-stroke lead over the second-place Hogan after three rounds, but three-putted the 18th hole on the final day. He was in the clubhouse when Hogan, making a late charge, came to No. 18 needing a birdie to win and a par to force a playoff.
        Having been exhausted by the tense final round, Keiser said that as he waited for Hogan to play No. 18, ''I hoped he'd make either a birdie 3 to win or a 5 to lose; I didn't want any playoff.''
        Hogan, who lost to Nelson in a playoff at the previous Masters, in 1942, was only 12 feet from the hole after his second shot on No. 18, but he, too, needed three putts to hole out. And so Keiser became the Masters champion.
        Keiser played on the United States' 1947 Ryder Cup team, which defeated Britain, 11-1, in Portland, Ore., but he lost to Sam King for the only American defeat, and he never won another major. He operated a driving range in Copley, near Akron, for many years.
        In addition to his daughter, he is survived by three sons, Herman Jr., Greg and Dean, and three grandsons.
        Keiser's Masters victory earned him $2,500, but he told of coming away with another $1,400. As he remembered it 50 years later, he collected ''from the bookies,'' betting $70 on himself at odds of 20-1.
      