
        Oleg A. Troyanovsky, the suave voice of successive Soviet leaders and his country's affable representative at the United Nations from 1977 to 1986, died on Sunday, the Russian Foreign Ministry told The Associated Press. He was 84.
        Mr. Troyanovsky, who was also Moscow's ambassador to Japan and China, was the son of the first Soviet ambassador to the United States, Aleksandr A. Troyanovsky, and polished his English as a student in American classrooms, including Sidwell Friends School and Swarthmore.
        He had picked up the language at the American School in Tokyo, where his father took charge of the embassy in 1927. He returned to Japan 40 years later for the same assignment. He left the United Nations post to become the Soviet ambassador to China and served there until his retirement in 1990.
        Mr. Troyanovsky made his debut as an interpreter in world forums in 1947, with Stalin and Foreign Minister Vyacheslav M. Molotov speaking from the Kremlin to the American secretary of state, George C. Marshall. He subsequently served as an assistant to the foreign minister and then to the Council of Ministers, traveling with Soviet leaders to many countries.
        Notably, he accompanied Nikita S. Khrushchev, the party chief and prime minister, on his official visits abroad, including one to the United States in 1959, by some accounts toning down Khrushchev's provocative remarks in translation.
        Born Nov. 24, 1919, in Moscow, he went to Washington in January 1934, two months after his father's ambassadorial appointment. He completed his secondary education at the Sidwell Friends. He then spent his freshman year at Swarthmore College before completing his education at the Moscow Institute for Foreign Languages and Moscow University.
        His career seemed in jeopardy in 1964 with Khrushchev's ouster, but he soon re-emerged as interpreter for Prime Minister Aleksei N. Kosygin.
        He was appointed ambassador to Tokyo in 1967 and served until 1976. A tennis buff who met his wife, Tatyana, on a court, he became president of the Tokyo Lawn Tennis Club. He is survived by her and their daughter, Maria, The A.P. said.
        He arrived at the United Nations as chief representative in 1977 and earned a reputation for working the corridors, smiling, shaking hands, always impeccably dressed.
        In 1980, he demonstrated his aplomb when Maoists posing as photographers doused him with red paint. Some delegates flinched, fearing a bomb attack, but Mr. Troyanovsky looked up and remarked, in English, ''Better red than dead.''
      