
        Dr. Edmund N. Goodman, a prominent New York surgeon who developed a procedure for detecting stomach abnormalities and treated legendary New Yorkers like Gov. W. Averell Harriman and Eleanor Roosevelt, died on Dec. 9 in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 95.
        The cause was cancer, said his daughter Stacy Goodman.
        Dr. Goodman rose to prominence as one of the top surgeons in New York after working on a device, at the time known as an electrogastrograph, that could measure the electric potential of the stomach wall and was intended to detect stomach cancer and other abnormalities. He helped invent the instrument, which could record electrical signals in the stomach much like an EKG records the heart's impulses, while doing research at Cambridge in the late 1930's.
        Medical experts heralded it as a sign that stomach cancer, the leading cancer killer among American men at the time, might soon be eliminated. Though it never became the early cancer diagnostic tool that doctors thought it would be, the device is used today to detect nerve and muscular problems in the stomach.
        Dr. Goodman went on to become a well-known instructor and specialist in abdominal surgery at Columbia-Presbyterian and Mount Sinai Hospitals.
        ''To get a position at Columbia back then, you had to devote yourself almost entirely to teaching,'' said Dr. Frederic P. Herter, who was a professor of surgery at Columbia's College of Physicians and Surgeons and a colleague of Dr. Goodman. ''Some of the leading doctors in the field today were trained by him. They all learned from him because he was a superb surgeon.''
        Dr. Goodman's reputation attracted world-renowned figures and the social elite, like the pianist Vladimir Horowitz and Charles H. Revson, the Revlon founder.
        Born in New York, Edmund Nathan Goodman earned his undergraduate degree from the City College of New York and his medical degree from Columbia. He served with the Navy in World War II, earning the rank of lieutenant commander before moving to Mount Sinai and then Columbia-Presbyterian.
        In later years, Dr. Goodman studied pain mechanisms and worked on a therapy for controlling chronic pain that involved anesthetizing a nerve center in the nose.
        He lived in Sands Point, N.Y.
        Dr. Goodman is survived by his wife, Marian Powers; one son, Edmund Jr., of Boulder, Colo.; three daughters, Wendy Goodman, Tonne Goodman and Stacy Goodman, all of New York; and three grandchildren.
      