
        Eugene A. Cafiero, who was president of the Chrysler Corporation in the late 1970's, a period of roller coaster profits and losses for the company, died on Monday in Naples, Fla. He was 77.
        The cause was complications of pancreatic cancer, said his son-in-law, Stephan Hedbabny.
        In 1975, when Mr. Cafiero became president of Chrysler, the company was in a financial crisis and heavily in debt. Under him, Chrysler turned in two years of profits, but a recession, combined with new federal fuel efficiency standards, caused sharp losses in 1978, when Mr. Cafiero was succeeded by Lee A. Iacocca.
        In 1953, Chrysler bought the company Mr. Cafiero was working for, Briggs Manufacturing, an auto-body maker. After earning a master's degree in management from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1960, he moved up Chrysler's ranks, becoming a vice president in 1968.
        His background as a plant manager set him apart from the other officials in upper management, most of whom had backgrounds in finance.
        A recession in the mid-1970's hit Chrysler hard, causing Lynn A. Townsend, who had been president since 1961, to resign. The decision to appoint Mr. Cafiero as president and Joseph J. Riccardo as chairman and chief executive was seen as a move to bring in younger blood.
        According to contemporary accounts, the two men's strategy, which entailed revamping foreign operations and investing heavily in the development of cars, was vindicated by profitable years in 1976 and 1977. But in 1978, Congress imposed the fuel standards, and in April of that year, Chrysler reported the biggest quarterly loss in its history. The following November, Mr. Cafiero had become vice chairman and Mr. Iacocca was brought in as president. Mr. Cafiero resigned from the company in March 1979.
        After leaving Chrysler, Mr. Cafiero was president of several companies, including the DeLorean Motor Company; later he was a founder of Computerized Security Systems.
        Eugene Anthony Cafiero was born on June 13, 1926, in Brooklyn. He graduated from Dartmouth in 1946, and spent two years in the Navy before joining Ford Motor as a management trainee at an auto assembly plant in New Jersey.
        Mr. Cafiero's first marriage, to Nancy Barnard, ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Taryn, of Naples, Fla.; three children from his first marriage, Clayton, Anne, and Sarah Jane; two daughters from his second marriage, Chiara and Chloe; and three grandchildren.
      