
        Dave Dudley, the pioneer of truck-driving country songs and a former radio D.J. who recorded more than 40 country hits from 1961 to 1980, died on Monday in Danbury, Wis. He was 75.
        The cause was a heart attack, his wife Marie told The Associated Press.
        Mr. Dudley was not the only progenitor of country songs for and about truckers; C. W. McCall's 1975 hit ''Convoy'' had a brief run at the top of the charts.
        But Mr. Dudley had the greatest success in the genre of truckers' music.
        His influence on American culture went beyond music; his portrayal of truckers as independent, outspoken heroes facing impossible odds was later incorporated into popular movies like ''Smokey and the Bandit'' (1977).
        David Darwin Pedruska was born on May 3, 1928, in Spencer, Wis., and grew up in Stevens Point, Wis.
        He recorded under the name Dave Dudley, a variant of a childhood nickname, Duddy.
        He played semipro baseball until an arm injury forced his retirement from sports in 1950. But it was in music that he made his mark. He worked the Midwest and West as a D.J. at stations in Wisconsin, Iowa, Idaho and Minnesota, moonlighting as a performer in local honky-tonks.
        He formed the Dave Dudley Trio, which performed from 1950 to 57. When he moved to Minneapolis to work at radio station KEVE, he formed a band, the Country Gentlemen.
        In 1961 Mr. Dudley first appeared on the Billboard country charts with ''Maybe I Do'' on Vee Records and he returned in 1962 with ''Under Cover of the Night'' on Jubilee Records.
        In 1963 the Grand Ole Opry star Jimmy C. Newman let Mr. Dudley hear a new tune, ''Six Days on the Road.'' An up-tempo song, it was a departure from the ballads Mr. Dudley had specialized in, and he was initially reluctant to record it.
        With its driving guitar, straightforward vocals and accurate descriptions of the challenges and heartbreaks facing truck drivers, ''Six Days on the Road'' was an instant hit and ushered in the genre of truck-driving songs.
        The release, on the independent Minneapolis label Golden Wing Records, led Mercury Records to sign him in Nashville.
        He became a national star, and his other hits included ''Mad'' (No. 6 on the Billboard country singles chart, 1964), ''Truck Drivin' Son of a Gun'' (No. 3, 1965), ''What We're Fighting For'' (No. 4, 1965), ''Vietnam Blues'' (No. 12, 1966), ''There Ain't No Easy Run'' (No. 10, 1968) and ''The Pool Shark'' (his only No. 1 single, 1970).
      