
        Joseph R. Daly, who spent 40 of his 43 years in advertising at one of the most influential American agencies, Doyle Dane Bernbach, serving in all the major senior management posts there, died on Saturday at his home in Jupiter, Fla. He was 85.
        The cause was complications of pneumonia, said his son Mark.
        After three years at the John A. Cairns advertising agency, Mr. Daly joined Doyle Dane Bernbach in November 1949, five months after it opened in Midtown Manhattan, as an account executive. He had a principal role at Doyle Dane as the agency helped transform the way Madison Avenue operated, in ways that included infusing campaigns with wry humor and teaming up copywriters and art directors.
        Mr. Daly was often called an ''honorary founder'' at Doyle Dane, alongside the actual ones, Ned Doyle, Maxwell Dane and William Bernbach. In 1957, Mr. Daly became the first employee to be elected a vice president by the founders.
        Among the accounts Mr. Daly worked on as an account executive and account supervisor were those of Avis Rent a Car; Burlington Industries; Chemstrand, later part of Monsanto; and Polaroid.
        Mr. Daly's office specialized in accounts that used celebrities. Jeannette Huneke, his assistant for many decades who still works at DDB Worldwide, as the agency is now known, recalled this week Mr. Daly's work on television specials, for the Acrilan fiber sold by Chemstrand/Monsanto, with Judy Garland, Sophia Loren, Barbra Streisand and Elizabeth Taylor.
        For Ms. Streisand, Mr. Daly helped negotiate the deal for Monsanto to sponsor the first television specials on CBS that were instrumental in her success, including ''My Name Is Barbra'' in April 1965 and ''Color Me Barbra'' in March 1966. He also worked with James Garner and Mariette Hartley on their popular Polaroid commercials.
        Mr. Daly was promoted to president of the agency in 1968, chairman in 1974 and chief executive in 1976. He became chairman again in 1982 and in 1986 was named chairman of the executive committee when Doyle Dane merged with Needham Harper Worldwide to form DDB Needham Worldwide as part of the three-way deal that created the Omnicom Group. He also became an Omnicom director. When Mr. Daly retired in 1989, he was named chairman emeritus, a title he held until his death.
        Mr. Daly was born on May 14, 1918, and graduated from Fordham, which honored him with a lifetime achievement award in communications in 1981. He was a decorated veteran of World War II, serving in the Navy Air Corps, where he rose to lieutenant commander and fought at Midway and Guadalcanal. Mr. Daly was a member of the board of the U.S.O. of Metropolitan New York and the Cardinal's Committee of the Laity, and established a foundation named after him that will continue to support his favorite charities.
        In addition to his son Mark, of Cincinnati, Mr. Daly is survived by six other children, Andrew, of Huntington, N.Y.; Jennifer Daly, of Helena, Mont.; Peter, of Upper Brookville, N.Y.; Timothy, of Fort Salonga, N.Y.; Suzanne Herbers, of McLean, Va.; and Dottie Mull, of Longwood, Fla.; 4 brothers; 3 sisters; 15 grandchildren; and one great-granddaughter.
      