
        James Carter, who one September day in 1959 led fellow prisoners at the Mississippi State Penitentiary in a melancholy work song, ''Po' Lazarus,'' which became an unexpected Grammy Award-winning hit, died last Wednesday in Oak Park, Ill. He was 77 and lived in Chicago.
        His family said that Mr. Carter, a retired shipping clerk, had been in poor health, and suffered a stroke.
        Mr. Carter, a sharecropper's son, sang the bluesy song with other prisoners on a day when Alan Lomax, the musical archivist, who was traveling across the South with a tape recorder, was at the prison in Parchman, Miss., collecting material. The song is about a man who is hunted by a lawman and gunned down.
        Decades later, T-Bone Burnett, the music producer, heard the recording while listening to the songs in the Lomax archives in New York City.
        ''It just made a deep impression,'' he said in a New York Times interview last year. ''It was such a beautiful version, a soulful version of a great song.''
        When Mr. Burnett began working on the soundtrack for the Depression-era film ''O Brother, Where Art Thou?,'' he remembered the song and placed it first on the soundtrack. The album for the 2000 film sold millions of copies and won album of the year honors at the Grammy Awards ceremony in 2002. It won four other Grammy Awards to boot.
        Mr. Carter, who had lived a hard life, was tracked down by Mr. Burnett, the Lomax archives and an investigative journalist, Chris Grier, a reporter on The Sarasota (Fla.) Herald-Tribune. Mr. Carter was living in Chicago with his wife, Rosie Lee Carter, a minister at the Holy Temple Church of God.
        Not only did Mr. Carter start receiving royalty checks, he also boarded an airplane for the first time, flying with his family to Los Angeles for the Grammy Awards.
        By this time, Mr. Carter, who often used a wheelchair, had heart problems and high blood pressure. ''He was sick before everything happened, and then he got well for a while, he really perked up with that trip,'' Cora Macklin, one of his daughters, said in a telephone interview last week. ''He kept talking about it. He kept saying how God can take a bad situation and turn it into something good.''
        Another daughter, Elizabeth Scott, said that her father had received checks for at least $100,000. His family said that part of the money bought a church van and part went to a food bank at the church.
        Ms. Scott said that in the final year of her father's life he became more spiritual and attributed his sudden fame and success to divine intervention. ''It increased his faith in God,'' she said.
        Mr. Carter left home at 13 and wound up in the Mississippi prison system four times, according to the Lomax organization. But last year he said he remembered being in prison only once.
        Mr. Carter turned his life around, his family said. For years he lived with his wife in a large apartment in a building they owned in Chicago. In addition to his two daughters and his wife of 57 years, Mr. Carter is survived by a third daughter, Hattie Tucker, and nine grandchildren.
        Mr. Carter did not sing too much, Ms. Scott said, but he listened often to the tape of the soundtrack. ''But once we took him to a blues festival in Chicago and he sat there and just sang and sang,'' she recalled.
        At the time of the Grammys, Mr. Carter said in the Times interview that he was flattered by all the attention, but that he barely recalled ''Po' Lazarus.''
        ''I sang that,'' he said, ''a long time back.''
      