
        George Arthur Murphy, former president and chairman of the Irving Trust Company and a civic leader who headed the board of trustees of New York University in the 1960's, died on Sunday at his home in Washington, Conn. He was 97.
        Mr. Murphy spent his banking career with Irving Trust, working in its landmark building at 1 Wall Street for nearly 40 years. He rose as an officer in the personal trust and lending divisions to become a vice president in 1947, president in 1957 and, from 1960 to 1970, chairman.
        Irving Trust, the smallest of the city's large banks, became part of the Bank of New York after a hostile takeover bid that was completed in 1988 after a yearlong battle.
        During his tenure at Irving Trust, Mr. Murphy held directorships in various other businesses, including Otis Elevator, Continental Can, General Cable, General Telephone and Electronics and Warner-Lambert Pharmaceutical.
        He also served as president of the advisory council of the Federal Reserve System, president of the New York State Bankers Association, and a manager and eventually chairman of the billion-dollar United Nations pension fund, an appointment made by the secretary general of the United Nations. He was a chairman of the Better Business Bureau of New York.
        He was elected a trustee of New York University in 1959. He became vice chairman of the board in 1960 and served as chairman -- and the university's chief fund-raiser -- from 1963 to 1968.
        Notably, he shepherded a gift from Elmer Holmes Bobst, the vitamin magnate, that went toward building the library now carrying Mr. Bobst's name; it was completed in 1972. He also persuaded Irving Trust to provide money for the library's economics and commerce collection. The Murphy Room on the Bobst Library's 10th floor was named after him.
        George Murphy was born in Morrow, Ga., and graduated from Oglethorpe University in Atlanta in 1927. He received an M.B.A. from Harvard in 1931 and started at Irving Trust as a trainee.
        In World War II, he became a lieutenant commander in the Navy. His connection with N.Y.U. alumni dated to 1942, when he received an L.L.B. from the law school.
        Mr. Murphy is survived by his wife of 65 years, Ruth B. Milliken Murphy; two daughters, Louise A. Johnson of Concord, Mass., and Jean R. Smith of Cambridge, Mass.; seven grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
      