
        Alan Davidson, a diplomat whose passion for food and its history led him to write indispensable works on seafood and to edit the comprehensive Oxford Companion to Food, died on Tuesday in London. He was 79.
        He was taken to the Chelsea and Westminster hospital after collapsing at his home in Chelsea. He had been in poor health for several years.
        A sense of whimsy, an elegant writing style and a detective's nose for clues set Mr. Davidson well apart from the common run of food writers. His three major works on seafood -- ''Seafood of South East Asia,'' ''Mediterranean Seafood'' and ''North Atlantic Seafood''-- combined tireless research with a rich appreciation of the history and ethnography of foods and food culture, qualities on display in his magisterial Oxford Companion to Food.
        Of equal importance was his work as the publisher of Petits Propos Culinaires, a quarterly devoted to food history and arcana, and his annual food conferences, which were held at Oxford University.
        Alan Eaton Davidson, the son of a Scottish tax inspector, was born in Londonderry, Northern Ireland. His studies in the classics at Queen's College, Oxford, were interrupted in 1943 by service in the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve, which he left as a lietuenant in 1946 after seeing action in the Pacific, North Atlantic and Mediterranean.
        In 1948 he joined the Foreign Office, serving in Washington, The Hague, Cairo and Tunis. While in Washington, he married Jane Macatee, an American. She and the couple's three daughters -- Caroline, Jennifer and Pamela -- survive him.
        From 1968 to 1971, Mr. Davidson served in Brussels as head of chancery of the British delegation to NATO. After two years as Britain's ambassador to Laos, he retired from the foreign service in 1975 to devote himself full time to food writing.
        It was in Tunisia that Mr. Davidson dicovered the avocation that became his vocation. His wife, shopping in the local markets, found that the same fish might be called several different names. Mr. Davidson promised to clear up the confusion. His inquiries resulted in ''Seafish of Tunisia and the Central Mediterranean,'' a book he published himself in 1963. It came to the attention of the food writer Elizabeth David, who helped smooth the way to its publication by Penguin in 1972 under the title ''Mediterranean Seafood.''
        Laos, too, proved to be fruitful. Despite the political turmoil around him in the waning days of the Vietnam War, Mr. Davidson managed to carry out the research that led to ''Fish and Fish Dishes of Laos'' (1975) and ''Seafood of South East Asia'' (1977).
        After retiring from the Foreign Office, Mr. Davidson entered into a whirlwind of culinary activity. He wrote ''North American Seafood'' (1979) and established Prospect Books, a small press devoted to books on exotic cuisines and out-of-print culinary classics. With his wife, he produced ''Dumas on Food,'' an abridgment of Alexandre Dumas's ''Grand Dictionnaire de Cuisine''.
        He also established the idiosyncratic Petits Propos Culinaires. Its hospitable pages found room for topics as diverse as food in the works of Chekhov and the fine points of making trifle, Mr. Davidson's favorite dessert, which also became the subject of a book, ''Trifle'' (2001), written with Helen Saberi. A collection of essays from the quarterly was published in 2001 under the title ''The Wilder Shores of Gastronomy.''
        In 1981 he helped organize the first Oxford Symposium on Food and Cookery at St. Antony's College, Oxford. Now held annually, it became, like Petits Propos Culinaires, a rallying place for the writers who would contribute to The Oxford Companion to Food, which was finally published in 1999 after more than 20 years in the making. The Oxford Companion contains more than a million words, many of them written by Mr. Davidson himself in entries on topics as varied as pohickory, an American Indian beverage, and the iguana considered as food.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Davidson was at work on a book about American screwball comedies of the 1930's. For his diplomatic work he was named a Commander of St. Michael and St. George in 1974. A few months before his death, the Dutch government awarded him the Erasmus Prize in recognition of his contribution to European cultural life.
      