
        John Holter, a machinist who in trying to save his son's life invented a device to treat a dangerous brain disorder, died on Dec. 22 in a nursing home in Devon, Pa. He was 87.
        The cause was complications of a stroke he suffered in October, said Lou Dardozzi, a longtime friend.
        In 1955, Mr. Holter and his wife, Mary, had a son, Casey. Shortly after Casey's birth, the couple learned that he was suffering from hydrocephalus, which causes the brain to swell with excess fluid.
        The disease had no effective treatment then, and Mr. Holter, a hydraulics technician, was determined to save his son. He quickly learned as much as he could about the disorder, and within weeks, he had designed a device with a tiny one-way valve that released controlled amounts of the cerebrospinal fluid gathering in the brain.
        ''Holter's prototype valve had two rubber condoms with slits in the top inserted at either end of a flexible piece of tubing,'' according to The Journal of the American College of Surgeons, which in 2001 published an article about the invention. ''The valves acted like infant bottles: when pressure was applied, the slit opened and fluid flowed out, but once the pressure was relieved the slit closed.''
        Mr. Holter quit his job and founded a company in Bridgeport, Pa., to start making the devices, called Holter shunts. His basic design gained widespread acceptance. Over the years, it was refined and remains in use. But Casey had already suffered serious brain damage before receiving the shunt, and he died after a seizure five years later, the journal article said.
        John Holter was born in Chicago and grew up in New Jersey. After graduating from high school, he worked as a car mechanic and served in Europe in World War II.
        In 1951, Mr. Holter went to work for a hydraulics research laboratory, and the expertise he developed there helped prepare him for the crisis of his son's illness.
        Before his stroke, Mr. Holter lived in Lakeland, Fla.
      