
        The Rev. Laton Earle Holmgren, a former general secretary of the American Bible Society, who oversaw the distribution of millions of Bibles around the world, died on Sunday at his retirement home in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 88.
        His death was announced by the society's headquarters in New York.
        Dr. Holmgren, an ordained Methodist minister, joined the society in 1952 as its secretary for Asia. He had gone to Japan as a visiting professor in 1949 and helped rebuild the Union Church in Tokyo, one of the oldest English-language Protestant churches in the Far East, which had been heavily damaged in the war.
        When he started at the society, he oversaw the translation and distribution of Bibles in 40 countries, with an annual circulation of about 13 million copies, according to the society. By the time of his retirement, the society said, circulation had reached 300 million in 180 countries and even more languages.
        He also became a liaison to sister societies worldwide.
        Dr. Holmgren was named executive secretary in 1954 and general secretary in 1963, serving in that post until 1978. He was also chairman of the executive committee of the United Bible Societies, and these jobs meant that he traveled almost constantly. He retired in 1991 as a consultant for the organization.
        Laton Holmgren was born in Minneapolis and graduated cum laude in 1936 from Asbury College in Kentucky. He received a master of divinity degree at Drew University in 1941, did postgraduate work at Edinburgh University in 1947 and received a doctorate of divinity from Illinois Wesleyan University in 1956.
        He was ordained in the United Methodist Church in 1942 and was for five years associate minister at Christ Church on Park Avenue in Manhattan before taking the visiting professorship in Tokyo. There, he also was an adviser to the Japanese Foreign Ministry, and, from 1949 to 1952, the minister of the reborn Union Church.
        Dr. Holmgren is survived by his companion, Kiyoshi Hagiya.
      