
        Helmut Newton, the prolific, widely imitated fashion photographer whose provocative, erotically charged photos were a mainstay of Vogue and other publications, died on Friday after a car crash in Hollywood. He was 83.
        The Los Angeles police told The Associated Press that Mr. Newton lost control of his Cadillac as he left the Chateau Marmont Hotel, and crashed into a wall across the street. He died at the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, the agency reported.
        Guided by a passion for the strength and allure of the female form and an unquenchable taste for the risqué, Mr. Newton reflected the sexual revolution of the 1960's and 70's, which coincided with his rise to fame. He photographed some of the most beautiful women in the world in poses that emphasized their sexuality, often with an accompanying sense of danger and violence.
        His images, often in stark black and white, were calculated to shock, featuring tall, blond, sometimes naked women in heels, perhaps illuminated by headlights or trapped in a dark alley. Bondage, sadomasochism, voyeurism, murder, pornography, prostitution: each was exploited and explored in his photos over the years. Models were depicted in ways that few readers expected: in orthopedic corsets, or in wheelchairs, or on all fours wearing a dog collar.
        His work was also closely associated with top designers, like Yves Saint Laurent, whose penchant for tight, wide-shouldered suits and long-legged models suited him.
        Along with the photographers Herb Ritts, Irving Penn and Richard Avedon, Mr. Newton moved fashion photography from a staid reflection of the current year's styles to a more artful, glamorous presentation of mood and story. Unlike those contemporaries, who focused mainly on celebrities, Mr. Newton often preferred strapping, lesser-known models.
        ''Helmut was very clear that he liked a big girl and blond girl, in an impeccable suit and high heels,'' said Anna Wintour, the editor in chief of Vogue. ''He would take that girl and put her in some wicked or naughty situation, kissing another woman or in handcuffs.''
        But his work was also associated with photographers like Guy Bourdin and Deborah Turbeville, and sometimes drew the ire of groups that felt his depictions of women could be demeaning and exploitative. In 1998, an ad for Wolford women's hosiery -- featuring a model wearing only stockings and lying face down -- was removed from a Times Square billboard after being deemed too explicit.
        In many ways, Mr. Newton's career and taste for adventure simply reflected a life spiced by high drama. Born into a wealthy Jewish family in Berlin in 1920, he bought his first camera at 12, he wrote in his autobiography, ''Autobiography,'' published in the United States last year by Nan A. Talese/Doubleday.
        As a teenager, he was apprenticed to the German theatrical photographer Yva, who was also fond of the naked female form. But in December 1938, at 18, he was forced to flee the Nazis, shortly after Kristallnacht.
        In a 1996 interview with Salon, Mr. Newton suggested that his German upbringing and his experiences with the Nazis played a large part in his artistic philosophy. ''The point of my photography has always been to challenge myself,'' he said. ''To go a little further than my Germanic discipline and Teutonic nature would permit me to.''
        He eventually arrived in Singapore, where, he wrote, he became a gigolo. He moved to Australia, later earned citizenship, and served in the Australian Army for five years before opening his first photography studio in Melbourne in 1946. In 1948 he married June Browne, a photographer who uses the name Alice Springs professionally. She is his only survivor.
        After working as a freelancer in the 1940's, he moved to France in the late 50's. He kept a home in Monte Carlo -- which was often a setting for his photographs -- since 1981, but wintered at the Chateau Marmont.
        It was in Europe, working for London Vogue and Jardin des Modes, where he began to be noticed for his risqué images, eventually earning the nickname ''the King of Kink.'' He joined French Vogue in 1963, and after several unsuccessful attempts to impress Diana Vreeland, the editor of American Vogue, he made his debut in its pages in 1971, shortly after Ms. Vreeland was fired.
        All the while, Mr. Newton continued to make shocking images, but the lifestyle took a toll. In late 1971, he had a heart attack. In an example of his turning life into fashion, the experience, and several subsequent hospitalizations, later served as inspiration for a series of photo sessions in hospitals.
        Perhaps his main source of inspiration, however, was his wife, whom he often used as a model; in a set of 1973 photos, she donned a Hitler costume and posed with the model Jerry Hall, who portrayed Eva Braun.
        Mr. Newton's reputation as a provocateur was cemented by his first collection of photos, ''White Women,'' published in 1976. It would be the first of 10 collections, including ''Big Nudes,'' (1982) a title that many felt summed up his photographic obsession.
        Mr. Newton received many awards for his work, including the Grand Prix National de la Ville de Paris and Commander in the Order of Arts and Letters. In October, he donated more than 1,000 of his pictures to a German cultural foundation for a museum intended to be a national center for photography. It is scheduled to open in June in Berlin.
        His final spread in Vogue will appear in the March edition, and in typical fashion, depicts a model eating grass and another lying on a bed of nails.
      