
        Danny Whelan, the trainer for the Knicks' two National Basketball Association championship teams and for the Pittsburgh Pirates' 1960 World Series champions, died last Friday at the Mary Manning Walsh Home in Manhattan, a day before his 85th birthday.
        Whelan had been in failing health with complications from a second hip replacement, his son Michael said.
        As the Knicks' trainer from 1967 to 1978, Whelan was a familiar figure to Madison Square Garden crowds, a stocky presence on the bench in his white pants and orange Knicks warm-up shirt.
        In the hours before Game 7 of the 1970 N.B.A. finals at the Garden, Whelan worked with the Knicks' physician, James Parkes, to help a hobbling Willis Reed get ready to confront the Los Angeles Lakers' Wilt Chamberlain.
        Whelan provided whirlpool treatments and cold packs, and Reed received pain-killing injections. Then, struggling with a thigh and hip injury, Reed provided an inspiring presence for the Knicks, hitting two baskets at the game's outset and playing stout defense against Chamberlain as the Knicks rolled to a 113-99 victory for their first league championship.
        Three years later, Whelan was on the Knicks' bench again when they beat the Lakers once more for the league title.
        Reed, now an adviser to the Knicks, recalled how Whelan was adept at easing tensions with funny stories.
        ''He had a way of getting guys relaxed when we were in tight situations,'' Reed said Monday in a telephone interview. ''He was the big mom, keeping the troops happy.''
        Whelan was the team's ''medicine guy and psychologist,'' Reed said.
        Whelan gave Knicks guard Walt Frazier his nickname Clyde in his rookie season, 1967-68. Frazier's flamboyant attire evoked for Whelan the film ''Bonnie and Clyde.''
        Whelan grew up in San Francisco, served in the Navy during World War II, spent 12 years as trainer for the Rochester Red Wings minor league baseball team, then became the Pirates' trainer in 1959. A year later, the Pirates won the World Series, defeating the Yankees on Bill Mazeroski's home run in Game 7. Whelan remained as the Pirates' trainer until joining the Knicks.
        In addition to his son Michael, of Orlando, Fla., Whelan is survived by his wife, Randy; a son, Patrick, and a daughter, Kathy Whelan-Ardito, both of San Anselmo, Calif.; and two grandchildren.
      