
        Elizabeth Kenowsky Fisher, who with her husband, Zachary Fisher, helped bring the aircraft carrier Intrepid to its Hudson River berth as a floating museum, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 90.
        Her death was announced yesterday by the Intrepid Foundation, which was founded by the Fishers and administers the annual Zachary and Elizabeth Fisher Award for Patriotism. Mrs. Fisher had been suffering from Alzheimer's disease since 1990, the foundation said. Mr. Fisher died in 1999.
        For many years, Mrs. Fisher was deeply involved in charitable work alongside her husband, a leading New York builder, especially to benefit the country's military, its veterans and their families.
        Elizabeth Fisher, born in Allegheny County, Pa., was a Ziegfeld girl and served overseas with the United Service Organizations in World War II, helping entertain the troops, visiting the wounded in field hospitals and volunteering for the Veterans Bedside Network.
        More recently, the Fishers provided financial support for families of military personnel lost in the line of duty. They started with the bombing of the Marine barracks in Beirut in 1983 and kept the effort alive through the Intrepid Fallen Heroes Fund. They began the Fisher House Foundation in 1990 to build ''homes away from home'' for families of hospitalized members of the military and the Fisher Armed Forces Scholarship Foundation to help active and former military personnel and their families.
        The Fishers also gave money to the United States Naval Academy, and in the 1970's they led the campaign to refurbish the Intrepid and turn it into a floating museum, contributing millions of dollars to the effort. The Intrepid Sea-Air-Space Museum is berthed at Pier 86, at 12th Avenue and 46th Street.
        Four years after Mrs. Fisher's Alzheimer's disease was diagnosed, the Fisher Medical Foundation joined David Rockefeller in providing $5 million for the Zachary and Elizabeth M. Fisher Center for Research on Alzheimer's Disease at Rockefeller University.
        Mrs. Fisher is survived by a son, William Crovello of Manhattan.
      