
        Brian Gibson, the British film and television director known for his inspiring early collaborations with the writer Dennis Potter and for an eclectic array of projects ranging from Hollywood studio films to television documentaries, died on Sunday in London, said Ann Louise Bardach, a family friend. He was 59 and lived in London and Los Angeles.
        The cause was bone cancer, Ms. Bardach said.
        After graduating from Cambridge, Mr. Gibson directed scientific documentaries for the BBC in the 1960's and then moved on to feature films.
        Among his best-known projects was the 1979 BBC film of Mr. Potter's ''Blue Remembered Hills,'' starring a not-yet-famous Helen Mirren. The film, written in Mr. Potter's singular voice, was set in the sometimes frightening world of childhood in Britain's West Country during World War II (daringly, the children were played by adults) and established the careers of its writer, director and stars. ''Blue Remembered Hills'' won best drama in the year's Bafta awards, the British equivalent to the Academy Awards; Mr. Gibson won for best director.
        The film opened doors for Mr. Gibson, particularly in Hollywood, and he spent the 1980's and 90's directing, producing and writing films that were released in theaters and on HBO. His larger projects included ''What's Love Got to Do With It'' (1993), a searing depiction of the life of the pop star Tina Turner, starring Angela Bassett as Ms. Turner and Laurence Fishburne as her husband, Ike; ''The Juror'' (1996), starring Alec Baldwin and Demi Moore; and ''Poltergeist II: The Other Side'' (1986), a sequel to the original ''Poltergeist'' horror movie.
        For HBO Mr. Gibson's work included ''The Josephine Baker Story'' (1991), starring Lynn Whitfield and Louis Gossett Jr., which won an Emmy for Mr. Gibson as best director. In 1989 he directed a film about the Nazi hunter Simon Wiesenthal called ''Murderers Among Us,'' starring Ben Kingsley. Mr. Gibson also directed the 1990 mini-series ''Drug Wars: The Camarena Story,'' about the work and death of a Drug Enforcement Administration agent.
        Through his production company Mr. Gibson made dozens of commercials and music videos. In 2002 he was executive producer of the film ''Frida,'' about the artist Frida Kahlo, with Salma Hayek in the title role.
        Mr. Gibson's low-budget 1998 film, ''Still Crazy,'' about the reunion of a fictional 1970's rock band called Strange Fruit, with the British actor Bill Nighy as a grizzled rock star, became a cult favorite on video and set the gravel-voiced Mr. Nighy on course to extend the role in the current Richard Curtis movie ''Love Actually.''
        Mr. Gibson's first marriage ended in divorce. Before learning he had cancer, he was collaborating on a script with his second wife, Paula Guarderas Gibson, a photographer and singer. He is survived by her, as well as by his daughters Raphaela and Grace; his mother, Victoria; his sister, June; and a niece and nephew.
      