
        Donald Leight, a trumpet player who worked as a sideman with big bands, in nightclubs and on Broadway and whose life was the inspiration for the prizewinning play ''Side Man,'' written by his son, Warren, died on Jan. 3 in a Manhattan hospital. He was 80 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was pneumonia and complications from Parkinson's disease, Warren Leight said.
        After living the anonymous life of a sideman for 50 years, Donald Leight (pronounced light) lost some of his anonymity in March 1998, when ''Side Man'' opened Off Broadway to critical acclaim. The frankly autobiographical play was told from the perspective of a young man whose father was a journeyman musician with a devotion to his craft and an itinerant life that had a devastating effect on his relationship with his wife and family.
        ''Side Man'' moved to Broadway three months later and in 1999 won the Tony Award for best play. It was also nominated for a Pulitzer Prize.
        Donald Leight was born in the Bronx on Feb. 7, 1923. He studied trumpet with his grandfather, Harry Gurovitch, a Russian-born classical trumpet player, and as a teenager was in a youth band with his brother, Larry, who also played trumpet.
        After his discharge from the Army in 1946, Mr. Leight began to live the peripatetic life. He was a featured soloist in Buddy Rich's big band from 1948 to 1950, and he performed or recorded with Woody Herman, Claude Thornhill and many Latin ensembles.
        From 1956 to 1968 he worked at the Copacabana, the Persian Room and other New York nightclubs, accompanying singers like Frank Sinatra, Lena Horne and Sammy Davis Jr. He played for the rock musical ''Hair'' during its four-year Broadway run; when it closed in 1972 he went back to freelancing. In the 1980's he worked around New York with his own group, the Masters of Swing.
        Mr. Leight's wife, Timmy, died last year. In addition to his son and a brother, he is survived by a daughter, Jody.
        Speaking to The New York Times shortly before ''Side Man'' opened on Broadway, Mr. Leight reflected on his career. ''Sidemen only got attention inside the industry,'' he said. ''Like theater and film, but more so in music, the leaders and headliners get all the public acclaim, and no one pays attention to who does the dirty work.''
        ''Side Man'' helped change things somewhat. And although it painted a less than flattering portrait of its title character and his fellow workers in the musical trenches, Warren Leight said on Wednesday that his father was happy that he wrote it.
        ''He used to say, 'I'm glad someone finally told our story,' '' the younger Mr. Leight said.
      