
        Tug McGraw, the colorful left-handed relief pitcher who helped the Mets and the Philadelphia Phillies capture World Series championships, died yesterday in the Nashville area. He was 59.
        The cause was brain cancer, said Larry Shenk, a spokesman for the Phillies.
        McGraw had surgery in Florida in March 2003 for removal of a malignant brain tumor, having worked during spring training as an instructor for the Phillies.
        Last Sept. 28, at a highly emotional ceremony at the closing of the Phillies' Veterans Stadium after 33 seasons, McGraw threw a simulated pitch, then raised his arms in triumph as he had after throwing the pitch that gave the Phillies the 1980 World Series championship. He made an appearance at Shea Stadium last July, receiving a standing ovation.
        ''Tug McGraw was one of the great characters of the game of baseball,'' his Mets teammate Tom Seaver said in a statement yesterday. ''He just had a joy for life and living. But what people sometimes overlook because he was always happy go-lucky was what kind of competitior he was on the mound. No one competed with more intensity that he did.''
        McGraw pitched for the Mets team that shocked the baseball world by winning the 1969 World Series. He posted a 9-3 record and saved 12 games.
        In 1973, McGraw helped the Mets climb from last place to first in the National League East Division, then reach the World Series and come within one game of beating the Oakland Athletics. That was the season that McGraw coined the Mets' war cry: ''You Gotta Believe.''
        In 1980, when the Phillies won a World Series for the first time, McGraw got the final out in the final game by striking out Willie Wilson of Kansas City with the bases loaded in the ninth inning.
        He pitched on Phillies teams that also won East Division titles in 1976, 1977 and 1978 and the National League pennant in 1983. His 1981 Phillies team reached the postseason in a strike-shortened schedule.
        McGraw pitched for 19 years in the National League. He was a Met from 1965 through 1974, except for most of the 1967 season and all of 1968, when he was in the minors.
        After the 1974 season, with the Mets concerned about his torn shoulder muscle, they traded him to the Phillies. He pitched for them from 1975 through 1984.
        In 824 major league games, McGraw had a record of 96-92, with 180 saves and a 3.14 earned run average. His 1975 salary of $75,000 was a record then for a relief pitcher. His last contract was his richest: $1.75 million over four years.
        He wore his sandy hair long, and with his little-boy face and boyish enthusiasm he was a crowd favorite. After a third out, he would run off the mound, slapping his glove against a thigh. After a close call, he would pat his heart.
        As Red Smith wrote in 1974 in The New York Times, ''He is a beautiful guy, a sensitive, emotional, demonstrative, genuine, outgoing, affectionate, exuberant, sad and sometimes irresponsible human being.''
        Smith wrote that McGraw was ''left-handed and lighthearted and not necessarily more predictable than the screwball he throws, but he is no dummy.''
        Larry Bowa, a teammate and later the Phillies' manager, said: ''He had no fear. He was loose. That's how he played the game.''
        Frank Edwin McGraw Jr. was born Aug. 30, 1944, in Martinez, Calif., and was raised there and in nearby Vallejo. He played baseball and football in high school and Vallejo Junior College, then signed with the Mets.
        During and after his pitching career, he maintained a relationship with the public.
        He wrote three children's books and narrated ''Casey at the Bat'' with the Philadelphia Pops. He became a public speaker and a television sports reporter. He promoted a bank and ran his own consulting company.
        He was the father of the country music star Tim McGraw, the product of a summer romance from his minor league days. When Tim McGraw was 11 and living with his mother and stepfather, he came across a birth certificate that said Tug, a childhood hero, was his real father. They met a year later and became close.
        In addition to Tim McGraw, he is survived by his sons Mark and Matthew; a daughter, Cari; a brother, Hank; and four grandchildren, the Phillies said.
        McGraw announced his retirement from baseball on Valentine's Day of 1985. He did it with a customary flourish.
        ''Maybe it's appropriate,'' he said. ''I've had a love affair with baseball. The game stole my heart, and I was never a jilted suitor.''
      