
        Ray Stark, one of the most successful independent producers in postwar Hollywood, died Saturday at his West Hollywood home. He was 88.
        Mr. Stark, whose health had been flagging for some time, died of heart failure, said his daughter, Wendy Stark Morrissey.
        Mr. Stark was a producer on more than 125 films, including ''Funny Girl,'' ''The Way We Were'' and ''The Sunshine Boys.''
        His success making profitable films came from his eye for talent and good, adaptable story lines. He began his career as a literary and theatrical agent and became deft at pairing the right stars with the right plot, usually an adaptation of a popular book or Broadway comedy or musical.
        Mr. Stark made eight films with Herbert Ross, five with Jackie Gleason, four with John Huston and three with Sydney Pollack.
        But perhaps his best known partnerships were with Barbra Streisand and the playwright Neil Simon. During an 18-year span, Mr. Stark produced 11 Simon scripts, including ''The Goodbye Girl'' and ''The Sunshine Boys.''
        Mr. Stark gave Ms. Streisand her film debut with ''Funny Girl'' in 1968, based on the life of Fanny Brice, a star of ''The Ziegfeld Follies'' who was Mr. Stark's mother-in-law. He was married to her daughter, Frances Brice, for 53 years until she died in 1992.
        ''Ray was the last of the great old-world Hollywood producers,'' said Don Safran, a producer and longtime friend of Mr. Stark. ''Louis Mayer and Harry Cohn and Sam Goldwyn all mentored him when he was young. Ray used to say that the problem with the new Hollywood is that the creative people on top don't have time to teach the younger people.''
        ''He felt that talent was the most important thing, so he treated his stars like stars, whether they were actors, director or writers,'' he said. ''So they loved working with him again and again.''
        Other films produced by Mr. Stark include ''Murder by Death'' (1976), ''California Suite'' (1978), ''The Cheap Detective'' (1978), ''The Electric Horseman'' (1979), ''Chapter Two'' (1979), ''Annie'' (1982) and ''Brighton Beach Memoirs'' (1986).
        In the 1970's Mr. Stark became a power broker in Hollywood and was generous with business advice. He collected fine art and bred thoroughbred horses.
        In 1980 the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences presented him with the Irving G. Thalberg Award for his work as a producer.
        But Mr. Stark remained until his death a private man who gave few interviews.
        ''As prolific a producer as he was, he was a quiet, gentle man at home,'' Ms. Stark Morrissey said in a telephone interview. ''He only did publicity for his films, not himself.''
        ''He liked doing comedy, films that were up and happy,'' she added. ''He didn't like negative or violent films.''
        Mr. Stark attended Rutgers University and left law school in New York to move to Los Angeles in 1938. There, he worked as a reporter and in the publicity department at Warner Brothers. He became a literary agent, with clients like Raymond Chandler, J. P. Marquand and Ben Hecht.
        Mr. Stark, who served in the Navy in World War II, became a theatrical agent at the Famous Artists Agency. He represented John Wayne, Marilyn Monroe, Lana Turner, Ava Gardner, William Holden, Kirk Douglas, Richard Burton and Ronald Reagan.
        In 1957 he began producing and later formed Rastar Productions. ''Funny Girl'' was the first film that company produced.
        Instead of offering the lead role to an established screen star, Mr. Stark picked Ms. Streisand after hearing her perform in a New York nightclub.
        He also chose the three-time Oscar-winning director William Wyler to direct, although Mr. Wyler had never directed a musical.
        Ms. Streisand won an Oscar as best actress, tying with Katharine Hepburn for ''The Lion in Winter.''
        Mr. Stark never ran a film studio but became a major stockholder of Columbia, where he personally produced 17 films.
        When Coca-Cola bought Columbia for $750 million in 1982, he took his Columbia holdings in Coke stock. By 1987 his shares were worth $44 million, and in 1984 Forbes magazine estimated his net worth at at least $175 million.
        Mr. Safran said Mr. Stark recalled that during his days as a literary agent he sold a script that Louis Mayer wanted to another producer.
        ''Ray's partner said: 'If Louis Mayer is mad at us, we'll never work again. We're doomed,' '' Mr. Safran recalled. ''But Ray said: 'You don't understand. If Louis Mayer is mad at us, we're made.' ''
        Other actors in films he produced won Oscars: George Burns for ''The Sunshine Boys,'' Richard Dreyfuss for ''The Goodbye Girl'' and Maggie Smith for ''California Suite.''
        In addition to Ms. Stark Morrissey, Mr. Stark is survived by her daughter, Allison Gorsuch.
        Correction:  January 22, 2004, Thursday  An obituary of the film producer Ray Stark on Jan. 19 and in some late editions on Jan. 18 misstated the timing of his choice of Barbra Streisand over established screen stars to play Fanny Brice in the film ''Funny Girl.'' It occurred after she played the role in stage versions he produced on Broadway and in London -- not when he first heard her perform in a New York nightclub.
      