
        Charles Brown, an actor celebrated for his comic exuberance and dramatic power in plays on Broadway by Samm-Art Williams and August Wilson, died on Jan. 8 at his home in Cleveland. He was 57.
        The cause was cancer, The Plain Dealer reported.
        For 17 years Mr. Brown was a stalwart member of the Negro Ensemble Company, reaching his height in 1979 in Mr. Williams's ''Home,'' a contemporary folk ballad on stage. As Cephus Miles, a Southern farmer who returns to Cross Roads, N.C., after a debilitating time up North, Mr. Brown was filled with earthy wisdom. Sitting in a rocking chair, he took the audience on a jaunt through his life, spinning tales that were sometimes as tall as his cornfields. While Cephus reminisced, two women (played by Michele Shay and L. Scott Caldwell) acted as a homespun chorus.
        In a review in The New York Times, this writer said that ''as this most natural of men, Mr. Brown delivers an eloquent performance, balancing the entire play in the palm of his hand, and enhancing the character with his own sincerity and conviction.'' After a long run Off Broadway, ''Home'' moved to Broadway, and Mr. Brown was nominated for a Tony Award as best actor.
        In 2001 he received his second Tony nomination, this time as best featured actor in Mr. Wilson's ''King Hedley II.'' He created the role of Elmore, a slick-talking gambler and con man. This was Mr. Brown's second Broadway play by Mr. Wilson. In 1987 he was James Earl Jones's older son in ''Fences.''
        During his career Mr. Brown played a gallery of vivid characters. In Don Evans's ''Showdown,'' a black version of ''The Taming of the Shrew,'' he was a confident rustic who decides to wive the sharpest-tongued woman in Philadelphia. At the Negro Ensemble Company he acted in Leslie Lee's ''First Breeze of Summer,'' Steve Carter's ''Nevis Mountain Dew'' and Charles Fuller's Pulitzer Prize-winning ''A Soldier's Play.''
        Mr. Brown was born in Talladega, Ala. After serving in the Navy during the Vietnam War, he studied theater at Howard University in Washington. He acted with the D.C. Black Repertory Company and at Karamu House in Cleveland.
        While acting on television and appearing occasionally in movies, he maintained an active theatrical career. He appeared on Broadway in Ronald Ribman's ''Poison Tree'' and Neil Simon's ''Rumors.'' In 2002 he opened in ''The Exonerated,'' the Off Broadway documentary play about prisoners reprieved and released from death row. In it, he played a former seminary student wrongly convicted of rape and murder. That character became the play's philosopher and poet, tying together the other stories.
        Cephus Miles remained Mr. Brown's signature role, the collaborative vision of playwright and actor. As a man who survived all obstacles with dignity and a sense of self-worth, he proved to be quietly resilient as he took the long bus ride home to rediscover his roots.
        He is survived by his wife, Renee Lescook of Cleveland; his father Mack; his brothers Mack Jr. and Ramon; and his sister Shirley McKinney, all of whom live in or near Cleveland.
      