
        Chauncy Dennison Harris, a geographer who helped to put the Soviet Union on maps when the Kremlin sought to keep it terra incognita to prying foreigners, died on Dec. 26 at his home in Chicago. He was 89.
        He was the Samuel N. Harper distinguished service professor of geography emeritus at the University of Chicago, which announced his death. He had been associated with the university since his student days 70 years ago, and was a faculty member from 1940 until 1984.
        Dr. Harris wrote and edited geographical reference books starting with his 1940 doctoral dissertation, ''Salt Lake City: A Regional Capital.'' But he became known internationally for his many studies of the vast expanse of the Soviet Union, while it lasted. He also produced other important work on political, economic and urban geography.
        Chauncy Harris was born in Logan, Utah, the son of Franklin S. Harris, an agronomy professor who became president of Brigham Young University when Chauncy was 7. He graduated from Brigham Young at 19 in 1933, when he enrolled at the University of Chicago.
        He was a Rhodes scholar at Oxford, earned a B.A. there in 1936, studied at the London School of Economics and Political Science and received his Ph.D. in geography at Chicago in 1940 before adding an M.A. from Oxford in 1943. He studied Russian while a geographer for the State Department in World War II.
        Commissioned a first lieutenant in the Army, he was detached to the Office of Strategic Services just as war and mutual suspicions began to shut most of Soviet society to Western scrutiny. Despite the dearth of available data, he wrote two papers on urban growth and the ethnic complexities of cities in Soviet outlands for the Geographic Review in 1945.
        He made 14 trips to the Soviet Union, gaining the confidence of scholars and others as a serious and objective researcher. Starting in 1949, he edited the voluminous ''Economic Geography of the U.S.S.R.''
        He also focused on both the geography of the Soviet Union and its urban development and industrial and agrarian resources. This included a number of geographical bibliographies and detailed portraits of the country's urban centers.
        He and Theodore Shabad of The New York Times started and contributed extensively to the journal Soviet Geography, Review and Translation, published by the American Geographical Society.
        More recently, he was an editor of ''A Geographical Bibliography for American Libraries'' (1985).
        He was a president of the Association of American Geographers and the American Association for the Advancement of Slavic Studies.
        Dr. Harris is survived by his wife of 63 years, Edith Young Harris; a daughter, Margaret Harris of Philadelphia; two sisters, Leah Jensen of Pocatello, Idaho, and Mildred Bradley of Salt Lake City; and two grandchildren.
      