
        James M. Early, an electrical engineer who pioneered increased transistor performance in the 1950's at Bell Labs, died on Jan. 12 at the veterans hospital in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 81 and lived in Palo Alto.
        The cause of death was severe asthma, which Mr. Early had suffered from since childhood, a daughter, Mary Beth Early, said.
        When Dr. Early arrived at the Bell Labs research laboratory in Murray Hill, N.J., in September 1951, his first task was to measure the performance of the first transistors made at Bell Labs, and also those from General Electric and RCA.
        During the 1950's, he made theoretical contributions that led to faster transistor performance, which was crucial for applications like television, the FM transistor radio and early military radar.
        He is most widely recognized for describing an aspect of the behavior of bipolar transistors, known as the Early Effect. Transistor designers used the effect to optimize the performance of the transistors, which were tiny switches. He remained at Bell Labs for 18 years before joining Fairchild Camera and Instrument in Palo Alto. He was a laboratory director for Bell Labs in Murray Hill from 1962 to 1964 and in Allentown, Pa., from 1964 to 1969.
        While at Bell Labs, he created the oscillator transistor for the first United States satellite, led the development of solar cells and transistors for the Telstar I satellite and participated in the original integrated circuit work at the laboratory.
        When he went West in 1969, he became director of the Fairchild Research Center. Under his guidance, that company developed commercial charged coupled devices, which were used in early military reconnaissance satellites.
        When he retired from Fairchild in 1986, he took his rack of ties and held a necktie-burning celebration, telling his family that he was delighted to be done with what he considered to be an instrument of torture.
        Dr. Early received his Bachelor of Science in pulp and paper manufacturing in 1943 from the New York State College of Forestry in Syracuse. After serving in the Army, he went to graduate school at Ohio State University, where he received his Ph.D. in 1951.
        In addition to his daughter Mary Beth Early, who lives in Brooklyn, he is survived by his wife of 55 years, Mary Agnes, and seven other children, Kathleen Early of Tassajara, Calif.; Joan Farrell of Ocean City, N.J.; Rhoda Alexander of Menlo Park, Calif.; Maureen Matthews and Rosemary Early, both of Campbell, Calif.; James M. Early Jr. of Mountain View, Calif.; Margot Early of Ridgway, Colo.; and 11 grandchildren. Also surviving are eight brothers and sisters, Joe Early, Mary Beth O'Neill and Kathleen Eccles, all of Syracuse; John Early of Sterling, N.J.; Rhoda Corcoran of Fresno, Calif.; Frank Early of Lakewood, Colo.; Jane Early of Bradenton Beach, Fla.; and Larry Early of Madera, Calif.
      