
        John W. Hechinger, a civic and business leader who guided a chain of home improvement stores for four decades and was the first appointed chairman of Washington's City Council, died on Sunday at his home. It was his 84th birthday.
        The cause was a respiratory problem, after a long illness, said his daughter Nancy Hechinger.
        President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed Mr. Hechinger to be the city's first City Council chairman in 1967.
        Mr. Hechinger, one of the city's leading Democrats, was a strong advocate for civil rights and diverse neighborhoods. He supported home rule in the city and saw his appointment to the Council as an opportunity to push for it.
        ''This is definitely the next step to home rule,'' Mr. Hechinger said of his appointment in a 1967 interview with The Washington Post. ''We will work very hard to make it a big success in order to convince the critics and Congress of the good of self-government as a prelude to home rule.''
        In 1973, President Richard M. Nixon signed a home-rule law empowering Washington to elect a mayor and council. But it did not allow the city to be represented by a voting member of Congress.
        An article in The Washington Post in 1967 said Mr. Hechinger had ''a wide range of knowledge in all the fields of most immediate interest to Washington as a capital, as well as a big city,'' including architecture and civil liberties and housing issues.
        Mr. Hechinger said public officials had a responsibility to strive for a mixed society by calming racial tensions in changing neighborhoods.
        The Hechinger Company was founded in 1911 by Mr. Hechinger's father, Sidney. Mr. Hechinger took over as president in 1957, after his father's death, and served as chairman of the executive committee of the board of directors until he retired in 1996.
        The company went public in 1972 and became a multibillion-dollar concern selling hardware and plumbing, electric and other building material supplies at more than 100 stores in the Midwest and eastern United States.
        The company was sold to a California investment firm in 1997, and filed for bankruptcy in 1999, a casualty of the trend toward large national hardware chains like Home Depot.
        John Walter Hechinger was born in Washington on Jan. 18, 1920, and graduated from Yale in 1941. He served in the Army Air Forces during World War II as a combat intelligence officer.
        Mr. Hechinger was a fifth generation Washingtonian. His great-grandfather Leopold Gassenheimer was a founding member of the Washington Hebrew Congregation, which was established in 1852.
        In addition to his daughter Nancy, of Manhattan, he is survived by his wife of 57 years, June Ross Hechinger; and three other children, John W. Jr. of Bethedsa, Md., S. Ross, of Washington, and Sally Hechinger Rudoy of Upper Montclair, N.J.
      