
        Joseph Church, a child psychologist whose groundbreaking books in the 1950's and 1960's shattered conventional notions on the ways young children mature and acquire language, died on Dec. 23 in New York, said his son, Joseph. He was 85.
        Dr. Church was widely known in his field for the landmark text on child development that he wrote with L. Joseph Stone in 1957, ''Childhood and Adolescence: A Psychology of the Growing Person.'' The field was then dominated by rigid behavioral models of development, and Dr. Church's book crossed boundaries by encouraging a view of the child as a more complex social being.
        It delved into the current research while also exploring a vast range of theories that were not well recognized at the time, including the now-famous stages of cognitive development described by Jean Piaget.
        The book quickly became popular in colleges and among psychologists because of its unusual breadth and its clear and accessible language, said Margery B. Franklin, director of the Child Development Institute at Sarah Lawrence College.
        ''A lot of other psychologists studied functions like thinking and feeling separately,'' Dr. Franklin said, ''but Church and Stone's viewpoint was that in the living being these interact and are not compartmentalized.''
        Ian McMahan, a professor of psychology at Brooklyn College and a former student of Dr. Church, said the text enticed readers by explaining that child development was still an evolving field.
        ''It was exciting,'' Dr. McMahan said. ''Rather than saying 'Here are the facts,' it said 'Here's what we know and here's what we don't quite understand yet.' A lot of important psychologists in the field today were influenced by it.''
        The book was translated into several languages and published in five editions. Dr. Church worked on the last one with his wife, Alexandria.
        A few years later Dr. Church, then a psychology professor at Vassar, wrote another authoritative text, this one clashing with the prevailing theories of language development.
        ''At the time, people understood language acquisition in a behavioristic model, like rewarding a child when you got them to point to an object and name it,'' Dr. Franklin said.
        But Dr. Church's book, ''Language and the Discovery of Reality'' (1960), asserted that children learned instead through conversation and by listening to adults, not through drill sessions. It challenged the traditional method of teaching language simply as a system of labels, Dr. Franklin said, and argued that children should be taught to use language to express themselves and communicate ideas.
        ''It was way ahead of its time,'' Dr. Franklin said.
        Born in Gardner, Mass., in 1918, Dr. Church earned his undergraduate degree from the New School for Social Research in New York, his master's from Cornell and his doctorate from Clark University. He taught at Vassar from 1954 to 1967, and then at Brooklyn College and the City University of New York Graduate Center until his retirement in 1985.
        During that time, Dr. Church, a prolific writer, reviewed a number of social science books and published or edited several other books, on child psychology and politics.
        One of them, ''Three Babies'' (1965), explained some of the peculiarities of early mental development by analyzing daily journals that three new parents kept on their young children. Many of the actions a busy parent may pay little attention to, Dr. Church wrote, can often provide fascinating insight into the workings of a child's mind.
        In addition to his wife of 57 years, Alexandria, and his son, Joseph, he is survived by a daughter, Amanda Church, and a granddaughter, all of New York.
      