
        Dr. Joseph Warshaw, an expert on fetal growth and neonatal medical care who advanced the understanding of the way organs mature in normal and diabetic pregnancies, died Dec. 29 in Burlington, Vt. He was 67.
        The cause was multiple myeloma, according to the University of Vermont, where Dr. Warshaw had been dean of the College of Medicine since 2000.
        Dr. Warshaw was known in pediatrics as a leading researcher in developmental biology and the treatment of newborns. He wrote six books and more than 100 papers on these and other aspects of child health, and he served on the editorial boards of Pediatrics and Pediatric Research, two major journals in the field.
        Before arriving at the University of Vermont, Dr. Warshaw taught at Harvard, the University of Texas Health Science Center in Dallas and Yale, where he was chairman of the pediatrics department from 1987 until 2000.
        At Vermont, Dr. Warshaw expanded research activities and helped overhaul and modernize the medical school curriculum. He was a strong advocate of teaching doctors to use research and technological advances to improve care for patients.
        He also called for medical students to learn to be advocates for their patients and to resist pressure from insurers.
        ''Our students should not be thrust into a conflict of values that confuses the practice of medicine with the business of medicine,'' he said two years ago in a speech to the Vermont Medical Society. ''We should ban from our vocabulary such terms as 'gatekeeper,' 'provider' and 'covered life,' which only diminish our professionalism.''
        Joseph Warshaw grew up in Miami, studied biology as an undergraduate at the University of Florida and received his medical degree from Duke.
        He is survived by his wife, Cynthia, of Burlington; two daughters, Debbie Gould of Boulder, Colo., and Kathy Meyer of Park City, Utah; a son, Larry, of Austin, Tex.; his mother, Mona, of Palm Beach, Fla.; a sister, Staci Brenner, also of Palm Beach; two brothers, Howard, of Carlisle, Pa., and Ira, of West Palm Beach; and six grandchildren.
      