
        James Counsilman, perhaps the most innovative coach in United States swimming history, died yesterday at a nursing home in Bloomington, Ind. He was 83.
        He had Parkinson's disease, his son, Brian, said.
        Counsilman, known as Doc, was a molder of champions, an inventor, a consultant, an author and an authority on exercise physiology and stroke mechanics. In 1979, at age 58, he swam across the English Channel. At the time, he was the oldest person to have done so.
        He was the head coach of the United States men's swimming teams that won 9 of 11 gold medals in the 1964 Tokyo Olympics and 12 of 13 in the 1976 Montreal Olympics. The two gold medals that eluded Americans in 1964 were won by Australians coached by Counsilman at Indiana University.
        His first head-coaching job was from 1952 to 1956 at Cortland (N.Y.) State Teachers College. There, he turned George Breen, a former rower who had never swum competitively, into a world-record holder and Olympic medalist.
        From 1957 to 1990, he was the men's coach at Indiana. His teams there won 6 consecutive National Collegiate Athletic Association championships (1968 to 1973), 23 Big Ten titles (including 20 straight from 1961 to 1980) and 140 consecutive dual meets over 13 years.
        Of his Indiana swimmers, 48 competed in the Olympics, representing 10 nations, and they won 46 medals (26 gold). Those swimmers included Mark Spitz and John Kinsella, each a Sullivan Award winner as America's outstanding amateur athlete, and Charlie Hickcox, Chet Jastremski, Gary Hall Sr., Mike Troy, Jim Montgomery and Frank McKinney.
        Despite that success, Counsilman hoped to be remembered mainly for his scientific contributions. While in his 20's, he rejected the principle that a swimmer should pull his arms straight back through the water. He contended that the swimmer would go faster with a bent elbow and revolutionized the sport.
        Don Gambril, also a two-time Olympic head coach, once said of Counsilman, ''His contributions in the science of swimming outshadow anything anybody's done.'' In 1976, while still an active coach, Counsilman was elected to the International Swimming Hall of Fame.
        Counsilman grew up in St. Louis, attended Ohio State, then joined the Army Air Forces in World War II, flying 32 missions as a bomber pilot. He was shot down over Yugoslavia and brought out by the underground.
        He returned to Ohio State and won national titles outdoors and indoors in the 220-yard breaststroke.
        Counsilman graduated from Ohio State in 1947 and earned a master's degree at Illinois in 1948, writing his thesis on the breaststroke. He received a doctorate at Iowa in 1951, writing his dissertation on the crawl. In 1948 at Iowa, as a student assistant coach, the seed was planted for what he considered his greatest contribution to swimming.
        ''I photographed Walter Ris, the Olympic champion in the 100-meter freestyle,'' Counsilman said. ''He was pulling with a bent elbow with sort of an elliptical pull pattern. I changed him to a straight-arm pull and he slowed down. I said, 'Something's wrong here.' But I was pretty stupid. It took me 20 years to apply Bernoulli's Principle to it.''
        Bernoulli's Principle, named for the 18th-century Swiss mathematician who first defined it, states that the higher the speed of a flowing fluid or gas, the lower the pressure, and vice versa. That precept became the basis of Counsilman's 1968 book, ''The Science of Swimming,'' which was printed in more than 20 languages and reprinted numerous times.
        Counsilman revised training methods and techniques and invented the pace clock, pool-lane markers, pool overflow gutters, interval training and the biokinetic bench.
        In addition to his son, Brian, he is survived by his wife, Marge, and his daughter Cathy Bonner, all of Bloomington; his daughter Jill Morriss, of East Islip, N.Y.; and five grandchildren.
        His English Channel swim took 13 hours 7 minutes. The preparation included sitting in a bathtub with ice cubes to become accustomed to the cold water.
        ''If I hadn't tried to swim the Channel,'' he said, ''I would have had a lot of regrets. If I tried and failed, then I wouldn't have any regrets. There's nothing wrong with failing. And the swim only hurt once -- from the beginning to the end.''
      