
        Billy May, a prolific arranger best known for his work with Frank Sinatra, died on Thursday at his home in San Juan Capistrano, Calif., his wife, Doris, said. He was 87.
        Sinatra's 1957 album ''Come Fly With Me,'' the first of several collaborations with Mr. May, reached No. 1 on the Billboard chart and established Mr. May as one of the leading arrangers on the West Coast. His association with Sinatra introduced his name to listeners around the world, but he was hardly a neophyte: he was already a 20-year veteran of the music business.
        His career began in Pittsburgh, where he was born Edward William May Jr. on Nov. 10, 1916. After getting his start with local bands, he joined Charlie Barnet's big band as a trumpeter and arranger in 1938. Within a year Barnet had recorded his arrangement of ''Cherokee,'' which went on to become his biggest hit, and Mr. May was well on his way to establishing his signature sound, which tempered the blaring brass typical of the swing era with smooth, bluesy saxophone glissandos.
        After two years with Barnet, he worked with the bands of Glenn Miller and Les Brown before settling into the busy Los Angeles studio scene in the mid-1940's and, a few years later, joining the fledgling Capitol Records as a staff arranger.
        His responsibilities at Capitol were varied: he worked with an impressive roster of singers, including Sinatra, Nat King Cole and Peggy Lee; provided the music for a series of children's story-and-song albums; and indulged his sense of humor as the musical director for the iconoclastic comedian Stan Freberg.
        He also attempted to make a name for himself as a bandleader, with limited success. By the time he formed his own ensemble in 1951, the big-band boom had peaked; although his band attracted some interest, keeping it together was a struggle, and he was not temperamentally suited for the demands of life on the road. He continued to release albums as a leader from time to time, but after the mid-1950's the Billy May Orchestra existed only in the recording studio.
        Mr. May also wrote for television and film. He composed the themes for the television series ''Naked City,''  ''The Mod Squad'' and ''Emergency'' and the scores for ''Sergeants Three'' (1962), ''Johnny Cool'' (1963), ''Tony Rome'' (1967), ''The Front Page'' (1974) and other movies.
        He was relatively inactive in recent years, but occasionally resurfaced if a project interested him. In 1979 he reunited with Sinatra, providing arrangements for an ambitious three-disc set ''Trilogy.'' In 1996 he reunited with Mr. Freberg for the equally ambitious, and long-delayed, sequel to the 1961 album ''Stan Freberg Presents the United States of America, Vol. 1.''
        In addition to his wife, Mr. May is survived by his daughters Cynthia May, Laureen Mitchell, Joannie Ransom and Sandra Gregory; and by his brother, John.
      