
        Julian Neski, an architect whose modernist houses among the fields and dunes of the Hamptons were landmarks in weekend living, died on Jan. 8 at the Kateri Residence in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan and Water Mill, N.Y.
        The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said his wife, Barbara, with whom he collaborated professionally for 40 years.
        With colleagues like Peter Blake, Richard Meier and Charles Gwathmey, Mr. Neski helped to define a new direction in domestic architecture in the 1960's and 70's.
        ''He showed a passionate, hands-on commitment to the design process,''said James Stewart Polshek, who worked with Mr. Neski in the early 1960's. ''He always drew every detail himself. He didn't want to give that up to anyone else.''
        All of his houses were relatively inexpensive to build and, unlike the high-maintenance trophy mansions of recent years, easy to maintain. Functionalist simplicity was combined with sculpturally expressive form.
        The Neskis designed more than 35 distinctive escape houses, rarely repeating themselves. Some were built on Cape Cod and Fire Island and at the Jersey Shore, but most were built on eastern Long Island. The Chalif house in East Hampton (1964) put the Neskis on the map as an innovative design team. Its fin-shaped roofs cut sharply against the sky, opening and closing like scissor blades as one approached. The house was featured in Look magazine and Architectural Record and was exhibited at the World's Fair in Osaka, Japan. The New York Times Magazine said it was like ''the matching halves of a traditional one-gable house turned at right angles.''
        Julian Joseph Skrzynecki (he later shortened the name) was born in Brooklyn on March 17, 1927. He attended Stuyvesant High School and Vanderbilt University before enlisting in the Navy in 1945. He showed an early talent for draftsmanship and began working as a marine designer while still in high school. His interests turned to architecture while he attended Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y., where he completed his studies in 1950.
        It was while working in the New York office of Jose Luis Sert that he met his future wife and business partner, who had recently graduated from the Graduate School of Design at Harvard. They married in 1954 and started to work together in the office of Marcel Breuer.
        Later, the Neskis undertook projects like the Cates house (1968), a white cube that hovers atop a bluff in Amagansett, N.Y., and the equally pristine Sabel House in Bridgehampton, N.Y. (1970). While their work made explicit reference to the early European modernism of Le Corbusier and Breuer, the Neski houses were very much products of their time, symbolizing the urban style that characterized the Manhattan/Hamptons axis of the 1960's and 70's.
        The Neskis also worked on nonresidential projects in and around New York City, including the Tivoli Towers housing complex in Brooklyn (1973) and the elegant interiors of the Foundation Center at 79 Fifth Avenue (1985). But it was the small, lyrical weekend house that remains Mr. Neski's enduring legacy.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Steven, of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., and Peter, of New York City.
      