
        Steven Dorfman, who for nearly two decades wrote questions -- that is, answers -- for the television game show ''Jeopardy!,'' died on Sunday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 48.
        The cause was complications of colon cancer, his father, Neil, said.
        A devotee of game shows since childhood, Mr. Dorfman had written for ''Jeopardy!'' since the debut of its latest incarnation in 1984. With more than 50,000 clues to his credit, he was that show's longest serving and most prolific writer. As part of a team of writers, he won six Daytime Emmy Awards for special-class writing, given for shows that do not fit into traditional categories.
        Mr. Dorfman had a quirky sense of humor and eclectic interests, from early ''Star Trek'' episodes to jellyfish. He came up with both answers and categories himself, though researchers checked his work.
        Some of his categories were Wacky Roman Emperors, Original Crayola Colors and Grub, Shrub or Beelzebub? (Answer: ''Azazel.'' Question: ''What is Beelzebub?'')
        He was adept at coming up with ideas for special categories, engineering tie-ins with another popular game show from the same producer, ''Wheel of Fortune,'' and with the crossword puzzle in The New York Times.
        Steven Edward Dorfman was born on Oct. 24, 1955, in Detroit. While a child he became an enthusiast of trivia, word games and game shows. In high school he was a frequent participant in radio call-in contests. After graduating from Wayne State University in 1977, he drove to Los Angeles in a car he had won on the radio, determined to work somewhere in the game-show industry.
        For the next seven years he worked at various jobs, including stints as a cashier for J. C. Penney and for a restaurant called Hamburger Hamlet. One day, while working there, a customer mentioned that a game show called ''Jeopardy!'' was looking for writers. The show had originally been broadcast from 1964 to 1975 and was being revived with Alex Trebek as host. Mr. Dorfman tried out immediately.
        He was never inclined to small talk, his father said, but he was constantly on the prowl for trivia. Even while he was being treated for cancer in the hospital, he was jotting down notes for possible ''Jeopardy!'' categories.
        In addition to his father and his mother, Debby, of West Bloomfield, Mich., his survivors include two sisters, Randee Sher, also of West Bloomfield, and Lisa Mitchell, of Commerce, Mich.
      