
        Bob Keeshan, who delighted millions of children and their parents for three decades as television's gentle, patient Captain Kangaroo and before that as the original Clarabell the Clown on the old ''Howdy Doody Show,'' died yesterday in Vermont, his family said in a statement to The Associated Press. He was 76.
        No cause of death was announced, but he had had heart problems since the 1980's.
        Captain Kangaroo, a round-faced, pleasant, mustachioed man possessed of an unshakable calm, was both unique and welcome when his show had its premiere, on Oct. 3, 1955.
        ''Not only does it keep little ones occupied, but it also does so without being noisy,'' wrote John P. Shanley when he reviewed the show in The New York Times. He praised ''Captain Kangaroo'' as ''civilized and absorbing fun'' and ventured that parents were finding their weekday mornings ''more bearable because of the delightful artistry of a television performer named Bob Keeshan.''
        Mr. Shanley wrote that the show charmed the toddlers. That charm never faded: Captain Kangaroo was one of the most enduring characters television ever produced. The program's roster also included Hugh Lumpy Brannum, who had been a successful string bass player in jazz bands and in the Fred Waring orchestra but who really came into his own as Mr. Green Jeans, a man who loved nature and got children to understand and respect it; Cosmo Gus Allegretti, who gave life to animal characters like Mr. Moose, Bunny Rabbit and Dancing Bear, as well as the Magic Drawing Board and Grandfather Clock; character actors like Debbie Weems and Carolyn Mignini; Ruth Manecke, an expert on animal behavior who coached the cast; and the puppeteer Kevin Clash.
        They were all part of the family that was an unrivaled success on the CBS television network for nearly 30 years, a success later paralleled on public television by Fred Rogers, of ''Mister Rogers' Neighborhood,'' who died last year. But the show always revolved around Mr. Keeshan, who began to call himself Captain Kangaroo after someone fashioned an outsized jacket for him, a preposterous affair with pockets rivaling kangaroos' pouches.
        For much of its run, the show was on the air six days a week for an hour starting at 8 a.m. It always drew a large audience, even though from Monday to Friday it ran opposite NBC's popular ''Today'' program. ''Today'' had a loyal following among adults, but the kids knew it didn't have Tom Terrific, Mighty Manfred the Wonder Dog, the Banana Man and all the other characters Mr. Keeshan offered.
        Unlike his old boss, Buffalo Bob Smith of ''The Howdy Doody Show,'' Mr. Keeshan never played to a studio audience. There might have been a few children in the studio from time to time, but Mr. Keeshan told his director, Peter Birch, that he primarily wanted to talk to the child at home, one on one.
        ''The children should never be excluded from what I am doing and should never have the feeling of being part of an audience,'' he told Birch.
        Asked on one occasion by Richard F. Shepard of The Times whether, given his success with children, he would fancy a future in adult television, Mr. Keeshan replied, ''Not for me,'' explaining, ''Just as actors are afraid of child audiences, because they're so honest, I would be scared stiff of going before the big folks.''
        And so for more than 9,000 performances, Mr. Keeshan stuck with children. When they grew up and had kids of their own, the new kids became Captain Kangaroo fans, too. And more often than not, the parents who had been kids watched the captain with the new generation.
        Mr. Keeshan never pretended to have any secret formula for dealing with children, except that he never patronized them and always assumed they were bright and would appreciate him and what he was doing. And so they listened when he talked about taking care not to cross the street without looking and why it was important to respect animals as well as playmates. He ran cartoons like ''Tom Terrific,'' but he also featured children's classics, like ''Curious George,'' showing the turning pages of an actual book as he read.
        ''We have respect for our audience,'' he told Steven V. Roberts in The New York Times in 1965. ''We operate on the conviction that it is composed of young children of potentially good taste, and that this taste should be developed.''
        He emphasized over the years that he disapproved of parents who used television as a baby sitter with a result that they really didn't talk very much with their children. Nothing could take the place of conversation, he insisted.
        ''Back in the old days, when I was a child, we sat around the family table at dinner time and exchanged our daily experiences,'' he wrote in The Times in 1979 under the byline Captain Kangaroo. ''It wasn't very organized, but everyone was recognized and all the news that had to be told was told by each family member. We listened to each other and the interest was not put on; it was real.''
        ''A child needs to be listened to and talked to at 3 and 4 and 5 years of age,'' he continued. ''Parents should not wait for the sophisticated conversation of a teenager.''
        Robert J. Keeshan was born on June 27, 1927 in Lynbrook, N.Y., on Long Island, the son of Joseph Keeshan, a manager for the local Daniel Reeves grocery store chain, and the former Margaret Conroy, a homemaker. They were Irish on both sides of the family and Bob Keeshan always remained close to his roots.
        When he was quite young and the Reeves chain was acquired by Safeway, his father lost his job and the family was forced to move into a more modest house in Forest Hills, Queens.
        In school, Mr. Keeshan became interested in radio and began to produce plays broadcast over the school's loudspeaker system. In 1943, his mother died of a heart attack.
        The next year, as a high school senior, he succeeded in getting a coveted $13.50-a-week night job as a page at NBC Studios in Rockefeller Center, seating audiences for popular radio shows.
        In 1945, as he completed high school, he enlisted in the Marines, but the war ended before he could be sent into combat. It was just as well. ''I was the least aggressive Marine in the history of the Marine Corps,'' Mr. Keeshan later told Lawrence Laurent of The Washington Post.
        In 1946, returning to his old job at NBC, he enrolled at Fordham and thought he might become a lawyer.
        NBC assigned him to the fourth floor receptionist's desk, next to the tiny office then occupied by Buffalo Bob Smith, who had only recently come to New York City from upstate and had an early-morning radio show on WEAF, NBC's flagship station in New York. For a few extra dollars, Mr. Keeshan helped on research.
        Smith then got a Saturday children's morning show and Mr. Keeshan soon found himself seating the children in the studio audience and handing out prizes.
        By 1947, Buffalo Bob Smith was the star of a new afternoon show with a puppet that eventually became famous as Howdy Doody. Smith asked Mr. Keeshan if he'd be willing to dress up as a clown on what was quickly becoming ''The Howdy Doody Show.'' Mr. Keeshan made his acting debut on Jan. 3, 1948 as Clarabell, a clown who said nary a word but who jumped around the stage a lot and, to the delight of the members of the Peanut Gallery, frequently sprayed Smith in the nose with his seltzer bottle.
        Finally, NBC gave Mr. Keeshan a raise to $35 a week, more than twice what he had been receiving as a fourth floor receptionist.
        By 1950, ''Howdy Doody'' was a big attraction on afternoon television and Mr. Keeshan was quite happy as Clarabell. But a misunderstanding developed when Smith came to believe that he and other actors were trying to form some sort of union. Mr. Keeshan was fired and Clarabell was taken over by another actor.
        He was unemployed for months, but then ABC called him and asked him if he would become Corny the Clown on an afternoon children's program called ''Time for Fun.'' There he was not silent, but talked to the audience of children about all kinds of things. They loved him and he loved them; he was on the show for two years.
        In 1954, he appeared on the ABC show ''Tinker's Workshop,'' and within a year CBS offered him a children's show. That was the beginning of ''Captain Kangaroo.''
        To play Captain Kangaroo, Mr. Keeshan had to catch the 4:20 a.m. train from Babylon, on Long Island, to be at CBS by 6. He lived in constant fear of oversleeping and employed three alarm clocks plus a phone service. He never missed a broadcast.
        In the beginning, he would do ''Captain Kangaroo'' live twice a day, an 8 a.m. broadcast for the East Coast and then, after a break of less than a minute, a repeat of the whole show for the Midwest.
        Over the years, the show changed time slots and had some changes in tone and format; the captain's nautical coat was even ''modernized'' into a red blazer. The show ended in late 1984, after a run just nine months short of 30 years. He said that CBS had eased him out so it could expand the time allotted to its news division in the morning.
        Captain Kangaroo shows ran in modified versions and as specials on CBS, and later on public television for six more years, but he was no longer the morning staple for millions. Mr. Keeshan later sold the rights to the character he created.
        Mr. Keeshan also found time, over the years, to devote himself to civic causes on Long Island. He was a member of the board of education of West Islip from 1953 to 1958. When he was elected, one distraught resident was heard to exclaim, ''My God, look what they've done -- they've elected a clown to the school board!'' He often said his service on the board brought him some of his most satisfying experiences.
        He also wrote. Among his books were ''Growing Up Happy,'' (1989), a semi-autobiographical work in which he also spelled out his feelings about child rearing; ''Good Morning, Captain: 50 Wonderful Years With Bob Keeshan, TV's Captain Kangaroo'' (1996), a picture book filled with his reminiscences, and ''She Loves Me . . . She Loves Me Not'' (1963), a book for young people.
        He made recordings for both Golden Records and Columbia Records, in which he introduced children to all kinds of music.
        Mr. Keeshan married the former Anne Jeanne Laurie in 1950; she died in 1990. He is survived by their three children, Derek, Laurie and Maeve Jeanne, and by six grandchildren.
        Asked on one occasion how he could star in his own show, engage in lecturing, volunteer, study French and still spend time with his family and his hobbies of photography, fishing and sailing, Mr. Keeshan replied, ''One of the big secrets of finding time is not to watch television.''
      