
        Sheldon C. Katz, chairman emeritus of the Rent Stabilization Association of New York City, an outspoken opponent of the city's rent controls and a spokesman for building owners in the separate system of rent stabilization, died on Sunday at his winter home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 69 and also had a home in Brooklyn.
        The cause was cardiac arrest and complications of Lou Gehrig's disease, or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, which was diagnosed 22 years ago, according to his son, Lennard A. Katz.
        Mr. Katz was elected by the organization's board in 1977 as its first full-time chairman. His illness prompted him to take emeritus status in 1998, but he remained a presence at board meetings until a few weeks ago, the association said.
        The group negotiates for 25,000 property owners with about a million rent-stabilized housing units when rent stabilization is periodically reviewed. Its members own anything from one small building with several tenants to large complexes or the stabilized apartments left in buildings turned into coops or condominiums.
        Mr. Katz was an owner himself as a principal in the Katz Realty Group, begun in 1963 with a single building in Brooklyn. He became active in the stabilization group after the Rent Stabilization Law of 1969 established rent-stabilized apartments as a separate category from rent-controlled apartments.
        Born in Brooklyn, Sheldon Charles Katz was a 1956 electrical engineering graduate of Brooklyn Polytechnic University.
        He worked in the real-estate business begun by his father, Morris, but then formed Katz Realty with his brother, Leon A. Katz. Leon, who served in the City Council from 1969 to 1982 representing Flatbush, Marine Park and Sheepshead Bay, died in 1993.
        Katz Realty grew to 25 buildings in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx, and its principals also include Lennard Katz, as well as Leon's sons, Ronald and David.
        Sheldon Katz supported civic and charitable organizations, including Israel Bonds and the ALS Association. He was a vice president of the Muscular Dystrophy Association.
        Besides his son, a resident of Roslyn, N.Y., Mr. Katz is survived by his wife of 41 years, Deana Silverstein Katz; two daughters, Sari E. Earl of Atlanta and Nanci D. Katz of Los Angeles; and four grandchildren.
      