
        Francesco Scavullo, the ubiquitous photographer whose images glamorized the famous and the fashionable for more than 50 years in private portraits and dazzling magazine covers, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82.
        The cause was not immediately known, said his agent, Marek Milewicz, but he said Mr. Scavullo had suffered from heart problems in recent years.
        Mr. Scavullo's work ranged from portraits of such well-known personalities as Sting, Elizabeth Taylor and Grace Kelly to flower studies. He was particularly known for his seductive covers for Cosmopolitan magazine, which he photographed for more than three decades. Some of his models later went on to supermodel status and careers in television and motion pictures, among them Rene Russo, Farrah Fawcett and Brooke Shields, who for years called him Uncle Frank. Together with his companion, Sean M. Byrne, who began assisting him in 1972 and who survives him, Mr. Scavullo produced and designed the Cosmopolitan covers, choosing the models, selecting their provocative clothes and supervising their hair styles and makeup, a process often referred to as ''scavullo-ization.''
        ''Somebody's got to come out for a view of life that is beautiful,'' he said in an interview with The Los Angeles Times in 1976. ''I know there are times of unrest. But I also know there is beauty.'' The words reflected his lifelong philosophy.
        In addition to his long association with Cosmopolitan, Mr. Scavullo was, at various times, a contract photographer for Seventeen, Vogue and Harper's Bazaar. Universally known as Scavullo, he worked for almost every major women's magazine and shot covers for People, Newsweek, Rolling Stone and Interview. He photographed Madonna and Brooke Shields for Time and Martha Mitchell for New York magazine. He produced or collaborated on books including ''Scavullo on Beauty'' (1976), ''Scavullo on Men'' (1977), ''Scavullo Women'' (1982), ''Scavullo'' (1984), and ''Scavullo Nudes'' (2000).
        Although advertising was not a major part of his career, he photographed print advertisements for, among others, Valentino, Lagerfeld, Saint Laurent and DeBeers and catalogs for stores including Saks Fifth Avenue and Bloomingdale's. His work also appeared in television commercials and on album covers.
        Mr. Scavullo, who never lacked ego, enjoyed his position in the realm of idealized and fantasylike fashion and beauty photography. However, he believed that his less ephemeral work -- the silk-screen portraits of entertainment personalities, the more serious photographs of such people as William F. Buckley Jr., Philip Johnson and Louise Nevelson (who described him as ''capturing the poetic essence of his subject'') and even his floral studies -- never received sufficient credit.
        In a review in The New York Times about a 1984 exhibition of his celebrity photographs, Gene Thornton commented that ''Scavullo seems to have created out of public figures a flamboyant world of his own imagination.'' Mr. Scavullo preferred to describe his photographs as ''optimistic, with a positive feeling to them.''
        In 1981, after four nervous breakdowns, Mr. Scavullo was diagnosed as manic-depressive. He credited the manic highs as ''contributing greatly'' to his creative work.
        ''It has influenced my life, my photography, my everything,'' he said in ''Scavullo: Photographs, 50 years,'' a 1997 coffee-table book celebrating his 50th professional year. ''When I'm manic, everything is intensified. It's exciting and scary -- my creativity peaks, my mind races, I work through the depressions photographing intensely. It's like singing over a cold for an opera singer.''
        Despite his mood swings, most of his subjects considered Mr. Scavullo both agreeable and patient. He ran in and out of their dressing rooms, soothing and flattering and only occasionally displaying temper by not completing a portrait.
        Early in his career, Mr. Scavullo came up with innovative lighting techniques that helped glamorize his subjects and became an identifiable feature of his work. He used white umbrellas to shade models from the glare of spotlights and, on location, achieved a similar effect by stringing muslin sheets on poles. He highlighted models' faces by framing them with large pieces of cardboard.
        One of five children of Angelo and Margaret Scavullo, Mr. Scavullo was born on Staten Island on Jan. 16, 1921. In 1937, his father, who was in the cooking utensil business, bought the Central Park Casino, a fashionable supper club, and moved the family to a town house in Manhattan.
        Mr. Scavullo's early photographic efforts concentrated on his sisters and their friends. He photographed them only after arranging their hair and doing their makeup so that they resembled his idea of movie stars. His mother had given him a room to use as a studio and darkroom, but his ambition to become a photographer met with resistance from his father, who wanted him to go into hotel and restaurant management.
        His father arranged a summer job for him as a busboy at the Colony Restaurant. It was a disaster, so much so that at one point the chefs chased him with carving knives. The only redeeming feature, he recalled, was that he once finished a glass of Champagne that Joan Crawford had left behind. A brief stint as a photographer's apprentice also earned him some fast walking papers. Sent to photograph embarking ship's passengers, he spotted Carmen Miranda and star-struck as usual, ignored everyone else.
        His career began when he was hired as an apprentice in a studio that produced catalogs. An introduction to a Vogue editor led to a trial at Vogue. For six months, he was assistant to Horst P. Horst, a photographer who became both a mentor and a friend. Later, in yet another studio where he was an assistant, Diana Vreeland, then at Harper's Bazaar, brought in a young model named Betty Bacall. Mr. Scavullo always claimed that the result, a photograph famous as ''the look,'' was 50 percent his because although he didn't shoot the picture, he did set it up.
        By the time he was 19, he had several credit lines in prestigious publications and his father was finally impressed. He bought his son a four-story carriage house on the East Side of Manhattan. The building was both studio and living quarters for Mr. Scavullo for half a century.
        In 1952 he married a model, Carol McCallson. They were divorced three years later.
        He recalled that some years ago, on location at a pyramid in the Yucatán, he ran up hundreds of narrow steps to explore camera angles for a shoot the following day. When it was time to descend, terrified by the height, he froze. He refused to move for five hours and came down, crawling backward and gripping the stairs, only when someone was sent up to rescue him.
        The next day, camera in hand, he ran up the steps. At the top he leaned recklessly into the air to get his shots. When he finished, he sprinted down. ''The difference was magical,'' he said. ''The camera changed my personality.''
        Correction:  January 8, 2004, Thursday  An obituary of the fashion photographer Francesco Scavullo yesterday misstated the surname of his companion, who survives. He is Sean Byrnes, not Byrne.
      