
        Steven H. Bazerman, a lawyer who handled cases that expanded intellectual property law to cover not just the names of products but the way they look and feel, died Dec. 19 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 63.
        The cause was complications of kidney failure, his wife, Beverley Andree Bazerman, said.
        Companies today understand the value of such details as the shape of a bottle or the position of a label on a pair of pants. But the idea that these details could be protected under trademark law was largely untested until Mr. Bazerman began taking product imitators to court in the 1980's.
        His legal work helped to build a body of case law around ''secondary meaning,'' which Mr. Bazerman said could include the unwritten, unspoken signals about a product's origin that are given off by its appearance.
        ''The Rolls-Royce grille is an example,'' he said in a 1987 interview. ''Consumers may not be able to tell you it's a Rolls-Royce, but they do know it's associated with a particular company.''
        In 1982, Mr. Bazerman represented the American bottler of Perrier, Great Waters of France, in what was then seen as an unusual case. Perrier contended that another mineral water company was encroaching on its trademark, although the second company, Waters of Saratoga Springs, did not mimic Perrier's name; it called its water Saratoga Geyser. Nor did its labels look anything like Perrier's.
        Mr. Bazerman convinced a federal judge in the Southern District of New York that consumers might confuse Saratoga Geyser with Perrier simply because Saratoga Geyser was sold in green glass bottles shaped like Indian clubs. The judge ruled that the shape of a bottle could be a recognizable trademark, protected by the Lanham Act of 1946. He ordered Waters of Saratoga Springs to pay Perrier about a fourth of its earnings and to give Perrier its bottles and molds for destruction.
        ''There's a whole area of the law that was uncovered in this case,'' Mr. Bazerman said at the time. ''Labeling isn't enough.''
        To make his argument, Mr. Bazerman relied on consumer surveys finding that many people associated green, glass bottles of a certain shape with Perrier water, even if they were not labeled as such. The surveys convinced the judge, who would not admit expert testimony from the other side, stating, ''I'm interested in what the common man would feel.''
        Mr. Bazerman then began using consumer surveys to his advantage in other lawsuits, most notably in a case in which LeSportsac sued Kmart in the Southern District of New York for selling a line of bags that looked like LeSportsac's highly successful ripstop nylon luggage and handbags. The Kmart bags did not have labels suggesting they came from LeSportsac, but consumer surveys by both companies showed that many people could not distinguish the origin of either bag.
        Mr. Bazerman argued that the design of LeSportsac's bags was legally protected. The United States Appellate Court for the Second Circuit agreed. Its ruling was cited by the Supreme Court in a separate case, in an opinion that identified criteria of protectable intellectual property.
        Today some consider the LeSportsac case the primary case in the development of ''trade dress protection'' under the Lanham Act.
        Mr. Bazerman edited a newsletter about patent and trademark law and, with his partner, Jason M. Drangel, wrote a legal manual on trademark registration. He was writing a book on Internet law at the time of his death.
        Mr. Bazerman studied mathematics and engineering at the University of Michigan and earned his law degree at Georgetown Law School.
        His first marriage, to Christina Ann Gray, ended in divorce in 1988. In 2000 he married Beverley Andree, a specialist in European intellectual property law.
      