
        Paul I. Abell, a chemistry professor who on a field trip in 1978 at Laetoli in East Africa came across the footprints of ancestral bipeds made famous by Mary Leakey, died Jan. 12 at his home in Kingston, R.I. He was 80.
        The cause was prostate cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Abell taught organic chemistry at the University of Rhode Island for 40 years, retiring in 1990. His research focused on the chemistry of free radicals, the analysis of moon rocks and paleoclimatology, in which he examined snail fossils to determine climatic changes.
        He regularly spent sabbaticals far afield, in Britain and Egypt. For 17 summers, he helped the Leakey family of anthropologists-paleontologists look for evidence of early hominids in Tanzania.
        Working with Mary Leakey's team at Laetoli in 1978, he chanced upon a footprint that proved to be part of the famous 80-foot trail of hominid footprints left in hardened volcanic ash dated at 3.6 million to 3.7 million years old. On having them excavated, Leakey concluded that two individual bipeds had made the tracks, with possibly with a third stepping in the prints of the biggest of the three. She also concluded that the prints established that human ancestors had begun walking upright much earlier than previously thought.
        Paul Irving Abell was born in Pelham, Mass. He served in the Army Signal Corps in Europe and Japan in World War II and graduated from the University of New Hampshire in 1948. After he received his Ph.D. in organic chemistry at the University of Wisconsin in 1951, he started as an instructor at the University of Rhode Island. Over the years, he was a Fulbright lecturer in Egypt and went on research expeditions in paleontology to the Omo River and Lake Rudolf regions of East Africa for the National Geographic Society.
        Surviving are three daughters, Susan, of Winchester, Mass.; Erin Gallagher of San Francisco; and Octavia Abell of Wakefield, R.I.; and a sister, Jane A. Coon of Washington.
      