
        Charles A. Lewis, a horticulturist whose fascination with the soothing effects of plants on people led him to hospitals, jails and community gardens to study the deep and enduring roots of their benefits for human lives, died on Dec. 19 in Albuquerque. He was 79.
        The cause was acute pancreatitis, his wife, Sherry Rabbino, said.
        In ancient Egypt, physicians prescribed walks in the garden for disturbed patients, and in the 19th century, patients in mental institutions grew crops. But in recent decades, man's primordial attachment to plants has prompted waves of research into how the process works.
        Mr. Lewis, who fell in love with the subject in the early 1960's when he judged a contest of gardens prepared by residents of New York City public housing developments, was at the forefront of what came to be called horticultural therapy. Beyond his extensive writing and speaking, his influence was perhaps greatest in mobilizing diverse experts -- including psychologists, city planners and landscape architects -- to develop and use the new thinking.
        Teresia Hazen, who coordinates four therapeutic gardens in Portland, Ore., said in an interview last week that Mr. Lewis ''was the first person to really start pulling this together.''
        His work included a large survey on people's satisfaction with gardening, carried out with a leading researcher in the field, said Rachel Kaplan, a professor of environment and behavior at the University of Michigan. He also helped prisoners and schoolchildren to garden.
        In an e-mail message last week, Dr. Kaplan said, ''Over a span of more than three decades his missionary zeal and conviction influenced countless individuals as well as professional organizations.''
        His overarching message was simple, but deceptively powerful.
        ''When someone grows a plant, you get more than a beautiful plant,'' he said in an interview with The Washington Post in 1981. ''You get a beautiful person.''
        Charles Arthur Lewis was born in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., on May 24, 1924, and grew up in Baltimore, where as a young boy he considered plants his ''secret friends.'' He enlisted in the Army at 18 and served as a weatherman in the Azores. He earned a bachelor's degree in horticulture from the University of Maryland and a master's from Cornell.
        At Cornell, his thesis describing his research on tuberous begonias won an award from Ohio State University. He found that daylight, not temperature, as many suspected, prompted the plants to flower.
        He planned to run a greenhouse in Syosset, N.Y., specializing in tuberous begonias, but his stock froze in an electrical failure before he could open, so he went to work for another garden center.
        In the 1960's, he became director of the Sterling Forest Gardens in Tuxedo, N.Y., and was asked to help set up a gardening contest for the New York City Housing Authority. He described the results in an article he wrote for The New York Times in 1971.
        ''This is the first creative thing I have done in my life,'' he quoted one contestant as saying. Mr. Lewis also described the beauty of a Japanese-inspired garden built by a group of gardeners who all had criminal records.
        In Spanish Harlem, he wrote that a neighborhood patrolman was amazed that flowerbeds could exist without being destroyed; the gardeners knew who the troublemakers were and assigned them the job of guarding the plantings.
        Mr. Lewis next helped the Chicago Housing Authority set up a similar program and noticed that buildings with gardens were kept cleaner and that gardeners had painted entrance pillars and benches.
        Starting in 1972, he worked for 20 years at the Morton Arboretum in Lisle, Ill., first as a horticulturist and then as administrator of the collections program. In 1996, he wrote ''Green Nature, Human Nature -- The Meaning of Plants in Our Lives'' (University of Illinois), still used as a college text.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Lewis is survived by his son, Lester, of Santa Monica, Calif., and his sister, Irene Russakoff of West Orange, N.J.
      