
        John A. Gambling, a popular morning radio personality in New York who for 31 years was the host of ''Rambling With Gambling'' on WOR, offering a low-key version of the news and a folksy banter to go with cornflakes and the drive to work, died on Thursday night at Bon Secours Hospital in Venice, Fla. He was 73 and had been a resident of Boca Grande, Fla., since his retirement 13 years ago.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his son, John R. Gambling.
        Mr. Gambling was the second of three generations of Gamblings that held forth on WOR-AM Radio for 75 years. Their news-and-talk show became the longest-running program in history and a model for morning programming on radio and television.
        His father, John B. Gambling, began the show's forerunner in 1925. When he retired in 1959, John A. took over, and he was succeeded in 1990 by his son, John R., who was the host until the program was discontinued in 2000.
        For loyal audiences in the millions, ''Rambling With Gambling'' seemed as reliable as the dawn, and John A. Gambling as familiar as an old friend at the breakfast table: a warmhearted optimist who broadcast news and sports, traffic reports and school closings in a calm, easygoing baritone.
        On the air Monday to Saturday, usually from 5 to 10 a.m., he interviewed ordinary people in the news as well as politicians and celebrities, but avoided controversy and strident opinions. ''I believe the morning is bad enough as it is,'' he told Time magazine in his heyday. ''I don't want to talk about anything that's going to offend anyone.''
        Unlike brassier rivals who delivered blunt talk and sexual humor on other stations, Mr. Gambling spoke often of church dinners, school fairs and everyday problems, like a car that wouldn't start on a cold morning. He evoked a small-town feeling, listeners said, often mentioning his wife, Sally, and their three children, and audiences came to know the Gambling family like neighbors.
        There were occasional program innovations: his was the first radio show to carry helicopter traffic reports, and though music, a staple of his father's programs, was dropped, movie reviews were added. When hard language became common on the air, he sometimes uttered a ''hell'' or ''damn.'' But quiet dignity was his stock in trade, and his listeners responded with loyalty.
        In a city where some 50 radio stations vie for listeners, the Gambling show never ranked lower than third, and sometimes was second with 7 percent of the audience -- some 237,000 people in a 20-county, city-and-suburb radius, surpassed only by all-news WINS. Mr. Gambling, whose million-dollar-a-year salary was among the highest in radio, was inducted into the Radio Hall of Fame in 2000.
        John Albert Gambling was born in Manhattan on Feb. 5, 1930. His English-born father, John Bradley Gambling, was an engineer at WOR Radio in 1925 when Bernarr Macfadden, the physical culturalist, failed to show up one day for his exercise program and he filled in so adeptly that he was soon given his own program, called ''Gambling's Musical Clock.'' It became a morning staple and was renamed ''Rambling With Gambling'' in 1942.
        John A., who made his radio debut at age 4 singing a Christmas carol on his father's show, grew up in Manhattan and Massapequa, N.Y., where the family had a summer home and where his lifelong love of sailing began on Great South Bay.
        At Dartmouth, he worked on the college radio station and graduated with a degree in drama. He went to work at WOR as his father's assistant and succeeded him as host in 1959. John B. Gambling died in 1974.
        The son's show was similar to the father's: a mix of news, music, weather, traffic reports and mellow talk of family matters -- birthdays of grandchildren, holidays, weddings and other occasions. With the intimacy of radio, he often touched his audience deeply. ''He had a marvelous sense of making you feel that he was in your living room,'' one fan recalled.
        It came naturally, colleagues said. ''What you hear on the air is what he is off the air,'' said Don Criqui, his sportscaster.
        Bob Bruno, WOR's vice president and general manager, said the Gambling show widely influenced morning radio in the 1960's and 70's and today's television. ''It became the model for much of popular morning radio,'' he said yesterday, ''and then television said, 'Hey look, we can put a camera on this.' ''
        Over three decades, as television eclipsed radio in mass markets, the show retained its share of listeners, but the audience gradually grew older. A 1989 survey showed that a typical 15-minute segment had 236,000 listeners and that 59 percent were 65 or older, exceeding the ages that most advertisers seek.
        John R. Gambling became the show's co-host in 1985, and the host when his father retired in 1990. In recent years, he has been the host of a weekly WABC radio show and regularly interviews Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.
        In addition to his son, of Locust Valley, N.Y., Mr. Gambling is survived by his wife, the former Sally Loppacker; two daughters, Ann Hoffman of Bedford, N.Y., and Sarah McGayhey of Shelter Island, N.Y., and seven grandchildren.
        A public memorial tribute is scheduled for Thursday, Jan. 22, at 12:30 P.M. at Brick Presbyterian Church, Park Avenue and 91st Street.
        Correction:  January 14, 2004, Wednesday  An obituary of the radio personality John A. Gambling on Saturday misstated his middle name and the schedule for his son's radio show on WABC. The name was Alfred, not Albert. John R. Gambling broadcasts on weekdays from 10 to 11:45 a.m. and on Saturdays from 6 to 10 a.m.-- not just once a week.
      