
        Dr. Richard L. Masland, an expert on neurological disorders who spearheaded a landmark study in the 60's that tracked thousands of pregnant women to understand the causes of birth defects, died on Dec. 19 at his home in Englewood, N.J. He was 93.
        The cause was pneumonia, said his son Thomas.
        Dr. Masland, who was director of what was then called the National Institute of Neurological Diseases and Blindness, carried out his groundbreaking study from 1959 to 1966. More than 50,000 women in 12 American cities participated, allowing scientists to follow them from their pregnancies until their children were 8 years old.
        Originally intended to identify risk factors for cerebral palsy, the project became so ambitious that it eventually led to major findings on an array of neurological disorders including mental retardation, epilepsy and fever seizures, the most common seizures in young children.
        It also produced some of the first data linking smoking to birth defects.
        ''We have to emphasize that we cannot say it is the smoking that does it,'' Dr. Masland said while testifying before a Congressional subcommittee in 1962, in the midst of his study. ''We can say that the woman who smokes is more likely to have a baby weighing under five pounds.''
        While at the National Institutes of Health, Dr. Masland also helped create the agency's peer-based review system for grants, which is still in use today.
        Richard Lambert Masland was born in Philadelphia. He received his bachelor's degree from Haverford College and his medical degree from the University of Pennsylvania.
        He served in the Army Air Forces in the early 1940's, before joining the National Association for Retarded Children to help with research that led to the book ''Mental Subnormality: Biological, Psychological and Cultural Factors'' (1958). He was director of the neurological institute at the National Institutes of Health from 1957 to 1968 and then chairman of the neurology department at Columbia, where he taught through the early 70's.
        Dr. Masland helped write more than 80 scientific articles and received many awards. One of them, the Award of Merit from the National Association for Retarded Children, was presented to him in 1963 by President John F. Kennedy.
        In addition to his son Thomas, of Cape Town, he is survived by his wife, the former Mary Wootton; another son, Richard H., of Weston, Mass.; two daughters, Frances Masland of Newton, Mass., and Sarah Bender of Colorado Springs, Colo.; and seven grandchildren.
      