
        Bernard Goldberg, a former chief executive of Schenley Industries and the American Distilling Company, died last Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in retirement in Williams Island, Fla.
        His death was announced by the Hebrew Home for the Aged in the Bronx and Rabbi Arthur Schneier of Park East Synagogue in Manhattan.
        Mr. Goldberg joined the board of the Hebrew Home in 1984 and was credited with applying his management and investment strategies to both employee programs and the maintenance of the grounds. He was named chairman in 1990. He was a leading benefactor and former chairman of the Park East Synagogue, on East 67th Street, and was a founder of its Minskoff Cultural Center and the Park East Day School.
        A native New Yorker, Mr. Goldberg graduated from New York University in 1947 and joined the Schenley Import Corporation, one of the biggest wine and liquor distributors in the country, as a clerk in the budget department. Intending to become a teacher, he pursued a master's degree at night school, taking courses in education and commerce.
        He got a master's degree from N.Y.U. in 1950, but he chose to stay in business. He rose swiftly in advertising and marketing, and by 1960 was a vice president and marketing director of Schenley Imports.
        At 39, in 1963, he was named president of Affiliated Brands, Schenley's overall marketing subsidiary. He became senior vice president and a director of Schenley Industries in 1966, rising to president in 1968 when the Glen Alden Corporation took over the company.
        After leaving Schenley in 1974, he succeeded Russell R. Brown, founder of the American Distilling Company, as the company's leader. In 1984, he retired as chairman and chief executive of the company, which by then was known as the Amdisco Corporation. Both Schenley and American Distilling were major players in the American spirits industry before they ceased to exist as independent companies.
        Mr. Goldberg is survived by his wife of 56 years, Carole Shapiro Goldberg; two sons, Stewart, of Coral Gables, Fla., and Avery I., of Manhattan; a sister, Dotty Raines, of Coconut Grove, Fla.; and one grandson.
      