
        Donald Barr, an educator, writer and former headmaster of the Dalton School in Manhattan and the Hackley School in Tarrytown, N.Y., died on Thursday at a hospital in Langhorne, Pa.
        He was 82 and lived in Colebrook, Conn.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Barr, a traditionalist in academic matters, took a no-nonsense approach that rated good conduct as a virtue. He expressed his views on education not only at the schools he headed but also in national forums.
        Before moving into private preparatory education, he established a science honors program at Columbia University that served as a model for similar programs elsewhere administered by the National Science Foundation.
        He became head of Dalton in 1964. His sometimes stormy tenure ended in 1974 with his departure after disputes with the trustees over budget priorities and his disciplinarian approach to substance abuse.
        The next year, he became headmaster at Hackley, where he soon dismissed more than two dozen students for disruptive conduct and poor academic performance. This time, he had parents and trustees in his corner. He also upgraded the curriculum, adding foreign languages and bolstering academic subjects and the arts.
        Donald Barr, who was born in Manhattan on Aug. 2, 1921, majored in mathematics and anthropology at Columbia, graduating in 1941. He went into the Army and served with the Office of Strategic Services in Washington and Europe.
        Returning to Columbia, he taught in the English department while getting his master's degree in 1951 and completing course requirements for a Ph.D. But by then he was teaching courses with field work in sociology and political science at the School of Engineering and writing science and mathematics texts for elementary and junior high school students.
        In 1955 the engineering school asked him to oversee its efforts to spot promising elementary and secondary science students, including girls, and enlist them for advanced training at the school to help them rise to the college level. Joining the engineering dean's office, he then developed the Science Honors Program, which got the attention and support of the National Science Foundation.
        Mr. Barr became assistant dean of the Faculty of Engineering and Applied Science in 1959, and the foundation eventually asked him to administer its entire Cooperative College-School Program. He did so beginning in 1963, continuing until he became headmaster at Dalton the following year.
        Mr. Barr's wife, Mary Margaret Ahern Barr, a college teacher, died in 2001. He is survived by four sons, Christopher J. of Yardley, Pa.; William P. of McLean, Va., a former United States attorney general; Hilary B. T. of Heiningen, Germany; and Stephen M. of Newark, Del.; and eight grandchildren.
      