
        Estelle Stewart Axton, whose name put the ''Ax'' in Stax Records, the Memphis soul label she founded with her brother, died on Tuesday in Memphis. She was 85.
        She died at the St. Francis Nursing Home after a series of strokes, said Deanie Parker, the president and chief executive of Soulsville, the nonprofit corporation that runs the Stax Museum of American Soul Music and the Stax Music Academy.
        In the heyday of 1960's and 70's soul, Stax released hits by Otis Redding, Sam and Dave, Wilson Pickett, Isaac Hayes, Rufus Thomas and the Staple Singers, among many others. It was the second-best-selling soul label of its era, behind Motown Records.
        The Stax studio, in the former Capitol movie theater in Memphis, attracted young singers and songwriters, and was an integrated business in a largely segregated city. Ms. Axton and her brother, James Stewart, founders of the label, were white; most of their hitmakers were black; and the label's studio band, Booker T. and the MG's, was mixed. ''We never looked at color; we looked at people,'' Ms. Axton said last year.
        Stax got started as Satellite Records in 1957, when Mr. Stewart, a country fiddler who worked at a bank, began recording country songs in his wife's uncle's garage, but soon switched to rhythm-and-blues. His eldest sister, Estelle Stewart, who had married Everett Axton in 1941, became Mr. Stewart's partner in 1958 when she took out a second mortgage on her home to buy recording equipment. In 1960 they leased the abandoned theater, in a mixed neighborhood that was fast becoming an African-American ghetto, and made it the company's offices and recording studio.
        To generate income they installed a record store at the theater's old candy counter. The shop, Satellite Records, drew teenagers and became a place to recruit talent and a test market for their new releases. The first singers to record at the studio were Rufus Thomas and Carla Thomas, father and daughter, and their rhythm-and-blues song ''Cause I Love You'' became the label's first regional hit, followed by Carla Thomas's ''Gee Whiz.''
        The label's third hit, ''Last Night,'' was an instrumental by the Mar-Keys, a group including Ms. Axton's son, Charles (nicknamed Packy) Axton, on saxophone. After ''Last Night'' was released, a Satellite Records label in California noticed the company. Mr. Stewart and Ms. Axton changed their label's name to Stax, from the first letters of Mr. Stewart and Ms. Axton's last names.
        The label began regularly releasing hits through the 1960's. Musicians called Ms. Axton Lady A., and in Rob Bowman's ''Soulsville U.S.A.: The Story of Stax Records'' (Schirmer Trade Books, 1997), the guitarist and songwriter Steve Cropper describes her as ''the heart and soul of that whole place.''
        She nurtured songwriters, ran the record store and helped decide what Stax released, including, over her brother's initial opposition, Eddie Floyd's ''Knock on Wood.''
        Although Stax was a musical powerhouse, it was a business debacle. After bad deals with major labels, the company went bankrupt in 1975. By then Ms. Axton was no longer with the company. In 1969, after disagreement about the label's direction, she quietly left the company in 1969, bought out by her brother and the label's president, Al Bell.
        Part of her settlement included $25,000 a year on the condition that she stay out of the recording business. Her son Charles became the head of Fretone Records, and in 1974 Ms. Axton took over. That label's big hit, in 1976, was the Rick Dees novelty song ''Disco Duck.''
        Ms. Axton is survived by her sister, Mary Lucille McAlpin; her brother, Mr. Stewart; her daughter, Doris Axton Fredrick; three grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
        Stax's headquarters was demolished in 1989, but last year a new building on the site, complete with a reproduction of the studio and a new Satellite Record Shop, opened as the Stax Museum of American Soul Music and the Stax Music Academy.
      