
        Jeremiah S. Gutman, a founding member of the New York Civil Liberties Union and a fixture of the civil rights bar in Manhattan for 50 years, died yesterday after suffering a heart attack at the Metro-North train station in Hastings-on-Hudson, his daughter Thea Gutman said. He was 80 and lived in Hastings-on-Hudson.
        He was taken to Dobbs Ferry Hospital but could not be revived, Ms. Gutman said.
        Mr. Gutman was still in practice. Early this month, he was called to testify as a defense witness in the Martha Stewart trial about conversations he had had with the prosecution's star witness in the case, Douglas Faneuil, whom Mr. Gutman had represented briefly.
        Although his appearance at a high-profile trial was not unusual, his involvement in a case involving allegations of securities fraud was. Through almost all of his legal career, he pursued cases related to free speech, civil rights and protests against war. His clients over the years included Abbie Hoffman and Jerry Rubin, the Hare Krishnas and the Rev. Sun Myung Moon.
        Mr. Gutman, a native of Brooklyn, joined his father's law firm, Levy, Gutman, Goldberg & Kaplan, in 1949. He had earned a Purple Heart while serving in Europe in World War II and had graduated from New York University Law School, where he was editor of the Law Review.
        In 1951, in part as a response to what he saw as civil rights violations in Senator Joseph McCarthy's campaign to root out Communist influence, Mr. Gutman joined others in founding the New York Civil Liberties Union. He remained a leading figure in that group, a state organization, and was a member of the board of the American Civil Liberties Union at the time of his death.
        His political activism extended beyond the courtroom: last February, he suffered a shoulder injury after being knocked down in a crowd while protesting United States policy in Iraq with members of his family at a Manhattan rally. In a case stemming from that incident, the New York Civil Liberties Union has filed suit seeking changes in the way the police handle demonstrations.
        Besides his daughter Thea Gutman, of Manhattan, Mr. Gutman is survived by his wife, Marilyn Gates-Gutman, and two sons, Ariel and Emanuel, all of Hastings-on-Hudson; three other daughters, Malaika Gates-Gutman of White Plains, Rebecca Menon of Manhattan and Mara Ferris of Exeter N.H.; a brother, Robert W. Gutman of Manhattan; and two grandchildren.
      