
        William B. Tabler Sr., an architect who gave Hilton hotels the crisp and clean but sometimes stark face of corporate America, most notably in the 46-story slablike New York Hilton near Rockefeller Center, died on Feb. 3. He was 89.
        He died at his home in Upper Brookville, N.Y., said his son, William B. Tabler Jr., who continues the architectural practice in Manhattan.
        Though he was not well known outside the profession, Mr. Tabler's designs affected generations of travelers after World War II when downtown hotels began to trade charm for efficiency, looking more and more like the office buildings around them. Nonetheless, Mr. Tabler could be counted on for architectural gestures that would make Hilton hotels stand apart.
        Broad boomerang swoops in a figure 3 distinguish the 12-story Washington Hilton of 1965, as does its location on a bluff overlooking Connecticut Avenue. Mr. Tabler's design permitted all of the 1,250 guest rooms to face outside, rather than having some overlook courtyards. More than half of the hotel's floor area, including the ballroom, was built below ground so that it would conform to Washington's strict height limit.
        The 1,200-room Hilton in San Francisco, built near Union Square in 1964, was called a motel within a hotel because Mr. Tabler's design allowed guests to drive their cars up ramps through the core of the building to park on the same floor as their rooms. On the exterior, windows alternated with structural panels, creating a kind of checkerboard facade that masked the X-shaped braces providing earthquake resistance.
        And in New York, Mr. Tabler created angled window bays that allowed ductwork to run outside the main structure. Aesthetically, that imparted texture and dimension to an otherwise monolithic facade and gave a sense of extra space to the rooms. The glass was tinted blue, which also helped the tower, between 53rd and 54th Streets, distinguish itself from nearby corporate headquarters along the Avenue of the Americas.
        Mr. Tabler designed the 2,153-room New York Hilton at Rockefeller Center with David P. Dann for a partnership called Rock-Hil-Uris for its principals: Laurance S. Rockefeller, Conrad N. Hilton and Percy and Harold Uris. It opened in 1963 and is now called the Hilton New York.
        ''The directness of the concept, the expertness of the plan and the quality of execution are commendable,'' Ada Louise Huxtable, then the architecture critic of The New York Times, wrote in 1963. ''If the building has a look that suggests that one might put change in at the top and get something out of the bottom, this is only because today's slickly designed commercial structures more and more frequently resemble a product, a machine or a package.''
        Mr. Tabler was born in Momence, Ill., and received his bachelor's and master's degrees from Harvard. In 1939 he joined the Chicago firm Holabird & Root, where he worked on his first big hotel project, the 1,000-room Statler Hotel in Washington.
        After serving in the Navy during the Second World War, he was asked to head Statler's in-house architecture department in 1946. He formed his own practice in 1955.
        He designed more than 400 hotels. Among his recent projects were the 376-room New York Marriott at the Brooklyn Bridge, 333 Adams Street in Brooklyn, which opened in 1998, and the 714-room Grand Hyatt Cairo, which opened in 2000. Mr. Tabler designed Hilton hotels in Baltimore, Indianapolis, Pittsburgh and St. Paul; Statler hotels in Dallas and Hartford; and InterContinental hotels worldwide.
        Besides his son, of Locust Valley, N.Y., Mr. Tabler is survived by his wife, Phyllis Baker Tabler; a daughter, Judith Tabler Cook, of McLean, Va.; and three grandchildren.
      