
        Claude Ryan, a former leader of the Quebec Liberal Party who led the successful opposition in a referendum in 1980 on the French-speaking province's secession from Canada, died Monday in Montreal. He was 79.
        The party, which announced Mr. Ryan's death on its Web site, said the cause was stomach cancer.
        Mr. Ryan was at the center of Quebec politics when a new generation of assertive French-speaking politicians and entrepreneurs had grown in prominence, campaigning for a greater measure of autonomy for the province to preserve its cultural and linguistic heritage.
        Even those, like Mr. Ryan, who did not favor outright independence pushed for recognition of Quebec as a ''distinct society'' with greater autonomy than Canada's nine other provinces have.
        Mr. Ryan ''was a federalist but he always wanted more powers for Quebec,'' said Bernard Descoteaux, publisher and editor in chief of Le Devoir in Montreal, the same position at the newspaper that Mr. Ryan held from 1964 until he entered politics in 1978.
        Like many other federalists in Quebec, Mr. Ryan sought a balance between convincing his fellow Quebecers that it was in their interests to remain part of Canada, while making the case to the rest of the country that Quebec deserved a special status.
        ''He tried to explain Quebec and the changes that were taking place to the rest of the country,'' said Richard Schultz, a political science professor at McGill University in Montreal.
        At the same time, Professor Schultz said, ''he tried to explain English-speaking Canada to Quebec.''
        Mr. Ryan's attempts to achieve this balance were especially evident in his approach to the sensitive issue of language policy. He switched from journalism to politics in 1978 primarily to campaign against proposals by the separatist Parti Québécois, which controlled the provincial government, to make French the province's only official language.
        But in the late 1980's and early 1990's, when Mr. Ryan was the cabinet minister in charge of the province's French language charter, he led the adoption of new rules forbidding the use of English on outdoor commercial signs. His move prompted the resignation of three English-speaking cabinet ministers.
        The French-only language law, known as Bill 101, remains on the books, though separatist sentiment has waned.
        In the May 1980 referendum, 59.5 percent of voters defeated the Parti Québécois proposal for ''sovereignty association,'' a combination of political independence and economic ''association.''
        Though Mr. Ryan's position as Liberal Party leader put him nominally in charge of the federalist forces, he was overshadowed during the campaign by the more forceful federal prime minister, Pierre Elliott Trudeau.
        Relatively new to politics and with an intellectual bent, Mr. Ryan put ''reason over passion,'' Professor Schultz said. ''Trudeau believed in that, too, but he came to realize that passion has to complement reason.''
        In spite of losing the referendum, Parti Québécois won a general election a year later, and Mr. Ryan stepped down as Liberal leader. According to Mr. Descoteaux, the publisher, Mr. Ryan's image ''was too serious -- he was not a really good communicator.''
        The Liberals returned to office in 1985 under Mr. Ryan's successor, Robert Bourassa. Mr. Ryan remained a member of the Quebec legislative assembly and an influential member of the government until he retired in 1994.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Ryan taught Catholic studies at McGill University.
        Mr. Ryan's wife, Madeleine Guay, died in 1986. He is survived by five children.
        Correction:  February 16, 2004, Monday  An obituary on Wednesday about Claude Ryan, a former leader of the Quebec Liberal Party who helped defeat a referendum in 1980 on secession from Canada, referred imprecisely to a rule he later helped promulgate. The rule, which banned the use of English on outdoor commercial signs, replaced part of the original ''French only'' language law, known as Bill 101; the rule itself was not known as Bill 101.
      