
        Dr. Robert A. Bruce, who advanced the ability to diagnose heart disease by devising the treadmill stress test, now almost universally used, died on Thursday at his home in Seattle. He was 87.
        The cause was leukemia and spinal stenosis, said Carole Brennan, a daughter of his third wife.
        Dr. Bruce, an emeritus professor of medicine at the University of Washington, has been called the father of exercise cardiology for having developed the test, which is taught in medical schools as the Bruce Protocol.
        The test involves putting a patient on an initially slow-moving treadmill, with the electrodes of an electrocardiograph machine attached to the chest to monitor heart signals. Then, every three minutes, both the incline of the treadmill and its speed are increased. (Only elite athletes can persevere to the seventh and final stage, said Dr. Richard I. Page, who occupies the Robert A. Bruce Chair in Medicine at the University of Washington.)
        As the treadmill's slope and speed are raised, squiggly lines paint a portrait of the heart under exertion, sometimes revealing problems hidden when it is at rest. Dr. Page said that in many cases, the procedure allowed doctors to rule out heart disease, making unnecessary some more precise but invasive procedures like catheterization.
        Before the Bruce Protocol became so widely adopted, cardiologists used less reliable diagnostic tools. They usually depended on an electrocardiogram, or EKG, that was taken while the patient was lying down, the heart at rest. Or they used an early stress test called the Master's two-step, which was developed in 1935 by a cardiologist named Arthur M. Master. In that test, patients got an EKG at rest, then stepped onto and off of a small platform for 90 seconds, then got another EKG. Many people, however, found the test too difficult to finish.
        Dr. Bruce used improvements in both EKG's and treadmills to perfect his new procedure. His first studies, published in 1949, analyzed minute-to-minute changes in respiratory and circulatory function of normal adults who took a single-stage treadmill test. He then published a paper describing a multistage test in 1963. It was after this paper appeared that the process quickly became known as the Bruce Protocol.
        In the 1963 report, Dr. Bruce wrote that the test could detect telltale signs of conditions like angina pectoris, the development of chest pain or discomfort due to coronary artery disease; a previous heart attack; or ventricular aneurysm, a bulging in the heart's ventricle.
        ''You would never buy a used car without taking it out for a drive and seeing how the engine performed while it was running,'' he said in a remark quoted in ''Pathbreakers,'' a book published by the University of Washington in 1996, ''and the same is true for evaluating the function of the heart.''
        Today the Bruce Protocol is complemented by newer technology. Ultrasound analysis can help make diagnoses more accurate than the treadmill test alone. Further, many stress tests now involve a stress thallium, in which radioactive material is injected into a vein through an IV; pictures of the heart are then taken at rest before the patient exercises on the treadmill and a second set of pictures are taken.
        Robert Arthur Bruce was born in Boston on Nov. 20, 1916, and grew up in the Boston suburb of Somerville. He graduated from Boston University and received his medical degree from the University of Rochester in 1943. He completed his internship in Rochester, primarily at Strong Memorial Hospital, where he was chief resident in 1945-46.
        In 1950, he became the first director of the division of cardiology at the University of Washington. He went on to lead the division for more than three decades and was a founding member and president of the Association of University Cardiologists.
        Dr. Bruce was an advocate of the importance of exercise in a heart-healthy life. In 1981, in an editorial accompanying an article reporting that monkeys that exercised had healthier hearts than those that did not, he wrote in The New England Journal of Medicine that a healthful diet alone was not enough to prevent heart disease.
        Dr. Bruce is survived by his wife, the former Barbara Klemka, and three sons from his first marriage, to the former Eleanor Hinckley, which lasted from 1940 until her death in 1994. The sons are Peter, of Lakewood, Wash.; Robert, of Perth, Australia; and Scott, of Cambridge, Mass. They in turn have four children, who also survive.
        He is survived as well by two sons of the former Jean Laughlin, to whom he was married from 1995 until 2000; they are John and Stuart, both of Seattle. Three daughters of his third and last wife also survive him: Carole Brennan, Donna Klemka and Judith Coryell, all of Seattle.
      