
        Adrian Lopez, who published magazines on a broad range of subjects, including car racing and quilting, for 60 years, died on Jan. 27 at a hospital in Brick, N.J. He was 97 and lived in Bay Head, N.J.
        The cause was complications from dialysis treatments, his son Barry said.
        Mr. Lopez published first through the Volitant Publishing Corporation and then through Lopez Publications. His magazines included Sir, True, Laff, Real Crime, Surfing, Stock Car Racing magazine and Lady's Circle.
        Mr. Lopez, whose father was Spanish and whose mother was Irish, was born in Southampton, England, in 1906. Two years later, the family moved to Montclair, N.J.
        Mr. Lopez earned a degree in mechanical engineering from the University of Notre Dame. He went to work for the Otis Elevator Company. But when the construction of buildings requiring elevators dwindled in the Depression, he turned to his favorite college pastime, writing, to support himself.
        He found he could make $50 by spending a couple of hours writing articles for pulp magazines like Black Mask, Argosy and Dime Detective. He also worked as a freelance reporter for The New York American and other newspapers. He covered the trial of Bruno Hauptmann, who was convicted of kidnapping and murdering the baby of Charles A. Lindbergh.
        With two friends from college, Mr. Lopez started a magazine, Satire, working with the American News Company. They then started Peek, which Mr. Lopez described as a takeoff on Life magazine.
        Mr. Lopez started Laff magazine on his own. He called his publishing house the Volitant Publishing Corporation after a racehorse named Volitant, which turned a $1,000 bet into a $6,000 jackpot.
        He soon started a series of detective magazines, and then Sir: A Magazine for Males, a forerunner of later men's magazines.
        Mr. Lopez had a knack for finding successful market niches. For example, he started the magazine Surfing after conversations with his son Dennis, who surfed. After writing the first few issues himself with advice from his sons, he hired a professional surfer to take over. ''No one can edit a magazine better than the people participating in what the magazine is about,'' he once said.
        In addition to his son Barry, who lives in Finn Rock, Ore., Mr. Lopez is survived by his wife, Marcie Shrewsbury Lopez; and another son, Dennis of Rockport, Maine.
      