
        Adm. Thomas H. Moorer, a World War II hero who was appointed chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff by President Richard M. Nixon, died on Thursday in the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Md., the Defense Department said. He was 91.
        A 41-year veteran of the Navy, Admiral Moorer was appointed as the military's senior uniformed officer in 1970 and served in that post until he retired in 1974. Before that appointment, he served as chief of naval operations for three years.
        Admiral Moorer, a naval aviator who then had the rank of lieutenant, was stationed at Pearl Harbor when the Japanese attacked on Dec. 7, 1941. Perhaps his most memorable military feat came a few months later, when his plane was shot down over the South Pacific.
        ''I struck the water at great force,'' he recalled, ''but after bouncing three times, managed to complete the landing.''
        He escaped from the plane, and led his crew to a freighter. Almost immediately, the ship came under attack and sank. He led his crew onto lifeboats and to an uninhabited island, where he made an enormous S.O.S. in the sand. He was awarded the Silver Star for his conduct.
        Thomas Hinman Moorer was born on Feb. 9, 1912, in Mount Willing, Ala., the son of a dentist. He graduated from the United States Naval Academy in 1933. He had been valedictorian of his high school class but had to wait two years, until he was 17, to enter the academy.
        As a young officer he earned his aviator wings at Pensacola, Fla., in 1936. His was one of the first American planes to reach the sky after the attack on Pearl Harbor.
        He rose through the Navy ranks, holding several fleet commands at sea. Promoted to vice admiral in 1962, he took command of the Seventh Fleet and in June 1964 became commander in chief of the Pacific Fleet. In 1967, President Lyndon B. Johnson named him chief of naval operations, the service's top officer.
        Admiral Moorer later became the first naval officer in 13 years to be chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
        During the Vietnam War, Admiral Moorer was a strong advocate of using naval and air power to dissuade North Vietnam from its support of insurgency in South Vietnam and Laos, according to the Naval Historical Center, the Navy's official source for historical information.
        After he retired, Admiral Moorer remained in the public eye, commenting frequently on current events and policy decisions by American administrations. He opposed the transfer of control of the Panama Canal to Panama and wrote a paper warning about China's expanding international influence.
        In 1986, Admiral Moorer was one of a group of outspoken retired admirals and generals who opposed proposals to streamline the Joint Chiefs of Staff. In a debate on the issue in February of that year, he called the proposed changes ''a blueprint for disaster.''
        Admiral Moorer was also publicly outspoken about Israel's 1967 attack on the American intelligence ship Liberty off Sinai, which resulted in the death of 34 sailors. Admiral Moorer said military rescue ships had been recalled by the Johnson administration and called the investigation into the Israeli attack a cover-up.
        In 1998, CNN reported that the admiral had confirmed the use of nerve gas in Laos, during the Vietnam War, a report Admiral Moorer denied. After inquiries by both the Pentagon and CNN's own legal team found insufficient evidence to support the accusations, CNN and Time magazine executives retracted the accounts and issued apologies. The network later negotiated an undisclosed settlement with Admiral Moorer, who had filed a defamation suit.
        Admiral Moorer is survived by his wife, Carrie Ellen Foy, and four children, the Defense Department said.
      