
        Gene Hovis, a Southern-born chef who used his grandmother's recipes to become a caterer, then a friend and food adviser to New York society figures, died on Tuesday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 59.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, said Hans-Joachim Teetz, his companion.
        At first an unsuccessful actor, then a successful caterer, Mr. Hovis became more known for his private hospitality and made a career of proving that traditional Southern cooking could rise to fine cuisine.
        Professionally, Mr. Hovis became the creative food director for Macy's East department stores in the early 1990's, overseeing a splashy renovation of the flagship store's food hall.
        ''Everything Gene touched had the gentleness and graciousness of the South -- even the hurly-burly of Macy's,'' said André Leon Talley, editor at large of Vogue, a friend.
        In a colorful career, Mr. Hovis was a spokesman for the Mississipi-based Catfish Institute, food editor of HG magazine and a frequent guest of such New York City hostesses as Brooke Hayward Duchin, Josephine Premice and Eleanor Lambert.
        Mr. Hovis's cooking skills provided an entree to that world. Born Eugene Leonard Hovis in Salisbury, N.C., he learned to cook from his maternal grandmother, Mary Dameron, a daughter of slaves. He moved to New York City in his early 20's to find work as an actor and a model, but quickly fell back on his talents as a cook, selling chicken pot pies to other actors and artists.
        Long before soul food gained a wide audience in the professional cooking world, Mr. Hovis's dinner parties brought him to the attention of influential cooks like Dione Lucas and Craig Claiborne of The New York Times, who encouraged him to pursue a professional culinary education. A stint at the Ecole Gastronomique in Lausanne, Switzerland, strengthened his appreciation of Southern cooking, he said in a 1984 interview in The Times.
        He was soon catering events for the opera singer Jessye Norman and Mayor David N. Dinkins and baking birthday cakes for friends like the cabaret star Bobby Short, who recalled one year loading a limousine with Champagne, friends and a giant watermelon-shaped cake baked by Mr. Hovis.
        With a 1987 memoir and cookbook, ''Gene Hovis's Uptown Down Home Cookbook'' (Little Brown), written with Sylvia Dworsky Rosenthal, Mr. Hovis became one of the first black chefs to publish a chronicle of his childhood culinary influences.
        Mr. Hovis moved easily between roles as caterer and guest at grand dinners and parties throughout Manhattan. His combination of social and culinary agility was legendary, according to Alexander Smalls, a New York chef and caterer, who is also from North Carolina.
        ''I knew him as an icon, not just a chef,'' Mr. Smalls said.
        Jean Bach, a producer and frequent guest at Mr. Hovis's dinner parties, agreed that cooking was only part of his ability as a host.
        ''Gene knew a lot of top people, but his parties were never stuffy,'' she said. ''And the mix of people! Really, sometimes you'd be amazed at who was sitting next to who.''
        He is survived by his companion.
      