
        Edward Jablonski, who wrote notable biographies of George Gershwin, Harold Arlen, Alan Jay Lerner and, most recently, Irving Berlin, died on Tuesday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81 and lived on the Upper West Side.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Jablonski had a lesser-known expertise in aviation, and aerial warfare in particular.
        Among his more than two dozen books was his biography of Gen. James H. Doolittle, written with Lowell Thomas (Doubleday, 1976). In the 1970's Doubleday also issued his four-volume series ''Airwar,'' as well as two pictorial histories of World Wars I and II.
        He wrote ''Ladybirds: Women in Aviation'' (Hawthorn, 1968), ''Flying Fortress: The Illustrated Biographies of the B-17's and the Men Who Flew Them'' (Doubleday, 1965), ''Warrior With Wings'' (Bobbs-Merrill, 1968) and ''Seawings'' (Doubleday, 1972).
        For Doubleday he also compiled ''A Pictorial History of the Middle East'' (1984) and ''The Encyclopedia of American Music'' (1981).
        His major biographies of composers began with ''Harold Arlen: Happy With the Blues'' (Doubleday, 1961). However, three years earlier he wrote ''The Gershwin Years,'' with Lawrence D. Stewart, a pictorial biography. First published by Doubleday in 1958, the book was issued in a longer, revised version in 1973, among a spate of Gershwin books occasioned by what would have been George Gershwin's 75th birthday. The revised version included an authoritative discography, compiled with help from Gershwin's associate and friend, Kay Swift.
        In 1987, 50 years after Gershwin's death, Mr. Jablonski produced ''Gershwin'' (Doubleday). That biography looked past the debonair newsreel figure for a deeper analysis of the man and his work, while, as Francis Davis wrote in The New York Times Book Review, ''generally avoiding the cliché-ridden psychoanalytical approach that has trivialized so many recent biographies.'' His last book was ''Irving Berlin: American Troubadour'' (Henry Holt, 1999).
        At his death he was working on ''Masters of American Song,'' which his family described as a comprehensive history of American popular music.
        Edward Jablonski was born in Bay City, Mich. There he attended junior college after returning with a Silver Star from service with the United States Army Field Artillery in New Guinea during World War II. He had grown up, he said later, listening to the music of the day as he ''hung around the airport watching the planes.'' As a schoolboy he also started a correspondence with Gershwin.
        He graduated from the New School for Social Research in 1950 and did postgraduate work in anthropology at Columbia.
        While working for the New York chapter of the March of Dimes, he wrote record reviews for a small magazine and liner notes for albums, work that began a 50-year freelance career.
        Mr. Jablonski's wife, Edith Garson Jablonski, died in 1979. He is survived by a son, David, of Chicago; two daughters, Carla Jablonski of Manhattan and Emily J. Ahlberg of Audubon, Pa.; a sister, Mary Birdsall of Versailles, Ky.; and two grandchildren.
      