
        Mary A. Gardner, a journalism professor whose teaching had a strong influence on contemporary journalism in Mexico and Latin America, died Jan. 22 in East Lansing, Mich., her sister-in-law, Donna Gardner, said. She was 83.
        Dr. Gardner's influence in Mexico stemmed from her connection to a former student, Alejandro Junco de la Vega. Mr. Junco, heir to what was then a small family-owned newspaper company that published El Norte in Monterrey, studied journalism with Dr. Gardner at the University of Texas.
        When he took over the family business, he turned to his former teacher to help train his staff in reporting, writing and ethics. For more than 20 years, Dr. Gardner spent her summers training reporters at El Norte.
        In the mid-1990's, Mr. Junco started a newspaper in Mexico City, Reforma, incorporating the journalistic principles Dr. Gardner helped to instill at El Norte.
        Today, Reforma is regarded by many as Mexico's most influential publication.
        ''She had an enormous influence on the quality of journalism in Mexico, and in Latin America as well,'' said Richard Cole, dean of the University of North Carolina journalism school and another former student of Dr. Gardner's.
        Born in Chillicothe, Ohio, Mary Gardner never intended to be a journalist or a teacher; rather, she aspired to be a physician. A pre-med student at Ohio State University, she was informed that medical school was not an option because she was a woman.
        After serving in the Marine Corps Women's Reserve in World War II, she earned a master's degree in journalism from Ohio State. In 1960, she received a doctorate in journalism and political science from the University of Minnesota, where she began her teaching career.
        In 1961 she moved to the University of Texas, where she was an assistant professor until 1966. She then taught at the Michigan State University School of Journalism until she retired in 1991.
        Dr. Gardner is survived by her brother, Porter, of Zoar, Ohio.
      