
        Frederick Morgan, a founder and for 55 years the editor of The Hudson Review, one of the nation's most prestigious literary journals, and the author of more than a dozen books of poetry, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. He was 81 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was respiratory failure, said his wife, Paula Deitz, who continues as editor of the quarterly. Mr. Morgan had suffered from a blood disease for four years and contracted pneumonia six weeks ago, but continued to edit manuscripts from his hospital bed in recent days, Ms. Deitz said.
        In 1948, in an era when many educated people knew the classics, recited poetry from memory and dined on literature, music and art, Mr. Morgan and two other Princeton graduates founded a magazine to publish established and unknown writers, review books and cover news of music, theater, dance and the visual arts.
        The magazine, The Hudson Review, had no academic affiliation, political ideology or backing beyond its founders' bank accounts. But Mr. Morgan and his partners, Joseph Bennett and William Arrowsmith, had eclectic tastes and were willing to experiment. The first issue featured an essay by R. P. Blackmur on Dostoyevsky and poetry by Wallace Stevens and E. E. Cummings.
        In 1950 Mr. Morgan, to the dismay of many colleagues, visited the poet Ezra Pound in a mental hospital, where he had been confined after being accused of treason for broadcasting propaganda for Mussolini during World War II. At Pound's urging, Mr. Morgan began to publish more international literature and translations.
        Thomas Mann and John Dos Passos and the early work of the poets A. R. Ammons and W. S. Merwin and the novelists Joyce Carol Oates and Herbert Gold appeared in the review. Over the decades it evolved with the literary climate, publishing Robert Graves, T. S. Eliot, Anthony Hecht, Sylvia Plath, Theodore Roethke, Dylan Thomas, Eudora Welty and other formidable writers and poets of the 20th century.
        While circulation never climbed much over 4,000, the magazine survived on advertising, corporate and government grants and private contributions, Ms. Deitz said. Mr. Morgan, too, survived as editor for 55 years. Mr. Arrowsmith left around 1960 and Mr. Bennett in 1966.
        Besides editing the review, Mr. Morgan began writing poetry at the age of 50. His first volume, ''A Book of Change,'' grew out of his attempts to deal with tragedies in his life. His first wife, Constance Canfield, died at the age of 40, leaving him to care for their six children. His second marriage, to Rose Fillmore, ended in divorce, and his oldest son committed suicide in 1968.
        A dozen volumes followed ''A Book of Change,'' including ''Poems: New and Selected,'' in 1987, and ''The One Abiding'' (Story Line Press), which appeared last year.
        ''Poems for Paula,'' in 1995, was a paean to his third wife, a critic of art and architecture who joined the review in 1967, became associate editor in 1976 and stepped up to editor in 1998, when Mr. Morgan relinquished day-to-day duties and took the title founding editor.
        Walking from his book-lined apartment on the Upper East Side to his manuscript-cluttered office in Midtown, Mr. Morgan seemed to step out of another century with his tweed overcoat, beret and walking stick. He was tall and baldish, with a nimbus of white hair and a gentle face lined with literary decisions. His voice was soft but took on power in a poetry reading or a discussion of literary merits.
        Frederick Morgan was born in New York on April 25, 1922. He attended St. Bernard's School in New York and St. Paul's in Concord, N.H. At Princeton he studied under the poet-critic Allen Tate and, with Mr. Bennett, edited an undergraduate magazine, The Nassau Lit. He graduated in 1943. After wartime Army service, he sidestepped his father's soap business and began planning for The Hudson Review.
        Mr. Morgan was the editor of two anthologies of works originally published in the review, ''The Modern Image'' (Norton, 1965) and ''The Hudson Review Anthology'' (Vintage Books, 1961). His own poetry appeared in many periodicals, and he often gave readings at museums, universities, churches, poetry societies and other forums.
        ''He was a great gentleman and an elegant scholar and man of letters, and The Hudson Review has remained receptive to new talent always,'' said Alice Quinn, executive director of the Poetry Society of America and poetry editor of The New Yorker.
        Besides his wife, whom he married in 1969, Mr. Morgan is survived by two daughters, Gaylen Morgan and Veronica Morgan, both of Cambridge, Mass.; a son, George F. Morgan, of Pipersville, Pa.; and five grandchildren.
      