
        Lady Fiennes, who as the wife of the noted British explorer Sir Ranulph Fiennes accompanied her husband on some expeditions and endured his absences for up to three years or more while he was on others, died on Feb. 20 in Exeter, England. She was 56.
        The Associated Press said the death was reported by a family friend, Oliver Shepard. No cause of death was given.
        Sir Ranulph's more than 30 explorations have included discovering a lost city in Oman, parachuting onto a Norwegian glacier and being the first person to reach both poles by surface routes. Prince Charles called him ''refreshingly mad.''
        But the idea for perhaps his most audacious adventure came from his wife.
        As he tells the story in his 1983 book, ''To the Ends of the Earth: The Transglobe Expedition -- the First Pole-to-Pole Circumnavigation of the Globe,'' Lady Fiennes, whose given name was Virginia, was cooking Irish stew one evening in 1972 when she suggested that they go around the world -- vertically.
        Sir Ranulph responded that they could not pay the mortgage, much less start a trek nobody had ever accomplished. He also mentioned that both the top and bottom of the earth are covered by ice caps.
        '''So?' she answered,'' he wrote. ''Her glacier-blue eyes were on me, unblinking.''
        The discussion continued. She said it was ''pathetic'' not to try something just because nobody else had.
        So, seven years later, in 1979, the couple and a small team took off on a 35,000-mile journey to circle the world around the polar axis along the Greenwich meridian. They finished in three years, having survived dangers like errant polar bears and desert sunburns.
        Lady Fiennes operated radio stations at both poles and in 1987 became the first woman to be awarded the Polar Medal, a British honor.
        Virginia Frances Pepper was born on July 9, 1947, near Lodsworth, West Sussex. She met Ranulph when she was 9 and he was 12. After they went to separate boarding schools and she waited for him to finish his army service, they married in 1970, the same year he auditioned unsuccessfully to play James Bond in films.
        He proposed as the two sat in a car in a traffic jam. Of the marriage, The Guardian said in 1987: ''Not surprisingly her family objected strongly -- who wouldn't?''
        Sir Ranulph wrote that she thought of using his army training to pursue adventures for corporate sponsors, and the two soon found themselves traveling up the Nile. This grew into a company called ''Westward Ho! Adventure Holidays.''
        She was involved in all her husband's adventures, helping organize four expeditions to Oman to find the lost city of Ubar. She accompanied him there and elsewhere, usually as radio operator. She also became his sometimes acerbic spokeswoman, telling reporters when Norwegians became the first to walk to the North Pole that her husband, who had failed four times to do this, was ''thrilled to bits.''
        She hung up her headset in 1985, and in 1990 the family moved to a small farm on Exmoor, near West Somerset, England. She oversaw a farm with 200 Aberdeen Angus cows and 100 Welsh mountain sheep.
        Lady Fiennes is survived by her husband. The couple had no children.
        Clearly, Lady Fiennes's experience of marriage was at times unusual. Last November, her husband ran in seven marathons on six continents after having heart bypass surgery earlier in the year. In 2001, she heard a commotion in the tool shed, and all too soon found out that Sir Ranulph had sawed off the tips of his frostbitten fingers and a thumb.
        But Lady Fiennes's driving could unravel nerves strong enough to perform self-amputation.
        ''I wanted to get out of the car, but my wife told me to stop being a wimp,'' Sir Ranulph said in an interview with The Observer last year. ''I was petrified.''
      