
        Robert C. Zampano, a retired senior judge of the federal bench in Connecticut renowned for his skill in resolving complex disputes, in or out of court, died on Jan. 12 in New Haven. He was 74 and lived in East Haven.
        His death was announced in mid-January by the Connecticut Bar Association, which said he died after a brief illness.
        His appointment to the Federal District Court for Connecticut by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964 made him one of the youngest members of the federal bench.
        His skill in dispute resolution came to national attention after the collapse in 1987 of the half-finished L'Ambiance Plaza apartment complex in Bridgeport. Slabs of concrete crushed 27 workers to death and maimed 16 more. The subsequent lawsuits involved many victims and defendants and more than 90 lawyers, who presented the prospect of many years of logjams in federal and state courts.
        Judge Zampano, working with Judge Frank S. Meadows of State Superior Court, spent months interviewing parties, mediating among them and making sure most of the insurance money went to victims rather than legal costs. Within a year and a half, by late 1988, the judges put in place a $41 million settlement.
        Robert Carmine Zampano was born in New Haven. A 1951 graduate of Yale, he received an L.L.B. degree from Yale Law School in 1954. After serving as a clerk in the federal court in New Haven, he went into private practice there.
        He was later a partner in Zampano & Mager in East Haven and in 1961 was named an assistant United States attorney. In 1964, he began his 30 years in New Haven Federal Court.
        Over his career, he mediated an estimated 2,000 federal and state court cases.
        After retiring from the bench, he continued that work with the short-lived Sta-Fed ADR Inc., a nonprofit state-chartered service for resolving legal disputes. He also wrote and lectured about alternative dispute resolution.
        Judge Zampano is survived by his wife of 53 years, Dorothea Gilbridge Zampano; a son, Robert A., of Branford, Conn.; a daughter, Deborah L. Zampano of Port St. Lucie, Fla.; a sister, Roberta Seipold of East Haven; and three grandchildren.
      