
        Stephen M. Kellen, an investment banker who supported the arts and education in his adopted city of New York and helped build cultural bridges to his native Berlin, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 89 and lived on the Upper East Side.
        He died in his sleep at Lenox Hill Hospital, his family said.
        His most prominent legacy, the American Academy in Berlin, was founded in 1996.
        At his death, Mr. Kellen was co-chairman of the New York-based firm, Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder Holdings Inc.
        Mr. Kellen, a supporter of International House and a charter board member of the Interfaith Center of New York, was a life trustee of Thirteen/WNET, a trustee of Carnegie Hall and a supporter of the New York Philharmonic. He and his wife, co-chairmen of Carnegie Hall's opening night after Sept. 11, 2001, were patrons of Carnegie Hall's partnership with the Berlin Philharmonic.
        One of Mr. Kellen's interests in Germany grew from a conversation in 1996 with Richard C. Holbrooke. At Mr. Holbrooke's suggestion, Mr. Kellen, already a sponsor of cultural exchanges, endowed a residence in Berlin for visiting American artists, writers and scholars; the Berlin Senate offered a 40-room villa on the Lower Wannsee, a weekend destination for Berliners, for the residence.
        As it turned out -- a coincidence, Mr. Holbrooke said yesterday -- the villa had been the home of Mrs. Kellen's parents, Hans and Ludmilla Arnhold, and her own girlhood home. It is now known as the American Academy in Berlin at the Hans Arnhold Center.
        Stephen Max Kellen was born on April 21, 1914, in Berlin, where his family had lived for five generations. He studied at a commercial institute and was employed in Berlin before heading for England in 1936 to join Lazard Brothers Ltd. in London.
        In 1937 he moved to New York and worked at Loeb, Rhoades & Company until he joined Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder.
        Mr. Kellen was a director of the American Council on Germany, a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and a regent of the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine. He also supported the National Gallery of Art in Washington, the Pierpont Morgan Library, the Frick Collection, Lincoln Center and the New School University.
        In addition to his wife of 64 years, Anna-Maria Arnhold Kellen, Mr. Kellen is survived by a daughter, Marina K. French, and a son, Michael M., both of Manhattan; four grandchildren, and one great-grandson.
      