
        Jim Russo, who helped build a host of pennant-winning Baltimore Oriole teams in a scouting career that spanned more than three decades, died in Grover, Mo. He was 81.
        Family members found his body at his home last Sunday evening, said his daughter-in-law Lisa Russo. He had heart disease and diabetes, she said.
        Playing the infield, Russo never advanced beyond semipro ball. But he became one of baseball's most successful scouts, working for the Orioles from 1954 to 1986, much of that time as an assistant to the general manager with the informal designation of ''superscout.''
        Russo played important roles in signing the Hall of Fame pitcher Jim Palmer and Oriole standouts that included first baseman Boog Powell, pitcher Dave McNally and second baseman Davey Johnson. He engineered the acquisition of Frank Robinson, the Hall of Fame slugger, from the Cincinnati Reds, and obtained Mike Cuellar, who had been struggling with the Houston Astros but became a top pitcher in Baltimore.
        Russo was also a pioneer in advance scouting, analyzing the strengths and weaknesses of opposing players.
        Late in the 1966 National League pennant race, Russo watched the Los Angeles Dodgers in 22 games, then compiled a 16-page report that, among other things, assured the Orioles that Sandy Koufax, 27-9 in the regular season, would be beatable in a World Series matchup.
        As he recounted in ''Super Scout,'' written with Bob Hammel, Russo told the Oriole batters that Koufax had lost some velocity on both his fastball and his curveball, and he advised them to ''try to stay away from his high fastball that is above the strike zone.''
        The Orioles beat Koufax and the Dodgers, 6-0, in Game 2 (helped by outfielder Willie Davis's three errors in one inning) and went on to a four-game sweep.
        Russo, a native of Huntington, Ind., became a St. Louis Browns scout in 1951. He remained with the franchise when it became the Baltimore Orioles three years later, and during his years in Baltimore the club won six pennants and three World Series championships.
        He is survived by his sons, Ronald, of St. Louis, and Clifford, of St. Charles, Mo.; his daughters, Jennifer Baehr, of St. Albans, Mo., Nancy Blakeley, of Wildwood, Mo., and Susan Wrinkle, of Barnhart, Mo.; a sister, Mary Buchheit, of Indiana; and seven grandchildren. His wife, Betty, died in 1980.
        Russo did not rely on the computer projections that were available in his scouting days.
        ''The computer programs figure control according to how many walks the guy gives up, right?'' he once said. ''Well, what about the guy that gets behind in the count and just lays the ball in there?''
        He tried to discern pitchers' attributes that weren't easily measured.
        ''Are they confident enough of getting the breaking ball over when they're behind?'' he said. ''Or do they just throw the fastball? It's an indication of their confidence in themselves. It reflects their character.''
        But he was hardly infallible.
        Russo once had a disagreement with Orioles Manager Earl Weaver over how to pitch to Harry Chappas, a Chicago White Sox infielder of the late 1970's:
        ''I told Earl that Chappas appears to be a high-ball hitter. I told him we got to pitch him low.
        ''Earl laughed like the devil. He said to me: 'Jim, isn't that going to be kind of difficult?' ''
        Chappas was 5 feet 3 inches.
        ''You know,'' Russo said, ''I do make mistakes.'
      