
        Robert J. Harth, the artistic and executive director of Carnegie Hall, who in just two years managed the storied institution through the economic downturn that followed the attack on the World Trade Center, as well as the opening of a new underground stage and merger negotiations with the New York Philharmonic, died Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 47.
        The cause was apparently a heart attack, said Ann Diebold, a spokeswoman for Carnegie Hall.
        Mr. Harth was new to New York when he started at Carnegie Hall, having spent 22 years in Aspen, Colo., and Los Angeles. His first day of work was Sept. 16, 2001, just five days after the twin towers fell. In the year that followed, cultural organizations citywide struggled to cope with a steep decline in ticket sales and contributions.
        Mr. Harth was forced to make some risky decisions, including postponing the opening of Carnegie Hall's new auditorium, Judy and Arthur Zankel Hall, to fall 2003 from fall 2002. He also eliminated Carnegie Hall's jazz band.
        On Sept. 22, 2001, Isaac Stern, the violinist who had been Carnegie Hall's guiding force and had saved it from the wrecking ball, died, leaving Mr. Harth with another void to fill.
        There were also wounds to heal among the staff members. Mr. Harth inherited an institution hurting from the tenure of his predecessor, Franz Xaver Ohnesorg, who was widely described as autocratic and who drove out several senior staff members.
        In a matter of months, Mr. Harth created a very different work environment, one in which his colleagues felt consulted even as he made it clear that he would have the final say. His mild-mannered, sunny disposition led some classical music veterans to predict that the Philharmonic would roll right over him in the merger discussions last summer.
        Indeed, Mr. Harth's leadership was severely tested by those negotiations, which would have brought the prestigious orchestra back to the stage it left in 1962. Mr. Harth found himself across the table from Zarin Mehta, the executive director of the Philharmonic, who was nearly 20 years older and more experienced. Mr. Harth also had to satisfy a large and prestigious board - in particular its chairman, the financier Sanford I. Weill.
        Perhaps as a testament to Mr. Harth's diplomacy, he and Mr. Mehta remained friends even after the merger fell through. ''He was with me Wednesday night at the concert,'' Mr. Mehta said yesterday. ''Last Sunday I was with him at Carnegie Hall. It was that kind of relationship.''
        In considering a merger, Mr. Harth had the not inconsiderable burden of guarding Carnegie Hall's interests regarding programming and artistic control. And he ultimately determined, together with the board, that a merger would compromise Carnegie Hall's core identity as the home to many musical groups.
        This identity was brought into high relief by the opening of Zankel Hall. The hall, which revived an underground stage that had ended up as a movie theater, was intended as an experimental space to reach out to new audiences. It became a strong symbol of how varied Carnegie Hall had become since the Philharmonic was in residence there 41 years ago. Mr. Harth played a leading role in its programming.
        ''He was a true impresario,'' said Reynold Levy, the president of Lincoln Center. ''He did more in a shorter time to diversify what audiences experience at Carnegie Hall than anyone I can remember.''
        Reared in Pittsburgh by two professional violinists -- Sidney Harth, also a conductor, and Teresa Testa Harth -- the young Mr. Harth studied violin and flute but also played lead guitar in a basement band. While Bach, Stravinsky and Prokofiev were among his favorite composers, he also liked to listen to the Dave Matthews Band and Coldplay.
        In high school he spent summers doing odd jobs at the Aspen Music Festival, where his parents were on the faculty. The summer before his senior year at Northwestern University, he worked at the Ravinia Festival near Chicago, and he returned after graduation, quickly becoming associate manager. In 1979 he became executive director of the Los Angeles Philharmonic, overseeing the Hollywood Bowl's staff of 600 at just 23 years old. ''I was way over my head,'' he admitted in a recent interview.
        In 1989, Mr. Harth moved to the Aspen Festival and School, where in 12 years as president and chief financial officer he built the Harris Concert Hall and the Benedict Music Tent and increased the endowment to $40 million from $2 million.
        But for Mr. Harth, the Carnegie Hall post was the ultimate payoff. ''It's a dream come true for me,'' he said when his appointment was announced in March 2001. ''Carnegie Hall is steeped in the traditions of music that I know and I grew up with. And I think it is the greatest performing hall in the world.''
        Although he had a companion, Stacey Buck, and a country house, Mr. Harth was happily married to his job. He would start his days in his office and end them at a concert.
        In addition to his parents and companion, he is survived by a son, Jeffrey Curtis; a sister, Laura Harth Rodriguez; and his former wife, Melanie Harth.
        Mr. Harth had hoped to stay at Carnegie Hall for a long time. In the recent interview, he said: ''My track record shows that I like to make a long-term commitment. I hope I get the chance to do that here.''
        Correction:  March 3, 2004, Wednesday  An article in The Arts on Feb. 3 about Carnegie Hall's plans to look for a director to replace Robert J. Harth, who died on Jan. 30, misstated his title when he was at the Los Angeles Philharmonic. (The error also appeared in an obituary on Feb. 1.) Mr. Harth was vice president and general manager, not executive director.
        The article also misstated the name of the hall's education arm. It is the Weill Music Institute, not the Carnegie Hall Institute. The article also gave an incorrect surname at two points for the vice chairman and treasurer of Carnegie Hall's board. He is Klaus Jacobs.
      