
        Charles B. Benenson, a commercial real estate executive who oversaw the development of some of New York's most prestigious properties, died Sunday, according to his brother Lawrence. He was 91.
        Mr. Benenson worked in partnership with some of New York's oldest real estate families, including the Tisches, the Roses and the Helmsleys. He helped develop a wide range of New York's most prominent commercial buildings, including the Sotheby's building on 72nd street and York Avenue. He was the chairman of the Benenson Capital Company.
        Mr. Benenson was also an active philanthropist and an enthusiastic art collector who had a wing of African Art dedicated to him at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
        While Mr. Benenson bought and sold properties that once belonged to some of Manhattan's wealthiest families, including the Vanderbilts and the Astors, his roots in real estate development were more pedestrian. His father, Benjamin Benenson, was a developer who concentrated his activities in the Bronx, building the high-rises of that time: five-story buildings now known as tenements.
        In 1937, four years after graduating from Yale, Mr. Benenson joined his father's real estate company, then known as Benenson Properties. By the 1940's and 1950's, Mr. Benenson had branched out from the Bronx, buying a number of high-profile properties in Times Square, the Upper East Side and Midtown.
        In 1960 what would become a long association with the Tisch family was formalized when he became a board member of Loews Theaters, which later became the Loews Corporation.
        Mr. Benenson was a bridge partner of Laurence A. Tisch, the eventual chairman of Loews. Mr. Benenson developed a number of properties in partnership with the Tisches and stayed on the Loews board for 41 years. With the Tisches, Mr. Benenson extended his reach, developing an office complex in White Plains.
        Mr. Benenson's love of art was known to be impulsive.
        One day in the early 1960's, while having lunch at the Four Seasons, Mr. Benenson spotted an 18 1/2-inch bronze cast of Rodin's ''Mighty Hand,'' which was on display there.
        One phone call later, the sculpture was his, for $4,500.
        ''It's a lot of money for just one hand,'' he said in an article in The New York Times in 1964. ''But then, too, it's quite a hand.''
        Mr. Benenson's philanthropic work was multifaceted.
        He was the founder of the I Have a Dream Foundation with Eugene Lang and was a supporter of inner-city schools through charities like the Inner City Scholarship Fund. He was a longtime member of the American Jewish Committee as well as United Cerebral Palsy.
        He is survived by his wife, Jane; his sons William, Frederick and Lawrence; and two brothers, Lawrence and Raymond.
      