
        Archbishop Denis Hurley, who retired as leader of the archdiocese of Durban, South Africa, and was an implacable foe of the country's apartheid policies, died last Friday, Roman Catholic Church officials said. He was 88.
        The archdiocese said he appeared to have had a stroke while being driven from a church service to his home in Durban.
        Archbishop Hurley was a leader among white church officials opposed to the racial policies enforced by the white South African government until its collapse.
        As head of the Southern African Catholic Bishops' Conference, he condemned apartheid as evil, and his seat at the Durban cathedral became a rallying point for black African protests and marches.
        Archbishop Hurley faced down resistance among conservative white congregants. His home was hit by gasoline bombs in 1976. But his firm stand earned him wide respect, particularly among the Zulu people and their chiefs.
        Denis Eugene Hurley was born in Cape Town, the son of a lighthouse keeper. Of Irish descent, he began his clerical studies in 1933 in County Limerick.
        He attended Gregorian University in Rome, was ordained a priest in 1939 and returned home to South Africa the next year.
        He rose quickly in the church hierarchy. He was a curate at the cathedral in Durban, taught dogmatic theology and in 1946 was named a titular bishop and Vicar Apostolic of Natal Province. At 31, he became the youngest Roman Catholic bishop anywhere at the time.
        In 1951, he became the first archbishop of the Archdiocese of Durban. Representing a religious minority within the country's empowered racial minority, he soon earned a reputation as an indefatigable church leader who openly defied the racial pecking order upheld by the government.
        His warnings of coming racial strife proved prophetic as the National Party of white Afrikaners -- descendants of the Dutch Boers -- became increasingly repressive in the 1950's.
        He attended sessions of the ecumencal council Vatican II in Rome in the 1960's, calling on the church to take a stand on apartheid as a moral issue.
        Back home, in 1965, he warned that the racial situation would become ''beyond human control, beyond human hope.''
        He led a citizens' action committee to agitate against the government's policy of ''resettling'' Africans in so-called Bantustan regions to keep the the races apart. His outspoken stances attracted Africans to the Catholic church in increasing numbers.
        His personal confrontations with the police and justice system were relatively few, and he became one of the leading church figures who sought a negotiated solution.
        After retiring as archbishop, he returned to parish work.
      