
        H. Daniel Carpenter, a longtime leader in the national settlement house movement and for 30 years the director of the Hudson Guild in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan, died on Feb. 7 in Tucson, Ariz. He was 95 and had moved to Tucson in 2002 after living in Chelsea for 71 years.
        His death was announced by the Hudson Guild and the National Association on Drug Abuse Problems, of which he later became president.
        Mr. Carpenter was among those who fostered the rebirth of Chelsea, a residential swath of the West Side from 14th to 30th Street once dominated by the Hudson River docks and the immigrants who worked there in a wretched social environment. The Hudson Guild, like other settlement houses, was founded in 1895 as an experiment in social reform.
        Mr. Carpenter was its executive director during a crucial period, from 1943 until 1973. He introduced or expanded programs for returning veterans, better housing, education and job training, the arts and community organization. He oversaw programs for the elderly, English as a second language, psychological counseling and racial tolerance.
        He remained a trustee until 1991 and was consulted even after his move to Tucson.
        Mr. Carpenter was president and chief executive of the National Association on Drug Abuse Problems, with headquarters in Manhattan, from 1973 to 1984 and remained a board member until 1995. He led it during a period of growth for its mission of helping recovering addicts.
        Herschel Daniel Carpenter was born on a farm in Attica, Ohio, and moved to Chelsea after finishing what was then Denison College in 1931. While working for a master's degree in social work at New York University, he got a job offer from Dr. John Lovejoy Elliott, the founding director of the Guild and a leader in the Ethical Culture Society.
        From the start, Mr. Elliott let Mr. Carpenter run an array of Guild programs for the neighborhood's schoolchildren, immigrants and elderly, as well as the New Jersey farm where generations of Chelsea residents used to take their vacations. (Later, as director, he vainly fought to keep the farm, which fell victim to growing needs elsewhere on the Guild's agenda.)
        In 1932, Mr. Carpenter married Marjorie Elliott, the founder's niece, who died in 1980. He is survived by their son, Roger C. of Tucson, and a grandson.
      