
        Elise Asher, a painter and a poet who blended images and poetry in her work, died last Sunday at her home in Greenwich Village. She was 92 and also had a studio and summer home in Provincetown, Mass.
        The cause was complications from a broken hip she suffered three weeks earlier, her family said. She was the wife of Stanley Kunitz, a former poet laureate of the United States.
        Ms. Asher was an artist whose work was shown and published for more than 50 years, starting with a one-woman show in 1953 and a collection of poetry in 1955.
        A restrospective is scheduled for this September at the June Kelly Gallery in SoHo, and a final sampler of her verse pictures was published in 2000.
        Ms. Asher has been called an abstractionist on natural themes. She rendered poetry -- hers and others', including that of Mr. Kunitz -- on canvas in oil or acrylics on plexiglass. Conversely, she translated objects into verse.
        Mixing and layering media, her brush jotted words on canvas, joining them through color and calligraphy so that the poem lay splayed in a bouquet of color and symbol.
        At times her word-illuminations made the viewer squint to decipher them.
        She could be whimsical, evoking ancient landscapes as a backdrop for playful horses and mythical animals. Later, when infirmity made painting a chore, she also used pencil and ink, in small drawings and lithographs.
        She was born in Chicago. She studied at the Art Institute of Chicago and graduated from the Simmons School of Social Work in Boston before moving to New York in 1947.
        She started writing poetry at a young age and had it published in Partisan Review and other periodicals. A collection, ''The Meandering Absolute,'' came out in 1955.
        She was married to the painter Nanno De Groot in 1949 and divorced in 1957. A year later she married Mr. Kunitz, whom she had met through painter friends. He survives her, along with her daughter, Dr. Babette Becker, of Manhattan; a stepdaughter, Dr. Gretchen Kunitz, of Orinda, Calif.; three granddaughters; and three great-grandchildren.
        Ms. Asher had her first show in 1953 at the Tanager Gallery in New York. Since then her work has entered private and more than a dozen public collections, including those of the National Academy of Sciences and the Corcoran Gallery. The Fine Arts Work Center in Provincetown held a retrospective in 2000.
        In 1994 the Sheep Meadow Press published ''The Visionary Gleam: Texts and Transformation,'' a title suggested by a William Wordsworth ode to combine the sources of her art. It placed, side by side, color plates of her paintings and the poems that sparked her imagination.
        Sheep Meadow also issued ''Night Train'' (2000), for which she re-edited a collection of own poetry. Both books remain in print.
      