
        John W. Seybold, a pioneer in the field of computerized typesetting, which transformed the publishing industry, died on Sunday at a hospice in Haverford, Pa. He was 88.
        The cause was heart failure, according to his son Andrew Seybold.
        In 1963, Mr. Seybold, a longtime printing industry executive in Philadelphia, visited The Palm Beach Post, where he saw a primitive computerized hyphenation system to help printers decide where words should break.
        The visit proved an inspiration, and later that year he left his job at Printing Industries of Philadelphia to found Research on Computer Applications in the Printing and Publishing Industries, or Rocappi.
        The company, which was created on a shoestring, did research and development on computer typesetting techniques as well as serving as the world's first commercial computer typesetting service bureau.
        In the next seven years his company invented and developed concepts for creating, editing and formatting text for print or electronic distribution.
        In 1964 Rocappi produced the first computer-typeset product guide, an automotive directory for McGraw-Hill. The project made heavy use of macros, programs to simplify the repetitive creation of listings, an application that Mr. Seybold pioneered.
        The company created a pagination program that made it possible to control the appearance of text on a printed page with software. The task had previously been done manually by printers who worked with individual lines of typed text formed from hot lead.
        It was Mr. Seybold, according to his son Andrew, who first used ''what you see is what you get'' in reference to computerized word processing, after watching ''The Flip Wilson Show'' on which Mr. Wilson used the phrase to describe his female character Geraldine.
        The phrase came to be abbreviated as WYSIWYG and was popularized by computer systems developed at the Palo Alto Research Center of Xerox in the early 1970's.
        In 1971, with his son Jonathan, Mr. Seybold started The Seybold Report, an industry newsletter appearing twice a month that became an authoritative resource for the publishing industry.
        As an industry consultant in 1972, Mr. Seybold played a key role in the decision by U.S. News & World Report to become the first customer for the Atex Publishing Systems Corporation, a garage start-up created by a group of recent M.I.T. graduates. Atex would go on to become the dominant company in the computer typesetting industry in the 1970's and 1980's.
        ''He had the faith that a few guys in a garage could build a system that would be usable by a major enterprise,'' said Richard Ying, a co-founder of Atex.
        Mr. Seybold continued to play a significant role in the evolution of computerized typesetting well into the 1980's. Since then, because of the activities of his children, the Seybold family name has continued to be widely recognized in other computer-related fields.
        His son Jonathan created the Seybold Seminars and Digital World conferences and trade shows. His son Andrew has become an industry consultant in mobile and wireless computing applications and now publishes Outlook 4Mobility. And his daughter Patricia consults with corporate computing users through her firm, the Patricia Seybold Group.
        Mr. Seybold is survived by his wife, Trudie, of Haverford, Pa.; Jonathan, of Santa Fe, N.M.; Patricia, of Boston; and Andrew, of Santa Barbara, Calif.; and four grandchildren.
      