
        Mary Lindsay, who as John V. Lindsay's accomplished, blue-blood wife brought casual elegance and political acumen to his campaigns for New York City mayor and other offices while fiercely protecting the family's limited privacy, died yesterday in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 77.
        The cause was cancer, her daughter Margaret Picotte said. Mrs. Lindsay lived in Hilton Head, S.C.
        Mr. Lindsay, who was mayor from 1966 to 1973, died on Dec. 19, 2000, at age 79.
        Mrs. Lindsay, whose energy was suggested by her vigorous bicycle rides in Central Park and the countless coffee hours she held during her husband's campaigns, was her husband's most trusted adviser. James Reston described her in The New York Times as ''smarter than 16 Yale men,'' and Mr. Lindsay once volunteered that she was tougher than he was.
        ''You can say anything in front of Mary,'' he said in a remark quoted by Vogue magazine in 1969. ''Besides, it'll save me having to tell her all over again.''
        Mrs. Lindsay preceded Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis by three years at Miss Porter's School and Vassar and redecorated Gracie Mansion in the fine manner in which the first lady had made over the White House. But Mrs. Lindsay thought designer gowns were a waste of money and bought her clothes off the shelf in department stores. Reflecting her political sagacity, she explained that locally made clothes were a critical part of the city's economy.
        Her never-disguised devotion to her children struck a responsive chord with many mothers.
        ''I have a strict rule,'' she said in an interview with The New York Post in 1971. ''Nothing is scheduled for me after 4 p.m. That's when Johnnie comes home from school.''
        She was also protective of her husband's most precious asset, time -- not to mention his peace of mind.
        ''When he needs something done I may scream around the house,'' she said in a 1969 interview with The Times. ''But when he gets home, it's all peaches and cream.''
        Mary Anne Harrison was born on Oct. 30, 1926, in Richmond, Va. Her father, Randolph Carter Harrison, was a senior vice president of Central Hanover Bank and Trust Company. Her mother, the former Mary Hawes, was president of the Garden Club of America.
        She and her two brothers grew up in Greenwich, Conn. She enjoyed a tomboy's life, developing a reputation for independence. She needed only three years to graduate from Vassar in 1947 with a degree in psychology.
        In her last year of college, she and John met when they were members of the wedding party of Nancy Walker Bush, sister of the former president George H. W. Bush, and Alexander Ellis. Mrs. Lindsay told The Post in 1965 that she first thought Mr. Lindsay was ''horrid'' because he did not pay any attention to her.
        ''Later, when we knew each other a lot better, he said he had been assigned to be very nice to the groom's younger sister,'' she said. ''I now accept that.''
        In 1948, in the kitchen of his parents' home, he asked her to marry him, she said. But he maintained he was only getting a beer.
        ''He still says that,'' she said. ''But I know John. If he wanted to get out of something, he would have managed.''
        Before her marriage she taught at the Mary C. Wheeler School in Providence, R.I., and at the Buckley School in New York.
        They were married in June 1949 and moved into a $63-a-month apartment in Stuyvesant Town in Manhattan, according to Diplomat magazine. Mr. Lindsay was making $3,600 a year with his law firm. After the couple's first two children were born, they moved into a larger Stuyvesant Town residence that cost $83 a month. Eventually, they bought a $10,000 co-op.
        She at first thought she would devote herself to being a homemaker. ''I thought it would be glorious,'' she said to The Post. ''Nothing to do but clean and be a good little housewife. I was bored to death.''
        She soon got a job at a nearby nursery school until her first child, now Katharine Lake, of Connecticut, was born.
        In addition to her, Mrs. Lindsay is survived by two other daughters, Margaret Picotte of Florida and Anne Lindsay of Massachusetts; her son, John Jr. of Connecticut; and five grandchildren.
        The demands of motherhood were soon joined by the rigors of campaigning as Mr. Lindsay won three terms as a congressman from the city's ''Silk Stocking District,'' serving from 1959 to 1965.
        She described their days at Gracie Mansion as ''beginning with chaos, ending with chaos and with a slight climactic middle.''
        The verbal skills of the slender, green-eyed woman were suggested by her answer when asked how she felt when her husband was described as ''the creator of all urban evil,'' by The Post in 1971. She at first snapped that people who criticized Mr. Lindsay were ignorant.
        Mrs. Lindsay quickly recovered.
        ''Goodness,'' she said, ''criticism is part of our heritage. It's an important feature of this country.''
        Robert Price, who helped direct Mr. Lindsay's four congressional races and first mayoral campaign, once gave Mrs. Lindsay the ultimate politician's compliment. He called her ''a political force more powerful than patronage.''
      