
        Isaac Kleinerman, a leading producer and editor of television documentaries, including the celebrated 1960 condensation of ''Victory at Sea'' for NBC and ''The 20th Century,'' a CBS News series, died on March 7 while vacationing in Bucerias, Mexico. He was 87 and a resident of Todi, in Umbria, Italy.
        His death was reported by his wife, Linda Richardson.
        ''Victory at Sea'' first appeared in 1952 in 26 half-hour installments, with a celebrated score by Richard Rodgers arranged by Robert Russell Bennett.
        Mr. Kleinerman, working with the producer and director Donald B. Hyatt, edited miles of film into a 90-minute version that retained the stirring quality of the original. Critics hailed it as an outstanding achievement, which provided continuity that was lacking in the original 13-hour presentation.
        Mr. Kleinerman went on to collaborate with the legendary CBS News director Burton Benjamin on ''The 20th Century,'' which dealt with topics on the American agenda, past and present.
        Four of the programs he produced for the series in the 1960's were nominated for Emmy Awards.
        He won an Emmy in 1968 as the producer of another program that he and Mr. Benjamin had started the year before, ''The 21st Century.'' Narrated by Walter Cronkite, it scanned the future for advances in science and technology.
        Mr. Kleinerman won an Albert Lasker Award for medical journalism in 1970 as producer of the CBS news program ''The First 10 Minutes of Life.'' One of the last specials he produced for CBS was ''Peace and the Pentagon'' (1974), a look at defense spending and the country's worldwide commitments with an all-volunteer military.
        After retiring from CBS in 1975, he formed an independent company with his wife, producing series on the Soviet Union in World War II and a documentary about China, among other programs. The couple moved to Italy in 1986.
        Isaac Kleinerman was born in Manhattan. He attended City College but dropped out during the Depression and went to work for local film studios. He was at 20th Century Fox in New York when the country entered World War II. He entered the armed forces to edit training films.
        In addition to Ms. Richardson, his wife of 30 years, Mr. Kleinerman is survived by two daughters, Laura, of Manhattan and Dr. Judith, of Mansfield, Mass.; and two granddaughters.
        Correction:  April 2, 2004, Friday  An obituary headline on Sunday about Isaac Kleinerman, a leading producer and editor of television documentaries, misstated his role on the celebrated 1960 condensation of ''Victory at Sea'' for NBC. He was the editor, not the producer.
        Correction:  May 4, 2004, Tuesday  An obituary on March 28 about Isaac Kleinerman, a producer and editor of television documentaries, misstated his role in editing ''Victory at Sea,'' as did a correction in this space on April 2. Mr. Kleinerman edited the original multipart series as well as a two-hour version for release to movie theaters. A later 90-minute condensation for television was edited by Silvio D'Alisera. The obituary also referred incompletely to Mr. Kleinerman's Emmy Awards. There were two -- in 1961, for ''The Twentieth Century,'' and in 1968, for ''The 21st Century.'' This correction was delayed for further checking of contradictory reference sources.
      