
        Paul Winfield, an actor known for his versatility and power in stage, film and television roles that included a highly praised televised portrayal of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in 1978 and an Oscar-nominated part in ''Sounder'' in 1972, died on Sunday in Los Angeles. He was 62.
        The cause was a heart attack, his agent, Michael Livingston, said.
        In 1968 Mr. Winfield played the boyfriend of Diahann Carroll in her situation comedy ''Julia,'' a role that Contemporary Black Biography, a reference book, suggested helped open television to more black performers. Four years later Mr. Winfield was nominated for an Academy Award for his portrayal of the father in Martin Ritt's ''Sounder.''
        Even an Oscar nomination did not guarantee acting offers, and Mr. Winfield often found himself relegated to supporting roles like Jim in a remake of ''Huckleberry Finn'' in 1974. The Washington Post in 1991 said that his opportunities reflected ''the industry's fickle interest in black actors and stories.''
        His appearances in many television roles, from a starring part in ''The Charmings'' in 1987 to being a voice on ''The Simpsons'' in 1998, gave him a long and steady career, and some accolades. His portrayal of the title role in the mini-series ''King'' in 1978 won an Emmy nomination for best actor. His interpretation of a college chancellor willing to sing Negro spirituals to get donations for his school in ''Roots: The Next Generation'' in 1979 received an Emmy nomination for best supporting actor. He won an Emmy in 1995 for his guest appearance as a federal judge whose rulings on busing inner-city children are challenged by one of the town's leading citizens in ''Picket Fences.''
        Among his scores of movie roles, Mr. Winfield received particular notice in 1984 for his portrayal of Gabriel Grimes, the hero in the made-for-television adaptation of James Baldwin's semi-autobiographical novel ''Go Tell It on the Mountain.''
        As he played more and more authority figures later in his career, like his acclaimed portrayal of the sarcastic but sagacious judge in the 1990 feature film ''Presumed Innocent.'' Alan J. Pakula said in an interview with People magazine, ''Paul went in as an actor playing the judge, and he came out a folk hero.''
        Other significant roles included appearing in the Broadway play ''Checkmates'' with Denzel Washington, playing Don King in a 1995 HBO movie and portraying the adoptive father of two Vietnamese children in the feature film ''Catfish in Black Bean Sauce'' in 1999.
        Paul Edward Winfield was born on May 22, 1941, in Los Angeles. He was raised by a single mother, Lois Edwards, a union organizer, until he was 8, when his mother married his stepfather, who worked for years as a city garbage collector and then as a supervisor.
        He was bused to the predominantly white Manual Arts High School in Los Angeles and was named best actor for three years in a row in an annual Southern California high school drama competition. He studied drama at four colleges before leaving the University of California at Los Angeles six credits short of a bachelor's degree.
        He became a contract player at Columbia Pictures and caught the eye of Burgess Meredith, who cast him in two Amiri Baraka stage plays. That caught the eye of Sidney Poitier, who hired him in 1969 for ''The Lost Man,'' his first movie role.
        Mr. Winfield spoke out strongly for civil rights. And when he battled obesity, diabetes and high blood pressure, he urged blacks to lose weight because blacks are particularly susceptible to some heart ailments. ''No one ever said so, but I'm sure my weight was the reason I didn't get certain roles,'' he said in an interview with Jet magazine.
        Mr. Winfield is survived by his sister, Patricia Wilson, of Las Vegas.
      