
        Bates Lowry, an art and architectural historian who was the founding director of the National Building Museum in Washington and served for a short time as director of the Museum of Modern Art in New York, died on Friday in Brooklyn. He was 80 and lived in Boston.
        The cause was pneumonia, said Carol Brownell, a family friend. He was staying with a daughter in Brooklyn while preparing to move to New York when he was hospitalized, she said.
        In a wide-ranging career of teaching and research in the visual arts, Dr. Lowry produced a number of publications, most recently ''Looking for Leonardo,'' a catalog for a traveling show of naïve and folk art objects from his own extensive collection (Unversity of Iowa Museum of Art, 1993), and ''The Silver Canvas: Daguerreotype Masterpieces From the J. Paul Getty Museum,'' published by the museum in 1998 and written with his wife, Isabel Barrett, whom he married in 1946.
        The couple had a collection of early photographs, including many daguerreotypes, which were photographs on metal. Dr. Lowry was a consultant to the Getty in this field in the early 1990's.
        In 1966, concerned about flooding in Florence, Italy, that had threatened or destroyed masterpieces of Renaissance art, Dr. Lowry, then chairman of the art department at Brown University, established with other art historians the Committee to Rescue Italian Art, known as Cria. The group raised $3 million, then a significant amount, and Dr. Lowry was its chairman until 1976.
        His work in this field and his other art historical credentials led to his appointment in 1968 as director of the Museum of Modern Art. But his tenure there lasted only 10 months. In his recent memoirs, David Rockefeller, chairman of the museum at the time, attributed Dr. Lowry's dismissal to his effort to take on the job of curator of painting and sculpture as well, a plan that was resented by the department, and to an expensive renovation of his office suite without board permission.
        In 1980, he became the founding director of the National Building Museum in Washington, remaining until 1987. He oversaw the renovation of the landmark 1881 Pension Building, where the museum is housed.
        Bates Lowry was born in Cincinnati on June 23, 1923. After undergraduate studies at the University of Chicago, he served in the United States Army from 1942 to 1945. He received an M.A. and a Ph.D. from Chicago and taught there from 1952 to 1953. In addition to Brown, he later held teaching posts at the University of California at Riverside, the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University, Pomona College, the University of Massachusetts and the University of Delaware.
        His research subjects included the architectural history of the Louvre in Paris and a collection of 16th-century engravings of Rome, the ''Speculum Romanae Magnificentiae,'' in the University of Chicago library. Among his other publications were ''The Visual Experience: An Introduction to Art'' (1951) and ''Building a National Image: Architectural Drawings for the American Democracy'' (1985).
        Dr. Lowry's wife died last Dec. 28. His survivors include two daughters, Anne C. Klonsky, of Chicago, and Patricia Barrett Lowry, of Brooklyn; four grandchildren; and a great-granddaughter.
      