
        George Dewey Reycraft, a leading Wall Street litigator of complex corporate tangles and a former trustbuster for the Justice Department, died on Monday in Miami. A resident of Key Largo, Fla., he was 79 and formerly lived in Pelham Manor, N.Y.
        His death was announced by his daughter Sheilah.
        Mr. Reycraft was a longtime principal of Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft. A senior partner, he retired in 1994 as co-chairman of the law firm and chairman of its litigation department.
        His role at Cadwalader was two-sided. He took a leading part in the courtroom in high-profile cases, like the one challenging the accounting practices of Arthur Andersen, the accounting firm, in a $60 million damage suit.
        He was also known as an able department head who provided leadership and guidance to other litigators.
        He rose to national prominence in 1959 as the federal government's chief litigator in a protracted antitrust confrontation with E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Company and General Motors.
        He successfully argued that DuPont's 43 percent stake in G.M. constituted a ''tendency toward monopoly'' in violation of the Sherman Antitrust Act, and DuPont was forced to give up its stock.
        After joining Cadwalader in 1963, Mr. Reycraft played a role in major corporate cases. Among them was an investors' suit against Arthur Andersen over millions lost in Bernard Cornfeld's 1960's mutual fund flimflam operations, which he won for the investors in 1981.
        He also handled an investors' complaint in 1987 against the fallen arbitrager Ivan F. Boesky and his main underwriter, Drexel Burnham Lambert.
        That case also produced the prospect of two major, old-line Wall Street firms fighting each other in court when Mr. Reycraft charged Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson, the respected financial law firm that represented Mr. Boesky, with having been complicit in the swindle that bilked Cadwalader's clients. (The dispute between the law firms was settled privately out of court.)
        One of Mr. Reycraft's antagonists was Harvey L. Pitt, a Washington-based Fried, Frank partner who also was Mr. Boesky's chief defense lawyer at the time and more recently chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
        George Reycraft was born in New Haven. Left fatherless during the Depression, his daughter said, he helped out with odd jobs and studied on scholarships at the Hopkins School, at Wesleyan University, where he graduated in 1947, and at Harvard Law School, where he received his degree in 1950. He also served as a major in the Air Force during World War II and, again, in the Korean War.
        He was briefly a civilian lawyer for the Navy and then became a trial lawyer in the Justice Department in 1952. He rose to assistant chief of general litigation and, in 1958, chief of the special trial section. In 1961, leading the DuPont-G.M. litigation, he was operations chief in the Antitrust Division.
        After he retired from Cadwalader, he became vice chairman and later chairman of M.A. Schapiro & Company, bank securities dealers. Its founder, Morris A. Schapiro, an old associate of his, died in 1996.
        After that he was a principal in a fund focused on financial stocks and in a condominium development in Bay Harbor Islands, Fla.
        Mr. Reycraft is survived by his wife, Meg Macy-Reycraft, and three sons and four daughters from his first marriage, to Pamela Colville Reycraft: George C., Thaddeus J., Anna K. Reycraft and Nancy J. McErlean, all of Bay Harbor Islands; Thomas C. of Pelham Manor, Pamela C. Rose of Riverdale and Sheilah M. Reycraft of Manhattan. Also surviving are a stepdaughter, Mary Grace Macy of Los Angeles; a stepson, Christian Macy of Phoenix; and 10 grandchildren.
      