
        Ustad Vilayat Khan, one of India's most renowned sitar players, died on Saturday at Jaslok Hospital in Mumbai, the Indo-Asian News Service reported. He was 76 and had residences in Dehra Dun, India, and Princeton, N.J.
        The cause was lung cancer and other problems, the news service reported.
        Mr. Khan represented both tradition and maverick innovation in his music. He was celebrated for developing a sitar style called gayaki ang, or vocal style, that brought the inflections of vocal music to his improvisations in the classical repertory. He retuned the drone strings of the sitar and invented a technique of bending a note after it was plucked, tracing a sonic after-image. His style became widely influential across Indian music.
        Mr. Khan, his brother Ustad Rais Khan, who plays sitar, and his brother Ustad Imrat Khan, who plays the surbahar (a larger, deeper-toned relative of the sitar), represent the sixth generation of a family and school of musicians, the Imdad Khani gharana, that dates back to the Mughal Empire. His sons Shujaat Khan and Hidayat Khan, who are sitar players, continue the family tradition. They survive Mr. Khan along with his brothers, his wife and two daughters.
        NDTV (New Delhi Television) reported that the prime minister of India, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, said in a statement, ''Ustad Vilayat Khan was a child prodigy to whom goes the credit of taking the sitar beyond the shores of this country.''
        Mr. Khan was born in 1928 in Gouripur, a village that is now part of Bangladesh. His father, Ustad Inayat Khan, was a well-known sitar player, and Vilayat Khan studied with him and gave his first public performances when he was 6. He made his first recordings two years later. He also studied vocal music with his mother's father, Bande Hussain Khan, and her brother, Zinda Hussain Khan, applying what he learned to his phrasing on the sitar.
        He was 10 when his father died, but he continued to perform and to study with his father's brother, Wahid Khan, who played the surbahar. He sometimes practiced until his fingers bled.
        He was widely acclaimed as a teenager, earning five encores and nationwide notice at a concert in 1944. He went on to tour India and the world. In 1964 and 1968, the Indo-Asian News Service reported, he rejected the highest civilian honors of the Indian government, the Padma Shri and Padma Vibhushan awards, saying the awards committee was incompetent in judging artistic creativity. Among many other honors in the course of his career, he became a member of the Sangeet Natak Akademi, an honor given to only 30 living artists at any time.
        In addition to performing and recording, Mr. Khan composed music for the Satyajit Ray film ''The Music Room'' (1958) and for the Ismail Merchant-James Ivory film ''The Guru'' (1969).
        He performed regularly in New York, most recently in September 2003 at Avery Fisher Hall, and he had been scheduled to perform on May 22 at Zankel Hall. The World Music Institute, which is producing that concert in partnership with Carnegie Hall, announced that the program will become a tribute to Mr. Khan's music.
        Correction:  April 10, 2004, Saturday  An obituary on March 15 about Ustad Vilayat Khan, a leading Indian sitar player, misstated the relationship of a survivor and fellow player, Ustad Rais Khan. He is a nephew, not a brother.
      