
        Gene Allison, whose groundbreaking 1957 rhythm-and-blues hit, ''You Can Make It if You Try,'' was a precursor of 1960's soul music and was recorded by the Rolling Stones on their debut album in 1964, died here on March 6. He was 69.
        The cause was kidney and liver failure, his brother, Levert Allison, told The Tennessean, the daily newspaper here.
        ''You Can Make It if You Try,'' a Top 5 single on Billboard's R&B chart and a Top 40 pop hit, was a musical revelation. Mr. Allison's church-influenced, passionate vocal was the perfect vehicle for Ted Jarrett's evangelical composition, and the swelling organ accompaniment would later be copied on countless soul recordings. This early fusion of secular and sacred sounds on a pop record helped start a trend that persists today.
        Mr. Allison was a singer's singer. Sam Cooke, another early soul stylist, once said, ''I wish I could sing like Gene Allison.'' The later inspirational singles ''Have Faith'' and ''Everything Will Be All Right'' were Top 20 R&B hits in the 1950's for Mr. Allison, whose commercial success ended by the early 60's. He had recently spoken of trying to make a comeback.
        Versie Eugene Allison was born on Aug. 29, 1934, in Pegram, Tenn., and moved here at 7 with his family. He sang in church choirs as he grew up, which helped him get jobs with professional gospel quartets like the Fairfield Four and the Skylarks. While in high school he often filled in for the Fairfield Four's lead vocalist, Sam McCrary. Mr. Jarrett persuaded Mr. Allison to try his hand at R&B, and the result was ''You Can Make It if You Try.''
        In addition to his brother, Mr. Allison is survived by his wife, Evelyn; three daughters, Pamela Anderson, Paula Johnson and Patrice Whitaker; a son, Porter; 14 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  March 19, 2004, Friday  Because of an editing error, an obituary of the singer Gene Allison on Sunday misstated the date of his death. It was Feb. 28, not March 6. The headline also misidentified his specialty; it was mainly rhythm and blues, not soul.
      