
        Dr. J. Wayne Streilein, a scientist and an academic administrator whose research helped lay a foundation for corneal and other eye-tissue transplants, died on Monday in Boston, where he headed the Schepens Eye Research Institute. He was 68 and lived in Beverly, Mass.
        Dr. Streilein was being treated for a bloodborne infection when he died at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, said his wife, Joan Stein-Streilein, a senior scientist at Schepens, which is affiliated with the Harvard Medical School.
        In work that crossed the disciplines of immunology, genetics and ophthalmology, Dr. Streilein helped establish that the human eye had adapted to protect itself from the immune responses that cause other parts of the body to reject foreign matter. The concept, called immune privilege, contributed to an understanding that was applied in transplanting eye tissue.
        ''The work of Wayne Streilein led to the discovery that diseases within the eye are probably unique in their presentation there and, therefore, unique in terms of their treatment,'' said Dr. Henry J. Kaplan, chairman of the ophthalmology department at the University of Louisville.
        Dr. Kaplan, who worked with Dr. Streilein at the outset of his research in the 1970's, added that immune privilege helped explain why corneal transplants were usually accepted by patients without infections or the need to suppress the immune system with medication.
        ''That idea became a central theme in his laboratory for the next three decades,'' Dr. Kaplan said.
        Dr. Streilein arrived at Schepens in 1993, where he was president while also serving as vice chairman of the Harvard ophthalmology department.
        Dr. Paul A. Sieving, director of the National Eye Institute in Bethesda, Md., said Dr. Streilein ''rebuilt the institute, increased the number of investigators and made it one of the of premier eye-research institutions in the world.''
        Jacob Wayne Streilein graduated from Gettysburg College, where he studied chemistry, and received his medical degree from the University of Pennsylvania. He had positions at Penn and the University of Texas Southwestern Medical School in Dallas before accepting the chairmanship of the department of microbiology and immunology at the University of Miami School of Medicine.
        He was also a visiting professor at foundations and universities in China, India and the United States. In 2002, he was made an honorary professor of the Institute of Ophthalmology at University College London. He was editor in chief of Regional Immunology and sat on the National Advisory Eye Council. Dr. Streilein received a distinguished service award from the American Association of Immunologists in 1993.
        In addition to his wife, surviving are a daughter, Laura Streilein Berend of Fairview, Tex.; 2 sons, William, of Sudbury, Mass., and Robert, of Durham, N.C.; a brother, David, of Austin, Tex.; and 11 grandchildren.
      