
        Lester Dundes, who as the publisher of Interior Design Magazine for more than 45 years was a major force in helping to transform interior design from a hobby of the rich into a mainstream profession, died on March 13 at his home in Water Mill, N.Y., according to his daughter Kate Shattan. He was 90.
        In 1985, he created the Interior Design Magazine Hall of Fame awards, the Oscars of the industry. He presided as well over the growth of Interior Design from a small trade magazine to a newsstand success.
        Mr. Dundes had a law degree but never practiced; his passion was for modern design. Convinced that he lacked the talent to be a designer, he educated himself on the subject with library books and persuaded the publisher of Interior Design to hire him in 1949 as an ad salesman for $25 a week.
        He stayed on to become the magazine's publisher and vice president, as well as publisher of Corporate Design. He steered the magazine through a half-century of design trends, from the 1950's, when formal French interiors were de rigueur, to the emergence of restaurant designs as a leading source of inspiration.
        A fixture at every trade show and show house, Mr. Dundes, an early adapter of the formal suit dressed down with running shoes, was generous with brash statements known as Lesterisms. He argued to have licensing exams for interior designers, but he did not encourage speeches at the gala Interior Design Hall of Fame awards. ''Then they would have to thank their upholsterers and their drapery makers,'' he said.
        Mr. Dundes was born in New York City on Jan. 16, 1914. His father, who had immigrated from Russia, was a haberdasher on the Lower East Side; his mother had come from Ireland. After attending Townsend Harris High School, he earned a degree from St. John's University School of Law and served in the Coast Guard during World War II.
        In addition to his daughter Ms. Shattan, of New York City, Mr. Dundes is survived by his wife, Seena; another daughter, Liza Schaeffer, of Wellesley, Mass.; and four grandchildren.
      