
        Claude Nougaro, a popular French singer and songwriter whose fondness for American jazz led him to add swing to the traditional French chanson, died on March 4 at his home here. He was 74.
        Le Monde, the French daily, said the cause was cancer.
        Mr. Nougaro, who once described himself as a ''Baroque troubadour,'' belonged to a generation of French singers who made their names in the 1950's and 1960's and who remained ever loved even as popular French music moved through rock, pop, rap and techno.
        While Mr. Nougaro was relatively unknown abroad, his death brought an outpouring of grief here, not only from the thousands of fans who attended memorial services for him at the Cathedral of Notre-Dame in Paris and in his hometown of Toulouse, in southwest France, but also from French politicians and cultural figures.
        President Jacques Chirac described him as a master of French song and added that ''a veritable poet has left us.''
        The culture minister, Jean-Jacques Aillagon, said Mr. Nougaro had a unique style ''where the poetry of his words and tenderness of his jazz rhythms had a special place.''
        Mr. Nougaro was born in Toulouse on Sept. 9, 1929, into a family of musicians.
        His father, Pierre, was an opera singer; his Italian mother, Liette, was a piano teacher. Strangely, however, while at an early age he discovered the music of Bessie Smith, Louis Armstrong and Glenn Miller and the songs of Charles Trenet and Édith Piaf on the radio, he never learned to read music or play an instrument and did not plan a career in entertainment.
        Instead, after doing his military service in the French Foreign Legion in Morocco, he began working as a journalist, writing poetry in his spare time. But soon he was also writing lyrics for singers like Piaf, and he even wrote French lyrics to American jazz favorites, including Thelonious Monk's ''Round Midnight'' and Sonny Rollins's ''St. Thomas.''
        When Mr. Nougaro himself began singing in the mid-1950's, the American influence in his music made it distinct from that of colleagues like Trenet, Charles Aznavour, Juliette Gréco and Yves Montand. A stocky, dark-haired man with the physique of a boxer, he also became a fine stage performer, his strong Toulouse accent adding to his appeal to Parisian audiences.
        ''I am a singer of texts who sings with a bit of rhythm,'' he noted some years ago. But while his texts provided his raw material, he was above all fascinated with rhythm, that of American jazz but also that of Brazilian music, with its strong African undercurrent. Among his Brazilian partners were Baden Powell and Chico Buarque.
        His 20 record albums include a handful of songs that remain popular today, including ''Je Suis Sous'' (''I Am Drunk''), ''Cécile, Ma Fille'' (''Cecile, My Daughter''), ''Jazz and Java'' and ''Paris Mai,'' which was written after the May 1968 anti-government student demonstrations. In the late 1980's, after his career faltered, he made what became known as his comeback album, ''Nougayork,'' which he recorded in New York.
        In recent years, as his health failed, Mr. Nougaro turned again to his texts, appearing onstage to recite his poetry rather than to sing. He was nonetheless planning a new album at the time of his death. He is survived by his four children, Cécile, Fanny, Théa and Pablo.
      