
        Josephine Schwarz, a pioneer of the American regional ballet movement and a co-founder of the Dayton Ballet, died on Friday in Boulder, Colo., said her niece, Johannah Franke. She was 95.
        Ms. Schwarz and her sister, Hermene Schwarz, who died in 1986, were natives of Dayton who, through decades of persistence, made that city a dance center. They founded the Schwarz School of Dance (now the Dayton Ballet School) in 1927 and in 1937 the Dayton Ballet (originally known as the Experimental Group for Young Dancers), one of America's oldest ballet companies.
        Josephine Schwarz soon established herself as a dance crusader who believed in the importance of both classical ballet and modern dance. Her students over the years included Daniel and Joseph Duell, brothers who joined the New York City Ballet; Rebecca Wright, who went into American Ballet Theater; Donna Wood of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater; and Jeff Gribler of the Pennsylvania Ballet.
        Ms. Schwarz and her sister, who were white, taught black students at a time when some white residents of Dayton frowned upon such classes. One of those students, Jeraldyne Blunden, founded the Dayton Contemporary Dance Company in 1968. Like the Dayton Ballet, it continues to flourish. The Dayton Ballet became a charter member of the Northeast Regional Ballet Association in 1959, and in the years that followed the Schwarz sisters organized many choreography conferences and regional festivals.
        After receiving her early training in Dayton, Josephine Schwarz studied ballet in Chicago with Adolph Bolm and in 1926 performed with his Ballet Intime. She later studied at the School of American Ballet in New York and studied modern dance with Doris Humphrey and Charles Weidman in New York, and Mary Wigman and Rosalia Chladek in Europe. She danced on Broadway in ''Life Begins at 8:40'' in 1935. But when an injury ended her performing career in 1937, she returned to Dayton.
        Ms. Schwarz was a former member of the dance advisory panel of the National Endowment for the Arts, and she held honorary doctorates from Wright State University, in Dayton, and the University of Dayton. In 1990 she retired from the Dayton Ballet, which is now directed by Dermot Burke. She moved to Boulder in 1994.
        In addition to Ms. Franke, of Boulder, she is survived by two nephews, Peter Schwarz, of Denver, and Brian Schwarz, of Jackson, Wyo., and several grandnieces and grandnephews.
      