
        Meyer Blinder, who with his gold jewelry and extravagant promises became the self-proclaimed king of the nation's penny stock market in the 70's and 80's, died last Thursday in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 82.
        The cause was a heart attack, his son Larry said. He said his father also had Alzheimer's disease.
        In 1986, his firm, Blinder, Robinson & Company, ranked 10th in the nation in the number of brokers it employed; in an interview with The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Blinder spoke of challenging Merrill Lynch for industry leadership. But in 1990, his company, which at one time had 66 offices in 37 states, was liquidated. In 1992, he was convicted on six counts of racketeering, money laundering and securities fraud and spent 40 months in a federal prison.
        Penny stocks are low-cost, high-risk securities, usually trading for less than $3 a share. They are not listed on stock exchanges, and there is often a lack of reliable information about them.
        In 1987, Fortune described the market this way: ''Stocks trading up to 5,000 times their projected earnings get passed back and forth in what some penny players call the chaser market, the chase being after rumors.''
        The common practice, Forbes reported, went as follows: ''Keep pushing the stock up, moving it from hand to hand at higher and higher prices until the 'story' behind the stock wears thin. Then just walk away from it.''
        Mr. Blinder was charged with selling more than one billion shares of penny stocks in 12 companies at markups that were above the allowed 10 percent. The S.E.C. said he also made fraudulent stock predictions to the public.
        Mr. Blinder was not shy in responding, suggesting that everybody who gambled on penny stocks knew the risk. He also maintained that federal agents were jealous of the salary he paid himself, more than $9 million, not to mention the swimming pool that was immediately outside his penthouse office.
        His flamboyant reputation was underscored by his gold chains and diamond pinkie ring, his street-corner-rough Brooklyn accent, and the black Jaguar that whisked him away when he was released from the Federal Correctional Facility in Littleton, Colo. At one point in his trial, he lunged at the prosecutor and threatened to kill him.
        Meyer Blinder was born on Sept. 16, 1921, in Manhattan, to Russian immigrant parents. His father owned a candy store in Brooklyn.
        ''I sucked wind for a long time,'' Mr. Blinder told Fortune. ''I had my pauper days. I sold picture frames. I sold wedding albums, I sold magazines outside burlesque houses.''
        He began working in the candy store at 8, and instead of attending high school, got a job pushing carts in the garment district in Manhattan. His nose was gnarled like a prizefighter's because a customer slammed the door in his face when he was selling vacuum cleaners.
        At 18, he invested $150 in his first business, a textile remnants operation. He served in the Army during World War II and was peppered with shrapnel during the invasion of Normandy. After the war, he and his brother ran a vending route for coffee machines in Brooklyn and Manhattan. They sold stock in their business, earning enough to retire for a few years in the 1960's.
        In 1970, Mr. Blinder and a friend, Mac Robinson, began a storefront operation in Westbury, N.Y., to sell over-the-counter stocks. Mr. Robinson could not stand the pace and soon left nothing but his name. In 1977, Mr. Blinder bought a Denver brokerage firm that was in bankruptcy.
        Mr. Blinder invented the ''three-call system'' for telemarketing, according to an obituary in The Rocky Mountain News on Sunday. In the first call, the salesman would introduce himself. In the second, the salesman would say he had nothing to sell now, but might have something later.
        ''They'd call the third time and sink the hook,'' Phil Feigin, a former Colorado securities commissioner, told The News.
        In one episode in the mid-1980's, Mr. Blinder parlayed a $5,000 investment by the Colorado governor, Richard D. Lamm, into $49,000 in profits in two years. Mr. Lamm closed the account after the local press reported that he had written a letter of recommendation for Mr. Blinder, who was seeking to obtain a casino license in Nevada.
        Mr. Blinder often pointed out that he raised more than $200 million for starting and nurturing businesses. His generosity to charities like the Denver Children's Hospital was well known.
        His wife, Lillian, died in 1999. He is survived by his sons Larry, of Denver, and Martin, of Scottsdale; his daughter, Carol Marcus of Cherry Hills Village, Colo., and eight grandchildren.
      