
        Peter Ustinov, the hair-trigger wit with the avuncular charm whose 60-year career amounted to a revolving series of star turns as actor, playwright, novelist, director and raconteur, died on Sunday at a clinic near his home in Bursins, Switzerland. He was 82.
        Sir Peter had suffered for years from the effects of diabetes and, more recently, a weakened heart. His death was announced by Leon Davico, a friend and former spokesman for Unicef, for which Sir Peter had worked for many years.
        A cosmopolitan, corpulent and full-bearded six-footer whose ancestors were prominent in czarist Russia, the British-born entertainer was a prodigy who began mimicking his parents' guests at the age of 2. He wrote his first play, ''House of Regrets,'' in his teens; it opened in London to glowing reviews when he was 21.
        As an actor, he won international stardom as a languid, quirky Nero in the 1951 sword-and-sandal epic ''Quo Vadis?,'' gained increasing stature by playing sly rogues and became one of the few character actors to hold star status for decades, adjusting easily to movies, plays, broadcast roles and talk shows, which he enlivened with hilarious imitations and pungent one-liners.
        His many honors included two supporting-actor Academy Awards for portraying a shrewd slave dealer in ''Spartacus'' in 1960 and a clumsy jewel thief in ''Topkapi'' in 1964. He received three Emmys for television performances: in the title role of ''The Life of Samuel Johnson'' in 1958, as Socrates in ''Barefoot in Athens'' in 1966 and as a rural shopkeeper who gains compassion from a youngster in ''A Storm in Summer'' in 1970.
        He won a Grammy for narrating Prokofiev's ''Peter and the Wolf'' in a concert conducted by Herbert von Karajan and also directed operas and his plays in half a dozen European cities.
        Reviewing ''A Storm in Summer,'' Jack Gould of The New York Times praised Mr. Ustinov for shaping ''an exquisite portrait of the individual who had known more than his share of sorrow yet in his disgruntled way clung to the noble values that are the mark of dignity and character.'' The critic lauded Mr. Ustinov's ''incredible virtuosity'' and hailed him as ''one of the most gifted actors of our times.''
        Other reviewers occasionally accused the actor of approaching comedy more decoratively than genuinely, of overdoing mugging and mannerisms and of pretentiousness in playing historical figures.
        In the last decade, he appeared in a half-dozen films for television or general release. Among them was ''Luther,'' Eric Till's study of Martin Luther, that opened last fall. Sir Peter, who portrayed Prince Frederick the Wise of Wittenberg, said in an interview in the The New York Times that he was surprised that the director had thought of him, at the age of 82.
        ''I didn't have anything against it, except that I can hardly walk,'' he said. ''But we coped with that because I leaned on things and staggered through the film in some measure.''
        By late in the film, Sir Peter said, he understood why, during the 16th century, everyone died at the age of 40 or earlier: ''Because having to dress up in curtains, which press the human body in all sorts of places where it's not usually pressed, was real agony.''
        He portrayed a doctor in the film ''Lorenzo's Oil'' (1992), and was the Walrus to Pete Postlethwaite's Carpenter in the 1999 television-film version of ''Alice in Wonderland.''
        Melville's 'Billy Budd'
        His more than two dozen plays included two spoofs of the cold war. One of them, ''The Love of Four Colonels,'' won the New York Drama Critics Circle Award as the best play of 1953, and the second, ''Romanoff and Juliet,'' received the British Critics' Best Play award for 1956. Other Ustinov plays included ''The Banbury Nose,'' ''Moment of Truth,'' ''Photo Finish,'' ''The Unknown Soldier and His Wife,'' ''Halfway Up the Tree'' and ''Beethoven's 10th.''
        His greatest film achievement was his co-adaptation, direction and production as well as his performance as Captain Vere in the 1962 film ''Billy Budd,'' Melville's nautical allegory on good and evil.
        Among other honors, Mr. Ustinov was appointed a Commander of the British Empire in 1975, elected to the Académie Française in 1988 and received many honorary degrees on both sides of the Atlantic.
        His film scripts and roles included ''Private Angelo'' (1949), which he helped to direct and produce and in which he starred as the protagonist, a bumbling Italian soldier; ''Lady L'' (as director and an absent-minded prince, 1965) and ''Hot Millions'' (1968), in which he starred as a gentle swindler.
        Other movie roles were in ''Hotel Sahara'' (1951), in which Mr. Ustinov appeared as a beleaguered Arab hotelier; ''Beau Brummel'' (1954), with the actor as a pompous Prince of Wales; ''We're No Angels'' (1955), where he played a slick convict; ''Lola Montès'' (1955), as a ubiquitous circus master; ''The Sundowners'' (1960), playing an Australian loafer. Later roles included his portrayal of a Mexican general in ''Viva Max!'' (1969), a fraudulent doctor in ''The Treasure of Matecumbe'' (1976), a sadistic sergeant in ''The Last Remake of Beau Geste'' (1977) and Charlie Chan in ''Charlie Chan and the Curse of the Dragon Queen'' (1981).
        In later years he also stylishly portrayed Hercule Poirot, Agatha Christie's eccentric Belgian detective, in the films ''Death on the Nile'' (1978) and ''Evil Under the Sun'' (1982) and in a series of television specials. Also on television, he narrated many fantasy, historical and science programs and supplied a multiplicity of voices on many of them.
        Admirers praised his talent, stamina and discipline in channeling his efforts despite an appearance of flitting among many projects that some friends likened to disciplined chaos. He rated his satisfactions in this order: 1) writing novels, 2) writing short stories, 3) playwriting, 4) acting, 5) directing and 6) producing.
        ''Writing has always been my deepest love,'' he said in 1982. ''Acting is intrinsically easy. You're like a chameleon, adapting yourself to various circumstances and to what other people are writing. Writing is much more mysterious, and more personal.'' Among his novels were ''The Loser'' (1960) and ''Krumnagel'' (1971); his short stories included ''Add a Dash of Pity'' (1959) and ''The Frontiers of the Sea'' (1966). Other writings were ''My Russia'' (1983), ''Peter Ustinov in Russia'' (1988) and a 1977 memoir, ''Dear Me.''
        He visited Russia often, before and after the breakup of the Soviet Union. In 1988 he flew to Leningrad, now St. Petersburg, for the opening of an art museum dedicated to his mother's family and housed in a building erected by one of his great-great-grandfathers. Also that year, he was host of a mini-series based on his book ''My Russia,'' describing the changes in Soviet society under Mikhail S. Gorbachev thus: ''It's been like an abscess bursting and health returning.''
        Sir Peter's writing was usually praised for wit, literacy and insights, but the consensus was that his work, though clever and diverting, suggested more than it accomplished. Reviewers agreed that his early plays showed great promise, but over the years they increasingly criticized his writing as that of an undisciplined jack-of-all-trades who frittered away his talents and was at times self-indulgent and verbose. Still, the critic John Lahr hailed the spirited autobiography ''Dear Me'' as ''an unusually graceful memoir whose wit bears witness to Ustinov's generosity and seriousness.''
        The entertainer maintained a frenetic professional pace for more than 50 years. Asked to explain his abhorrence of retirement, he replied, ''I've always considered life to be much more of a marathon than a sprint.''
        Sir Peter was married three times. His first two marriages, to Isolde Denham and to Suzanne Cloutier ended in divorce. He was married again in 1972 to Hélène du Lau d'Allemans. She survives him, as do his four children: Tamara, in England, whose mother was Ms. Denham; and, by Ms. Cloutier, Igor in Switzerland, Pavla, of Los Angeles, and Andrea in Spain; and a granddaughter.
        'Shows Great Originality'
        Peter Alexander Ustinov was born in London on April 16, 1921, the only child of Iona Ustinov, a journalist, and the former Nadia Benois, a painter. Both parents were half Russian with assorted parts French, Italian and German. Many of their forebears were prominent figures in czarist Russia, including a country squire with 6,000 serfs, the owner of the largest caviar fishery and a court architect.
        The youth attended the private Westminster School in London until he was 16, when he began studying acting with Michel Saint-Denis at the London Theater Studio. Within two years he made his London stage debut and gained increasing notice by writing and acting in two revues and writing five plays produced while he served in the British Army as a private in World War II.
        In later years, he emphasized his nonconformance in school and the army with these anecdotes: one of his report cards warned, ''Shows great originality, which must be curbed at all costs''; he told enlistment officers he preferred tank duty ''because you can go into battle sitting down,'' and his superiors concluded, ''On no account must this man be put in charge of others.''
        The actor's later observations included: ''The theater is the place for the ventilation of doubts to make us more conscious of our humanity,'' ''A politician is a man who reaches the top of the tree because he had no qualifications to detain him at the bottom'' and ''Humorists are the safety valves on the boiler.''
        He was for more than 20 years an unpaid roving ambassador for the United Nations Children's Fund, and for several years was a rector of the University of Dundee in Scotland. He also established the Peter Ustinov Foundation, which set up an international network of university scholars, politicians and others to examine the subject of prejudice. In separate initiatives his foundation sponsors medical clinics in underserved parts of the world.
        Sir Peter, who once described himself as a ''practicing European,'' spent as much time as possible aboard his ketch moored off Spain; he read voluminously, had interests in music and cars and varying command of eight languages; and he enjoyed tennis, squash and swimming. For many years his main home was a chalet outside Geneva with vineyards that produced 4,000 bottles of white wine a year. He had an apartment in Paris for a time and later had one in Boulogne.
        When he was knighted by Queen Elizabeth in 1990, his main concern was how to reply to the invitation.
        ''The invitation said, 'Delete whichever is inapplicable: I can kneel -- I cannot kneel.' But there was nothing,'' he said, ''for those who can kneel but not get up.''
        Correction:  April 5, 2004, Monday  The obituary of the actor and writer Peter Ustinov on Tuesday misstated the source and the year of a French honor he received. He was elected to the Académie des Beaux-Arts in 1987, not the Académie Française in 1988.
      