
        Richard A. Brown, a leading tactician of the New York Democratic revolt against the Tammany Hall machine half a century ago, died on Feb. 13 in Washington, where he had lived for the last 40 years. He was 85.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Brown earned his spurs in the internecine struggle that in 1964 ended the kingmaker's role played by Carmine G. De Sapio, the Democratic county chairman. Until then, for about 16 years, he had been seen as the main architect of the Reform movement's major victories, molding a crazy-quilt of reformers into a power at the ballot box.
        He withdrew in 1964 as the movement's operating head and nemesis of old-line regulars like Representative Charles A. Buckley of the Bronx. Instead, he helped James H. Scheuer unseat Representative James C. Healey, a Buckley ally, that year. He remained on Mr. Scheuer's staff until 1971, managing his election campaigns and his 1969 run for mayor.
        Mr. Brown stayed in Washington as a political consultant. Most recently he was associated with Representative Charles B. Rangel, whom he helped to unseat Adam Clayton Powell Jr. in 1970. Mr. Brown retired as an adviser, fund-raiser and campaigner for Mr. Rangel in 1996.
        Richard Arthur Brown was born in Manhattan. After college and military service in World War II, he studied at the New York University School of Law for a year but went into politics instead while working for the Anti-Defamation League and Bonds for Israel.
        He was a founder of the first reform political club, the Lexington Democratic Club, in 1949, rallying support for reformers running for the City Council and State Legislature. He directed New York's Volunteers for Adlai E. Stevenson in 1952. As executive director of the citywide Committee for Democratic Voters from 1958 to 1964, he worked with national figures like Eleanor Roosevelt and Herbert H. Lehman to help reformers around the city.
        When he left the committee, the reformers had gained control of nearly half the party organization in the city, along with sizable representation on the City Council, in Albany and in Congress.
        Mr. Brown is survived by his wife, Vivian; a daughter, Jennifer Greenberger of Washington; a sister, Roslyn Freeman of Lakewood, N.J; and two grandchildren.
      