
        J. Beverley Oke, an astronomer who developed ways to analyze light from faint, fast-receding heavenly bodies billions of light-years away to help answer fundamental cosmological questions, died Tuesday at his home in Victoria, British Columbia. He was 75.
        The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Nancy.
        As a professor at the California Institute of Technology for 34 years and associate director of its Hale Observatories for 8 years, Dr. Oke (pronounced oak) developed machines to derive ever more detailed information from the spectrum of light captured by the largest telescopes on earth. In particular, he found a way to accurately estimate the temperature of a star, which helped him and others form insights into how stars generate energy and into how stars and galaxies form.
        ''It's immortal,'' Dr. Dimitri Mihalas, an expert in radiation at Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico, said of the technique. ''It's still the standard people use today.''
        Dr. Oke also built a prototype for a device used on the Hubble Space Telescope to analyze the faintest flickers of light.
        Dr. Jim Gunn, the Eugene Higgins Professor of Astrophysics at Princeton, said some theoreticians looked down on colleagues who got their hands dirty building equipment.
        But noting that Einstein depended on experiments to prove his theories, Dr. Gunn called Dr. Oke's work critical. He said some of Dr. Oke's experimental results surpassed the imaginations of other astronomers.
        ''He produced an awful lot of data that confounded theorists for a long time,'' Dr. Gunn said.
        Joseph von Fraunhofer, a German physicist of the early 19th century, was the first to thoroughly study the solar spectrum, the range of visible and nonvisible electromagnetic waves emitted by the sun. In the early 20th century, Dr. Edwin Powell Hubble, for whom the space telescope is named, used the knowledge that light shifts to the infrared part of the spectrum when its source is receding to hypothesize an expanding universe.
        This formed the context for much of the astronomical work of the last decades of the 20th century, and Dr. Oke contributed essential data to the growing knowledge of phenomena like clusters of galaxies, white dwarf stars and the formation of diverse elements within stars.
        As quasars, distant and mysterious conglomerations of immense energy, became objects of interest, Dr. Oke came up with a way to analyze low-resolution images to study them, Dr. Gunn said. In fact, this technique amounted to traveling more than 10 billion years back to the time when the light originated.
        Dr. Oke's earlier work with nearer stars had allowed him to develop calibrations, conforming to those of the National Bureau of Standards, to measure temperatures, brightness and another parameters precisely. He then applied the techniques to distant wisps of light, including quasars and galaxies.
        John Beverley Oke was born on March 23, 1928, in Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, and earned his bachelor's degree in physics in 1949 and his master's in astronomy in 1950, both from the University of Toronto. He earned his doctorate in astronomy from Princeton in 1953.
        He taught at the University of Toronto until 1958, when he joined Caltech. Some of his earliest work was theoretical, including a discussion of thermonuclear processes at the center of the sun.
        From 1970 to 1978, he was associate director of the Hale Observatories, which then included Caltech's Palomar Observatory and the Mount Wilson Observatory of the Carnegie Institution of Washington.
        At Palomar, he invented instruments for the 200-inch Hale telescope. He also developed new equipment for the W. M. Keck Observatory in Hawaii, which is run by a consortium led by Caltech and the University of California. The low-resolution imaging spectrograph he developed with Dr. Judith Cohen produced many of the first successes of the Keck's 10-meter telescope.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Oke is survived by two sons, Christopher, of Portland, Ore., and Kevin, of Pender Island, British Columbia; and two daughters, Valerie, of Pittsburgh, and Jennifer, of San Diego.
        The day before he died he was in his office in Victoria, working on designs for instruments to be used with a proposed new telescope whose backers include some of the Keck partners. At 30 meters in diameter, it would be the biggest in the world.
      