
        Val Pinchbeck Jr., a former National Football League broadcasting executive, died Saturday night after collapsing and being struck by a taxi while crossing a street in Manhattan, a police spokesman, Detective Noel Waters, said.
        Mr. Pinchbeck, who had been at the league's Midtown office during the day, was 73. He was at Park Avenue and 50th Street when he was struck. The driver was questioned and was not arrested, the police said.
        Mr. Pinchbeck, a consultant to the league since his retirement in 1998, had been working on the league's schedule, a task he was involved in for 30 years. Mr. Pinchbeck used to construct the schedule manually. Computers have done much of the work in recent years.
        ''We wanted the computer to think like Val,'' said Dennis Lewin, who succeeded Mr. Pinchbeck as the league's senior vice president for broadcasting. ''We'd go to computer companies and ask them to come up with a 'Valgorithm,' to teach the computer all the good things he put into the schedule.''
        He added: ''I'd tell Val what I wanted to do, and he'd figure out all the traps. And he'd see things like one team is home for five of its first eight games or one network doesn't have enough early games.''
        Mr. Pinchbeck's primary role from 1978 to 1998 was to oversee the league's broadcasting division and to aid negotiations with the networks. ''He'd analyze the network's positions as we conjured ours,'' said Art Modell, the owner of the Baltimore Ravens and the former longtime head of the owners' network negotiating committee.
        Mr. Pinchbeck was also a close adviser to N.F.L. Commissioner Paul Tagliabue and his predecessor, Pete Rozelle.
        Mr. Pinchbeck came to the N.F.L. from the Denver Broncos, where he was the director of public relations. Before that, he worked for the American Football League, prior to its merger with the N.F.L. He had also been the director of sports information at Syracuse and Bucknell.
        Mr. Pinchbeck lived in Oldsmar, Fla. He is survived by two sons, Val III and James, and one granddaughter.
      