
        Pedro Pietri, a poet and playwright who chronicled the joys and struggles of Nuyoricans -- urban Puerto Ricans whose lives straddle the islands of Puerto Rico and Manhattan -- died on Wednesday en route from Mexico to New York. He was 59 and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Pietri had been at a holistic clinic in Tijuana since January because of advanced stomach cancer. He was flying back to New York for specialized treatment of a bleeding ulcer when he suffered renal failure, said his sister, Carmen Pietri Diaz.
        Mr. Pietri's poetry about the competing cultural tugs of New York and Puerto Rico was often playfully absurd. He was perhaps best known for ''Puerto Rican Obituary,'' an epic poem published in 1973 that sketched the lives of five Puerto Ricans who came to the United States with dreams that remained unfulfilled. By turns angry, heartbreaking and hopeful, it was embraced by young Puerto Ricans, who were imbued with a sense of pride and nationalism.
        Through countless poems and plays -- he continued to write even after his illness was diagnosed late last year -- he defined the Nuyorican experience, inspiring a new generation of Latino poets, including the streetwise slam poets whose provocative performances were showcased at the Nuyorican Poets Cafe, a Lower East Side institution that he helped to found. His writing has been included in many anthologies and translated into more than a dozen languages, although his books are hard to find in this country.
        Though often humorous, his work was also deeply political, like the performance piece ''El Puerto Rican Embassy,'' which he staged throughout New York with the photographer Adal Maldonado. At ceremonies where he sang ''The Spanglish National Anthem,'' Puerto Rican ''passports'' were distributed, their pages filled with poetry and images of dominoes and roosters. This idea of an embassy for an island that is neither independent nor a state captured Mr. Pietri's own nationalist beliefs.
        ''This is about proclaiming the whole thing about being sovereign without the trials and tribulations of armed conflict,'' he said in an interview with The New York Times in 1996. ''You don't have to leave or go anywhere. You don't have to be a radical or wear a beret. You just have to have a passport.''
        Mr. Pietri was born in Ponce, P.R., and moved with his family to Harlem when he was 3, eventually settling into the Grant Houses, a housing project on Amsterdam Avenue. His father, a dishwasher at the St. Regis Hotel, had come to New York ahead of his wife and children.
        His interest in poetry, his sister said, was encouraged by their aunt Irene Rodriguez, who often recited poetry and put on theatrical productions at the First Spanish United Methodist Church in East Harlem, where the family worshiped. He started composing his own poems when he was a teenager at Haaren High School, his sister said.
        After high school Mr. Pietri worked in a variety of jobs in the garment district, his friend and biographer Robert Waddell said. He was drafted into the Army and served with a light infantry brigade in Vietnam, an experience that Mr. Pietri said had further radicalized him. Upon his return, Mr. Waddell said, Mr. Pietri barely lasted one week working at a hospital before he quit in disgust to pursue poetry.
        The Methodist church he attended in his youth became the stage for his first public reading of ''Puerto Rican Obituary'': when the Young Lords, an activist group, briefly took over the church in 1969, Mr. Pietri read his poem as an act of solidarity. It was the beginning of his association with activist causes, including the fight against AIDS.
        In addition to Ms. Pietri Diaz and his brother, Joe, both of New York, he is survived by his wife, Margarita Deida Pietri, of Yonkers, and four children.
        When doctors told him he had inoperable cancer last year, he sought alternative treatment in Mexico. Within a few weeks his friends and fans had donated $30,000 for his care. Their generosity, he said, was humbling and reassuring.
        ''We're still together, despite our differences,'' he said in an interview in January, shortly before he left for Mexico. ''I see the foundation of a community that ensures our survival, that perseveres. This history we made, these poets we created.''
        ''We're here to stay,'' he said. ''They can't replace us.''
      