
        Harrison McCain, a Canadian billionaire whose family-owned business began in a cow pasture in New Brunswick and grew into one of the world's largest producers of frozen French fries, died Thursday night. He was 76.
        Mr. McCain's company, McCain Foods, confirmed his death, which occurred in Boston at the Lahey Clinic. He had been ill for some time, the company said.
        Mr. McCain, a straight-talking son of a seed potato exporter, applied his prodigious ability as a salesman to an idea for a product that would become a global commodity and a calling card of American culture: the frozen French fry.
        In 1957, together with his three brothers, Wallace, Robert and Andrew, Mr. McCain opened a French fry processing plant in his hometown, Florenceville, a hamlet of fewer than 1,000 people in western New Brunswick, less than 10 miles from the American border.
        Pugnacious with a direct manner, Mr. McCain was an acknowledged workaholic. A 1998 profile in Maclean's Magazine, a Canadian weekly, counted 140 nights in a year that he had spent in a company jet's sleeping compartment en route to factories in Europe, Asia and the United States.
        ''Business is such a large share of my time and my thought process,'' he told The Financial Post, an affiliate of The National Post, a Canadian daily, in that year. ''It's the only game in town.''
        Before he became known as the king of the frozen French fry, Mr. McCain worked as a salesman for Irving Oil, a Canadian energy company. He received a bachelor's degree in economics from Acadia University in 1949.
        His vigor and drive expanded his company, with 30 employees, into a global empire worth billions. Annual sales reached $6.4 billion last year. The company now employs about 18,000 people in 55 facilities in more than 10 countries. It estimates that it produces one out of every three frozen French fries in the world.
        Even as the business grew, neither Mr. McCain -- who ranked 472nd in the Forbes Magazine 2004 list of billionaires with an estimated worth of $1.2 billion -- nor the company's corporate headquarters ever left the rural farming town.
        The business was not without problems. In 1994, Mr. McCain's younger brother and business partner of more than 30 years, Wallace, was forced out of McCain Foods, after relations soured over who would prevail in steering the business. In the same year, his wife, Marion McNair, died from cancer and just three years later, one of his sons, Peter, died in a snowmobile accident.
        Even so, the company continued to expand with Mr. McCain at its helm, and in 1997, it bought an American rival, Ore-Ida, for $500 million. It also makes fruit juice and various other frozen foods, including pizza, vegetables and desserts.
        But it was always French fries that were the centerpiece of Mr. McCain's selling strategy, which he conceived just as fast food began to take off in America. McDonald's, which first opened in 1948, is one of the company's biggest buyers. There are straight-cut fries, crinkle-cut fries, and flat round fries cut to look like smiley faces. Higher on the French-fry food chain are Frites Provencial, with olive oil and herbs, sold in Europe. French fries are ''part of the inexorable Americanization of the world,'' said Mr. McCain in the 1998 interview with The Financial Post. ''That Americanization is Coca-Cola, blue jeans, American movies, American music and French fries.''
        Mr. McCain appointed his nephew, Allison McCain, son of his late brother Andrew, as his successor in 2002. Mr. McCain remained as a member of the board.
        He is survived by his son Mark; three daughters, Ann Evans, Laura McCain-Jensen and Gillian McCain; his brother, Wallace McCain; and his sister, Marie Sutherland.
      