
        Nathan C. Heard, a novelist who wrote realistically of prison life and the mean streets of Newark, died last Tuesday at a hospital in Livingston, N.J. He was 67 and lived in West Orange, N.J.
        His family did not specify the cause of death.
        Mr. Heard began writing while serving eight years in New Jersey State Prison for armed robbery and violation of his parole. ''I just started reading to pass the time, mainly,'' he told an interviewer for African American Review in 1994. ''Before I went to prison, I had read two books in my life, 'The Babe Ruth Story' and 'The Lou Gehrig Story,' because I wanted to be a ballplayer.''
        He started off reading ''stuff that used to belong only on 42nd Street, but it's now all over,'' then got more serious and was influenced by James Baldwin, Norman Mailer -- ''lot of Norman Mailer'' -- Richard Wright and Chester Himes.
        Convinced he could do better than the pulps, he wrote ''Howard Street'' (1968), about the Newark neighborhood he grew up in. His mother took the manuscript to a lawyer, who found a literary agent, who placed it with Dial. ''That was in 1968,'' he told African American Review. ''The book came out in November, a month before I did.'' The book was praised for its gritty realism of black urban life and sold more than a million copies. Mr. Heard said that he lived off it for 10 years.
        Nathan Cliff Heard was born in Newark on Nov. 7, 1936, to Nathan E. Heard, a laborer, and Gladys (Pruitt) Heard, a blues singer. He never completed high school, and always listed New Jersey State Prison in the education section of his résumé, his daughter, Dr. Natalie M. Heard, told The Newark Star-Ledger. A son, Melvin Hall, of Atlanta, also survives him.
        Following ''Howard Street,'' he published four more novels, ''To Reach a Dream'' (1972), ''A Cold Fire Burning'' (1974), ''When Shadows Fall'' (1977) and ''The House of Slammers (1983).
        The success of ''Howard Street'' led to work as a columnist and speech writer for Mayor Kenneth A. Gibson of Newark during the 1970's and early 1980's. He also taught creative writing at Fresno State University in California and at Rutgers University.
      