
        Peter S. Prescott, an author and a longtime book critic for Newsweek, died on Friday at Tisch Hospital at the New York University Medical Center. He was 68.
        The cause was liver disease complicated by diabetes, his wife, Anne, said.
        Mr. Prescott's work extended beyond literary comment to journalistic investigation.
        In his 1986 book, ''Never in Doubt: Critical Essays on American Books, 1972-1985'' (Arbor House), he differentiated the job of a book critic, which he considered himself, from that of either literary critic or book reviewer.
        ''The literary critic, usually an academic sort, is accustomed to applying great labors to narrow areas; he examines the past -- old and relatively recent books -- and retrieves from it what is of use to the present,'' he wrote.
        ''The reviewer lives entirely in the present; he is content to describe a book's contents and (if he remembers) indicate whether he approves of it. Somewhere in between, the fellow I call a book critic plies his trade.''
        Mr. Prescott said of his own calling, ''Most important, he demonstrates how a book works, or why it doesn't.''
        An example was his review in Look magazine of Norman Mailer's 1971 book, ''Of a Fire on the Moon,'' which he admired for the way Mr. Mailer ''sweats for the soul of America'' in his portrayal of the lunar landing. But Mr. Prescott suggested that Mr. Mailer's coverage of the 1967 antiwar march on the Pentagon in ''The Armies of the Night'' was ultimately more compelling because the topic was more manageable.
        ''To write at his best, Mailer must have no competition from his subject,'' Mr. Prescott wrote.
        Peter Sherwin Prescott was born on July 15, 1935, in Manhattan. He attended Choate and used the experience to write ''A World of Our Own: Notes on Life and Learning in a Boys' Preparatory School'' (Coward-McCann, 1970). His father, Orville Prescott, was the principal daily book critic of The New York Times for 24 years, from 1942 to 1966.
        Peter Prescott graduated magna cum laude from Harvard and did additional study at the Sorbonne. His books included two collections of critical essays, a study of the juvenile-justice system and a memoir of his freshman year at Harvard.
        His book ''The Child Savers: Juvenile Justice Observed'' (Knopf, 1981), drew particular note for its bare-knuckle portrayal of the daily agonies of family court, which Mr. Prescott had observed for months.
        He began his literary career by working for nine years as an editor at E. P. Dutton. He reviewed books for Women's Wear Daily, Look and, for 20 years, Newsweek. In 1978, he won the George Polk Award for criticism.
        Mr. Prescott, who lived in Manhattan, is survived by his wife, the former Anne Lake; his mother, Lilias Ward-Smith Prescott, of New Canaan, Conn.; his sister, Jennifer McLean, of Sanibel, Fla.; his son, David, of Bennington, Vt.; his daughter, Antonia, of Cambridge, Mass.; and three grandchildren.
      