
        Philippe Jutras, a United States Army veteran of the Normandy campaign who paid tribute to the American paratroopers of D-Day for the past three decades as curator of the Airborne Museum in Ste.-Mère-Église, the first French town liberated in World War II, died April 4 at a hospital in Valognes, France. He was 87.
        The cause was an injury from a fall at his home in Ste.-Mère-Église, his daughter Phyllis ter Horst said.
        In the early hours of June 6, 1944, paratroopers from the 82nd Airborne Division dropped into Ste.-Mère-Église, a town of 1,500 astride a road network a few miles from the invasion sector called Utah Beach. Their mission was to block German troops from attacking the American infantrymen arriving at dawn in the vanguard of the D-Day invasion. By about 4:30 a.m., the paratroopers had seized the town, and Lt. Col. Edward Krause of the 505th Parachute Infantry raised an American flag outside the town hall.
        Mr. Jutras arrived in Normandy with his Army supply unit six weeks later and was based in Ste.-Mère-Église. One day, he found pieces of a parachute in a field, and a woman in the town made a silk dress from it for his daughter Phyllis, who was 10 months old at the time. It was the beginning of his affinity with the 13,000 American paratroopers of the Normandy invasion.
        Mr. Jutras, a native of Amesbury, Mass., his father a French-Canadian, served in the Army for 20 years. After retiring as a captain, he settled in Maine and was a state legislator during the 1960's and early 1970's.
        In 1972, Mr. Jutras returned to Ste.-Mère-Église to visit the Castel family, owners of a dry goods store, with whom he had lived briefly during the war. He was reacquainted with Antoinette Castel, who was married with a 4-year-old son the last time he had seen her. Mr. Jutras had since been divorced and she had been widowed. They corresponded over the next two years, and then Mr. Jutras returned to Ste.-Mère-Église to marry her.
        A small D-Day museum had been built in the town during the early 1960's. Mr. Jutras became its unpaid curator, and he expanded its collection into a major historical site visited by World War II veterans and tourists. Designed to resemble a parachute, the museum houses a C-47 transport and a glider from the invasion, a Sherman tank, remembrances and letters of D-Day veterans from the 82nd and 101st Airborne and the replica of a paratrooper in combat gear.
        ''Most of the time, when they first confront the uniform and the gear, they break down in tears,'' Mr. Jutras told The Bangor Daily News on D-Day's 50th anniversary, recounting visits by paratrooper veterans. ''The men are looking back 50 years to a moment when the world, and their own lives, was precariously balanced on the edge.''
        For his work at the museum, the French government made Mr. Jutras a member of the Legion of Honor on the 50th anniversary of the Normandy invasion. Mr. Jutras appears in the opening scene of the movie ''Saving Private Ryan,'' portraying an elderly veteran visiting the cemetery overlooking Omaha Beach when Mr. Ryan comes there with his family as an old man.
        When President Bush visited Ste.-Mère-Église's medieval church two years ago, Mr. Jutras showed him its stained-glass windows portraying the airborne drop.
        Mr. Jutras is survived by his wife, Antoinette Castel Jutras; his daughters Phyllis ter Horst, of Seabrook, N.H., and Sandra Jutras, of Amesbury, from his marriage to his first wife, Eleanor; a brother, Henry, of Amesbury; four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
        ''Don't call this a job and don't call it a museum,'' he told The Boston Herald a half-century after D-Day. ''Call it a shrine to the memory of these fellows, these heroes, whose courage and sacrifice liberated Ste.-Mère-Église, France and Europe during World War II.''
      