
        Sylvia Froos, who as a child star in the 1920's sang on early radio broadcasts, starred on the vaudeville stage and appeared in a movie with Shirley Temple, died on Sunday at the Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 89.
        The cause was a stroke, said Ilyse Veron, her great-niece.
        Miss Froos had a knack for showing up just as a new entertainment medium arose. As Baby Sylvia Froos she made her first radio appearance in 1925, five years after the first commercial radio broadcast in the United States.
        In April 1927 she appeared in a movie with sound six months before ''The Jazz Singer,'' starring Al Jolson, was released. She was one of several top vaudevillians who made short talkies intended to accompany feature movies and, ultimately, to replace live vaudevillians in the movie palaces.
        In England in the mid-1930's she appeared on television, years before it was available in the United States. In the 1940's she appeared in about a half-dozen film soundies, forerunners of music videos that could be played for a dime on jukeboxlike machines. In recent years some of her shorts have been shown on the Turner Classic Movies cable network, helping to rekindle her fame.
        When Baby Sylvia metamorphosed into the Little Princess of Song, Miss Froos became a vaudeville headliner at the Palace Theater in New York, appearing with acts like the Marx Brothers and Bill Bojangles Robinson. She had her own radio show on NBC's New York City affiliate and was a vocalist with big bands. But she never reached the status of Jolson, Paul Whiteman or other big stars with whom she performed, and she largely slipped from recognition in the 1950's and 60's.
        ''She was for sure a name act, but not like a superstar caliber,'' said Alan Cooperman, a participant in the Vitaphone Project, which preserves very old sound movies like those in which Miss Froos appeared.
        Sylvia Froos was born in Manhattan on April 19, 1914, and grew up in the Bronx. When she was 7, her mother signed her up in a juvenile vaudeville troupe called Kid's Cabaret. The group's first date was in Baltimore, but she was not allowed to appear there because she was too young, she said in ''The Vaudevillians'' by Bill Smith (Macmillan, 1976).
        She began to appear on her own as a singing act in vaudeville shows at the Palace and elsewhere. Soon she was appearing in vaudeville theaters around the country. She received some education at the Manhattan Professional Children's School.
        In 1927 she appeared in two one-reel Vitaphone shorts filmed in the New York Opera House and released by Warner Brothers. One was ''The Little Princess of Song.''
        The only feature film in which she appeared was ''Stand Up and Cheer,'' released in 1934. She dressed in cowgirl garb and sang ''Broadway's Gone Hill Billy.'' Her mother and Miss Temple's went together to get working papers for their daughters.
        She performed in vaudeville in London and Dublin in the 1930's as its popularity ebbed in the United States. Until about 1950 she made records, including one with the musician and humorist Allan Sherman, released before he gained national prominence.
        Miss Froos is survived by her sister Betty Froos of Manhattan and Florida. Her other sister, Mildred Froos, died in 2000.
        In her youthful travels Miss Froos was once arrested for moving onstage. A local law allowed child performers to stand and sing, period. The judge asked her to hop on a table and do a number from the show. She chose a touching song about a mother.
        ''I see nothing wrong in this little lady's song,'' the judge said, according to Miss Froos in ''The Vaudevillians.'' ''I only ask if she ever finds a daddy song that she please sing it for me. Case dismissed.''
      