
        René Gruau, an Italian-born artist who made his name in Paris and New York as an illustrator for fashion houses, women's magazines, nightclubs and ballet companies, died in Rome on March 31. He was 95.
        His death was reported by the Italian news service ANSA.
        Mr. Gruau, whose posters often echoed both classical Japanese drawings and Toulouse-Lautrec's sketches of fin de siècle Paris night life, was perhaps best known for creating the marketing images for Miss Dior perfume and for Rouge Baiser lipstick. But in everything he did, he evoked the glamour and style of the world of high fashion.
        In later years, when photography replaced illustration as the main tool of couture advertising, he focused his attention on fashion accessories. But he also designed posters for the Lido and Moulin Rouge, night spots in Paris; for Roland Petit's ballet ''Phantom of the Opera''; and for Fellini's ''Dolce Vita.''
        His style, both simple and dramatic, usually involved a few ink lines and blocks of color, often red and black. For Rouge Baiser in 1949, for instance, he outlined a woman's head, then added a black blindfold and red lips. And for Christian Dior's new line of stockings in 1960, he wrapped a purring black cat around ink lines suggesting a woman's legs.
        Born Renato Zavagli Ricciardelli in Rimini, Italy, on Feb. 4, 1909, he was the son of an an Italian count, though his true muse was his aristocratic French mother, Maria Gruau, whose name he took. He showed a talent for drawing in his teens, and in his 20's he moved to Paris and began doing illustrations for fashion magazines like Femina, Marie Claire and Vogue. He spent World War II in Lyon, where Marie Claire moved during the German occupation.
        His career took off after the war when he met Christian Dior. In 1947 Mr. Gruau created the Miss Dior image, with its elegant white swan, black bow and string of pearls. In 1948 he moved briefly to New York, where he worked for Harper's Bazaar.
        In the years that followed and later from his home in Cannes, he did fashion drawings for major couture houses, including Pierre Balmain, Jacques Fath, Balenciaga, Givenchy and Rochas.
        Clothes were the focus of his work, but the women he drew often seemed to come alive.
        ''Gruau's women are not gamines and never pinups,'' Gilles de Bure wrote in ''Gruau,'' a biography published here in 1989. ''They stroll along the Avenue Montaigne, the paths of the Bagatelle, the Croisette in Cannes. They float, they appear, they disappear as if they had neither body nor flesh.''
        Mr. Gruau certainly approached his work as an artist. ''Gruau is the bridge between the great tradition of the French poster and contemporary advertising,'' Jean-Paul Goude, a French publicity artist, wrote in a French-language book, ''The Art of Advertising.''
        In the 1990's there were exhibitions of his work in Germany, Japan, Monaco and France. The largest retrospective was organized by the Advertising Museum in Paris in 1999. It was called, simply, ''Passionately Gruau.''
      