
        Dr. Myron Wegman, the longtime author of an influential annual report on the nation's vital statistics and a leading public health educator, died on April 14 in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 95.
        The cause of death was congestive heart failure, said the University of Michigan School of Public Health, where Dr. Wegman served as the dean for 14 years and was an emeritus professor.
        In 1949, Dr. Wegman published the first of his annual summaries of vital statistics, a synthesis of government records on births, fertility rates, infant mortality and other data.
        The report, which Dr. Wegman wrote for more than 40 years, is published every December in Pediatrics, the journal of the American Academy of Pediatrics. It remains one of the most widely cited sources in the field.
        ''It was a fantastic contribution,'' said Dr. Bernard Guyer, a professor of children's health at Johns Hopkins University and one of the current authors of the study.
        ''Myron saw the need to make the country's vital statistics accessible to practitioners and the scientific population,'' Dr. Guyer said. ''Statistics can be dry and obscure, but he interpreted them and wrote about them in a language that people other than demographers found useful.''
        Dr. Wegman, a pediatrician, was an early proponent of broad training programs to modernize maternal and child health care. To combat infant mortality in the late 1930's, he traveled around Maryland educating rural doctors about advances in pediatrics. In the 1940's, he directed training programs in children's health for New York City's Health Department.
        ''At that time, the public health field was well developed in some dimensions,'' said Dr. Kenneth Warner, a professor at Michigan's School of Public Health. ''But he was one of the leaders in looking at the role of community interventions, such as promoting standards of cleanliness, in addressing children's health.''
        At times, Dr. Wegman was on the faculties of Yale, Johns Hopkins, Cornell and Columbia. Before arriving at Michigan, he spent eight years with the Pan American Health Organization, a regional office of the World Health Organization.
        As dean of Michigan's School of Public Health, he oversaw a significant expansion of research programs and is credited with helping to enhance the school's national reputation. He retired in 1978.
        In a video produced at Michigan to honor his career, Dr. Wegman said, ''There is as much or more satisfaction in working with large populations with large numbers of people as there is in helping a single person get well from a simple disease, and I've had the good fortune to take part in teaching on both sides of that.''
        Dr. Wegman was president of the American Public Health Association, the Association of Schools of Public Health and the Pan American Health and Education Foundation.
        He was born in Brooklyn and received his bachelor's degree from City College of New York, his medical degree from Yale and a master's in public health from Johns Hopkins.
        He is survived by a son, David; a daughter, Jane Dunatchik; a brother, Edwin; five grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      