
        Joseph Iadone, an early-music specialist and recording artist who was among the first in postwar America to popularize the lute, died on March 23 in New Haven. He was 89.
        Mr. Iadone died at a nursing home, where he lived, said his former wife, Susan Iadone.
        Mr. Iadone was a master on the lute, the delicate ancestor of the guitar that was common in Europe into the 18th century but by the 20th century had become obscure. Mr. Iadone, along with Suzanne Bloch and others, performed with the lute in recordings and in concerts in various groups, including the New York Pro Musica, the Renaissance Quartet and his own Iadone Consort.
        Mr. Iadone first played the guitar and the string bass. He performed in classical and jazz groups and attended the Yale School of Music to study with Paul Hindemith, the modernist composer. He received bachelor's and master's degrees from Yale. Mr. Iadone picked up the lute on joining Hindemith's Collegium Musicum when Hindemith offered him a blunt invitation: ''You, Iadone, play the lute.''
        He was largely self-taught on the lute, studying techniques found in historical treatises. He played the strings with his fingertips rather than with his fingernails, which created a gentler sound. He also had the advantage of fine instruments: Hindemith arranged for his group to use the historical instrument collection at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
        With George Soulos, a former student, Mr. Iadone founded one of the country's first early-music workshops, at Windham College in Putney, Vt., which closed in 1978. There in the 1960's and 70's, he trained a generation of musicians. He also taught at the Hartt School at the University of Hartford in West Hartford, Conn., for 22 years.
        Mr. Iadone recorded for Decca, Columbia and other labels. He was also an accompanist for Victoria de los Angeles, the Spanish soprano; Hugues Cuénod, a Swiss tenor; and the countertenor Russell Oberlin.
        His survivors include sons George Paul Bretz of Montana and James F. Bretz of Denver; a brother, Nicholas Jr., of Las Vegas; and a sister, Helen Iadone Williams of North Haven, Conn. Another son, Mark Bretz, predeceased him.
      