
        Claude (Fiddler) Williams, who began swinging on string instruments before the word jazz was commonly used, went on to become Count Basie's first recorded guitarist and continued playing violin with other jazz greats into his 90's, died on Sunday in Kansas City. He was 96.
        The cause was pneumonia, his wife, Blanche, said.
        Mr. Williams began his professional career playing with greats like Ben Webster and Lester Young as he explored the possibilities of the jazz violin in the late 1920's. In 1936 he preceded Freddie Green as Basie's first recorded guitarist and was voted Best Guitarist of the Year in a Downbeat national readers' poll.
        One of his early harmonic inspirations was Louis Armstrong, and he said he helped teach a young Charlie Parker how to switch from one chord to another when they were both active in Kansas City. His popularity grew steadily in his later years, as he played Carnegie Hall and the major jazz festivals, became very popular in Europe and, finally, earned renown as one of the Statesmen of Jazz, the group of elderly jazz greats sponsored by the American Foundation of Jazz Societies.
        It was his lifelong goal to make the violin a respected jazz instrument. His own approach on the violin owed much to the sounds of the saxophone and trumpet.
        ''He made the instrument a smooth-talking tease, sly and ebullient, with phrases that sounded like classy, witty wolf whistles,'' Jon Pareles wrote in The New York Times in 1996.
        Claude Gabriel Williams was born on Feb. 22, 1908, in Muskogee, Okla., three months after statehood. His father was a blacksmith, and his earliest inspiration was listening to his brother-in-law play the mandolin and banjo.
        By the time he was 10, he was playing the mandolin, guitar, banjo and cello and making money playing barber shops and front porches. In his early teens, he heard Joe Venuti, the first great violinist of jazz, play on a visit to Muskogee. He had to watch through a fence because blacks were banned from the city park.
        He told his parents he wanted to play the fiddle like Venuti. The next day when he got home from school, his cello was gone and a fiddle was on his pillow.
        In 1927 he arrived in Kansas City, Mo., then a hotbed of swing. His first recordings were made in 1928 on guitar and violin with the Twelve Clouds of Joy for the Brunswick label. This band was led first by Terrence Holder, then more famously by Andy Kirk, and included Mary Lou Williams on the piano.
        Mr. Williams successfully auditioned for the band of Eddie Cole, whose brother Nat played the piano but did not yet sing. Then, Count Basie, who was forming his Barons of Rhythm, sent for Mr. Williams, whom Basie had heard play in Kansas City.
        Mr. Williams's stay with Basie did not last long because John Hammond, Basie's manager, did not want a soloist in the rhythm section, according to Downbeat in 1999.
        ''Every time I would play the fiddle, there would be big applause,'' Mr. Williams told the magazine.
        Except for a move to Los Angeles in the early 1950's to join Roy Milton's Solid Senders, Mr. Williams made Kansas City his home base. In the 1960's and 70's, he worked with the bandleader and pianist Jay McShann, who was also from Muskogee. Mr. McShann's 1972 album ''Man From Muskogee'' drew attention to Mr. Williams. His popularity grew in Europe, and in 1981, he performed in the Paris production of the Broadway show ''Black and Blue'' for six months.
        He played at President Bill Clinton's second inaugural, was awarded a National Heritage Fellowship in 1998, recorded his final album, ''Swingin' the Blues,'' in 2000 and last performed in December.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Williams is survived by his son, Michael, of Kansas City; his stepsons, all with the last name of Fouse: Michael, of Mission Hills, Calif.; Thomas, of Fontana, Calif.; Kevin, of Kingman, Ariz.; and Brent, of Santa Cruz, Calif.; and one grandchild.
      