
        Dr. John Maynard Smith, an evolutionary biologist who revolutionized the study of animal behavior by applying the principles of game theory, died on April 19 at his home in Sussex, England. He was 84.
        His work helped to answer a wide variety of perplexing questions, explaining, for example, why animals seeking dominance rarely actually fight for it and why parents sometimes stay around to raise their offspring yet other times leave the burden to a mate.
        Influential in a wide range of areas within evolutionary biology, Dr. Maynard Smith is best known for his work involving game theory, which was originally inspired by the study of poker and which attempts to explain why strategies are more or less successful in different game situations.
        Dr. Maynard Smith, a professor emeritus at the University of Sussex, is also credited with crystallizing and accurately framing one of biology's most intriguing questions: why have organisms evolved to have sex? One of the leading theorists on this still unresolved matter, he asked, Why should an organism ever mate with another organism and thereby dilute its genetic contribution into the next generation, rather than reproducing itself clonally and thereby contributing all its genes into future generations?
        ''He is one of that rare company of scientists that changes the way people think,'' Dr. Richard Dawkins, the Oxford University evolutionary biologist and author, wrote in 1993. ''He is one of today's leading Darwinians.''
        Dr. Maynard Smith's game theory work was first published in 1973 with his co-author, Dr. George Price, a researcher at University College London who had inspired the work.
        By applying this form of mathematical thinking, which had already been profitably used in economics, Dr. Maynard Smith made clear in his continuing work that the advantages or disadvantages of an organism's behavior could be understood only in the context of what other organisms were doing. For example, in contests between males for resources or mates, what should animals most profitably evolve to do? ''You'd simply expect them to sort of hit the other chap in the groin as quickly as possible,'' Dr. Maynard Smith said in an interview with the magazine Natural History, ''and yet there's rather little escalated fighting and a great deal of display in settling contests.''
        Yet a dovelike strategy can be the best alternative, much better than persistently attacking, scientists say, depending on what other males are doing.
        In the study of the evolution of sex, Dr. Maynard Smith is perhaps best known for forcing biologists (most of them men) to ponder this painful question: Given that there are clonally reproducing females that can crank out offspring all by themselves, why should males, which can never reproduce on their own, exist?
        Though a theoretician, Dr. Maynard Smith was a well-versed biologist and natural historian. Born in London, he was 8 when his father died, forcing his mother to return to live with her family in the countryside in Somerset.
        ''I became obsessed with birds,'' he said in an interview in Natural History. Then his aunt gave him a field guide. ''And oh, the excitement of going through the book: 'That's a robin, that's a green finch, that's a blue tit!' ''
        He studied at Eton College, a boy's school. There he became enamored of the work of Prof. J. B. S. Haldane, the fruit fly geneticist at University College.
        ''I found he was the person my schoolmasters most hated,'' John Maynard Smith once wrote, as Haldane was an atheist, divorced and a socialist. ''Feeling that anyone they hated could not be all bad, I went to seek his books in the school library.''
        After studying engineering at Cambridge University, he worked at a small company researching aircraft design during World War II. Later he attended University College London to study with Haldane.
        Dr. Maynard Smith noted: ''He taught me everything I know. I wept when he died.''
        Dr. Maynard Smith became a professor at University College in 1952, and moved to the University of Sussex in 1965 as the founding dean of its School of Biological Sciences.
        He was known as J. M. S. to friends and colleagues.
        In 1985, he retired but was still pursuing his research even a few days before his death.
        His most recent book, ''Animal Signals,'' written with Dr. David Harper, a colleague at Sussex, explores reasons that animals are not more often deceptive in their communications. It was published last year.
        Dr. Maynard Smith was a fellow of the Royal Society and received numerous awards including the 1999 Crafoord Prize, which is awarded by the Swedish Academy of Sciences in fields not considered for the Nobel Prize.
        He also won the 2001 Kyoto Prize for basic sciences.
        He is survived by his wife, Sheila, a daughter and two sons.
      