
        John B. Evans, a former senior executive at the News Corporation, died on March 28 at his home in Annandale, N.J. He was 66.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, Victoria Mayer, a friend, said.
        Mr. Evans joined the News Corporation in 1977, when Rupert Murdoch, who controls the company, bought The Village Voice, the weekly newspaper based in New York. Mr. Evans began his career in the media business in the early 1970's with The Voice, rising to become publisher.
        In 1985, he was named executive vice president of Murdoch Magazines, a stable of publications that then included The Star and New Woman magazine besides The Village Voice. The list grew to include Elle, Seventeen, TV Guide and Mirabella, among others. Mr. Evans was later named president of the Murdoch Magazine Group.
        In 1990, the magazine unit was sold, and Mr. Evans moved to London to run the business operations of Mr. Murdoch's British newspaper properties, including The Times of London, The Sunday Times and The Sun.
        He returned to the United States in 1992 and formed News Electronic Data Inc., a News Corporation subsidiary that was formed to bring all of Mr. Murdoch's newspapers online. Subsequently, Mr. Evans developed some of the first electronic travel information products.
        ''As far as I know, he was the first person in print publishing that understood what was happening with the Internet and publishing,'' said Martin Singerman, who was president and publisher of The New York Post from 1994 through 1999 and is a former News Corporation director.
        In 1995, along with a number of partners, including the Intel Corporation, Mr. Evans bought News Electronic Data from News Corporation and renamed it BizTravel.com
        Mr. Evans also founded his own media consulting company, REM Productions Inc.
        Born in Ruthin, Wales, Mr. Evans was raised in England and graduated from Cambridge University with a degree in law.
        A sailor who spent several years as a professional yachtsman, Mr. Evans arrived in the United States on a sailboat, completing a voyage from Venezuela to the 79th Street Boat Basin in Manhattan.
        He found a job at the marina upon arrival, and then worked for three and a half years in advertising before moving to The Village Voice.
        Mr. Evans was married three times; all three marriages ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his sister, Patricia Etheridge of England; a daughter, Morgan Evans of Annandale, and a stepdaughter, Sarah Kim, also of Annandale.
      