
        Jim Vaill, who built the bucolic Lime Rock Park track, a mecca for sports-car racing in an otherwise quiet valley in northwestern Connecticut, died Tuesday in Sharon, Conn. He was 83.
        The cause was emphysema, according to his daughter, Carol Yilmaz.
        Always too short and rudimentary to be considered a major speedway, and with few of the corporate hospitality suites featured by big raceways, Lime Rock Park has nevertheless lured great drivers like Dan Gurney, Parnelli Jones and Mark Donohue, along with a speedy Connecticut actor named Paul Newman.
        James Edward Vaill was born in Torrington, Conn., on Feb. 18, 1921, and grew up in Lakeville, a town adjacent to Lime Rock, in the Berkshire foothills. He was trained as a singer and performed in light opera but primarily worked for his father, Frank, in the family farming and construction business.
        According to Rich Taylor, an author who chronicled the history of the track, and Roy Hasty, the track's public relations manager, in the spring of 1955 Mr. Vaill would often race an MG-TC that was owned by his friend Jack Fisher in a gravel pit on Vaill family property in Lime Rock. Soon, he was approached by a group from the Sports Car Club of America that included the yachtsman and sports-car racer Briggs Cunningham. The group proposed that Mr. Vaill build a permanent road-racing course.
        Using an aerial survey of the 325-acre park in a valley owned by his family (and with his father's blessing), Mr. Vaill laid out a plan for a 1.53-mile road-racing course that remains in its original form except for a minor alteration that made the track safer. Although Mr. Vaill had to redirect a small river, the track's shape was otherwise dictated by nature, including the thick woods that surround it and its rolling hills, which provide an automotive amphitheater ideal for picnickers.
        Mr. Vaill did most of the earth-moving, but the project was nearly stopped by hurricane-related flooding in 1955.
        After the track opened in April 1957, another challenge lay before Mr. Vaill. Although the community of Lime Rock had approved the track, a group of local residents filed suit against it. In May 1959, a judge ruled that racing could continue at Lime Rock Park, but with two key restrictions that are still in effect: not on Sundays, and if the cars' engines were unmuffled (as any respectable racecar engine is), on only 10 weekends a year.
        In 1963, Mr. Vaill sold the track and focused on real estate. The circuit is now owned by Skip Barber, who started a chain of high-performance driving schools, including one based at Lime Rock Park.
        Besides Mrs. Yilmaz, of Huntington, N.Y., Mr. Vaill is survived by his wife, the former Gail Meiners; a brother, Richard, of Edmond, Okla.; a sister, Janet Maus, of Lakeville; a son, Ronald, of Irwin, Pa.; and seven grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      