
        Jack Smith, a former Washington-based correspondent for ABC News who covered world events before helping that network shape its technology beat, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Greenbrae, Calif. He was 58 and lived in Mill Valley, Calif.
        The cause was cancer, ABC News said.
        Mr. Smith joined the news staff at ABC in 1976 and was a Washington correspondent from 1980 until he left the network in 2001. As senior correspondent for ''This Week With David Brinkley'' for nine years he provided viewers with background reports on major events like the Iran-Contra affair and the collapse of Soviet Communism.
        He reported from presidential campaigns and from Lebanon during the Israeli invasion. He covered the White House and the State Department for ''Good Morning America'' and climbed Mount Everest with a Canadian team in 1982.
        More recently he helped create the technology segments ''Cutting Edge'' on ''World News Tonight With Peter Jennings.'' After leaving ABC he was the host on A&E Biography programs and worked on documentaries for the Discovery Channel as well as the award-winning series ''Vietnam: The Soldier's Story'' on The Learning Channel, into which he poured his own experiences.
        Jack Prescott Smith was born in Paris, the son of Howard K. Smith, the broadcast journalist and a former anchorman for ABC News. He grew up in London and Washington and enlisted in the Army in 1964. He survived some of the bloodiest fighting in Vietnam, and earned a Bronze Star with a V for Valor and a Purple Heart.
        He received bachelor's degrees from Carnegie Mellon University in 1971 and from Oxford University in 1974. He was a television reporter and producer for a Chicago station before ABC hired him in New York in 1976 and sent him, conversant in French, German and Danish, back to Paris as a correspondent.
        Mr. Smith is survived by his wife, Pamela Peffer Smith; his mother, Benedicte Traberg Smith of Marco Island, Fla.; a son from a previous marriage, Alexander K. of Washington; a sister, Catherine Smith of Los Angeles; and two stepsons, Aidan and Matthew McTighe of Rockville, Md.
      