
        John Taras, an internationally known American choreographer and balletmaster associated chiefly with New York City Ballet but also with American Ballet Theater and companies abroad, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84.
        His death was reported by Delia Peters, a friend who was formerly a dancer in City Ballet.
        Although from 1940 on his career was linked to George Balanchine and his companies, including City Ballet, Mr. Taras first received wide acclaim as a choreographer for two ballets in Europe. In one, ''Designs With Strings,'' presented in 1948 by the Metropolitan Ballet in Edinburgh, he created an enduring work to Tchaikovsky that showed both his individuality and his loyalty to the neo-Classical, plotless style that Balanchine was making familiar.
        A second work, ''Piège de Lumière,'' presented in 1952 by the Grand Ballet du Marquis de Cuevas in Paris, caused a sensation with its hallucinatory allegorical tale of convicts in pursuit of fragile butterflies. The work was restaged for City Ballet in 1964 and brought to the surface the emotional undercurrents that could be sensed even in Mr. Taras's plotless ballets.
        A sophisticated New Yorker who was at home in Paris's post-World War II artistic circles, Mr. Taras nonetheless found a major calling as Balanchine's right-hand man. He rehearsed Balanchine's ballets and staged them for a variety of companies as well as choreographing. He was the first choreographer to create a featured role for Suzanne Farrell at City Ballet: in 1963 he cast her in his new Stravinsky ballet, ''Arcade,'' as the young girl whose budding romance with a youth, portrayed by Arthur Mitchell, is destroyed by a group of chaperones.
        Among his more enduring works at City Ballet were ''Ebony Concerto,'' also to Stravinsky (1960), and ''Souvenir de Florence,'' created for City Ballet's 1981 Tchaikovsky Festival and recently revived. Elsewhere, the spectacular version of ''Firebird'' that Mr. Taras choreographed for Dance Theater of Harlem remains an audience favorite.
        Mr. Taras held a variety of major posts, including short-lived tenures as artistic director of the Paris Opera Ballet in 1969 and 1970 and of the Berlin Ballet in 1971 and 1972.
        He was with the de Cuevas company as chief choreographer and balletmaster intermittently from 1948 to 1952 and then in the mid-1950's.
        In 1959 he returned to New York to become an assistant and balletmaster for Balanchine at City Ballet. After Balanchine's death in 1983, Mr. Taras became associate director at American Ballet Theater (1984-90), for which he had created his first major ballet, ''Graziana,'' in 1945.
        Born into a family of Ukrainian descent on April 18, 1919, in New York, Mr. Taras joined a Ukrainian folk dance group at 9. At 16 he began studying ballet in New York with the celebrated choreographer Mikhail Fokine and other Russian teachers, including Anatole Vilzak and Ludmila Shollar.
        At a time when American ballet companies were hardly permanent, Mr. Taras danced with Catherine Littlefield's Philadelphia Ballet from 1939 to 1941 and with dancers associated with Balanchine and Lincoln Kirstein for a Ford Motor Company show at the 1939 World's Fair. In 1940 he enrolled at the School of American Ballet and was a dancer in American Ballet Caravan, a precursor to City Ballet, on its 1941 tour of South America.
        In 1942, after that group disbanded, Mr. Taras joined Ballet Theater as a dancer; he also was a balletmaster and choreographer there through 1946. After attracting attention with ''Graziana,'' a plotless ballet to Mozart, Mr. Taras created a dramatic ballet, ''Camille,'' for the Original Ballet Russe and its guest star, Alicia Markova. He also created ''Tchaikovsky Waltz'' for the Markova-Dolin Ballet, headed by Ms. Markova and Anton Dolin.
        Mr. Taras retained his European connections and choreographed operas and ballets for various festivals and companies, especially in France. In 1949 he choreographed for the experimental Ballets des Champs-Élysées. Later, when Prince Rainier married Grace Kelly in 1956, he choreographed ''Fanfare for a Prince'' as a pièce d'occasion at the Monte-Carlo Opera.
        Although he was sometimes charged with Parisian chic in his ballets for de Cuevas, Mr. Taras had a firm grip on taste, as he showed in his works with a whiff of a plot. One of these was his version of Vaslav Nijinsky's ''Jeux'' for City Ballet in 1966. For the most part, he worked willingly in the shadow of Balanchine's overwhelming presence. He favored Balanchine's brand of neo-Classical ballet, inviting inevitable comparison. But he was one of the few Balanchine disciples whose solidity of craft could also cross into imagination.
        He is survived by his wife, Hélène Sadowska, and a stepdaughter, Anne.
      