
        Dr. Vernon R. Young, a biochemist whose research into human nutrition and the body's creation of protein helped prompt federal authorities to rethink health guidelines and publish higher daily requirements for cereal and other foods, died on March 30 in Boston. He was 66 and lived in Wellesley, Mass.
        The cause was complications of renal cancer, said his son Michael.
        In nearly four decades at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Dr. Young studied the way amino acids found in foods combine to produce the proteins essential to rebuilding muscle tissue and moving nutrients within human cells.
        In studies of amino acids like leucine and lysine, he helped to establish recommendations for daily nutritional standards. The studies often involved checking the blood and the urine of healthy M.I.T. students, in an effort to establish early base lines for those requirements. Previous studies had largely centered on rats, mice and pigs.
        ''His scientific goal was to do research relevant to the living human being,'' said Dr. Naomi K. Fukagawa, an associate professor of medicine at the University of Vermont, who was Dr. Young's student before joining him as a collaborator.
        Some of their research findings became known as the M.I.T. pattern of amino acid intake, a widely accepted nutritional guide. Dr. Young later applied some findings to developing a balance between consumption of proteins and that of carbohydrates, to improving vitamins and to exploring developing countries' nutritional deficiencies.
        Vernon Robert Young was born in Rhyl, Wales, and was educated in England at the University of Cambridge and the University of Reading, where he received degrees in agriculture, before earning his doctorate in nutrition at the University of California, Davis, in 1965. He joined the M.I.T. faculty that year and in 1977 became a professor of nutritional biochemistry.
        Later, in the 1980's, he was also associate program director for M.I.T.'s Clinical Research Center. He held posts at Harvard Medical School and the Boston Shriners Hospital.
        Dr. Young was a former president of the American Institute of Nutrition. He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1990 and to the academy's Institute of Medicine three years later.
        He is survived by his wife of 37 years, the former Janice Harrington; a daughter, Patricia M. Young of Needham, Mass.; four sons, Michael V. and Christopher R., both of Boston, and Andrew J. and Richard K., both of Newton, Mass.; and a sister, Sylvia Price of Council Bluffs, Iowa.
      