
        Murray J. Gart, the editor of The Washington Star when it ceased publication in 1981, died on Wednesday at his home in Mitchellville, Md. He was 79.
        The cause was complications of heart surgery, said his wife, Jeanne.
        Mr. Gart became editor of the Star in 1978, shortly after his employer, Time Inc., bought it for $20 million and vowed to spend millions of dollars to pull it out of the financial difficulties that it had been suffering for a decade.
        Before taking over the newspaper, Mr. Gart managed Time's foreign and domestic correspondents for nearly 10 years. His work in that job included the Watergate scandal and the withdrawal of American forces from Vietnam.
        ''He was sort of like a four-star general in charge of a global theater of operations,'' said Strobe Talbott, the president of the Brookings Institution and a former colleague at Time. ''He was very, very well organized, and so the operation was very well organized.''
        Throughout his career, Mr. Gart developed a reputation for giving important assignments to young journalists with little experience. Former colleagues said he sometimes made personnel decisions based on little more than hunches.
        For example, not long after Mr. Talbott finished a summer internship, Mr. Gart made him the Eastern European correspondent for Time.
        ''Murray was a fabulous mentor of younger reporters,'' Mr. Talbott said.
        Murray Joseph Gart was born in Boston on Nov. 9, 1924. He served in the Army during World War II, and graduated from Northeastern University in 1949 with a degree in economics.
        He began his career in journalism that same year with The Honolulu Star-Bulletin. He went to work at Time Inc. in 1955 and became Time's Midwest correspondent in 1959.
        The Washington Star, begun in 1852 and once hailed as one of the richest and most influential newspapers in the nation, was struggling when Mr. Gart arrived. An afternoon daily, it was losing readers enticed by evening news on television and an entrenched morning rival, The Washington Post, which had 75 percent of the advertising market.
        Time spent $85 million on the newspaper over three and a half years, but decided in August 1981 that the project was too costly.
        As the man who ran the newsroom during the daily's demise -- and wrestled with staying competitive on a budget -- Mr. Gart became the target of criticism.
        Some members of his staff said he had misunderstood the Star's culture, and had replaced an atmosphere of mutual respect and camaraderie with one of division.
        But his supporters said that he significantly improved the newspaper, particularly the quality of its writing, and that under his guidance its journalism matched and beat the Post's with increasing frequency.
        In the end, Mr. Gart's supporters said, what had sunk the newspaper were not problems in the newsroom but problems on the balance sheet.
        In addition to his wife, Jeanne, Mr. Gart is survived by a son, Mitchell, of Bedford, Mass.; a daughter, Marcia Mersky of Wilton, Conn.; and four grandchildren.
      