
        Janet Akyuz Mattei, an astronomer who studied variable stars, ones that wink and twinkle like cosmic eccentrics, and helped coordinate an international fan club that kept track of them, died on March 22 at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston. She was 61 and lived in Littleton, Mass.
        The cause was acute myologenous leukemia, the American Association of Variable Star Observers in Cambridge, Mass., announced. Dr. Mattei, an international authority in her field, had been the group's director and staff astronomer since 1973.
        The association, founded in 1911, collects and coordinates reports -- hundreds of thousands a year -- sent in by observers, many of them amateurs, from around the world.
        Dr. Mattei was an expert who sorted variable stars by their characteristics, like the eruptive, cataclysmic type, or the pulsating variable with very slow and steady beat. The Sun, by comparison, despite its 11-year external sunspot cycles, is not counted among the variables. (It may become one as it decays, in a few billion years.)
        The Web site of the association (aavso.org) advises that there are more than 30,000 variable stars known and catalogued for their changes in brightness, caused by internal forces that make them pulsate, shrink and swell. Thousands more are suspected of such behavior.
        Dr. Mattei garnered information from some 600 observing posts, amateur and professional, operating large telescopes, both earthbound and mounted on space satellites. She analyzed the material, conducted visual and photometric studies of heavenly bodies, like dwarf novae, and kept the scientific community up to date on them.
        She also made the association's database available to educators and helped amateur astronomers get their turn on the Hubble Space Telescope. In turn, she helped NASA select eligible amateurs in the 1980's and 1990's.
        Dr. Mattei published about 180 papers on variable stars. She was the principal investigator for her association's education programs, financed by NASA, ''Partnership in Astronomy'' and ''Hands-On Astrophysics: Variable Stars in Math, Science, and Computer Education,'' which she also co-directed.
        Janet Akyuz was born in Bodrum, Turkey. She came to this country as a Wein Scholar at Brandeis University, from which she graduated in 1965. She received two master's degrees in astronomy: from Aegean University in Izmir, Turkey, in 1970, and the University of Virginia in 1972, as well as a Ph.D. in astronomy in Izmir in 1982.
        Before she became director of the variable-stars association, she briefly served as an assistant to her predecessor and taught physics and astronomy at the American College Institute in Turkey and Aegean University. She was also a teaching assistant at the Hayden Planetarium in New York in 1971 and a researcher at the Maria Mitchell Observatory in Nantucket in 1969.
        Dr. Mattei is survived by her husband of 31 years, Michael Mattei; her mother, Bulisa Akyuz of Izmir; two brothers, Yusef Akyuz of Sudbury, Mass., and Hayim Akyuz of Izmir; and two sisters, Kadem Senkal of Istanbul and Beki Notrika of Tel Aviv.
        Correction:  April 14, 2004, Wednesday  An obituary on April 2 about Janet Akuyuz Mattei, an astronomer who tracked variable stars, gave an outdated name for the hospital in Boston where she died. It is Brigham and Women's Hospital, no longer Peter Bent Brigham.
      