
        John C. Messerschmitt, who as an executive of Royal Philips Electronics helped introduce optical disc technology, including the videodisc and the CD-ROM, to the American market, died on April 8 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 81.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, his wife, Betsy, said.
        During Mr. Messerschmitt's 42-year career at what is now called the Philips Electronics North America Corporation, he shepherded the marketing of a variety of videodisc products.
        In 1981, he oversaw the selling of the Philips videodisc system for viewing movies and other entertainment on television. He hailed the product, developed in Europe, as an improvement over videocassette recorders, and defended Philips's high pricing strategy.
        ''Let's face it,'' he said in an interview with The Associated Press in 1981. ''This is a product you do not sell to a person barely scraping by making $20,000 a year.''
        Philips profited, while RCA, which asked considerably lower prices for its different videodisc technology, withdrew from the field. Mr. Messerschmitt told The Associated Press in 1984 that he saw the technology ''absolutely expanding.''
        That year, he oversaw Philips's introduction of the CD-ROM, or compact disc read-only memory, as a data storage medium. He found an early market in libraries and pushed the publishing community to develop more products for the CD-ROM marketplace.
        John Carl Messerschmitt was born in Queens on May 24, 1922. He was an Eagle Scout, and as the top scout in Queens, represented the Boy Scouts at the opening of the 1939-40 World's Fair in Flushing Meadows.
        In World War II, he joined the Army Air Corps and flew a B-24 Liberator on combat missions in Europe, sometimes engaging in combat with the famed Messerschmitt fighters designed by his cousin Willie. He earned an Air Medal and an oak leaf cluster.
        Mr. Messerschmitt was a former chairman of the Electronics Industry Association, and in 1987 was awarded the group's highest award, its Medal of Honor. He was chairman of the board of the College of Aeronautics in Queens.
        Mr. Messerschmitt's first wife, the former Evangeline Sammons, died in 1976. Their son, John, died in 2002.
        In addition to his wife, Betsy, Mr. Messerschmitt is survived by a daughter, Pamela Bennett of Philadelphia; a sister, Carlette Allen of New Rochelle, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      