
        Robert J. Harth was not a demonstrative man, and a memorial in his honor yesterday at Carnegie Hall, where he was executive and artistic director, was similarly restrained.
        Just four people spoke: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg; Sanford I. Weill, the chairman of Carnegie Hall; Ara Guzelimian, Carnegie Hall's artistic administrator; and Sidney Harth, Mr. Harth's father.
        Threading through their tributes was a common lament: this was someone taken from them too soon. ''It ain't fair,'' Mr. Weill said. Mr. Harth died on Jan. 30 of a heart attack at 47.
        Mr. Weill asked the capacity crowd ''to stand up and applaud the life of a terrific young man,'' giving Mr. Harth perhaps his first standing ovation at Carnegie Hall.
        The mayor spoke of Mr. Harth as ''an island of calm.''
        ''He had a serenity and a charm that was nearly miraculous,'' Mr. Bloomberg added. ''He was a friend, even if you'd never met him before.''
        The senior Mr. Harth called him ''a gentle but insistent leader.''
        In part it was Mr. Harth's laid-back warmth and understated authority that made such a strong impression, people said yesterday. But it was also the way he steered Carnegie Hall through one rigorous test after another in just 28 months on the job: the terrorist attack and resulting economic blow to cultural institutions; the death of Isaac Stern, Carnegie Hall's guardian angel; the merger negotiations with the New York Philharmonic; and the opening of Zankel Hall.
        ''He guided us through some of the most difficult and challenging days in the hall's history,'' Mr. Guzelimian said. ''He was absolutely fearless of innovation.''
        Mr. Bloomberg said that the broader programming that Mr. Harth had brought to Zankel Hall and Carnegie Hall would have lasting influence. ''They're called impresarios when they succeed and bureaucrats when they don't,'' he said. ''Robert was the former.''
        Although Mr. Harth's tastes ranged from Lyle Lovett to Glenn Gould, his colleagues gave their former chief a more modest musical send-off, with four pieces, each with particular significance: Claude Debussy's ''String Quartet in G Minor,'' because it was played by Mr. Harth's friends in the Emerson String Quartet; Brahms' ''Intermezzo in A,'' played by Mr. Harth's friend the pianist Emanuel Ax; ''Our Love Is Here to Stay,'' because George Gershwin died young just before he finished it and because it was sung by Audra McDonald, who had performed at Carnegie Hall under Mr. Harth; and Bach's ''Concerto in D Minor'' by the Met Chamber Ensemble, because that piece was part of his childhood. His parents, the elder Mr. Harth and Teresa Testa Harth, were professional violinists.
        But when it came time to show a few slides of Mr. Harth -- beaming with his parents as a boy, standing under a new concert tent built during his tenure as president of the Aspen Festival in the 1990's, greeting Marilyn Horne as Carnegie Hall's top executive -- the only accompaniment in the venerable hall reputed to have the best acoustics in the world was silence.
      