
        John B. Whyte, a former magazine model whose shrewd real estate investments and innate sense of style made him an arbiter of the social scene in Fire Island Pines, N.Y., one of the largest gay vacation communities on the East Coast, died on March 22 at his home in Dana Point, Calif. He was 75.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said his brother, Malcolm Whyte.
        His principal residence was in Trump Plaza in Manhattan, but he also had homes on Fire Island and in Los Angeles; Palm Springs, Calif.; and Acapulco, Mexico, that he used as settings for his parties.
        A six-footer with an intense gaze, Mr. Whyte was a walking advertisement for the man who has it all, whether posing in an advertisement for Stetson hats, unwinding with Inverness Scotch or puffing on a Salem or True cigarette.
        In the early 1960's, he became a partner in the Pines Hotel, which later became the Fire Island Pines Botel, a playful reference to the docking of boats at its harborside front door. In 1966, he bought the remaining shares from the original owner, Peggy Fears, a former Ziegfeld girl and theatrical producer who had helped establish the hotel as a destination for Broadway actors and movie stars.
        Mr. Whyte helped develop the Pines, one of 17 communities on the 32-mile-long Fire Island, from 200 wild acres of sand dunes and scrub pines into a resort community of 700 homes.
        The celebrity crowd followed him there, and through the 70's and 80's the Pines was a utopian escape, where the men on the beach looked like models on the runway. ''John always had a good eye in clothing, design and people,'' Malcolm Whyte said. ''He kind of created his own universe.''
        Although he sold many of his holdings in recent months, Mr. Whyte had acquired most of the Pines harbor's commercial real estate, including the Pines Dune and Yacht Club, a complex that includes the Botel, the only hotel and a center of social life there. He also owned the Cultured Elephant, a restaurant, the Pavilion, a club mythic to the disco era, and the Blue Whale Bar.
        The social life in the Pines revolved around Tea Dance, which Mr. Whyte started at the yacht club in the mid-1960's. People would gather about 5 p.m. and dance and drink until about 8.
        Those familiar with the history of the Pines say that Mr. Whyte resisted flamboyance and preferred decorum. He would occasionally shine a flashlight on a couple at the club if he thought they were pushing the limits of acceptable behavior.
        ''He was the gentleman of Fire Island,'' said Jon Wilner, a friend and the owner of Island Properties of the Pines.
        Mr. Whyte was a co-founder of the Pines Conservation Society in 1970. In 1984, he also founded From the Pines With Love, which enlisted celebrities like Peter Allen, Melissa Manchester, Dionne Warwick and Leslie Uggams to perform at events to raise money for AIDS research. In 2002, the Fire Island Pines Community House was named Whyte Hall in recognition of his years of service to the community.
        John Burlingame Whyte was born May 22, 1928, in Milwaukee, to Malcolm Whyte, a lawyer, and Bertha Kitchell Whyte. He attended Washington University in St. Louis for two years, studying fashion design, before moving to Manhattan in the early 1950's. He stayed at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel for several months while trying to establish a career as a model. The story goes that his good looks and prestigious telephone number helped him land his first job. In the 1950's and 1960's, his face appeared regularly in advertisements that graced the back covers of magazines like Look and Life.
        His survivors include his brother, of Mill Valley, Calif.; and Larry Schlienz, of San Clemente, Calif.
      