
        John L. Dowling, once a leading commercial real estate broker in New York and around the country who represented a roster of blue-chip corporations, died on Tuesday at his home in Boca Grande, Fla. He was 66 and also had a home in Manhattan.
        The cause was a heart attack brought on by complications of melanoma, according to a statement issued by Cushman & Wakefield, where he formerly worked.
        An erudite man who was by turns charming, combative and fiercely competitive, Mr. Dowling spent much of his 44-year career at Cushman & Wakefield, where he served as executive vice president and a member of its board for many years before leaving in 1999 to form his own company, Dowling & Company.
        His clients included many of the nation's largest companies, including General Electric, I.B.M., Texaco and MCI. At the peak of his career, in the 1970's and 1980's, it seemed as if he was in the middle of every deal in Manhattan, orchestrating negotiations for corporate headquarters and large blocks of office space across the nation. In many cases, he worked directly with top executives as their corporate real estate advisor.
        ''He was indisputably the No. 1 real estate broker and adviser in the United States for a decade,'' said Darcy Stacom, an executive vice president and partner in CB Richard Ellis, who worked under Mr. Dowling at Cushman & Wakefield in the 1980's and described him as a mentor.
        Born June 19, 1937, into an affluent family in Scarsdale, Mr. Dowling was the son of a lawyer who died when Mr. Dowling was 11.
        Mr. Dowling graduated from Tufts University in 1959, and later was a member of the university's board of trustees and director of a development subsidiary formed by Tufts to develop real estate in Boston's financial district.
        He was active in business, charities and civic affairs, serving as a member of the Urban Land Institute, the Real Estate Board of New York and the Committee on University Resources of the Board of Overseers of Harvard.
        Mr. Dowling is survived by his wife, Hebe Sanders Dowling, of Manhattan and Boca Grande; two sons, Peter and John, both of New York City; a daughter, Meaghan Dowling Chorske, of San Francisco; and a grandson.
      