
        Darrell Johnson, who managed the Boston Red Sox to the brink of the 1975 World Series championship in a dramatic seven-game duel with the Cincinnati Reds, died on Monday at his home in Fairfield, Calif. He was 76.
        The cause was leukemia, his daughter Denise Johnson said.
        The 1975 World Series, pitting the Red Sox against the Cincinnati Big Red Machine that won 108 regular-season games, featured a host of memorable moments.
        The refusal of the home-plate umpire, Larry Barnett, to call interference on the Reds' Ed Armbrister on his bunt led to a Cincinnati victory in Game 3. The aging right-hander Luis Tiant won two games and outfielder Bernie Carbo hit a pair of pinch-hit homers for the Red Sox. Carlton Fisk's 12th-inning home run down the left-field line at Fenway Park provided Boston a victory in Game 6.
        The Red Sox, seeking their first World Series championship since 1918, had a 3-0 lead early in Game 7. But the score was tied at 3-3 in the bottom of the eighth, with two out and no one on base, when Johnson sent up Cecil Cooper, a 1-for-18 hitter in the Series, to bat for the righty pitcher Jim Willoughby, an outstanding reliever that season. Cooper fouled out to third baseman Pete Rose, then Johnson brought in the rookie lefty Jim Burton to pitch.
        Burton walked Ken Griffey and eventually yielded a bloop single by Joe Morgan in the ninth to give the Reds a 4-3 victory, leaving Johnson's maneuver open to second-guessing.
        Johnson, who led the Red Sox to a third-place finish in 1974, was named the American League manager of the year by The Associated Press for 1975, having managed the Red Sox to the pennant with a three-game sweep of the three-time World Series champion Oakland A's in the playoffs. But Johnson was fired in July 1976 when the Red Sox slumped.
        Johnson was the Seattle Mariners' first manager, from 1977 to mid-1980, and managed the Texas Rangers in the second half of the 1982 season, taking over from Don Zimmer, who had replaced him as Red Sox manager.
        Johnson spent six seasons as a substitute catcher in the major leagues, playing for seven teams, including the Yankees, appearing briefly for them in 1957 and 1958. He had a .234 career batting average.
        He was also a minor league manager and coach for the Red Sox, a scout for the Yankees and later a minor league coordinator, coach and scout for the Mets.
        In addition to his daughter Denise, he is survived by his daughters Dara Austin and Deana Johnson; a son, Douglas; his brother, Wayne; his sisters Dorothy Osentowski and Evelyn Rose; three grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren. His wife, Dixie, died in February.
        Johnson's decision to have Cooper hit for Willoughby lingered in the memories of Red Sox fans still waiting for a World Series championship.
        ''I wouldn't change a thing,'' Johnson told The New York Times in 1985, ''except that I'd probably have Cecil hit a home run.''
      