
        Philip Zaro, a co-founder of the bakery chain that provides countless commuters with bagels and muffins at Grand Central Terminal and Pennsylvania Station, died on Friday at his home in Harrison, N.Y. He was 82.
        The cause was a stroke, but he had suffered from congestive heart failure for several years, his son Stuart said.
        Zaro's Bread Basket became a familiar part of New York life when Mr. Zaro installed a branch of the family bakery in a former baggage-claim area of Grand Central Terminal in the summer of 1977.
        Today, Zaro's has four stores in Grand Central and three in Penn Station. An estimated 1.5 million people walk by the stores each day, and the stores sell 10,000 muffins a week.
        Mr. Zaro was born in Lublin, Poland, in 1921. His father immigrated to the United States in 1927, and when his small bakery in Newark was up and running two years later, he sent for his family.
        Before Philip Zaro was old enough to work in the office with his father, he delivered rolls on his bicycle, selling them three for a nickel.
        In the 1930's, he and his brother William helped their father relocate the family business to the Bronx, where they changed the name from a forgotten original to Zaro's.
        During World War II, a hernia kept Mr. Zaro from enlisting in the Army, so he stayed in the Bronx. By the early 1970's he had expanded the business to 21 stores, mostly in that borough. Most of them were closed, and 12 stores, two of which are new, remain.
        Mr. Zaro was the public face of his family business, running from store to store and sealing deals with a handshake.
        ''I'm sure there were times when he had to work at the ovens when he was younger, but for the most part, he was out in the stores,'' Stuart Zaro said. ''He was never really a baker.''
        In 1975, Stuart Zaro and his brother Joseph joined the business shortly after their father's brother retired. Today they are co-presidents.
        Mr. Zaro's brother William died in 1996. In addition to his sons Stuart and Joseph, he is survived by his wife, Dorothy; another son, Andrew; and a brother, Sam, and a sister, Claire Shostak, both of Fort Lee, N.J.
        Mr. Zaro was involved in local philanthropic organizations, including the Shield Institute, which helps mentally retarded and developmentally disabled children, and the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, and he helped forge an alliance between the two. He was also a major contributor to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington.
      