
        Prentice H. Marshall, who as an activist federal judge in Chicago presided over cases that changed the makeup of the Chicago police force and sent the head of the Teamsters union to prison, died on Monday in Ponce Inlet, Fla., where he had lived for 14 years. He was 77.
        The cause was cardiac-pulmonary failure and cancer of the bladder, his former law firm, Jenner & Block, said.
        Judge Marshall, who was drawn to the law after reading Clarence Darrow's autobiography when he was 11, served as a federal district judge for the northern district of Illinois from 1973 until 1996. He was one of the few Democrats to be nominated for a federal judgeship by President Richard M. Nixon.
        In 1976, ruling in a discrimination suit, he ordered the Chicago Police Department to hire women as officers on the beat and to open its doors to more blacks and Hispanics. When the city failed to comply, Judge Marshall directed the United States Treasury to withhold federal money until the department changed its policies.
        One of his most widely publicized trials was in 1982, when he presided over the case of the Teamsters union's president, Roy L. Williams, who was charged with conspiring to bribe a United States senator, Howard W. Cannon of Nevada, to use his influence to block a bill to deregulate the trucking industry. Mr. Cannon, who was not indicted, always denied that any bribe was offered.
        The jury returned a guilty verdict, and Judge Marshall imposed a sentence of up to 10 years. Mr. Williams, who suffered from severe emphysema, served three years in a federal prison hospital.
        Judge Marshall also ruled in a 1982 case that the random interrogation and detention of Hispanics by what was then the Immigration and Naturalization Service was unconstitutional. His ruling led the agency to change its policies drastically.
        In 1986, a federal jury found a Cook County Circuit Court judge, Reginald J. Holzer, guilty of extorting $200,000 from lawyers and litigants who appeared before his court over a 10-year period, ending in 1984. Judge Marshall presided over that case, which was part of a broader investigation into court corruption called Operation Greylord.
        In another ruling, Judge Marshall ordered the Stateville Correctional Center to establish better medical care for inmates -- including proper medicine and diet for diabetics -- as the result of a lawsuit filed on behalf of an inmate there.
        Prentice Henry Marshall was born on Aug. 7, 1926, in Oak Park, Ill. He graduated from Oak Park High School in 1944 and then served two years in the Navy. Under the G.I. Bill of Rights, he studied at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, graduating in 1949. He earned his law degree from the University of Illinois College of Law two years later. He married his high school sweetheart, Lorelei Towle, in 1948.
        After law school, he clerked for a federal judge for two years, and in 1953 he joined the law firm Jenner & Block, then named Johnston, Thompson, Raymond & Mayer.
        He was a partner there from 1961 to 1967, helping to establish a highly regarded pro bono program, and then left to teach at the University of Illinois College of Law. He remained at the school until he joined the bench in 1973.
        He retired in 1996 but served as a mediator and arbitrator for the Chicago firm Cotsirilos, Tighe & Streicker.
        Judge Marshall lost a close race for state's attorney in 1959, running as a Democrat in what was then a Republican stronghold.
        A die-hard fan of the Chicago Cubs, he often said he wanted to become baseball commissioner. His wife, Lorelei, said he was once interviewed for the position.
        Judge Marshall is survived by his wife; their three children, Prentice Jr., of Oak Brook; Pamela Holcombe of Asheville, N.C.; and Connie Pilato of Queens, N.Y.; 12 grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren. Another son, Fred, of Bemidji, Minn., died in January 2002.
      