
        Dr. Arthur J. Naparstek, an expert on urban redevelopment whose ideas for rebuilding Cleveland's impoverished neighborhoods became the model for a federal program, died April 24 at University Hospitals of Cleveland. He was 65.
        The cause was complications from lung cancer, said his son Aaron.
        Dr. Naparstek was a professor of social work and a former dean of the Mandel School of Applied Social Sciences at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland.
        Dr. Naparstek's work helped redefine the function of public housing through community building. In the early 1990's, Dr. Naparstek, appointed director of the Cleveland Foundation Commission on Poverty, edited and directed the drafting of the commission's report, ''The Cleveland Community-Building Initiative: The Report and Recommendations of the Cleveland Foundation Commission on Poverty.'' The study became the foundation for the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development's Urban Revitalization Demonstration Act of 1993, known as HOPE IV.
        ''He was not just dealing with the bricks and mortar, but with the whole aspect of community,'' said Sunia Zaterman, the executive director of the Council of Large Public Housing Authorities.
        The multibillion-dollar HUD program brought local community leaders and tenants to the table by giving them a role in creating the revitalization plans for their dilapidated housing projects and more control over operations.
        ''By building community, we are talking about people forming relationships,'' Dr. Naparstek said in a radio interview in 2000 on the National Public Radio show ''Public Interest with Kojo Nnamdi.'' ''People are poor because they lack relationships with people who have access to resources and power.''
        The initiative takes into consideration the social and physical aspects of the environment. Critics of the program have said its emphasis on the demolition of housing resulted in the displacement of residents.
        In the late 1960's, Dr. Naparstek was assistant to Richard G. Hatcher, then the mayor of Gary, Ind. President Jimmy Carter appointed Dr. Naparstek to the National Commission on Neighborhoods and the President's Commission on Mental Health's Task Panel on Community Support Systems. In 1994, President Bill Clinton appointed him to the Corporation for National Service. He was a co-author of four books and published many articles about the importance of community building and mental health in public policy.
        In 1995, Dr. Naparstek was appointed to the Urban Institute in Washington as a senior associate directing the Institute's HOPE IV initiative.
        As co-chairman of the Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland's Partnership 2000 program, Dr. Naparstek applied his community-based model in Beit Sh'an, a city in northern Israel. In 1999, the mayor of the town and the Palestinian governor of Jenin met in Dr. Naparstek's home in Cleveland Heights to discuss the plan.
        Dr. Naparstek, the son of Polish immigrants, was born in New York City and grew up in the Bronx and in Mount Vernon. In the 1940's, he was in a gang called the Ravens and learned how the neighborhood governed itself. ''The neighborhood had a thousand eyes,'' he said in the radio interview in 2000. A below-average student in high school, he defied expectations by attending college on a football scholarship to Illinois Wesleyan University. He went on to receive a master's degree from the Florence Heller School of Advanced Studies in Social Welfare Management at Brandeis University.
        In addition to his son Aaron, of Brooklyn, survivors include his wife of 38 years, Belleruth Naparstek of Cleveland Heights; a second son, Abram, of Pittsburgh; and a daughter, Keila, of St. Louis.
        Correction:  May 4, 2004, Tuesday  An obituary yesterday about Arthur J. Naparstek, a public housing expert whose work became the model for a federal Department of Housing and Urban Development program, misstated the program name. It is HOPE VI, not IV. The obituary also misidentified the degree he received from Brandeis University. It was his doctorate; his master's in social work was from New York University.
      