
        Simon Nathan, a photographer and writer whose ''Simon Sez'' columns in popular photography magazines kept professionals and hobbyists up to date with the innovations of camera makers after World War II, died on May 19 in the Bronx. He was 82.
        A longtime Manhattan resident, he died in a nursing home in Riverdale, said his daughter, Nancy Nathan. His most recent residence was in East Orange, N.J.
        Mr. Nathan began writing his column in the 1950's, when Japanese cameras were first making their way to America to challenge advanced German models. Appearing in Popular Photography, Modern Photography and other magazines, the column, which gained a reputation for keen reporting of technical breakthroughs, was an opinionated guide to new equipment that also offered tips on how to shoot various subjects.
        Mr. Nathan also produced a number of books for Fawcett during the 1950's, including ''Good Photography's 35mm Handbook,'' ''Good Photography's Darkroom Guide'' and ''Camera in Paris.''
        He was particularly interested in panoramic photography, a field that caught his attention while working for the Flying Tigers freight line. Faced with the challenge of photographing cargo planes, he worked with camera builders on a hand-held camera capable of producing undistorted large-format pictures.
        He later applied his panoramic techniques on assignment to make photographic stills for Hollywood epics like ''Waterloo,'' and ''Khartoum'' as well as for nine James Bond films. A 1989 panoramic photo of the United Nations, taken from the Fuji blimp, appears on a United Nations postage stamp.
        Simon Morris Nathan was born on July 28, 1921, in Westview, Pa., and graduated from the University of Dayton.
        His marriage to Ida Wyman ended in divorce. Besides his daughter, Nancy, of Riverdale, he is survived by his son, David, of Birmingham, Ala.; his sisters, Marjorie Koch and Patricia Sloan, both of Montgomery, Ala.; his brothers, Robert of Huntsville, Ala., and David of California; and a grandchild.
      