
        Alex Woodley, who coached and mentored many Olympic gold-medal sprinters in the 1960's and 1970's as head of the Philadelphia Pioneer Club, died on Saturday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 71.
        The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Jean, said.
        Woodley's athletes who won Olympic gold medals included Paul Drayton, Steve Riddick, Charlie Greene, Mel Pender, Herman Frazier and Hasely Crawford. Other leading athletes from the club included John Carlos, Ivory Crockett, Curtis Mills, Edwin Roberts, Tom McLean and Benn Fields.
        In an era when meet directors often gave modest appearance fees, which were illegal, to white track and field athletes, few black athletes so benefited. Riddick said Woodley changed that. ''In 1973,'' Riddick said by telephone, ''seven or eight of us from the club were spending the summer running in Europe.''
        ''We were just getting by on expense money,'' he said. ''At the Bislett Games in Norway, Alex told them we wouldn't run unless we got $1,000 apiece. We got it. We gave him 10 percent, and all of us had a little money in our pockets. It was the first time I was ever paid to run.''
        Alexander Jiminez Woodley was born April 30, 1933, in Philadelphia. He earned a degree in biology from La Salle University, where he was a premed student and journeyman high jumper. Later, he coached the Pioneer Club team, which did not pay him a salary. He taught English and African-American studies at a high school from 1963 to 1996.
        He is survived by his second wife, the former Jean Dicks; two sons, Alexander III of Dallas and Jeffrey of New York; two daughters, Dr. Aminta Breaux of North Wales, Pa., and Alicia Woodley of Philadelphia; two brothers, Fernando of Philadelphia and Dr. William Rodgers of Blue Bell, Pa.; two sisters, Aminta Burnett and Micalena Carter, both of Philadelphia; his mother, Micaela Woodley, of Philadelphia; six grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
        In 1980, Woodley told The Philadelphia Bulletin about a lesson in life in 1950, when he was a freshman in college. When the La Salle track team arrived in Baltimore for a meet, the white athletes went to a hotel and Woodley and other black athletes were sent to private homes.
        ''Was I that different?'' Woodley recalled thinking. ''Did they have to separate me from that group? Would I taint somebody? Afterward I wanted to make sure that this never happened to a kid. It's been my life's work. I'd probably be a millionaire right now if I'd put these hours in private business.''
      