
        Edward Wagenknecht, a biographer, critic and editor, died on Monday in St. Albans, Vt., where he lived, his son Walter said. He was 104.
        A prolific writer, Mr. Wagenknecht produced some 70 books, including studies of Dickens, Milton, Mark Twain, Henry James and Shakespeare; a history of silent films; and anthologies of English and American novels, Christmas stories and tales of the supernatural. His first major work, ''The Man Charles Dickens: A Victorian Portrait,'' appeared in 1929; his last published book, a study of Willa Cather, appeared in 1994.
        Mr. Wagenknecht taught English at the University of Washington at Seattle, the Illinois Institute of Technology and Boston University, and wrote many book reviews and other articles for The New York Times, The Chicago Tribune, The Boston Herald and other newspapers.
        He and Ernest Hemingway were high school classmates in Oak Park, Ill. At their graduation, in 1917, Mr. Wagenknecht was the valedictorian and Hemingway, the class prophet. His prediction for the bookish and unathletic Mr. Wagenknecht was that he would become a professional baseball player.
        Mr. Wagenknecht graduated from the University of Chicago and received a doctorate from the University of Washington.
        For most of his career, he produced a hardy stream of writing -- a book or two a year, as well as many reviews and other articles.
        He was a methodical scholar, using as his notes slips of paper carefully organized in shoe boxes. He never worked at night, preferring to watch movies, though he wrote about them, too.
        ''The Movies in the Age of Innocence,'' his acclaimed study of the silent-film era, was published in 1962 (University of Oklahoma Press), and remains in print.
        Among his other books are ''The Fireside Book of Christmas Stories,'' a 1945 Book-of-the-Month- Club selection; ''The Fireside Book of Ghost Stories''; three books on Henry James; ''Mark Twain: The Man and His Work''; and ''The Seven Worlds of Theodore Roosevelt.''
        Mr. Wagenknecht also wrote two historical novels, published in England, under the pseudonym Julian Forrest.
        His ''Utopia Americana,'' published in 1929, was one of the earliest critical works on L. Frank Baum's ''Wonderful Wizard of Oz'' series.
        Mr. Wagenknecht's wife, Dorothy, died in 1993. In addition to his son Walter, of Fairfax, Vt., he is survived by two other sons, Robert, of Petersburg, Va., and David, of Newton, Mass.; seven grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      