
        Fred Asher Mayer, a tour and cruise executive who ran some of the earliest and most star-studded theme cruises, died on May 8 at Westchester Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 69 and lived in Bedford, N.Y., and Miami.
        The cause was post-surgery complications, his family said.
        Mr. Mayer was an apostle of theme travel. He was a packager and wholesaler of tours, booking components like flights and hotels, cruise ships and excursions through travel agencies.
        One of his mentors in the business was Sol Hurok, the legendary classical music impresario. Mr. Mayer, himself a devotee of classical music, dealt with various talent agencies, arranging carriers and logistics for tours and performances.
        He advertised his packages as adventures in music or movies or politics on the high seas, in Europe and the Caribbean. Tourists were lured by a brush with celebrity, and the celebrated were lured by a free luxury trip, often for two.
        Among Mr. Mayer's first offerings was a ''Sol Hurok Presents'' cruise aboard the Rotterdam in 1972, with Gina Bachauer, André Watts and Jerome Hines among the performing artists and José Ferrer as the host. Another typical tour, a 1974 voyage to Nassau and Bermuda called ''Showboat 1,'' featured the jazz aristocrats Ray Charles, Ella Fitzgerald and Dizzy Gillespie.
        Gillespie was also along for a cruise Mr. Mayer arranged in 1977 from New Orleans to Cuba aboard the Carras liner Daphne. It was the first -- and only -- American cruise to Havana after 1959, carrying about 400 passengers and, in addition to Gillespie, Earl (Fatha) Hines, Stan Getz and David Amram.
        The musicians, joined by Cuban colleagues, gave a concert in Havana, but the Daphne's return trip could not dock in New Orleans because of anti-Castro demonstrations, so passengers and musicians had to find other ways home.
        Mr. Mayer also devised onboard film festivals; Rita Hayworth and Glenn Ford were the stars of one. An ''Inside Washington'' cruise featured Art Buchwald and Pierre Salinger.
        Mr. Mayer, whose original name was Asher Abraham Mayer, was born in Belgrade, Yugoslavia, where his father was a banker. He grew up in Turkey, went to Paris at 18, studied medicine in London, and returned to Paris. Being multilingual, he got a job with the travel and communications firm Havas Exprinter.
        In 1963, the company sent him to the United States, where he stayed and became president of Exprinter's American operations. Before he found his niche in theme cruises, he tried to acquaint Americans with another approach to travel, then in vogue in Europe: the hotel bus.
        The concept resembled a landbound yacht, with tourists in triple-deck bunks aboard a converted tractor-trailer, crisscrossing the country. Mr. Mayer then moved on to the theme concept and sought out Mr. Hurok for advice.
        Mr. Mayer, who arrived in New York on the S.S. United States in 1963, played a part in the effort to salvage the ship, the country's flagship ocean liner, after it was laid up in 1969. He bought it at auction in 1992 on behalf of Marmara Marine, an investor's group.
        Plans to restore the ship for cruises have not been realized, but last year, the ship was bought by Norwegian Lines, which said it planned to revive it as an American-flagged cruise liner.
        Mr. Mayer is survived by his wife, the former Elizabeth Rosen.
      