
        Gaetano Badalamenti, the Sicilian crime boss who was convicted in an epic Mafia trial in the 1980's of being the ringleader of a sophisticated operation that smuggled heroin and cocaine into the United States, has died, a Justice Department spokesman said. He was 80, according to the Federal Bureau of Prisons Web site.
        The spokesman did not say when Mr. Badalamenti died. According to the Bureau of Prisons site, he was most recently held at the Federal Medical Center in Ayer, Mass., which is for inmates with serious illnesses.
        Mr. Badalamenti, who came from Cinisi, Sicily, was sentenced to 45 years in prison in 1987 as one of the masterminds of a drug ring known as the Pizza Connection. The ring imported $1.65 billion in heroin from Southwest Asia to the United States and distributed it through pizza parlors in New York and across the country.
        Federal investigators often referred to Mr. Badalamenti as the former ''boss of bosses'' of the Sicilian Mafia. He fled Sicily in the 1970's after losing a local mob war. He later lived in Brazil.
        He was arrested in Madrid in 1984 and extradited to the United States.
        Mr. Badalamenti was at the center of the ring that investigators said brought $1.65 billion in heroin to the United States over five years, ending in 1984. Using money laundered in New York and Switzerland, Mr. Badalamenti bought the drugs and exported them to the United States through associates in the Midwest. They were distributed by members of the Bonanno crime family.
        The trial lasted more than a year and a half and resulted in 17 convictions, including that of Mr. Badalamenti. One of the prosecutors, Louis Freeh, went on to become director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Rudolph W. Giuliani was the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York at the time.
        At the trial, prosecutors played recordings of wiretapped conversations. On one tape, Mr. Badalamenti, who was then in Brazil, spoke in code to an associate in the United States, referring to ''shirts,'' meaning cocaine. ''Pure cotton,'' stood for undiluted drugs and ''10 percent acrylic'' for 90 percent pure heroin.
        One defendant was slain and another, Pietro Alfano, a nephew of Mr. Badalamenti's, was shot and seriously wounded during the trial, on a crowded Greenwich Village street.
        Mr. Badalamenti's close friend and associate, Tomasso Buscetta, a top-ranking Sicilian mob leader, became an informer in the case.
        The trial soured relations between Mr. Badalamenti's group and that of Salvatore Catalano of Queens, who prosecutors said was a leader of the Bonanno family. In testimony during the trial, Mr. Badalamenti said he was the youngest of nine children, and had attended school for four years. His family owned a dairy farm in Cinisi. He also said he fought in the Italian Army in World War II, but later deserted. After the war, he spent three years in the United States working in his brother's Michigan supermarket, but was deported for entering the country illegally.
        He acknowledged he had been convicted in Sicily for smuggling tobacco and for conspiracy.
        In a 1988 book on the case, ''Last Days of the Sicilians,'' the author, Ralph Blumenthal, a New York Times reporter, depicted Mr. Badalamenti as a manipulator who would do anything to regain leadership of the Sicilian mob. In another book, ''The Pizza Connection,'' published the same year, the author, Shana Alexander, portrayed him as a man of unusual dignity.
      