
        Dr. Clayton S. White, a medical researcher who studied the effects of nuclear blasts on people, died on April 26 in Albuquerque at the Lovelace Medical Center, which he helped establish in 1947. He was 91.
        His death was reported by his daughter Meredith.
        Dr. White, known as Sam, achieved fame in physiology while his younger brother, Justice Byron R. White of the Supreme Court, made his mark in jurisprudence. Like Justice White, Sam White was a football star at the University of Colorado and a Rhodes scholar. Their nearly identical paths diverged sharply after Oxford.
        Dr. White developed the field of blast biology, the study of how explosions affect people immediately and over time. His studies, many highly classified, helped determine how to aim atomic bombs, treat blast victims and improve bomb shelters.
        Until his work, most medical research had centered on radiation and heat, rather than on the percussive effects. Dr. White concentrated on the fact that the earliest atomic weapons were detonated above the ground to maximize their blasts' destructive power.
        ''We did not know how to forecast the injuries that might occur and how to take care of them,'' said Dr. Donald E. Kilgore Jr., the president emeritus of the Lovelace Center for the Health Sciences who is Dr. White's successor. ''It was an absolutely new field.''
        Lovelace began as a clinic, today encompassed by the medical center, and then added a research foundation, today named the Lovelace Respiratory Research Institute. Just vague legal ties between the medical center and the foundation remain, said Jake Spidle Jr., a professor of the history of medicine at the University of New Mexico who wrote ''Lovelace Medical Center: Pioneer in American Health Care.''
        Dr. White assembled the team that examined the 32 Mercury astronauts in a gantlet of physiological tests at Lovelace. His research was reported in 2 books and 125 papers on subjects that included the effects on the lungs from breathing small particles. The particles research, originally on material from nuclear blasts, extended to the effects of inhaling aerosol consumer products, diesel exhausts and other substances.
        Dr. Clayton Samuel White was born on Oct. 11, 1912, in Fort Collins, Colo. His first job was picking sugar beets for $1.50 a day, and when he was in high school, he and Byron rented 25 acres to grow beets.
        Sam White attended the University of Colorado, majored in psychology, was elected president of the student body and starred in football. After graduating in 1934, he continued graduate studies and taught psychology.
        He earned a baccalaureate in physiology at Oxford, giving him a year and a half of credit at medical school at the University of Colorado.
        After graduating in 1942, he spent the rest of World War II and two postwar years in the Navy, where he did medical research. Some work was with Dr. William Randolph Lovelace II, collaborating on oxygen masks, among other projects.
        In 1947, Dr. Lovelace was eager to start a research program at the Lovelace Clinic, which his uncle had started. Dr. White was his first hire, as director of research. In 1965, Dr. Lovelace was killed in an airplane accident, and Dr. White succeeded him as director of the foundation.
        The foundation received its first substantial contract in 1951 from the Atomic Energy Commission to study the blast and shock effects of big explosions at a time most other researchers concentrated on radiation.
        ''If we got into the blast business, we didn't have any competition,'' he said in an oral history prepared by the University of New Mexico. Moreover, his studies of the effects of the two bombs dropped on Japan suggested that the effects of the blast were initially more dangerous.
        ''More time was spent right after Hiroshima-Nagasaki in picking window glass out of people than in treating any other one entity,'' he said.
        Dr. White was intrigued about why an explosion might flatten one building while one next to it remained standing. He developed mathematical formulas to explain the phenomenon, which was particularly significant in planning tactical bombing in support of troops.
        Dr. White left Albuquerque from 1974 to 1979 to become president of the Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation, but returned, saying he missed looking at the mountains.
        In addition to his daughter Meredith, of Manhattan, survivors include his wife, the former Margaret Reeve; a second daughter, Sharon, of Washington; and a son, Stephen, of Nocona, Tex.
        Justice White, who died in 2002, was once asked, along with other justices, whom he most admired. Others gave answers like Abraham Lincoln. Justice White said, ''My brother Sam.''
      