
        Ned Schnurman, an Emmy-winning producer who was a pioneer in the presentation of news media criticism on television, died on May 20 in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 78.
        The cause was complications after hip-replacement surgery, said a friend, Kathleen Landis.
        Mr. Schnurman was managing editor and anchor of a New Jersey news program on Channel 13, a public television station, then became executive producer for special projects at National Educational Television, or NET, were he won Emmys for originating ''Your Dollar's Worth,'' a series on consumer affairs, and for ''The President's Farewell,'' a retrospective on the Lyndon B. Johnson administration, for which the historian James MacGregor Burns wrote the script.
        In 1981 he originated ''Inside Story,'' a weekly series on press criticism with Hodding Carter 3rd, the State Department spokesman during the Carter administration, as its anchor. For the lighter side of the news he enlisted the comedians Ray Goulding and Bob Elliott, Bob and Ray, to report on the press through the eyes of their ace correspondent, the fictional Wally Ballou. ''Inside Story'' ran for four years, during which Mr. Schnurman, as senior executive producer, won four more Emmy Awards.
        In 1963, on a Ford Foundation fellowship, Mr. Schnurman was a news editor at The Herald-Tribune in Paris. From 1970 through 1973 he was city editor of WCBS-TV News in New York. He was also a founder and associate director of the National News Council, an organization created to study and adjudicate controversial issues involving the news media. He continued to run his own independent production company until last year, when he became ill.
        Ned Schnurman was born in Brooklyn and graduated from New York University.
        After Army service he worked briefly as a publicist for Music Corporation of America, writing material for a budding actor named Montgomery Clift. He then became a reporter, first for a newspaper in the Catskills and then for The Newark Evening News. His three marriages ended in divorce. There were no immediate survivors.
      