
        Henry J. Everett, a New York investment manager, supporter of many Jewish, educational and cultural institutions and namesake of the acclaimed Everett Children's Adventure Garden in the Bronx, died on Saturday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived on the Upper East Side.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Everett was the founder and longtime president of Lexington Associates, an investment partnership. For as many years, he also was in a philanthropic partnership with his wife, Edith. Their foundation, established in 1957, annually makes scores of donations ranging from seed money to million-dollar grants.
        The Everett Children's Adventure Garden, a 12-acre preserve, opened at the New York Botanical Garden in 1998, meandering past a marshy pond across a bridge into the city's oldest surviving forest. It cost $9 million to build and was hailed by the National Science Foundation as the most ambitious children's education project of its kind.
        Mr. Everett also established a Public Service Internship Program that in 15 years has placed about 2,000 college students in public service agencies that provide them with a summer's worth of job experience.
        Mr. Everett was a supporter of the national Teach for America corps and sat on the board of Hillel, the Foundation for Jewish Campus Life. He was an officer or board member of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee, the American Jewish Committee and the UJA-Federation of New York.
        Mr. Everett and his wife founded the Everett Comprehensive School in Hatzor, Israel, and continued to back the economic development of that town. He also benefited social and educational projects for Israel's minority Druse population.
        He was on the President's Council of National Public Radio, and he and his wife were also ardent supporters of the antismoking movement.
        Henry Everett was born to immigrant parents in the Bronx and raised in Brooklyn. He began studying economics at Columbia but served with the Army combat engineers in the Philippines before graduating Phi Beta Kappa in 1947.
        Two years later, he received a master's degree in finance at the Columbia School of Business and went to work for Abraham & Straus department stores. Doing market research he began to invest in securities and to advise friends about the ways of Wall Street.
        With the help of Edith, who got her broker's license, he was able to turn securities management into a profitable venture. He quit Abraham & Straus and in the early 1970's formed Lexington Associates. He retired as president in the mid-1990's, but remained active in business until 2002.
        Besides the former Edith Brenner, his wife of 54 years, he is survived by a son, David F., of Larchmont, N.Y.; a daughter, Carolyn, of Manhattan; a sister, Roslyn Mandelbaum, of Delray Beach, Fla.; and three grandchildren.
      