
        Joel Dean, half of the team that created Dean & DeLuca, a store that redefined the fancy food market and edited America's pantry, died on Monday evening at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 73.
        The cause was a staph infection that he had been battling for several months, said his companion, Jack Ceglic, who survives him.
        In 1976, Mr. Dean quit his job in publishing as a business manager for Simon & Schuster and teamed up with Giorgio DeLuca, a friend and former schoolteacher who had a small cheese shop on Prince Street in SoHo. The two rented a 2,600-square-foot loft space on the ground floor of a cast-iron building directly across the street from the cheese shop.
        ''I knew him from when we both lived on West 12th Street,'' Mr. DeLuca said yesterday. ''He used to come into my cheese shop and help me with the books.''
        Mr. Dean provided a reserved, almost courtly counterbalance to Mr. DeLuca's outspoken flamboyance. In a 1988 article about the store in The New York Times, Mr. Dean was quoted as saying of his relationship with Mr. DeLuca, ''We were always eating and talking and complaining about other people's cooking.''
        It was Mr. Dean who decided to add kitchenware to the store they opened the next year. At a time when Americans were cooking in flimsy harvest gold pots and pans, he insisted on selling French copper cookware, plain white dinnerware and good knives, all high-quality products that were consistent with the store's foods, like fine olive oils, balsamic vinegars, baby vegetables and perfectly ripe cheeses, which the partners traveled to Europe to find. Mr. Dean refused to sell garlic presses because he believed that it was better to chop garlic by hand. Shoppers were soothed by Bach and Mozart as they scanned the displays.
        The aesthetics of Dean & DeLuca, including the stark white background, the industrial wire shelving and the simple gray lettering, reflected the art gallery look that was starting to dominate the SoHo neighborhood, where the store was a retail pioneer. Much of the design was contributed by Mr. Ceglic, an artist and designer who was Mr. Dean's companion for 46 years and a partner in the business.
        Dean & DeLuca was a destination for food lovers and tourists, a place that did not hesitate to charge high prices; critics called it a ''food museum.'' It moved down the street to a 10,000-square-foot store at Broadway and Prince Street in 1988 and outlasted many of the SoHo galleries, never wavering from its original style and concept.
        ''Joel was the one who saw to it that there was a common ground between the food and the design,'' said Clark Wolf, a food consultant. ''He was a quiet, steady force, but one that had an enormous impact on how we eat.''
        Mr. Dean was born on Dec. 14, 1930, in Midland, Ohio, and grew up in Dundee, Mich. He graduated from Michigan State University and came to New York to study English at Columbia University. Before working at Simon & Schuster, he had a job in the business department at Domino Sugar.
        He and Mr. Ceglic lived in Manhattan and in East Hampton, N.Y., where they shared a spare, industrial-looking house that Mr. Ceglic helped design and furnish. The house has daylight everywhere to accommodate Mr. Dean, who liked to paint. A Dean & DeLuca store opened in East Hampton in 1979 and lasted a number of years.
        In the early 1990's, W. R. Grace invested $3 million in Dean & DeLuca. Then in 1995, a different group of investors, including Leslie Rudd and Dane Neller, who is now the president and chief executive officer of the company, bought out W. R. Grace. Mr. Dean, Mr. DeLuca and Mr. Ceglic retained their shares of the company, which now has 19 stores, including three in Tokyo. At his death, Mr. Dean was still on the board.
        ''Dean & DeLuca stands for simplicity, elegance and integrity,'' Mr. Neller said. ''Joel was the one who set that standard.''
      