
        Lee Loevinger, a tough and exacting chief of the Justice Department's antitrust division under President John F. Kennedy and later a member of the Federal Communications Commission, died on April 26 at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 91.
        The cause was complications of heart disease, his family said.
        Named to the Justice Department in 1961, Mr. Loevinger became part of a powerful antitrust team that included Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy and Deputy Attorney General Byron R. White, who later became a Supreme Court justice.
        At the F.C.C., from 1963 to 1968, Mr. Loevinger helped encourage A.T.& T. to establish an emergency phone number that later became 911. He also urged the government not to meddle with the quality of television through ''arbitrary standards.'' He said the communications agency, in particular, would be better served to stimulate diverse ownership of broadcasting facilities.
        Mr. Loevinger arrived at the Justice Department with strong views on antitrust enforcement, which were underscored in an article in Fortune in January 1962. He took the job as the nation's top trustbuster in 1961 because, as he had told Robert Kennedy in a job interview, ''I believe in antitrust almost as a secular religion.''
        Indeed, a few years before he took his post at the department, Mr. Loevinger described in stark terms his views on antitrust laws to a Congressional committee. ''I submit that the problems with which the antitrust laws are concerned -- the problems of distribution of power within society -- are second only to the questions of survival in the face of threats of nuclear weapons in importance for our generation,'' he said.
        In 1963, Mr. Loevinger successfully argued a landmark antitrust case, United States v. Philadelphia National Bank, before the Supreme Court.
        The case, the first in which the court applied antitrust laws to commercial banks, involved the merger of two of the three largest banks in Philadelphia. The two contended that the merger would help them compete with larger financial institutions, particularly those in New York. But the court sided with Mr. Loevinger, ruling that such arrangements would harm other banking institutions in Philadelphia too greatly.
        Mr. Loevinger was born in St. Paul on April 24, 1913. His father, Judge Gustavus Loevinger, helped organize Minnesota's Farmer-Labor Party and served nearly 25 years as a district court judge in that state.
        A 1933 graduate of the University of Minnesota and a 1936 graduate of its law school, Mr. Loevinger practiced law in Kansas City, Mo., before becoming a trial lawyer for the National Labor Relations Board in New York and later an antitrust lawyer for the Justice Department.
        He was an associate justice on the Minnesota Supreme Court from 1960 to 1961. He left the court upon his appointment to the antitrust division.
        He joined the Navy in 1942, with assignments in North Africa and Europe during World War II.
        His wife of 54 years, Ruth Howe Loevinger, died last December.
        He is survived by two sons, Eric, of Tallahassee, Fla., and Peter, of Middletown, Md.; a daughter, Barbara Loevinger, of Madison, Wis.; a sister, Jane Weissman of St. Louis; a brother, Robert, of Gaithersburg, Md.; and two granddaughters.
      