
        John D. Hess, a prolific writer who originated one of the earliest television soap operas, ''Love of Life,'' died April 15 at his home in New Hope, Pa. He was 85.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his brother, Carl B. Hess.
        Mr. Hess was the originator of ''Love of Life.'' ''Search for Tomorrow'' began three weeks earlier in 1951, and the two shows, both on CBS, were among the first daytime dramas to become long-running successes on television.
        ''Love of Life'' was broadcast until 1980, and he often wrote two or three episodes a week in the early years.
        Mr. Hess also wrote episodes for many other shows over the years, including the comedies ''M.A.S.H.,'' ''Alice'' and ''One Day at a Time,'' and the dramas ''The Streets of San Francisco,'' ''The Rockford Files'' and ''Ben Casey.''
        His play ''The Grey-Eyed People'' opened on Broadway in December 1952 and closed after five performances. In 1961, Mr. Hess wrote and produced a movie, ''A Matter of Morals,'' in Sweden.
        Its distribution was limited because of objections by the Catholic Legion of Decency to a scene in which a fully clothed couple emerges from a bedroom.
        Mr. Hess wrote fiction for The Saturday Evening Post, Colliers and other magazines. In 1961, he turned a story he had written for Esquire into a television comedy called ''The Wicked Scheme of Jebel Deeks,'' which was broadcast on Ford Startime to critical praise and starred Alec Guinness in his American television debut.
        John David Hess was born in Chicago on April 17, 1918. He graduated from the University of Chicago Laboratory School and from Dartmouth, where he twice won the prize for the best original play. He spent a year at Yale Drama School before becoming a writer for WGN radio in Chicago.
        During World War II, he was a tank officer, and he later assisted victims of concentration camps and helped relocate refugees. He wrote ''Move Out, Verify -- The Combat Story of the 743rd Tank Battalion.''
        In 1946, he returned to WGN in Chicago and began his writing career. In 1954, he was named playwright in residence at the Bucks County Playhouse in New Hope. His plays ''The Facts of Life,'' ''The Better Mousetrap'' and ''A Perfect Frenzy'' had their first performances there.
        His first wife, the former Jane Vosper, died in 1996. He is survived by his second wife, the former Mary Ann Van; his brother, Carl, of Manhattan; his sons Anthony G., of New Hope, and Oliver G., of Ojai, Calif.; and two grandsons.
      