
        James A. Krumhansl, a physicist and administrator at Cornell University who raised an early voice against a federal research project that would have created the nation's largest particle accelerator, the supercollider, died on May 6 at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, N.H. He was 84.
        The cause of death was complications after a stroke, said his daughter, Dr. Carol Krumhansl, a psychologist at Cornell.
        Dr. Krumhansl's research was centered on the properties of solid materials, movements of atoms within solids and other topics of condensed-matter physics. In five decades of work, he also studied the propagation of sound waves, defects in materials and the engineering properties of carbon and graphite.
        But he became most widely recognized for his testimony before Congress in 1987, when he questioned the financing of a superconducting supercollider. The machine was designed to send protons and antiprotons speeding along 53 miles of tunnels, to smash them together into still smaller pieces. Proponents of the project, estimated at the time to cost $5.9 billion, said it would allow scientists to study the subatomic particles believed to form building blocks of the universe.
        As president-elect of the American Physical Society, Dr. Krumhansl testified that the supercollider would probably hurt other research by diverting money from other promising ideas.
        ''Jim Krumhansl valued the science of the supercollider highly,'' said James P. Sethna, a Cornell physicist who became Dr. Krumhansl's scientific collaborator. ''But he did not value it a thousand times more than the other fields of science.''
        The supercollider project was canceled by Congress in 1993.
        James Arthur Krumhansl was born in Cleveland and received degrees from the University of Dayton and Case Institute of Technology, now Case Western Reserve University before earning his doctorate from Cornell in 1943.
        He worked in industrial research and taught briefly at Brown University before returning to Cornell in 1948. He eventually became the director of the university's Laboratory of Atomic and Solid State Physics. He took emeritus status in 1990.
        He was a former editor of the Journal of Applied Physics and the Physical Review Letters, a former member of the governing board of the American Institute of Physics, and a former assistant director of the National Science Foundation. He received Fulbright and Guggenheim fellowships and taught at several foreign universities.
        Dr. Krumhansl lived in Hanover, N.H., after moving from Amherst, Mass., about five years ago. He was twice married and divorced.
        Besides his daughter, who lives in Ithaca, N.Y., he is survived by two sons, James L., of Albuquerque, and Peter A., of Amherst, N.H., and two grandchildren.
      