
        Tage Frid, a native of Denmark who helped revive the art of handmade furniture in the United States, beginning in the late 1940's, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Newport, R.I. He was 88 and lived in Middletown, R.I.
        The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said his son, Peter.
        Mr. Frid, who was long associated with the Rhode Island School of Design, was both a highly influential teacher and an innovator whose approach was at odds with that of many furniture designers.
        He once wrote that he believed it was important to ''design around the construction, and not construct around the design.'' He took a dim view, he said, of designers who were ''so worried about the looks and the sculptural qualities of the piece that they first think about the beauty of the piece and later worry about how it is put together.''
        Jonathan Binzen, a former editor at Fine Woodworking magazine, said, ''Frid insisted that things be made soundly, and contended that once you established how a thing was to be used and chose the materials and the joinery, the design would flow from those decisions.''
        Mr. Frid, whose first name is pronounced TAY, arrived in the United States in 1948, having been recruited by the American Crafts Council to set up a woodworking program at the School for American Craftsmen, then at Alfred University. He stayed there for 14 years before moving on to Rhode Island, where he taught until 1985.
        ''One thing I can't stand,'' he said at the time of his retirement, ''is when people who went through the same learning as I did won't pass it on to the younger generation.''
        Beginning in the mid-1970's, Mr. Frid began to reach woodworking students outside his classes. He was a force in starting Fine Woodworking magazine, whose masthead continues to list him as a contributing editor, even though his work has not appeared in the publication since 1996.
        Mr. Frid's foremost writing achievement, the three-volume ''Tage Frid Teaches Woodworking'' (Taunton Press, 1993), is still in print and remains one of the most respected set of manuals on the subject.
        ''Check the furniture conservation and restoration departments of major American museums, or the faculty of college-level woodworking and furniture design programs in this country, and likely as not you'll find a former Frid student,'' said Paul Roman, a founder of the Taunton Press. Some of Mr. Frid's own designs, most of them Danish modern, are in the permanent collection of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.
        Mr. Frid's education in woodworking was classically European. He was born May 30, 1915, and started on a five-year apprenticeship in Copenhagen at 13. He worked at cabinet shops and then for almost a decade at Royal Danish Cabinetmakers.
        The somewhat formal approach of a European apprenticeship seemed to follow Mr. Frid from Denmark. At the Rhode Island School of Design, he would arrive at the dusty workshop in a coat and tie every day, his thick, white hair perfectly combed. He would take the coat off, but the tie stayed on, tucked into his shirt.
        Even Mr. Frid's own shop outside the university preserved a certain formality. Hank Gilpin, a former student who worked there and who now builds furniture in Lincoln, R.I., said the day started at 7. Though he was bursting with questions, he said, he wasn't allowed to ask them until a break at 10:30, when Mr. Frid's wife, Emma, would bring coffee and sweets to the shop. Then there was silence until the half-hour lunch break, followed by more silence until work ended at 3:30.
        In addition to Mr. Frid's son, of Madbury, N.H., his wife and his daughter, Ann, both of Middletown, survive him.
        In commenting once on the state of craftsmanship in the United States, Mr. Frid wrote a fitting epitaph for himself: ''In Europe, craftsmen enjoy the recognition they deserve. Here, an effort should be made to put more respect into vocational training. A student taking vocational training may be just as intelligent as a student enrolled in a college program. The only difference is the student has a different goal. I think it is better to be a good craftsman and happy than to be a doctor or lawyer and unhappy, just to satisfy Mom and Dad.''
      