
        Samuel Curtis Johnson, an innovator who for decades served as the head of S. C. Johnson, one of the most successful family businesses in the country, died on Saturday in Racine, Wis., where he lived. He was 76.
        The cause was stomach cancer, said a spokeswoman for the company.
        Mr. Johnson was the fourth generation of his family to run the company, which was founded in 1886 by his great-grandfather, also Samuel Curtis Johnson.
        S. C. Johnson, which started out as a parquet floor business, did not start selling floor wax until more than a decade later.
        It was not until Sam Johnson went on board in 1954 that the company began to branch out into other household products. Mr. Johnson soon developed a reputation as a risk-taking innovator when he introduced Raid House and Garden Bug Killer and OFF in the late 1950's.
        Over the next four decades, he helped transform the company into four separate businesses: S. C. Johnson & Son, JohnsonDiversey, Johnson Outdoors and Johnson Financial Group, turning the whole into a global empire that employs more than 26,000 people in more than 70 countries.
        Mr. Johnson was also recognized as a philanthropist and a businessman concerned about the environment. He stopped using chlorofluorocarbons three years before they were prohibited by the federal government.
        The decision, which initially cost the company millions, may have helped earn far more in consumer confidence.
        Mr. Johnson was also a vocal opponent of three new coal-fired power plants to be built in Oak Creek, Wis., and marched on city hall in protest last year just two weeks after surgery.
        After heading the company for more than 30 years, Mr. Johnson was elected chairman emeritus in October 2000 when he retired from the board.
        Before he left, he gained national recognition in the business community for his progressive plan to hand down the company to his children. He divided the empire in such a way that each of three children would head a company. The fourth heads the family charitable foundation. The plan was meant to help avoid the infighting that often results from one child working for another, a destructive element blamed for the demise of numerous family businesses.
        ''When you talk about a family business, you cannot forget the family part,'' said Alex S. Jones, director of the Shorenstein Center at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. ''If you do, it is at your peril. The reason family businesses don't work, whether they are public or not, is almost always because over time, over generations, the family stops being one family, but rather many different families.''
        Mr. Johnson, Mr. Jones said, worked hard to prevent his company's and his family's undoing.
        Although he was no longer the company's steward, Mr. Johnson took center stage in a successful 2001 advertising campaign that re-labeled it ''S. C. Johnson: A Family Company.'' The campaign, with Mr. Johnson as its amiable patriarch, helped give a face to a company now headed by a fifth generation.
        The Johnson family's long and seemingly harmonious history had largely escaped headlines until 2001, when Mr. Johnson released an hourlong film called ''Carnauba: A Son's Memoir.'' The film chronicled his journey from Wisconsin to the Amazon rain forest, a reflective re-creation of a flight his father had taken in 1935.
        Although it was meant to be seen only by employees and friends, the film quickly became something of a phenomenon because of Mr. Johnson's candid announcement that he was an alcoholic.
        ''It's such a state of internal frustration,'' he said in the film. ''You know you have to get the monkey -- the alcohol -- off your back, but you cannot do it.''
        Mr. Johnson checked himself into the Mayo Clinic in 1993 at the request of his family. He later established the All Saints Health Care Center for Addiction Recovery in Racine.
        In addition to talking about his alcoholism, he spent much of the film talking about his complicated relationship with his father.
        ''For a long time I couldn't admit that my father was not around enough of the time that I needed him,'' he said. ''I guess my biggest doubt about my father was whether he loved me as much as the company.''
        Mr. Johnson is survived by his wife, Imogene; his sons, S. Curtis Johnson, who is chairman of JohnsonDiversey, and H. Fisk Johnson, who is chairman of S. C. Johnson & Son; his daughters, Helen Johnson-Leipold, who is chairwoman of Johnson Outdoors, and Winifred Johnson-Marquart, who is president of the Johnson Family Foundation; and 15 grandchildren.
      