
        Betty Miller, who played major roles on New York stages in a 60-year career, died on Monday at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital. She was 79 and lived in Greenwich Village.
        Her death came after a long illness, said her friend and colleague Jennifer Harmon.
        Miss Miller was also a familiar presence as a character actor on tour, in films and on television. Her first big role, in 1954, was as a spirited leading lady in a Circle in the Square production of ''The Girl on the Via Flaminia,'' a role she repeated on Broadway.
        That was the start of a long association with the director José Quintero and the Circle company. She appeared in successful stagings of ''Summer and Smoke,'' ''La Ronde,'' ''Desire Under the Elms'' and ''The Balcony.''
        Quintero also directed a notable Cambridge Drama Festival production of ''Macbeth,'' in which she played Lady Macduff opposite Jason Robards and Siobhan McKenna. At the New York Shakespeare Festival she was the Duchess of York in ''Richard II,'' with Kevin Kline; Gertrude in ''Hamlet,'' with Stacy Keach; and Cordelia in ''King Lear.''
        She was on Broadway in ''Three Sisters'' at the Roundabout Theater, ''You Can't Take It With You,'' ''Eminent Domain,'' ''The Queen and the Rebels'' with Colleen Dewhurst, and ''A Touch of the Poet'' with Jason Robards. She appeared for four seasons with the APA/Phoenix Repertory company, portraying Varya in ''The Cherry Orchard,'' Gina in ''The Wild Duck'' and Maria in ''War and Peace.''
        In television's early days, she played small parts for ''The Philco Television Playhouse'' in 1948 and ''The United States Steel Hour'' in 1953. She later appeared in television productions of ''Medea'' in 1959 and ''Antigone'' in 1974.
        Her more recent film work included ''The Pope of Greenwich Village'' (1984), ''A League of Their Own'' (1992), ''Angie'' (1994), ''O.K. Garage'' (1998) and ''Bringing Out the Dead'' (1999).
        Miss Miller is survived by a son, Frank Askin of Manhattan.
        Born in Boston, Betty Miller grew up in California. She began her acting career in a truck tour with an abbreviated version of ''A Midsummer Night's Dream.'' Waiting for her break in New York, her jobs included working behind the soda fountain at a Whelan drug store.
        Her last Broadway appearance was in a revival of Chekhov's ''Three Sisters'' at the Roundabout in 1997; her final performance was Off Broadway in July 2002 in Denis Johnson's ''Shoppers Carried by Escalators Into the Flames.''
      