
        Ronald J. Prokopy, a scientist whose research on fruit flies in apple orchards led to environmental pest-control programs using fewer pesticides, died on May 14 in Franklin Medical Center in Greenfield, Mass. He was 68.
        The cause was cardiopulmonary arrest, said his wife, Linda L. Prokopy.
        In work that blended the laboratory and farm orchard, Dr. Prokopy, who taught at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, studied the behavior of the apple maggot fly, a parasite that bores into fruit and destroys it.
        Early in his career, searching for a method of killing the fly without heavy spraying of pesticides, he helped to develop the sticky sphere trap. The device, about the size of a croquet ball, mimics the apples hanging beside it. The traps are placed in trees around the perimeter of an orchard to protect the crop.
        Dr. Prokopy's later work investigated the odors, colors and shapes that attract maggot flies, again with the intention of finding ecological solutions to blocking parasites. The field, known as integrated pest management, promotes insect-resistant strains of plants and the use of as little chemical spraying as possible. Other studies he conducted were focused on the blueberry maggot fly and plum curculio, a type of beetle.
        ''Ron Prokopy worked out the behavior of the flies and found the pests' weak spots, in effect minimizing costs to the farmers,'' said Dr. Guy L. Bush, an evolutionary biologist at Michigan State University, who had a lengthy collaboration with Dr. Prokopy in studying the apple maggot fly.
        Ronald John Prokopy was born in Danbury, Conn., and earned his doctorate in entomology at Cornell in 1964. He worked in Poland and Switzerland before joining the University of Texas. In 1975, he became an associate professor at UMass, and later a full professor. He also kept his own orchard, growing Liberty, Freedom and other varieties of apples at his home in Conway, Mass.
        Dr. Prokopy received a Guggenheim fellowship and a Fulbright research award. He sat on the editorial boards of the journals Protection Ecology and Chemical Ecology and was honored by the Entomological Society of America in 1983. He also wrote or contributed to more than 400 academic papers.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Joshua J., of Zionsville, Ind., and Max P., of Northfield, Mass., and one grandchild.
      