
        Frederick R. Karl, a literary critic and author of books on the lives and works of Joseph Conrad and other literary figures, died on Friday in Manhattan. He was 77 and lived in East Hampton, N.Y.
        The cause was kidney disease, his family said.
        Though his scholarly work covered a variety of writers, he was best known as a biographer of Conrad and as an editor, with Laurence Davies, of Conrad's voluminous correspondence. Mr. Karl's interest in Conrad had been aroused as a doctoral candidate at Columbia, and he negotiated publication rights with the Conrad estate while still a student.
        In the late 1950's, Dr. Karl began to make his name as a prodigious producer of literary guides and surveys. His first, ''A Reader's Guide to Great 20th-Century English Novels,'' published in 1959, discussed writers like E. M. Foster, D. H. Lawrence, Virginia Woolf and Conrad.
        That was followed by a guide devoted entirely to Conrad's work (1960 and 1992), and further books about C. P. Snow (1963) and the British novel in the 19th century (1965) and the 18th century (1974), leading up to what by then was his long-awaited magnum opus on Conrad.
        ''Joseph Conrad: The Three Lives'' (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 1979) told of Conrad's years as a child of Polish gentry, as a sailor and as a novelist. Its 1,000-plus pages, Anatole Broyard wrote in The New York Times, ''will tell you almost everything that is known about one of this century's better and more colorful writers.'' Cambridge University Press came out with the first of the many volumes of Conrad letters in 1983.
        Dr. Karl's focus swung to the domestic scene in ''American Fictions 1940-1980: A Comprehensive History and Critical Evaluation'' (Harper & Row, 1984). It took readers on a tour of work by William Styron, Ralph Ellison, Flannery O'Connor, Bernard Malamud, J. D. Salinger and Joyce Carol Oates, among others.
        ''William Faulkner: American Writer'' (Weidenfeld & Nicolson, 1989) portrayed ''a deeply conflicted man, a man torn between an old-fashioned Southerner's love of the past and a modernist's willful dedication to adversarial innovation,'' Michiko Kakutani wrote in The Times. The book, she added, ''provides us with an organic picture that ratifies his achievement, even as it reveals the sources of his violent, fractured art.''
        Dr. Karl also published ''Franz Kafka: Representative Man'' (Ticknor & Fields, 1991) and ''George Eliot -- Voice of a Century: A Biography'' (W. W. Norton, 1995).
        Born in Brooklyn, Frederick Robert Karl graduated from Columbia in 1948. He received a master's degree at Stanford in 1949 and a doctorate from Columbia in 1957, when he joined the English department at the City College of New York. He taught there until 1982.
        Dr. Karl was a professor emeritus of both City College and New York University. He retired from teaching in 2000 but continued with his writing.
        At N.Y.U. he originated a seminar on biography writing, which led him to edit a multivolume series, ''Biography and Source Studies'' (AMS Press Inc., 1995-2003). He also published studies on the Internet about contemporary American fiction and the American literary scene of the last several decades. His final volume of essays on the biographer's art awaits publication.
        Dr. Karl is survived by his wife of 53 years, Dolores; three daughters, Deborah, of Irvington, N.Y., Rebecca, of Manhattan, and Judith, of Geneva; a sister, Dorothy Kaufman of Beverly Hills, Calif.; and five grandchildren.
        Correction:  May 14, 2004, Friday  An obituary of the literary critic and author Frederick R. Karl on May 6 misstated his role in a seminar on biography writing at New York University. He was at one time a co-chairman of the seminar; its founder, in 1984, was the literary biographer Aileen Ward.
      