
        Julian J. Aberbach, who owned the publishing rights to Elvis Presley's music and set up a music publishing system that revolutionized the rock and country music industries, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 95 and lived in Southampton, N.Y.
        The cause was heart failure, Belinda Aberbach Stevenson Agar, his daughter, said.
        In the 1950's Mr. Aberbach and his brother Joachim Jean pioneered a method for recruiting musicians and publishing their works, laying the groundwork for today's recording industry.
        By creating a small subsidiary publishing company for individual artists who signed with the music publisher Hill & Range, the company the brothers founded, the Aberbachs guaranteed artists a share of the profits and a more active roll in developing music. (Jean Aberbach died in 1992.)
        In Presley's case, Elvis Presley Music evenly split domestic profits with Hill & Range, encouraging Presley to recruit songwriters to furnish him with more music, thus furthering his business interests and career. For artists the arrangement provided an unprecedented level of control.
        ''I gave Elvis a check for $2,500, an advance against the royalties of his stock ownership,'' Mr. Aberbach said in a 2002 interview with Billboard magazine. ''And he promptly went to the Cadillac dealer and got a pink one.''
        Mr. Aberbach was an unlikely champion of country music. He was born in Vienna in 1909 and eventually moved to Paris to start a music publishing company, which he abandoned after Hitler came to power.
        In 1939 Mr. Aberbach fled Europe for the United States. He saved enough money to send for his parents and bought them tickets to Cuba on board the St. Louis, a ship full of Jewish immigrants that was ultimately denied the right to land. Mr. Aberbach waved to his parents from the Havana shoreline before the boat turned around, carrying his parents back to occupied Europe. He followed them back in a plane and eventually took them to New York.
        Mr. Aberbach joined the United States Army to return to Europe and fight the Nazis. He trained in Spartanburg, S.C., and received a commission in Fort Benning, Ga., where he developed a love for country music. After an honorable discharge, he returned to music publishing. In 2000 he was inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame.
        Mr. Aberbach was also an avid art collector and donated French paintings to museums throughout the United States. In June he became a member of the French Legion of Honor.
        In addition to his daughter, Mr. Aberbach is survived by his wife, Anne Marie, and five grandchildren.
      