
        Dr. Evon Z. Vogt Jr., an anthropologist whose extensive fieldwork in southern Mexico helped advance the understanding of modern Maya culture, died on May 13 in Cambridge, Mass. He was 85.
        The cause was complications from pulmonary fibrosis, said his son Eric.
        Dr. Vogt, a leading researcher on the indigenous people of southern Mexico and Guatemala, believed that studying a community of people required adopting their way of life. Although not the first researcher to embrace this idea, Dr. Vogt developed a systematic approach and trained generations of students who went on to become some of today's leading anthropologists.
        Beginning in the late 1950's, Dr. Vogt, who taught at Harvard, made countless trips to Chiapas, a region in Mexico where he studied a modern-day Maya tribe.
        Dr. Vogt took his family with him. He quickly ingratiated himself with the local Zinacantan people, learning to speak Tzotzil, the local dialect, and earning the nickname Totik Shune, meaning roughly ''Sir Evon.''
        For 20 years, Dr. Vogt and his wife, Catherine C. Hiller Vogt, lived part of the year with their four children among the Zinacantans in a small village with no running water.
        With help from his wife, Dr. Vogt ran a program that placed six Harvard students in rural agricultural hamlets in southern Mexico every summer from 1957 until 1982.
        ''They introduced students to the field and made sure that they learned how to settle down, make friends with the Maya and put together an understanding of their way of life,'' said Dr. David Maybury-Lewis, a professor of anthropology at Harvard and a colleague of Dr. Vogt. ''The idea was to study the people as if they were your neighbors, not some foreign specimen.''
        Dr. Vogt's intimate knowledge of modern Maya Indians also helped other anthropologists better understand ancient Maya culture. Because of his work, said Dr. David Stuart, a senior lecturer in anthropology at Harvard, the Zinacantan people ''became one of the most well-studied communities in all of anthropology.''
        Born in 1918 in Gallup, N.M., Evon Zartman Vogt Jr. earned his undergraduate, master's and doctoral degrees from the University of Chicago. In World War II, he was an air combat intelligence officer, helping pilots locate enemy submarines. He later did research on Navajo veterans who had been ''code talkers'' in the South Pacific.
        He joined the faculty at Harvard in 1948, eventually becoming chairman of the anthropology department. He retired in 1990.
        He published 19 books and received numerous honors, including the Order of the Aztec Eagle from the government of Mexico, its highest honor for a nonnative Mexican.
        In addition to his wife and Eric, of Belmont, Mass., he is survived by two more sons, Evon Terry Z. Vogt 3rd of San Francisco, and Charles Anthony Vogt of Quito, Ecuador; a daughter, Countess Skee Teleki of Toronto; a sister, Barbara Vogt Mallery of Santa Fe, N.M.; a great-aunt, Kay Vogt Sayre, also of Sante Fe; six grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      