
        John Harry Niemeyer, president emeritus of the Bank Street College of Education in Manhattan, died on April 19 in the Florida Keys. He was 95 and had moved there from Greenwich Village four years ago.
        His death was announced by his family.
        During his presidency, from 1956 to 1973, Bank Street became a national model for education in an urban setting.
        Under Mr. Niemeyer's auspices, the college and Macmillan Publishers produced the Bank Street Readers, introduced in 1965, which were designed to appeal to urban children of mixed social and ethnic backgrounds with stories about youngsters like themselves.
        It was the first set of reading primers to leave behind the small-town white cast of the Dick and Jane. The Bank Street Readers, for children through Grade 3, showed metropolitan skylines, city streets with cars and traffic lights and laundry strung out on fire escapes.
        Mr. Niemeyer's own experiences combined the suburban and urban teaching environments. As president of the National Kindergarten Association, from 1958 to 1964, he advised Congress and other government institutions on early education.
        He was a member of the original planning committee for Head Start and helped write guidelines for the education section of the Civil Rights Act of 1965. New York City's Board of Education and New York State agencies regularly consulted him on policy regarding reading, school quality and desegregation.
        Mr. Niemeyer was a native of Scranton, Pa. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y., in 1930 and took graduate courses at several institutions, including Teachers College at Columbia University.
        He started his career as a high school teacher and administrator in Rochester. From 1941 to 1945, he was assistant director of the Harley School there. After that, he was headmaster of the Oak Lane Day School in Blue Bell, Pa., until his appointment at Bank Street.
        Bank Street took its name from the street in Greenwich Village where it was founded as an experimental school in 1916. Bursting at the seams, it moved during his tenure, in 1970, to new quarters on West 112th Street. It remains there today and has a graduate school of education, a model school for children, a family center, a division of continuing education and its own publishing branch.
        After retiring in 1973, he remained active for many years in the school's affairs as an adviser.
        Mr. Niemeyer is survived by his second wife, Rose Bello Niemeyer; a daughter, Nancy Rovin of Carlisle, Mass.; a granddaughter, and two great-grandchildren. His first wife, Marjorie Albertson Niemeyer, died in 1984 after 49 years of marriage.
      