
        Gill Fox, a jack-of-all-trades cartoonist who collaborated with the first generation of comic-book creators on innovative characters including Plastic Man and the Spirit, died on May 15 in Redding Ridge, Conn., his daughter Donna Morency said. He was 88.
        As an editor, artist and writer at Quality Comics from 1940 to 1943, Mr. Fox drew covers for comic books featuring the diminutive Dollman and edited ''Police Comics,'' which featured Jack Cole's Plastic Man. A skillful artist in his own right, Mr. Fox had a tight, clean-lined brush style. He also penciled and inked ''Torchy,'' a comic book created by the pin-up artist Bill Ward.
        Quality Comics was a launching pad for young artists learning their craft, including Reed Crandall, later known for his anatomical detail and balanced compositions in ''Blackhawk''; Lou Fine, considered an artist's artist for the exquisite rendering, using a Japanese brush, of the characters the Ray and the Spirit; and Alex Kotzky, who went on to create the syndicated strip ''Apartment 3-G,'' which was noted for its realistic, illustrative style.
        Born in Brooklyn in 1915, Mr. Fox studied art at the former Textile High School in Greenwich Village and completed the Landon Art Correspondence Course, a training ground for cartoonists like Cole and the influential Roy Crane, creator of the ''Buzz Sawyer'' strip.
        In a career that spanned eight decades, Mr. Fox drew backgrounds and wrote the scripts for episodes of the daily newspaper version of ''The Spirit'' by Will Eisner. He also helped with the strip ''Hi and Lois.''
        He also wrote and drew the long-running single-picture newspaper cartoon ''Side Glances'' from 1962 to 1982. Examples of his line drawing and advertising illustration include the betoqued chef, winking and making an A-O.K., who was nearly ubiquitous on pizza boxes in the 1980's.
        Mr. Fox's first job, in 1936, was as an opaquer for the Fleischer animation studio, where he slapped colored ink on the backs of the transparent ''cels'' on which the characters were drawn. He soon moved up to inking the popular ''Betty Boop'' and ''Popeye'' animated series.
        In a course on cartooning he once taught at Fairfield University in Connecticut, Mr. Fox told his students that the business could be subdivided into nine parts -- syndicated strips, comic books, gag panels, advertising, illustration, animation, political cartooning, caricature and sports -- and that he had worked in all of them.
        Of all the forms he worked in, he was proudest of his political cartoons, which appeared in The Fairfield Citizen and The Connecticut Post in Bridgeport; he was nominated for two Pulitzer Prizes.
        In addition to Ms. Morency, of Torrington, Conn., Mr. Fox is survived by another daughter, Susan Fox of Terryville, Conn., two grandchildren and a great-grandson.
      