
        Dr. Richard L. Varco, a surgeon who helped perform the first successful open heart and obesity operations, died May 3 at a hospital near his home in Halfmoon Bay, British Columbia. He was 91.
        The cause was pneumonia, said his son John.
        On Sept. 2, 1952, Dr. Varco and colleagues at the University of Minnesota performed the first successful operation on a beating human heart, saving a 5-year-old girl who had been born with a heart murmur.
        Until then, surgeons had found it impossible to perform open cardiac procedures, because the heart pulsated with blood. Dr. Varco's team, led by Dr. C. Walton Lillehei and Dr. F. John Lewis, used a risky technique that had worked on animals: cutting off the flow of blood to the heart and lowering the patient's body temperature, stretching the amount of time she could survive without oxygenated blood.
        Wrapped in a cold rubber blanket, the girl was anesthetized to reduce her shivering. Her body temperature fell to almost 80 degrees. With a window of 10 minutes to operate, the team quickly stitched a small hole between her upper chambers. She was rewarmed, and survived.
        In 1954, Dr. Varco took part in the first cross-circulation heart operation: in a single circulating system, a heart-lung machine did the work of the patient's heart while a living donor supplied blood.
        A year earlier, he had performed the world's first obesity operation. The procedure, an intestinal bypass, evolved into today's increasingly common gastric bypass. It was designed to help patients lose weight by limiting the amount of calories they could absorb, unlike gastric bypass, which reduces food intake.
        ''In the end, the result is weight loss, achieved by two different mechanisms,'' Dr. Henry Buchwald, a professor of surgery at the University of Minnesota who was a colleague of Dr. Varco, said yesterday.
        Richard Lynn Varco was born in rural Fairview, Mont., on the North Dakota state line, and earned undergraduate and medical degrees at the University of Minnesota. He joined its faculty in 1943 and remained until retiring four decades later and moving to British Columbia.
        Dr. Varco was an innovator throughout his career. He performed the university's first organ transplant in 1963 and was a co-founder of its bioengineering department. With Dr. Buchwald, he created the first implantable drug-infusion pump, a predecessor of a device that is used today to deliver insulin to diabetics and pain medication to the spinal cord.
        Dr. Varco is survived by his wife of 64 years, Louise; five sons, John, of River Falls, Wis., Richard, of St. Paul, Robert, of Anoka, Minn., Jim, of Oakdale, Minn., and Charles, of Campbell River, British Columbia; and three daughters, Anne Varco Hochman of Santa Rosa, Calif., Mary Varco of Bellingham, Wash., and Catherine Fisher of Edina, Minn.
      