
        Jack Holland, a Belfast-born author and an authority on Irish culture and the sectarian strife in Northern Ireland, died on Friday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in New York. He was 56 and lived in Brooklyn Heights.
        The cause was lymphatic cancer, said his daughter, Jenny.
        In five nonfiction books and hundreds of newspaper articles over more than 25 years, Mr. Holland chronicled and analyzed the troubles, the tangled political and religious conflicts between Roman Catholics and Protestants in Ulster. A drumbeat of bombings, assassinations, riots and shootings pitting the Irish Republican Army against the British-allied Unionists, the fighting has left 3,600 people dead since 1969, although it has faded in recent years with the establishment of a power-sharing government.
        Mr. Holland, a columnist and senior editor for The Irish Echo, a weekly published in New York that is widely read by Irish-Americans, was a voice for Catholic nationalism, but colleagues and many readers said he wrote objectively about all sides of the conflict, explaining its complexities and urging a peaceful resolution.
        He was the author of 11 books: two volumes of poetry; four novels, two of them about Belfast; and five nonfiction books, including a personal history, ''Too Long a Sacrifice'' (1981), ''The American Connection: U.S. Guns, Money and Influence in Northern Ireland'' (1987) and ''Hope Against History: The Course of Conflict in Northern Ireland'' (1999). With Marcia Rock, he also wrote a PBS television documentary, ''Daughters of the Troubles: Belfast Stories,'' in 1997.
        Edward John Holland was born in Belfast on June 4, 1947, into a Catholic family that had Protestant antecedents on his father's side. As a teenager he studied poetry with Seamus Heaney, who won the 1995 Nobel Prize for literature. Mr. Holland attended Trinity College in Dublin and Essex University in Colchester, England, earning degrees in literature and linguistics.
        After working several years for a weekly newspaper in Dublin and with the British Broadcasting Corporation in Belfast, he moved to New York in 1977 to write books. He also wrote book reviews and magazine articles for The New York Times, The Boston Globe and other publications. In recent years, he taught journalism at New York University and lectured at the Irish Art Center in Manhattan.
        Mr. Holland married Dr. Mary Hudson in 1974. Besides his wife and daughter, a resident of Providence, R.I., he is survived by his mother, Elizabeth Holland, of Belfast; three sisters, Kathryn Kelly and Elizabeth Murray, both of Belfast, and Eileen White, of Redcar, England; and a brother, Thomas, of London.
        Obituaries
      