
        Bobb Schaeffer, a curator and expert on fossil fish at the American Museum of Natural History in New York City, died on June 2 at St. John's Home in Rochester. He was 90.
        The cause was kidney failure, said his son, Richard W. Schaeffer.
        In four decades with the museum, Dr. Schaeffer studied the development of fish and the characteristics that link them to other vertebrates. He was particularly interested in the evolution of bones and teeth and in the concentration of eyes, ears and other sensory organs within the head. The field is known as vertebrate paleontology.
        ''His thinking and descriptions were fundamental to understanding the characteristics that make up humans and all vertebrates,'' said Dr. Eugene S. Gaffney, a colleague and curator of fossil reptiles at the museum. ''He used fossils to focus broader questions that have relevance beyond fish.''
        Dr. Schaeffer was also responsible for the museum's display of fossil fish, which explains their history for the past 500 million years. In 1957, he scored a public relations coup when he obtained for display a plaster cast of the coelacanth, the rare four-finned fish often described as a living fossil.
        Dr. Schaeffer was born on Sept. 27, 1913, in New Haven. He graduated from Cornell and received a doctorate in zoology from Columbia in 1941. He was a captain in the Army's medical administrative corps during World War II.
        He joined the museum in 1946 as an assistant curator and in 1966 was named chairman of the department of vertebrate paleontology. He also taught at Columbia, and was made a professor of zoology there in 1959. After officially retiring in 1978, he remained active at the museum and continued to publish articles.
        The Schaeffers lived for many years in Tenafly, N.J., before moving to Rochester.
        Dr. Schaeffer was a former president of the Society of Vertebrate Paleontology, and received the society's Romer-Simpson Medal in 1988. He was a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and a dean of the Council of the Scientific Staff at the museum.
        In addition to his son, of Rochester, he is survived by his wife of more than 60 years, the former Elizabeth White; a daughter, Elizabeth S. Brickman of Dexter, Mich.; and five grandchildren.
      