
        Emma Buck, who ran a pre-Civil War family farm in Illinois that remained virtually unchanged into the 21st century, died on June 5 on the sleigh bed with handmade ticking she had slept in for 98 years, in the log cabin built by her great-uncle, a German immigrant, in 1849.
        She was 100 or 101, said Annie Rieken, a close friend and director of the Heritage Foundation of Monroe County, where the farm is located. The cause of death was breast cancer, Ms. Rieken said.
        The 70-acre farm, a sort of rural Smithsonian, was named one of the state's 10 most endangered sites in 1998 by the Landmarks Preservation Council of Illinois. Miss Buck, who had pulled the last of her own teeth some years ago, lived there without running water, drawing her water from a well. Until two days before she died, she walked to the outhouse, one of many structures on the farm.
        It also has a blacksmith's shop, a smokehouse, a butchering shed, a threshing barn and a rare outdoor bake oven.
        Miss Buck sharpened scythes on a foot-operated grinding wheel well into her 90's. Speaking with a thick German accent, the slightly persnickety Miss Buck always wore a skirt as she worked.
        ''Emma could be blunt and coarse and uncouth by Emily Post standards,'' Ms. Rieken said. ''But there was a total authenticity about her.''
        To spend time with Miss Buck was to feel the evocative power of a place that has all but vanished from the American landscape, a fragile holdover where it was possible to encounter wooden butter churns, hobnail boots, copper kettles for making sausage and apple butter and hoops for a Conestoga wagon in the rafters.
        ''That was German business,'' she once said speaking of the heavy trough in the smokehouse, used to scald the fur off carcasses, and her other implements. ''What would you do with all these things? Throw them out?''
        While contemporaries embraced tractors and other modern machinery, the Buck family stuck to the old ways. The farm was settled by Miss Buck's maternal great-grandparents, Christian and Christina Henke, German immigrants from East Friesland who came by boat from New Orleans and settled in western Illinois, about 35 miles down river from St. Louis, in 1841. As was the custom among German families in the area, Emma and her sister Anna, who died in 1992, worked side by side with their father, Fred, who died in 1966. A brother, Albert, died in 1999. Emma Buck never married and leaves no survivors.
        ''The Buck farmstead is a rare glimpse into the past,'' said Mike Jackson, chief architect with the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency. ''It is an extremely well-preserved place, maintained by a woman who lived a 19th-century life throughout the 20th century. Its significance is far greater than its humble origins.''
        In 1999, Miss Buck deeded the property to Ahne Road Farms Inc., a nonprofit foundation in nearby Waterloo created with her lawyer, Otto Faulbaum, to preserve the farm as a historic site and interpretive center.
        The goal is to inventory the farm's historic buildings and to lay the groundwork for long-term stewardship. ''Farms like Emma's were once common in the Midwest, but everybody else is gone and now the antiques are hanging in some suburban ranch house somewhere,'' Mr. Faulbaum said. ''We would like to restore the whole place as a living history museum and to preserve the farm intact.''
        Miss Buck was buried June 6, in the old-fashioned way: by friends and neighbors who lowered her pine coffin into the ground in a corner of the cornfield, the stalks waist high.
        She had left clear instructions. ''She said she didn't want an open casket,'' Ms. Rieken said. ''She said, 'If people couldn't visit me alive, they have no business visiting me as a dirty old dead woman.'''
        Before covering the coffin, friends threw oranges onto the vault, recalling a story Miss Buck would tell about her grandmother Christina Bode. When German settlers heard there was sickness aboard the ship that brought her from Germany, they rowed into the harbor and tossed oranges onto the deck.
        ''Life is like that ship,'' Miss Buck would say. ''Sometimes it blows forward, sometimes back. And just when you think all is lost, someone throws an orange on your deck.''
      