
        Jacek Kuron, who inspired and tutored generations of Poles to struggle against Communist rule, serving as the ultimately successful godfather of a resistance that coalesced around the Solidarity labor union movement, died yesterday in Warsaw. He was 70 years old and had been ill for more than a year.
        A spokesman for the Hospital of the Interior Ministry announced his death, The Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Kuron's death came under the jurisdiction of the same ministry that had been his host for an imprisonment of almost 10 years in the Communist era. At the end, however, it was a benevolent ministry in a democratic Poland that cared for him as an honored citizen who had helped to bring about Poland's emergence from totalitarian rule, a man who went on to serve in Parliament and as labor minister, and who also ran for president, winning 10 percent of the vote in 1995.
        Yesterday, his old partners in resistance joined with current political leaders in praising Mr. Kuron, who had challenged Communist rulers first as an ardent and ideological young party member in the 1950's, and then kept training generations of dissidents as an outcast who was continuously hounded and imprisoned.
        ''Without him, the events of August 1980 would have been impossible,'' said Lech Walesa, the leader of Solidarity and democratic Poland's first president, referring to the strikes at the Gdansk shipyard and the union's historic victory.
        In the final chapter of his fight against the Communist system, in the 1980's, Mr. Kuron gained national prominence and international attention as the senior organizer and guiding spirit of KOR, the Committee to Assist Workers, which first mobilized support for striking workers in 1976. It soon became a rallying point for many of the country's intellectuals, cultural figures and students who provided support and resources to the industrial workers, miners and farmers then trying to build an independent labor federation.
        He first reached the front pages of the world's major newspapers when the shipyard workers struck in Gdansk, but Mr. Kuron had been organizing for some such upheaval for years. A man of the secular left, he had earlier met a student named Bogdan Borusiewicz and helped him to form a small group of Gdansk workers willing to distribute an illegal broadsheet called The Coastal Worker. One volunteer was a welder with a thick mustache named Lech Walesa, who as an articulate worker in a Poland that called itself ''a workers' state'' struck the intellectuals as having leadership potential.
        The union rose meteorically in the early 1980's, only to be smashed when martial law was declared on Dec 13, 1981. The Polish state and Polish society settled into a peculiar cycle in which, over eight years, waves of arrest and repression alternated with amnesties and relaxation.
        Mr. Kuron was one of the thousands seized when the country's leader, Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski, ordered tanks to crush the recently legalized union. Two and a half years later, in August 1984, he was among the last 11 detainees to be freed. Throughout the decade, until Polish Communism finally collapsed, Mr. Kuron could be seen at protest marches and demonstrations, often trying to keep the peace and always speaking politely to the police in his characteristic raspy voice. He always kept his apartment door unlocked in an open invitation to anyone who wanted to talk, interview him or drink very strong tea, or who might need a place to stay.
        Mr. Kuron was born on March 3, 1934, in Lvov, then a Polish city and now in Ukraine, which spells it Lviv. After the war his family moved to Poland, where he studied pedagogy. He joined the Communist Party but got into trouble in 1953 for criticizing the government for its education and youth policies.
        In 1964, together with Karol Modzelewski, a fellow professor at the University of Warsaw, he wrote ''An Open Letter to Members of the Polish United Workers Party.'' In it they condemned the party for elitist practices, making points similar to those that the Yugoslav Milovan Djilas had earlier raised in his iconoclastic book ''The New Class.'' Mr. Kuron was expelled from the party and sentenced to three and a half years in prison.
        Before his expulsion he organized a youth group named for General Walter, the nom de guerre of a Polish officer, Karol Swierczevski, who fought against the Nazis. Many of Mr. Kuron's charges followed him into a life of protest and social activism, first in 1968, opposing Russian censorship and the Polish government's anti-Semitic purges. Among the scouts was Adam Michnik, the former KOR dissident leader and now Poland's most prominent editor.
        Another was Seweryn Blumsztajn, another writer who had followed Mr. Kuron since his adolescence. In a remembrance published yesterday he declared: ''He was our godfather. After the events of 1968 unimaginable things began to take place around us. Many played their part but Jacek with his energy, visions and courage was the chief demiurge. It was he who succeeded in giving a name to what we managed to attain: a self-organizing society.''
        Mr. Kuron is survived by his second wife, Danuta, and his son, Maciej.
      