
        Robert M. Teeter, a polling expert and political consultant who helped guide the Republican Party and its presidential nominees for more than 20 years, died Sunday at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 65.
        The cause was cancer, his son, John, said.
        From 1968 through 1992, Mr. Teeter took the public's temperature on political issues and Republican candidates for the presidency, innovating or refining statistical techniques to peer inside the mind of the American voter. Mr. Teeter worked closely with former President George Bush from the time he was Republican national chairman in the early 1970's through his winning presidential campaign in 1988 and losing campaign in 1992, when Mr. Teeter was campaign chairman.
        Mr. Teeter is credited with two innovations, though neither was enough to re-elect his client at the time, President Gerald R. Ford. While working for Mr. Ford in 1976, he began daily polling, known as a tracking poll, leading up to the Wisconsin primary, which pitted the president against Ronald Reagan. Later, Mr. Teeter employed the ''Rose Garden strategy,'' which positioned the incumbent in overtly presidential settings during the campaign, but kept him largely out of direct political engagement with his opponent, Gov. Jimmy Carter of Georgia. Mr. Ford narrowed a wide gap but ultimately lost.
        ''If you look at Bob Teeter's career over 40 years, every major innovation in political survey research has his fingerprint on it,'' said Peter Hart, a Democratic pollster and Mr. Teeter's partner at the NBC News/Wall Street Journal polling program.
        Mr. Teeter was born in Battle Creek, Mich., and grew up in nearby Coldwater, a small town he loved and whose name he later used for his consulting and research company in Ann Arbor. He received his bachelor's degree from Albion College and his master's from Michigan State University.
        Mr. Teeter began his political career in the Midwest on the successful re-election campaign of Gov. George Romney of Michigan in 1964. Later, he managed the winning Congressional campaign of Marvin L. Esch, another Michigan Republican.
        In 1967, Mr. Teeter joined Market Opinion Research, a marketing and political polling firm in Detroit. Over the next five years, he expanded the company from a firm hired occasionally by Republicans running for Congress to one tied directly to the party.
        ''His firm was dedicated toward helping the party out, not just candidates,'' said Lance Tarrance, a longtime Republican polling consultant who was the chief pollster for Jack Kemp's presidential campaign in 1988. Mr. Teeter was also known among his colleagues for unfailing politeness, and for tough but fair campaigns.
        ''He was a force for civility,'' said Adam Clymer, the political director of the National Annenberg Election Survey and a former political correspondent for The New York Times.
        Mr. Teeter was a moderate Republican whose own politics did not always fall in line with the party or even with the candidates for whom he polled. Voters, Mr. Teeter argued, cared less about issues than they did about a sense of a man. ''They don't line up eight issues and decide which one they line up with more,'' Mr. Teeter said in a 1991 interview. ''They want someone they trust to make value judgments for them.''
        In addition to his son, Mr. Teeter is survived by his wife, Elizabeth; and his daughter, Katherine, all of Ann Arbor; and his brothers Philip, of Wellington, Colo., and John, of Downingtown, Pa.
      