
        James Feron, a retired foreign correspondent for The New York Times who reported from London, Jerusalem and Warsaw as well as the United Nations in a 40-year career, died June 19 at a nursing home in Pittsfield, Mass., four days short of his 76th birthday.
        The cause was Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Jeanne Clare Feron.
        After being posted abroad in 1961, Mr. Feron's coverage ranged from Britain's Great Train Robbery to the six-day Israeli-Arab war, to Nikita S. Khrushchev's famous outburst at the United Nations. He returned to New York in 1973 to take up a new role as the metropolitan desk's bureau chief in Westchester County, a post he held for 18 years until his retirement in 1991. Before moving to Pittsfield, he lived in Scarsdale, N.Y.
        At first a one-person suburban news bureau in White Plains, it grew to include other staff reporters and a large group of freelance writers whom he recruited. He himself covered front-page events like the 64-day murder trial of Jean S. Harris, a former school headmistress convicted in 1981 of shooting Dr. Herman Tarnower, the cardiologist, diet doctor and her companion of many years.
        Almost daily, Mr. Feron provided accounts of the legal intricacies of the trial and the complex human relationships surrounding one of the most sensational murder cases of its day.
        This is how Mr. Feron reported part of Mrs. Harris's testimony: She ''recalled sharing a room in the Hotel Ritz in Paris with Dr. Tarnower in 1974, on one of their many trips abroad, and returning one evening to find 'a letter from another woman waiting on the floor.' Mrs. Harris described it with icy disdain. 'It looked more like a term paper than a letter,' she said.''
        It was the same human dimension Mr. Feron consistently brought to his writing, be it an interview with the Israeli novelist S.Y. Agnon, an obituary of Paula Ben-Gurion, or a magazine profile of Israeli expatriates in New York.
        While based in Westchester, he was called upon repeatedly to take on temporary assignments abroad during the 1980's, when he returned to Jerusalem, and covered the British war over the Falkland Islands and the United States military operation in Grenada. He also went back to the United Nations for a year as bureau chief.
        His Parkinson's disease was diagnosed in 1984. After he retired from The Times in 1991, he continued as a freelance contributor to the Westchester section until his deteriorating health made that impossible two years later.
        James Martin Feron, was born on June 23, 1928, in Woodside, Queens, and graduated from Marietta College in Ohio in 1950. He joined The Times in 1952, working as a copy boy while attending the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism. (He received its M.S. degree in 1955 and returned for several years in the 1970's and 1980's as an adjunct professor of journalism.)
        At The Times, he worked as a night news assistant, radio-news writer, night rewrite man and general assignment reporter before being assigned to the United Nations bureau in New York in 1959. His first assignment abroad was London, in 1961.
        Besides his wife of 51 years, known as Jay, Mr. Feron is survived by three sons, Robert J. of Silver Spring, Md., Michael J. of Coram, N.Y., and Andrew T. of Highland, N.Y.; a daughter, Margaret F. Niles of Troy, N.Y.; a brother, Thomas, of Eugene, Ore.; and seven grandchildren.
      