
        Dr. Thomas Gold, an astrophysicist at Cornell University whose wide-ranging work touched on lunar exploration, the origins of oil and the creation of the universe, often in the face of accepted theories, died on Tuesday at Cayuga Medical Center in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 84.
        The cause was complications from heart disease, his daughter Lauren said.
        Dr. Gold is credited with a stream of elegant and sometimes unconventional ideas that his peers acknowledged for their daring, without always accepting them. He was best known for a 1968 paper on pulsars, which are rapidly spinning neutron stars surrounded by a large magnetic field that emit regular pulses of radio waves. At the time, pulsars had been detected by radio telescopes, but had not been explained.
        In 1948, Dr. Gold, with Fred Hoyle and Hermann Bondi, proposed a new theory about the creation of the universe, which they named the steady-state theory of cosmology. It held that the universe has remained constant and infinite, with a continuous creation of new matter. When scientists subsequently found they could measure microwave radiation still lingering from the Big Bang of creation, the theory was discredited.
        ''The steady-state theory was a beautiful idea and intellectually very nice, although the Big Bang has become the clear winner in science,'' said Dr. Peter Goldreich, an astrophysicist with the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton who studied with Dr. Gold.
        Dr. Gold had his most public role in the 1960's, when he advised NASA during its Apollo lunar expeditions. As a member of the space science panel of the President's Science Advisory Committee, he correctly predicted that the moon's surface would be powdery, probably pulverized by legions of strikes by asteroids and comets. But a colleague from Cornell, Dr. Joseph Veverka, noted that Dr. Gold had miscalculated the depth of the lunar dust, initially suggesting that astronauts and their vehicles might sink beneath it.
        Dr. Gold weighed in against using the space shuttle and other manned space flights in the 1980's, arguing that instruments and unmanned flights could accomplish nearly as much for science. ''Failures of unmanned launches (and there will be some) will cost money, but will not risk human lives, nor the prestige of the United States,'' he wrote in 1987. ''Nor will they subject the entire program to years of uncertainty and delay.''
        Late in his career, Dr. Gold returned to studies of Earth, and he pursued yet another unconventional theory about the origins of oil and methane. His idea was that oil and other hydrocarbons are being constantly generated by a microbial process and are not chiefly the result of decaying organic plant matter. He advanced his ideas in the book ''The Deep Hot Biosphere'' (1999), and proposed that space programs begin to search for subterranean life, drilling for living microbes on Mars and other planets. He also suggested that drilling deeply on Earth would resolve shortages in energy supply, an idea that has been openly contested by geologists.
        Thomas Gold was born in Vienna on May 22, 1920. He received an undergraduate degree from Cambridge University in 1942, before doing research on radar for Britain's Admiralty. In 1947, he was elected a fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge, where he did research on resonance and hearing within the human ear. He received a doctorate from Cambridge in 1969.
        He was a chief assistant to the Astronomer Royal at the Royal Greenwich Observatory before being named a professor of astronomy at Harvard in 1957. In 1959 he joined Cornell, where he was director of the Center for Radiophysics and Space Research until 1981. He became a professor emeritus in 1986.
        He was a fellow of Britain's Royal Society, a member of the National Academy of Sciences in the United States, and from 1981 to 1986, served as president of the New York Astronomical Society. He was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and in 1985 received a gold medal from the Royal Astronomical Society.
        In addition to his daughter Lauren, of West Palm Beach, Fla., Dr. Gold is survived by his wife of more than 30 years, the former Carvel Beyer; three daughters from a previous marriage, Linda, of Philadelphia; Lucy, of Ithaca; and Tanya Vanasse of Carmel, N.Y.; and six grandchildren.
        Correction:  July 6, 2004, Tuesday  An obituary on June 24 about Thomas Gold, an astrophysicist at Cornell University with maverick theories in many fields, misstated his theory of the origin of petrochemicals. He proposed not that they were generated by microbial processes but rather that they were formed by processes in the solar system, and that microbes then fed on them.
      