
        Jackie Paris, the jazz artist who first sang the words to the Thelonious Monk standard '''Round Midnight'' near the beginning of the bebop era and performed for nearly seven decades with some of the biggest names in jazz, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications of bone cancer, said David Grausman, a friend.
        Mr. Paris amassed glowing reviews and the admiration of his peers in a career that began when he was a child, but never brought him to fame.
        He toured with Charlie Parker and worked with Charles Mingus. Ella Fitzgerald was said to have counted him among her favorite singers. The critic Leonard Feather praised him as one of the handful of male singers who had retained the true jazz sound.
        But widespread success eluded him. In 1962 he told an interviewer that he had worked only 20 weeks over the previous five years. When he referred to himself as a legend or said his albums were all collectors' items, it was with a mixture of pride in his accomplishments and regret that he remained unknown even to many jazz fans.
        Carlo Jackie Paris was born in Nutley, N.J., on Sept. 20, 1924. Encouraged by an uncle who had played guitar with Paul Whiteman's orchestra and by fellow performers like the dancer Bill Robinson, known as Bojangles, he broke into vaudeville with a song-and-dance act as a child. By the early 1940's he had begun working as a singer and guitarist in New York.
        After two years in the Army, he returned to New York in 1946 and was drawn to the fabled jazz clubs on 52nd Street, where he worked as the leader of his own trio and as a sideman, most notably with Parker.
        He later worked with Lionel Hampton's big band and with Mingus. He also recorded a handful of albums as a leader and performed in nightclubs and on television. In the 60's and 70's, he frequently worked with his wife, the singer Anne-Marie Moss, from whom he was later divorced. His second wife, Joan, died in the early 90's. He left no immediate survivors.
        In recent years Mr. Paris made most of his income teaching master classes and giving private lessons. But he also continued to record and perform. His most recent album, ''The Intimate Jackie Paris,'' was released by the small Hudson label in 2001.
        He had been scheduled to perform on Aug. 3 and 4 as part of a ''Legendary Vocal Week'' at the Iridium jazz club in Manhattan. He last performed in New York in March, at the Jazz Standard. Reviewing that performance, Robert L. Daniels of Variety wrote that Mr. Paris's familiar, warm, crusty baritone voice had lost none of its earthy passion or velvety luster.
      