
        Leonel Brizola, the former governor of Rio de Janeiro state and a veteran leftist whose role in trying to head off a military coup in the early 1960's made him a towering figure in Brazilian politics, died Monday night at a hospital near his home in the Copacabana district in Rio de Janeiro. He was 82.
        The cause was a heart attack, officials of São Lucas Hospital announced. He had checked in earlier in the day with a serious cold and a lung infection, they said.
        A fiery populist whose political career spanned almost 60 years, Mr. Brizola became a national figure in the 1960's, when Brazilian politics were increasingly polarized between a left that sympathized with communism and a conservative establishment backed by the armed forces. Some observers have even speculated that Mr. Brizola, a rising star at the time, was the real target of the 1964 military coup that toppled President João Goulart.
        Leonel de Moura Brizola (pronounced bree-ZO-la) was born on Jan. 22, 1922, in the rural town of Cruzinha, in Brazil's southernmost state of Rio Grande do Sul. The youngest son of subsistence farmers, Mr. Brizola learned to read and write at home from his mother. At 14, he moved to Porto Alegre, the state capital, where he worked as a shoeshine boy and elevator operator before studying engineering at the Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul.
        His political career began at the age of 25 in 1947, when he won a seat in the state legislature for the Brazilian Labor Party, which he had joined two years earlier. In 1954, Mr. Brizola was elected to Congress as a federal deputy.
        But his stay in Rio, which was still the country's capital at that time, was short-lived. In 1955 Mr. Brizola was elected mayor of Porto Alegre, and three years later, he won the gubernatorial race in Rio Grande do Sul. At 36, he became the youngest state governor in Brazilian history.
        As governor, Mr. Brizola became known as a radical leftist and an economic nationalist, expropriating two American-owned utility companies without providing compensation. But he also used his influence to cement his reputation as a staunch defender of democracy.
        When President Jânio Quadros resigned after less than a year on the job in August 1961, the military sought to block his vice president, the left-leaning Mr. Goulart, from taking office. That prompted Mr. Brizola, who had married Mr. Goulart's sister 11 years earlier, to start a nationwide campaign in favor of the constitution that eventually allowed Mr. Goulart to become president.
        By 1964, Mr. Brizola was widely viewed as a possible successor to Mr. Goulart, whose term was set to end in 1965. But before elections could take place, the armed forces overthrew Mr. Goulart's government, fearing he intended to install a Cuban-style Communist regime in Brazil. Twenty-one years of military dictatorship ensued.
        Both Mr. Goulart and Mr. Brizola were forced into exile in Uruguay. Mr. Brizola also lived in the United States and Portugal before returning to Brazil in 1979, when an amnesty law was passed that set the stage for the return to democracy in 1985.
        Back in Brazil, he quickly returned to politics, founding the Democratic Labor Party, and was elected governor of Rio de Janeiro state in 1982 and 1990. He ran for president and lost in 1989 and 1994, and in 1998 he was Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva's running mate in a race won by Fernando Henrique Cardoso. In 2000 Mr. Brizola ran for mayor of Rio de Janeiro but got just 9 percent of the vote, and in 2002 he failed to win a Senate seat.
        Though many Brazilians saw him as an aging strongman of a bygone era, Mr. Brizola commanded a strong emotional following on the left, especially in Rio. His political views remained almost unchanged since the 1960's. Until his death, he advocated a militant form of economic nationalism, liberal benefits for government employees and a generous education policy.
        Mr. Brizola's radical politics eventually put him at odds with Mr. da Silva, the former union leader who was elected president in October 2002 in his fourth bid for the presidency. Mr. Brizola backed Mr. da Silva in his first year in office, but broke with the government in December, alleging that the president had abandoned his leftist roots.
        Mr. Brizola is survived by three sons. His wife, Neuza, died in 1993.
      