
        Miles Fiterman, a businessman whose donation of a $30 million building to the Borough of Manhattan Community College in 1993 was one of the largest gifts ever to a community college, died on Monday in Rochester, Minn. He was 84 and lived in Palm Beach, Fla.
        He died of heart failure at the Mayo Clinic, his son, Steve, said.
        Soon after World War II, Mr. Fiterman started a small lumber company in Minnesota. It later began making kits of precut lumber to build homes, which were sold in 41 states. In 1972, he sold the company, Miles Homes, to the Insilco Corporation.
        In 1993, as the Borough of Manhattan Community College was seeking to expand, Mr. Fiterman donated a commercial office building he owned at 30 West Broadway.
        The building, renamed Miles and Shirley Fiterman Hall, was renovated into a $275 million facility housing more than 40 classrooms, an art gallery and laboratories. It was destroyed in the Sept. 11 terrorist attack on the World Trade Center, and the college plans to rebuild it, using the same name.
        Mr. Fiterman also provided $200,000 in of scholarships annually for students at the college.
        After his daughter Valerie learned that she had ulcerative colitis in 1957, he took a strong interest in medical research in the field. He was on the board of trustees of the metabolic disease division of the National Institutes of Health for eight years.
        For the last 15 years, he financed major research grants through the American Gastroenterological Association. He also endowed a center at the Mayo Clinic, known as the Miles and Shirley Fiterman Center for Digestive Diseases.
        Miles Quinten Fiterman was born on May 15, 1920, in Deep River Falls, Minn. He was halfway through the University of Minnesota Law School when World War II broke out, forcing him to return home and help his father in his scrap metal business. He moved into the lumber business during the postwar building boom.
        Besides his son, Steve, of Naples, Fla., and his daughter Valerie Herschman of Minneapolis, Mr. Fiterman is survived by his wife, Shirley, of Palm Beach.; two other daughters, Bunny Wasserman of Marina del Rey, Calif., and Lynn Guez of Boca Raton, Fla.; 11 grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      