
        Seymour Britchky, a restaurant critic whose tart, distinctive voice covered a formative period of New York dining from 1971 to 1991, died yesterday in New York. He was 73. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, the photographer Nancy Crampton.
        Mr. Britchky was a 41-year-old marketing executive when he left the corporate life in 1971 and began publishing a monthly newsletter, The Restaurant Reporter.
        ''He used to say his main qualification as a restaurant critic was eating three meals a day,'' Ms. Crampton said. ''He just hung out his shingle and did it.''
        Those were the days before Zagat surveys and restaurant Web sites allowed anybody to be a restaurant critic. Italian restaurants still had straw-covered bottles and red-and-white check tablecloths, and the term ''celebrity chef'' had yet to be coined. But the New York passion for food and restaurants was beginning to emerge, and Mr. Britchky was able to tap into that fascination, offering droll, occasionally acid-toned reviews to his monthly subscribers.
        He ceased publishing The Reporter in 1976 and instead gathered his reviews into a book, ''The Restaurants of New York,'' which eventually came out in 16 annual editions, published by Random House (1976-83) and Simon & Schuster (1984-91). In 1980, he began a second monthly newsletter, ''Seymour Britchky's Restaurant Letter,'' which he published through 1991. Mr. Britchky specialized in the circuitous approach, winding his way around a restaurant before capturing it with a deft phrase. ''Nothing about this restaurant is as remarkable as its reputation,'' he once wrote of the Coach House, an institution for many years in Greenwich Village. Mr. Britchky later teamed with André Soltner, the chef and former owner of Lutèce, to write ''The Lutèce Cookbook'' (Knopf, 1995).
        Mr. Britchky's marriage to Ann Mortimer-Maddox ended in divorce. Besides his wife, Ms. Crampton, he is survived by a brother, Louis Britchky.
      