
        Dr. Joseph L. Doob, a mathematician who studied and wrote extensively about probability theory, which has applications in insurance, polling and other fields, died June 7 at Clark-Lindsey Village in Urbana, Ill. He was 94.
        The cause was liver cancer, said Dr. Joseph Rosenblatt, a colleague at the University of Illinois, Champaign-Urbana.
        Dr. Doob was interested in an aspect of probability theory called martingale theory, which is a sequence of functions that is used in statistics and mathematical physics. In 1940, he began to develop his ideas about probability, resulting in the book ''Stochastic Processes'' in 1953.
        He ''was one of a very few mathematicians who were at the forefront of developing probability theory as a core area with connections to many other disciplines,'' said Dr. Rosenblatt, who is chairman of Illinois's department of mathematics.
        In later studies, Dr. Doob did work on axiomatic potential theory and Choquet boundary theory.
        Joseph Leo Doob was born in Cincinnati on Feb. 27, 1910. He graduated from the Ethical Culture School in New York City before attending Harvard, where he received his doctorate in 1932. After research at Columbia and Princeton, he joined the faculty at the University of Illinois in 1935. He became a professor emeritus in 1978, but remained active on campus until last month.
        Dr. Doob was a former president of the American Mathematical Society. In 1950, he served as president of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics. He was also a member of the National Academy of Sciences, the French Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        In 1979, he was awarded the National Medal of Science. He received the American Mathematical Society's Steele Prize in 1984.
        Dr. Doob was married for more than 50 years to Dr. Elsie Field, a medical director for Planned Parenthood of Champaign County, who died in 1991. He is survived by a daughter, Deborah, of Loganville, Wis.; two sons, Stephen, of Merlin, Ore., and Peter, of Los Angeles; and four grandchildren.
      