
        James Michael Roche, a former chairman and chief executive of General Motors, died on Sunday at his home in Belleair, Fla. He was 97.
        His death was announced by the company at its headquarters in Detroit.
        Mr. Roche, who started his 44-year career in the auto industry as a statistician, led General Motors through the social turbulence that troubled Detroit and the rest of the country in the late 1960's. After his term as chairman and chief executive, from 1967 to 1971, he continued to play an active role on the board and its finance committee until the spring of 1977.
        During his tenure, he became known for his efforts to establish G.M. as a good corporate citizen in the eyes of Detroiters. He was credited with spurring the company's board to establish a public policy committee, which encouraged a relationship with the community beyond G.M.'s headquarters building. In 1971, Mr. Roche was responsible for the nomination of the Rev. Leon H. Sullivan to the G.M. board; Mr. Sullivan became one of the first African-Americans to join a major corporate board.
        After Mr. Roche's retirement when he reached the company's mandatory retirement age, 65, he remained involved in Detroit's civic affairs as the city struggled with the aftermath of riots in 1968. He moved to Belleair in 1972.
        James Roche was born in Elgin, Ill. After his father died in the 1919 flu epidemic, he worked to support the family. He graduated from high school in 1923 and, lacking a college degree, got a clerical job the next year in Chicago, honing a skill with statistics.
        In 1927, at 21, he was hired by General Motors as an assistant to the Chicago branch manager and statistician for the Cadillac division's Chicago office. From there he rose steadily for 30 years in jobs in business management, personnel, public relations and sales.
        He was named Cadillac general manager and a G.M. vice president in 1957, producing record sales for the Cadillac brand. He was promoted again in 1960 to oversee the entire G.M. work force in sales, marketing, promotion, service, parts and dealer relations.
        He was elected executive vice president and a board member in 1962 and became G.M.'s president in 1965. He held that post until 1967, when he was named chairman and chief executive.
        After the 1968 Detroit riots, he helped found the New Detroit organization to work for the city's recovery. He was co-chairman of the Detroit Economic Growth Corporation, co-chairman of the Detroit Growth Council for Economic Development, vice chairman of the Tuskegee Institute, vice chairman of the Urban Coalition and chairman of the Radio Free Europe Fund.
        He was also a member of the boards of PepsiCo, the LTV Corporation and the New York Stock Exchange, among others.
        His wife, Louise McMillan Roche, died in 2001 after 71 years of marriage. Mr. Roche is survived by a daughter, Joan Quinlan, of Belleair; two sons, James M., of Carefree, Ariz., and Douglas, of Birmingham, Mich.; 12 grandchildren; and 15 great-grandchildren.
      