
        Ladislav Hecht, once the captain of Czechoslovakia's Davis Cup team and perhaps the best tennis player on the European continent immediately before World War II, died May 27 at home in Kew Gardens, Queens. He was 94.
        His death was announced by a grandson, Nikos Hecht, who said his grandfather had been in good health until a month before he died.
        In his prime in the 1930's, Hecht was ranked sixth in the world. He played in all the major European tournaments, winning the German championship and twice reaching the Italian final.
        He defeated celebrated players like Bobby Riggs, Fred Perry and Jack Crawford and also played against the kings of Sweden and Denmark. In 1938, when Don Budge achieved a Grand Slam by winning the world's four major tournaments, Hecht twice had him at match point at Wimbledon.
        Hecht played Davis Cup matches for Czechoslovakia from 1930 through 1939 and won the tennis title in the first Maccabiah Games in Tel Aviv in 1932. After Germany had annexed part of Czechoslovakia in 1938, an aide to Adolf Hitler, unaware that Hecht was a Jew, invited him to play for the German Davis Cup team, an offer he declined. In 1939, three days before Germany invaded Czechoslovakia, Hecht fled his homeland and settled in New York.
        Ladislav Hecht was born Aug. 31, 1909, in Zilina in what is now Slovakia. At 11, he read a tennis instructional book and taught himself to play by hitting a ball against a wall three hours a day.
        He developed a game that highlighted a topspin forehand and an underhit backhand. He was known as a tactician who did not hesitate to use drop shots or lobs. Soon after Hecht arrived in the United States and started playing tournaments, Allison Danzig, the tennis writer for The New York Times, wrote of his ''experience and smartness'' and said he was ''so strongly armed on both sides.''
        When the United States entered World War II, Hecht worked in New Jersey factories that made ammunition. After the war, he became the No. 1-ranked player in the East and played senior tournaments into his 40's. He started toy and paintbrush businesses and invented some of the toys he manufactured.
        He is survived by two sons, Timothy of New York and Andrew of Aspen, Colo.; three grandchildren; and a great-granddaughter.
        Hecht was a national hero in Slovakia, and in 1996 Bratislava named a new multisport stadium for him and invited him to the ceremony. He did not go because, his grandson Nikos said, ''he thought honors like that were unimportant.''
      