
        Jiri Weiss, a central figure of Czechoslovakia's postwar cinema, died on April 9 in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 91 and had lived for the last two decades in Los Angeles.
        His death was announced by his wife, Katerina Weiss.
        Mr. Weiss wrote and directed more than 20 feature films, many of them war dramas told in the context of ordinary lives and drawing on his own experience in the war. His films, which won many international awards, also blended fairy tales, novels and the satire of the Czech New Wave.
        When the Germans invaded in 1939, Mr. Weiss fled from Prague and went to Paris and then London, where he worked for the British Crown Film Unit. In London, he documented the war in ''The Rape of Czechoslovakia'' (1939) and produced fiction films, ''John Smith Wakes Up'' (1941) and ''Before the Raid'' (1943).
        A member of the Communist party, he returned to his county in 1945 and stayed to make many successful films under political and artistic constraints. ''When it was impossible to make good movies, he made a movie about a dog,'' said the director Ivan Passer of Mr. Weiss's popular children's film, ''Punta and the Four-Leaf Clover'' (1955).
        His first feature film, ''Stolen Frontier'' (1947) told the story of the members of a Czech frontier village during the war. ''The Wolf Trap'' won the critics' prize at the Venice Film Festival in 1957, and for ''Romeo and Juliet and Darkness'' (1960), he won the Grand Prix at the San Sebastian and Taormina film festivals.
        ''Romeo'' tells the story of a young Jewish girl who is sent to her death in a concentration camp by her neighbors.
        Also highly acclaimed were ''The Golden Fern'' (1963), ''Ninety Degrees in the Shade'' (1965), an English-language film, and ''Murder Czech Style'' (1967), a dark comedy about a foolish clerk who is cuckolded by the woman he loves.
        Mr. Weiss taught at FAMU, the Film Academy in Prague, and influenced a younger generation of directors who led the Czech New Wave, like Vojtech Jasny, later a mentor of Milos Forman.
        When the Soviets invaded Czechoslovakia in 1968, Mr. Weiss again fled, living in Rome and England before relocating to the United States. He lived in New York and then moved to Los Angeles.
        He also taught film courses at Hunter College in New York and at the University of California, Santa Barbara. He published a book of memoirs, ''The White Mercedes.''
        In 1990, he directed the French-German film ''Martha and I,'' with Marianne Sagebrecht and Michael Piccoli, which was voted most popular at the San Francisco International Film Festival in 1991.
        Mr. Weiss was born on March 29, 1913, in Prague into a German Jewish community. He graduated from Charles University and abandoned his law studies for journalism and then for documentary filmmaking.
        Besides his wife, of Los Angeles, his survivors include a daughter, Jirina Bila of Prague; a son, Jiri Weiss Jr. of San Francisco; and three grandchildren.
      