
        Dick Durrance, a pioneer American ski racer and a developer of ski areas like Sun Valley, Idaho, and Aspen, Colo., died Sunday at a nursing home in Carbondale, Colo. He was 89.
        His death was announced by his son Dick Jr.
        Starting in the late 1930's, Durrance won 17 United States titles. He was so dominant that for years the United States Ski Association awarded a medal with his profile for each national title. He won five of those medals in 1939 and turned them into a necklace for his wife.
        In the 1936 Winter Olympics in Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany, he finished 8th in the slalom and 11th in the downhill. He made the United States team for the 1940 Winter Olympics, but they were called off because of World War II.
        He helped train the first United States ski troops. After the war, he manufactured skis and sold them for $24.50 a pair.
        In 1947, he became manager of Aspen Ski Corporation, whose mountain, Ajax, had only three runs and an unfinished T-bar lift. He added lifts and trails and designed a racecourse. He turned the mining town into a skiing destination.
        ''It was an exciting time,'' he told The Denver Post in 1997. ''Skiing was just getting started. Lots of people who were interested in skiing were moving to Aspen. Aspen had turned into a wild place where people were just as interested in drinking and partying as they were in skiing. They had come to relax after the war and do things that were fun.''
        The first year, the Aspen ski area grossed only $30,000. But Durrance persuaded the International Ski Federation to hold the 1950 world championships there, then designed a racecourse, cut trails, contracted for lifts, supervised everything and made a documentary film. Aspen soon became a celebrated ski resort.
        Years later a street was named for him in Hanover, N.H., where Dartmouth College is situated. He earned a degree in art at Dartmouth in 1939. A peak was named for him in Sun Valley. He was a key developer of the resort at Alta, Utah. He also produced and directed at least 46 ski films.
        Richard Henry Durrance was born Oct. 23, 1914, in Tarpon Springs, Fla. When he was 8, his mother took her five children to live in Germany, and there he saw his first snow and skis.
        His wife, the former Margaret Jennings, an alternate on the 1940 Olympic team and later a well-known photographer, died in 2002. He is survived by two sons, Dick Jr. of Carbondale and Dave of Snowmass Village, Colo.; three grandchildren; and a sister, Ada Greenwood of Boulder, Colo.
      