
        Bernard S. Baker, a chemical engineer whose research and entrepreneurial instincts spurred the development of large stationary fuel cells for industry, died on Monday at the Bethel Health Care Center in Bethel, Conn. He was 67.
        The cause was a series of strokes resulting from cancer, his son William V. Baker said.
        Dr. Baker was the leading champion of efforts to develop a high-temperature fuel cell to be used as a reliable, economical power source for buildings and the electrical grid. He was the chairman and chief executive of FuelCell Energy of Danbury, Conn., a company he founded in 1970 with other researchers. Today, the company is the major vendor of such fuel cells.
        Fuel cells create electrical current with almost no air pollution through chemical reactions that combine hydrogen with air. The first such cell was invented in 1839. But the technology had come to be seen as a scientific oddity with scant practical potential when Dr. Baker was exposed to it in 1959 as a Fulbright fellow working under G.H.J. Broers, a Dutch scientist, at the Laboratory for Electrochemistry at the University of Amsterdam.
        Most fuel cells get their hydrogen from an external device called a reformer that extracts the hydrogen from natural gas or some other hydrocarbon fuel. Dr. Broers had pioneered a high-temperature design built around molten salts that could extract hydrogen from fuel within the cell, skipping the reformer step.
        In its early years, Dr. Baker's company, then called the Energy Research Corporation, survived largely on federal research contracts and worked on advanced battery technologies as well as fuel cells.
        Dr. Baker turned over management of the company to Jerry D. Leitman in 1997. Since then, the molten carbonate design has gained acceptance as a reliable power source, although it cannot yet compete with traditional electrical power without government subsidy. In addition to the molten carbonate cells, the company is working on other fuel cell designs as it searches for a strategy to become profitable.
        Dr. Baker was born in Philadelphia on June 26, 1936, the son of William V. Baker, a chemicals salesman, and Bessie Weinstein Baker. He received bachelor's and master's degrees in chemical engineering from the University of Pennsylvania. After his studies in Amsterdam, he worked on fuel cells and related energy chemistry as a senior scientist in the missile and space division of Lockheed Aircraft and at the Institute of Gas Technology in Chicago. He received his Ph.D. from the Illinois Institute of Technology in 1969.
        Dr. Baker's survivors include his wife of 45 years, Cornelia Markey Baker of Bethel; four children -- William of New Milford, Conn.; Stephen Baker of Peru, N.Y.; Jennifer Baker of Monkton, Vt.; and Suzanne Lamerand of Collegeville, Pa., as well as three grandchildren.
      