
        Robert P. Sharp, a geologist who applied the lessons offered by a close study of Earth to the challenge of understanding other planets, died May 25 at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 92.
        Dr. Sharp's death was announced by the California Institute of Technology, where he had taught and done research for five decades.
        Caltech credited Dr. Sharp with having helped modernize its geology division, which he directed from 1952 until 1968. He did this in part by tying earth sciences to the study of other planets, especially Mars.
        In addition to helping study rocks brought back from the Moon, Dr. Sharp worked with NASA in the 1960's to understand the images of Mars sent back by the Mariner missions.
        At a conference at Caltech in 1966, Dr. Sharp told his colleagues that while it was good that earth scientists were becoming involved in the space program, they also needed to ''look downward into our own planet.''
        ''Our understanding of these distant bodies will depend to a good degree upon how well we understand our own plain Earth,'' he said.
        Dr. Sharp's other research included work on basin and range structure, glaciers and sand dunes. In 1989 he was given the nation's highest scientific honor, the National Medal of Science.
        Robert Phillip Sharp was born on June 24, 1911, in Oxnard, Calif. In 1930, he enrolled as an undergraduate at Caltech, where he was a star quarterback.
        He earned bachelor's and master's degrees there and went to Harvard for a doctorate in geology.
        Dr. Sharp told a university publication in 2003 that he almost never made it that far. When he failed a math exam in his freshman year, he recalled, his professor told him: ''Get out of here. You don't belong here. You ought to leave Caltech.'' His fellow students persuaded him to stay, he said.
        Dr. Sharp returned to Caltech to teach in 1952 after serving in the Army and teaching at the University of Michigan. His wife, Jean Todd Sharp, whom he met when he was at Harvard and she was working on a doctorate at Radcliffe, died in 2000. Incomplete information was available about his survivors who, the university said, include two children, Kristin and Bruce.
      