
       Elma Stuckey, a former schoolteacher who won acclaim late in life with her poetry about black Americans from the time of slavery to the present and who published her second volume of poems last year at age 80, died of a heart attack at Washington Hospital Center on Friday. She was 81 years old and lived in
        Elma Stuckey, a former schoolteacher who won acclaim late in life with her poetry about black Americans from the time of slavery to the present and who published her second volume of poems last year at age 80, died of a heart attack at Washington Hospital Center on Friday. She was 81 years old and lived in Chicago.
        Mrs. Stuckey's son, the historian Sterling Stuckey, said his mother was hospitalized during a visit to Washington. Because of her illness she was unable to keep an appointment there to make a recording for the Smithsonian Institution. She did, however, record a television program to be broadcast on Christmas Day and placed in the Library of Congress archives. Wrote 'The Big Gate'
        Mrs. Stuckey's first poetry collection, ''The Big Gate,'' was published in 1976, when she was 69 years old. Eric D. Hirsch Jr., Kenan Professor of English at the University of Virginia, said her second volume, ''The Collected Poems of Elma Stuckey,'' established her ''in the canon of American poetry.'' In this work Mrs. Stuckey wrote about the lives of black Americans from the past to the present, and their migrations from South to North and from rural to urban America.
        Although she wrote poetry all of her life, she concentrated on it after retiring at the age of 60 as a supervisor in the Illinois Department of Labor. Mrs. Stuckey had been a teacher in the South. After she moved to Chicago in 1945, she worked as a hat-checker and a maid before joining the state labor department. She was working on a third volume at the time of her death.
        Mrs. Stuckey is survived by her son, of Evanston, Ill.; and two sisters, Vera Little of Grand Rapids, Mich., and Ruth Malone of Altadena, Calif.
      