
       Sheldon Coleman, chairman of the Coleman Company, the family enterprise that created the Coleman lantern, died of pneumonia Wednesday at the Wesley Medical Center in Wichita, Kan., after complications from lupus, a skin disease. He was 86 years old and lived in Wichita.
        Sheldon Coleman, chairman of the Coleman Company, the family enterprise that created the Coleman lantern, died of pneumonia Wednesday at the Wesley Medical Center in Wichita, Kan., after complications from lupus, a skin disease. He was 86 years old and lived in Wichita.
        Mr. Coleman was the elder son of W. C. Coleman, who founded the company at the turn of the century and developed the Coleman lamp for household use and then the portable lantern, which quickly became a fixture at campsites and outdoor workplaces. Powered by pressurized gas, the Coleman lantern delivers a steady, bright light even in adverse weather.
        Sheldon Coleman was the dominant factor in the company for nearly six decades. He took charge in the Depression, when it was in shaky condition, and built it into a corporation that today sells products for camping, marine sports, recreational vehicles and home heating and air-conditioning in more than 100 countries around the world. The multinational company's stock trades on the American Stock Exchange. Early Love for the Outdoors
        Mr. Sheldon was born in Fort Worth, but when he was a month old the family moved to Wichita, where his father had set up a gasoline lighting business. By the time he was 5 years old he had fallen in love with the outdoors, and by the time he was 13 he had climbed the 14,000-foot Longs Peak in Colorado, he later recalled.
        In high school, he worked in the Coleman factory as demand for the lanterns soared in World War I. After earning a degree in mechanical engineering at Cornell University, he became a machinist at a Coleman plant in Toronto and then returned to Wichita to work in other phases of the business.
        By 1929, when he was 27 years old, Mr. Coleman was functioning as chief executive officer, although he did not hold that title until 1940. He was named president in 1951 and chairman after his father died in 1957 at 87 years of age. His younger brother, Clarence, who joined the company in 1921, is vice chairman of Coleman.
        Besides his brother, who lives in Wichita, Mr. Coleman is survived by his wife, the former Galey Dater; a son, Sheldon C., of Wichita; two daughters, Virginia Coleman of Wichita and Carolyn Vickers of Denver; two stepsons, Phil Dater of El Prado, N.M., and Tom Dater of Boise, Idaho; a stepdaughter, Emilie Rowe of Albuquerque, N.M.; 14 grandchildren, and five great-grandchldren.
      