
       John C. Crystal, a career planner known for his unorthodox job-seeking methods, died of acute emphysema Saturday at North Shore Community Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 67 years old and lived in Manhasset.
        John C. Crystal, a career planner known for his unorthodox job-seeking methods, died of acute emphysema Saturday at North Shore Community Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 67 years old and lived in Manhasset.
        ''You can send out all the resumes you want and there's no guaranteeing the offers you'll get are the ones you want,'' he once told an interviewer. ''Going through channels is nonsense. Personnel departments merely shield the more responsible people from the bands of totally uninformed job-seekers; they merely weed people out.''
        Instead, he advocated an indirect route: ''Approach the one man or woman - never a 'personnel' person -who has the most knowledge of the job you truly want and enough seniority to hire someone for it.'' Inspired Best-Selling Book
        Mr. Crystal advised clients through his own counseling firm, the Crystal-Barkley Corporation, at 111 East 31st Street in Manhattan, of which he was chairman.
        His system, which he called Life/ Work Planning, received widespread attention in 1979, with the publication of the book, ''What Color Is Your Parachute? A Practical Manual for Job Hunters and Career Changers,'' by Richard Nelson Bolles and published by Ten Speed Press. The best-selling book was based on Mr. Crystal's rule-breaking approach.
        A native of Fort Hamilton, N.Y., and a graduate of Columbia College, Mr. Crystal was a lieutenant in the intelligence arm of the Army in World War II, serving in North Africa and Italy for three years.
        Later, he started his own consulting firm, and, from 1957 to 1978, helped foreign-service officers and returning military personnel find jobs in civilian life. It was during this period that he developed Life/Work Planning, which he then applied to job seekers in all fields.
        Mr. Crystal is survived by a daughter, Barbara Ann, of Annandale, Va., and a sister, Isabel Merriam of Bonner Springs, Kans.
        A memorial service is scheduled for tomorrow at 10 A.M. at the Church of the Sacred Heart of Jesus and Mary, 307 East 33d Street.
      