
       George Alpert, the former president of the New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad Company, which served the northeast corridor until 1969, died of pneumonia Sunday at his home in Cohasset, Mass. He was 90 years old.
        George Alpert, the former president of the New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad Company, which served the northeast corridor until 1969, died of pneumonia Sunday at his home in Cohasset, Mass. He was 90 years old.
        Mr. Alpert, a lawyer who also helped found Brandeis University, took over the railroad, commonly known as the New Haven, in 1956 in an era when many of the Northeast's passenger railroads were declining.
        The New Haven was beset by operating woes, rider complaints and long-term cost troubles. Irked after being stranded for 45 minutes one day while traveling from New Haven to Boston, Mr. Alpert paid special attention to improving the railroad's on-time record and improving its maintenance.
        He also campaigned for a then-unheard of source of revenue - public funds - to subsidize the railroad when competing forms of transportation, themselves subsidized, were siphoning riders away. Returned to Law Practice
        But the line continued losing money, and in 1961 filed for protection from its creditors under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code. Mr. Alpert returned to his law practice the next year, and seven years later, the New Haven merged with two other lines to become Penn Central Railroad. That, too, went bankrupt. The lines once served by the New Haven are now dispersed among several railroads, including Amtrak and the Metro-North Commuter Railroad.
        Mr. Alpert was born in 1898 in Boston, the son of a junk dealer from Poland. He served in the Navy in World War I and worked his way through Boston University Law School.
        From 1924 to 1927, he was an assistant district attorney in Suffolk County, Mass., which includes Boston. He later opened a law firm - Alpert & Alpert -with a brother, Herbert. It was then that he had his first contact with the New Haven railroad, when he became general counsel for its biggest shipper and gained the attention of the railroad's president, Patrick B. McGinnis.
        Mr. McGinnis appointed Mr. Alpert a director, and when Mr. McGinnis resigned in 1956, Mr. Alpert became president.
        In 1947, Mr. Alpert helped found Brandeis University, becoming its first chairman and remaining on the board until his death. He was also an overseer of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in Manhattan.
        Mr. Alpert was married twice. His first wife, Gertrude, died in 1966; his second wife, Phyllis, died in 1986. He is survived by his three sons, William, of Woodmere, L.I., Leonard, of Sacramento, Calif., and Richard, of Cohasset; a sister, Thelma Price, of Boston, and five grandchildren.
      