
       Robert Gwathmey, a leading artist of social realism whose works combine a high modernist style with a passionate concern for society's underprivileged, died of Parkinson's disease on Wednesday at the Southampton Nursing Home. He was 85 years old, and until six months ago had lived at his longtime home in Amagansett, L
        Robert Gwathmey, a leading artist of social realism whose works combine a high modernist style with a passionate concern for society's underprivileged, died of Parkinson's disease on Wednesday at the Southampton Nursing Home. He was 85 years old, and until six months ago had lived at his longtime home in Amagansett, L.I.
        A contemporary and an artistic colleague of such artists as Ben Shahn, Philip Evergood, Romare Bearden and Raphael and Moses Soyer, Mr. Gwathmey's main artistic theme throughout his life was the rural South, where he was born and raised. He used a formalized, geometric and usually brightly-colored style to depict the lives of sharecroppers and migrant workers with a sense of dignity and grandeur.
        In New York City, where he lived since the early 1940's, Mr. Gwathmey was active in campaigns for artists' rights and wider social issues. He protested the sale of W.P.A. paintings as surplus property by the United States Government in 1946. He was among the picketers against sweatshop conditions in New York City in 1949, and he organized an auction to benefit a small Long Island art museum in 1975. 'Taught Ethics and Morality'
        ''He came from a generation that had deep feelings for the social situation,'' said John Hejduk, the dean of the School of Architecture at Cooper Union, where Mr. Gwathmey taught a drawing class for 26 years. ''He taught ethics and morality, not only in art, but that they were not disconnected from the society in which you lived.''
        In 1966, Mr. Gwathmey asked his son, the architect Charles Gwathmey, to design and build what instantly became a landmark in American residential architecture - the so-called Gwathmey House in Amagansett, a collage of cubistic forms that became a model for hundreds of similar, modernist-influenced homes around the country.
        A native of Richmond, Va., Mr. Gwathmey received a degree in fine arts from the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts in 1930. He later taught art at Beaver College in Glenside, Pa., and at the Carnegie Technical Institute in Pittsburgh. He moved to New York in the early 1940's, where he was represented by the ACA Gallery at 61 East 57th Street. 'I'm a Social Commentator'
        Since 1961, he was represented by the Terry Dintenfass Gallery, in New York. In 1973, he was elected to the American Academy and Institute of Arts & Letters, and in 1976 was elected an associate of the National Academy of Design.
        ''Robert Gwathmey has been exceptional among the small minority of artists who can be called social commentators,'' wrote the art critic John Canaday in 1976. ''He has managed to capitalize on the sheer pictorial interest of his subject matter without reducing it to picturesqueness; he has recognized the poignance of the lives he paints without sentimentalizing them.''
        In an interview in 1984 in The New York Times, Mr. Gwathmey said, ''If visualizing the world as it really is is social comment, then I guess I'm a social commentator.''
        He is survived by his wife, Rosalie, of Amagansett; his son, and by two grandchildren.
      