
       Former Senator Alan Bible of Nevada, who began his career in Washington as an elevator operator at the Capitol and subsequentlly served 20 years in the United States Senate, died of pneumonia Monday at Auburn Faith Community Hospital in Auburn, Calif. He was 78 years old and lived in Auburn.
        Former Senator Alan Bible of Nevada, who began his career in Washington as an elevator operator at the Capitol and subsequentlly served 20 years in the United States Senate, died of pneumonia Monday at Auburn Faith Community Hospital in Auburn, Calif. He was 78 years old and lived in Auburn.
        Senator Bible, a Democrat, was perhaps best known for his advocacy of national parks. In his tenure as chairman of the Interior Committee's Subcommittee on Parks and Recreation, he helped create more than 86 parks, historic sites and national monuments.
        They included the 23,000-acre Gateway National Recreation Area along the New York-New Jersey shoreline, the 53,000-acre Point Reyes National Park in California, the 26,000-acre Cape Cod National Seashore in Massachusettes and an expansion of the Toiyabe National Forest in his home state of Nevada.
        He also served on the Senate Small Business Committee. In 1963, after the assassination of President Kennedy, he proposed that 50 million silver dollars be minted with the President's likeness. He supported President Johnson's Great Society program as well as his Vietnam policy, but in 1968 he said of the American involvement there, ''We have learned a lesson that we cannot police the entire world.'' A Georgetown U. Law Graduate
        Alan Harvey Bible was born Nov., 20, 1909 in Lovelock, Nev. He received a bachelor's degree from the University of Nevada at Reno in 1930 and a law degree in 1934 from Georgetown University in Washington. He was a protege of Senator Pat McCarran, a Nevada Democrat, who got the young Mr. Bible his job as an elevator operator on Capitol Hill.
        After graduation from law school he returned to Nevada and became Mr. McCarran's associate law partner. He was a Deputy District Attorney and Deputy State Attorney General before being elected in 1942 as State Attorney General, a post he held until 1950 when he returned to private law practice.
        He first ran for the Senate in 1952 but lost by 475 votes. In 1954, Senator McCarran died and Mr. Bible was elected to fill the two years remaining in the Senator's term. Mr. Bible announced that he would not seek election to a full six-year term but was persuaded to enter the race. He won handily and then served three full terms in the Senate, retiring in 1974.
        He is survived by his wife, Loucile Jacks Bible, of Auburn; a daughter, Debra Bandini, of San Diego; three sons, Paul, of Reno, William, of Lake Tahoe, and David, of Santa Clara, Calif., and seven grandchildren.
      