
       Gen. Lauris Norstad, who was commander of United States and North Atlantic Treaty Organization forces in Europe during the Berlin crisis, died of cardiac arrest Monday at the Tucson (Ariz.) Medical Center. He was 81 years old and lived in Tubac, 40 miles south of Tucson.
        Gen. Lauris Norstad, who was commander of United States and North Atlantic Treaty Organization forces in Europe during the Berlin crisis, died of cardiac arrest Monday at the Tucson (Ariz.) Medical Center. He was 81 years old and lived in Tubac, 40 miles south of Tucson.
        Bradford C. Oelman, the vice president for corporate relations of the Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corporation, which the general served as chairman and chief executive officer from 1967 until he retired in 1972, said yesterday that it was not immediately known what caused the cardiac arrest. A former associate of the general at the corporation said that he had been admitted to the Medical Center on Sunday, suffering from an intestinal infection.
        General Norstad, a lanky Air Force officer, gained the respect of President Kennedy for the workmanlike manner in which he oversaw the forces of the alliance during the 1961 crisis in which East Germany cut off East Berlin from the West by building the wall that seals it off from West Berlin. Links to Eisenhower
        Yet General Norstad had his differences with the Kennedy Administration, many of whose members regarded him as part of a dynasty of high commanders with links to President Eisenhower, who had appointed him to the European posts in 1956.
        General Norstad saw his own role as that of an international Allied servant, and not only a United States general, a view not well-received in the Kennedy Administration.
        In addition, General Norstad contended that the Administration ascribed too much importance to conventional weapons in a nuclear age. In a television interview in September 1962, for example, he stressed his contention that tactical nuclear weapons must be seen as a key part of the alliance's arsenal.
        ''If there is any question about our willingness or our ability to use these atomic weapons,'' he said on the CBS documentary show ''The 20th Century,'' ''it is my judgment that we have lost a great part of the deterrent effect, which is the important thing.'' Sought Improvements
        General Norstad's time as NATO commander was also clouded by differences with the administration of Charles de Gaulle, President of France, and by various other problems of the alliance, notably military weaknesses that the general himself publicly cited, including a delay in modernizing the alliance's weaponry.
        As commander, he repeatedly urged that NATO be strengthened in manpower, in quality and in equipment. One of his innovations was the establishment in 1961, using existing formations, of a fast-moving multinational unit.
        General Norstad, who had held lesser NATO commands for five years before becoming commander, made clear that he viewed the task of NATO as posing a ''shield'' of conventional armaments that would force any Soviet attackers to fight, while at the same time maintaining an atomic retaliatory power that could cause the ''absolute'' destruction of the Soviet Union's abilitiy to make war. After General Norstad stressed this view in a June 1957 speech, the Soviet Union officially branded him a warmonger.
        But his efforts to build such a shield met obstacles. Relaxation of tensions and pressures for economies among the Allies delayed his program of building a NATO force of 30 divisions.
        General Norstad was scheduled to relinquish his NATO command on Nov. 1, 1962, but the Cuban missile crisis that October prompted NATO to ask him to saty in the post until early in 1963.
        He did turn over his other post, commander of United States forces in Europe, to Gen. Lyman L. Lemnitzer, in November. Then, on Jan. 2, 1963, Gen. Norstad turned the NATO command over General Lemnitzer and retired from military life. Son of Clergyman
        Lauris Norstad was born March 24, 1907, in Minneapolis, the son of the Rev. Martin Norstad, a Lutheran minister who had emigrated from Stavenger, Norway, and Marie Johnson Norstad.
        When he was about 3 years old, the family moved from Minneapolis to Red Wing, Minn., a town of about 10,000. He went on to the United States Military Military Academy at West Point, graduating 139th in a class of 241, in 1930.
        Although he had been assigned to the cavalry, Second Lieut. Norstad was sent to March Field, Calif., for training in the pursuit section of the Army Air Corps Flying School and won his wings. He was formally transferred to the Air Corps on Dec. 22, 1931.
        Early in his career, he showed a talent for staff work. In World War II, he was assigned as assistant intelligence officer with the Bomber Command Headquarters at Langley Field, Va., and soon caught the eye of Gen. H. H. Arnold, commander of the Army Air Forces.
        When Major Norstad was summoned to General Arnold's headquarters, he wondered if he was in for one of the famous Arnold dressing-downs. Instead, General Arnold told him, ''I need someone to help me do my thinking.'' And after becoming a lieutenant colonel, he was assigned to General Arnold's advisory council ''to assist in making studies on which high-level decisions are based.'' Wartime Duties
        During the landing of Anglo-American forces in North Africa on Nov. 7, 1942, Colonel Norstad was operations officer of the 12th Air Force, planning operations out of the new mud airfields in Algeria. In February 1943 he was promoted to brigadier general and was the operations officer at Mediterranean Allied Air Force headquarters at Caserta, Italy.
        By May 1945, Maj. Gen. Norstad was assistant chief of the air staff in Washington. After World War II, he was one of the service officers who helped tie together the loose ends resulting from the separation of the Air Force from the Army and its organization as a separate service.
        During his military career, General Norstad received numerous United States and foreign decorations.
        General Norstad joined Owens-Corning in 1963 as president of its international division, which at that time had 20 licensees outside the United States, and other interests in affiliated companies in Canada, Japan, Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa and Sweden.
        He became president and chief operating officer before advancing to chairman and chief executive officer.
        The company's total sales rose to $600 million in 1972, his last year as chairman and chief executive officer, up from $275 million in 1963. Decentralization Efforts
        Speaking from the company's headquarters in Toledo, Ohio, yesterday, Mr. Oelman said that as chairman and chief executive officer, General Norstad ''established a rigorous planning system, institutionalized the management-by-objective philosophy and decentralized the organization to encourage younger managers to seize responsibility.''
        General Norstad was also a director of the company from the time he joined Owens-Corning until his retirement.
        Over the years, he also served as director of United Airlines, Conoco, the Rand Corporation and the Abitibi Paper Company Ltd.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Isabelle Helen Jenkins, whom he married in 1935; a brother, the Rev. Frederic Norstad of Leavenworth, Wash.; a sister, Marie Ernster of San Jose, Calif.; a daughter, Kristin Jaffe of Atlanta, and a grandson.
        A memorial service is to be held at 2 P.M. Friday at the Davis-Monthan Air Force Base in Tucson. Burial is to be at 11 A.M. Sept. 21 in Arlington National Cemetery.
      