
       Andrew Ragona, director of advertising production and publication for The New York Times for two decades until his retirement in 1974, died of liver cancer yesterday at Mercy Hospital in Rockville Centre, L.I. He was 79 years old and lived in Valley Stream, L.I.
        Andrew Ragona, director of advertising production and publication for The New York Times for two decades until his retirement in 1974, died of liver cancer yesterday at Mercy Hospital in Rockville Centre, L.I. He was 79 years old and lived in Valley Stream, L.I.
        In a 47-year career at The Times that began when he was hired as a night messenger, he rose to become production manager in 1943 and was put in charge of publication as well in 1955, assuming responsibility for all display advertising from the time it was received by the newspaper until it was ready to be printed.
        A native of Urbino, Italy, he came to the United States with his parents when he was 3 months old. The family lived in Manhattan and then in Hoboken, N.J. Mr. Ragona got a job running errands at The New York Journal-American when he was a sophomore at Hoboken High School, moving to The Times two years later. Started in Physiotherapy
        He studied physical therapy at New York University for three years and by 1932, during the Depression, he was holding two full-time jobs - in charge of the physiotherapy department at Post-Graduate Hospital in Manhattan in the daytime and as a clerk in The Times publication office at night.
        Before long, with the number of physical therapy patients dwindling as the Depression deepened and as his work at The Times became more demanding, he decided to concentrate his career in the newspaper business, setting out to master advertising production.
        By the time he became overall chief of production and publication, he was a recognized authority in the field and soon was teaching the subject at N.Y.U.'s School of Retailing.
        Mr. Ragona is survived by his wife, the former Camilla Peluso; two sons, Dr. Andrew M., of Danbury, Conn., and Robert P., of Valley Stream; a brother, Crescent, who is an advertising manager at The Times, and five grandchildren.
        A funeral service will be held on Friday at 9:45 A.M. at Holy Name of Mary Roman Catholic Church in Valley Stream.
      