
       Horace Henderson, a pianist, arranger and composer who often collaborated with his brother, Fletcher, died after a short illness on Aug. 29, at the Veterans Administration Medical Center in Denver. He was 83 years old and lived in Denver.
        Horace Henderson, a pianist, arranger and composer who often collaborated with his brother, Fletcher, died after a short illness on Aug. 29, at the Veterans Administration Medical Center in Denver. He was 83 years old and lived in Denver.
        Horace Henderson's arrangements, some of which had a major impact on popular music, were featured by Benny Goodman, Earl Hines, Tommy Dorsey, Jimmie Lunceford, Erskine Hawkins, Charlie Barnet and other bandleaders in the 1930's.
        Mr. Henderson's arrangements were heard on radio beginning with the third program in Benny Goodman's nationwide series ''Let's Dance.'' The first, according to a friend of Mr. Henderson, James Maher, was ''Big John's Special'' - named for a bartender, John Elman. Arrangements for Gene Krupa
        Mr. Henderson's wife, Angell, said other arrangements used by Goodman included ''Sing, Sing, Sing,'' ''String of Pearls'' ''Japanese Sandman'' and ''Walk, Jennie, Walk,'' a showcase for the drummer Gene Krupa. Other Horace Henderson arrangements for Goodman were ''Three Little Words,'' ''Dear Old Southland,'' ''Chicago'' and ''Take My Word,'' based on Benny Carter's composition ''Lonesome Nights.'' He also collaborated with his brother on such arrangements as 'Christopher Columbus'' and ''I Found a New Baby.''
        Mr. Henderson was born in Cuthbert, Ga. He studied at Atlanta University and then at Wilberforce College, where he formed a student band, the Collegians, that played in Massachusetts and New York as well as on the Ohio campus. A fellow student, Benny Carter, the saxophonist, arranger and composer, was also a member of the band.
        After the Collegians dissolved, Mr. Henderson joined various bands, including a group led by Don Redman. He also played with his brother's band and appeared briefly with Duke Ellington's orchestra in the 1930's.
        Mr. Henderson is survived by his wife, a daughter from a previous marriage and three grandchildren.
      