
       Paul Cowan, a journalist of strong social passions whose book ''An Orphan in History'' influenced thousands of assimilated Jews like himself to recover their Jewish heritage, died of complications from leukemia yesterday at New York University Hospital. He was 48 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Paul Cowan, a journalist of strong social passions whose book ''An Orphan in History'' influenced thousands of assimilated Jews like himself to recover their Jewish heritage, died of complications from leukemia yesterday at New York University Hospital. He was 48 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Cowan, a staff writer for The Village Voice for more than 20 years, was a man of seemingly boundless enthusiasm and curiosity who wrote about the things that interested him in an open and graceful way.
        As a young man, his enthusiasm led him to participate in the Peace Corps in Ecuador, the civil-rights movement in the South and the movement against the Vietnam War. These and other experiences became the subjects of scores of articles and five books.
        Later, he immersed himself in his Jewish ancestry, which had largely been kept from him by parents eager to assimilate into the society around them. His discoveries led him to become an observant Jew and he wrote about his spiritual journey in the 1982 ''Orphan in History.'' 'The Sick and the Not-Yet Sick'
        When he contracted leukemia a year ago, Mr. Cowan explored the meaning of his experience and of illness and mortality in a front-page article in The Voice.
        ''I had assumed,'' he wrote, ''that health and sickness were separate, distinct terrains. I've since learned that those boundaries don't really exist. Instead, the world is composed of the sick and the not-yet-sick.''
        The motor that seemed to drive Mr. Cowan's journalism, his friends and his wife, Rachel, said yesterday, was a deep interest in people and the things that concerned them, whether coal miners in Harlan County, Ky., or Mexicans in the border town of Juarez, or the impoverished elderly Jews of the Lower East Side.
        Mr. Cowan was born Sept. 21, 1940. His father, Louis G. Cowan, was a producer of television shows like ''The Quiz Kids'' and ''The $64,000 Question'' who became president of the CBS television network. His mother, Pauline Spiegel Cowan, came from the family that owned the Spiegel mail-order business.
        In ''Orphan in History,'' Mr. Cowan recalled how his family celebrated Christmas and sent him to Choate, an Episcopal school, where he was required to attend chapel services and where he occasionally was the target of anti-Semitic barbs from his classmates. Jewish Origins Emerge
        Mr. Cowan knew little about his Jewish background, but after his parents' death in a fire at the Westbury Hotel in Manhattan in 1976, he learned that his father's family name was really Cohen, that his great-great-grandfather had been a rabbi in Lithuania, and that his paternal grandfather, a cement-bag dealer, had been an Orthodox Jew.
        Several years earlier, a journalistic assignment had taken him to the Lower East Side to explore the lives of poor Jews there. Both that experience and the extensive research he did into his family's history strengthened his own attachment to Judaism.
        He and his wife helped start a school on the West Side, the Havurah School, where his children and those of the neighborhood could learn about Judaism. Eventually, the couple played an instrumental role in revitalizing Ansche Chesed, a Conservative synagogue whose membership had dwindled to a handful of mostly elderly people. Explored Intermarriage Issues
        Mr. and Mrs. Cowan were co-authors last year of ''Mixed Blessings,'' a book that explores issues surrounding intermarriage. Mrs. Cowan, once a Unitarian, converted to Judaism after 15 years of marriage and is now completing rabbinical studies at Hebrew Union College in Manhattan.
        Mr. Cowan graduated from Harvard University in 1963, after which he and his wife spent two years in the Peace Corps. His first book, ''The Making of an Un-American,'' was about that experience. A collection of his articles for The Voice was published under the title ''The Tribes of America.''
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Cowan is survived by a son, Matt; a daughter, Lisa; a brother, Geoff, of Los Angeles, and two sisters, Holly Shulman of Washington and Liza Cowan, of Woodstock, N.Y.
        Funeral services will be held tomorrow at 9 A.M. at Ansche Chesed synagogue, at West End Avenue and 100th Street.
      