
       Sir Donald Albery, a London theater manager who encouraged the playwrights Samuel Beckett, John Osborne and Brendan Behan, died Wednesday at his home in Monte Carlo, his family reported. He was 74 years old.
        Sir Donald Albery, a London theater manager who encouraged the playwrights Samuel Beckett, John Osborne and Brendan Behan, died Wednesday at his home in Monte Carlo, his family reported. He was 74 years old.
        Sir Donald staged some of the most successful and controversial plays of that era, and a number of hit musicals, including ''Oliver!'' He also gave Graham Greene his first theatrical production when he staged ''The Living Room'' in 1953.
        Sir Donald was chairman and managing director of Wyndham Theaters Ltd. until he sold his five theaters - the Albery, Criterion, Piccadilly, Wyndham's and the Warehouse - on his retirement in 1978. A Helping Hand for 'Godot'
        He was known for his enterprise in finding and promoting new plays, and for his wide-ranging taste, his shrewd eye for commercial success and his willingness to take risks.
        Although ''Waiting for Godot'' was largely ignored at its London debut at the Arts Theater in 1955, Sir Donald saw its potential. When he staged it at the Criterion later the same year, critics hailed it, establishing Mr. Beckett's name in Britain.
        Sir Donald was born into a family with longstanding theatrical ties. His grandfather was a playwright, his grandmother an actress and theater manager and his father one of the most influential figures in the London theater in his own day.
        Sir Donald served his theatrical apprenticeship as general manager of Sadler's Wells Ballet from 1941 to 1945 and began presenting plays in 1953. Close Ties to New York
        He took many of the pioneering Theater Workshop productions of Joan Littlewood, the director, and turned them into big box-office hits. They included ''A Taste of Honey,'' by Shelagh Delaney, and ''The Hostage,'' by Mr. Behan, both staged by Sir Donald in 1959.
        Sir Donald maintained close links with New York theaters. He gave Edward Albee's ''Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?'' its first run in the West End of London in 1966. He was knighted in 1977. Sir Donald is survived by his wife and three sons and a daughter by previous marriages.
      