
       The Rev. William Edward Cousins, the retired Roman Catholic Archbishop of Milwaukee, a central figure in a widely publicized civil rights controversy in the 1960's, died from complications of pneumonia Wednesday at St. Anne's Home for the Elderly in Milwaukee. He was 86 years old and lived in Milwaukee.
        The Rev. William Edward Cousins, the retired Roman Catholic Archbishop of Milwaukee, a central figure in a widely publicized civil rights controversy in the 1960's, died from complications of pneumonia Wednesday at St. Anne's Home for the Elderly in Milwaukee. He was 86 years old and lived in Milwaukee.
        Archbishop Cousins headed the 622,000-member Milwaukee archdiocese from 1959 to 1977, when he retired. In the mid-1960's he was severely criticized for refusing to discipline a liberal priest, the Rev. James E. Groppi, a militant leader of civil rights marches and a vocal proponent of open housing laws.
        The Archbishop, regarded as a liberal, gave qualified support to Father Groppi and to open housing laws, but his stand cost him the allegiance of a number of Roman Catholics in the Milwaukee area. Parishioners canceled their subscriptions to the archdiocesan newspaper, The Catholic Herald Citizen, and curtailed their financial support of the church. Some placed buttons in collection baskets on Sundays as a sign of protest. Archbishop Defended Priest
        The Archbishop defended Father Groppi as ''an honest, dedicated and sincere priest who has a lot of guts and is doing things maybe others of us don't have the courage to do.''
        Later Father Groppi renounced his priestly vows in the early 1970's and married, after which he was excommunicated. He died in 1985.
        In 1971 Archbishop Cousins again aroused anger as well as threats of Roman Catholics to withdrawn financial support when he called for the rezoning of a 180-acre tract of land owned by the archdiocese for commercial use. At the time he said the church was $4 million in debt and that additional money was needed to finance archdiocesan programs, especially for the poor. The area was rezoned and sold.
        Born in Chicago on Aug. 20, 1902, Archbishop Cousins studied at St. Mary of the Lake Seminary in Mundelein, Ill. and was ordained a priest in 1927. He became Auxiliary Bishop of Chicago in 1949 and three years later Bishop of Peoria. He was named to head the 10-county Milwaukee archdiocese by Pope John XXIII in December 1958 and was installed the next month.
        He is survived by his sister-in-law, Ellen Cousins of Chicago.
      