
       C. Rufus Rorem, an early proponent of prepaid health care whose studies led to the creation of Blue Cross and Blue Shield, died of heart failure Monday at the Cadbury retirement community in Cherry Hill, N.J., where he lived. He was 93 years old.
        C. Rufus Rorem, an early proponent of prepaid health care whose studies led to the creation of Blue Cross and Blue Shield, died of heart failure Monday at the Cadbury retirement community in Cherry Hill, N.J., where he lived. He was 93 years old.
        In the early 1930's, working as an economist for the Julius Rosenwald Fund in Chicago, Mr. Rorem was the principal author of a report on the costs of medical care that advocated group medical practice and prepayment of hospital bills.
        At the time the concepts were radical, but in 1937 he became head of the American Hospital Association's committee on hospital services, which fostered the first prepaid hospitalization plans in New York and other cities, followed in the 1940's by doctors' group practice.
        Earlier this year Mr. Rorem was one of the first people named to the Health Care Hall of Fame, which was inaugurated by Modern Healthcare magazine. He was a fellow of the American Public Health Association and the American Institute of Accountants.
        A native of Radcliffe, Iowa, he was a graduate of Oberlin College and received his master's and doctoral degrees in economics from the University of Chicago. In World War I he served in the United States Army, rising to second lieutenant from private.
        After the war Mr. Rorem taught economics and accounting at Earlham College and at the University of Chicago until 1929, when he joined the staff of the federally sponsored Committee on the Costs of Medical Care and began his career in the health field.
        After World War II he was named a consultant to the commission that shaped the medical care plans that later became the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association. He served for 13 years as executive director of the Hospital Council of Philadelphia and, after retirement in the mid-1970's, he became a consultant to a number of local, state and national health care organizations.
        Mr. Rorem's wife, Gladys Miller Rorem, died earlier this year. He is survived by a son, Ned Rorem, the composer; a daughter, Rosemary Marshall of Philadelphia; six grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      