
       Ainslee Cox, the longtime conductor of the Goldman Concert Band, died of complications arising from Hodgkins disease on Monday afternoon at the St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 52 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Ainslee Cox, the longtime conductor of the Goldman Concert Band, died of complications arising from Hodgkins disease on Monday afternoon at the St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 52 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Cox, the co-conductor of the Goldman Band since 1968 and its music director since 1979, was best known in New York as the overseer of a band rich in history. It played free concerts every summer in the Damrosch Park Band Shell at Lincoln Center and in other metropolitan locations.
        But he also guest-conducted widely, in New York and elsewhere, and from 1974 to 1978 served as the music director of the Oklahoma Symphony Orchestra in Oklahoma City. During his regime the orchestra won three Ascap awards for venturesome programming of contemporary music. Reared in Texas and Alaska
        Mr. Cox was born in Big Springs, Tex., in 1936, the son of a Baptist minister and an English teacher. He was brought up in small towns in Texas and Alaska, and was educated at the Westminster Choir College in Princeton, N.J., and at the University of Texas at Austin.
        Moving to New York in 1962, he became associate conductor of the American Symphony Orchestra and a protege of Leopold Stokowski, whom he helped to prepare both concerts and recording sessions. He later served as an assistant conductor of the New York Philharmonic under both Leonard Bernstein and Pierre Boulez.
        In addition to his Oklahoma post, Mr. Cox conducted the Chamber Opera Theater of New York for two seasons starting in 1980, and led such other New York ensembles as the American Composers Orchestra and the Riverside Symphony. Evocation of an Era
        But he remained best known for his work with the Goldman Concert Band. During his tenure the band went through various vicissitudes and name changes, from Goldman Band to Guggenheim Concert Band to Goldman Concert Band. But it managed an annual series of concerts that harked back to the era in which brass bands were the principal form of live music heard by most Americans.
        Survivors include his mother, Mardilla T., of Irving, Tex.; two sisters, Sarah Mahaffy of St. Joseph, Mo., and Dottie Dunnam of Dallas, and a brother, Vick T., of Plano, Tex. A memorial service is being planned.
      