
       William V. Shannon, a journalist and college professor who served as United States Ambassador to Ireland under President Carter, died today of cancer. He was 61 years old.
        William V. Shannon, a journalist and college professor who served as United States Ambassador to Ireland under President Carter, died today of cancer. He was 61 years old.
        Mr. Shannon worked as an editorial writer at The New York Times from 1964 to 1977. Earlier, he was a Washington correspondent for the New York Post from 1951 to 1964 and received the New York Newspaper Guild's Page 1 Award for his coverage of the Army-McCarthy Congressional hearings in 1954.
        After his return from Ireland in 1981, he taught a course on the American Presidency and conducted graduate seminars in journalism at Boston University. He contributed a column regularly to The Boston Globe on foreign and domestic topics.
        John Silber, President of Boston University, said: ''His experience in foreign affairs and as a journalist and writer and editorial writer for The New York Times brought not only a vast experience, but a very high level of achievement to bear in his classes.
        ''He was an inspiration to our students, a stimulation to our colleagues and a productive and witty colleague. The loss to the university is very great,'' Mr. Silber said.
        Mr. Shannon's books include ''The American Irish,'' a history of immigration from Ireland to the United States; ''They Could Not Trust The King,'' an account of the Watergate hearings; and ''Our Soverign State'' and the best-selling ''The Truman Merry-Go-Round,'' both written with Robert S. Allen.
        William Vincent Shannon was born in Worcester, the son of immigrants from County Clare, Ireland. He graduated magna cum laude from Clark University in 1947 at the age of 19 and earned a master's degree in American history at Harvard University the next year.
        He served on the board of directors of the American Irish Foundation and was a trustee of Clark University.
        Survivors include his wife, the former Elizabeth McNelly, and three sons, Liam Anthony, Christopher Andrew and David Patrick.
      