
       William V. Shannon, a journalist and author who was Ambassador to Ireland in the Carter Administration, died of lymphoma Tuesday at University Hospital in Boston. He was 61 years old and lived in Brookline, Mass.
        William V. Shannon, a journalist and author who was Ambassador to Ireland in the Carter Administration, died of lymphoma Tuesday at University Hospital in Boston. He was 61 years old and lived in Brookline, Mass.
        Mr. Shannon, the son of an Irish immigrant, had spent more than a quarter of a century working for newspapers as a reporter, editorial writer and columnist when he was chosen by President Carter in 1977 as envoy to Dublin. He had written ''The American Irish,'' a history of Irish immigrants and their progeny in the United States that was published by Macmillan in 1964.
        Before and after his diplomatic service, Mr. Shannon devoted himself to journalism and scholarship. He was a Washington correspondent for The New York Post from 1951 to 1964 and an editorial writer for The New York Times from 1964 until he went to Ireland. Last Column a Week Ago
        When he returned from his ambassadorship in 1981 he joined the faculty of Boston University, teaching a course on the American Presidency and conducting graduate seminars in journalism. He also wrote for The Boston Globe on foreign and domestic affairs.
        Mr. Shannon's fatal illness was diagnosed last March but he continued to teach and write until this fall, when he went on medical leave from the university. His last column for The Globe appeared a week ago today.
        Mr. Shannon's ''experience in foreign affairs and as a journalist brought a very high level of achievement to bear in his classes,'' said John Silber, president of Boston University. ''He was an inspiration to our students, a stimulation to our colleagues and a productive and witty colleague.''
        Most of Mr. Shannon's writing dealt with American political affairs. In 1950 he collaborated with Robert S. Allen on ''The Truman Merry-Go-Round.'' Published by Vanguard, it was a collection of vignettes about life in Washington that took a salty view of President Truman. Writings for Periodicals
        He wrote ''The Heir Apparent: Robert Kennedy and the Struggle for Power'' (Macmillan, 1967), less than a year before Senator Kennedy was assassinated while seeking the Presidency.
        Mr. Shannon was a frequent contributor to current-affairs periodicals, including The Economist, Commonweal, Harper's, The Atlantic Monthly, New Statesman, The New Republic and Partisan Review. Among his honors was a Page One Award from The New York Newspaper Guild for coverage of national affairs for The New York Post.
        Mr. Shannon was born in Worcester, Mass., one of five children of a carpenter who emigrated from Ireland in 1910. He received a bachelor's degree from Clark University in Worcester and a master's degree in history from Harvard.
        From 1951 to 1957 he was bureau chief in Washington for The New York Post and for the next seven years he wrote a national-affairs column for The Post. When he moved to The Times in 1964 he wrote on state and local matters as well as national affairs.
        Mr. Shannon is survived by his wife, the former Elizabeth McNelly; three sons, Liam, Christopher and David, all of Brookline; a brother, John, of Worcester, and two sisters, Mary Willett and Clare Graham, both of Worcester.
        A funeral mass is to be said at noon tomorrow at St. Aidan's Roman Catholic Church in Brookline.
      