
       Fred D. Thompson, a former vice president of advertising for The New York Times and later the assistant to the president of the Times Company, died of a heart attack yesterday while vacationing in Fort William, Scotland. He was 72 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Fred D. Thompson, a former vice president of advertising for The New York Times and later the assistant to the president of the Times Company, died of a heart attack yesterday while vacationing in Fort William, Scotland. He was 72 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Thompson became a vice president of The New York Times in 1971, after the company acquired Family Circle magazine from Cowles Communications. He had been president and chief executive of Family Circle since 1969 and remained in those positions until he was appointed as The Times's vice president for advertising in September 1975. After the acquisition of Family Circle, he was named head of The Times's magazine group.
        In his tenure as vice president for advertising, the newspaper introduced daily thematic sections, and Mr. Thompson supervised the restructuring of the advertising department to meet the needs of the new sections.
        Walter E. Mattson, the president of the Times Company, said, ''Fred Thompson made a major contribution to The New York Times during the period in which The Times was being expanded and new daily sections were being introduced.'' Sold Readers Digest Subscriptions
        In 1979, Mr. Thompson was appointed assistant to the president, Mr. Mattson, and he served in that capacity until he retired in 1980.
        Mr. Thompson was born in 1915 in San Antonio, Tex., and his family moved to New York when he was 14. He attended the University of Beirut in Lebanon for his freshman year of college in 1933. The next year he won a scholarship to Columbia University, where he earned his bachelor's degree in 1937.
        After graduation, Mr. Thompson toured Europe and the Middle East, using money he had raised by selling subscriptions to the Reader's Digest. It was the start of a long association with the Digest.
        From 1938 to 1954, Mr. Thompson assumed executive positions in the Digest's international operations. In the years before World War II, he helped establish the first of the Digest's international divisions, in Latin America. And during the war, he directed the distribution of the Digest's military editions in China, India, the Middle East, Italy, North Africa, Paris, Australia, the Philippines and Japan. Then, in 1947, he formed the Reader's Digest Association of Canada Ltd., the company that publishes English and French editions in Canada. Worldwide Advertising Director
        In 1954, when the Digest first began accepting advertising, Mr. Thompson was appointed director of national advertising and subsequently served as worldwide advertising director.
        From 1971 to 1973, Mr. Thompson served as general campaign chairman of the American Red Cross of Greater New York. He has also served on the board of trustees of that organization, and on the board of the New York Blood Center. Five years ago, Mr. Thompson founded the American Federation for Aging Research, which conducts medical research.
        Mr. Thompson is survived by his wife, Julia; four sons, Geoffrey, Jonathan, Cameron and Kimberly, all of Manhattan; a daughter, Kathleen McCurdy of Killingsworth, Conn.; two sisters, Laura Rapp of Kent, Conn., and Ruth Potter of Manhattan, and six grandchildren.
        A memorial service is scheduled for 11 A.M. Friday at the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church at 73d Street.
      