
       Max Loehr, professor and curator of Oriental art at Harvard University from 1960 to 1974, died of complications resulting from Parkinson's disease at St. Joseph's Hospital in Nashua, N.H., last Friday. He was 84 years old and lived in Lexington, Mass.
        Max Loehr, professor and curator of Oriental art at Harvard University from 1960 to 1974, died of complications resulting from Parkinson's disease at St. Joseph's Hospital in Nashua, N.H., last Friday. He was 84 years old and lived in Lexington, Mass.
        One of the foremost authorities on Chinese bronzes and jades, and a specialist as well in ancient Chinese painting, Professor Loehr published eight books and numerous articles in these fields.
        The product of a rigorous German training in art history, he was known for incisive observations that led to larger truths, for instance that the ornamental segment of Chinese art declines in quality and importance as the pictorial segment grows. A scholar of broad reach, he grappled with such basic and circular problems as how to understand the historical development of Chinese painting, in which the datable monuments are so few that there is no firm basis for the historical understanding on which the dating of other works must depend.
        He was also admired for his ability to apply stylistic analysis to the dating of artifacts. In 1953, for example, he published a major article on bronzes of the Shang Dynasty, discovered in the 1920's at Anyang, China. Although other scholars had tried to date the bronzes by study of their motifs, Professor Loehr traced their development by applying stylistic methods he had learned from the teachings of the great Swiss art historian Heinrich Wolfflin. Later archeological explorations confirmed Professor Loehr's observations. Early Artistic Leanings
        He was born in Chemnitz, Saxony, on Dec. 4, 1903, the son of a textile merchant. As a youth, he sought to become a painter, but family circumstances compelled him to work for some years in a bank. He was finally able to enter the University of Munich in 1931, where he studied art history, specializing in Far Eastern art.
        After earning his Ph.D. in 1936, he took a post as assistant in charge of the Asiatic collections at the Museum fur Volkerkunde in Munich. A trip to Beijing in 1940 to study at the Sino-German Institute was prolonged by World War II. Remaining in Beijing for nine years, he served as director of the institute and as assistant professor at Tsinghua University there. He returned to his former post in Munich in 1949. Two years later, offered a professorship by the University of Michigan, he came to the United States.
        In the fall of 1960, Professor Loehr accepted the newly founded Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Chair in East Asian Art at Harvard. There, he taught courses and seminars on a wide range of topics, from Buddhist art and iconography to Chinese archeology and Chinese painting, and served as curator of Oriental art at the Fogg Museum. He also catalogued the ancient jades at the museum in the Grenville L. Winthrop collection, considered the finest holding of its kind in the world. He retired from Harvard in 1974.
        Professor Loehr is survived by his wife, Irmgard; two sons, Klaus, of Amherst, N.H., and Thomas, of Portland, Ore., and a granddaughter. A memorial service is to be held on Oct. 30 at 2 P.M. in Memorial Church at Harvard.
      