
       Lionel I.C. Pearson, a classical scholar who won a Guggenheim fellowship and wrote more than a dozen books, died of pancreatic cancer Sunday in a hospital in Menlo Park. He was 80 years old.
        Lionel I.C. Pearson, a classical scholar who won a Guggenheim fellowship and wrote more than a dozen books, died of pancreatic cancer Sunday in a hospital in Menlo Park. He was 80 years old.
        Mr. Pearson, professor emeritus of classics at Stanford University, was a graduate of Trinity College, Oxford, and Yale. He taught at Stanford from 1940 to 1973, except for a three-year stint with the British Army Intelligence Corps ending in 1946.
        Mr. Pearson, working with colleagues, had just completed his latest book, ''Aristoxenus: The Elements of Harmony,'' a discussion of ancient Greek music theory to be published by Oxford University Press.
        ''He was among the most distinguished scholars our department ever had,'' said Mark Edwards, also a classics professor. ''His life was devoted to the service of classics in the widest sense: teaching, research and support of his fellow classicists.''
        Born in London, Mr. Pearson taught Greek and classics at the University of Glasgow, Dalhousie University, Yale and the New York State College of Teachers before moving to Stanford.
        He was named a Guggenheim fellow in 1957-58.
        Among his recent books were ''The Greek Historians of the West: Timaeus and His Predecessors,'' published last year; ''The Commentary of Didymus on Demosthenes,'' published in 1983 by Teubner Press in West Germany; and ''The Art of Demosthenes,'' published by the American Philological Association in 1976.
        Mr. Pearson also wrote ''Plutarch: On the Malice of Herodotus,'' ''Popular Ethics in Ancient Greece'' and ''The Lost Histories of Alexander The Great.''
        Survivors include his brother, Michael, and two sisters, Madge McKee and Clair Pearson, all of England. Mr. Pearson's wife, Doris, was killed in a car accident in 1964. They had no children.
      