
       Charlie Palmieri, one of the most important pianists in salsa, died of a heart attack yesterday at Jacobi Hospital in the Bronx. He was 60 years old and lived in the Bronx.
        Charlie Palmieri, one of the most important pianists in salsa, died of a heart attack yesterday at Jacobi Hospital in the Bronx. He was 60 years old and lived in the Bronx.
        Mr. Palmieri, the older brother of the pianist Eddie Palmieri, was born in the Bronx. He worked his way up the circuit of Latin dance orchestras and hotel bands in New York, performing with Pupi Campo in the 1940's and later with groups led by Tito Puente and Mongo Santamaria. In the 1950's, he led groups in the popular conjunto format, with trumpets in the foreground.
        On New Year's Eve of 1959, Mr. Palmieri introduced the band Charanga Duboney - a Cuban-style charanga, with flute and four violins in the front line - which would change Latin music in New York. Charanga Duboney, featuring Johnny Pacheco on flute, was hugely popular in the early 1960's, sometimes playing as many as four dances a night; it revived the sound of Cuba's Orquesta Aragon and brought a new, streamlined kind of swing to Latin music in New York. 'A Hundred Imitations'
        While reviving the charanga, however, Mr. Palmieri also helped create forward-looking Latin-jazz hybrids. In 1961, he became the musical director for the Alegre All-Stars, a group of Cuban, Puerto Rican and New York Latin musicians who merged mambos with extended jazz solos on albums for Alegre Records. In ''Latin Tinge,'' a history of Latin music in the United States, John Storm Roberts calls the sessions ''an almost perfect balance of jazz and Latin elements,'' and says the half-dozen recording sessions spurred ''a hundred imitations.''
        Charanga Duboney and the Alegre All-Stars established Mr. Palmieri as a leader in Latin music. He performed with his own groups, as a guest with such jazz musicians as Cal Tjader, and in all-star ''piano summit'' concerts with his brother. In the 1970's and early 1980's, he divided his time between Puerto Rico and New York, but after moving to the Bronx he formed Combo Gigante, a Latin-jazz ensemble featuring the trombonist Jimmy Sabater.
        After a heart attack, Mr. Palmieri was told he would not regain full use of his hands, but he returned to regular performing and recording. His most recent album was ''A Giant Step.''
        He is survived by his mother, Isabelle Palmieri; his wife, Esther; his children, Charles Jr., Nina and Karen, and one grandchild, all of New York City.
      