
       Billy Carter, the irrepressible gas station proprietor and farmer who vaulted to national celebrity in his brother Jimmy's successful campaign for President in 1976, died of cancer of the pancreas yesterday at his home in Plains, Ga. He was 51 years old.
        Billy Carter, the irrepressible gas station proprietor and farmer who vaulted to national celebrity in his brother Jimmy's successful campaign for President in 1976, died of cancer of the pancreas yesterday at his home in Plains, Ga. He was 51 years old.
        A statement issued by the family said Mr. Carter died ''quietly and peacefully in his sleep at 7 A.M.'' with members of his family at his bedside. His condition was diagnosed a year ago as being inoperable.
        Mr. Carter, who took charge of the family peanut warehouse and farm in Plains when his brother ran for President, proved incapable of handling his sudden fame after his older brother's election and became the subject of repeated investigations by the Internal Revenue Service and other Government agencies.
        The most highly publicized was a Federal inquiry into his ties to Libya, which provided what he said was a $220,000 loan. Mr. Carter, who visited Libya in 1978 and 1979, had a brokerage arrangement with an American company that was seeking an allotment of Libyan oil. At the time, Libya was trying to obtain American transport planes. Mr. Carter was a registered agent for the radical Libyan regime, but he insisted that he never sought to intercede on its behalf in Washington. Panel Finds President Negligent
        A Senate committee ultimately found no evidence that Mr. Carter had influenced American policy. But it said in its report, a month before the 1980 Presidential election, that President Carter had been negligent in not dissociating himself from Billy's unorthodox activities.
        ''I do not deny I brought most of my notoriety on myself, nor do I apologize for it,'' Mr. Carter told the Senate investigators earlier. ''I refused to conform to an image that a lot of people thought a President's brother should adopt. I considered myself to be a private individual who had not been elected to public office and resented the attention of different Government agencies that I began to hear from almost as soon as Jimmy was sworn in.''
        He also felt compelled that day to declare that he was not ''a buffoon, a boob or a wacko,'' Those were some of the terms about him that appeared in the press, which, depending on the occasion, he both courted and denounced.
        His more conventional business ventures were mostly unsuccessful, including the short-lived Billy Beer that he had no hand in brewing but that he promoted with gusto. He also had no success in operating the family peanut warehouse and farm.
        These businesses could not be managed properly while in a blind trust, Mr. Carter later maintained, and the town was so besieged by tourists that ''it became impossible to carry on normal business in the office.'' Business and Tax Troubles
        Without the job at the warehouse, Mr. Carter had nothing to do ''except drink beer and go around making a fool of himself,'' a friend said. By March 1979 he was persuaded to enter treatment for alcohol abuse at the Long Beach Naval Hospital in California.
        In 1981, financially beleaguered, Mr. Carter was forced to sell much of his Plains property, including the gas station at which he once played the clown prince on a throne of beer cases. The money went to pay off $70,000 in Federal tax arrears and about $30,000 due to local bankers who had threatened to foreclose on his home.
        The tax agency charged that Mr. Carter had not properly reported his income from speaking engagements and personal appearances, which reportedly brought him more than $100,000 a year. The agency refused to accept his complaint that his records had been seized for use in various Federal investigations and were therefore unavailable to him. 'Nothing Embarrasses Me'
        Also up for auction was the frame house where he and his wife, Sybil, reared five of their six children and a field in which Mr. Carter, sporting a T-shirt proclaiming ''Redneck Power,'' once played in softball games with the President, the Secret Service and the White House press corps.
        ''They tried to make an example of me, to embarrass me,'' he said of his tax pursuers. ''But nothing embarrasses me.'' Mr. Carter had previously repaid $1,000 of the Libyan loan, the balance of which is believed to have gone unsatisfied.
        After the auction, Mr. Carter moved from Plains to Haleyville, Ala., about 110 miles away, where he took a job as a public relations and sales representative for Tidwell Industries, a manufacturer and refurbisher of mobile homes and an outfitter of private airplanes.
        But more notoriety was to come. In 1985, Mr. Carter, then vice president of Scott Housing Systems Inc., of Waycross, Ga., entered a guilty plea on behalf of the company in connection with charges that it participated in ''invoice padding'' by manufacturers. The company was fined $10,000 and ordered to make restitution to the Veterans Administration, but Mr. Carter said the practice was common in the industry. ''I don't think it's fair to call it a kickback,'' he asserted.
        Mr. Carter, whose full name was William Alton Carter 3d, was born in Plains on March 29, 1937 and, except for a stint in the Marine Corps, lived there until April 1977, when he moved about 20 miles to Buena Vista to escape the crowds that had begun engulfing his hometown.
        Mr. Carter was well-informed, a reader and had a more supple and sophisticated intellect than he usually showed in his public role. His mother, Lillian, said he was ''the smartest'' of her seven children.
        He cared little for convention. One morning in 1976 he was driving his pickup truck through Plains when he spotted Jimmy Carter walking with Senator John Glenn of Ohio, a possible Vice-Presidential choice who was in town for an interview with the Democratic nominee. As the nominee introduced the Senator to Billy Carter, the younger brother reached into the car seat, chose a can of beer and popped the cap. Jimmy Carter seemed to shudder.
        Asked later if Billy embarrassed him, Jimmy Carter said quietly, ''I love him.'' Despite his irreverent attitude, the younger brother certainly seemed to reciprocate the sentiment.
        Billy, who was a dozen years younger than Jimmy, once said, ''I love my brother, I love my country, and I am my own man.'' President Rejects Advice
        Even when Billy had become a major political embarrassment, on one occasion for derogatory comments about Jews, the President rejected the advice of many on his White House staff that he distance himself from his unruly brother. There was ''intense'' personal loyalty, even though the two were ''just leagues apart'' in abilities and interests, said Stuart E. Eizenstat, a senior adviser to the President.
        Billy Carter, who often drank beer for breakfast, frequently joked about his reputation for enjoying alcoholic beverages and about his offbeat personality. With a sister who was a faith healer and a brother who thought he could become President, Billy once observed, he must be the only ''sane'' member of the family.
        Mr. Carter's sister, Ruth Carter Stapleton, and his father, James Earl Carter, both died of pancreatic cancer and the disease also contributed to the death of his mother in 1983.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by four daughters, Kim Fuller and Jana and Mandy Carter, all of Plains, and Marle Usry of Charlotte, N.C.; two sons, William 4th, of Franklin, Tenn., and Earl, of Plains; a sister, Gloria Carter Spann of Plains, and four grandchildren.
        Mr. Carter will be buried at Plains Lebanon Cemetery, where a graveside service will be held today at 4 P.M.
      