
        Stewart Richardson, a former top editor at Doubleday and other publishing houses, died yesterday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was a lung infection, said his wife, Sally Richardson.
        Mr. Richardson was the executive editor and later editor in chief of Doubleday during the 1960's and 70's and later led several other publishing ventures, including Richardson & Snyder, Richardson & Steirman and Birch Lane.
        Among the authors he edited were Wallace Stegner, whose 1971 novel ''Angle of Repose'' won the Pulitzer Prize; Rose Fitzgerald Kennedy, whose memoir, ''Times to Remember,'' was published in 1974; Robert F. Kennedy; Edward M. Kennedy; Patricia Kennedy Lawford; John Updike; James Dickey; and William Goldman.
        For her book, published by Doubleday, Mrs. Kennedy was paid $1.525 million in 1971, then one of the largest sums ever offered for a memoir. The income from ''Times to Remember'' was donated to the Joseph P. Kennedy Jr. Foundation for the Mentally Retarded.
        He also edited ''Exploration and Empire: The Explorer and the Scientist in the Winning of the American West'' by William H. Goetzmann, a professor at Yale; it won the Pulitzer for history in 1967.
        Mr. Richardson had a longstanding interest in Russia, and in 1970 he negotiated an agreement for Doubleday with the Soviet Union in which the Russians for the first time recognized the copyright of an American publisher.
        In 1985, Mr. Richardson added to his list of authors Mikhail S. Gorbachev, who was then the leader of the Soviet Union. His book, ''A Time for Peace,'' published by Richardson & Steirman, was a collection of speeches and statements with some new material by Mr. Gorbachev.
        Richardson & Snyder, a short-lived house created as a joint venture between Mr. Richardson and Julian M. Snyder, became embroiled in a controversy over one of its books, ''God's Broker,'' published in 1984, which seemed to be the life of Pope John Paul II as told in his own words and those of his friends.
        The author, Antoni Gronowicz, claimed to have conducted 200 hours of interviews with the pope, though the Vatican denied that the pope had spoken to the author at all. The book was withdrawn shortly after its publication and the company was dissolved.
        In addition to his wife, who is the president and publisher of St. Martin's Press, he is survived by a son, Scott, of Manassas, Va.; a daughter, Wendy Chevillard, of Paris; a brother, Allen, of Floyd, Va.; and four grandchildren.
      