
        Ruben Gomez, a leading pitcher for the New York and San Francisco Giants in the 1950's and one of the first prominent major leaguers from Puerto Rico, died Monday at his home in San Juan. He was 77.
        The cause was complications of a kidney ailment, the Giants said.
        Gomez, a right-hander with an outstanding screwball, helped propel the New York Giants to the 1954 National League pennant with a 17-9 record. He started and won Game 3 of the World Series as the Giants swept the Cleveland Indians.
        Gomez joined the Giants in 1953, winning 13 games at a time when Puerto Rican natives had made little impact on major league baseball. Hiram Bithorn won 18 games for the Chicago Cubs and outfielder Luis Olmo hit .313 for the Brooklyn Dodgers in the World War II years, but Roberto Clemente, the future Hall of Fame outfielder, was two seasons away from his debut with the Pittsburgh Pirates when Gomez became a Giant.
        When Gomez arrived at the San Juan airport after the 1954 World Series, he was greeted by 5,000 fans waiting in the rain. He was honored with a public holiday by the governor, Luis Muñoz Marin.
        ''He was the guy in Puerto Rico, he was everybody's idol,'' Orlando Cepeda, the Hall of Fame first baseman and Gomez's teammate on the 1958 San Francisco Giants, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
        Cepeda, who knew Gomez from boyhood, recalled seeing him pitch in the World Series on television. ''In high school in Puerto Rico, they let everyone out of school so they could watch the game,'' he said.
        Gomez won 15 games for the Giants in 1957, their last year in the Polo Grounds. On April 15, 1958, he became the winning pitcher in the first major league game played on the West Coast, shutting out the Los Angeles Dodgers, 8-0, at San Francisco's Seals Stadium.
        Gomez was also remembered for a couple of flare-ups.
        In September 1953, Gomez hit the Brooklyn Dodgers' Carl Furillo on the wrist at the Polo Grounds. Furillo charged toward the Giants' dugout, venting his anger at Giants Manager Leo Durocher, and sustained a broken hand in a melee. In July 1956, Gomez hit Braves first baseman Joe Adcock on the wrist at Milwaukee's County Stadium. When Adcock, 6 feet 4 inches and 220 pounds, charged at Gomez, a 6-foot, 175-pounder, Gomez threw the baseball at Adcock, hitting him in the thigh, then ran into the Giants' dugout with Adcock in pursuit.
        Gomez, a native of Arroyo, P.R., also pitched for the Phillies, the Indians and the Twins and had a career record of 76-86 in 10 seasons.
        He is survived by his wife, Maria, two sons and a daughter.
        Juan Marichal, the Giants' Hall of Fame pitcher from the Dominican Republic, was inspired by Gomez while Marichal was a minor leaguer. ''I would see Orlando Cepeda, Felipe Alou and Ruben Gomez on television,'' Marichal once told The Associated Press. ''I started learning what the major leagues were all about and I hoped that one day I could be one of them.''
      