
        Richard A. Bloch, a co-founder of H&R Block and a champion of cancer patients, died early yesterday at his home in Kansas City, Mo. He was 78.
        The cause was heart failure, said Linda McDougall, an H&R Block spokeswoman.
        Mr. Bloch used his keen eye for business to build a family-owned bookkeeping company with 12 employees into America's largest preparer of tax returns. The expansion started in the mid-1950's, when with his brother, Henry, Mr. Bloch began advertising in a local newspaper to promote their company's tax preparation services.
        The response was overwhelming, and in 1955 the brothers renamed their company H&R Block Inc., using their initials and an easy-to-pronounce spelling of their last name. They focused exclusively on tax preparation. Demand for the brothers' services soared as the Internal Revenue Service scaled back tax preparation services, Ms. McDougall said.
        A year later, they opened seven offices in New York, and the company went public in 1962. By 1978, H&R Block offices prepared more than one of every nine tax returns filed in the United States, according to the company's Web site. Today, H&R Block has clients in 11 countries, including Canada, Australia and Britain.
        Richard Adolf Bloch was born in Kansas City on Feb. 15, 1926, the third son of a prominent lawyer. He graduated from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania and soon afterward brought his accounting skills to the family bookkeeping business.
        In 1978, doctors diagnosed lung cancer in Mr. Bloch, and he was told it was fatal. He fought the disease for two years and survived. Just two years later, he pulled through colon cancer. While sick, he promised to help fight for cancer patients, a pledge that he kept to the end of his life.
        Mr. Bloch started a free cancer hot line in 1980 that helped cancer patients find treatment. He began the R.A. Bloch Cancer Foundation, which manages the hot line, and established a National Cancer Survivor Day, which is held on the first Sunday of June to increase awareness about the disease.
        In 1990, Mr. Bloch dedicated a park to cancer survivors in Kansas City. Since then, about 20 parks have been dedicated to survivors. Mr. Bloch is survived by his wife, Annette, and three daughters, Linda Lyon, of Kansas City, Mo.; Barbara Stanny, of Port Townsend, Wash.; and Nancy Linsley, of Corona Del Mar, Calif.; and two brothers, Henry and Leon, both of Kansas City, Mo.
      