
        Irvin Morton, a marketing executive who helped bring celebrity star power to corporate conventions and promotional events, died on Monday at his home in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 94.
        His death was announced by his company, Jack Morton Worldwide. Mr. Morton acquired the nickname Jack as a teenager.
        He founded the company three years after graduating from George Washington University in 1936. It has since become an international marketing agency that runs events as big as the opening and closing ceremonies for this year's summer Olympics in Athens.
        Irvin Leonidas Morton Jr. was born June 6, 1910, in Newport, N.C.
        He started in the entertainment industry as a teenager by managing a movie theater and went on during college to book big bands.
        Jack Morton Productions, as the company was then named, was among the first to book celebrity entertainers for corporate and association meetings.
        The business thrived after World War II, as corporate executives redesigned their conventions to attract and entertain customers and employees, not just to do business. He arranged for stars like George Burns, Bob Hope and Lawrence Welk to appear at meetings of companies like General Motors, Johnson & Johnson and Xerox.
        Starting in the 1950's, his company, which became Jack Morton Worldwide in 2000, expanded to produce entire conventions as well as promotional events, or ''experiential marketing,'' like the Sports Illustrated 50th Anniversary Tour, which visited 50 states with music and appearances by athletes.
        Mr. Morton turned over daily leadership to his son, William I. Morton, in 1977. The Interpublic Group of Companies, one of the world's largest owners of advertising and marketing agencies, acquired the Morton company in 1998. Its current clients include Microsoft and Sports Illustrated.
        After retirement, Mr. Morton established an endowment at George Washington University to pay for the Media and Public Affairs Building, which opened in 2001; the CNN program ''Crossfire'' now originates in its Jack Morton Auditorium.
        Mr. Morton moved to Vero Beach in 2001 after more than 70 years in Washington.
        In addition to his son, of Greenwich, Conn., and Hobe Sound, Fla., he is survived by his wife, Anne; two daughters, Mary Louise Morton Seilheimer, of Orange, Va., and Diane Morton Fentress, of Washington and Dark Harbor, Me.; eight grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      