
        David Blow, a British biophysicist who helped develop X-ray crystallography, a technique used to unravel the molecular structures of animal and human proteins, died June 8 at his home in Appledore, England. He was 72.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his early collaborator, Dr. Michael Rossmann, of Purdue University.
        Beginning in the 1950's, Dr. Blow joined a group of scientists at Cambridge University to investigate the roots of biological life and define the basic structures of proteins. Working with Dr. Max Perutz and others, Dr. Blow helped devise a method with which X-rays could be passed through a crystallized sample of a given protein.
        The resulting waves were recorded and measured, providing a key to the composition of the molecules.
        In 1962, Dr. Perutz and Dr. John Kendrew received the Nobel Prize in chemistry for their work in describing the structures of hemoglobin and myoglobin, proteins that bind and carry oxygen through the bloodstream.
        Dr. Blow later applied X-ray crystallography to study chymotrypsin, a digestive enzyme.
        Crystallography has applications in the pharmaceutical industry, particularly in the search for antigens to the virus that causes AIDS, said Dr. Roger Burnett, a biophysicist with the Wistar Institute in Philadelphia.
        David Mervyn Blow was born in Birmingham on June 27, 1931. He earned degrees from Cambridge before spending two years at M.I.T. and the National Institutes of Health.
        In 1959, he returned to Cambridge, eventually to become a fellow of Trinity College from 1969 to 1977. He became professor of biophysics at Imperial College, London, in 1977. He was dean of the Royal College of Science from 1981 to 1984.
        Dr. Blow was a fellow of the Royal Society and a founder and former president of the British Crystallographic Association.
        He was awarded the Charles-Léopold Meyer prize by the French Academy in 1979 and a Wolf Foundation prize in 1987. He also wrote a book, ''An Outline of Crystallography for Biologists.''
        He is survived by his wife, Mavis, and their son and daughter.
      