
        Elie Abel, a former foreign and domestic correspondent at both The New York Times and NBC News who drew on those experiences as dean of the Graduate School of Journalism at Columbia University in the 1970's, died on Thursday at a hospice in Rockville, Md. He was 83.
        The cause was pneumonia, said his son, Mark, but Mr. Abel had been in declining health since 1998, when he had a severe stroke. He also had Alzheimer's disease.
        In nearly a quarter of a century as a working journalist, Mr. Abel saw a great deal of the country and the world. In one of his earliest newspaper jobs, he spent two years in Berlin in the late 1940's as a foreign correspondent for the North American Newspaper Alliance, covering the Nuremberg war-crimes trials and the early attempts to govern postwar Germany.
        In 1949, he joined The Times, which sent him initially to Detroit and Washington, before appointing him bureau chief in Belgrade (1956 to 1959) and New Delhi (1958-1959.) He left The Times in 1959 to spend two years at The Detroit News, as its Washington bureau chief, before beginning a six-year career at NBC that included tours as State Department correspondent, London bureau chief and chief diplomatic correspondent.
        In December 1969, Mr. Abel was named dean of the journalism school of Columbia, from which he had graduated with a masters degree 27 years earlier.
        ''If you had asked me a year ago if I had any interest in this job, I would probably have said you were out of your mind,'' Mr. Abel was quoted as telling The Times, in a profile announcing his appointment. ''I decided I had done my share of running around the world and in more recent years of running to airports with microphones in my hand.''
        In a decade as dean, Mr. Abel was credited with many innovations, including the creation, in the mid-1970's, of a program in economics and business reporting for midcareer professionals. The program is now known as the Knight-Bagheot Fellowship. He was also the first dean to place a woman in a tenure track position on the faculty of the journalism school, according to ''Pulitzer's School: Columbia University's School of Journalism, 1903-2003,'' by James Boylan. She is Phyllis T. Garland, a former editor and writer at The Pittsburgh Courier and Essence magazine who was hired at Columbia in 1973 and who retired last month.
        ''We totally respected him,'' Ms. Garland said in an interview yesterday. ''He was a complete journalist. And he put himself on the line when necessary. He was also one of the best-looking men I've ever seen. Tall, dark and handsome.''
        Elie Abel was born in Montreal on Oct. 17, 1920. After graduating from McGill University in 1941 with a bachelor of arts degree, Mr. Abel earned his masters in science at Columbia a year later, but was forced to accept his degree in absentia because he was called to serve in the Royal Canadian Air Force, according to the profile in The Times. Stationed primarily in Scotland, he served as a radar officer and later as a combat correspondent. A day after his discharge, in 1945, he joined the staff of The Montreal Gazette.
        Mr. Abel's first wife, the former Corinne Adelaide Prevost, died in 1991 after 45 years of marriage. In addition to his son, of Richmond, Calif., he is survived by his second wife, the former Charlotte Hammond Page Dunn, whom he married in 1995; a daughter, Suzanne, of Palo Alto, Calif.; and a granddaughter.
        Mr. Abel was the author or co-author of six books, including ''The Missile Crisis'' (Lippincott, 1966) and, with W. Averell Harriman, ''Special Envoy to Churchill and Stalin, 1941-1946'' (Random House, 1975).
        When he was interviewed by The Times in 1969 at the time of his Columbia appointment, Mr. Abel recalled a pivotal encounter, at the age of 12 or 13, with a ''dashing fellow'' who happened to be driving a flashy convertible.
        ''How did you manage all this?'' Mr. Abel recalled asking.
        ''I'm a reporter,'' the man replied.
        The author of The Times profile, Lawrence Van Gelder, then observed, 'Mr. Abel's course in life was likely charted right then and there.''
        Correction:  July 29, 2004, Thursday  An obituary on Saturday about Elie Abel, a former news correspondent and later dean of the Graduate School of Journalism at Columbia, misidentified the former employer of Phyllis T. Garland, a professor whom he hired as the first woman on the tenure track. She had been a writer and editor at Ebony magazine, not Essence.
      