
        Carlos Kleiber, a gifted Austrian conductor whose reclusiveness made him legendary, died last Tuesday at 74 after a long illness, a family member told The Associated Press.
        According to the Slovenian news agency S.T.A., The Associated Press reported, he was buried on Saturday in Konjsica in the Zasavje region of eastern Slovenia, next to his wife, a Slovenian, who died in December.
        Unlike some conductors, Mr. Kleiber was equally convincing in concert works and opera. A fabled perfectionist, he demanded long hours of rehearsal as his reputation grew and allowed him to obtain such concessions. But he made all that work pay off in performances that blended exactitude with impassioned spontaneity.
        On hearing of his death, Heinz Fischer, the president of Austria, wrote in a statement that Mr. Kleiber was ''one of the most important conductors of the 20th century,'' and paid special tribute to his still-famous appearances conducting the Vienna Philharmonic in the traditional Viennese New Year's Concert.
        Ioan Holender, the director of the Vienna State Opera, said that ''the greatest living conductor has left us.''
        Yet his greatness did not neatly reflect any conventional national school of conducting. Mr. Kleiber hardly fit the mold of the German Kapellmeister producing performances of solid, idiomatic competence. A sure master of the core Germanic repertory, he had an arresting streak that served non-German music well, too. Paradoxically, his performances, full of unmannered but sophisticated attention to detail, seemed honest expressions of the composer's intent but were still suffused with interpretive individuality.
        Much of Mr. Kleiber's musical personality can perhaps be traced to his unusual upbringing. The author Thomas Mann hoped to leaven Germanic sobriety with Latin passion, naming one character Tonio Kröger and a son Golo Mann. A similar juxtaposition existed in the names Carlos and Kleiber.
        Mr. Kleiber's father was the noted Austrian conductor Erich Kleiber, who was music director of the Berlin State Opera from 1925 to 1934. While in Berlin, in 1925, Erich Kleiber conducted the world premiere of Berg's opera ''Wozzeck,'' which later became one of his son's specialties.
        Erich Kleiber and his family emigrated to Buenos Aires in 1935. He was not Jewish, but opposed Hitler on political and moral grounds and, as a modernist, was inimical to the Nazis.
        The young Kleiber began his music studies in 1950 and made his debut as a conductor in La Plata, Argentina, in 1952. After the family's return to Germany, and a stint of studying chemistry in Zurich at his father's insistence, Carlos Kleiber began his climb up the German musical ladder, with positions in Munich, Potsdam, the Deutsche Oper am Rhein in Düsseldorf, and Duisburg, Zurich and Stuttgart. From 1968 he appeared regularly at the Bavarian State Opera in Munich, his musical base until 1988 and his residence until his death. He led Wagner's ''Tristan und Isolde'' at the Bayreuth Festival from 1974 to 1976, and appeared regularly at the Vienna State Opera, the Royal Opera in London and La Scala in Milan.
        Mr. Kleiber made his North American debut at the San Francisco Opera in 1977, but did not appear at the Metropolitan Opera in New York until 1988, conducting Puccini's ''Bohème.'' Donal Henahan, reviewing that debut for The New York Times, wrote that ''his fluid, highly detailed conducting style put one in mind of Herbert von Karajan at times,''and that it ''was a Puccini performance, in the pit and on the stage, that kept the listener enthralled.''
        Mr. Kleiber appeared sparingly with symphony orchestras, but his concert appearances were events. He did not make his Berlin Philharmonic debut until 1982, but periodically conducted it, the Concertgebouw in Amsterdam and the Vienna Philharmonic.
        By the 1970's Mr. Kleiber's repertory had shrunk to a few works in which he specialized. Among operas he conducted ''Tristan,'' ''La Bohème,'' Bizet's ''Carmen,'' Strauss's ''Elektra'' and ''Der Rosenkavalier'' and Verdi's ''Traviata'' and ''Otello.'' His symphonic repertory included the Fourth, Fifth, Sixth and Seventh Symphonies of Beethoven, the Second and Fourth of Brahms, the 94th of Haydn and the 33rd and 36th of Mozart. He did them so well that it made his admirers regret all the more that he did not take on a wider range of music.
        His recorded legacy is similarly limited, not counting a wide variety of pirated live performances that flicker on and off the market, often duplicating music he also recorded officially. On major labels his recordings include ''Tristan,'' ''La Traviata,'' Weber's ''Freischütz'' and Johann Strauss Jr.'s ''Fledermaus''; several of his core-repertory symphonies; and the 1989 and 1992 Vienna New Year's Concerts. There are also several DVD's of Mr. Kleiber conducting concerts and operas.
        In his later years, he refused any formal connection to musical institutions. After a string of cancellations, he became an almost total recluse in the last decade of his life, at least insofar as interviews and public appearances were concerned. As such he was like a conductorial equivalent of Rossini and Sibelius, both of whom stopped composing long before their deaths. Karajan once joked that Mr. Kleiber conducted only when his freezer was empty.
        Mr. Kleiber was always something of an eccentric. Twice in the last three years he was falsely reported to have died. Martin Engstroem, senior executive producer at Mr. Kleiber's record label, Deutsche Grammophon, said last night that he had received an e-mail message from the conductor just last week giving no sign of serious illness, but added that Mr. Kleiber had been sad and lonely since his wife's death.
        Mr. Kleiber is survived by a son, Marko, and a daughter, Lillian, both of Munich; and a sister, Veronica, of Milan.
        Correction:  July 21, 2004, Wednesday  The obituary of the Austrian conductor Carlos Kleiber yesterday misstated the year of his American debut and the group with which he performed. It was in 1978 with the Chicago Symphony, not 1977 with the San Francisco Opera.
      