
        Frances Hansen, a self-described housewife who marshaled imagination -- surely not malice -- to make crossword puzzles she constructed more puzzling by using her own poems as clues, died on Friday at a hospital in Perth Amboy, N.J. She was 85.
        The cause was complications of a stroke, Betty Lee Solley, her niece, said.
        The New York Times published 82 of Mrs. Hansen's puzzles, with the 83rd scheduled for the Christmas issue of the paper's Sunday magazine. She had written every Christmas puzzle since 1995 and had become the second most prolific living writer of Sunday puzzles and the fourth most published of all time.
        The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times and book publishers like Dell, Random House and Simon & Schuster also printed puzzles she constructed.
        Will Shortz, The New York Times crossword puzzle editor, said Mrs. Hansen ''caused a sensation'' with her first puzzle in the paper in December 1964. The puzzle was built around Lewis Carroll's 1872 book, ''Through the Looking-Glass and What Alice Found There,'' and required potential solvers to think backward.
        The clue was ''a well-known part of ykcowrebbaj, and the answer was ''ebarge out shtar emom eht dna.'' (Lewis's penchant for making up words like Jabberwocky didn't make it any easier.)
        Her original limericks became her best-known trademark. Margaret Farrar, a former editor of The New York Times puzzles, at first questioned the originality of the poems because they were so good. Mrs. Hansen assuaged the editor's doubt by sending her clippings of little poems she had had printed in Good Housekeeping and other magazines.
        One of Mr. Shortz's favorites goes like this:
        Said W. Somerset Maugham
        I shall visit the island of Guam.
        If I find it is hot,
        I shall leave on the spot.
        I detest feeling overly waugham.
        Frances Mabel Tucker was born on June 21, 1919, in Arlington, N.J., and lived in Metuchen since her childhood. She never attended college nor took any special courses. Her husband, Ernest R. Hansen, a bank president, died in 1983.
        She is survived by her sons, Warren, of Forest Hills, Queens, and John, of Germantown, Tenn., and two granddaughters.
        Helene Hovanec, the author of a book on crossword puzzle constructors called ''Creative Cruciverbalists'' (Morrow, 1988), said that Mrs. Hansen taught Sunday school for 12 years and noticed, when she quit, that her friends were addicted to the Sunday puzzle.
        Mrs. Hansen followed suit and soon hit upon the unlikely idea that constructing puzzles might be easier than doing them because you knew all the answers. She was disabused of this notion when The Times summarily rejected her first puzzle for mistakes common to novice puzzle constructors: using two-letter words and having a very high word count.
        Eight months later, her next one was accepted. Mr. Shortz said she went on to perfect her specialty within the rigor of The Times's 21 by 21 squares. Part of the challenge is to keep the black squares symmetrical, a tradition started by Mrs. Farrar because she thought they looked pretty that way.
        ''She usually writes an original verse with five lines and each line is exactly 21 letters,'' Mr. Shortz said. ''Perfect rhyme and perfect meter, and it's funny besides.''
        Mrs. Hansen was a leader of a group of cruciverbalists who regularly talk shop at a Manhattan restaurant and that has included the last four Times crossword puzzle editors. She organized their last meeting, last month.
        In 1987, Mrs. Hansen told The Washington Post that puzzles came to her in her sleep. She said they were left by the ''idea fairy.''
        Correction:  July 16, 2004, Friday  An obituary yesterday about Frances Hansen, a constructor of crossword puzzles, misstated part of the solution to a 1964 puzzle she designed around Lewis Carroll's book ''Through the Looking-Glass.'' The clue, rendered in reverse, was ''well-known part of 'Ykcowrebbaj'' (Jabberwocky). The answer, also rendered in reverse, was ''ebargtuo shtar emom eht dna'' (and the mome raths outgrabe), not ''ebarge out shtar emom eht dna.''
      