
        C.J. Hart, who had the idea of charging hot rodders a buck and spectators 50 cents -- a quarter more if they wanted to watch mechanics work -- thereby spawning the United States' first commercial drag strip, died on June 25 at the home of his son Gerald in Placentia, Calif. He was 93.
        The cause was complications from a stroke, Gerald Hart said.
        Mr. Hart, whose Midwestern youth included scorching car races on deserted roads, found himself in Southern California after World War II, just as drag racing was becoming a somewhat organized sport on dry lake beds. His novel contribution, with the help of two partners, was to charge admission to watch or participate in races on a runway at the Orange County Airport (now John Wayne Airport) in Santa Ana, Calif.
        The National Hot Rod Association, as well as the Encyclopedia Britannica, say that the first race there, on June 19, 1950, is considered the first commercial competition in a sport in which billions of dollars are now spent as 35,000 licensed competitors race on at least 140 tracks. Fortune 500 companies now back drag racing, and a poll last year by ESPN, the sports cable-television network, showed that the popularity of drag racing trailed only Nascar among motor sports.
        Today's cars can reach more than 330 miles an hour in less than five seconds over a quarter-mile.
        ''There's been drag racing since cars were invented,'' Mr. Hart, who was known as Pappy, said in an interview with National Dragster in 2001, ''but I guess they say I invented drag racing because I was the first one to have a commercial strip.''
        He added that he wanted to get people to stop endangering themselves by racing on the streets, a comment seemingly at odds with his widely reported arrest at the age of 87 for driving 85 in a 55-mile-an-hour zone.
        Cloyce Roller Hart was born in Findlay, Ohio, on April 29, 1911. His mother died within days of his birth, and his father gave him to neighbors to rear. He ran away at 13 to travel with the circus as a roustabout. He began calling himself Joe to disguise his identity, his son said, which gave rise to the name C..J.
        At 18, Mr. Hart found out his real identity when the police checked his records after arresting him for something having to do with a still for making moonshine. He met his two brothers and his father, the latter meeting lacking a certain cordiality, according to family legend.
        Mr. Hart formed a crush on Margaret Riley, who passed the gas station where he worked on her way home from high school. They were married in 1934, the year Mr. Hart bought his first car, a Ford V-8. She would become famous by her nickname, Peggy, as one of the fastest drag racers in California.
        In 1941, Mr. Hart tried to join the Navy but was rejected because his lungs had been damaged as a boy when a wagon ran over his upper body. He went to work for Ford making engines, cementing a love for Fords that had begun on dusty Ohio back roads. After a short stay in Arizona, Mr. Hart moved his family to Santa Ana in 1944. He first worked in a Ford dealership, then opened a gas station. He became known for hopping up little Fords with flathead engines so the police could not catch them.
        Drag racing started organizing in 1937 when Wally Parks founded the Road Runners Club, then became a bit more organized in 1947 when Mr. Parks started the Southern California Timing Association to add rigor to the routine.
        Mr. Hart and other speed merchants were in the habit of ''dragging it out'' on streets like Golden West Avenue in Huntington Beach. He raced a 1932 Ford roadster with a Cadillac engine that he contended had reached a top speed of at 156 miles an hour on a lake bed in the Mojave Desert.
        He and two friends were inspired to ask for permission to use the Orange County Airport runway after marines chased them from an abandoned Navy airfield. The airport officials agreed to let them rent the runway on Sundays for 10 percent of the gate.
        Creighton Hunter, who delivered oil and spark plugs for a living, and Frank Stillwell, a motorcycle racer, joined Mr. Hart, who owned a garage and used-car lots, in the new business. Mr. Hunter sold his interest in the first month of operation. Mr. Hart bought out Mr. Stillwell several years later.
        The airport forced the closing of the strip in 1959, as construction gnawed away nearby bean fields. Mr. Hart went on to run other California drag strips, including Lions Drag Strip in Wilmington, which became legendary in racing circles.
        For 18 years, Mr. Hart, who lived in Elsinore, Calif., drove equipment from drag strip to drag strip, as well as acting as a safety officer for the hot-rod association. His son said he routinely drove his motor home 90 miles an hour.
        Mrs. Hart died in 1980. In addition to his son, Mr. Hart is survived by his daughter Joanie Hart, of Elsinore, 6 grandchildren and 13 great-grandchildren.
        Mr. Hart was inducted into the International Drag Racing Hall of Fame in 1991 and the Motorsports Hall of Fame of America in 1999.
        Last April, he appeared on a panel of hot-rod luminaries at the N.H.R.A. Motorsports Museum in Pomona, Calif. The moderator suggested that he must have been ''the brightest guy in the world to start the first drag strip.''
        Mr. Hart replied: ''That's right. I'm smart.''
        The moderator: ''If you're so smart, why aren't you driving a Rolls?''
        ''Because I'm a Ford man.''
      