
        Antonio Gades, whose pure style as a flamenco dancer and creative collaborations with the film director Carlos Saura made him an international star, died on Tuesday in Madrid. He was 67.
        Mr. Gades had been ill with cancer for several years. His death was announced by a spokesman for Gregorio Marañón hospital, according to The Associated Press and other news organizations.
        At the peak of his stage career in the 1960's and 70's, Mr. Gades became Spain's best-known dancer, on the way to rivaling the flamenco legends of the past. He shot to fame in 1964 when he created a sensation with his company at the Spanish Pavilion of the New York World's Fair.
        Yet eventually his career seemed to dissipate, paradoxically because his creative impulses as dancer, choreographer, film director and actor were so varied. He was also active politically, an outspoken admirer of Fidel Castro. On June 6, he was in Havana to receive the Order of José Martí, the Cuban government's highest decoration.
        Mr. Gades helped popularize flamenco, and he knew how to hold the stage alone. Tall, elegant and focused on the heelwork that is essential to male flamenco dancing, he drew the viewer into the formal power of his performance. His rhythms were complex, his carriage refined: abstraction was his style. The fireworks of flamenco's Gypsy dancers were foreign to him.
        Like many Spanish dancers with no Gypsy or Andalusian bloodlines to claim a traditional flamenco heritage, he saw its dance forms as part of theater.
        This exploration led him to choreograph the equivalent of ballets using a flamenco idiom. In 1981 he began experimenting on such narrative works with Mr. Sauro, one of Spain's leading film directors.
        After the international acclaim that greeted ''Blood Wedding,'' their first movie, they collaborated in 1983 on ''Carmen,'' an even bigger success as a dramatic film that drew a parallel between members of a dance company and the characters they depict in a flamenco-ballet version of ''Carmen.'' The trilogy was completed in 1986 by ''El Amor Brujo,'' based on Manuel de Falla's ballet score. Mr. Gades acted and danced in these films, which he choreographed.
        Mr. Gades was born Antonio Esteve Ródenas in Elda, part of Spain's southeastern province of Alicante. Inheriting his Communist sympathies from his father, a laborer wounded during the Spanish Civil War, Mr. Gades moved with his family to Madrid as a child. At 11 he left school to work in odd jobs but was encouraged by a friend of his mother to attend a dance school. Pilar Lopez, one of Spain's great dancers, recruited him into her company, with which he performed from 1952 to 1961.
        In the early 1960's Mr. Gades studied ballet in Rome and helped stage productions for Italian opera and ballet. A supporting role in ''Los Tarantos,'' a Spanish film inspired by ''El Amor Brujo,'' brought him to notice in 1963, when he founded the company he took to the World's Fair.
        In 1978 the government named him the first director of the new National Ballet of Spain, which he left in 1980 to form the Ballet Antonio Gades, which appeared in New York in 1985. In 1972 he had brought an earlier company to New York, and his choreography was also seen over the years with the National Ballet of Spain and Alicia Alonso's Ballet Nacional de Cuba. In 1978 Mr. Gades made a surprise appearance as a highly tormented Hilarion opposite Ms. Alonso's Giselle at the Metropolitan Opera House. In 1994 he choreographed his last major work, ''Fuenteovejuna,'' presented last year in London by the National Ballet of Spain.
        Mr. Gades is survived by his wife, Eugenia Eriz, and five children.
      