
        Ron Milner, a playwright who translated the workaday rhythms and jazz riffs of his native Detroit into portraits of the struggles and triumphs of urban African-Americans, died on Friday at a hospital near his home. He was 66.
        The cause was complications from liver cancer, said his son Raymarc.
        In 1974 Mr. Milner's ''What the Wine-Sellers Buy'' became the first play by an African-American to be produced by Joseph Papp at the New York Shakespeare Festival at Lincoln Center. Set in 1950's and 60's Detroit, the play confronts the pimp mentality and profit code of mainstream society.
        ''It is an interesting play and deserves a wider circulation,'' Clives Barnes wrote in The New York Times. ''Mr. Milner's picture of the Detroit ghetto has that special authority that infallibly suggests authenticity, and his story of a black kid finally resisting the temptation to become a pimp is satisfyingly moral.''
        Mr. Milner, who grew up in Detroit's Black Bottom, was 19 and immersed in writing a long novel, ''The Life of the Brothers Brown,'' when he met Woodie King Jr., 20, a fellow messenger at the Detroit Welfare Department who wanted to become a playwright.
        Mr. King persuaded his friend to write a 25-minute play, ''Life Agony,'' which they presented at a small coffeehouse. Mr. Milner thrilled to the immediacy of response from both actors and audience.
        After viewing a touring production of Lorraine Hansberry's ''Raisin in the Sun,'' Mr. Milner's destiny was sealed. He began to present his works at Concepts East Theater, founded in 1959 by Mr. King, which as a key component of the Black Arts Movement pioneered by the thinking of Malcolm X and Mary Baraka, produced such notable writers as Ed Bullins, Ben Caldwell, Amiri Baraka and J.E. Franklin.
        The collaboration between the men continued for 44 years, during which both moved to New York -- Mr. King becoming production director of the New Federal Theater at the Henry Street Settlement, and Mr. Milner breaking into the Off Broadway scene in 1966 with ''Who's Got His Own,'' a furious fever-pitch drama inspired by Billie Holiday's song ''God Bless the Child.'' It was directed by Lloyd Richards, who also staged ''Raisin,'' at the American Place Theater.
        In 1988 Mr. Milner's play ''Checkmates'' was presented, with Paul Winfield, Ruby Dee and Denzel Washington in the lead roles.
        In addition to his son Raymarc, of Omaha, Mr. Milner is survived by two other sons, Gabrey, of Los Angeles, and Maher, of Germantown, Md.; two daughters, Rhonda and Iman, of Detroit; and eight grandchildren.
        Correction:  July 21, 2004, Wednesday  An obituary on Saturday about Ron Milner, a playwright who focused on the struggles of African-Americans, used an incorrect given name at one point for a writer whose ideas were central to the Black Arts movement. The writer was Amiri Baraka, not Mary.
      