
        Van Deren Coke, a curator, teacher, author and photographer with an eye for the experimental and surreal, died on July 11 at a hospital in Albuquerque. He was 83 and lived in Santa Fe, N.M.
        His death was announced by his family.
        Starting in the mid-1950's Mr. Coke's work was featured almost every year at individual and group exhibitions around the world.
        His early work in particular was in the purist tradition of mentors like Ansel Adams and Edward Weston. He photographed simple subjects like boat prows, doorways or nude figures with an accent on abstract design, then printed them straight to bring out the full tonal range of the negative.
        In the 1960's he started working in a Surrealist style, using 19th-century negatives as one element of his pictures and manipulating his prints in the darkroom. The results were photographs with a strong sense of graphic design, often with some recognizable elements in them: spectral trees, hands, old photos.
        Concurrently, he established a reputation as a historian and teacher of art and photography at the University of New Mexico in Albuquerque in the 1960's and as a curator at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art.
        He was the founding director of the University of New Mexico Art Museum and donated more than 1,200 items of his own collection to it. These included rare prints from photography's infancy and prints by Walker Evans and Henri Cartier-Bresson.
        In connection with an exhibition he put together at the university's Museum Art Gallery, he wrote ''The Painter and the Photograph: From Delacroix to Warhol'' (University of New Mexico Press, 1964). A much cited monograph and catalog, it traced the history of painters' use of photographs.
        In 1979 he became director of the San Francisco Museum's department of photography and held the post until 1987. He organized seminal exhibitions and catalogs, like ''Avant-Garde Photography in Germany, 1919-1939,'' and, with Diana C. Du Pont, ''Photography: A Facet of Modernism.''
        Frank Van Deren Coke was born on July 4, 1921, in Lexington, Ky. He studied history and art history at the University of Kentucky and photography in New York with Nicholas Haz and the Clarence H. White School of Photography before entering the Navy in 1942.
        He served in intelligence and as a gunnery officer in the Atlantic and commanded a landing ship tank in the Pacific in the Okinawa campaign. He received a master's degree in art history and a master of fine arts in sculpture from Indiana University in 1958, and later worked toward a doctorate in art history at Harvard.
        A photographer since 1936, he had his first exhibition at the University of Kentucky in 1940 and studied with Ansel Adams in the early 1950's. He started his academic career as an assistant professor at the University of Florida in 1958 and advanced to associate professor at Arizona State University in 1961.
        A year later the University of New Mexico brought him to Albuquerque as professor of art, chairman of the department of art and director of the art museum. He remained there until 1979, with an intervening stint as deputy director and director of the International Museum of Photography at the George Eastman House in Rochester.
        Mr. Coke is survived by his wife of 21 years, Joan Gillberry Coke, and a daughter and son from an earlier marriage, Browning and Sterling Coke, both of Albuquerque. His first marriage, to Eleanor Barton Coke, ended in divorce.
      