
        Yoko Watanabe, a Japanese soprano who was renowned for the gracefulness and intensity of her portrayal of Cio-Cio-San, the tragic title character of Puccini's ''Madama Butterfly,'' died on July 15 at her home in Milan. She was 51.
        A Japan Opera Foundation official announced her death to The Associated Press but did not give a cause. Miss Watanabe learned she had cancer in 2000.
        Miss Watanabe was born in Fukuoka, Japan, in 1953 and early on, hoped to make a career as a dancer. She began studying Japanese dance when she was 3 and ballet when she was 6, but gave up dancing when her teachers said she was too tall and broad-shouldered for a professional career. She then took up the piano and became an accomplished player.
        Miss Watanabe gave recitals until she was 18, but she was already thinking about the opera stage. When she was 16, she attended a performance of ''Madama Butterfly'' that, she said later, changed her life.
        ''I knew immediately that I wanted to sing opera,'' she told The New York Times in 1988. ''When the performance was over, I went to the stage door and asked the soprano who sang Cio-Cio-San -- Kuniko Kozono -- to please teach me. And she did.''
        From there, Miss Watanabe continued her studies at the University of Japan in Tokyo. A competition victory in 1976 took her to La Scala in Milan, where she continued her studies. Miss Watanabe had won second prize in that Tokyo competition. The first-prize winner was Renato Grimaldi, an Italian tenor whom she married and who survives her.
        Another competition victory led to Miss Watanabe's professional debut, as Nedda in Leoncavallo's ''Pagliacci,'' in Treviso, Italy, in 1978. She made her La Scala debut in 1985 as Liù in Puccini's ''Turandot,'' and in her 20-year career she sang other major Puccini heroines as well as roles in works of Mozart, Verdi, Gounod and Bizet.
        But the portrayal for which she was best known was Cio-Cio-San, the geisha who marries an American naval officer and is abandoned by him. It was as Cio-Cio-San that she made her debuts with the Royal Opera in 1983, the Lyric Opera of Chicago in 1986, and the Metropolitan Opera in 1987.
        Reviewing her Met debut for The New York Times, Will Crutchfield described Miss Watanabe's tone as having ''more metal than cream in it'' but praised her ''heartfelt portrayal'' and the subtleties of her characterization. Part of her success, too, came from the way she balanced Western and Japanese acting styles.
        ''I am Japanese, and my figure is Japanese,'' she said, ''but the music is Italian, so I try not to do too much of what we would think of as Japanese theatrical movement. In Japanese theater, our movements are very small. We walk in small steps, we make small gestures. I don't believe those would really convey the character of Butterfly fully to the public. After all, this is a very dramatic opera.''
        Miss Watanabe collapsed during a performance in December 1999 and retired a month later when her doctors diagnosed her cancer.
      