
        Illinois Jacquet, the influential tenor-saxophone star who bridged swing and rhythm and blues and persevered as a big band leader into his early 80's, died yesterday at his home in Queens. He was 81.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his companion of 23 years, Carol Scherick.
        Only a handful of instrumental solos in jazz have inspired anyone beyond a small coterie of musicians and rabid fans to memorize them; one of them is ''Flying Home,'' a lusty, brick-throwing solo by the 19-year-old Mr. Jacquet (pronounced Ja-KETT, but often rendered as JACK-et by his friends). Recorded on the first take in 1942, with Lionel Hampton's orchestra, his 80-second solo on ''Flying Home'' was carefully structured, building its energy precipitously and cresting on a single note, repeated 12 times in a row. The tune became a national hit, and was demanded of Mr. Jacquet night after night. He left the band less than two years later, pleading physical exhaustion.
        ''Sometimes you have to quit to save your life,'' he said in an interview much later with Texas Monthly magazine. ''I looked in the mirror and said, 'You're dying, and Hampton is getting rich.'''
        His replacement in the Hampton band, Arnett Cobb, assumed his role, playing the solo note for note. The Texas-tenor style, big-toned and earthy, came out of that solo, with Cobb and Buddy Tate the primary descendants of Mr. Jacquet.
        ''Flying Home'' established Mr. Jacquet as a house-rocker, honking low notes and wailing in the highest, or altissimo, register; he climbed two and a half octaves above the tenor saxophone's normal range by using overtones. But this kind of playing represented only one part of his art.
        ''He was so much more than that,'' the saxophonist Benny Golson remembered in an interview yesterday. ''He started touring with Norman Granz and Jazz at the Philharmonic, and could assume the role of entertainer, rather than artist, screeching for two or three choruses. But he was a cutting-edge saxophone player. He knew that horn.''
        Mr. Jacquet's slow ballads, especially, argued his breadth; he revealed a mastery of harmony through a velvety tone.
        Jean Baptiste Illinois Jacquet was born in Broussard, La., to an American Indian mother and a French-Creole father. He entered show business at 3, singing and dancing with his three brothers. His father, Gilbert, a railroad mechanic, also led a big band after the family moved to Houston, and young Illinois danced in front of the band and also learned soprano and alto saxophone.
        When he was 15, he took his first regular job with the Milton Larkin Orchestra, playing around Houston, and word of his talent began to spread.
        Frustrated with segregation, he moved to Los Angeles with his brother Russell in 1940. He met Nat King Cole, who recommended him to Hampton, who in turn offered him a job filling the tenor-saxophone chair.
        Mr. Jacquet earned the nickname the Beast because of intemperate playing, but also because he tended not to suffer fools gladly. Though he remained a critic of his critics and a stern bandleader into old age, those who met him socially in later years found a much softer-tempered man. From 1947 to his death he lived in Queens, in the Addisleigh Park neighborhood, near the homes of Count Basie and Ella Fitzgerald.
        Besides Ms. Scherick, he is survived by a daughter, Pamela Jacquet Davis, of Scottsdale, Ariz., and a granddaughter.
        After the job with Hampton, Mr. Jacquet toured for a year with Cab Calloway's band and then with Count Basie; then he worked with Jazz at the Philharmonic, the touring jazz extravaganza produced by Granz. In 1944, at a famous Jazz at the Philharmonic concert, he recorded his second-most-famous solo, on the tune ''Blues (Part 2),'' an elaboration of the altissimo-register style. He led some small groups in the late 1940's, recording the hits ''Robbins' Nest'' and ''Port of Rico.''
        With the decline of big bands, Mr. Jacquet worked constantly in all kinds of formats, including a popular trio in the 1970's with the pianist Milt Buckner and the drummer Jo Jones. It was not until 1983, when he was artist in residence at Harvard, that he formed a big band, his first in 30 years, which included the veteran saxophonists Eddie Barefield and Marshal Royal.
        Mr. Jacquet's charisma and the slugging intensity of the music made converts: his band had sold-out engagements at the Village Vanguard in Manhattan, started touring Europe regularly, and made a series of new albums, including the Grammy-nominated ''Jacquet's Got It!'' originally released on Atlantic and recently rereleased on CD by Label M.
        Mr. Jacquet received an honorary doctorate of musical arts from the Juilliard School of Music on May 21. He played his final performance with his big band last Friday at Lincoln Center, in the last concert of the ''Midsummer Night Swing'' series, which he had closed for the last 16 years.
      