
        Bernard Grant, a soap opera star also well known for providing the English dubbed into foreign films, died on June 30 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications of lymphoma and pneumonia, said his wife, Joyce Gordon, also an actor.
        For two decades, Mr. Grant was a fixture of daytime dramas on television, most notably as the mellow Dr. Paul Fletcher in ''The Guiding Light'' for 13 years and as Steve Burke, a more brusque type, in ''One Life to Live'' during the 1970's.
        In an acting career that included radio, summer stock and Broadway, Mr. Grant got steady work speaking for stars in foreign films translated into English. He was the voice of Marcello Mastroianni, Yves Montand and Jean Gabin, among many others, and was the English-language heavy for all of Sergio Leone's spaghetti westerns.
        Mr. Grant also appeared on television shows including ''Maude,'' ''Barney Miller,'' ''Gimme a Break!,'' ''All in the Family'' and, most recently, ''Law & Order,'' as a judge.
        Mr. Grant was born in the Bronx on Oct. 10, 1920, and became involved in acting through church groups. He attended City College while acting for neighborhood theaters.
        He belonged to a comedy trio that performed at nightclubs, became a radio announcer at WPAT-AM in New York and studied acting at the American Theater Wing. He served for three years in the United States Army during World War II, entertaining troops and reaching the rank of staff sergeant.
        In 1947 he started appearing in radio dramas, sometimes as many as four a day. He often played two people in the same show, one with a high voice and one with a low voice.
        In the early 1950's he made the transition to television, appearing in shows like ''Kraft Theater'' and ''Omnibus.''
        Mr. Grant is survived by his wife; his son, Mark, of City Island, the Bronx; his daughter, Melissa Grant of Los Angeles; his sister, Ellen Feldman of Riverdale, the Bronx; and a grandson.
      