
        William H. Avery, an aeronautics researcher whose work led to new ways to propel missiles and aircraft and who helped develop a method of generating energy from the ocean, died June 26 at a retirement home in West Yarmouth, Mass. He was 91.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said his daughter, Patricia Bartlett.
        Over 42 years at the Applied Physics Laboratory of Johns Hopkins University, Dr. Avery's basic research on the combustion that powers rocket and jet engines led to many advances, including a technique that allows air-breathing jets to fly at several times the speed of sound.
        A normal turbojet engine uses a fan to take in air and compress it, then uses the exhaust from its combustion to propel the craft forward. At high speeds the air is compressed naturally when it slows down to enter the engine. Dr. Avery's work led to a type of jet engine, the ramjet, that uses this phenomenon to achieve supersonic speeds with no moving parts.
        At thousands of miles per hour, however, it is very difficult to maintain the right mixture of fuel and air inside the engine. Dr. Avery laid the foundations for new strategies to make this possible.
        After studying chemistry and physics at Harvard and working as a private research chemist, Dr. Avery turned to rocket science during World War II. He directed a division of the Allegany Ballistics Laboratory in Cumberland, Md., that developed solid fuels for rockets later used to launch guided missiles and spacecraft.
        Dr. Avery went to Johns Hopkins in 1947 and soon became head of propulsion research at the Applied Physics Laboratory. Over the next several decades, his research laid the foundation for understanding combustion in rocket and jet engines. His group invented the propulsion system for Talos, the first surface-to-air missile to use a ramjet engine.
        ''He had an unusual combination of theoretical skills and a practical understanding of engineering and costs,'' said Dr. Alexander Kossiakoff, who worked with Dr. Avery at Allegany and is now the chief scientist of the Applied Physics Laboratory.
        At home, his daughter said, Dr. Avery did not talk about his work, which was often classified, but he would sometimes take the family to a nearby golf course to launch model rockets.
        In 1973 he began leading the laboratory's work on emerging technologies. Searching for alternative sources of energy, he helped develop the Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion program, which used the temperature difference between shallow and deep tropical seawater to generate electricity. Besides his daughter Patricia, of West Barnstable, Mass., Dr. Avery is survived by his wife of 66 years, Helen; his son, Christopher, of Washington; two grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
      