
        Peter Barnes, the sardonic English playwright best known in this country for his play and film ''The Ruling Class,'' died on Thursday at a London hospital. He was 73.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his agent, Jodi Shields. Mr. Barnes, who also worked as a television producer and director, had been writing consistently and delivered his latest two screenplays just this week, she said.
        When ''The Ruling Class'' was first staged in Britain in 1968, it created an uproar. Using a mix of understated wit and mordant savagery, it flailed Parliament, the Church of England, education, the British Empire and, particularly, the upper classes.
        It had its American premiere at the Arena Stage in Washington, inaugurating the company's new Kreeger Theater. Mel Gussow of The New York Times described it as ''an outrageous, lunatic comedy,'' but a difficult one to stage because of its eclectic style and an onrush of short scenes, characters and startling entrances.
        Mr. Barnes himself preferred to call it ''a baroque comedy.''
        He wrote the script for the film, directed by Peter Medak, which opened in 1972. It starred Peter O'Toole as the 14th Earl of Gurney, who believes he is Jesus Christ, and Alastair Sim as the man of the cloth who has to put up with his nonsense.
        Mr. O'Toole earned an Oscar nomination for his performance, and Mr. Barnes was later nominated himself for the screenplay of ''Enchanted April'' (1992), a romance set in 1920's Italy, which he adapted from the novel by Elizabeth von Arnim. His stage play ''Red Noses,'' about a gaggle of traveling clowns at the time of the Black Death, earned him an Olivier Award for best play in 1994.
        For British television, he adapted and directed Charles Dickens's ''Hard Times'' in 1994. The Associated Press reported that he also wrote a screenplay, ''Babies,'' that is headed for the television cameras in Britain.
        ''Babies'' was based on Mr. Barnes's experience of becoming a father at 69, to a daughter, followed by triplets two years ago. Since then he had been a frequent television commentator on the subject of senior fatherhood.
        Peter Barnes was born in London and educated at Stroud Grammar School in Gloucestershire. He served in the Royal Air Force and worked as a civil servant for the London County Council before turning to story editing for a movie production company in London.
        He became a playwright in 1963 with ''The Time of the Barracudas,'' produced in San Francisco, and ''Sclerosis,'' which opened in London. Prolific as a writer for stage, film and television, he skewered the hypocrisy and corruption of the privileged and the despotic with slapstick humor and literary allusion, fusing theatrical styles from tragedy to cabaret.
        His survivors include his wife, Christie Horn Barnes, their daughter Leela, 4, and their triplets, Abigail, Zachary and Nathaniel, 19 months old.
      