
        Martin E. Weaver, a noted historical preservationist whose projects ranged from buildings to steam locomotives, died on Wednesday in Ottawa. He was 66 and lived in Ottawa and on Morningside Heights in Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        At his death he was on leave from Columbia University as a senior research scholar and adjunct associate professor of historic preservation at the Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation. From 1991 until last year, he was also the director of its Center for Preservation Research.
        At the same time, he had an international consulting practice, dividing his time between New York and Ottawa. He wrote more than 140 articles and a standard text, ''Conserving Buildings: A Guide to Techniques and Materials'' (Wiley, 1992; 2nd ed., 1997).
        Martin Edward Weaver was born in London and trained at the Architectural Association of London, where he received his professional diploma in 1961. He started out as an architect and supervising surveyor at Iron Age sites in Britain before moving on to ancient Knossos on Crete, medieval Iran, Turkey and northern Spain.
        As an architectural conservator, he emphasized the stabilization and restoration of original materials. His approach differed from the reconstruction methods used, for example, in rebuilt Colonial Williamsburg.
        Professor Weaver first came to North America in the early 1970's to work on an explorer's shed in the Canadian Arctic. Most recently he was involved in the conservation of the Canadian Parliament buildings and of centuries-old Spanish fortifications in the Caribbean.
        Over the years he lectured around the world, starting in 1978 at Columbia. He lent his expertise in building technology and materials degradation to advise private and public agencies, including Unesco. He was a former president of the Association for Preservation Technology and a member of the International Council on Monuments and Sites.
        Professor Weaver is survived by his wife of 20 years, Leslie A. Perowne; their daughter, Laura Krystyne Weaver of Ottawa; three daughters from an earlier marriage, Alexandra Weaver of Boulder, Colo., and Helen and Mika Weaver of Ottawa; and three grandchildren. His first marriage to Popi Weaver, a resident of Ottawa, ended in divorce.
        Professor Weaver worked to develop safe pesticides and wood preservatives, which he used to keep termites from totem poles in British Columbia and from historic buildings in Puerto Rico. He helped preserve early industrial sites and modern works of sandstone architecture.
        Among the objects of his attention were locomotives and rolling stock as well as stationary steam engines and a German submarine from World War II, the U-505, captured in 1944 and now on view at the Museum of Science and Industry in Chicago; in 1989 it was designated a National Historic Landmark.
      