
        Maj. Gen. Charles W. Sweeney, who flew the B-29 Superfortress that dropped the atomic bomb on Nagasaki, the second atomic strike on Japan in the final days of World War II, died Friday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. General Sweeney, who lived in Milton, Mass., was 84.
        The cause was pulmonary complications of congestive heart disease, his son-in-law Brian Howe said.
        Having the rank of major in the Army Air Forces at the time, he flew his bomber, the Great Artiste, to Hiroshima on the morning of Aug. 6, 1945, accompanying the Enola Gay, piloted by Col. Paul W. Tibbets Jr. When the Enola Gay dropped its uranium bomb on the city, unleashing the power of atomic energy for the first time as a weapon of war, the Great Artiste dropped measuring instruments.
        On Aug. 9, Major Sweeney piloted the Bockscar, carrying a plutonium bomb even more powerful than the Enola Gay's bomb. At 11:01 a.m., the bomb was dropped on the industrial city of Nagasaki, killing and wounding tens of thousands, heavily damaging a steelworks and arms plant and demolishing thousands of residential buildings, according to an American bombing survey.
        As Major Sweeney turned his plane to escape the blast, he saw a multicolor cloud ''rising faster than at Hiroshima.''
        ''It seemed more intense, more angry,'' he remembered in his autobiography. ''It was a mesmerizing sight, at once breathtaking and ominous.''
        The Nagasaki attack proved harrowing for the crew. A mechanical failure reduced the fuel supply, and both the primary target, the city of Kokura, and the secondary target, Nagasaki, were obscured from the air. Major Sweeney landed on Okinawa with only a minute or so of fuel remaining.
        Six days later, Japan surrendered, bringing World War II to an end.
        The crews who flew the atomic missions were viewed after the war as the men who averted enormous casualties anticipated if an invasion of Japan had been launched. But questions were ultimately raised as to whether the Truman administration needed to drop the bombs to end the war.
        A few weeks after the war ended, the two atomic-bomb pilots visited Nagasaki. General Sweeney recalled that moment in his memoir, ''War's End: An Eyewitness Account of America's Last Atomic Mission'' (Avon Books, 1997), written with James A. and Marion K. Antonucci.
        ''I took no pride or pleasure then, nor do I take any now, in the brutality of war, whether suffered by my people or those of another nation,'' he wrote. ''Every life is precious. But I felt no remorse or guilt that I had bombed the city where I stood.''
        ''The true vessel of remorse and guilt belonged to the Japanese nation, which could and should call to account the warlords who so willingly offered up their own people to achieve their visions of greatness,'' he said.
        General Sweeney, a native of Lowell, Mass., became an Army Air Forces lieutenant on Dec. 12, 1941, five days after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor.
        In September 1944, after extensively testing the new four-engine B-29 Superfortress, he joined the 509th Composite Group, which trained in Utah under extraordinary secrecy to provide the crews that dropped the atomic bombs.
        Major Sweeney supervised training, and in June 1945 he arrived with his flight crews on the Pacific island of Tinian. On July 16, an atomic bomb was successfully tested at Alamogordo, N.M.
        On Aug. 6, Colonel Tibbets, piloting the Enola Gay, flew a perfect mission to Hiroshima. When Japan still refused to surrender, a second nuclear strike was ordered.
        Major Sweeney took command of the bomber Bockscar, which was borrowed from its pilot, Capt. Fred Bock, because the Great Artiste, the plane Major Sweeney flew to Hiroshima, would again be carrying measuring equipment.
        Shortly before the Bockscar took off, a pump malfunctioned, depriving Major Sweeney of 600 gallons of fuel. As the plane headed for Japan, a malfunction in the bomb's circuitry had to be repaired.
        When the Bockscar arrived over Kokura, the prime target, the ground was obscured by smoke from a firebombing raid. After three passes over the city, Major Sweeney headed for Nagasaki, an hour and a half behind schedule.
        Nagasaki was shrouded in clouds when the Bockscar arrived, but a hole in the clouds finally appeared, and the bomb was dropped on the industrial Urakami Valley, rather than the flat area downtown near the shipyards, the preferred target.
        General Sweeney left military service after the war. He was an owner of a leather company in Boston and served with the Massachusetts Air National Guard, retiring in 1976 as a major general.
        He is survived by three sons, Charles Jr., Joseph and Terence; seven daughters, Patricia O'Neill, Marylyn Howe, Carol Sweeney-Boyd, Michele Saulnier, Rosemary Gunning, Elizabeth Sweeney and Bonnie Sweeney; two brothers, Arthur and William; a sister, Marylyn Burns; and 24 grandchildren. His marriage to Dorothy Sweeney ended in divorce.
        The planes that carried the atomic bombs are now museum pieces. The Enola Gay is outside Dulles Airport in Virginia at a new branch of the Smithsonian's National Air and Space Museum. The Bockscar (often referred to as Bock's Car) is also a tourist attraction, standing at the United States Air Force Museum in Dayton, Ohio.
      