
        Richard Ney, an investment adviser and best-selling author on finance whose earlier career, in films, led to a brief, stormy marriage to the screen star Greer Garson, died on Sunday at his home in Pasadena, Calif. He was 87.
        The cause was heart disease, said his wife, Mei-Lee Ney.
        Mr. Ney, who grew up in New York, had an economics degree from Columbia, but with few job prospects in the early 1940's, he auditioned for ''Life With Father'' on Broadway and was cast as the elder son.
        That led to Hollywood, where, with his dark good looks, he was cast as Ms. Garson's son, Vin, in the 1942 wartime drama ''Mrs. Miniver,'' for which Ms. Garson won an Oscar. A year later, he married Ms. Garson. They divorced in 1947.
        Mr. Ney went on to roles in a dozen more films and guest appearances on television through 1962. His films included ''The Late George Apley'' (1947), ''Joan of Arc'' (1948), ''The Fan'' (1949), ''Miss Italia'' (1950), ''Babes in Baghdad'' (1952) and ''Midnight Lace'' (1960).
        In 1961 he changed course and began working as an investment counselor in Beverly Hills.
        He campaigned to change the markets, which he considered cornerstones of free enterprise that were manipulated to benefit insiders and specialists rather than individual investors. In a 1965 interview with The New York Times he called the prevalent system ''incredible mechanisms for legalized larceny.''
        He added: ''The average investor in the market is a blind man crossing the street. He can't compete with professionals.''
        He laid out his views in ''The Wall Street Jungle'' (Grove, 1970). Mr. Ney contended that it had been turned down by 39 publishers. It received a cold reception on Wall Street, but was a best-seller. He followed it up with ''Making It in the Market'' (McGraw-Hill, 1975).
        He also published a biweekly newsletter, Ney Report, until 1995. Then he concentrated on his advisory and asset-management firm.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a stepdaughter, Marcia McMartin, of Santa Monica, Calif.
      