
        Carl A. Totemeier Jr., a horticulturalist who helped reclaim the New York Botanical Garden from neglect in the mid-1980's and led efforts to restore other public gardens around the country, died on Saturday. He was 77.
        His wife of 53 years, Jean Totemeier, said he died at a hospital near his home in Fayetteville, Ark.
        Mr. Totemeier was known to New Yorkers for his work at the Botanical Garden, where, as vice president of horticulture, he helped create the Peggy Rockefeller Rose Garden and restored many neglected plant collections, from daylilies and irises to herbaceous peonies.
        ''The garden, in those days, was in very bad repair,'' said Beth Straus, a board member of 50 years who worked closely with Mr. Totemeier to rebuild the old rose garden with an original but never used design by Beatrix Farrand, an early 20th-century landscape architect. ''It was full of very good botanists, but they were all wrapped up in their science.''
        Mr. Totemeier energized the staff, she said, with his knowledge and unflagging enthusiasm. ''He was so supportive and kind, and he really knew his material,'' she said. ''He was sort of a mentor to the young gardeners. We all felt quite lost when he went back to the Middle West.''
        Born and raised in Iowa, Mr. Totemeier earned a degree in horticulture from Iowa State University in 1952, and later studied plant breeding at the University of California, Los Angeles. His career included owning and running the Totemeier Garden Center in Burlington, Iowa; directing the DuPage Horticultural School in Chicago; and directing a number of public gardens on Long Island, including the Bayard Cutting Arboretum and Old Westbury Gardens, where he restored the great old declining trees.
        He wrote a weekly garden column that appeared primarily in the Sunday regional sections of The New York Times for 14 years. When he retired to Fayetteville in 1990, he started writing for Arkansas Gardener and The Morning News of Northwest Arkansas. He started his own nursery, Wisteria Farms, and sold his flowers and plants at Fayetteville's farmers market.
        Mr. Totemeier's last project was developing the Botanical Garden of the Ozarks, an 85-acre public garden on the shore of Lake Fayetteville. On Tuesday, the City Council unanimously approved a $750,000 allotment to the garden.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Totemeier is survived by four daughters, Nancy Koch of Pittsburgh; Linda LoGallo of Conklin, N.Y.; Marcia Knowles of Medfield, Mass.; and Karen Lauer of Des Moines; and nine grandchildren.
      