
        Jackson Beck, a man both familiar and anonymous to millions, who became a legend by regularly introducing Superman to radio fans, died on Wednesday in his Manhattan apartment. He was 92.
        His friend Anthony Tollin, a radio historian, confirmed the death.
        For most of its decade-long radio run, the ''Superman'' show began with the voice of the Man of Steel (that of Bud Collyer) comparing himself with bullets and locomotives and bragging about his leaping ability -- ''tall buildings in a single bound.'' Then a changing chorus of male and female voices clamored: ''It's a bird! It's a plane!''
        In more than 1,600 broadcasts, that was the cue for Mr. Beck. His deeply modulated voice suddenly exclaimed: ''It's Superman!'' Then Mr. Beck sonorously continued:
        ''Yes, it's Superman -- strange visitor from the planet Krypton who came to earth with amazing physical powers far beyond those of mortal men, and who, disguised as Clark Kent, mild-manner reporter for a great metropolitan newspaper, wages a never-ending battle for truth and justice.''
        Unsung, perhaps, but hardly unheard, Mr. Beck also served as a radio and television pitchman for products from Combat Roach Killer to Kellogg's Sugar-Frosted Flakes (he did not do Tony the Tiger) to Little Caesars Pizza. (He was Caesar Jr.) Published estimates of his annual income in the 1980's ranged from $500,000 to $1 million, Mr. Tollin said.
        His accomplishments during more than 60 years on the air also included impersonating Stalin and other world leaders on ''March of Time''; speaking in two Woody Allen films, once as a voice at the bottom of a well; and playing a crook -- in a rare moment of professional visibility -- on the television soap opera ''The Edge of Night.''
        As an actor on live radio, he played two characters in the same scene, sometimes without rehearsing. At Clark Kent's Daily Planet he was the copy boy as well countless villains and character actors. In more than 300 Popeye cartoons his voice was the Bluto the bully.
        As the Cisco Kid he intoned, ''O. Henry's beloved bad man who rides the romantic trail that leads sometimes to adventure, often to danger, but always to beautiful señoritas.''
        His beginning to ''Mark Trail'' remains that show's best-remembered feature: ''Guardian of the forests! Protector of wildlife! Champion of man and nature! MAAAAARRRRKKKK TRAIL!''
        Jackson Beck was born in Manhattan on July 23, 1912. His father, Max Blank, was a silent-film actor.
        Mr. Beck's first radio show was ''Myrt and Marge'' in 1931, and he found radio drama fascinating.
        ''It was elemental theater,'' Mr. Beck said in an interview with Newsday in 1990. ''Acting had to be bravura, black and white, simple -- pure-white heroes and heroines, all virgins. You knew when you picked up a script that you were going to be a hero or the villain by the name of your character.
        ''The hero was always John Noble. You avoided recognizable locales because there might be somebody from there who'd sue. So the heroines always came from Greendale or Fort Mudge.''
        ''Superman'' flew onto the airwaves on Feb. 12, 1940. Mr. Beck first came to the series as an actor playing a South American gaucho, Alfredo, on Feb. 18, 1942. The next year he took over as narrator. The show took a short break in early 1950. When it resumed in June, all original cast members, including Mr. Beck, were replaced.
        Mr. Beck was married twice and is survived by his stepson, Leslie Winter.
        At 85 Mr. Beck was still doing commercials, including a youthful take for Pepsi-Cola. But he usually preferred invisibility to most television opportunities, beginning with his rejecting an offer in the early 1950's to play Amos on ''Amos 'n' Andy'' wearing blackface.
        ''This is really a bad idea,'' he remembered thinking.
        His heart remained with radio.
        ''Listening to radio was like group meditation or a moment of silence in church,'' he told Newsday. ''You can't get the same effect with TV unless you're very drunk.''
      