
        Alexander Yakob Lerner, a star of Soviet Russian cybernetics and patriarch of the Jewish ''refusenik'' colony in Moscow, died April 6 in Rehovot, Israel, where he had settled after finally being allowed to leave Russia in 1988. He was 90.
        The New York Times received word of his death in June but was unable to confirm it before this past weekend.
        Dr. Lerner, an applied mathematician, was a member of the Soviet scientific and technological elite whose knowledge landed him in a special limbo when he strayed from the flock.
        He was a leading practitioner of cybernetics, a term coined after World War II by Norbert Wiener at M.I.T. It is an esoteric branch of science that deals with human control systems like the brain and nervous systems where they interconnect with complex electronic systems.
        Dr. Lerner headed his own laboratory in Moscow, traveled freely abroad to attend meetings and conferences, lived in a spacious -- by Soviet standards -- apartment, with a country dacha, two cars and sundry privileges ordinary citizens could only dream about.
        His mathematical equations were used, for instance, in forecasting supply and demand for vital materials like steel, or allocating scarce resources. Information of that sort was considered highly sensitive, and Dr. Lerner was considered a walking repository of state secrets.
        He published scores of scientific papers and several books, burnishing the reputation of the ''Soviet science'' at the height of the cold war. His own international standing burgeoned with the publication of his ''Fundamentals of Cybernetics,'' a standard text, in 1967.
        But in 1971 he applied for an exit visa, ostensibly to reunite with his daughter, who had emigrated to Israel years before. A standard procedure for such a request, it provided an opening for Soviet Jews to leave the country with official permission.
        Dr. Lerner's application was refused. When he, in turn, refused to reconsider, he was stripped of his scientific positions. He then endured nearly 17 years as one of the most vocal and most watched inhabitants of a limbo reserved for prominent refuseniks.
        He was forbidden to leave on the ground that his knowledge must not leave the country. Deprived of his own work, he was harassed with threats to find a job or face prosecution for parasitism. His visitors risked police questioning.
        Nonetheless, his standing in the international scientific community shielded him and others in post-Stalinist Moscow, when the authorities no longer felt free to simply bundle him off to the gulag. Dr. Lerner became a spokesman for Jewish dissidents, and his apartment became a convivial gathering place for them, foreign journalists and the occasional American member of Congress.
        This cat-and-mouse game played through the ebb and flow of the cold war as it affected Jewish emigration from the Soviet Union. During one crackdown in 1984, Dr. Lerner said, the police threatened him with imprisonment unless he suspended all contact with foreigners.
        Another time, the authorities offered some refuseniks their old jobs back, but Dr. Lerner was not among them. A renewal of arms talks in Geneva produced a new flurry of visas in 1985, but two years later the Soviet press still listed Dr. Lerner uppermost among at the shrinking number of Russian Jews forbidden to leave for state security reasons.
        Yet within months, following renewed intervention on his behalf from foreign governments, he was informed that he could emigrate. One of the last remaining refuseniks, he reached Israel in 1988 and took a position as professor emeritus at the Weizmann Institute of Science in Rehovot. According to the institute, he worked in its mathematics department in the field of applied mathematics for a number of years.
        Mr. Lerner was born in Vinnytsya, Ukraine. He was a 1938 engineering graduate of the Power Institute in Moscow, and he received a doctorate there in 1940. He worked as an electrical engineer in Novosibirsk before being appointed director in 1945 of the Laboratory of Automation Theory at the Institute of the Academy of Sciences in Moscow.
        Dr. Lerner's wife, Judith, died in 1981. His survivors include his daughter, Sonya Levin; and a son, Vladimir.
      