
        Shizuo Kakutani, a mathematician known for fundamental tools that have come to bear his name and that are used in disparate fields including economics, died yesterday in New Haven. He was 92 and lived in Hamden, Conn.
        His death was announced by his daughter, Michiko.
        A professor at Yale for 33 years, Dr. Kakutani was known to mathematicians for his influential work in the fields of ergodic theory, functional analysis and probability theory. To economists, he was known for a mathematical tool used to prove theorems about social systems.
        In a discipline famous for people who work in isolation, Dr. Kakutani was remarkable for his gregariousness. Most of his research was done in collaboration with others, and groups of active researchers tended to form around him.
        ''He didn't like to travel far, so people would come to him,'' said Jal Choksi, an emeritus professor at McGill University in Montreal and a member of Dr. Kakutani's circle .
        The tool he developed, known as the Kakutani fixed-point theorem, was a key step in the original proof of the existence of Nash equilibria, the theorem for which John Forbes Nash received his Nobel Prize. Dr. Kakutani's theorem is also used to prove a famous 1954 theorem by the economists Kenneth J. Arrow and Gérard Debreu, which says that there are prices for goods that balance supply and demand in a complex economy. Both economists also won Nobel Prizes, partly for this work.
        In the mathematical specialty ergodic theory, a fundamental tool is called the Kakutani skyscraper. Used to describe a random process, like coin flipping, for example, the skyscraper is a way of organizing the process into a picture, with levels that look like the floors of an office tower. This picture makes it easier to understand the properties of the process. In the case of coin flipping, tossing the coin corresponds to ascending one floor in the skyscraper.
        Dr. Kakutani was born in 1911 in Osaka, Japan. Following the wishes of his father, a respected lawyer, Dr. Kakutani initially studied literature and the arts. Eventually, his father gave him permission to study mathematics, and he attended Tohoku University in Sendai and, in 1934, became a teaching assistant in the mathematics department at Osaka University. There, he joined a lively group of young mathematicians who started a newsletter that became influential in Japanese mathematics.
        Dr. Kakutani's work caught the attention of Herman Weyl, a professor at the Institute for Advanced Studies in Princeton who in 1940 invited him for a two-year visit. While at the institute, Dr. Kakutani participated in seminars run by Weyl and John von Neumann, activities that led to some of Dr. Kakutani's best-known work .
        During the war years, Dr. Kakutani returned to Japan, where he became a professor at Osaka University and continued to publish. In 1948, he returned to the institute, and he was appointed a professor at Yale in 1949. While at Yale, Dr. Kakutani, a popular teacher, again became the center of a group of mathematicians who would meet frequently to work on research.
        In 1982, Mr. Kakutani received the Imperial Award of the Academy of Japan for his achievements and service to mathematics.
        In addition to his daughter Michiko, the chief book critic of The New York Times, he is survived by his wife of 52 years, the former Keiko Kay Uchida.
      