
        David Raksin, who composed more than 400 scores for movies and television series but is remembered best as the author of the haunting theme for the 1944 movie, ''Laura,'' died on Monday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 92.
        The immediate cause was heart failure caused by cardiovascular disease said his son, Alex Raksin, but he had been fighting infections, he said.
        Nominated for Academy Awards for his scores of the tale of a strumpet in ''Forever Amber'' (1947) and the quiet drama at a seaside resort in ''Separate Tables'' (1958), he also wrote the music for ''Force of Evil'' (1948), ''Across the Wide Missouri'' (1951), ''Two Weeks in Another Town'' (1962), and the ''Wagon Train'' and ''Ben Casey'' television series. He was also the composer of chamber music, including ''Oedipus Memnitai'' (Oedipus Remembers).
        According to a 1998 interview with Mr. Raksin done for a ''Live From Lincoln Center'' broadcast on PBS, Stephen Sondheim considered the composer's theme for ''The Bad and the Beautiful'' (1952) to be ''one of the best themes ever written in films.'' However, that movie's producer, John Houseman, and director, Vincente Minnelli, ''looked bewildered as if to say, wow, what in God's name is this?'' when Mr. Raksin first played the theme for them. Luckily, there were two other people in the room, and they insisted that the theme was wonderful.
        ''Those two people were Comden and Green [Betty Comden and Adolph Green, scriptwriters of the movie musical 'Singin' in the Rain'], or the piece would have been out in the rain.''
        In ''Laura,'' a detective played by Dana Andrews falls in love with a woman who has apparently been murdered (Gene Tierney). The score, based on that single recurring melody, was a sensation. After the release of the movie, Johnny Mercer was hired to put words to Mr. Raksin's melody, and the song became No. 1 on the Hit Parade. Mr. Raksin, whose wife had left him the day before he sat down at the piano, often said the theme touched people because it was about the yearning that comes with unrequited love.
        Roy M. Prendergast, in his book ''A Neglected Art,'' quotes Elmer Bernstein on the evocative quality of the music: ''The film portrayed a man falling in love with a ghost: The mystique was supplied by the insistence of the haunting melody. He could not escape it. It was there when he was in Laura's apartment. It was there when he turned on the record player. It was never absent from his thoughts. We may not remember what Laura was like, but we never forgot that she was the music.''
        David Raksin was born on Aug. 4, 1912, in Philadelphia. His father, who wrote and conducted music for silent films, also played in the Philadelphia Orchestra when an extra clarinetist was needed. At the age of 12 Mr. Raksin had his own dance band. In high school he taught himself orchestration. (He had previously learned to play the piano and had been taught the wind instruments by his father.) He paid his way through the University of Pennsylvania by working in radio orchestras.
        In 1935, when he was 23, Mr. Raksin moved to Hollywood to work with Charlie Chaplin on ''Modern Times.'' Chaplin, an amateur composer, could not write music down. But ''he did have musical ideas,'' Mr. Raksin, who was credited as co-arranger, said in the 1998 interview. It was the job of Chaplin's collaborator to take Chaplin's tunes and enlarge them.
        In the hurly-burly studio climate of the 1930's, composers were teamed on movies, usually with the head of the music department getting screen credit. Mr. Raksin worked without credit on 48 films, then shared screen credit on ''The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes'' in 1939. He had studied with Arnold Schoenberg, and, within the system, his music was considered avant-garde, so he was relegated to horror films like ''The Undying Monster'' (1942) about a fastidious werewolf and ''Dr. Renault's Secret'' (also 1942), in which a mad scientist turns an ape into a man.
        His break came when Alfred Newman and Bernard Herrmann refused to score ''Laura.'' ''The word was around the studio that it was a 'hard luck picture' from which all sensible people shy away for fear of being tainted,'' Mr. Raksin told the author Rudy Behlmer. With the success of ''Laura,'' in typical Hollywood fashion, Mr. Raksin was typecast as a composer who wrote songs. Yet, according to Mr. Prendergast, one of Mr. Raksin's great achievements in ''Laura'' is that although the entire score is drawn from one melody, that melody is never heard in its entirety, making, according to Mr. Raksin, a connection between ''the ephemeral girl and the interrupted melody.''
        In the late 1930's, Mr. Raksin was briefly a member of the Communist Party. In 1951 he was subpoenaed by the House Un-American Activities Committee and gave the committee the names of 11 party members who were dead or had already been named by other witnesses. In 1997 he told The Los Angeles Times: ''What I did was a major sin, but I think I did as well as most human beings would've done under torture. It wasn't an abject capitulation. I told the committee they should leave the Communist Party alone, not try to crush it. But there I was, a guy with a family to support and a fairly decent career that was about to go down the drain.''
        An eight-term president of the Composers and Lyricists Guild of America (1962-1970), Mr. Raksin taught composition for films at the University of Southern California from 1956. His Broadway musical, ''If the Shoe Fits,'' closed in three weeks in 1946. His concert works include ''Toy Concertino'' and have been performed by the New York Philharmonic, the Boston Pops, and the London Symphony.
        Mr. Raksin was married and divorced twice. In addition to his son, he is survived by his daughter, Valentina Raksin, and three grandchildren.
        What does film music do? Mr. Raksin answered that question in a University of Southern California magazine in 2000: ''What you can't do with a camera or dialogue, music has a way of taking care of. It gets at the deeper emotions that aren't always expressible on film. People who are skeptical about the value of film music should be condemned to watch films without it.''
      