
        Elmer Bernstein, the Academy Award-winning composer of more than 200 film scores, many more memorable than the movies they accompanied, died on Wednesday at his home in Ojai, Calif. He was 82.
        His death was announced to The Associated Press by his publicist, Cathy Mouton.
        Among his highly praised contributions were the jazz motif for ''The Man With the Golden Arm,'' the deceptively simple but haunting theme for flute, harp and piano in ''To Kill a Mockingbird,'' the martial music threaded throughout ''The Great Escape'' and the unsettling sounds that accompanied ''The Grifters.''
        Mr. Bernstein was nominated for 14 Academy Awards, but won only one, for ''Thoroughly Modern Millie'' (1967), which most critics did not consider his best work.
        Mr. Bernstein originally intended to be a concert pianist and gave several performances in New York from 1946 to 1950, when he started writing for films. His first score was for ''Boots Malone,'' a vehicle for the actor William Holden that was released in 1952.
        His career was sidetracked in 1950 for five years because he considered himself a Communist. Work dried up and the only assignments he could get at the height of the purge of suspected Hollywood Communists by the House Un-American Activities Committee were oddments like ''Robot Monster'' (1953) and ''Miss Robin Crusoe'' (1954).
        However, as he once said, ''I wasn't important enough to be blacklisted, so I was put on a gray list,'' and his politics were of no interest to Otto Preminger, who hired him to do the music for ''The Man With the Golden Arm'' (1955). That score, filled with screeching trumpets and saxophone ostinati, was markedly different from the prevailing lush sound of film music created by Alfred Newman, Max Steiner and other composers influenced by Romantic and Post-Romantic music.
        Another break came his way in 1954, when he worked as the rehearsal pianist for Agnes de Mille, niece of the director Cecil B. DeMille, who was then working out the choreography for ''Oklahoma!''
        He did a creditable job and seemed to have good ideas, Ms. de Mille said. In due course her uncle asked Mr. Bernstein if he would like to write the score for his biblical epic, ''The Ten Commandments.'' That movie was attended by a lot of publicity and had a budget that was huge for the time: $14 million. It was released in 1956 with its heroic score for large orchestra, and established Mr. Bernstein as a man who could make a symphony orchestra the handmaiden of cinema. A productive period followed, including scores for ''Sweet Smell of Success'' (1957), ''The Magnificent Seven'' (1960), ''Walk on the Wild Side'' (1962), ''To Kill a Mockingbird'' (1962), ''Birdman of Alcatraz'' (1962), ''The Great Escape'' (1963), ''Hud'' (1963), ''True Grit'' (1969), ''Animal House'' (1978), ''Airplane!'' (1980), ''Stripes'' (1981), ''Ghostbusters (1984), ''My Left Foot'' (1989), ''The Grifters'' (1990), a remake of ''Cape Fear'' (1991) that was a reconfiguring of and a variation on the music for the original ''Cape Fear'' by his idol Bernard Herrmann, and ''The Age of Innocence'' (1993).
        Mr. Bernstein described his approach as being straightforward: ''I have this thing that if I run the rough cut of the film often enough, over and over again, it will start to talk to me. It will tell me stuff. Eventually, the tone I need will come to me. Then you have something that fits, some sense of integration with the film instead of just slapping some wallpaper at the end.''
        Elmer Bernstein, who was not related to Leonard Bernstein, was born on April 4, 1922, in New York to Edward and Selma (Feinstein) Bernstein, who were European immigrants. At 12 he received a scholarship to study piano with Henriette Michelson at Juilliard.
        He attended the Walden School, and one of his teachers there introduced him to Aaron Copland, who suggested that he study piano and composition with Israel Citkowitz, one of Copland's pupils. By 1937 Mr. Bernstein was studying to become a concert pianist, but as he later said,  he felt that the preparation was not good for a young person because it tended to consume a life and rob the artist of the joy and freedom of youth.
        After graduating from the Walden School, he entered New York University, earning a bachelor's degree in music education in 1942. He then joined the Army Air Corps, where he remained through World War II, mostly writing scores for propaganda films.
        He gave his first concert at Town Hall in 1946 and received mixed reviews. He continued performing until 1950 and, although his reviews improved, he became more interested in composing. He studied with Roger Sessions and then with Stefan Wolpe.
        He first became excited by film music in 1941 while in college, when he saw William Dieterle's ''Devil and Daniel Webster,'' which had a Herrmann score.
        Mr. Bernstein later said that Herrmann's scores were often better than their movies -- ''with the possible exception of 'Citizen Kane''' -- and asserted more than once that most people would not want to see Alfred Hitchcock's ''Psycho'' years after it was made were it not for touches like Herrmann's clawing violins underscoring the slashing of Janet Leigh in her shower at the Bates Motel.
        Mr. Bernstein worked on his share of lightweight movies, among them ''Trading Places'' (1983) and ''Three Amigos'' (1986). He said that the first responsibility of any composer was to ''do what's right for the film,'' regardless of whether it was art.
        Mr. Bernstein did not mind being part of the old studio system, in which the major creators of movies kept resident composers and musicians on staff. By the time that system started to fall apart in the 1960's, he was well established, but he found for the first time that he had to deal with not only musicians but also with directors, producers, lawyers and agents, who would often want to tinker with his music. He called the process ''invasive collaboration.''
        With the development of synthesizers and other ways to make music, Hollywood began to move away from the large orchestras it had used to play the music of other composers he admired, like Miklos Rosza, Franz Waxman, Dimitri Tiomkin and Erich Wolfgang Korngold. Mr. Bernstein had no problem adjusting to working with small ensembles and he used the new technology whenever it suited him. But he refused to let computer technology take over.
        ''I write every note down,'' he told Variety in 1996. ''A lot of people are writing on the keyboards and having machines put out the music. It gets to be less composition than a form of improvisatory art.''
        Mr. Bernstein's scores were noted for framing performances rather than overwhelming them. After Gregory Peck, who won an acting Oscar for ''To Kill a Mockingbird,'' heard the score, he said: ''I was very, very lucky with that one. Elmer's music never repeated the emotional values that were already on the screen. It extended them with insight and subtlety.''
        Mr. Bernstein married Pearl Glusman in 1946; they were divorced in 1965. Their two sons, Peter M. Bernstein and Gregory E. Bernstein, survive Mr. Bernstein, along with his second wife, the former Eve Adamson; two daughters, Emilie and Elizabeth; and five grandchildren.
        Mr. Bernstein once recalled that when he first went to Hollywood and the old studio system was still intact, composers would supportively go to one another's recording sessions and provide feedback.
        ''They were interested in each other,'' he said. But as the 20th century drew to a close, that practice faded. ''There are so many composers vying for so few jobs that I think there is less of a sense of community,'' he added.
        He once said, ''I've had an enchanted career.''
        Correction:  August 28, 2004, Saturday  An obituary of the Oscar-winning film composer Elmer Bernstein on Aug. 20 misspelled the surname of a film composer he admired. That composer was Miklos Rozsa, not Rosza.
      