
        Donald Justice, an elder of American poetry whose formalist verse and teaching skills were equally acclaimed, died last Friday at an Iowa City nursing home, where he had been since a stroke several weeks ago. He was 78 and lived in Iowa City.
        His family said the cause was pneumonia; he had also been suffering from Parkinson's disease.
        Just before his final illness, he checked the review copies of the last of 14 volumes of his poetry, ''Collected Poems.'' It will be issued by Knopf on Aug. 18, the publisher announced.
        Mr. Justice was acclaimed as both a poet and a teacher. His poetry followed an unusual trajectory over the decades, starting out in a traditional way, diverting into the experimental and surreal, and returning to meter and rhyme in the end.
        He stood out for his precise use of rhyme and meter, and his attention to language and form gained him increased national attention in his later period.
        His work was recognized with a Pulitzer Prize in 1980 and a Bollingen award in 1991. He was a fellow and past chancellor of the Academy of American Poets and a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        His Pulitzer-winning anthology, ''Selected Poems'' (Atheneum, 1979), contained one of his most frequently quoted works, ''Ode to a Dressmaker's Dummy.'' In part, it reads:
        How like the terrified,
        Shy figure of a bride
        You stood there then, without your clothes,
        Drawn up into
        So classic and so strict a pose
        Almost, it seemed, our little attic grew
        Dark with the first charmed night of the honeymoon.
        Or was it only some obscure
        Shape of my mother's youth I saw in you,
        There where the rude shadows of the afternoon
        Crept up your ankles and you stood
        Hiding your sex as best you could?--
        Prim ghost the evening light shone through.
        He pursued a successful parallel academic career, with many years on the faculty of the University of Iowa, Syracuse University and, for 10 years until 1992, the University of Florida in Gainesville. He was also associated with the legendary Iowa Writers' Workshop, first in the early 1950's, when he was taught and influenced by the likes of Robert Lowell and Karl Shapiro, and then when he returned to teach in 1957 and added to its luster with weekly workshops of his own.
        Donald Rodney Justice was born in Miami and graduated from the University of Miami in 1945. He received an M.A. at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, in 1947, did postgraduate work at Stanford University and, in 1954, added a Ph.D. from the University of Iowa.
        He published his first book of verse, ''The Old Bachelor and Other Poems,'' in 1951. ''New and Selected Poems'' (1995), containing some of his own favorites, remains in print from Knopf, as does a book of critical prose, ''Oblivion: On Writers and Writing'' (Story Line Press, 1998). In addition, he wrote librettos and one-act plays, contributed to books, and edited works of poetry and anthologies.
        He was an accomplished painter and composed music on the side. A collection of his manuscripts is housed at the University of Delaware Library in Dover.
        Mr. Justice is survived by his wife of 56 years, Jean Ross Justice, and a son, Nathaniel, of Black Mountain, N.C.
        Last year, his family said, the Library of Congress offered him the honorary position of the nation's poet laureate. He was forced to decline because of his health, his family said.
      