
        Dr. Fred L. Whipple, originator of the idea that comets consist of ice with some rock mixed in, died Monday at a hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 97.
        His death was announced by the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, where Dr. Whipple had served as director for almost two decades.
        Dr. Whipple proposed his ''dirty snowball'' theory in 1950, diverging from the popular belief then that comets were balls of sand held together by gravity, to explain why some periodic comets seemed to be pulled along by more than the force of gravity, arriving sooner or later than predicted.
        He believed that as a comet approached the Sun, sunlight vaporized ice in its nucleus and that the resulting jets of particles acted like a rocket engine to speed the comet up or slow it down.
        In addition, the glowing light from the tails contained particles that Dr. Whipple conjectured had originated from frozen reservoirs in comet nuclei.
        ''He put the study of comets on a scientific basis,'' said Dr. Brian G. Marsden, director of the Minor Planet Center at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center.
        In 1986, close-up photographs of Halley's comet by the European Space Agency's Giotto spacecraft proved Dr. Whipple correct.
        Dr. Whipple often talked of his pride in an achievement during World War II when he helped invent a device that cut aluminum foil into thousands of fragments. The aluminum fragments, when released by Allied planes over Germany, confused enemy radar by giving the impression that a much larger number of planes were attacking.
        In 1946, anticipating the future of space flight, Dr. Whipple invented a thin outer skin of metal known as a meteor bumper or Whipple shield, to protect spacecraft from high-speed particles. A colliding meteor explodes when it hits the shield, and only vapor strikes the skin of the spacecraft. The technology is still in use.
        When the Soviet Union launched the Sputnik satellite in 1957, Dr. Whipple was setting up a network of cameras to track it, and one station was already operational. ''He was all ready for Sputnik when everyone else was wringing their hands and not knowing what to do,'' Dr. Marsden said.
        President John F. Kennedy honored Dr. Whipple with an Award for Distinguished Public Service in 1963 for the project.
        Born in Red Oak, Iowa, in 1906, Fred Lawrence Whipple studied at Occidental College in Los Angeles before completing his bachelor's degree in mathematics at U.C.L.A. He turned to astronomy after a bout with polio made it clear that he would not be able to fulfill his dream of becoming a tennis champion.
        He completed his doctorate in astronomy at the University of California, Berkeley, in 1931 and then accepted a position at Harvard, starting on Sept. 11 that year.
        ''Which was a Friday,'' Dr. Marsden said. ''Why he started on a Friday, I never quite knew.''
        Dr. Whipple was also director of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory in Cambridge from 1955 to 1973, which then merged with the Harvard Observatory and renamed the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. The observatory employed only a handful of researchers in 1955; now there are several hundred.
        ''It grew like wildfire,'' said Dr. Myron Lecar, a senior astrophysicist at the center. ''Fred started that show off, and it's made an enormous difference in U.S. astronomy.''
        While astronomers today often come from a physics background, ''Fred came from an earlier generation where they started from scratch learning astronomy,'' Dr. Lecar said. ''He was just shrewd. In fact, he was beloved in Congress, because he talked in earthy language. He had a good feel for what was true and what was noise.''
        Dr. Whipple retired from Harvard in 1977, although he continued to bicycle to the center six days a week until he was 90. The license plate on his car was ''COMETS.''
        ''Earlier on, he had 'PLANET,' too, when he had two cars,'' Dr. Marsden said.
        Dr. Whipple was looking forward to the results from NASA's Stardust mission, which collected samples from Comet Wild 2 in January. It is scheduled to return them to Earth in 2006, which would have been in time for Dr. Whipple's 100th birthday.
        Dr. Whipple is survived by his wife, Babette; a son, Earle; and two daughters, Sandra and Laura.
      