
        Semiha Berksoy, the first lady of Turkish opera as well as one of the most colorful figures in contemporary Turkish art, died Aug. 15 in Istanbul. She was 94.
        The cause was a pulmonary embolism, her daughter, Zeliha, said.
        In addition to her career as a soprano, in which her heavy makeup made her a symbolic image in Turkish culture, she was known internationally for her paintings, which often depicted a little girl, a personification of herself
        She was born in 1910 in Istanbul, where her father was an accountant who wrote poetry and her mother was a painter. Her talents were discovered when she was very young, and her parents sent her to the Istanbul conservatory to study music and visual arts. She had her first professional stage experience at 19, and she was 21 when she was given the leading role in the first Turkish sound movie, ''Istanbul Sokaklari'' (''The Streets of Istanbul'').
        She was asked to sing in the first Turkish opera, ''Ozsoy,'' in the presence of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of modern Turkey, who said he was stunned by her voice.
        Soon after, Miss Berksoy qualified for a scholarship to the Berlin Music Academy and left for Germany. She sang the leading role in "Ariadne Auf Naxos" in 1939, the first Turkish opera star to take the stage in Europe.
        Despite her success in Germany, she chose to return to Turkey that year and assist in establishing the first opera house in Ankara.
        ''She was determined to raise Turkish opera among the leading opera houses in the world,'' Zeliha Berksoy said in a telephone interview.
        Miss Berksoy's personal life reflected her revolutionary character, as she never hesitated to visit her lover, the celebrated left-wing Turkish poet Nazim Hikmet, in prison, despite the risk of being labeled a Communist.
        She also appeared onstage in daring costumes, challenging traditional concepts of stage propriety and classical art.
        In a stage performance at the Babylon club in Istanbul in November 2000, she joined a percussion group and performed in a wide spectrum of the arts -- from poetry to singing to drawing to drama -- in a transparent self-painted costume.
        She also sang in "The Days Before" at Lincoln Center in New York in 1999, a year before her formal farewell to the stage.
        But she never fully retired. In 2003, she participated in the Vienna Biennial with her stage interpretation of ''Salome,'' and she was preparing another project, ''Beethoven Night,'' with Robert Wilson, a friend, for 2005.
        A foundation named after her, started by her artist friends, is planning a memorial event for next year to commemorate the 75th anniversary of her career at the State Opera.
      