
        Bernard H. Breslauer, a prominent New York rare book dealer and a leading collector of manuscript illuminations, died on Aug. 14 in Manhattan. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan.
        His death was announced by Felix de Marez Oyens, a friend and colleague.
        Known also as a leading expert on bookbindings, Mr. Breslauer was born into a family famous among European antiquarians and collectors. He settled in New York in 1977 and soon made news beyond his own select circle with the rare change of hands of a Gutenberg Bible. In a 1978 auction at what was then Christie, Manson & Woods in New York, he bought a copy on behalf of the state library of Baden-Württemberg, in Germany. The price was $2.2 million, a world record then.
        The book had been consigned by the General Theological Seminary of New York, whose dean had acquired it in 1898 for $15,000. Since then it had been locked in a vault, exhibited only occasionally.
        Mr. Breslauer was an honorary fellow of the Pierpont Morgan Library, which in 1992 mounted an exhibition titled ''The Breslauer Collection of Manuscript Illuminations.'' The show's catalog remains a reference source. His collection of illuminations was one of the largest in private hands, including more than 100 items; he also had German, Flemish, French, English, Italian and Spanish manuscript paintings.
        Bernd Hartmut Breslauer was born in Berlin in July 1, 1918, the only son of Martin Breslauer, one of Europe's leading rare book dealers. He apprenticed in Florence before joining his father's firm in 1935. Soon after, his father had to sell the better part of his library in order to get the family safely out of Nazi Germany.
        They reached London in 1937 and rebuilt the business. Martin Breslauer died as a result of the blitz, and Bernard joined the Auxiliary Military Pioneer Corps to avoid internment as an enemy alien; on weekends he helped the firm with its catalogs.
        After spending four years in the corps, he became a leading bookbinding expert, specializing in examples from the Middle Ages and the Renaissance, and in literary and musical autograph manuscripts. He also began his voluminous collection of illuminated manuscript leaves, some kept at the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles.
        As a dealer in New York, he offered more than 100 catalogs, among them a series on historic artistic bookbindings.
        Mr. Braslauer also wrote articles for bibliographic journals and scholarly treatises about historical libraries.
        For many years his Fifth Avenue apartment was a mecca for collectors and librarians drawn to early printed books, medieval manuscripts, fine period bindings and literary and musical autographs.
        Mr. Breslauer never married and leaves no immediate survivors.
      