
        Paul G. Garrity, a former Boston judge whose legacy was a cleaner Boston Harbor and improved public housing, died on Saturday at Massachusetts General Hospital. He was 66 and lived in Boston.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Judge Garrity retired in 1990 as a justice of the Massachusetts Superior Court, the state's highest trial court. In his relatively short tenure on the bench, he forced legislative and administrative action that had a lasting effects.
        Heeding a deadline imposed by him, the Massachusetts legislature created the Water Resources Authority to keep 43 Boston-area communities from spewing raw sewage into the harbor. In December 1984, Gov. Michael S. Dukakis signed the bill for the new agency.
        Earlier, in 1979, Judge Garrity had ordered the Boston Housing Authority, the landlord of 67 housing projects, into receivership. Judicial oversight of the agency continued until 1984, clearing the way for better administration and physical improvements.
        (He was occasionally confused with Judge W. Arthur Garrity Jr. of United States District Court, who in 1974 ordered a busing plan to integrate Boston schools. They were not related.)
        After leaving the bench, Judge Garrity became a principal in ADR Solutions Inc., a dispute-resolution service.
        Paul Gerard Garrity was born in Jamaica Plains, Mass., and graduated from Boston Latin School, which he served as a trustee. He graduated from Boston College and Boston College Law School and received an advanced law degree from Harvard.
        After serving in the Army infantry in Germany and becoming a captain, he worked as a legal assistance lawyer in community law offices under the auspices of the Ford Foundation and Harvard's Community Legal Assistance Office. He also taught trial practice part time at Boston College Law School and Northeastern University Law School.
        In 1972, on appointment by Gov. Francis W. Sargent, he organized the Boston Housing Court and headed it until his elevation to Superior Court by Governor Dukakis in 1977.
        Judge Garrity's survivors include his third wife, Ileen Gladstone, and their two sons, Matthew G. and Ross G.; a daughter, Margot D., and two sons, Colin C. and Lucas C., all of Ipswich, Mass., from his second marriage, to Catherine Chadwick of Ipswich; and a son, Thomas L., of Somersworth, N.H., and a daughter, Maura C., of Boston, from his first marriage, to Paula Wheelock Garrity of Boston. He is also survived by a brother, John K., of Cambridge, and a sister, Judith Cosgrove of Westwood, Mass.
        Judge Garrity was honorary chairman of Save the Harbor-Save the Bay, an environmental group dedicated to a clean Boston Harbor, and a past president of the Greater Boston Symphony Orchestra. He ran in the Boston and New York Marathons several times.
      