
        Timothy B. Harbert, the chairman and chief executive of State Street Global Advisors, the Boston-based fund management giant, died Tuesday night. He was 53 years old.
        The cause was a sudden heart attack at his home in Boxford, Mass., the company said.
        Mr. Harbert joined the company in 1987 and rose through the ranks by leading its overseas expansion. In 2001, he became chairman and chief executive, after the retirement of Nicholas A. Lopardo.
        State Street Global Advisors is the fund management arm of the State Street Corporation, the Boston-based financial services company, with $9.1 trillion in assets under custody. It also calculates the daily prices of many funds, serving as a leading record keeper for the industry.
        Mr. Harbert led the fund management unit through a period of sharp growth. In three years, assets under management at State Street Global grew to $1.2 trillion from less than $800 billion. Last month, the firm was ranked at the top of Institutional Investor's list of America's top money managers.
        His death leaves the company in a delicate position, coming less than two months after the retirement of the chairman and chief executive of the State Street Corporation, David A. Spina, after a heart attack and surgery last year. Ronald E. Logue succeeded Mr. Spina.
        Alan Brown, group investment officer, and Peter Leahy, chief operating officer, were appointed interim co-heads of the fund management firm, reporting to Mr. Logue.
        Mr. Harbert, who was born in Los Angeles, received a bachelor's degree in accounting from Bentley College in Waltham, Mass. After serving in the Navy from 1973 to 1976 aboard the oiler Mississinewa, he began his career at the M.D. Oppenheim & Company accounting firm. He joined State Street from PricewaterhouseCoopers, the accounting and consulting firm.
        Mr. Harbert is survived by his wife, Nancy; five children, Christopher, Rachel, Brittany, Connor and Evelyn; and his parents, Ted and Marna Harbert. He is also survived by five siblings: Ted, a former president of NBC studios and chairman of ABC entertainment, who is now president and chief executive of the E Entertainment network of Comcast; Michael, a television producer; Christopher, a talent agent; Richard; and Sarah.
      