
        Robert Span Browne, a prominent economist and foreign-aid administrator who founded important African-American self-help programs, died on Aug. 5 at a hospital in West Haverstraw, N.Y. He was 79 and lived in Teaneck, N.J.
        The cause was heart failure, said the 21st-Century Foundation, which he formed in 1971. It channels grants to spur economic development in black communities.
        Mr. Browne was a strong voice in two great national debates of the last half-century: one over the Vietnam War, the other over black Americans' demands for social and economic equity.
        As a veteran of economic development work in Cambodia and Vietnam, he argued strongly against armed intervention in Indochina, and as an economist, he also agitated for investment in black areas and a say in the country's boardrooms and public finances. Without that, he said in the early 1970's, there might be a need for economic development loans from the World Bank, the United Nations and Japan in a reverse kind of foreign aid to get black enterprise on its feet.
        He founded the Black Economic Research Center in Harlem in 1969 and directed it until 1980. It recruited black economists for development projects and published a journal, The Review of Black Political Economy.
        One of Mr. Browne's concerns was the shrinking of black land ownership in the South. Hoping to stem it, he set up an Emergency Land Fund in 1971. The purpose of the 21st-Century Foundation, formed the same year with a million-dollar endowment, was to muster black philanthropy and focus it with seed capital for promising projects.
        Robert Browne was a native of Chicago. He graduated from the University of Chicago with an honors degree in economics. After serving in the Army Air Forces, in 1947 he was among the first black Americans to receive an M.B.A. in finance from his alma mater.
        He did postgraduate studies at the London School of Economics and later completed doctoral work at the City University of New York. He started working as program director for the Urban League in Chicago and in 1955 joined the Agency for International Development.
        He was posted as program officer in Cambodia until 1958 and reassigned to South Vietnam, where he was stationed until 1961. After that he was project director for the Stokes-Phelps Fund and, until 1971, taught economics at Fairleigh Dickinson University in Teaneck.
        On his return from Southeast Asia, he became politically engaged, working with peace groups, labor unions and churches, speaking in national forums, and writing articles.
        In the early 1980's, Mr. Browne served as executive director of the African Development Fund in Ivory Coast. He then was a senior research fellow at Howard University and, until 1991, staff director of a House subcommittee dealing with issues involving the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and Third World debt.
        In semiretirement since 1993, he was an economic consultant for Washington-based organizations, many of them dealing with Africa.
        Mr. Browne is survived by his wife of 48 years, Huoi Nguyen Browne, whom he met while working in Cambodia; two daughters, Hoa Cohen of Ridgefield Park, N.J., and Mai Brown of Manhattan; two sons, Alexi, of Fort Lee, N.J., and Marshall, of Manhattan; a sister, Wendelle Browne of Chicago; and a grandson.
      