
        Kermit Swiler Champa, a professor of art and architecture at Brown University whose impassioned lectures inspired several generations of historians and curators, died on July 22 at his home in Providence, R.I. He was 64.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Judith Tolnick.
        A specialist in modernism and 19th-century French painting, Mr. Champa drew his love for music into his theories about art, which he considered intimately connected aesthetic forms, and found links between, say, Renoir and French Wagnerism, and Mondrian and boogie-woogie. In ''The Rise of Landscape Painting in France: Corot to Monet'' (Abrams, 1991), he used symphonic music as a backdrop for the philosophical and intellectual importance of landscape painting. '''Masterpiece' Studies: Manet, Zola, Van Gogh and Monet'' (Penn State, 1994) investigated the interrelatedness of music, art and literature on advanced French painting in the 1880's. At his death he was revising his latest book, ''The Slang of Aestheticism: The Anglo-American Color-Music Project, 1898-1950.''
        As a boy near Lancaster, Pa., Mr. Champa sold his cherished collection of Lionel trains so that he could buy a trombone. He wanted to become a performer, and in his freshman year at Yale, where he studied art in hopes of teaching it, he traveled to Europe as a member of the marching band. He earned a bachelor's degree in art history from Yale in 1960 and a doctorate from Harvard in 1965. After returning to Yale as an assistant professor of art history, he joined the faculty of Brown in 1970, where he became a full professor in 1974.
        A formalist whose early mentors included the Harvard art historian and the art critic Clement Greenberg, Mr. Champa later increasingly investigated the role of popular culture in interpreting the artists he studied.
        ''He was a formalist in the sense of being very concerned with aesthetic issues in painting, rather than political or social subject matter, and of course, that kind of writing about art endeared him to a lot of painters because that's how painters talk about each other's works,'' Hilton Kramer, the art critic of The New York Observer and a longtime acquaintance of Mr. Champa's, said in a telephone interview. ''But he was very much open to change and innovation and I think that openness was one of the reasons he was so successful as a teacher.''
        Mr. Champa's lectures drew legions of students, who poured out into the aisles. An exhilarating speaker, he had been named in 1975 by Esquire magazine as one of the 10 ''sexiest professors in America.''
        ''For his graduate students, Champa was the éminence grise, himself that great work of art: intimidating and private and connective at once,'' writes James Panero, a former student, in the forthcoming September issue of The New Criterion. ''His relationships with students transcended the usual chitchat (sometimes awkwardly so) and went right to the heart of the matter. Everything you needed to know could be found in Courbet, Meier-Graefe, Baudelaire and Wagner. Meeting adjourned.''
        In 1995 Mr. Champa was named the Andrea V. Rosenthal professor in the history of art and architecture.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Russell, of San Francisco, and Anthony, of Providence; a daughter, Sarah, of London and Providence; and his father, Valentino A. Champa of Lancaster, Pa.; and his stepmother, Helen Conner Champa.
        Correction:  August 18, 2004, Wednesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about Kermit S. Champa, an art historian and author, omitted the name of an early mentor whom it only described as a ''Harvard art historian.'' He was Frederick Deknatel.
      