
        Charles Eaton, a member of an American entertainment clan whose credits go back to the Ziegfeld Follies, died on Sunday in Norman, Okla. He was 94 and had been living with his sister, Doris Eaton Travis, one of four surviving Ziegfeld girls.
        His death was announced in New York by Nils Hanson, administrator of the Ziegfeld Club and its archives on Florenz Ziegfeld and his legendary Follies.
        Mr. Eaton accompanied his sister, now 100, to New York this year to appear at a Broadway Cares/Equity Fights AIDS benefit. Mrs. Travis's memoir, ''The Way We Danced: The Story of My Theatrical Family'' (University of Oklahoma Press) was published recently.
        In his boyhood, Mr. Eaton played the Dauphin in a 1921 Ziegfeld Follies sketch, ''The Birth of the Dauphin,'' that starred W.C. Fields as the King of France and Fanny Brice as the Queen. His role involved speaking and dancing but not singing.
        Three other Eaton siblings -- a brother and two sisters -- appeared in the Follies from 1918 to 1923. In all, six Eatons were performers, and at one time they were billed as the Seven Little Eatons; the seventh was an older sister who took care of them.
        Charles Eaton was born in Washington on June 22, 1910, and was educated at the Professional Children's School in Manhattan. At 4, he made his debut in Washington in a production called ''We Are Seven,'' after which he divided his time between stages and schoolrooms.
        He appeared in 10 Broadway productions, starting in 1917 with something called ''Mother Carey's Chickens.'' He also appeared as John Napoleon Darling in a 1924 revival of James Barrie's ''Peter Pan,'' with Marilyn Miller in the title role.
        He was seen in a play called ''Skidding'' in 1928 and in the 1933 revival of ''Tommy,'' a comedy by Howard Lindsay and Bertrand Robinson. He last appeared on Broadway in the comedy ''Lady Luck,'' which lasted for just five performances in 1936.
        His screen career included more than a dozen movies. He was a child actor by 1921 and appeared in a 1929 talkie, ''The Ghost Talks.'' His last movie role was in a British film, ''Sons of the Sea,'' in 1939.
        A year later, he re-joined his sister Doris, who had gone into business with a thriving Arthur Murray Dance Studios franchise in Detroit. He made a second career as an instructor and as an officer in her company, a position that frequently took him to Cuba and South America to study Latin dances, which were becoming a craze in the United States.
        The franchise grew to 18 studios, and Doris Eaton married Paul Travis, a prosperous businessman and one of her students. She managed the business until 1968, when the couple moved to a 400-acre Oklahoma ranch, where they raised quarter horses. Mr. Travis died in 2000.
        Charles Eaton left Detroit five years ago to live with his sister. She is his only survivor.
      