
        Ivan Hlinka, who coached the Czech Republic to the hockey gold medal at the 1998 Nagano Olympics and became the coach of the Pittsburgh Penguins two years later -- one of the first two National Hockey League head coaches born and reared in Europe -- died yesterday at a hospital in the Czech Republic. He was 54.
        Hlinka died of injuries sustained Sunday night when his car collided with a truck near Karlovy Vary, about 70 miles west of Prague, Pavel Barta, a spokesman for the Czech national team, told The Associated Press. Hlinka, who was to coach the Czech team at hockey's World Cup later this month, was returning from the town after gaining assurances from Jaromir Jagr, the Rangers' star wing, that he would take part in the World Cup, according to Reuters.
        Hlinka coached the Czech team to two world championships and three Olympic medals in the 1990's. His 1998 team, which won Olympic gold with a 1-0 victory over Russia, was led by two N.H.L. stars, goalie Dominik Hasek and Jagr.
        In February 2000, Hlinka was named associate head coach of the Penguins under Coach Herb Brooks, and he was promoted to head coach that June.
        When the 2000-1 season began, Hlinka and the Chicago Blackhawks' Alpo Suhonen, a Finn, became the first European-bred head coaches in the N.H.L. They were named at a time when about 30 percent of the league's players were from Europe.
        Hlinka took the Penguins to the Eastern Conference finals of the N.H.L. playoffs, coaching a team with 15 European players when the season began. But he was fired after Pittsburgh got off to an 0-4 start in the 2001-2 season. Mario Lemieux, the star player and the owner of the Penguins, said that Hlinka was having problems communicating with his players.
        Brooks, who coached the United States hockey team to the Miracle on Ice victory over the Soviet Union at the 1980 Lake Placid Olympics, died in August 2003 when he lost control of his vehicle while driving in Minnesota.
        The Penguins' general manager, Craig Patrick, who hired Hlinka as head coach, said yesterday in a statement that Hlinka was ''a great hockey player, a player that many of the current Czech players idolized growing up.''
        Hlinka, a native of Most, Czechoslovakia, played on the national team that won the world championship in 1972, 1976 and 1977, and on teams that won bronze at the 1972 Olympics in Sapporo, Japan, and silver at the 1976 Olympics in Innsbruck, Austria. He was named top forward at the 1976 Canada Cup.
        He began his pro career with CHZ Litvinov in the Czech League in 1969.
        Hlinka played with the N.H.L.'s Vancouver Canucks from 1981 to 1983, then returned to Europe and finished his playing career in Switzerland before becoming a coach.
        He is survived by his wife and a son.
      