
        Carl Mydans, a photographer for Life whose career spanned all 36 years of the magazine's incarnation as a weekly, and whose most memorable pictures were taken under combat conditions during World War II, died on Monday at his home in Larchmont, N.Y., his family said. He was 97.
        Mr. Mydans began his career during the Depression working for the Resettlement Administration, a federal agency that later became the Farm Security Administration. Armed with a shooting script from Roy Stryker, the project's leader, Mr. Mydans traveled in the South, photographing cotton farms and laborers, and in New England, documenting small-town life.
        After 16 months with the government, he was hired by Life. Mr. Mydans became the fifth photographer on the staff, taking his place alongside Margaret Bourke-White, Alfred Eisenstaedt, Thomas McAvoy and Peter Stackpole.
        Over four decades Mr. Mydans worked on the full gamut of Life stories, from Hollywood celebrities to Texas cattle roundups, but his most important assignment, starting with the Soviet invasion of Finland in 1939, was as a war photographer. Resourceful and unruffled, Mr. Mydans sent back pictures of combat that even now define how we remember World War II, Korea and other conflicts. Like Robert Capa and W. Eugene Smith, he adopted the perspective of an infantryman as the best way of showing what war felt like.
        Mr. Mydans's knack for getting himself close to the action also had disadvantages. In January 1942, he and his wife, Shelley, then a Life researcher-reporter, were taken prisoner by invading Japanese forces in Manila; they spent almost two years in captivity there and in Shanghai before being released in a prisoner exchange. After a brief respite in New York, Mr. Mydans was sent by Life to cover the Allied liberation of Italy and France and then back to the Pacific theater.
        Unlike, say, Smith, who planned his pictures in sequences and fought over how they would be laid out on the page, Mr. Mydans specialized in getting one picture that told the story by itself. As a result, he proved most useful to Life's editors when space was tight and news was breaking.
        In 1963 he was among the last of the magazine's photography staff to get to the office after John F. Kennedy's assassination. Without a clear assignment, he wandered over to Grand Central Terminal and, on a whim, boarded a train north. His picture of commuters poring over newspapers with the story of Kennedy's death captured the emotional intensity of the moment and became one of his most popular images from the Life years.
        Two of his most widely reproduced war pictures took advantage of his acquaintance with Gen. Douglas MacArthur, as well as other influential Pacific military leaders. One shows MacArthur wading ashore on Luzon in January 1945, an image illustrating the fulfillment of his 1942 pledge to return to the Philippines. The other, taken on board the battleship Missouri on Sept. 2, 1945, shows MacArthur and other officers watching as the Japanese delegation signs the surrender.
        Known for his journalistic instincts rather than for any stylistic trait, Mr. Mydans recognized that his success required more than good reflexes. ''When you are a war photographer for a publication, there are three important things,'' he said in 1984. ''The first is to get where the action is and to photograph it. The second is to get that film back from where you've been shooting and on the way to your home office. A third is to keep a careful record of what you have photographed.''
        Carl Mydans was born May 20, 1907, in Boston, and graduated from Boston University in 1930 with a degree in journalism. While a student, he learned to take and process photographs, and after joining the staff of American Banker as a reporter in 1931, he acquired his own camera, a 35-millimeter Contax.
        At the time the 35-millimeter format of the Contax (and of its competitor, the Leica) was a novelty in the news business. But Mr. Mydans found good company in photographers like Walker Evans, Ben Shahn and Eisenstaedt, who demonstrated the small camera's potential. He was soon selling free-lance pictures to newspapers and to Time magazine.
        In the summer of 1935, Mr. Mydans was asked to join Stryker's photography unit in the Resettlement Administration. Told that he would find the essence of the Depression in people's faces, he proceeded to emphasize individuals in his photographs. His ability to tell a story through a single face would distinguish his career.
        After joining Life a week before the first issue appeared on Nov. 23, 1936, Mr. Mydans retraced his steps as a Farm Security Administration photographer in Texas. He extensively documented Freer, a town in the midst of an oil boom, taking portraits of barmaids, cowboys and the police chief. In New York he photographed sandhogs working on a tunnel beneath the East River.
        In June 1938 he married Shelley Smith, whose father had started the journalism program at Stanford University.
        Mrs. Mydans, who became an author and a commentator for a Time Inc. radio program, died in March 2002. Mr. Mydans's survivors include the couple's son, Seth, a foreign correspondent for The New York Times who covers Asia; their daughter, Shelley, known as Misty, of Sacramento, Calif.; two grandchildren; two stepgrandchildren; and one stepgreat-grandchild.
        Life made the Mydanses a writer-photographer team, and they were sent to cover wartime developments in Finland, Italy and France. In 1941 they arrived in China to report on the Sino-Japanese war, followed by the trip to the Philippines that led to their capture. After the war, the Mydans were often back in the Pacific. Mr. Mydans photographed preparations for the hydrogen bomb test at Bikini Atoll in 1946, and in 1947 he and his wife were put in charge of Time-Life's bureau in Tokyo. During a 1948 earthquake in Fukui, Japan, in which 1,600 people died, he took pictures on the street while buildings collapsed around him. In 1950 and 1951, he covered the Korean War.
        In the 1950's and 60's, Mr. Mydans kept up the globe-trotting pace of the Life photographer, traveling to Hong Kong, Greenland, Samoa, Russia, Yugoslavia and Vietnam. After Life ceased weekly publication in 1972, he continued to work for Time, Smithsonian and other publications.
        Mr. Mydans's photographs have been included in many surveys, including the 1988 traveling exhibition ''Eyes of Time: Photojournalism in America,'' organized by the George Eastman House in Rochester, N.Y. More recently, they were featured in a 1999 Asia Society show, ''China: 50 Years Inside the People's Republic.''
        His books include a memoir, ''More Than Meets the Eye'' (1959), ''The Violent Peace'' (with Shelley Mydans, 1968), and ''Carl Mydans: Photojournalist'' (1985), a retrospective of his work.
        Correction:  August 30, 2004, Monday  The obituary of the Life magazine photographer Carl Mydans on Aug. 18 referred incorrectly to the bomb tested in 1946 at Bikini Atoll, where he took photographs of preparations. It was an atomic bomb; a hydrogen bomb was tested there in 1954.
      