
        Peter Woodthorpe, the defiantly eccentric character actor who played a significant role in the British postwar theatrical revolution, died on Aug. 13. He was 72.
        His death was reported in The Guardian of London.
        While performing with the Marlowe Society as a Cambridge undergraduate, the Yorkshire-born Mr. Woodthorpe was spotted by the young director Peter Hall, who cast him as Estragon in the original 1955 production of Samuel Beckett's ''Waiting for Godot'' at the Arts Theater Club in London.
        A harbinger of the modern theater movement in Britain, ''Godot'' -- frequently described as a play in which nothing happens, twice -- excited controversy. Befuddled critics argued over its merits; performances were punctuated by shouts of displeasure and the slamming of seats.
        Playing alongside the seasoned actor Paul Daneman's Vladimir as one of a pair of tramps eternally waiting for something to alleviate their boredom, Mr. Woodthorpe nonetheless commanded attention as a fascinating oddball, whose nasal whine and fleshy face made him instantly recognizable. By the time Kenneth Tynan of The Observer described ''Godot'' as ''a conversational necessity for many years'' and Mr. Woodthorpe's portrayal of Estragon as ''compassionate lunacy,'' both the play and the actors' careers were well on their way.
        Attendance improved, and ''Godot'' moved to the West End, where Mr. Woodthorpe played opposite Hugh Burden and, after the play's closing, found himself much in demand. In 1956 he joined the English Stage Company as Wang, the water seller, opposite Peggy Ashcroft in Brecht's ''Good Woman of Setzuan.'' The next year he starred as the Yorkshire lad Noaks in ''Zuleika,'' an ill-conceived musical rendition of Max Beerbohm's novel ''Zuleika Dobson.''
        Mr. Woodthorpe toured Britain with Lynn Fontanne and Alfred Lunt in Friedrich Dürrenmatt's ''Visit'' as the weak-willed Professor Muller, and repeated the role in Peter Brook's 1958 Broadway production, which opened the Lunt-Fontanne Theater.
        Returning to Britain, he joined the Shakespeare Memorial Theater Company at Stratford-on-Avon, playing Flute in Mr. Hall's production of ''A Midsummer Night's Dream,'' Roderigo to Paul Robeson's Othello and Junius in Laurence Olivier's revival of ''Coriolanus.''
        In 1960 Mr. Woodthorpe created the role of Aston, a reticent man living alone in a cluttered top-floor room of an abandoned house in a poor London district, who takes in an old derelict, in Harold Pinter's first smash hit, ''The Caretaker,'' opposite Donald Pleasence and Alan Bates. The role, which includes a challenging second-act speech about his character's removal to a mental hospital, was among Mr. Woodthorpe's most magnetic performances, earning him praise as ''magnificent'' from No
      