
        Red Adair, an indefatigable conqueror of ravenous fires in oil and gas wells on land and sea around the world, died Saturday at a hospital in his native Houston, his daughter, Robyn, announced. He was 89.
        Mr. Adair was an independent daredevil who more than made up for his lack of formal education with a keen mind and an unfailing instinct for what a runaway wellhead fire would do. In 50 years of practicing his profession, he claimed, neither he nor any of his men ever suffered what he would consider a serious injury.
        ''I've got cut half in two, once, and blowed up a time or two, but nothing permanent,'' he once told a reporter for The Globe and Mail of Toronto.
        His services did not come cheap. Just before his retirement 10 years ago, Forbes magazine estimated that he had netted at least $100 million for himself. Members of his crew reportedly earned $7,000 to $10,000 a day while on the job.
        Among Mr. Adair's most noted achievements was his taming of Kuwaiti oil fires set by Iraq's retreating army at the end of the Persian Gulf war of 1991. The blazes flared in some 600 of Kuwait's 1,000 wells, and Mr. Adair's men formed one of the four earliest crews that fought them, their heat so extreme that they turned sand into glass.
        It was expected to take a year to extinguish them all. But the task took only eight months, and Mr. Adair finished in six months with the 119 wells he worked, charging the Kuwaitis four times his basic fee.
        The Kuwait fires were fought in part with an old-fashioned weapon, water, which allowed the crew to get close enough to lower drums filled with dynamite and TNT into the middle of the flames. When the charges went off, with Mr. Adair and his men watching from a short distance, enough oxygen was consumed to suffocate the fire.
        The man with such extraordinary technical knowledge of fires was helpless with more mundane tasks. His wife, Kemmie, whom he married in 1941, said he found mowing his lawn so daunting that he left the remains of three stalled power mowers in his yard.
        Mr. Adair was more interested in living well than in yard chores. When he worked, he liked to travel by chartered jet. When he was not working, he preferred fast cars and boats. Over the years, he bought several Cadillacs, Mercedes-Benzes and Bentleys, all of them red. His employees also drove red Cadillacs. His office was red, and for some time he had a secretary with red hair, like his, who wore red dresses.
        Born Paul Neal Adair in Houston on June 18, 1915, he was one of eight children of Charlie and Mary Adair. The father, who had moved to Texas with his wife from Missouri at the turn of the 20th century, was a pretty good blacksmith but a poor businessman. Young Red worked for him as a little boy, awaking early to get the furnace fire started in the shop. Trying to figure out how to make it bigger and better, he blew up the furnace, he once recalled, and got a beating.
        A fine athlete, he excelled in swimming, basketball and football. As a teenager, he earned extra money as a semipro boxer, and never lost. He also got good grades, but quit high school to contribute to the family finances and worked at many jobs.
        Mr. Adair first learned about oil- and gas-well fires when he worked for a Texas company, Oil Pressure Control. He left for the Army in World War II and was assigned to a bomb demolition unit, for which he worked without injury for two years.
        When the war was over, he returned to Texas and got a job with Myron M. Kinley, then regarded as one of the best firefighters in the oil business. He was working on a well in South Texas one day when it blew up and sent him sailing through the air. But he landed unscathed, and legends about Red Adair started to grow.
        He was with Mr. Kinley until 1959. When Mr. Kinley retired, Mr. Adair bought all his equipment and founded the Red Adair Company.
        Over the years, Mr. Adair was battered by explosions several times, catapulted into a pool of hot oil and temporarily blinded by hydrogen sulfide. On one occasion, his pelvis was crushed by a crane on a rig off the California coast. But he claimed that none of those injuries were serious.
        In 1961, he fought a huge fire fed by gas rushing out of a pipe in the Algerian desert. The spectacular flame, soaring 450 feet high, was conquered by Mr. Adair with his usual cocktail of water and dynamite. He was not injured.
        ''With bombs and fires,'' he said, ''you get only one mistake.''
        Besides his daughter and his wife, Mr. Adair is survived by a son, Jimmy; three grandchildren; and a great-granddaughter.
        Knowledge of Mr. Adair's exploits spread in 1968 when John Wayne starred in ''Hellfighters,'' a movie based on the work of him and his crew. It was not a critical success, but Mr. Adair and Mr. Wayne became fast friends and drinking buddies.
        In all, Mr. Adair estimated, he put out more than 2,000 fires. Asked how he felt about them, he replied: ''It scares you. All the noise, the rattling and the shaking. ''
        But there was a good side to it. Fighting such fires, he said, afforded him ''freedom from life insurance salesmen,'' and he thought that was worth something.
      