
        Milton Pollack, a noted federal judge who presided over some of the biggest financial-scandal cases of the 20th century, died Friday at New York Weill Cornell Center. He was 97.
        The cause was complications from surgery, according to his family.
        Judge Pollack grew up in Flatbush, Brooklyn, and earned his law degree from Columbia University in 1929. He was named to the federal bench in the Southern District of New York in 1967 by President Lyndon B. Johnson, and never retired.
        Throughout his judicial career, Judge Pollack was known as a strict and efficient arbiter who could not be fooled by a lawyer's tricks, either because he had seen them before or had used them himself in 23 years of private practice. ''He was a man who went straight to the essence of every case he ever handled,'' said Judge Michael B. Mukasey, the chief judge for the Southern District. ''He got right to it faster than just about anyone else I've ever seen.''
        Judge Pollack was best known for taking complex financial scandals, boiling them down, and compelling both sides to accept a settlement.
        During the late 1980's and early 1990's, Judge Pollack sorted through the Drexel Burnham Lambert bankruptcy case, pulling together hundreds of claims against the company and its executives, including Michael R. Milken. In 1992, Judge Pollack approved a settlement in that case for more than $1 billion.
        The amount was later reduced, but many experts had predicted when the case started that it would take decades to complete. Judge Pollack ended the case in a fraction of that time simply by telling lawyers on all sides to sit in a jury room until they came up with points of agreement. Several hours later, they emerged with an outline of the settlement on a single sheet of yellow legal paper, which Judge Pollack then framed and put on his office wall.
        Judge Pollack, a careful dresser whose erect posture and intense gaze often put lawyers on edge, also kept in his office a toy model of the Concorde, a souvenir from a 1977 case in which he overturned a year-old ban on allowing the supersonic jet to land at Kennedy International Airport.
        Two years before, Judge Pollack sentenced Jane Alpert, a member of the Weather Underground, to 27 months in prison for conspiring to bomb a federal building in New York during the Vietnam War, and then jumping bail.
        In 1972, Judge Pollack presided in a case in which one of the lawyers was Roy Cohn, who had an intimidating reputation, and the judge frequently stood between the jury room and the elevator to ensure that Mr. Cohn could not intimidate jurors during lunch breaks. Work, he often said, kept him alive. Even in his 90's, he hardly slowed down. Last year, he issued a landmark ruling dismissing two class-action lawsuits against analysts at Merrill Lynch. His criticism, as usual, was scathing. He blamed the plaintiffs for expecting federal securities laws ''to underwrite, subsidize and encourage their rash speculation in joining a freewheeling casino that lured thousands obsessed with the fantasy of Olympian riches.''
        Despite his reputation for toughness, Judge Pollack's friends and family described him as a warm and gentle man who would often become teary-eyed during professional and family gatherings. Judge Pollack's first wife, Lillian Klein, to whom he was married 35 years, died in 1967, and his second wife, Moselle Baum Erlich, whom he married in 1971, died in February.
        Judge Pollack is survived by four daughters, Stephanie Miller of Scarsdale, N.Y., Joan Kaplan and Judy Margolis, both of Houston, and Phyllis Asch of Manhattan; one son, Daniel Pollack of Manhattan; 15 grandchildren; and 23 great-grandchildren.
      