
        Peter Woodthorpe, the defiantly eccentric character actor who played a significant role in the British postwar theatrical revolution, died on Aug. 13. He was 72.
        His death was reported in The Guardian of London.
        While performing with the Marlowe Society as a Cambridge undergraduate, the Yorkshire-born Mr. Woodthorpe was spotted by the young director Peter Hall, who cast him as Estragon in the original 1955 production of Samuel Beckett's ''Waiting for Godot'' at the Arts Theater Club in London.
        A harbinger of the modern theater movement in Britain, ''Godot'' -- frequently described as a play in which nothing happens, twice -- excited controversy. Befuddled critics argued over its merits; performances were punctuated by shouts of displeasure and the slamming of seats.
        Playing alongside the seasoned actor Paul Daneman's Vladimir as one of a pair of tramps eternally waiting for something to alleviate their boredom, Mr. Woodthorpe nonetheless commanded attention as a fascinating oddball, whose nasal whine and fleshy face made him instantly recognizable. By the time Kenneth Tynan of The Observer described ''Godot'' as ''a conversational necessity for many years'' and Mr. Woodthorpe's portrayal of Estragon as ''compassionate lunacy,'' both the play and the actors' careers were well on their way.
        Attendance improved, and ''Godot'' moved to the West End, where Mr. Woodthorpe played opposite Hugh Burden and, after the play's closing, found himself much in demand. In 1956 he joined the English Stage Company as Wang, the water seller, opposite Peggy Ashcroft in Brecht's ''Good Woman of Setzuan.'' The next year he starred as the Yorkshire lad Noaks in ''Zuleika,'' an ill-conceived musical rendition of Max Beerbohm's novel ''Zuleika Dobson.''
        Mr. Woodthorpe toured Britain with Lynn Fontanne and Alfred Lunt in Friedrich Dürrenmatt's ''Visit'' as the weak-willed Professor Muller, and repeated the role in Peter Brook's 1958 Broadway production, which opened the Lunt-Fontanne Theater.
        Returning to Britain, he joined the Shakespeare Memorial Theater Company at Stratford-on-Avon, playing Flute in Mr. Hall's production of ''A Midsummer Night's Dream,'' Roderigo to Paul Robeson's Othello and Junius in Laurence Olivier's revival of ''Coriolanus.''
        In 1960 Mr. Woodthorpe created the role of Aston, a reticent man living alone in a cluttered top-floor room of an abandoned house in a poor London district, who takes in an old derelict, in Harold Pinter's first smash hit, ''The Caretaker,'' opposite Donald Pleasence and Alan Bates. The role, which includes a challenging second-act speech about his character's removal to a mental hospital, was among Mr. Woodthorpe's most magnetic performances, earning him praise as ''magnificent'' from Noel Coward and a Clarence Derwent award for best supporting actor.
        Two years later Mr. Woodthorpe joined Olivier in the opening season of the Chichester Festival among a glittering cast that included Michael Redgrave, Sybil Thorndike, Joan Plowright, John Neville and Rosemary Harris. But his parts were small or undistinguished and, prone to alienating colleagues and directors with his biting comments, he was not invited to rejoin Olivier when the National Theater opened at the Old Vic.
        Mr. Woodthorpe went on to appear as a deliriously all-out Lord Foppington in John Vanbrugh's ''Relapse'' and the predatory Kimberley in Pauline Macaulay's ''Creeper'' while taking over from Mr. Pleasence the title role in Jean Anouilh's ''Poor Bitos.''
        He returned to Broadway in 1968 for a George Abbott production of the E.Y. Harburg-Jule Styne musical ''Darling of the Day,'' about an artist who, disenchanted with success, fakes his death. Despite its sterling pedigree, that show, plagued by road troubles and coinciding with a newspaper strike, was a costly flop.
        After a stellar first decade Mr. Woodthorpe found his career on the downslide, tempered by prevailing theatrical tastes as well as by his infamous outspokenness. In 1970, however, he joined the Royal Shakespeare Company in Stratford, where his luster was restored by his near-perfect casting as Toad in A.A. Milne's ''Toad of Toad Hall,'' and a richly textured portrayal of the Actor in Maxim Gorky's ''Lower Depths.''
        He was once again at the top of his form as Nils Krogstad opposite Claire Bloom's Nora in the 1973 West End revival of Ibsen's ''Doll's House'' and in the 1976 John Mortimer double bill ''Heaven and Hell.'' His more recent stage credits included Eugene O'Neill's ''Mourning Becomes Electra'' and the 1995 National Theater production of Rodney Ackland's ''Absolute Hell.''
        Mr. Woodthorpe appeared in more than 40 films and television shows, including memorable stints as Gollum in a 1978 animated film of ''The Lord of the Rings'' and its 1981 BBC Radio adaptation.
      