
        Jerome Chodorov, a prolific playwright and librettist and co-author of the book for the musical ''Wonderful Town,'' who survived as a screenwriter despite being on a Hollywood blacklist, died on Sunday in Nyack, N.Y. He was 93 and lived in Pomona, N.Y.
        His death was announced by his daughter, Susan Chodorov Crane.
        While now known primarily for ''Wonderful Town'' -- currently revived at the Al Hirschfeld Theater -- Mr. Chodorov was at one time one of the most consistently produced writers in New York, with more than a dozen plays and musicals on Broadway from the mid-1930's to the mid-1960's. Between 1941 and 1943, Mr. Chodorov and his writing partner Joseph A. Fields had two hit plays, ''My Sister Eileen'' and ''Junior Miss, '' running simultaneously on Broadway; in 1954, they had three Broadway productions (two musicals and a play).
        ''My Sister Eileen,'' based on a collection of short stories by Ruth McKenney, kept paying off for Mr. Chodorov and Mr. Fields, first as the 1940 play of the same title and then as ''Wonderful Town'' in 1953. In both, Mr. Fields and Mr. Chodorov adapted Ms. McKenney's light-hearted, autobiographical stories of the adventures of the two Ohio sisters Ruth and Eileen Sherwood in 1930's New York.
        Book writers for musicals, typically an underappreciated breed, are the ones responsible for developing a musical's structure, characters and the dialogue between the songs. In the case of ''Wonderful Town,'' that meant carving out snappy one-liners around a dozen Leonard Bernstein songs and lyrics by Betty Comden and Adolph Green.
        The team proved up to the challenge; with Rosalind Russell playing Ruth, the tough-talking closet romantic, ''Wonderful Town'' was the critical and popular hit of the 1953-54 season, and went on to win five Tony Awards, including best musical. (His two other 1954 offerings included a hit play, ''The Anniversary Waltz,'' and a flop musical, ''The Girl in Pink Tights.'')
        In 1956, Mr. Chodorov and Mr. Fields once again had a hit with another adaptation, this time of Eudora Welty's comic short story ''The Ponder Heart,'' in which a talkative hotel manager delivers a Southern stemwinder. It won a Tony for best actress for Una Merkel.
        For all the success on Broadway, however, the 1950's were not a completely happy time for Mr. Chodorov. Twice named as a Communist by colleagues (including by the choreographer Jerome Robbins in 1953), Mr. Chodorov -- who had made a sizable income throughout the 1930's and 40's as a screenwriter and script doctor -- was blacklisted in Hollywood for most of the decade.
        He did not stop writing, but did uncredited work on a number of Hollywood films. He also went to London to work with the filmmaker Alexander Korda. (One of Mr. Chodorov's credits, for the 1958 Doris Day film ''The Tunnel of Love,'' was restored in 1998 by the Writers Guild.)
        Nonetheless, his treatment in the movies was a harsh rebuke for a man who had embraced Hollywood since his early adulthood. A native New Yorker from a big family -- Mr. Chodorov's brother Edward was also a playwright and also blacklisted -- he worked as a runner on Wall Street (he was there for the 1929 crash) and as a reporter for The New York World before setting off for California. There, he met his two other halves: Rhea, his wife, and Mr. Fields, his writing partner (whose sister was the lyricist Dorothy Fields).
        During the 1930's and early 40's, Mr. Fields and Mr. Chodorov collaborated on the scripts for a half-dozen movies, including the 1941 Bob Hope comedy ''Louisiana Purchase'' and a series of forgettable titles like the pulp thriller ''Reported Missing'' (1937), ''Rich Man, Poor Girl'' (1938, with Lana Turner) and ''Two Girls on Broadway'' (1940).
        Their big break, however, came in 1940 on the real Broadway with ''My Sister Eileen,'' for which they also wrote the screenplay, produced in 1942. The Broadway production, directed by George S. Kaufman, ran for more than two years. That show and ''Junior Miss,'' a comedy that opened on Broadway and subsequently sold its film rights for $450,000, established the pair.
        But after his McCarthy-era exile from Hollywood, Mr. Chodorov wrote less and less for film, though he and Mr. Fields did adapt their play ''Anniversary Waltz'' in 1959. He continued to be active in the theater, however, both directing and writing around the country, including for the Los Angeles Civic Light Opera. He had a couple of unsuccessful Broadway efforts in the mid-1960's -- the musical ''I Had a Ball'' and the play ''Three Bags Full'' -- and several other productions faltered on the way to Broadway. Others, including a comedy with Claudette Colbert, ''A Community of Two,'' had decent runs on the road and in Europe.
        His final original Broadway production was in 1981 with ''A Talent for Murder,'' a mystery melodrama also starring Ms. Colbert, and written with Norman Panama. The casting of the legendary Ms. Colbert had caused a stir -- she was 77 at the time -- but when the show opened, in October 1981, it was slammed by critics. (The headline of a New York Times review was ''The Only Mystery is Why''). It lasted only two months.
        Increasingly hard of hearing and with his sight failing, Mr. Chodorov had mostly stopped writing by the early 1990's but stayed active, still monitoring the Broadway grosses in Variety until the time of his death.
        Last fall, he attended the opening night of the revival of ''Wonderful Town'' on Broadway with his friend Anne Kaufman Schneider, George S. Kaufman's daughter. Still handsome with a lion's mane of gray hair, Mr. Chodorov had a reputation as something of a curmudgeon, Ms. Kaufman Schneider said. But after seeing his signature show restaged on Broadway for the first time since its original production, he seemed content.
        ''He was a grumbler, you know, so he wouldn't admit that he was thrilled with 'Wonderful Town,''' Ms. Kaufman Schneider recalled. ''But I think he was.''
        He is survived by his daughter, also of Pomona. Rhea Chodorov died in 1999, after 67 years of marriage.
      