
        Ralph Kenneth Andrist, a historian, author and editor who wrote the classic ''The Long Death: The Last Days of the Plains Indian,'' died on Sunday at his home in Lynnwood, Wash. He was 90 and worked in New York for most of his career.
        His death was announced by family members, who said he had suffered from Alzheimer's disease.
        ''The Long Death,'' originally published by Macmillan in 1964, tells the story of the Indian wars, stripped of legends and heroics to its stark historic events. In the 40 years since, the book has gone through various editions and remains in print, most recently from the University of Oklahoma Press (2000).
        ''If any book can correct widespread misapprehensions this one ought to be able to,'' the critic Orville Prescott wrote in The New York Times in 1964. ''Mr. Andrist has not only dug out the facts, he has told a series of dramatic, pitiful and tragic stories. And he has told them in a voice almost choked with anger.''
        Mr. Andrist's other books included ''To the Pacific With Lewis and Clark'' (1967), which won an award for juvenile Western nonfiction; ''The Erie Canal'' (1964) and ''Heroes of Polar Exploration'' (1962), all published by American Heritage Press. He was the principal editor of ''The American Heritage History of the Making of the Nation, 1783-1860'' (1968).
        Born in Crookston, Minn., Mr. Andrist graduated magna cum laude in journalism from the University of Minnesota in 1937. He worked as a gravedigger, carpenter and freelance publicist before serving in the Navy during World War II.
        As a radio station news editor in Minneapolis in the late 1940's he worked on award-winning documentaries. He was a garden editor for Better Homes and Gardens in Des Moines. Later, in New York, he was a publicist for the Crusade for Freedom and a fund-raiser for the Episcopal Church Foundation.
        After a spell of freelance writing, he became a book editor for the American Heritage Publishing Company from 1964 to 1970. At his retirement in 1979 he was senior editor of the Franklin Library, a division of the Franklin Mint.
        Mr. Andrist's wife, Vivian Witt Andrist, died in 1992 after 41 years of marriage. He is survived by three daughters, Jill A. Miller of Natick, Mass.; Mary A. Leech of Harwichport, Mass.; and Melissa A. Hardtke of Edmonds, Wash.; and a grandson.
      