
        Norman Frank Cantor, a prominent American medievalist whose books, like his classic ''Civilization of the Middle Ages,'' were widely read in the classroom and beyond, died on Saturday at his home in Miami, where he retired four years ago. He was 74 and a former resident of Greenwich Village.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Cantor retired in 1999 as a professor emeritus of history, sociology and comparative literature at New York University, where he had been since 1978. Just before that he was on the faculty of the University of Illinois as vice chancellor for academic affairs.
        Mr. Cantor has won high praise for his fluent, graceful prose style and the narrative drive that made his books unusually readable.
        ''The Civilization of the Middle Ages'' has been in print ever since it was first published in 1963. It most recently came out in 1994 in a revised edition from Harper Trade, with new research focused on contemporary concerns like women's role in society and history.
        ''Inventing the Middle Ages'' (William Morrow, 1991) was a historiography documenting how present views of the period took hold.
        Another recent book in print is ''In the Wake of the Plague: The Black Death and the World It Made'' (Free Press, 2002). Its subject was the 14th-century equivalent of nuclear devastation, with a third of Europe's population killed and every aspect of its civilization upended. Mr. Cantor used case studies to illuminate the social, political and economic upheavals that reshaped views on philosophy, religion and the arts and, doing so, pointed the Continent toward its Renaissance.
        He was the editor of the Encyclopedia of the Middle Ages (Viking, 1999) and a companion volume tailored for young readers from Penguin Putnam Books. ''Inventing Norman Cantor: Memoirs of a Medievalist'' was published by the Arizona Center for Medieval and Renaissance Studies in 2002.
        Mr. Cantor's latest book, published in April, was ''The Last Knight: The Twilight of the Middle Ages and the Birth of the Modern Era'' (Free Press). Just before his death, he finished ''Alexander the Great,'' a concise profile of the conqueror's life and his influence on the ancient world, which HarperCollins has on its schedule for 2005.
        Norman Cantor was born in Winnipeg, Canada, and graduated from the University of Manitoba in 1951, the year he came to the United States. He received an M.A. degree from Princeton in 1953, spent a year as a Rhodes scholar at Oxford and got his Ph.D. in 1957 at Princeton, where he started his teaching career.
        He was at Columbia from 1960 to 1966, advancing to full professor. He then was Leff professor at Brandeis until 1970; distinguished professor at SUNY at Binghamton, and finally vice president for academic affairs, before moving to the University of Chicago in 1976.
        He joined N.Y.U. in 1978 as dean of faculty of the College of Arts and Science, a post he held until 1981.
        Dr. Cantor is survived by his wife of 47 years, Mindy; a daughter, Judy Cantor of Miami; a son, Howard, of West Glover, Vt.; and a grandson.
      