
        Pete Schoening, who became a mountaineering legend after saving a rope team of six men by single-handedly holding their weight on the sheer slope of K2, the world's second-highest peak, died Wednesday at his home in Kenmore, Wash. He was 77.
        The cause was bone cancer, his wife, Mell, said.
        Mr. Schoening (pronounced SHOW-ning) emerged as one of the world's most accomplished climbers in 1958 when he was one of the first two Westerners to reach the summit of the Himalayan mountain Gasherbrum II, a 26,360-foot neighbor of K2 known as Hidden Peak.
        In 1966, he was on the expedition that made the first four ascents in the Mount Vinson Massif, which contains at 16,067 feet the highest summit in Antarctica.
        In 1974, he led the first American expedition into the Pamirs, the mountains of Central Asia. The climbers reached the summit of Lenin Peak, which is 23,406 feet high.
        At 68, Mr. Schoening climbed 22,840-foot Aconcagua, the highest peak in the Andes, as well as Kilimanjaro, which at 19,335 feet is Africa's highest mountain. That same year, he tried to climb Everest.
        But his fame resulted from a few terrifying seconds on Aug. 10, 1953.
        Mr. Schoening was on K2, which at 28,250 feet is exceeded only by Mount Everest at 29,035 feet. He was 24,500 feet up the mountain, alone and holding tight to a wooden ice ax jammed behind a rock and a rope secured around his hip.
        Six climbers, one of them so infirm he had to be carried, were at the other end of the rope. A climber slipped. Mr. Schoening held on to stop the slide.
        Among mountaineers, Mr. Schoening's feat has become known, simply, as ''the belay.'' Belay, which means to secure a person or thing by rope, is a common term among mountain climbers.
        The team reached base camp on June 19. On the way, they heard that Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay had climbed Mount Everest on May 29, meaning they would have climbed the second highest peak ever ascended by man if they were successful, not the highest.
        On Aug. 7, Art Gilkey, a team member, collapsed with a nagging leg cramp. He had blood clots in his left calf, a dangerous condition called thrombophlebitis. If a clot broke loose and reached his lungs, it could be fatal.
        The team had already been confined to tents for nine days by howling winds and blinding snow, which made climbing impossible. The team members decided to try to get Mr. Gilkey down the mountain. They put him in a sleeping bag, wrapped him in a tent and began lowering him by rope, according to an account in The News Tribune of Tacoma, Wash., in 2003.
        Mr. Schoening was at the top of a steep slope, with an ax stuck firmly in a boulder. The rope tethered to Mr. Gilkey passed over the boulder and ax and around Mr. Schoening's waist and hip. Mountaineers call this rarely used technique a hip ax belay.
        Five other climbers were divided among three ropes, two of which were tied to Mr. Gilkey. A seventh climber was setting up a temporary camp.
        ''I don't recall him saying anything, but I saw him slide down,'' Mr. Schoening said of Mr. Gilkey in his interview with The News Tribune. ''The only thing you can do is say, 'I have to execute this belay in the very best fashion I can.'''
        He held on. Mr. Gilkey nonetheless vanished from the slope where he had been anchored, apparently as a result of an avalanche.
        ''There's not an awful lot you can do,'' Mr. Schoening said. ''You can sit and mope and think about it, but the other thing you can do is get the stove out and thaw a little snow and maybe get a cup of water for somebody.''
        On Sept. 10, Mr. Schoening was back in Seattle. The next year an Italian team made it to the top of K2. After talking to Mr. Schoening's team, they had taken three miles of rope with them.
        Peter K. Schoening was born July 30, 1927, in Seattle. He was a Boy Scout, but was too busy climbing mountains to attain the Eagle rank, his wife said. He served in the Navy before earning a degree in chemical engineering from the University of Washington.
        He started a company, the Chemgrate Corporation in Woodinville, Wash., to fabricate fiberglass tanks, flooring systems and other products. By the time he sold it in 1995, it had operations in China as well as the United States.
        In addition to his wife of 51 years, Mr. Schoening is survived by his daughters, Kim Schoening of Delmar, N.Y., Kristiann Schoening of Mercer Island, Wash., and Lisa Jertz of Krefeld, Germany; his sons, Mark, of Kenmore, Eric, of Seattle, and Kurt, of Bellingham, Wash.; his brothers, William, of Seattle, and Paul, of Lilliwaup, Wash.; and 12 grandchildren.
        Mrs. Schoening, who said the book she never wrote was titled ''Meanwhile Back at Base Camp,'' claimed she and her husband did not discuss risk.
        ''I never had a concern about him doing something dumb,'' she said.
      