
        Derald H. Ruttenberg, an investor and industrialist who ran Studebaker-Worthington, an automotive parts company, and a philanthropist who financed the Derald H. Ruttenberg Cancer Center at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York, died on Sunday at the hospital. He was 88 and lived in New York.
        The cause was complications of lung cancer, his son Eric said.
        A lawyer turned businessman, Mr. Ruttenberg was a deal maker who shunned the limelight -- orchestrating large mergers quietly and amassing his fortune by investing in unglamorous industries.
        ''He liked very fundamental, industrial products -- the kind of things that most people don't pay attention to,'' said Robert E. Rubin, chairman of the executive committee of Citigroup and secretary of the Treasury in the Clinton administration. Mr. Rubin was a member of the Studebaker-Worthington board and a friend of Mr. Ruttenberg.
        Mr. Ruttenberg became president and chief executive of Studebaker-Worthington in 1969 after Studebaker had stopped making its trademark automobile, and he later served as chairman.
        For most of the two decades before that, he financed and ran various private manufacturing and foundry companies. He was chairman of the I-T-E Circuit Breaker Company in New York. In 1986, after being successfully treated at Mount Sinai for lymphoma, Mr. Ruttenberg donated $7 million to establish cancer research and treatment centers there and later contributed $8 million more. He was elected a hospital trustee, serving for 22 years.
        Mr. Ruttenberg was born in Lafayette, Ind., on Feb. 17, 1916, and studied philosophy at the University of Wisconsin. In 1940, he earned a law degree from Yale Law School, which about 50 years later built Ruttenberg Hall, using a donation from him.
        After earning a business degree from Harvard in 1943, he served with the Army Air Corps during World War II.
        He then practiced law in Chicago before turning to investing, typically buying companies by borrowing money or by other means that were then unusual.
        ''Derald Ruttenberg was in that group of people who in a sense were the predecessors of the leveraged-buyout firms,'' said Putnam L. Crafts, a former employee and business partner.
        In 1980, Mr. Ruttenberg sold Studebaker-Worthington to the McGraw-Edison Company and became chairman of the Madison Fund, an investment fund. He resigned in 1982.
        He then focused his efforts on Tinicum Inc., his family's investment firm, now managed by his son Eric.
        He also served on the boards of companies including IU International and the Weir Group.
        Mr. Ruttenberg is survived by his wife of 53 years, Janet, and their four children: John, of Waban, Mass., Eric and Katherine, of New York, and Hattie, of Washington.
      