
        Dr. Donald B. Effler, the leader of a team of surgeons at the Cleveland Clinic in Ohio that helped develop and refine heart surgery, died on Aug. 24 in Jamesville, N.Y. He was 89.
        He died in a nursing home, his wife, Joanna, said.
        In 1956, as chief of the department of thoracic and cardiovascular surgery at the clinic, Dr. Effler was one of the first doctors to perform open-heart surgery, a procedure that requires stopping the heart temporarily while relying on a heart-lung machine to oxygenate and pump blood to the rest of the body. In the late 1950's and 1960's, his department pioneered bypass surgery, developing techniques to accurately diagnose and treat coronary disease.
        Doctors at the clinic devised methods of viewing the heart and its vessels by infusing dyes into the aortic valve, and performed some of the first operations to graft veins to diseased coronary arteries in order to bypass blockages.
        In 1968, Dr. Effler was the senior surgeon on one of the first heart transplant operations in the United States.
        Dr. Effler also helped export the techniques developed by his department. He visited China in 1973 as part of a State Department delegation and set up the Philippine Heart Center for Asia in Manila. In 1972, he operated on King Khalid, who was then the crown prince of Saudi Arabia, to repair damage caused by a heart attack.
        He left the Cleveland Clinic in 1975 to establish the open-heart program at St. Joseph's Hospital in Syracuse. He retired in 1985.
        Donald Brian Effler was born in New York City on Blackwells Island (now called Roosevelt Island) in 1915. He received his undergraduate and medical degrees from the University of Michigan and was in the Army Medical Corps during World War II.
        In addition to his wife, who lives in Fayetteville, N.Y., he is survived by their children, Gretchen Friedman of Chicago, Donald B. Effler Jr. of Manhattan, and Brian, of Loveland, Colo.; a sister, Doris Machen of Wayzata, Minn.; and six grandchildren.
      