
        Walter Scheuer, a New York investor and patron of the arts who produced the Oscar-winning documentary ''From Mao to Mozart: Isaac Stern in China'' among other films, died on Sept. 20 at his home in Manhattan, his family announced. He was 82.
        At his death, Mr. Scheuer was chairman of the Sterling Capital Corporation, an investment company, which he had headed since 1980.
        He combined his successful investment career with a longtime commitment to the New York's classical music scene.
        He was a trustee and mainstay of Carnegie Hall since 1977, and there he worked closely with Stern, who saved the hall from the wrecking ball. In 1979 he produced Murray Lerner's film record of Stern's tour of China, which won an Oscar in 1980 for best documentary and continues to be widely seen on television.
        Mr. Scheuer also produced ''November's Children: Revolution in Prague'' (1991) and ''High Fidelity: The Guarneri String Quartet'' (1988). His latest film venture was as executive producer of ''The Turandot Project'' (2000), which documented a production of Puccini's opera in its intended setting, Beijing.
        Mr. Scheuer was the longest-serving trustee in the 50-year history of the Paul Taylor Dance Company and an executive vice president of its supporting foundation. He financed its first tour of China in 1996, and the company credited him with being the creative force behind ''Dancemaker,'' a documentary about the troupe.
        Mr. Scheuer was an early backer of Symphony Space, on the Upper West Side. He supported music programs for city schoolchildren as well as aspiring documentary makers and foreign students coming to study in New York.
        His other charities included his alma mater, Swarthmore; the Bridgehampton (N.Y.) Music Festival; the Citizens' Committee for Children of New York, of which he was a longtime board member; and the UJA-Federation of New York.
        A native of Manhattan, Mr. Scheuer served with the Signal Corps in the Pacific in World War II after graduating from Swarthmore.
        He is survived by his wife of 54 years, Marge Pearlman Scheuer; two sons, David, of Shelburne, Vt., and Jeffrey, of Manhattan; two daughters, Susan and Judith Scheuer, both of Manhattan; three brothers, Richard J., of Larchmont, N.Y., Steven H., of Manhattan, and James H., of Washington, the former congressman from New York; a sister, Amy Cohen, of Larchmont; and seven grandchildren.
      