
        Richard S. Arnold, a federal appeals court judge who issued influential rulings involving individual rights and narrowly missed a Supreme Court nomination, died on Thursday at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. He was 68.
        The cause was an infection he contracted while being treated for lymphoma, a cancer of the lymph glands from which he had suffered since the 1970's, his family said.
        Judge Arnold, who lived in Little Rock, Ark., was for many years the chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, based in St. Louis. He was known for erudite opinions emphasizing the application of constitutional rights to individuals in everyday life and for overseeing administrative reforms in the operation of the federal courts.
        A prize-winning classics scholar at Yale, he considered pursuing an academic career. Instead, he went to Harvard Law School, graduating first in his class in 1960. He worked in his family's law firm in western Arkansas and twice ran unsuccessfully for Congress.
        His career on the bench began in 1978, bringing him renown in legal circles and nearly a Supreme Court nomination.
        President Bill Clinton nearly named Judge Arnold in 1994 to succeed Justice Harry A. Blackmun, who retired. In the end, Mr. Clinton's choices came down to Judge Arnold, his fellow Arkansan, and Judge Stephen G. Breyer, then a federal appeals court judge in Boston. Some presidential aides argued against the appointment of Judge Arnold, saying it might carry a whiff of Arkansas favoritism. But Hillary Rodham Clinton argued vigorously that Judge Arnold was widely regarded as a scholar and jurist.
        The president was inclined against Judge Breyer, whom he considered to be aloof during their first meeting, when Mr. Clinton was filling an earlier Supreme Court vacancy.
        Mr. Clinton decided he could not select Judge Arnold because of the uncertain prognosis in his battle with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The president made his decision after taking the extraordinary action of personally interviewing Judge Arnold's doctors.
        At the same time, Judge Breyer's supporters mounted a successful campaign to convince the president that he had misjudged him. They noted that Judge Breyer was in pain during the meeting, recovering from injuries from a bicycle accident.
        In a statement yesterday, Mr. Clinton and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, said, ''America has lost one of its greatest jurists and we have lost a cherished friend.''
        Prof. Polly J. Price of Emory University School of Law, who is writing a biography of Judge Arnold, said that his writings were widely admired by other judges because of their eloquence in explaining constitutional rights for individuals.
        In a 1979 decision, he anticipated the move toward equality in sports programs for boys and girls when he ruled that the state of Arkansas could no longer restrict high school girls to half-court basketball while allowing boys to play full court. The practice impeded girls' chances for college athletic scholarships.
        In 1984 he upheld the reversal of a conviction, saying: ''Some criminals do go free because of the necessity of keeping government and its servants in their place. That is one of the costs of having and enforcing a Bill of Rights. This country is built on the assumption that the cost is worth paying, and that in the long run, we are all both freer and safer if the Constitution is strictly enforced.''
        Richard Sheppard Arnold was born on March 26, 1936, in Texarkana, Tex.. His maternal grandfather was Morris Sheppard, a United States senator from Texas for 28 years.
        After Harvard Law School, Mr. Arnold was a law clerk to Justice William J. Brennan Jr. of the Supreme Court.
        He was appointed to the Federal District Court in Arkansas in 1978 by President Jimmy Carter, who elevated him to the appeals court two years later. He was followed by his younger brother Morris S. Arnold, who was first a district judge and then served alongside him on the appeals court. Judge Morris Arnold was named to the bench by President Ronald Reagan and is regarded as more conservative than his brother.
        Judge Morris Arnold said they were the only two brothers to serve together on a federal court in the nation's history.
        In addition to his brother, Judge Richard Arnold is survived by his wife, Kay Kelley Arnold; two daughters from a previous marriage, Janet Sheppard Arnold Hart and Lydia Palmer Arnold Turnipseed; and four grandchildren.
      