
        Nigel Nicolson, the biographer and publisher and heir of the Bloomsbury group whose best-known work, ''Portrait of a Marriage,'' documented the loving, tumultuous union of his unconventional parents, Harold Nicolson and Vita Sackville-West, died on Thursday at his home in Sissinghurst Castle in Kent, his family told The Associated Press. He was 87.
        Published in 1973, ''Portrait of a Marriage'' chronicled the private lives of its author's highly public parents, his father, a journalist and diplomat, and his mother, a novelist and poet. The book was based on the manuscript of Sackville-West's unpublished memoir, which Mr. Nicolson found in a locked Gladstone bag after her death in 1962.
        Begun in 1920, when Sackville-West was 28 and the mother of two young sons, the manuscript spoke candidly about the pleasures and discontents of her marriage and about her passionate affair with another woman, Violet Trefusis. Mr. Nicolson's book alternated passages of his mother's writing with his own narrative.
        Despite numerous affairs, mostly homosexual, for both Mr. Nicolson's parents -- Sackville-West was also a lover of Virginia Woolf, who modeled the androgynous title character of ''Orlando'' after her -- they remained married, in their own devoted fashion, for nearly half a century. (Harold Nicolson died in 1968.) The marriage was, Mr. Nicolson wrote, ''the strangest and most successful union that two gifted people have ever enjoyed.''
        In his introduction, Mr. Nicolson called ''Portrait of a Marriage'' ''the story of two people who married for love and whose love deepened with every passing year, although each was constantly and by mutual consent unfaithful to the other.'' It continued: ''Both loved people of their own sex, but not exclusively. Their marriage not only survived infidelity, sexual incompatibility and long absences, but it became stronger and finer as a result. Each came to give the other full liberty without inquiry or reproach. Their marriage succeeded because each found permanent and undiluted happiness only in the company of the other. If their marriage is seen as a harbor, their love affairs were mere ports of call. It was to the harbor that each returned; it was there that both were based.''
        Reviewing the book in The New York Times Book Review, Nora Sayre wrote: ''While their marriage doesn't yield a recipe which many others can follow, it's inevitably impressive to confront 49 years of such enthusiasm and commitment, unabashed dependency, sympathy and pleasure.''
        Mr. Nicolson was born in London on Jan. 19, 1917. He grew up in the post-World War I artistic milieu of his parents' friends, many of them titled, most of them cultured and all of them unusual. Their social circle included Aldous Huxley and Greta Garbo; Violet Trefusis was the daughter of Alice Keppel, a Victorian beauty and mistress of King Edward VII. And it was Woolf who set Mr. Nicolson on his professional course, suggesting to him as a child that he write letters and keep a diary, because ''nothing has really happened until you have described it.'' The result, years later, was Mr. Nicolson's memoir ''Long Life,'' published in 1998.
        In the early 1930's the family moved to Sissinghurst, a tumbledown Elizabethan castle that his parents had acquired. Under his mother's supervision, its magnificent gardens would become famous. Mr. Nicolson went on to Eton and Balliol College, Oxford, and in World War II served in the Tunisian and Italian campaigns as a member of the Grenadier Guards.
        After the war, he founded the publishing house Weidenfeld & Nicolson with George Weidenfeld; Mr. Nicolson remained involved with the company until 1992. The two men published the British edition of Vladimir Nabokov's ''Lolita'' in 1959, despite the threat of prosecution under Britain's Obscene Publications Act. The edition sold 200,000 copies, The Guardian reported this week.
        From 1952 to 1959 Mr. Nicolson served as a Conservative member of Parliament. In later years, besides writing and lecturing, he was involved in the preservation of Sissinghurst, where he continued to live even after it became part of Britain's National Trust. His many other books include a biography of Woolf; an account of Napoleon's invasion of Russia; and a life of Mary Curzon, the American heiress and wife of Lord Curzon, which won a Whitbread Prize in 1977.
        Mr. Nicolson was the editor of collections of letters by Woolf, published in six volumes between 1975 and 1980, and by his parents, published in 1992. He also edited a collection of his father's diaries, originally published in three volumes, which, The Guardian wrote this week, ''revealed Harold Nicolson as one of the most vibrant and immediate diarists of the 20th century.'' Mr. Nicolson published a single-volume edition of the diaries, based on newly available material, earlier this year.
        Mr. Nicolson's marriage to the former Philippa Tennyson d'Eyncourt, whom he wed in 1953, ended in divorce in 1970. He is survived by their son and two daughters, The Associated Press reported.
      