
        Max Abramovitz, the architect who designed Avery Fisher Hall at Lincoln Center and also had a hand in the building of the United Nations complex and several well-known Midtown skyscrapers, died on Sunday at his home in Pound Ridge, N.Y. He was 96.
        Mr. Abramovitz was born in Chicago and received his early training there, but it was in New York City, in a long partnership with Wallace K. Harrison, that he made a significant contribution to postwar modernist architecture.
        Though he worked on a huge array of projects in his career, from embassies to college campuses to the headquarters of the Central Intelligence Agency in Langley, Va., the Philharmonic Hall, later renamed Avery Fisher Hall, has remained the most prominent and emblematic of Mr. Abramovitz's designs. At the time it opened in 1962, the first of Lincoln Center's five buildings to be completed, its tapered neo-Classical-style columns and glass-walled interior were praised by Ada Louise Huxtable in The New York Times as ''impressive and handsome,'' especially in the way they worked at night as the hall filled with concertgoers.
        ''From the outside, the drama of light, movement and color, seen through the glass walls, enclosed by the great tapered frame, makes the structure a spectacular success in action,'' she wrote.
        But the building later became a lightning rod for criticism, in part because its acoustics were almost immediately found to be lacking by members of the Philharmonic, who described it variously as a ''pinball machine,'' a ''television studio'' and ''raw alcohol instead of a vintage wine.'' The verdict of many other architecture critics has also not been as kind as that of Ms. Huxtable. Paul Goldberger, appraising the Lincoln Center complex for The Times in 1979, called the major buildings ''prissy and overdelicate both inside and out, with a heavy-handedness of form and vulgarity of detail that looked poor in the 1960's and look no less so now.''
        Mr. Abramovitz died just as the first major retrospective of his work was preparing to open at the Avery Architectural and Fine Arts Library at Columbia University, where his papers are housed. In an in-depth scholarly appraisal of Mr. Abramovitz's career, John Harwood, a Columbia doctoral candidate, calls his design of Avery Fisher Hall probably his most triumphant moment but in the end a Pyrrhic victory. The essay also points out that Mr. Abramovitz's work has remained largely unstudied in part because he did not develop a signature style and he did not cut the kind of larger-than-life figure that many of his architectural contemporaries did.
        For much of his career, he worked in the shadow of Mr. Harrison, his powerful, well-connected partner, who was close to the Rockefeller family and became a kind of master planner of the city's complexes, overseeing the design of Rockefeller Center, the United Nations and Lincoln Center.
        Mr. Abramovitz, the son of working-class Romanian immigrants, met Mr. Harris for the first time in 1931 and joined his firm as an associate in 1935. He quickly became a partner, and over the next three decades, the two men collaborated on a number of well-known Manhattan skyscrapers, including the Mobil Building at 150 East 42d Street, the Corning Glass building at 717 Fifth Avenue and the Time & Life, McGraw-Hill, Exxon and Celanese Buildings on the Avenue of the Americas. He was also the deputy director of planning for the United Nations complex and later served as the master planner for Brandeis University, in addition to designing United States embassies in Havana and Rio de Janeiro. During World War II he built air fields in China for Gen. Claire L. Chennault's Flying Tigers and received the Legion of Merit.
        Though he was known as an extreme workaholic, he did have a family. He is survived by his son, Michael, of Denver; his daughter, Katherine, of Alexandria, Va.; and five grandchildren. He also collected art and sculpture, which he described as his only hobbies. ''I sit, relax, read a little and start over again,'' he once said. ''I'm just a working fool.''
        In an interview conducted during his planning of Philharmonic Hall, Mr. Abramovitz was characteristically reserved and even a bit enigmatic when asked about his philosophy of architecture. He told a reporter that he believed people should not have to ask why he designed a building a certain way but should simply feel that ''it's the only way it should have been done.''
        In a later interview, he was a bit more expansive about his intentions for the hall. ''Building has become a business,'' he said. ''It should be one of the visual joys of society. The man in the street should get a kick out of it.'' He added that his vision for his piece of Lincoln Center was ''that New York should have something like Rome, or Venice, where buildings and plazas are a source of pleasure for the people.''
        Correction:  September 17, 2004, Friday  An obituary on Wednesday about Max Abramovitz, the architect who designed Avery Fisher Hall, misstated the role of his partner, Wallace K. Harrison, in the design of Rockefeller Center. Mr. Harrison was one of its five primary architects and, for a brief period toward the end of the project, the chief architect; he did not oversee the entire project. The obituary also misstated the site of a retrospective of Mr. Abramovitz's work that opened on Tuesday. It is at the Miriam and Ira D. Wallach Art Gallery on the Columbia University campus, not at the Avery Architectural and Fine Arts Library.
      