
        Scott Muni, a disc jockey whose deep, leisurely, fogbound voice was a regular companion to New York City rock fans for nearly 50 years, died on Tuesday in New York. He was 74 and had not returned to the air after suffering a stroke in January.
        His death was confirmed by his son Mason Muñoz, who said he had recently had neurological, heart and lung problems.
        Mr. Muni was a pioneer of FM radio in New York, breaking from the regimentation of Top 40 radio to introduce a free-form approach. ''There was an extended period when my father let the D.J.'s play whatever they wanted to play,'' Mr. Muñoz said. Playing album tracks as well as singles, and speaking to the audience conversationally, Mr. Muni helped set the style for FM radio nationwide in the decades to come. But his calmly authoritative voice was always distinctive.
        Mr. Muni was born in Wichita, Kan., and grew up in New Orleans. He joined the Marines in 1950 and began broadcasting during his service, reading ''Dear John'' letters on Radio Guam. When he returned to civilian life, he became the replacement for Alan Freed on WAKR in Akron, Ohio, in 1955, and he also worked in Kankakee, Ill., before moving to the Top 40 station WMCA in New York City. In 1960 he switched to the city's other Top 40 powerhouse, WABC-AM.
        In the 1960's, the Federal Communications Commission ruled that radio stations could not broadcast the same content on both an AM and FM station. The result was to open up air time on the relatively undeveloped FM band, and rock programming moved in. In 1966, Mr. Muni joined the staff of the fledgling WOR-FM, New York's first commercial free-form radio station. The experiment lasted a few months. Mr. Muni and a fellow WOR-FM disc jockey, Rosko, were then hired by WNEW-FM. At WNEW-FM, the format, also known as progressive or underground radio, took hold.
        Early in the 1970's, Mr. Muni became the program director at WNEW-FM, a job he kept through the decade. ''Scott was the heart and soul of the place,'' said Dennis Elsas, who was hired by Mr. Muni and became WNEW-FM's music director; he is now a disc jockey at WFUV. ''We were all kind of making it up as we went along.''
        Musicians were constant guests at the station. During one interview, Jimmy Page of Led Zeppelin collapsed in mid-sentence; Mr. Muni played an album, revived the guitarist and finished the interview with Mr. Page lying on the floor. In another interview, Mr. Muni played cards on the air with members of the Grateful Dead.
        In the early 1970's, a bank robber named Cat Olsen, who was holding hostages at a bank, demanded to speak to Mr. Muni and hear some Grateful Dead. He helped defuse the situation.
        Mr. Muni took pride in introducing new music to listeners first. ''We were very competitive,'' Mr. Elsas said. ''He knew how to play the game but he loved all of it, and the musicians genuinely respected him.'' One of Mr. Muni's regular features, ''Things From England,'' gave early exposure to British rock bands.
        Mr. Muni broadcast on WNEW-FM until 1998, outlasting program directors who sometimes tried to oust him as the format grew increasingly regimented. His knowledge of music led to him being nicknamed the Professor. He moved to the classic-rock station WAXQ (Q104.3), where he opened each show with a Beatles song and continued to earn high ratings until his last broadcast there in January. He was also the host of syndicated radio shows like ''Ticket to Ride'' and ''Scott Muni's World of Rock,'' and did occasional voice-over work, including a Rolaids commercial and announcements for ABC's ''Monday Night Football.''
        He is survived by his wife, Jean Muni, and their daughters Tiffany and Melissa; by his children from his first marriage, Mason, Shane and Jennifer Muñoz; and one grandchild.
      