
        Brock Adams, a liberal Democrat from Washington who was President Jimmy Carter's transportation secretary between six terms in the House and one in the Senate, died yesterday at his home in Stevensville, Md. He was 77.
        The cause of death was Parkinson's disease, Ellen Globokar, his chief of staff in the Senate, said.
        Mr. Adams, who was born in Atlanta, never used his full first name, Brockman. He was trained as a lawyer but was smitten by national politics after meeting Senator John F. Kennedy of Massachusetts and running his presidential campaign in 1960 in western Washington.
        He spent the next 30 years in public service before accusations of sexual impropriety with a Congressional aide in 1988 cut short his Senate career and drove him into early retirement in 1992. He left Washington to live quietly on the Eastern Shore of Maryland, where he and his wife of 52 years, Elizabeth, had had a house since the late 80's.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Adams is survived by four children, Scott, of Jacksonville, Fla.; Dean, of Roswell, Ga.; and Kokie and Aleen, both of Seattle; a sister, Phyllis Hayes of Seattle; and seven grandchildren.
        Mr. Adams grew up in Portland, Ore., and Seattle after his parents had moved west.
        In Congress, he was a tenacious advocate, often for causes that interested few other members. His keen sense of finance led him to become the first chairman of the House Budget Committee, and his growing expertise on transportation led Mr. Carter to make Mr. Adams his first cabinet appointment after the 1976 presidential election.
        For three years, Mr. Adams made headlines on many issues. He resisted efforts by others in the Carter administration to speed airline deregulation. He ardently supported the Westway project in Manhattan to replace the crumbling West Side Highway. He also called for improved screening at airports after a string of hijackings.
        Mr. Adams proved a particular annoyance to automakers, campaigning for mandatory air bags in cars and higher fuel efficiency standards and challenging manufacturers to improve their products.
        In an unusually critical assessment, he criticized the automakers in 1978, saying: ''In recent years, the American automobile industry, I regret to say, has acquired a reputation for imitation, not innovation. The companies have been collaborators, not competitors.''
        Mr. Adams's firmly held views were not always in sync with the administration, and his demands to have greater access to Mr. Carter steadily eroded his relationship with the White House, leading him to resign in 1979.
        Mr. Adams spent the next six years practicing law in the capital and building a campaign war chest to challenge Senator Slade Gorton, a Republican who appeared in early 1986 to be certain of re-election. In one of the biggest electoral surprises of the year, Mr. Adams won the seat, 51 percent to 49 percent.
        In the Senate, he hewed close to his conservationist roots, fighting against turning the Hanford Nuclear Reservation in his home state into a waste dump and arguing for safeguarding forests from logging interests. After the Exxon Valdez tanker spilled oil in Prince William Sound, Alaska, in 1989, he pushed through an amendment that required building oil cargo ships with double hulls.
        He was active in shaping measures that improved national standards and research in women's health, and he helped secure $190 million to pay for the Ryan White Act, a program to treat AIDS .
        Mr. Adams also worked for greater self-determination for residents of the District of Columbia, and as part of his efforts to protect Congressional authority over wars, he opposed President Ronald Reagan's plan to send American escorts for Kuwaiti oil tankers and forced the Senate to have the first President George Bush seek Congressional authorization before attacking Iraq after it invaded Kuwait.
        Mr. Adams's accomplishments in the Senate became overshadowed, however, by an accusation that he sexually assaulted the Congressional aide, the daughter of family friends, when she spent the night at his house in Washington in 1987. Mr. Adams denied that anything inappropriate occurred, and several official investigations of the woman's complaint found no evidence of wrongdoing.
        But the accusation gained notice in 1992, when The Seattle Times published a series of articles in which eight other women accused Mr. Adams of sexual misconduct over nearly 20 years.
        As before, Mr. Adams denied the accusations, but they undercut his political force to such a degree that on March 1, 1992, as he started his re-election effort, he announced that he would not run again.
        At a news conference in Seattle to announce his retirement, he said, ''This is the saddest day of my life.''
      