
        James E. Beasley, a lawyer who won millions of dollars in jury verdicts in major cases, including an unpaid $104 million judgment stemming from the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, died on Saturday at a hospital in Philadelphia. He was 78 and lived in Villanova, Pa.
        His death was announced by the Beasley Firm, a 16-lawyer office he formed in 1966. As its principal partner, he remained active until last week, said his son, James E. Beasley Jr., a member of the firm who lives in West Chester, Pa.
        The partnership calls itself ''Philadelphia's premier catastrophic injury and complex litigation firm.'' Mr. Beasley was widely regarded as one of the most effective litigators. His court appearances drew young lawyers wishing to learn from his presentations and arguments.
        An accomplished pilot, he listed his areas of practice as aviation law, product liability, defamation law, medical and dental malpractice and personal injury. Among the defendants he pursued were Philadelphia institutions like hospitals, government agencies, manufacturers and newspapers.
        The firm won wide notice with one of the first suits brought for families of Sept. 11 victims. The suit, filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan just over a month after the attacks, named as defendants Osama bin Laden, Al Qaeda, Afghanistan, its Taliban rulers and the Iraqi government.
        The action won a finding of liability and a $104 million judgment last year. By then, the money, confiscated by the United States, had been allocated to rebuild Iraq, and the judgment remains unpaid.
        On the other hand, clients of the firm collected on scores of million-dollar judgments, including some of largest settlements in the state, cases like catastrophic brain-injury and neonatal malpractice cases; aviation and product liability suits; and suits over a recalled cholesterol treatment, Baycol; the fen-phen class of combination diet drugs; and other pharmaceuticals.
        James Edwin Beasley was a 1953 graduate of Temple University. In 1956, he received his L.L.B. from what is now called the James E. Beasley School of Law at Temple. He became one of his alma mater's foremost benefactors and taught there for many years.
        Out of court, he was an aviation buff, a stunt flier and an owner of vintage fighter planes, including two P-51 Mustangs that he flew at air shows. His son said he last piloted a P-51 a few weeks ago. He was certified as a flight instructor.
        Mr. Beasley wrote ''Products Liability and the Unreasonably Dangerous Requirement.''
        Also surviving are his wife, Helen Mary Walsh Beasley; four daughters, Lynn Hayes and Nancy Beasley of Collingdale, Pa.; Pamela J. Beasley of Boston; and Kimberly Schmucki of Swarthmore, Pa.; and eight grandchildren.
      