
        Glenn Presnell, a star back in the National Football League during the 1930's with the Portsmouth (Ohio) Spartans and their successor franchise, the Detroit Lions, died Monday at a nursing home in Ironton, Ohio. He was 99.
        His death was announced by the Lions, who said he was the last surviving member of their inaugural 1934 team.
        Presnell played in the N.F.L. when it was little more than a decade old. He played against Red Grange and Bronko Nagurski when the single-wing formation reigned and players performed on both offense and defense. He received All-Pro recognition in all except the last of his six N.F.L. seasons.
        Presnell, a native of Gilead, Neb., starred at the University of Nebraska from 1925 to 1927, then played semipro football for the Ironton Tanks.
        He joined the Portsmouth team in 1931, and the next season he played in one of the N.F.L.'s most bizarre games, a playoff for the league championship with the Chicago Bears that was sent indoors because of snow and frigid temperatures.
        ''It was at the Chicago Stadium and there was dirt on the floor, which was left over from a circus that had performed there the week before,'' Presnell recalled in ''What a Game They Played'' by Richard Whittingham. ''It didn't smell all that great, and the field was only 80 yards long and the sidelines were right on the railings.''
        The Bears won, 9-0, but there were better things to come. Presnell tied the Giants' Ken Strong for the league's scoring championship in 1933 with a record 64 points and finished second in the league in passing yardage (774) and fourth in rushing yardage (522).
        In June 1934, when a group of businessmen headed by George A. Richards bought the Portsmouth franchise and moved it to Detroit, creating the Lions, Presnell and his first wife, Liz, helped select their enduring colors.
        As Presnell told The Associated Press two years ago: ''Mr. Richards, the owner, the day I was up there and signed my contract, he said: 'There's a table out there in the next office covered with uniforms. Why don't you pick out the colors you like?' I went out. My wife was with me. We saw this Honolulu blue and silver and we fell in love with it.''
        Presnell kicked a 54-yard field goal in a 3-0 victory over the Green Bay Packers that season, setting an N.F.L. record that endured for 19 years. He played on the Lions' 1935 N.F.L. championship team, then retired after the 1936 season.
        He was the football coach at Nebraska in 1942 and was later a longtime coach and athletic director at Eastern Kentucky.
        The Lions said Presnell was the second-oldest surviving N.F.L. player, after Sam Dana, 101, who played for the New York Yankees in 1928.
        Presnell is survived by his wife, Mary; a son, Daniel; a stepson, James Ford; his stepdaughters Carole Ann Williamson and Catherine Parker; a brother, Robert; two grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
      