
        Stephen Baker, who created the ''Let your fingers do the walking'' ad campaign for the Yellow Pages and advised readers on how to live with a neurotic dog, died in Manhattan on Sept. 13. He was 83.
        The cause was cancer of the gastrointestinal tract, his son, Scott, said.
        As an art director for the advertising agency Cunningham & Walsh and later as founder of his own firms, Mr. Baker tried to create sassy ads that steered clear of the hard sell.
        For one commercial in the ''Let your fingers do the walking'' campaign to promote AT&T's Yellow Pages, a woman's well-manicured hand saunters down a street, its long red fingernails resembling high heels. AT&T used the slogan for at least six years, and it is still used by other phone directories, according to the Yellow Pages Association.
        ''Baker was part of what was then known as the creative revolution,'' said Fred Danzig, a former editor of Advertising Age. ''He was one of the people who I suppose you might say was at the forefront of it.''
        Mr. Baker was both artist and writer. Jack Byrne, a former partner, said: ''He was pretty much the self-contained advertising man. Most people are either one or the other, and they are a team of two. But he was a team of one, in more cases than not.''
        To promote a relatively small commercial bank in New York, he created an ad that listed the major banks in New York and included the tagline, ''J. Henry Schroeder isn't the only bank in New York.''
        He also experimented in using wordless posters (for The Daily News) and unscripted commercials (for Chantilly perfume).
        He wrote 22 books on a range of topics. Some, like ''The Systematic Approach to Advertising Creativity'' and ''Advertising Layout and Art Direction,'' became widely used textbooks. Other books poked fun at business: ''How to Look Like Somebody in Business Without Being Anybody,'' ''How to Get a Job Without Asking for It'' and ''I Hate Meetings.''
        But the bulk offered blithe tips for dealing with the eccentricities of others. ''DO be patient with your neurotic dog,'' he writes in ''How to Live with a Neurotic Dog'' (Pocket Books, 1960). ''Try to understand the underlying cause of his neurosis: it's you.'' The book sold more than 200,000 copies, was printed in at least eight other countries and was adapted by Rembrandt Films into a movie short.
        Sequels included ''How to Live with a Neurotic Cat'' and ''How to Play Golf in the Low 120's,'' which became a short film in Britain.
        Born Steven Bacher in Vienna, Mr. Baker spent most of his childhood in Budapest. He emigrated to the United States with his mother and two brothers when he was 19, and settled in New York. He attended William Jewell College in Liberty, Mo., before returning to New York to work as an art assistant at an ad agency.
        He eventually became a vice president and creative director at Cunningham & Walsh, at the time one of the country's largest advertising agencies. There he created campaigns for well-known brands like AT&T, Western Electric, Texaco, Folgers Coffee and Smith Corona.
        After more than a decade with Cunningham & Walsh, he left in 1962 to form his own agency, Baker & Byrne, which eventually merged with another firm to become Mogul, Baker, Byrne & Weiss. When Mogul, Baker merged into Griswold-Eshleman in 1968, Mr. Baker became an executive vice president and creative director of the agency's New York office.
        He left after a year to start another agency, Baker & Hartel.
        Earlier in his career, he periodically wrote columns for Advertising Age and for Art Direction Magazine.
        His marriage to Oleda Baker, a former model, ended in divorce. Mr. Baker's survivors include his son, Scott, of New York; a brother, Thomas Bacher of Bellevue, Wash.; and a stepson, David Pettis of Coral Springs, Fla.
      