
        Harvey Wheeler, a political scientist and author, whose novel about nuclear war by accident, ''Fail-Safe,'' caused a national shudder in 1962, died on Sept. 6 at his home in Carpinteria, Calif. He was 85.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Wheeler, who worked on the book while he was a professor at Washington and Lee University, wrote it with Eugene Burdick, a decorated naval officer and a teacher at the Naval War College.
        Each man had previously written narratives speculating how some chance happening might lead to a nuclear confrontation between the Soviet and American superpowers.
        Burdick, already the co-author of ''The Ugly American'' (1958), brought the nuts-and-bolts knowledge from his more extensive military background to the novel's haunting theme. Dr. Wheeler, who had published a short story on the subject, shepherded ''Fail-Safe'' through the joint writing process.
        In the book, doomsday proceeds inexorably from an unidentified blip on a giant radar screen, touching off a sequence of events that well-rehearsed fail-safe procedures should forestall but do not. Faulted mainly on literary grounds by most critics, ''Fail-Safe'' was an instant best seller and the subject of endless debates on whether the events it described could actually occur that way or some other way.
        In 1964 the story also became a highly successful film, directed by Sidney Lumet with a cast led by Henry Fonda, Dan O'Herlihy, Walter Matthau and Fritz Weaver. A television version with Richard Dreyfuss, Brian Dennehy, George Clooney and Harvey Keitel revisited the subject in 2000; the book remains available in reprints, most recently from Amereon Ltd. (Burdick died in 1965, at 46.)
        Dr. Wheeler chiefly wrote nonfiction political science books like ''The Conservative Crisis'' (1956), ''Democracy in a Revolutionary Era'' (1968), ''The Politics of Revolution'' (1971), ''Science Out of Law'' (1985) and ''The Virtual Library'' (1987). A life-long scholar of Francis Bacon (1561-1626), he was compiling his own collected writings on Bacon at his death.
        John Harvey Wheeler was born in Waco, Tex., and graduated in 1946 from Indiana University, where he also received a master's degree in 1950. According to his family, his Army service in World War II left him appalled at the atrocities and injustices of war.
        He earned a Ph.D. at Harvard in 1950, the year he started teaching at Johns Hopkins University. At Washington and Lee from 1954 to 1960, he rose to full professor of political science.
        He then was associated with the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions in Santa Barbara, Calif., until 1975 as a senior fellow in residence, visiting scholar and program director. After that he founded the Institute for Higher Studies, an academic research center, in Carpinteria, and served as its president until 1985.
        Dr. Wheeler is survived by his wife of 33 years, Norene Burleigh Wheeler; three sons, David C. of Los Angeles, John H. III of Minneapolis, and Mark J. of Los Angeles; a half-brother, Walter Wheeler; and 10 grandchildren. His earlier marriage to Margaret Springer ended in divorce.
      