
        Herbert H. Haft, a combative Washington pharmacist who pioneered discount pricing in drugstores but later became more widely known for aggressive financial maneuvering and a bitter family legal battle for control of a business empire, died Wednesday in a Washington hospital. He was 84.
        The cause of death was heart disease, according to his son, Robert. Mr. Haft was barely 5 feet tall, but his irascible nature, his base of operations in a city not known for business magnates, and, in his later years, his distinctive white pompadour hairstyle, generated plenty of attention.
        Mr. Haft's fortune was built on a gutsy battle to overturn laws that prohibited retailers from undercutting prices set by manufacturers for common consumer products. Shortly after opening his first drugstore, Dart Drug, in Washington in 1954, he began sharply cutting prices on toothpaste, cosmetics and over-the-counter drugs.
        The manufacturers responded with lawsuits.
        ''The process servers would line up in front of the house,'' said Robert Haft, recalling his childhood. ''I think he fought 100 lawsuits and lost the first 99.''
        The one he won though, which pitted Dart against Parke-Davis, a drug company, went all the way to the Supreme Court when the Justice Department weighed in on Dart's side. It ended in a 1960 ruling that transformed the retailing landscape.
        That same year, Dart, which had grown into a chain of 10 drugstores, went public. Mr. Haft, who worked side by side with his wife, Gloria, and, later, all three of their children, soon began investing in real estate and in developing shopping centers.
        He also kept expanding the variety of items sold in the drugstores as the chain grew, and, noticing that auto parts were especially profitable, spun that section off into a discount auto-parts chain named Trak Auto in 1979. At about the same time, with Robert, who had earned an M.B.A. at Harvard, having become second in command, the family created Crown Books, an aggressive discounter that grew to be the third-largest bookstore chain in the 1980's after Barnes & Noble and Waldenbooks.
        Mr. Haft sold the drugstore chain to its employees in 1984 for $160 million. Then he and Robert raised $250 million by selling high-risk high-yielding bonds and joined the ranks of financiers roiling boardrooms across the nation in the takeover wars of the 1980's. The Hafts made or publicly prepared to make bids for Jack Eckerd, then the nation's second-largest drugstore chain; Safeway; Federated Department Stores, (the parent of Bloomingdale's); Stop & Shop; and Dayton Hudson, among others.
        The Dart Group, the family's holding company, never completed a takeover, but bidding drove up the prices of the target companies, and the Hafts emerged richer from nearly every effort. Their fortune was estimated at $500 million to $1 billion. In 1985, Mr. Haft bought a mansion among the embassies on Massachusetts Avenue in Washington, tore it down and built a multimillion-dollar home.
        When the family empire came apart in 1993, the blowup was spectacular. A dispute over strategy and whether Mr. Haft would turn over leadership of the business to Robert escalated into a battle in which Mr. Haft ultimately drove his wife; Robert; and Robert's sister, Linda, out of the business. His 46-year marriage collapsed. The settlement drained Dart Group of tens of millions of dollars. A year later, an equally bitter falling-out with his youngest son, Ronald, his sole ally in the original dispute, deepened the destruction.
        The legal battles left a lurid trail of accusations of infidelity, physical abuse, dishonesty and threatened violence. Most of the family's holdings fell into bankruptcy or were sold. Crown and Trak Auto were shut by subsequent owners.
        Herbert Herman Haft was born Aug. 24, 1920, the son of Abraham Haft and Vera Haft, immigrants from Russia who met on a cooperative farm in New Jersey. He spent his early childhood in Baltimore, where his parents set up a drugstore in which he learned the business. The family moved to Washington when he was a teenager.
        Mr. Haft, who earned a pharmacy degree from George Washington University in 1941, served in both the Army and the Navy during World War II as a supply officer, according to Robert Haft. Mr. Haft often spoke of his Army service in Italy, where he ran a medical supplies depot, as an invaluable education in distribution and management. Upon his return, he worked as a pharmacist.
        ''My parents were an American success story,'' said Robert Haft. There has been considerable, if not complete, family reconciliation in recent years, he added.
        Mr. Haft's former wife lives in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He is survived by his three children, who all live in the Washington area and five grandchildren.
      