
        W.H. Krome George, a former chairman and chief executive of Alcoa, who was credited with overseeing the company's expansion into a global concern, died on Monday in Mars, Pa. He was 86 and lived in Sewickley, Pa.
        The cause was complications of a heart attack and stroke he had last fall, his wife, Jean, said.
        Mr. George, a director of the company from 1967 until his retirement in 1988, spent most of his career at Alcoa. Under his leadership, it grew from a closely held domestic company to an international enterprise.
        Alcoa, based in Pittsburgh, is the world's leading producer of aluminum, doing business in more than 40 countries and known for brands like Reynolds wrap.
        ''He was in the early ranks of C.E.O.'s that understood what it meant to be in a business that was defined as a world business,'' Paul O'Neill, the former treasury secretary, said yesterday. Mr. George helped bring Mr. O'Neill, a director and later chief executive of Alcoa, to the company in 1986.
        Mr. George became chief operating officer in 1972, chief executive in 1975 and chairman the same year. During his tenure, Alcoa's revenues increased to $5.3 billion in 1983 from $2.3 billion in 1975, the company said.
        William Henry Krome George was born in St. Louis on March 27, 1918, the son of Robert and Ann Krome George. Known as Krome, Mr. George was named for his grandfather, William Henry Krome, a chief justice of the Illinois Supreme Court.
        After two years at the Virginia Military Institute, Mr. George transferred to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he received a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering and business administration in 1940. He joined Alcoa, then the Aluminum Company of America, in 1942 as a chemical engineer in its East St. Louis, Ill., plant.
        For industry executives, the metal's possibilities seemed boundless, from cookware to aluminum dresses (Paco Rabanne designed one).
        ''There were a group of people, and Krome was one of them, that thought everything in the world ought to be made out of aluminum,'' Mr. O'Neill said.
        Mr. George is survived by his wife, the former Jean Murphy, whom he married in 1946; a sister, BobbyAnn George of Honolulu; three sons, Doyle, of Charlotte, N.C., Robert, of Pittsburgh, and Peter, of Austin, Tex.; five grandchildren; and two step-grandchildren.
      