
        James O. Page, a longtime fire chief who helped shape modern-day emergency medical services and whose writings helped establish them nationally, died Sept. 4. He was 68 and lived in Carlsbad, Calif.
        The cause was a heart attack he suffered while swimming at a local spa, said Jems Communications, publisher of The Journal of Emergency Medical Services, which Mr. Page established in 1979. Mr. Page had no known history of heart disease, said A.J. Heightman, the journal's editor.
        In the 1970's, Mr. Page was among the first to argue that fire departments should provide emergency medical services, particularly because they already possessed the necessary response systems. ''He often said it didn't make sense to rescue someone if you couldn't resuscitate him,'' Mr. Heightman said.
        Under his command, and with reluctance, firefighters in Los Angeles County learned to perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation, use heart defibrillators and administer other emergency procedures, training that has since become common. Fire departments in many cities are now responsible for providing their communities with paramedic services.
        Mr. Page's advocacy gave an early voice to those who wanted to meet the challenge of providing pre-hospital emergency medical services.
        ''He helped to take E.M.S. from a fledgling, uncoordinated effort to the beginnings of a true profession,'' said Carol Summer, publisher of Emergency Medical Services magazine and other publications that compete with The Journal of Emergency Medical Services. ''He made the field more cohesive. He helped to give it direction.''
        He occasionally had to pave his own way, said Garry Briese, executive director of the International Association of Fire Chiefs. ''When he didn't have a magazine to provide leadership, he started one,'' Mr. Briese said. ''When there wasn't a conference, he started one. When an organization wasn't doing what it should, he joined it and redirected it.''
        In addition to starting Jems Communications, which publishes several magazines and newsletters for emergency service, fire and rescue workers, Mr. Page wrote 7 books and more than 400 articles and editorials on emergency services and fire protection.
        He worked as a writer and technical consultant on ''Emergency!,'' the television series that introduced paramedics to American viewers in the 1970's.
        ''What 'Emergency!' showed us was the future -- paramedics in the field, defibrillating people, giving people IV's,'' Mr. Briese said. ''At the time, almost none of the fire service did that. People looked at that and said, 'Why isn't my fire service doing that?'''
        James Owen Page was born in Alhambra, Calif., on Aug. 7, 1936, and joined the fire service at 21. He first fought fires in Monterey Park, Calif., and then spent 14 years with the Los Angeles County Fire Department, where he coordinated a paramedic rescue service for the county.
        Based on his work there, he was named chief of North Carolina's Office of Emergency Medical Services when it was established in 1973 and given the job of creating a statewide program of emergency medical and rescue services.
        After a later stint as executive director of a foundation teaching CPR and other emergency treatments, Mr. Page was contracted by the federal government to administer a technical assistance program for fire and emergency services agencies.
        In 1984 he returned to the fire service to become battalion fire chief in Carlsbad, Calif. From 1986 to 1989 he served as fire chief of Monterey Park.
        He earned a law degree in 1970 from Southwestern University School of Law in Los Angeles and was a partner in the law firm of Page, Wolfberg & Wirth, which specializes in issues related to emergency medical services and has offices in California and Pennsylvania.
        Mr. Page's survivors include his wife, Jane; his mother, Marion, of Grass Valley, Calif.; two sons, Tom, of Vista, Calif., and Andy, of Temecula, Calif.; two daughters, Debbie Ries of Carlsbad and Susan von Beck of Duvall, Wash.; a sister, Carolyn Page, of Nevada City, Calif.; and six grandchildren.
      