
        William C. Reeves, a medical entomologist whose pioneering research into the spread and control of mosquito-borne diseases laid the groundwork for the current nationwide efforts to contain the West Nile virus, died Sunday in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 87 and lived in Walnut Creek.
        The cause was complications from a fall four days earlier, the University of California, Berkeley, where Dr. Davis taught for nearly four decades, said in a statement.
        Trained in both entomology and epidemiology, Dr. Reeves was an authority on arboviruses, the class of viruses carried by insects and responsible for diseases like malaria, dengue fever, encephalitis and West Nile.
        In 1941, Dr. Reeves and another Berkeley scientist, William M. Hammon, identified a species of mosquito, Culex tarsalis, as responsible for transmitting the western equine and St. Louis strains of encephalitis. It was the first time that a virus of any kind had been isolated from a naturally infected mosquito. In later life, his license plate read ''CULEX T,'' a reference to the species.
        Dr. Reeves helped coin the term arbovirus, short for arthropod-borne virus, to describe viruses of this kind. His discovery proved vital in World War II, when. in the early days of the Pacific theater, soldiers were plagued by encephalitis and other mosquito-borne illnesses.
        William Carlisle Reeves was born on Dec. 2, 1916, in Riverside, Calif., and as a boy on his family's farm, he spent his days catching bugs. He went on to earn a bachelor's degree in entomology from Berkeley in 1938. He received a doctorate in medical entomology and parasitology from the university in 1943, and a master's in epidemiology in 1949. From 1949 until his retirement in 1987, Dr. Reeves was a professor of epidemiology at Berkeley. He served as dean of the university's School of Public Health from 1967 to 1971.
        One of Dr. Reeves's most significant contributions was the use of ordinary chickens in the early detection of arboviruses. He discovered that chickens bitten by infected mosquitoes developed viral antibodies, readily detectable in blood tests, though they were not themselves contagious. Because domesticated chickens are sedentary, the presence of the antibodies always indicated infected mosquitoes were nearby.
        ''When you find a chicken with antibodies, you know that bird was infected there,'' Dr. Reeves told The Contra Costa Times in 2002. ''If you find a wild bird that has been infected, you don't have a foggy notion where that bird was yesterday or tomorrow.''
        The use of these ''sentinel chickens,'' placed in areas where mosquitoes congregate, has been adopted by mosquito-control programs around the world.
        Dr. Reeves invented several methods for capturing and tracking live mosquitoes, essential to understanding the path viruses take as they spread. He designed a novel trap that used carbon dioxide and light to catch the insects. He also developed a way to track their migration patterns by tagging them with specks of fluorescent dust.
        Dr. Reeves is survived by his wife, the former Mary Jane Moulton, whom he married in 1940; three sons, William, of Atlanta, Robert, of Gresham, Ore., and Terrence of Hood River, Ore.; four grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
        In 1999, after West Nile virus was found in New York City and had begun to spread across the continent, Dr. Reeves came out of retirement as a consultant to public health officials around the country, many of whom he had trained. Many of the methods he developed in the 1940's, including the use of sentinel chickens, have been adopted in the effort to track and control West Nile.
        Dr. Reeves, who incurred thousands of mosquito bites in the name of science, had simple advice for those worried about being bitten. Because mosquitoes are most active on warm evenings, he explained, people should turn on the air conditioner and stay at home in front of the television from 7 to 10 p.m., prime time for bugs.
        Correction:  October 2, 2004, Saturday  An obituary on Sept. 22 about William C. Reeves, an expert on disease-causing agents known as arboviruses, included one illness erroneously among those caused by viruses. Malaria is caused by a parasite, not a virus.
      