
        Marvin H. Davis, a billionaire who amassed his fortune through well-timed deals in the oil and entertainment industries, died Saturday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif., a family spokesman said. He was 79.
        Mr. Davis died of natural causes, said the spokesman, Michael Sitrick. Friends said that Mr. Davis, who was 6 feet 4 and weighed 300 pounds, had long suffered from heart trouble, back pain, diabetes and other effects of his weight.
        Mr. Davis had an acute sense of the right moment to buy and sell businesses and properties. He sold most of his oil and natural-gas holdings when energy markets were peaking in 1981 and turned his interests to undervalued entertainment businesses and real estate in California.
        Most famously, Mr. Davis bought 20th Century Fox in 1981 and sold it four years later to Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation. He also owned the Pebble Beach Company, the Aspen Skiing Company and the Beverly Hills Hotel.
        The son of a New York garment district dress manufacturer turned oilman, Mr. Davis began his career working in his father's oil business in Colorado. After taking over the Davis Oil Company, Mr. Davis earned the nickname Mr. Wildcatter because he would drill thousands of wells in unexplored areas in search of oil or natural gas.
        Later in his life, he chased corporate deals the same way, making many highly publicized but unsuccessful bids on companies like Northwest Airlines, United Airlines, CBS and Resorts International. In 2002, he led a group of investors who tried to buy the American entertainment businesses of Vivendi Universal with an unsolicited bid for $20 billion but were rebuffed.
        ''He was insatiable,'' said James Kneser, a business partner from the 1980's. ''He loved transactions. He was far, far more entranced by the deal than by operating what he acquired, and far, far better at it.''
        In 2004, Forbes magazine listed Mr. Davis as the 30th richest person in the United States, estimating his wealth at $5.8 billion.
        A 1981 business profile in The New York Times described him as a ''single-minded hard-liner'' who rose early, worked late and had a personal hand in running his businesses. But friends said Mr. Davis was also a gregarious charmer who spent millions on lavish homes, private planes, fancy décor and expensive baubles.
        In 1993, Mr. Davis and his wife, Barbara, were carrying $10 million worth of jewels on a trip through the French Riviera when four masked men robbed them at gunpoint.
        Mr. Davis was born on Aug. 31, 1925, in Newark, the son of Jack and Jean Spitzer Davis. His family history seemed part legend, friends said. His father immigrated from London and sold ready-to-wear dresses in New York City. Mr. Davis often told friends that his father had been a stowaway and a failed prizefighter.
        ''Some of Marvin's stories were better stories than they were fact,'' Mr. Kneser said.
        Mr. Davis's family later moved to Colorado, where he and his father made money buying low-priced oil and gas leases throughout the Rocky Mountains and then doing extensive drilling.
        Mr. Kneser said Mr. Davis had been a pioneer of the oil deal known as the ''third for a quarter,'' where an oil prospector insulates himself from risk by selling one-quarter of a well for one-third of the price of the well. Essentially, he drilled his own wells with other people's money. He also became a major real estate developer in Denver, acquiring a huge shopping center and office complex.
        In 1981, Mr. Davis sold most of his oil holdings for $600 million to the Canadian company Hiram Walker-Consumers Home Ltd.
        He then turned his eye toward Hollywood and, with Marc Rich, the financier later pardoned by President Bill Clinton, bought 20th Century Fox for $725 million. Newspaper and magazine articles estimated that Mr. Davis made $325 million when he sold to Mr. Murdoch in 1985.
        He also made hundreds of millions in profits when, in 1990, he sold Pebble Beach for $841 million.
        But Mr. Davis's career was marred by accusations of wrongdoing over the years. The Justice Department accused one of his companies of violating federal oil-pricing policies. The case was settled in 1981, with Mr. Davis paying a $20,000 fine. Business partners accused him in civil lawsuits of inflating the results of his oil wells.
        In Hollywood, he took to the notability attached to running a major studio. He named former President Gerald R. Ford and Henry A. Kissinger to the board of Fox, helped guide his son John into the entertainment business and played host at lavish parties for the studio.
        Mr. Kneser said that Mr. Davis had been plagued by health problems since 1990, but that he and his wife remained fixtures in Beverly Hills social circles. They raised money for diabetes research and had a lavish annual party called the Carousel Ball.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Davis is survived by three daughters, Patricia Ann Davis Raynes, Nancy Davis Rickel and Dana Davis; two sons, John Davis and Gregg Davis; and his sister, Joan Chorney.
      