
        Marvin M. Mitchelson, the Hollywood divorce lawyer who parlayed the concept of ''palimony'' settlements for unmarried partners into a successful career representing celebrities, becoming a celebrity himself, died Saturday night in Los Angeles. He was 76.
        The cause was cancer, said his publicist, Sy Presten.
        During his 47-year-long roller coaster of a career, Mr. Mitchelson won large settlements, successfully argued a case before the United States Supreme Court and spent time in prison for tax evasion.He represented dozens of Hollywood's famous, including the actress Joan Collins and the model Bianca Jagger, but most of his clients were lesser-known women ending their relationships with movie stars and athletes.
        Mr. Mitchelson soaked up publicity and attention like a plant basking in sunlight, his friends said. When anyone asked for an autograph, he insisted on giving at least two.
        He wrote two books about marriage and divorce ''Made in Heaven, Settled in Court'' and ''Living Together,'' and was interviewed by Larry King on CNN in 2001. He appeared on the series ''Golden Girls,'' in the early 1990's, starring as himself and (to disastrous results) advising one of the characters to sign a pre-nuptial agreement.
        In the early 1970's, Mr. Mitchelson met a woman living in an apartment building owned by his mother, forming a relationship that would launch the case that would give Mr. Mitchelson his chief claim to fame.
        The woman was Michelle Triola Marvin, the longtime girlfriend of the actor Lee Marvin, who felt she deserved part of Mr. Marvin's $3.6 million fortune after the couple split up. Mr. Mitchelson took her case, arguing that unmarried couples base their relationships on unwritten contracts that are just as legitimate and binding as any marriage certificate.
        The California State Supreme Court agreed with the principle of his legal arguments in Marvin v. Marvin, though it never awarded Ms. Triola Marvin any money.
        Still, because of the attention surrounding the case, Mr. Mitchelson was soon flooded with business from celebrities and people seeking divorces from celebrities. He and his partners would later say the case forever changed marriage and family law.
        In a press release announcing his death, Mr. Presten said Mr. Mitchelson worked on cases involving actors including Robert DeNiro, William Shatner, Zsa Zsa Gabor, Sylvester Stallone and Mickey Rooney.
        ''There are a lot of things in that business to drive a couple apart,'' Mr. Mitchelson said in a 2000 interview with The New York Times. ''Media scrutinizing relationships. News about who's having an affair. The public appetite for celebrity gossip is so voracious.''
        He represented Ms. Collins in her 1988 divorce from Peter Holm. In 1991, he represented Marc Christian, a lover of the actor Rock Hudson, in a lawsuit in which Mr. Christian said Mr. Hudson had not revealed that he had AIDS, which led to the actor's death.
        Born in Detroit, Mr. Mitchelson built his business by strategically feeding stories to reporters at the local courthouse, his law partner Tre Lovell said.
        He had his first taste of national prominence in 1963, when he won a case, Douglas v. California, before the Supreme Court arguing that indigent people had the right to a free lawyer.
        ''It was a forerunner to Miranda,'' Mr. Mitchelson said in the 2000 interview. ''I took my mother and my wife, and I was trembling when I got up to speak.''
        He pulled stunts like delivering a legal notice to Marlon Brando by helicopter and offering free divorces to waiters in restaurants, Mr. Lovell said. Mr. Mitchelson turned marriage into a slogan: ''a commitment with no rings attached'' and joked that his 45-year marriage to the same woman worked against him.
        When the commissions from wealthy clients began rolling in, Mr. Mitchelson spent freely and lavishly, on expensive suits, a palatial home and an office adorned with a Botticelli mural on the ceiling.
        But his career was dogged by accusations of personal and professional misdeeds. Disgruntled clients filed lawsuits against him. In 1988, the California State Bar Association accused him of overcharging clients and performing shoddy work.
        His license to practice law was suspended in 1993, after he was found to have evaded paying about $2 million in income taxes from 1983 to 1986. He fought to stay out of prison, but eventually served two years in federal prison and lost his grand home and fleet of Rolls-Royces.
        He regained his law license after leaving prison and opened a practice with Mr. Lovell three years ago, but Mr. Mitchelson was still in debt to the Internal Revenue Service and California government agencies. He continued to work from his hospital room, even as he grew more and more ill from cancer.
        Mr. Mictchelson is survived by his wife, Marcella; his son, Morgan; and his sister, Marian Gertner.
      