
        Dr. John E. Mack, a Pulitzer Prize winner and Harvard psychiatrist who studied people who said they had encounters with alien beings, died in London on Monday. He was 74 and lived in Cambridge, Mass.
        Dr. Mack was struck by a driver suspected of being drunk and evidently died on impact, according to the John E. Mack Institute, formerly the Center for Psychology and Social Change.
        Dr. Mack was in Britain to speak at a conference on T.E. Lawrence, the British officer known as Lawrence of Arabia. Dr. Mack's book ''A Prince of Our Disorder: The Life of T.E. Lawrence'' won the Pulitzer Prize for biography in 1977.
        He was drawn to psychoanalytic analysis of the misunderstood or vulnerable, including children contemplating suicide, teenagers troubled by the threat of nuclear war and finally, people plagued by what they believed to be recurrent alien encounters.
        In the 1990's, Dr. Mack studied dozens of people who said they had had such contact with aliens, culminating in his book ''Abduction: Human Encounters with Aliens'' in 1994. In it, he focused less on whether aliens were real than on the spiritual effects of perceived encounters, arguing that ''the abduction phenomenon has important philosophical, spiritual and social implications'' for everyone.
        The book led Harvard Medical School, where Dr. Mack had been a tenured professor for several years, to appoint a committee to review his research methods and consider censuring him. After 14 months of investigation, it released a statement saying that it ''reaffirmed Dr. Mack's academic freedom to study what he wishes and to state his opinion without impediment.''
        His work was the subject of the 2003 documentary film ''Touched,'' made by Laurel Chiten.
        John Edward Mack was born in New York on Oct. 4, 1929. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Oberlin College in 1951 and received his medical degree from Harvard in 1955.
        He completed his residency at the Massachusetts Mental Health Center in Boston before joining the Air Force in 1959 for a two-year tour of duty as a psychiatrist in Japan.
        He then received advanced training at the Boston Psychoanalytic Society and Institute, and was certified as a child analyst in 1969.
        In the late 1960's, he started the psychiatry unit at the Cambridge Hospital, one of Harvard's teaching hospitals, and was chief of the department from 1969 until 1977.
        Early in his career, Dr. Mack focused on the psychology of sleep and dreams. He later became an expert on the psychological effects of the nuclear arms race, writing dozens of scholarly articles and advocating for disarmament. In the 1980's he was academic director of the Center for Psychological Studies in the Nuclear Age.
        Dr. Mack started the John E. Mack Institute in 1989 as the Center for Psychology and Social Change, and in 1993 he started the Program for Extraordinary Experience Research with a grant from Laurance Rockefeller.
        He was also an assistant editor of The Journal of the American Psychoanalytic Association and was on the editorial board of The American Journal of Psychoanalysis.
        He wrote several scholarly books on psychiatry. A second book for general readers, ''Passport to the Cosmos: Human Transformation and Alien Encounters,'' was published in 1999.
        Dr. Mack's marriage to the former Sally Stahl ended in divorce. Survivors include a sister, Mary Lee Ingbar of Brookline, Mass.; three sons, Daniel, of Boulder, Colo., Kenneth, of Almaty, Kazakhstan, and Tony, of Cambridge; and two grandchildren.
      