
        Petros VII, patriarch of Alexandria, who preached Christian-Muslim dialogue from one of the world's oldest seats of Christianity and who vigorously promoted the growth of Greek Orthodoxy in Africa, died Saturday at the age of 55.
        He was killed in a helicopter crash in the Aegean near northern Greece, while on his first trip to visit Mount Athos.
        Within the Greek Orthodox Church, Patriarch Petros was considered second in rank only to the ecumenical patriarch in Istanbul, formerly Constantinople and the onetime capital of the Byzantine Empire.
        He was enthroned as the 115th patriarch and pope of Alexandria and all Africa in 1997, taking over one of the poorest Greek Orthodox patriarchates and one of only three that serve the Arab world's diminishing population of Christians.
        Most of Egypt's Greeks fled that country in the 1950's, during the time of President Gamal Abdel Nasser, and Patriarch Petros inherited an organization that was struggling to find priests and other staff members to take up its missionary work in Africa.
        At the time he took his post, there were only an estimated 1,650 Greeks still living in Egypt, but the patriarchate had expanded into East Africa and had footholds in South Africa and several countries of West Africa, to serve about 250,000 ethnic Greeks in Africa and a growing number of native Africans.
        But the patriarch was also sensitive to the church's position as a minority religion in Arab countries and spoke passionately about the need for mutual respect and understanding between Orthodoxy and Islam.
        ''The world is tired of religious wars and conflicts,'' he once said, noting that the Orthodox Church had lived for centuries alongside Islam.
        ''Christians and Muslims are duty-bound to respect absolutely each other's religious beliefs and overcome antagonistic feelings,'' he said. ''We must strive for solidarity if we are to resolve the problems facing the world, for the earth is the common home of all nations wherein we are called to worship the one true God.''
        Patriarch Petros came to his position with substantial experience in Africa, where the Greek Orthodox Church has struggled to make inroads.
        In 1980, he became the vicar general of the Metropolis in Johannesburg, and was put in charge of its newest church, the Church of Panagia Pantanassa. Over the next 17 years, he also took on the posts of metropolitan of Accra and West Africa; the patriarchal exarch in the archdiocese of Irinoupolis, covering Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania; and metropolitan of Cameroon and West Africa.
        Upon becoming the patriarch of Alexandria seven years ago, he highlighted his dedication to missionary work, saying in a statement in Greece that one of his chief goals was to ''spread the voice of Orthodoxy throughout Africa, to people who have never heard of Christ, who are dying from hunger and sicknesses, where there are no schools.''
        The Church regards the patriarchate in Alexandria as the direct heir to the church established by St. Mark the evangelist in Egypt in 42 A.D. A theological dispute in the sixth century caused a schism that led to the formation of the Egyptian Coptic Church, which also claims that it is the direct heir to the bishopric of St. Mark.
        Patriarch Petros was born in Sichari, Cyprus, on Sept. 3, 1949, and entered the monastery of Macheras at the age of 12. He became a deacon at the monastery in 1969 and was sent to Alexandria to serve as deacon to Patriarch Nicolaos VI. He studied at the Theological School in Athens and was ordained a priest in the summer of 1978. Later that year he was appointed patriarchal vicar in charge of the patriarchal offices in Cairo.
        In January 2002, the patriarch reached out to President Bush with a plea for peace before the American-led invasion of Iraq.
        ''From the historic city founded by Alexander the Great and where Christianity was preached by St. Mark the apostle and evangelist, from the land of the Nile river and a country which is a model and example of harmony between Christians and Muslims,'' he wrote, ''I wish to make an earnest call to your excellency to avoid any attacks on Iraq.''
        Patriarch Petros added: ''Such a war would be seen as an attack against Islam. Such an impression, though false, would have unjust, far-reaching and long-lasting consequences upon religions, their faithful and their reputations.''
      