
        Jack Rohan, who in two stretches covering 18 seasons became Columbia University's most successful men's basketball coach, died Aug. 9 in a nursing home in South Yarmouth, Mass. He was 72.
        Columbia said yesterday that it had just been notified of Rohan's death. His wife, Barbara, told the university that the cause was complications from Guillain-Barré syndrome, a neurological disorder.
        Rohan's career coaching record at Columbia was 198-247. His 1967-68 team, led by Jim McMillian, Heyward Dotson and Dave Newmark, finished with a 23-5 record, won the Ivy League championship and was ranked sixth in the nation; he was voted the national college coach of the year.
        Rohan was also a full professor and chairman of the department of physical education. In 1993, he became the first athletics faculty member to receive Columbia's Great Teacher Award. The citation for Rohan read in part:
        ''A model of wit and erudition, a noted raconteur, you are renowned as much for your scintillating lectures as for courtside strategems. You know the secrets of bringing out each man's aptitude and confidence.''
        He dismissed such praise, once saying:
        ''We're going to do as well as the people we have. John Wooden once told me, 'No good coach can win consistently without good players.' I do not bring miracles. I'm just a coach.''
        John Patrick Rohan was born Aug. 25, 1931, in the Floral Park section of Queens, and was raised in Bellerose. He was a player on Columbia's 1950-51 unbeaten basketball team and a shortstop, third baseman and pitcher on the baseball team.
        He earned a bachelor's degree in history from Columbia in 1953 and a master's from Columbia Teachers College in 1957. From 1955 through 1958, he served variously as the varsity golf and freshman basketball coach at Columbia and the freshman basketball coach at New York University.
        In 1961, at age 29, he was named Columbia's varsity basketball coach, and remained for 13 seasons. When his wife became ill and his two small children had to be cared for, he left coaching to become chairman of the department of physical education.
        ''I leave by my own volition,'' he said. ''I felt I couldn't coach until I was 65 and eventually I would be faced with the problem of what to do.''
        At 58, with Columbia basketball in the doldrums, he returned and served five seasons. When recruiting and winning became more difficult, he retired from coaching in 1995 and from his administrative position in 1996.
        Pete Carril, Princeton's celebrated coach, said of Rohan: ''I have coached over 170 games. I have coached against powers like U.C.L.A., North Carolina, Duke and Davidson. But only three or four times didn't I know what the hell I was doing. Each time it was against Jack Rohan.''
        After coaching, Rohan worked as a television and radio basketball analyst and taught at basketball camps. He also wrote N.C.A.A. tournament scouting reports for The New York Times. In later years, he lived in Yarmouth Port, Mass.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Christopher, of Towson, Md.; a daughter, Jennifer, of Bergen County, N.J., and three grandchildren.
        Rohan's ego was always restrained. As he said in 1964:
        ''The worst thing you can do is think you're important. Outside of Casey Stengel, how many individuals are important in this world?''
      