
        Townsend Hoopes, an author and onetime Washington insider who wrote of how President Lyndon Baines Johnson tried to de-escalate the Vietnam War in 1968, died on Sept. 20 in Baja California, Mexico. He was 82 and lived in Chestertown, Md.
        The cause was complications of melanoma, his family said.
        Mr. Hoopes, a former assistant secretary of defense, was Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara's principal deputy for international security affairs. In that post, he was among the few who influenced American policies and strategies in Indochina. Later, as under secretary of the Air Force, he saw the resulting shambles on the ground.
        He startled Washingon -- and the country -- with his blunt 1969 account, ''The Limits of Intervention,'' which focused on his impressions in light of the calamitous Vietnamese Tet offensive of 1968.
        Published by McKay, it was a text on war-making gone awry and a president's belated efforts to cut short demands for yet more troops and bombardment. Like several other of Mr. Hoopes's books, it remains in print, most recently from W.W. Norton.
        Mr. Hoopes disclosed that even in the highest echelons of government, many officials had long concluded that the intervention in Vietnam was misconceived. The book put some pressure on the new president, Richard M. Nixon, to press the disengagement, but the conflict went on until the reunification of Vietnam in 1976.
        Townsend Walter Hoopes II, known as Tim, was born in Duluth, Minn., a son of a Great Lakes steamship executive. He graduated in 1940 from Phillips Academy Andover, and with the war-delayed class of 1944 from Yale, where he was captain of the football team.
        He was a Marine Corps lieutenant serving on Iwo Jima and in occupied Japan, then went to Washington, first as an assistant to the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. In 1948 he was named an assistant to the secretary of defense, with time for studies at the National War College, and wrote an influential paper foretelling the president's need for what eventually became the National Security Council.
        In 1953, Mr. Hoopes joined the international consulting firm of Cresap, McCormick & Paget, which has since merged into Towers Perrin. He returned to it later as a partner in New York (1958 to 1964), and a vice president and director of the Washington office (1969 to 1971).
        He was the deputy assistant secretary of defense charged with security affairs in the Near East and South Asia in 1965-66, principal international security deputy overall in 1966-67, and President Johnson's secretary of the Air Force until his return to Cresap, McCormick in 1969.
        After his government service, he was a frequent critic of Washington's approach to arms control in the confrontation with the Soviet Union.
        He was also president of the Association of American Publishers from 1973 to 1986. He wrote authoritative books like ''The Devil and John Foster Dulles: The Diplomacy of the Eisenhower Era'' (Little, Brown, 1973) and ''Driven Patriot: The Life and Times of James Forrestal'' (Knopf, 1992), written with Douglas Brinkley.
        ''FDR and the Creation of the U.N.'' (Yale University Press, 1997) was also written with Mr. Brinkley. With his second wife, Ann Hoopes, he wrote ''Eye Power'' (Knopf, 1979), a personal guide to visual training, illustrated with eye exercises.
        Most recently he published a novel, ''A Textured Web'' (2000).
        Besides Ms. Hoopes, his wife of 40 years, Mr. Hoopes is survived by their daughter, Andrea H. DeGirolamo of Rockville, Md.; two sons by his first marriage, to Marion Schmidt Ducey of Ponte Vedra, Fla., Townsend W. III of Amelia Island, Fla., and Peter S. of Denver; two stepdaughters, Lise Jeantet of Berkeley, Calif., and Cecily H. Lyons of Washington; two stepsons, Briggs S. Cunningham IV of Washington and F. Thomas B.C. Hoopes of Ipswich, Mass; and 11 grandchildren.
        Correction:  October 14, 2004, Thursday  An obituary on Sunday about Townsend Hoopes, a Johnson administration official who wrote about the de-escalation of the Vietnam War, referred incorrectly at one point to his highest government title. As noted elsewhere in the obituary, he was under secretary of the Air Force, not secretary.
      