
        Cardinal James A. Hickey, the former archbishop of Washington who led the Roman Catholic Church in the nation's capital for 20 years until his retirement in 2000, died early yesterday at a nursing home in the District of Columbia. He was 84.
        He died at the Jeanne Jugan Residence, a nursing home operated by the Little Sisters of the Poor, where he had lived for about a year. Susan Gibbs, a spokeswoman for the Archdiocese of Washington, said that his health had deteriorated in the past year and that he had contracted pneumonia recently.
        In a 58-year priesthood, the cardinal earned two doctorates, in theology and church law, and served as the auxiliary bishop of Saginaw, Mich., as rector of the Pontifical North American College in Rome and as the bishop of Cleveland, where he led one million Catholics. He was named archbishop of Washington by Pope John Paul II in 1980, and elevated to the College of Cardinals in 1988.
        Cardinal Theodore E. McCarrick, who succeeded Cardinal Hickey as the archbishop of Washington and knew him for 40 years, called his death a ''poignant loss for the church in Washington and a personal loss for me.''
        One of 14 American cardinals, Cardinal Hickey was a social and political activist who spoke out on a range of domestic and international issues, traveled to trouble spots in Central America, testified before Congress and joined delegations of church leaders in meetings at the White House. He opposed the gun lobby and military aid to the right-wing government of El Salvador and to the Nicaraguan contras in the 1980's. He also urged the nation's bishops to take strong stands for nuclear disarmament.
        As the archbishop of Washington, comprising the District of Columbia and five Maryland counties, he was a forceful advocate for immigrants and the poor. Church leaders said he expanded Catholic schools, set up health care and legal aid networks and established 16 parishes. He strengthened Catholic Charities, providing social services to more than 80,000 people, and the Spanish Catholic Center, serving 36,000 people. He also started a nonprofit agency to develop housing for the elderly.
        Although he was a theological conservative who supported church teachings on abortion, birth control, priestly celibacy, homosexuality and other issues, Cardinal Hickey dealt forthrightly with the sex-abuse scandal involving priests, establishing a review board and a policy not to return abusive priests to the ministry.
        James Aloysius Hickey was born in Midland, Mich., on Oct. 11, 1920. He entered a Catholic seminary in Grand Rapids at 13, and after graduating in 1938 enrolled in Sacred Heart Seminary College in Detroit, where he studied philosophy. After further studies at the Catholic University of America in Washington, he was ordained in 1946.
        In Rome, he earned a doctorate in canon law from the Pontifical Lateran University in 1950, and a doctorate in moral theology at the Pontifical Angelicum University in 1951. From 1969 to 1974, he was rector of the Pontifical North American College in Rome.
        Just before his appointment in Washington, he went to El Salvador to attend the funeral of Archbishop Óscar Arnulfo Romero, a vocal foe of the Salvadoran government, who was shot dead while saying Mass.
        The Carter administration suspended $5 million in military aid to El Salvador after the killing of four American missionaries, two of whom had been commissioned by Archbishop Hickey.
        As chancellor of the Catholic University of America in 1987, Archbishop Hickey expelled the Rev. Charles E. Curran from a tenured professorship for his liberal views on birth control, divorce, homosexuality and other issues. Father Curran charged that his academic freedom had been violated but lost his fight for reinstatement and, in 1990, found a new academic home at Southern Methodist University in Dallas.
        In 1989, Cardinal Hickey, a lifelong advocate of racial amity, suspended the Rev. George A. Stallings Jr., a black priest who had accused the archdiocese of racism and set up his own African-American congregation, calling it the Imani Temple. The archdiocese denied the accusation, said it had no objection to the use of jazz or other innovations but said the church could not condone ''a free-standing entity'' independent of Rome. Father Stallings persisted, however, and was excommunicated.
        Cardinal Hickey retired on Nov. 21, 2000, but continued to live in Washington and remained a nonvoting member of the College of Cardinals. He is survived by three nephews, a niece and several grand nieces. A funeral Mass will be held on Saturday at the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception in Washington.
      