
        Michael Grant, a classical scholar who did groundbreaking research on the coinage of Rome, then wrote lucid, learned histories of the ancient world for the general reader, died on Oct. 4 in London. He was 89.
        His son, Antony, said Dr. Grant died in a London hospital. He returned to London in April after living in Italy for many years.
        ''If there is a cottage industry in the world of classical scholarship, it takes the form of Michael Grant Inc.,'' The Canadian Journal of History said in 2001.
        Dr. Grant's 50 or so books of nonfiction and translation elegantly synthesized familiar material about ancient Mediterranean history while introducing new scholarship.
        He explored ancient Greece, Rome and Israel to write both overall histories and biographies of giants like Julius Caesar, Nero, Herod, Cleopatra, Jesus, St. Peter and St. Paul.
        John Canaday, in reviewing ''The Birth of Western Civilization: Greece and Rome'' in The New York Times in 1964, extolled the intellectual verve of the volume, which Dr. Grant edited and partly wrote. ''The ancient world is not embalmed here, but is revealed in its immortal vitality,'' the review said.
        Dr. Grant wrote that Etruscan artists would have preferred Picasso to Raphael, that Cleopatra was more than a vamp and was quite knowledgeable about agriculture, and that all the West retains of ancient Greece was the product of fewer than 50 brains.
        His ''Jesus: An Historian's View of the Gospels,'' published in 1977, applied the standard disciplines of the historian's profession and reached the conclusion that the four Gospels are sufficiently reliable to deserve the utmost respect. This book remains widely mentioned in discussions about the historical Jesus.
        Dr. Grant's ability to summarize texts in a lively, not to say irreverent, manner was suggested by his judgment on Ben Sira, the author of Ecclesiastes.
        Dr. Grant wrote: ''He offers a lot of detailed ethical and practical advice, highly conservative, and not unmixed with expediency and self-interest. He is sorry the poor are so poor, but there is nothing to be done about it.''
        Michael Grant was born in London on Nov. 21, 1914. His father, Col. Maurice Grant, served in the Boer War and later wrote part of its official history.
        Michael was educated at Harrow, where he was captain of his house cricket team, and Trinity College at Cambridge University. After graduating, he wrote a thesis that would become his first book, ''From Imperium to Auctoritas,'' published in 1946.
        The book was an academic examination of Roman coinage and coin legends, which he argued were a vivid social record of the empire. Four more numismatic studies followed in the 1950's, with a fifth, more popularized volume appearing in 1968. Also in the 1950's, he began distilling and popularizing the works of other classicists.
        During World War II, Dr. Grant served for a year as an intelligence officer and then was asked to go to Turkey as a representative of the British Council, which encourages educational and cultural initiatives on behalf of Britain.
        While in Turkey, Dr. Grant married Anne-Sophie Beskow; she survives, along with their sons Patrick, of Oxford, and Antony, of London, and two grandchildren.
        In 1945, the couple returned to London with Dr. Grant's collection of almost 700 Roman coins, which he later gave to the Fitzwilliam Museum in Cambridge, The Times of London reported in its obituary.
        He worked for the British Council before returning to Cambridge, where he held a chair in the humanities from 1948 until 1959. He took a leave of absence from 1956 to 1958 to be vice chancellor of the University of Khartoum.
        He wrote seven books during those nine years.
        From 1959 to 1966, Dr. Grant was vice chancellor of Queen's University in Belfast, where he produced four more books. He then began writing full time.
        ''My life as a writer has had two successive though overlapping stages,'' Dr. Grant said in an interview with Contemporary Authors in 2002. First came coins, he said, then books ''to convey the classical world to readers who are not necessarily specialists.''
        Critics became divided about his bifurcated career. The Times of London said, ''Numismatists felt that his academic work was beyond reproach, but some academics balked at his attempt to condense a survey of Roman literature into 300 pages.''
        His ''Gladiators,'' published in 1967, was reprinted after Ridley Scott's popular film ''Gladiator'' in 2000. In the new edition, Dr. Grant wrote that a proper appraisal of the gladiator spectacle was pertinent to today's world, since it was ''one of the extremely few epochs of human history to have achieved cruelty on a scale as numerically lavish as ancient Rome.''
        In his biography of Constantine, first published in 1993, Dr. Grant discussed the emperor's murders, including those of his eldest son and second wife.
        ''It is a travesty to call such a murderer Constantine the Great,'' he wrote. ''Or perhaps not: for what does greatness mean?''
        Correction:  November 3, 2004, Wednesday  An obituary on Oct. 25 about Michael Grant, who wrote popular books on the ancient world, misstated the title of a text written by Ben Sira, the subject of an assessment by Mr. Grant. It was Ecclesiasticus, an apocryphal book of the Bible, not Ecclesiastes.
      