
        Samuel L. Gravely Jr., the Navy's first black admiral and the first African-American to serve as a fleet commander, died on Friday at the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Md. He was 82 and lived in Haymarket, Va.
        The cause was complications from a stroke, said his son, David.
        Admiral Gravely, who retired from the Navy in 1980, broke ground repeatedly during his 38-year career, recording a series of firsts in naval education and appointments to increasingly visible commands.
        In 1962 he became the first black officer to command a United States warship when he was named skipper of the destroyer Falgout, which patrolled the so-called Pacific Barrier between the Aleutian and Midway Islands.
        The next year, he and another officer were the first African-Americans to attend the Naval War College, a 10-month course of study for the Navy's most promising officers.
        He became a rear admiral in 1971 while commander of the Jouett, a guided-missile frigate that cruised off the coast of Vietnam.
        In 1976, he was appointed by President Gerald R. Ford to be vice admiral, in charge of the Navy's Third Fleet, a command of 100 warships and 60,000 sailors and marines based at Pearl Harbor.
        Admiral Gravely received the Legion of Merit, Bronze Star, Meritorious Service Medal and Navy Commendation Medal.
        Samuel Lee Gravely Jr. was born in Richmond, Va., on June 4, 1922, and attended Virginia Union University for three years before postponing his education to enlist in the Naval Reserve in 1942, two years before the Navy commissioned its first black officers.
        He became the first African-American to graduate from a midshipman's school, at Columbia University. He was commissioned an ensign and served aboard a segregated submarine chaser. He returned to Virginia Union in 1946 to complete a bachelor's degree in history.
        He resumed active duty in 1949 and was placed in Washington to recruit African-Americans for the recently desegregated Navy. During the Korean War, he returned to combat service as a communications officer aboard the battleship Iowa and later worked aboard the cruiser Toledo. He transferred from the Naval Reserve to the regular Navy in 1955.
        After commanding the Falgout for four years, he received command of the destroyer Taussig in 1966 and later of the Jouett. He went on to command a cruiser-destroyer group and the 11th Naval District, in San Diego, before being promoted to vice admiral.
        Between assignments at sea, Admiral Gravely worked in Washington on defense coordination and satellite communications. He retired in 1980 as director of the Defense Communications Agency in Washington, overseeing the communications network linking Washington with American and allied bases worldwide.
        Admiral Gravely's elder son, Robert, died in 1978 in a car accident. Admiral Gravely is survived by his wife, Alma; a daughter, Tracey Gravely of Fredericksburg, Va.; his son David, of Manassas Park; and two brothers, Robert W., of Richmond, and Edward C., of Hyattsville, Md.
      