
        Pierre Salinger, the debonair, half-French investigative reporter who became famous as John F. Kennedy's White House press secretary at the height of the cold war and went on to work as a prize-winning television correspondent for ABC News in Europe, died Saturday at a hospital near his home in Le Thor, France. He was 79.
        Mr. Salinger had been in declining health, suffering from aphasia and unable to speak more than a few words, said his fourth wife, Nicole, who runs a bed-and-breakfast at their home in Provence. He had collapsed about a week ago and underwent surgery to implant a heart pacemaker.
        Kennedy was the first president to allow live television broadcasts of his news conferences, and Mr. Salinger managed that still-new medium and the White House press corps with ''wit, enthusiasm and considerable disdain for detail,'' as The New York Times put it in 1962. With his bushy eyebrows, big Cuban (later Brazilian) cigars and vivid vests, he became the first presidential spokesman to become a celebrity in his own right.
        But later in life, Mr. Salinger proved far less adroit in dealing with the new medium of the Internet, publicizing what turned out to be a bogus document that Trans World Airlines Flight 800 had been shot down off Long Island in 1996 by a Navy missile gone awry. The episode badly damaged his credibility and bewildered some of his oldest friends.
        As White House press secretary, Mr. Salinger once said he saw his job as ''a reporter for the rest of the press,'' operating in a ''kind of no man's land'' between the president and reporters, and Kennedy called him ''plucky Pierre.'' He once conducted a press briefing in a party hat at a seafood restaurant in Hyannis Port, Mass., and he swapped jokes on a skeet-shooting visit to Nikita S. Khrushchev's dacha.
        But the bluff exterior belied his cultured tastes. A child prodigy who played a grand piano before he learned to read, Mr. Salinger retained a lifelong zest for music, art, poetry, wine, women and fine food, and was instrumental in inviting musicians like Pablo Casals and Igor Stravinsky to the White House. He spoke fluent, if fractured, French.
        ''If Jackie Kennedy was the one who thought maybe America was ready for a higher culture, her ally in it or her agent was Pierre,'' said Richard Reeves, author of ''President Kennedy: Profile of Power.''
        Pierre Emile George Salinger was born June 14, 1925, in San Francisco, and his life was a mix of cosmopolitan influences and raffish experiences. His father was an American Jewish mining engineer, his mother a French-born Catholic whose father was a member of the French Chamber of Deputies. He spent two years at San Francisco State College, then served as a skipper of a Navy submarine chaser off Okinawa in World War II before graduating from the University of San Francisco.
        He began his career at The San Francisco Chronicle, where he established a reputation as a scrappy reporter and was night city editor by 25. Posing as a drunken bum named Emil Flick, Mr. Salinger several times contrived to be thrown in jail so he could write about conditions for inmates, and his exposés won praise from Earl Warren, the governor of California.
        It was Mr. Salinger's investigations into corruption among the Teamsters on the docks of San Francisco that led to his work for the Kennedy family. As a regional reporter for Collier's magazine, Mr. Salinger had written a long article on labor corruption, but the magazine folded before it could be published.
        ''I sent it to Bobby, who was counsel to the Senate rackets committee,'' recalled Edwin Guthman, who was then a reporter for The Seattle Times and went on to become Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy's press secretary at the Justice Department. ''Bob read this piece and hired Pierre, and Pierre became an investigator for them.''
        He later joined John Kennedy's Senate staff, and then the 1960 presidential campaign, and ''See Pierre'' became a favorite directive in Kennedy headquarters. As White House press secretary, he announced, explained and defended many of Kennedy's most important actions and policies. In the Cuban missile crisis of 1962, he covered up the president's sudden return from Chicago to Washington by claiming, on his boss's orders, that Kennedy had a cold.
        But, Mr. Reeves noted, Mr. Salinger ''had a journalist's instincts -- his instinct wasn't to cover it up, it was to find out.''
        After being kept in the dark about the planned Bay of Pigs invasion, Mr. Salinger confronted the president ''to say that I couldn't continue as press secretary if I wasn't notified about big events like this,'' he recalled in a 1993 interview with Washingtonian magazine. By the time of the missile crisis, he said, ''I knew everything that was happening, though I couldn't tell the press at the time.''
        He later acknowledged having sidestepped questions about Kennedy's affairs, and said the public ''should know if a president is corrupt or drunk much of the time, but if a president has a mistress occasionally and it doesn't affect his presidency, I don't see what harm that does.''
        Mr. Salinger stayed on as Lyndon B. Johnson's press secretary until March 1964, but left in disagreement over the new president's approach to the press. That same year, Gov. Edmund G. Brown of California appointed him to fill a vacant Senate seat, but he lost to the Republican George Murphy in the general election that fall.
        He later joined Continental Airlines, then returned to politics for Robert Kennedy's 1968 presidential campaign. After Kennedy's assassination he moved to Europe, where he wrote for the Paris-based newsmagazine L'Express. In 1976, he went to Austria to cover the Winter Olympics for ABC News, and he was named Paris correspondent in 1978. For the next 15 years, he used his extensive contacts to cover major stories from the Iranian hostage crisis to Rock Hudson's death from AIDS.
        ''It was simply amazing what he could find out because he knew so many people,'' said Elizabeth Bagley, who worked under him as an ABC producer.
        In 1981, he won a George Polk Award for a documentary about the secret negotiations that led to the release of American hostages in Iran. He retired from ABC in 1993, and became a consultant.
        Mr. Salinger's first three marriages ended in divorce. His eldest son, Marc, who had been John Kennedy's occasional golf caddy and never got over the trauma of his assassination, committed suicide in 1977. A daughter, Suzanne, died of cancer in 1995. Besides his wife, the former Nicole Beauvillain de Menthon, he is survived by two sons, Stephen, of Los Angeles, and Gregory, of Paris.
        Kennedy shared Mr. Salinger's love of good cigars, and one day in 1962 ordered him to obtain 1,000 prime Havanas. When Mr. Salinger appeared the next day with 2,000, Kennedy greeted him with delight, he recalled years later, then pulled a paper from his desk and signed it. It was the order for the trade embargo with Cuba that endures to this day.
        Correction:  October 30, 2004, Saturday  An obituary on Oct. 18 about Pierre Salinger, the Kennedy White House spokesman who became a television correspondent, misspelled one of his given names. He was Pierre Emil George Salinger, not Emile.
      