
        Peter L. Picknelly, a longtime transit executive and real estate developer who built Peter Pan Bus Lines into the country's largest privately owned bus company, died on Oct. 4 while vacationing in Portugal. He was 73 and a resident of Springfield, Mass.
        The cause was a stroke, his family announced.
        Mr. Picknelly was chairman of Peter Pan Bus Lines, whose coaches glide through the Northeast bearing names like the Pixie Dust Express and the Neverland Star. Mr. Picknelly's father, Peter C., started the business with two Buick limousines in 1933 and later named it after his son's favorite storybook.
        Mr. Picknelly, who joined the company after high school and became its president at 33, built Peter Pan into a fleet of 400 buses. In the 1980's and early 1990's, he was also president of Springfield Transit Management, which operated all transportation from the Pioneer Valley Transit Authority station in Springfield.
        In 1993, he started Picknelly Properties, a real estate development firm, and bought the Monarch Place office tower in Springfield, including the Sheraton Springfield Hotel. He bought Harrison Place, the city's third-largest office tower, in 1997 and built the Hilton Garden Inn at the Basketball Hall of Fame in 2001.
        Peter Louis Picknelly was born on Dec. 1, 1930, in Springfield. In addition to running Peter Pan, he was chairman of Coach Builders, which refurbishes buses; proprietor of the Eastern Leasing Company, which leases and finances vehicles; and chairman of the MassWest Insurance Company, which sold coverage largely to transportation companies.
        When he died, he was working on restoring a historic building in downtown Springfield and turning it into a hotel.
        Mr. Picknelly is survived by his wife, Judith; a sister, Sister Peter Maria, of Chicopee, Mass.; a daughter, Mary Jean, of Longmeadow, Mass.; two sons, Peter A., of Springfield, and Paul C., of Hampden, Mass.; and seven grandchildren.
      