
        Frederick William Hill, an educator and school business official in charge of the New York school system's finances during its tumultuous reorganization in the 1960's, died on Oct. 15 at his home in Owensboro, Ky. He was 92.
        The cause was bladder and prostate cancer, his family said.
        New York's Board of Education was in administrative disarray when Dr. Hill arrived from Minneapolis in 1963.
        He discovered, for instance, that a handful of custodians earned more than the $40,000 annual salary paid to the superintendent.
        As he overhauled the school system's administrative operations, Dr. Hill received many complaints from union workers. In 1965, after he created a plan to make the bidding for bus contracts more competitive, drivers called a four-day strike affecting 81,000 students.
        When he withheld some striking teachers' paychecks in 1968, he was met with sit-ins and protests at his office.
        Dr. Hill was born Sept. 2, 1912, in Brooklyn and received his bachelor's degree from Kansas State College in 1934 and a master's degree there in 1935. He received his doctorate in education from Columbia in 1942.
        He was a teacher and principal in Sharon Springs, Kan., in the 1930's before joining the New York State Department of Education as senior financial supervisor. He was later secretary of the school board of Abington, Pa.; deputy superintendent in Yonkers; and assistant superintendent in Minneapolis.
        After seven years as deputy superintendent in New York, he became assistant superintendent of Hicksville, N.Y., schools, and was later appointed superintendent. He retired in 1978.
        He then worked as a consultant to several school systems and was a visiting professor at Columbia, Harvard, Notre Dame and other universities. He wrote several books about school administration.
        Dr. Hill's first wife, the former Mary Elizabeth Allman , died in 1979.
        Survivors include his wife, the former Lucine Howerton; three sons, Frederick A., of Poway, Calif., William E., of Centereach, N.Y., and Robert J., of Minnetonka, Minn.; two daughters, Ruthann A. Murray, of Chokio, Minn., and Mary Margaret Hoban, of Austin, Tex.; and 12 grandchildren. The family also listed five exchange students who lived with the family in the 1950's and 1960s as survivors.
      