
        John W. Finney, a senior correspondent and editor in the Washington bureau of The New York Times for 30 years who wrote extensively about nuclear proliferation, military policy and the Vietnam War, died Friday at the Washington Home Hospice. He was 80.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Teresa McMasters Finney.
        In 1957, James Reston, then Washington bureau chief of The Times, decided that it needed a reporter to cover atomic energy and science. He asked James Bryant Conant, a former president of Harvard, and Jerome Wiesner, who later became president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, whether they knew of a scientist who could fill the position. When they were unable to identify one, he decided to hire Mr. Finney, who had been a news agency reporter at The United Press.
        Mr. Finney became part of the group known informally as Scotty's Boys, the reporters who worked under Mr. Reston; they included Russell Baker, Allen Drury, Max Frankel, Anthony Lewis, Neil Sheehan and Tom Wicker.
        Early in his career, he angered science advisers to the White House with a series of articles about scientists who first advised the government on policy, then accepted lucrative jobs with companies seeking government contracts. He wrote extensively about the Atomic Energy Commission and turned the beat into coverage of the central aspects of the cold war: the development of nuclear weapons, satellite technology and the arms race.
        Mr. Frankel, who later became executive editor of The Times, said Mr. Finney had been a trailblazer as one of the first reporters to make a specialty of science, technology and related policy. That coverage led him to focus on the Pentagon and intelligence. Among the 2,500 articles that carried his byline were a string of exclusives about nuclear proliferation, as well as the buildup of American troops in Vietnam.
        His coverage of the Senate was among the first to recognize the significance of the early challenge to President Lyndon B. Johnson's Vietnam policies by important Democrats including the Senate majority leader, Mike Mansfield, and the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, J.W. Fulbright.
        His articles in 1967 and 1968 about a Senate investigation into inconsistencies in the official account of the Tonkin Gulf incident -- that two American destroyers had been attacked without provocation by North Vietnamese torpedo boats -- had a major influence in the public debate over the wisdom of the war. They also contributed significantly to a political climate that forced President Johnson in 1968 to decide against seeking re-election.
        As Washington news editor from 1978 to 1985, in the No.2 management post in Washington, after that of the bureau chief, Mr. Finney supervised political and policy coverage and was a mentor to many younger reporters.
        John Warren Finney was born on Dec. 5, 1923, in Springfield, Mass. His father was a life insurance salesman. He attended the Choate School in Wallingford, Conn., on a scholarship and after graduation spent two years at Yale before enlisting in the Navy during World War II and serving in the Philippines. Mr. Finney then returned to New Haven, where he became managing editor of The Yale Daily News. He received his degree in 1947 and for two years traveled as a cabin boy on a tramp steamer.
        In 1949 he moved to Washington, where he got a job transcribing articles for The United Press and eventually became its Pentagon reporter.
        Mr. Finney retired from The Times in 1987 and then taught journalism for 15 years as an adjunct professor in the Georgetown University foreign service program.
        His first marriage, to Barbara Slotke, ended in divorce. In addition to Teresa Finney, he is survived by two daughters from his first marriage, Alison Stebbins of Amherst, N.H., and Jessica Warner of Toronto; a sister, Jean Haberman of Glastonbury, Conn.; a brother, Edward Finney of Mountain Lakes, N.J.; and three grandchildren.
      