
        Edward McAteer, who as the founder of the Religious Roundtable, a conservative Christian group, played a major role in establishing the Christian right's influence in American politics, died Wednesday after collapsing at his home in Memphis. He was 78.
        Mr. McAteer had been undergoing treatment for cancer, his grandson John McAteer said.
        Founded in 1979, the Religious Roundtable sought to involve conservative Christians in the mainstream political process. The group focused on what Mr. McAteer, in a 1981 interview with The New York Times, called ''public policy concerning moral issues,'' which included school prayer and a strong national defense. The group publicly opposed abortion, pornography and Communism.
        Together with other conservative Christian groups, the Religious Roundtable was considered instrumental in Ronald Regan's election to the presidency in 1980, forging a bond between the Republican Party and the religious right that endures to this day.
        ''Jerry Falwell and Ed McAteer and other leaders of that era realized the potential of these folks to be more politically active,'' John C. Green, a political scientist at the University of Akron who has studied conservative Christian groups, said in a telephone interview. ''And then there were secular leaders who realized the advantage of courting this constituency. So the religious leaders and the secular conservative leaders came together.''
        Mr. McAteer's influence was strongest in the 1980's. In 1984, he ran as an independent for the United States Senate seat vacated by Howard H. Baker Jr., the majority leader. He lost to Al Gore.
        In recent years, however, Mr. McAteer was overshadowed by colleagues like Mr. Falwell and Ralph Reed, the former head of the Christian Coalition who is now an official in President Bush's re-election campaign.
        Edward Eugene McAteer was born on July 29, 1926, in Memphis. He attended Memphis State University and later studied at Southern Law School, but did not receive a degree from either institution. He served in the Navy in World War II and in the mid-1940's was a Golden Gloves boxer.
        Unlike many conservative Christian leaders, Mr. McAteer was not a clergyman. For more than two decades, he worked as a sales manager for Colgate-Palmolive, in charge of the Southeast, before leaving the company in 1976 to devote himself to conservative causes full time.
        Mr. McAteer started the Religious Roundtable at a historical moment when conservative Christians were engaged in politics for the first time in decades. ''If you go back to the 1950's, 60's and 70's, evangelical Christians were not very active in politics,'' Professor Green said. ''Reforming this world didn't seem to appeal much to people whose whole goal was to get to the next world.''
        But in the late 1970's, with the emergence of social issues, like abortion and gay rights, about which conservative Christians felt strongly, they began to coalesce as a political force. A watershed event was a gathering in Dallas, known as a National Affairs Briefing, that the Religious Roundtable sponsored in the summer of 1980.
        Addressing the gathering was Ronald Reagan, the Republican presidential nominee. He told the crowd, as Newsweek reported: ''I know you can't endorse me. But I want you to know that I endorse you.''
        After that, Professor Green said, ''many people inside the movement and outside the movement recognized that something new was happening in American politics.''
        Mr. McAteer is survived by his wife, the former Faye Carter; two sons, Edward Jr., of Murfreesboro, Tenn., and Timothy, of Bartlett, Tenn.; six grandchildren; and 10 great-grandchildren.
      