
        Edward Silver, a prominent labor lawyer who was the first chairman of New York City's Civilian Complaint Review Board, which monitors police conduct, died on Friday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 83.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Silver represented the city in highly public negotiations with its municipal unions through four administrations.
        He was appointed by Mayor David N. Dinkins in July 1993 as the head of the newly created police review board. The board, which investigates complaints of excessive force or other misconduct by police officers against civilians, was the first such panel to operate completely independent of the Police Department. Mr. Silver resigned his position a year later under the new mayor, Rudolph W. Giuliani.
        Mr. Silver was considered one of the country's most successful labor lawyers. The chairman of Proskauer Rose from 1981 to 1991 and the head of the firm's labor department, he always represented management. He also handled high-profile labor disputes for the Metropolitan Opera, the Harvard Club and a consortium of New York's private hospitals.
        As special counsel to the city under Mayors John V. Lindsay, Abraham D. Beame, Edward I. Koch and David N. Dinkins, Mr. Silver was known for his acute diplomatic skills. When he worked for Mayor Beame in the mid-1970's, he would discreetly edge out of the frame when photographers were present, to avoid dwarfing the much shorter mayor, his family said.
        In 1980, Mr. Silver helped negotiate a settlement with leaders of the city's uniformed unions (representing more than 40,000 police officers, firefighters, correction officers and others workers), averting a threatened strike. He was praised in particular for helping tone down the combustible Mayor Koch at the bargaining table.
        Even opponents praised Mr. Silver's cool demeanor in the heat of collective bargaining. As Barry Feinstein, then president of Local 237 of the Teamsters Union, told The New York Times in 1980, ''No matter what the pressures were or how we hollered at him, he never got agitated.''
        Mr. Silver's tenure as the police review board's chairman appeared less successful. Evaluating the board's first six months, the New York Civil Liberties Union called its performance ''disappointing,'' citing its failure to hire enough investigators and to follow up civilian complaints quickly.
        Edward Silver was born in Manhattan on April 1, 1921, and grew up in Hell's Kitchen, where his parents ran a small haberdashery. He earned an undergraduate degree at St. John's University, then in Brooklyn, and a law degree at Cornell.
        Mr. Silver's first marriage, to Melba Levine, ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, the former Marlys Sherman; four children, Ann, of Carson City, Nev.; Erik, of Boca Raton, Fla.; Owen, of Boulder, Colo.; and Adam, of Manhattan; and one grandchild.
        Correction:  October 7, 2004, Thursday  An obituary on Sunday about Edward Silver, a New York labor lawyer, referred imprecisely to his resignation as the first chairman of the city's Civilian Complaint Review Board, which examines accusations of police misconduct. Mr. Silver, who was appointed in 1993, stepped down a year later because of his own dissatisfaction with the direction of the board's work in a new mayoral administration, his family and associates said, not because of criticism from outside groups or the city government.
      