
        Wally Harper, a director, arranger and composer on Broadway who was Barbara Cook's musical director and collaborator for 30 years, died on Friday in Manhattan. He was 63 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, said his partner, Allan Gruet.
        Mr. Harper had some 20 credits on Broadway since 1969 for musical direction and arrangements, for ''A Day in Hollywood/A Night in the Ukraine,'' ''Irene,'' ''The Grand Tour,'' ''My One and Only,'' ''The Best Little Whorehouse Goes Public'' and the original production of ''Nine,'' which won the 1982 Tony Award for best musical. He also composed the Off Broadway musical ''Sensations.''
        But he is best known as the musical companion and guide for Ms. Cook, with whom he worked continuously since 1974. With his help, Ms. Cook transformed her career in the mid-70's from that of a faded Broadway ingénue to a trailblazing cabaret star and solo concert performer.
        When the two began their collaboration, Ms. Cook -- who had been a star on Broadway in the 50's and 60's in such sweetheart roles as Marian the Librarian in the original cast of ''The Music Man'' and Cunégonde in ''Candide'' -- had largely stopped singing. Mr. Harper, a fan who was then a young composer and arranger with a number of shows under his belt, casually suggested that they get together and work on something new.
        Within months they had a new show in the clubs, and on Jan. 26, 1975, Ms. Cook performed at Carnegie Hall with Mr. Harper as the musical director. The performance was hailed as a major comeback for Ms. Cook, and critics praised not only the clear, robust power of her soprano but the elegant material and the sense of restraint and control that guided the performance.
        ''Miss Cook's program was not simply a display of vocal virtuosity -- an element that was often implied more than it was exhibited,'' John S. Wilson of The New York Times wrote in a review. '''The Man I Love,' which offers opportunities for a bravura performance, was, under the direction of Wally Harper, kept simple, clear and direct, but with the excitement of a possibly stronger projection bubbling underneath.''
        The concert was recorded by Columbia and remains in print as a cornerstone of modern cabaret singing.
        Mr. Harper and Ms. Cook's shows have included, most recently, ''Barbara Cook's Broadway,'' which ran at Lincoln Center's Vivian Beaumont Theater this spring and went on tour; ''Mostly Sondheim,'' which opened at the Beaumont in early 2001 and was nominated for a Tony Award for best special event; ''Barbara Cook: A Concert for the Theater'' in 1987, and ''It's Better With a Band,'' a which was presented at Carnegie Hall in September 1980 and ran in cabarets thereafter.
        For that show, Mr. Harper wrote, with the lyricist David Zippel, a song called ''The Ingénue'' that satirized the role that Ms. Cook had played early in her career. ''Ingénues must pay their dues with unrelenting tedium,'' she complains, and yet notes that paying one's dues doesn't necessarily result in success: ''Movie roles you live to play/They give to Shirley Jones to do,'' a reference to the part of Marian in the movie version of ''The Music Man,'' which went to Ms. Cook's rival.
        Mr. Harper was born in Akron, Ohio, and attended the New England Conservatory and the Juilliard School of Music. Besides Mr. Gruet, no immediate family members survive.
      