
        Anthony Hecht, an accomplished formalist poet whose early work of courtliness and urbanity gave way to searing chronicles of the 20th-century's terrors, died on Wednesday at his home in Washington. He was 81. The cause was lymphoma, said his wife, Helen.
        His first book, ''A Summoning of Stones'' (1954), won him immediate attention for its lapidary skills. He went on to write a half dozen more volumes of poetry, publishing about one each decade; two books of critical essays; and a 1993 critical study of W.H. Auden's poetry called ''The Hidden Law.'' That small body of work brought him many honors, including a Pulitzer Prize for his second book, ''The Hard Hours,'' in 1968; the Bollingen Prize in 1983; and the $100,000 Tanning Prize, by the Academy of American Poets, for lifetime achievement.
        When he accepted the Tanning Prize in 1997 he described his work as: ''Formalist. Ironic. Oh yes: There's a certain amount of darkness to a lot of my poetry. It deals sometimes with very terrible aspects of existence.''
        Chief among the ''very terrible aspects of existence'' that Mr. Hecht addressed was the Nazi death camps, which he had seen as an infantryman in World War II.
        The poet and critic J.D. McClatchy wrote that a Hecht poem was something more than ''ravishingly beautiful stanzas.'' ''His is a responsible art, an art that responds to history, to its political and domestic tragedies and persistent problems,'' he said. ''And the beauty of a Hecht poem, the very skill with which its material is worked, often throws into an even stronger, more pathetic light the isolation and helplessness of the human condition that is his subject.''
        Anthony Evan Hecht was born in New York on Jan. 16, 1923, to a businessman and a homemaker. He said that he showed no interest in poetry until he entered Bard College at 17 and ''fell in love with poetry.''
        He immediately informed his parents that he had decided to become a poet; alarmed, they told him to seek the advice of Theodor Geisel, a family friend who was better known to the world as Dr. Seuss. Mr. Geisel told young Hecht to read about the life of Joseph Pulitzer, but he never did, suspecting that it would discourage him from seeking a career as a writer. After he became a success, Mr. Hecht was fond of advising young writers that they, too, could be successful if they never read about the life of Joseph Pulitzer.
        After graduating from Bard in 1944, he served in the infantry in Europe and Japan during World War II. He witnessed the liberation of concentration camps, an experience he later evoked in recurring images of the Holocaust in his work and that was central to his understanding of evil in the world. After the war he earned a master's degree from Columbia University and used the G.I. Bill to study with John Crowe Ransom at Kenyon College. Mr. Hecht became the first poet to receive the Prix de Rome from the American Academy in Rome. While in Rome he translated some poetry by Rilke that was later set to music by Lukas Foss in the cantata ''A Parable of Death.'' He also devised a form of light verse called double dactyl that proved popular on college campuses in the United States for a time and led to a 1966 compendium, ''Jiggery Pokery,'' which he did with John Hollander.
        ''The Hard Hours,'' published a year later, married the high style in his earlier work to subjects like the death camps. The poem in ''The Hard Hours'' that marks his coming into his own is ''Rites and Ceremonies.'' It begins with an invocation that mixes allusions to the Book of Job, Psalms and the first stanza of Gerard Manley Hopkins's poem ''The Wreck of the Deutschland.'' In that poem Hopkins, too, was announcing his serious taking up of his profession, and Mr. Hecht must have appreciated the appropriateness of the title for a poem about Nazi Germany. Mr. Hecht's first stanza is one long sentence:
        Father, adonoi, author of all things,
        of the three states,
        the soft light on the barn at dawn,
        a wind that sings
        in the bracken, fire in iron grates,
        the ram's horn,
        Furnisher, hinger of heaven, who bound
        the lovely Pleaides,
        entered the perfect treasuries of the snow,
        established the round
        course of the world, birth, death and disease
        and caused to grow
        veins, brain, bones in me, to breathe and sing
        fashioned me air,
        Lord, who, governing cloud and waterspout,
        o my King.
        held me alive till this my forty-third year--
        in whom we doubt --
        Who was that child of whom they tell
        in lauds and threnes?
        whose holy name all shall pronounce
        Emmanuel,
        which being interpreted means,
        ''Gott mit uns''?
        The poem goes on to describe a room ''the size of my living room filled with human hair'' and addresses the Holocaust directly and painfully. It was one of many poems he would write about evil, in ''The Hard Hours'' as well as in ''The Venetian Vespers'' (1979) and ''The Transparent Man'' (1990).
        As a formalist poet, Mr. Hecht often discouraged any autobiographical readings of his work, though in many of his poems the darkness is clearly his own. Once, in a letter to Mr. McClatchy, Mr. Hecht described ''the termination of five-and-a-half years of a painfully unhappy and unsuccessful marriage'' to Patricia Harris. The upheaval, which for a time deprived him of his two young sons, put him into a deep depression. Mr. McClatchy points out that throughout Mr. Hecht's books there are ''occasions of madness, paranoia, catatonia, hallucination and dream; there are exile, plague, miscarriage, murder, genocide.''
        Mr. Hecht had another professional life, as a professor, teaching at institutions like Smith, Bard, Harvard, Georgetown and Yale, though most of his career was at the University of Rochester.
        His honors included fellowships from the Ford, Rockefeller and Guggenheim foundations, and the Robert Frost Medal. He was a member of the National Institute of Arts and Letters and a chancellor of the Academy of American Poets.
        In addition to his wife, the former Helen D'Alessandro, he is survived by two sons from his first marriage, Jason, of Northampton, Mass., and Adam, of North Bend, Ore.; a son from his second marriage, Evan Alexander, of New York; and two grandchildren.
        His last volume of original poems, ''The Darkness and the Light,'' was published in 2001. In ''Flight Among the Tombs'' (1996), Mr. Hecht's subject was death and he began it with a sequence of 22 speeches for Death, each accompanied by a wood engraving by Leonard Baskin. He concluded it with an elegy, ''A Death in Winter,'' to Joseph Brodsky, which ends almost self-referentially:
        Reader, dwell with his poems. Underneath
        Their gaiety and music, note the chilled strain
        Of irony, of felt and mastered pain,
        The sound of someone laughing through clenched teeth.
      