
        Dr. Philip H. Sechzer, a New York anesthesiologist who studied pain and was one of the developers of a system that allows patients to medicate themselves for relief, died on Sept. 26 at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 90.
        Dr. Sechzer died after a variety of medical problems since 2000, said his son, Selig L. Sechzer of Princeton, N.J.
        From 1966 to 1986, Dr. Sechzer (pronounced SECK-ser) was director of anesthesiology at Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn, where he was also director of the Pain Therapy Center.
        In the 1960's and early 1970's, he noted the complaints of postoperative patients and worked to develop a system called pain-control analgesic, or P.C.A., which allows a patient to push a bedside button, releasing medication through a pump that is calibrated to limit dosages over time. It is used mainly by patients with chronic pain and those who have recently had surgery or cancer treatments.
        Dr. Ketan Shevde, chairman of Maimonides's department of anesthesiology, said Dr. Sechzer maintained that ''if patients had more control of their medication, their anxiety and pain would be less severe, and they would dose themselves with less medication.''
        Dr. Shevde added: ''Dr. Sechzer happened to be right. The patients proved that.''
        Philip Haim Sechzer was born Sept. 13, 1914, in New York City. He attended Stuyvesant High School and the City College of New York before receiving his medical degree from New York University in 1938.
        Dr. Sechzer was director of anesthesiology at Fordham Hospital in the Bronx from 1947 to 1955. In 1956, he became an assistant professor of anesthesiology at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, a post he held until 1963. He then taught at the Baylor College of Medicine for two years before joining Maimonides, where he was also the medical director. He retired in 1986.
        While at Maimonides, Dr. Sechzer was also a professor of anesthesiology at the State University of New York's Health Science Center in Brooklyn.
        Dr. Sechzer is survived by his wife of 56 years, Jeri A. Sechzer, a psychologist who retired from Pace University. The couple lived in Manhattan.
        Besides his son, he is survived by two daughters, Ellen Aronoff of Queens and Inda Sechzer of Maplewood, N.J., and eight grandchildren.
        Correction:  October 6, 2004, Wednesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Monday about Philip H. Sechzer, a New York anesthesiologist, misstated the full name for P.C.A., a system he helped develop to let patients relieve their own pain. It is patient-controlled analgesia, not pain-control analgesic.
        Correction:  October 6, 2004, Wednesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Monday about Philip H. Sechzer, a New York anesthesiologist, misstated the full name for P.C.A., a system he helped develop to let patients relieve their own pain. It is patient-controlled analgesia, not pain-control analgesic.
      