
        Richard M. Schmidt Jr., a communications lawyer who was general counsel to the American Society of Newspaper Editors and was involved in several significant First Amendment cases, died on Sunday at his home in Washington. He was 80.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his son Gregory said.
        Mr. Schmidt, whose ill health caused him to give up his duties for the newspaper editors' society on Oct. 1, was a partner in the Washington law firm of Cohn & Marks, which he joined in 1968.
        He was known in particular for his work in Miami Herald Publishing Company v. Tornillo, a case heard by the Supreme Court in 1974. At issue was a Florida statute that required the state's newspapers to grant a ''right of reply'' to political candidates criticized in their pages. The Herald, represented by Mr. Schmidt, argued that the law violated the First Amendment's guarantee of freedom of the press.
        In a unanimous decision, the court struck down the law, ruling that the government had no right to tell a newspaper what to print. The case is considered a landmark.
        Richard Marten Schmidt Jr. was born on Aug. 2, 1924, in Winfield, Kan., near Wichita. He received a bachelor's degree from the University of Denver in 1945 and a law degree there in 1948.
        During that time, and for several years afterward, he worked as an announcer for Denver radio stations, interviewing jazz musicians and film stars as they passed through town. He was a deputy district attorney in Denver in 1949-50.
        Mr. Schmidt is survived by his wife, the former Ann Downing; a sister, Shirley Stockham of Mukilteo, Wash.; three children, Heidi Van Genderen of Denver, Gregory, of Washington, and Eric, of Portland, Ore., and six grandchildren. Another son, Rolf, died in 1972.
        Correction:  October 26, 2004, Tuesday  An obituary on Wednesday about Richard M. Schmidt Jr., a communications lawyer, included an incomplete list of the legal team that represented The Miami Herald in 1974 in the Tornillo case, in which the Supreme Court ruled that the government could not enforce a ''right of reply'' for candidates criticized in print. Mr. Schmidt worked on the brief with James W. Beasley Jr. and Daniel P.S. Paul, and Mr. Paul argued the case before the court.
      