
        Vaughn Meader, a stand-up comic who attained instant celebrity in 1962 with his record ''The First Family,'' a flawless spoof of President John F. Kennedy and his entourage, but who became, as he ruefully called himself, ''a living reminder of tragedy'' one year later, died yesterday at his home in Auburn, Me. He was 68.
        The cause was chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, his wife, Sheila, said.
        ''The First Family,'' which grew out of Mr. Meader's nightclub act, was released in November 1962, when Mr. Meader was 26. Comprising 17 skits, it starred Mr. Meader, a New England native, as the uncannily realistic voices of John and Robert F. Kennedy. Naomi Brossart portrayed Jacqueline Kennedy.
        The album became the fastest-selling pre-Beatles record in history, selling 1.2 million copies in its first two weeks and 7.5 million in all, The Associated Press reported. It won the Grammy award for Album of the Year in 1963.
        But by the end of 1963, Mr. Meader's career was effectively over. After Kennedy's assassination, clubs and television shows canceled his appearances. A follow-up album, released a few months earlier, was withdrawn from stores. Mr. Meader often referred to Nov. 22, 1963, as ''the day I died.''
        He drifted into alcohol and drugs before experiencing what he described as a religious awakening in the late 1960's. In recent years, he worked as the manager of a pub restaurant in Hallowell, Me., and performed in small clubs as pianist and singer, specializing in gospel and bluegrass.
        By today's standards, ''The First Family'' was innocent, even corny. (In one sketch, the president complained that his children had stolen a beloved bath toy: ''The rubbah swan,'' Mr. Meader declared, ''is mine!'') But Americans, in thrall to Camelot, lined up for blocks to buy it.
        Though Mr. Meader and Kennedy shared New England roots, their lives could not have been more different. Abbott Vaughn Meader was born on March 20, 1936, in Waterville, Me. (He used the name Vaughn professionally because he thought Abbott too effete, his wife said.) After his father's death in a swimming accident when Vaughn was a year old, he was sent to a brutal children's home in Massachusetts, his wife said. He bounced from school to school, and relative to relative, attending five high schools before he graduated.
        Mr. Meader's first three marriages ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, the former Sheila Colbath, whom he married in 1984; two stepsons, Bion Pike, of York, Me.; and Christopher Royal, of Bradford, Me.; and one stepgrandchild.
      