
        Chuck Hiller, the first National League player to hit a grand slam in the World Series and a longtime member of the Mets organization, died Wednesday at his home in St. Pete Beach, Fla. He was 70.
        The cause was leukemia, said his son-in-law, David Maw.
        A National League infielder from 1961 to 1968, playing for four teams, Hiller hit only 20 home runs and had a career batting average of .243.
        But on Oct. 8, 1962, at Yankee Stadium, he had his moment in the sun.
        Hiller came to the plate for the San Francisco Giants in the seventh inning of Game 4 of the World Series, facing the Yankee left-hander Marshall Bridges, the score tied at 2-2 and the bases loaded with two out.
        Using a bat he had frequently borrowed from Giants pitcher Billy Pierce -- a 31-ounce model, two ounces lighter than his customary bat -- Hiller, a left-handed batter, drove a fastball into the lower right-field stands to propel the Giants to a 7-3 victory that evened the Series.
        ''I hit it as good as I can hit a ball,'' Hiller said afterward.
        Seven American League batters had hit grand slams in the World Series before that. Elmer Smith of the Cleveland Indians connected for the first one, against the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1920, and six Yankee hitters had achieved that feat.
        Since Hiller's grand slam, two other National Leaguers and seven American Leaguers have hit bases-loaded homers in the World Series.
        The Yankees defeated the Giants in seven games in the 1962 World Series, but it was a fine year for Hiller, who hit .276, the only time he was a regular.
        Hiller was traded to the Mets during the 1965 season, then was sent to Philadelphia two years later. Hiller finished his playing career with Pittsburgh in 1968.
        He was later a coach for Texas, Kansas City, St. Louis, the Giants and the Mets, and a manager and instructor in the Mets' minor league system, spending 24 years with their organization.
        He is survived by his wife, Pamela; his sons, George, of Los Angeles, and John, of Tampa, Fla; his daughter, Stephanie Maw, of Raleigh, N.C.; a brother, Dick, of Johnsburg, Ill.; a sister, Dorothy Murphy, of Seven Lakes, N.C.; and three grandchildren.
      