
        Dr. Jeffrey S. Schechner, an associate professor of dermatology at Yale who led research into how to produce a better artificial skin for grafting, died on Sept. 7 in New Haven. He was 39.
        The cause was a stroke, colleagues at the medical school said.
        Dr. Schechner, who was also director of the dermatology service at the West Haven Veterans Administration Hospital, headed the team working to create skin that would last longer and promote better healing of wounds like burns, ulcers and blisters.
        While artificial skins have been available since the 1970's, they function merely as ''biological dressings,'' Dr. Schechner said in an article published during the summer in Yale Medicine magazine. ''They improve wound healing by some measurable amounts, but they are not skin replacements.''
        Dr. Schechner's innovation was to create a skin that contained cellular instructions to form a blood supply, said a colleague, Dr. Jordan Pober, a professor of pathology, immunobiology and dermatology at Yale. ''If the skin doesn't have a blood supply, it doesn't last.''
        The technique, outlined in a paper published last December in The Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology Journal, involves seeding essentially dead skin with cells taken from the veins of umbilical cords. The transplanted blood vessel cells allow new blood vessels within the skin graft to develop rapidly.
        Dr. Pober, who is part of the research team, said that Dr. Schechner had ''proven the concept'' and had begun designing a clinical trial for testing the technique on humans. If the trial is successful, he said, it will probably take a few more years to make the improved skin substitute available for use.
        Dr. Schechner, a resident of Guilford, Conn., graduated from Yale School of Medicine in 1991 and completed his medical internship at Boston University Medical Center, where his research focused on vascular biology, particularly blood vessels in the skin.
        He is survived by his wife, Dr. Christina Herrick, an assistant professor of dermatology at Yale; a son and daughter, Evan and Phoebe; his parents, David and Shifra Schechner of Brookline, Mass.; and a sister, Miriam, of New York.
      