
        William A. Watkins, a leading researcher of marine mammal acoustics who created a database of thousands of underwater calls from more than 70 species, died on Sept. 24 at his home in East Falmouth, Mass. He was 78.
        The cause was multiple myeloma, said his wife, Joan.
        Dr. Watkins, who spent four decades at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in Massachusetts, helped direct the world's ear to the underwater chatter of whales, dolphins, porpoises and seals.
        While he was not the first to capture their sounds on tape, he is often credited with helping his field bloom by developing a tape-recording device that could be carried out to sea, enabling colleagues to conduct field studies. Dr. Watkins roamed the world's oceans, tagging, tracking and recording marine life from the southern tip of Chile and the coast of Antarctica to the Arctic Circle.
        Over the years, he collected thousands of hours of voices from the deep. He later combined them with recordings from other researchers to create a library of 20,000 sounds from 70 species. The collection is now in a climate-controlled fireproof vault at Woods Hole, said Mary Ann Daher, a research associate there and a former colleague of Dr. Watkins.
        The recordings he amassed became an asset to the United States Navy, which uses them to train its sonar operators. Naval officials also relied on Dr. Watkins for advice on protecting marine refuges.
        ''If the Navy wanted to conduct a study or do a naval exercise in a particular geographic region, they would call on Bill to find out what was feeding there and when,'' Ms. Daher said. ''He had the data that helped them decide if there were animals that would be disturbed, and if they should wait for another season.''
        William Alfred Watkins was born in West Africa, the son of American missionaries. He earned his undergraduate degree from Wheaton College in Illinois and his doctorate from the University of Tokyo.
        Dr. Watkins joined Woods Hole in 1958 as a research assistant in electronics, working with William E. Schevill, who made the first recordings of underwater sounds. Dr. Watkins wrote or helped write 190 scientific papers during his career and became Woods Hole's first oceanographer emeritus.
        He retired in 1996 but continued working in his laboratory and from home.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Watkins is survived by three sons, Bruce of Truckee, Calif.; Stephen of Huntington, Pa.; and James of Willow Grove, Pa.; two daughters, Sandra May of Salinas, Calif.; and Laurel Watney of Plano, Tex.; a brother, James, of Royal Oaks, Calif.; a stepdaughter, Jennifer Malis of Salem, Mass.; a stepson, Matthew Maxwell of Essex Junction, Vt.; 12 grandchildren; and two nieces.
      