
        Neil A. Campbell, a botanist and an educator who wrote college biology textbooks that sold in the millions and became popular in high school honors courses, died on Oct. 21 at a hospital in Redlands, Calif. He was 58.
        The cause was heart failure, said his daughter, Allison Campbell of Brooklyn.
        Dr. Campbell, who lived in Redlands, is most widely known for the textbook ''Biology,'' used by biology majors nationwide and first published in 1987, after nine years of preparation. Dr. Campbell single-handedly wrote the first four editions before being aided by co-authors. The seventh and latest edition of it is expected to be published in December by Benjamin Cummings and is written with Jane B. Reece.
        The book discusses evolution and genetics, biochemistry, plant and animal anatomy, ecology and the biological foundations of human behavior, among other topics. With the goal of personalizing the science for students, Dr. Campbell included interviews with prominent biologists. He was also an author of two other textbooks, ''Essential Biology'' and ''Biology: Concepts and Connections,'' that were not intended for biology majors.
        Jim Behnke, who edited the first edition of ''Biology,'' said Dr. Campbell ''brought the sensibilities of a researcher to his books, but understood the idea of a visual story line.''
        Total sales of Dr. Campbell's books have reached five million, said Mr. Behnke, president of Addison-Wesley and Benjamin Cummings, imprints of Pearson Education, the educational publisher.
        Neil Allison Campbell was born in Culver City, Calif. He graduated from California State University, Long Beach, and received a master's in zoology at the University of California, Los Angeles, and a doctorate in biology from the University of California, Riverside.
        Dr. Campbell taught at Cornell and Pomona before becoming a professor of biology at San Bernardino Valley College from 1980 from 1989. For the last 15 years, he had been a visiting scholar in botany and plant sciences at Riverside.
        In addition to his daughter, surviving are his wife of 38 years, Rochelle, and a brother, Ian, of Reno, Nev.
      