
        James Chace, one of the country's leading foreign policy thinkers and historians, whose work altered mainstream thought about American global power, died Friday night of a heart attack in Paris. He was 72.
        His death was reported by his companion of many years, Joan Bingham, executive editor and vice president of Grove/Atlantic Press, the New York publishing house. Mr. Chace was in Paris working on a book about the Marquis de Lafayette, the French soldier and statesman who helped win the American Revolution.
        Mr. Chace's work married politics and poetry, and his prose got the attention of presidents, policymakers and what once was called the Eastern Establishment.
        He was the author of nine books, editor of the nation's most influential foreign policy journals and mentor to scores of younger writers and historians. He is best known for his biography of Dean Acheson, ''Acheson: The Secretary of State Who Created the American World'' (1999). Robert Silvers, co-editor of The New York Review of Books, called the book a crucial revision of postwar history and ''an exceptional insight into the cold war establishment.''
        The book, like much of Mr. Chace's work, concerned statesmanship, the interplay of American interests with American principles, and aimed to alter American leaders' and other readers' thinking about the uses of American power. It wound up on President Clinton's desk in the Oval Office, a few years after a turn of phrase attributed to Mr. Chace, ''America, the indispensable nation,'' became a mantra among the Clinton administration's advocates of intervention in places like Bosnia.
        Central to Mr. Chace's work was a belief that ''the true statesman, even one leading a superpower, understands that resources -- blood, treasure and above all political will -- are by definition limited, and must devise ways of protecting those interests that do not bankrupt his country,'' said Mark Danner, a writer for The New Yorker and a close friend. ''Vietnam, to James, was a classic example of the failure prudently to balance interests and resources. The current Iraq war is another.''
        Leon Botstein, president of Bard College in Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., where Mr. Chace directed the international affairs program and held endowed professorships since 1990, said Mr. Chace had a fiercely loyal following of former students, and that ''people lined up around the block to study with him.''
        ''He was a narrative historian, a storyteller, like a novelist,'' Mr. Botstein said. ''He made people believe they could do something with his same enthusiasm and brilliance.''
        James Clark Chace was born in Fall River, Mass., on Oct. 16, 1931. His family, New England aristocracy, lost nearly everything but their social position in the Depression. The loss was recalled in Mr. Chace's 1990 memoir, ''What We Had,'' which begins with lines from his first wife, the poet Jean Valentine: ''I think of our lives/different the same/the years, half blown/What we had, we have.''
        The Chaces ''were left beached on the marshes of Fall River, the Yankee equivalent of Southern decadence, and this was James's founding myth,'' said the novelist Louis Begley, who met Mr. Chace at The Harvard Advocate, a literary magazine. ''Out of this came a literary sensitivity that was absolutely remarkable.''
        In 1954, Mr. Chace went to France, first as a graduate student, then as an American soldier. He translated French newspapers for the Central Intelligence Agency for a short time and immersed himself in fiercely political writers like Camus and Sartre. He returned with a novel and a realization that there was no line between literature and politics.
        He served as managing editor of East Europe, a political review of Soviet bloc affairs, from 1959 to 1969; then of Interplay, a foreign policy journal, from 1967 to 1970; then of Foreign Affairs, from 1970 to 1983.
        David Ives, now a playwright, was an assistant editor at Foreign Affairs from 1978 to 1981, and remembered Mr. Chace as ''a kind of intellectual that's nearly gone now -- the absolutely well-read, well-heard, well-seen, spend-some-time-in-Paris-writing-a-novel kind of intellectual. History for him was intensely personal. He could encapsulate a man in a moment.''
        After a stint as an editor at The New York Times Book Review, Mr. Chace became the Henry Luce Professor in Freedom of Inquiry and Expression at Bard, in 1990. Two years later he also became editor of World Policy Journal.
        Over the years, with ''an open mind, a literary sensibility, and a great generosity of spirit,'' Mr. Chace ''became a great editor, with a rare ability to imagine not only the story behind the headlines, but to find the right persons to tell that story, and to help them turn their prose into incisive instruments of analysis and persuasion,'' said Ronald Steel, author of ''Walter Lippmann and the American Century.''
        Mr. Chace's marriages to Ms. Valentine and to Susan Chace ended in divorce. He is survived by them; by Ms. Bingham; by three daughters, Sarah, an administrator at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard; Rebecca, a novelist; and Zoe, a student and political activist; and by two grandchildren.
      