
        Maurice H.F. Wilkins, a Nobel Prize-winning scientist who contributed to the discovery of the structure of DNA by Dr. James D. Watson and Dr. Francis H.C. Crick, died yesterday in London, according to King's College London, where he worked. He was 87.
        The cause of death was not stated.
        Dr. Wilkins was one of a group of wartime physicists, including Dr. Crick, who decided to pursue careers in biology after World War II. Dr. Wilkins chose as his problem the physical structure of DNA, the hereditary material, which he proposed to unravel by X-ray crystallography, then a young technique.
        By the etiquette of British science, no one else was supposed to work on the problem. But Dr. Wilkins suffered two serious encroachments on his territory. Shortly after he started work and had taken the first clear X-ray photo of the molecule, Dr. John Randall, the head of his laboratory at King's College, hired another researcher to help work on the problem. She was Dr. Rosalind Franklin, an expert on the structure of coal.
        Dr. Randall set up a corrosive atmosphere between them by implying to Dr. Franklin that DNA would be her exclusive problem, according to a recent biography of her by Brenda Maddox.
        Dr. Wilkins was obliged to hand over his technician and graduate student, Raymond Gosling, and his best sample of DNA to Dr. Franklin, who then declined to collaborate with him or to discuss her data fully.
        The second trespass on his territory came from his friend Dr. Crick at the University of Cambridge. Dr. Crick had recognized the importance of DNA and sought to guess its structure by building models.
        Dr. Wilkins reluctantly allowed him to go ahead, believing it would be unfair to stop him since the King's group had reached an impasse.
        But Dr. Franklin was an excellent crystallographer, and her data, a further improvement on Dr. Wilkins's important X-ray photo, reached Dr. Crick by two routes.
        One was through Dr. Watson, who attended but misunderstood a public lecture Dr. Franklin gave. Also, Dr. Wilkins showed Dr. Watson, perhaps indiscreetly, a photo of DNA taken by Mr. Gosling. Mr. Gosling had quite properly given the photo to Dr. Wilkins who remained his Ph.D. adviser.
        The second conduit of information was a report of Dr. Franklin's findings prepared by Dr. Randall and circulated to other laboratories, including Dr. Crick's.
        With the help of this and other information, and their own keen insights, Dr. Crick and Dr. Watson solved the problem of DNA's structure, snatching a great prize from Dr. Wilkins's grasp.
        Their discovery was published in 1953 alongside articles by the King's College group, including Dr. Franklin and Dr. Wilkins.
        Despite being scooped by Dr. Watson and Dr. Crick, Dr. Wilkins had nonetheless obtained the first clear photo pointing to DNA's helical structure. For that contribution he shared the Nobel Prize in 1962 with them. Dr. Franklin had died of ovarian cancer four years earlier, at 38.
        The prize can be shared among three living people at most, and it is a matter of speculation whether she would have received it in Dr. Wilkins's place.
        Born in 1916 in Pongaroa, New Zealand, where his father was a physician, the younger Dr. Wilkins was a shy and unassuming person.
        But in 1968 he found himself cast into unexpected notoriety when Dr. Watson, in his book ''The Double Helix,'' portrayed the acquisition of Dr. Franklin's data as surreptitious, prompting a campaign in Dr. Franklin's name to improve the position of women in science.
        ''This was no doubt well-intentioned and indeed useful,'' Dr. Wilkins wrote in his autobiography, ''The Third Man of the Double Helix,'' but ''one side effect was that Rosalind's male colleagues were to some extent demonized. The most prominent demon seemed to be me.''
        In his book, published last year, Dr. Wilkins describes his frustration with Dr. Franklin, whom he referred to privately as the ''dark lady.'' She at first argued strenuously that DNA could not be a helix, or spirally shaped, and then, after finding that it existed in two forms, that one form was helical and the other not.
        He conceded that he ''had been rather foolish'' to show Dr. Franklin's photo to Dr. Watson, saying that ''part of my motive was to justify my exasperation with Rosalind for opposing helical ideas when the evidence seemed to point us clearly in that direction.''
        Dr. Watson and Dr. Crick invited Dr. Wilkins to be a third author on their paper, but he declined, he wrote, because he had not taken part directly in the discovery.
        He had come tantalizingly close to discovering the structure himself and might have done so if he and Dr. Franklin had been able to collaborate.
        Dr. Randall, he said, had tried to maneuver him out of the field, and the invitation to Dr. Franklin had been part of the plot.
        ''It seems obvious now that he hoped I would move off X-ray work and he could move in,'' Dr. Wilkins wrote.
        He came close to making one of the great scientific discoveries of the last century, but he was buffeted on all sides by the sharp elbows and stronger personalities of his friends and colleagues. As the title of his autobiography suggests, he was a nice guy who finished third.
      