
        Robert Lissauer, a music historian whose vast encyclopedia of American popular song, considered the definitive reference book in the field, settled innumerable arguments and started innumerable others, died yesterday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx, his wife, Melinda, announced. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan.
        The first edition of Lissauer's Encyclopedia of Popular Music in America listed more than 19,000 songs, from ''Aaron Loves Angela'' to ''Zsa Zsa.'' Originally published in one volume by Paragon House in 1991, it was issued by Facts on File in an expanded three-volume edition in 1996.
        Starting with the rise of Tin Pan Alley in 1888, the book covers the popular genres in the century that followed, from ragtime, jazz, blues and folk to Broadway, Hollywood, country, rock and reggae. In capsule entries, Mr. Lissauer documented each song's composer, lyricist, best-known recording artists and other information.
        A trove of bygone curiosities (''You Can't Roller Skate in a Buffalo Herd,'' ''Jeremiah Peabody's Polyunsaturated Quick Dissolving Fast Acting Pleasant Tasting Green and Purple Pills''), the encyclopedia also furnishes the unfamiliar histories of familiar songs. (''Where Have All the Flowers Gone?'' took its title from a phrase in Mikhail Sholokhov's novel ''And Quiet Flows the Don''; ''Happy Birthday to You,'' which Mr. Lissauer said was ''considered to be the most sung song in the world,'' is not in the public domain.)
        In the four years he spent compiling the book, Mr. Lissauer came to realize that it was not so much about who wrote a particular song or who sang it, but about the American collective memory. As he wrote in his introduction: ''No matter in which part of the country we have been raised, songs have been a part of our lives. We have sung them, hummed them, whistled and played them. We have heard them in the mountains, on the levees, on the rivers, and on the streets; we have heard them on the radio and on records, in music stores, on the stage and on the screen.'' He continued, ''Songs have seen us off to war, helped us elect presidents, made us laugh and made us cry, pervaded our sleep, and perhaps most importantly, have given us memories.''
        Robert Lissauer was born in Manhattan on May 1, 1917. He studied classical composition at the Juilliard School, but was involved with popular music all his professional life. In World War II he supervised the music for Irving Berlin's touring revue ''This Is the Army.'' After the war he managed the song library of Vincent Youmans, the composer of standards like ''More Than You Know'' and ''Tea for Two,'' and worked as a record producer and songwriter. (Mr. Lissauer included a few of his own songs in the encyclopedia, conceding in an interview in 1992 with The San Francisco Chronicle that two of them, ''I Feel So Low When I'm High'' and ''Hello and Goodbye,'' were ''borderline cases.'') He also taught music at New York University.
        Mr. Lissauer, whose first four marriages ended in divorce, is survived by his fifth wife, the former Melinda Dopper; a sister, Marion Weil of Manhattan; three children, Geoffrey, of Kinderhook, N.Y., John, of Katonah, N.Y., and Lianne Cisneros of Sanbornville, N.H.; and four grandchildren.
        In the interview with The Chronicle, Mr. Lissauer explained that he wrote his encyclopedia to introduce a generation weaned on MTV to the treasures of the past. He cited a case in point: meeting the songwriter Gerald Marks, a young student asked him to name something he had composed.
        '''All of Me,''' Marks replied proudly.
        ''Well,'' the youth said, ''good luck with it.''
      