
        Douglas Day, a biographer and critic who won a National Book Award in 1974 for his life of the English novelist Malcolm Lowry, died on Oct. 10 in his home in Charlottesville, Va. He was 72.
        Dr. Day, who had a debilitating stroke in February, committed suicide, his daughter, Emily Day Whitworth, said.
        Published by Oxford University Press in 1973, ''Malcolm Lowry: A Biography'' documented the turbulent life of the alcoholic writer, whose celebrated novel, ''Under the Volcano,'' was published in 1947. In his biography, which explored the affinity between the urge to drink and the urge to write, Dr. Day regarded his subject with detached scrutiny:
        ''For anyone writing about Malcolm Lowry there is (or ought to be) a small voice in the back of the mind that is always saying, Do not take me quite so seriously,'' he wrote. ''Lowry was often miserable, all right, and with ample justification; but he was also capable of watching Malcolm Lowry being miserable, and laughing at the sorry spectacle. Sometimes it is difficult to do so, but it is essential to keep in mind that Lowry was a comedian first and foremost, and a great ham actor.'' Dr. Day continued, ''On the other hand, we need also to keep before us the undeniable evidence that he was an alcoholic of Gargantuan proportions.''
        Reviewing the book in The New York Times Book Review, A. Alvarez called Dr. Day ''fair-minded and sensible to a degree quite remarkable in an academic biographer of a contemporary figure.''
        Before his retirement in 2000, Dr. Day was Clifton Waller Barrett professor of English and comparative literature at the University of Virginia. He was also the editor, with Lowry's widow, Margerie, of Lowry's posthumous novel ''Dark as the Grave Wherein My Friend Is Laid,'' published in 1968, 11 years after Lowry's suicide in 1957.
        Douglas Turner Day III was born on May 1, 1932, in Colón, Panama, where his father, an admiral in the United States Navy, was stationed. He received a bachelor's degree from the University of Virginia in 1954, a master's in 1959 and a Ph.D. in 1962, the year he joined the university's faculty.
        His other books include ''Swifter Than Reason: The Poetry and Criticism of Robert Graves'' (1963) and two novels, ''Journey of the Wolf'' (1977) and ''The Prison Notebooks of Ricardo Flores Magón'' (1991). He edited a posthumous novel by William Faulkner, ''Flags in the Dust.''
        Dr. Day's first four marriages ended in divorce. He is survived by his fifth wife, Sheila McMillen Day; four children from earlier marriages: Douglas Turner IV of Waynesboro, Va.; Ian, of Annapolis, Md.; Patrick, of Wewahitchka, Fla.; and his daughter, of Charlottesville; and seven grandchildren.
      