
        Gene R. Hawes, who wrote more than 30 widely used books to help people manage their health, education and careers, died on Sept. 4 at his home in Chappaqua, N.Y. He was 82. The cause was heart failure, said his son, Mark, in announcing the death last week.
        A former editor for the College Board, which sponsors admissions tests and other programs, Mr. Hawes wrote several editions of ''The New American Guide to Colleges.'' He also wrote undergraduate guidebooks bearing his name, including ''Hawes Comprehensive Guide to Colleges'' (1978), ''Hawes Guide to Successful Study Skills'' (written with Lynne Salop Hawes, an ex-wife, in 1981) and ''Hawes on Getting Into College'' (1983).
        Other books offered advice on changing careers or attending school while working, and many were for parents, including ''How to Raise Your Child to Be a Winner,'' with Helen G. and Martin S. Weiss, in 1980.
        Gene Robert Hawes was born May 14, 1922, in Chicago and was salutatorian of his class at Columbia University in 1949. He edited the Columbia Alumni News and was an editor with the College Board for five years.
        Mr. Hawes caused a stir in 1964 when he published a study showing that Harvard, Princeton and Yale were taking fewer sons of prominent families in favor of applicants with better grades. ''A new kind of American upper class is slowly being forged,'' he said in an interview with The New York Times.
        Mr. Hawes later worked as an educational and communications consultant for various organizations, including the Starr Foundation, IBM and McKinsey and Company. His last three books, including one to be published early next year, addressed alcoholism. They include ''Addiction Free: How to Help an Alcoholic or Addict Get Started on Recovery,'' written with Anderson Hawes, a nephew, and ''Rx for Recovery: The Medical and Health Guide for Alcoholics, Addicts and Their Families,'' with Jeffrey Weisberg in 1989.
        His wife, Elizabeth Lillian, and a daughter, Roberta Teller, died before him. He is survived by a son, Mark, of Santa Maria, Calif.; a daughter, Elizabeth Settens, of Wappingers Falls, N.Y.; a brother, Richard, of Munroe Falls, Ohio; seven grandchildren; and a great-grandchild.
      