
        Clotilde K. Saltzman, a charitable fund-raiser and real estate broker who rose from a modest California girlhood to become the wife of a German count, only to lose her fortune in a protracted legal battle after his death, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 96.
        She died in her sleep, according to her son, Michael M. Sierstorpff. In the 1950's and 60's, Mrs. Saltzman, the former Countess von Francken-Sierstorpff, was active in charitable work, organizing benefits for New York institutions including the Boys' Athletic League, the Goddard Neighborhood House and the Association for the Help of Retarded Children.
        She was born Clotilde Knapp in Santa Barbara, Calif., on Sept. 14, 1908. After attending secretarial school, Mrs. Saltzman moved to New York, where she worked at Harper's Bazaar. In the early 1940's, she was introduced to a friend's cousin, Hans Clemens von Francken-Sierstorpff. Count von Francken-Sierstorpff had recently fled Hitler's Germany, leaving his wife, a Nazi sympathizer, and their grown children behind.
        On meeting Mrs. Saltzman, the count declared he would marry her at once. Unable to return to Germany, he divorced his wife in absentia, publishing an announcement to that effect in several European newspapers. He and Mrs. Saltzman were married in early 1942; their son, Michael, was born that December.
        In 1944, just after the couple had bought a Long Island estate, the count died in his sleep. After the war, the children of his first marriage showed up in America and sued Mrs. Saltzman, challenging her as the count's rightful wife and Michael as his heir. The suit was eventually dropped, but a decade of legal wrangling exhausted nearly all of the count's $7 million fortune, her son said.
        Mrs. Saltzman married Robert E. McCormick, the lawyer who represented Michael, in 1950. Mr. McCormick died in 1969.
        Mrs. Saltzman then became a successful residential real estate broker, working until her marriage in 1978 to Brig. Gen. Charles E. Saltzman, a former vice president of the New York Stock Exchange who was later an under secretary of state in the Eisenhower administration. Mr. Saltzman died in 1994.
        Mrs. Saltzman is survived by her son, of North Kingstown, R.I.; four stepchildren; and two grandchildren.
      