
        Jimmy McLarnin, an enormously popular fighter who beat 13 world champions, including Benny Leonard and Barney Ross, during his 14-year professional career, died Oct. 28. He was 96.
        McLarnin, known as Baby Face, died in an assisted-living home in Richland, Wash., where he had lived for two years, his daughter-in-law, Karen McLarnin, said.
        Although he was from Vancouver, British Columbia, and lived in California during his boxing career, McLarnin fought 13 of his final 14 fights in New York. He retired at 28 after he outpointed Tony Canzoneri, the former featherweight, lightweight and junior-welterweight champion; and Lou Ambers, then the lightweight champion.
        Despite an outstanding record that included victories over Fidel LaBarba, Jackie Fields, Billy Petrolle (the Fargo Express), Pancho Villa, Al Singer, Louis Kaplan and Sammy Mandell, McLarnin did not get a shot at the welterweight title until May 29, 1933, in his 71st professional fight. He knocked out the champion, Young Corbett III, in the first round in Los Angeles.
        In his next fight, a year later, McLarnin lost his title on a split decision to Ross at the Madison Square Garden Bowl in Long Island City, Queens. That made Ross the first fighter to hold the lightweight and welterweight titles simultaneously.
        That was the first of three epic 15-round bouts in one year between McLarnin and Ross. In their second fight, at the same arena, McLarnin won a split decision. In their third fight, before a crowd of 55,000 at the Polo Grounds, Ross won a unanimous 15-round decision. McLarnin retired the next year.
        According to The Ring Record Book, McLarnin won 63 of his 77 professional fights, lost 11 and fought 3 draws. In his book ''The 100 Greatest Boxers of All Time,'' Bert Randolph Sugar, the author and boxing historian, rated McLarnin 22nd and the second-best welterweight behind Sugar Ray Robinson. Sugar said McLarnin was the first to be called the best fighter pound for pound, not Robinson, as popularly believed.
        James McLarnin was born on Dec. 19, 1907, in Inchacore, Ireland. When he was 3, he, his parents and four of his siblings emigrated to Mortlach, Saskatchewan. Years later, the family, which eventually included 12 children, moved to Vancouver.
        As a teenage boxer, he was seen by Charles Foster, a former British middleweight champion, who became his only manager. After winning about a dozen professional fights in Canada in 1923, when he was 15 -- he said he was 16, the minimum age for a pro -- McLarnin moved to Oakland, Calif., with Foster and fought as a flyweight (112-pound limit).
        McLarnin had a powerful right hand and a knack for knocking out opponents when in trouble. He made his New York debut in 1928 by knocking out Sid Terris, a highly ranked lightweight, in the first round. Three months later, he lost a 10-round decision to the lightweight champion, Sammy Mandell, whom he later beat twice. Later that year, he was cut by Ray Miller in Detroit and was knocked out for the only time in his career.
        When McLarnin retired, he moved to Southern California, operated a machine shop for years and worked as a sales manager. He played golf with Bing Crosby, Bob Hope and Fred Astaire. His son, Jim, said in a recent interview that McLarnin had whittled his handicap to a 3. In 1991, he was elected to the International Boxing Hall of Fame.
        McLarnin is survived by his son, who lives in Richland; three daughters, Jean Bookwalter of West Richland, Wash., Grace Ellen Watkins of Davis, Calif., and Nancy Smith of Kennewick, Wash.; two sisters, Ethel Oliver of Kelowna, British Columbia, and Mildred Christie of Langley, British Columbia; six grandchildren; and one great-granddaughter. His wife of 50 years, Lillian, died in 1985.
        McLarnin broke his right hand five times and his left hand three times, but he said in later years that he had no regrets about his ring career. In an interview in 1989, he told Earl Gustkey of The Los Angeles Times:
        ''I got a dollar for my first fight and $25,000 for my last one. And of all the hundreds of fighters I came in contact with in my life, I can't think of one who I didn't like and who didn't turn out to be at least a halfway decent human being.''
      