
        Martin M. Kaplan, a virologist, international public health official and humanitarian who spent his early career researching the spread of viral diseases and his later career working to fight the spread of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons, died on Oct. 16 in Geneva. He was 89 and lived in Collonge-Bellerive, Switzerland.
        The cause was cancer, his son Jeffrey said.
        Trained as a veterinarian, Dr. Kaplan was an authority on the role of animals in the transmission of certain human diseases, among them rabies and influenza. For many years an official of the World Health Organization, he also helped develop a safer rabies vaccine.
        More recently, Dr. Kaplan was an officer of the Pugwash Conferences on Science and World Affairs, which works for disarmament. He was also, variously, a horse trader, globetrotting amateur cellist and willing human guinea pig.
        Martin Mark Kaplan was born in Philadelphia on June 23, 1915. After receiving an undergraduate degree from Temple University, he earned a doctor of veterinary medicine degree from the University of Pennsylvania in 1940, and a master's in public health degree there two years later. From 1942 to 1944, he taught veterinary medicine at Middlesex University (now Brandeis University), in Waltham, Mass.
        In 1944, Dr. Kaplan married the former Lenna Bouchal. She survives him, as do a daughter, Alexa Intrator of Ferney-Voltaire, France; two sons, Peter and Jeffrey, both doctors in Baltimore; and four grandchildren.
        After World War II, Dr. Kaplan joined the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration. Much of Europe's livestock had been devastated by the war, and on V-E Day he set sail for Greece in the company of six prize bulls, donated to help restock the cattle population there. On his arrival, he set about procuring more stock, traveling to Cyprus and Lebanon to buy mules and Arabian stallions.
        In 1949, Dr. Kaplan joined WHO, where he was chief of veterinary public health and later chief of medical research, promotion and development. He continued doing research, and was part of a team at the Wistar Institute in Philadelphia that in the 1960's and 70's developed new rabies vaccines for humans and animals. The human vaccine was considered safer, and required many fewer injections, than the one developed by Louis Pasteur in the late 1800's. (Pasteur's vaccine entailed at least 14 painful shots in the abdomen and had potentially fatal side effects.)
        Dr. Kaplan was more than willing to take his own medicine. As reported in ''Who Goes First?'' (1987), by Lawrence K. Altman, the medical correspondent of The New York Times, he traveled to Kenya in 1955 to teach a course on rabies prevention. There, Dr. Kaplan and a colleague, Hilary Koprowski, demonstrated how to make a vaccine for humans, using chick embryos to culture a seed virus Dr. Koprowski had developed.
        Ten days after injecting the embryos, Dr. Altman writes, ''they cracked the eggs, ground up the chick embryos in blenders and filtered the material that included the rabies virus.'' From this they made a primitive vaccine, which contained, among other ingredients, macerated beaks and feathers. The two men rolled up their sleeves and injected themselves, with little ill effect.
        In the late 1950's, Dr. Kaplan joined the Pugwash movement. Named for the Nova Scotia village that was the site of the first conference in 1957, Pugwash, along with its founder, Joseph Rotblat, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1995. As the organization's secretary general from 1976 to 1988, Dr. Kaplan worked for nuclear, chemical and biological disarmament.
        As Dr. Altman's book recounts, Dr. Kaplan had one enduring reminder of his self-administered rabies shot: an inch-long scar on his forearm at the injection site. But the shot did nothing to impair his ability to play the cello, which he even carried on his Kenya trip.
      