
        John Parr Miller, an early animator for Walt Disney whose later art adorned best-selling children's books, including those in the popular Little Golden Books series, died on Oct. 29 on Long Island. He was 91 and lived in Manhasset, N.Y.
        His death was announced by his family.
        At the time of his death, J.P. Miller, the name he used in print, had about two score books for young children in circulation, including ''Follow Me'' (1998) and a version of ''The Little Red Hen,'' which he first illustrated half a century ago.
        Last reissued in 2001, his ''Little Red Hen'' survives in the Little Golden Books series at Random House Children's Books. And it remains among Golden's hardiest perennials, with a text written by the Golden staff.
        Mr. Miller worked with a number of writers to create inventive and colorful books meant to educate as they keep little minds pleasantly occupied. There are ''Do You Know Colors?'' and ''Little Bunny Follows His Nose,'' with text by Katherine Howard; ''The Sweet Smell of Christmas,'' with Patricia M. Scarry; and ''The Wonderful House,'' with Margaret Wise Brown.
        Among other typical titles: ''Lucky Mrs. Ticklefeather,'' ''Margaret Wise Brown's Wonderful Story Book,'' ''I Am a Mouse,'' ''Little Turtle's Big Adventure'' and ''Jingle Bells: A New Story.'' In the last one, written by Kathleen N. Daly, Santa Claus joins a sleighful of animals to go to a party and deliver gifts, with the words of ''Jingle Bells'' woven into the story.
        A native New Yorker, John Parr Miller found himself in Hollywood during the Depression, with a widowed mother, need of a job and a portfolio from Grand Central Art School, which he had attended for a little more than two years. He found work in the story department at Disney Studio in 1934, when Mickey Mouse was young, a five-minute short was an epic undertaking and Disney had yet to make its first feature film.
        In 1937 he was one of only three artists asked to start the studio's character model department. According to studio archives, he helped create the animated screen characters for Disney stalwarts like ''Pinocchio,'' ''Fantasia'' and ''Dumbo.''
        He left Disney for military service in World War II, when he made training films for the Navy. After the war, Golden Books recruited him and several other Disney veterans to enliven children's books for a mass market, to go beyond the bland Dick and Jane primers of yore.
        Mr. Miller continued his work as a freelance artist until about 10 years ago. Samples of his work were shown this month in a Golden Books exhibition at the Donnell Library Center opposite the Museum of Modern Art on West 53rd Street.
        His survivors include his half brother, George E. Miller, also of Manhasset.
      