
        Ezra Stoller, a celebrated architectural photographer whose work introduced the viewing public to the high modernism of the postwar era, died on Friday at his home in Williamstown, Mass. He was 89.
        The cause was complications of a recent stroke, his daughter, Erica, said.
        Trained as an architect, Mr. Stoller photographed most of the important buildings of the 1950's and 60's, including Frank Lloyd Wright's Guggenheim Museum, Eero Saarinen's T.W.A. Terminal and Louis I. Kahn's Salk Institute for Biological Studies.
        ''He had a pretty deep appreciation of the kinds of strengths of modern architecture: simplicity, proportion, balance,'' William S. Saunders, the author of ''Modern Architecture: Photographs by Ezra Stoller'' (Abrams, 1990), said in a telephone interview. ''He was dedicated to showing buildings in the best possible way.''
        Mr. Stoller was not merely a documenter but also an interpreter of buildings, translating an architect's three-dimensional vision into two-dimensional abstract compositions that had a sweeping beauty of their own. Famous for his ability to capture a building from just the right angle and in just the right light, he was often commissioned by the world's leading architects, who spoke, in hopeful tones, of having their creations ''Stollerized.''
        ''I see my work in a way that is analogous to a musician given a score to play who must bring it to life and make the piece as good as it can be,'' said Mr. Stoller, in an interview quoted in a brochure about a current show of his work at the Williams College Museum of Art. ''While I cannot make a bad building good, I can draw out the strengths in a work that has strength.''
        Shooting primarily in black and white and using a large-format camera, Mr. Stoller laid meticulous groundwork, often spending days watching the light move across the surface of a building before he ever clicked the shutter.
        ''He would almost 'stalk' the building and approach it from every angle and make all these diagrams,'' said Deborah Rothschild, the curator of ''Ezra Stoller: Architectural Photography,'' on view at Williams through Dec. 19. ''That, combined with a natural gift for composition and clarity, enabled him to get just the right vantage point.''
        The resulting images, published widely in newspapers and magazines as well as in architectural books, were praised for their crispness, sharp tonal contrast and cool, controlled stance. Because Mr. Stoller's work was portable in a way that his subjects could never be, it was often the only way for far-flung viewers to experience the buildings of titans like Wright, Marcel Breuer, I.M. Pei, Philip Johnson, Richard Meier and Ludwig Mies van der Rohe. Mr. Stoller received the Architectural Photography Medal from the American Institute of Architects in 1961.
        Mr. Stoller's images reflected his own aesthetic sensibility, but they also communicated something vital about the architect's. Photographing at the Guggenheim, he resisted the natural temptation to climb to the top of the museum's inverted ziggurat and shoot the gallery below. Instead, his photograph looks dizzyingly upward, flattening the famous whorls into an abstract form that suggests a chambered nautilus. ''He captures this whole spiral, and you see the organic inspiration for most of Wright's work,'' Ms. Rothschild said.
        Photographing the Salk Institute in San Diego, Mr. Stoller maneuvered himself into an awkward position in order to catch what Ms. Rothschild described as ''the almost Cubistic way the building works.''
        Ezra Stoller was born on May 16, 1915, in Chicago. He received a bachelor's degree in 1938 from the School of Architecture and Allied Arts at New York University. During World War II he taught photography at the Army Signal Corps Photo Center in New York. In 1966 he founded the photo agency Esto Photographics, which represents his work and that of other architectural photographers.
        Besides his daughter, of Rye, N.Y., Mr. Stoller is survived by his wife, the former Helen Rubin; two sons, Evan, of New Lebanon, N.Y., and Lincoln, of Shokan, N.Y.; five grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
        Interviewed about his craft, Mr. Stoller tended to deflect critical praise. ''Architecture, being a sensory experience, must be interpreted through a sensory medium,'' he told The New York Times in 1991. ''I never claimed that my work is art. The art is the architecture.''
      