
        Joe Bushkin, a swing-era pianist with a spirited, ebullient style whose career wound through big bands, cabaret, Hollywood and Broadway, died on Wednesday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 87.
        The cause was pneumonia said his son-in-law Robert Merrill.
        Mr. Bushkin was born in a Manhattan brownstone at 103rd Street and Park Avenue in 1916. His father was a barber from Kiev, in what is now Ukraine, and he played the cello between customers in his New York shop. Mr. Bushkin started piano at age 10, stopping for a little while to learn the trumpet after he had a bicycle accident that injured his right hand. By his early teens he was the pianist in a band with friends from DeWitt Clinton high school. His friendship with Benny Goodman's brother Irving led him into the social world of jazz musicians.
        At 14 he nearly played on a Goodman recording date, substituting for Teddy Wilson. Wilson finally showed up before the tapes rolled, but Mr. Bushkin's career was in motion: he started working for dance bands and society bands, performing in New York, New Jersey and Florida.
        At 19, he joined Bunny Berigan's band, and that year he also played on one of Billie Holiday's early recording dates along with Berigan, Artie Shaw and Cozy Cole, a session that included ''Summertime'' and ''Billie's Blues.'' Through Berigan he also got work with Eddie Condon's bands.
        From 1940 to 1942, again with Berigan's help, he was hired into Tommy Dorsey's orchestra, and composed the music for a famous song during that period, ''Oh, Look at Me Now,'' which the band recorded with Frank Sinatra.
        After military service in the Air Force and back in New York, Mr. Bushkin spread himself around: he worked in studios for the NBC orchestra, joined Goodman for a short and bumpy period, played a bandleader in Garson Kanin's Broadway play ''The Rat Race,'' and in 1951 settled into regular work at the Embers, the Midtown jazz club, where he played alongside Milt Hinton, Jo Jones and Buck Clayton.
        That same year he led the band for Sinatra at the Paramount Theater, and the combination of that with his growing audience at the Embers got him record contracts with Columbia and Capitol, playing solo piano as well as with his small band from the club and, for the hit record ''Midnight Rhapsody,'' an orchestra.
        He led his own bands through the 1950's and 60's, as well as writing songs for singers with the lyricist Johnny Burke, and went into semi-retirement from 1971 to 1975, having relocated to Santa Barbara. He returned to the road to tour with Bing Crosby in the mid-70's, and thereafter played only selected engagements in New York, including the Cafe Carlyle, Michael's Pub and the St. Regis.
        Mr. Bushkin is survived by his wife, Francice Netcher Bushkin, of Santa Barbara; four daughters, Nina Judson of New York, Maria Stave of Santa Barbara, Tippy Bushkin of San Francisco and Christina Merrill of Locust Valley, N.Y.; and six grandchildren.
        Correction:  November 30, 2004, Tuesday  An obituary of the jazz pianist and composer Joe Bushkin on Nov. 5 misidentified the technology used at a recording session in the early 1930's when Mr. Bushkin, who was 14, nearly made a record with Benny Goodman before the scheduled pianist finally showed up. It was a disk cutter and wax disks; magnetic tape was not used regularly for recording music until the late 1940's.
      