
        Ivan Veit, a former executive vice president of The New York Times Company who helped usher the newspaper's circulation and promotion departments into the modern era, died on Saturday in Beacon, N.Y. He was 96 and lived in Millbrook, N.Y. Mr. Veit's daughter, Lenore Gale, reported the death.
        Associated with The Times for more than half a century, Mr. Veit was, from 1970 to 1973, executive vice president in charge of development and planning. From 1973 until his retirement in 1974, he was special assistant to the president and publisher, Arthur Ochs Sulzberger. Mr. Veit served on the board of The New York Times Company from 1974 to 1979.
        Mr. Veit (pronounced ''Veet'') helped professionalize the field of newspaper circulation, which, through the early decades of the 20th century, had consisted largely of managing warring packs of newsboys. By the time he joined The Times, daily papers had begun to explore more gentlemanly ways of attracting and keeping readers.
        Acting as a link between the business and news departments, Mr. Veit helped shepherd The Times from the paper-and-ink enterprise it had been since 1851 to the diversified multimedia concern it is today. During his tenure, the company inaugurated its Large Type Weekly; expanded its magazine, book-publishing and educational programs; and made exploratory forays into cable television.
        Ivan Bertram Veit was born in Hornell, N.Y., on May 31, 1908. In 1928, on his 20th birthday, he joined The Times as a telephone solicitor in the classified advertising department, earning $18 a week. (Mr. Veit, who graduated from Columbia a month after starting at the paper, had already spent five summers at The Hornell Tribune-Times, working as a reporter, sports editor and city editor.) In 1935, Mr. Veit became The Times's promotion manager and, after naval service in the Pacific during World War II, returned as director of promotion and research. He became a vice president in 1963.
        Mr. Veit's first wife, the former Sylvia Lippmann, died in 1972; his second wife, Rose Brooks, died in 1999. Besides his daughter, of Manhattan and Poughquag, N.Y., he is survived by a stepson, Larry Brooks, of Los Angeles; six grandchildren; four step-grandchildren; and seven great-grandchildren. Mr. Veit was predeceased by a son, Hubert, and a stepdaughter, Barbara Brooks.
        Despite a career spent in energetic pursuit of new ways to promote The Times, there was one possibility Mr. Veit apparently did not succeed in exploiting. In 1965, researchers at Harvard found that newsprint used by The Times and several other papers contained a compound that inhibited mosquito reproduction. Though Mr. Veit offered to supply Times newsprint in the service of pest control, whether the paper ultimately did so is unrecorded.
      