
        Paul F. Iams, a self-taught animal nutritionist whose pet foods bearing his name are sold in 70 countries, died Oct. 26 in Chappaqua, N.Y. He was 89 and lived in Sun City West, Ariz. The cause was complications of a broken hip, said his daughter Barbara Iams Korein.
        Mr. Iams started the Iams Food Company, now a division of Procter & Gamble, in 1946, having once worked as a dog food salesman during the Depression. Not even severe economic hardship, he learned, could deter pet owners from paying the price to feed their companions.
        Over the course of three decades, Mr. Iams introduced Iams Plus, one of the first meat-based, high-protein dog diets; Iams Chunks, designed for adult dogs; and Eukanuba, a high-end line made with fresh meat and named after an expression of the singer Hoagy Carmichael.
        Paul Falknor Iams was born on Aug. 11, 1915, in Dayton, Ohio, and graduated from Ohio State University in 1937.
        After a stint selling dog food for a grain company where his father also worked, Mr. Iams sold specialty soap for Procter & Gamble. He joined the Navy during World War II and afterward opened an orange-soda franchise in Minneapolis.
        In 1946, Mr. Iams rented a feed mill in Tipp City, Ohio, and began producing pet food for Kentucky Chemical, a large grain concern that provided him a recipe. By 1950, Mr. Iams was creating his own recipes in his own plant in Dayton.
        Upon retiring in 1982, Mr. Iams sold his stake in the Iams Food Company to his business partner, Clay Mathile, whom Mr. Iams hired in 1970. In 1999, Mr. Mathile sold the company to Procter & Gamble.
        In 1987, the Iams Company, as it is now known, opened the Paul F. Iams Technical Center, a nutritional research center in Lewisburg, Ohio. Mr. Iams's wife, the former Jane Landrum, died in 1996. He is survived by a sister, Nancy Egbert, of Sun City West; a son, Paul Iams Jr., of Wilmette, Ill.; two daughters, Barbara Iams Korein, of Chappaqua, and Carrie Terada, of Phoenix; and seven grandchildren.
      