
        Ellsworth Van Graafeiland, a senior judge and a longtime conservative mainstay on the federal appeals bench in New York, died last Saturday in Rochester. He was 89 and lived in Rochester.
        His death was announced in Manhattan by Chief Judge John M. Walker Jr. of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, to which Judge Van Graafeiland was appointed by President Gerald R. Ford in 1974. Judge Van Graafeiland took senior status on reaching 70 in 1985 but continued to commute to hear appeals cases on a reduced schedule until a few weeks ago.
        Judge Van Graafeiland was among the first jurists on the federal bench to challenge the constitutionality of affirmative action regulations that involved quotas. His view on the subject was encapsulated in several opinions he wrote for the court in the 1970's.
        One of his opinions in 1976 overturned a court-ordered racial quota for school principals in New York City, saying it was ''constitutionally forbidden reverse discrimination.'' Reversing a lower federal court, it upheld a ''last hired, first fired'' policy under school board procedures.
        Judge Van Graafeiland also voted for a strong endorsement in 1978 of the stringent narcotics laws adopted under Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller. That appeal reversed a decision by Judge Constance Baker Motley, who had ruled in federal court that New York State sentences of up to life in prison for the sale of small amounts of narcotics were unconstitutionally severe.
        Chief Judge Walker said Judge Van Graafeiland, a colleague of many years, was a strict constructionist when it came to applying the law. ''It was not his inclination to find unspecified rights in the Constitution,'' Judge Walker said.
        Ellsworth Alfred Van Graafeiland was born in Rochester. His father was a clothes cutter who lost his job to technological advances and became a minor league baseball umpire, Judge Walker recalled.
        Physically impaired as a child, Ellsworth Van Graafeiland did a lot of reading and excelled academically. He learned to play the piano and liked to play it later in life.
        Mr. Van Graafeiland first studied agriculture at Cornell but, after finding work in Rochester, transferred to the University of Rochester, graduating in 1937. He returned to Ithaca to receive his L.L.B. degree at Cornell Law School in 1940.
        He is survived by his wife of 59 years, Rosemary Vaeth Van Graafeiland; two sons, Gary P. and John; three daughters, Suzanne Giunta, Joan Pack and Anne Van Graafeiland; nine grandchildren; and one great-granddaughter.
      