
        Harry Schwartz, an editorial writer for The New York Times from 1951 to 1979 and a specialist in Soviet and East European affairs who wrote and lectured extensively on the cold war and later on health care, died on Wednesday at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 85.
        The cause was heart failure, said his son Robert S. Schwartz.
        In a career that began in World War II and spanned nearly half a century, Mr. Schwartz was a government economist, a military intelligence analyst, a professor of economics and international affairs at several universities and the author of 22 books and thousands of editorials and interpretive articles for The Times.
        While he was never a correspondent in Moscow, Mr. Schwartz, who taught himself Russian while serving with the wartime Office of Strategic Services, the forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency, began writing about Soviet affairs from New York in the late 1940's, when the Kremlin censored news reports, and even basic facts about Soviet political and economic life were regarded as state secrets.
        Mr. Schwartz regularly perused 35 Russian publications. By reading between the lines, by drawing on the observations of diplomats and others returning from Moscow and by studying pictures of Kremlin leaders on ceremonial occasions, he often deduced power shifts around Stalin, Khrushchev and other leaders and uncovered problems, like food production shortages, long before they became apparent.
        The controlled Soviet press called many of his articles slanderous and denounced him as a ''capitalist intelligence agent.'' He was denied a visa to go to Moscow, but he traveled in Eastern Europe and continued to write and lecture critically on Soviet economic and political policies. His books included ''Russia's Soviet Economy'' (Prentice-Hall, 1951), ''The Red Phoenix'' (Frederick A. Praeger, 1961) and ''Prague's 200 Days,'' (Frederick A. Praeger, 1969).
        In the 1970's, in part because of a son's illness, Mr. Schwartz's interests turned increasingly toward health policy. His book ''The Case for American Medicine'' (David McCay, 1972) , argued that the increasing socialization of medicine would erode the quality of health care. Over the next two decades, he wrote about infant mortality, organ transplants, heart disease, AIDS and other health-related matters.
        Harry Schwartz was born in New York City on Sept. 10, 1919. At Columbia University, where he studied economics, he was valedictorian of his 1940 graduating class and a member of Phi Beta Kappa, and received a master's degree in 1941 and a doctorate in 1944. In 1942 he was an economist with the War Production Board and the Department of Agriculture in Washington.
        He was drafted into the Army in 1943 but after basic training was transferred to the O.S.S. and sent to Europe as a specialist in Soviet economic intelligence. He was discharged as a first lieutenant in 1945.
        In 1946 Mr. Schwartz joined Syracuse University as a professor of economics. In 1947, he began writing for The Times on Soviet affairs, and in February 1951 he joined the staff of editorial writers full time.
        Until 1953 he continued to teach at Syracuse. Over the years, he also lectured at Columbia University, New York University, American University, Brooklyn College, Harvard, Princeton, Yale and other major universities. In 1973 and 1974 he was a visiting professor of medical economics at the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia.
        After retiring from the editorial board, he continued to write for The Times and for academic and economic journals.
        Besides his son Robert, of Fresh Meadows, N.Y., Mr. Schwartz is survived by his wife, the former Ruth E. Blumner, whom he married in 1941; another son, Dr. John L. Schwartz, of Los Angeles; six grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      