
        Nancy Larrick, an educator whose poetry anthologies and widely used parent's guide helped introduce generations of children not only to reading, but also to literature, died on Nov. 14 in Winchester, Va. She was 93 and lived in Winchester.
        The cause was pneumonia, said her stepson, Alexander C. Crosby.
        Dr. Larrick considered the standard reading workbooks of the 1950's, with their picture games and stories about Dick and Jane, insulting to even a 5-year-old's intelligence. An editor of children's books for Random House, she preferred Dr. Seuss and Little Bear and asserted in a book review in The New York Times that children ''can hear the rhythm of beautifully turned phrases and follow the suspense of a good story line.''
        In the poetry anthologies she edited, she included verses by the likes of Emily Dickinson, William Carlos Williams and Yuan Mei.
        In a 1965 Saturday Review of Literature article, ''The All-White World of Children's Books,'' she criticized the near absence of black characters in children's books. Her criticism pushed publishers to evaluate their policies and led to several follow-up studies.
        Dr. Larrick was a founder and president of the International Reading Association, a literacy group that today has 80,000 members in about 100 countries, and would invite teenagers and children to its annual conferences to give teachers pointers on what they enjoyed reading, though she never indulged their taste for comic books.
        Her most popular work, ''A Parent's Guide to Children's Reading,'' was published in 1958 and reprinted six times.
        Sequels included ''Your Child and His Reading: How Parents Can Help'' (1960), ''A Teacher's Guide to Children's Books'' (1963) and nine other books for adults. She wrote or edited almost 30 books for children, including at least 14 poetry anthologies.
        Nancy Larrick Crosby, who used her maiden name professionally, was born Dec. 28, 1910, in Winchester. She graduated from Goucher College when she was 19 and became an English teacher like her mother, also named Nancy Larrick. She received a master's degree in education from Columbia in 1936 and a doctorate in education from New York University in 1955.
        She was an adjunct professor at Lehigh University from 1964 to 1979 and later taught at N.Y.U. and Indiana University. She wrote dozens of articles for education journals.
        Her husband, Alexander L. Crosby, died in 1980. In addition to her stepson, Alexander from Carmel, Calif; she is survived by three granddaughters and four great-grandchildren.
      