
        Thomas B. Allen, who helped originate a post-Norman Rockwell style of moodily impressionistic illustration and who was best known for his colorful portraits of country and western, bluegrass and jazz musicians for album covers, died on Nov. 8 at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 76.
        The cause of death was complications of heart surgery he had last year, his wife, Laura, said.
        Mr. Allen also did editorial, advertising and children's book illustration, and a few weeks before his death had finished the illustrations for Alice Parker's ''Hand-Me-Down-Song-Book.'' He had just begun working on a CD cover for a new bluegrass album by his friend Marty Stuart, the country singer, for whom he illustrated many albums.
        Mr. Allen originally studied formal painting, not commercial art. In the early 50's, at the Art Institute of Chicago, he was one of a maverick group of illustrators, along with the late Robert Weaver and Robert Andrew Parker, who broke away from a romantic literal mannerism common in magazines like The Saturday Evening Post; they replaced it with a style that was more painterly, though somewhat abstract.
        ''I had developed my own vocabulary by creating my own world,'' he once explained in an interview.
        He preferred dramatic colors and used certain expressionistic contortions, like showing a full-faced front view with the side view within it, which he said resulted from the influence of his classmate, the painter Leon Golub.
        Born on Jan. 28, 1928, in Nashville, Mr. Allen attended Vanderbilt University on a football scholarship but left for the Art Institute. Upon graduating, he joined the Marines, although before reporting for duty he visited New York to seek out editorial illustration assignments. The first came from Esquire's art director, Henry Wolf, who after Mr. Allen's discharge commissioned him to do full-page color paintings and more intricate visual essays. Soon Mr. Allen was getting a string of editorial jobs from Seventeen, Colliers, McCall's and Sports Illustrated, as well as advertising work from NBC.
        At CBS records, then the premier label for graphic design, the art director Neil Fujita gave Mr. Allen his first of many jazz album covers, ''The Jazz Odyssey of James Rushing, Esq.'' The project became a turning point in his work. Although he used his own photographs as reference rather than directly sketching from life, the time he spent with Rushing at the recording session enabled the finished work to be, as Mr. Allen said, ''more authentic.''
        From then on, he almost always got to meet his subjects. He became a close friend of Earl Scruggs of the bluegrass duo Flatt and Scruggs and created album art for them. Starting in 1966, he did portraits of jazz musicians for Whitney Balliet's columns on jazz in the New Yorker.
        One of the most ambitious visual essays Mr. Allen did for Esquire was retracing the tracks of the painter and illustrator Frederic Remington when he traveled through the west in the late 19th century. What resulted, however, was a social commentary.
        ''I thought I could bind Remington's West,'' he explained, ''but no matter how high up in the mountains I would get, there was still a Coors beer can two feet off the road.''
        His passion for the environment and Americana led to illustrating and writing more than a dozen children's books, including ''Good-bye, Charles Lindbergh: Based on a True Story'' by Louise Borden, and ''In Coal Country,'' by Judith Hendershot. This spring he completed the illustrations for ''Grandma's General Store: The Ark'' by Dorothy Carter, to be published in 2005.
        Mr. Allen divided his career between doing illustration and teaching it. In 1983 he was named Hallmark Professor at the University of Kansas, and he was later chair of the illustration department at the Ringling School of Art and Design in Sarasota, where he taught until his death.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Allen is survived by his son, Ivo Allen, his daughters Melissa Maresca and Hilary Allen and four grandchildren.
      