
        Sheik Zayed bin Sultan al-Nahayan, a Bedouin tribesman who became president of the federation known as the United Arab Emirates and one of the Arab world's leading statesmen, died yesterday. He was believed to be 86.
        He had been suffering from diabetes and kidney problems. His death was reported by the official news agency of the emirates, WAM.
        Sheik Zayed, also ruler of Abu Dhabi, largest of the emirates, became a symbol of his region's breathtakingly brisk march from tribal fiefs, where personal worth was measured in camels, to oil-drenched welfare states with sleek skyscrapers, global banks and indoor ski slopes.
        As a ruler for almost 40 years, he flew in his personal jet to his far-flung palaces and houses, including the former home of Douglas Fairbanks Jr. in London, an estate in the English countryside once owned by Ringo Starr and a villa on the Costa del Sol with separate entrances for men and women.
        Sheik Zayed's profound achievements more than matched his flamboyance. He steered Abu Dhabi, his family's sheikdom, to independence from the British, and engineered its consolidation into the United Arab Emirates, a union of seven city states on the western side of the Persian Gulf.
        His political legerdemain, amply greased with petrodollars, kept this often fractious union of tribal states together in what became what many consider the first successful modern federation of Arab states. His foreign policy was equally adept: he managed to support the United States in both its wars against Iraq quietly enough to soothe prickly regional sensibilities.
        ''It is almost impossible to overstate his importance,'' said Gary Sick, who is a professor of international relations at Columbia University and served on the National Security Council for Presidents Ford, Carter and Reagan. ''He really is the father of the country.''
        His people enjoyed cradle-to-grave government services, including free schools, free health care and some of the world's highest personal incomes. He built cities, towns, hospitals and universities.
        Under Sheik Zayed, the Emirates took enormous steps toward sexual equality. Ninety-nine percent of its girls are in school, and illiteracy among girls and women ages 10 or older dropped to 11.3 percent. Women serve in the armed forces and as police officers.
        Sheik Zayed, for all his delight in projects like bringing forests of palm trees to the Chelsea Flower Show, remained a Bedouin at heart. The language he spoke was not the sophisticated Arabic of Cairo and Beirut but the heavier, guttural dialect of the desert.
        He reveled in the regular meeting, called the majlis, at which Arab royalty welcome one and all.
        Barefoot and leaning on a camel saddle, he personally spooned out sweets to his guests. With the royal falcons under hoods on the gauntleted wrists of the royal falconers, the sheik sometimes granted large requests. His generosity to various charities was extensive, to causes from displaced Afghans and Palestinians to Iraqi war victims -- and often to the lowliest goat-herder.
        ''He is one of the few leaders of the Arab world who actually displayed generosity in a clever and wise fashion,'' said Joseph A. Kechichian, who is writing a book on succession in Persian Gulf royal families.
        Still, philanthropy could be complicated. In 2004, he withdrew a $2.5 million gift to Harvard Divinity School after protests about his earlier support of an Abu Dhabi research center that had invited anti-Semitic speakers. Sheik Zayed had already closed the center, saying it ''starkly contradicted the principles of interfaith tolerance.''
        In an article in October 2004 that reported on a $25 million gift by the sheik to Minnesota's Mayo Clinic, The Minneapolis Star Tribune quoted Rabbi Abraham Cooper of the Wiesenthal Center defending the sheik's actions.
        ''He is the only Arab head of state who has explicitly dealt with and condemned this sort of anti-Semitism and anti-Americanism,'' the rabbi said.
        Sheik Zayed bin Sultan al-Nahayan was born in Abu Dhabi town, the capital of the Abu Dhabi kingdom which fronts the Persian Gulf for about 280 miles. The year is uncertain, but 1918 is often cited. He was the youngest of four sons of Sheik Sultan bin Zayed al-Nahayan, ruler of Abu Dhabi from 1922 to 1926. He was named after his grandfather, who ruled the country from 1855 to 1909 and was known as Sheik Zayed the Great.
        Few records of his youth survive, but it is known that the emirate's leading family boasted 180 horses and 400 camels, according to The Financial Times in 1999.
        After the death of his father in 1927, he moved to Al Ain, an oasis town. Most of his education was instruction in Islam from the local preacher.
        In the 1930's, Sheik Zayed worked as a guide for foreign crews exploring for petroleum. In 1946, he was appointed the ruler's representative, or governor, of the area encompassing his oasis.
        Oil was discovered in 1958, and in August 1966, Sheik Zayed pushed aside his brother Sheik Shakbut as ruler of Abu Dhabi. The chief complaint against Sheik Shakbut was that he refused to spend the petroleum royalties.
        The British, who had long been the pre-eminent foreign power in the area, helped Sheik Zayed in his bloodless coup. Since 1853, when it signed a treaty with Abu Dhabi and nearby sheikdoms to quell piracy, Britain had run their foreign affairs and often their internal affairs.
        But in 1968, London announced that it was withdrawing from every place east of Suez in 1971. That meant the Trucial States, which included Abu Dhabi, so named because they were established by a treaty, would be on their own. That year, Sheik Zayed and Sheik Rashid bin Saeed al-Maktoum, ruler of neighboring Dubai, laid the basis of a confederated state by forming an alliance between themselves.
        With British help, Sheiks Zayed and Rashid gathered the other soon-to-be-independent states together in a federation. Bahrain and Qatar, two neighboring Arab countries that London had wanted to join, chose to go their own way.
        Six emirates that came together in 1971 to form the United Arab Emirates were Abu Dhabi (by far the largest in wealth, population and size), Dubai, Sharjah, Ajman, Umm al Qaiwain and Fujariah. Ras al Khaimah did not join until 1972.
        The other emirate leaders elected Sheik Zayed the country's first president and re-elected him at five-year intervals ever since.
        Although the sheik was often credited with shrewdness, he found himself engulfed in an international banking scandal in the 1991 collapse of the Bank of Credit and Commerce International, an Abu Dhabi bank of which he was the largest stockholder. Bank officials he trusted were found to be guilty of offenses that included money laundering, arms trafficking and the sale of nuclear technologies.
        By some estimates, the bank's collapse cost the Emirates $10 billion. Sheik Zayed was not linked to the wrongdoing. The sheik's legacy is evident in the gleaming steel and glass of the capital as well as in his conservation work. He planted millions of palms and fruit trees and undertook breeding programs for 80 species of animals. He received a Golden Panda Award from the Worldwide Fund for Nature in 1997.
        Sheik Zayed is survived by four wives, 19 sons and an estimated 21 daughters, Mr. Kechichian said. He will be succeeded as ruler of Abu Dhabi by the crown prince, his son Sheik Khalifa bin Zayed al-Nahayan.
        Mr. Kechichian said those survivors stand to inherit his personal fortune of $25 billion to $50 billion.
      