
        Dr. Joseph Weiss, a psychoanalyst and researcher who helped develop an influential theory involving ways that patients confront psychological trauma and then strive to overcome it, died Nov. 7 at his home in San Francisco. He was 80.
        The cause was complications of lung cancer, said a daughter, Martha Weiss.
        In five decades of analysis and research, the core of Dr. Weiss's interest was his control mastery theory, which holds that patients enter therapy with an unconscious intention of exploring and replaying traumas with the therapist. In effect, the therapist is used by the patient to test and disprove notions, called pathogenic beliefs, that may have blocked the patient's development and mastery of his own behavior.
        The theory, which grew out of Dr. Weiss's observations of patients in the 1950's, was described in a 1986 book, ''The Psychoanalytic Process,'' written with a colleague, Dr. Harold Sampson. In the 1960's, the two psychoanalysts helped found the Mount Zion Psychotherapy Research Group in San Francisco.
        The group is now known as the San Francisco Psychotherapy Research Group, Training Center and Clinic, and is considered to be the national center for Dr. Weiss's theory. Its president, Dr. Jessica Broitman, said his work was in part derived from Freud and supposed that ''therapy doesn't have to be a horribly painful, adversarial relationship.''
        Dr. Broitman said, ''Joe Weiss truly believed that patients wanted to get better and work to get over the things that were inhibiting their lives, to become part of a progressive and positive society.''
        Dr. Weiss wrote a second book, ''How Psychotherapy Works: Process and Techniques'' (1993), in which he fleshed out the theory, and further explained the notions of survivor guilt and unconscious guilt, the idea that children may acquire crippling feelings of guilt from troubled or confusing relationships with their parents.
        Joseph Weiss, who was born in Cincinnati, graduated from Harvard and earned his medical degree at the University of Cincinnati.
        Early in his career, he studied sex crimes against children for the State of California before starting a private psychoanalytic practice in 1957. He continued to practice until this year.
        Dr. Weiss is survived by his wife of 49 years, Dr. Estelle Rogers, who is also a psychoanalyst; a son, Dr. John H., a neurologist, of Costa Mesa, Calif.; two daughters, Elizabeth Weiss of Richmond, Calif., and Martha Weiss of Washington; a sister, Regine Ransohoff of Cincinnati; and three grandchildren.
      