
        Robert Koch Woolf, the Los Angeles decorator who with his partner, the architect John Elgin Woolf, created a new style of luxury in Hollywood in the 1950's and 1960's, died on Nov. 3 at his home in Montecito, Calif. He was 81.
        The cause was complications of surgery, according to Gene Woolf, his adopted brother, and William Woolf, his companion, who are his only survivors.
        Working with John Woolf, Robert Woolf, then working as Robert Koch, established a new vocabulary for glamorous movie-star living; they synthesized 19th-century French, Greek Revival and Modernist touches into a heady mixture that has since been christened Hollywood Regency, which foreshadowed aspects of postmodernism. They designed houses for, among others, George Cukor, John Wayne, David O. Selznick and Barbara Hutton.
        Moving to Los Angeles after the war, the handsome, blue-eyed Mr. Koch originally dreamed of movie stardom. But in the late 1940's he met John Woolf, who persuaded the young man to come live and work with him. They became business and domestic partners. John Woolf, better known and 15 years older than Robert, did the architecture, with Robert providing the decor.
        ''They did their own version of Régence,'' said Paige Rense, the editor of Architectural Digest, which covered some of the firm's later projects in the 1970's. ''In the 60's and into the 70's, there was a fear of Modern and contemporary architecture,'' she said. ''Their traditional twist was very reassuring. It was a certification of taste to have a Woolf house.''
        Outfitting the horizontal, single-floor plan of a hacienda-style house with white stucco walls, straight, Moorish rooflines, Greek columns and mansard roofs -- the last a Woolf signature -- the two men established a distinctive look that appealed to people for whom stark Modernism was too spartan and traditional styles were too boring. In one of the more pointed responses to pure Modernist style, in 1962 the two men bought one of the largest so-called Case Study houses -- a clean glass and steel box of a house built in 1954 as part of a utopian design project -- and remodeled it completely, adding a mansard roof to the house and a Doric colonnade around the pool.
        The restrained theatricality they brought to their many projects also inspired a wave of renovation of the many small bungalows in West Hollywood, which was in the 1960's a Mecca for gay men out to create a new home. While many ''Woolf-ized'' houses have been torn down, a number remain.
        The Woolfs' own unorthodox living arrangements, known to friends as the ''Woolf pack,'' grew out of efforts in the 1970's to give legal standing to gay relationships. John and Robert had grown apart romantically but continued to live together. In the early 1960's, Robert met Gene Oney, who moved in with both men. In 1971, after John Woolf learned he had Parkinson's disease, he adopted both Robert and Gene, who changed their names to Woolf. Later in the decade, Gene and Robert also grew apart, and Robert brought home a new man, William Capp. After John Woolf died in 1980, Robert, Gene and William moved to a large estate designed by Addison Mizner in Montecito, which Robert devoted himself to restoring in his later years.
        The three men lived together until Robert's death.
        Mr. Woolf was born Robert Koch, an only child, in Temple, Tex., in 1923. In World War II, he served in the Army Air Corps as a tail gunner before moving to Hollywood and starting his decorating career.
        After having fallen into disfavor in the last two decades, the Woolf style is enjoying a minor resurgence. The 1942 Pendleton house, one of the grandest that John Woolf designed, is now the home of Robert Evans, the film producer; Sean MacPherson, a Los Angeles restaurateur and hotelier, also bought a Woolf house. Last year, the University Art Museum at the University of California at Santa Barbara presented an exhibition of the two men's work, and Vanity Fair magazine is preparing a major feature on them for publication early next year.
      