
        John J. Burns, a mainstay of New York politics who led the state's Democratic Party in the 1960's and helped guide campaigns of Robert F. Kennedy and Hugh L. Carey died Tuesday in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 83 and until recently had lived in Binghamton, where he was mayor for two terms.
        The cause was heart failure, said his son Joe. Throughout his political career, Mr. Burns was devoted to the Kennedy brothers' vision of government.
        While other upstate politicians derided Robert Kennedy as a carpetbagger, Mr. Burns became the Kennedy campaign's adviser for his part of the state , introducing Mr. Kennedy at rallies and tailoring his speeches to local concerns.
        Once elected, Senator Kennedy backed Mr. Burns for New York State Democratic chairman. It was a high-profile position that put him in charge of the party's quarreling county chairmen. Mr. Burns cut the party's $600,000 debt in half and put pressure on President Lyndon B. Johnson by refusing to endorse him for re-election over his conduct of the Vietnam War. Mr. Burns and Senator Kennedy were on a plane together when they learned that President Johnson had decided not to run.
        Mr. Burns was most comfortable working closely with voters and said that being mayor of Binghamton was his favorite job. In that city, where Republicans had long outnumbered Democrats, he was known to track down an errant Social Security check for one of his elderly constituents or to ask his friends in Congress for help retrieving a soldier from Vietnam during a family emergency.
        John Joseph Burns was born July 12, 1921, in Binghamton. His grandfather was a city councilman but lost a race for mayor. After high school, Mr. Burns loaded boxcars, sold sporting goods, then enlisted in the Coast Guard during World War II.
        His first two runs for public office were unsuccessful but made him familiar to local Democratic leaders. He was appointed Binghamton's deputy city assessor in 1951 and executive assistant to the mayor in 1952. He was elected mayor in 1957 and re-elected by a hefty margin in 1961. In 1962, he was the Democratic candidate for lieutenant governor.
        He become state party chairman in 1965, and resigned in 1971 to become national coordinator for the presidential campaign of John V. Lindsay, then mayor of New York City. Mr. Lindsay had been first elected as a Republican but later became a Democrat. Although his presidential hopes quickly faded, he later appointed Mr. Burns as the city's water supply commissioner.
        In 1978, Mr. Burns managed Mr. Carey's successful effort to be reelected governor. Mr. Carey then named him appointments secretary, a post Mr. Burns referred to as ''disappointments secretary'' for all the hopefuls he turned away.
        In 1988, he lost in a close race for state senator, and in 1993, at 73, he ran unsuccessfully for another term as mayor of Binghamton.
        Mr. Burns's wife of 55 years, Theresa, died in February. He is survived by a sister, Madeleine Case, of Vestal, N.Y.; seven sons, Robert, of Cleveland, Patrick and Tommy, both of Los Angeles, John Jr., Joe and Vincent, all of Binghamton, and Daniel, of Ithaca; five daughters, Sheila Kyle, Marie Burns, Jeannie Burns-Varn and Annie Burns, all of Ithaca, N.Y., and Teresa Burns Kristy of Nashville; and 19 grandchildren.
      