
        Terry Melcher, a record producer who created hits with the Beach Boys and the Byrds, died on Friday in Beverly Hills after a long battle with cancer, his publicist, Linda Dozoretz, said Saturday. He was 62.
        The son of the actress and singer Doris Day and her first husband, the trombonist Al Jorden, Mr. Melcher was known in the music industry for his role in shaping the sounds of the folk and surf music scenes in California. He also wrote songs and produced festivals and other events.
        Mr. Melcher started his career as a solo performer in the early 1960's, later pairing up with Bruce Johnston, the future Beach Boy. Their act, Bruce & Terry, had several hits. They later formed the Rip Chords and found success with the 1964 hit ''Hey, Little Cobra.'' Mr. Melcher also performed on the seminal Beach Boys album ''Pet Sounds.''
        As a Columbia Records staff producer in the mid-60's, Mr. Melcher helped to transform a little-known folk-rock band, the Byrds, into stars. He produced their versions of ''Mr. Tambourine Man'' and ''Turn, Turn, Turn'' and later recordings like ''Ballad of Easy Rider.'' He also worked with the folk and rock pioneers Gram Parsons, the Mamas and the Papas and Ry Cooder.
        Mr. Melcher was a peripheral figure in the notorious Charles Manson case of 1969, having once rented the house in which Sharon Tate and her friends were killed by Mr. Manson's followers. There was speculation at the time that Mr. Melcher, who knew Mr. Manson, was the intended target because he had turned down Mr. Manson's request for a recording contract. But police established that Mr. Melcher had moved and that Mr. Manson knew his whereabouts.
        From 1968 to 1972 Mr. Melcher was the executive producer of his mother's television series, ''The Doris Day Show.'' He later co-produced her mid-1980's program, ''Doris Day's Best Friends.''
        He also helped stoke a 1980's revival for the Beach Boys, co-writing the hit ''Kokomo,'' which was featured in the Tom Cruise film ''Cocktail'' and received a Golden Globe nomination in 1988 for best original song.
        Born Feb. 8, 1942, in New York City, Mr. Melcher was adopted 10 years later by Ms. Day's third husband, Martin Melcher, and took his surname. But the fact that he was Ms. Day's only child proved more than helpful as he sought to build his career, and early on he used the name Terry Day. He remained close to his mother as she battled personal and financial troubles, and recently had been running various businesses for her and supervising her charitable activities, including the Doris Day Animal Foundation.
        In addition to Ms. Day, he is survived by his wife, Terese, and a son, Ryan, from a previous marriage.
      