
        Dr. Arthur H. Robinson, a geographer who improved on the venerable Mercator projection for drawing the round Earth on a flat map, died on Oct. 10 in Madison, Wis. He was 89.
        His death, after a brief illness, was announced by the University of Wisconsin, where he was an emeritus professor of geography and cartography.
        In a career of teaching, writing and research, Dr. Robinson always found time, as mapmakers have for centuries, to look for the best possible solution to cartography's frustrating ''Greenland problem.'' On maps drawn according to the most familiar projection, devised by Gerardus Mercator in the 16th century, Greenland appears to be about the size of South America, though it is actually no larger than Mexico.
        The distortion is a result of the compromises inherent in representing a sphere on a flat piece of paper. If the shapes of land masses are correct, the sizes will be distorted, and vice versa. If lower latitudes are close to reality on maps, then the polar regions will be grossly misshaped.
        In 1963, Dr. Robinson devised his own map projection. He had been dissatisfied with existing projections since his experience as director of the map division of the Office of Strategic Services in World War II.
        ''I started with a kind of artistic approach,'' Dr. Robinson said in a 1988 interview in The New York Times. ''I visualized the best-looking shapes and sizes. I worked with the variables until it got to the point where, if I changed one of them, it didn't get any better.''
        Only then, he said, did he ''figure out the mathematical formula to produce that effect.'' For his projection, Dr. Robinson chose 38 degrees north and 38 degrees south as the standard parallels. This established the two places on the map where both size and shape are most accurate in the middle of the temperate zone, where most of the land and people are.
        The Robinson projection was eventually adopted by the National Geographic Society for use in some of its world maps. It is also the basis for maps by several federal agencies and the world atlases of Rand McNally.
        Dr. Joel L. Morrison, a former president of the American Congress on Surveying and Mapping and a government geographer, said that Dr. Robinson was ''a major contributor to the creation of a solid foundation for the development of cartographic science'' in the 20th century.
        Born in Montreal on Jan. 5, 1915, to American parents, Arthur Robinson was educated at Miami University in Ohio and received a doctorate at Ohio State in 1947. After his service with military intelligence in the war, he joined the Wisconsin faculty, where he spent the rest of his career.
        Dr. Robinson's textbook, ''Elements of Cartography,'' published in 1953, is now in its sixth edition and still widely used in university courses. His honors include the presidency of the International Cartographic Association and medals from the American Geographical Society and the British Cartographic Society. The map library at Wisconsin is named for him.
        Survivors include his wife, Martha E. Robinson of Madison; a son, Stephen M., of Madison; a daughter, Patricia A. Robinson of Sonoita, Ariz.; and two grandchildren. His first wife of more than 50 years, the former Mary Elizabeth Coffin, died in 1992.
      