
        Alexander Bassin, a founder of Daytop Village, the oldest continuing residential drug treatment program in the United States, died on Wednesday at his home in Tallahassee, Fla. He was 92.
        Msgr. William B. O'Brien, a co-founder of Daytop Village and its president, announced the death.
        A social worker and criminologist, Dr. Bassin helped start Daytop Lodge, the halfway house that became Daytop Village, in 1963. Today, Daytop Village comprises more than two dozen treatment centers in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and California.
        At the time Daytop began, Dr. Bassin was director of research and education for the probation department of the State Supreme Court in Brooklyn. Disturbed by the inability of the prison system to rehabilitate drug addicts, he conceived of a therapeutic community modeled on Synanon, founded in California in 1958.
        With Joseph A. Shelly, the court's chief probation officer, Dr. Bassin founded Daytop Lodge in a 20-room mansion on Staten Island in 1963. Its first residents were 22 male probationers from the Brooklyn corrections system. (The organization's name stood for Drug Addicts Treated on Probation.)
        With the involvement of Monsignor O'Brien and others, Daytop Lodge became Daytop Village in 1964. The new program admitted men and women as well as non-probationers. The organization has since treated more than 100,000 people, according to its Web site.
        In an influential 1968 article in Psychology Today, Dr. Bassin described the organization's no-nonsense attitude:
        ''The psychological basis for treating drug addicts at Daytop Village differs radically from conventional methods,'' he wrote. ''Neither punishing the addict by jailing him for extended periods nor slobbering over him with sympathy and pity has shown any great rehabilitative value. Nor has it helped to regard the addict as a sick person, a 'medical problem,' as some well-meaning folk put it. The Daytop philosophy is to consider the addict as an adult acting like a baby: childishly immature, full of demands, empty of offerings.''
        Alexander Bassin was born in Brooklyn on Aug. 4, 1912. He received a B.A. from Brooklyn College in 1934, an M.A. from New York University in 1950 and a Ph.D. in social psychology from New York University in 1958.
        Dr. Bassin taught at the Ferkauf Graduate School of Yeshiva University from 1948 to 1968 and in later years was a professor of criminology at Florida State University. He was an editor, with Thomas Edward Bratter and Richard L. Rachin, of ''The Reality Therapy Reader'' (Harper & Row, 1976).
        Dr. Bassin is survived by his wife, the former Ann Rubenstein, whom he married in 1938; two brothers, Sam, of Dumont, N.J., and Jonas, of Lake Forest, Calif.; and two sons, Barry, of Montgomery, Vt., and Roy, of Tallahassee.
      