
        James H. Binger, the ultrawealthy and aristocratic chairman of Jujamcyn Theaters, which owns five Broadway houses, died on Wednesday night at his home in Minneapolis. He was 88.
        The cause was cancer, said Rocco Landesman, the president of Jujamcyn.
        A Minnesota native with a passion for horse racing and straight talk, Mr. Binger led a simple but powerful life, complete with stints as the chief executive of Honeywell Inc. and as the breeder of Kentucky Derby winners (Unbridled, 1990). The longtime husband -- and high-school sweetheart -- of the heiress Virginia McKnight Binger, Mr. Binger was first introduced to Broadway in 1956 when his father-in-law, William L. McKnight, the president and chairman of the Minnesota manufacturing giant 3M, bought the St. James Theater on West 44th Street.
        McKnight ran the St. James (and the Martin Beck, now called the Al Hirschfeld, which he took over in 1966) with a businessman's eye: he wanted the theaters to make money. (One nod to sentiment was in his company's name, Jujamcyn, a combination of the names of Mr. and Mrs. Binger's children: Judith, James and Cynthia.) And Mr. Binger, who took over the theater chain with his wife in the late 1970's after McKnight's death, was similarly no-nonsense, taking an active interest in both making art and making a profit.
        ''It's an investment matter, but one that I find fascinating,'' Mr. Binger said in a 1982 profile in The New York Times. ''If there were no return on the investment I would lose my enthusiasm fast.''
        Mr. Binger's business sense fit well with a Broadway that was fast evolving from a clubby little artistic community to a multiplayer industry with an increasing number of corporate players. A graduate of Yale and the University of Minnesota Law School, Mr. Binger had abandoned an early legal career to join the rapidly expanding electronics company Honeywell -- also based in Minneapolis -- in 1943. He became its president in 1961 and was its chairman from 1965 to 1974. Mr. Binger stayed with Honeywell until 1978, when he retired and turned his attention to the theater, a discipline that he and his wife had loved since their teenage years.
        Tall and handsome with a head of white hair, Mr. Binger struck a quiet pose at Broadway openings, usually shunning the spotlight for a decent table at the party and an occasional martini. He was far from sedate in business matters: in 1981 he expanded his company's holdings by buying the Ritz and the ANTA Theaters, and a year later Jujamcyn bought the Eugene O'Neill. (The Ritz, on West 48th Street, was soon renamed for the critic Walter Kerr, while Mr. Binger renamed the ANTA on West 52nd Street for his wife Virginia.) Those purchases made Jujamcyn the third largest theater owner on Broadway, behind only the Nederlander Organization, which owns nine, and the Shubert Organization, which owns 161/2.
        And while he handed off most of the company's day-to-day management to his New York office and remained based in Minneapolis, Mr. Binger and his wife made many of the final decisions about what would play in Jujamcyn Theaters, reading scripts and traveling to New York and London to scout new plays and musicals.
        ''In my case, a lot of gut reaction is involved,'' he said in 1982. ''You have to rely on instinct.''
        It was just such an instinct that led Mr. Binger to make one of his biggest and best gambles: on a partner. His other retirement hobby -- as it were -- was Tartan Farms, a horse-breeding center in Ocala, Fla., founded by McKnight and named for one of 3M's most famous products: Scotch tape. Despite his wealth, Mr. Binger was a $10 bettor, but his love of horse racing was shared by Mr. Landesman, an inveterate railbird and, as it happened, one of the more successful young producers on Broadway. The two met when Mr. Landesman produced ''Big River'' in 1985 at a Jujamcyn theater, and several subsequent trips to the track sealed a deep friendship between the men.
        That friendship became a partnership in 1987 when Mr. Binger hired Mr. Landesman as president of Jujamcyn, a surprising move that signaled the company's increased interest in becoming an active producing entity rather than merely a landlord. Nearly 100 productions were mounted in his theaters during the next 17 years, with Jujamcyn and Mr. Binger listed as a producer on such plays as ''Angels in America'' and ''Love! Valour! Compassion!'' and musicals like ''Jelly's Last Jam,'' ''City of Angels'' and ''Into the Woods.''
        Mr. Binger's daughter Judith died in 1989 and his wife died in 2002. He is survived by his son, James M. Binger of Big Arm, Mont.; his daughter Cynthia Binger Boynton of Boston; four grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
        Increasingly frail, Mr. Binger had continued to travel to New York all summer to take care of business and take in shows -- and races -- until his death. ''I like your city,'' he had said in 1982, ''and Broadway is one of the most exciting parts of it.''
      