
        Lord Hanson, a British tycoon once labeled Lord Moneybags for the fabled riches he acquired from a series of aggressive takeovers, died on Monday at his home in Newbury, England, according to business associates. He was 82.
        Lord Hanson built his business reputation as the creator of one of Britain's richest conglomerates, Hanson Trust, with companies whose products included cigarettes, bricks and batteries. At the height of his deal-making renown in the 1980's, Lord Hanson, a confidant of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, became an emblem of no-holds-barred capitalism. While investors praised his business acumen and decisiveness, adversaries said he acquired companies only to sell off their component parts at a profit. ''Hanson was like an antique dealer, buying slightly dingy assets, polishing them up and putting them back in the shop window,'' The Times of London said on Tuesday.
        In many ways, he came to symbolize the corporate Britain that flourished under Mrs. Thatcher's Conservative government in the 1980's. Like her, he was a fierce proponent of private ownership, was deeply skeptical about Britain's relationship with the European Union and opposed British adoption of the euro single currency.
        Tall and well groomed, he was known in his younger days as the socialite companion of a series of glamorous women, including Joan Collins and Audrey Hepburn, to whom he was engaged until she canceled the wedding in 1952. In 1959, he married an American, Geraldine Kaelin, who died last February after 45 years of marriage. He is survived by two sons, Robert and Brook, and a stepdaughter, Karyn.
        Lord Hanson ran his empire in close consultation with a small group of loyal advisers. Long before globalization became a mantra, he acquired companies employing 90,000 people in Britain, Australia and the United States.
        His longtime business associate, Lord White, who died in 1995, was once asked about their longstanding business presence in the United States. He is said to have replied: ''At the start of the Second World War, Britain owned more than 30 percent of U.S. Inc. and it would be rather nice to get that back.''
        The company's success in the United States prompted it to describe itself in Britain as ''the company from over here that is doing rather well over there.''
        Lord White was widely seen as the buccaneering initiator of many of the biggest deals undertaken by Hanson Trust. Between them the two men started by buying relatively small, nondescript industrial companies before moving on to acquire gold fields, coal mines, brick works and chemical plants.
        Only in the 1990's, when investors' appetites swung away from conglomerates and toward companies with simpler, more transparent structures, was Lord Hanson obliged to break up his empire into four smaller, publicly traded units. At that time, in 1996, his companies had combined annual sales estimated at $18 billion. Lord Hanson's personal wealth was estimated at between $100 million and $200 million. He retired in 1997 and had been suffering for several years from prostate cancer.
        James Edward Hanson was born on Jan. 20, 1922, at Huddersfield in Yorkshire, where his father, Robert, ran a successful transport company. He left England for Canada after World War II but returned in 1963 and began a partnership with Lord White, then Gordon White, when the two men were board members of a truck dealership.
        They bought a string of businesses in the 1960's and 1970's, but were best remembered for a series of megadeals in the 1980's.
        In 1986, their company acquired the SCM Corporation, a typewriter and chemical company in the United States, for $930 million. In the same year, the Hanson company paid $2.5 billion for Imperial Group, a food and tobacco company in Britain.
        But investors began to doubt the company's ability to sustain its money-making run when the Hanson company lost a bitter battle for Britain's Imperial Chemical Industries in 1991.
        Investors also came to challenge the opacity of some transactions, including the undisclosed purchase of racehorses, which cost shareholders millions of dollars.
        Lord Hanson was knighted in 1976 under Harold Wilson, the Labor prime minister, and given a life peerage as Lord Hanson of Edgerton in 1983, during the Thatcher years. He was a major contributor to Conservative Party funds, and The Daily Mirror tabloid recalled on Tuesday that he had been ''known as Lord Moneybags,'' a label first coined by The Sun, another tabloid.
      