
        Joseph J. Sisco, a hard-charging senior diplomat who helped forge America's Middle East policy in the 1960's and 70's and later became president of American University here, died Tuesday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 85.
        The cause was complications of diabetes, his family said.
        Mr. Sisco joined the State Department in 1951, after a year as a Central Intelligence Agency officer, and retired after a quarter-century near the top of the department's bureaucracy.
        Former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger so respected Mr. Sisco's encyclopedic knowledge of the Middle East and his relentless drive that early in 1974 he talked him out of resigning to become president of Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y. Instead, Mr. Sisco was promoted to under secretary of state for political affairs.
        ''He was unique,'' Dr. Kissinger said on Wednesday. ''He had enormous energy, great imagination, and he knew how to get things done. He was indefatigable -- and lots of fun.''
        Although he often got by on only five hours sleep, Mr. Sisco had so much energy that he acquired the nickname ''Jumping Joe.'' One Sunday in early 1966, as the Washington area was being buried under snow, Mr. Sisco received an urgent call at home concerning a political crisis in South Vietnam. Determined to get to the office, Mr. Sisco put on his warmest clothes and commandeered the only vehicle in the area that was moving: a snowplow.
        Not afraid to be blunt (''He started every discussion by yelling at me,'' Dr. Kissinger recalled with a chuckle), he also infused his diplomacy with a personal touch. He liked to cook Italian dishes for foreign dignitaries in his home.
        From 1951 to 1965, Mr. Sisco was a foreign affairs officer. In 1965, Secretary of State Dean Rusk appointed him assistant secretary of state for international organization affairs.
        In 1968, Mr. Sisco became the chief United States mediator in the Middle East. He based much of his diplomacy on trying to limit the Soviet Union's influence in the region, trying to persuade Israel to withdraw from Arab territory it had occupied after the 1967 war and trying to convince Arab nations that, their suspicions to the contrary, the United States was trying to be evenhanded.
        President Richard M. Nixon named Mr. Sisco assistant secretary of state for Near Eastern and South Asian affairs early in 1969. That year, Mr. Sisco wrote a policy paper that became the basis for much of Mr. Nixon's Middle East policy.
        Recognized as a tireless and tough negotiator, Mr. Sisco tried to use American influence to keep Syria's invasion of Jordan in 1970 and the India-Pakistan war of 1971 from widening. He also tried to help broker a peace between Israel and Egypt in 1974.
        Mr. Sisco left government service in 1976 to become president of American University in Washington. During his presidency, private contributions to the school increased and a library was built. In 1980, he was named chancellor, a fund-raising post. He left a year later, citing his distaste for chasing after money.
        In 1981, he became a partner in Sisco Associates, an international management and consulting firm that his wife, Jean, had started two years before. Mr. Sisco continued to express his opinions on foreign affairs in writing and in lectures and television appearances. Last June, he appeared on ''The News Hour with Jim Lehrer'' and defended President Bush's foreign policy, including the invasion of Iraq.
        Joseph John Sisco was born in Chicago on Oct. 31, 1919, one of five children of Italian immigrants. His mother died when he was 9, and his father, a tailor and a connoisseur of opera, raised the children in modest circumstances.
        In 1941, he graduated magna cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa from Knox College in Galesburg, Ill., where he also starred on the tennis team. Mr. Sisco paid for his schooling by working as a newspaper reporter; Sears, Roebuck salesman; bartender and laborer in a steel mill.
        He served as an Army infantry officer in the Pacific during World War II, then earned a master's and a doctorate in international relations at the University of Chicago, specializing in Soviet affairs.
        Mr. Sisco's wife, whom he married in 1946, died in 1990. Survivors include two daughters, Carol, of Riva, Md., and Jane, of Bethesda, Md.; and two brothers, Paul, of Bethesda, and George, of Broadview, Ill.
      