
        Martin Malia, a historian of Soviet Communism who persistently challenged the prevailing notion of that system's durability, died last Friday in a convalescent home in Oakland, Calif. He was 80 years old.
        The cause was pneumonia, said a statement from the University of California at Berkeley, where he taught for more than 30 years.
        During the final three decades of the Soviet empire, Mr. Malia, who retired in 1991, provided an often provocative voice from the conservative flank of Soviet studies, which scorned the idea that Communist rule would ever be capable of reforming itself and assailed those of his fellow academics who foresaw such possibilities.
        In his books and numerous magazine articles, Mr. Malia advocated the position that the Soviet Union was constituted ideologically -- and became as he put it an ''idiocracy'' that was alien to the currents of Russian and European history and thus could not endure. He took issue with those scholars who he felt had overlooked the distinct ideological nature of the state in their writings.
        ''It really drove him crazy when people wrote about the Soviet Union as if it was just another state with economic and political problems,'' said Terry Emmons, a retired Stanford history professor who had been Mr. Malia's student and then his colleague during a span of more than 40 years. ''He had a polemical approach to scholarship, though I think he thought that it was those on the other side who were belligerent.''
        The most dramatic expression of Mr. Malia's views on Communism's dismal prospects and impending doom took the form of a January 1990 article in the quarterly Daedalus titled ''To the Stalin Mausoleum.'' The author was identified only by the single initial ''Z.''
        At the time, Mikhail Gorbachev and his policies of perestroika were generating optimism and enthusiasm in much of the West, including academic circles. But the article lambasted the Soviet leader, insisting that his rule would bring neither democracy nor free markets to the Soviet Union, though they might extend the life of the Communist Party, whose existence, the article contended, lay at the heart of the Soviet Union's problems.
        Partly because of speculation over the identity of the author, the article gained international attention and a crucial portion was excerpted on the Op-Ed page of The New York Times. One line of conjecture held that the ''Z'' in the signature was meant to recall the famous 1947 article in Foreign Affairs in which George F. Kennan's proposed policies for the containment of the Soviet Union were presented under the pseudonym ''X.'' In the fall of 1990, after the Berlin Wall had come down and Mr. Gorbachev was being eclipsed by Boris Yeltsin, Mr. Malia acknowledged in another Op-Ed piece in The Times that he was ''Z,'' and not a diplomat, as Mr. Kennan had been, but a university professor who eight months earlier had hidden his identity to avoid compromising his sources in Russia and Eastern Europe.
        A devout Roman Catholic, Mr. Malia was quick to recognize how Poland's Solidarity movement was gaining cultural and popular support in its challenge to Communism and wrote about the struggle for The New York Review of Books. He saw no prospect of similar upheavals in Russia, and in contrast to many colleagues he refused to believe that significant changes could emerge from party structures. Yuri Slezkine, a history professor at Berkeley, observed that Mr. Malia's views were regarded as controversial by many in the field, but added, '' things kind of came together in the end, and he was very grateful.''
        His major works included ''Russia Under Western Eyes,'' which appeared in 1990, which was followed three years later by ''The Soviet Tragedy: A History of Socialism in Russia 1917-1991.'' Both continue to be widely read and cited both in the West and the lands of the former Soviet Empire. His 1961 work about the pre-eminent 19th-century Russian Socialist, ''Alexander Herzen and the Birth of Russian Socialism 1812-1855,'' touched on themes upon which Mr. Malia elaborated in his later studies of Soviet decline.
        Indeed some of these were also evident in his latest article, which went to press on the day he died. The article, to appear in the Nov. 29 issue of The New Republic, is titled ''The Archives of Evil,'' and reviews recent books based on newly available Soviet-era archival material. ''That article summarized a lot of his thinking,'' Mr. Emmons noted.
        ''Now that Communism is at last 'history,' what do we understand about its workings that we failed to grasp when it seemed a permanent fixture of modernity?'' Mr. Malia asked in the article. Along the way he pointed out that the Central Intelligence Agency had greatly overestimated the Soviet Union's economic strength and that ''academic Sovietology exaggerated its potential for reform, thereby fostering the wishful hopes that culminated in late 1980's Gorbomania.''
        Mr. Malia did not find major revelations in the new archival works and wondered what it would take for historical writing about the Soviet period to match the studies of Nazi Germany or the French Revolution. What was needed, he wrote, were not new facts ''but an act of conceptual imagination, a fundamental rethinking of the Russian Revolution.''
        Mr. Malia was born in Springfield, Mass., on March 14, 1924. He served in the Navy in World War II and started to teach himself Russian aboard ship. He did his undergraduate work at Yale where he majored in French and received his doctorate from Harvard in 1951. Before he joined the Berkeley faculty in 1958, he was an assistant professor of history at Harvard and assisted in the acquisition of Russian books for the Library of Congress.
        He is survived by a niece and four nephews.
      