
        Lucien A. Hold, a comedy club talent booker and manager who helped discover and promote the early careers of New York comedians like Chris Rock, Jerry Seinfeld and Adam Sandler, died on Nov. 23 at his home in Manhattan. He was 57.
        The cause was complications of scleroderma, an auto-immune disease that affects the connective tissues, said Michael O'Brien, a friend.
        Mr. Hold's domain was the Comic Strip, the club on the Upper East Side of Manhattan known for its eclectic roster of performers, from major names to open-mike amateurs. Mr. Hold built the club in 1975 out of the remains of a defunct bar, carving a small stage (and even smaller backstage) out of the bar's back room.
        From its inception, Mr. Hold was not only the club's chief carpenter but also its gatekeeper, culling talent from thousands of videotapes, audio tapes and five-minute audition sets offered up by the city's growing comic corps.
        One of those early comics was a skinny, foulmouthed Brooklyn teenager who arrived at the club in the late 1970's and demanded a slot. His name was Eddie Murphy, soon to be one of America's hottest young comedians, with the Strip as his home base.
        Mr. Murphy was just one of the dozens Mr. Hold booked, including breakthrough talents like Mr. Seinfeld and Mr. Rock and successful club comics like Colin Quinn, Judy Gold and Louis CK. While not a comic himself, Mr. Hold showed remarkable endurance in a business known for its grueling hours, manning the stage door at the Strip right until the end of his life, despite his weakened condition.
        Mr. Hold's survivors include his wife, Vanessa Hollingshead; his brother, Peter G. Hold, of Sedona, Ariz.; and his sister, Phyllis H. Leggett.
        Correction:  December 7, 2004, Tuesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary headline Sunday about a talent booker who helped promote the early careers of dozens of New York comedians misspelled his given name in some copies. He was Lucien Hold, not Lucian.
      