
        Reggie White, the defensive end who was one of the greatest players in National Football League history, died yesterday at a hospital in Huntersville, N.C. White, who lived in Cornelius, N.C., was 43.
        White's death was announced by his wife, Sara. The cause was not immediately known, but White had a respiratory ailment for the past several years, Keith Johnson, a pastor serving as a family spokesman, told The Associated Press.
        He starred for the Philadelphia Eagles, the Green Bay Packers and in his final season, 2000, with the Carolina Panthers. White, at 6 feet 5 inches and 300 pounds, was renowned for taking aim at opposing quarterbacks. When he retired after 15 seasons in the N.F.L., he held the career record for sacks (198), a statistic kept by the N.F.L. since 1982. (White's record was broken last year by Bruce Smith.)
        White was named to the N.F.L.'s 75th anniversary team in 1994 at defensive end, along with Gino Marchetti and Deacon Jones. He was the league's defensive player of the year in 1987 and 1998 and was chosen for the Pro Bowl a record 13 consecutive seasons, 1986 through 1998.
        George Seifert, who coached White with Carolina and previously coached the San Francisco 49ers, told The A.P. that White was ''possibly the best defensive lineman ever to play the game.''
        An ordained minister and a pastor of a church in Knoxville, Tenn., during his playing days, White was known for working with inner-city young people. But he also became a figure of controversy for derogatory remarks concerning homosexuality in a speech to the Wisconsin Legislature in 1998.
        White, who grew up in Chattanooga, Tenn., was an all-American lineman at the University of Tennessee. He began his pro career with the Memphis Showboats of the United States Football League in 1984, then joined the Eagles in 1985 after the U.S.F.L. went out of business.
        White forged a formidable reputation with the Eagles from 1985 through 1992. Then, with the advent of unrestricted free agency, he made a highly publicized tour of N.F.L. cities before joining the Packers with a four-year, $17 million contract.
        Playing for the Packers from 1993 through 1998, he teamed with quarterback Brett Favre as key figures in reviving the franchise. White's defensive play helped bring a Super Bowl championship in 1997, with a 35-21 victory over the New England Patriots, and a Super Bowl appearance in 1998, when the Packers lost to the Denver Broncos.
        ''That's what changed the football fortunes of this franchise; it was huge,'' Bob Harlan, the Packers' president, said yesterday on the team's Web site regarding White's arrival in Green Bay.
        Recalling how White had recruited players for the Packers, Harlan said White ''sent a message to the rest of the N.F.L. that Green Bay was a great place to play and before that this was a place people didn't want to come.''
        While playing for the Eagles, White preached to teenagers on Philadelphia streets, telling them to stay in school and away from drugs.
        Known as the Minister of Defense, he became a spiritual presence in the Packers' locker room, praying with teammates.
        He was an associate pastor at the Inner City Community Church in Knoxville during his playing days, and in the mid-1990's, he helped organize a community development bank in Knoxville to provide loans for people who could not obtain them through other channels. He put up $1 million to start that fund, according to the Rev. David Upton, the pastor at White's church.
        The church was set ablaze in January 1998, and racial epithets were left at the scene.
        White created a stir in March 1998 with a speech to the Wisconsin State Assembly. In it, he referred to homosexuality as ''one of the biggest sins in the Bible'' and used ethnic stereotypes for blacks and whites.
        At the time, White, considering retirement, was on a list of candidates for CBS's N.F.L. studio show, but he did not get the job.
        White's wife, Sara, charged that CBS had ''wimped out'' because of pressure from homosexual groups, but a CBS spokeswoman said that the network ''never had a finalized agreement'' with White and that the decision not to hire him was not ''influenced by outside groups.''
        In addition to his wife, White is survived by a son, Jeremy, and a daughter, Jecolia, The Associated Press said.
        White saw no problems in reconciling Sundays on the football field with his religious calling.
        As he once put it: ''Football's not a violent game. Football is an aggressive game. Violence is people shooting other people in the street.''
      