
        Pamulaparthi Venkata Narasimha Rao, who as prime minister in the early 1990's oversaw the initiation of India's economic reforms, died Thursday at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi. He was 83.
        The cause of death was cardiac arrest, the hospital said in a statement.
        Mr. Rao, who was born in Andhra Pradesh, was the first prime minister to come from India's south, and the first from outside the family of Jawaharlal Nehru to complete a five-year term.
        But he will be remembered most for joining his finance minister, Manmohan Singh, now the prime minister, to introduce reforms to open India's closed economy to the world and free it from stifling state control.
        Mr. Rao took this path under duress: When he took power in 1991 as leader of a minority government, the economy was ailing, and India was facing a balance-of-payments crisis.
        ''Logically we had come up against a blank wall,'' he said in an interview broadcast on New Delhi Television earlier this year. ''There was nothing more to do.''
        With its foreign exchange reserves depleted, India was weeks away from defaulting on its payments.
        Had that happened, he said in the interview, ''your entire economy, your honor, your place in the comity of nations, everything goes haywire.''
        With Mr. Rao's backing, Mr. Singh, an economist, devalued the rupee and began lifting controls and easing regulations that had hamstrung the quasi-socialist economy since independence. The government also revamped policy to promote exports.
        Mr. Rao's term in office also saw the growth of Hindu nationalism as a political force in India, highlighted by the nationalists' destruction of a 16th-century mosque at Ayodhya in December 1992. Hindu-Muslim riots followed. Critics said Mr. Rao could have done more to stop the demolition, a charge he denied.
        He also oversaw India's efforts to reposition itself in a post-cold-war world, strengthening relations with the United States and renewing ties with Israel and South Africa.
        Mr. Rao, a lawyer and scholar, served as a minister and as chief minister of Andhra Pradesh before being elected to the Indian Parliament in 1972. He held several cabinet posts under Indira Gandhi, Nehru's daughter, and Rajiv Gandhi, her son, including foreign minister from 1980 to 1984.
        He returned from the political margins to take over the Congress Party after the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi in 1991. Not known for his charisma, and loath to give interviews, Mr. Rao was a wily, even ruthless politician capable of outfoxing rivals in a faction-riddled party.
        Reforms slowed significantly after 1993 as Mr. Rao became embroiled in fighting for his political survival. He was accused of corruption both while prime minister and afterward, in part because of his devotion to a Hindu guru, Chandraswami, who was implicated in multiple scandals. A lower court convicted him in one bribery case, but it was later overturned by a higher court. From the time he left office in 1996, after the Congress Party's defeat, virtually until his death, Mr. Rao was fighting to clear his name.
        He was also a poet and wrote fiction. In 1998 he published ''The Insider,'' which melded autobiography and sometimes saucy fiction to tell the story of a village boy who rises to become prime minister. It reflects, along with an acute understanding of his party and its flaws, a preoccupation with how power -- ''maddening, intoxicating, distracting, exciting'' -- changes those who hold it.
        A widower, Mr. Rao is survived by three sons and five daughters.
        He told an interviewer in 1996 that he wanted to go down in history ''as a humble servant of the country.''
      