
        Arthur Lydiard of New Zealand, perhaps history's premier distance-running coach and one of the first to promote fitness through jogging, died Saturday in Texas. He was 87.
        The cause was apparently a heart attack, his family told Reuters. Lydiard had been in the United States for a month on a lecture tour and had been coaching runners in Houston before he was stricken at a hotel, the New Zealand Press Association said.
        Lydiard was a small, wiry bundle of energy and opinions, both of which he was quick to share. His message was that success in racing long and middle distances came from building stamina through heavy training mileage.
        He also insisted there was no excuse for not being fit. In lectures and clinics, he preached that a fitness program based on aerobic exercise could benefit anyone.
        He practiced what he preached. At 60, with long, slow runs, he ran more than 100 miles a week.
        His best-known New Zealand runners, all of whom came to prominence in the 1960's, were Peter Snell, Murray Halberg, Bill Baillie and John Davies. He coached Snell to world records in the mile and half-mile. From 1965 to 1972, he coached the Olympic or national teams or both for Mexico, Finland, Venezuela and Denmark.
        For years, he was a prophet without honor in New Zealand. At the 1960 Rome Olympics, where, within a half-hour, Snell won the 800 meters and Halberg the 5,000, he was given no credentials, not even a free ticket. His athletes had to leave the Olympic Village to talk to him.
        ''I'd meet them at the gate and go train with them,'' he recalled.
        In 1964, when seven of New Zealand's nine Olympic runners were his students, he finally received a Games credential. After those Olympics, he essentially stopped coaching individuals and started coaching coaches. He disclosed to them his training philosophy of aerobic conditioning: run far, but not fast. Track people call it L.S.D. -- long slow distance -- then back to the track for speed work before races.
        He told his runners to avoid training to the point of pain and exhaustion. But he also said that if they trained long distances and lost their breath, they would steadily increase the amount of oxygen their respiratory system and heart could process. The object, he said, was distance and stamina, not speed.
        ''To race well,'' he said, ''you must train slowly.''
        He said that went for the recreational runner, too.
        ''The fellow who can run only a few hundred yards before tiring, then has to walk 10 minutes, thinks he's not getting any real exercise and may decide to quit,'' he said. ''But even that helps his heart to work more efficiently. You can go too fast, but you can never go too slowly to develop cardiac efficiency.
        ''There are people walking around in a semi-dead state. The way I try to get it across is by embarrassing them. I tell them: 'Look, you expect your wife to be slim and beautiful. How do you think she feels when she's in bed watching you get undressed?'''
        Arthur Leslie Lydiard was born July 6, 1917, in Auckland, New Zealand. At 13, he started running cross-country. Later, when he worked in a factory that made women's shoes, he started racing.
        ''We never trained,'' he said. ''We just went out and raced on Saturdays.''
        He also played rugby for 13 years. After World War II, when he dropped rugby, he started jogging to stay in shape. He eventually trained 100 miles a week and won several New Zealand marathon championships, largely, he said, because no one else trained hard enough. His fastest marathon was 2 hours 39 minutes 5 seconds.
        He was the co-author, with Garth Gilmour, of several books on running, including ''Jogging With Lydiard'' and ''Running the Lydiard Way.''
        Lydiard, who was married three times, is survived by his wife, Joelyne, whom he married when he was 80 and when she was 32, and by four children from a previous marriage.
        Lydiard found great rewards in the accomplishments of ordinary runners he influenced. As Hal Higdon wrote in 1977 in Runner's World, ''One senses that he takes as much if not more pride from having coached a retired farmer with two previous heart attacks than he did from having multiple gold medalists.''
        Lydiard did not disagree.
        ''The farmer's wife told me after he died,'' he said, ''that I gave him the best 12 years of his life.''
      