
        Sir Angus Ogilvy, a prominent British businessman and financier closely tied to the royal family by friendship and by marriage to Princess Alexandra, Queen Elizabeth's popular first cousin, died Sunday at a hospital near his London home. He was 76.
        The British news media reported that he had died of cancer. His last public appearance was in February 2003, when he accompanied his wife on an official visit to Thailand.
        Sir Angus was a son of a Scottish nobleman, the 12th Earl of Airie, Ogilvy being the family name. He married Princess Alexandra at Westminster Abbey in 1963, an event of great pageantry.
        He was the first person to come into the royal family and decline a peerage of his own, despite considerable pressure. He was knighted in 1989 and was named a Privy Councilor in 1997.
        He was born Angus James Bruce Ogilvy. The Ogilvys trace their family back to King James VI of Scotland, who became King James I of England. (Princess Alexandra was a descendant of the same King James and was a 10th cousin, once removed, of her husband.)
        Sir Angus was educated at Eton. He then served in the army, was commissioned into the Scots Guard, and earned his degree at Oxford, studying philosophy, politics and economics. He went straight into investment banking with the Drayton Group. At 34, at the time of his marriage, he held 30 company directorships, which he eventually built to about 50.
        His reputation as an astute and hard-working businessman was tarnished in the 1970's when he became embroiled in Britain's so-called Lonrho affair.
        Mr. Ogilvy had to resign from the board of Lonrho, a British-own African mining and finance conglomerate led by Roland (Tiny) Rowland. When it collapsed in an international scandal, Mr. Ogilvy was accused of failing his responsibilities as a director in the affair, detailed in 1973 in an official report allocating blame all around.
        Mr. Ogilvy was absolved by the Director of Public Prosecutions but withdrew from all his business connections. Devoting himself to charitable causes, he reclaimed his good name and rebuilt a résumé of directorships and charitable activities.
        He and Princess Alexandra had a son, James Robert Bruce Ogilvy, and a daughter, Marina Victoria Alexandra. Once estranged from their parents, they had reconciled and, according to The Times of London, were with them at the time of Sir Angus's death.
      