
        Prince Bernhard, a bon vivant and outspoken member of an ancient German royal family who became husband of one queen of the Netherlands and father of another, died yesterday at a hospital in Utrecht near Amsterdam. He was 93.
        The Royal House of the Netherlands said that in November he was diagnosed with cancer, which spread to his stomach and lungs.
        For six decades, Prince Bernhard lived at the royal palace in Soestdijk with his wife, Queen Juliana. His daughter Beatrix became queen in 1980. Juliana died this March at the age of 94.
        Prince Bernhard earned global prominence by helping to establish the World Wildlife Fund in 1961 and serving as its president until 1977. He used his many contacts to set up the annual Bilderberg conferences, an annual gathering of top business and political leaders to discuss great issues facing the Western Alliance.
        He emblazoned his dashing personality on his nation with his first official visit to the Netherlands in 1936 with his fiancée, the crown princess. He arrived in a powerful car, racing along the dikes until he was stopped by a policeman for exceeding the speed limit. The Dutch had expected a royal entourage, maybe a whole train.
        The young German prince wore a white carnation in his buttonhole. It soon became a popular decoration and within a few years would become a symbol of resistance against Nazi Germany.
        Prince Bernhard led that resistance after first being suspected of having Nazi sympathies, which he resolutely denied, despite his brief service in a German SS brigade. When the Nazis tried to portray the marriage as an alliance, Queen Wilhelmina, Juliana's mother, declared, ''This is a marriage of my daughter to the man she loves. This is not the marriage of the Netherlands to Germany.''
        The prince drove fast cars, skied fearlessly and rode his horses hard, but business was at least an equal passion. Not only did his business activities make him one of the richest members of European royalty, but his apparent acceptance in 1976 of a bribe of more than $1 million from Lockheed for steering business to the aerospace company, sparked an international scandal.
        Bernhard was born on June 29, 1911, in Jena, Germany, into the princely family of Lippe, which was founded in the 12th century by the first Prince Bernhard. The modern prince was named Bernhard Leopold Friedrich Eberhard Julius Kurt Karl Gottfried Peter Lippe-Biesterfeld of Lippe-Biesterfeld.
        His childhood was spent in the waning days of the splendor of German nobility. After World War I, German nobility had little left beyond a ruined castle or two.
        Bernhard studied the legal aspects of international trade at universities in Lausanne, Switzerland, Munich and Berlin, earning his law degree in Berlin. He joined the staff of the German chemical giant, I.G. Farben and worked at its offices in Paris, Berlin and Amsterdam.
        He met his future wife at the 1936 Olympic Winter Games in Bavaria. They were married on Jan. 7, 1937, in a simple Calvinist ceremony. The prince made a simple speech in fluent Dutch promising to study the country's culture and become a good Dutchman.
        At first, his mother-in-law, and certain of her subjects were publicly critical of his fast driving and absences from church, but his dignified, effective handling of a variety of government jobs quickly won him favor. Queen Wilhelmina appreciated his industriousness.
        ''He wanted to earn his own living, and that was an idea of which I very much approved,'' she said in an interview with The New York Times in 1937. ''Princes must work nowadays.''
        In May 1940, Hitler invaded the Netherlands, and the prince joined the Dutch forces. He was with the last contingent to hold out in the province of Zeeland.
        He then headed the Dutch resistance from London where the Dutch government and Queen Wilhelmina resided in exile. His wife left for Canada with the couple's two daughters, Beatrix, who was born in 1938, and Irene, born in 1939. A third daughter, Margriet, was born in Canada in 1943, and a fourth royal daughter, Christina, followed in 1947.
        Bernhard is survived by all his daughters and more than 20 grandchildren and great-grandchildren, the Associated Press reported.
        During his last years, he freely gave his opinion about many topics, saying, among other things, that he had ''a completely clear conscience'' about the Lockheed affair. He had stepped down from all his business and government posts, as well as the presidency of the wildlife group, at the time of the scandal.
        For years, despite intermittent controversies, he claimed to have tried to keep his profile low.
        ''With gossipmongers so eager to seize upon every possible incident and rumor, it is important that a prince conduct himself with circumspection -- and develop a skin as tough as an elephant's,'' he wrote in Collier's magazine in 1953.
        And Bernhard knew something about elephants. In the mid-1950's, he advised that they should be shot at no more than 25 yards and rhinoceroses at no more than 30 to lessen chances that they will be wounded.
      