
        Sylvia Herscher, whose 50-year career in theater included stints as an agent, a general manager and a producer, died on Wednesday at her home in New York, her son David said. She was 91.
        When Ms. Herscher received a special Tony Award in 2000, she modestly credited her long career to forces beyond the control of someone like her, a would-be actress born to Eastern European immigrants of no great means. ''A confluence of everything coming together and a lot of luck,'' she told Barry Singer for a profile in The New York Times. ''That's all.''
        It was not luck but the quiet backstage efforts of Ms. Herscher that allowed everything to come together for some of Broadway's greatest musicals. As the longtime aide-de-camp of the composer and producer Jule Styne, she assisted in the fabled 1952 rebirth of ''Pal Joey,'' easing the tension between the composer, Richard Rodgers, and the book writer, John O'Hara. Decades later, she played matchmaker between the lyricist Ed Kleban and the director-choreographer Michael Bennett. The result: ''A Chorus Line.'' When Ms. Herscher became an agent, she was a favorite sounding board for Jerry Herman.
        ''She had a remarkable ability to put together the pieces that make great theater,'' Mr. Herman said in a telephone interview. ''She was at one time my publisher and at another my agent, but above all a supportive friend. There was no one in my life that I depended upon more than Sylvia for her instincts and her wisdom about what works onstage.''
        Born Sylvia Kossovsky in New York in 1913, Ms. Herscher effectively began her theatrical career when Alexander Cohen, a producing partner of her husband, Seymour Herscher, helped her obtain a job as Styne's secretary. She could not type but soon became his general manager.
        Ms. Herscher oversaw the shows ''Hazel Flagg'' (1953), ''Mr. Wonderful'' (1956), ''A Visit to a Small Planet'' (1957), ''Say, Darling'' (1958) and ''First Impressions'' (1959). She was also associate producer of the 1955 comedy ''Will Success Spoil Rock Hunter?''
        In 1960 Ms. Herscher became an agent at William Morris, working on shows like Sidney Michaels's ''Tchin-Tchin'' (1962) and ''Dylan'' (1964); ''Any Wednesday'' (1964) by Muriel Resnik; and Athol Fugard's ''Blood Knot'' (1964).
        In 1966, Ms. Herscher moved to the music publisher Edwin H. Morris. Music publishers remained a vital force in the Broadway economy at that time, providing financial support to both established and struggling composers. There she worked with Harold Arlen, Charles Strouse and Lee Adams and, most rewardingly, with Mr. Herman, who became a close friend. Among the scores published under her auspices were Mr. Herman's ''Mame'' (1966) and ''Mack and Mabel'' (1974), ''Applause'' (1970), ''Grease'' (1972), ''Shenandoah'' (1975) and ''A Chorus Line'' (1975).
        ''A Chorus Line'' was in effect her swan song at the company. Ms. Herscher moved over to head the theater department for another publisher, G. Schirmer. But the Broadway musical was by then in decline, and Ms. Herscher retired in 1982.
        Ms. Herscher's husband died in 1994. She is survived by two sons, David and Leonard; two daughters, Miriam and Elaine; and two grandchildren.
      