
        Darrell Abbott, the beefy guitarist with the lightning-bolt-shaped guitar whose screaming solos for the band Pantera made him a heavy-metal hero known as Dimebag Darrell, was killed Wednesday night at a concert in Columbus, Ohio, by a rampaging gunman.
        Mr. Abbott, who was 38 and performing with his new band, Damageplan, at Alrosa Villa, was killed with three others by a gunman identified as Nathan M. Gale. A police officer killed the gunman. Damageplan had done reasonably well with its first album, ''New Found Power,'' selling about 160,000 copies since it came out in February. Mr. Abbott made his reputation with the popular and Grammy-nominated Pantera, while supplying the overdriven grooves and screaming-eagle solos.
        The earliest version of Pantera began in 1981, with Mr. Abbott, then known as Diamond Darrell, and his brother Vincent Abbott, known as Vinnie Paul, on bass. The brothers formed a record label, Metal Magic, to release their music, redolent of the pop-oriented, Sunset Strip-metal style of bands like Motley Crue.
        Philip Anselmo joined the group as a singer in 1986, and by 1990 the band had completely changed course, winnowing itself down to a streamlined, hard-core punk sound that the music press would call ''power metal,'' and changing its subject matter to rage, ego and depression. Consequently, Mr. Abbott downgraded his glam-rock nickname and appearance; his onstage uniform became cut-off shirts and shorts.
        After its first album with the new sound, ''Cowboys From Hell,'' Pantera lasted for 13 more years, rising to popularity with ''Vulgar Display of Power'' (1992) and entering the Billboard chart at No. 1 with its 1994 album, ''Far Beyond Driven,'' which sold 1.4 million copies in the United States. Pantera would sell 7 million albums in its own country.
        The band had become shaky in the fall of 2001, after a tour for its final studio album, ''Reinventing the Steel.'' Eventually Mr. Anselmo put his energies into two other bands, Down and Superjoint Ritual.
        Born and reared in Dallas, Mr. Abbott was the son of the country songwriter Jerry Abbott, who ran his own recording studio. Although he did not play country music, Darrell Abbott and his brother eventually recorded songs for a country-tinged album, ''Rebel Meets Rebel,'' with David Allan Coe, the country singer and songwriter. Mr. Abbott's early guitar influences included Eddie Van Halen, Randy Rhoads, and Ace Frehley of Kiss; he eventually got a tattoo of Mr. Frehley on his chest. (Mr. Abbott had the signature tattooed as well.)
        In the late 1980's he auditioned for a job with the band Megadeth, led by another metal-guitar hero, Dave Mustaine, but was turned down when he insisted that he and his brother be hired together.
        Mr. Abbott became famous for short, tight, pyrotechnic solos, but his fat chordal riffs were perhaps even more distinctive, swinging unusually hard for metal; riffs in songs like ''I'm Broken'' connected him to the grooves of Southern blues. Perhaps at the instigation of Mr. Anselmo, who came to abominate any baroque tendency in metal, he played shorter solos as they became outmoded in the genre. But he never abandoned them, and Pantera stayed a popular band through the 90's, even when the genre had been decimated by the success of Nirvana and the indie-rock revolution.
        Mr. Abbott lived in Arlington, Texas, a Dallas suburb, in a large house where he had converted a garage to a recording studio; he recorded several of Pantera's later albums and most of the Damageplan record there. With his brother, he owned the Clubhouse, a Dallas men's club.
        Mr. Abbott's survivors include his father and brother.
        Correction:  December 11, 2004, Saturday  An obituary yesterday about Darrell Abbott, a rock musician who was killed on Wednesday in a nightclub shooting in Columbus, Ohio, misidentified the instrument played in the victim's band by his brother, Vincent. It is the drums, not the bass.
      