
        Solomon J. Sharfman, an Orthodox rabbi who helped make southern Brooklyn an international center of Orthodox Jewish life, died on Dec. 5 at his home in Jerusalem. He was 89 and had formerly lived in Flatbush, Brooklyn.
        He died in his sleep, his daughter Riki Koenigsberg said.
        From 1938 until his retirement in 1984, Rabbi Sharfman was the spiritual leader of Young Israel of Flatbush, a modern Orthodox congregation. In the late 1950's, he served as president of the Rabbinical Council of America, which represents Orthodox rabbis. From 1969 to 1971, he was president of the Synagogue Council of America, an umbrella organization representing the three major branches of Judaism.
        When Rabbi Sharfman started his career, there were far fewer observant Jews in the Flatbush and Midwood sections of Brooklyn than there are today. American Jews were under great pressure to assimilate, particularly in the years after World War II, and many rabbis, fearful of losing their own congregants, discouraged new synagogues from opening nearby. Rabbi Sharfman welcomed the competition, encouraging the opening of both modern Orthodox and Hasidic synagogues in the neighborhood, his daughter said.
        In the 1950's, he was a vocal advocate for the relaxation of New York City's blue laws, which forbade many kinds of commerce on Sundays but not on Saturdays. The laws were repealed in the 1970's. Solomon Joseph Sharfman was born on Nov. 1, 1915, in Treblinka, Poland; his family immigrated to the United States five years later. His father, Rabbi Label Sharfman, worked as a shochet, or ritual slaughterer, and the Sharfmans settled in Newark, where there were many slaughterhouses. Solomon Sharfman earned a bachelor's degree from City College in New York and a degree from Brooklyn Law School before being ordained by what is now the Rabbinical Seminary of America.
        In addition to his daughter Riki, of Kew Gardens Hills, Queens, Rabbi Sharfman is survived by his wife, the former Libby Ossip; his daughters Lea Hain of Jerusalem, Debbi Diament of Edison, N.J., and Rochelle Kohn of Manhattan; a son, Rabbi Label Sharfman of Jerusalem; and many grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
      