
        Richard J. Barnet, a Kennedy administration official who was a founder of the Institute for Policy Studies, one of the first research organizations in the country to address public policy from a left-wing vantage point, died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 75.
        The cause was normal pressure hydrocephalus, a brain disorder, his daughter Julie Barnet said.
        Mr. Barnet and Marcus Raskin founded the institute, based in Washington, in 1963. Advocating social action as well as scholarship, the organization has been involved in issues including civil rights, the Vietnam War, national security and, most recently, fair trade and environmental justice campaigns.
        Mr. Barnet was a co-director of the institute for many years, and until his death he also served as a distinguished fellow there. He was the author or co-author of more than a dozen books, and a contributor to Harper's Magazine, The Nation and the Op-Ed page of The New York Times.
        Trained as a lawyer, Mr. Barnet served in the State Department in 1961, and, from 1961 to 1962, in the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency. He and Mr. Raskin founded the institute to promote social change more directly.
        ''The major problems of the time, in my view and his view, were moral problems,'' Mr. Raskin said in a telephone interview yesterday. ''But in the government, it was assumed they were administrative and managerial.''
        Richard Jackson Barnet was born in Boston on May 7, 1929, and raised nearby in Brookline. He graduated from Harvard in 1951 and from Harvard Law School three years later. As a fellow at Harvard's Russian Research Center, he produced a study of the disarmament negotiations between the United States and the Soviet Union that became his first book, ''Who Wants Disarmament?'' (1960).
        His other books include ''Roots of War'' (1972); ''Global Reach: The Power of the Multinational Corporations'' (1974, with Ronald E. Müller); and, with his wife, Ann B. Barnet, a pediatric neurologist, ''Youngest Minds: Parenting and Genes in the Development of Intellect and Emotion'' (1998).
        Besides his daughter Julie, of Mount Rainier, Md., and his wife, the former Ann Birnbaum, whom he married in 1953, he is survived by two brothers, Thomas, of Short Hills, N.J., and Carl, of St. Augustine, Fla.; another daughter, Beth Barnet of Baltimore; a son, Michael, of Silver Spring, Md.; and a foster son, Arthurnell Banks of Washington.
      