
        Carl Levine, a former top home furnishings executive at Bloomingdale's whose exclusive imports and elegant model rooms played a large part in building the retailer's image as the hippest store in Manhattan in the 1960's and 70's, died on Friday in his Fifth Avenue apartment. He was 75.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        It was Mr. Levine who showed Queen Elizabeth around the model rooms he created for Bloomingdale's during the Bicentennial celebrations in 1976, evidence that the store was a must-stop even for royal tourists.
        The queen's visit was notable in several respects: it was the first visit to the store by a reigning monarch, and was probably the first (and possibly the last time) that part of Lexington Avenue, which is one-way downtown, was switched briefly to run uptown, to accommodate the queen, who leaves her limousine only from the right side.
        Mr. Levine was born, coincidentally, in Bloomingdale, N.J., and was a member of the third generation of his family in the home furnishings business. He joined Bloomingdale's in 1955 as a trainee and graduated to assistant mattress buyer. In 1979, he was promoted to senior vice president.
        In the 60's and 70's, Mr. Levine led the store's development of museum reproductions made in small factories in Italy, France and Spain. He mixed them with modern Scandinavian shag rugs and sleek light-colored banquettes and lounge chairs.
        ''Casa Bella,'' a show of Italiana staged in 1960 with Barbara D'Arcy, another Bloomingdale's executive, was the beginning of this wave of imports.
        ''Carl was the key individual in building that home furnishing business,'' his old boss, Marvin Traub, said yesterday. ''At the Villa Pisani, he bribed -- let's say persuaded -- the guard to let him take the antique furniture out into the sunlight to photograph it, and of course, to copy it.''
        Since 1992, he had run a consulting firm, often working with Mr. Traub, the former chairman of the store, bringing furniture designers from all over the world to sell their work in the United States.
        For the last 24 years, Mr. Levine shared homes in New York City and Easthampton, N.Y., with his partner, David Fink, a lawyer who practiced in both places. They traveled widely, to obscure villages in Vietnam, Cambodia, Indonesia and Africa.
        ''Wherever we went, Carl seemed to find new business opportunities, first for Bloomingdale's and then for his own business,'' Mr. Fink said yesterday. ''When we were on the Amalfi coast in the mid-1980's, we were at a restaurant with dishes made by a small local potter, called Vietri. Carl liked the dishes so much, he asked them where they came from. We went back a year ago and that small pottery now has a large factory. Until Carl came to dinner that night, they didn't ship anywhere more than 10 miles away.''
        Besides Mr. Fink, Mr. Levine is survived by his daughters, Caren Stanley of Wellesley Hills, Mass., and Deborah Levine of Spring Valley, N.Y.; his brother, Mark Levin of Los Angeles; and two grandchildren.
        A man who felt at ease in a dinner jacket, Mr. Levine later escorted another Elizabeth -- Elizabeth Taylor -- around some model rooms at a black-tie branch-opening reception in 1981. Mr. Levine told Ms. Taylor that he had wanted to design a model room for her ever since he saw her in the 1944 movie ''National Velvet.''
        ''Honey, if you've been waiting that long,'' Ms. Taylor said, ''this room must be full of antiques.''
        Correction:  January 13, 2005, Thursday  An obituary on Dec. 1 about Carl Levine, a former top executive at Bloomingdale's, referred imprecisely to his responsibilities for the model rooms that helped build the store's image as a trend-setter in the 1960's and 70's. Although he was a senior vice president and the merchandise manager for furniture, it was Barbara D'Arcy -- first as fashion coordinator for furniture and designer of model rooms and later as senior vice president and director of display and store design for all Bloomingdale's stores -- who actually designed the rooms. Ms. D'Arcy, who had been traveling, wrote to The Times last week about the omission.
      