
        Johnny Oates, who managed the Texas Rangers to three American League division titles in the 1990's, the only postseason appearances in the franchise's history, died yesterday at a hospital in Richmond. He was 58. His death was announced by John Blake, a former spokesman for the Rangers, The Associated Press said. Oates had been treated for brain cancer since November 2001.
        In a baseball career that spanned more than three decades, Oates was a catcher, manager and coach, and he was co-manager of the year in the American League in 1996.
        Catching in the major leagues for 11 seasons, Oates was seldom a regular but was valued for his defensive skills and his ability to handle pitchers. He made his debut with the Baltimore Orioles in 1970 and also caught for the Atlanta Braves, the Philadelphia Phillies and the Los Angeles Dodgers before concluding his playing career with the Yankees in 1980 and 1981.
        He appeared in the 1977 and 1978 World Series with the Dodgers and had a career batting average of .250.
        After his playing career ended, Oates managed in the Yankees' and Orioles' farm systems and served as a coach with the Chicago Cubs and the Orioles before succeeding Frank Robinson as the Baltimore manager in May 1991.
        His Orioles teams had winning records in 1992 and 1993, and his club was in second place in the American League East, behind the Yankees, in August 1994 when the players' strike ended the season. He was fired nonetheless by Peter Angelos, in September, then hired as the Rangers' manager the following month.
        Oates took the Rangers to American League West titles in 1996, 1998 and 1999. Those are the only times the franchise has reached the playoffs since moving to the Dallas-Fort Worth area in 1972, having formerly been the second incarnation of the Washington Senators. The Rangers plan to retire his jersey, No. 26, next season.
        Oates shared American League manager of the year honors in 1996 with Joe Torre of the Yankees, who defeated the Rangers the three times they reached a division playoff series.
        Oates resigned as the Rangers' manager in May 2001 when the team got off to an 11-17 start despite the acquisition of shortstop Alex Rodriguez in a $252 million deal.
        Before becoming a manager, Oates, a graduate of Virginia Tech, was a thoughtful player. As the Yankees' Tommy John told Dave Anderson of The New York Times in 1981 while preparing to pitch against Toronto: ''We'll go over the Blue Jay hitters. Johnny will want to know what they've done to me in the past, what I think their strengths and weaknesses are. Then he'll tell me how he wants me to pitch to them. I've never had a catcher who spends that much time with me before a game.''
        Oates, a native of Sylva, N.C., is survived by his wife, Gloria, and three children.
        Oates once reflected on the pressures he placed on himself during his managerial career.
        ''Where I used to get pressure from, when I first became a manager, was trying to please everybody,'' he told The Fort-Worth Star-Telegram in May 2000. ''I had to learn the press was not my enemy. That's where my stress came from. Not from the game, but from trying to win. When it comes time for the game to start, I love that part.
        ''The biggest obstacle is the self,'' he said, ''because I am a perfectionist. I don't expect to win every ball game, but I expect things to be done right.''
      