
        Nathan Most, who in 1993 created the exchange-traded fund, died Dec. 3 at his home in San Mateo, Calif. He was 90.
        The cause was heart failure, said his son Stephen.
        Like mutual funds, exchange-traded funds represent a pool of investments in which people may buy shares. But exchange-traded funds, which Mr. Most created while head of product development at the American Stock Exchange, can also be traded much like stocks.
        Mutual fund prices do not change over the course of a trading day, but exchange-traded funds can be bought and sold constantly. They can also be bought with borrowed money and can be sold short so that the seller benefits from falling share prices, maneuvers that are impossible with traditional mutual funds.
        Lee Kranefuss, chief executive of iShares, the exchange-traded funds division of Barclays Global Investments, said that based on Mr. Most's work, ''a whole new category of financial products has grown into well over 100 funds and almost $200 billion in assets.''
        Investments in exchange-traded funds are still dwarfed by the estimated $7 trillion in mutual funds over all. Much of the growth in exchange-traded funds has occurred in the last four years, however, and mutual fund stalwarts like Fidelity and Vanguard have begun offering them.
        Mr. Most was 73 when he conceived of exchange-traded funds for the American exchange. For decades, he had managed investments and trading in commodities like safflower seed and coconut oil.
        After six years of design work on the systems that would allow exchange-traded funds to work, and after wrangling with regulators to approve the funds, the American Stock Exchange started the Standard & Poor's Depository Receipt, known as the Spider, in 1993. It is now the country's largest exchange-traded fund, with $54.3 billion in assets.
        Mr. Most's invention sold poorly until Barclays Global Investors, with Mr. Most's help, introduced iShares, its suite of exchange-traded funds.
        Mr. Most was born March 22, 1914, in Los Angeles and received a bachelor's degree from the University of California, Los Angeles, where he also did graduate work. He then conducted acoustical research and held a variety of jobs in commodities.
        He was an executive vice president of Pacific Vegetable Oil from 1965 to 1970; an executive vice president of the American Import Company from 1970 to 1974; president of the Pacific Commodities Exchange from 1974 to 1976; and technical assistant to the chairman of the Commodities Futures Trading Commission in 1976. He joined the American Stock Exchange in 1977.
        Mr. Most's first marriage, to May Rose Lazarus, ended in divorce. In addition to his son, Stephen, of Berkeley, Calif., he is survived by his wife, Evelyn; two other sons, John, of Kona, Hawaii, and Robert, of Menlo Park, Calif.; a daughter, Barbara Weissman, of Atlanta; a sister, Anabelle Markoff, of Davis, Calif.; and nine grandchildren.
      