
        John De Pol, whose familiar woodcut images were long a considerable presence in American art and illustration, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Teaneck, N.J. He was 91 and lived in Cliffside Park, N.J.
        His death was announced by the University of Delaware Library, where a retrospective of his work that opened in August was scheduled to close yesterday. Mr. De Pol started drawing as an art student in the 1930's and continued working until shortly before his death. His work was featured in illustrated books and in books about his work, as well as in numerous exhibitions and one-man shows. Examples can be found in museums and galleries across the country and overseas. He carved thousands of images, for commercial graphic designs and for private presses and art printers. His woodcuts were noted both for their technical excellence and for their artistry.
        Although he was best known for woodcuts, his prodigious output included etchings (aquatint and dry point), lithographic works, dry-brush drawings, watercolors and oil paintings.
        John De Pol was born in Greenwich Village and returned there throughout his life to capture the grit of its streets and alleys. His passion for old New York lent character to the buildings he conjured in his chiaroscuro images.
        As a young man he worked as a statistics clerk and securities runner on Wall Street and studied lithography in night classes at the Art Students League. Serving in the Army Air Force in World War II and based in Northern Ireland, he managed to continue those studies at the College of Art in Belfast, and Ireland became a favorite subject.
        After the war he worked for commercial printing firms and on freelance commissions, illustrating private-press booklets and limited-edition books as well as making individual prints. He was associated with publishers including John Anderson, Arthur Rushmore and John Fass, and for years worked in the financial printing industry, designing annual reports and other materials for companies including United States Banknote Corporation and Pandick Press.
        In the 1980's he taught wood engraving at the South Street Seaport Museum in Manhattan, at Fairleigh Dickinson University in New Jersey and at the University of Nebraska.
        Mr. De Pol is survived by his wife of 58 years, Thelma Roth De Pol, and a daughter, Patricia De Pol, also of Cliffside Park.
      