
        Dr. John S. Laughlin, a medical physicist and educator who was an early leader in the use of radiation to diagnose and treat cancers, died on Dec. 11 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan, where he headed the department of medical physics for four decades. He was 86.
        The cause was leukemia, said a daughter, Dr. Catherine Laughlin.
        In 1952, shortly after arriving as a department head at Memorial Hospital, a forerunner of Sloan-Kettering, Dr. Laughlin helped acquire the institution's first betatron machine, a particle accelerator that had been developed for experiments in atom-smashing in nuclear physics. In its medical application, the betatron was used at Memorial and elsewhere to point a stream of high-energy electrons at cancerous tumors to shrink or destroy them.
        Also in the 1950's, Dr. Laughlin conducted research into ways that radiation could be used to make better medical diagnoses. With fellow scientists, he brought a cyclotron machine to the Sloan-Kettering Institute, the research arm of the center, and used it to produce radioactive isotopes that could be injected and then traced through the bloodstream.
        Dr. Laughlin's later research addressed the dangers of radiation and tried to quantify exposure for medical workers, scientists and the public, in a field known as dosimetry.
        Dr. C. Clifton Ling, who succeeded Dr. Laughlin as chairman of the department of medical physics, said that his predecessor ''supported advances in new technology and pioneered the used of the betatron, paving the way for modern radiation therapy.''
        John Seth Laughlin was born in Canton, Mo. He received his undergraduate degree from Willamette University and a master's from Haverford College before earning his doctorate from the University of Illinois in 1947.
        He was an associate professor of radiology at the University of Illinois before joining Memorial Sloan-Kettering, where he remained for the rest of his career. Dr. Laughlin was also a former chief of biophysics and vice president of the Sloan-Kettering Institute and a professor of radiology at Cornell Medical College. He retired in 1989.
        Dr. Laughlin, a resident of Scarsdale, N.Y., served as president of the American Association of Physicists in Medicine, the Radiation Research Society, Health Physics Society and the International Organization of Medical Physics. He also was editor in chief of Medical Physics.
        In addition to his daugher Catherine, of Rockville, Md., Dr. Laughlin is survived by his wife, Eunice C. Laughlin. His first wife, Barbara Jean Kester, died in 1974.
        He is also survived by two other daughters from his first marriage, Frances Tucker of Portland, Ore., and Janet Laughlin of Dallas; and five grandchildren.
      