
        Son Seals, a Chicago bluesman whose slash-and-burn guitar solos and raspy voice carried a fierce blues spirit into a new generation, died on Monday in Chicago. He was 62.
        The cause was complications from diabetes, said a spokeswoman for Alligator Records, his label from the 1970's into the 1990's.
        With songs about woman trouble and hard times, Mr. Seals played his blues spiked with a wounded fury. He didn't attempt modernization or crossover beyond an occasional funk beat; he often reached back to jump-blues and soul by adding a horn section to his band. But what he played was straightforward and savagely direct. The license plate on his car read, ''BAD AXE.''
        Frank Seals was born in Osceola, Ark., near Memphis, on Aug. 14, 1942. He was nicknamed Son as his father, Jim Seals, had been; his father became Ol' Son. Jim Seals owned an Osceola juke joint, the Dipsy Doodle, and the Seals family lived in back. Son Seals grew up listening to working bluesmen through the 1940's and 1950's. By his early teens, he was joining them, first on drums and later on guitar.
        He formed his first band, the Upsetters, in 1959, and started working regularly around Arkansas, Tennessee and Mississippi. He also worked in bands led by Earl Hooker, Robert Nighthawk and the guitarist who became his mentor, Albert King.
        Mr. Seals began visiting Chicago in the 1960's, and in 1971 he settled there, began sitting in with bluesmen who included Junior Wells and Hound Dog Taylor, and started playing regular weekend shows at the Expressway Lounge. Bruce Iglauer, a blues fan who had recently started Alligator Records, heard him and released his first album, ''The Son Seals Blues Band,'' in 1973.
        For the next decades, Mr. Seals toured nationally and then internationally at clubs, concerts and festivals. He was nominated for a Grammy Award as one of the performers on the 1981 live album ''Blues Deluxe,'' and he received W.C. Handy Blues Awards in 1985, 1987 and 2001. He also performed at the Clinton White House.
        Mr. Seals recorded eight albums for Alligator and then made two albums for Telarc. The jam band Phish regularly played his song ''Funky Bitch,'' and Mr. Seals made guest appearances with them. Trey Anastasio, Phish's guitarist, sat in on a remake of ''Funky Bitch'' for Mr. Seals's 2000 album, ''Lettin' Go'' (Telarc). In 2002, Alligator released a compilation, ''Deluxe Edition.''
        In 1997, Mr. Seals was shot in the jaw by his wife, whom he later divorced, and in 1999, complications from diabetes led to the amputation of part of his left leg. But he continued to perform until two months ago. He is survived by a sister, Katherine Sims of Chicago, and by 14 children.
        ''We try and make everybody feel good,'' he once told an interviewer for the African American Music Collection at the University of Michigan. ''I don't want you to come in with your handkerchief in your hand and leave with your handkerchief in your hand, I want you to leave and feel good.''
      