
        Dr. Herbert C. Brown, a chemist who won a Nobel Prize for developing a valuable versatile addition to the tool kit for synthesizing drugs and other chemicals, died Sunday at a hospital in Lafayette, Ind. He was 92.
        The cause was a heart attack, said officials at Purdue University, where Dr. Brown taught from 1947 until his retirement in 1978.
        Herbert Charles Brown was born in London in 1912. His father moved the family to Chicago two years later. His childhood and early adulthood swung between academic achievement and hardship in the economic turmoil of the 1920's and 1930's. In school, he skipped several grades, then dropped out of high school for three years after his father died to tend the hardware store that his father had opened.
        Working odd jobs after graduation, Dr. Brown decided to attend a junior college, planning to become an electrical engineer. After one semester, the college closed. He then attended night school, supporting himself as a shoe salesman. He finally graduated from another junior college and attended the University of Chicago, where he received his bachelor's degree in 1936.
        For his graduation, his future wife gave him a book, ''The Hydrides of Boron and Silicon,'' which spurred an enduring curiosity about the element boron.
        Two years later, he received his doctorate, also from Chicago.
        After four years teaching at Wayne University in Detroit, now Wayne State, Dr. Brown joined Purdue as a professor.
        Dr. Brown's boron research initially focused on a class of inorganic compounds known as boron hydrides. Later, he discovered that boron compounds could also be enlisted in synthesizing carbon-containing molecules.
        ''He was really the pioneer of putting boron to work in organic reactions,'' said Dr. Dale W. Margerum, a colleague of Dr. Brown's at Purdue. ''That really led to a whole generation of people working in that area.''
        The compounds that Dr. Brown developed, known as organoboranes, have provided a low-cost way of making many molecules used in drugs and agricultural chemicals, among other uses.
        Dr. Brown liked to point out that the three primary elements involved in the reactions -- hydrogen, carbon and boron -- were the initials of his name.
        He shared the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1979 for the work. Even after retiring and winning the Nobel, Dr. Brown continued new research as a professor emeritus until his death, Dr. Margerum said.
        He was a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        Dr. Brown is survived by his wife, Sarah; a son, Charles, of San Jose, Calif.; and two granddaughters.
      