
        Rod Kanehl, a career minor leaguer who became a fan favorite at the Polo Grounds with the beloved but bumbling original Mets of 1962, died Dec. 14 at a hospital in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 70.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his son-in-law, Jay Gussin.
        Losing 120 games in their inaugural season, Casey Stengel's Mets had the hustling, play-me-anywhere Kanehl, the hapless first baseman Marvelous Marv Thronberry, the little catcher Choo Choo Coleman and two pitchers named Bob Miller who combined to win three games.
        Kanehl had spent eight seasons in the minors, mostly with the Yankees' organization, before joining the Mets. While at a Yankee instructional camp, he endeared himself to Stengel, then the Yankee manager, by leaping a fence in futile pursuit of a drive.
        Kanehl played every position except pitcher and catcher on the '62 Mets, and he was Stengel's favorite player on that crew. Stengel insisted on keeping Kanehl despite the objections of the Mets' general manager, George Weiss, who was presumably familiar with Kanehl from his years building the Yankees' dynasty.
        As told by Leonard Shecter in ''Once Upon the Polo Grounds,'' Stengel had related the following debate concerning Kanehl: ''Weiss says, 'I ain't seen him do anything in the field.' So I said, 'You're full of baloney, he can run the bases.'''
        That Kanehl did on April 28, 1962, when he slid home with the winning run against the Philadelphia Phillies, scoring from second base on a wild pitch as the Mets won at home for the first time ever after seven defeats. On July 6, Kanehl hit the first grand slam in Mets' history, against the St. Louis Cardinals at the Polo Grounds.
        Kanehl first won his way into the hearts of Mets' fans during spring training of 1962. Pinch-hitting in a game televised to New York from St. Petersburg, Fla., he delivered a ninth-inning, two-run double off the Los Angeles Dodger ace Sandy Koufax on a checked swing, having been fooled by a curveball. The hit enabled the Mets to tie the score in a game they eventually won.
        ''Do you know that the very first banner the fans hung up in the Polo Grounds had my name on it?'' Kanehl told Sports Illustrated in 1966. ''We hadn't played a game there yet, but there it was. It said: 'We love the Mets.' And under that, 'Rod Kanehl.'''
        Kanehl played in 133 games for the original Mets. He hit .248 with four home runs and eight stolen bases, but made 32 errors in 117 games in the field, mostly at second base and third base.
        Kanehl remained with the Mets through the 1964 season, then returned to the minors. He later worked in construction, sold insurance and owned a restaurant.
        He is survived by his wife, Blanche; his daughter, Leslie Gussin of Valencia, Calif.; and his sons Phillip Kanehl of Los Angeles and David Ti of Forestville, Calif., from his marriage to his first wife, Shirley, which ended in divorce; his sisters, Raejean Palmerton and Shirley Hackett, both of Springfield, Mo.; and two grandchildren.
        When Stengel died in 1975, Kanehl was the only former Mets player at the funeral in Glendale, Calif.
        But Kanehl was upset over never gaining a chance to remain in baseball after his playing days.
        As he told Sports Illustrated: ''I thought there would always be room for a guy who knows the game and has some intelligence. I know the game from underneath. I know what goes on in the mind of a mediocre ballplayer. I know what it's like to be a bad hitter. I know what it's like to have to battle every time you go up to the plate.''
      