
        Morris Gold, who helped make his mother's horseradish a household name, died on Monday in Oceanside, N.Y. He was 85 and lived in Woodmere, N.Y.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son Marc. He also had Alzheimer's disease.
        Mr. Gold was the oldest of three brothers who made Gold's Horseradish a national brand in the 1970's after taking over the business two decades earlier from their parents, Polish immigrants who began packaging and peddling a few dozen jars from their apartment in Brooklyn as a desperate measure to make money in the Depression.
        The Gold Pure Food Products Company, based in Hempstead, N.Y., now sells 17 million jars of its horseradish a year, mostly the familiar 6-ounce bottles of red, white or extra hot. Gold's has become the traditional brand accompanying dishes from roast beef to gefilte fish, and is an ingredient in a pungent bloody mary.
        During Passover, it is a staple of Seder plates, as the bitter herb symbolizing the suffering of the Jews enslaved in Egypt before the Exodus.
        With that custom in mind, Mr. Gold in the 1970's created a slogan that the company used on and off for decades: ''We do the crying for you.'' The current advertising uses a catchy jingle, ''If it's gotta taste great, it's gotta have Gold's,'' punctuated by a silvery bell. The spokesman is not Mr. Gold, but an actor.
        Mr. Gold immersed himself in the business, visiting farms and fixing broken machinery in the company's factory in Brooklyn. He almost always had a small bottle of Gold's with him, splashing it on his food or even taking a swig as a pick-me-up.
        When Mr. Gold was 13, his mother, Tillie, guessed that people would pay to avoid the tear-inducing task of grating the horseradish. Mr. Gold's mother would prepare her recipe while Mr. Gold and his brothers would spoon it into bottles. His father, Hyman, went from store to store to sell the horseradish.
        In the late 1970's, two of Mr. Gold's sons, Marc and Steven, and two nephews, Neil and Howard, began running the company, which has since expanded to offer other condiments and soups.
        Mr. Gold was born April 20, 1919, in Manhattan and attended Brooklyn College before joining the Air Force and becoming a staff sergeant. He rejoined the family business after returning from World War II.
        He is survived by his wife of 58 years, Norma; three sons, Marc, of Staten Island; Steven, of Hewlett, N.Y., and Jason, of Vienna, Va.; a brother, Herbert, of Melville, N.Y.; and six grandchildren.
      