
        Dr. Rollin D. Hotchkiss, a biochemist who, while studying bacteria at Rockefeller University in the 1940's, conducted early research into the way genes are passed between generations, died on Dec. 12 at his home in Lenox, Mass. He was 93.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said his wife, Dr. Magda Gabor-Hotchkiss, who worked as his laboratory research associate in Manhattan, where the couple lived until moving to Lenox in 1982.
        Dr. Hotchkiss, who was part of a larger effort to explain the biochemical basis of heredity, used bacteria to help prove that hereditary material within the organisms was passed through nucleic acids, or DNA, and not through proteins, as some scientists had previously posited.
        Dr. Hotchkiss's work began in the 1940's, building on research already being carried out by three fellow scientists at Rockefeller, Oswald Avery, Colin MacLeod and Maclyn McCarty. The studies were concentrated on pneumococcus, the bacterium that causes pneumonia, and ultimately led to the concept of genetic transformation, the process by which a given genome may be changed by the addition of another organism's DNA.
        Dr. Norton D. Zinder, a molecular biologist at Rockefeller who worked with Dr. Hotchkiss on DNA in the 1950's, said that ''the idea of no protein in DNA was a matter of some contention, even here.''
        ''But Hotchkiss nicely showed by chemical analysis that it was so,'' Dr. Zinder said.
        In 1965, reflecting on the darker implications of genetic research, Dr. Hotchkiss told The New York Times: ''Many of us feel instinctive revulsion at the hazards of meddling with the finely balanced and far-reaching systems that make an individual what he is. Yet I believe it will surely be done or attempted.''
        He concluded, ''The pathway will be built from a combination of altruism, private profit and ignorance.''
        In earlier work with Rene J. Dubos, Dr. Hotchkiss helped to develop two antibiotics, gramicidin and tyrocidine.
        Rollin Douglas Hotchkiss was born in South Britain, Conn. He received his undergraduate and doctoral degrees from Yale, and joined Rockefeller as a fellow in 1935. He remained there for four decades, retiring as a professor emeritus in 1982.
        He then became a research professor of biology at the Albany campus of the State University of New York before leaving active research in 1986.
        Dr. Hotchkiss was president of the Genetics Society of America in 1971 and 1972. He was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1961.
        In addition to his wife of 37 years, he is survived by two children from a previous marriage, Cynthia H. Lydgate of Camden, Me., and Paul A., of Sharon, Conn.; three grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      