
        Oscar M. Ruebhausen, a longtime New York lawyer, former Bar Association president and adviser to Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, died on Tuesday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 92.
        The death was reported by Bevis Longstreth, a retired partner at Debevoise & Plimpton, where Mr. Ruebhausen was presiding partner from 1972 to 1981.
        Mr. Ruebhausen (pronounced REEB-howzen) was an intimate but unpaid adviser to Rockefeller for many years, although he refused the governor's offers to serve in his administration or his family foundations.
        The governor's former counsel and chief of staff, Robert R. Douglass, said that Mr. Ruebhausen ''was never really in the limelight, but he was a major influence on the governor,'' whom he had known since at least 1950, when Rockefeller asked him to be counsel of a panel reviewing Washington's Latin American policies, partly because as a Democrat, he would broaden the group's outlook.
        Mr. Ruebhausen was born in Manhattan on Aug. 28, 1912, and grew up in Vermont. He graduated summa cum laude from Dartmouth College and then from Yale Law School, where he was a member of The Law Review.
        In 1937, he joined what was then Debevoise, Stevenson, Plimpton & Page, a six-year-old firm with 11 partners. Today, Debevoise & Plimpton has 450 lawyers in New York and elsewhere.
        Exempt from the draft for health reasons, Mr. Ruebhausen went to Washington during World War II to work as an attorney in the Lend-Lease Administration, which provided critical supplies to wartime allies. In 1944, he became general counsel for the Office of Scientific Research and Development, directed by Dr. Vannevar Bush. The office directed projects from the atomic bomb to antimalaria drugs.
        In November 1944, President Franklin D. Roosevelt wrote to Dr. Bush seeking advice on how science could be as useful to the nation in peacetime as in war. Mr. Ruebhausen drafted Dr. Bush's reply, which led to the establishment of the National Science Foundation in 1950.
        After the war, he returned to his law firm, where he worked in fields ranging from foreign policy issues to real estate development.
        From 1980 to 1982, Mr. Ruebhasuen was president of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York.
        He was chairman of the boards of the Russell Sage Foundation and the Greenwall Foundation, which make major grants in fields like social science. In the 1950's and 60's he was chairman of the board of Bennington College, where he made news by renouncing federal loans because students had to sign loyalty oaths to get them.
        His wife, the former Zelia K. Peet, died in 1990 after 48 years of marriage. There are no immediate survivors.
        Correction:  December 18, 2004, Saturday  An obituary on Sunday about Oscar M. Ruebhausen, former presiding partner at the law firm of Debevoise & Plimpton, misstated its current size. The firm says it has more than 600 lawyers, not 450. The obituary also misidentified the law publication of which Mr. Ruebhausen was a member as a student. It was The Yale Law Journal, not The Law Review.
      