
        Augustine R. Marusi, who steered Borden beyond milk and ice cream and into chemicals, an approach that ended the decline of the company's profits in the 1970's, died on Dec. 24 at his home in Lake Wales, Fla. He was 91.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        In his 11 years as chairman and chief executive of Borden, which sold some 7,000 products under more than 100 brand names, Mr. Marusi responded to what he saw as a shrinking dairy market by scaling down the company's dairy business.
        A former chief of the company's Borden Chemical division, and a chemical engineer by training, he instead put resources toward making synthetic resins and adhesives for international use. The company also adopted a logo that connected the letters ''R'' and ''D'' in Borden to suggest research and development. Elsie the Cow, used for 28 years to represent all of Borden, was relegated to the dairy division.
        By 1972, five years into Mr. Marusi's tenure, Borden Chemical's share of the company's sales had nearly tripled to 19 percent. Earnings had risen 9 percent over the previous year to a record $66 million.
        Augustine Raymond Marusi, a son of Italian immigrants, was born in New York City on Nov. 30, 1913, and raised in Bloomfield, N.J. He graduated from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1936 with a degree in chemical engineering, and he commanded a minesweeper in the Atlantic and Pacific during World War II.
        He joined Borden's chemical division in 1939 and remained at the company for 40 years. He became president of Borden Chemical in 1954, executive vice president of Borden in 1964, and president and chief executive in 1967. He added the post of chairman in 1968.
        Borden Chemical is now owned by Apollo Management, a private investment firm, and Borden's food and dairy businesses have been divided and sold to various companies.
        Mr. Marusi is survived by his wife of 64 years, Ruth Sinclair Travis Marusi; a son, Frederic, of Lancaster, Pa.; a daughter, Margo Boyle, of Cherry Hills Village, Colo.; and five grandchildren. Another son, Raymond, died in 1981.
      