
        Dennis Flanagan, who as editor of Scientific American magazine helped foster science writing for the general reader, died at his home in Manhattan on Friday. He was 85.
        The cause of death was prostate cancer, according to his wife, Barbara Williams Flanagan.
        Mr. Flanagan, who worked at Scientific American for more than three decades beginning in 1947, teamed editors directly with working scientists, publishing pieces by leading figures like Albert Einstein, Linus Pauling and J. Robert Oppenheimer.
        Mr. Flanagan described his formula for deciding what to include in the magazine simply: ''Science is what scientists do, not what nonscientists think they do or ought to be doing.'' After seeing his slogan translated into Dutch, he decided he liked the ring of it better in that language and hung a banner in his office emblazoned with the translation: ''Wetenschap is wat wetenschappers doen.''
        The formula proved to be a success. When Mr. Flanagan came to the magazine, along with his partners, Gerard Piel and Donald H. Miller Jr., it had a venerable history, having been published for 102 years, but its circulation was less than 40,000. By the time he retired in 1984, the circulation was well over 600,000.
        Mr. Flanagan was born in New York in 1919 and raised in Bucks County, Pa. He began his career in journalism on the eve of World War II, after graduating from the University of Michigan in 1941. Most of his friends were being drafted into the military, but he was exempt because of deafness.
        ''He had all these ear infections as a child before penicillin,'' said Mrs. Flanagan. ''By the time he was 9, he was deaf in both ears.''
        Mr. Flanagan taught himself to read lips and, after college, landed a job as a sports researcher at Life magazine. He wrote about many topics, and wrote the captions for Robert Capa's pictures at Omaha Beach. His introduction to science came when he was called on to write stories about the dropping of the atomic bomb on Hiroshima.
        After moving to Scientific American in 1947, he worked hard to bring the dangers of nuclear proliferation to the public. In the 1950's, at the height of the cold war, Mr. Flanagan became one of only a handful of journalists in the United States ever to be prohibited from publishing under the threat of the death penalty. The offending article, on the making of the hydrogen bomb, included material culled only from unclassified sources. Still, government censors burned 3,000 copies as they came off the presses and halted publication of the rest. In in the end, they allowed only an altered article to be published.
        Mr. Flanagan married Geraldine Lux, a writer, in 1948. The marriage ended in divorce and in 1965 he married Ellen Raskin, an author of children's books. She died in 1984. In 1999 he married Barbara Grossman Williams, an editor and literary agent.
        Besides his wife, his survivors include a daughter, Cara Flanagan-Jones of Scotland; a son, John G. Flanagan of Newton, Mass.; two stepdaughters, Susan Moore of Far Hills, N.J., and Julia Williams; and four grandchildren. .
        In his book, ''Flanagan's Version: A Spectator's Guide to Science on the Eve of the 21st Century'' (Alfred A. Knopf, 1988), Mr. Flanagan recalled an encounter with Pauline Kael, the film critic of The New Yorker. After she said she knew nothing about science and he gently scolded her, she responded by saying: ''Oh, you're a Renaissance hack.''
        It was a phrase Mr. Flanagan loved. ''If tombstones were still in style,'' he wrote. ''I would want to have the two words chiseled right under my name.''
      