
        Jim Capaldi, a drummer and songwriter who played with the classic British rock band Traffic on ''Feelin' Alright,'' ''You Can All Join In'' and other songs, died early yesterday in London. He was 60 and lived in Marlow, England.
        The cause was stomach cancer, said John Taylor, Mr. Capaldi's longtime manager.
        Playing a powerful yet loose beat influenced by jazz and R&B, Mr. Capaldi contributed to songs that had plenty of wandering psychedelia but were rooted in earthy American soul.
        Traffic was founded in 1967 by Mr. Capaldi, the keyboardist Steve Winwood, the guitarist Dave Mason and the saxophonist and flutist Chris Wood. The group released 11 albums, including ''Traffic,'' ''Mr. Fantasy'' and ''John Barleycorn Must Die,'' all of them hits in Britain and the United States.
        Despite numerous lineup changes over the years, the group's two constants were Mr. Capaldi and Mr. Winwood. They collaborated on many of the group's songs, with Mr. Winwood writing the music and Mr. Capaldi the lyrics.
        Born Nicola James Capaldi to Italian immigrant parents in Evesham, England, Mr. Capaldi sang in a number of local bands before Traffic; he had not played drums before joining that band. A prolific songwriter and collaborator, Mr. Capaldi recorded his first solo album, ''Oh How We Danced'' (1972), with R&B session players in Muscle Shoals, Ala., while Traffic was on a hiatus and had solo hits in the mid-70's with ''It's Alright'' and ''Love Hurts.'' His 13th solo album, ''Poor Boy Blue,'' was released last year.
        Mr. Capaldi and Mr. Winwood reunited in 1994 to record a new Traffic album, ''Far From Home,'' and toured that year, opening for the Grateful Dead. The two had been ready to tour again last summer when Mr. Capaldi became ill and was found to have cancer.
        Traffic was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame last year. ''Rock isn't an age,'' Mr. Capaldi said at the ceremony. ''It's an attitude.''
        His survivors include his wife, Aninha, and two daughters, Tabitha and Tallulah.
      