
        Harley Baldwin, a sociable entrepreneur based in Aspen, Colo., whose high-profile dealings in real estate, restaurants and art helped define the ski resort literally and figuratively, died on Jan. 23 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. He was 59.
        The cause was kidney cancer, said Richard Edwards, his companion.
        Starting in the mid-1980's, when Aspen was sloughing off its folksy image as a ski resort and transforming into the glitter magnet it is today, Mr. Baldwin refurbished the 1891 Brand Building in downtown. He bought it in 1971 for $170,000 and turned it into apartments and shops, including branches of Louis Vuitton and Christian Dior, and the building now has an estimated worth as high as $15 million.
        In 1988 Mr. Baldwin bought another historic property, the Collins Block building, turning the ground floor into luxury stores and the second floor into an apartment for himself. In the basement he opened the Caribou Club, a high-end restaurant and nightclub, with a members-only policy that came to represent a new level of Aspen exclusivity that, while long hinted at, had never been stated.
        ''Celebrities had always come to Aspen, but there was a feeling that we were all out there together,'' said Helen Klanderud, the mayor of Aspen. ''Many people saw him as promoting divisiveness between rich and poor, we and they.'' Nevertheless, the Caribou Club remains one of the hottest scenes in Aspen.
        In the last decade Mr. Baldwin became a tireless promoter of business development in Aspen, pushing for an enticing core of downtown shops. After meeting Mr. Edwards, a lawyer and art collector, in 1994, Mr. Baldwin opened Baldwin Gallery and became an art-world player almost overnight.
        His vast social circle and salesmanship let him mount successful shows of work by New York artists like Jennifer Bartlett, Ross Bleckner and Carroll Dunham, and his gallery helped raise Aspen's profile as a resort with culture as well as glitter.
        Growing up on Air Force bases around the United States as the son of a colonel, Mr. Baldwin arrived in Aspen in 1968 after graduating from Syracuse University. With no more than $1,200 to his name, as he loved to recount, Mr. Baldwin began selling crepes from the Popcorn Wagon, a red Victorian-era food wagon still operating on Mill Street. His first real-estate purchase was a trailer where he lived, a transaction that foreshadowed his sharp eye for undervalued real estate.
        In 1971 he persuaded Robert O. Anderson, then the chairman of the Atlantic Richfield Company, to lend him money to buy the Brand Building. Also that year Mr. Baldwin married Lee Webster. They divided their time between New York and Aspen, while Mr. Baldwin pursued real-estate dealings in both places. They divorced in 1977.
        From the mid-1970's to the mid-80's, he was the original planner of Bridgemarket in Manhattan, a global food market beneath the Queensboro Bridge, that, plagued by slow approvals, finally opened in a radically different form in the 1990's, to Mr. Baldwin's great disappointment. But his Midas touch never forsook him in Aspen, and most of the businesses he started there are still thriving.
      