
        Frank E. Vandiver, a noted military historian, particularly of the Civil War era, died on Jan. 7 at his home in College Station, Tex., where he was president emeritus of Texas A&M University. He was 79.
        Dr. Vandiver's death was announced by the university. He had been ill with heart and lung problems, The Associated Press reported.
        Dr. Vandiver (pronounced VAN-dih-ver) presided over the university from 1981 to 1988, a time of academic growth there. Taking emeritus status, he remained on the faculty with the rank of distinguished professor.
        He was an author, co-author or editor of two dozen books, nearly half of them still in print. Before taking the helm at Texas A&M, he was president and chancellor for two years at what is now the University of North Texas, and before that held various administrative and teaching positions during 24 years at Rice.
        His first book was ''Ploughshares Into Swords: Josiah Gorgas and Confederate Ordnance,'' published in 1952. Half a century later, it remains in print, in a new edition from 1994.
        Other books still in print include ''Mighty Stonewall'' (1957), a biography of Stonewall Jackson; ''Rebel Brass: The Confederate Command System'' (1956); ''Jubal's Raid: General Early's Famous Attack on Washington in 1864'' (1960); ''Their Tattered Flags: The Epic of the Confederacy'' (1970); and ''Blood Brothers: A Short History of the Civil War'' (1992).
        One of his works, ''Black Jack: The Life and Times of John J. Pershing'' (1977), was a runner-up for a National Book Award. Among his most recent books, all in print and written since he gave up the Texas A&M presidency, are ''Shadows of Vietnam: Lyndon Johnson's Wars'' (1997); ''1001 Things Everyone Should Know About the Civil War'' (1999); and ''1001 Things Everyone Should Know About World War II'' (2000).
        Frank Everson Vandiver was born in Austin and worked for the Air Force as a historian during World War II. He earned Rockefeller fellowships in the humanities and American studies at the University of Texas, where he received a master's degree in 1949, two years before getting his Ph.D., from Tulane.
        His teaching career began at Washington University in St. Louis and at Rice, where he had risen to full professor by 1958. He remained at Rice until 1979, serving as a department chairman, master of Brown College, acting president, provost and vice president.
        Dr. Vandiver's first wife, Carol Sue Smith Vandiver, died in 1979. His survivors include his wife of 24 years, Renée Aubry Vandiver; two daughters, Nita W. Jackson and Nancy A. Wahl, both of Houston; and a son, Frank A. Vandiver of Houston.
        For all his accomplishments, Dr. Vandiver never graduated from high school. In 1969, when he was acting president at Rice, the trustees of the Houston city schools voted unanimously that he receive the high school diploma he had always wanted.
      