
        Jacob L. Trobe, who directed the care and resettlement of thousands of Holocaust survivors left adrift after World War II, died on Jan. 19 at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 93.
        His death was announced by his family.
        As a representative of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee, Mr. Trobe was among the first relief workers to enter the concentration camps. At Bergen-Belsen, which had been freed weeks before any aid groups could arrive, he found rampant typhus and starving, dazed survivors.
        Without asking his supervisors for permission, he ordered $250,000 worth of butter, eggs and cheese from Scandinavia.
        Mr. Trobe directed the committee's relief programs in Germany and later in Italy, which was a staging area for the underground movement of Jews to the Middle East. He also helped deliver aid to displaced Jews in Luxembourg, Libya, the former Palestine and Turkey. At one point the committee helped support 250,000 Jews in relief camps.
        He lobbied publicly for their welfare, asking Italy's foreign minister for assurances that they were welcome and pushing for their passage to Australia, New Zealand and elsewhere.
        Upon returning from Europe, Mr. Trobe led the Jewish Child Care Association of Essex County, the Jewish Board of Guardians in Newark and the Jewish Child Care Association in New York.
        Restless in retirement, he tracked the evolution of the media business for two decades by conducting television interviews of industry leaders. The show appeared on public access channels with the support of the Communications Media Center at New York Law School, and it remains in production. Its archives, known as the Jacob Trobe Collection, are housed at The Cable Center in Denver.
        Jacob Louis Trobe, a son of an Orthodox rabbi, was born in Beaver Falls, Pa., on Oct. 9, 1911. He graduated from the University of Pittsburgh and later attended the Jewish School of Social Work, which later became part of the Columbia University School of Social Work.
        He is survived by a daughter, Toni Kestenbaum of Glenside, Pa.; a son, Robert, of Ridgewood, N.J.; three grandchildren; and one great-granddaughter. His wife, Adele, died in 2002.
      