
        Arnold Denker, a former United States chess champion who also had some spectacular setbacks at the chess board and later chronicled the lives of some of the game's most colorful characters, died on Sunday at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 90.
        The cause was brain cancer, said his son Richard.
        Mr. Denker was part of the best crop of players the United States ever produced. From the late 1920's through the beginning of World War II, Mr. Denker, along with others, led the United States to four consecutive world team championships.
        Mr. Denker was of the romantic school of chess -- always looking to attack. Al Horowitz, a top American player, wrote of Mr. Denker: ''He can handle an attack with a fertility of ideas and a richness of imagination that are rare. Yet he frequently tries to attack where defense is necessary or where the position does not warrant aggressive tactics.''
        After winning the United States championship in 1944, Mr. Denker was asked to lead the United States team in its first radio match against the Soviet Union. It was a disaster.
        The match, in September 1945, was intended to foster better relations in the dawning months of the Cold War. The United States team was favored.
        Mr. Denker played against the Soviet champion Mikhail Botvinnik. He quickly lost both his games, and the United States team lost the match by a score of 15.5 to 4.5. Later, Mr. Botvinnik became world champion, and it became clear that the Soviet players were better.
        In 1981 Mr. Denker was awarded the title of grandmaster. This belated recognition ended up having a gray lining. In 1988 Mr. Denker became the first grandmaster to lose to a computer, called Hitech.
        Despite such setbacks, Mr. Denker relished his chess career. He wrote two books. One, titled ''If You Must Play Chess'' (1947), was a collection of his best games. The other, ''The Bobby Fischer I Knew and Other Stories'' (1995), written with Larry Parr, documented many of his experiences and the people he met.
        Arnold Sheldon Denker was born on Feb. 21, 1914, in the Bronx. He learned chess by watching his older brothers play. He began playing against a neighbor and, soon, against the neighbor's nephew, Irving Chernov, a master. Mr. Denker joined the Manhattan Chess Club in 1928.
        In was an auspicious time to plunge into the New York City chess scene. American chess was entering its heyday, and the city was the epicenter of activity. With the Depression descending, young players were forced to live by their wits and that usually meant hustling games.
        At one point, Mr. Denker and Mr. Horowitz shared a room in a hotel managed by a fellow member of the Manhattan Chess Club who let them stay without paying rent.
        During the day, Mr. Denker and Mr. Horowitz would hustle games, and whoever came home with a few quarters would buy dinner.
        Mr. Denker enjoyed being a full-time chess player, but family responsibilities intervened. In 1936 the violinist Max Rosen, a member of the Manhattan Chess Club, introduced him to Nina Simmons, whom he soon married. He got a job in a meat-packing company, but continued to play in tournaments on weekends. By 1948, when Mr. Denker and his wife had two children, he decided he could no longer play even that regularly.
        A friend of his owned a meat-packing company and offered Mr. Denker a job. When the friend died, Mr. Denker took over the company and found that he had a knack for business. ''We were doing $900,000 a year in sales when I got there,'' he said. ''We were doing $38 million when I left'' 26 years later, in 1974.
        He began playing competitive chess again in 1971, tying for seventh place in the United States Open. He continued to play in tournaments into his 80's, tying for sixth place at the United States Open in 1995.
        He organized and sponsored a tournament of high school champions in 1984. The tournament, named after him, became an annual event.
        In 1992 the United States Chess Federation inducted Mr. Denker into its hall of fame. Last year, the federation gave Mr. Denker the title of Dean of American Chess. He was the third person to receive this title.
        Mr. Denker's wife died in 1993. In addition to Richard, he is survived by another son, Mitchell; a daughter, Randie; and three grandchildren.
      