
        Marshall Edelson, a Yale psychiatrist and author who received national attention in his field for his advocacy of scientific rigor in psychoanalysis, died on Sunday at his home in Woodbridge, Conn. He was 76.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Dr. Edelson wrote extensively in subjects as diverse as linguistics, sociology and sociotherapy. He was probably best known for his 1988 book, ''Psychoanalysis: A Theory in Crisis.'' In that work, he defended psychoanalysis from critics who contended that the field had often lacked scientific discipline when examining its own research. Dr. Edelson argued that, with proper care, data from psychoanalytic sessions could be recorded and applied rigorously to test rival theories.
        In a 1989 review in The New York Times, Dr. Robert S. Wallerstein, the president of the International Psychoanalytical Association, called the book ''impressive and persuasive'' and said its message was that ''the intellectual 'crisis' in psychoanalysis can lead to an enrichment of psychoanalysis and to an increased capacity of psychoanalysis to help people.''
        Earlier books, intended chiefly for psychiatric workers, included ''The Termination of Intensive Psychotherapy''(1963) and ''Language and Interpretation in Psychoanalysis'' (1975). At times unconventional in the classroom, Dr. Edelson also lectured about films and used them to teach aspects of psychotherapy. Dr. William H. Sledge, medical director of Yale-New Haven Psychiatric Hospital, said Dr. Edelson's work was exceptional ''in its ability to get to the heart of the matter.''
        Marshall Edelson was born in Chicago and received his undergraduate degree from Stanford, and his medical and doctoral degrees from the University of Chicago.
        From 1961 to 1964, he was an assistant professor of psychiatry at the University of Oklahoma. He then joined the Austen Riggs Center in Stockbridge, Mass., as a staff psychiatrist. In 1966, he went to Yale, where he remained for the rest of his career, becoming a full professor of psychiatry in 1976. He also was director of education and director of medical studies for the psychiatry department. He retired in 1998.
        Dr. Edelson is survived by his wife of 52 years, Zelda Toll Edelson; two sons, Dave Tolchinsky of Chicago and Dr. Jon Edelson of Scarsdale, N.Y.; a daughter, Bec Edelson of Los Angeles; a brother, Chuck, of Moshav Orot, Israel; and six grandchildren.
      