
        Peter Davison, the poet and editor who was the grandly youthful historic memory of literary Boston, died on Wednesday at his home on Beacon Hill. He was 76.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said.
        Over 40 years, from the time his first collection, ''The Breaking of the Day,'' won coveted publication in the Yale Younger Poets series, Mr. Davison published 11 volumes of poetry. Though they won several awards and praise from figures like Alfred Kazin and W.S. Merwin, they may have been overshadowed by his four decades as a literary editor for the Atlantic Monthly Press and Houghton Mifflin (he edited Ward Just, Robert Coles, Farley Mowat and Elizabeth Marshall Thomas, among others) and by his 30 years as poetry editor of The Atlantic Monthly.
        In The Atlantic he published many of America's leading poets (Robert Lowell's ''Ode to the Union Dead'' first appeared there), as well as managing patient and occasionally encouraging replies to many thousands of submissions each year.
        His own poems are a commonplace book of living by a man with a jaunty, insatiable, speculative appetite for it. He wrote of pigs, rocks, loves, landscapes. Canoeing at dawn on a mirror-smooth bay, he notes the water lapping at the shore and the flurry of birds: ''The tide at its landward edge/ignited a smudge of commotion.'' Virgil wrote of ''the tears in things''; in Mr. Davison's things, there is the shade of a smile.
        He represented the living literary spirit of his city. It was not, of course, the Boston that yielded pride of place to New York after New England giants like Emerson, Thoreau, Hawthorne, Melville and Dickinson were gone. In the 1950's there was a new flowering, especially of poets. Robert Lowell, Sylvia Plath, Ann Sexton, Stanley Kunitz, Richard Wilbur, L.E. Sissman and Adrienne Rich were among those who clustered here and at Harvard across the river. Robert Frost came to lecture; Elizabeth Bishop moved here later.
        Mr. Davison was one of their number, and in 1994 he wrote a memoir of the time and the cohort: ''The Fading Smile: Poets in Boston, From Robert Frost to Robert Lowell to Sylvia Plath, 1955-1960.'' Witty, charming and perceptive, it portrayed American poets as a community, at least to the extent that they could constitute one, being contentious, ambitious and rivalrous, with plenty to drink and a fair amount of sex.
        Among much else he told of his regular enlistment for ''Getting Frost Home Before Midnight.'' Frost was so stimulated after his readings that he had to be walked around Cambridge, ''talking his way back to earth again,'' Mr. Davison explained. (Mr. Davison also had a brief involvement with Plath, he wrote, though she seems to have found him insufficiently scary, while he found her excessively so.)
        Peter Davison was born in New York on June 27, 1928, the son of Edward Davison, an English poet, and Natalie Weiner Davison. He was brought up in Boulder, Colo., where his father taught at the University of Colorado and organized gatherings of poets and writers. Frost, Ford Madox Ford and Robert Penn Warren would attend; Mrs. Davison had to throw the young Lowell out of one party for bumptiousness.
        After graduating from Harvard, Mr. Davison spent a year at Cambridge University on the Fulbright Program. He worked for a while at Harcourt Brace and later became assistant to the director of Harvard University Press. In 1966 he joined the Atlantic Monthly Press, where he worked for 29 years, the last 15 as its director. ( Later it later merged with Grove to become Grove/Atlantic.) In the 1980's he joined Houghton Mifflin, retiring several years ago.
        Aside from writing poetry and editing it for The Atlantic Monthly, Mr. Davison wrote a number of essays on the subject. He could be waspish; a particular irritation was the fashion of ignoring the several past tenses that English offers.
        ''Something like 70 percent of the poems I receive seem to be written in the present indicative,'' he told an interviewer. ''They are constantly producing a sort of spectator poetry in which the poet is looking at himself: 'I go out, I look at the wires, there's snow on the wires, a blue jay sits on the wires and knocks off some snow, God I'm lonely.'''
        Mr. Davison's first wife, the former Jane Truslow, died in 1981. In 1984 he married Joan Edelman Goody, a prominent Boston architect and a principal in the firm Goody Clancy. She survives him, along with two children from his first marriage: a son, Angus, of Belmont, Mass., and a daughter, Lesley, of West Palm Beach, Fla.; four grandchildren; and a sister, Lesley Perrin of New York City.
        Correction:  January 7, 2005, Friday  An obituary of the poet and editor Peter Davison on Jan. 1 misstated the title of a poem by Robert Lowell that he published as literary editor of The Atlantic Monthly. It is ''For the Union Dead,'' not ''Ode to the Union Dead.''
      