
        Donald V. North, who as head of the organized crime effort of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in New York in the 1990's helped devise and carry out strategies that led to the conviction of John J. Gotti and other organized crime leaders, died on Sunday after collapsing while driving in Manhattan. He was 62.
        His friend Laura Tobocman said Mr. North died of a heart attack. He had shoveled his car out of a snowdrift and was driving it when it hit two pedestrians on First Avenue at 20th Street, neither of whom was badly hurt. He died before being taken to nearby Beth Israel Medical Center, Ms. Tobocman said.
        As assistant special agent in charge of organized crime in the New York office from 1990 to 1997, Mr. North supervised a staff of 500, including 200 federal agents and 35 police detectives.
        Mr. North helped develop and carry out investigative strategies that reduced the ranks of the five Mafia families in New York City and two smaller ones in New Jersey in the 1990's. In the first half of that decade, nearly 300 top- and middle-echelon leaders in the seven families were convicted on various charges.
        James Roth, former chief counsel in the F.B.I.'s New York City office, said Mr. North was responsible for many of these strategies. He said Mr. North's methods involved looking at the Mafia ''as an organization instead of going after 'Joe Pots and Pans.'''
        His major weapon, in addition to investigative staples like wiretapping, was the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, a 1970 law known as RICO that allows investigators and prosecutors to attack patterns of corruption, not just individual crimes.
        In addition to helping secure the conviction of Mr. Gotti, boss of the Gambino crime family, on murder and racketeering charges in 1992, Mr. North was a leader in the investigation that led to the murder and racketeering conviction of Vittorio Amuso, head of the Luchese family, in the same year.
        Before moving to New York, Mr. North worked on anticrime strategies at F.B.I. headquarters in Washington, where his title was chief of the organized crime unit. James Kossler, a retired F.B.I. supervisor, said that one of Mr. North's most important contributions was developing ways to seize mobsters' assets.
        While in Washington, Mr. North wrote bureau guidelines, called ''Enterprise Theory of Investigation,'' for using the RICO statute. It was translated into 34 languages and distributed to the F.B.I.'s other offices.
        Donald Vogt North was born on Oct. 15, 1942, in Jackson, Mich. He earned bachelor's and master's degrees in mathematics from John Carroll University in Cleveland, and began his F.B.I. career in 1966.
        In the late 1970's and early 80's, he took part in the Abscam political corruption investigation; its name was an abbreviation of the fake company investigators used to solicit bribes. In 1997, he made a major seizure of forged art works, including forgeries of Picasso.
        Mr. North also produced records for a Gaelic rock band, Speir Mor.
        Mr. North is survived by his wife, Mary Ellen North, from whom he was legally separated; his daughters, Stacy, Victoria and Teresa, and his sons, John and Craig, all of Fairfax County, Va.; and his brothers Richard and Robert, both of Santa Fe, N.M.
      