
        William O. Bailey, an insurance executive who helped attract investors to many public projects by persuading the insurance industry to guarantee municipal bonds, died yesterday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan and Moultonborough, N.H.
        The cause was pneumonia, his wife, Carole, said.
        As a senior executive at the Aetna Life and Casualty Company in the 1970's, Mr. Bailey enlisted four other firms to jointly offer state and local governments insurance that would guarantee the repayment of money lent to them by investors. Because such municipal bond issues often amounted to nearly $100 million, insuring them was too expensive for any one company.
        By reducing the risk to investors, the Municipal Bond Insurance Association, started in 1973, allowed municipalities to borrow money from the public at lower interest rates. While still at Aetna, Mr. Bailey became the first president of the association and later the chairman of MBIA Inc., a separate, publicly traded company that took over the association's business in 1987.
        MBIA has helped back the construction of Denver International Airport and insured Orange County's ''recovery bonds'' after its fiscal crisis, among other deals.
        It also helped create an industry that has insured more than $2 trillion in municipal and asset-backed securities, according to the Association of Financial Guaranty Insurers, the industry's trade group.
        The association also estimates that municipal bond guarantors have saved taxpayers $35 billion in interest that they would have paid on uninsured bonds.
        At Aetna, now primarily a health insurer, Mr. Bailey was president and chief operating officer from 1976 to 1987 and vice chairman from 1987 to 1988.
        ''Under his leadership, Aetna grew to become the nation's largest shareholder-owned insurance organization,'' Aetna's chairman and chief executive, John W. Rowe, said in a statement.
        Often a spokesman and leader of the industry, he advocated tort reform, coordinated a bailout of the car insurer Geico in 1975, and persuaded several insurers to underwrite the makers of swine flu vaccine, who were otherwise reluctant to produce it for widespread distribution.
        He was chairman of the American Insurance Association, the Health Insurance Association of America and the Property Casualty Insurance Council.
        William Olliver Bailey was born in Syracuse on July 1, 1926. He served in the Navy during World War II and graduated from Dartmouth College in 1947. He received a business degree in insurance from the Wharton School in 1949.
        In addition to his wife, Carole Parsons Bailey, he is survived by a son, George, of Northampton, Mass.; two daughters, Janet Faude, of West Hartford, Conn., and Carolyn Bailey, of Lexington, Mass.; and six grandchildren. Two sons, John Mason and Thomas Wood, died before him.
      