
        Charles H. Bell, the former president and chief executive of McDonald's, died of colorectal cancer in Sydney, Australia, today, the company announced. Mr. Bell was 44 and had been ill since May. He resigned his posts in November.
        ''Charlie Bell gave his all to McDonald's. Even during his hospitalization and chemotherapy, Charlie led this company with pride and determination,'' Andrew J. McKenna, chairman of McDonald's board, said in a statement.
        Mr. Bell is the second McDonald's chief executive to die in the last year. In April, Mr. Bell's predecessor, James R. Cantalupo, died after suffering a heart attack while at a McDonald's convention for franchisees in Orlando, Fla.
        The Australian-born Mr. Bell, the youngest chief executive and the first non-American to lead the company, was told of the diagnosis less than a month after being named chief executive.
        During his brief tenure as chief, he was given high marks for easing the company through the shock of Mr. Cantalupo's death, even though he was still a relative unknown among the domestic work force.
        Mr. Bell was only the company's sixth chief executive and his departure was a stunning development for the company, the world's largest restaurant chain, because of its proximity to Mr. Cantalupo's death.
        In an interview in November, Mr. McKenna sought to explain the unusual confluence of management misfortune at McDonald's. ''This is a company which will be 50 years old soon and for the first 49 years, we were never hit with a situation like this,'' he said.
        Over the past year, despite the executive turmoil, the company's financial performance has been positive and the stock has risen 24 percent.
        Though Mr. Bell's tenure running McDonald's was unusually short, he had been at the company his entire career. He was hired at a restaurant in Sydney when he was 15 to flip burgers and mop floors part time. Four years, later he became Australia's youngest store manager at age 19.
        After dropping out of college, Mr. Bell worked his way up the executive ranks with similar speed. He became a vice president and member of the Australian board at 29. In 1990, he was named vice president for marketing and in 1993, he was appointed managing director, McDonald's Australia.
        After running the Australian and European marketing units, he came to the United States in 1999.
        ''Charlie was an incredible leader,'' said James Skinner, McDonald's recently appointed chief executive, in a statement.
        Before Mr. Bell stepped down, there were signs that he had become seriously ill. He was absent from major events sponsored by the company, including the Summer Olympics in Athens and an early November gathering of 3,700 of McDonald's top restaurant managers in Australia.
        In a regulatory filing after Mr. Bell resigned, McDonald's, which is based in Oak Brook, Ill., disclosed that it had agreed to pay $300,000 for a one-way trip for Mr. Bell and his family to fly back to Australia in a medically outfitted plane.
        Mr. Bell is survived by his wife, Leonie, and their daughter, Alex.
        He was a member of the global board of Ronald McDonald House Charities. He also served as a member of the board of Ronald McDonald House Charities in Australia until 2001 and was a former member of the Business Council of Australia. He served as a member of the advisory board of the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation from 1993 to 1999.
        In 1996, the prime minister of Australia, John Howard, appointed Mr. Bell to lead a task force on small business deregulation. From 1997 to 2000, he was a trustee of the Sydney Theater Company and from 1988 to 1997, he was a director of the Pact Youth Theater in Sydney.
      