
        Philip J. Friedman, a longtime Democratic political consultant whose list of clients included Edward I. Koch, Hugh L. Carey and John D. Rockefeller IV, was found dead in his Manhattan apartment on Thursday. He was 50.
        The cause of death was not made public, pending a medical examiner's report. Mr. Friedman left a suicide note, a Police Department official said.
        Renowned for his energy and acumen, Mr. Friedman was considered a political wunderkind, even when he was still a college student at Harvard in the 1970's.
        For the next three decades he influenced both local and national campaigns and was regularly sought by the news media to comment on political strategy.
        ''He was born brilliant,'' Mario M. Cuomo, the former governor of New York, said in a telephone interview yesterday. ''He went on to great, great prominence, mostly because he was so bright.''
        Mr. Friedman worked for Mr. Koch in his unsuccessful primary bid against Mr. Cuomo for governor in 1982. More recently, he consulted for Mr. Cuomo's son Andrew.
        Early in his career, Mr. Friedman was strikingly successful. He was considered instrumental, for instance, in electing Mr. Rockefeller, then governor of West Virginia, to the United States Senate in 1984.
        The work paid handsomely and, in 1986, Mr. Friedman bought Pamela Harriman's 55-acre estate in Westchester County. But he lost the house in the collapse of the real estate market and found himself deeply in debt.
        A visible professional setback occurred in 1993 when his client, Andrew J. Stein, the City Council president, dropped out of the race and gave up his challenge to Mayor David N. Dinkins before the Democratic primary.
        Philip Jonathan Friedman was born in Manhattan on Feb. 9, 1954. He received a bachelor's degree from Harvard in 1976. In 1974, he took time off from school to work on Mr. Carey's first campaign for governor of New York. There, he met the powerful political consultant David Garth, for whom he went to work after graduation.
        Mr. Friedman founded his own consulting group, Campaign Strategies, in the early 1980's. Among his other clients were Senators Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia and Mark Dayton of Minnesota.
        Mr. Friedman is survived by his parents, Morris and Norma, of Manhasset, N.Y., and by a sister, Ruth, of Washington.
      