
        Arthur Rosenblatt, an architect who had a large hand in reshaping the Metropolitan Museum of Art and then helped give form to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, died Monday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, said Nicholas P. Koutsomitis, a partner of Mr. Rosenblatt in the firm RKK&G Museum and Cultural Facilities Consultants. (The R is for Rosenblatt.)
        Mr. Rosenblatt was in charge of architecture and planning at the Met -- as administrator, vice director and vice president -- from 1968 to 1986, a time when the museum was virtually bursting at the seams with more than $1 billion in construction and renovation projects, including the Lehman Wing, the Rockefeller Wing, the Sackler Wing and the Temple of Dendur. Some projects faced impassioned objection as the museum expanded its edges into Central Park.
        His streetwise ability to deal with community opposition was a quality that recommended Mr. Rosenblatt to Thomas Hoving, the Met's director, according to Mr. Hoving's memoir, ''Making the Mummies Dance: Inside the Metropolitan Museum of Art'' (Simon & Schuster, 1993).
        Mr. Hoving also credited Mr. Rosenblatt with having introduced him to the firm Kevin Roche John Dinkeloo & Associates, which became the architects of the Met's ambitious master plan. ''Kevin's Irish; John's Dutch -- perfect for your stodgy trustees,'' Mr. Hoving quoted Mr. Rosenblatt as saying.
        Mr. Rosenblatt was director of the Holocaust Memorial Museum from 1986 to 1988, five years before it opened, and was instrumental in selecting James Ingo Freed of I.M. Pei & Partners to design the building, in association with Notter, Finegold & Alexander.
        ''It is something for which there is no prototype,'' Mr. Rosenblatt said in 1987 when trying to describe the project. ''If someone asks, 'What is it like?' we can't answer. We are, in fact, creating a new form of museum.''
        Mr. Rosenblatt was also involved with the restoration of the New York Public Library and Bryant Park and with streetscape improvements for the Grand Central Partnership and the 34th Street Partnership. In 1995, he was a founder of RKK&G.
        With his wife, Ruth Benjamin, he wrote ''Movie Song Catalog: Performers and Supporting Crew for the Songs Sung in 1,460 Musical and Nonmusical Films, 1928-1988'' (McFarland, 1993).
        She survives him, as do their children, Judy, of Manhattan, and Paul, of Pittsburgh, and two grandchildren.
        Born in the Bronx, Mr. Rosenblatt attended Cooper Union, served in the Army and then received a bachelor's degree in architecture in 1956 from the Carnegie Institute of Technology, now Carnegie Mellon University.
        He was hired in 1966 as a design consultant by Mr. Hoving, who was then parks commissioner. A year later, Mr. Rosenblatt was appointed first deputy administrator of the parks department, not long before joining the Met.
        In his memoir, Mr. Hoving recalled wincing when Mr. Rosenblatt told him it would cost $1.6 million to clean the museum facade and $4.5 million to renovate the Great Hall.
        ''Hoving, you can get the money,'' Mr. Rosenblatt declared. ''You think the mighty Met can be face-lifted on the cheap?''
      