
        Dr. William A. Silverman, a physician whose studies of newborns at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center helped alter the treatment of premature infants and gave many parents greater say in their babies' fates, died on Dec. 16 at his home in Greenbrae, Calif. He was 87.
        The cause was renal failure, said his daughter, Jen Silverman.
        Dr. Silverman, who was director of the neonatal intensive care unit at Babies Hospital of Columbia-Presbyterian (now the Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital), helped determine in the 1950's that the liberal use of oxygen to treat premature newborns could destroy their vision.
        ''More than 10,000 children throughout the world were blinded as a result of a relatively minor change in caretaking practice,'' he wrote in ''Retrolental Fibroplasia: A Modern Parable'' (1980), a history of the condition. Now known as ''retinopathy of prematurity,'' the disorder still affects the tiniest babies but has otherwise become much easier to prevent.
        He went on to study the side effects of other new interventions and medications, which in the 1950's were being introduced at an extraordinary rate. ''Bill was really regarded as the premier neonatologist of that period,'' said Dr. Malcolm Holliday, former chief of pediatric nephrology at U.C.S.F.
        He later criticized his profession, saying that new treatments were not tested on enough patients for enough time. ''His championing of clinical trials led to the concept of evidence-based medicine,'' Dr. Holliday said.
        Dr. Silverman also harshly criticized what he viewed as indifference to the quality of life of premature babies beyond survival. Faced with brain-damaged babies who are unable to see or hear, he said, parents should be able to instruct doctors not to resuscitate.
        He delved into similar matters in his book, ''Where's the Evidence? Debates in Modern Medicine,'' a collection of scholarly essays published under the pseudonym Malcontent.
        William Aaron Silverman was born in Cleveland and raised in Los Angeles. He received a bachelor's degree from the University of California, Los Angeles, and attended medical school at the University of California, San Francisco.
        He joined the staff at Babies Hospital at Columbia-Presbyterian in 1944 to complete his residency and joined the faculty of Columbia in 1946. In 1968, he became the chief of the neonatal intensive care unit at the Children's Hospital of San Francisco.
        He headed the editorial board of the journal Pediatrics from 1962 to 1968, and from 1981 he advised the Blind Babies Foundation. In 2003, the American Foundation for the Blind awarded him a Migel Medal, its highest honor.
        In addition to his daughter, Jen, of Boston, he is survived by his wife of 59 years, Ruth; two sons, Daniel, of Wellfleet, Mass., and David, of Seattle; a brother, Bernard, of Walnut Creek, Calif.; and two grandchildren.
      