
        Dr. Frank Harary, a mathematician who wrote and lectured extensively on graph theory, a mathematical specialty often applied in computer science and other fields, died on Jan. 4 in Las Cruces, N.M. He was 83.
        The cause was a postoperative infection, his family said.
        Dr. Harary's 1969 book ''Graph Theory'' has been credited with giving the field a broader relevance. The theory, which dates from the 18th century or earlier, is concerned with the edges and vertices found in graphs. It is frequently used to model physical or abstract problems in chemistry, computer networks, transportation lines and even sociology, as a way to express mathematically the relationships among individuals. Solutions to problems can appear as theorems or algorithms.
        Dr. Stephen T. Hedetniemi, a professor of computer science at Clemson University and former student of Dr. Harary's, said the elegance of the writing in ''Graph Theory'' had been crucial to the specialty's acceptance.
        ''Harary made a beautiful presentation of the theory that hasn't been equaled since,'' Dr. Hedetniemi said. ''The book then caught on as a text.''
        Dr. Harary lectured on graph theory in more than 80 countries. He wrote or contributed to 700 academic papers, in which he sought to apply it to anthropology, linguistics and psychology. He was also a co-author of books about structural models in mathematics and the field of graphical enumeration.
        Frank Harary was born in Manhattan. He received bachelor's and master's degrees from Brooklyn College and, in 1948, a doctorate from the University of California, Berkeley. That year he joined the faculty of the University of Michigan, where he became a professor of mathematics and remained until 1986.
        In 1987, he moved to New Mexico State University, Las Cruces, where he was an emeritus professor of computer science and continued his research until recently. He was a founder of The Journal of Graph Theory and The Journal of Combinatorial Theory.
        Dr. Harary was divorced and lived in Las Cruces. He is survived by two sons, Tom, of Las Cruces, and Joel, of Kandy, Sri Lanka; two daughters, Mimi, of Ann Arbor, and Natalie, of Las Cruces; and one grandchild.
      