
        Max Schmeling, the persistent and meticulous German boxer whose legendarily brief 1938 heavyweight title bout against Joe Louis was so fraught with political and racial overtones that it was called ''the undercard of World War II,'' died on Wednesday at his home in Hollenstedt, Germany, near Hamburg. He was 99.
        His death was made public by the Max Schmeling Foundation in Germany, which was set up by the boxer to aid in charitable causes.
        In one of boxing's more memorable nights and surely among the most electrifying 124 seconds in the history of sport, Louis, then heavyweight champion of the world, crushed Schmeling in front of 70,000 fans at Yankee Stadium. For Louis, the first-round knockout was sweet revenge: two years earlier, in what many consider one of the greatest upsets in heavyweight history, Schmeling had knocked out the undefeated and heavily favored Louis in the 12th round.
        Between the two fights Louis had beaten James J. Braddock and become world heavyweight champion, a title that Schmeling had held from 1930 to 1932. But Louis hungered for a rematch. ''I don't want nobody to call me champ until I beat Schmeling,'' he said.
        And in the supercharged politics of the late 1930's, with Hitler on the march, the Western democracies imperiled and race relations poised to enter a new and more contentious era, what ensued far transcended sport.
        The Nazis had embraced Schmeling after his victory over Louis, touting him as proof of German racial superiority. Schmeling never joined the Nazi Party himself. But from the moment Hitler came to power in 1933, Schmeling had walked a tightrope, seeking simultaneously to please the Nazis while maintaining his relations in New York. That was the world capital of boxing, where Schmeling made most of his money, and where a large percentage of the boxing world -- managers, promoters, fans -- was Jewish.
        When Schmeling arrived in New York to train for the rematch, the police had to spirit him to his hotel through back streets. His conciliatory statements -- that he was a sportsman rather than a politician -- did little to sway widespread public antipathy. Louis, conversely, bore the standard not just of black America, where his status was already nearly mythic, but also of much of white America and especially Jewish America.
        As Schmeling later wrote in his autobiography, he made his way to the ring that night under a hailstorm of banana peels, cigarette packs, soda cups and spit. ''Never in my life did 100 meters seem this long,'' he said. But the worst was yet to come. ''Mangled in the whirring claws of a mad and feverish machine,'' as the writer Bob Considine put it, the German managed to land only two weak punches before Louis finished him off. It was one of the quickest knockouts in heavyweight history; rumors abounded afterward that Schmeling had been killed.
        Schmeling was actually a largely apolitical man who found himself caught up in the much larger forces of history. He had fought in the United States since 1928 and had been generally well liked. Schmeling had been almost a cult figure to the intellectuals of Weimar Germany, which experienced a great boxing craze. But while many of Schmeling's Jewish friends fled for their lives, Schmeling remained and made the transition to the Nazi era, which he regularly defended in the American news media, with disconcerting ease.
        Maximilian Schmeling was born in Klein-Luckow, Germany, on Sept. 28, 1905, the son of a Hamburg sailor. He had his first professional fight in 1924. He won several German and European titles, but the epicenter of boxing was the United States, and in 1928 he came to New York. There, an aggressive young manager, Joe Jacobs, who was Jewish, promoted Schmeling tirelessly and got him his first fights. Schmeling was strikingly, almost maddeningly methodical, biding his time until he saw his opening for his powerful right hand.
        Schmeling won the heavyweight championship on June 11, 1930, by defeating Jack Sharkey at Yankee Stadium, but only when Sharkey, who had been winning the fight on points, fouled Schmeling in the fourth round. After several moments of pandemonium -- in which Jacobs ran into the ring crying ''Foul!'' -- a befuddled referee declared Schmeling the winner. Winning in such a fashion disgusted Schmeling, the first German to hold the crown.
        In their rematch two years later, Sharkey outpointed Schmeling to regain the title. This decision, too, was bitterly disputed. ''We was robbed!'' Jacobs declared afterward. Oddly, the fight made a martyr of Schmeling, and his popularity soared.
        To Hitler, who had extolled boxing in ''Mein Kampf,'' Schmeling was someone to cultivate. Hitler met with him, and when Schmeling married the Czech actress Anny Ondra in July 1933, he sent the newlyweds a Japanese maple.
        Schmeling's attempted comeback sputtered. But after three victories in Germany in 1935, he was once more a contender. The Nazis embraced him all the more, and Schmeling went along. His German fights became great Nazi pageants.
        Schmeling's association with Jacobs was a sore subject, however. The Nazis had banned all Jews from German boxing and decreed that Jacobs could represent Schmeling only in the United States. Schmeling later claimed that the Nazis pressured him to sever ties with Jacobs, and that he refused to do so, even pleading his case personally with Hitler. Jacobs stayed on, though not, perhaps, for the reason Schmeling suggested. For any emissary from Nazi Germany, having a Jewish manager in New York was simply smart business. Moreover, though Jacobs remained in charge, Schmeling reduced him to a minor and often humiliating role.
        On some occasions, Schmeling proved useful to the regime. Fearing an American boycott of the 1936 Olympics in Berlin, for instance, Reich sports officials asked Schmeling to assure Avery Brundage of the American Olympic Committee that Jewish and black athletes from the United States would be treated appropriately, and Schmeling did so. Schmeling later wrote that he had been ''incredibly naïve.''
        Politics reared its head again in June 1936 when Schmeling, at 31, got a shot at the 22-year-old Louis, who was considered all but invincible. But an overconfident Louis trained lackadaisically, while Schmeling studied Louis methodically and spotted a flaw in his technique: that Louis dropped his left arm after jabbing, leaving his face exposed to short, straight rights. That happened to be Schmeling's best punch. A crowd of 46,000 at Yankee Stadium -- reduced by a Jewish boycott as well as by the fans' unwillingness to pay dearly for what promised to be a short fight -- watched in wonder as Schmeling undid Louis with a numbing tattoo of rights.
        The torture finally ended in the 12th round. Louis had to be carried to his dressing room; when he finally could speak, he said he remembered nothing after the second round. In Germany, millions listened exultantly as the Nazi announcer shouted ''Aus! Aus! Aus!'' (''Out! Out! Out!'') as Louis went down for good.
        Schmeling returned to Germany aboard the Hindenburg, with Nazi planes escorting the dirigible as it landed. He dined with Goebbels and Hitler. Later, with Schmeling at his side, Hitler watched films of the fight, slapping his thigh with glee every time Schmeling connected. Hitler ordered that fight films -- titled ''Schmeling's Victory: A German Victory'' -- be shown in theaters throughout Germany.
        Schmeling's victory would normally have earned him a title bout against Braddock. But anti-Nazi groups, claiming that Schmeling was as much a German commodity as Krupp steel, and that his winnings helped prop up the financially troubled Hitler regime, threatened to boycott the fight. Louis got the shot; Schmeling -- and the Nazis -- were outraged. When Louis beat Braddock, a Louis-Schmeling rematch became inevitable, and the anticipation was enormous for the fight on June 22, 1938.
        ''White Americans -- even while some of them were lynching black people in the South -- were depending on me to K.O. a German,'' Louis wrote in his autobiography. ''I knew I had to get Schmeling good. I had my own personal reasons, and the whole damned country was depending on me.''
        Publicly, Louis, who was favored to win, predicted that he would knock out Schmeling in two rounds; privately, he said he was afraid he would kill him.
        Schmeling had always begun his bouts slowly, but this time, Louis denied him that luxury. In a series of events immortalized by the scratchy play-by-play of Clem McCarthy of NBC, Louis quickly hit Schmeling with two left hooks, then a right to the chin, and then a crushing blow to the kidney. Schmeling let out a scream -- ''half human, half animal'' -- and was quickly down. Two times he got up, only to go down again under Louis's unrelenting blows. The referee, Arthur Donovan, soon counted him out. ''Further counting was useless,'' The New York Times reported. ''Donovan could have counted off a century and Max could not have regained his feet.''
        Schmeling was taken to the Polyclinic Hospital in Manhattan, where he was found to have two broken vertebrae. On the way, his ambulance steered clear of Harlem, where tens of thousands filled the streets. In every major black community in America there were similar celebrations. In Germany, the radio broadcast quickly ended.
        For two weeks, Schmeling remained hospitalized, and he debarked in Germany on a stretcher. This time, there was no welcome home, though he neither fell into disgrace nor disappeared in quite the way he later claimed. His defeat, he would say later, was really a blessing. ''A victory over Joe Louis would have made me forever the 'Aryan Show Horse' of the Third Reich,'' he wrote.
        Schmeling's relationship with the regime remained ambiguous. In September 1938, for instance, he attended the annual Nazi Party rally in Nuremberg, as he had many times before. But two months later, during the Kristallnacht pogrom, he sheltered two Jewish children, the sons of an old friend, in his suite at the Excelsior Hotel in Berlin. ''If we had been found in his apartment, I would not be here this evening and neither would Max,'' said Henri Lewin, one of those protected by Schmeling, at a dinner honoring the boxer in 1989 at the Sands Hotel in Las Vegas. Mr. Lewin was president of the hotel at the time.
        Schmeling dreamed of a third fight with Louis, but the war intervened. He was inducted into the German Army and trained as a paratrooper, his progress documented avidly by the Nazi press. In May 1941 he was injured jumping into Crete, and there were reports he had been killed; obituaries appeared in many American newspapers. When he did surface, he displeased Nazi authorities by declining to confirm reports of British atrocities during the fighting.
        Still, Schmeling served the regime, staging boxing exhibitions for German soldiers throughout occupied Europe, then by visiting G.I.'s in German prisoner-of-war camps. Some of the American soldiers greeted him as a sports hero; others shunned him as a Nazi shill.
        A British military court cleared Schmeling of any Nazi taint. But having lost most of his considerable wealth during the war, Schmeling was forced to return to the ring. He then bought a farm, where he raised tobacco and minks. His fortunes improved after James A. Farley, former postmaster general and Democratic Party chairman who had been New York State Athletic commissioner during Schmeling's glory years, gave him several Coca-Cola distributorships in Germany.
        Once again, Schmeling became a wealthy man. He also became a symbol of a postwar West Germany with few heroes from the Nazi era to promote, regularly appearing on German television, honored on all important birthdays. Rarely did he speak substantively about the Nazi years, talking only with friendly journalists. His three autobiographies danced around many issues.
        Anny Ondra died in 1987; the couple had no children, and he leaves no survivors.
        Veterans' groups, among others, blocked Schmeling's initial attempts to return to the United States after World War II. He got a visa in 1954, however, and paid a surprise visit to Joe Louis, then living in Chicago. ''I said 'Joe, you didn't believe all those bad things they wrote about me,''' Schmeling later wrote. ''He said he knew that it was all bull, and so we struck up a warm friendship.''
        They were to see each other several times before Louis's death in 1981. When Louis was profiled on the television show ''This is Your Life,'' Schmeling showed up, as he did when Frank Sinatra staged a benefit for Louis in Las Vegas. When Louis died, Schmeling reportedly sent money to his widow. ''I didn't only like him, I loved him,'' he said.
        Correction:  February 10, 2005, Thursday  The obituary of the boxer Max Schmeling on Saturday misstated the significance of Jack Sharkey's victory over him in their 1932 rematch. Sharkey, who outpointed Schmeling, was awarded the heavyweight title for the first time; he did not regain it. Schmeling won their earlier bout, in 1930, but the championship had been vacant.
      