
        Karl Linn, a prominent landscape designer who created opulent spaces for some of the country's best-known architects but abandoned the work to spend the rest of his career building community gardens in devastated urban neighborhoods, died on Feb. 3 at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 81.
        The cause was acute myelogenous leukemia, his wife, Nicole Milner, said.
        The landscape architect for Ludwig Mies van der Rohe's Seagram Building in New York, Mr. Linn also designed the interior landscaping for the Four Seasons Restaurant. But in the late 1950's he turned to making community gardens in depressed neighborhoods around the country.
        Trained as a psychoanalyst, Mr. Linn came to believe that architecture should reflect a deep commitment to social justice. In New York, Washington, Philadelphia, the Bay Area and elsewhere, he helped inner-city residents transform vacant lots into ''neighborhood commons,'' urban variations on the traditional village green that brought neighbors, and strangers, together.
        He was in the business, quite literally, of creating rootedness: where a garden flourished, Mr. Linn believed, so, too, would a community. His gardens are noted for their use of native plants, bubbling fountains, colorful mosaics, benches positioned to encourage face-to-face contact and, above all, their involvement of neighborhood residents. Mr. Linn's work on one Bay Area garden was the subject of a documentary, ''A Lot in Common,'' broadcast on PBS stations last year.
        Karl Linn was born on March 11, 1923, in Dessow, later part of East Germany. He grew up on a 15-acre farm filled with fruit trees: his mother had founded the place in 1910 to train mental-health professionals in the art of ''horticultural therapy.'' The only Jews in their village, the Linns fled Germany for Palestine in 1934. They established a farm near Haifa, and after his parents became too ill to run it, Karl left school at 14 to work the land full time. He graduated from the Kadoorie Agricultural School in Palestine and later helped found a kibbutz, Maagan Michael.
        In 1946, Mr. Linn went to Switzerland to train as a psychoanalyst. He eventually settled in New York, where he helped found a school for emotionally disturbed children and maintained a private practice as a child psychotherapist. He took up landscape architecture again in the early 1950's, seeking to integrate his belief in the restorative power of nature with his psychotherapeutic work.
        But in those years, as Mr. Linn discovered to his increasing discomfort, landscape architecture meant fattening the land of well-heeled suburbanites. ''When I practiced landscape architecture in the 50's,'' he told Sierra magazine in 2001, ''those who were affluent liked to show off -- the model of success being a huge lawn or a big tree that stood alone, looking like a king with a poochy belly, taking up all the nutrients in the soil.''
        He came to reject what he called ''landscapes of affluence,'' and in 1961 founded the Neighborhood Renewal Corps, based in Philadelphia, which assisted members of disadvantaged communities in reclaiming, designing and rebuilding blighted urban spaces. Similar programs followed in Washington, Chicago, Boston and other cities. Mr. Linn was also a co-founder, in 1989, of the Urban Habitat Program, a project of the Earth Island Institute.
        ''The garden touches a core of humanness,'' he told The Jewish Bulletin of Northern California in 2003. ''Because of all the war and terrorist activities and means of mass destruction, people think human nature at its core is warring. But there is a lot of evidence that human beings are really wonderfully put-together cosmic creatures. When I see all this volunteerism, it gives me confidence that a peaceful society is possible.''
        A fellow of the American Society of Landscape Architects, Mr. Linn was also a founder of Architects/Designers/Planners for Social Responsibility. Until his retirement in 1986, he was a faculty member of the New Jersey Institute of Technology; he previously taught at the University of Pennsylvania's School of Fine Arts and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
        Mr. Linn's first two marriages ended in divorce. He is survived by his third wife, Ms. Milner; a brother, Henry, of Forest Hills, N.Y.; a son from an earlier marriage, Mark, of Haddonfield, N.J.; three stepchildren, Joel Ginsberg of San Francisco, Nomi Wanag of Oakland and Daniel Ginsberg of Gig Harbor, Wash.; and three grandchildren.
      