
        Hugh W. Nibley, a Mormon religious scholar who was one of the most active and outspoken defenders of Mormon writings and teachings, died yesterday at his home in Provo, Utah. He was 94.
        A spokesman for the family, Chris Thomas, said Dr. Nibley had been in declining health in recent months.
        Though not a member of the formal hierarchy of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Dr. Nibley, a professor emeritus of ancient scripture at Brigham Young University, was regularly called on by senior church officials to research and respond to questions about or criticisms of Mormon teachings.
        Unlike many previous Mormon defenders, Dr. Nibley used his training as a historian to support Mormon beliefs, making academic examinations of the origins and documentation of events and people in Mormon history. He focused his expertise on the Mormon Church's most sacred texts, particularly the Book of Mormon and the Pearl of Great Price, a collection of the writings of Joseph Smith, the founder of Mormonism.
        For much of the last two decades, Dr. Nibley worked on a defense of the portion of the Pearl of Great Price known as the Book of Abraham, which was the translation by Smith of an ancient Egyptian papyrus that he obtained in 1835 but that went missing after his death.
        In 1967 a researcher discovered the papyrus in the collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. It was returned to the church, but new studies of the document, based on modern Egyptian scholarship including an understanding of hieroglyphics not available when Smith was alive, claimed that the document was a common Egyptian funerary document. Dr. Nibley rejected that interpretation.
        Dr. Nibley has been the subject of heated debates among Mormons and former church members recently as one of his daughters, Martha Beck, of Phoenix, has prepared to publish a memoir in which she accuses her father of sexually abusing her as a child. The book, ''Leaving the Saints: How I Lost the Mormons and Found My Faith,'' is to be published next month by Crown.
        Dr. Nibley's seven other children all signed a statement condemning the book, saying they were ''saddened by the book's countless errors, falsehoods, contradictions and gross distortions.'' They said that Dr. Nibley had vigorously denied the accusations, which were based on suppressed memories that Martha Beck said she recovered in 1990.
        In addition to his children, Dr. Nibley is survived by his wife, Phyllis Draper Nibley; a brother; a sister; 24 grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
        Hugh Winder Nibley was born in Portland, Ore. He grew up there and in Los Angeles, where he graduated from the University of California, Los Angeles, with a history degree. He earned a doctorate in classics at Berkeley, training that led him to the military intelligence corps when he joined the Army in 1942.
        After World War II most of his life was spent in Utah, where he taught at Brigham Young from 1946 through 1994.
        Although a defender of Mormonism, within the church he was also an outspoken critic. In a 1984 commencement address at Brigham Young, with leaders of the university and high-ranking church officials in attendance, Dr. Nibley made a pointed contrast between leaders and managers, extolling the first while denigrating the second.
        ''That one caused a lot of trouble,'' Dr. Nibley told the Deseret News, a newspaper affiliated with the Mormon church, in a 2003 interview. He added that even the university's president ''hated it.''
      