
        Tyrone Davis, a Chicago singer who melded the ache of the blues with a more sophisticated, urban soul style in a string of hits in the 1960's and 70's, died on Wednesday in Hinsdale, Ill., near Chicago. He was 66 and lived in Oak Brook, Ill.
        The cause was pneumonia, said Leo Graham, Mr. Davis's longtime producer and business partner. Mr. Davis had been hospitalized in a coma since having a stroke last September, Mr. Graham said.
        Born in Greenville, Miss., Mr. Davis moved to Chicago as a young man and worked as a chauffeur for the blues guitarist Freddie King. He soon befriended many of the blues stars of the day, among them Bobby (Blue) Bland and Little Milton, and began to sing in local clubs.
        One night early in his career Mr. Davis joined Mr. Bland onstage, mimicking that singer's languid, bluesy croon. Mr. Bland, Mr. Davis later recalled, offered some advice. ''Be you,'' he said, ''don't be me.''
        That advice, he said in an interview with The Chicago Tribune, was ''the best thing that ever happened to me.''
        In a series of recordings for the Dakar label, beginning with ''Can I Change My Mind'' in 1968, Mr. Davis developed a distinctive style that kept the blues as an emotional touchstone but branched into more complex R&B arrangements akin to the songs of Curtis Mayfield. Mr. Davis's voice, a high baritone, was carefully mannered in quavers and growls that traced the up-and-down romantic narratives of his ballads.
        ''Can I Change My Mind,'' a No. 5 pop hit, follows a man who has come too late to second thoughts about leaving his woman. ''She didn't bat an eye,'' he sings with bitter regret in the first line, ''as I packed my bags to leave.''
        Mr. Davis's soul hits, among them ''Is It Something You've Got,'' ''Turn Back the Hands of Time'' (which reached No. 3 on the pop charts), ''Could I Forget You'' and ''I Had It All the Time,'' were a regular presence on the R&B charts through the 70's.
        After his 1975 hit ''Turning Point,'' he left Dakar for Columbia, where he recorded ''Give It Up (Turn It Loose),'' ''This I Swear'' and other songs. His career cooled after the early 80's, but he continued to record and tour frequently. His most recent album, ''Legendary Hall of Famer,'' was released by Endzone Entertainment in October, shortly after his stroke.
        Mr. Davis's survivors include his wife, Ann, and many children and grandchildren.
      