
        Tom Patterson, the native son who dreamed of and started the Stratford Festival of Canada, the largest repertory theater in North America, died on Sunday at a hospital in Toronto. He was 84.
        His death was made public by the festival's artistic director, Richard Monette. Now made up of four theaters, including one bearing Mr. Patterson's name, the festival is preparing for its 53rd season and as many as 600,000 visitors.
        Mr. Patterson was a journalist with no theatrical credentials when he became smitten with the idea of casting the Bard of Stratford-on-Avon as the savior of Stratford, Ontario. A small town on the wane, it boasted its own River Avon, but was vanishing along with its earlier livelihood, servicing locomotives.
        What Mr. Patterson lacked in knowledge about staging plays, he more than made up with sheer persistence. He persuaded the mayor and town council of Stratford to invest $30,000 in his notion. And he got the attention of luminaries like Tyrone Guthrie, the actor and director, and Alec Guinness, the actor, who were intrigued enough to lend their support in its early days.
        The Stratford Shakespearean Festival, as it was once called, was born in 1953, with Mr. Patterson as its general manager. Guthrie, a forceful man with influence, recognized the possibilities of a Shakespeare beachhead in a small Ontario town, with a beautiful riverfront, a magnet remote from urban centers; he became its first director.
        Conceived as a national venture, it attracted a first-rate acting company starting with its first year. Guinness spoke the opening lines of ''Richard III'' on July 13, 1953, ushering in a new era for Stratford, Ont., and the theater in North America.
        Although called the Shakespearean Festival into the 1960's, it soon offered a panoply of plays, by Ibsen, O'Neill and Brecht, and musicals, too, as the annual event matured and grew into a tradition. The 53rd season, running from April into November, offers several Shakespeare plays, including ''Measure for Measure'' at the Tom Patterson Theater, as well as ''Cat on a Hot Tin Roof,'' ''The Brothers Karamazov,'' ''Orpheus Descending,'' ''Into the Woods'' and ''Hello, Dolly!,'' among others.
        Harry Thomas Patterson, the son of a manufacturer, became a magazine writer. He served as a sergeant in the Canadian Army from 1939 to 1945 and returned from the war with an appreciation of the cultural riches he saw in London and Italy. He graduated from the University of Toronto in 1948 and worked for a trade publication, Civic Administration, until the idea of a festival in his native Stratford became his life.
        He remained its general manager until 1967, when he became a freelance producer and a patron consultant to the festival. The recipient of many awards, he made an emotional appearance before a capacity audience for ''Richard III'' at the festival's 50th season in 2002; his final visit, to the Festival Theater, was last year.
        Mr. Patterson is survived by his second wife, Patricia; three sons, Robert, of Salt Spring Island, B.C., and Timothy and Lyle of Toronto; a daughter, Lucy, also of Toronto; and eight grandchildren.
      