
        Marcello Viotti, a prominent Swiss-born conductor with a flourishing European career, died yesterday in a hospital in Munich. He was 50.
        His brother, Silvio Viotti, announced his death. A spokesman for the Bavarian Radio said Mr. Viotti had a stroke last week after a rehearsal for a concert performance of Jules Massenet's ''Manon'' with the Munich Radio Orchestra, where he had been chief conductor from 1998 until last fall. He had emergency surgery for a blood clot in the jugular vein, but remained in a coma from which he never awoke.
        A regular guest at opera houses around the world, including the Metropolitan Opera, where he conducted ''Aida'' last fall, Mr. Viotti was music director of La Fenice in Venice, where he was to have conducted ''Parsifal'' in March. He had resigned his post as chief conductor of the Munich Radio Orchestra in protest over budget cuts that threatened to eliminate the orchestra altogether, but he was honoring his conducting engagements with the group for the remainder of his contract, which ran through 2006.
        On Feb. 5, he opened a run of concert performances of ''Norma'' with Edita Gruberova at the Vienna State Opera.
        Mr. Viotti's strong, vital conducting and warm phrasing made him a natural for Italian opera, from Donizetti to Verdi to Puccini. However, he also had a deep connection to French music; he was born and raised in the French-speaking region of Switzerland and lived in France with his wife and four children (as well as his private collection of original musical scores by great composers). He particularly championed the operas of Massenet, whom he considered underrated.
        His first major new production at the Vienna State Opera was Massenet's ''Hérodiade'' in 1995 (with Agnes Baltsa and Plácido Domingo); his first new production in Venice was of that composer's ''Thaïs''; and in December and January, he led a run of Massenet's ''Roi de Lahore'' there in a new critical edition that he helped prepare.
        Born in Switzerland on June 29, 1954, to Italian parents, Mr. Viotti studied piano, singing and cello at the conservatory in Lausanne. His first professional engagement was in the chorus of Radio Suisse Romande under Wolfgang Sawallisch, who was a tremendously powerful influence and inspiration for him. After Mr. Sawallisch advised him to start in theater, Mr. Viotti worked as a coach and assistant at the opera house in Turin, where he later returned as a regular guest conductor, before becoming the assistant of the conductor Giuseppe Patané.
        In 1982 Mr. Viotti won first prize in the Gino Marinuzzi competition in Italy, which led to more prestigious engagements; stepping in for Riccardo Muti at the head of the Berlin Philharmonic at short notice in 1990 brought him yet more international attention. His permanent posts included stints as artistic director of the Lucerne opera house; as general music director in Bremen; as chief conductor of the Saarbrücken Radio Orchestra; and as one of three chief conductors of the radio orchestra in Leipzig.
        He regularly appeared around the world at the major opera houses (from Berlin to Vienna to San Francisco); at orchestras (including the Vienna Philharmonic and the New York Philharmonic, where he was scheduled to return in 2006); and at festivals (including the Salzburg Festival, where he was to lead a new ''La Traviata'' this summer, with Anna Netrebko in the title role).
        For an opera specialist in an age of declining recordings, Mr. Viotti's recorded legacy is considerable, including a fine ''Gioconda'' with Mr. Domingo and Violeta Urmana on EMI in 2003. In addition to relatively mainstream repertory -- like solo albums by Mr. Domingo and Rolando Villazon, or major opera recordings like Donizetti's ''Favorite'' with Ramón Vargas and Vesselina Kasarova -- he delighted in little-known pieces, like Franchetti's ''Cristoforo Columbo,'' Chausson's ''Roi Arthus'' and Leoncavallo's ''I Medici.''
        He also recorded orchestral works, including the complete symphonies of Schubert, Poulenc's orchestral music and the piano concertos of Frank Martin.
        ''The world is so interesting,'' Mr. Viotti once said in an interview, ''that you really need two or three lives at once.''
        Besides his brother, Silvio, his survivors include his father, his wife, two daughters and two sons.
      