
        Gwendolyn Knight, a painter and sculptor from the 1930's who emerged from the shadow of her husband, the painter Jacob Lawrence, late in her life, died on Feb. 18 at her home in Seattle. She was 91.
        Although Ms. Knight did not begin to exhibit formally until the 1970's and was long known as the wife of Mr. Lawrence, a leading visual chronicler of the African-American experience, she began painting when she was young and was still setting out in new directions in old age.
        This was evident in her first retrospective, titled ''Never Late for Heaven: The Art of Gwen Knight,'' at the Tacoma Art Museum in 2003. Having devoted most of her career to oil portraits of friends, figure studies of dancers, and watercolor and gouache landscapes that seemed to be companion pieces to her husband's work, she suddenly began in the 1990's to draw horses and cats from memory -- quick, lyrical sketches rendered as etchings and monoprints.
        ''It wasn't necessary for me to have acclaim,'' she told Charles H. Rowell in an interview for Callaloo magazine in 1988. ''I just knew that I wanted to do it, so I did it whenever I could.''
        Gwendolyn Clarine Knight was born in Bridgetown, Barbados, on May 26, 1913, the only child of Malcolm and Miriam Knight. Her father died when she was 2. In 1920, she traveled with a foster family to St. Louis, Mo., and then to New York City when she was 13.
        After graduating in 1930 from the Wadleigh High School for Girls, an integrated school in Harlem, she spent two years at the Howard University School of Fine Arts, where she was encouraged by her teachers but had to drop out because of the Depression.
        Returning to Harlem, she met the sculptor Augusta Savage, who became her mentor and obtained support for her from the Works Progress Administration. While taking classes at the Harlem Community Art Center she met Mr. Lawrence, whom she married in 1941.
        She followed him when he taught at Black Mountain College in Ashville, N.C.; Brandeis University in Boston; and Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture in Maine. In 1949, when Mr. Lawrence was hospitalized with depression, she worked for a time for Condé Nast publications.
        In the early 1960's, the couple lived in Nigeria, whose native arts influenced Ms. Knight. In 1971, they moved to Seattle, where Mr. Lawrence took a teaching position at the University of Washington School of Art and Ms. Knight had her first one-woman exhibition in 1976. Mr. Lawrence died in 2000.
      