
        Albert Schatz, a microbiologist who in the 1940's helped develop the powerful antibiotic streptomycin but later had to go to court to be recognized as a co-discoverer of the drug, died on Jan. 17 at his home in Philadelphia. He was 84.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, his wife, Vivian, said.
        Dr. Schatz, who taught at Temple University until his retirement in 1981, did his work on streptomycin in 1943. He was a 23-year-old graduate student, working in the Rutgers University laboratory of Selman A. Waksman, an eminent microbiologist.
        To Dr. Schatz's sorrow, as he maintained long afterward, Dr. Waksman gradually assumed sole public credit for the discovery. In 1952, Dr. Waksman was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for work leading to the development of streptomycin.
        Streptomycin was one of the first in an emerging class of drugs derived from actinomycetes, threadlike bacteria found in soil. Hailed as a miracle drug, it was considered the first effective treatment for tuberculosis. (In combination with other drugs, streptomycin is still sometimes used to treat tuberculosis.) It also proved effective against a number of so-called gram-negative organisms, including those that cause typhoid, tularemia and plague. Streptomycin was particularly valuable because gram-negative organisms did not typically respond to the arsenal of penicillin and sulfa drugs.
        Albert Israel Schatz was born on Feb. 2, 1920, in Norwich, Conn., and raised in Passaic, N.J. He received a bachelor's degree in soil microbiology from Rutgers in 1942 and afterward began his work under Dr. Waksman, head of the university's soil microbiology laboratory. After serving in the Air Force, Dr. Schatz returned to the laboratory in 1943.
        At the time, Dr. Waksman's laboratory was developing new antibiotics. Dr. Schatz volunteered to search for one that could be used against tuberculosis. Earning $40 a month, he worked by himself in a basement to reduce the risk of infection to colleagues, sometimes sleeping there at night. After three and a half months, he isolated the antibiotic that became known as streptomycin.
        Dr. Schatz received his doctorate from Rutgers in 1945. In 1950, he sued Dr. Waksman and the university's research foundation, seeking credit as co-discoverer and a percentage of the royalties. In an out-of-court settlement, Dr. Schatz was named a co-discoverer. He and several other members of the laboratory were also awarded a percentage of the royalties. (Dr. Schatz was awarded 3 percent, Dr. Waksman 10 percent, Mrs. Schatz said.) Dr. Waksman died in 1973.
        Dr. Schatz, who published several books and more than 700 scientific papers, taught at Brooklyn College; the National Agricultural College in Doylestown, Pa.; the University of Chile; and elsewhere. He joined the Temple University faculty in 1969. His other work included research on the toxic effects of fluoridated drinking water.
        Besides his wife, the former Vivian Rosenfeld, who is also a microbiologist, Dr. Schatz is survived by a sister, Elaine Davidson of Palm Coast, Fla.; two daughters, Linda Schatz and Diane Klein, both of Philadelphia; and four grandchildren.
        In 1994, Dr. Schatz was awarded the Rutgers University Medal, the university's highest honor, for his work on streptomycin.
      