
        Jef Raskin, a computer technology pioneer who started the team that created the Macintosh computer, died Saturday at his home in Pacifica, Calif., at age 61. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Linda Blum.
        Mr. Raskin, who named the Macintosh after his favorite apple but altered the spelling for copyright reasons, played a significant role in transforming computers into friendlier machines, helping to catapult them into the commercial sphere. As the 31st employee at Apple Computer, Mr. Raskin advocated forcefully for the company to develop a computer that was easy for people to use, and he headed the Macintosh project starting in 1979.
        ''At that time, computers were for nerds,'' said Bill Atkinson, a software designer who Mr. Raskin recruited to work at Apple in 1978. ''You had to be some kind of geek to even want to use a computer. He wanted to make them more usable and friendly to people who weren't geeks.''
        Mr. Raskin left Apple in 1982 after his relationship with Steve Jobs, the company's co-founder, soured. But he is credited with providing the vision for the Macintosh, the highly accessible and affordable computer that hit stores in 1984.
        ''He really spent his life urging a degree of simplicity where computers would be not only easy to use but delightful,'' said Steven Levy, a technology writer and the author of ''Insanely Great,'' a history of the Macintosh computer.
        By almost any measure, Mr. Raskin was a Renaissance man. He was an accomplished musician, composer, conductor and painter, as well as a mathematician, book author and model airplane designer.
        Born in New York City, Mr. Raskin studied mathematics and philosophy at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, graduating in 1965. He earned a master's degree in computer science at Pennsylvania State University in 1967. His first computer program, a music program, was part of his master's thesis.
        Mr. Raskin entered a graduate music program at the University of California at San Diego, but stopped to teach art, photography and computer science there, working as an assistant professor from 1970 until 1974.
        After founding a software consulting company, Mr. Raskin joined Apple in 1978 as the director of publications and wrote the manual for the Apple II. Mr. Raskin pioneered the use of the word ''font'' to refer to digital typefaces, and was among the creators of the ''click and drag'' method of manipulating icons on a computer screen, according to a statement released by his family.
        ''One of the things that Raskin taught me early was that the person was important and the computer wasn't,'' Mr. Atkinson said.
        Mr. Raskin is often referred to as the ''father of the Macintosh.'' Among Mr. Raskin's greatest legacies was the Macintosh project, which was taken over by Mr. Jobs in 1982.
        By many accounts, Mr. Jobs and Mr. Raskin had differing visions of what the Macintosh should be.
        ''Jef had an idea of a much more focused machine in mind, not really a general-purpose computer which the Mac became,'' Mr. Levy said. ''He had this idea of a Swiss Army knife of computers, and Steve really wanted it to be a new kind of computer which could perform any kind of task.''
        ''It was clear that Steve's vision was going to be the one that was going to take the Macintosh through to its development,'' Mr. Levy added.
        After Mr. Raskin left Apple, he founded his own company, Information Appliance, and created the Canon Cat, a computer that had little impact on the industry.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Raskin was working on Archy, a computer program that performed common tasks like word processing.
        ''He never stopped learning and teaching, and was teaching and learning and thinking up to this week,'' Ms. Blum said.
        In addition to Ms. Blum, his wife of 23 years, Mr. Raskin is survived by three children: Aenea, 13, Aviva, 17, and Aza, 21.
      