
        Guillermo Cabrera Infante, a Cuban novelist in exile whose lavishly textured prose conjured the country he knew before the revolution he once supported, died on Monday at a hospital in London, where he had lived for 39 years. He was 75.
        The cause was septicemia, a blood infection, his family and a spokeswoman for his Spanish literary agent told The Associated Press.
        G. Cabrera Infante, as he signed most of his work, was a novelist, short-story writer, essayist, critic, journalist and translator. He first broke into print as a film critic in Cuba.
        He was best known for his hefty, autobiographical and imaginatively and bawdily humorous novels, ''Three Trapped Tigers'' (1971) and ''Infante's Inferno'' (1984). In them he painted the Havana of his youth, torn between the waning dictatorship of Fulgencio Batista and the rise of Fidel Castro's promising new Cuba.
        Most recently, in the United States, he published ''Guilty of Dancing the Chachachá'' (2001), three stories he wrote in Spanish and translated himself, set in Havana as Mr. Castro's leadership took hold. A reviewer for The New York Times, Charles Wilson, said that the dialogues of the third story, from which the book took its title, gave ''a vivid sense of the frustrations the new government posed for writers and artists.''
        The writer Mario Vargas Llosa once compared Mr. Cabrera Infante and his lively sense of humor to writers like Lewis Carroll and James Joyce. But, he said in a 1998 essay for The Nation, his style always remained ''unmistakably his own.''
        ''For the sake of a joke, a parody, a pun, an acrobatic stunt of wit, a verbal ricochet, Cabrera Infante has always been prepared to make all the enemies on earth, to lose his friends and perhaps his life,'' Mr. Vargas Llosa wrote. ''Because for him, humor is not as it is for common mortals, a mere recreation of the spirit, a diversion that relaxes the mind, but rather a compulsive way of challenging the world as it is.''
        Mr. Cabrera Infante was born in Gibara, Cuba, where Europeans first encountered tobacco-smoking Indians and Columbus supposedly declined the offer of a native cigar. A history of the cigar and famous smokers became the theme of the first book Mr. Cabrera Infante originally wrote in English, ''Holy Smoke'' (1986).
        Growing up in Cuba in the 1930's and 1940's, he studied at the University of Havana and graduated in 1956. A supporter of Mr. Castro's uprising, he was briefly jailed, and after Batista's fall he received a post in the bureau of cultural affairs, overseeing a weekly literary supplement for Mr. Castro's organ Revolución.
        In the early 1960's, with his enthusiasm for Mr. Castro cooling, he got a diplomatic posting to Belgium and remained in exile thereafter.
        He finished and published ''Three Trapped Tigers,'' written in the street vernacular of Havana and focusing on its night life in the pre-Castro era.
        ''A vastly comic novel,'' commented David Gallagher in The Times when it appeared in the United States in 1971. ''A novel where comedy is a strategy against sadness, against mediocrity, against the limitations of an underdeveloped island.''
        The novel was adapted by Mr. Cabrera Infante as the screenplay for ''The Lost City,'' which is in postproduction and is directed by a fellow Cuban native, Andy Garcia. The film features a Havana club owner trapped in the twilight of the Batista era and three brothers having to choose sides. Mr. Garcia plays the eldest, with Bill Murray as an American writer and Dustin Hoffman as the mobster Meyer Lansky.
        Critics looked less kindly upon ''Infante's Inferno,'' with what they saw as its relentless puns and double-entendres. His other books, published in the United States, included ''Mea Cuba'' (1994), a collection of his writings about that country; and ''A View of Dawn in the Tropics'' (1974), a series of vignettes.
        Mr. Cabrera Infante is survived by his wife of 44 years, Miriam Gomez, an actress; and two daughters from his first marriage, Ana and Carola.
      