
        Ara Berberian, a warm-voiced bass who sang for 20 years at the Metropolitan Opera, died early Monday in his sleep at his winter home in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 74.
        The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Ginny.
        Mr. Berberian's operatic repertory included more than 100 roles, from Pimen and Varlaam in Mussorgsky's ''Boris Godunov'' to Don Basilio in ''The Barber of Seville.'' He sang everywhere from New York to Tel Aviv, San Francisco to Japan. He made his Metropolitan Opera debut in 1979, appearing in Meyerbeer's ''Prophète,'' and continued to appear there for more than 300 performances, until a final ''La Bohème'' in 1997.
        He was not exclusively an opera singer. Other notable credits included the 1964 studio recording of ''Oklahoma!,'' in which he sang Jud Fry to John Raitt's Curly; and a performance of the national anthem before a World Series game in 1984, when the Detroit Tigers were playing the San Diego Padres, an experience he described as more exciting than his Met debut.
        Born on May 14, 1930, in Detroit to Armenian parents, Mr. Berberian attended the Culver Military Academy in Indiana before continuing on to the University of Michigan, where he studied economics and then earned a law degree; he practiced law for a year. Mr. Berberian, whose uncle had been a professional boxer, also flirted with a career in sports, pitching for the minor-league Kansas City Athletics before deciding in favor of classical music. He did remain in touch with the baseball world through a Culver classmate, George Steinbrenner.
        Having studied voice privately at the University of Michigan and participated in numerous productions, he joined the Army and its Army Chorus. On leaving the Army in 1958, he settled in New York, where he studied with Beverly Johnson, sang with various choruses and auditioned, getting jobs with the Robert Shaw Chorale and the New York City Opera. Laszlo Halasz, the founder of the New York City Opera, and Lili Chookasian, the mezzo-soprano, introduced him to his future wife, a chorus singer and fellow Armenian, in a performance of the Verdi Requiem.
        After his retirement Mr. Berberian continued to teach, privately and in master classes. He also became involved in conservation, both of land -- a few years ago he sold 16 undeveloped acres to the city of Southfield, the Detroit suburb where he lived, for part of a nature preserve -- and of old barns, which he bought and reassembled at his year-round home in Southfield.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his sons Harry Artin Berberian and Ara Jon Berberian; a daughter, Suzanne Matern; sisters Alice Haidostian, Hasmig Imirzian and Balig Stein; and two grandchildren.
      