
        Martin J. Hillenbrand, a former State Department expert on European affairs who was ambassador to Hungary and Germany, died on Feb. 2 at his home in Athens, Ga. He was 89.
        His death was announced by the University of Georgia, where he was Dean Rusk emeritus professor of international relations.
        In 37 years in the Foreign Service, Mr. Hillenbrand filled high-level positions on the European fault lines of East-West confrontation. He was the assistant secretary of state for European affairs from 1969 until 1972, when President Richard M. Nixon sent him to Bonn as his ambassador to what was then West Germany.
        Mr. Hillenbrand's expertise in German affairs was called upon to help smooth relations with other Europeans and keep West Germany firmly aligned with Washington.
        His experience predated the Berlin crisis of 1962, when he led the German desk at the State Department.
        The next year he was the chargé d'affaires in Bonn, dealing with a government that required constant assurances of America's commitment to German reunification through free elections.
        Martin Joseph Hillenbrand was born in Youngstown, Ohio, and grew up in Chicago. He graduated from the University of Dayton in 1937. He received a master's degree in 1938 and a doctorate in 1948 from Columbia and did postgraduate work at Harvard.
        He entered the Foreign Service in 1939 as vice consul in Zürich. His next stop was Rangoon, Burma, where he met and married Faith Stewart, who died last May. They had been married 62 years.
        After World War II, Mr. Hillenbrand served in Bremen, Washington and Paris, rising to embassy first secretary. He became an American political adviser in Berlin in 1956 and directed the Office of German Affairs at State from 1958 to 1962, then led a Berlin Task Force.
        He was deputy chief of mission in Bonn from 1963 to 1967, when he also led the Fulbright Commission for Germany. He was ambassador to Hungary from 1967 to 1969, returned to Washington as assistant secretary for European affairs and presided at the embassy in Bonn from 1972 to 1976.
        Retiring from the State Department, he became the director general of the Atlantic Institute for International Affairs in Paris, a post he held until 1982. Then, at the University of Georgia, he was the first Rusk professor on the political science faculty, directed its Center for Global Policy Studies and was co-director of the Center for East-West Trade Policy.
        After retiring from the university in 1997, he published ''Fragments of Our Time: Memoirs of a Diplomat,'' which remains in print.
        Mr. Hillenbrand is survived by a daughter, Ruth Marie Quinet, of Seattle; two sons, David M., of Toronto, and John S., of Athens, Ga.; and three grandsons.
      