
        George A. Dudley, an architect who coordinated large civic projects at home and abroad, including the construction of several campuses for the State University of New York, died on Sunday at his home in Rensselaerville, N.Y. He was 90.
        The cause was pneumonia, his family said.
        In the early 1960's, Mr. Dudley led the newly founded State University Construction Fund in financing, planning, designing and supervising the building of SUNY campuses in Stony Brook, New Paltz, Buffalo, Oneonta and Plattsburgh, among other university projects.
        He also guided public construction overseas. As president of the IBEC Housing Corporation from 1948 to 1960, he built more than 10,000 low-cost housing units in Puerto Rico, Peru, Venezuela, Iran and India. In the 1970's and 80's, he planned or advised Middle East developments like the Kuwait Institute for Scientific Research and the Abu Nuwas effort to revitalize downtown Baghdad.
        George Austin Dudley was born in Pittsburgh on Dec. 24, 1914. At Yale, where his father was dean of the engineering school, he received two bachelor's degrees and a master's degree in urban planning.
        As a young architect working under Wallace K. Harrison, who was then chief of the planning board for the United Nations headquarters, Mr. Dudley was assigned to take notes throughout the design process for the complex. He later chronicled the project in his book ''A Workshop for Peace: Designing the United Nations Headquarters'' (The M.I.T. Press, 1994). From 1965 to 1967, he was the founding dean of the School of Architecture and Urban Planning at the University of California, Los Angeles. He was previously dean of architecture at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.
        His first marriage, to Mary Bergin Dudley, ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Barbara Cooley McNamee Dudley; a daughter, Sally J. Dudley; three sons, George B., John P. and Samuel W.; five stepchildren, Daniel V. McNamee III, George C. McNamee, Dardis McNamee, Roger B. McNamee and Giles W. McNamee; 20 grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
      