
        Dr. Brandt F. Steele, a psychiatrist and an author whose studies of children and their abusers in the 1960's became a rallying point for national child welfare advocates, died on Jan. 19 at his home in Denver. He was 97.
        Dr. Steele, who taught at the University of Colorado for four decades, was being treated after a series of illnesses, said a son, Brandt N. Steele.
        At a meeting of the American Academy of Pediatrics in Chicago in 1961, Dr. Steele joined Dr. C. Henry Kempe, a pediatrician, and others in presenting a panel later credited with stirring public interest in the problem of child abuse. The panel's findings were published the next year in The Journal of the American Medical Association as ''The Battered Child Syndrome,'' which became a catchphrase in later decades.
        In reviewing hundreds of child cases, Dr. Steele noted that abusive parents had frequently been badly treated themselves as children and that they were often reflexively repeating past violence as adults. After helping to write the landmark paper, he went on to write extensively about infanticide, sexual abuse and the detection and treatment of abusive parents. He also conducted a continuing study within Colorado's prison system and suggested that child abuse among inmates had been more prevalent than was previously acknowledged.
        Dr. Richard D. Krugman, a pediatrician and dean of Colorado's medical school, said Dr. Steele proposed a deeper understanding of child abuse ''in a health and biological context, and not merely as a social problem.''
        Dr. Krugman, who studied under Dr. Steele in the 1960's, added: ''He realized that abuse had been with us for centuries and centuries. What was new was our recognition of it.''
        Brandt Ferguson Steele was born in Indianapolis. He earned undergraduate and medical degrees from Indiana University before becoming an instructor in medicine there in 1936.
        In 1949, he was appointed an associate in psychiatry at the University of Pennsylvania, ultimately becoming an assistant professor there in 1954.
        Dr. Steele moved to Colorado in 1958, and was named a professor of psychiatry in 1963; he held the position until retiring in the 1980's. He was a training psychoanalyst and member of the Chicago Psychoanalytic Institute and Denver Psychoanalytic Institute. He was a former faculty member of the Philadelphia Psychoanalytic Institute.
        In 1972, Dr. Steele helped found the Kempe Children's Center at the University of Colorado, Denver.
        In addition to his son Brandt, of Greencastle, Ind., he is survived by another son, Dr. Thomas Steele, a psychiatrist, of Charleston, S.C.; eight grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
      