
        S. Stanley Kreutzer, a tenacious reform-minded lawyer who served as counsel to New York City and State legislative bodies and drafted a code of ethics for the city that became a model for municipalities across the nation, died on Saturday at Sterling Glen, an assisted living home in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 98.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Michael Shapiro, his grandson.
        In a career that spanned nearly 70 years, Mr. Kreutzer served as counsel and investigator for the State Assembly and the State Legislature's Commission on Ethics, for the New York City Council and the city's Board of Ethics, and for commissions on lobbying, crime, public health, Charter revision, the state judiciary, city-state fiscal relations and New York's bicentennial.
        Mr. Kreutzer, who called himself an independent Republican -- ''nine-tenths independent and one-tenth Republican'' -- was also an adviser to elected officials, including Mayors Fiorello H. La Guardia, Robert F. Wagner and Abraham D. Beame. And he practiced law from 1929, when he graduated from St. John's University Law School, until about six years ago, when he retired.
        But he was perhaps best known as the principal author of New York City's code of ethics, which was adopted in 1959 after decades of influence-peddling, conflicts of interest, nepotism and other largely unpunished shenanigans, much of it greased by Tammany Hall, the powerful Manhattan Democratic organization run by Carmine G. De Sapio.
        The code established rigid standards of conduct for all city officials and employees. It prohibited financial or other personal interests that conflicted with the discharge of official duties; barred former officials from appearing before city agencies for two years on behalf of private interests they dealt with in office, and mandated fines, suspensions or dismissals for violators.
        ''City administrations change,'' Mr. Kreutzer said. ''But the fundamental concepts of ethics as written into law are ageless because they have inherent in them the object of government in our Republic -- to be fair to the people who serve and who are served by our municipality.'' As counsel to the board set up by the code, Mr. Kreutzer investigated scores of cases that further clarified murky ethical waters.
        Samuel Stanley Kreutzer was born in New York City on Jan. 24, 1907. After law school, he began a lifelong series of associations with political leaders and civic organizations to promote public welfare and good government. In the 1930's he joined the emergency unemployment relief commission and helped found the Fusion Party, which promoted La Guardia's reform candidacy.
        During World War II, he served with the Selective Service System, and later joined commissions to relieve postwar famine and aid Holocaust survivors. In the 1950's, he became a special assistant to the state attorney general, investigating corruption in Suffolk County, and was chief counsel to the New York City Council from 1957 to 1959.
        In Albany in the 1960's, as counsel to the Assembly and the Legislature's ethics commission, he drafted regulations that drastically cut patronage and established procedures for fair hearings on the questionable conduct of public officials. Asked whether his inquiries were partisan, Mr. Kreutzer said: ''When a fellow engages in any kind of government activity, there is no Republican way or Democratic way of doing a job. There is only the right way.''
        Mr. Kreutzer's wife, Corinne, whom he married in 1932, died in 2000. Besides his grandson Michael, of Sebastopol, Calif., Mr. Kreutzer is survived by two daughters, Phyllis Shapiro of Hillsborough, Calif., and Cindi Finlay of Paris, and another grandson, Andrew Shapiro of Santa Cruz, Calif.
      