
        Dr. William H. Crosby Jr., a pioneering hematologist who invented one of the first devices to obtain biopsies of the bowel, died on Jan. 15 in Joplin, Mo., after a long illness. He was 90.
        His death was reported by his son Jonathan.
        From 1951 to 1965, Dr. Crosby was chief of the department of hematology at the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research in Washington. From 1960 to 1965, he was also chief of the cancer chemotherapy program at Walter Reed General Hospital.
        While Dr. Crosby was at Walter Reed, his interest in a link between anemia and a bowel disorder, sprue, led him and Heinz W. Kugler, to develop a device to remove tiny pieces of tissue from the small bowel, or intestine. The device became known as the Crosby-Kugler capsule, and its patent was assigned by Walter Reed to the two inventors.
        Dr. Crosby's interest in the relationship between the disorders pushed his research into another specialty, gastroenterology.
        The metal capsule was the size of a very large pill and was attached to a tube that a patient swallowed, often with difficulty. After the capsule and tube passed through the stomach into the small intestine, doctors documented its anatomical position by fluoroscopic X-rays.
        To take a biopsy, a doctor pulled on a syringe to apply suction to the inside lining of the bowel, or mucosa, and released a knife in the capsule to snip a tiny piece of it. After removing the capsule, doctors examined the tissue through a microscope.
        The device was particularly useful to gastroenterologists because it provided a nonsurgical way to take tissue from the small bowel. The capsule was used to describe the type of damage to the bowel, to confirm certain disorders and as a tool for research. Use of the device contributed to a better understanding of the link between sprue and a type of anemia.
        The capsule fell into disuse in recent years as doctors turned to flexible fiber-optic tubes and other devices.
        In his research projects, Dr. Crosby followed a tradition of medicine, volunteering to participate in them. ''Anything he did in experiments he always did on himself,'' said Dr. Lewis R. Weintraub, a professor of hematology at Boston University.
        Dr. Ernest Beutler, chairman of the department of molecular and experimental medicine at the Scripps Research Institute in San Diego, described Dr. Crosby as ''one of America's five leading hematologists in the 1950's and 1960's.''
        He studied a broad array of topics that included the effects of nutrition in producing anemia and other blood disorders, damage from too much and too little iron in the body, and the functions of the bone marrow and spleen. He also examined ways to save lives by restoring the proper amounts of blood and fluids to victims of war injuries and accidents.
        Dr. Emanuele Salvidio, a retired professor of hematology at the University of Genoa in Italy, who trained under Dr. Crosby, said that in 1957 Dr. Crosby was the first to theorize correctly that a type of anemia known as favism resulted from a deficiency of an enzyme, G6PD, among people who ingested fava, or broad, beans.
        At the time, doctors knew that people with the hereditary enzyme deficiency could develop anemia after the ingestion of certain drugs. The connection to fava beans was new.
        William Holmes Crosby Jr. was born in Wheeling, W.Va., and raised in Oil City, Pa. His father was an architect, and his mother, Frances Irene Forrester, was a schoolteacher.
        Dr. Crosby received his undergraduate and medical degrees from the University of Pennsylvania. He interned at Walter Reed, the start of a 30-year career in the Army in which he attained the rank of colonel. He was awarded a Bronze Star in 1944 and two oak leaf clusters, in 1945 and 1953.
        From 1965 to 1972, Dr. Crosby was chief of hematology at the Tufts-New England Medical Center in Boston. He next moved to the Scripps Clinic and Research Foundation, then returned to Walter Reed. In 1985, he went into practice in Joplin.
        Dr. Crosby wrote papers on the misuse of blood transfusions and the history of medicine, and he translated the poetry of Baudelaire into English from French in the book ''The Flowers of Evil and Paris Spleen: Poems.'' Dr. Crosby was married four times and had 7 children, 14 grandchildren and 13 step-grandchildren.
        His wife, Ann Crosby, survives him. Other survivors include a son, John, of Chesapeake, Va., and a daughter, Mary Blankinship of Damascus, Md., from his first marriage, and three sons, Dr. Seth Crosby, of St. Louis; David, of Milan; and Jonathan, of San Francisco; and a daughter, Susanna Perrin of Tigard, Ore., from his second marriage.
        He is also survived by two former wives, Dr. Romana Chapman of Joplin, Mo., and Naomi Crosby of San Diego. His first wife, Dr. Marian H. Crosby, died.
      