
        Israel Stollman, an urban planner and former executive director of the American Planning Association in Washington, died on Feb. 2 in Christchurch, New Zealand, where he was on a family visit. He was 82 and lived in Washington.
        The association, announcing the death, said it resulted from a fall.
        Mr. Stollman directed the association from 1978 to 1993, after which he remained a consultant. In 1978 he oversaw the merger of the old American Society of Planning Officials, of which he then was executive director, and the American Institute of Planners to form what became the American Planning Association.
        It brought together professionals in all aspects of planning, public and private. It functions as a clearinghouse and assists planners with research, workshops, conferences and publications. During his tenure, its national membership grew to 28,000 from 18,000; it now lists more than 32,000.
        Israel Stollman was born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan and graduated in social science from City College in 1947, after wartime service in the Army Air Corps. He received a master's in urban planning in 1948 at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology with a thesis defending the fabric of life in Greenwich Village.
        He started with the Cleveland Planning Commission, working on the city's capital improvement and urban renewal programs. In 1951 he moved to Youngstown, Ohio, where he was assistant planning director and, later, planning director until 1958.
        He then joined the faculty of Ohio State University and helped organize a graduate program in city and regional planning, serving as its chairman until 1968, when he was asked to head the American Society of Planning Officials.
        Mr. Stollman was credited with bringing African-Americans onto its all-white board and recruiting minority members into the planning profession. He also spent several years in the 1970's preparing for the formation of the American Planning Association.
        Mr. Stollman is survived by his wife of 51 years, Mary Callahan Stollman; three daughters, Sarah Stollman, of Sydney, Australia; Sasha Stollman, of Christchurch; and Katharine Sexton, of Washington; and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  March 4, 2005, Friday  An obituary on Feb. 26 about Israel Stollman, former executive director of the American Planning Association, misstated his age. He was 81, not 82.
      