
        Reggie Roby, who was one of the finest and most durable punters in National Football League history, died yesterday in Nashville. He was 43.
        Nancy Knox, a business associate, said Roby collapsed after a morning shower and was pronounced dead at St. Thomas Hospital. She said a doctor at the hospital told her that Roby apparently had a heart attack.
        Roby, a big man for a punter, at 6 feet 3 inches and 258 pounds, spent 16 seasons in the N.F.L. and had a career average of 43.3 yards a punt. He played for the Miami Dolphins (1983-92), the Washington Redskins (1993-94), the Tampa Bay Buccaneers (1995), the Houston Oilers and their successors, the Tennessee Titans (1996-97), and the San Francisco 49ers (1998). He appeared in three Pro Bowl games.
        Ernie Accorsi, the Giants' general manager and a long-time N.F.L. executive, ranked Roby with Ray Guy, Sammy Baugh and Horace Gillom among the best punters ever.
        ''I don't think I ever saw a punter like him,'' Accorsi said by telephone yesterday. ''The first time I saw him was at a rookie combine, and he hit the ball with a thud I never heard before. It was like Mickey Mantle hitting homers: so majestic, such raw power.''
        Two years ago, Roby, who lived in Nashville, thought about a comeback. He told The Sun-Sentinel of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.: ''The game has changed for punters. It's no more just kicking the ball high and long down the field. It's 100 percent directional now. To kick a 45-yard punt out of bounds every time you line up is pretty much what a coach wants.''
        In high school, Roby, a native of Waterloo, Iowa, was a linebacker, tight end, punter and place-kicker, and a pitcher. At that time, Dan McCarney, now Iowa State's football coach, was an assistant at the University of Iowa. In 2003, he told The Des Moines Register about the first time he saw Roby.
        ''I was at his first game his senior year,'' McCarney said. ''On the opening kickoff, it went through the uprights.'' At Iowa, Roby averaged 49.8 yards a punt (an N.C.A.A. record) as a junior and 48.1 as a senior.
        For the last year and a half, Roby had been the marketing and development director for Backfield in Motion, a nonprofit organization that tries to help inner-city youths through sports and academics.
        Roby married three times. He is survived by his wife, Melissa; three sons, Bry, Julian and Dominic; three daughters, Brittany, Sophia and Jovetta; his parents, Henry and Minnie; a brother, Mike, of Waterloo; and a sister, Diedre of Minneapolis.
      